' . -~ . . . -. 
: ...GRAi>UATfON GRIPES ANSWERED HOW THE CCC Sf>ENDS YOUR STUQENT-ACTIVITY FEES . 
l -• ~-, . ' , . . • -. . . ' , . . , . ~ -. • 

SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

2001 Indiana Collegiate Pre~s Association SCHOLaSTIC 
News Magazine of the Year 
INFORMED. INTELLIGENT. OUTOF THE ORDINARY. 

ISSUES DOLLARS 
I.  ---------------­ ------·--~---,  
I  PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR ~IJ.8:~.cJ;;{l~';j1JoJ;ij LIST.  SEND THIS FORM AND  I  
$35.00 PAYMENT TO:  
I  .NAME: --------------­ SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE  I  
1  315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER  I  
I  ADDRESS: -----'-----~-----"--­ NOTRE DAME, IN 46556  I  
··II  ----------­ II  


THE TWENTY-FIR T OF MAR H . 
Challenging Cash Choices 
1o 

.. -IABEE OF CONTEI\FFS. ­
byKatie Freddoso · 

. . . 
All clubs want money, and somebody has to hand it out. But how much? And to whom? A 

» Out with the Old Staff, In with the New 03 
look at the Club Co_ordination Council's allocation policies. 

» Staff Editorial 04 Creating a New Image 
1 6 

» Taking a Stand byChris Kelly 09 
byKathleen Corte 
COVER: Despite talented professors 

» By Invitation Only byJacklyn Kiefer 15 
and students, the arts have taken a backseat to other programs. Now, they 

» Coming Up Short by Gerard Meskill 28 
might be getting their dues. . . Pulling The fr Weight . --• ._. 

From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 33 
by DavidMurray · .· · . 
30

ND Notebook 6 Week in Distortion 34 
I
Th_e Jrish are_ou_rof the NCAA tourna­

Campus Watch 24 Calendar 35 
ment again -bqt not because they 

Splinters 25 Final Word 36 
dropped the bali: _ · · . '! 




Why is that art? 
For a long time I would not admit that ''The Blue Panel" was art. Hanging in . the twentieth-century wing of New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art, this work antagonized me during school field trips. The presence of this paint­ing -this nemesis of mine -in such a prestigious location irked me. And I had my visceral reasons. The quadrilateral canvas was covered with a single shade of rich blue paint, which was unwaveringly consistent. The tone did not vary, and the brush strokes were undecipherable. In fact, the only irregu­larity of the painting was its cropping. The four comers deviated slightly from right angles, two acute and two obtuse, but not regularly. The result is a skewed rectangle. Every time I visited the museum, I spied the painting with suspicion. Then, routinely, came my begrudging response: 'Why is that art? Even I could do that.' But late in high school, I felt my hatred for my painted enemy falter. My very interest in this painting, it seemed to me, spoke of its value. it had had such a 
look for 
great effect on me, albeit a negative one, that I always thought about it in rela­
ISSUE 11 on tion to the Museum and to art in general. The artist, in the end, had a significant 
APRIL 11 
effect on me; it didn't matter whether it took a million careful strokes or a few rollers-full ofpaint. .. Despite my mind's best efforts to do otherwise, I now try to be open to new art and new ideas. Art that might first seem like a waste of time might change . my view on an issue. Therein lies the power of art. 
Such work, which challenges and changes us, is crucial irt a collegiate set­ting. I applaud Dean Roche's aim to make this the "Decade of the Arts." I hope this goal is not simple rhetoric -or else, we may all become more complacent. Senior Kathleen Corte examines the current art trends at ND in this issue's cover story, starting on page 18. 
The Fall of an Empire 
Jimmy Pastore, the 2000-01 Scholastic editor, once advised me that a good editor in chief surrounds himself or herself with a great group of editors. I have been blessed in this regard. The dedication and brute talent of this year's staff never failed to startle me. The seniors have been the workhorses behind a suc­cession of improvements, selflessly volunteering many extra hours in order to improve the magazine. Truly, it's been an honor to serve as their editor. 
This Thursday, the staff ofScholastic changes over and a new group will take over and surely continue the 134-year tradition of service and excellence. Take a moment and recognize the seniors (on page 3) as they lay down their pens for the last time and appreciate, with me, the contributions of a uniquely incredible senior class. 


µ/Pi-
Michael P. Griffin, Editor 
Vol. 143, No. 10 • 21 MARCH 2002 

SCHOLaSTIC 
Editor In Chief 
Michael P. Griffin
~ Managing Editor 
Matthew Barr 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor 
Sarah Childress 
News Katie Freddoso, editor Jeffrey Drocco, assistant 
Campus Life 
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor 
Kristin A. Kra!ller, assistant 
Sports 
Gerard J. Meskill, editor 
David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment Kathleen Corte, editor Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments 
Jennifer Osterhage~ editor 
Design Crissy Manary, editor Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Eric Doversberger Ryan Greenberg 
Photography Mike McNary, editor Liesl Marx, assistant Jennifer Galsser•Sadler Dan Robinette 
Graphic Arts 
Michael M. delaRosa, editor 
Suzanne Kellman 
Copy 
Adam M. Aroian, editor Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant Sequel Harding 
Distribution 
Fellsla Johns, manager 
Advertising Jessica B. Polish, manager Kyle Zuaro, assistant 
Online 
Jamie L. Moran, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed al Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright © 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of 
. this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be 
·. · 
· 

reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liablllty for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Good morrow, Griff. Things just won't be the same without you. To be published in the next Issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain Instances. Si:holasHc reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Coples of the annual football review are available al $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in 
Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 

2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 

2002-2003 EDITOR IN CHIEF ELECTED 1: 
The next time Scholastic magically ap­students informed on campus issues, which pears in the dining halls, Sarah can be difficult when you only publish twice Childress will be at its helm. Unanimously a month," she says. "But our staff is definitely elected next year's editor in chief by the up to the challenge." current staff, Sarah, an English major with As she steps into into her new position, a concentration in journalism, has spent Sarah isn't planning any major overhauls, countless hours in service of the magazine. but next January she does hope to resur­"I got involved during my freshman year and rect a dormant tradition: the Football just ... never left. I love the fact that a group Review. This is just one of the many ofstudents get together in a dining-hall base­things Sarah is looking forward to next ment every two weeks and put out a profes­year. "It's a tremendous honor to have the sional magazine -and have fun doing it." opportunity to lead Scholastic," she says. Sarah's major goal is to expand and build "The new staff has a lot of creative talent on the magazine's history ofstrong news cov­and energy. We're going to have a great 
erage. "Our greatest responsibility is to keep year, and I can't wait to get started." 

FAREWELL AND THANKS 

Michael Griffin, editor in chief, rarely wears sunglasses, as he considers it a waste to hide his beautiful eyes (see opposite page). Armed with a pink hammer and an Irish head-band of war, Griff has lived, breathed, and choked on Scholastic since his first semester at ND. 


Matthew Barr, mam~ging editor, is leaving Scholasticto become a Resident Assistant in O'Neill Hall. Next year, he hopes to settle into a consistent sleep cycle. 

Kathleen Corte, entertainment editor, will graduate with a double major in English and Italian. She plans to temporarily relocate from the Scholasticoffice to the new Starbucks cafe. Upon graduation, she hopes to go on to a career in publishing in New York. 


Jacki Kiefer, campus life editor, will graduate with a psychology and ALPP double major. She will be working and traveling over the summer before moving to Maine for medical school. She thinks she is slightly delusional, as her new home will get more snow than South Bend: 
Kristin Kramer, assistant campus life editor, is an American Studies/History major. Next year she will regret no longer having a professional excuse to ask p~ople wacky questions, but she hopes to find something to occupy her time, such as the instruction of young minds. 
Crissy Manary, design editor, graduates ND as an economics major in pursuit of a job in Washington D.C. She plans to eventually earn her Ph.D and become chairperson of the FED. Crissy lived the farthest away from the office and will miss watching the sun rise during her long, early-morning walks back to PE. 
Katie Freddoso, news editor, will graduate with a BA in philosophy. Katie enjoys the 
. color orange and hot tea from the Huddle. After leaving Notre Dame, Katie will be working in Boston because she loves the accent. 
Jenny Wahoske, assistant copy editor, will graduate with an English and anthropol9gy double major. Jenny generally appeases those who ask her what she's doing next year with "Publishing," but what she really wants to do is follow 'N Sync around in a. Winnebago. 
Mike delaRosa, graphic arts editor, is a design major. Known as "Dreamy" around the office, he's provided Scholasticwith breathtaking art since joining staff last year. 


Adam Aroian, copy editor, is a government major who enjoys living off campus, perfecting AP style and watching bulls dance pn people. He hopes to maybe get a job or join .th·e peace corps. · 
SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 3 





It's All About the Image 
Impetus for alcohol-policy changes dissected 
Looking back over Notre Dame's tradition of loose drinking regu­lations, the decision to prohibit hard liquor and abolish in-dorm dances seems motivated by the administration's desire to change the school's image. The university long has been regarded as a "drinking school." Older alumni tell glo­rified tales of kegs on the quads and in resi­dence hall basements, and anyone reading Observer cartoons or eavesdropping on Sunday morning conversations at the din­ing hall can tell that alcohol still is a large part of campus culture. But while drinking stories might earn a student praise among some peers, the idea that Notre Dame stu­dents are champion drinkers isn't an image administrators want to project to the rest of the world. . Stricter alcohol regulations have been in the works for years, beginning in the '70s and extending to the elimination of Sopho­more Siblings Weekend two years ago, (mainly for reasons of alcohol abuse), and this year's tailgating crackdown. Recent events, such as the case of stu­dent-athlete Monica Gonzalez, have brought the university's alcohol policy to the forefront. In his ruling (which was made in favor of Gonzalez), St. Joseph Superior Court Judge William T. Means said: "It is commonly known that under­age use of alcohol by the students in the dorms at Notre Dame has been largely winked at over many years." With such burning statements, university officials felt compelled to act. And act they did. At Monday's afternoon meeting with the Campus Life Council task force established to discuss alcohol use and abuse, Poorman presented the basic outline of the new policy, which included a student­wide ban of hard liquor from in residence halls, as a challenge to the student body. "I think it undersells students to say that they ... will be so compelled to go off cam­pus to pursue hard alcohol," he said. In_ do­ing so, Poorman appealed to students' sense of dignity by suggesting that only those "wedded" to the bottle would leave the resi­dence hall community. Such a statement puts students in a tight spot: Those who object "undersell" their image, appearing dependent on alcohol. Some suggest that regardless of how they are perceived, many more students will move off campus after a year or two, but Poorman genuinely seems to believe that students will stay on campus if they have alternatives to the current number-one pas­time. 
He didn't suggest any alternative activi­ties, however, saying he plans to leave the brainstorming to the students. "I want lots more opportunities," he said. "l want pro­gramming.... I'm anxious to get support to empower the people [students] charged with that responsibility." Poorman pointed to the proposed increase in the Student Ac­tivity fee as a means of providing more funding to student groups interested in of­fering non-alcohol-oriented activities, as well as the Office of Student Affairs' efforts to throw more money at student groups like SUB and the residence halls. To task force members, however, present sums being con-. sidered by the administration seemed trivial. As Student Body Vice President-elect Trip Foley said, "It's a drop in the bucket." 
ANEW IMAGE 

Despite current student outrage at the pro­posed policy changes, the administration likely can forge a new campus culture in just a few years. By introducing the policy now, current seniors have little objection, as they graduate in a few months. Juniors, now mostly over 21, know they can frequent other venues to drink if they aren't already moving off campus. The sophomores and freshmen will be gone in three years, leav­ing behind classes of students who never experienced the "drinking school" situation that was Notre Dame. 
Despite widespread rumors of plans for turning the university to a "dry" campus in five years, Poorman emphatically denied that the administration has any such ideas. Either way, alcohol consumption on cam­pus will decrease. 
But will the resulting culture create the image the university predicts? Maybe. Suc­cess lies in the university's ability to pro­vide an alternative to the current culture. 
However, increased programming has never scored big points with students. One only has to look to the failed Founder's Day cel­ebration, ticket-distribution carnivals and poor attendance at late-night board-game tournaments to see the university has trouble providing viable opportunities for socializa­tion on campus. And leaving the planning to busy students who just want to release stress after a high-powered week likely won't yield too many fresh ideas. 
The alternative is that students will move off camr.us, abandoning the dorm life that makes the university unique and draws in many prospective students. Such a suggestion may indeed "undersell" the student body, but if the administration doesn't come through on their promises, this outcome is possible. 

SURPRISE, SURPRISE 

It's unfortunate that these changes had to happen -like most other administra­tive decisions -with minimal student input. The CLC task force worked since September to brainstorm solutions. But on Monday, the administration brushed aside the students' efforts, saying: "There's been a sense of student input on these is­sues, but in terms of direct input on for­mulating policy, I don't think so." Poorman acknowledged that the task force might feel frustrated with the sudden an­nouncement, but said that with the infor­mation the administration had gathered, officials had a "very rich take" on the per­spectives of all affected by the changes. He said: "If I'd slipped into a dark room and emerged with these things, I'd say the criticism is legit." 
But Student-Body President Brooke Norton felt he had. "I don't think we've been a part of this at all," she said. 
Poorman asked for student government's support, but by presenting a policy already endorsed by the Board of Trustees, he proved what little power the students' voice really has. Perhaps that fact deserves the most criticism. 
Unfortunately, student input is the one is­sue on which the administration doesn't seem ready to "dialogue." 
4 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Tanzania 




f{i~':FJ~½,,"~~il:jt~l~k:,i 

lifetime opportunities with multin:ational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/~vocation 

KATIEFREDDOSO
"wethink we're tough, but most people think we're exiles," laments Carroll Hall resident Ryan Greenberg. But he and fellow Vermin Sean Dudley are working to change the negative stigma attached to living across the lake. These two freshmen are the co-founders, co-presidents and executive board of the Carroll Awareness Club (CAC -pronounced sassy), which Greenberg defines as an unofficial "grass-roots organization" whose mission is to "spread love of and for Carroll throughout the university." "[W]e felt it was our solemn duty to ... promote greater Carroll awareness," Dudley says. "Plus, one night when we had nothing better to do, we sat down and rewrote most of the words to Nelly's song 'Ride Wit' Me,' [renaming the song 'Bike Wit' Me' and] substituting lyrics about life at Carroll for the frequent references to ... bouncing in clubs and doing drugs with Vanna White. As we pondered the great aspects ofliving in a quiet resort dorm on the west edge of campus, 
[CAC] was born." 

There is no official list of members, but Greenberg estimates that "at least 100-150 people know about [the club] just by word of mouth." He says most are non-Carroll residents, because "it's not about CatTOll ­it's about bringing 
Joel's "Uptown Girl." "It's about a long­distancerelationship," explains Greenberg. He says CAC will continue to rewrite popular songs, with possibilities of a future album. 
In addition to this (somewhat) original soundtrack, CAC has other plans to "spread 
the Carroll love," including propaganda videos and fact-sheets that answer frequently asked questions such as, "Do you have to dial long distance to call Carroll?" They also hope to entice visitors by getting the word out about Carroll's spacious accommodations through the pub-lication of a 
Ten Questions 
with a South Bend cabbie ... 

REDDy 
Cabs are a necessity for a lot ofNotre Dame students, so Scholastic thought it might be a good idea to take a ride and find out what driving a cab in South Bend is all about. 
·:::] Luckily, cabby Reddy Ruse andcar#153 were more than happy to have a little chat and even gave us a ride to Nick's Patio. 
How did you get into the cab business? 
Semi-driving is what I've done all my life, but I had a heart attack last year and couldn't do that anymore, so I called some companies and gave them my driving record -no accidents and no tickets in all my years as a driver. I usually work 
6:00p.m. to 6:00 a.m. five to six nights a week for ABC Cab Company. 

So with that safety record, I guess you 
don't ever pretend that you're a NASCAR driver instead of a cab driver? 
I'm not a racer, I'm more of a cruiser. I drove racecars at the South Bend Motor Speedway when I was young, so I got that out of my system. 
What's the weirdest or worst experience you've ever had in a cab? 
I had a baby delivered in my cab one time in Detroit. We were on the way to the hospital and the lady's water broke, so I got on the radio, called the police, and they came and delivered the baby right there. 
Do you have any rules that passengers must obey in the car? 
Don'tgetsick. Throwupinmycabandyou 
6  SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK  
.  .  ----------­ ~-­ - ..,;:;._~--~­.  - 


> 
"When you get to be a parent, you wlllrig Candyland." -Engl/sh professor I30 Years Ago Early to bed, early to rise 
In the April 1984 issue of Scholastic, a reporter looked at the way things were 

"Listen to me, I am God." 
-psychology professor 

> 
"What would Spielberg's career have been without the Nazi soldier?" -Engllshprofessor 
> 
Person #1: Do you wantUncle Ben in the picture? Person #2: You mean Old Ben. Person #3: Actually, I think you mean Big Ben. ­-overheard students dlscusslng clock tower ln London 
"Where was I before I was so rudely interrupted by myself?" 
> 
owe me 20 bucks. I've never had a student throw up in my cab. 
What tunes do you like to play in the cab? · 
I listen to the oldies station in the cab because it doesn't offend anyone. 
That's a nice cowboy hat. Have you always worn one? 
I always wear cowboy hats; I collect them, so I have about 30. I was born and raised here in town, but I consider people like myself the lastofthe cowboys. A cowboy knows who he is, and he doesn't change for anyone, and he doesn't owe anybody anything. 

What do you do in your spare time? 
-Engl/sh professor 
I collect walking sticks, swords, cookbooks and motorcycles. I love to cook. I've got 11 pre-1970Triumphmotorcycles thatlride, and I'm also going to real estate school at IUSB. 
As a South Bend native, are you a Notre Dame sports fan? 
I'm a Notre Dame fan, period. To me, there's no better school, there's nq better football team, there's no better basketball team. Everywhere I've been, people ask you where you're from and I would tell them "South Bend, Ind.," and they'd say, "Never heard of it." I'd tell them, "Oh yes, you have. Ever heard ofNotre Dame?" and then they'd say, "Oh, Notre Dame, I know Notre Dame!" 

What do ~ou do to ensure a comfortable 
at ND in the 1950s. 

Freshmen were allowed to stay out until midnight two nights a week. All the other nights they were required to be in for 10:00 p.m. night check. If a freshman missed the 10:00 p.m. sign­in, he was campused for a week. The electricity was turned offat 11:00 p.m. to ensure the undergrads got eight hours of sleep. But, study halls in the dorms were open until midnight in the freshman dorms and as late as neces­sary in the upperclassmen 's dorms . ... Morning check had_ the Domer up and · dressed and signed in by 7:00 a.m. so he could have breakfast and get the day off to a good start. 
Talk about strict! On the other hand, a mandatory eight hours of sleep on a regu­lar basis sure sounds good ... 
-Jennifer Osterhage 


cab ride for your passengers? 
I like an upbeat atmosphere, so ifpeople get in and aren't smiling I try to make them smile ... I've always wanted to do more, not for myself, but for others. What I want to do when I'm done with school is help people find homes and finance them. My grandmother told me when I was a child, "What you do for yourself dies with you. What you do for your community and the world lives forever." 


How'd you get your name, Reddy? 

My mother had six girls before me, so when I came, she was ready for a boy, and she liked ­the singer Helen Reddy, so that's why it's spelled like that. I've never come across someone else with my name. 
-Kristin Kramer 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 7 




I Judgment Calls 
I Opinions and observations 
++ EASTER BREAK An early bunny-day celebration comes only a week and a half after spring break. It makes the . post-beach adjustment easier, but it's going to be a long, long April. 
ND MEN'S BASKETBALL 
t Not just anyone can take Duke to the brink. Hut.imagine if we had . just held on... 

HARD LIQUOR BAN 
.i 
Don't run screaming to Turtle Creek just yet. With the adminis­tration plying Student Activities with funding, SUB will expand to offering three movies every weekend. 
i 
CRAB IN THE HUDDLE 
Again, people, we are 5,000 miles away from any ocean. Why do you insist upon stocking the Huddle with crustaceans? 
t 
SECONDARY INTERNET 

CONNECTION 
Now there's no doubt we'll be able to compulsively check our e­mail every five minutes. 
t 
NEW O'SHAG CLOCK HAND 
It's about time. 
IDomeLights COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 

Was Evan Chan's mysterious death at sea an accident, a tragic suicide or something more sinister? Last March, the circumstances surrounding Chan's death be­came the talk of the Internet. Several thou­sand online sleuths took it upon them­selves to determine the cause of his death. Every detail became essential. Solving Chan's death was a game, a mystery that spanned dozens of Web sites from fake companies to the futuristic Bangalore World University. Sleuths had to overcome puzzles that ranged from mysterious images to numeric codes em­bedded in html source code to solve the mystery. While that game (dubbed "The Beast" by its players) is long over, some of its hard-core players have banded together to start a new game codenamed "Lock­jaw." Like its predecessor, Lockjaw is an innovative and entertaining use of the Internet. Free of charge, the game im-. · merses players into a complicated and frighteningly realistic world of paranoid disappearances and mysterious biogenetics corporations. Like The Beast,· Lockjaw is a game that can be taken on individually, but the sheer number and ex­panse of the Web sites makes working with others an essential part of solving Lockjaw. Similar in design to The Beast, Lock­jaw begins with a few Web sites, this time a fake corporation called GanMed (www.ganmed.com) and an online female Web zine called www.grrl-e-grrl.com. 
Scouring these sites for clues and puzzles 
leads the players (calling themselves Jaw­
breakers) even deeper into the strange 
world of Lockjaw. Part of the game in­
volves determining just which Web sites 
are "in game" and which are just real 
world sites with no relevance to the 
greater mystery. 

The plot of the game, which began a­
month ago, only now _is developing. It re­
volves around the !llYSterious deaths and 
disappearances of members of the 
DCMetrocrawlers, a group of people who 
spend their free time spelunking the cav­
ernous tunnels under Washington, D.C. At 
some point they stumbled upon a discov­
ery that deeply frightened them. Days af­
ter this incident, members of the group 
began disappearing and dying mysteri­
ously. 

The point of this new game seems to be to discover what happened to the mem­bers of this group, what they found and how the company Ganmed is involved. Those who are committed to solving the ·mystery of the DCMetrocrawlers and Ganmed have been gathering together at 
Yahoo!groups. 

Lockjaw is a thrilling way to fritter 
away hours on the Web exploring its var­
ied Web sites searching for the tiniest clue. 
Though this game doesn't revolve around 
the futuristic world of sentient robots that 
surrounded Chan's death, Lockjaw carries 
on a new tradition of online mystery 
games, this time asking the question: What 
happened to the DCMetrocrawlers? D 
Sources: Barty Bowles, General Manager, NOH; Mark Poklinkowski, General Manager, SDH 

!, 
ii 
1: 
•1: 
I 

If you're weary of battling hungry hordes for the last few chicken fingers in the DH, check out the most popular mealtimes with Domelights' handy chart. You can steer clear of those long lines andget your fill of batter-covered meat. 
North Dining Hall 
Breakfast: 900-1,000 people served Lunch: 1,600-1,800 people served Busiest lunchtime: 12:30-1 :30 p.m. Dinner: 1,700-1,900 people served Busiest dinnertime: 6:00-7:00 p.m. 
8 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 

South Dining Hall 

Breakfast: 1 , 100-1 ,200 people served Lunch: 2,900 people served Busiest lunchtime: M/W/F 12:45 p.m., T/H 12:00 p.m. Dinner: 3,000 people served Busiest dinnertime: 6:30-7:30 p.m. 




Taking a Stand 
Alumni lobby for their own version of the student section 
CHRISKELLY 
ronically, ever since the 1997 addition 
of nearly 21,000 seats, Notre Dame Sta­
dium seems to have gotten quieter. 
The stadium's less-than-threatening atmo­sphere, while good news for opposing quar­terbacks, has begun to bother numerous Irish supporters. While most simply complain, three young alumni have decided to take ac­tion. 
Jason Black '94, Alan Nicgorski '94, and Paul Noonan '93,'96 have been annoyed not only by the decrease in stadium noise but also 
by the inability of non-student fans to stand throughout the football games. Noonan recalls being ordered to sit down before the start of the Nebraska game two years ago. "When I cannot stand up and support my team before the biggest home game since Florida State in '93, something is wrong," he says. 
In the past, fans had to stand during games due to the stadium's design. Ernest Buckley '53 recalls that in the days of the old stadium, the front-row seats were so low to the ground that fans had to stand to see over the teams' benches. This caused a domino effect that forced every row to stand up to see over the people directly in front of them. One of the advantages of the re­modeled stadium, Buckley assumed, was that fans would be allowed to en­joy the game without killing their feet. 
But to many alums like Black, Nicgorski and Noonan, sitting down has taken the hype out ofthe game. So, the trio brainstormed a way to increase the stadium's noise level and allow en­ergetic fans to stand without blocking 
the view ofless boisterous supporters. They came up with the idea of reserv-
ND Nation.com. Support grew, and eventually the backers of the idea lobbied the Athletic Department and its director, Kevin White. When the idea was tested on one of the university's football focus groups, which are composed of representatives from every fan base -students, alumni, faculty and former players -it received only positive feedback. 
The present goal is to install the new cheer­ing zone next season in stadium sections 14 and 15. This 3,000-seat area would be located in the southeast comer, directly opposite the student section and behind the visitor's march­ing band. 

attempted to set up an spirited section of their !JWn. 
meaning for golf aficionados as the nickname for holes 11, 12 and 13 of Augusta National Golf Course. 

The university's marketing depart­ment proposed the name "Clashmore Corner" in memory of Clashmore Mike, the Irish. terrier who served as · Notre Dame's mascot before the days of the leprechaun. But most Irish fans seem to agree with Black, Nicgorski and Noonan, who say that they don't care what the section is called as long as they have a place to stand come Sep­tember 7. 
It seems safe to assume that this·pro­posed section would be patronized more by Notre Dame's younger alumni than their older counterparts. But Patrick Cawley '97 '00 is not sure that every young Domer will be as enthused about standing the whole game as the idea's founders. Cawley believes that alumni of every age still get excited every time they step into the stadium, but says that four years of standing ev­ery other Saturday afternoon in autumn 

GO CRAZY FOLKS Many alumni miss the enthusiasm of the is enough for many alumni. "I think that student section when attending football games, and have it's a good idea, but the supporters of 
ing a special section of the stadium, which But a few obstacles to the sections have they dubbed "Amen Comer," for fans who surfaced. For one, many fans have held sea­wish to stand for the entire game. Their hope son tickets in these sections for years, and ere­is that this section would complement the stu-ating a special cheering zone would involve dent section and help pump up the rest of the relocating them. Not wanting to upset any of crowd. its loyal supporters, the university sent letters 
News of the idea spread through the Notre to ticket holders in sections 14 and 15, ex­Dame community via e-mail, word ofmouth plaining the proposed idea and offering new and alumni-frequented Web sites such as seating preferences. The deadline foi: re­sponses to these letters is approaching, but the administration will not know the sentiments ofthese potential transfers until it has received all replies. 
The only other hint of controversy about this plan is the name ofthe section. The origi­nal moniker, "Amen Comer," earned support among alumni but has seen some resistance from the administration. The university does not support the use ofreligious terms for secu­lar use -especially in athletics. (The admin­istration says the famous ''Touchdown Jesus" mural on the library received its name from the general public, not the university.) Also, 
"Amen Comer" already has a special 
the planmust realize that not everyone may want to stand as much as they do," he says. 
Whether the reserved comer will be enough to bring back the luck of the Irish and enable fans in the House That Rockne Built to once again to shake down ·the thunder remains to be seen. But students and alumni are hopeful that it will at least help to wake up some of those echoes. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 




"
0 ur program does bet 
ter every year, and 
we thought we should get an increase [in funding]." So says Jim Rockney, co-president of Mock Trial. This year, the club received $611 from the Club Coordination Council (CCC), the student-run group that re­ceives nearly 40 percent of undergraduate student activity fees and allocates funding for all official undergraduate clubs. 
In November 2001, un­happy with Mock Trial's 22 percent decrease in funding since the 2000-2001 academic year, Rockney and Treasurer Alan Robinson went to a member of the council and asked to see a list of the allo­cations for all the other clubs. "We just wanted to know what kind ofclub gets an increase," Rockney says. 
This was the beginning of a lengthy and fruitless pursuit of a list of allocations -a list that is supposed to be public information, but which the council has refused to give to students. With a 15 dollar in­crease in the student activity fee awaiting the approval of the Rev. Mark Poorman, CSC, the council's lack ofopenness with its management offunds has left many wondering to whom this extra money would be given. Scholastic takes an in-depth look at the council's policies and the list they seem to want to keep under wraps. 
"An Honest Question" 
The real controversy began at a January 24 council meet­ing of special-interest clubs at which club officers were electing their two representa­tives to the council. Special interest is one offive divisions into which the council splits 
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 






CHALLENGING CASH CHOICES 
By Katie Freddoso 
.The Club Coordination Council is responsible for choosing how to divvy up over $200,000 in student-activity fees among close to 200 clubs. An in-depth look at its controversial policies regarding the official allocation list. 
its clubs, the others being aca­demic, athletic, ethnic and service/social action. Each division has one chairperson and two representatives (elected by the clubs in their division) on the council. The chairpersons are appointed by the Club Coordinator, who oversees all division opera­tions within the council. 
During a question period for an incumbent candidate, Rockney and Robinson asked if this representative would provide them with a list of funding allocations for each club. "We were just asking an honest question, we weren't trying to accuse [the council] of anything. . . . We just wanted a straight answer." 
According to their recol­lection of the meeting, they ended up with anything but. They claim that at the Janu­ary 24 meeting, senior John Hagan, then-club coordina­tor, told them that it was council policy not to provide clubs with the list. But their inquiry sparked questions from other special-interest club members as to why this was council policy. Hagan told the group that the coun­cil did not want clubs poli­ticking to receive money and added that this year was the most objective year ever in the council's allocation of funds to the various clubs. When club members contin­ued to voice concerns about allocation decisions and poli­cies,_Rockney and Robinson say that Hagan cut off the dis­cussion and continued the meeting. 
The two left the meeting disappointed and determined to pursue the issue further. The following week, they published a letter in the View­point section ofThe Observer 
PHOTOS BY JENNIFER GAISSER-SADLER 

describing what had happened in the meeting and concluding with a challenge to Hagan and Amy Geist, the Office of Student Activities' coordinator of student groups to "end this secrecy." 
This got an almost immediate response from the council. Geist called in the two of them to meet with her and Hagan. Robinson says she told them that "a lot of people on the council were an­gry with Mock Trial [because of this letter]." He and Rockney also claim that Geist admonished them for raising this issue in the meeting and in The Observer, saying that these were inap­propriate venues for their complaint. 
Robinson, however, remarks that after getting the run-around the previous semester, they were tired of waiting for the council to respond. "I don't think it's wrong to ask about it at the re­election of a division representative with the whole division present. And a letter to The Observer is appropriate, because it's a publication read by the student body, and this affects the whole student body," he says. _ 
Geist and Hagan also "told to them that they do not believe it is in the interest of the council's allocation process to publish the list, saying that its publication could jeopardize the objectivity of the process. In this process, the chair and representatives for each division are responsible for interviewing all of their clubs and assessing their needs. Based on these interviews, they as­sign funding and give clubs opportunities to run concession stands on football weekends. They are also responsible for monitoring their clubs' spending throughout the year to ensure that they don't go into debt. 
Policy of non-disclosure 
But why would the council be concerned about publishing the list? Hagan contends that the council "has an interest in keeping the keeping the allocation process as objective as possible, and we made the determination that ourselves keeping the list pri­vate would serve that interest best." The council's mission, he says, is not to make this information public so much as it is to look at "the clubs' incomes, the clubs' expenses, and bridging the gap between the two.... We don't want clubs or even the council worrying about any peripheral items, such as how a club is doing comparable to another club." 
But the fact is that council representatives have ready access to the list, whereas other club officers do not. But, according to Robinson and Rockney, special-interest club officers at the Janu­ary 24 meeting argued that the objectivity ofthe process is jeop­ardized more by the fact that they are kept in the dark when it comes to the full outcome of the allocation process. Club offic­ers expressed concern that the council representatives and chairs them_selves are involved in multiple clubs. 
But the council believes that its allocation policies eliminate ofthis potential problem. The council's by-laws specify that when a·club representative is a member of the club being interviewed for allocation or appeal, he or she must decide before the alloca­tion interview or appeal whether to act as a member of the club or as a representative of the council. Ifhe or she chooses to act as a council representative, then there must be at least one other council representative present at the meeting. Allocations of $5,000 or more must be approved by the Financial Management Board of the Student Union. In addition, the council is account­able to the Student Senate for its distribution of funds to clubs, and through that body the students have a say in where the money goes. 
Hagan says that these policies allow the council to "eliminate any possibility of subjectivity." He admits, however, that the council does not keep track ofwhich representatives are in which clubs, but claims that "everyone within [a given] division knows who's on which clubs, just because they see each other .... The group on the council is so concerned about not appearing biased at all that they go out of their way" to let the others know which clubs they belong. But given the fact that the council is entirely student-run, with only oversight from the Student Activities Of­fice, this reassurance of an honor system is a small comfort to club officers who are not allowed to know the results of the in­terviews. 
Current Club Coordinator Amy O'Connor recently compiled a list for Scholastic of all the clubs with which council members directly are involved, although this list does not say which council members are involved with which club. She believes this dem­onstrates that "there is no direct connection between clubs that have members on the council and favored representation." An analysis ofthe history ofeach club's allocation and council mem­ber participation would be necessary to support or refute this claim. 
Hagan says that another cause for concern about the publica­tion of the list is the fear that this would lead clubs to "skew ... their allocation requests based on numbers they might see that other clubs are getting." But according to the officers of several different clubs, all of whom asked not to be named, clubs al­ready rountinely inflate their costs when making allocation re­quests anyway, since they know that they nearly always receive less than what they ask for. One holds that the council cannot use this objection as an argument for not publishing the list, say­ing, "If clubs could run away with the system just by inflating their requests, then the council isn't doing its job." ­
On the other side, O'Connor argues that the council's publi­cation of the list could create competition among the clubs. "We want to help all our clubs," she says. "We don't want an indi­vidual club to attack any of the other ones because of what they see maybe as unfair." However, she failed to mention a way that one club could sabotage others during the allocation process. 
Hagan and O'Connor also worry that ifviewed outside oftheir proper context, the figures on the allocation list will be misinter­preted. Many factors go into deciding which club gets what, and these can:p.ot necessarily be seen just by looking at the numbers. (See info -graphic, p. 12) Hagan adds that the council "would hate for people to think that our support of [any club] is minimal because of any reservations we might have about it or its mis­sion." 
But Rockney and Robinson don't see much merit in the council's reasoning. Says Rockney, "I don't understand what 
_story continued on page 14 ) 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 


Club Coordinator Amy O'Connor explains that the CCC's members must take numerous  
factors into account when allocating funds to the  
various clubs, including how many members a club  
has, how many and what sort of events they hold,  
and other sources of funding the clubs receive. She  
cautions, "What we can't always put down on paper,  
without writing a page about each club's activities,  
or their needs, or where they get all their funding  
from, or how much they charge for dues, or  
whatever . . . may not easily be seen by just a  
number."  
Each division is allowed to distribute the money  
'. l i  using whatever method they choose. Some hand out the funds in even sums, while others give out percentages of their division's allotted budget,  
accounting for why some of the allocated amounts  
are not rounded out.  
* Designates the clubs with which  
CCCmembers are directly involved ·  

TOTAL BUDGET  $203529.60  
ACADEMIC ALLOCATIONS  $ amount  
Accounting Association  
: i l  Al Aeronautics/Astronautics Al Architecture Students Al Chemical Engineers  1200.00 270.00  
Alpha Epsilon Delta  100.00  
* American Chemical Society  200.00  
Anthropology Club  450.00  
Arts & Letters Business Society  
Arts & Letters Student Advisory Council  
Arts Collective  
AS Civil Engineers  1000.00  
AS Mechanical Engineers  400.00  
Assoc. of Art History Students  100.00  
Beta Alpha Psi  
.*  Biology Club  750.00  
CAPP Honor Society  
Computer Club  
EM3 Minority Engineering Society  
Entrepreneur Club  225.00  
Eta Kappa Nu  

Finance Club Hispanic Business Student Association 1594.00 Inst. of Electronics & Electronic Engineers 
* Investment Club 300.00 Joint Engineering Council Lamda Alpha 100.00 League of Black Business Students 1300.00 MAES/SHPE 800.00 Management Club 800.00 Marketing Club 
* Medieval Club 1000.00 
* 
Memorial Medical Explorers 650.00 Minority Pre-Medical Society · 800.00 Mu Alpha Theta NDesign 500.00 ND Forum on Biomedical Ethics 1000.00 

* 
ND MIS NSBE 720.00 Omicron Delta Epsilon .. 300.00 Philosophy Club Pi Sigma Alpha 600.00 Pi Tau Sigma 200.00 Pre-Dental Society ·825.oo Pre-Law Society Pre-Physical Therapy Club 90.00 

* 
Pre-Professional Club 338.75 Pre-Veterinary club 2200.00 Psi Chi 100.00 

* 
Psychology Club 500.00 Science-Business Club 50.00 Society of Automotive Engineers 2000.00 Society of Physics Students 250.00 Society of Women Engineers Sociology Club 457.50 Sports and Entertainment Club _ 675.00 

* 
Student International Business Council 800.00 Tau Beta Pi 200.00 TOTAL $23845.25 


ATHLETIC ALLOCATIONS $ amount 
* 
Bookstore Basketball 72.50 Bowling Club 2000.00 

* 
Boxing Club (Men's) 


* 
Boxing Club (Women's) 200.00 Climbing Club 1800.00 Cricket Club 100.00 Cycling Club 600.00 Equestrian Club 2800.00 Field Hockey Club 200.00 

* 
Figure Skating Club 4500.00 Flyin' Irish Color Guard/Drill Team 135.00 Gymnastics Club 4600.00 Irish Marauder Drill Team Judo Club 100.00 Maria! Arts Institute 500.00 NROTC Colorguard 200.00 

* 
Porn Pon Squad 2000.00 Ranger Challenge Team 

* 
Rodeo Club 500.00 Rowing Club 6000.00 Running Club (Men's) 100.00 

* 
Running Club (Women's) 500.00 


12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
* 
Sailing Club Ski Team Ultimate Club Volleyball (Men's) 

* 
Water Polo (Men's) 

* 
Water Polo (Women's) World Tae Kwan Do Federation TOTAL 


ETHNIC ALLOCATIONS 
* 
Asian American Association 

* 
Asian International Society Australia Club Ballet Folklorico Azul Y Oro 

* 
Black Cultural Arts Council Coaltion Council 

* 
Fillipino American Student Organization German Club 

* 
Hawaii Club IAND International Student Organization 


* Italian Club 
* 
Japan Club Korean Student Association LaAlianza 

* 
Le Cercle Francais 

* 
NAACP Native American Student Assoc. Polish Club 


I. * Russian Club Spanish Club 
* 
Texas Club 

* 
Vietnamese Student Association 



TOTAL 
SERVICE/SOCIAL ACTION ALLOCATIONS 
AIDS Awareness American Cancer Society 
* 
Amnesty International Arnold Air Society Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 

* 
Campus Girl Scouts 



CASH 
Center forthe Homeless Children's Group 
* 
Cir_cle K Council for Fun and Learning East Timorese Action Netwo~k @ ND Experiential Learning Council FAST Foods hare Global Health Initiative 

* 
Habitat for Humanity 

* 
HOBY Foundation Hospice Chapter HUGS Junior Achievement 

* 
Knights of Columbus Lifewater Logan Center 

* 
Lunch PACK 


5500.00 2500.00 4500.00 4000.00 2750.00 4000.00 2000.00 
$52157.50 
$ amount 4000.00 1300.00 
323.10 1500.00 4500.00 
4000.00 
709.00 2500.00 3250.00 
210.25 509.00 609.00 2900.00 509.00 5500.00 
2250.00 
509.00 509.00 1700.00 
$37287.35 
$ amount 
950.00 400.00 
600.00 500.00 600.00 540.00 3000.00 200.00 
200.00 
4000.00 
1000.00 16000.00 
1000.00 
1350.00 5000.00 
100.00 800.00 
Ms. Wizard Day 200.00 Neighborhood Study Help 750.00 
* 
Pax Christi 850.00 Progressive Student Alliance 1000.00 Right to Life 2700.00 Special Friends 715.00 STEP St. Joseph's Clinic 400.00 Students for Environmental Action 200.00 Super Sibs 100.00 Teamwork for Tomorrow 

* 
Trident Naval Society 150.00 University Young Life 600.00 Women's Resource Center 1200.00 World Hunger Coalition 300.00 TOTAL $45405.00 

SPECIAL INTEREST ALLOCATIONS $ amount Bagpipe Band 564.00 Ballroom Dance Club 376.00 Baptist Collegiate Ministry Campus Fellowship 1222.00 

* 
Celebration Choir 752.00 Chess Club 457.78 

* 
Children of Mary 1099.80 


* Chorale 4700.00 College Democrats 500.00 College Independents 
* 
College Republicans 470.00 Coro Primavera Destination lmagiNation 800.00 Det. 225 Flyin' Irish 658.00 Farley Hall Players 634.50 

* 
First Class Steppers 611.00 

* 
Flip Side 8000.00 Folk Choir 

* 
Glee Club Guitar Players' Association 800.00 Handbell Choir 564.00 Humor Artists 282.00 Irish Dancing Club 141.00 

* 
Iron Sharpens Iron 1190.92 Juggling Club Knights of the lmmaculata 282.00 Linux Users Group 

* 
Liturgical Choir 4747.00 MadMacs Mock Trial· 611.00 Model UN 789.60 

* 
ND Bands 2000.00 Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 347.80 Orthodox Christian Fellowship 413.60 PE Musical Company 940.00 Pep Rally Committee St. Ed's Hall Players 376.00 Student Alumni Relations Group Student Players Swing Club 235.00 Toastmasters International 705.00 Troop ND 846.00 

* 
Voices of Faith · 4794.00 Women's Liturgical Ch.cit 3924.50 TOTAL $44834.50 


SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 

:I 
the secrecy is here .... What are they doing over there, that they can't make these figures public?" Robinson adds, "Why all the secrecy if [the allocation process] is so objective?" He doesn't think that any funds are being misused but does believe that ob­jectivity is not the real issue:"[The council] just wants to keep their little control over this. The basic issue is respect for the students outside this small clique of club government." 
I-


Public information 
Regardless of the merit of the council's concerns the alloca­tion list is a matter of public record, and as such, it must be accessible to all. 
Geist, however, says, "[The council's] intention is not to have a list provided to everybody. There's a difference between [the list] being public and it being published, and so my understand­ing is that it would never be provided .... Ifsomeone wanted to view those records, they could view those records, but they wouldn't actually have a copy to leave with." 
But according to Robinson and Rockney, their request to sit down with Geist or Hagan and look over the list without making a copy was denied. They were told that the council would dis­cuss the policy in one of its upcoming meetings. This discus­
i. sion, however, yielded no change in the council policy. 
.. 
! ; According to Hagan, this policy did not change because "our approach is that we have a constitutional requirement to present our budget to Senate, and we meet that requirement every year. If anyone thinks that we should do more beyond that to make our allocations public, then I suggest they take it up with Senate as a constitutional change." 
Butlater in the same interview, Hagan conceded that the coun­cil does have the power to do more to publish the list: "The policy not to make those numbers public is a policy, and it can be changed." 
When asked if she would consider changing the policy, O'Connor said, "It's been addressed this spring, and so we wouldn't address it again until next fall, since it's already been addressed. And that's only if any of the members have a con­cern. Or if clubs have a really big concern about it, we will ad­dress it again." 
Nevertheless, Hagan says that the list of funding allocations is public in the sense that it has been presented to the Student Senate and the Financial Management Board for approval. "If anybody ever wants to see the list, they can just go to their senator's room and they should have it there, and ifthey don't have it, then ...the [Student Senate] secretary has it. And ifnot [the secretary], the Financial Management Board has it, too .... So the information's public." 

A tale of two lists 
The information may be public, but it's hard to track down. Scholastic made numerous attempts to contact these sources to 
obtain a copy of the list through the· Student Senate secretary, who did not return our calls, and the Student Union Treasurer, who did not call back until two weeks later due to the transition of officers going on in student government at this time. A copy of the list finally was obtained through the student government 
j 
office, where members of the Senate expressed surprise that the council had not simply given reporters a copy. Butafter obtaining this list, Scholastic then received another version ofthe list through a source within the administration which was originally received from Student Union Bookkeeper Debra Acrey. This list, Acrey says, is the actual list used to place money in clubs' bank accounts. 
OnAcrey's list, however, 39 clubs' allocations were different from those on the list given to the Senate. The actual list, there­fore, is available only through Acrey. 
Hagan says that some of the changes on the list were cuts made either because a club turned in its registration forms past deadline, in which case they receive a 10 percent cut, or because a club went defunct. He explained the majority ofthe discrepan­cies between the two lists as typographical errors on the list of academic club allocations. He says that during the meeting at which he presepted the council budget to the Senate, he briefly left to get a correct copy ofthe list from tp.e council office, which was distributed to each senator. Approximately one third of the senators responded to Scholastic's inquiries. Ofthese, some had the corrected list of academic allocations, others had the origi­nal, incorrect version, and others had both. 
The final, accurate copy of the list, which includes all adjust­ments for late-registration penalties and inactive clubs, is com­pleted in May orJune, after the last Senate meeting ofthe spring semester, and it is not given to the s·enators at the beginning of the following school year. When asked why this was the case, Hagan's response was that the council "never thought to do that" But although an accurate list is not accessible to the public through Student Senate, Hagan says, "I think the general idea of where all the allocations are going, you can get a very clear pic­ture of [that] from the Senate, and if you want a precise picture, you are allowed to go to the [SUB] Treasurer's office." 
Current SUB Treasurer Andrew Oxenreiter was unsure as to whether the Financial Management Board had the accurate list. Last year's treasurer, who was in office during the budget pre­sentation, could not be reached for comment. 

Show us the money 

With Poorman on the verge of deciding whether to increase the Student Activity fee, this debate over the availability of the funding allocation list is particularly relevant. The council has publicly supported the increase, but their apparent reluctance to inform students where the money is going leaves some students more hesitant to advocate the change. 
Robinson says, "I don't support the fee increase until there's some accountability [as to how the money is being spent.] They want all this money, now they want more money, and we don't know where it's all going. There should be some degree ofopen­ness and accountability with something students are running like this with other students' money." Rockney is less harsh, but says, "I agree that they should get more funding, but they should let people know what they're doing with it." 
O'Connor agrees: "Since it's a student activity fee ... it's up to the students to decide where it's going to be [spent]." Scholastic decided to publish the 2001-2002 Official Allocations for Clubs to allow readers to see what decisions were made. 
q 
14 SCHOLASTICNEWS 




By Invitation Only 
Weather uncertainties keeps commencement indoors and tickets in demand 
JACKLYNKIEFER 
Your family encouraged you when you first applied to Notre Dame, and they were just as excited as you were when you received your acceptance letter. They visited at football games, and through your four years at ND they supported you and your decisions. But come graduation, only three members of your family get to watch. Your parents are in, but what about your brother and sister or grandmother and grandfather or fiance? · Each senior is guaranteed three tickets to commencement for friends and family, and a fourth ticket is provided -if available. If there aren't enough extras to go around, students looking for a fourth ticket have to enter a lottery. The rest ofthe family members can watch the ceremony live via closed circuit TV from DeBartolo Hall or the Center for Continuing Education. "My parents and three siblings are coming to graduation," says senior Sarah Lasseter. "Ididnotinvitemy grandparents or extended. family because I couldn't expect them to travel from Georgia but not attend the ceremony .... I would prefer an outdoor ceremony with a backup for inclement weather." The idea of having the ceremony outside is not a new one. 
Assistant Registrar David Kil '68 was a memberofthe last class to have an outdoor graduation ceremony. "My class' graduation was held on Main Quad between the Law School and Alumni Hall," he says. "Weather was one of the main problems. Ifit rained, the ceremony had to be moved inside to the Drill Hall, which was located between the library and Juniper Road." 
Once the JACC was finished, the following year's ceremony was held in its South Dome. This was much more convenient-only one location had to be 
. planned out, and it also was a more comfortable venue. Kil says that this new location was advantageous for all involved. "[When the JACC was first used]class sizes were quite a lot smaller, so it was much more comfortable for guests and speakers." Security is anoth.er advantage offered by the JACC. "[There is] a controlled environment for heads of state," Kil says. 

However, since 1969 class sizes have grown, necessitating ticket limitation and the lottery. According to Kil, last year's commencement was one of the first to rely upon the lottery in several years. "Last year was a unique situation with President Bush visiting," says Kil. "A camera platform was built for media coverage, so there were nearly 300 seats eliminated by it." 
There are 10,751 seats available to students, but, last year, there were only 9,125 seats available for guests. This discrepancy partly is caused by graduates spilling into the lower arena, and partly due to seats that are reserved behind the stage for faculty, areas set aside for handicapped seating and the VIP section for speakers and their guests. 
Kil responds to student concerns of limiting guest numbers by saying, "The president and Board chose to have itinside in past years due to weather concerns, and the fact that the decision regarding the location would have to be made the morning of the ceremony." In addition, many people who traveled to campus for graduation would not be able to attend. 
But class numbers have increased continuously in past years. This year's freshman class is the largest class ever. When asked how the university plans to accommodate the continued growth of classes, Kil says, "We anticipate continuing to use the JACC and to utilize the same ticket distribution system, though we cannot completely predict what will happen." 
As for this year, no one will know whether the lottery will be necessary until the first week ofApril. By this time, ticket request forms will be scanned, and an exact count of desired tickets will be known:"Right now it looks like we will use the lottery again," Kil says. 
So, the most that seniors can do is hope for a fourth ticket orfind a friend who may only have two guests attending. Kil says that it is a.common practice for students to request all their tickets, and then give ·their extras to a friend who really needs it. Ifthis doesn't work, grandma and grandpa better· start drawing straws. D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 


ffllrUil knew olly McShane did not plan to be a theater major. In fact, she next to nothing about the Film, Television and The­
atre department when she applied to Notre Dame as a high school senior. Her two older sisters, both Notre Dame business majors at the time, provided only vague answers to McShane's questions about the theatrical scene on campus. "They didn'tknow very much," McShane recalls. "The way they talked about it made it seem like it wasn't a very big part of Notre Dame at all." 
McShane came to college determined to remain involved in theater anyway. "I had to look for it on my own, which I did," she says. "And I found it. It wasn't that hard to find." 
Now a junior with a double major in theater and English, McShane has acted in many campus productions and even has worked as assis­tant stage manager ofa Mainstage Production. But, like so many other students who acted, painted or sang in the choir while in high school and hoped to continue doing so in college, McShane did not immedi­ately associate Notre Dame with the arts of any kind. 
It's not such a common connection, since the picture promoters paint of Notre Dame generally does not include theater reviews or samples of student artwork. "When they advertise this school, this public profile that they spend billions ofdollars on sells football, sells theology, sells how many gyms there are here for students," says film professor Jill Godmilow. "Itdoesn't sell the arts." To the outside world, Notre Dame means a Golden Dome and a football team -nota place for artists and actors, writers and musicians. 
Mark Roche, dean ofthe College ofArts and Letters, hopes to change that idea and says that the university wants to do so as well. "Notre Dame wants to have an image that transcends its current image, which is not one that one would first and foremost associate with the arts," he says. 
Now in his fifth year as dean, Roche has worked with both profes­sors and administrators to create new faculty lines in the fine arts de­partments, to establish endowed chairs in some departments and to create an Advisory Council for the Performing Arts. Recent years also have seen the success of the Shakespeare Initiative, a three-part plan that has made Notre Dame the states-side home ofthe Actors from the London Stage. It also sponsors Summer Shakespeare, which offers students the opportunity to work with professional actors in produc­ing a Shakespearean play each summer. Finally, the initiative includes the McMeel Chair in Shakespeare Studies, the university's first senior endowed chair in the arts, which will be filled next fall by Peter Hol­land, a leading Shakespeare scholar who currently directs the 
· Shakespeare Institute at Stratford-on-Avon. But the most visible ­and costly -development is the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, a five-theater complex currently under construction and scheduled to. open in 2004. 
For Roche, these developments are clear signs that Notre Dame now is entering what he calls the "decade of the arts." ''The arts have been neglected here," Roche says, "but not as of late." The hope is that all these developments will help paint a new portrait of the uni­versity as a place that values the arts. 
The new building and new programs are a good start. But two years into that decade, students, faculty and Roche himself all are quick to point out that there is more work to be done: not just in facilities or in publicity of the art programs, but also -and perhaps most impor­tautly-in the Notre Dame student body itself. 
Art History 101 
While the arts may have been neglected, they certainly have not been absent from 

the university's his­tory. Cast lists can be found for plays dating back to 1865 and, al­though a theater department did not develop until the 1950s, students have been organizing and producing plays of their own from the be­ginning of Notre Dame's history. 
Even the early campus buildings reflected an invested interest in the arts. "If you look at Notre Dame in the early days, you had Wash­ington Hall," says Austin Collins, cqairperson of the Art, Art History and Design department. "You had the whole fifth floor of the Main Building, with beautiful skylights and everything, for sculpture and painting [classrooms]." In those days, he notes, drawing was a re­quired course for all Notre Dame undergraduates. 
Given the historical connection between the Catholic Church and the arts, it made sense for a Catholic university to emphasize the arts. But another influence also played a large part in shaping Notre Dame -the hard-working Catholic immigrants who first attended the uni­versity. 
''The Catholic immigrants were looking for an opportunity just to make ends meet," Roche explains. Fields such as business, law and medicine could help them do that and offered the opportunity for ad­vancement. "I think there was a focus on the practical here," Roche continues, "enriched by a certain liberal learning that involved above all philosophy and theology." The arts had a part in that education but, because of their impracticality, they ultimately remained in the back­ground. 
Not that they were completely eclipsed. After all, Notre Dame boasts the oldest continuous college band in the United States, dating back to at least 1846. TheGleeClubformedin 1915 and art and writing classes have long been available to undergraduate students. The drawing re­quirement has been broadened to a Fine Arts requirement, which can be fulfilled by any class in writing, film, art, music or theater. 
But many feel that the arts have been sidelined for too long. "Ifyou ask me, it's as important as anything else that the university offers its students," Godmilow says. "In fact, I think sometimes it's more im­portant, because the work that students do when they're in the arts is theirs. And there's a commitment to it and a realness and often a col­laborative effort." 
It still may not be easy to land a high-paying job in an arts-related field immediately after graduation, but in a world of increasing me­dia, the starving artist stereotype no longer applies. The question is: Where to start making up for lost time? 

The Next Stage 
Fine arts facilities may have been a part of the university from its beginning, but today the programs have outgrown their old buildings. IfNotre Dame wants to show ase1ious commitment to the arts, new 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 


to have a vibrant liberal arts 

[Austin Collins, chairperson of the Art, Art History and Design dept.] 
space -for both per­fonnance and practice ·-is needed. "The space that we have right now is just not flexible enough for us to really be able to put into practice a lot of the theory and meth­odology that we learn in our classes," says Beth Hoffmann, a se­

nior FIT major. Limited fly space above the Mainstage theater in Washington Hall makes it difficult to plan elaborate lighting for shows and the theater's shop, which is in the basement, often prevents the building of complex sets, which actually have to be built on the stage itself. 
The lab theater at the back of Washington Hall, where students per­fonn their FITdirecting finals, presents its own problems -namely, the four large poles in the center. In one play Hoffmann perfonned in, the director chose to do an environmental staging, turning the entire lab theater into the main character's apartment. Audience members 
! 
I. 
! sat on couches, on chairs, on the floor, and it would have been a con­vincing gimmick if it weren't for the four poles in the center of the room. ''The apartment had to work around the. fact that there were these four big things in the middle that served no artistic purpose whatsoever," Hoffmann recalls. But with the construction of the new DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, actors and directors no longer will have to worry about such problems. The new center will house a 350-seat mainstage theater, in addition to a 900-seat concert hall, a 200-seat cinema theater, a·100­seat organ and chorale hall and a studio theater, which is being funded by alumnus Regis Philbin. Office and classroom space also are in­cluded. Not only will the performing arts cent~rprovide better performance space, but it also is expected to multiply the artistic offerings available to students on campus. "Now, if there's something going on in Wash­ington Hall, that's that," says FIT chairperson Donald Crafton. "But 

moved up the list." 

"It's not that the arts were felt to be unworthy," Roche adds. "It was more that the arts had to find its time." 
In the meantime, the original plans for the performance center un­derwent a series of cuts that has raised some questions among stu­dents and faculty. ''The primary focus obviously is not on the prolif­eration of the arts here, and that is actually evident in the way that it was designed, because they just kept making cuts and cuts and cuts that)lave almost rendered it too small," Hoffmann says. The projected Mainstage theater, for instance, willhave 350 seats -175 less than the current 525-seat theater in Washington Hall. 
According to Crafton, funding and inflation led to the cuts. The original plan, fonnulated in 1989, called for a 500-600 seat theater, but when these plans were re-evaluated in 1998, as Crafton says, "you couldn't build as much of a building with the same amount of money." The plans went back to the drawing board and the university went on extensive fact-finding trips to other schools to research other theaters. ''They decided that the sizes that we have are pretty much the minimal size," Crafton says, "and that's what we're building." 
The cuts also were influenced by the idea that a full small audito­rium is better than a larger but only half-full auditorium, as well as by the desire to avoid competing with the Morris Performing Arts Center in South Bend or O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College, two venues that accommodate larger productions. And while the center, whose primary function is supposed to be as an academic unit, was designed with input from the FIT and music departments, some still are dissatisfied. ''Why can't they sell out the theater right now?" Hoffmann asks. "Ifthey're worried about selling out the theater when they have this beautiful new facility, that's seriously saying some­thing about the department here and what they're capable of." 
The music department also felt the effects of cuts. "We were really. hoping for a 250-seat recital hall," says Karen Buranskas, a professor and cellist who perfonns on campus herself. The center will include the choral hall, a space for the perfonnance of sacred music -both a good fit and a unique touch for a Catholic university -and the con­cert hall, which will be much larger than necessary for the generally small student recitals. 
The university seems to be aware of the oversights. According to 

Similar problems exist across the sidewalk in Riley Hall, where painting-lined walls can keep one from realizing, at least momen­tarily, that what now is a painting studio is actually a hallway, con­verted into a classroom because no other space was available. "We've just simply outgrown the facility," Collins says. He lists health con­cerns such as ventilation in the old building and mentions the need for better technology and for greater handicapped accessibility. 
But Collins also notes that a facility study is being conducted by the university, and he is hopeful that the problem will be addressed. And although the new performing arts center does not directly touch the art department, he sees it as a promising step in the right direction. ''The building ofthe DeBartolo Performing Arts Center is a real state­ment on the university's part that they're investing in the arts." 

Casting Call 
Just as important as places to practice, create and perform is the presence of students to do those things. Administrators are confident that the DeBartolo Center will attract more students to Notre Dame -and hopefully, they will be students with experience in the arts who come to the university to study the arts. 
Many students do stumble upon the arts when they take introduc­tory classes at the university, but this often makes things difficult for both students and professors. "Part of the problem is that we end up having to turn business majors or engineers into filmmakers," Godmilow says. "And very often they don't realize that they'd prefer to do that until late in the game." 
Late decisions and switches from one major to another can make it difficult for students to fit in all the necessary classes, such as the time-consuming production class for film majors. As a result, Godmilow relates, students sometimes come to her during their se­nior year or even after graduation to announce that they have decided to stay another year to complete a film major. 
In addition to earlier decisions in majors, Godmilow stresses the importance of bringing in students with prior experience in the arts. "There are students at other schools who have been doing photogra­phy all the time," she says. "We start with students who just love Martin Scorsese films and would like to make one. But they don't know where inside them would be an idea for a film, or how to get it out." 
According to Roche, the percentage ofincoming students who have had prior experience in theater, music, art or dance is increasing. The first year class for 2002 weighed in at 40 percent and the number is expected to increase with the construction ofthe performing arts cen­ter and the added publicity that should accompany it. 
Often, though, these students choose to continue their artistic edu­cation as second majors or minors. Buranskas readily ticks offa list of students who have primary majors in areas like pre-med or biology. ''They really enjoy having the change of pace," she says. 
For senior Dan Tonozzi, a music minor who began playing cello at age four, studying the arts on the side still calls for a serious commit­ment. "Even if you are not a major, you are with top professors," he says. ''Therefore, even ifit is not your major, it still must be approached seriously." 
Many FTT students choose to double-major as well and a favorite combination is marketing-PTT, which Crafton describes as "sort of the practical and the thing that you would do for yourself, as a kind of enjoyable exercise." 
He also notes that many of the plays on campus happen outside the theater department and that many students act on the side, as a hobby, instead of as training for a future career onstage or onscreen. 
To some, this prevalence of fine ruts as second majors and interest beyond the academic scope indicates student interest and a balance between the fine arts and academics for which Notre Dame strives. But to others, this kind ofattitude might actually not be as arts-friendly as it seems. "It's kind of produced here as a hobby," Godmilow ex­plains. ''That's not going to ever bring anybody here who wants to act, that kind ofattitude toward it." 
The solution? "Probably the best thing to do would be to announce that there's good art here," Godmilow says. "I happen to think that the undergraduate film production program here is as good as any in the country. But I need a student who comes here to make films." 
This kind ofadvertisment already is being done in some areas, such as the art department, which currently has majors at an all-time high of 200. The Notre Dame admissions application offers each prospec­tive student the option to submit a portfolio, which is then evaluated by a faculty member in the department. 
And while the university's current image may not necessarily at­tract fine arts students, they do pop up. "There are these great excep­tions," Godmilow says. ''They get it and love it and take as much out of it as they can. Which is what they should be doing." 
"But," she adds, "sometimes you want one more." 


Empty Chairs at Empty Tables 
It may take future classes of Darners to show the effects ofchanges in publicity of the arts at Notre Dame, but until then the show contin­ues to go on -and the question that student performers sometimes ask themselves is, for who? ' 
"If you're putting on a play, half your audience will be kids who just got out of the rehearsal from their play," McShane says. "As far as people who aren't involved at all, it's pretty hard to get them to come. I'd say that the average student is not terribly interested in see­ing plays." 
Her observation seems to hold true for other campus performances as well. Buranskas speaks of a "network" program in the music de­partment, in which students urge their roommates and friends to come hear them perform in recitals or other performances. But even with this word-of-mouth endorsement, audiences remain small. At a recent student violin recital, for example, only 30 people showed up. • 
There are notable exceptions, such as the Student Film Festival, which sells out five performances every year -perhaps because it is yet another example of students supporting friends. But each excep­tion seems to be matched by an example of equal unresponsive from students, such as FTT's Thursday night film showings in the library, where the audience generally includes only a handful of students. 
McShane and others are quick to acknowledge that Notre Dame students are busy, even distracted, by the many concerns of college life. To many, though, the lack of interest is characteristic of the type ofstudents that make up the general student body. "It's not the kind of artsy campus where you're going to get a lot of people for whom that's just a natural predilection to want to go to things like that," Hoffmann says. 
There is a dual challenge: for the student body to take more interest in the ruts and for the rut­ists to find a way to reach the average student, as difficult as it might be. Hoffmann suggests bringing mt to the student by presenting pieces that are more relevant or inter,esting to them. 'We do a lot of shows here like Antigone or 

SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 19 
portant, vital part of that mission." Students also claim to benefit from the close connection between the arts and the 

eers into filmmakers. And often the don't 
humanities. ''Though I am a theater ma­jor, I would technically consider my edu­[ Jill Godmilow, film professor] cation to bein the liberal arts," Hoffmann 

Hedda Gabler," Hoffmann says, "that students will be required to come to, that they won't necessarily enjoy or take things away from, but that they feel like it's good for them, like it's their dose of art." More contemporary, even experimental pieces, might create a more even mix and attract more students. 
Requiring students to attend plays· or other performances is a clas­sic technique for exposing students to the arts, but as Hoffmann points out, it also can make the arts seem like a chore. Sometimes the tech­nique does work, as Buranskas discovered when she required stu­dents in her Introduction to Music class, a course for non-majors, to attend five concerts. "You get a few [students] that say, Tm glad I did that,' and they start going to concerts," she says. But she cautions that such results are not guaranteed. "It just depends on the student," she says. 
What's really lacking is the demand for art on the part of the gen­eral student population. "They're not saying, 'We want to do this, we want to do that. We're going to do it anyway. Can you help us?' That's how it should be, not us dragging them to the cinema," Godmilow says. ''The instinct to say, 'Where is this, where is that? We want this' -that doesn't happen." 
Without this kind of input, some feel that there only is one conclu­sion to be made-that the Notre Dame student body in general is not interested in the arts, which makes the work of professors and stu­dents twice as hard. "We're not sure there's an interest out there," Buranskas says, and offers her own challenge: "We would like to hear from the students." 
Breaking Away? 
In searching for ways to emphasize the arts, some have suggested creating a College ofArts, which would separate the fine arts from the College of Arts and Letters and provide them with a separate dean, who then could act more fully as a spokesperson for the arts on cam­pus. In doing so, Notre Dame would follow in the footsteps of count­less universities where the arts inhabit their own separate college. As Godmilow explains, such a change would be "more than just a build­ing at the edge of campus, it's really a structural change that says, 'There's a community ofartists here, and they're related to each other, and they're strong enough to be themselves.' " 
But a split between the arts and the rest of the college comes with disadvantages as well. "We would be spending money on infrastruc­ture (space, administration and staff) that might be used more produc­tively directly for academic purposes (teaching, scholarships and per­formance)," says Roche, who has discussed the idea with department chairs in the past. "And the arts might become isolated vis-a-vis the humanities and the social sciences, as well as other programs in the college. That would not be good for a Catholic university that be­lieves in the unity of knowledge across disciplines." 
According to Roche, the department chairs prefer to remain in the 
College ofArts and Letters, at-least for the time being ­
-but, it seems, with the understanding that the arts must be 

• ,-an essential facet ofthat college. "Ifyou' re going to have 


'' )J 
avibrant liberal arts college, you need a good art pro­
gram," Collins says. ''The visual arts need to be an irn­:£.f!!!!·~-7 1-----------------------------------------------i 
says. She originally considered double­majoring in philosophy or English, but chose to have only a single major and to use her electives to dabble in other subject areas. The result, she says, has ultimately helped her in her theatrical pursuits. 
"I feel like I've developed a lot as an artist, but as an intellectual artist who understands what she's doing," Hoffmann says. "The re­quirements outside theater push you to think and to be able to under­stand your art on [an academic] level. As long as you are allowed to control your art, it can only fuel it." 
Senior graphic design major Shane Culey claims to have chosen Notre Dame precisely for the complete liberal arts education offered here and expects the skills he learns to distinguish him from other students, who might have attended art schools, when he begins look­ing for a job in June, "We learn how to think before we learn how to design," he explains. "Smart design is bet'ter than design that's just well-drawn. And I think that what we do here is smart design." 
Although it is not exactly the same as having a separate dean, the new Advisory Council for the Performing Arts, which currently is being formed, will provide some spokespeople for the arts on cam­pus. Members of the council have not yet been named, but the goal is to include high-level contacts in all areas of the performing arts world, who can help gain resources and function as liaisons between the university and the performance world. 
Ultimately, though, the same old mantra is only repeated: There is still more work to be done. "The Advisory Council will help advo­cate for the arts," Roche says, "but we need other voices as well, not least of all students." · 

When the Curtain Falls 
Obviously many changes will have to be made before art, theater, music and film are associated with the Notre Dame name, and while students and faculty recognize and call for much-needed improve­ments, they also hope that some aspects -such as the intellectual approach to art here -will not change. 
Students speak almost reverentially of the faculty in their respec­tive departments. "The teachers here are like well-kept secrets," says McShane, whose theater professors casually drop personal stories about working with famous actors and directors. Many professors have been nationally recognized, including Crafton, who was named one of the first Academy Film Scholars by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Other professors also perform on campus, as Buranskas does, or in other arenas, such as art profes­sor Maria Tomasula, whose paintings are currently on display at a major gallery in New York City. 
The small sizes of the programs also create rapport between stu­dents and faculty, although some students worry that their profes­sors are stretched thin by their large number of commitments and their desire to meet individual needs of students. 
Likewise, the art produced at the undergraduate level receives praise, from students and faculty alike. At the BFA!MFA show two years ago, Collins reports, the South Bend Tribune could not tell the difference between the work of the undergraduate students and that of the graduate students. 
Professors claim that student work competes witl1 that ofstudents 

20 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

at other institutions; including schools that are better known for their fine arts programs. "If you compare our films to what the students at USC are producing, their films are technically much more sophisti­cated," Crafton says. ''They're shooting on 35 mm and doing exten­sive post-production, but our films really have a lot more to say to viewers. Typically, they're on a subject that is serious. It's often a subject that pushes the limits of the undergraduate conception of life." 
With the dawning of the "Decade of the Arts," the hope is that the quality of student work and the high-caliber faculty will be show­cased and even become a selling point for the university that, com­bined with visible statements like the DeBartolo Performing Arts Cen­ter and other added resources, can help bring more arts-minded stu­dents to the university. 
"I think we're making small inroads on this, but it's just not what Notre Dame stands for," Godmilow says. "We are getting a brand­new building, and that'll help. That'll be very visible and make an announcement that the arts are taken seriously here. It's changing, but it's been a long haul." 
In the meantime, students who either come to Notre Dame for the arts or stumble across them upon arrival will find that their arts educa­tion-here is not like any other. The programs certainly are not for everyone, either. "I think you really have to understand what you want to get out of the pro­gram when you come here," Hoffmann says. Those who want to approach the arts from a very aca­demic and intellec­tual viewpoint will be satisfied. Stu­dents looking for a conservatory expe­rien ce probably would find a better 
;;<,;.,_-,~···•··..-•,-,-·.: fit someplace else. Perhaps the most definitive test of the programs, though, comes in the answer to a single question directed at undergraduate students: Would you do it all over again? ''Yes, definitely," McShane replies. A majority of art, theater, film and music majors seem to echo her response. "It's not a theater school," she adds, "but if you have the initiative, you can do whatever you want to do." . 


. :_ ,· . ,. ' -
Nn Alumni make it in the world of'the arts.·­
·•· • 11 B~cci~ing aprbfessional ·actor is about as difficult as cl~ing surgery: on yourself/' .• says Dona.Id Crafton, chairpersonof the Film;Television and Theatre department. YeJ 
..· . . every.year, Notre Dame graduates leave the shadow of the Dome and·set off to pursue . career~ on the ~tage/behindthe. camera and.in countless oth~r arts-related fields. How.do they fare in competition with graduat~~ of art conservatories? . .···. ':" .· ; .• .. .. . . .· ·.· < 
"I am definitelfcompeting against people who were far better trained in the areas of ~mice and' dance," says Tiani:i Checchia; a.2001 graduate working In musicai theater in New York City. "Not all.were better trained in theater, though.'' ·. · . · . · ·· . ·. . · 
·...) .. · But according ~tj-Cllecchia, her Notre Dame education pr_ep?red herforthe theater world in a way .. 
. thatcoi:tserva.tory·students mightnofreceive.-"After working at the firsflheater that I worked at, J found .:out how much a person's: character helps. because you will ·getrehired·. arid '.get good•· references from people there,'' she says. "To me,that is justas important as being a good performer, andthat is something I leaniedatND.'' . .· . . . · · . : 
•. .Theater is a notoriously difficultfjeld to ente,r, yet Checchi~has alrE:iady won severalroles and Will. ·• ..t>'e appearing irr. [lie Soundq!Musicin April.'Qther graduates have h~d ~imilar success.'.Andy Kris; ·. · a:-1_99(graduat_e;:supervised the spund for HBC)'s recentThe Laramie Projectwhile·another 1994 .-: graduate, Kristy Murphy, hafappeared on the West Wln/ta.ndAl/jMcBea/. .. .· .· 
Empl9yers also have noticedJhe difference in Notre Dame, alumni, even ifthey don't immediately ·•·· thinkofthe.schoq(asa produqElrqtartists and performElr~: ''.I h~ve hearcl,<'.$end ,me !lloref\JD,' "~ays: ··•· ·. fHhi pr9fessor Jiff.Godmilow ::-"[T:hf students]areterribly re~ppnsible and diligent, and that pays off 
''·irf.the·workpla:cef·: .< . ' . . .. ·~ . . . 
.Clther ·aiumn(c.hoose to. continue their "education at graduate schools' or art schools before . entering the workplace. Ben Schwarz, who graduated _inJ 993 with a Fre·nch. major and a musip minor; Jeceiye,c:1-~ degre,e ir'] cello. perforn:,_ance: from JhEl Vienna Conservatory for Music and. is . ··.•·• cufrehtiy enroUed'iiY-a Doctor.: 6f'_Mi.rs1cal:Arts'program:·arthe New· England Conservatory:. uke­... ·cljeqchia:, Schwarz·fou~dhims~lf in.classelwithstudents_.whb had more thorough backgrounds in: 
• 
the 'art. '.'Alrnosf~il of ttiern·.sti:idied at conservatories Qr art scho"ols," .he says; "It's certainly.·· 

•
..competitive be9ause 1'.m not qoining froni:thafbackgrdund and they are.''' . _· -. : · · Bllt )ike Cheqchia · and others, he has succe~ded anyway. ·And for aspiring musicians or other . ·· ··-> · ·· a.r;ti~t~:who· woulcflike to wor_k°-ofstudy"_in ilie'_art~ after graduation,":ije has some·· 


; corrifortiftg ad'(ibe?'Making'afafre~rasa mbsici_~hispr~_bably moredifficu!t:thar(most>: irft13riti~ ·of making money and the benefits that you g'ettSchwarz .s~y$; /'Bi.it thi'r1c:if starying. You just haveto be creative in finding ways fo.. JTI,ake ends. meet.'' . 
·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. _;;_ Kathleen Cort{!. 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 21 



[ senior fine arts thesis projects ] 
by Kathleen Corte 

i--lfi1--;~~l;sa;-;~-~s;;S-~i;-~his-;~;~~~~;~;~;;d~i~~?'-N~~ -;;;~tl;-,~-s-ays , i II.ii Tiffany Roman, a senior graphic design major who will be presenting i : her senior thesis, along with 17 other students, at the BFA/MFA show in the ' ' Snite Museum begimiing April 7. "A paper would have been a lot easier." · And a lot less expensive; Students estimate spending as much as $2,000 ­all out of their own pockets _:_ on their BF;\projects, which range from furni­ture and sculpture to photography and paintings. Some have even taken out loans to cover the expenses. _ . A year-long project, the thesis is completed by all undergraduate art majors 
who pursue a BFA degree, which requires more credits than the BA program. With the help of a faculty advisor, students spend the fall semester researching and planning their projects. In December, they present their plan to· a group of faculty; who either accept or reject the proposals. "It's almost like being asales­man," says graphic design major Shane Culey. "You really have to sell your work." .· .. 
The spring semester means long nights in Riley Hall, creating and perfecting the final product for its appearance in the Snite, where they will be on display through May 19. . . _.... ..• . .· 
In the end, though, most students say the sleepless nights and the new loans are all worth it. "When people see my piece in the Sriite or wherever if ends up after that, it's directly connected with me," Culey says. "I'm going to always be associated with it, so I ~-111!11!!111!!11! · · 
want to put out something that's 
-"""'~,.,.,----""'------,--.,,,.,,.,.--:-:-~= going to be the best I can put out." 
» "Collective Consciousness" Five sheets of clear plexiglass and a 1,000-watt light bulb help Shane Guley show the similarities in the world's five major religions. Each sheet features references to light -a metaphor common among all the religions -from works like the Bible and the Koran. "They all run together," Guley says. "You can · walk around and read this entire thing and not know which quote is from which work." (top right) 
» "I Couldn't Fit in Three Dimensions If I Tried" "I am what I build," says James Schuyler, a sculptor who strives for self-expression in the pieces of furniture that he builds. ''The struggle of knowing myself is the struggle of opening or shutting a drawer." (left) 
» ''The People I Sort of Knew, but Didn't Really" In her photography, Kristin Gleason explores the impossibility of ever knowing what it is like to be someone else. "Photography cannot accurately describe inner experience, since it only records outer appearance," Gleason explains. Her blurred pictures are untouched digitally and instead are created by using a variety of filters in her camera. 
22 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
i'~i--,--------------------------------------------­
! 

» "Life Support" The 2,190 syringes bristling along Dana Mangnuson's stainless steel chair have a sobering significance: They represent the number of insulin shots that a diabetic person receives in a single year. A diabetic herself, Mangnuson created the chair to inform people of the serious nature of the disease. 

» Not Yet Titled Elementary students who hated reading gave Tiffany Roman the idea for her thesis -an illustrated book about the adventures of a book light named Bright. "It's geared towards kids, but educates parents about reading to their children," Roman says. Although only one copy will be on display at the Snite, she hopes that eventually the book will be published and distributed to parents. 
» "Four Plastic Heads: A ~eries by Beth Amer" In her group of photos, Amer explains, "I've taken a living person and transformed it into a plastic object -in essence, a doll -as an elaboration of our daily efforts to resist nature." Her model posed patiently amid the Barbie dolls while Amer shot three rolls of film in search of the perfect photo. 

SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 23 




I well,Gipplings, the Gipper had been 
Dear Father Poorman and members of the administration, 
•·• planning to give you all a good 
f_:_·,~_,_,_·_•. 
dose of Spring Break scandal this issue, The Gipper has decided to respond to your call for "continued dialogue on 
;~ but something has arisen which affects the this important _issue" because he desires clarification of your policy and -i::. substance behind virtually all of the
\: 
because he sees some flaws and oversights in its construction. The Gipper sees ., Gipper's greatest stories. So, instead of a the effects of alcohol on the campus atmosphere, in all its glory and shame, j traditional Campus Watch, the Gipper has every week in his mailbox. So perhaps he can provide some insight as well.
,; chosen to use this space to respond 
6 
First, the Gipp wishes to question the sources upon which this revision of the alcohol policy. 
seriously to the administration's recent administrative decision was based. Not all students arerepresented by those 
who join focus groups. There is a type of student who joins such groups, and 
there is a type who does not. This is not a criticism of either, but an 
observation. Similarly, it is poor statistical practice to base this decision in any way on a survey filled out by students hoping to win 50 dollars. Again, some will fill it out correctly, some incorrectly, and some not at all. Does this give us an accurate assessment of the student situation? 
It is this very situation of which your other primary contributors are also largely unaware. "Law enforcement and city officials, landlords and tavern owners" have little concept of the nuances and forces of the student body's collective social life. Maybe, for this reason, the Gipper can help. 
Alcohol, for better or worse, is both the release valve on this university's academically pressurized atmosphere and the lubricant in its stagnant social climate. Any forced reduction in alcohol use must be accompanied by an increase in other forms of academic relief and social opportunity. And this does not, despite what some may tell you, mean more funding for Flip Side or more class­sponsored carnivals. Most students consider this patronizing at best, and laughable at worst. Again, the Gipper is not trying poke fun here; he is merely observing. 
It also does not mean more overpriced coffee houses on campus. (The Gipper is poking fun now.) 
Unfortunately, the Gipper cannot advise you on a better solution. This campus is saturated in alcoholic tendencies because, 
frankly speaking, there is nothing else to do. The nearest good used bookstore is not within walking distance. Neither is a movie 
theatre, a dance club, a greasy spoon or an acceptable grocery store. Lul~'s is, but it makes for a rather unpleasant walk most of the 
year. Now, some students have found a way out of this rut through feats of unparalleled proactivity, or car ownership, but this is 
not the norm. 
And yet, our academic standards continue to rise, putting more and more pressure on students who compete with smarter and 
smarter peers. With few options for alleviation aside from alcohol, where will students go? Off campus, most likely. The Gipper 
doubts that there will be a shortage of realty entrepreneurs to build more apartment complexes. Or, worse, they will tum to drugs. 
Notre Dame, in comparison with most schools, has very little drug culture as it stands; if drinking is suppressed, students will tum 
to more easily concealable forms of intoxication. The Gipper bases this prediction on the notion that abusive drinking is not due to 
alcohol availability alone -as your letter seems to imply -but to underlying destructive tendencies that currently manifest 
themselves in liquid form. Why do these tendencies arise? The Gipper suspects that unremitting academic pressure and limited social 
outlet have something to do with it. Again, the Gipper doubts that the drug economy will have much problem expanding its network if 
the demand arises. 
Of course, the Gipper has written this letter under one assumption: that this alcohol policy revision is part ofa larger plan to 
wean the student body off of underage drinking altogether. The Gipper has heard this from many sources, but if it is incorrect, or if 
you have any other comments, the Gipper would be happy to print your reply in his next issue. · · 
Suppression of drinking cannot work without greatly increased social options. If it is done without the proper tact and foresight, 
the admini~tration's vision of an academically superior school will be sullied by a dispersed and unhappy sfiipent body. 
Thank you, The Gipper 

24 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 
I: 


Senior rightfielder Jenny Kriech is the leadoff hitter for the Irish women's softball team. Kriech has been selected as first team All-Big East in each of her first three seasons with the Irish, and with career numbers of .341 and .466 in batting average and slugging percentage, respectively, Kriech is widely regarded as one of the top leadoff hitters in the country. 

The most memorable experience in my softball career at Notre Dame was: 
sophomore year when I was standing on third base and I watched my teammate Jarrah Myers hit a grand slam to beat the would-be national champions, Oklahoma. 


My favorite hobby outside of softball 
is: rollerblading. We're not allowed to do anything that could injure us like snow skiing or dorm football, so this is the closest I can get to doing anything dangerous. 
Of all the awards I've received, the ones which mean the most to me are: my awards as a freshman because I struggled so much with a serious illness that year, Grave's disease. Overcoming adversity makes accomplishments so much sweeter. 
I decided to attend Notre Dame because: I thought it was the most beautiful campus I had ever seen. Also, my entire family has been die-hard Notre Dame fans for as long as I can remember. My final two choices wereNotre Dame and Michigan, so you can imagine the influence they had on me. 
· I started playing softball when: my dad bought me one of those big red plastic bats when I was two years old. I've been hooked ever since. 
I've never stressed out so much in my life: as I did in Systems Analysis and Design. MIS majors beware. 

My favorite thing about Notre Dame 
is: the people. I know that the friends I have met here will be friends I have my whole life. 
My favorite dining hall food item is: the omelets at NDH. I would wait in line for 20 minutes to get one of those. 
To prepare myself for a game: I think to myself that I am the best player ever to walk on a softball field. I know it sounds conceited, but for me it's all about confidence and attitude. 
-David Murray 
Jerry's Jabber 
Last Saturday the men's basketball team was eliminated from the NCAA tournament by top-seeded Duke, 84-77. G Matt Carroll and F David Graves each scored 20 points to lead the Irish attack. ND forced the Blue Devils to turn the ball over 19 times, and F Ryan Humphrey had 6 blocks. The loss marked the second straight year that ND was eliminated in the second round of the NCAA tournament. ... The defending-national­champion women's basketball team fell in the second round of the NCAA tournament to second­seeded Tennessee, 89-50. ND never challenged the Lady Vols, and trailed 53­27 at halftime. F Kelsey Wicks scored 10 points and was the only Irish player in double-digit scoring. Tennessee hasn't lost a home playoff game since 1979 against Old Dominion.... The Irish fencing team qualified the maximum 12 fencers for the NCAA tournament after dominating the Midwest Regional Championships. Michal Sobieraj won men's epee, with Jan Viviani placing second. Ozren Debic won men's foil. On the women's side, Alicja Kryczalo won foil, while Destanie Milo placed second in sabre .... The softball team lost to New Mexico 5-4 on Sunday in the Kia Klassic Tournament. The Irish fell behind 5-0 early in the contest before their four-run rally fell short. Rookie starter Carrie Wisen took the loss for the Irish, going 2.2 innings. 18/38 Andrea Loman had three hits, a run and an RBI for Notre Dame. The Irish open Big East competition at home on Saturday against Rutgers. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 




I. 


i 
i 
! 
I,. 
1' 
.  
' ~  '  - '  - '~  - 
'  - .., . .  '  ,,• . - 
T  E  .  





RANT 
BY GERARD MESKILL 
:. ' 1_ 
. ~ : 
· 
It's time to stop picking on George Steinbrenner and TedTurnerfor fielding winning teams and start looking at the owners who are truly ruining MajorLeagueBaseball: Twins' Jim Pohlad and Brewers' Bud Selig. 

Spring training is in full swing and opening day is less than two weeks away. Of course, with the start of a new baseball season comes all the usual baggage: complaints that the Yankees are destroying baseball by spending too much money. After all, the Yankees have dished out an unprecedented $128 million, a figure over $10 million larger than the next largest payroll. Bu tare the Yankees solely to blame? Since the salary explosion following the 1994 strike, the same handful ofteams have dominated baseball every season, namely the Braves, Yankees and Indians. The 
• • n • ., • • -< 
• ~ 
• 

SPORT: MEN'S LACROSSE OPPONENT:HOFSTRA WHERE: NOTRE DAME WHEN: SATURDAY, MARCH 23, 1:00 PM 
Atlanta Braves haven't lost their division in more than a decade, while the Yankees and Indians have not fared much worse in the ALEast and Central. In fact, every American League pennant since 1994 has been won by either Cleveland or New York. And· of course, the Yankees have won four of the last six World Series championships. So, can all ofthe blame be pinned on these three ballclubs? · 
The answer is no. In 1994, a strike ensued because the owners and the players' association could not agree on whether to establish a salary cap in baseball. The failure to establish such a cap is exactly wli.atis destroying baseball today. You can't blame the.Yankees, Indians or Braves for playing by the rules just because in the past seven years they've been able to field more expensive teams than other markets. It's the rules that are no goocl. The way baseball is setup today rewards rich markets for having more spending power and punishes small markets for not being situated in one ofNorth America's huge cities. 
Minnesota Twins' owner Jim Pohlad is the poster boy for what is wrong with baseball. He was willing to dissolve his ballclub rather than spend a little ·money to revitalize it. The Twins have one of baseball's strongest fan bases, as demonstrated by attendance statistics during their glory years from the late '80s until the strike. This isn't a team that is doomed to failurelikethe Florida Marlins. It's a ballclub rich in tradition and young talent that right now needs a little push to return to its golden years. It's a ballclub that almost made the postseason last year. . 
Buttheproblem is, Pohlad isn'ta baseball man. He's a business man. Baseball is no longer a game, but a conglomerate of corporations. In much the same way Corporate America is driven by mega businesses that feed on smaller venues, baseball's franchises have become beacons of capitalism, and the stronger ones are 
feasting on the weaker. It's no wonder Bud . They'reinitforthemoney. · 
' • > • • • •• • ~ > • ' • ­
• .-' ., • -< ~ .-.. 

Selig wanted to contract teams so badly; it's the natural progression. In Corporate America, businesses merge and dissolve in a move toward monopolization. It's only logical for a corporate baseball league to follow a similar path. And it's the path to destruction. 
This is why baseball needs a salary cap so 
badly. Ever since the strike and salary 
explosion, 80 percent of the Major League 
teams have had no chance to compete for a 
championship. Those markets' fan bases have 
dwindled, magnifying the effect further. The 
result is the death ofbaseball in cities such as 
Kansas City, Anaheim and Montreal. This 
apathy soon will spread to other markets, until 
there isn't much interest left anywhere. 

The only way to reverse the effect is to stop the salary explosion. Once there is a cap, most markets will be able to spend enough to field a competitive team. The return of true competitiveness in baseball will bring fans back. But more importantly, curbing the profits for the stronger markets will repel the interest that corporations have taken lately in purchasing franchises. Instead, rich baseball fans will once again be the prime suitors for ballclubs, because their primary interest will beto field winning teams, not to tum profits. Such owners will make efforts to · do what is best for the · ballclub rather than their wallets -exactly 
what baseball needs so badly. 

This is why men like Ted Tomer and 
George Steinbrenner should not be faulted 
for the dispariiy in baseball today. It's true 
that they grossly outspend their competitors 
to field the best teams possible. But at least 
they spend that money because they want to 
win championships, not because they want 
to maximize profits. Ifthe rules were fixed, 
these two men would be considered two of 
the best owners in baseball. It's guys like 
Jim Pohlad and BudSelig that really deserve 
the venom of America's baseball fans, 
because they could care less about baseball. 
D 
This meeting between Notre Dame·and Hofstra will not soon be forgotten. Charac­terized by vicious play, trash-talking and question­
· able officiating, the game will end with the battered Hofstra team limping home mourning a 5-4 loss. 
-Mike Griffin Editor in Chief ND has lost two con­secutive games to top-five opponents. The Irish break out of their early-season slump on Saturday, avenging last year's lone regular-season loss and finally winning a close game, 11-9. 
-Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor Notre Dame comes into the meeting with Hofstra. having lost four games by 
. a combined total of five goals. Playing their last . home game until the end of April, the Irish turn their·. luck around, nipping Hofstra 8-6. 
-:--David Murray Assistant Sports Editor 

26 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information; please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance 
Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend· Community Resources: 
• 
Women :S Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 




I 






short 
Despite four tough, quick losses, the men's lacrosse team refuses to give up 
GERARDMESKILL 
When things aren't going well, the popu­lar cliche "Things can't go anywhere but up" usually is applied. But what happens when things can't go anywhere but down? The 2002 men's lacrosse team is learning the hard way. Just a year ago, the Irish completed a storybook season that went down in Notre Dame_ history as the school's finest. Notre Dame finished 14-2, falling one game short ofthe national cham­pionship game, before defending champion Syra­cuse defeated the Irish in the semifinal, 12-5. After graduating several key players from the fifth-ranked squad of a year ago, the Irish h~ve taken the field in 2002 against the same five op­ponents that they faced a year ago to open the sea­son, and in the same order. For the 2001 Irish, these contests resulted in five straight wins by a com­bined score of 50-35. However, this Notre Dame team is not the same squad from a season ago. It is a younger team, and the difference has showed. Instead of going 5-0 against its first five opponents, Notre Dame has started the season a mere 1-4, scoring 37 goals while also allowing 37. "Well I guess one of the most obvious differ­ences has been that most of the guys who are on the field right now, most of them aren't the guys who were on the field last year. We're a lot younger," says junior goalie Nick Antol. "We're not getting a lot of breaks right now." What Antol means is the Irish haven't been getting many good breaks. As b~d as their record looks, the 2002 Irish actually have played fairly good lacrosse this year. In their four losses, they've been outscored by a total offive goals, and two ofthose teams were top-five programs: Virginia and Loyola. Two ofthe losses also came in overtime, The first overtime loss came in the season opener against Penn State. The Nittany Lions jumped out to an early 2-0 advantage thanks to goals by midfielders Sean Droogan and Marc Young. Notre Dame attacker Matt Howell and midfielder Devin Ryan responded with goals of their own to tie the game, but Penn State defenseman Jesse 
28 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
Tarr netted a buzzer beater to give the Nittany Lions a 3-2 first­quarter edge. The Irish outscored Penn State3-l in the second quarter to build a 5-4 halftime lead. However, the Nittany Lions scored five of the next six goals to secure a 9~6 lead by the middle of the fourth_ quarter. Freshman midfielder Matt Malakoff and Howell scored in the next four minutes to bring, the Irish within one with four minutes to play. Attacker Dan Berger tied the game with seven seconds to play, forcing overtime. Unfortunately, the Irish rally was for naught, as midfielder Will Jones scored 2:29 into overtime to secure a 10-9 Penn State victory. · 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame's gutsy comeback in the last eight minutes showed the heart of the young team. 

"It is kind of a letdown not to pull [the Penn State game] out, but if you look back now, we were kind of struggling on offense," says Antol. "It was kind of a glimpse for us, what we can be like when we're on top of our game to score three late goals." 
Still smarting from the bitter defeat, the Irish hit the road to face Pennsylvania. Berger had a career day, scoring Notre Dame's first four goals to knot the Irish and the Quakers at 5-5 through three periods. However, attacker Zandy Reich scored 1: 16 into the fourth period for Pennsylvania, forcing the Irish to try and make another comeback. Notre Dame temporarily succeeded, as attacker Chris Richez netted the equalizer with 8:31 to play. The goal was not enough, however, as midfielder Sonny Sarker netted his second goal and the game winner with 4:40 left, leaving the Irish with as many losses after two games as they had in the 
themselves in a 2-0 hole following the first 15 minutes of play, thanks to goals by Greyhounds' midfielder Michael Sullivan and attacker Stephen Brundage. By halftime, the Irish closed the gap to 3-2, sandwiching two scores around a Greyhound goal. Notre Dame and Loyola exchanged goals. over the next 25 minutes to make the score 6-5 Loyola with five minutes to play. 
With under three minutes left, a scramble in front of the Grey­hound goal left Notre Dame attacker Owen Asplundh with an open shot, which he cashed in on to force overtime. The first overtime period saw both teams go on the offensive, but neither team was able to register a shot on goal. The Irish won the draw in the second overtime period, but the Greyhounds quickly regained possession and scored the decisive goal off a shot from Sullivan. 
The loss leaves the Irish with perhaps the most respectable 1-4 
entire 2001 season. Nevertheless, the Irish refused to blame their age. 
· ''Some :say:we;re a 

"Some say that we're a young team. We try not 
young teani. We try not

to use that as an excuse," says defenseman Chris Fallon. "Right now we're just trying to learn how 
to use_thatas an excuse; 

to win games. I feel there's fine line between win­
Righrriqw, we'r~just _

ning and losing." 
·.·-trying to learn how to­

Carrying the lessons of two tough losses, the 
.. •·. . ·-_,,.

Irish returned home to face Rutgers. The Scarlet 
wmgames'. ,__ _ Knights felt the brunt ofNotre Dame's suppressed 
.. : -_ -. ·.:··· . : :.. 

anger early, falling behind 7-0 in the first half of _ 
.~ defenseinaiiChris Fallon ..

the game. Rutgers finally broke the shutout at 3:58 when attacker Mike Buck beat Antol to make it 7­
1. However, the Irish momentum was too much to . -, ·>. _·. . :­overcome, as Notre Dame cruised to a much­
.PLAYiNG~ITH HEART For iacrosse 

needed 11-6 victory. 
players OwenAsplundh (far/eft)and. 
Devin Ryan (near/eft), the beginning 
of this season has been ail about .. 

"The first two games [against Penn State and 
Pennsylvania] were very close, and if one more 
overcoming inexperience: . 

play goes our way, we could win those games," says defenseman Mike Fries. "We looked at 
Rutgers as amust-win game." 
Riding their first victory of the season, the Irish returned to the road to take on fourth-ranked Virginia. The Cavaliers got a quick jump on the Irish, netting the game's first two goals in the first quarter. The Irish responded early in the second, as attacker Brian Giordano and Berger scored to knot the game at 2-2. The tie was short-lived though, as the Cavaliers stormed the net 70 seconds later and then again late in the period to give Virginia a 4-2 halftime lead. 
The Irish and Cavaliers swapped goals in the third period. In the fourth, Notre Dame pulled even with 3:27 to play, thanks to goals by midfielder Kyle Frigon and Giordano. However, the Irish saw another close game slip away as midfielders Billy Glading and Brenndan Mohler _scored in the final 90 seconds to secure a 7-5 Cavalier victory. 
"We felt we could go into Virginia and play our game and come out with a win," says Fries. "It's frustrating to come so close and have it taken away, but we also look at it as proof we're able to play with the top teams in the country." 
Notre Dame got a second chance to do just that. Following the disheartening loss to Virginia, Notre Dame returned home for its second straight contest against a top-five team, this time facing third­ranked Loyola. For the second consecutive game, the Irish found record in lacrosse history. After all, two of the four defeats have come against top-five teams and two have come in overtime. In fact, the Irish have been outscored by a mere five goals in their four defeats, a margin that they matched in a single game against Rutgers. Still, you won't be seeing any players praising the mark, but rather, searching for what has gone wrong thus far this season. 
According to Antol, the team just needs a leader on the field who can take charge in the waning moments of the game. 
"If you've been to the games and looked at the scores, the way they've gone, we've always brought it back to tie the game. We just haven't been able to get that goal to put us ahead at the end," says Antol. "I think those two guys we had [last season], Chris Young and Dave Ulrich, really led the team there last year. We're kind of struggling to find that guy who can take that lead." 
Senior captain John Flandina shared Antol's evaluation. 
"Last year, we did have a couple of go-to guys," he says. "This year, I think the [potential] go-to guys are younger. Once they have the confidence-builder ofscoring a goal late in the game, we'll have those go-to players." 
The Irish still have eight games left on their schedule, including matchups against powerhouses Hofstra and Harvard. IfNotre Dame hopes to win those games, someone better step up soon. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 29 




ng Their Weight 
TRIO OF HUMPHREY, BREY AND THOMAS COME THROUGH FOR THE IRISH 
MONSTER 
DEFENSE 
Tri-captain Ryan Humphrey floated like a butterfly and stung like a bee all_ throughout his senior , seaon. 
30 
DAVIOMURRAY 
Ther~ ~~s alofofi.mi~~ai~tyst11Toundin~ thejNotre Dame squad as they _fil:~rt:~;~tlt;~J~~:t~~ii~tt:~:~;0~~~~:y::ic~~~ 
Irish couid main,tdinthei(abil_i,ty to compete withciut him. Though the Irish stu­
. dent section dor1ned shirts proclaiirling NotreDarrie as "back on the map," pre­season polls intlkateffotherwise. Nevertheless, this year's squad produced one of the most excit~g 'afl:d' iliost pr9mising seaso~s jn Irish basketball history. Despite their unfoitt1nate finish; they have prov~n:that they belong near the top of the Big East and\uribngst the upper echelon 0£ collegiate basketball pro­grams'. \ : _ _ . · __ \; '. ,1 
Critics underestimate_d·three main components1ofthis year's edition: fresh­man point guard Chris TI}oriias; secior tri-captaih fo,i;ward Ryan Humphrey and coach Mike Brey. Thougli.Thomas ent~red his f1:fsfseason in an Irish uniform as ~ the reigning Mr. Basketl:>ajl ir{Indiana/the~e were ·questions about whether he \ could jumpstart the offeds~_J:iy both scoring;and'.dislµng out assists. There were 
., , . . ''•"·'. ·'¼'> · .. ', ',·'• .,_.:._.··' ·.·'· .'' l:,·., I 
'\uncertainties as to whefuer·fiuniphrey; who e~_taplished himself as a prolific
_, . .. . . . ·-:. _..,_. /'. ,,.. •. :I 
-•-shot0blocker last season, c_ould anchof~the:defenseand improve his offensive 
~ • ,.,.J. -.~: ·--r:·• .. ,'.., , :_, ·:,-· ·: . , ·: ~ :1 ! ·,) 
•-ang rebounding.9qtputs•;'Finally;· some qµe~tiori: v;,h¢ther Brey could guide the 
0 

,. , _ ••• • • • • • • , • •• •• , >"'· ,, .. '. '," · ,•'r:_::,.·, -,.... ··,.•1 :I ~•-·1 
Iiish.to'another·NCAA!foumamen:t:appearance.. 'I]i<?t1gh Notre Dame was sue­•••--• cessfuifastseason; sonieobservers ~nfairly:gavi ilii:ich of the credit to the work {; ~~~~;oh the._teaniby ex-Coa~?-¥:~t{p,o.peJfY ~~ ((J{evi~us seaso~. Ulti~atel~, ..eaclfof these, three peopkpl_aye~ a.-,1:naJOrfOl~jll).,helpmg the Irish shine this
'' -· -----· · --,·---···•·-i! y: -,,; _.,, ' ll r::j
•::/]:tf~i;f J ti k~ 


...J'
• 
r· 


season. . . .· 
Though Thomas entered the season with extremely high expecta­tions, he handled them with maturity ·and composure far beyond his years. The freshman point guard immediately showed his prowess for running the veteran Irish attack by recording the first triple~double in Notre Dame history in the season opener, a 42-point rout of New Hampshire. He had 24 points, 11 assists and 11 steals in that game, proving that he could make monumental offensive and defensive con­tributions. Buf throughout the rest ofthe season, he exhibited a streaky scoring touch. This was most evident at the beginning of February, when he tallied 32 points against Rutgers and 22 at Georgetown, then went Ofor 14 from the field against the same Rutgers teani and scored only eight points against Syracuse. Nevertheless, he didn't let his shoot­ing droughts affect his overall performance. In spite of playing the full 40 minutes almost every game, Thomas provided a seemingly boundless source ofenergy every night, which was vital to the team's success. He consistently sparked the offense with his passing and de­fense, setting the new all-time Irish record for assists in a season. 
As one of the three senior tri-captains, Humphrey showed tremen­dous leadership in his final season; Knowing that he consistently would have to shoulder much of the scoring and rebounding load after Murphy's departure, the power forward posted. 22 double-doubles in the team's 33 games. Though his free-throw shooting was less than 
. ideal, he worked hard to improve it throughout the season and often made clutch free throws towards the end of games. As he was last year, Humphrey was a star on defense, patrolling the paint and swat­ting basketballs like flies. Though Humphrey only played two years at Notre Dame after transferring, he fit in immediately and gave the Irish what they needed every game. , _ 
Brey did an outstanding coaching job for the second straight year and should have removed all remaining doubt about his ability to pro­
-pel the Irish men's basketball program io excellence. For.the first time· since the 1979-1980 season, Notre Dame won its first seven games, and their average margin of victory in the span was over 30 points . . Though there were down times when riothing seemed to go the team's way, Brey made sure that his players never lost faith in themselves. 
· After a frustrating series of three consecutive losses against perennial powers Syracuse, Kentucky and Georgetown, Brey spurred the Irish to rattle off five consecutive wins and remain near th_e top of the Big East. The Irish finished 
. second in the Big East West Division and scored ··a resounding 20~pointwin over St. John's in the Big East Tournament before losing to the even~ .. 
•tual champion Connecticut in _the semifinals. Though Brey's emphasis on defense and his in­. genious mix of defensive schemes was not flashy .. 
.· and received little notice from broadcasters and sportswriters, it was extremely effective and usually kept opponents off balance. Even on poor . shooting nights, the Irish were always competi-' tive, losing their 11 games by an average ofles~ 
·.. ~an Spoints pe/ganie. · · ' 
r 
. Because these three people ultimately came 
j through for the Irish, ND earned a No. 8. seek in .. 
I'·· the NCAA Tournament. Once there, they didn't let up. The Irish played like savvy tournament ·•.·· veterails in the first round ofthe NCAA Tourna­ment. Though they were slighted by the selec­tion committee in being given·~erely an 8 seed, . ·· Brey's team handled UNC Charlotte without .· 
RISING STAR Point guard Chris Thomas had an incredible freshman season for the Irish. 
much difficulty. The win against the 49ers set up a second round meet­ing with top-seeded Duke, the perennial college basketball jugger­naut and defending national champions. Though Duke was arguably the worst draw possible for asecond round game, it was also a chance for the underdog Irish to prove to the skeptical college basketball world that they could play with the best. And during the Duke game, Tho­mas, Humphrey, and Coach Brey all displayed during the Duke game the valuable traits which propelled the Irish to the tournament in the first place; · 
\Much of the credit for the solid performance in the season finale should be given to :Brey, who prepared his players well and designed an excellent strategy which befuddled Duke for much of the game. Most Irish fans have become accustomed to the Notre Dame offen~ sive strategy consisting primarily of three-point attempts long-range attempts, long-range shots and put-backs following offensive rebounds. Knowing that Notre Dame could not simply rely on outside shooting as they often did this season, Brey had his players charge right into the teeth of the defense. Humphrey had several shot attempts from close range out of the low post, and outside marksmen Carroll and Graves uncharacteristically attacked the basket. Though most supposed ex­perts predicted that the Blue Devils' defense would cause problems for Notre Dame, it was the tenacious defense ofthe Irish, designed by· Brey, which had Duke firing numerous shot attempts from well be­yond the three-point line, Notre Dame recorded·8 steals and forced 19 turnovers. 
Humphrey played the defensive game of his life. He frustrated Duke's star center Carlos Boozer for most of the game, so much in fact that Boozer lost his cool and threw an elbow at Humphrey while heading to the bench in the first half. He made even Duke's potential 
· player of the year Jason Williams think twice about driving to the basket. Protecting the key for Notre Dame as he had all season, Humphrey also recorded all of the 6 blocks Notre Dame posted. He contributed in other departments as well, scoring 15 points and grab­bing 12 rebounds, including a game-high eight on the offensive glass. Thomas did not perform nearly as well as Humphrey and Brey in the final game, at least in the statistical sense. He had only 4 points, missed a key three-point attempt in the closing minutes, and turned the ball_ over six times.. Thomas did have 9 rebounds and 7 assists, but the 
most important part ofhis involvement did not show up in the boxscore. He played with his usual fire and tenacity which fed the rest of the team. He com­peted with a confident swagger and never gave up .. Though his shots rarely fell, his leadership over the team was evident. . 
This season .was full of great accomplishments, yet the Irish received surprisingly little credit from the media. Despite playing with and often beating tough competition, they were never ranked in either major poll, directly contrastingfast season when they won two fewer games. After the Duke game, most analysts described the contest as one in which Duke 
· played poorly and still managed to win. Little was said about the offensive frustration and fear of los­ing that the Blue Devils suffered before barely over­coming the Irish. But don't let them fool you. The truth is that Notre Dame's final performance of the 
· season, thpugh in a losing cause, proved to the world once and for all that they had the ability to play with the best in the country. It gave them yet another step-. ping stone on their way to the top.• · d 
· SCHO_LASTICSPORTS 31 PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Senior Thank You Picture Frame 


Don'tmiss this unique opportunity to give something back to those who have madeyourND educationpossible! 
Sold on 3/27 from 7:30-9:30 p.m. and 3/28 from 2:30-4:30 in LaFortune 
The 2-sided, 4x6 frame includes a picture of the Dome, a quote by Monk, a brief thank-you message, and one line of name personalization. Cost: $25. 
Also available is .a 4x6 album holding 24 pictures in navy with a gold ND emblem on the·cover.c. A great gift for friends and even, yourself! Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! ·····•··· 
Name (first and last only, please): 
School Address: 
Phone: -----------------------------------­
E-mail: -----------------------------------­
Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club. You can print an order form at www.nd.edu/-mgtclub or send in this advertisement-with your order information to: 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Scholastic is stillaccepting applications forits news, campus life andcopy departments. 
Contact Sarah Childress atschildre@ndedu 

orcall 1-7569 for details. 


Hold On My Heart 
00Bcould keel over any second now 
It's a tough job, being lazy. My flatmates have already fig­ured out that when I sweetly say, "Oh no, you go ahead and shower first," I really mean, "Ha! I get to go back to bed!" Sure, I can sleep in the shower, but it's just not the same. So sometimes I have to play my trump card. Right before I came to London, I found out there's an actual medical excuse for my sJuggishness. I am no longer a mere sloth. I have an underactive thyroid, or hypothyroidism -a condition that slows down your metabolism and makes you lethargic. It also makes you fat. This means I can now go forward with my plans to consume pizza intravenously,,guilt free! I'm well versed in hypothyroidism now, but I was clueless after I was first diagnosed. This is prob­people! So I've learned to live with the fact that my heart could explode at any minute. 
Still, I wish people here would be more considerate of my fragile state. For starters, they could stop putting scary, heart­accelerating things in seemingly normal places without the slightest public notice. For example, the other day I was re­turning some books to the University of London library, and decided to take a peek into nearby University College (which is actually an institution of higher learning, despite its name). There, casually placed among the classrooms stands a giant wooden cabinet with JEREMY BENTHAM stenciled in gold letters across the top. 
Jeremy Bentham was a 19th century 

ably because my "doctor" misread my 
philosopher famous for his works on chart and thought I was three years old. Utilitarianism, but apparently he's more First, she tried to represent the problem famous for this cabinet. Inside it is with a little play, starring Left Hand as Bentham's "Auto-Icon," which in Latin my thyroid and Right Hand as my brain. means "dead body." It consists of his Then she tried to explain it with a draw~ real skeleton, his real clothes and a wax ing that ended up looking like a small head. He's just sitting there in a chair papaya fighting a large papaya. Both ex­staring at you. (You can see a picture of planations were accompanied by highly it and get more information, ifyou dare, technical medical terms like "Your thy­at www.ucl.ac.uk/Bentham-Project/ roid isn't happy!" Then she told me that info/jb.htm). Bentham is considered I'd have to be on thyroid medication for University College's "spiritual father," the rest of my life, but that I'd need to and asked that his body be preserved have a blood;test every six weeks to this way in his will. He originally re­make sure the dose is correct. When I quested that his real head be displayed, told her I was leaving the country in a but when the process of preserving it few days, she decided she would just went horribly awry, they replaced it with prescribe me a six-month supply. I asked a wax one. For a while they kept the 
her if that was safe. She whipped out the hand puppets again. I left quickly. 
I started taking the pills, but I also did some Internet re­search. Endocrinologist.com provided me with a delightful cartoon representation of what I will look like if the dose I'm taking is too high. If it is, I'll display symptoms of hyperthy­roidism, which is the opposite of hypothyroidism. These in­clude shaking, nervousness, bulging eyes, rapid heartbeat or palpitations and, if this cartoon is to be believed, generally looking like Fester Addams on crack. 
Of course, in order to find out whether or not my dose is correct, I have to find a place to get a blood test here in Brit­ain, which is a foreign country that is not the United States. And like I have enough energy for that. I have a condition, real head (complete with glass eyes) on 
the floor between Bentham's legs. Story 

goes it was finally removed after it was discovered being used 
by students for football practice on the front quad. To top it 
off, this guy's preservation was way too well documented. 
You can see them stuffing his clothes with straw in the photo 
gallery next to the cabinet. Clearly not the type of thing 
someone in my condition needs to be exposed to. I smell a · lawsuit. 
So next time you're gallivanting across God Quad, thank 

your lucky stars that old Sorin is only immortalized in statue 
form. Bless his heart. I'd better stay here and recover from my 
run-in with Mr. Bentham by doing what I do best: laying around 
anci sleeping. O 

SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 33 . 



Better Luck Next Time 
Traveling can be a turbulant experience 
DANICASKEOCH 
t is my firm belief that everyone in life is born with a certain amount of luck, which, if parceled out correctly can last 
for the rest of your life. 
While most people use it to select which soda bottle will net them a "free 20 oz." at the Huddle, others win the lottery. I person­ally wasted my life's allotment of luck on winning a stuffed basketball from 7 -UP when I was 10 and a blue Chevy Cavalier Station-Wagon -the "Turbo" -upon my graduation from high school. 
Don't get me wrong. The Turbo is prob­ably the best thing that has ever happened to me. My real gripe is that my luck won't hold when I really need it. Normally, the ill ef­fects of Depleted Luck Syn­drome are -pretty easy to handle, but when it comes to traveling, it's the curse of the ages. 
First, there's 1uggage trauma. My luggage has ei­ther been lost or destroyed on nearly every flight I have taken. One rare time when my luggage arrived at the same time as I did, it seems the baggage han­dlers had gone out of their way to wreck the moment. They had ripped the handle off of my duffel bag. This is, of course, to say nothing of the broken zippers, bent handles, missing wheels, and the huge black stain in the middle of my big suit­case. (You might be interested to know that the latter suitcase was decommis­sioned after an unfortunate run-in with cat pee -in a hotel room. How cat pee got on the hotel's in-room luggage rack I will never know.) 
Missing luggage is just the half of it. There is also my choice of inopportune time to travel. Over fall break my friend and I drove -that's right, drove ­though the tornadoes that ravaged the toll road. Over this last spring break I was stranded in Detroit for two hours as a rag­ing wind storm shut down the airport. It is difficult to decide what was more of a pain: being grounded in the storm or fly­ing between South Bend and Detroit in the middle of the storm. That plane was shaking like Katherine Hepburn in an earthquake. It was even too turbulent for the flight attendants to distribute tiny packages of pretzels. 
Part of my traveling misfortune is my own fault, indulging my particular pec­cadillo that I prefer to sit on the aisle seat on the off chance that I have to use the 
restroom. Instead, I become intimately acquainted with every passenger and flight attendant that hits me with their carry-ons while boarding, and their butts while traipsing up and down the aisle. 
If spending all this time tracking down luggage, eating pretzels and white-knuck­ling though turbulence has done anything for me, it has made me far more religious. In honor of this new found piety I have constructed "the traveler's list of interces­sions" to be prayed immediately before boarding a plane: 
• 
For the passengers that all may reach their destination safely, Lord hear our prayer. 

• 
For the infant sitting in the row ahead of me, that his ears will not plug up and pop, prompting him to shriek incessantly 


for the duration of the flight, Lord hear our prayer. 
• 
For the plane, that it may not hit a pocket of turbulence which drops the plane 100 feet, leaving me to watch my ginger ale shoot out of the cup and hit the overhead compartment, Lord hear our prayer. 

• 
For the affectionate couple sitting in the seats next to me, that they may be able to control their PDAs for the duration of the flight, Lord hear our prayer. 

• 
For my neck, that it is strong enough to support my sleeping head so that I don't develop whiplash from intermittently doz­


ing, Lord hear our prayer. 

• 
For the strange-smelling man with Tourette's who is sitting next to me, that he may fall asleep quickly (but not on my shoulder), Lord hear our prayer. 

• 
For my luggage, that I may be reunited with it soon, Lord hear our prayer. 

• 
For the in-flight meal, that it may be something edible, Lord hear our prayer. 

• 
For all the other things which I have 


not thought of, and which are out of my control, Lord hear our prayer. 
Of course, not every travel experience is miserable. Sure, whenever I fly some­where that !want to go, I am delayed and luggage-less. But when I'm on, say, the return flight to South Bend, it's not only on time, it's early. So glad to be back. . 
It is difficult to decide what was more of a pain: being grounded in the storm or flying between South Bend and Detroit in the middle of the storm. That plane was shaking like Katherine Hepburn in an earthquake. It was even too turbulent for the flight attendants to distribute tiny packages of pretzels. 

Submit an 800-word story for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 

EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Singin' in the Snow 
Hope the end of break finds everyone rested and ready to work ... at least 
for a couple ofweeks. Coming Distractions 
has the dish on the 
music scene. 
Don't miss the 
Glee Club Spring 
Concert. Tickets 
are free if you can 
make it tonight. 
Tickets for tomor­
row night can be 
bought at the LaFortune Info Desk for $3. If you're free Tuesday night and in the mood for a road trip, head to Plymouth, Ind. (about 40 minutes away) to hear the Push Stars. The band, hailing from Boston, draws the fans ofsuch bands as Train, Third Eye Blind, Ver­tical Horizon and. Better Than Ezra. Their 

SPORTS 
• 
Sat 23 Softball: ND vs. Rutgers, 12:00 PM and 2:00 PM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Sat 23 Lacrosse: ND Men vs. Hofstra, 

1:00 PM, Moose Krause Field. 

• 
Sun 24 Softball: ND vs. Villanova, 11 :00 AM and 1 :00 PM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Tue 26 Lacrosse: ND Women vs. Delaware, 4:00 PM, Moose Krause Field. 

• 
Wed 27 Tennis: ND Women vs. Illinois, 

3:30 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

• 
Sat 30 Lacrosse: ND Women vs. Virginia Tech, 1 :00 PM, Moose Krause Field. 

• 
Mon 01 Baseball: ND vs. BYU, 1 :05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 

• 
Tue 02 Softball: ND vs. Valparaiso, 3:00 · PM and 5:00 PM, Ivy Field. 


music has been heard in such blockbuster films and soundtracks as There '.s Something About Mary, Me, Myself & Irene, Gun Shy and Say It Isn't So. Their music also has gained air time on such TV shows as ER, 
Malcolm In The Middle, Popular, The Real World and All My Chil­dren. For direc­tions and more information, e­mail Dan Delgado, '97 (see the Mid­

Be sure to check out Battle of the Bands, the Electronic Music concert and the upcom­ing recitals. 
-Jennifer Osterhage 
• 
Tue 02 Baseball: ND vs. BYU, 6:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 

• 
Wed 03 Lacrosse: ND Women vs. Syracuse, 4:00 PM, Moose Krause Field. 

• 
Wed 03 Baseball: ND vs. Valparaiso, 

6:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 

• 
Thu 04 Softball: ND vs. UIC, 5:30 PM, Ivy Field. 

• 
Sat 06 Track and Field: Spring Opener, 

10:00 AM, Moose Krause Field. 

• 
Sat 06 Tennis: ND Women vs. North­western, 11 :00 AM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

• 
Sat 06 Baseball: ND vs. St. John's, 

12:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium. 

• 
Sat 06 Tennis: ND Men vs. SMU, 1 :00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 



LECTURES 
• Fri 22 Breandan 6buachalla, "1766 and All That," 3:00 PM, 1125 Flanner Hall. 
• 
Thu 04 John Mearsheimer, "Why International Politics is a Nasty and Brutish Business," 6:30 PM, 102 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 05 John Mearsheimer, "Why America's Strategy for Fighting Terrorism is Likely to Fail," 12:00 PM, C-104-105 Hesburgh Center. 

• 
Fri 05 Joseph Buttigieg, "Secularism and Modemity in Joyce," 3:00 PM, 1125 Flanner Hall. 



CINEMA 
• 
Thu 21 Ghost World, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

• 
Tue 26 International Film Series: Calendar(Armenia), 7:00 PM and 


9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 
• Tue 02 International Film Series: 
Memories ofUnderdevelopment 
(Cuba), 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 
• 
Thu 04 George Washington, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

• 
Tue 09 International Film Series: Come andSee (Russia), 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 




THE ARTS 
• 
Thu 21 and Fri 22 Glee Club Spring Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Fri .22 Battle of the Bands, 8:00 PM, Alumni Senior Club. 

• 
Sun 24 Faculty Artist Series: Maria Stablein, piano, 2:00 PM, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 

• 
Tue 26 Student Electronic Music Concert, 8:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

• 
Wed 1 O ND Schola Musicorum Concert, 9:30 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 



Post your event in Scholastic's What: Push Stars concert 

THE MIDWEEKER 
Coming Distractions. When: Tuesday, March 26 at 9:00 PM Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail yourWhere: Wright's Landing, 116 LaPorte Street, Plymouth, Ind. (must be 21 to enter) submissions to Jennifer Osterhage at josterha@nd.edu. 
Cost: $5 For more information, e-mail Dan Delgado at irishtradition@hotmail.com or 
"All submissions are subject to Scholasticapproval.

call Wright's Landing at (574) 935-5514. 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 . 
by Brooke Norton 





Unity Brings Change 
In my mind, the recent decision to tighten the alcohol policy is not so much about alcohol as it is about students' rights, residentiality and safety. 
Brooke Norton, a government major with a concentration in journalism, is the current student-body president. 
We do have a voice. In fact, I believe that the collective voice of the students is the most powerful voice on this campus ­we just have to use it. Now is the perfect time for us to unite, stand together and prove that we love this university. As integral members of the Notre Dame family, our voices must be heard. There is no doubt in my mind that the student body respects and treasures all that Notre Dame has given to us. Every day when we greet each other on the quad, participate in campus service, comfort a trouble friend or organize a section dinner, we are defining our com­munity. Inasmuch as we are the past, present and fu­ture ofOur Lady's university, the student body, alumni and ail the people who call this university home have created the history, spirit and tradition that is Notre Dame. We must take advantage of the privilege and respon­sibility that comes with being students at such a uni­versity. I truly believe that this -the best student body in the world -contributes dynamically to the inde­scribable mystique that makes Notre Dame so unique. Our convictions must be heard. We cannot afford to be apathetic. We must unite and work for student rights in a way that confirms our integrity and respect for all that is Notre Dame. 
In reflecting on my experiences this year, I must say that we already have a voice in many aspects of student life. This year we actually have seen a large increase in the number of university departments that actively seek out stu­dent opinion. For ex­
ample, students are currently working directly with the Office of Information Technologies to ensure that the student voice is heard as the office considers making changes to Webmail and the current printer allotment, looks into the feasibility ofcampus cable, the introduc­tion ofwireless technology to campus and laptop com­puters as a part of tuition. 
Last year, the student Report to the Board of Trust­ees and the Student Senate Survey on the Student Cen­
-ter reported the need for increased student space on cam­pus. As improvements to social space begin, students are having their voices heard in the renovations of LaFortune basement, the second floor of South Dining Hall and Alumni Senior Club, as well as in the adapta­tion of the newly purchased Creek House. When they are finished, those buildings will have a students' touch. I commend Student Activities for that. 
Food Services also has been receptive to student in­quiries about changes in Lafortune and dining hall food offerings. They have included students in taste tests, presented their plans to the Senate, surveyed students in regard to food issues and have continued to read ev­ery suggestion left in the dining hall. Recently, they also pledged their willingness to create another meal plan option for students. They have shown their belief in the student body. 
This winter, the student Report to the Board ofTrust­ees was extremely receptive to student concerns regard­ing an increase in funding for the First Year Orienta­tion Program. During the student presentation, they unanimously voted to begin working on student rec­ommendations imrr1ediately. They listened. 
Individual students can effect change. In response to student concerns about the fair labor practices associ­ated with the paper and coffee used on campus, the Anti-Sweatshop Task Force pledged to sell fair trade coffee in the new Starbucks facility and also decided to look for a new paper provider for the entire campus. Students spoke up about issues that concerned them and they saw action. 
However, there still is an incredible need for students to band together in a unified group to voice their opin­ions. We do care. We are responsible. We can work to­gether to make this campus a better place. We must be a part of defining the community that we treasure so much. 
In my mind, the recent decision to tighten the alcohol policy is not so much about alcohol as it is about stu­dents' rights, residentiality and safety. The administra­tion has conducted focus groups on alcohol use and abuse, but students were not included in formulating the actual three-point solution, and that is what con­cerns me. I have already seen apathy in the student body, apathy rooted in the belief that the individual student voice does not matter. If we allow this decision to com­pound and multiply that apathy, then we will be dis­crediting the importance of our voice and our insight to the Notre Dame community. 
This is our time to enrich the Notre Dame commu­nity and to stand up for student rights across the board. It is the time to unite as a student body and to ensure that all students are accepted and included, regardless of race, ethnicity or sexual orientation. In order to en­sure that the voices ofstudents are heard, we must find our collective energy and spirit. That will only be found in inclusiveness and support for one another. This is the time to listen to one another and to define our com­munity using our valuable experiences as students. 
I know that each and every one of us can leave a mark on this university and change it for the better. What are you passionate about? What can you do to make a difference? Let's work together. Unity, support, pas­sion, energy -these are the ways to have a collec­tive voice. . 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 



~ ----~---·---~--, 
~ • ' ' I 
1-··vouR GU1DE TO SlJ8'5 ULTRl-\~coOL Vv'EEKEND 


MOVJES 
ocean's eleven 1101 debartolo I$3 swingers I155 debartolo I$2NAZZ thursday I 10:00 p,1\ T friday & Saturday I7:30 & 10:00 r-\
friday, _march 22 . 
8:00 pm 



MC.GEE 
alumni senior club $5 pre-sale at BAND lafun info desk $7'. at the door C.ONC.ERT friday, april 19 special guest host 
stepan center jason mewes students-only show (mallrats, clerks, $10 pre-sale 
jay and silent bob details coming soon 
strike back) 
WWW.ND.EDU/~SUB 
IM: NDSUBINFO 


-,~,-..--------.--:-.-.... -~~--~~r-------~·.--­
i 
1 . . -, : -~ . '·i 
\ 
! 





