
MAGAZINE 

Phone bills too high? Your son or daughter can't find the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame, subscribe to 

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame students. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekends, -and enjoy some college humor. You can be part of all this for the introductory price of $20 a year-just a dollar an issue. i Subscribe now and share in of the 128-year tradition of Scholastic Magazine. 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:------­Address: _______ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years =$ __ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 11 FOUNDED 1867 DECEMBER 8, 1994 
Sexism and ND
3Therecentcontroversy over hallnotes has brough.t the debate about sexism on campus into the spotlight Scholastic Magazine examines the issue in this week's cover story. 



President Who? 
12Carter left office and keeps busy monitoring elections around the globe. Reagan left office and built a library. What have stu­dent body presidents and _vice presidents done since they left office? 

Dream Team
16Notre Dame has so many big names in the NFL, they could assemble their own team. What if ... 

FEATURES 

From the Desk of ... (Part m · Mark J. Mitchell N ..................................................................................................8 Don't Kill Your.Roommate· Josef.Evans .............................................................................................................. 20 Flying Sleighs and Takin' Names · Bill Albertini .................................................................................................21 Confessions of a Pearl Jam Jijnkie · Jenny Shank .........................................•................................................. : ....27 
DEPARTMENTS 

From the Editor .............................................. : .............. 2 
Coming Distractions .......... , ........................................ 22 
Catnpus Watch ............................................................ 14 
On Other Campuses .................................................... 25 
Splinters from the Press Box ......................................15 
Comics .........................................................................26 
Out of Bounds ...-................................ · ..........................19 
Final Word .........~ ........................................................28 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994 


The women ofmy mother's generation often say they had three career choices­that of teacher, stewardess or nurse. Although this may be slightly exaggerated, it is not far off the mark. My mother chose the first option; I marvel about what I would have done had I been born a generation earlier. One thing is certain. I could not have come to Notre Dame. 
That knowledge is hard for me to process. Certainly, like my mother, I could have gone to a state school and received a good education. But the fact remains that I would have had no place at Notre Dame. Great strides have been made here since women first set foot on campus as students and not as visitors. But opening the door to women does not result in instant equality. Vestiges ofsexism exist-in the classroom, in the dorms, at mass -because Notre Dame is not immune to attitudes and beliefs which pervade the rest of the world. We cannot expect attitudes to die overnight; but neither can we be complacent and claim that there is nothing left to be done about sexism on our campus. 
"Sexism" is a loaded word in this age of political correctness. Mentioning the word can start debate almost instantly. Part of what makes the debate so heated is that the topic touches us all. We can try to insulate ourselves from people of otherraces, shut ourselves away from hippies and Jews and Marxists. We cannot, however, live without the opposite sex. Our attitudes about gender ultimately affect our relations with those we are closest to: our parents, our siblings, our lovers. With that in mind, it is even more important to reach some kind of compromise on the issue. In another generation, it is likely that some of the women who are students here now will be· dropping off sons to live in Carroll Hall, and male students will be dropping off daughters to live in Walsh. Ifthe problems of sexism have not been addressed by then, they will have to go through our mistakes all over again. 
News Editor Chris Lenko reports about the problems that still exist at Notre Dame after 22 years of coeducation. Lenko interviewed administrators and professors for her article, which sketches a picture of how far Notre Dame has come and how far it has yet to go regarding gender issues. 
Also in this issue 

Assistant Sports Editor Jake Schaller imagined what it would be like to bring together Notre Dame football players who are now playing in the pros. His imaginary team faced the Dallas Cowboys, and the results run on page 16. 
Ever wonder what Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh will do after they graduate? Campus Life writer Kristin Alworth checked out what some former student body presidents and vice-presidents are up to in her article on page 12. 

That's it for now 

This is the last issue of Scholastic this semester. Three of our editors-Mary Kate Morton, Collette McKenna, and Charlie Kranz-will be going abroad next semester. The hard work they have all contributed this semesteris appreciated, and we wish them good luck in England and Italy. 
Enjoy our last issue, and have a safe and happy Christmas break. 
KatieE. Wiltrout Editor 

Cover design and graphics by Charlie Kranz. 
SC H O LA S TI C M A G A Z I N E • D E C EM B E R .8 , 1 9 9 4 




CLASH 
or

Compromise? 
Twenty-two years ago Notre Dame admitted womenfor the first time, but as the recent controversy over the hall notes shows, there is still much tension 

by Chris Lenko 

We're Glad You're Here". pro­claimed the handmade ban­ner hanging outside South Din­
ing Hall in the fall of 1972. On the inside, though, as they walked past rows of male studentsonthewaytothesundaebar, Notre Dame'sfirstcoedswereratedon theirphysi­cal attractiveness by a panel of malejudges who held up score cards with numbers 
crudely scrawled on them. Sexism has been a part of the Notre Dame tradition since 1972, the year that frilly lace curtains replaced university-issueddrapes in the windows of Badin and Walsh Halls. Thefirst365 female students who en-
17{fv"VJJrfj)'71L JIJY lg · __.-. 
rolled at Notre Dame, ha-JfiqPll~ 
rassed by their peers and c~u 
singled out bytheirprofes-. 
sors, struggled to adapt to life at a university with a 
17:1 male to female ratio. And they did. Attheendof the 1972-73 academic year, when the university'soverallGPAwas2.94,female students averaged a grade point average of 3.12. Despitetheirsolidacademicperfonnance, women still found themselves targets of resentment arid harassment 10 years after 
their arrival .. The ratio of male to female students had dropped down to 3:1, but 
S·C HO LAST IC M AG AZ IN E II 
between the sexes 

problems remained, especially the tradition of harassing women in the dining halls. AccordingtoAnneMarieBerges'78,inthe May 1982issueofScho/astic, "askirtin the dining hall was suicidal unles you craved attention. Wearingjeans, looking plain and being rowdy might excuse you from being rated publicly while trying to make your own sundae." 
By 1984 at least five faculty members had sued the university for sex discrimina­tion, and a 1984 editorial in the Observer 
.· · 
. 
0 

if7 <j) 1/J)~~sOO ~ift ~ 
· LV u;,.. lJ ~ U{y~ftY ~.1
eXIs 
. 

highlightedtheproblemsofwomen,calling for a better male to female ratio, the ad­vancement of women in academic depart-, ments,coedhousing,andtheeliminationof the laundry policy which required men to use the laundry service but did not require women to do so. 
Ten years later the laundry policy is gone but the war between the genders per-
DEC EM B E R 8, 1 9 9 4 · 
sists. Notre Dame hung her dirty laundry out for all to see this October, when the Observer published copies of hall notes from Alumni and Carroll halls, which ad­vised male students of the "Top 10 ways to spot a ND or SMC chick over break." Fr. Joe Ross, rector of Morrissey Hall, charac­terized the notes and other manifestations of sexism on campus as tragic. ''They reveal what kind of character fonnation is happening. Ideas take on another life when they appear in print ... it's degrading," said 
Ross. 
Manylookedtotheadministra­tion, symbolically housed .un­der the open arms ofMary the Protectress, fora response. When none was forthcoming,Professor Patty O'Hara found herself bar­raged with questions when she appeared at the end ofa student-
organized panel discussion on gender relations in November. Students demanded to know why 

~ 
the administration had saidnoth­
. ing,rem.indingthevice-pres.iden.t

1·gof Student Affairs that silence 
condones behavior. . 

"I a 't think of that kind of article as triggering the need for immediate public commentbyouroffice,"O'Hararesponded, speaking about the context in which the notes were publicized. ''The notes ap­peared in the Observeras partofareporton aforuminwhichtheyhadbeendiscussedas objectionable," said O'Hara. "It would have been different if those notes had ap­
3 
"The girls in our class were informed by one ofour chemistry professors that we were really lucky to be in the class because we would get to meet boys who would someday be rich chemical engineers." -Amy Schulte 

peared in the Observer with students re­marking that the notes had been just fine. That might have triggered the necessity of clarifying what we thought about that kind ofthing." 0 'Haraexplained that in general Student Affairs does not respond to issues raised in the student media. Dorm inci­dents, such as those involving hall notes, are generally handled by the rector in consulta­tion with student affairs. 
Not everyone agrees with O'Hara's handling of the incident "As I understand it's not her policy to respond unless she is asked," said Ava Collins, assistant dean ofthe college of Arts and Letters. "But in this particular case I don't think it would have hurt to say we abhor this, and we don't want to see this kind of thing going on. If they had been vitriolic about race as about women, it would have been addressed more quickly." In spite of the anger and controversy, Eileen Kolman, dean of Freshman Year of Studies, thinks that the publicity surround­ingthehallnotes wasnotentirelynegative."I think that the outcry about the hall notes was marvelous, and that would not have happened four years ago because I don't think women felt empowered to say.'wait a minute, that is not right"' Beyond the common academic and so­cial issues faced by students of both gen­ders, statistically women can expect to ex­perience sexual harassment, exclusion in the classroom, eating disorders and rape at much higher rates than men do. Comments such as those that appeared in the Alumni and Carroll hall notes, whilenotthecauseof these problems, can contribute to beliefs and stereotypes that women internalize. 
Sexual harassment has been a concern at 

. Notre Dame since well before 1989, when the university first published its policy on harassment A task force appointed by university President Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.,recommendedNotreDamedevelop acomprehensive policy statement defining andprohibiting sexual harassment, develop a formal complaint procedure for students, staff, and faculty, and publish in DuLac and faculty and staffhandbooks. The task force found that 50 percent of the students they surveyed knew of a student who had been sexually harassed by another student Also reported was an incidentin which a doctoral candidate was verbally attacked in an aca­


demic setting after refusing her professor's advances in private. 
Morerecently,theresultsofa199lsexual harassment survey show that two-thirds of students and one-half of faculty had experi­enced sex-stereotyped references, depic­tions, or jokes in a Notre Dame classroom orwork situation. Twenty-eight percent of undergraduate women at Notre Dame have encountered sexual harassment in the fonn of teasing or jokes by a person holding a position of authority over them. However, only 10 to 20 percent of the students who receive unwanted sexual attention file for­mal complaints with the administration, citing fear of hostility from the university as a reason for their silence, according to a 1989 Women's Resource Committee sur­vey. 
Junior Amy Schulte reported that one professor in the chemistry department is well-known for his sexist comments. ''The girls in our class were informed by one of our chemistry professors that we were re­ally lucky to be in the class because we would get to meet boys who would some­day be rich chemical engineers," Schulte said. "I lost a lot of respect for him." 
Senior Christine Mesquit attributed the attitudes displayed towards female students in the College of Business Administration as one of the reasons she transferred to the College of Arts and Letters. "I noticed that when the class would break up into groups, the males would automatically look to me toactasthesecretary,"Mesquitsaid. When sexism becomes an academic issue, the university has an obligation to address the problem, note some administrators. "As an educational institution we have a responsi­bility to stand up against sexism," said Eileen Kolman. 
Grafitti is one fonn of sexual harass­
ment familiar to many students. 

"Itwouldbeembarassingifpeople were to see some of the grafitti that occurs here," said· Sr. Regina Coll, C.SJ., who taught at a New York City university and characterizes the comments and cartoons scribbled on desks in the Hesburgh Library as among the worst she has encountered. One comment, carved into a study carrel on the 10th floor, reads "Top Quote about ND women: She'd be great ifshe lost 120 lbs or I was drunk." The marks etched into the wood may only scratch the surface of the desktop, but they tap into a deeper problem. 
Eating disorders are a pressing concern atNotreDame. A cartoon that appeared in a copy of Pasquerilla West's hall notes read ''Love is eating less so he loves you more," and depicted a distressed looking woman standing on a scale. Men feed into this mentality by wearing t-shirts such as the popular ''This is what we wanted-this is what we got" shirt, contrasting the ideal thin and beautiful Notre Dame coed with the stereotypical Notre Damefemale, an over­weightwoman wearing glasses and reading a textbook. In a Notre Dame student gov­ernment survey, 26 percent ofNotre Dame women had a diagnosable eating disorder orseriouseatingproblem,and46percentof women show symptoms of an eating prob­lem. The most common suggestion in the comment box at the student run Women's 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994 


ResourceCenteris"dosomethingaboutthe eating disorders," according to Fostering Community, a Graduate Student Union re­port. Nationally, 20 percent of college students and 10percent of thegeneral popu­lation are afflicted with eating disorded behavior. 
Te question in dealing with issues as sensitive as these becomes, "where does a student go?" Specifically with the issue of rape, stories abound about Student Affairs treatment of female assault victims. Said Cavanaugh resident assistant Michelle Trager about helping rape vic­tims, "I'm supposed to be helping my stu­dents, and ifI were in that position I would have tostopand considerwouldl go through Student Affairs myself, or 'would I go through the legal department of South Bend?' " Many believe that if a female student wants justice against her rapist; Student Affairs is not an avenue for justice. Micky Franco, sports psychologist at the UniversityCounselingCenter,confinnsthat rumor. "If the victim wants to see the person who harmed her punished, and for the person to spend time in jail, the rape should be prosecuted as a felony charge. If she [the victim] wants him kicked out of school, she goes through St. Joesph's County, because if convicted ofa felony he will spend time in jail." Franco is concerned that colleges are trying felonies as disciplinary cases. "If someone on campus got shot, would that be handled by Student Affairs?" he challenges. Franco emphasizes that this problem is not endemic to Notre Dame, but is one that all universities encounter; originating in the differences between civiland criminalcase procedures. "Ifa victim wants retribution, processes the case through Student Affairs, and there is not enough evidence, she ends up feeling like she sold out" Franco em­phasized the difficult position that Student Affairs finds itself in. .· "This is a very difficult experience for them. Ifthere is not enough evidence to dismiss him, what are they supposed to do? They're set up to look like they don't care about students, but that is not the case. Often they have to make a decision that.in their heart they don't want to make." Among the services offered for victims ofrapeorsexuaiassaultarethoserunthrough the University Counseling Center. Though the services arereported to beexcellent, the center has come under fire recently for the longdelaysstudentsawaitingtreatmentface. Ata university where a high percentage of the student body is prone to stress and eating disorders, the inability of students to receive treatment immediately may reflect thelowprioritygiventopsychologicalprob­lems, traditionally thought of as women's issues. Director Patrick Utz denies, how­ever, that resources are inadequate at the center. Professor O'Hara, whose office oversees the Counseling Center, believes the problem is one of matching student needswiththetypesofprogramsoffered. "I don't think they lack either resources or interest, and so if that is the student percep­tionlthinkit'simportanttoseewhatshapes that perception," O'Hara said. 
Eileen Kolman, dean ofFreshman Year 
...
.................. 
........• ....... . 

of Studies, has heard nothing but praise from clients of the counseling ~nter, but acknowledged her own frustration with the lengthy waiting period for counseling pro­
. ' 

grams. 
"Itoften seems that students need to wait a long time in order to get the services," Kolman obseryed. "The end I see of it is wherelmighthaveastudentwhomightnot make it through the semester." 
. Senior Bridget Conley was almost one of those students. Suffering from an eating disorder, she went to the counseling center during her freshman year but was asked to come back second semester when more spaces were available. "I just got really bad alloveragainandldidn'tfeellikelcouldgo off campus for ~ounselling," she said. Conleyreportedshewastoldthatifhercase 
was an emergency, the center would try to arrange for someone to see her earlier. Conley'sconditiondeterioratedinthemean­time, however, and when she finally told her parents about the incident they inter­vened by contacting the university on her behalf. Utz, who acknowleged that the availability of services varies during the semester, emphasized that if a student's condition is judged severe, he or she is seen right away. "There may be times in No­vember when we become extremely busy and they may not have their appointment . for two weeks. If it was judged to be a severecase, thestudentwouldbeseenright away. As far as waiting for a semester, that 
justdoesn'thappen." 
As a rule, victims in crisis are always 
seen immediately on an emergency 
walk-in basis. Last year 820 students took 
advantageof theservicesoff eredby liscened 
psychologists, counselors and a consulting 
psychiatrist at the University Counseling 
Center. Themajorityaresatisfiedwiththeir 
treatment, as evidenced by the popularity of 
group programs and high retention rates for 
individual counselling sessions. 
Tough institutional sexism may not 
infect the center as a whole, some 
clients have reported instances in 

which female students have been inappro­
priately treated by individual counsellors. 
One junior who came to the center after she 
said she was raped by her boyfriend said 
that the counselor urged her to take respon­
sibility for the incident The counselor r~ 
portedly said, "You need to take responsi­
"I think that.the outcry about the hall notes was marvelous, and that would not have happened four years ago because I don't think· women felt empowered to say 'wait a minute, that is not right."' -Eileen Kolman, dean ofFreshman Year of Studies· 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994 


want to bring the issue before the adminis­
bility for your actions and you need to learn nancy.
tration because they don't want the.perpe­
that and admit when you are at fault" The Rape awareness programs are another 
trator to be punished or sanctioned in any
student also alleges that she was challenged way in which gender relations concerns are 
way," explained Sr. Regina Coll.
as to why she considered her situation an addressedattheinstitutionallevel. In 1991, Borkowski, who will not comment on the
emergency one. The student, who .was the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination nature of complaints his office processes, 
sleeping at the time of the attack, was able (CARE) began mandatory presentations on 
nor the number ofstudents and faculty who
to find support from Sex Offense Services, date rape for freshmen in residence halls. 
have contacted the office, characterizes the
butis angry she was blamed for the rape. "I Rape 101: a Course in Clear Communica­
problems at Notre Dame as general ones,
don't believe it happened," said Patrick tion, is designed to raise students' aware­directed to groups of people rather than
Utz, commenting on the student's allega­ness of date rape situations typically en­individuals. "In my opinion the problems
tion about her counseling. "That would be countered on college campuses, and to pro­
hereareallsolvable,"Borkowskisaid. "The 
both unethical and unprofessional." With­mote discussion and communication· be­
men and women who come here and the
out knowledge of the specifics of the case, tween the sexes. 
·students who come here all share the same
Utz could not comment further, but he did Most significantly, quotas limiting the 
values of goodness.justice and fairness."
identify women's issues as one of the number of female students who can ma­
Improvements have also been made in

center's strengths. triculate at Notre Dame were elin:iinated in Du Lac, the student life handbook. Bill
Whilethejurymaybeoutonthecounsel­1992. The class of 1996 is the first class in Kirk, assistant vice-president of Student 
ing center as far as students are concerned, which students applied to the univeristy
Affairs, reported to the Campus LifeCoun­
the administration has taken many steps to under the new gender blind admissions cil in September of 1993 that the "Rights, 
T
eliminate sexism at the institutional level. policy, and the male to female student ratio ResponsibilitiesandPolicies"section would 
is now approaching 50:50. The present list physical violence and harassment as
e creation of the office of university seniorclassisonly37percentfemale, while 
incidents punishable by suspension, and
ombudsperson in spring of 1994 in the freshman class, 45 percent of the outline the exact behaviors prohibited by
resulted aftertheacademiccouncil's students are female. university rules. The section.entitled "Spe­
passing of the discriminatory harassment Though the university has madeprogresscial Services" was also changed to ''Preg­
policy. Professor John Borkowski, in several areas, there are still significant nancy" and now emphasizes the pregnant
ombudsperson, serves as a mediator be­changes to be made if women wish to expe­women will not be forced to withdraw from
tween conflicting parties rather than as a rience true equality at Notre Dame. One the univeristy on the grounds oftheir preg­
disciplanarian. "Sometimes women don't large area of concern is the lack of female 
~-1ifllj 
~ SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! 
¦ 

$1.49! 
tenured professors atthe university. "Young men need to see that women are not indeed simply sex objects, but women are also professionals, and I think that it is unfortu­nate that both men and·women would go through a semester without having afemale professor," said Sr. Regina Coll. Strildng a Balance, the 1993 report on gender relations presented to the Board of Trustees, reports that 15 percent of Notre Dame students had never taken a class with a female professor. The percentage of female faculty members at Notre Dame, 16 percent, falls well under the national average of 31 percent · 
One easily implemented area of im­provement lies in better publicity of services for women available through · University Health Services. According to the results of Strildng a Balance, only 28 percent of female respondents were aware that University Health Services provide gy­necological services for women. More dis­turbing, only 42 percent believe these ser­vices are confidential. In reality, doctor/ patient confidentiality priveleges apply at Health Services as they do at any other medical establishment, and students can re­ceive both pregnancy tests and care at the infirmary. 
"If a victim wants retribution, processes thecase through StudentAffairs, and there is not enough evidence, she ends up feeling like she sold out." -Micky Franco, sports psychologist, University Counseling Center 
The resident assistant training process is another avenue for increasing awareness of gender concerns at the university. While resident assistants praised the process for training both males and females to deal with issues of sexual assault and eating disoders, suggestions were made on improvements for future training sessions. "Maybe we shouldhavereceivedsometraining onsexual harassment," offered Cavanaugh resident assistant Michelle Trager, who said that whileresident assistants are giventhenames ofpeople to contact, she herself was unsure of who to approach with a problem of this nature. 
Trager also felt that perhaps gender could be explored as a diversity issue. "We had a multicultrual seminar and a follow up last month," saidTrager. "They did some things with communication and miscommunica­tion between cultures and could have done something similar with gender." 
Itmaybenaivetoexpectthatafteronly22 years ofcoeducation at Notre Dame, female students, faculty members and the adminis­tration will have enteredfully into the life of a university with a 131 year old all-male tradition. However, until sexism and dis­crimination are addressed on both the indi­vidual and institutional levels, the traditions presently being created at Notre Dame will not fully express the richness and diversity that reflects the entire student population.. 

640 an, 
new 

independent 
1'11'11USiC\ 
• ' • • • • -.. • 
l 

" ' . / 
Where the Rules are Made 

Patty O'Hara may be in college administration, but her office gives away her background as an attorney
Ive got a greatview oftheband step-offin the fall," commented Professor Patty O'Hara, vice-president of student affairs. Wedged intoan oddcomerof theMain Building, O'Hara keeps an officewhich looksjust like it belongs to a lawyer. On one wall are her law school diploma and her certificate topracticelaw in the state of California, and beside thoseis a bookshelf full ofvolumes labeled "Corporate Contract Law." When asked to confirm the rumor that she graduated with a 4.0 from the Notre Drone Law School, O'Hara responded, "I guess that just shows how these stories get embellished over the years. I was first in my class, but I didn't have a4.0." Like every room in the Main Building, O'Hara' s office has a 15-foot ceiling and windows which go from nearly floor to 

ceiling. Tooff-setthebrightwhitewalls,shehas big,darkfumiture. But from the dark wood desk to the dark leather arm-chairs around her sitting area, O'Hara's office looks exactly like one would expect: tastefully corporate, very busi­ness world. 
ThemostinterestingpartofO'Hara'sofficeis the artwork which she has included on the walls and table-tops. "Most ofit comes from special activities or concerts which we have had hereon campus." And most of it is religious. Most notable are the small, gold, instrument-playing angels which seem to appear on every desk and table. "Everyone asks me ifl collect angels, but I don't I brought these out for Christmas last year and I never got around to putting them away." Of all the framed pieces in her office, 0 'Hara values one above the others: 'Thisis an original holy card from Father Sorin's funeral. I'm a big Father Sorin fan and it's important for me to have something in my office which com­memorates his life and work." 
Kevin Klau 

Above: Patty O'Hara behind her desk. Most of the artwork on her walls Is from concerts and other events by student organizations, and most of the 
pieces have a religious theme. Below: O'Hara's desk, with pictures of her young nephew on the upper right corner of the desk. On the small end table In' the far corner of their office are a model of the Notre Dame Law School and a badge from the Notre Dame Police Department which O'Hara officially oversees. 
Kevin Klau 
' ~,-1 
' 


8 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994 
-.. 

. -. --. ..._.. ; : ~ . ' 
-~--------­
. . 
. ~ ' . ---·-y _;. , y '. ~ • 
! .,C 
E 
e 
m 
Above: Dr. Timothy O'Meara behind his desk. "I really only make phone calls from my desk. I prefer to-do most of my work over on the couch.'' The black metal sculptures on the comers behind his desk were created by his son. The oil paintings In the left corner are Russian religious paintings by O'Meara's sister­In-law, a Carmelita nun. Left: A painting of Sacred Heart during a mass with Father Hesburgh. The painting Is just one of many created for O'Meara's annual Christmas card. Below: Dr. O'Meara prefers to work on the couch In his sitting and meeting area. The bay of windows overlook Sacred Heart. "When Ifirst came here In 1963, this room was a beautiful Victorian parlor used for official meetings.'' 





Art& Academics 
Full oforiginal paintings and sculptures, Dr. O'Meara's office is a personal museum
'Eere used to be a huge brass chandelier hanging here, and on the floor there was this 
eat big orange rug -probably from K­Marl" That's how Dr. TimothyO'Mearadescribes what his office looked like when he became Provost 
in 1978. "Luckily, one winter a pipe in the ceiling froze and burst, drenching every piece offurniture in the office; So my wife Jean and I had a chance to redecorate, and we got that orange rug out of here." 
· Jean O'Meara's efforts to refurbish her husband's office are admirable. In the large room which seems even bigger because of the 15-foot ceiling and the four bright windows, there is plenty of rich wood furniture and finely appointed pieces of art Thefloor is covered with a brightly decorated ottoman rug and the walls are done in beige. All around the office are paintingsandpictureswhichDr.O'Mearahaspicked up over the years. Running the length ofone wallare severalframed oilpaintings of campusscenes. ''These ' weredonebymywife'ssisterwhoisaCarmelite nun. Every year she paints a picture for my Christmas card, and these are the paintings she has done for me in thepast Most of the paintings are of places on the campus, but after a trip I took to :I{ussia, I asked her to start painting in the Russian religious style," he says as he points to four newer paintings behind his desk. But his sister-in-law's is not the only original art in O'Meara's office. "My son, Tim, is an artist, and he did these sculptures for me." O'Meara points out two large black metal ab­stract pieces saying, "I really don't know what they are. He did them when he had long hair and this bushy beard." Also among the artworks on his walls are sketches of his daughters and son. "I've got photos, too. Here we arewith Mother . Theresa, arid here we are in Africa ..." O'Meara moves energetically from photo to photo, all taken on official trips_ around the world with FatherHesburgh and FatherMalloy. "It's a great place to have to spend most of the day working. . I never get bored or cramped in here." 
9

SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994 
' . . . .: ' ~ ' ' . ' . ' . ' ' : : ' . . .-·, . . 


Long Hours and Late Nights
For over 12 hours a day, Father Bill Beauchamp is hard at work in his corner ofthe Main Building

Ilike Father Beauchamp's office the most -he's got great taste," commented Professor O'Hara. And she is 
right: Father Beauchamp does have good taste. The executive vice­president's office is on the third floor of the Main Building, overlooking God Quad and Sacred Heart. It's a long and rather narrow room, but it's finely decorated. "I think this panel­ling is World War II surplus, birch or something. And Father J oycehad the decorating done before he left," notes Father Beauchamp. The light wood panelling is accentuated by light blue carpeting and a matching blue stripe around the top of the walls. Father Beauchamp has a sitting area just inside the door and his desk is at the far end of the room. "I have the plant here because I like to.leave my door open all the time, and when I sit at my desk you can't see ifI'm in or not because the plant blocks the view," he says of an enormous bush guarding his desk. 
The collection of items in Father Beauchamp' s office give away his interests and concerns: finances and sports. "Each bow1gives away commemorative gifts and that's what most of these are," he says pointing to shelves full of crystal footballs, and Hopi Indian dolls from the Fiesta bowl. He also has miniature bond issues in glass paperweights. "And that's just a brass monkey. Father Joyce had it here all the years that this was his office and! liked it so well I asked ifitcouldstay. I just can't think of anything better to put up there,'' Father Beauchamp says ofthe abstract sculpture of a monkey peering down from atop his bookshelves. 
Father Beauchamp' s office, like so many other rooms in the Main Building, suffers from a peculiar malady: doors that go nowhere. Behind his couch and at the back of his closet are old doors which have gone unused for decades. "It would be neat ifthey were secret escape routes or something, but really they probably open up into the wall of the next office." The one secret in Father Beauchamp's office is a big television which is c.oncealed in a cabinet across from his couch. "When I'm in town I tend to work until 10:00 at night and on the weekends, so the TV is a nice break, especially on Sunday when there is a football game on." · 
Top: Father BIii Beauchamp reviews the _business of the day. Behind his desk In the corner Is a black teddy bear with a priest's collar 
and a cast on his leg: "A friend gave that to me after I tore a tendon In my leg playing raquet ball In the Ro.ck." · Above Left: "Edward William Beauchamp" In Korean caligraphy, by a famed North Korean dissident.. . 
SCHOtASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994
10 

-. '\. , . 
-.~ ! / • 
----------------------------------------· ----­


secretary's office," commented Father Monk Malloy on the history of the place where he works. For a room with four big windows, Father Malloy's office is dark and warmly lighted with a brass chandelier and a few desk lamps. Bookshelves cover most of the walls, and Father Malloy has filled them up with his favorite books. His desk is set in the .bay of windows which overlook Saint Edward's Hall and Washington Hall. . 
Next to Monk's desk is a two foot tall monk. '"That was sculpted by a Benedictine monk, and it was sent to me because he didn't know whattodo with it I really didn' tknow what to do with itsoI put it there as a conversation piece." Along the beige walls of Father Mallof s office, where there aren't book cases, there is not much space for pictures, so he has an entire separate room full ofthem. 'That's a picture of my 8th grade baseball team. We won the city championship that year. We played the championship game in the park where the Washington Senators played, and even though I was the catcher, I had to pitch for that game because all of our pitchers had sore arms. I also hit a ball out of the park in that game-that is to say,I hit a foul ball so hard it went up and over the wall and out of the park." Along with pictures of Father Malloy and various Presidents of theUnited States, there are pictures of him on the basketball court and at home in Sorin Hall. 
Because he has taken up all ofhis shelf space with books,Father Malloy also has an entire room setaside for keeping the special pieces of art In the shelves ofa sitting room offthe side ofhis main office, there are the various gifts which Father Malloy has been given on his many official trips to foreign countries. 'There are a lot of very expensive things out here, but I would have to say that the most precious thing in my office is a picture of my family when we all got together just a few summers ago for a family reunion. I have had several nieces and nephews come to Notre Dame and. family is something which is very important to me, so that picture is a very special part of my office." 0 
Facing Page Right: Father Beauchamp's most prized possession: "This painting was done by my great-grandfather. It's of a small town In Scotland where he llved." Above: Father Monk Malloy at the presidential desk. On the wall behind Father Malloy to the right are pictures of Father Malloy with Pope John Paul II and a picture of the entire Malloy family during a recent reunion. Also, Father Malloy stands with some of the Items he has been given on trips around the world. Pictured here are pieces from far Eastern countries. · 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994 
11 


19UJiiRiii•l+t 





President 
o? 
Life after holding the top job at Notre Dame-a look at the experiences student body presidents and vice-presidents 
administration compiled a report titled Back to Ba­sics: The Quality ofthe Undergraduate Education at
by Kristin Alworth 
a National Catholic Research University. Two committees of the Board of Trustees heard the pre­I do the grunt work for prima donna 
sentation. "After the presentation, we had to make a attorneys," remarked David Florenzo, lot of copies of the report," recalled Florenzo with student body vice-president during the 1991-pride. "I could not have been more pleased-it was 
1992 school year. ''For the most pcµt, all those 
a gamble to base our campaign on that issue, because nightmares about attorneys are basically true." if it failed, we would have accomplished nothing." David Florenzo currently works as a paralegal, 
A demonstration which occurred in April 1991 which entails gathering documents for legal briefs 
also proved a memorable event during Florenzo's and ensuring thatcasequotes are accurate. Hemakes time in office. An unofficial student group, Students sure everything looks first rate and that there are no 
United For Respect (SUFR.), held a sit in at the mistakes. Florenzo plans to attend law school in the 
Registrar's office. 'Their gripes were ones you near future and is considering enrolling at either 
would normally find at any university-there were 
notenough minorities, there were notenough minor­ityprofessors, therewas a need for moremulticultural"People may think this is funny, but I classes and a multicultural requirement," Florenzo explained. He recounted his role in the demonstra­
am totally serious: infive or ten years 
tion, noting, "Joseph Blanco and I tried to get the protesters out of there by seven o' clock, which was
from now, I see myself driving down the 
Father Malloy's deadline. We didn'.t want to see interstate in· my pickup truck/' students get punished or expelled." The protesters did leave the Registrar's office by seven. _
-Student Body President David _ Fred Tombar, student body vice-president for the 1990-1991 school year, played a somewhat different Hungeling role in the demonstration. In January 1991, when ·Tombar was vice-president, SUFR issued a series of 
·D~e University or theUnivers1ty of Virginia concerns -"The university viewed them as de­
Campaign promises of student body presidents mands," noted Tombar-tothe university. Tombar 
range from increasing the quality of undergraduate faced a personal dilemma over the controversy. "As 
education to bringing the Grateful Dead to campus. vice-president, I had the opportunity to be in regular 
Likewise, the paths which student leaders follow communication with the university administration 
. after graduation include everything from law school and people who could influence decisions," said 
to the priesthood. · Tombar. "Many of the people involved with the 
Florenzo recounts his first reaction to the idea of SUFR coalition were friends however, and I was 
running for office. "Joseph. Blanco, my running drawn to the grassroots approach." The university 
mate,suggesteditandlasked, 'Why? Why doI want and the SUFR coalition eventually reached a com­
to do this?"' Florenzo and Blanco decided to attack promise, yet it did not please everyone. , 
the declining quality of undergraduate studies. As Tombar expressed some bitterness over the Florenzo expressed, "We feit it was the wrong direc­conflict's resolution, noting, "SUFR had done re­tion for the university." At the time, graduate pro­search to show that these issues had come up before. grams were stressed and expanded, while the size of Father Malloy wanted to set up a new committee on uridergraduate classes was on the rise and student-the Board of Trustees, but we wanted action." To­. teacher contact was suffering, particularly in the day, Tombar wishes he had acted differently, re­College of Arts and Letters. marking, 'There must have been some way I could 

support SUFR better." As far as the university's response to the issues of multiculturalism to date is concerned, Tombarreplied, "I'm not convinced that enough has happened." 
Today, Tombarresidesoutside Washington,D.C., and works with Price Waterhouse in the Office of Government Service, particularly in the area of economic development The company provides technical assistance to federal government agencies like the Department of Housing andUrban Develop­ment One recent project, recounted Tombar, en­tailed "working with HUD's Office of Community Planning and Development to produce a manual for strategicplanningonNativeAmericanreservations." The manual was a step-by-step guide for the govern­ment on how to start tribal businesses and how to plan what businesses would work beston a particular reservation. In the near future, Tombar hopes to work with a neighborhood group in South Central Los Angeles and provide technical assistance for redeveloping the area devastated by the 1992 riots. 
While Tombar followed a path to Washington, 
D.C. after graduation, Patrick Cooke, student body president during the 1987-1988 school year, found his way back to Notre Dame. Heis currently a third­year law student who will graduate in May, after which he will probably return to his native Chicago. Cooke stated that he is "interested in litigation. I'm hoping to gain exposure in different areas of law before selecting my area of specialization." Cooke is also the assistant rector of Grace Hall. "I lived in Grace as an undergraduate," Cooke replied. "The sense ofcommunity in the dorm is wonderful. I was happy to have the opportunity to participate in the Grace community again." 
Cooke fondly recalled his days in office. "It was a very exciting time on campus," he said. ''Father Hesburgh was retiring, and Father Malloy was just beginning his presidency. We witnessed the chang­ing of the guard." As student body president, he played an important role in planning the celebration surrounding Malloy's inauguration. "To celebrate his inauguration, each dorm designed its own flag," Cooke said. ''The flags were hung on South Quad, and as Father Malloy walked by, each dorm raised its flag to show their support for him." 
Because of his position, Cookealso had the oppor­tunity to start the Christmas in April program with Jim Roemer. "It was a project that could not fail at Notre Dame," noted Cooke. "I take no credit foritat all, but I was happy to be in the right place at the right time." During the first year of the program, 1300 students volunteered. Christmas in April took place for the first.time in 1989, and about 50 homes. received completely new roofs. The project has · grown and spread, added Cooke, noting that "many alumni clubs now use Christmas in April as a part of their community service project" 
Cooke believes his experience as student body president helped prepare him for his chosen career in law. "It was a wonderful opportunity to work with different types of people," he stated. "I also learned how to manage time." He warns that "the position can be all-consuming if you let it, and you may not even realize it It'simportanttomaintaina balance." 
Like Patrick Cooke, Tom Doyle, student body presidentfor the 1988-1989 school year, has returned to Notre Dame. The path he has chosen, however, is somewhat different He has decided to enter the priesthood. Doyle now lives at Moreau Seminary and is working towards his masters in Divinity. Reflecting on what influenced his decision to be­come a priest, Doyle replied, "I thought about priest­hood before coming to Notre Dame. AtNotre Dame, Iencounteredpriestswhowerehappy,healthy,loved what they were did and cared about the people with whom they interacted." Heconceded, however, "It's a bit of a mystery how God moves someone to the priesthood." 

1987-88 Student Body President Pat Cooke, with Kevin Hurley. 
Recalling his tenure as student body president, he remarked, "I wish I could take credit for the national football championship in 1989." Doyle notes that being president isn't an easy job. "It was difficult to always remember why we ran in the first place, and not get discouraged when things didn't always go as we'd planned." 
Coming to the present day, what the future holds for Student Body President David Hungeling is becoming more clear as the first semester winds down. "People may think this is funny, but I am totally serious," Hungeling says, "In five or ten years I see myself driving down the interstate in my pickup truck." 0 
13

S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ D E C EM B E R 8, 1 9 9 4 






CamF,us Watch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Rumors, Allegations and Innuendo 
Well, it's time to pick the com­mencement speaker. Get me a pin and a phone book ... 
Condoleeza Rice? I thinkI ate that once in a Mexican restaurant" -overheard from the president's office last week. 

' WORSHIP THE BEASTMASTER The Gipp has known for a long time that theDART system was theworkofthedevil,
'.i 
but a recent horrifying discovery has con­firmed this. On page 76 of the current DART book, under Theology 200, there is acoursewiththecallnumber666. Butwait, there are further signs of the apocalypse here. This course is taught by a man named Harold Dyck. The Gipp isn't sure what Professor Beelzebub goes by in casual con­versation, but smart money says this guy's name is Harry Dyck. Theology 666 with Harry Dyck. Yes, DART and the Prince of Darkness are one. 
A FUNGUS AMONG US 
Once again, straight from a North Dining Hall worker: one day while this Dining­Haller was working in the food preparation area, he was assigned to prepare green pea pods used in the stir-fry. As he worked his way through his first box, he found the bottom to be full of something like rot, just plain rot This was not disturbing, consid­


to be playing a game of · Wheel-of-Bad-Kickers, why not open it up to celebrity guest kickers: "And now to attempt the point-after, televisi.on's Regis Philbin.!" 
@ The Gipper hears that after · the Carroll haunted house, since it was raining, the Carrollers pulled out a big plastic tarp and started slip­and-sliding. The only prob-· lem was that they were totally 

AUTHENTIC!! Germaine Holden gave.this ticket offer and signature to a girl In his Genetics class freshman year. She faithfully forwarded it to the Glpper. · 
ering that he was dealing with dining hall food. However, the next box was full of peapods covered with fur. Aftersixboxes of furry, moldy and otherwise fungus­ridden pea pods, the workerappealed to his supervisor for advice. He was told, and the Gipper quotes directly, "If you have a problem working with fungus, close the boxes up and put them back in the fridge and somebody will work with them later." So don'tworry,kids, that's not a caterpillar in your stir-fry, it's just a pea pod Eat up! 
CUTE BUT EVIL 

Did you wonder why there was one fe­male cheerleader missing from the last two home games this year? The Gipper knows. Itseems that therewas a lot of hatred among the cheerleaders this year. The Gipp hears that there were even some nasty screaming matches on the sidelines during the games. It got to be so mean-spirited that one cheer­leader decided to quit with only two games left in her career. Just imagine the scene: "Yea! Golrish-beatFalconsl DieTracy, you ugly B****! Yea! Lou, Lou ... " 
GIPPLETIES · 

(!) The Gipp could throw a whiffle ball farther and with greater accuracy than any of our kickers can kick the ball. 
@Since theCoaches seem bare-naked. No wonder they put Carroll so faraw·ay. 

© Luckily for the reputation of the entire university, the band will not ·be playing "YMCA" at the Fiesta Bowl. But as a punishment for playing it twice during the regular season, the administration is forc­ing theband to march in thefive-mileFiesta Bowl parade: 85°, wool uniforms, big fun. 
® And speaking of unhealthy things, every time the Gipper is on North Quad, there are at least seven Farley girls sitting 
· out on the lovely Farley porch, smoking butts. Nothing is morebeautiful on asunny afternoon than a porch full of gi,rls taking big long drags on Camel Lights. Hey, Farley, ever heard the term "100%Lady?" The Gipper didn't think so. 
That's it, that's all until next semester. So for now the Gipp will go back to trying to get the DARTguy and the voice-mail girl to go out on a date. 0 
14 

S CH O L A ST I C . M A G A Z I N E ¦ D E C EM B E R 8, 1 9 9 4 

SPLINTE'RS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports 
November 30 to December 6 edited by Jake Schaller 
VOLLEYBALL The 12th-ranked  stretch waskey. With bigmenMattGotsch,  
Notre Dame volleyball team earned a spot  Marcus Young and Ganity all fouled out,  
in the NCAA Division I Women's Volley­ Manner scored six points after regulation.  
ball Championship's MideastRegional this  The Irish return to the hardwood this  
past weekend with a 3-1 comeback win  weekend when they meet DePaul at  
over Pittsburgh.  Chicago's United Center. The game will be  
The match was highlighted by the out­ only the second collegiate game ever in the  
standing play of senior All-American  complex.  
Christy Peters. Peters, returning to the  
lineup after an injury, had a match-high 19  WOMEN'S BASKETBALL The  
kills in addition to 22 digs against the Pan­ Notre Dame women's basketball team won  
thers. The Irish will face Penn State tomor­ its first game of the season this past Friday  
row at 8 p.m. The Nittany Lions advanced  with a 72-71 win over UC-Irvine, in the first  
to the Mideast regional by defeating Ball  round of the UCI/Newport Beach Marriot  
State.  Classic. The Irish then dropped a tough  
game in the finals to 6th-ranked Alabama  
The Irish record stands at 1-3, but all three  
losses have come at the hands of highly  
ranked opponents.  
SWIMMING The Notre Dame men's  
and women's swimming teams both came  
away with titles this past weekend in the  
National Catholic Championships. The  
men won their seventh straight title, and the  
women won their sixth.  
The men's team was led by Ry Beville,  
who set a meet record Saturday in the 100  
butterfly, and then took first in the 200 fly.  
· For hisefforts,Bevillewasnamed the meet' s  
most valuable men's swimmer.  
The women were led by junior Jesslyn  
Peterson, the meet's only triple individual  
winner. She was named the meet's top  
women's swimmer. Notre Dame's Marcia 
MEN'S BASKETBALL The Notre Dame basketball team has gotten off  Powers was named the meet's top diver.  
to a great start this season with a3-1 record, including an 80-79 overtime upset of na- Predictions  
tional powerhouse Indiana.  Kennedy's Kall: With memories of the 1992 Sugar Bowl dancing in their heads, the  

OnTuesday, the Irish bounced back from . Holtz-led Irish pounce on Colorado. Becton rushes for his third straight 100-yard game a tough loss to San Diego with another and again it's the Powlus-Mayes show. Prepared for their coach's last game, Salaam overtime win; this time against Loyola and Westbrook score twice each, but a last minute touchdown drive falls short due to Marymount Keith Kurowski led the Irish inspired play by the Irish defense. Notre Dame 35 Colorado 31 .. with 19 points, including two free throws Schaller's Schot: Holtz again has an underdog team ready for a bowl game, as the Irish that sealed the win with 10 seconds left in stake a 17-1Ohalftime lead. But the Buffaloes are fired up for Bill McCartney's last game. overtime. Notre Dame's freshmen played Rashaan Salaam runs through the Irish for 100 second-half yards, and Kardell Stewart well, as Derek Manner and Pat Ganity had hooks up with Michael Westbrook on two touchdown passes. Becton and Zellars are 10 points a piece. Manner's play down the marvelous in defeat Colorado 34 Notre Dame 23. 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E II D E C E M B E R 8, 1 9 9 4 
15 





Running Down a Dream 
There are enough Cowboys. Outfitted in their new green Jimmy Johnson back for this one," some­
uniforms, the Irish Dream (as they wouldbe one yelled.former Irish stars in the called) took the field at Sun Devil Stadium Although the NFL loved the hype over a week and a half before the Super Bowl. the game, they feared another blowoutNFL to make an entire · "Aboutone-billionthofthe timeyou needto Sure the players on the Irish Dream were build a championship·team," Head Coach outstanding, buttheywerenotateam. Troy
team-what if... 

Dan Devinecomplainedat thepress confer­Aikman,EmmittSmith and Irvin led a team ence before the game. Devine, who left a that had ruled the league for threeyears.and successful term as coach of the Green Bay theywerenotabouttoletsoinerag-tagteam by Jake Schaller Packers to take the Irish helm in 1975, was made of former Notre Dame players take coaxed out of retirement by two prospects: away what was theirs. As Irvin said: "IPcture this: It all started five years winning one last NFL game, and winning don't care about the luck of the Irish, lepre­ago. As ScottNorwood's last-sec­one last Irish game. chauns, pots ofgold and all that. Alllknow ondkickinSuperBowlXXV sailed Inthemediacircus surrounding theevent, is that I have a few more naked fingers, and towards thegoalpoasts,thousands heldtheir Devine had to answer questions about how I plan to get a ring for one of them this breath. But when time expired, it drifted he could lead a team made offormer Notre weekend." barely wide and Buffalo's dreams of a Dame stars to dethrone the reigning Super Held in Arizona's Sun Devil Stadium, Super Bowl Championship were dashed. Bowl champions. He was enjoying it, the game had a college feel. Gathered After losing four Super Bowls in a row, though. In the wake of six years at Notre behind the north goalpoasts, the Cowboy the Bills became thebutt of manyjokes and Dame withoutan undefeated season, and all starters sauntered on the field one by one as the symbol ofAFC futility. The conference the negative publicity he received from their names were called. The Irish Dream had not produced a Super Bowl win since Rudy, Devine was ready to work some followed, but they left as one. Huddled 1984! Paul Tagliabue and the NFL stock­magic. This was his shot at redemption. together before bursting onto the gridiron, holders could not take another year -After a monstrous hit, Pete Bercich of­Devine looked over his troops,. Then,on his especially of the Bills, who had just de­fered a hand and helped Raghib Ismail. break, the Irish Dream tore onto the field. feated the San Diego Chargers for the 1995 "Don't you know that you're supposed to After scoring a quick touchdown, the AFC Championship, and a fifth straight try to run around a 'backer and not through Cowboys kicked off to the Dream. Ismail Super Bowl appearance. him? Where did you got to school any­kneltdownforthetouchback,andthecrowd Meanwhile, in the NFC, the two time way?" Bercich personified the attitude of fell silent Who would itbe? Which Golden World Champion Dallas Cowboys had in­many players on the team: they all wanted Boy? Which number 3? Devine had not vaded . Candlestick Park, avenging their on.e more game in gold helmets. C.atch the said. Evenhedidnotknowuntilthatsecond regular season loss to the 49ers. Their 31-pass, make the block, win the game. A when he pointed to Joe Montana. Some of 17 ambush set the stage for a third straight dream had come true. Everymemberofthe Devine's best years at Notre Dame were Bills-Cowboys match-up. The press began team had a second chance. spentwith Montana at thehelm. And hehad calling it the Subpar Bowl. Budweiser Dallas' Michael Irvin flashed his signa­watched the quarterback grow into a leg­refused iorunBudBowl. The NFL thought ture toothy smile. "I know I should be most end. bankruptcy. Tagliabueneededagimmick ... fired up for this game 'cause I went to Lake Daw~on had enjoyed a season with A team made of former Notre Thune Miami," he joked, to the uproarious laugh­Montana at Kansas City, but the others had players now in the pros would take on the ter of the press. "Maybe they should bring not played with the living legend except in 
16 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E • DECEMBER 8, 1 9 9 4 


thefewpracticesbeforethegame. Itshowed. The first three Irish Dream possessions netted 27 yards, and only one first down. Punter Craig Hentrich was working over­time, and when the first quarter ended, the team felt lucky to be down only 14-0. 
. Midway. through the second quarter, Devine went deep intp his bag of tricks. Pinned at his own 30 on a second down, DevineputPatEilers,a former walk-on and unsunghero, attailback. Eilers tooka pitch onasweepright,carriedoutafake,stopped, and then lofted a pass down the sidelines.
1 Running allalone, Tim Brown adjusted for the ball, caught it at the Cowboy's 30, andI then motored infor an Irish score. With the Jolm Camey's extra point. the Irish Dream had cut the deficit in half. On the first play of the next Dallas pos­session, Emmit Smith was met four yards deep inthebackfieldbyaflyingnumber50. ,Aftercrumplingtheleague'srushingcham­pion, Chris Zorich lunged up and thrust bothfists intotheair. Histeammatesmobbed him as the crowd volume doubled. The 
· look on the Dallas bench seemed to say: "Oh no, is this really going to be a game?" 
Itmost certainly was.. On ~e next play, Afkman launched · a rainbow for Alvin Harper. Playing centerfield, Jeff Burris rotated for support Laying out, the safety 
1 
l 
broughtintheballthatHarpertipped. !twas first down, Irish Dream, at the Cowboy 49. 
Number 3 came back into the game, but this time itwas Rick Mirer. Mirer lined up infrontofJeromeBettisandReggieBrooks, whorounded out whatwas,justa few years previous, thenation's mostpotentbackfield. 
On a counter, Brooks jab-stepped left, and then exploded right following a path cleared courtesy of Andy Heck and Aaron Taylor. The two bulldozed a pair of Dallas defenders, and Brooks was offto the races 
. with a 49-yard scamper. Carney's extra pointwas true, and theIrishDream had tied the game. The Cowboys responded .like c~pions, driving 80 yards on theback of Smith to stake their claim to a 21-14 half­time lead. 
Walking into the locker room, Devine did notknow what to expect His team had kept it close, but the last drive seemed to demoralize them. But Devine always put more stock in effective strategy rather than emotionc!,l speech, and the third quarter showed it 
REVERSE!" The Cowboy.defense had overrun the play, falling for a fake to the left. Now they tried to 
scramble back towards the right Devine had reached into the bag of tricks ·once 
\

SC H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ D E C E M B E R 8, 1 9 9 4 
17 


•  I  ,  :  ,•  •  '  '  •  l  •  :,..  • f  
• •  '  •  I  • / •  •  
.  .  '  .  .  




again, and once again it had worked. 
Willie Clark raced down· the right 
sideline,before cutting backandcon­
tinuing down the middle of the field. 
In a footrace with Darrel Woodson, 
Clark showed offhis speed and beat 
the comer into the endzone. 21-21. 
AsMirkoJurkovichoistedClarkinto 
the air during the endzone celebra­
tion, Clarkfelt like he could touch the 
sky. Four seasons of injuries, posi­
tion changes and disappointments 
had been erased. 

TheDreamregroupedforthefourth 
quarter after Michael Irvin's one­
handed catch, and an extra point put 
Dallas up 34-21. · With Mirer still reelingfromahitbyLeonLett.Mon­tana reentered. The comeback kid was in such a familiar position. But it was nottime to panic yet A crucial play on the drive was a Bettis plunge for a yard on fourth and one from the Dallas 40. But when it was third and goal from three, Devine had some­thing else in mind rather than Bettis up the gut Criticized for his flashy . running style atNotre Dame, Rickey Watters had adjusted his style for the pros. On the third down call he proved it Watters took a pitch left, cut up and pancaked Dallas safety Bill Bates at the goalline. Afterspik­ing the ball, Watters ran to t;he Cow­boy sideline and flexed, sending the Dream players into hysterics. Some 
things had not changed. 

Dallas earned two first downs on 
its ensuing possession, but the Irish 
stopped them on their own,45. Dal­
las had, however,milked3:50 off the 
gameclock, leavingonly one minute 
and nine seconds left Dan Devine, 
the "Cardiac Coach," was in his ele­
ment 

The Rocket was driven back­
way back. Catching the punt at the 
one yardline,Rocketknew he would 
makesomethinghappen. Faking out 
the first Cowboy special teamer who 
had sprinted to meet him, Rocket 
raced right to the 10. Nothing was 
there but Cowboys, so he reversed 
his field and tried to turn the comer at 
the left sideline. With Johnston cut­
tingoffhispath,itseemed likeismail 
was trapped. 

Just then Greg Davis, the man 
. responsible for the clip that nullified Ismail' s return against Colorado five years earlier, sprinted towards Johnston. Sprung free by a terrific block from Davis, Ismail took off, racing all the way to the Cowboy10, · before being tripped up. Two unsuc­cessful runs by Brooks and Bettis coupled with a sack gave the Dream 
fourth-and-goal from the 20. Devine 
used his last time out This might be 
his closest call yet 
Montana sent Eilers, Ismail and Dawsonsplitouttotheright Rolling that way, Montana found everyone covered. The venerable quarterback hadonemorecomebackuphissleeve. Justas he was hit, Montana heaved a prayer into the left comer of the end zone. 
While he awaited the ball, the si­lence was eerily familiar to Derek Brown. He listened to similar si­lence after he had dropped a pass againstStanfordyearsearlier.Reach­ingforthe ball andhero status,Brown letthe the ballslip through his fingers and thump into his chest . For most of the 93,114 spectators, it was too close to call, so they waited. Watch­ing intensely, the line judge saw Brown's toes dig in, just inside the sideline as the big tight end got con­trol of the ball. The line judge raised his arms, cuing a frenzied celebra­tion. . The Irish Dream led 35-34. Thirty-two seconds remained. 
With eleven seconds to play, Dal-· las needed one more completion to get into field goal range. Aikman dropped back, and sent a pass to Jay Novachek over the middle. Novachek looked the ball in, but it never came all the way io him. Pete Bercich snagged the pass with one hand and cradled it to his chest The big linebacker raced straight to the sidelines as time expired. 
Devine looked down from upon his players' shoulders. They had doneit No questions wouldbeasked about Willie Clark's abilities, Derek Brown's or Pete Bercich's hands, Ricky Watters' toughness or Greg Davis' blocking. AndMichaelirvin, in addition to having some naked fingers, would never again question the Irish. 0 
18 

SCH ~ LA S TI C M A G A Z I N E • D E C EM B E R 8, 1 9 9 4 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• DECEMBER 8, 1994 
19 





event has enjoyed in the past. Members of both musical groups are 


Don't Kill Your Roommate 
Holiday entertainment on campus ojfers a more peaceful opportunity for stress relief 
Director Dan 
Stowe 
prepares the 
Notre Dame 
Glee Club for 
Its annual 
Christmas 
Concert. This 
year's show 
will take place 
December 
10th In the 
JACC. 
by Josef Evans 
Tis the season to be miserable, if you're like most Notre Dame stu­dents at this time of year. The con­sequence ofthree months' worth of pro­crastination is rearing its ugly head and the result in most cases is none too pleasurable. A campus full of borderline psychotics emerges as students are forced to alternate between thinking about how much work they have to do before that first exam and listening to every single one of their friends whine about how much work they have to do before that first exam. Fear not, though. The campus and South Bend area are abounding in holiday enter­tainment that may help to take you away momentarily from the mental anguish of finals, and make you think it actually might not be such a good idea to kill every one of your friends, after all. OK, abounding may be a strong word, especially when mentioning Michiana and entertainment opportunities as parts of the same thought But considering the amount oftimestudents will likely haveavailablein the next two weeks, it might be on the mark. 
"It'll be absolutely stupefying," prom­ises senior Pete B uonaccoursi ofthis year's edition ofone of the campus' most popular Christmas events, the Glee Club Christmas Concert. Held in the JACC again this year to accommodate the great demand for tick­ets that turned many a cheer-seeker away in the past, the event promises to delivermuch of what has kept audienc:es coming back. Traditional Christmas favorites and audi­ence sing-alongs will be interspersed with more intricate classical pieces, including a set of Spanish carols. Admission is two dollars, with all proceeds going to South Bend's Center for the Homeless. 
· Also in the charitable spirit of Christmas will be the Choral~ and Orchestra's two performances of Handel's Messiah. Pro­ceeds from the shows go to both the Center for the Homeless and the Music Depart­ment Scholarship Fund. Both the admis­sion and the two performances are new this year, instilled in response to the support the very positive about this edition of the an­nual concert, promising it will be more than worth the unprecedented monetary charge. "It's more technically precise than any per­formance in my four years with the group," noted senior Patricia K. Gilbert, a soprano soloist from the Chorale. Despite the addi­tional perfonnance, concertgoers are en­couraged to show up early tonight and tomorrow at Washington Hall. Last year people were turned away as early as 45 minutes before the show. 

Ifyou're more in the moodfor mindless manipulation thanmerrycaroling, takeheart. There will be no shortage of holiday films and television specials being screened over the weekend, the first being A Christmas Story. This hit from more than a couple of years back, featuring that twerpy little kid whose very being depends on getting a Red Rider B.B. gun from Santa, plays tonight in LaFortune's Montgomery Theater: 
For those really inclined to saturate their minds with holiday saccharine, Saturday evening the Ballroom will host a Christmas movie festival that stretches from Rudolph at9p.m; toTheGrinchat3a.m. Ifyou hate Christmas,andhateChristmasspecialseven more; you still might want to stop up to swipe some of the free popcorn and soda. 
Over at Saint Mary's, another holiday tradition will continue, as the Southold Dance Company and the South Bend Sym:. phony team up for another year of The Nutcracker: O'Laughlin Auditorium will host the. event, taking place this Friday through Sunday, with five performances to accommodate public demand. If the $15 ticket price for students seems a little steep, the Saturday matinee will go on with re­corded orchestra music for $3 less. 
Off campus, the Morris Civic Audito­rium will host renowned jazz vocalists The Manhattan Transfer with a 26-piece or­chestra thisFriday night. Theconcert'stitle is "An Evening of Christmas and Other Musical Gifts." Ifthat makes sense to you, go ahead and check it out. Tickets . are available at Tracks and the Morris Civic. 
Hopefully, one· of these opportunities will provide the release ofChristmas ten­sion you're seeking as exams draw nigh. If not, please remember. murder is a felony, now punishable by death in the state of Indiana. Merry exams and a happy new semester to you all. 
20 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994 


ii§lli4i+ii§il•iiU 
by Bill Albertini 

In the midst ofthe ridicul.ous frenzy that the Christmas season has become, take comfort. Thereisasavinggrace, and its name is this: Christmas TV specials. Nomatterwhathappens in thereal world, we can watch Linus give Jesus a run for his money in the miracle department by per­forming the single most amazing super­green-thumb botanysalvation in the history ofthe world, when he turns a twig stapled to a board into an exceptionally healthy tree simply by wrapping his blanket around the base. Switch the channel, and we can see a skinny green Santa with no pants try to ruin the lives of a bunch of annoying goody­two-shoes .in Whoville. . .Even though Peanuts, The Grinch and Frosty are wonderful, there is something better, albeit more obscure, out there in holiday-special land. Alittle-known secret is that the single coolest holiday special in the history of the universe is The Year Without aSanta Claus. This one has every­thing necessary for real Christmas cheer.· It is based on the theory that a Christmas special's inherent goodness isin direct cor­relation with its number of surreal qualities, i.e., the more, the merrier. Ithas that weird quasi-animation stuff like inRudolph. Best ofall,itincludesacoveroftheElvisPresley classic "Blue Christmas," sung by EVERY CHILD IN THE ENTIRE WORLD AT THE SAME TIME. Yes, The Year Without a Santa Claus is not your ordinary Christmas show. Many ofyou probably remember this one, but for those new to this extra-special special, be -forewarned: it is not for the faint of heart. The numberofplot twists and simply weird things going on make the average Quentin Tarantino feature look likeThis OldHouse. Here's the basic ploc Santa gets a cold and uses it as an excuse to be a lazy, good-for­nothing, gin-drunk deadbeat of a jolly old elf. Mrs. Claus will havenone ofthat; soshe devises a few plans, always remaining one step ahead ofeveryone else(and about five steps ahead of all sense of logic and com~ moo sense). A few reindeer fly around. There's a kid named Iggy. Mrs. Claus . raises hell and takes names, showing who really runs the C:laus household, and even belts, out a few song-and-:dance numbers 
Flying Sleighs and Takin'Names 
Why the world's greatest piece ofChristmas entertainment is no further than your TV set 
Forget pathetic remakes like 
Miracle on 34th Street, pictured he.re. For real Christmas Joy, the television and the video store are your best bets. 
while dressed as her hubby. (She's a great allegory for thehousewif e's struggleagainst patriarchal oppression and stupidelves.)·In the end, a few leaps of logic occur, and for some reason unknown even to the world's greatestastrophysicists, every child in the world suddenly joins in on a group version of ''Blue Christmas" (see above) that will choke you up even more than that"I'dLike To Buy the World a Coke" commercial. In the end, everything turns out fine. Christ­mas happens. But it's one dizzying ride. 
There's one more thing: two characters called the Miser Brothers. They are what make this show so amazingly cool. One runs the cold weather. He's the Snow Miser, "Mr. Ten Below" (as in below zero, degrees Fahrenheit). He's tall and pale and funky in a Sammy Davis, Jr., kind of way (who was funky, but admittedly neither tall norpale). Then there's his step-brother, the HeatMiser("Mr. Hundred-and-One"). He runs the warm weather (obviously). They fight a lot They sing Dixieland jazz. The breathe snow and fire, respectively. They beat Tom and Jerry hands down any day of the week. The rumor when I was a kid was that Heat Miser was supposed to be Satan, and that network TV had banned the show. In reality, Heat Miser is an allegory for the damaging effects of too much sun on hu­man skin. · 
So here's the final run down on Christ­mas entertainment forget about new mov­ies. TheSantaClauseisuselesstoyou. Tim Allen should have stuck to being a handy­man. As for the remake ofMiracle on 34th Street: the fact is, Miracle wasn't all that great even the first time around. Your true rescue will be in videotapes ---,. find The Year Without a Santa Claus even if you have to break a commandment And while you'reatit,see/t's a WonderfulLife atleast five times,just because. Rentthem,borrow them, steal them and make merry this holi­day season. . 
The Year Without a Santa Claus will be shown this Friday in the LaFortune Ball­room at 11:45 p.m
\ 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ DECEMBER 8, 1994 
21 







Coming Distractions 
From Deem.her 8 _;_ 15 
. Field, Rink, Court& Pool 
Hockey: All games played in the north dome of the JACC. Notre Dame vs. Alaska Fairbanks, Fri., 7:00 p.m. Notre Dame vs. Miami of Ohio, Sat., 7:00 p.m. 
Volleyball: NCMTournament, Nebraska. SWlmmlng: Notre Dame vs. University of Wisconsin at Green Bay, Fri., 6:00 p.rn., Rolfs Aquatic Center. Basketball: All games played in the JACC arena. · Notre Dame women vs. Athletes in Action, Sat., 7:00 p.m. 
CulturalConnection 
Concerts: "Handel's Messiah," Notre Dame Chorale and Symphony Orchestra, Thurs. & Fri., 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall. Christmas Concert, Shenanigans, Sat., 7:00 p.m., Washington Hall. 
. Christmas Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club, Sat., 8:15 p.m., JACC arena. "Dimensions in Jazz," Notre Dame Jazz Band, Sun., 3:00 p.m., Band Building. . 
· Acoustic Cafe: Every Thurs., 9:00 p.m., Huddle. Storytelling: "Stories of Winter and Festivity," Sat., 
10:30 a.m., Snite Museum. 

Lectures and Seminars: 

Reilly.Lecture, "Aisymetric Dihydroxylation of Olefins: Mechanism," K. Barry Sharpless, _Thurs. & Fri., 4:30 p.m., 123 Nieuwland S9ience Hall. .. · . Condensed Matter Physics Seminar, "Quantum Cellular Automata,~ Craig S.. Lent, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Art Exhibit: "David to Degas: 19th Century European Master Drawings," Snite. 





On the Silver Screen 
Montgomery Theater: On the first floor of LaFortune. "Christmas Story," Thurs.,7:30 & 10:30 p.m., $1. Cushing Auditorium: ''True Lies," Fri.-Sat., 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., $2. 
University Park West: 2TT-7336. "Pulp Fiction," R, 5:30, 8:45. ''The Swan Princess," G, 1:15, 3:30. . ''The Lion King," G, 1:00, 3:15, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30: "Junior," PG-13, 1:30, 4:15, 7:00, 9:30. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "Star Trek Generations," PG, 1:30, 4:15, 7:15, 9:50. ''The Professional," R, 1:40, 4:40, 7:40, 10:00. "Stargate," PG-13, 1 :00, 4:30, 7:30, 10:00. "Interview with the Vampire," R, 1:15, 4:00, 7:00, 9:40: ''The Santa Clause," PG, 12:45, 2:00, 3:00, 4:15, 5:15, 6:45, 7:25, 9:00, 9:30. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. "Miracle on 34th Street," PG, 5:00, 7:30, 9:50. "Pagemaster," G, 4:45, 7:00, 9:00. "Low-down, Dirty Shame," R, 4:30, 7:15, 10:00. 


·Saint Mary~ · Collegg 

Film: "Blink," Thurs. & Fri., 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, SMC. Folk Dancing: Fri., 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse, SMC. 

22 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• DECEMBER 8, 1994 


-
ii 
! 

Scholastic Magazine 
·wishes-everyone a Merry Christmas. 
Watch for the 1994 Football Review when we return in January!· 
'· Scholastic Magazine is looking for applicants to fill the position of Systems Manager. Applicants should have a working know ledge ofthe Macintosh operating system and software, -and a desire to learn about networking, computer maintenance and desktop publishing. Contact Christopher Blanford at 1-7569, or stop by the Scholastic office between 2:00 p.m. and 5;00 p.rn. Monday through Friday for an application.  




News ofthe Bim"efrom Our Na6on's Universities 
The Clip-and-Save Letter Home 
Censored! 

For those of you who have a hard time actually writing home on a semi-regular basis, 
It looks like the University of Kentucky I present to you a ready-to-go, circle-the-correct-personality-trait letter to the folks. Just 
will be getting a new mascot as of Novem­circle the appropriate response, cut the letter out and mail it home'. 
ber. According to the Chronicle o/Higher Education, university officials have heard Dear Parents: 
complaints and comments that the Ken­I realize that the semester is almost over and I haven't written yet, but that's because 
tucky Wildcat's curled tongue is phallic. I've been: 
The new logo is expected to have an un­
curled tongue thatofficials hope willoffenda) at theHbrary.. 
b)sublimating. 
fewer fans. But the controversy has more to 
c) standing in line for R.E.M. tickets. 
do with marketing than anything; a univer­sity spokesman said that the school was The apartment is great, although we haven't cleaned it since early September. I made 
afraid fans would stop buying merchandise dinner for my roommates last night It was: 
if the phallic tongue remained. Looks like 
a) Peking duck with hot and sour soup. 
the Leprechaun could be next; those tights 
b) hamburgers. 
he wears could cause a scandal and we all 
c) PB & J sandwiches with beer. 
know how much the bookstore can't afford 
to lose any sales. Last week we had a party. Tons ofpeople showed up that we didn 'tirivite. Around one in themoming,these guys, who are on the rugby team, decided they wanted to drop their t------------'----­pants and sing Christmas carols. "Silent Night" will never be the same. I'm pretty sure there's a significant other in my life. We've been out a few times and 
Stanford Takes Sides 
really hit it off. I really hope this: Certain members of the ~tanfordMarch­a) turns into something meaningful. 
ingBandhavedecidedthattheOJ.Simpson
b) goes well because she/he has a washer and dryer. 
trial is more important than their beloved c) works out because she/he has got a great body. 
Cardinal, reported the Chronicle ofHigherI'm looking forward to coming home over Christmas. It will be nice to see you guys. 
Education. During jury selection for theAre Joanne and Mike coming over again this year? I hope: trial, 21 members of the band skipped prac­a) they don't because I find them really annoying. 
tice and planted themselves outside theb) they do because they always give me money. 
courthouse in Los Angeles. The studentsc) you make tofu because I'm a vegetarian now. 
formed two lines under which the lawyers walked. While one line yelled "Set OJ. 
I could send home copies of my papers. I.'m sure you want to read about how Rousseau 
free," theotherscreamed"Orlockhim up!"
influenced 20th0 century painting. Let me tell you, it's: · Theyinsisted that their behaviorwasmerely ·· a) darn interesting and I'm learning lots. · a satirical comment on the media circusb) completely over my head. I'd rather be shooting hoops. 
surrounding the trial. But the athletic de­c) really going to help me find a job. 
partment didn't find it quite as amusing. The band was suspended from the StanfordLove, -Cal game, but they did apologize. Thea) your daughter biggerquestion-did they gettomeetOJ.
b) your son after all? 
c) your newly disowned offspring. -From the Indiana Daily Student 
commentary by Mary Kate Morion 
SC H O LAS TI C M A G A Z I N E ¦ D EC EM B E R 8, 1 9 9 4 
-

• • ~ ' ~ • . • -• 
\ -­

• . ,' • t 
' . . ' . . 
.....,,.,•• 


Grist for the Mill ·Rick Gre 
OVER AT THE 'Bli;K.~; RE/00VAT!O~ l00'R.t !>Jtc> COKPLETED 0/-:l "TOOO\­
D:X,.)1':J JESUS II LAST SOMME'!(. 
~ST R>"~-TitE. MIU.. 
l-lAS Dl;,CDVE'l:ED Tl-\A-T Tl-!E.tt Wit!, &11:.F 17\1.l'.'. OF AC-TOALLY D\ANGIN6 n-\E. HUK.A-L /Al.STEAD OF 
J0.5-T CLE.AN//06 IT. 
msE/JlB) Hff'E., fOf Tl-lE F\'RST nME A/JY­
lJHEtt, AlE. 7l-!E. "FLANS 
Fo~ TiiE "PKO"POSE.1> 
C~Ml6E.5. 
c 

.SAUJTE·-lt>­~5~-COUE6E-JESOS 

26 

SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ DECEMBER 8, 199 4 


Confessions ofa Pearl Jam Junkie 
by Jenny Shank 

Her name was Myndie. She was "perky." Shewasinsuchastateof constant excitement that it was exhausting to talk to her. She was amember oftheNewKidsontheBlockFanClub. She wore New Kids shoelaces. She was really inspired by their enlightened lyrics ( e.g., "We met a lot of people/and girls" and "She's lookin' good/everything's in place, now!''). Myndie became incensed when someone disparaged the 'Kids. She was, to me, the epitome ofa fan club member. This frightens me, because I have become one. No, I am not a 'Kids fan, but I am ~ memberof the PearlJam Fan Club. I don't have Pearl Jam shoelaces, but the sad thing is, ifthey were available, I probably would. I subscribe to the Pearl Jam fanzine, which is written for and by freaks like me. In this magazine, Ican read about whateach band member was wearing at each concert, what songs they played, and in what order theywereplayed. Thisinformationissome­how valuable to me. I refer to the band members -Eddie, Jeff, Stone, Dave and Mike-by their first names, as if they were my close personal friends that I could call up and discuss Bosnia. When I am talking about them and someone interrupts me and asks, ''Eddie who?" I reply, "You know, EDDIE!" as if saying it in all caps drives the point home. I know things·that normal people don't, like Jeff's home state (Montana), and Eddie' sreal name (EdwardLouis Severson II), and Mike's favorite band (The Cheap afterEddie'sgreatgrandmother,Pearl, who used to cook up batches of hallucinogenic jam. Perhaps this overload of Pearl Jam knowledgeiskeepingmefrom excelling on my theology quizzes. There just isn't room enough in my brain to memorizeall of Pearl Jam's lyrics and still remember when the Second Ecumenical Council was held. Something's got to give. 
I think I will start a Pearl Jam Club at NotreDame. Thereareallkindsofinterest­ing projects we could undertake. For ex­ample, we could try to figure out the recipe for Pearl's jam. Then we could serve it in the dining halls and see iftest scores plum­met that week. We could launch a letter­writing campaign to get Eddie's picture on a postage stamp. Of course, we might have to wait a few years so that we'd have the option of depicting either the young, svelte Eddie or the old, bloated,Las Vegas Eddie. We couldalsopressuretheFranklin Mint to issue collector's plates featuring Pearl Jam scenes, and porcelain Pearl Jam figurines. Of course, then we'd have to get one of those cabinets that people buy to display their plates. I feel kind of bad for those cabinets. The only purpose to their exist­ence is to exhibit those plates. Does anyone ever take the time to admire the cabinet? No! But I digress. 
The Pearl Jam Club could go on lots of excursions. For example, we could rent a bus and go visit all of the bars in which Eddie's gotten in brawls. Perhaps we could invite the people that Eddie's beaten up to be guest speakers at our meetings. The PJ Club could also go to vote as a group on election day. ·We could write in Pearl Jam member's names as election candidates. 
We could make up a bunch of leaflets extolling the benefits of welcoming Pearl Jam into your life and distribute them at airports. We could also go around distrib­uting them door to door while wearing thermals, Docs and baggyshorts withreally big pockets, asking people if they have a moment to "chat" After the people let us in to their living room, we could take over their stereo and refuse to leave until we'd play~ "Even Flow" seven or eight times. 
I thinkMattel should produce some Pearl Jam dolls. When you wind up the Jeffdoll, he'djumparoundandplayhisguitar. When you pull the string on the Eddie doll, he would say things like, "It's my BLOOOOOD!" and"@#$%@#!" There should also be a Pearl Jam groupie Barbie, who would chant "Ed-die, Ed-die, Ed-die!" continuously. 
Pearl Jam recently fired their drummer, Dave. This saddened me, but I have come to accept the fact that Pearl Jam works in mysterious ways. PearlJam' soriginal drum­mer was also named Dave. So, in order to increase my chances of being selected as the next drummer, I am going to legally change my name to Dave. Then allI'llhave to do is learn how to play the drums. 
I am an Arts and Letters major, so ifthe drummingthingdoesn'tworkout,I'llprob­ably end up supporting myself by selling velvet Vedder portraits on a street comer somewhere. So, be sure and buy one from me. I know Myndie will. . 
This is a humorous colwnn. The views expresseddo notnecessarilyrepresentthose ofScholastic Magazine. 
Ones). I also know that the band is named SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• DECEMBER 8, 1994 
27 


, \ ' , ,. 
. : • • • • 
l 

. . -. ,, . . . 
. ' . -,· -. . 



DiiSiilr:1 


Whose Tradition Continues? 
Where do women fit in Notre Dame's continuing story? 
by Liska Stefko 
Liska Stefkn is a senior government and philosophy major who resides in Farley Hall. She hopes to pursue a career in child welfare law. 

In the words ofTevye ofFiddler on the Roof, we -love and keep our traditions because"they tell us who we are and what God expects us to do." Through our participation in them, traditions help to define ouridentity. They are means by which people become a part of history and maintain stability in their lives. Traditions are useful because theyremind ushowthingshavealwaysbeendonesothatwedon't have to constantly figure it out on ourown. Tradition is society's way ofmaintaining a sense ofcontinuity from one generation to the next What, then, can be expected of a group finnly rooted in tradition when half of its members are devalued or simply overlooked by the very traditions which are expected to define them? Surely some conflictwould result This conflict is apparent in the Notre Dame student body, where sexism gnaws away at our collective consciousness. Notre Dame is steeped in tradition. When we proclaim, "We are ND," as we proudly do at every football game, we are making a statement about our collective character. Our Notre Dame student iden­tity is undoubtedly laced with vivid imagery: we perfonn Rudyesque football heroics on the quad, blare the fight song from every dorm at six a.m. on a football Saturday, assemble with religious fervor to chant and sing and pray and stand and sit (e.g. football), assemble in religious fervor to chant and sing and pray and stand and sit (e.g. the Eucharist), engage in lively debate in a seminar class, continue donn traditions of bonding and beer drinking. Each "tradition" preserves in its own way attitudes fostering sexual stereotypes ofsocial roles. The first of these, a bone-crunching, full-contact exercise, is, perhaps the highest form of socially acceptable ag­gression -for men, that is. Sadly, each celebration of the Eucharist reinforces a church structure in which women are denied the opportunity to partici­pate fully. Next, even after twenty years ofcoeduca­tion here, there is a pitiful lack of female professors at the helm of lively classroom discussions. As for the negative attitudes which linger in the popular 
donn traditions of beer drinking and male bonding, we need only to consider the recent uproar over obscene misogynistic remarks printed in hall notes. 
For 131 years, Notre Dame men simply were not confronted by women peers to answer for sexist attitudes. Now that there is a call to accountability, those who still embrace sexist views squinn uncom­fortably and invoke tradition asjustification for their sentiments. 
Yet, despite lingering evidence of negative atti­tudes, there have been successful efforts made to include women in the traditions of Notre Dame. Opportunities for women to participate in both var­sity and non-varsity sports have expanded over the past few years. Though few in number, our talented femaleprofessors contribute much to the educational experience. Notre Dame women take on an active, spirited role in our faith community and challenge the traditional barriers which exclude them from church leadership. Residence hall staffs in many male dorms take a proactive role in discouraging misogynistic attitudes among their residents. Many Notre Dame men have expressed their outrage at actions and comments that devalue women. 
As our devoted alumni will attest, there is some­thing unique about the way Notre Dame tradition brings us together. We can't and shouldn't try to escape theinfluence of tradition; itis a source of pride and an undeniable part of who we are. But since tradition governs so much of what is said and done at NotreDame, wemustbewaryofleaningonitinstead of making progress in our collective character. It is up to us to· recognize how our history shapes our present attitudes toward the opposite sex~ and to refrain from perpetuating gender stereotypes that should long ago have been rendered obsolete. Both personally and as a community, we must expand our conceptions of Notre Dame tradition in order to include both men and women. After all, wo~en are here to stay and deserve a full claim to the Notre Dame identity. D 
28 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II DECEMBER 8, 1994 








IS HIRING! 


TWO & THREE-YEAR SCH01ARSHIPS AVAl1ABLE 
REQUIREMENTS: 
. 
Minimum 2.65 GPA (Technical majors -Engineering, Math, Physics, Architecture, Computer Science) 

. 
Minimum 3.00 GPA (Non-technical majors -Government, Economics, Accounting, Etc.) 

. 
Minimum 3.65 freshman GPA (Pre-Med) 

. 
Minimum 3.50 sophomore GPA (Pre-Med) . Pass the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test (Similar to SAT test) 

. 
Successfully complete the Air Force ROTC Physical Fitness Test ·. Run 1.5 miles (<12 min., 01 sec. for men and <14 min., 25 sec. for women) 


. 
Be medicallly qualified 

. 
Success rate for qualified ND/St. Mary's applicants is over 90% 



BENEFITS: 
.· Up to full tuition, all books, standard fees <&· $ l 50 per month during the academic year . No job search hassles -directly apply your ND education upon graduation . Active duty entry salary of $25, 000 with guaranteed raises to $43, 000 
at year four . 30 days of vacation with pay each year . Outstanding opportunities for advanced degrees in Engineering, Law, Medicine 
upon graduation from ND . Pilot and navigator positions are expanding rapidly -excellent opportunities to fly, regardless of scholarship major 
+ Gain valuable experience in the Air Force and increase your marketability 



TO MAKE IT HAPPEN, CALL CAPTAIN RICH HARTER 631-4674 
~ 





BRUNO'S PIZZA 111J Q l&rl 


1~1A6Jfoiigf11itd 
Open for carryout and delivery only from 4 -1Op.m. wee~days, 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 
273-3890 
1;j#hif.Bi0h;d 
Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties and banquets. **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 261 OPrairie Ave. 


288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 






