

EDNOTES 
schadenfreude (shad'n-froi'd) n. Pleasure derived from the misfortunes ofothers. 

If we had to pick a word to describe the 2007 season, this would be it. This college football season was filled with schadenfreude, from our joy when Michigan lost to Appalachian State to the entire country's elation at seeing USC fall to Stanford -no.t to mention OSU's second consecutive loss to the SEC in the national title game. But of all the schools to suffer the unfortunate curse of schadenfreude, Notre Dame felt it the most. When fans around the country love to hate Notre Dame because they regard the Irish as perennially overrated and overhyped, it is a sweet, sweet feeling for those fans to see the supposedly spoiled fall from grace. 
So what do you say about a year like 2007? 

Without a doubt, the Scholastic sports staff struggled with this question. Bitter jokes permeated the brainstorming sessions for this football review issue. We even suggested (only half-jokingly) that we shouldn't go to print-after all, ifthe team didn't show up, why should we? 
If we did that, though, we would be flying in the face of everything Notre Dame football represents. Yes, it was a bad year; yes, we struggled. But that is by no means an excuse to not go to work. This football issue is about more than merely recounting our struggles and successes from this year. It is a means of honoring the hard work that some ofthese players have put in for four, even five, years. To throw that all away after one bad season would be a grave mistake. 
But that's not to say we don't have room to be critical. Assistant editor Marques Camp has a no-holds-barred critique ofwhat went wrong this season on pages 4 and 5. News editor Mike Tresnowski offers his. take on what our future recruiting classes will bring to the mix on pages 34 and 35. Reaching beyond the ND student bubble for some honest judgment, Jay and Pat from the Irish blog "The Blue­Gray Sky" tackle this season's impact in "The Final Word." 
Our summaries offer the best ofwhat our team accomplished this season, from Trevor Laws' stunning dominance to the emergence ofsome truefreshmen stars. It's easy to be a proud fan when times are rich (see: 2005, 2006), but it's a true test of character to stick by your team when times are rough. 
Use this football issue to remember the best of what this season had to offer, while never forgetting the lessons learned from a little schadenfreude. With the right changes, we will be the ones laughing next year. 
Yours in the Irish, 


Brittany Lash Marques Camp Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor 
r 




OPINION 


Marques Camp 
Inevitably I get the same question when I catch up with friends back home or when I meet someone and tell them I go to Notre 
Dame. "What's wrong with Notre Dame?" they ask rhetorically. The way everyone asks this question gives me the sense that they get a great feeling of delight at the sight of the Irish's 2007 struggle. It is as if they want me to admit what they. already know, that the Irish are overrated often to such a high degree by the media that our expectations have been raised to an astronomical level, which makes a 3-9 season even more difficult to cope with. So what went wrong? 
This much we know: 
The Irish came into the 2007 season having lost eight starters on offense and six on defense, leaving the team with a manifest lack of depth. After the Irish were thoroughly outplayed by many elite teams over the previous two seasons, and a nightmarish first two-thirds of the schedule 
4 I SCHOLASTIC I 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
in 2007, nobody but the greatest of optimists would have predicted a third-straight BCS campaign. 

This much we found out: 
Despite the glaring deficiencies the Irish had coming into the season, we thought they still had a strong coaching staff that would keep the team competing every week. Perhaps, we thought, the Irish could gain a bit of momentum by knocking off an unranked Georgia Tech team sans No. 2 NFL draft pick Calvin Johnson. But the major drama heading into the game was, "Who will start at quarterback?" We soon found out that sophomore Demetrius Jones would start in a new spread offense. As we discovered, our young offensive line had a lot of trouble (to say the least) holding their blocks. Jones had equal difficulty holding onto the football. So, Weis promptly brought on Evan Sharpley and The Savior for mop-up duty. We found out that the defense was no match for Tech running backTashard Choice, as he shredded them for 196 yards and two scores. 
Final score: 33-3. Maybe they were not quite as ready as we thought. "There's a whole litany of things there we have to fix," Weis said after the game. 
Then the lopsided scores hit the Irish like an avalanche: 31-10. ''I'm not doing cartwheels." 38-0. "We're starting training camp tomorrow." 31-14. "You keep going until there's a payoff." 33-19. "This time, Iwas maybe a little more rough at halftime." 38-0. "It's a butt-kicking today." 4i-24. "You have to evaluate-the teacher and the teaching to see why you can't progress." 
Obviously, Weis and the team grew more frustrated and anxious with each loss. This season was not one during which we could single out a certain phase of the game as a primary reason for the team's struggles. The responsibility should be equally shared. The offensive line could not block; Clausen held on to the ball a bit too long; the young receiving core had difficulties with route 



OPINION 
running; the weary defense missed too many tackles; the special teams unit had trouble both kicking field goals and covering kicks, etc. These are the fundamentals. These are the basics, without which you cannot expect to compete at an elite level or even an average one, much in the same way you cannot expect-' to ace a differential equations course without first mastering beginning algebra. It was not a matter-of notbeing able to come through in big games -it was a matter of being a team that often did not belong on the same field as our opponent. 
This much we hope Coach Weis learned: 
Hopefully Weis has learned a very valuable lesson. What we have discovered is that he has quite the talent for developing previously unheralded players. He proved this in 14 years in the NFL and his first two years at Notre Dame. And he has quite the knack for recruiting blue-chip talent. But, in the NFL, he was working with the cream of the crop in terms of football players, and for his first two years here he inherited a veteran, albeit unheralded, squad. What Weis probably did not have to spend much time on during his career was teaching the basics. Teaching how to win before drawing up creative and intelligent game plans. He certainly should possess this teaching ability, owing to his experience as a high school coach in New Jersey, and his four years on the staff at South Carolina. Perhaps he misjudged his priorities upon his arrival at Notre Dame. 
College is the in-between phase, and he might have made a mistake in assuming that a youthful college team already knew how to win. Thus, as a consequence, the "fundamentals" stone was left unturned. What Weis can take away from this season is that college football is a different animal. Teaching must take precedence over developing and game-planning. You simply cannot develop fundamentals that are not there in the first place. As more and more blue-chip recruits start to come to Notre Dame, I think Weis' focus will turn to making sure his squad has mastered the basic skills needed to compete on a high level. It might take a few years, but it is necessary to build a strong, consistent, elite program. To satisfy the countless questions, I emphasize two things: Experience and fundamentals. The 2007 Irish did not have much of either. 

This much we can take away: 
Yes, at times the 2007 Notre Dame Fighting Irish looked like an unmitigated disaster. But there were several performances that shook us out of our season-long catatonic state, at least temporarily. Linebacker Maurice Crum at UCLA. Wide receiver Golden Tate and quarterback Evan Sharpley at Purdue. Running back James Aldridge at Michigan State. Safety Tom Zbikowski at Penn State. Defensive end Trevor Laws for pretty much the entire season. These moments were perhaps brief and fleeting, but at least they were there. 
With apologies to all the departing seniors, perhaps our football program needed a season like this. We needed to be beat up, bloodied and humiliated. This season puts into perspective the ridiculously 
high expectations for our football program.  
That is not to say that we should not expect  
to be competing for national championships  
annually, but rather to say that we are not  
immune to  horrendous years. It is  to say  
we cannot expect our brand name to carry  
us over the top anymore. Even a talented,  
creative mind like Weis,  at  a  historically  
football-crazed institution can have a year of  
struggling with the Dukes and the Stanfords  
of the world for a win. I am not going to  I  
trot out the old cliche "there's hope for the  I  
future," because we do not know enough yet  
about the present to be able to make that claim. The jury is still out. But we do know  , I  
that national powerhouses are not built (or  
rebuilt) overnight, and that losing has the  
potential  to  breed character. At least,  we  
hope so.  +  


2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW I SCHOLASTIC I 5 



Rude Awakening 
GEORGIA TECH 33, NOTRE DAME 3 

Jen Wulf 
t was both the lowest scoring game of 
Head Coach Charlie Weis' career at 
Notre Dame and the most lopsided opening-game loss in Irish history. Irish fans who expected the same success as the past two seasons had a wake-up call in the season opener against Georgia Tech on Sept. 1. 
Following months of secrecy, Weis unveiled his starting quarterback, sophomore Demetrius Jones. After he redshirted the 2006 season, this was Jones' first andJast appearance on the field with the Irish. In his debut, Jones rushed 12 times and completed one of four pass attempts for a combined 32 yards.Jones' second rush resulted in a fumble that led to Georgia Tech's first field goal, a 32-yard kick by Travis Bell. 
The Irish went three-and-out in their next 
6 ISCHOLASTIC I2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
I 
two possessions in the first quarter, while Tech picked up another field goal to make it 6-0. Irish fifth-year senior defensive end Trevor Laws blocked a potential third field goal with a minute to go in the quarter. 
The second quarter echoed the first. The Irish relied on their rushing game, but they were easily outrun by Tashard Choice, who picked up a career high 196 yards. The Irish 

· started the quarter with a series ofrushes that brought them to the Georgia Tech 39-yard line, but another fumble by Jones put the ball back in the hands of the Yellow Jackets. Choice rushed 21 yards to the Notre Dame 23-yard line and Bell eventually kicked a 40­yard field goal, making it 9-0 Jackets. 
After a few short runs by the Irish, Georgia Tech landed its first sack on Jones. ND went three-and-out on their next two drives, and Tech took full advantage of its final possession of the half. Choice spearheaded the drive1 rushing from 22 yards out for the touchdown, bringing the score to 16-0. With two and a half minutes on the clock, Weis pulled Jones and replaced him with junior quarterback Evan Sharpley for a two-minute drill. Sharpley started with a few complete passes, but was then sacked twice on the same possession, which left the Irish on their own 40-yard line at the end of the half. 
In the third quarter, the Irish stepped up their passing game and were finally able to get themselves on the scoreboard, but they still had trouble holding back the Georgia Tech offense. Tech opened the half with another field goal from 39 yards. Sharpley 

THE CAPTAINS From left to right, seniors Tom Zbikowski, Maurice Crum, Jr., John Carlson and Travis Thomas head onto the field for the first coin toss of the season. 
had a shaky start on the next drive, with an incomplete pass and a sack, but finally completed one pass to sophomore wide receiver Robby Parris and three to fifth-year senior tight end John Carlson. This landed the Irish on the Georgia Tech 5-yard line and, after an unsuccessful rush, put them on the scoreboard with a 24-yard field goal. 
Notre Dame's fate was all but sealed going into the fourth quarter. Choice maintained his momentum from the third quarter and cut across the field for 45 yards, setting up a rushing touchdown. 
Though Sharpley was able to complete a 20-yard pass on the next Irish possession, he was sacked three times and promptly returned the ball t~ Georgia Tech on the Notre Dame 17-yard line. After only two short rushes, running back Jonathan Dwyer easily scored the Yellow Jackets' third touchdown. 

Tech returned the ball to the Irish with just under nine minutes to go, and the team took the field led by freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen. Those hoping for a miracle from the most celebrated recruit were soon disappointed. Although he was able to complete four short passes, he was also sacked for a loss of 13 yards. 
Constantly rotating running backs and quarterbacks did nothing to stabilize Notre Dame's game. Choice was also a formidable force, and the Irish defense could do little to slow him down. + 

GEORGIA TECH 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW ) SCHOLASTIC f 7 

PENN STATE 



A Sad Day in Happy Valley 
PENN STATE 31, NOTRE DAME 10 
Marques Camp 
After sitting out most of the season opener recovering from off-season elbow surgery, freshman quarterback 
Jimmy Clausen made his first college start in front of 110,078 raucous fans in Happy Valley. The Penn State Nittany Lions made sure that this was an experience Clausen would not soon forget. 
Penn State, looking to· exact . revenge on the Irish after falling 41-17 a year ago at Notre Dame Stadium, fed off the emotion expressed by their fans, all clad in white, giving credence to Beaver Stadium's new nickname: The White House. 
Clausen, executing a conservative game 
8 ISCHOLASTIC I2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

I:, 
plan, finished 17-32 for 144 yards with one interception and was sacked six times. Clausen showed glimpses of promise during the opening drive, where he led the offense going 5-6 for 37 yards and even getting 12 yards with his legs. Unfortunately, the drive failed to turn into points, as sophomore kicker Nate Whitaker missed a 50-yard field goal attempt. 
The Irish jumped to an early lead midway through the first quarter when sophomore Darrin Walls intercepted quarterback Anthony Morelli's pass and returned it 73 yards for a touchdown. But the Nittany Lions' Derrick Williams returned a punt 78 yards for a touchdown near the end of the quarter to even fhe score. 
As was the case against Georgia Tech the previous week, the Irish offense struggled to move the ball and failed to score an offensive touchdown for the seco1.1d consecutive week, finishing with zero rushing yards. Penn State linebacker Dan Connorwas crucial on defense and finished with a team-high of 12 tackles. The Nittany Lions' offense also struggled at times, but Morelli found junior wide receiver Jordan Norwood for a 10-yard strike in the second quarter, pushing the lead to 14­7. 
After the Nittany Lions and . the Irish exchanged field goals in the third quarter, Penn State running ·back Austin Scott 

DOWNFALL Anthony Vernaglia and David Bruton take down a Penn State ball carrier. The Nittany Lions went for 295 total yards against the Irish defense, outgaining the Irish by 151 yards. 
pounded the ball into the end zone with a I­yard score 10 minutes into the third quarter to push the lead to 24-10 and scored on a 5-yard run midway through the fourth to extend the lead to 31-10. Scott finished with 116 yards rushing on 28 carries. 
On a positive note for the Irish, senior safety Tom Zbikowski exhibited some of his trademark tenacity, forcing two fumbles on defense and returning a punt for 47 yards. 
Clausen was also impressive during a drive late in the fourth quarter, as he engineered an 8-play, 65-yard drive down to Penn State's IO-yard line, before he had to force a throw on fourth down, which was intercepted in the end zone by Penn State's Justin King. 

The blisteringly loud Penn State crowd seemed to get in the heads of the Irish, as they were whistled for 14 penalties for a total of 97 yards, including several key offsides penalties. Though the Irish won the turnover battle, turning the ball over once while forcing three for Penn State, the offense could not take advantage beyond Walls' return. 
Though the Irish offense failed to find a consistent rhythm for the second consecutive game, Head Coach Charlie vVeis did not think Clausen failed his first ·major college test. "I'm not doing cartwheels," Weis said. "But I can't say I'm displeased either. I think he wasn't the problem." + 
PENN STATE 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW ISCHOLASTIC I 9 
MICHIGAN 



A Big Loss in the Big House 
Marques Camp 
Michigan and Notre Dame, the two winningest programs in college football history, 
squared off in a battle for respectability on Sept. 15, 2007. The Irish, who were blown out by Georgia Tech and Penn State the previous two weeks, saw a prime opportunity to avenge last season's 47-21 home defeat to Michigan. The Wolverines, having suffered a shocking upset to FCS (formerly Division I-AA) school Appalachian State in week one and a blowout loss to Oregon week two, wanted to prove they could live up to their No. 5 preseason ranking in The Associated Press Poll. 
MICHIGAN 38, NOTRE DAME 0 
This was the first time since college football polling started in 1936 that both of these programs came into the matchup unranked. 
The Irish struggled mightily from the start, as their first offensive snap sailed over the head of freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen, and the offense racked up -27 total yards of offense in their first two drives. 
The Wolverines and their freshman quarterback Ryan Mallett were meanwhile feeding the Irish defense a steady dose of senior running back Mike Hart who, during the week, had guaranteed victory over the Irish. Hart, who finished with 187 rushing yards on 35 carries and two touchdowns, punched in a 2-yard·'·touchdown run midway thr.ough the first quarter and a J;.yard score less·than a minute into the second quarter. Mallett, in his first career start, finished 7-15 for .90 yards but threw three scores to· supplement the rushing attack. 
The Irish offense was not able to keep -pace .with the Wolverines, as they fumbled the ball five times in the first half, lost two of them, and found themselves trailing 31-0 at the half. 
The Irish defense showed up in the second half, but the offense still 

10 f SCHOLASTIC f 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
continued to struggle, failing to score an offensive touchdown for the third consecutive game. Clausen, as he did during much ofthe first two games, found himself under constant pressure with no time to throw the ball. He was sacked eight times. Clausen finished 11-17 passing for 74 yards and an interception while backup senior quarterback Evan Sharpley came in formop-up duty in the fourth quarter and finished 2-5 with an interception. For the third consecutive game, the Irish. rushing attack found themselves on the negative side, as they finished with -6 rushing yards. 
Head Coach Charlie Weis seemed as perplexed as his team's fans were during the post-game press conference. "My confidence isn't shaken," Weis said. "But as an organization, we haven't done a very good job." 

Weis promised reporters that the next week of practice would be the start of training camp for the Irish. "Obviously, after three games, this team is headed in the wrong direction. The only way I know how to fix that is to go back to the start of training camp and start swinging," he said. + 
MICHIGAN 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW I SCHOLASTIC I 11 





MICHIGAN STATE 

MSU Blues 


WAVING WHITE FLAGS Adidas distributed 75,000 white towels at the MSU game for Charlie Weis' charity, Hannah & Friends. The towels read "Tradition Never Graduates -Notre Dame Football." 
12 I SCHOLASTIC I 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
MSU 
Molly Conaty 
ythe end ofSeptember, Notre Dame 
football fans across the country 
began to accept the possibility of a losing season. Going 0-4 would be unprecedented for the Irish program, but the team was already statistically the worst offense in the country after the Michigan game. Waving white spirit towels in apparent surrender, the students nevertheless cheered for their team, perhaps still encouraged by last season's fourth-quarter comeback in East Lansing. 
Something woke up the echoes and invited the Irish to play, if only for a half. This was a team that had not yet scored an offensive touchdown, but the Irish came out of the tunnel and scored two touchdowns 
B 
3 1, No TR E DAME 1 4 
o~ their first two possessions. They reached season-highs i!l both rushing (117) and total 
(203) yards. During the first three games, Notre -Dame was penalized 24 times for 173 yards but had only four penalties for 35 yards against the Spartans. 
After MSU quarterback Brian Hoyer fumbled a snap, senior Irish defensive end Trevor Laws recovered the ball and set up senior Travis Thomas' 1-yard touchdown run, and loyal students finally got to complete the long-awaited celebration push-ups. The second quarter followed the first with equal momentum. An 80-yard scoring drive, highlighted by sophomore James Aldridge's 43-yard run, .was capped by freshman Robert Hughes' 3-yard run 

MICHIGAN STATE 

r 
\ I •' 'i> ..... 
,,..,,-t-t• -:_·:.: ft :~ ' ... ~ .!· 

SOLEMN SOLIDARITY The team joins together after the game, win or lose, to sing the alma mater with the student body, a tradition started by Weis in 2005. 
to the end zone. Halftime came and victory seemed attainable, with the Irish up 17-14. 
Michigan State's first-year coach Mark Dantonio pumped up his team at the half by reviewing last year's dreadful defeat. "Our guys had been mocked, and our guys had been made fun of, and we lost coaches; there was a coaching change and a lot of things happened. We internalized that and turned it in our favor," he said after the game. Notre Dame's window of opportunity slammed shut as Michigan State reenergized and scored twice more in the third quarter. The Irish were unable to put together a successful drive, losing 31-14. 
Though the Irish fell to 0-4 for the first time ever, the younger members of the team provided hope for future games. Aldridge made his first career start against MSU and ran for over 100 yards. Hughes made his first debut in college and rushed for 33 yards on six carries. Freshman Jimmy Clausen played for a majority of the game and did not throw a pick. 

"I do know this," Weis said after the game. "I do know that after last week's game, the guys could have done one of two things, okay. They could have come in and thrown in the towel, or they could have come in slugging it out, and. they came out slugging it out. You could see that from the start of the game. This wasn't a team that was anywhere close to packing it in." + 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW I SCHOLASTIC I 13 
Come explore the life ofzeal ofthe 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
with an evening of prayer and conversation with Holy Cross religious and other discerning men. 
Feb1 
DISCERNMENT 
with Fr. Jim King, CS.C. Fr. Tom Eckert, C.S.C. &Seminarian Thomas Haan from Old College 
FebS 

PRAYER 
with Fr. Nick Ayo, C.S.C. & Fr. Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
Feb22 

COMMUNITY 
with Fr. Peter Jarret, C.S.C. Fr. Austin Collins,C.S.C. Fr. Gary Chamberland, C.S.C. 
5:30-7:30 p.m. 
beginningat Log Chapel with dinner to follow at the Coleman-Morse Center 




Blessed Brother Andre Bessette, C.S.C. Dinners 



Enjoy Fair Trade Coffee at the Hurch:Ue. 
Fair Trade ensures that your coffee purchase promotes human dignity, economic justice and hope for small family coffee farmers and their communities. 


OcRS, FAIR 

·.TRADE:, 



PURDUE 







A Good Drumming 
Malisha Samarasekera
After four tough losses, the Fighting Irish finally showed the ability to play :winning football during their game 
at Purdue -at least for 30 minutes. Despite an inspired second half, the points came too little too late, as was the case many times this season. 
The catch-up football began after the Boilermakers ran for 54 yards and scored a field goal on their first drive. Despite freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen's 15­yard pass to sophomore George WestJr., the Irish could not sustain the drive and punted on their first possession. The Irish defense also stalled, allowing Purdue to score a touchdown soon after. 
Down 10-0 at the beginning of the second quarter, things did not improve. With a 17­yard completion to junior David Grimes on the first play, the Irish drive seemed to have potential, but an intercepti~n by Purdue 

16 f SCHOLASTIC f 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
PURDUE 33, NOTRE DAME 19 
cornerback Terrell Vinson at the Notre Dame 31-yard line erased any progression. The Boilermakers capitalized, with Chris Summers kicking a 34-yard field goal. 
The Irish offense faltered again, and after regaining the ball, quarterback Curtis Painter led the Boilermakers to an 11-yard touchdown. A fumble by freshman running back Armando Allen gave way to another Purdue field goal for 26 yards, and the bad luck of the Irish continued. After finally reaching the red zone with seconds left in the :first half, a 35-yard field goal attempt by freshman Brandon Walker was blocked. 
Entering halftime trailing the Boilermakers 23-0, Head Coach Charlie Weis used tough love to motivate the team before retaking the field. 
"I prefer not to have to use that approach. But every once in a while you're forced to go 

to thatlevel, and fortunately they responded," 
Weis said. 
After punting on their :first possession in the second half, the defense came through with an interception by senior safety Tom Zbikowski at-::the Purdue 37-yard line. The offense rebounded, and Clausen led the team to the first passing touchdown of his college career with a 5-yard throw to senior tight end John Carlson. Though Walker missed the extra kick, the Irish were on the board with a score of 23-6 with 7:46 left in the third quarter. 
It was after this drive that much of the 
controversy surrounding the Irish began. 
Following a 16-yard pass to Duval Kamara for a first down, Clausen exited the game due to a hip injury. Junior Evan Sharpley stepped in, but the team was unable to accrue another first down on that drive. The Boilermakers took advantage ofgood field position, settling for a 29-yard field goal. 




PURDUE 


Purdue did not have time to adjust to the new Irish quarterback before the old one returned. After attempting to play through the pain, Clausen left the field for good as the third quarter came to a close. Sharpley took advantage of the opportunity. Leading the Irish 81 yards down the field in 11 plays, Kamara scored a touchdown after a 7-yard pass from Sharpley. The point-after kick failed again, however, this time as a result of a Purdue block. 
Trailing 26-12 with 12:15 remaining in the game, Irish morale was low until a quick stop by the defense allowed Sharpley to take another turn with the ball. Beginning at the 21-yard line, Sharpley marched the Irish down the field, attempting 11 passes and rushing twice for six yards. Notable plays from the drive include a 24-yard connection with sophomore Robby Parris and a 25-yard bomb to fryshman Golden Tate for Sharpley's second touchdown of the quarter. Trailing only by a 'touchdown, an Irish resurgence seemed to be brewing. 

The momentum did not last long, with Painter regrouping his offense on Purdue's next possession. After a 23-yard return allowed Purdue to begin at their own 41­yard line, running back Kory Sheets rushed 21 yards for another first down. Three plays later, Purdue scored after a 14-yard touchdown pass to Dustin Keller. 
Facing a daunting score to overcome and only 5:18 left, Sharpley committed a grave error. Following a 21-yard completion to Parris and a 15-yard penalty for roughing the passer, the ball was again intercepted by Vinson at the goal line. Time eventually ran out in a hard-fought victory for the undefeated Boilermakers. 
The Irish won the second half of the game, outscoring the Boilermakers 19-10. Sharpley's impressive play provided fodder for what would become a season-long debate over which quarterback would be the one to lead the Irish. + 

2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW I SCHOLASTIC I 17 

UCLA 





Ending the Losing Streak 
Andy Gray
Winless in the first five games of the season and on the verge of tying the longest losing streak 
in school history at eight, the Irish arrived at the Rose Bowl on Oct. 6 in dire need of a win. UCLA seemed poised to thwart the Irish effort, standing at 4-1 and seeking vengeance for the previous season's last­minute game-winning Notre Dame drive. Yet Bruins' starting quarterback Patrick Cowan and running back Chris Markey were sidelined with injuries, and hope could still be found in Utah's 44-6 dismantling of UCLA a few weeks prior. 
That hope came alive when freshman quarterbackJimmy Clausen, starting despite a recent hip injury, completed his first three passes for two first downs. But the Irish opening drive stalled thereafter and senior Geoff Price was called in to punt. After an 

18 ISCHOLASTIC f 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
NOTRE DAME 20, UCLA 6 

exchange of two more fruitless drives, the Bruins managed to get on the scoreboard with a 29-yard field goal. 
The Notre Dame offense failed to move the ball once again on the ensuing drive. The well-established pattern of a sputtering offense, placing the Irish defense in a tough position, asserted itself once again. If this squad was going to make something happen, the defense would need to provide the spark. 
Tom Zbikowski did just that. On UCLA's first play after the punt, he flew into the backfield to sack quarterback Ben Olsen at his own 12, forcing a fumble that was recovered by Notre Dame freshman Kerry Neal and returned to the 1-yard line. Olsen was forced to leave the game with a knee injury after the play. Though the Irish offense was unable to push the ball into the end zone and settled for the tying field goal, UCLA's loss of its only available experienced quarterback would prove pivotal. 
Oisen's replacement was McLeod Bethel­Thompson, a wa!k-on who had never thrown a pass in collegiate action. Bethel-Thompson was able to manage his offense and hand the ball to running back Kahlil Bell to secure another field goal for the Bruins just before halftime, but these were the last points UCLA would put on the scoreboard. 
On the opening drive of the second half, senior Maurice Crum Jr. made the first of many key plays on a Bruin fourth down play, sacking Bethel-Thompson for a loss of eight yards. The turnover on downs was converted into another Irish field goal, tying the game at 6-6. It also marked the first crack in the UCLA offense, a precursor of the deluge of miscues that were to come. 
Crum forced and recovered a Bell fumble 


UCLA 

VICTORY The win against the Bruins marked the end of ND's longest season-opening losing streak. 
on UCLA's next play. The Irish offense backfield and barreled 34 yards to the end failed to move, but Price pinned the Bruins zone, putting Notre Dame up 20-6, the final at their own 1-yard line. The inexperienced score. Bethel-Thompson panicked in his end zone, Bethel-Thompson's passes would be throwing a pick to Irish safety David Bruton, intercepted three more times, once by senior the first offour interceptions he would throw Terrail Lambert and twice by Crum. in the game. The turnover was converted Crum, a senior who will return for a into points by a 1-yard Clausen touchdown fifth-year, finished the game with two run. fumbles forced, two fumbles recovered, two 
Celebration promptly began on the Irish interceptions, one interception returned for sidelines, but Head Coach Charlie Weis a touchdown, seven tackles and a sack. knew the game was not over. "It's been a Asked about his spectacular performance, while since we've been up in the second for which he was named the Walter Camp half," Weis said. "So I told my guys to act National Defensive Player of the Week, like they've been there before. Don't make Crum said, "We were playing great as a team, me look like an idiot." as a unit. So I think we kind of fed off each 
The defense was not finished. Just three other. When you are feeding off each other plays later, Bethel-Thompson was sacked by like that, the plays are bound to happen. I just sophomore linebacker John Ryan, forcing a happened to be there [...] I guess every dog fumble. Crum recovered the fumble in the has his day, and I guess it was my turn." + 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW f SCHOLASTIC f 19 



BOSTON COLLEGE 


Eagles Fly Off With A Win 
BOSTON COLLEGE 27, NOTRE DAME 14 
Vanessa Adjei
The Notre Dame-Boston College game on Oct. 13, was a chance at redemption. The Irish last faced 
the Eagles on October 23, 2004, falling in a nail-biting loss that left a bitter taste in the mouth of the Irish. Before the game started hopes were high, as the Irish were coming off their first victory of the season against UCLA the previous week. But the Eagles also had momentum riding a six-game winning streak to start the season. 
"We came into this game thinking we can show everybody that we can still play [ ... ] If we play well and beat Boston College, spoiling their season is one thing ... beating the No. 4 team in the nation is even better," 
22 I SCHOLASTIC I 2007 Foorn::i.u REvrnw 
senior defensive end Trevor Laws said before the game. The Eagles were victorious despite the high hopes of the Irish. 
The game started out with a hint of foreshadowing as L.V. Whitworth of Boston College made a 52-yard rush in the first quarter, the longest of the season by a Notre Dame opponent. However, senior John Carlson made his 80th career reception on a 6-yard grab in the first quarter, showing signs of promise for the Irish team. 
In the middle of the second quarter, senior Trevor Laws blocked a 34-yard field goal attempt by the Eagles' Steve Aponavicius. By the end of the game Laws finished with 11 tackles, a career high. Success was fleeting, however, as the Eagles drove 41 yards to 
score, increasiI?-g their lead to 13-0. Later, 
the Eagles used an interception return to the 
Irish 11-yard line to their advantage, leading 
to another touchdown that placed the score 
at 20-0. 
The Irish fans in the stands grew restless 
as they waited for a score from the Irish. 
In an attempt to change things up, junior 
quarterback Evan Sharpley entered the field 
in the third quarter. He led the Irish on a 
79-yard scoring drive, which put the score at 
20-7. Sharpley engineered the Irish to their three longest scoring drives of the season, including one of 79 yards in the Boston College game. Teammate junior hose tackle . Pat Kuntz said of Sharpley, "He's good, and there's nothing much else I can say about 

GET READY Freshman Brandon Walker winds up on an extra point in the third quarter. 
Many in the stands hoped this wind of change would spell victory for the Irish. Sophomore wide receiver Robby Parris had a memorable 28-yard grab in the third quarter that began Notre Dame's first scoring drive. The resulting 19-yard touchdown catch was the first of Parris' career. It seemed that the luck of the Irish was kicking in as a second touchdown brought the Irish within six points of the Eagles due to freshman offensive linebacker Brian Smith's 25-yard interception return that led to a touchdown in the middle of the third quarter. 
Irish fans began to feel that a victory was within their grasp. But just as things seemed to be turning in favor of the Fighting Irish, ·the team was slapped with a penalty of excessive celebration following the touchdown, and the ensuing kickoff was pushed back to the 15-yard line, The Eagles answered by returning the kick 18 yards to Notre Dame's 44-yard line. Toward the end of the game Boston College players Matt Ryan and Kevin Challenger completed a 13-yard pass putting Boston College up 27-14. Despite the disappointment, seniors Joe Brockington and Trevor Laws had the impressive accomplishment of 10 or more tackles in a single game. Weis accepted the defeat, saying, "I think we had a chance in this game, but the bottom line is they won 27-14." + 

BOSTON COLLEGE 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW ISCHOLASTIC I23 


SOUTHERN CAL 

l ,, ,I 
! 
Alex Hellmuth 
0 n Oct. 20, 2007, the Fighting Irish took the field in green jerseys and yellow pants that were replicas of what the No. 11-ranked 1977 National Championship team wore when they upset No. 5 University of Southern California 49-19. Head Coach Charlie Weis was in the stands as a college senior for that historic game, and although the throwback uniforms were the same, the outcome could not have been more different. Inthe 79th meeting of the nation's premier intersectional rivalry, No. 13 USC crushed Notre Dame with a final score of 38-0. The loss placed the Trojans as the third school ever to hold a winning streak of six games o.r more against the Irish and extended Notre Dame's losing streak at home to four games. 
24 ISCHOLASTIC I2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


Before game day, Weis announced that junior Evan Sharpley would be the starting quarterback in place of freshman Jimmy Clausen. At a press conference before the game, Weis described USC's John David Booty as one of the best quarterbacks in the nation. But Trojan quarterbackMarkSanchez started the game due to Booty's finger injury and proved to be more of a threat to the Irish than Weis may have thought. Sanchez threw four touchdown passes in front of a crowd that included members of the '77 National Championship team, along with Joe Theismann, watching from the stands. 
The majority of the first half was competitive. USC started the scoring with a 10-yard touchdown pass from Mark Sanchez to wide receiver Fred Davis. The Irish failed to capitalize on a blocked punt by junior David Bi:_uton that he returned to the USC 29-yard li~e. Sharpley and the offense could only muster six yards, and freshman Brandon Walker's 40-yard field goal attempt was subsequently blocked. Sanchez then added another scor.e for the Trojans with an 8-yard pass to wide receiver AI.len Bradford with 3:55 left in the half. After a Trojan field goal with 55 seconds until halftime, the Irish went into the locker room trailing 17-0. 
In the second half, the Irish continued to crumble. After senior Travis Thomas fumbled on the ND 13-yard line in the first minute of the third quarter, Sanchez threw a 5-yard touchdown pass to running back Stanley Havili. Sanchez added a 48­yard score late in the third quarter. USC 
SOUTHERN CAL 


GROUNDED The 38-0 loss was the worst home loss since the Irish were defeated 40-0 by top-ranked Oklahoma in 1956. 



running back Joe McKnight finished off the scoring in the fourth quarter with a 51-yard touchdown run. 
The Irish only managed 48 yards rushing on 30 carries, and Sharpley was sacked five times for a loss of 36 yards, setting a new school record for sacks allowed in a season with 39, with four games still to play. Sanchez passed for 235 yards and four touchdowns, with no sacks or interceptions. 
Weis attributed the loss in part to Notre Dame's inability to "stay on the field on offense, specifically on third down." A defeated Sharpley said to the press after the game, "It's very frustrating. It's frustrating any time you lose, no matter who it is. Yeah, losing doesn't get any easier." + 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW I SCHOLASTIC f 25 

NAVY 



43-1 
Lisa Schultz 
Notre Dame and the Naval Academy have met on the gridiron 82 times, a historic matchup with a tradition ofrespect sparked by hardship at both schools during World War IL Notre Dame suffered financially during the war, and the Navy needed to train more officers. The solution to these problems was the establishment of a Naval training center at Notre Dame. The university was able to sustain itself, and the Navy trained 12,000 officers in South Bend. But when it comes to football, Irish fans usually expect a win -and with good reason. Before 2007, Notre Dame had beaten Navy for 43 consecutive years, an NCAA record. But considering the season's trends to that point, Irish fans did not want to take this game for granted. 
26 ( SCHOLASTIC ( 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
NAVY 46, NOTRE DAME 44 
The game began with a moment of silence for Irish freshman running back Robert Hughes' brother Tony, who was fatally shot during the previous week, and Ryan Shay, a former Notre Dame runner who died that Saturday morning during the U.S. men's marathon Olympic trials. 
The atmosphere quickly changed. After 

junior  Evan  Sharpley's  quick  strike  to  
sophomore  receiver  Robby Parris  for  21  
yards, sophomore James  Aldridge  set  up  

the Irish with a second-and-goal from the 3-yard line. Weis made the call for Hughes to score Notre Dame's first touchdown, and Hughes delivered. Teammates who stood by him at his brother's funeral the day before celebrated with him on the sidelines. 
Celebration continued, but on the opposite side of the field. Navy converted a fourth­and-1 on their se_i;:ond drive to keep moving downfield, ending in a touchdown. The Irish responded as senior Travis Thomas scored from one yard out to put the Irish up 14-7, reviving a struggling ground game that would eventually gain 235 yards. Navy fired back to tie the game at 14, but Notre Dame went into halftime leading for the first time this season on a 21-yard pass to freshman Duval Kamara with 12 seconds to go, putting the Irish up 21-14. 
Navy came out firing in the second half, scoring a touchdown on their first drive but missing the extra point. This error forced them to go for two on their next touchdown, a Sharpley fumble that was returned 16 yards for the Navy score. Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku­
NAVY 
Enhada rushed in for the conversion, giving 
Navy the 28-21 lead. 
Thomas tied the game with a 3-yard 
touchdown run with just over three minutes 
left. The Irish held Navy to a 3-and-out, 
but Chris Kuhar-Fitters' acrobatic sack of 
Sharpley in ND's last drive forced overtime. Both teams scored touchdowns with the extra point in the first overtime and swapped field goals in the second. In the third overtime, Navy completed a 25-yard pass for the touchdown and a quick pass for the two-point conversion. Notre Dame · responded with a Thomas touchdown run. 
On the first conversion attempt, Navy was · flagged for pass interference, moving ND to the 1-yard line. Thomas was stuffed on the 
next attempt, giving Navy the win. 

"It's a big win for the academy," then­Navy Coach Paul]ohnson said. "I'm happy I don't have to answer anything else about the streak every time we play." Navy celebrated by giving its students the day off from classes on the following Monday. 
Weis said the streak was insignificant to him and his team, and his players echoed that sentiment. 
"They made one more play than we did," senior strong safety Tom Zbikowski said. "It's another loss. I don't care about the streak. We lost today, and that's all that matters." + 

2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW ISCHOLASTIC 127 
AIR FORCE 


Mayday, Mayday! 
AtR FORCE 41, NOTRE DAME 24 
Maria Sellers 
rowds filing into the gates ofNotre 
Dame Stadium on Nov. 10 held the 
spirit of the Fighting Irish in their hearts. The second parents' weekend brought a slew ofparents, students and fans, all hoping for a win to recover from the heartbreaking loss to Navy the previous week. With a 22-5 series lead against Air Force, the Irish were aiming for victory. 
The start of the game did not bring the fans what they had anticipated. A fumble by senior tight end John Carlson during the first play of the game led to a 19-yard field goal by Falcon kicker Ryan Harrison and Air Force's early 3-0 lead. The Irish attempted to recover with freshman Armando Allen's 20-yard kickoff return and a first down by 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
C

sophomore James Aldridge, but a fumble by junior Asaph Schwapp led to a recovery by Air Force's John Rabold for a touchdown. But the Irish began to pick up speed in the second quarter, as freshman Brandon Walker completed a 28-yard field goal and Carlson caught freshman Jimmy Clausen's 2-yard pass for a touchdown, tying the game at 10-10. 
With less than two minutes left in the second quarter, the Falcons' Spencer Armstrong rushed eight yards for a touchdown. The clock ran out before the Irish could score off fifth-year senior Tom Zbikowski's recovery of an Air Force fumble on the Notre Dame 33-yard line, and the Irish finished the first half down 17-10. 
During the third quarter, Air Force continued to dominate the Irish. Three minutes into the second half, Air Force quarterback Shaun Carney completed a 7­yard pass to Sean Quintana for the Falcons' third touchdown. After alternating attempts, Air Force's Keith Madsen scored another touchdown. Harrison's extra point brought the Falcons to a 31-10 lead. 
The Irish began to gain momentum in the fourth quarter, but unfortunately it was not enough to overcome the deficit. The team began the quarter with a first down run by Clausen, which set up a 21-yard touchdown pass to junior David Grimes and an extra­point completion by Walker. The Irish defense held the Falcons to a field goal on 

FLYING HIGH Junior wide receiver David Grimes leaps to catch a high ball near the sideline. 
the next drive. Clausen then responded with a touchdown pass to Allen. After a series of drives, Air Force scored the final touchdown of the game, resulting in a final score of 41­
24. The loss was the first upset by the service academy in over 11 years. 
The Irish finished the day with a total of 304 yards, 19 first downs and 25 minutes of possession against the Falcons' 405 yards, 23 first downs and 34 minutes of possession. Clausen went 22-for-40 for a career high of 246 passing yards, surpassing Carney's 126 yards. The Irish rushing attack gained only 58 yards compared to the Falcons' 285 
, yards. Although the game ended disappointingly for Notre Dame, it still showed admiration 

for Air Force. Fifth-year senior John Carlson said, "I've always had a lot of respect for the academies, for many reasons. First ofall, they play hard the whole game. And obviously the fact that they defend our country. I've always had a great deal of respect forthese guys." 
The season's second loss to a service academy was difficult, but fans, players and coaches walked away from game looking to a positive future and the game against Duke. Junior safety David Bruton admitted the team's struggle but had faith for a comeback. "As a team, we're at that low point, basically the lowest of lows," he said. "But we've got to keep plugging." + 
AIR FORCE 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW ) SCHOLASTIC ) 29 
DUKE 


The Futility Bowl 
NOTRE DAME 28, DUKE 7 
Meagan McGinley 
The Fighting Irish burst into Notre Dame Stadium for the last time in the 2007 season on Nov. 17, hoping to end their record-setting six-game home losing streak with a win against Duke, also 1-9. The Irish and the Blue Devils had only met twice before on Irish turf, when the Irish trounced them in both 1958 and 1966. After a disappointing, nearly scoreless first half in which numerous dropped passes on both sides were attributed_ largely tci the sleeting, wintry conditions, the Irish upheld their undefeated series status at home with a final score of 28-7. Both teams struggled, and failed, to build momentum in their offensive drives in the first half. The game remained scoreless until late in the second quarter when freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen capitalized on 
30 ISCHOLASTIC I2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
a Duke fumble with a 25-yard touchdown pass to junior wide receiver David Grimes. Seventy-three seconds later, Clausen followed a second forced Duke fumble with another 25-yard touchdown pass to freshman wide receiver Duval Kamara with four seconds remaining in the half. 
The appearance of 14 points on the board demoralized the Blue Devils, who had to watch another 14 points added to the board as freshman running back Robert Hughes ran in another touchdown during the third quarter from 13 yards out and fifth-year wide receiver John Carlson snatched a 9-yard pass from Clausen in the end zone with 6:07 left in the game. 
The Irish were well on their way to repeating the shutout achieved in their last face-off against the Blue Devils in 1966, which would be the first for the Irish defense in five years. But an untimely fumble by the . Irish offense allowed Duke's backup quarterback Zack Asack one last chance to salvage some poi!}ts. Asack ran for six yards into the Irish end zone to put Duke on the board with 72 seconds left in the game. 
Head Coach Charlie Weis seemed more concerned with getting seniors playing time in their last hc;,me game than guarding the shutout, however, as he let the patient and overshadowed workhorses flex on the field toward the end of the fourth quarter. Weis even allowed senior strong safety and fan favorite Tom Zbikowski to debut as quarterback, where he made small forward progress before senior running back Travis Thomas fumbled the ball in the play that would lead to Duke's only touchdown. 
Emotions were the only· thing running high that November evening as the 
DUIKlE 


temperature seemed to plummet faster than the Blue Devils' hope of avoiding being branded with an embarrassing 10th loss. The senior Fighting Irish class held their gold helmets in the air as they jogged a victory lap around the field of the stadium, celebrating the win and years of dedication, discipline and sacrifice. 
After paying their respects to the Duke team, the Irish gathered in front of the swaying student section as the band played the alma mater. Students and fans alike then quickly poured out of the stadium in search of warmer quarters. The band and the marshmallow-stained Class of 2008 remained stoically behind in the emptied stadium, however, dancing the Irish jig and paying homage in solidarity to their peers in the graduating football class, chanting "We Are ND" until the ushers booted them out and officially brought the 2007 home football season to a close. + 


STANFORD 


Cardinal Directions 
Brittany Lash
Loud, celebratory voices chanting and cheering the lyrics of the Victory March rang out through the thick 
concrete walls of the visitors' locker room 
after Notre· Dame's 21-14 victory over 
Stanford on Nov. 24, 2007. 
"We sang the fight song about 100 times," said junior wide receiver David Grimes. "Weis, Zibby, John Carlson, Sully, Trevor Laws all did it [ ... ] the captains and the leaders." Head Coach Charlie Weis echoed his sentiments. "I wanted to make sure those. fifth year seniors got their just due," Weis said. "It was a happy locker room." 
The Irish had good reason to celebrate, closing the season 2-0 for the first time in 15 years and gaining much-needed momentum heading into the offseason. No one could call the game error-free, as both teams looked inept and confused during stretches, but the Irish will was strong, as the team rallied to 
32 f SCHOLASTIC f 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
NOTRE DAME 21, STANFORD 14 
send its fifth-year seniors out on the note they deserved. 
Freshman running back Robert Hughes set the tone of the game on the first play of Notre Dame's first drive, ripping off a 45-yard run to the Stanford 33-yard line, the longest run of the season for the Irish. Hughes would have a great day, rushing for 136 yards and one touchdown. Unfortunately, he would also set the tone for offensive blunders, as he fumbled a screen pass from freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen on a second-and-goal play. 
After a Stanford three-and-out, the Irish received the ball back only to have Clausen fumble it away on the first play of the drive. In all, Stanford and Notre Dame combined would force six turnovers, miss five field goals and have four plays overturned by instant replay, three of which went against the Irish. 
With five minutes to go in the first quarter, the tide turned in favor of the Irish as ~tanford quarterback Tavita Pritchard threw an interception into the waiting arms of Tom Zbikowsti on the Stanford 19-yard line. Zbikowski returned the pick five yards to the 14-yard line, setting up a 12-yard reception by freshman wide receiver Duval Kamara and 2-yard touchdown rush by Clausen. 
Stanford quickly responded with a rushing touchdown of its own, making the score 7-7 at the end of the first quarter. A second quarter filled with errors followed, as Stanford missed a field goal, the Irish fumbled and both teams went three-and­out twice. The Cardinal took advantage of a winded Irish defense with six minutes to go in the half, rushing in from 11 yards out to bring the score to 14-7. 
But the Irish bounced back in a big way. 

TURN IT OVER AGAIN The Irish and Cardinal totalled six turnovers in an often sloppy match. 
On third-and-20, Clausen hit running back 
Junior Jabbie with a 4-yard pass.Jabbie broke 
free for 40 more yards with a wide gap on the 
right side, setting up a Travis Thomas goal­
line touchdown to tie the game. 
The third quarter brought controversy for 
the Irish. After a penalty for roughing the 
kicker gave Notre Dame a first down, an 
athletic, diving touchdown grab by David 
Grimes was ruled a touchdown on the field, 
only to be overturned by Pac-10 officials in 
the booth. Photos after the game showed that 
Grimes had one hand underneath the ball, 
and Irish fans were riled up over the call. 
Stanford pulled Pritchard after a huge hit by Terrail Lambert, bringing in former ·starter T.C. Ostrander. Ostrander marched the Cardinals down the field for the go­-ahead score, but kicker Derek Belch missed a30-yarder, the first of two he would miss in 
the fourth quarter. 

The Irish scored with six minutes to go following a game-breaking 44-yard run by Hughes to make it 21-14. In the last minute, Stanford had four tries from 10 yards out to score, but the Irish defense crushed two runs and Ostrander's final two passes were dropped to cement the Irish victory. 
The team rushed to greet ecstatic Irish fans in both end zones. An emotional Weis, who teared up at the sight of his players post­game, spoke about his fifth-year seniors when asked who he looked for after the win: 
"I was looking at John Carlson and John Sullivan, Trevor Laws and Zbikowski and some of those guys that, you know, had an opportunity to leave last year. They stuck around for another year, then the year doesn't go very well [ ... ] I was just happy for them that they could walk out of here with a win." + 
STANFORD 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW f SCHOLASTIC f 33 
RECRUITS 


Mike Tresnowski 
elieve it or not, 14 Fighting Irish 
football players took the field 
for a bowl game on Jan. 6, 2008. Granted, the players were high schoolers verbally committed to play at Notre Dame next year and the game was the U.S. Army All-American Bowl, a high school exhibition game for highly-ranked recruits. Nonetheless, a strong showing at one of the most prestigious high school all-star games is a welcome sign of hope for the Irish after the hopeless 2007 season. 
The strength of the class on the tail of one of the worst seasons in Notre Dame history is almost shocking. Both rivals.com and scout.com rank Notre Dame as the No. 1 recruiting class in the country. CSTV.com recruiting guru Tom Lemming called it "[Notre Dame's] best class since 1990 when they produced five first-round NFL draft picks." 
While the university cannot publicly comment on individual recruits until 
34 I SCHOLASTIC I 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
B
National Signing Day on Feb. 6, many of the class' 22 recruits have publicly stated and restated their commitment to Notre Dame despite the results of the 2007 season. Quarterback recruit Dayne Crist told The South Bend Tribune the group is growing closer as their high school careers come to a close. "This is an extremely tight-knit class. You could ask any one of these guys the same question, and they'll give you the exact same answer verbatim. We don't want any loose ends in the family. That's how we feel. We are a family and we feel very strongly about that. We're now brothers," Crist said. 
Offensive Recruits 
Crist has emerged as the leader of the class. Lemming writes on his Web site that Crist has a "rifle arm," and scout.com ranks Crist as the third-best quarterback recruit in the nation. While Crist should expect to compete with rising sophomore Jimmy Clausen for playing time, Crist cites Clausen as one of the reasons he chose to commit to the Irish. The two attended the same middle school, Clausen hosted Crist during his visit to Notre Dame, and they share the same private quarterback coach. "Notre Dame wasn't on my radar until Jimmy contacted me," Crist told Sports Illustrated. 
Whoever ends up throwing passes for the Irish iri the future, it is certain that there will be a talented receiver on the other end. The class of2008 includes tight end Kyle Rudolph and three highly-ranked wide receivers in Michael Floyd, Deion Walker and John Goodman. The U.S. Army All-American game provided fans with a glimpse of the future as Crist connected with Floyd for a touchdown strike from 56 yards out. Floyd finished the game with four catches for 118 yards and two touchdowns. Lemming called Floyd the "second-best player on the field." 
The Irish welcome running back Jonas Gray to an already crowded backfield. Gray committed to Nebraska last August but 
RECRUITS 

JONAS GRAY ETHAN JOHNSON TREVOR ROBINSON 
No. 21 Running Back No. 4 Defensive End No. 6 Offensive Guard Rushing yards: 2,485 (Statistics from junior year) Touchdowns: 31 Tackles: 83 Average per rush: 8.1 Sacks: 10 
DARIUS FLEMING SEAN CWYNER BRAXSTON CAVE 
No. 2 Outside Linebacker No. 14 Defensive Tackle No. 2 Offensive Center 
Tackles: 69 Tackles: 93 
Sacks: 10 Sacks: 12 
changed his mind after a visit to Notre Dame in October. Scout.com calls Gray "one of the nation's top power backs." 
The offensive line took the brunt of criticism in the 2007 season, but adds four new recruits in 2008, including Mishawaka native Braxton Cave, ranked the No. 1 center by ESPN.com and guard Trevor Robinson, who enrolled early at the university for the spring semester. 
Defensive Recruits 
On defense, the Irish welcome numerous four-star recruits. ESPN.comranks defensive end EthanJohnson the No. 85 overall player in the nation. Johnson is joined on the line by early enrollee Sean Cwynar, named Mr. Illinois Football in 2007, and tackle Brandon Newman. The No. 2 defensive tackle in the country, Omar Hunter, had committed .to play at Notre Dame but changed his mind in January, telling ESPN that Notre Dame's "style and the way they played" were 

reasons for decommitting. Considering the graduation ofTrevor Laws and the uncertain status of Pat Kuntz for the 2008 season, a true freshman lineman may need to see the field next year. 
Two four-star safeties, Jamoris Slaughter and Dan McCarthy, will join a secondary that loses captain Tom Zbikowski. McCarthy joins his older brother Kyle, a senior safety for the Irish. Also joining the Irish secondary is Robert Blanton, ranked the No. 15 cornerback in country by scout.com. 
The team adds four linebackers, a priority in Corwin Brown's 3-4defensive system. Darius Fleming is ranked the No. 94 overall recruit by ESPN.com. Fleming played defensive end in high school, but runs a 4.57 40-meter dash and could fit in at strong side linebacker. Fleming is joined by fellow Chicago native, Steve Filer. Filer was a runner up to his future teammate Cwynar for Mr. Illinois Football. 
Looking Forward 
'ii\Thile the class has been lauded by recruiting services, there is no guarantee that the projections will pan out. A highly-ranked recruiting class does not always lead to more wins. In 2004, both Miami and Florida State had top-5 recruiting classes, yet both teams found themselves on the bottom half of their conference standings in 2007. Meanwhile, Missouri finished No. 4 in the 2007 AP Poll despite not having a recruiting class place higher than No. 36 on scout.com in the past five years. 
As Charlie Weis enters his fourth year at the helm, he has yet to see one of his own recruits develop into a star. But as many of his original recruits mature into starting roles, he has managed to bring in his finest recruiting class yet. Assuming things go smoothly until National Signing Day on Feb. 6, it appears as though for the first time in a long time, Irish fans will have something to cheer about. + 
2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
STATISTICS 


197 345 Sharpley, Evan 1b1t66 146. 77 3 55,0 5 .. ·4r Points Per Game 16.4 28.8 
Jones, Demetrius 44.53 3 I 0 33.3 4 0 4 

FIRST DOWNS 187 255 
'Allen, Ar1i1ando -.184.00 . 1 I 0 100.0 10 0 ·· 10· Rushing 73 132 
Total 104.61 389 217 9 55.8 2004 12 44 Passing 89 99 
Opponents 111.80 344 181 11 52.6 1939 19 51 Penalty 25 24 RUSHING YARDAGE 903 2345 
Yards Gained Rushing 1513 2603 Carlson, John 40 372 9.3 3 41 
···--·32
258 Kamara, Duval .. 357 11.2 4 35Yards Lost Rushing 610 

Rushing Attempts 437 548 Parris, Robby 29 361 12.4 I 35 Average Per Rush 2.1 4.3 '.(irimes, David . 27 224 ll:3 . ·:z 25 Average Per Game 75.2 195.4 Allen, Armando 24 124 5.2 I 16 
8.2 · -·--o

TDsRushing II 20 West~Gecirgc 21 ·rn 20 PASSING YARDAGE 2004 1939 Jabbie, Junior 14 123 8.8 0 44 Art-Comp-Int 389-217-9 344-181-11 Tai:e, ·co1c1en 6 ·rn 21.8 ·-43'. Average Per Pass 5.2 5.6 Yeatman, \Viii 6 37 6.2 0 10· 
-·· 5-··. 

Average Per Catch 9.2 10.7 Wclnilge, James ·30 . 6.0 --o·· ff Average Per Game 167.0 161.6 'schwapp, Asaph 27 9.0 0 15 
. ···3··-···----if 0 . --·-··-··13

Hiigh"es;·1fobeiT .. TOTAL OFFENSE 2907 4284 Schmidt, Luke . 3 16 5.3 0 10 
TDs Passing 12 19 5.7 
Total Plays 826 892 Hord,D.J. . 0 s" 
Average Per Play 3.5 4.8 'Ragone, Mike 7 7.0 0 T11o·mas,Travis········ ·· ···· T ----:.T
' Average Per Game 242.2 357.0 -1.0 0 KICK RETURNS-YARDS 58-1142 40-910 Total 217 2004 9.2 12 44 PUNT RETURNS-YARDS 26-237 32-238 Opponents 181 1939 10.7 19 51 INT RETURNS-YARDS 11-206 9-76 KICK RETURN AVERAGE 19.7 22.8 PUNT RETURN AVERAGE 9.1 7.4 INT RETURN AVERAGE 18.7 8.4 FUMBLES-LOST 26-16 21-14 PENALTIES-YARDS 78-693 85-741 Notre Dame 31 52 50 48 16 197 
Opponents -· ---.. 80 -102 ·---85___66·---18--·345

Average Per Game 57.8 61.8 PUNTS-YARDS 76-3178 57-2296 Average Per Punt 41.8 40.3 
Bruton, David 20 6.7 0 17

Net Punt Average 37.9 34.4 
Crum, Maurice· ·2 .46 23:0. 0 33 

TIME OF POSSESSION/ 28:03 31:57 
Zbikowski, Tom 2 41 20.5 0 · -24 3RD-DOWN 60/193 78/185 
GAME rl~~~~~~y1e· ·--·· ····.···~~-·· ----·~~·······.··· ····2~:~----·-·-~•·. ·•··• · ~ 2~;
CONVERSIONS 

3rd-Down Pct 31% 42% :wa11s;-Daii-in ____ · ·73 ·······--1ro·· ·1 ··· 73
4TH-DOWN 19/35 5/16 CONVERSIONS lambert, Terrail 1.0 ·-·o····---1 4th-Down Pct 54% 31% 
Total 11 206 18.7 2 73 

SACKS BY-YARDS 19-132 58-415 Opponents 9 76 8.4 0 30 
MISC.YARDS 0 -36 TOUCHDOWNS SCORED 26 42 
FIELD GOALS-ATTEMPTS 6-13 17-26 Price, Geoff 54 2260 41.9 57 II 0'Maust; Eric . ..... .. ... . 21
PAT-ATTEMPTS 23-25 38-40 884 42.1 ···53 9 I TEAM -----,-· 
------~----·-·--·· 

ATTENDANCE 565,745 411,002 34 34.0 34 0 0 Games/Avg Per Game 7/80,821 5/82,200 Total 76 3178 41.8 57 20 Opponents 57 2296 40.3 53 19 




Zbikowski, Tom 23 234 10.2 0 60 

.Aidridge,James_. 121 _ ----~3-·· _ 3.8 -~---··-··43-_•... 42.1 \Bniton; Davfc1 0 
·o 
PrT~~;X1_u_n-ir____ o ..........---··o

~!~-~'-·_a_nd_o'-------'8_6___;3_4_8---'-__4_.0____0___1_5___2_9_.0 .I-Iu?~e_s, _RCJ~e!1'_ 53 294 5.5 4 45 26.7 0 0
\TEAM··· Thomas, Tra~~. 27 58 2.1 5 13 °4.8 Total 26 237 9.1 0 60 
Jabbi<:,Junior..... 10 35 3.5 0 10 .....2:9____ Opponents 32 238 7.4 78 Jon!c_S-Lf>emetrius · 12 · · 28 2.3 0 · 10 28.0 
Schwapp, Asaph 12 14 1.2 0 4 1.2 
Vihitaker, Nate 28 1647 58.8 0 I~:s_ch_tru_._dt,~·_L_uk_e_·-·~--2---·~-·---·-··_;,-_-._···_-_·_3__0_···~··_·__o_··_··_········. _,_--_·_··_-_·_0.5 

-----·····--o
!Walker, Brandon · ·13 733 "5/j:4· ·o--·· 

Tate, Golden · I 4 4.0 0 4 0.3 Total 41 2380 58.0 0
Zbik;;;.;ici,'-·rc_·~-~-----··.·_-_3_·~··_··_··_··-_·_o_··_···_·__o_._o_ __0____2___0.0 Opponents 68 4066 59.8 6
Price, Geoff -12 -12.0 0 0 -1.3 2.~3.!Jl~ Evan . 38 ·-Ts-··-·::2·.s·· . 0 j3-···-::.11:cj ­
Clausen,Jimmy 62 -187 -3.0 2 II -18.7 Neal, Kerry II 11.0 0 JI 
fTEAlvc··--· . .. . .. 9 ·--·:53 .. ., -5.9 .. o· o· --··-·::.i.r, 1 ..
!CiiJiii,"M:aurice I ·34· 34.0 ..34 Total 437 903 2.1 11 45 75.2 Total 2 45 22.5 1 34 Opponents 548 2345 4.3 20 52 195.4 19
Opponents 3 51 17.0 2 
36 ISCHOLASTIC I2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 





STATISTICS 


Laws, Trevor 12 53 59 112 8.0-44 4.0-31 0 5 2-0 0 0 
Aldridge, James 11 463 30 0 0 0 493 44.8

'nr~ckington,Joe 12 52 56 108 8.5-13 1.0-1 O I 1-0 O O 
326. ­

:Brnton;David 12 --55-30 85 4.5-16 ·1:0:10 3:20· 2 · 1-0 -I ·01 Tate, Golden Ii ·4 131 () O 461 38.4; ·c~u~~Maurice 12 35 -· 49 · 84 4.5-21 1.0~!l ···-·· 2-46 5 2-34 J O 
Cadson,John 12 0 372 0 0 0 372 31.0 'Zibikowslci, Tom Ii 42° 38 80 J:5-9 . 1.0:3 2:,ir -2-0 3 . O' 
Parris; Robby 12 0 -361 0 o· 0 36i 30.1

'i;villia~. Ian --12 19 26 45 1.5-3 0-0 -O-!v O 0-0 0 0 
K:!111~~~. Duvai 11 0 357 0 0 0 357 32.5

Kuntz, Pat 10 19 23 .. 42 2.5-3 0-0 0-0 -9 --0-0 0 if s,;j,"i;,;,,mn,Dwight . 12 17 23 40 4.0-6 -1.0-1 0-0 0 0 'Hughes; Robert ii 294 --17 0 41 0 352 32.0 iRyan,Jcilm--_1_2. 20· 19 ""39·· 5.0_:Jo_·-z.s:;13 o:o·· ·o 0-0-,1 __ 07 Zbiko;;ski, Tom 12 0 0 234 0 41 -275 22.9 "f:ambert, Tcrraii. 12 19 15 34 0-0 o~o---1-1 O 0-0 O O 
"t:rimes, David 10 0 224 ·o 0 0 224 22.4i

Walls, Darrin 12 -··23· 9 32 2.5-17 o:o 1-73 9 . 0-0 ·o· 
Jabbie, Junior 12 35 123 0 """40 o 198 i6.5

B;~;;~}ustin 10 II 19 JO 3.5:is -1.0-4 0-0 O 0-0 . 0 0 
22 ...... 0

~l'~~d"~:Ambrosc. 12---·py 8 · 27 0-0 o:o o:o·-·-o --j:o·· --O __ Oj :wes~ George -·12 0 172 0 j94--16.2: Smith, Brian II II 14 25 4.0~ii;" 1.5-7 1-25 0 0-0 I 0 Walls, Darrin 12 0 0 0 o 73 73 -6:1 Nea1;Kenr 12 8 12 io---2.0-9 ---i.1:i:9 o:cf -i -2:n o -01 ·12 .. -1 -'' 0 Tf-­
;Thomas; Travis 58 0 0 4.81

V~;,;-;gli;, Anthony 10 9 II 20 1.0-3 0-0 -0-0 0 0-0 0 0 
c;.-,-;;;;, Maurice---12 0 0 0 0 46 46 3.8

McC:ari:hyikyfc 12-··n 9 -io --o-o o-o -1-0 1· 0-0 1 if S~ith~Scott ---12 II 18 -0-0 0-0 -0-0 0 1-0--o-· --0 'Sc:llwapp;·A:s,pli -12 ---14 27 -o·· 0 0 4T-3.4' :sinith; Toiy:iii 11·---ii 8 -14 o.s:1 o-o o-:.ci o ·o:o--o ___ o) v--;,;miai-., tvi1c--12 0 37 0 0 0 37 ·3.1· M<Ncil, Racsh~;, 11 6 .....3.. 9 1.0-10 1.0-10 0 0-0 O 0 ... 0 -·· 11 --0 .. ff­
'.Brucon;fiavid --""12 ---6 20 2.1,]

BrmvniSerg{o · 9 4 i' ---i -0-0 o-:o -o:o o 0-0 <f -o 
)o;;·e;; bemet:ri~s --1 28 0 0 . --0 0 28 28.0

Richocdson, M~rricc 9 4 7 1.5-13 1.0-13 0-0 O 0-0 0 0 
~G!go~1c;Mikc-__ !C---o-_ 6 -7;--o-o --o-o o:o· ---o o-o -. _61 'Smith, n,faii ---ff .-·-g-·--2:r 
Carlson,John 12 4 6 0-0 0-0 0-0 O 0-0 O 0 sdi.i~idr, Luke--11 6 0 0 22 2.0 'i\nello,Mlke-s---<i-2 6 o-o o:o o:o · o ·o:o-o o; Olsen, Eric--­if (i 9 0 --r o:8'·c;;;;~.;,;Jashaad 4 · · 5 6 0-0 0-0 0-0 o· -----0-0 ·-ii 0 
Ragone, Mike 11 0 0 0 0 7 . 0.6

Janscn,J.f"" 12 -z" -s·· 0-0 -o:o o:o-·· 0 ·o:o-0 o: 
--6--o-­

iliord, D~]."--0 ·r Li rrtwm:i~'.fr:,_v!i 12 4 -·s·· o:o --o=o o-o·---o o-o o ·o] La111bert, Terraii 12 ·o 0 0 I I 0.1 Quinn, Steve 12 2 1.0-2 0-0 0-0 O 0-0 0 O 10 .. 0 -8 ... CJ (i -----8 J;hbi~;Ju;,io 12 5 o 5 o-o o-"o" -o-o ·o· o-o o ..o 6" 0 
Pnnce, Munir :o:8:

Hemiig; Ray · --4 i~ 2 3 ···o:o o-o o-o _o____ 2:0 o o 
9 -12 ,_ .
Price, Geoff ·o o 0 -12 -1.3

·Ha~d, D~r;e1(· --4 iJ --3 0-0 O~O 0-0 O 0-0 O O 
0 -------()
[Sharpley, Evan·---8. -::95 0--95 --il:9 

Fcrrine,"i.~C> 6-· 'i O "j""-0-0 0-0 0-0 I o:o· 0 0 Cla~seii; Ji111my lo -187 0 0 0 -187 -18.i iYcatma_n,~H_ ·12 -·--z -J 0-0 0-0-------0-0 ()---0-0 -o··--o: 0 ---6---·_53 ---·:1.6] 
:rniice;·Munir 10 2 I 3 --o-:o-0-0----0-0 T----0-0 o --o, 
TEA.M 7 ~53 (i 

Washington, Kevin 4 I 2 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 o" 
Total 12 903 2004 237 1142 206 4492 374.3

:Mullcn~Paddy 3 o -·1-· I -·-o:-o 0-0 0-0 _O_____ 6-0 .. o--:-o, \v.lii,ms;"iviiff,n;D. -----j O ·1 0-0 0-0 0-0 .. 0 ·o'.o ·o 0 Opponents 12 2345 1939 238 910 76 5508 459.0 ;Eii,lson,B':"~d__o~--:T O ----I----0-0 0-0---0-0 0 --0-0 -<f ~_OJ Talerico, Michael I I O 0-0 ---o:o 0-0 0 -·--o:o·-0 0
~t:i~r-tf-;~:--~ ---r--i---~--~~~ ~:~---~:~ ·-~ -~:~ ----~ -----~: 
Parris.Robby -12 o ---T-i ------0--li" -o-o--·0-0 o _ 0-0 ___ o_ o, 'T;,e, c;;,1d~;., .. 12 · I O I o:o --·o:o -0-0 0 0-0 0 0 PnceiGeoff ···-9----0--I o:o 0-0---0-0 o·-0-0 ----0----Q] 'c1aruerij1;;;;,:,y IO O -I 0-0 0-0 O~o· 0 0-0 0 0 TOTAL OFfENSE, ·G.. Plays ,., · Rus!J . Pass Total Avg 
(Th\M · · ---·-------1 · ·o -----o_.. o o-o · o-o·-----o-o ·1-··--o-o --o-~o 
Clausen,Jimmy 10 307 -187 1254 1067 106.7 Total 12 487 482 969 57-234 19-132 11-206 44 14-45 13 o !Sharpley, Evan -----8-178 ---95 --736_____ Mi 80.1., Opponents 12 484 342 826 112-567 58-415 9-76 42 16-51 18 0 
Alclridge,James ------11 121 463 0 -463 · 42.1 ;:'lien, Armando __ --·-_12 _________ 87 348___ ·rn·-.. 358 -·-29:s] Hughes, Robert 11 53 294 0 294 "ii:,i'i 1Thomas,Travis ·7T-·-27---58-----0----58--°4.8: KICKRETURN$ No. . Yds Avg TD '-->Lon_g Jabbie,Junior -------Ii------10 35 0 35 2§ Jones, Demetrius · ____I ___ · ___i_5___ · .. · 28 -----4--32 32.0/
Allen, Armando 
33 21.3 0 38 :T.1te, Golden ·-15"' 21.7· ---5·-· ·---------.ro~ Sch~;app, Asaph ·· · -------12 ---12 ..-.---·14 0 -·y;-j.'--Li' Hughe~--;-R.;bert ·s 1s· !Schmidt, Luke --11 --2 --6 -----O --6 ---·--o~s'
0 
. 13.3 .

~abb1e,)unior --<r -201 Tatke, G;;-1~i;~-. 12 1 --·--4 o 4 o.:f W~st, George -ii ii.o o· fr Price, Geoff ----9 ---·--1-·· ---12 -o ~12 ----1.31 :Olsen, Eric ----ir 9.o ----o· -----.----<i 1TEAM___ 9 ---~53 o -53 -'li 
Total 58 1142 19.7 0 40 Total 826 903 2004 2907 242.2 Opponents 40 910 22.8 0 68 Opponents 12 892 2345 1939 4284 357.0 
2007 Schedule and-Results · . ' ,. 2008 Sctiedule, . : ·, . , , · . , 
September 6 SAN DIEGO STATE [September 13 _MICffiGAN __ September 20 _at Michigan§tate __ _ ___
:~-:epre!Il_~i_z.T--_!'Y.@tJE:_____ ~~--­

october 4 STANFORD 'October 11 _____•--at:North Carolina _ __ Qc:~ler 25 _______ at WllsJ:tin:gton _________ _ November 1 PITTSBURGH No~e!Ilher s--___ -;-rBoston College ___ _____________ _ November 15 NAVY 
·Novembe~-:ff . --·sY.R.Acus'.E" __ _ ,NoveIIlb,e.r_Z.9 ___g_USC:: 



2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW I SCHOLASTIC I 37 



FINAL WORD 

Football Fiasco 
Notre Dame alumnus and founder of the Irish football blog Blue-Gray Sky weighs in on the disappointment of 2007 

Jay Barry 
As I was tailgating before the Navy game this past season, my friend . Brian and I chatted about the incredibly frustrating year of football we'd already witnessed. The chief question of the day was, "Can it really get any worse?" We were coming off of 38-0 blanking by Southern Cal, and the season had officially gone to pot. Rick Patel, the proprietor of America's Best Value Inn on U.S. 31, admitted to me upon check-in the day before the USC game that he was forced to sell rooms to Trojan fans, but only because so many ND fans were canceling. ''And I hate to rent to Trojans,Jay. HATE it," he exclaimed. Yet here we were, eating brats and drinking a couple ofbeers, expecting a win. Whatever else happened this season, we agreed, we'd always have Navy: that one guaranteed win on the schedule, a perpetual point of light. You could ink that win over Navy on your scorecard before each year began, heck, carve it in stone for the next 40 years. Four hours and three overtimes later, that "guarantee4 win" rose up and punched us in the mouth. The Middies danced jigs and cried tears of glee, and we sat there in a stunned silence. Could it get any worse? Yes, it could. That was the season of 2007, and I never want to see another like it. It would take one more loss to a service academy (Air Force, the following week) before we got back on the winning track. But 2007, holy hell -what a year. It was the worst any of us has seen, in all our years of watching Notre Dame football. But I'll tell you this: It wasn't boring. Especially if you measure your thrills in terms of sheer terror. Every game turned into a horror show, every play a white-knuckle gasp. How bad was it? The dead-last, worst, most ineffe~tive offense in college football: 242 yards per game, nearly. 40 yards worse than the next offense (that would be Florida International, for those ofyou keeping score at home). Nine losses, each one worse than the last, a record for losses in a season. Hell, most ND classes go all four years without seeing nine losses. (You could look it up: Since Rockne took over, 45 classes graduated 
40 I SCHOLASTIC f 2007 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

having seen less carnage over four years than the '07 squad packed into one miserable season.) A I:--11 Duke team was our only home win. The year was so bad for Notre Dame that the only piece of memorabilia I wore proudly was an Appalachian State T­shirt. 
It's simple to say, but the season wasn't supposed tci go like this. Sure, we were graduating some serious players, including Brady Quinn, who'd led us to two terrific seasons. But we were reloading with exciting young talent, . and// 
Charlie Weis hadn't A fiasco seems to occur paradox of a fiasco, had his "genius" label however, is that forcibly ripped off when you're grasping for it is those same his letter jacket yet, exact conditions so the offense was something just a little further that often produce expected to reload an unprecedented and keep firing at than you can actually reach!/ success. Many knowledge to a young team, and have them ready to rip and roar by the opening kickoff. Everywhere, we tried to grasp further than we could reach. The coaches went soft on blocking and tackling in fall. camp, hoping to prevent injuries and preserve freshness, only to have that softness come back to haunt them when other teams, rough and tough and ready to fight, beat us up. Everything came flying apart, almost immediately: Georgia Tech came in for the first game, de-pants'd us, and laughed. A classic fiasco had begun. 
The fascinating 

a high level. More importantly, Charlie had taken measures to improve the unit that really needed fixin' ­the defense -by bringing in the enthusiastic and invigorating Corwin Brown. Every Irish fan I know was thinking we'd go at least 8­4, even with a new quarterback at the helm. Heck, in a preseason poll on BGS, we didn't 
even include a choice for 3-9. That's how unfathomable and unexpected was the fiasco 
of 2007. 
Speaking of fiasco, there was an episode once on NPR's "This American Life" all about the definition and nature of a fiasco: what constitutes a fiasco, when do you know you're stuck in one, etc. A fiasco, as you might imagine, is more than just a failure; it's a complete and utter spiraling out of control. A fiasco seems to occur when you're grasping for something just a little further than you can actually reach. To me, that seemed a perfect summation for 2007. It was perhaps folly to think we could plug in new starters at major positions -quarterback, offensive line, receivers, running backs -and expect to compete against what turned out to be one of the stronger schedules in the nation. It was perhaps folly to think Charlie could soak up the complexities of a spread offense in a weekend retreat to West Virginia, impart that 
championship teams achieve the top prize precisely because they reached beyond their grasp. Think of all those teams that seemed to be greater than the sum of their parts. This is my hope for 2008. 
Just using the law of averages, going worse than the worst season in our lifetimes is highly unlikely. But hell, I know, that's not hardly enough. Let's build on it. Small confidences are the first step: Everyone is a year older, and, experience is everything in college football. Our coaches, too, are presumably a little wiser and won't use pillow fight drills in_ prepping, the trd'ops this time around. We· have a clear starter at quarterback, an offensive line that's been through the fire and a defensive coordinator who's no longer a novice. Remember, each time we've had a rotten season, the team has rebounded, and often in short order. As horrible as 2007 was, it might prove to be a welcome tonic; for if we take these lessons to heart, and continue to improve, and ifthings break right, it could be just the gut check that propels this team to greater heights. + 
"Blue-Gray Sky," is run by Jay Barry ('92) and Pat Mitsch ('99). Theii· Web site is http://bluegraysky.blogspot.com. 












