NEW FOR SPRING!
^GILBERT'S
New spring 1958 sport coats, suits and topcoats are arriving daily at the Campus Shop . . . the finest men’s clothing obtainable in today’s world markets. Come in and see them at your earliest convenience. *


On the Campus—Notre' Dame
CHARGE IT—
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY
1 3
JUNE
PAY 1
JULY
No Carrying Charge
At the Campus Shop you will find a complete selection of nationally famous suits, topcoats, sport coats and furnishings . . . and a convenient charge account with which to buy. If you’re on a budget—like most college men are—why not charge what you need the Campus Shop way. Simply get what you need now and pay one-third in May, one-third in June and one-third in July. It’s that simple—and, of course, there is no carrying charge. Use your Campus charge account tomorrow!
On the campus — Notre Dame
February 14, 1958
CIVIL RIGHTS
Editor:
It was with the greatest of interest that I read the article in the February 7 issue of the Scholastic entitled “Civil Rights: A Reply.” Since I am of Southern background and residence, I feel it somewhat my right, and duty, to make a few comments on the Civil Rights question. Air. Chroust’s “example” of the problem is most objectionable in that it not only distorts the picture, but moreover equates the white citizenry of thirteen Southern states with criminals who “derive great pleasure as well as a profound feeling of tribal satisfaction from beating up every Saturday night the Richard Roes” (whom he seems to designate the Negroes by). I was frankly amazed that a person obviously as educated and intelligent as he would use such dishonest or questionable journalistic tactics in stating an example. If all the “John Does” really are such out and out scoundrels as to do the deeds ascribed to them, then I ask why there is even any controversy: but obviously the question is not as simple as Mr. Chroust would present it to be. Thus the leaders of the nation are devoting so much time to examining the question.
The question of Civil Rights is as old as history itself. It was dealt with in our Constitution as follows: “Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included within this Union, according to their respective numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole number of free Persons, including those bound to Service for a Term of Years [the indentured servants], and excluding Indians not taxed, three-fifths of all other Persons.” This is Article 1, Section 3 of our Constitution as originally ratified by the several States. Note that “all other Persons” are the Negroes — who were counted as three-fifths. If this was not discrimination, what is? This section was later superceded by Amendment 14, which was passed AFTER the Civil War (July 28, 1868). This poses problems beyond the scope of this letter because of the effect of the war on politics. Nevertheless, it proves that even the Constitution has changed its views on the question, and only after the Southern States could only bow to the ambitions of the Northern politicians — an objective situation? This left the South saddled with the problem pushed on them by the North — but they still had their prerogative of States’ Rights which they
4
exercised. These States’ Rights, it must be remembered, are also Constitutionally established.
Deeply wrapped up in this question is the economic problem that there is always friction between the different social and economic classes — even in the North. Now since the upper class in the South was the landed whites, and the lower class predominantly Negro, this led many to believe that Negroes were discriminated against simply because they were Negroes — these same Northerners forgetting that they were themselves discriminating against lower social classes. But because those who they discriminated against happened to have white, or yellow, or olive skin, these Northerners consider themselves blameless, while condemning the same
$	ION
carnal
■v-

FUTURE UNLIMITED”
Recently a working agreement between Studebaker-Packard Corporation and the equally world-famous Daimler-Benz of Germany was signed giving Studebaker-Packard, in addition to the progressive lines they already manufacture and sell, the exciting line of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, and their superb line of automotive accessories including diesel engines, gasoline fuel injection systems, etc.
THIS TREMENDOUS EXPANSION PROGRAM OFFERS OPPORTUNITY IN THE FIELDS OF YOUR ENDEAVOR:
★ ACCOUNTING
★ ENGINEERING
★ AAANUFACTURING ★ SALES
★ SERVICE
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
is a teaming, growing metropolis with major rail, airline and shopping facilities second to no city its size. Yet, South Bend is essentially a “home folks”.town offering every possible living advantage at reasonable costs.	/
STUDEBAKER-PACKARD REPRESENTATIVE
MR. E. W. METHOD and MR. E. J. GRAY
He will be helpful in answering your questions pertaining to opportunities and your goal for the future. See your- Placement Director about arranging an interview!
STUDEBAKER - PACKARD CORPORATION SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
situation in the South. Is this the pig calling the ground dirty, or simply the way society operates? I leave the question to you. Those who would still insist that this discrimination, which is in reality class distinction, is an evil in itself can only end it logically by: (1) changing the very nature of the society which differentiates among classes, as in the classless Communistic system, or, (2) ignore reality of such existing society as we have and withdraw into a theoretical world where ALL men are actually, and always, free and equal. Such a society is Utopian and unobtainable simply because of man’s very nature, fallen as it is.
—Roger Brunelli
327 Badin Hall


★ PARTS and
ACCESSORIES

ON CAMPUS
Monday, Feb. 24
The Scholastic
i

hurrah
For several years the Student Senate has tried to be more than a mere promoter of social events. Recently * they took a very large step in the right direction. In t budgeting the proceeds from the Mardi Gras, the Senate, after considerable debate, appropriated some $5000 for scholarships.
The need for scholarships at Notre Dame is great. The cost of attending college, any college, has increased con' siderably in recent years. As a result many very bright stu-H dents are turned away each year because they cannot afford the cost. The Foundation at Notre Dame has been working very hard to increase the endowment of the University and, thus, to provide for better facilities and more scholarships. But at the present time scholarship aid at Notre Dame is very small.
<* The Senate attempt then, to create a scholarship fund out of Mardi Gras money, is a most worthy move. It shows the awareness of at least some of our student leaders that in order to have a better University we must have students of high academic quality — regardless of their financial status. The Senate has set an important precedent in this appropriation of Mardi Gras funds. It is the hope of many of us that each year an increasingly large amount of the Mardi Gras money will be channeled toward scholarship aid. It is also hoped that this display of student interest in scholarships will invite outside aid to fulfill scholarship demands.
One point more should be brought out. Some of the scholarship money was appropriated at the expense of a fund for a lecture series and big name entertainment. Some of the Senators argued vehemently for an increased lecture program with “controversial figures.” This demand was pure nonsense. Anyone who really has taken time to in" vestigate knows that the University has time and again ; , brought in noted lecturers in recent years. The result has j always been the same: attendance by the student body has been largely negligible. Increased attendance at these lectures will only come when the University has a student body I with greater intellectual interest. And in all too many cases r in the last few years such students have been turned away because of the lack of financial aid. And while big name I entertainment is desirable to a degree it has proved quite hazardous in the past due to mediocre student support.
-IS.
February 14, 1958
positive action
IN A FEW days the holy season of Lent will be upon us.
Usually at this time everyone begins thinking about what they can “give up” for the succeeding forty days. No one should deny that this practice of self denial is good for us. But, it seems that as college students, we could take more positive means during this - period. There are many bad habits we have acquired and they show up every day during our four years. Lent is a quite opportune time to try to remedy many of these faults.
The most important positive action that any of us could take is going to daily Mass and Communion. For some it will be a great effort to get out of bed an hour earlier, but it would be well worth the effort in thanksgiving for all the things we do have. We will never be any closer to Christ than we are with the chapel just a few steps away.
What about those who already go to daily Mass and Communion? Of course they will continue but there are other things which everyone could try to correct during this time. A big one is the noise that invariably occurs in the halls. If each and every one kept the radio or record player down a little lower, cut out the bull sessions in the hallways, and other such small things, you would soon notice a big difference.
It would be much easier to study—and a good penance for all would be extra study during this period. It would not overtax anyone and then maybe some of us would at least come close to working to capacity. Instead of trying to get by with the minimum, a little extra work would be of benefit to all. Think how snowed the professors would be!
With all of this there is still a portion of the “giving up” that we should consider. How about giving up all those trips downtown? There isn’t any reason to believe that anyone would get claustrophobia by staying around campus a little more often. This applies as much if not more so to the “21 and older group.”
Seniors should try especially to do something extra because all are at the age when they would ordinarily have to fast and abstain. They are getting a year of grace as far as this aspect of Lent is concerned because as long as they are on campus, they do not have to observe the Fasting and Abstinence rules.
In another three and a half months, the seniors will be out looking for the first big break although many will admit that their first break was to be able to attend and graduate from this University. A period of self mortification and meditation might help to bring that opening a little sooner. It may seem a bit far fetched but it would not hurt anyone to stop a minute to think about it.	♦
‘	—J.G.

(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
The Notre Dome
Scholastic
Vol. 99 February 14, 1958 No. 13
BE IT EVER SO HUMBLE
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Today let us apply the hot white light of sustained thinking to the greatest single problem besetting American colleges. I refer, of course, to homesickness.
It is enough to rend the heart, walking along a campus at night and listening to entire dormitories sobbing themselves to sleep. And in the morning, when the poor, lorn students rise from their tear-stained pallets and refuse their breakfasts and shamble off to class, their lips trembling, their eyelids gritty, it is enough to turn the bones to aspic.
What can be done to overcome homesickness? Well sir, the obvious solution is for the student to put his home on rollers and bring it to college with him. This, however, presents three serious problems:
1)	It is likely to play hob with your wine cellar; many wines, as we all know, will not travel.
2)	There is the matter of getting your house through the Holland Tunnel, which has a clearance of only 14 feet, 8 inches. This, of course, is ample for ranch houses, but quite impossible for Cape Cods, Georgians, and Saltboxes, and I, for one, think it would be a flagrant injustice to deny higher education to students from Cape Cod, Georgia, and Saltbox.
3)	There is the question of public utilities. Your house—and, of course, all the other houses in your town—has wires leading to the municipal power plant, pipes leading to the municipal water supply and gas main. So you will find when you start rolling your house to college that you are, willy-nilly, dragging all the other houses in town with you. This will result in gross population shifts and will make the Bureau of the Census cross as bears.
No, I’m afraid that taking your house to college is not feasible. The thing to do, then, is to make your campus lodgings as close a replica of your home as possible.
* * *
And now all is quiet in the dorm, and everyone sits in peace and smokes his Marlboros, whose makers bring you this column throughout the school year.
Adorn your quarters with familiar objects, things that will constantly remind you of home. Your brother, Sam, for instance. Or your citizenship papers. Or a carton of Marlboros.
There is nothing like Marlboros, dear friends, to make you feel completely at home. They’re so easy, so friendly, so welcome, so likable. The filter is great. The flavor is marvelous. The Flip-Top Box is wonderful. The tattoo is optional.
Decorating your diggings with familiar objects is an excellent remedy for homesickness, but it is not without its hazards. Take, for instance, the case of Tignor Sigafoos and Estabrook Raunch who were assigned to share a room last fall in the freshman dorm.
Tignor, an ice-skating addict from Minnesota, brought with him 44 barrels over which he had jumped the previous winter to win the Minnesota Jumping-Over-Barrels Championship. Estabrook, a history major, from Massachusetts, brought Plymouth Rock.
Well sir, there was simply not enough room for 44 barrels and Plymouth Rock too. Tignor and Estabrook fell into such a violent quarrel that the entire dorm
was kept awake for twelve days and twelve nights. Finally the Dean of Men was called in to adjudicate the dispute. He listened carefully to both sides of the argument, then took Tignor and Estabrook and pierced their ears and sold them to gypsies.	© 1958, Max Shulman
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized * June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS ..........News Editor HARRY McKEE .................. Copy Editor	:
BOB EARLY .................. Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ............. Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS ................. Photography
LORAN SHEFFER............Business Manager MIKE KURAS...............Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN .......... Circulation	Manager
WALT RUDGE ................ Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH.................Assistant Copy
BILL CONWAY.................Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS .............Assistant	Features *
TOM LAMONT ............. Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK ............ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH ............... Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON .............. Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene, Luino Dellosso. Bob Maruyama, Gil Pap-rocki, Lyn Relph. Charles Rieck, Roy Rubeli, Tom Romans, Milt Streifel. Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang. Sports Staff: Bob Briggs. Jim Brogan. Dave Cole, * ' Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller. Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly. Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg : Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, . Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.	J
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the 1 school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct.	25;	No. 6,	)
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov.	22;	No. 9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb.	14;	No. 14,	*
Feb. 21;	No. 15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No. 17,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
6
The Scholastic
[I
I	we’re
I' by BOB COLAIZZI
I and GERRY PASTULA
still ‘in jest’
»• Will wonders ever cease? The U.S. has y a satellite, the Vanguard still hasn’t 1 made it off the ground, profs have ■ changed editions on textbooks, and where I else can you get a bus ride for only I two bits? It seems that the only thing I we can hope for, is that the sky will be a lighter grey tomorrow (we’ve given ■ up looking for the sun), and that the I 4 bread line at the Relief Mission won’t I run out of food before we get to the front.
HOW 'BOUT A BREAK?
z This has been a week like all other weeks, filled with the usual abuse that u is heaped upon mankind, except . . . we were there.
It all started when we lost our bid to the Mardi Gras after standing in line for three days, and to make things ■ worse, our girl (we could only afford one bid between us) is flying in from Labrador especially for the Ball.
Due to a misunderstanding, Joers closed our charge account, and our third roommate, Jay, burned a hole in our thesis, and we forgot to make a carbon copy. We still haven’t closed the gash on our cheek after we shaved with the L blade our landlady used to trim the 1 linoleum, and we ripped the sleeve off A of our suit with two pairs of pants.
Jay had a little trouble with his water-proof, shock-proof, self-winding, anti magnetic, dust-proof watch ... he , lost it. And to make matters worse, r we were caught printing counterfeit I laundry coupons.
!* What really hurts is that we gambled ' away the money we owe the campus Fort Knox (Gilbert’s), and haven’t , figured out a way to raise §357 by ; Monday, and we’re having one heck of a time explaining the cribsheet we i handed in with our Blue Book during '' * finals.	'
But we don’t mind, though, things could be worse . . . but how?
SURPRISE
We’re gratified to hear that someone finally came up with a recording that proves that you don’t have to be tonedeaf to write a Rock-and-Roll hit. Our tattered hats are off to Eddie Thomas and his recording of “I’m On My Way Home.” Hope you sell a million, Ed. (Phillips lable, 89 cents at your favorite record shop)
SHOT DOWN
Last Sunday we were lounging around the Student Center, when in walked two lovely, tourist type coeds. Being the gentlemen that we are, we hustled to their aid, and offered our services as guides. Just as we had about convinced them that we were second only to Father Hesburg in importance, the manager of the Center came over and asked us if we had finished washing the walls in the men’s room.
WE WANT AN ANSWER
Whose ID cards are the campus police going to pull now that there is snow covering all the grass?
CHALK IT UP TO EXPERIENCE
That’s what we need, more experience. We just wish people would let us wallow in our ignorance. We don’t mind starting at the bottom of the ladder, but we would really appreciate the little accessories—like rungs and something to lean it on.
DO IT YOURSELF DATE KIT
Here are some of the time tested accessories for dating, which no Notre Dame man should be without. The kit includes such items as: a large supply of currency, a pocketbook of witty say
ings, and a miniature, attached securely to a chain, for swinging during lulls in the conversation.
HAPPY VALENTINE DAY
For lack of a better day, today just happens to be the day devoted to the basis of all world problems . . . love. So, in keeping with the tradition which we were unable to destroy, we have written several handy little messages in case you’ve forgotten a loved one. Just tear out the appropriate one, paste it on the back of an old registration slip, and send it along. •
TO MY ROOMMATE
You are a scholastic wonder, Your erudition I really admire.
The way you digest those lofty volumes Its a wonder you don’t tire.
I really couldn’t ask for more. You’re a whiz at Chem and Math. But please, roomie, one request, This month, how ’bout a bath?
TO MY GIRL
When we’re out together, dear
I feel so strong and brave.
I know we’d make a perfect pair If you’d just clean up and shave.
TO THE FOLKS
To you both, I owe a lot. So much it isn’t funny. But letters, I can always get, Next time . . . how ’bout some money?
MARTIN T. FRANCIS
In writing “IN JEST”
Our humor might be brash.
In comparison to the stuff we turn out,
Your column is really . . . won’t you be our Valentine?
February 14, 1958
7
Sales Representative Gene W. McGrew came to IBM following his military service after college. Here he reviews his progress and tells why the electronic data processing field offers one of the most exciting sales careers in America today.
What's it like to
be with
Gene McGrew won a scholarship and went through Princeton in the top third of his class . . . managed varsity track . . . commanded an artillery battery in Korea. “When you put a lot of preparation into your career,” Gene McGrew feels, “you should look for a lot in return.”
Out of the Army in 1953, he discussed IBM with a sales representative. It sounded like real opportunity. After an interview with an IBM branch manager, Gene McGrew was sure. Although sales was only one of many jobs he felt he could handle, this kind of selling (IBM machines are as much an idea as a product) would enable him to capitalize fully on his education, experience, and talents. He’s learned also that “no other form of training or career development I can think of provides such diversity of experience in all phases of business and industrial activity. This kind of training and experience develops top business executives.”
Thus began an extensive and interesting training program marked by merit salary increases. The first three
Outlining programming test
months of the training course combined introductory machine schooling and observation of branch office operations in Pittsburgh (his home town). The next three months were spent studying the application of the Company’s data processing machines to maj or phases of accounting in business, science and
tend its use to new applications. He is also responsible for the development of new business. His biggest sale
was to a large industrial corporation. Now installed, this IBM electronic system simplifies various major phases of the customer’s accounting work. His fine job with this customer resulted in the expanded use of equipment and the ordering of three additional
Discussing customer’s installation
medium-sized data processing machines. He is now working to develop the sale of one of IBM’s largest computers, the 705, to another customer.
Future wide open
“Advancement opportunities in IBM,” Gene MeGrew says, “are excellent, as you’d expect in the leading com
Checking out new client’s system
pany in a dynamic and rapidly expanding industry. Ahead of me on the sales management advancement road are nearly two hundred Branch Managerships, seventeen District Managerships, and numerous executive positions at the Regional and Headquarters level in five different divisions.”
government. With this background of know-how, Gene McGrew was ready for seven months of practical field training, during which he became a real contributing member of the sales team, working with a succession of experienced salesmen in a variety of situations with many different customers. With this experience behind him, he was ready for IBM’s famous sales school, a final five-week polishing course in selling techniques.
This profile is just one example of what it’s like to be , (with IBM. There are excellent opportunities for well- < qualified college men in Research, Development, Man- t ufacturing. Sales and Applied Science. Why not ask j your College Placement Director when IBM will next • interview on your campus? Or, for information about : how your degree will fit you for an IBM career, just	A
write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:	«
IBM Corp.	:
234 N. Michigan Street	;
South Bend 1, Ind.	: ;
Receives first assignment
Upon the successful conclusion of this course he was given his long-awaited first sales assignment, his own territory near Pittsburgh. This territory was comprised of some fourteen companies presently using IBM equipment, together with many companies who were logical potential users. Gene McGrew’s job is to assist his customers in achieving maximum efficiency through the use of their equipment, as well as to help them ex-
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • MILITARY PRODUCTS	J
SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • SUPPLIES • TIME EQUIPMENT	'
The Scholastic I
GALA MARDI GRAS TO OPEN IN STUDENT CENTER TONIGHT
* Kai Winding's Band to Play for 650 Couples Tonight; Booths, Entertainment to Highlight Festive Carnival
The 1958 Mardi Gras festivities will ’ » begin tonight as the doors of the La-। Fortune Student Center open for 650 t couples attending “Le Bal Mardi Gras.” Kai Winding and his Septet will pro! vide the music for the dancers. Al-। though this is his first appearance at B Notre Dame, Winding is well known for ? his own special sound.
k Using four trombones and three x rhythm instruments, the band features a melody known as the “Trombone ’	Sound.” It has been well received in
j	the past.
' The climax of the evening will be at 10:30 when The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the Uni! * versity, will crown two of the queens. ! The Queen of the Weekend will be I Miss Mary Lee Loughlin, the date of J General Chairman David McMahon.
1 ( Miss Loughlin is from Bellport, N. Y., ; , and is a graduate of Marjorie Webster Jr. College, Washington, D. C. She is 0 presently employed as a secretary.
The Queen of the Ball is Miss Joyce Robinson, the date of Dance Chairman Gep Durenburger. Miss Robinson is from Burlington, Iowa, and is now in her sophomore year at Saint Mary’s , College.
The queens will be chauffered to the * ball in the 1958 Cadillac and the 1958 ,‘l Thunderbird to be given away at the carnival.
The theme of the carnival will prevail throughout the entire building. The Rathskeller will be converted into a true
‘ New Orleans setting depicting Canal Street. The two south basement rooms will be made into sidewalk taverns and a small combo will entertain there for
the evening.
The dance floor itself will be decorated
like a garden. Above the bandstand will be a balcony with a circular staircase ascending up to it. On this balcony the coronation will take place.
The dance will last from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. and the committee requests that no corsages be worn.
The carnival itself will open tomorrow night at 7 p.m., closing at 11:30 p.m. On Monday and Tuesday it will be open from 7:30 to 11:30 p.m.
Tomorrow night the Queen of the Carnival and the Queen of the Raffle will
February 14, 1958
be crowned. The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of Student Affairs, will have the honor.
The Queen of the Carnival will be Miss Betty McGowan, the twin sister of Carnival Chairman Bernie McGowan. She is a senior English major at Nazareth College in Bardstown, Ky.
The Queen of the Raffle will be Dolores Muzzi, the date of Raffle Chairman Bernie Pellegrino. Her home is in Hamden, Conn. She is currently employed as a dental assistant in New Haven, Conn.
The carnival itself promises to live up to its reputation as the biggest social event of the school year. Besides the ever popular games, this year’s show will include a new version of last year’s pie throwing booth. The members of the Blue Circle and the Student Senate invite the student body to soak its favorite campus leaders. An accurately aimed ball will release a deluge from a tub which will hang above each of them.
On the stage will be 16 Saint Mary’s girls led by their chairman, Gerry Dunn. This year they will present a showboat revue accompanied by several campus jazz groups.
The Mardi Gras will reach a climax on Tuesday night at 11:30 when Fathei- Hesburgh draws the winning tickets. In addition to the new Cadillac and Thunderbird to be given away, a Saint Mary’s student will receive a R.C.A. hi-fi set.
The complete allocation of the Mardi Gras profits has not yet been positively decided but a tentative plan has been laid out. Under this plan, 85,000 would be allocated for the repairing of the old boathouse on St. Joseph’s Lake. The building will then be used for special events and parties.
Included in this plan would be a gift of $10,000 to the Campus Charity Chest and $5,000 to a scholarship fund. Also, $2,500 would be set aside to pay for “big name” entertainment and lectures. Finally, $7,000 would be kept for future repairs and improvements of the Student Center itself.
MARDI GRAS QUEENS:
Mary Lee Loughlin, Betty McGowan, Joyce Robinson, Dolores Muzzi.
9
Field Trip Scheduled For Commerce Club
The Manpower Management club will leave on Monday morning for their annual field trip to the American Management Association’s Personnel Conference.
This year’s conference will be held at the Palmer House in Chicago. It will feature talks on current labor-management problems by many top American executives and other experts in the field.
Monday’s program will include reports by John S. Hutchins, executive vice-president, American Brake Shoe Co., of Chicago; Jerome Fenton, general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board; E. Donald Elliott, vicepresident of personnel, Mead Johnson & Co., Evansville, Ind.; Francis J. Rodericks, industrial relations manager, Chilton Greetings Inc., of Boston; and Dr. Eugene Emerson Jennings, associate professor of management, Michigan State University.
The club will remain at the conference for two days and will leave for South Bend on Thursday evening. It will be accompanied to the convention by Prof. Vincent Raymond of the College of Commerce.
Students to Name Nominees For Lay Apostolate Award
This year’s nominations for the St. Thomas More Awards will be opened to the student body. In the past, these nominations have come only from the Catholic action groups on the campus.
Nominees are judged on the basis of achievement in the student apostolate, spirit of generosity, leadership abilities, and academic merit.
Any student desiring to nominate a senior may do so by submitting that senior’s name, with a list of his qualifications, to the Catholic Action Office, Room 1-M, Student Center.
A faculty selection board will review the nominations and make their decision in about two weeks. The presentations will be made later in the year.
K of C MEMBERSHIP DRIVE
The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus began its second semester membership drive this past week. All students are invited to join the fraternal order by contacting Carl Edmundson, membership chairman. He will be at the K of C office in the basement of Walsh Hall from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. on week day afternoons.
Fr. Hesburgh to Speak at Marriage Institute; Wednesday's Lecture Opens Annual Series
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the University, will open the 1958 Marriage Institute on Wednesday evening at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall.
Father Hesburgh’s topic will be “Selecting the Marriage Partner.” His lecture will be followed by a question and answer period and a coffee hour in the Student Centex- Rathskellex- when any questions can be asked personally.
Pamphlets and mimeographed bibliography lists will be offered for sale at this time to anyone interested in further-reading on the subject.
Tickets, which are available to seniors, law students, and graduates, can be purchased at 433 Walsh, 246 Alumni, 233 Fisher, ox- 333 Keenan. Juniors contemplating marriage and medical stu-
FATHER HESBURGH
Opens 1958 Marriage Institute
dents leaving aftei- this yeai- may also attend. They must talk to The Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., in the Student Centex- YCS office fox- tickets. These tickets are $1 fox- the series of six lectures.
Aftex- Father Hesburgh’s talk, there are five lectures concerned with life in the married state. The second lecture, Feb. 26, will be given by Dr. and Mrs. L. J. Maino, concerned with “The Psychology of the Male and Female in Marriage.” The next Wednesday, The Rev. A. L. Meloche speaks on “The Image of the Trinity in Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex.”
On March 12, Dr. Louis B. Leone will give “The Doctor’s Viewpoint,” and Mr. and Mrs. Art Schaefer will speak on “Love in Marriage” on March 19. Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd will conclude
the series on March 26 with a talk on “Success in Marriage.”
Fathex- Hesburgh was ordained in Sacred Heart Church on June 24, 1943. He received his doctorate from the Catholic University of America, while serving as chaplain at the National Training School for Boys and auxiliary chaplain at nearby Fort Myer, Va.
When he returned to the Notre Dame campus in 1945, he was appointed chaplain of married students and theix- families. Fathex- Hesburgh was named head of the department of religion in 1948 and executive vice-president in 1949. He became the University president in 1952 succeeding The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.	.
Prof. Murphy to Begin Art Lecture Series Mon.
The Art Department will present two illustrated lectures by John Murphy, head of the Department of Art History < at the California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco, next Monday and Tuesday. Murphy was educated at the Uxxi-versity of London, and has given exhibitions in several countries.
The subject of his first talk, “The Ax-ts of the West Coast,” is a survey of M paintings, sculpture, and graphics, with comments on the background influences of the Pacific Slope Culture. On Tuesday, he proposes to examine the three likely universes of the artist: God, man, and self, undex- the title “The Artist’s Universe; The Three-fold View.”
The talks will be held in the University Art Galleries in O’Shaughnessy i Hall at 8 p.m. and will be open to the public.
Law Students Plan to Hear 'Patriot of Year' on Feb. 23
Robert F. Kennedy, who will be -awarded the title of “Patriot of the Year” by the Senior Class at the annual Washington Day exercises, will be the speakex- at the Law Students’ Communion Breakfast, Sunday, Feb. 23.
Plans for the breakfast have been announced by John Marchal, president i of the Student Law Association. Kennedy is the chief counsel and staff directox- of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.
The Mass will be held in the Alumni Hall Chapel. Following the Mass, the breakfast will be held at the Morris Inn. -Approximately 70 law students and their friends are expected to participate in the exercises.
The Scholastic
10
Pairs Tournament Planned For Bridge Club March 1-2
A campus pairs bridge tournament will be conducted on March 1 and 2 at ।	1:30 p.m. in room 1-D of the LaFortune
Student Center.
4 It will be open to all students, both graduate and undergraduate. The winners will be awarded the Gerity Trophy and master-points will be distributed among the top finalists.
The defending champions are Bob I Funderlic and Marty McGinn. Entrants f. must, participate both days.
The tournament is sponsored by the ; Notre Dame Bridge club. Professor J. P. Turley is the moderator.
The National Inter-Collegiate Bridge Tournament is slated for Feb. 23 at 1:30 p.m. in room 1-D of the Student Center, x This is a mail tournament in which 16 par hands will be made up by Geoffrey Mott-Smith, internationally known authority on contract bridge.
There will be two winning pairs on a campus, regional and national basis.
*	’Oklahoma' Tryouts Continue For Singing, Dancing Roles
Cast tryouts for the University Theatre’s spring musical Oklahoma will be held tomorrow and Sunday, and on Feb. 22 and 23, in the Washington Hall lounge. Auditions for singing is scheduled from 1 to 3 p.m. on those days. Dancing tryouts follow from 3 to 4 p.m. Tryouts for parts in Oklahoma are open to all students at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College. Candidates are asked to sign up on the bulletin board at the back of Washington Hall.
*	On March 2, final tryouts will be conducted from 1:30 p.m. on. Rehearsal for Oklahoma will begin the following day and will continue until Easter.
BLUE CIRCLE APPLICATIONS
*	All those interested in joining the Blue Circle must send in their applications during the two-week . period extending from Feb. 15 to March 1.
The five requirements for acceptance into the organization include a letter of application, stating high school and college activities, a recent photograph, an accumulative average of 80, a satisfactory disciplinary record, and the completion of at least one semester at Notre Dame.
*	The applications should be addressed to Blue Circle Membership Chairman, 304 Walsh.
Concert-Lecture Series Sets Appearance Of Deyer-Bennet in Washington Had Friday
Richard Deyer-Bennet will open the second half of the 1957-58 Concert and Lecture Series next Friday night at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall.
This personable young folk - singer brings a rare repertoire including gusty Elizabethan ballads, droll early American folk ditties, haunting sea chanteys, rollicking Australian bush songs, and compositions in seven languages.
Verel and Bailly with the Chanteurs de Paris will appear at Washington Hall in the second presentation of the last half of the Concert and Lecture Series on March 1. This renowned group from Paris, France, will sing tunes of present-day France in a graceful and pleasing harmonization.
The National Symphony Orchestra will be the first orchestra to appear in
RICHARD DEYER-BENNET Folk singer appears Friday
the Concert and Lecture Series this season. This renowned musical organization, under the direction of Howard Mitchell, will appear in the Drill Hall on March 7.
The National Symphony, hailed for its performances by the masters of the old world, is a leader of music in the new world and contributes generously to the creation and vitality of contemporary American music.
Mitchell, in the eight years he has held the position of music director, has achieved the highest standards of work and technical excellence for himself and the orchestra. He well deserves his citation for “distinguished services to American music.”
On March 13, the Julliard String Quartet will return to Notre Dame in its third consecutive appearance in the Conceit and Lecture Series. Since its inception, this ensemble has played in
hundreds of concerts, and had countless triumphs in the United States, Canada, and Europe. Their repertoire extends through four centuries of music, encompassing more than 125 major works.
The final presentation of the season will be the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, featuring the noted pianist Byron Janis, in their annual spring appearance at Notre Dame. The performance will be held in the Drill Hall on April 20. This is a special year for the South Bend Symphony as it is their twentyfifth anniversary.
The Symphony classified as a community orchestra, reaches a higher plane in quality on the basis of the artistic standards of its concerts. The 85 musicians composing the orchestra have, for the most part, been playing with the orchestra for a long time. This fact is evidenced. by the disciplined, well integrated performances of the group.
Next Friday evening, Deyer-Bennet will lead off the second half of this Series. Deyer-Bennet, a former star of the Olympic Club soccer team, has become a far greater star with a guitar, a concert-trained tenor voice, and picturesque diction.
Tickets for Deyer-Bennet’s performance will be sold at the Washington Hall box office Wednesday from 3:30 till 8:30 p.m. Pi-ices will be $1 orchestra, $.75 balcony for the students, faculty, and campus employees.
Sales to Begin Friday For 'Freshman' Tickets
Tickets for a special performance by the Four Freshmen in the Fieldhouse on Thursday, Feb. 27, at 8:30 pjn., will be on sale in the Fieldhouse on next Friday and Monday, Feb. 24, from noon to 6 p.m. There will be a special advance sale for faculty members in the Rathskeller on Thursday from 1 to 5 pan.
This is the first appearance of the Freshmen here on campus and will also be the first “big name” concert of the year. For their initial performance, they will present their already famous renditions of such songs as Day by Day, Easy Street, and Graduation Day. Besides giving their modernistic arrangements of the “top pops,” they will also play various musical instruments.
The performance is being sponsored by the Student Senate Social Commission and is under the direction of Steve Smith, assisted by Paul Anderson and Brian Foley.
February 14, 1958
11
R & R From Walsh Holl
eddie thomas
Two years ago, a late November sun cut through the dusky second floor of the Student Center. It fell across the grand piano and a sophomore named Eddie Thomas. Eddie’s fingers ran across the keys finding chords and almost spontaneously the whole room would resound.
Eddie had written a song about his home state, Mississippi. His fingers then began to run over the keys and Eddie started to think. -
“Mississippi, let’s see now, in just a few weeks I’ll be on my way home for Christmas . . . yes, on my way home.
Eddie’s fingers hit some more chords and then they found more keys. He repeated it out loud this time, “I’m on my way home.” “Not bad,” he thought, and it wasn’t.
Today Eddie plays the same chords, accompanying his brother, Cliff, and his sister, Barbara Ann on their newly released record — “I’m On My Way Home.”
You might say the record is a climax to a story that began when this Notre Dame senior was in the fifth grade. He was directed to take piano lessons from the Sisters of Mercy in his home town, Jackson, Miss.
Eddie learned the rudiments of the piano and then moved to playing the classics.
In his junior year in high school, Eddie entered a state-wide piano contest and came out on top. He played Rachmaninoff’s Concerto in C Minor, No. 2, and won first prize, the privilege of playing in two concerts with the Jackson Symphony Orchestra.
Through high school, Eddie began to switch from the classical music to the popular. At parties, he found his listeners were more appreciative of Rhythm and Blues than Rachmaninoff. He began playing for the tastes of his friends, and for his own enjoyment. It was easier also since he could play these melodies by ear.
He thought he might like to write some of this new style music. His teacher, Sister Mary Celestine, knew what Eddie was doing with his talent and reproached him. He had college to
by John McMahon
look forward to and a career in his father’s business, so Eddie stopped taking the lessons.
He came to Notre Dame, and found his talent was well received here. He continued playing the Rock and Roll at parties and by himself in the Student Center. He was asked to join a Dixieland group that was started on campus by Dick Miller, and his playing became
Eddie, Barbara Ann and Cliff
more famous as the piano player with the “Sugarfoot Stompers.”
Eddie became enthused about his hobby and decided to write some music. He would sit at the grand and. put words to the chords, runs and beat that came easily to his fingers.
He composed songs and gave them titles like “Jumpin’ Jack,” “Mississippi,” “Nancy,” “Sarah,” “Dance Little Girl,” “Treat Me Right,” “I’m Lost,” “Behind the 8-Ball” and “I’m On My Way Home.”
Eddie would take these songs home with him at vacation and play them in his living room for his family and friends.
Soon his brother and sister began to learn the songs and the three Thomases would put on a show for their living room audiences. Cliff had learned to ; play the guitar and Barbara had a ; good voice. Their shows went over well. ।
Eddie tired of just playing for his friends. He thought that his talent had ( become stagnant. How could he ever * ‘ go on when his songs rarely got out of his front yard. “Rock and Roll is commercial,” he thought. “Why not try to sell my songs.”
First he tested the idea. Last sum- I mer, Eddie had to go to Fort Riley, j Kan., as part of his Army R.O.T.C. program. He played the songs at the ' Officers Club and the cross-section of ( the country at the Fort responded well. i
It was the first of August when he j returned home and proposed his idea to his brother and sister. They agreed to try to push the songs with him.	'
The next day Eddie called the Sam C. Phillips Recording Co. in Memphis, Tenn. He began his pitch by saying he had a brother with a good singing voice j and he was sure that the Phillips Co. could use him. The reply was no talent j needed. Eddie then said he had written ' ' a few Rock and Roll songs that they might like to have. This interested the company and they set up an audition for the music.
Cliff, Barbara Ann and Eddie sang and played the list of songs before a not too friendly audience of judges. The * * expressions on the auditioners faces changed as the songs were done. They liked the songs and they said they : thought they had a “find” with the sing- ; ing of Cliff.	;
An appointment was made for the . . following week and the Thomas trio recorded “I’m On My Way Home” and J “Treat Me Right.”	* '
“I’m On My Way Home” was to be the “hit” side. Eddie said they had to	{
re-do the song 25 times on tape. The	|
company thought the best of the 25 was the third run.	/
The climax to the story that began in the fifth grade came last week when Eddie got a record of his own song in the mail. It had been released, and a new story began for Eddie Thomas, his brother and sister.
More songs will be written and much h sleep will be lost in worrying about the « h ones already composed.	!|
It is not as strange as it might seem for the student who walks through the J Huddle and up to the second flooi* of the Student Center to hear the same piano ? on record as the one he hears in the room. It will be Eddie sitting at the same grand, running his fingers across j the keys, finding chords that fill the I whole room with a Rock and Roll beat. |
12
The Scholastic
‘The Importance of Being Earnest’
THE CAST Lane .................. Jerry	Broderick
Algernon Moncrieff.........Jim Cooney
John Worthing.................Dan Ferrone Lady Bracknell........Claire Ann Byrne Gwendolyn Fairfax.....Meg Nerad
Miss Prism.................Pat Ferris
Cecily Cardew.............. Georgia Ann Weber Rev. Canon Chasuble........Jerry Dodge Merriman___________________Rudy	Hornish
The Importance of Being Earnest, a comedy by Oscar Wilde, directed by Fred W. Syburg, coached by Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.G. Setting and lighting done by Gilbert Rathbun.
*
The Importance of Being Earnest, one of Oscar Wilde’s comedies on English manners that is over-performed on ama-’ teur stages, opened in Washington Hall Wednesday evening. Director Fred Sy-burg’s choice of the “stylized” method of acting, so popular in another era, proved tedious. The cast, in their adaptation of this style, seemed to over emphasize the entire method. Wilde’s wit along with a few high points in individual performances helped to some extent.
The comedy of the play is centered around mistaken identities and Wilde’s satire of the English aristocracy. The approach is “heavy-handed” and together with the “stylized” method this play had a tendency to slow up — at times it even came to a dead stop. This explicit humor may have suited audiences before and could possibly entertain now, but unless some restraint is introduced into the interpretation the production stumbles and leaves one weary.
Nevertheless, Wilde’s drastic stabs at manners cannot help being funny. The foibles of the “mannered” class in England stand open for his thrusts, and he applies them with tact. He is by no means a great playwright, but his use of the theatre for satirical purposes can be delightful. However, slap-stick or blunt comedy will always find an audience. “Good” comedy does not have to kick you for a response, as this play does.
Amateur productions must always be-
by DAVID L. KUBAL
ware of the over-play or the over dramatic, and Wilde is not easily conquered. It is even more difficult when actors are subjected to the method employed by the University players. However, .the fault does not only lie here. This particular cast did not seem to control their intensified movements and manner of delivery. This intensification is amusing in the beginning, but it is brought to an extreme and results only in boredom.
Jim Cooney and Dan Ferrone took the male leads of Algernon Moncrieff and John Worthing, two very useless English gentlemen, seeking the hands of two equally useless young girls. Both Cooney and Ferrone had delightful moments de-
BOOKS
The American Earthquake by Edmund Wilson. (Doubleday & Company, Inc. 1958, 576 pp., $6.00)
One of the most productive journalists and literary critics of today, Edmund Wilson, has compiled with fine results his essays from the period between the two wars in a book called The American, Earthquake. Wilson’s essays report, more or less, first hand the significant-events and not so essential happenings which have shaped the history of the forties or fifties.
As Mr. Wilson points out in his introduction, these works parallel his writings on the literary scene brought together in The Shores of Light. However, in this book the authoi- deals with the life of the twenties and thirties — its superficial, gay, and tragic aspects.
The first collection of essays under the heading of “The Follies” treat everything from Eddie Cantor in the Follies to the “Moscow Art Theatre.” They reflect the hectic rush of American people after World Waz-1 under the dirty hand of prohibition and imply the tragedy that awaited them in the thirties.
“The Earthquake,” the second group of writings, which rumbled strongly
livering loaded lines and endeavoring to remove themselves from the inevitable' circumstances. Cooney’s facial expressions were masterful, when he was not forcing them. Ferrone had trouble with his timing in the first act, but he succeeded in overcoming his difficulties in the remaining two acts.
Meg Nerad, as Gwendolyn Fairfax, and Georgia Ann Weber, playing Cecily Cardew, were much too pointed as manhunting English ladies, and, furthermore,’ their lines that were devoted solely to the audience were laborious. They seemed to lack total conviction.
Jerry Dodge proved to be a most entertaining performer. Dodge played the Rev. Canon Chasuble, a retiring country minister, with fine results. His mannerisms were exact, never bombastic, and he capitalized on them wonderfully. His use of the umbrella and pince-nez helped his interpretation.
The roles of Lady Bracknell and Miss Prism, enacted by Claire Ann Byrne and Pat Ferris were overdrawn.
The use of the English accent by the cast was generally abused. It was so “English” that it lacked fluidity.
The Importance of Being Earnest will continue until Sunday, Feb. 16, with a final performance at 8:30 pan.
under Hoover’s administration, shows how America bolted to an awakenment, and how the attention of her citizens evolved from Jazz to the Banks. In his search for the spirit of the times, Wilson roamed from Tennessee to Detroit and to Lawrence, Mass., listening to the reaction of workers and bankers.
From here he moves into the Roosevelt era and “The Dawn of the New Deal” — manifesting the climb to Pearl Harbor. On the night of Roosevelt’s election, Wilson visited both campaign headquarters and records the political hopes of both parties for the next four years. The remainder of the essays look at the triumphs and the dismal failures of the NRA and such.	•
This collection does much more than just present Wilson’s impressions of twenty years. They are arranged so that the reader can follow the developments of history and the people. Wilson’s perception allows us a glimpse into the very causes of the present day through his interpretation of men and parties.
The author’s style remains lucid and exciting, and to note the very change in mood from one period to another is illuminating. At times the selections are disappointing and tend to overload the reader. However, if one is selective, the book can be entertaining as well as enlightening.
—D.L.K.
February 14, 1958
13
St. Mary’s Winter Carnival
No, you’re not wanted . . .
photos by
Kevin F. Solon
Have a big apple!
Wonder what she said?
14
The Scholastic
February 14, 1958
15
The Third Order
St. Francis of Assisi, perhaps more than any other saint, lived a life which approached that of Christ Himself. In his lifetime he founded three orders —the first for priests (Order of Friars Minor), and the second for nuns (Order of Poor Clares). Then for men and women, married and single, who want to live a more nearly perfect Catholic life, he founded the Third Order.
A definition of the nature of the Order can be derived from the code of canon law, canon 702: an ecclesiastical association of the faithful who, while living in the world, strive after perfection under the direction and in the spirit of the Franciscan regulars in a manner compatible with life in the world, by observing the Rule approved for them by the Apostolic See. So, it is a true religious order for people in the world. Its members pass through a postulate and are received into the Order; then they undergo a novitiate, and are finally professed as members of the Order for life. Each Tertiary (as members of the Order are called) always wear the habit —the brown scapular and white Franciscan cord—under conventional clothing. The Third Order Office of 12 Paters, Ares, and Glorias, is to be recited daily by the members. Tertiaries have the privilege of being buried in the full outer habit of the Order. They have the right to attend public sacred functions, the right of precedence, the privilege of following the Franciscan calendar in office and Mass, and they benefit from innumerable indulgences received by direct grant from Leo XIII, and from communication with the other two Franciscan Orders. -
No rule of the Third Order binds in conscience: by failing to follow any of the prescriptions of the rule one simply forfeits the spiritual benefits attached to observance. :
The purpose of the Third Order is the same as that of religious orders and congregations: -sanctification of its members, and sanctification of society. For this reason the Third Order is a true Order, and has precedence over pious societies and confraternities.
In fulfilling its purpose of sanctification, the Order provides its members with a way of life — the Franciscan Way. This way is incorporated into the Rule of the Order, which inculcates the spirit of poverty, chastity, and obedience after the example of Our Lord: in particular, humility, simplicity in dress, subjection, reverence and love toward superiors, renunciation of (Continued on page 17)
16
At the Movies
COLFAX
Old Yeller: (Feb. 14-21). Walt Disney’s newest presentation is a delightful piece of fiction that is aimed at everybody, man, woman and child. Based on the novel by Fred Gipson, “Old Yeller,” tells the story of a dog and the Texas family it,-adopts for a brief period. In Technicolor, it stars Dorothy McGuire and Fess Parker.
GRANADA
Sayonara: (Feb. 14-19). Marlon Brando, Red Buttons, Miko Taka, and Ricardo Montalban.
Peyton Place: (Feb. 20). The Grace Metalious novel has been carefully and intelligently reworked. The result is a film which by turns is heartwarming and brutal, happy and tragic, sordid and sun-clean. In short, here is a small town come to life, real and honest, and as small towns and the people therein are often thought to be. Cinemascope and color by Deluxe were never used to happier purpose in a dramatic production. Lana TurnerLee Philips.
PALACE
Rodan, The Flying Monster: (Feb. 14-15). Refuses to leave.
Underwater Warrior: (Feb. 16). The lusty adventures of a witty, wet Indian are captured in all their charm by the magic of narrow-screened black and white.
Co- (and I use the word loosely) Hit: The Safe Cracker.
RIVER PARK
Legend of the Lost: (Feb. 14-15). This film was produced almost solely on the Sahara Desert of North Africa and is good despite the fact. Features John Wayne, Sophia Loren, and Rossano Brazzi.
Baby Face Nelson: (Feb. 16-18). As a slice of the sordid side of America at an eventful if frightening period in its modern history, here is a documentary-type film which tells its frantic story very well. Offers Mickey Rooney in the role of the warped sadistic killer.
Co-Hit: Ma and Pa Kettle at Home. Fooey!
Les Girls: (Feb. 19-22). It’s a splendid production, sophisticated in the proper meaning of the term, a bright and stimulating motion picture. Gene Kelly-Kay Kendall-Taina Elg. Cinemascope, Metrocolor.
STATE
Last Stage Coach West: (Feb. 14-15). Contains sufficient elements of the accepted Western theme—mistaken identity, divided loyalty, as well as inevitable girl-gets-boy—to make it good and lousy.
Co-Hit: Woman in a Dressing Gown. A story involving plain people who meet their romantic problems squarely and solve them without melo-dramatics. Yvonne Mitchell, Anthony Quayle, and Sylvia Syms play their roles with convincing clarity.
Crash Landing: (Feb. 16-19).
Co-Hit: Going Steady. Would, undoubtedly, be of great interest to those taking human biology.	,
The Wayward Girl: (Feb. 20-22). The girl’s future looks brightly promising at the windup as she’s cleared and the prison gates open again.
Co-Hit: The Story of Mankind. 31% scientists battle valiantly to determine whether Adam had a navel.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Importance of Being Earnest: The play will run until Sunday on the Washington Hall stage.
—Steve Sailer
The Scholastic
Senate Sets Mardi Gras Profit Distribution; Charity to Receive Major Portion of Funds
A plan for the distribution of Mardi Gras funds was formally adopted as a guide to the Student Senate at their Feb. 5 meeting. The plan expresses the present will of the Senate and will stand as passed unless a specific objection is raised later, once the final total of the Mardi Gras profits is determined.
The major portion, or $10,000, will go to Charity. It will be divided into $6,000 for the general fund and $4,000 for the Moreau Seminary building campaign.
Another $7,000 is apportioned to the LaFortune Student Center with $5,000 going into an improvement fund and $2,000 for the repair of furniture.
The amount of $5,000 for a scholarship fund was finally voted through. Harry Wasoff, Senate vice-president, argued for a $3,600 appropriation on the grounds that since tuition is $900, that amount would be sufficient. Counter arguments pointed out the need for establishing a sizeable fund in order to attract other contributions. .
For big-name entertainment and distinguished speakers, $3,000 has been set aside. Another $3,000 would go to the beachhouse project while the remainder will go into a general fund.
The election date for student body president, college senators and class officers has been set for March 20. Nominations will open March 6 and close March 13.
The Blue Circle membership drive is slated to begin Feb. 15 and extend until
The Third Order (Continued from page 16) dangerous amusements, justice towards all, fervor in prayer, frequenting the sacraments, avoiding unnecessary oaths, quarrels, and abusive language, while practicing true charity toward God and neighbor.
Notre Dame Tertiaries carry on their fraternity life in the monthly meetings (which members are required to attend even at some sacrifice), in “cell” meetings, and discussion-mixers with the Tertiaries at St. Mary’s.
While striving towards personal sanctification, they also devote themselves to spiritual and corporal works of mercy. Notre Dame Tertiaries take turns visiting sick students in the infirmary, tending to their needs and informing rectors and roommates of their wants. They also help the Prefect of Religion in whatever capacity they are able, as in canvassing the halls for First Friday adoration, and leading the recitative Mass.
March 1. Present plans call for two interviews before Easter and one after.
Rick Ninneman, of the library committee, warned of the possibility of students being searched as they leave the Library. The number of books not checked out and not returned has climbed to 6,100. Ninneman also stated that Mr. Victor Schaefer, director of the Library, is in favor of leaving the reading rooms open until midnight, although the stacks would close at the regular hours. However, rectors of freshmen halls have expressed opposition to this proposal.
The Senate treasurer, Mai-ty Kelly, read the report of the Accounting club which declared that they had found the Senate books in order. He proposed a resolution, which passed, that the club be hired for two audits yearly. There would be an extensive audit in the fall and a check-up one in the spring. For this service the Accounting club would receive $35.
Other business included a suggestion that a basketball pep rally be inaugurated. It would be held prior to entering a tournament. A decision was finally reached to invite the “Four Freshmen” to put on a show Feb. 27. They would appear instead of Louie Armstrong.
SMC Plans Events For Next Two Weeks
St. Mary’s College recently announced a number of academic and social events for the next two weeks. Robert Speaight will give a lecture entitled “Gerard Manley Hopkins, with Readings” on Feb. 18 at 5 p.m. Students and faculty are invited and admission is free.
On Feb. 20 Frank Sheed will lecture in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall on “History and Christopher Dawson.” The-lecture which will begin at 1 p.m. is being given in connection with the St. Mary’s Christian Culture Program and the Lilly Endowment Lectures.
On the social side St. Mary’s announced that the theme of the S.M.C. Skit at the Mardi Gras carnival will be “Show Business.” The cast for the show numbers some 15 girls. The choreographer for the dance numbers is Carol Lucas and featured in solo parts will be Angie Fazio and Pat Costello. The show will echo the themes of show business today and the days gone by. There will be continual performances every evening of the Mardi Gras carnival.
St. Mary’s also announces its annual Variety Show which will be held Friday,
Senior Retreat Starts Feb. 20 With Conference
The annual Senior Retreat, with The Rev. Charles Harris, C.S.C., acting as retreat-master, will open with a conference in Sacred Heart Church at 7:30 pan. on Thursday and will end with an 11:30 a an. conference on Saturday, Feb. 22.
No permissions will be granted to use the Friday of this week for extended week ends. However, those seniors attending the retreat only need to tell their professors and class cuts will he cancelled for that Friday.
Since seniors are required to attend Washington Day Exercises on the Saturday evening after the retreat, there shouldn’t be any interference with week end plans.
Father Harris, the retreat-master, came to the seminary here at Notre Dame in 1929; he graduated in 1939. Immediately after ordination in 1943, he taught for two years in the Navy.
From 1945 to 1948 Father Harris attended the University of Michigan where he received his master’s degree. Then, from 1948 to 1950, he attended Yale University while working for- his doctorate. Presently he is the rector of Howard Hall and a teacher of physics on the Notre Dame faculty.
Air Force Students to Tour Eglin Base Feb. 27-March I
It has been announced by the 225th Air Force ROTC detachment that the orientation trip for its cadets in the spring semester would be to Eglin Air Force Base, Eglin, Fla. Seventy cadets will make the trip, leaving the campus on the afternoon of Feb. 27 and returning March 1.
The purpose of the trip is to give the cadets a brief view of the various functions which take place on the base in this era of scientific development. The trip will be well worth while, for Eglin is the testing center of the Air Force’s air research and development command. At the base every new development, from “fuses to fighters” is tested to the breaking point before its combat adaptation by the Air Force.
Among the many displays the cadets will view will be the climatic hanger, and the boat squadron which retrieves the test missies which are shot in the gulf.
Feb. 21. Tickets for the show will be $1.25. The show entitled “Have Toga, Will Travel” will begin at 8 pan. in O’Laughlin Auditorium. Produced and directed by students the show features a number of original songs and lyrics.
February 14, 1958
17
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
General Mills
INCORPORATED
invites
Chemical Engineers
(June & Summer Grads.)
to meet representatives from our Central Research Laboratories. Contact your Engineering Placement Office for an appointment.
February 18,1958
mmis
UBR1RY and HOIK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
to get a better shave!
Quicker . . . closer . . . smoother . . . no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus tax
SHULTON New York • Toronto
AVAILABLE AT THE
Notre Dame Bookstore
ON THE CAMPUS
1»
18
The Scholastic
Scute
JORDANMEN BATTLE TAR HEELS TOMORROW
Notre Dame Meets Defending NCAA Champs In Second Game of Chicago Stadium Twin-Bill
* Notre Dame’s basketball team will move into the Chicago Stadium tomor-' row night for their third game of the season on this neutral court. Having faced Illinois and Bradley there and r split those two games, the Irish will take on nationally-ranked North Carolina, the defending NCAA champions.
Then the Irish will embark on a two game eastern trip, meeting New York I University in New York and the Naval . Academy at Annapolis.
This will be the first basketball game ! between the Tar Heels from Chapel Hill > and the Irish. Last year’s North Caro; lina team ran up 32 consecutive victories ■ without a loss and won the NCAA title ’ by defeating Michigan State (74-70) and Kansas (54-53) in successive triple (overtime games.
The Tar Heels will bring a record of । k 15 wins and four losses into tomorrow’s game against the Irish. Their only losses have come at the hands of West Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina State (in overtime), and Duke last Saturday.
The game will be the second of a * double-header in the Stadium, which will open with Kentucky taking on Loyola.
GENE DUFFY
Diminutive Irish guard
COACH JOHN JORDAN
Leads Irish against Tar Heels
The Carolinans lost only two important men from last year’s team. The most notable loss is Lennie Rosenbluth, named the Helms Foundation’s College Basketball Player of the Year. In three years of college ball at Chapel Hill, he amassed 2045 points, averaging 25.5, 26.7, and 28.0 points a game. Holder of innumerable ACC records, Rosenbluth led the Tar Heels in scoring in 27 of their 32 games.
QUIGG OTHER LOSS
The other loss is Joe Quigg, a 6-9 senior center, who broke his leg before the season started and is out for the year. Last year, with six seconds left in the third overtime against Kansas, Quigg calmly sank the two free throws that gave the Tar Heels their 54-53 victory.
However, the Tar Heels still have three starters back from last year’s team, including Tommy Kearns, 5-11 guard, tabbed in many pre-season polls as a definite All-American candidate. Kearns this year has been the second high scorer on the club with a 16-game average of 17.3 points per game.
Returning starting forward, Pete Brennan (6-6), the top rebounder on last year’s squad, is leading North Carolina in both rebounding and scoring this season. In the Tar Heels’ first sixteen games Brennan had poured in 325 points for an average of 20.3 points per game and had snared 203 rebounds for an average of 12.7 per game.
The third returning starter, 6-4 guard Bob Cunningham, has scored only 73 points this season but is noted as a top back court man and has proved his outstanding defensive ability. Last year, he held South Carolina’s national scoring champion, Grady Wallace, to a single field goal over a 30-minute span. And with Michigan State leading by five points in the closing minutes of the NCAA semifinals, Cunningham twice stole the ball and set up scores that enabled Carolina to tie the game and send it into overtime.
TAKE UP SLACK
Sophomores Lee Shaffei- (6-7), and Harvey Saiz (6-1), have taken up some of the slack left by Rosenbluth’s graduation. Shaffer leads the team in both field goal percentage and free throw percentage, hitting on 48 per cent of his shots from the field and 75 per cent of his charity tosses. He is third in scoring with 230 points, an average of 14.4 per
(Continued on page 25)
TOM HAWKINS
Irish jump shot artist
February 14, 1958
19
TIME OUT
One cannot say too much of the success of Irish basketball forces in the past week. The individual scoring record was tied and the team record demolished as the Irish rolled over the Air Force and Marquette. We must grant that the Air Force is not really top flight competition, but Marquette had beaten us by fifteen earlier in the year.
Earlier in the year, too, this column stated that Tom Reinhardt had filled the gap left by John Smyth, very capably if not brilliantly. We do not wish to retract this statement in the least. However Reinhardt’s successor, Mike Graney, has certainly proven himself to be an even abler performer, especially on the boards. All he needs is experience to be a truly great ball player, one that could make this Irish team very tough in tournament competition.
The North Carolina game tomorrow night should be an interesting one. While the Tar Heels admittedly are not as tough as last year when they won the NCAA tourney in Kansas City, they are ranked among the top ten in the country. They have been beaten only four times and all defeats have come at the hands of fine opponents. Also this will be the Midwestern sportswriters first look at them since last year, and nobody likes to look bad in a debut.
All things considered though, we must stick with the Irish. The Tar Heels are probably the most serious obstacle between Notre Dame and a bid to the NCAA. It is quite possible that the Jordanmen could lose to North Carolina and still receive a bid, but a win Saturday night would almost certainly clinch one. Then, too, there is the question of national recognition. The Irish have broken into the top twenty in both major polls. A win tomorrow night would put the Irish close to the top ten and make them a definite factor in the national limelight.
This past week, they seemed to have reached a peak. Hawkins was unstoppable but even more important they were getting more scoring punch from the outside. If Bob Devine had not been so terribly cold against Bradley, which will happen occasionally to any player, the whole thing might have been different. Gene Duffy is shooting more, too, which necessarily must open up the opposition’s defense.
The Irish will have to play real good ball to beat North Carolina, but they won’t have to play over their heads. One of their better games should be enough.
OFFICIALS
While on basketball the subject of basketball officials comes to mind. We cannot see why an official cannot do a thorough and workmanlike job without making himself the center of attraction. Those going to a ball game are not interested in the officials, they came to see the game. The most obvious example of this type of thing was the Canisius game. Time and time again the officials made a terrific show of a simple hacking or holding foul.
The players themselves seemed showered with abuse by these clowns. After all a little pushing is really not sinful, why should it be made to seem so?
This is not to question the integrity or ability of the officials but merely to ask whether the burlesque is really necessary?
—M.F.
TYLER’S PICKS
FEBRUARY 15
Duquesne over Detroit Bradley over Drake Michigan State over Illinois
Kansas over Iowa State	1 t
Kansas over Colorado
Canisius over Marquette
North Carolina State over Maryland Ohio State over Michigan
Louisville over Murray State St. Louis over North Texas State Northwestern over Minnesota	«
Pitt over Navy
Purdue over Wisconsin	’ *
Wichita over Tulsa
Duke over Wake Forest
West Virginia over Penn State Air Force Academy over Omaha Butler over Valparaiso
Dartmouth over Yale	:
Miami (Ohio) over DePaul	x 1
St. Bonaventure over Villanova
UPSET OF THE WEEK
Oklahoma State over Cincinnati Notre Dame over North Carolina FEBRUARY 17	I
West Virginia over Detroit	<
Cincinnati over Drake
Illinois over Minnesota
Michigan State over Michigan Indiana over Ohio State San Francisco over Fresno State Kentucky over Vanderbilt	'K
Iowa over Wisconsin	* .
Oklahoma State over Bradley Mississippi State over Georgia Kansas over Missouri
Tulsa over North Texas State
FEBRUARY 19
Duke over Navy
Louisville over Kentucky Wesleyan ( , Miami (Ohio) over Ohio U.
Air Force over N. Mex. Highlands ■ ? Temple over Wake Forest
FEBRUARY 20
Notre Dame over NYU
Butler over Indiana State
Oklahoma State over Oklahoma < । Seattle over Montana State
St. John’s over St. Louis	v <
TO AIR GAMES
The Notre Dame student radio station WSND will broadcast all the remaining Irish basketball games. 4 * The broadcast of the home Holy
Cross game will begin at 7:45 p.m.,	*1
fifteen minutes before game time. ' Broadcast of the away games will observe the following schedule:
(All times CST)
Feb. 20 ....... NYU	 .7:45	p.m.
Feb. 22......Navy........ 6:45	p.m. * ♦
March 1 ..... Detroit	  6:45	p.m.
March 4....... DePaul	 7:45	p.m.
20
The Scholastic
NCAA Tourney Looms os Toughest In Years;
Finals Set for Louisville, March 21-22
1 This year’s NCAA basketball tourna-| ment, to be held at the Louisville State * Fairgrounds in Louisville, Ky., gives indications of being one of the most hotly ' contested affairs in the history of the event.
Four teams have already held the 4 number one ranking in the country, and i no major college team is still unbeaten. * North Carolina, Notre Dame’s opponent ! tomorrow night and winner of the . tourney last year, was seeded the top ’ spot at the beginning of the season and - battled with Kansas for the top rung ( throughout the first few weeks.
. After West Virginia beat Kentucky “ and North Carolina on successive nights in a Christmas tourney at Lexington, Ky., the Mountaineers took over.

Now, Kansas State, following their own double overtime win over Kansas, and West Virginia’s first loss of the season, has taken over the top position in both the Associated Press and the United Press polls.
Another indication of the balance around the country is the fact that most conference races (and most of the nation’s top teams are members of conferences) are very close, with the leader changing sometimes as often as every week end, as in the Big Ten.
Probably the three top basketball conferences in the nation this year, the Big Eight, the Missouri Valley, and the Atlantic Coast Conference, reveal at least two of the nation’s best teams fighting it out for the conference title.
The tournament is divided into four regionals with four subregionals located in geographic sections of the country. The winners of the subregional advance to the regionals where they tangle with the winners of the major conferences. The four teams that emerge unbeaten from the two-game regional then move on to the finals at Louisville on March 21-22.
The four regionals are the East, the Mideast, the Midwest, and the Far West.
The subregional for the Eastern regional will be held in Madison Square Garden in New York on either March 10 or 11. Three games, the most in any of the subregionals, will be played here.
The Atlantic Coast champion, probably North Carolina State or Duke, or possibly North Carolina or Maryland, will meet an independent in the first game. In the second, the Southern Conference winner will also take on an independent. The Southern Conference winner will probably be West Virginia,
but a tourney will be held in both the ACC and the Southern Conferences to determine the representatives of the two leagues. In the third game, the Yankee Conference champ, Connecticut, will play another independent.
One of the independents is always the Ivy League champion. The other two will be chosen from a list of teams including St. John’s, Niagara, St. Bonaventure, Fordham and Boston U.
The winners of these two games then
Long List of Veterans Training for Bengals
When the Bengal Mission Bouts take place on the nights of March 24, 26 and 28 in the Fieldhouse, a host of veteran boxers from previous Bengal Bouts will see action.
Heading the list of returning Bengal fighters now practicing for the coming bouts is Ed Ricciuti, champion in the 142-pound class last year when he was picked as the bouts outstanding boxer. This year* Ricciuti is moving up into the 147-pound division. Another top performer from 1957, Pat Healy, heavyweight title holder last spring, is back to defend his crown. Senior Dick Shul-sen, a former heavyweight champ in the Bengals, is practicing hard in the daily workouts to win back his championship. And Don Lawrence, picked last year as the Bengals’ most improved boxer, is back for another try at the heavyweight title.
A middleweight champion from last year, Bill Belsford is working into fighting condition to defend his crown in the bouts. Hugh Ball, 157-pound winner in 1956 and runner-up to Bill More last spring in the Bengals best fight, is also practicing into shape in the Fieldhouse boxing room. Denny Landry, 1957 novice and Bengal 127-pound title holder, is also back for another try at a championship in the lightest weight division.
Other Bengal Bouts veterans back again this season are Leighton Young, twice a runner-up in the 137-pound class; Frank Nacozy, back for his second yeai- in the middleweight ranks; John Steinberg, runner-up last year in one of the middleweight classes; and John Donavan, who lost last year to Landry in the 127-pound finals.
Dick Murphy, champion at 167-pounds for the past two seasons, is helping head Bengal Bouts instructor “Nappy” Napolitano as an assistant coach.
move on to Charlotte, N. C., for games on March 14 and 15. Temple, representing the Mid-Atlantic Conference, is the fourth team in this regional.
The Mideast subregional at Evanston, Ill., also on either- Monday, March 10 or Tuesday, March 11 pits the Mid-Ameri-can champion, probably Miami of Ohio and the winner of the Ohio Valley race, in which Tennessee Tech, Morehead, and Western Kentucky are leading, .against two independents. Notre Dame, along with Pitt, Xavier of Ohio, and Loyola of Chicago, has a good chance of being selected for independent berths in the Mideast.
The winners of these two games then go to Lexington, Ky., where they will face the champions of the Big Ten and the Southeastern Conference. Any one of a number of teams could still win the Big Ten while Kentucky looks like they will repeat in the Southeast.
The Midwest regional shapes up as the toughest one of them all. Two independents will battle to decide who goes to the regional at Lawrence, Kans. This subregional will also be played on March 10 or 11, and the regional on March 14 and 15.
The independent winner will meet the champ from the Southwest Conference in one of the games at Lawrence, and the other will match the winners of two conferences which have had two teams apiece in the top ten for most of the season. The Big Eight champion, either Kansas State (1) or Kansas (4), will face the winner of the Missouri Valley race, either Cincinnati (3) or Bradley, now (12) or possibly. St. Louis.
Kansas State has the definite edge in the Big Eight since they haven’t lost a league game, and Kansas has dropped two conference encounters. The first of the Jayhawkers’ two defeats came while Wilt Chamberlain was out of action, but the second was a thrilling 7975 loss to K-State on the Kansas home floor and with Chamberlain.
Cincinnati was 8-1 and Bradley 6-1 in league play going into their very important game at Cincinnati last Wednesday night. St. Louis is 5-2 but has yet to face both Bradley and Cincinnati on their- home courts.
In the Far West subregional, also March 10 or 11, the Skyline Eight champ will play an independent, almost surely Seattle, and the Rocky Mountain winner will take on the Border Conference representative.
The winner of the first game will meet San Francisco from the West Coast Conference, and the winner of the second will battle the Pacific Coast champ, either California, UCLA, or Oregon State. This regional will be held at San Francisco on March 14-15.
February 14, 1958
21
Fencers Seek Eleventh Straight Victory;
Meet Buffalo, Syracuse in Queen City Today
Notre Dame’s fencing team travels to Buffalo today to meet Buffalo and Syracuse in a triangular meet. The Irish will be seeking to extend their winning streak to eleven straight victories. Tomorrow, the fencers will be in Detroit to meet Wayne State and Chicago. The Irish have won nine straight matches including three from last year. This year, the fencers have beaten Detroit, Illinois, the Air Force Academy, Cincinnati, Indiana, and Iowa.
In their first meet of the season, the Irish upended Detroit by an 18-9 count here at Notre Dame. Ron Farrow, Jim Jock, and John Lauerman paced the team with two victories apiece. Farrow and Jock scored four points for Notre Dame in the epee with the Irish winning the division 7-2. Lauerman contributed two points in the foil with the Irish winning 6-3. Notre Dame wrapped up the meet by taking five of nine in the sabre division with Jim Russomano scoring in two of three matches.
Following the Detroit victory, the Irish moved to Champaign, Ill., where they dumped Illinois and the Air Force Academy by scores of 16-11 and 15-12 respectively. In the Illinois meet, Jock went unbeaten, winning three matches in the epee while Farrow again won two matches to give the Irish the division by a 5-4 margin. In the sabre, Captain Dick Fagon, Pat Green, and Gerry Meyer each scored two victories with one defeat to give Notre Dame a 6-3 victory. Jerry Johnson and Russomano scored two victories each to help the Irish take the foil by a 5-4 count. The fencers found their toughest opponent thus far this season in the Air Force Academy. The Irish lost the foil and the sabre by 5-4 counts, but the epee, which has been the strong point in the Irish attack for the past six seasons, again proved to be the potent factor. Jock and Farrell won three and two matches respectively to help the Irish gain a 7-2 landslide and the team victory. Russomano, Johnson, and Green were outstanding in the foil and sabre divisions. Each posted 2-1 records.
Last week end, the team traveled to Bloomington, Ind., and beat Cincinnati, 23-4, Indiana, 21-6, and Iowa by an 18-9 margin. Jock and Farrow paced the Irish attack against Cincinnati with two victories apiece. Pete Giaimo also contributed a point to help the Irish win the epee by an 8-1 margin. In the sabre, Fagon scored twice as did Green with Norb Stitzer scoring in one match to give the Irish another 8-1 divisional victory. Johnson, Russomano, and
22
Lauerman each gained two victories while Ted De Baene gained one to give the Irish a 7-2 victory in the foil.
Against Indiana, the Irish took the epee, 9-0, the sabre, 5-4, and the foil by a 7-2 count. Farrow and Jock contributed two victories apiece in the epee as did John Kearns. Fagon won two while Green and Meyer each scored one victory against one defeat in the sabre. Russomano, Johnson, and Lauerman each scored twice in the foil. Iowa surprised the Irish by jumping off to a 4-1 lead in the epee but the Irish came back to win the division 5-4 and went on to win the sabre 8-1, and the foil by a 5-4 count. Jock sustained his first loss of the season in posting a 2-1 slate for the match. Farrow also lost once but gained two victories. Fagon, Green, and Meyer each scored twice to help the Irish take the sabre while Russomano took two with Johnson and Lauerman splitting two matches in the foil.
Jock holds the best season’s record to date with a 14-1 mark. Farrovr and. Russomano are close behind with 12-2 and 12-3 records respectively. Johnson and Lauerman have each lost four matches but Johnson has two more victories with ten. Fagon and Green also have 10-4 records while Meyer has posted a 7-3 record. Kearns has a .500 percentage with a 6-6 slate while Tom Lee has a 4-1 record. Dan Clancy has a 4-0 slate.
Buffalo, who the Irish meet today, has every man back from last year’s team which the Irish beat 15-12. Coach Langford expects them to be the toughest club that the team will meet this year. Wayne, Chicago and Syracuse are not expected to give the Irish much trouble but Mr. Langford stresses the fact that these teams are improved and that they could throw a scare into the Irish. Next week, the Irish will travel to Columbus, Ohio, to meet Ohio State and Michigan State.
BASKETBALL TICKETS
Tickets for the basketball game with New York University in Madison Square Garden, Feb. 20, are available at the Ticket Office, Breen-Phillips Hall.
St. Louis University meets St. John’s of Brooklyn in the first game on the program.
Tickets are priced at $4.00 (side arena) and $2.50 (mezzanine), and will be on sale here until Feb. 14.
Indoor Track Team Shows Well at State
Sprinter Joe Foreman was the only individual winner for Notre Dame in the ’ 35th running of the Michigan State Relays last Saturday afternoon and evening at East Lansing. Foreman took the lead at the last turn in the 300-yard run and won going away, covering the distance just two-tenths of a second , slower than the meet record. In winning in 31.0 seconds, Foreman eclipsed the < time Bill Keegan of Notre Dame took to win the same event last year.
Tom Sanfacon of the Irish shared a three-way tie for first place in the high jump. The veteran jumper cleared 6-4 for the tie.
Notre Dame seniors Jack Cote and Don Faley placed third and fourth, respectively, in the broad jump. Cote’s best jump measured 22-11% and Faley was right behind him at 22-8%. The I broad jump was the only event run-off in the afternoon.
The Irish distance medley team, composed of Barclay Ewart, Andy Crawford, Dick DiCamillo and Ed Monnelly ran fourth. DiCamillo picked up considerable ground in his half-mile turn । with the baton and moved into the lead I but faded at the finish and Monnelly could not make up the remaining distance.
Glenn Davis of Ohio State, Olympic 400-meter hurdle champion, was the outstanding individual performer in the । State Relays. The lanky Ohioan won both the 75-yard high and low hurdle ’I events, placed second in the broad jump and ran a very fast leg for the Ohio State one-mile relay team. In the hurdle races, Davis set a new meet and Jen-nison Fieldhouse record by winning the highs in :08.9 and tied the meet record in the low hurdles.
Nevertheless, representatives from the Big Eight Conference dominated the meet. Nebraska showed some fine middle distance runners in winning both the * one- and two-mile relay races. Kansas displayed its usual track prowess in having individual champions in the broad jump, shot put, two-mile run and a relay event. Oklahoma beat out host Big Ten schools in the 75-yard dash , and the sprint medley relay before the Big Ten came back with a one-two vic- < tory in the 1,000-yard run by Wisconsin and Davis’ record-time-win in the 75-yard high hurdles.
. The Scholastic
Action Well Underway In Campus Basketball
With 85 teams entered in the two divisions, intramural basketball got ' underway Feb. 3. The Hall Division, consisting of 53 teams, broken up into ten leagues, plays all its games on the Rockne Memorial courts in the after-
noon and evening. The Club Division, made up of 32 teams in six leagues, holds all its contests at the Fieldhouse
- in the evenings. In the Hall division at the Rock one game is played Monday afternoon, none that night. Tuesday there are three afternoon contests, and two at night. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays there are three games in the afternoons and three during the eve-/ nings. However, in the Club Division at the Fieldhouse there are only night * contests, due to varsity and freshman . basketball practice during the afternoon.
These games are run from 7:45 to 9:30 ’ Mondays and Tuesdays, 6:30 to 9:30 5 Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays.
• John Murray, director of the Club Division at the Fieldhouse, reports there * are six strong teams in his 32 team 1 division this year. Here, the Chicago { Club looms as the team to beat. Their starting line-up of Ron DeNardo, Steve Powers, Phil Prassas, Charley O’Toole ’ and Bill O’Brien has, in DeNardo and Prassas, two players who have been on championship teams two out of the past three years. Their strongest competition will come from the Minnesota Club and
the Milwaukee Club. Minnesota is paced by two varsity football players, Jim Crotty and Jim Colosimo, who is one of the best forwards in the league. Milwaukee also has two football players, Jim Just and rebounding Monty Stickles, along with Terry O’Loughlin, a good backcourt man. The Buffalo Club appears to be the dark horse in the division, with Jim Rodgers pacing the team. Cincinnati, led by Rusty Wilkie, has a strong team. The Chemical Engineers are also strong, as they have not lost a game.
Dick Devine of the Hall Division in
hbicht Bros.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOODNOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE
1415 LINCOLNWAY WEST
WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds Nationally Advertised Watches
Jewelry and .Gift Items Jewelry and Watch Repairing
126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202
the Rock picks six teams out of the. ten ; league, 53 team division, as the ones to J watch. Morrissey Gold, paced by Walt [ Barniskis and Ray Bender, looms as L the club to beat. A freshman team, B-P ■' Black, with a deadly shot in Carl Yastr-, zemski, also looks good. The Walsh
Rats, coming into the league late when another team forfeited itself out, are untried yet, but on the basis of their roster, . headed by Jim Morris and John Ken. nedy, they appeal- to be the dark horse of this division. Two other teams which bear watching are Fisher, led by Jack Eddy, and Lyons Lizzards paced by Jim
0R RW TURBOW VpPTOMETRIXT
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-57/7
Rave a WORLD of FOUL Bwith fITA ible Low Cost Europe X. $5B5 Orient **>$998 > tours include lf«9« crtdif Mt trips to Mexico uth America $699 up, dy Tour $498 up and > World $1398 up. asx rour Travel Agent
Tear
Wysocki.
IK. CHcago 4, HA 7-3S57
February 14, 1958
23
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
//m\
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
MAUPINTOURS /1958
ADVENTURE! EDUCATION!
item
TRAVEL! SUMMER 1958!
Join a special American-directed, student/teacher tour through the Soviet Union. Choose from six departure dates ... travel to seldom-visited cities such as Kiev of the Ukraine, Stalingrad, Odessa, Yalta, Sochi, Tbilisi of Soviet Georgia, Kharkov . . . enjoy a Volga River or Black Sea cruise ... see Leningrad and Moscow. Visit Warsaw, Prague and the Brussels' World Fair . . . plus extensions to the European Capitals.
Inclusive rate from $1369, from New York. Reservations limited, apply now for sufficient time to secure Russian visa. Write today for descriptive folder.
See your travel agent or
Swim Club Defeats Chicago, Loses to Ohio U; Meet Bowling Green, Western Michigan Next
Notre Dame’s Swim Club ran its record to three wins and two losses as they split in their last two outings. The tankers beat the University of Chicago, 4938, and lost to Ohio University’s varsity, 59-27.
In the last home meet against Chicago, the Irish won easily, as many of the top men swam exhibition for the Irish.
In the opening race of the meet, the 400-yard medley relay, the Irish team of Jim Garrity, George May, John Fagan and Chris Lund won with a time of 4:28.2. In the 220-yard free style Bill Cronin (2:28.5) won with Capt. Dick Nagle second. Chicago’s Tom Lisco took first in the 50-yard free style but Frank Dinger took second and Frank McGraw third for the Irish. Paul Chestnut and Steve Sauer finished one-two in the diving contest.
The 200-yard butterfly was won by Mike Hoffen of Chicago, with a time of 2:42.8. Tony Haske and Fagan were second and third for the Irish. Lisco also won the 100-yard free style, but again Dinger and McGraw took the second and third places for the Irish. Ken Currie of Chicago won the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:31.4. Paul Zika and Knute McAnaney, both freshmen, took the other two places. Les Duffy and Jim Hilliard were second and third in the 440-yard free style and Sauer won the 200-yard breast stroke in 2:52.3.
Chicago won the final event of the meet, the 400-yard free style relay, with a time of 3:57.6.
Ohio University, Midwest Conference leader, won from the Irish swimmers last Saturday, 59-27. The only Irish victory of the meet came in the 400-yard free style relay as Lund, Cronin, Tom Kennedy and Gene Witchger swam it in 3:47.4. Other than that, Ohio dominated the meet.
Tom Maupin TOUR ASSOCIATES
1236 Massachusetts Lawrence / Kansas
HOTEL
j KNICKERBOCKER
JU-2-4200
'hMk' 2 FINE HARRIS HOTELS NEW YORK ~
[43th ST. WEST OF BROADWAY 1000 rooms with radio CA and MUZAK from
TIT
TIMES SQUARE
n JI «5* ST. EAST OF MOADWAV |33L. 400 fine rooms with radio from
TELEVISION AIR-CONDITIONED
AIWAVS CHOOSt
sSB Other Harris Hotels
LA-4-6900
CINCINNATI, Metropole Broadway Ktmptr Lunt ^"‘HOJELMETtOFOLE. Cincimitrti, Mio
ALBEIT HAMtIS. Praridmrt	DETROIT, Fort Wayne Hofei
ARTHUR H. FRIEDMAN, Manama Dindtr COLUMBUS, Bmad-Uncola
Tom Londrigan, top ND 220- and 440-. yard swimmer, placed second in the 220 and third in the 440 while posting his best times of the year. May was second in the 200-yard breast stroke as he was beaten only by inches by Al Lephar of Ohio. Lephar’s time was 2:45.9.	,
In the 100-yard free style, Witchger
took
second and Cronin third for the
Irish tankers. Witchger also came up with a second in the 50-yard free style. Chestnut placed second in diving competition to complete the Irish scoring.
Coach Gil Burdick said that although the score looks bad, many of the events were decided by “a hair’s length.” “Even third places were hard fought for.” “
The swimmers have a tough schedule coming up as they have four meets in the next nine days. Tonight they travel-to Bowling Green, and tomorrow they meet Western Michigan at Kalamazoo. -
The Swim Club returns home Tuesday the 18th to face Loyola of Chicago in the Rockne Memorial pool. Feb. 22 " the tankers take on one of the top teams, in this area when they meet North Central College in the final home meet of the season. The meet starts at 2:00 in. the afternoon and promises to be the best of the season.
Unbeaten Wrestlers At Wheaton Tourney
Notre Dame’s wrestling squad, unde-/ feated in their first six contests, today?) invades Wheaton College for its annual - j invitational tournament. The competi-. ' tion will be provided by some of the topj Midwestern collegiate matmen, particut/ larly from the Chicago area; it should? prove to be the toughest competition/: faced by the Irish this year. The meet?/ is a two-day affair, and will be con-') eluded Saturday.
As a final tune up for possible entries/-in the April NCAA Tournament, Coach/? Tom Fallon will send his wrestlers into|;; the important Case Tech 41 Tourna^l? ment in Cleveland on March 14-15. This/1 big event will include more of the top/< wrestling powers in collegiate circles/-* than the Wheaton classic and will give//
Coach Fallon a definite idea on whicfi/i, of his boys will be the Notre Dame rep'"'" resentatives in NCAA competition.
&
Right now, Coach Fallon rates Gerryii^ Sachsel, Jim Rankin, and Captain Bofi.-M Pivonka as outstanding. Each of this/S trio is unbeaten, all boasting perfect 6-fiSj records.
24
The Scholastics
Basketball
(Continued from page 19)
1,-
y
:i
game and is second in rebounds with 116 after sixteen games. Saiz has been scoring at a rate of a little better than nine points per game.
Brennan, Kearns, Shaffer, and Saiz have all scored on better than 42 per cent of theii- field goal attempts, and all but Kearns have connected on more than 70 per cent of their free throws.
Dick Kepley (6-9), another sophomore, has moved into the vacated center position and has pulled down over 100 rebounds this year. He has scored at a rate of better than four points a game.
The Irish will be looking for their 19th win against five losses against the Violets. The series, inaugurated in the 1934-35 season, has been continuous except for the season before last when the two teams did not meet. The Irish have won the last five games in a row from the Violets.
NYU, hit hard by graduation last year, has built a team around Cal Ramsey (6-4), and Johnny Bucek (5-11), and three sophomores. Ramsey and Bucek, both juniors, were the top two men in scoring on last year’s squad. At the semester break, NYU had won four of ten games.
MY CLOSEST SHAVE .‘iS."*”""
“My closest shave was during the first try at a speed record in the fantastic Douglas Skyrocket,” says Test Pilot Bill Bridgeman, author of The Lonely Sky. “A special B-29 dropped me like a bomb at 30,000 feet — I turned on my rockets and climbed to 40,000_when suddenly all power failed. Rocket power, cabin pressure, heat—everything went—and the window frosted over so I couldn’t see. Finally I got the radio going on an emergency battery ... and a pilot in a chase plane talked me down to a blind landing I” (B)
RAMSEY SEVENTH
Ramsey was seventh in the nation in rebounding last season with 372 rebounds in 19 games for an average of 19.6 per game. He also tallied 401 points, an average of 21.1, to become the second-high single-season scorer in NYU history. In games against CCNY, Brandeis, and Boston College last year, Ramsey hauled in 28, 30, and 34 rebounds. His rebound total surpassed the former NYU record by almost 100.
Bucek accounted for 281 points last season by scoring on an exceptionally good percentage of his shots. He canned 112 of 226 shots from the field, a percentage of 49.5. He also scored on 73.2 per cent of his free throws.
In the first ten games this year, Bucek had popped in 49.3 per cent of his field goal attempts and netted 189 points to lead the team. Ramsey had 158 points and 151 rebounds through the first ten contests.
Tom Sanders (6-6), has been the top sophomore with a 50 per cent shooting average, 126 points, and 121 rebounds. Mike Muzio (6-0), and Mike DiNapoli (6-3), have combined for 17 points per game.
Head Coach Howard Cann is now in his 35th season at NYU. One of the most successful coaches in collegiate basketball, Cann has led his teams to 418 wins against only 223 defeats.
For YOUR Close Shaves—at any altitude—try new Colgate Instant Shave. It’s the quickest, easiest way to shave ever, no matter what razor you use. Smooth, too! Shaves your whiskers, saves your skin. A great shave buy for the tough-beard guy!
Colgate Instant Shave
Listen to the exciting Colgate Sportsreel with Bill Stern, Mutual network weekday mornings. Check your paper for time and station.
COLGATE
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS
IN ENGINEERING
The Douglas Aircraft Company
INVITES YOU TO
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
FEBRUARY 26, 27, 1958
Find out about the interesting positions, assistance in furthering your education and outstanding promotion opportunities with the world’s largest manufacturer of aircraft and missiles. Get facts on living conditions, research facilities and opportunities to advance professionally at the various Douglas locations.
Reserve your career decision until you have talked with the Douglas representative. It may be the most important interview of your life.
SEE YOUR DIRECTOR OF PLACEMENT
FOR YOUR INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT
February 14, 1958
25
Back Pc^e
by ALFRED STEPAN
man and his
-1
life values f
The tragedy of most of our lives is that we are afraid to recognize what we are. We only look at ourselves in oblique glances. Shallow as these fleeting inquiries are, we recognize a deep and persistent state of unrest. We are aware of a sense of unfulfillment that seems basic to our lives. We are afraid of its implications. Most men yield to the stream of circumstance and necessity that carries them onward and lets them bypass any contemplation of their nature and how it can best be fulfilled.
Yet some men refuse to be swept in the current of life without knowing ■“where am I going?” and “who am I?”. The world doesn’t like the man who starts to struggle with the questions of existence. This apparent centering on self seems antisocial. The world calls him a brooder. It tells him to adjust. This novice seeker of self plunges into his nature with the hope of satisfying his vague sense of unfulfillment. The majority of these seekers of self lose their dedication when the ultimate answer to existence begins to take vague form in their minds—the answer doesn’t fit then- conception of earthly happiness. It seems too austere, too incompatible with their easy existence . . . “and the young man went away sad for he had great possessions.”
Yes, the young men leave the way and go back to their possessions, to the world. They almost saw themselves but they were afraid so they ran to the world; the world which tells them it can give them happiness, the world which tells them that everyone was meant to be happy and that the only reason they feel unfulfilled is that they lacked certain obtainables — wealth, position, prestige,. the pride of doing “nice” things. The world tells them that when they once obtained these then they will be content; that the restless drives
26
and desire within them will be satisfied.
Most people, once they commit themselves to seeking these obtainables, ask no more questions as to the “why” of existence. They plunge themselves into the work world. “I must work. I must work very hard for these goals.” Work becomes an avenue to the highest good. Work then is the virtue of existence. The World, “the totality of reality,” in this insecure and muddled thinking is limited to the work world and its ends. The worker attempts to fulfill his full human existence in the goals of the work world. He sacrifices at the altar of work. He attempts to satisfy his strange and spiritual vessel of self by satiating it with material and social goods. Man does this not so much through greed or materialism but rather through his desire to quiet that sense of unfulfillment that brings him back to the questions of who he is and what is he living for.
Work and attainment seem to him a philosophy of life, an answer to the question, “What is it all for?” Men can’t face life without some reason for existing. By their very nature they must strive foi‘ some sort of fulfillment, some development. This of course requires a system of values as a center for the development. The tragedy of most men since the passing of the theocentric age is that their limited world view constricts their development to the means and ends of the work world. The mastervalue is not spiritual but material. In their muddled logic, most men equate happiness with pleasure, and since pleasure seems to be enjoyment of material and social goods: “I must have these goods, so I must work to attain them, and if I work hard it is good because it is in the direction of why I live.”
While their ultimate pleasure in life, they believe, lies in attainment of material and social goods, they seek momentary pleasure in various ways of non-
■
1 I recognition of self. They often seek a I; frantic fleeting pleasure. They have to 1 do things — see new places, start hob- J bies, meet new people. And when they f are tired of fleeing themselves, they try , j to forget self by idling the motor of ; their minds while they sit in a stupor < before a television set, they throw down H a shot, they read pulp romances, they play solitaire.	7
Once a man commits himself to the idea of the work world with its ma- ; s terial and social goods as the panacea for all his human needs, he shapes and A vitiates all of the basic institutions to tf conform with his philosophy. Education, instead of being an avenue of approach 4 to the ultimates, a developer of wisdom, is viewed merely as a utilitarian tool or a finishing school. Marriage is not so much a dynamic union of love and souls as, in effect, a necessary social con- £ nection. A wife is reduced to the status of a social asset and a satisfier. And religion instead of being a vital communion with God becomes a badge of J respectability, a weekly tranquilizer.
Most of these men die still clinging to the idea that if they could only have gotten a few more of the world’s goods ft they would have been happy. They never Sj recognize their true nature. They die not knowing that the fulfillment of self | must “pierce the dome of the work world.” They never love as man, never t communicate with the spiritual world. They are men but do not participate in the unique dignity of man. They never indwell in the spiritual world of the sj soul and wrestle with the questions of “Who am I,” and “Why am I living.” If they had, they might realize that they ii have a capacity for a higher order of | being, they might transcend their environment and establish relations with f the absolutes wherein their natures 1 । could be fulfilled. But they refuse, they I are afraid to recognize the dignity of 1 their natures.	|
The Scholastic m

Ever meet a dreamer?
)
Frills instead of fundamentals are what interest him. In his future job he dreams of a carpeted office, a resounding title, an acre of polished mahogany to sit behind. Wide-awake men, on the other hand, look first of all for fundamentals — sound training, advancement opportunity, challenging work, professional associates, good pay. The frills will follow.
The Bell Telephone Companies offer such career fundamentals to wide-awake, ambitious young men majoring in the arts, the sciences, business or engineering. Why not make arrangements to talk with the Bell System interviewer when he visits your campus? And for more information about the careers these companies offer, read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office, or write for “Challenge and Opportunity” to:
College Employment Supervisor
American Telephone and Telegraph Company
195 Broadway, New York 7, N.Y.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
A new idea in smoking!
Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company






★ menthol fresh
Salem brings a wholly new quality to smoking... Springtime-softness in every puff. Salem refreshes your taste the way a Spring morning refreshes you.
★ rich tobacco taste
Smoking was never like this before! You taste that rich tobacco...then, surprise!... there's an unexpected softness that gives smoking new comfort and ease.
★ modem filter too
Through Salem’s pure-white, modern filter flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. You smoke refreshed, pack after pack, when you buy Salems by the carton.