
HINT NOW FOR THE BEST!
"Graduate" to New 1$rker"51
FOR THIS PEN YOU’LL DISCARD ALL OTHERS'
Graduation is your day! To ’ make it extra wonderful.
hint now for a New Parker “51". This is the world's most-wanted pen—favored by leaders in every field. The only pen with the Aero-metric Ink System, it brings new writing pleasure.
A 14K gold point, tipped with Plathenium, glides satin-smooth __ink meters out into a perfect line. The reservoir is PU-glass. (There are no rubber parts!) It stores more ink visibly. And filling this pen is simplicity itself!
A New Parker “51" will make
your graduation the commencement of new pride, new writing satisfaction. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, U. S. A., and Toronto, Canada.
OTHER NEW PARKER PENS FROM $3.00
INSIDE... THIS SILVERY SHEATH
MTH PU-GLASS RESERVOIR (NO RUBBER PARTS!}
Copr. lt*51 bj Ube Parker Pea Company
See them at your pen dealer’s. New Parker “51” matched pen and pencil sets in 8 rich colors. Gold-filled caps (F.E. tax incl.): sets, S29.75 up; pens, SI9.75 up. Lustraloy caps (no F.E. tax): set, S 19.75; pen, $ 13.50.
New Parker "51" Special. Octanium point. Metered ink. flow. Pli-glass reservoir. Visible ink storage. 4 colors. Lustraloy cap. (No F.E. tax.) Pen and pencil set, $15.00. Pen, $10.00.
New Parker "21". Visible ink supply. Pli-glass ink chamber (no rubber). Octanium point. Fast filler. 4 colors. Lustraloy cap. (No F.E. tax.) Pen and pencil, $8.75. Pen alone. $5.00.
New Parkette. Parker writing ease and enjoyment. Smooth, interchangeable point. Single-stroke filler. 4 colors. Metal cap. (No F.E. tax.) Pen and pencil, $5.00. Pen alone. $3.00.
Peter C. Reilly Donates New
Painting to ND Art Collection
Peter C. Reilly, president of the Reilly i ' Tar and Chemical Company, Indianap-! olis, Indiana, has presented the Wight-i man Memorial Art Gallery at the University of Notre Dame with an original oil painting of the noted Italian artist, Carlo Miratti (1625-1713).
J The painting, entitled “The Virgin Reading,” is the second that Mr. Reilly recently has given Notre Dame. He also presented the University with Sas-soferato’s “Madonna and Child Adored by Angels.” Mr. Reilly is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame.
! Miratti was a pupil of Andre Sacchi j	and a follower of Raphael. He was
|	court painter to Louis XIV of France,
and curator at the Vatican museum under Pope Innocent II.
The Miratti original will be added to the collection of other paintings donated to Notre Dame by Mr. Reilly and known as the “Peter C. Reilly Collection.”
Next best thing to living
in Hawaii—is livins in
7PREPARE FOR YOUR DRAFT DEFERMENT APTITUDE TEST!
Vanuana—new Van Heusen sport shirt that will have you humming sweet Leilani all season long. Plenty soft, plenty smooth—the shirts, that is—and they’re as cool as a ni^ht in Waikiki. $36S and $450
Van Hensen
REG. T. M.
:7/ie tcorlcTs smartest''
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
In May or June you will be given a “draft deferment aptitude test," upon request. Your score will determine whether you can serve your country best by continuing your studies, or entering the Armed Forces. NOW is the time to prepare for this all-important test—and there is no quicker, easier, more inexpensive preparation than “Practice for the Army Tests." This “on-the-ball" book contains complete, simplified study material for the questions to be asked on the “deferment test.” Crammed with hundreds of questions and answers on the FOUR SUBJECTS you must know to obtain a high score!
SEE IT AT YOUR COLLEGE BOOKSTORE If you can’t find it at your bookstore— order it direct! Just mail the coupon, together with $2.00—and we’ll rush you your copy of “Practice for the Anny Tests." Take this important step NOW.
■ ARCO PUBL. CO., Dept. OOO	*
I 480 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N. Y. | | I wish to prepare for the “draft | . deferment aptitude test." Rush me my • I copy of "Practice for the Army Tests,” | ■ for which I enclose $2.00.	.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
Name..........................—-
Address..................................
City.
.Zone....State.—...
I I I
I I
GILBERT’S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
May 4, 1951
3
Dentist
Sunny Holy
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
OUI, MA OCCie/ TOMOWKW WE SHALL
_ USEOKE JorwuK
_ SRkUXM6*MM>£ WRIGMTawDIT SON ©AVIS CUP RACKETS GET THE MOST RIGID TESTS.
FI8RE-SBAUNG BRACES TKE’THRQAT*' RAWHIDE REINFORCES TKE'SHOUIDCK? MEvguPEit^TBtiGmMman BRACES THE LAMINATIONS
IM THE "BOW*
rrisguDSE COULD HIT A HANDKEBaUEF HERE4.THCB SPSEADOH . THE COURT
4OUT0F5 TIMES
saalding-madc WlMHTMDDiTSON
BALL
THE ONLY OFFICIAL BALL OF THE USLTA OUMPlQNfiUK SINCE 1687-ANdOFFICIAL
IN EVERY US DAVIS CUP MATCH EVEN IN TESTS TOUGHER THAN ACTUAL PLAY THIS FAMOUS BALL STANDS OP TO USLTA
STANDARDS/

DR. RALPH BERMAN
408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours-. Mon. 9-12
Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 6-3627
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 7-1409
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
Your Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend
NOT ONLY WAS THE FABULOUS SUZANNE LENGLEN
A BALLERINA OF THE COURT SHE WAS ALSO aocuracyitself
110 E. LaSalle
TWO RULES OF STAR PLAY BULE 1- PLAYWRIGHT** D1TSON SAatrr BULE 2- PLAY WRIGHT LwDITSON am.
championship
A»R US.L.T.A.-WOOL

Wright & Ditson =
The Scholastic
Me wee#
by jack Jb/yowsm
University Library where bound copies of all previous Weeks are to be found. Nothing better to do for this last month, is there?
The Last Straw
If fellow-columnist Collins, does not stop insulting those Chicago Cubs we’re liable to change the answers on his Religious Survey questionnaire.
Top of the Week
Just two more columns to write . . .
More Terpsichore
Freshmen and their dates will dance tonight to the music of Russ Carlyle and his orchestra in the Rockne Memorial while the Law students whirl and spin to the music of Gene Hull and his band at the Erskine Clubhouse in South Bend. Both dances will have everything including queens and car permissions providing the car is registered with . . . (You know the rest by heart).
The first-year men’s shindig is their first social function of note in their Notre Dame career, so expect them to have a whale of a time. The Lawyer’s Ball is being titled “The Mayflower Compact” and we wish we knew why. At least no other organization will call their dance that.
Weeks Gone By
We were thumbing through twenty or so volumes of old Scholastics and thought our readers would be interested in some of the gems that weekly graced the pages of this illustrious publication in the dear dead days beyond recall. With apologies to the column “Years Ago,” we reprint some of the comments of other ND men who have been perched atop the rickety Week editorial chair.
In the May 3, 1935 issue of the Scholastic, William A. Kennedy said: “Chisellers. We notice that the boys who specialize in desk-digging are sort of falling down on the job. Time was when anyone who dug his initials on the desk, or wrote something on the wall, was jealous of what he left there for posterity. Now look at the kind of stuff being turned out in the Commerce Building. ‘Nuts to you goofs’ (Room 109, Row 4, Seat 2), and trivia like that. Where are the old-fashioned men that took pride in their work?”
We haven’t checked up on the desk, but it’s probably still there.
In the Week of May 7, 1937, John A. Gillespie wrote: “. . . And as we sit in our bare room on campus, thinking of the laughter, rhythm, and abandon, we wish that we, too, had $8.50 and a girl,” when talking about the Senior Ball for that year.
It certainly looks as though things haven’t changed much, doesn’t it?
In 1929, May 10 to be exact, the Week written by Archer Hurley said: “A week ago last night the Faculty Board of Publications gave a dinner to the men who like to see their names in the various campus publications. These men have a delusion that anyone who writes is a writer. This logically follows from their premise that anyone who rides a horse is horsey. . . The speakers were all wet; they discussed nothing but kegs, voyages, captains, and bottles. . . Professor Phillips made a nice distinction between breeches and brooches as gifts to lady friends. .
We’re sure that ND publications have not changed through the years.
For our last little gem from years gone by, we turn to the Week of April 30, 1948, when Robert T. Stock wrote: “The Senior Ball committee has announced that at an appropriate moment a heavier-than-air gas will be released at the gavot. Either the windows will be kept open or the entire Senior class will graduate posthumously.”
For more of the same, turn to the
54 woman is only a woman..."
but Cigars are a .Mant Smoke!
You need not inhole to enjoy a cigar!
CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC.

Vote, you Jokers!
Tuesday’s elections should be interesting, and they will be if all the candidates pass out cigars to the voting student body, which they will not do, of-course.
Student elections are nothing more than popularity contests, conducted on a mammoth scale and designed for boosting the notoriety of certain individuals, namely the winning candidate and his clique of fellow-publicity-hounds.
(Editorial Note: We are allowing columnist Janoivski’s blast at what he calls “publicity hounds” to stand to add a humorous note to the column. As his readers well know, columnist Janowski —tvhose picture appears in every issue and twice when he does features—persistently records everything concerning columnist Janowski, ranging in his reports over such sundry subjects as his “amors,” his draft physical, his donning of boxing gloves, down to the welcome fact that there are only two more columns to come.)
Bottom of the Week
... if we’re allowed to write them.
May 4, 1951
5

MAY 4
ROCKNE MEMORIAL—Now it’s the Freshmen’s turn to douse themselves with aftershave lotion, clean their shoes for the first time since Easter, and put on that freshly shrunken suit. The occasion: the Freshman Dance, of course. Since there were a goodly portion of first year men giving the once over to the Juniors and their dates last week, they can expect the same treatment from their upperclassmen brothers I tonight. Russ Carlyle will be on the podium.
i l
i	ERSKINE COUNTRY CLUB—While the fuzz-cheeked members of
i the student body are having fun at the Rock, the more serious and far better dressed members of the Law School will be attending their annual dance, also. Gene Hull and his orchestra will provide the melodies for i; the sartorial swells.
11
I i
AVON (through May 8)—Dick Powell and Rhonda Fleming team up in Cry Danger, a pic that is sure to find high favor with all mystery fans. The characterizations in this one are especially good.
Vol. 92 May 4. 1951	No. 24
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
COLFAX (through May 9)—Since none of us were around during the great Rudolph’s heyday, we have no idea of the role he played in our country’s female hearts. If Valentino (Legion of Decency Rating B) is indicative of the tango’ed-lover’s cardiac powers then you can be sure we didn’t miss much. It stars Eleanor Parker and Anthony Dexter who look as if they were hypnotized into playing the leading roles.
PALACE (through May 10)—Stewart Granger assured himself a high place on the list of American box-office stars in King Solomon’s Mines. Capitalizing on this success, his studio has rushed him into Soldiers Three. The story of some musketeer-type non-coms in India, it is derived from stories by Kipling. Kipling purists won’t like the tampering done on the master’s original, but that shouldn’t prevent everyone else from having a bang-up time.
MAY 5
WASHINGTON HALL—Technicolor is nearly always an asset foi' any western movie. In The Outriders it is the top thing the pic has to its credit. Some of the shots are unbelievably beautiful. There’s also a fairly good story to go along with the scenery and Joel McCrea, Arlene Dahl and Barry Sullivan contribute credible performances.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN, '51 Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS, '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI, '51
JOHN J. POWERS, 52 News
ROBERT G. FINNEY, '53____Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE, '51________Features JOHN F. MEANEY, '52______Sports
JACK R. VARLEY, '52______Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER, 52____Photography LEON GARDNER, '52________.Librarian
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT, 51„.Advertising G. M. McARTHUR______________Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN, '51 Circulation JAMES ROGERS, '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone. Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey. Dave Hayes, John Kelly. R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes. Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub.
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Jay Conlon, Bill Stapleton. Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta, Dick Cody, Charles Hands and Hugh Schaedle.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Bern- Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
PALAIS ROYALE—This week the Student Council is calling its weekly social The Tyron Twirl. The Council member who contributed the information wasn’t sure of the spelling of that word. We’ll go him one further: we only do not know how to spell that word, we don’t even know what it means! Who thinks up their alliterative titles, anyway? The hours are the same, the regular busses will be provided and Gene Hull’s band will be in attendance. How’s that for status quo?
May 8
DRILL HALL—Notre Dame’s band returns to its home-folk to offer them the annual Spring concert. The program which has been applauded across the face of‘the map, east of the Mississippi, will begin at 8:15 p. m.
Member of Catholic^SchooI Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national f advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during' the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. ■ Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	,
COVER: Frank Brophy, a Senior ; maj'oring in that esthetic subj’ect called English, goes the way of all flesh, and | in particular the way of all Notre Dame | students when the hot, muggy weather of Spring rolls around. With best in-tentions in mind, Frank, like many | others, hied himself away to the shores fe! of what he thought would be the cooling lake. It wasn’t, though. Spring fever B and sleep were more enticing than Karl J . Marx. Photo by—Jerry Sheehan, ’54. g:
The Scholastic B
A Tradition Begins
Three nights ago a beautiful service was held at the Grotto. The candle-lit services were an inspiring sight to the senses and made a lasting impression on the spirit. This evening of devotion was organized and carried out without flaw. The men. the groups, the priests and the Brothers who were responsible deserve thanks for the gift they prepared for the thousands of students to give Our Lady.
It was a memorable devotion. One that should be repeated every year on May 1.
An Answer Next Year
Next Tuesday class elections will be held.
If this editorial was to follow the usual pattern it would be an exhortation to all those going to the polls to choose and vote wisely. But we doubt that such advice is really necessary.
Elections—judging on those of the past—are one place at which the student body shows its astute ability at picking the right men. Perhaps this isn’t saying too much for the student body because it would be hard for them to go wrong no matter whom it elected. Except for a few yearly lemons, those who put their names up for elections are always of top calibre. These men who run do not choose to do so, as some think, merely for the sake of their ego. Naturally, since everyone is human, that has something to do with it. But it’s only a minor factor. The main reason for entering the local political ring is, for the major share of candidates, the desire to help the class the men will head.
Since that reason is accepted by7 most candidates we shall not do as some partisan papers do and come out for either one party or another. Without reservations we heartily endorse every man, every party that is up for election. If they didn’t have enough interest in their classes they wouldn’t be on the ballot in the first place.
You have the type of men to pick from. Now all you have to do is get down to the basement of the dining hall next week and vote.
Although advice to the student body in regard to wise selection is needless, it would do no harm to put some into the ears of those who will win on Tuesday.
Even though most of the men who are on the ballot are eager to better their class’s activities, too many of them will go the way of some—if not most—class officers. Namely— letting things ride once they get into office. All of the men running have great potentialities as leaders. But as soon
as they get to be such they might follow the suit of some predecessors and catch that disease known as lethargy-itis.
The most predominant symptom of this disease is the lack of initiative. The main function of officers is to promote class social activities. It’s hard, if not impossible, to find anyone who can explain why “social activities” means to most class officers one big dance a year and perhaps a small one.
When you ask ah officer why the class doesn’t promote more activities the usual answer is—“But there’s never been anything like that before. Besides, they wouldn’t let us.” Too often they means. “I don’t feel like going to the trouble of sponsoring anything more than I have to.”
There are a lot of activities which next year’s classes could explore. They needn’t be on a big scale. A better class spirit would undoubtedly be a result of a wider program. Such things as class golf tournaments, class smokers, class Communion Breakfasts—these things are ail in the realm of possibility.
It will be interesting to see how next year’s group of officers operate. Looking at the candidates now, they all appear to be capable men. A year from now we’ll be able to tell whether or not they were energetic as well.
They'll Remember April
April should be remembered for a long time. The Class of ’52, staged a Junior Prom last Fridav that was an rm-qualified success. Usually there’s a certain amount of griping after every dance, but we haven’t heard any on this one. Everything seemed to go as planned.
It’s hard to give out individual congratulations after a o	o
dance like the Prom. Messrs. Toohey and McCarthy, of »« course, deserve the thanks of the Junior Class. The Prom
was a magnificent example of organization. But praise should go to every man connected with the dance, too. The favors were the best we’ve ever seen. There were no lines—at the door, for favors or at the coat checking station. The decorations were beautiful. Harry James was a great choice. He played danceable music and was a popular personal- success. The afternoon at the Erskine was a good solution to the “What will we do Saturday?” problem.
All in all, it was a great dance. The two chairmen said they wanted to make the Prom “the best ever.’? They came pretty close. We’re going to sit back and watch someone try to beat this one.
May 4, 1951
7
Choose your
ARROW SHIRTS
FROM THE COMPLETE SELECTION IN THE MEN’S SHOP AT
First Floor
MBERTrn’S
of SPouMidlend
Special Student Rates
For all coming dances Logan’s offers special student rates to Notre Dame students and faculty members. NO DEPOSIT necessary.
You are invited to come in and inspect our stock. Over 500 suits to choose from in sizes Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; shorts, stouts, regulars, longs, and extra longs.
Complete line of accessories
Low rental prices Free alterations
Due to the large demand place orders early.
WGAN’S
107 N. Main Oliver Hotel Bldg.
8
It's ADLER’S for ARROW
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
7
The Scholastic
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 24	MAY 4, 1951
Precincts Eliminate Election Congestion
Tuesday is election day at Notre Dame, as members of the present Freshman, Sophomore and Junior Classes will ‘ troop to the polls to select their class officers for next year. The polls will be open continuously from 7:30 a. m. till k 8:30 p. m.
All voting will be by means of machines, and instruction on the use of the machines will be made available for all the voters.
Voting by the students will be supervised by members of the Blue Circle.
>1 The voters will be kept moving as rapidly as possible to enable all those wishing to vote to cast their ballots. Each man, of course, may vote only once, and I-D cards will be marked to assure observance of this rule.
The Freshmen will vote in the lobby » of Washington Hall and the Sophomores and Juniors will vote in the Cafeteria. The Off-Campus students will vote for their class officers in either the Cafeteria or Washington Hall, but will also vote for the one Off-Campus Representa-■ tive to the Student Council, at the watchmen’s building at the Circle. This scattering of the polls is intended to al’ leviate the crowds and long lines that have accompanied voting in past years.
There are four parties and three inde-
Frank Regan (I.) and Don Grobmeyer, Blue Circle men supervising elections.
MISS MOLLYANN BREZETTE
pendents seeking Senior offices for the 1951-1952 year. Bob Fink, Ernie Masini, John Petitbon and Jack Hynes are running for president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer, respectively. Also on Fink’s ticket is Bill Lewis, seeking one of the two Student Council openings for representatives from the Senior Class, at large. The other is Bob Kirch-gessner.
Frank Bleyer heads another party seeking Senior offices. Rounding out Bleyer’s party are Jim Mutscheller, at vice-President, and Bob Phillips at secretary. The third of four parties setting their eyes on Senior offices is the Grand Finale Party, composed of John Moran, Jim Powers, Gene Gerwe and Sal Fiorella. Hank McCormack is seeking one of the Student Council positions as a member of Moran’s party.
The fourth party in the race for Senior election is composed of George Sweet, Glenn Haney, Bob Cossaboon and Dick Stubbing. Also on Sweet’s ticket are Bob Wray and Lou Garippo—their aim being the two Student Council positions. There are three independents running for the office of Senior President— Jim Mullaney, Charley Schaeffer and Emmett Cater.
Seeking election to the post on the Student Council as representatives of (Continued on page 13)
Frosh Dance Tonight In Rockne 'Gardens'
Tonight Miss Mollyann Brezette and Miss Joyce McNamara will reign on the “Starlight-Terrace” as the Class of ’54 holds its dance at the Rockne Memorial.
Miss Brezette, the’ date of co-chairman Ed White, is from Indianapolis. Miss McNamara, escorted by co-chairman George Welsh, is from Schyler, Neb., and a Freshman at St. Mary’s College. .
The “Starlight Terrace” will be decorated with rock gardens, a fountain and many flowers in an attempt to capture the atmosphere of a warm spring night. There will be tables placed on the terrace of the Rockne Memorial where the Freshmen and their dates can relax between daxces.
The Freshmen will dance to “The romantic style of Russ Carlyle” and his orchestra and chorus. Carlyle is a new-singing star who records on Coral Records. He- is currently at the Blackhawk in Chicago.
The dance will last from nine until one with the usual permissions having been granted.
Tomorrow at two o’clock there will be an intra-squad football game and tomorrow evening the Student Council will hold another in its series of dances at the Palais Royale. There will be a section reserved for the dance-goers at the nine o’clock Mass Sunday.
MISS JOYCE McNAMARA
May 4, 1951
WND Appoints New Staff for Next Year; Bill Ryan Takes Over as Station Manager
Gourmets Air Gripes
At Dinner Delicacies
A new regime of radio officials for next year will take over the reins of campus station WND in the form of recently appointed underclassmen. Bill Ryan, a Junior from New York and present program director, has been named station manager for the new outfit. Succeeding Ryan as program director will be Jay Baier, a Freshman from Wilmette, Ill. Jerry Burlage has been named director of special * events and Jack Hynes will act as chief announcer.
Other members on the WND roster are Ted Byre, chief engineer, and Mickey Carroll, public relations manager. Jim Adler will be the new business manager and Dan Donahue will head the continuity department. Associate engineer will be Bob Donahue and Marion Leszcczynski will act as recordinglibrarian.
In addition to the recent improvements which have been made this semester, a new variety of shows is planned for next year.
Included among such improvements is
WND Announces New Staff Heads
A FEW OF WND’s new staff appointments, (l-r) Don Flanagan, Jack Hynes Marion Lesczynski, new manager Bill Ryan, Bob Dougherty J. Baier, G. Burlage.
the erection of a new transmitter which will make broadcasting to St. Mary’s College possible. It will consist of a special line for use in the college only. With the addition of S3,000 in modern equipment, the engineers .have devised a new system of remote pickup whereby on-the-spot broadcasting is possible. The present student council dance broadcasts are a result of this new system, in which the foreign announcer is in touch with the campus studio at all times.
Additional advertising has provided for the acquisition of a new line of Columbia and Decca records to be used on the popular disk-jockey shows. A new type of program entitled “Music in The Night” has been added for serious music lovers and a weekly interview called “Meet The Prof” is also planned for next year.
The increasing activity of the station has necessitated a demand for more announcers and engineers, however, and a new search for talent is planned by station officials within the next two weeks.
The Blue Circle, with the approval of the Student Council, recently conducted a survey of student opinion on the food served in the University Dining Hall. Almost 2,000 questionnaires were filled out and returned.
Ed Vasta, chairman in charge of the committee making the survey, has announced the following results of the questionnaires.
Most students agreed there is ample quantity of food, but over half desire more variety. The gravies served are found satisfactory, but also of little variety. It is the general opinion that the food is over-seasoned, and almost 60% thought that the meat was not well enough cooked.
According to the questionnaire, the overwhelming majority of the students would like egg omelet, fried fish, hash, and chipped beef on toast removed from the menu.
There seemed to be a dissatisfaction with line waiting and the meals on Sunday night. Only 37% of the students who answered the questionnaire lose weight unintentionally at Notre Dame.
Suggestions for- foods to be placed on the menu were shoe-string- French fries, fresh fruit at all meals, and pancakes or waffles. There were also many requests for catsup at the proper meals.
The committee will submit the results of the survey to the administration and ask that the requested changes be made; however, all changes are entirely up to the administration.
U.S. State Dept. Offers Exams For Foreign Service Posts
The Department of State has announced a competitive written examination for appointment as a Foreign Service officer, class 6, to be held September 10-13, 1951, according to Cromwell A. Riches, executive secretary of the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service.
The tests will be conducted in various American cities and at American diplomatic and consular posts abroad, and are open to anyone between 21 and 31 years of age on July 1, 1951.
Candidates who pass the written exam will be given oral and physical tests in the early part of 1952. Tho’se successful in all of these examinations will be appointed promptly at salaries ranging from $3,630 to 34,730 per year, depending upon age and experience.
Information bulletins and application forms for the examination may be obtained at the Placement Bureau.
The Scholastic
10

Fisher Education Fund Functions as Agency For Students Unable to Win Scholarships
By John Corrigan, ’53
”1 believe everyone will agree, although it is sometimes forgotten, that the United States was founded as a land of opportunity. . . . Rather than being a new idea, the philosophy underlying my gift to Notre Dame merely is an attempt to return to the principles upon which the United States was founded.” With these words Mrs. Fred J. Fisher explained the reason for her gift to the University of Notre Dame to establish the Fisher Educational Fund.
This fund is something new at Notre Dame. It- is not another one of the usual scholarships. On the contrary, Mrs. Fisher recognized the need for helping through school numerous students who were not fortunate enough to win scholarships. She saw that there were quite a few boys who were willing to work their way through school, but who couldn’t earn enough to pay all their expenses. Therefore, strictly business loans are made available to qualified applicants to pay any expenses incurred in going to Notre Dame over and above what the student can pay himself. The loan, although it may be applied to travel expenses and spending money as well as tuition, room and board, is not intended to cover everything. The borrower is expected to earn as much money as possible by himself during the school year- and the summer.
Applications, which must be made on the official form obtainable on request from the Fisher Student Loan Committee, are personally reviewed by each member of the Board. This group consists of Rev. John J. Burke, c. s. C., vice president in charge of business affairs, chairman; Mr. E. J. Murray, personnel director; Mr. John Plouffe, assistant to Fr. Burke; Mr. James Armstrong, executive vice-chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation; and Rev. H. S. Stegman, C. s. c. Fr. Stegman is directly in charge of the business activities of the Fisher Educational Fund, while the other members of the board act in an advisory capacity.
Any one who is eligible for admission or who is attending the University of Notre Dame as an undergraduate may apply for a loan through this fund. The amount each student will be" able to borrow will be determined by the Committee after individual consideration of each particular case. The applications are passed to each membei- of the committee, and each gives his opinion on the advisability of granting a loan.
Loans will be made for the immediate needs of the applicants and are not to exceed one year. Supplementary applications must be filed for additional loans in subsequent years.
All loans granted must be guaranteed by a life insurance policy assigned to the University of Notre Dame. It is better from the applicant’s point of view to have his own insurance policy. In this case he assigns his policy over to the University to cover the loan, but, of course, he must continue to pay the premiums himself. In case of death the University then has a claim against the policy for the amount of the unpaid loan, with the remainder of the insurance going to the regular beneficiary.
In the other case of a student taking out an insurance policy first for the purpose of the loan, the Fisher Student Loan Committee acts as an agent for a reputable life insurance company and will write the necessary policy. On all policies written by the Committee, the premiums will be paid by the Committee until such time as the loan is fully liquidated. The premiums will, of course, be added to the principal of the loan and are subject to repayment. These are low premiums, low cash-in value, straight life insurance policies. After the loans have been repaid, the Univer-(Continued on page 30)
MISS MARY MARGARET HERR
Law Men Will Dance At Erskine Tonight
With Spring having apparently arrived complete with its traditional showers and flowers 120 lucky law men and their dates will join tonight to enjoy a modern “Mayflower Compact” in the setting of the Erskine Country Club.
Queens for the Spring Law Ball are Mary Margaret Herr and Tene Sackste-dar. Miss Herr, a graduate of St. Mary’s College and a resident of Chatsworth, Ill., will be escorted by Bob McGlynn. Miss Sackstedar, a Senior at Mount St. Joseph College on the Ohio, Cincinnati, will be the guest of Ed Duffy. These men are co-chairmen of the Ball.
MISS TENE SACKSTEDAR
Festivities will commence at 9 p. m. as Gene Hull and his orchestra set the evening in sway. During the course of the night the queens of the Ball will be officially crowned and the evening will come to a close at 1 a. m.
Among those assisting chairmen Bob McGlynn and Ed Duffy were Pat Purdy and Vince Cunningham who handled publicity. Heading the reception committee are Louis Tracy and Ben Banko. Taking charge of plans for the entertainment of the lawyers and their dates over the weekend were Peter Flaherty and Tom Smith. Bill Fleming played Cupid for those men without dates of their own, conducting the date bureau.
Others connected with preparations for the dance were John Mendoza and Ed Van Tassel who were in charge of bid sales. Car permission and 2 o’clock privileges also were granted for the semi-formal affair.
11
May 4, 1951
Prof. Sessler Named To Royal Art Society
Professor Stanley S. Sessler, Head of the Department of Fine Arts at the University of Notre Dame, has been elected to membership in the exclusive Royal Society of Arts in England.
The Royal Society of Arts, whose patron is England’s King George and whose president is Princess Elizabeth, was founded in London in 1754. Purpose of the elite society is to encourage the cultural developments in art on an international scale, and to maintain and stimulate interest in art education and improvement in artists’ materials and techniques.
Prof. Stanley S. Sessler and Students
Professor Sessler, one of few Americans ever to be recognized by election to the Royal Society of Arts, joins the roster of some of history’s most prominent artists who have been elected to membership in the Society. Early members of the Society included such world-renowned men as Samuel Johnson, Sir ’ Joshua Reynolds, Oliver Goldsmith, Thomas Chippendale, Robert Adam, William Hogarth, Sir Thomas Lawrence, Sir John Millais, and other artists, designers, poets, musicians and literary figures of English history.
Professor Sessler, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1928, was named Head of the Department of Fine Arts in 1937. During World War II, the Notre Dame artist served as’an Intelligence Officer in the Air Force. -	-
Long recognized as an authority in the field of art education, Professor Sessler has received numerous honors for his work as an artist, designer and ed
12
ucator. His paintings have been shown in the important salons, both in the United States and abroad, and many of his works hang in private collections. Professor Sessler is an artist member of the Chicago Galleries Association, and of other national professional art groups.
Symposium to Honor Leo XIII Encyclical
In accordance with the national and international observance of the sixtieth anniversary of Pope Leo’s great social encyclical Rerum Novarum, the Departments of Economics and History will jointly sponsor a Symposium of Commemoration in the Law Auditorium on Tuesday, Maj7 15, at 8:00 p. m.
The program will consist of four 15-minute speeches by Rev. Paul Fryberger, c. s. c., Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C. s. c., Prof. Janies A. Corbett, and Prof. Aaron I. Abell. Rev. James E. Norton, c. s. c., vice-president of the University, will act as group chairman and moderator of a question-and-comment period which will follow the talks.
According to Mr. John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, “the importance of Rerum Novarum cannot be over-emphasized.” It not only represents the Church’s attitude toward the numerous problems of an industrial society, but has also served to act as the basis for other Papal Edicts such as Quadragesimo Anno, and On Atheistic Communism.
“As Catholics,” Mr. Sheehan went on to say, “it is all too evident that a knowledge and understanding of this most important document would be useful, particularly in the light of present world conditions.” Everyone is invited to attend the symposium.
Demonstration Mass Offered For Student Instruction
Rev. Louis Putz, c. s.c., and Rev. William McAuliffe, c. s. c., will explain the Mass and its parts in two demonstrations, at 7:30 p. m. next Wednesday and Thursday in the Biology Auditorium.
On Wednesday the Mass of the Catechumens will be discussed, and the following night the Mass of the Faithful. One priest will go through the actual motions of the Mass while the other explains them.
The purpose of these meetings is to clarify actions and prayers of the Mass which heretofore have had little or no meaning for some people. The programs are open to the entire student body.
Junior Places First in Aero Club's Model Plane Contest
John B. Flentz, a junior in engineering, was the winner of the model airplane contest sponsored bj7 the Aero Club held April 23 on the field southeast of the stadium.
JOHN F. FLENTZ
Second prize in the !/iA-3 flight model contest went to Riley Lohr. Mr. David Benepe, faculty member, judged the entire event.
Bad weather had hampered plans for meets last fall, and this was the first first official contest of the school year. Directing the contest proceedings were Gordon Brickson and Bill Grunske, vicepresident and secretary, respectively, of the Aero Club. According to Grunske, a second meet is contemplated, and he urges all interested to contact him in	*1
285 Dillon.	:
Grad Students Stage	<
Dance in Veterans1 Hall
Graduate students will have their	I
fling tomorrow night when the graduate	<
student association stages its annual dance. The affair will begin at 9 p. m. in the Veteran’s Recreation Hall in Vet-ville.
The dance will be informal, and refreshments, including beer, will be J served.
Ticket prices have been set at one dollar per couple for members of the association. Those who are not members may purchase ducats for §1.25.
This will be the last official function of the year for the graduate student association. ’
The Scholastic

Seniors Buy 400 Ball Bids, Issue 100 More
Senior Ball ticket chairman Tom k Wolff has announced that 100 more bids _ for the dance will go on sale at noon, | Monday, in the foyer of the cafeteria. > Foui- hundred bids, the original printing, were eagerly bought up by dinner time last Tuesday. Because of the great demand more bids were printed. Both u graduate and law students in addition to Seniors will be eligible to procure the extra bids.
A new feature of Ball weekends here at Notre Dame is the Communion breakfast to be held at 10:30 Sunday morning in the ball room of the Oliver k Hotel. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, c. S. c., executive vice-president of the University, will be the guest speaker. Price of the breakfast tickets is $3.00 per couple. Chairman Bill Whiteside has arranged for the following menu: Juice or fruit cocktail, ham and eggs, toast, sweet ‘ rolls and coffee or milk.
Concert Band toGive Spring Performance
The Notre Dame Concert Band will present its annual spring concert next Tuesday at 8:30 p. m. in the University Drill Hall. There is no admission charge, and the performance is open to the public.
Directed by H. Lee Hope, the Band will offer a rich variety of musical numbers. The program will open with Notre Dame Our Mother and The Hike Song. Compositions by such artists as Strauss, Schumann, Lehar, and Mallotte will fill out the concert, which will close with the Notre Dame Victory March.
Featured in an intricate “triple-tonguing” number will be the “Trombo-ners” quintet composed of Eugene Henry, Herb Dir, Lee Tavis, Henry Keating, and Dave O’Leary. These men will be high-lighted in the opening fanfare, as well as in various concert numbers.
Singing will be included in the program through the baritone voice of Charles Hof. Piano Soloist William Mis-simer will be heard in the first movement of Schuman’s Piano Concerto in A Minor. Missimer studied under the late Julius V. Seyler, concert violinist and pianist under Johannes Brahms. Hof is a voice pupil of Prof. Cecil Birder of the Notre Dame Department of Music.
The University Band will play at the Old Timer’s Game May 12. On the afternoon of May 13, the Band will give a concert—outdoors, if possible—at St. Mary’s College. On May 19, the ND musicians will lead the Armed Forces parade in South Bend.
May 4, 1951
.. SCHOLASTIC STAFFERS
The annual publications banquet will be held next Thursday at 6 p. m. in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle. There is a list of those invited from Scholastic on the office bulletin board. All staffers please check this list.
Welsh, Joe Gallagher and Marv Brezet-te. Another party from this year’s Freshman class is made up of Bob Po-den, Fred Mangialardi, Paul Robst and Don Hoffman.
The other two tickets are composed of Bill Ryan, Eddie Hanan, and John Lattner and Ron Mealey, Bill Fagan, Dan Kennedy, and Don McLaughlin.
Dinner-Meet Constitutes
Elections
(Continued from page 9) the Off-Campus students are Tom Obrecht and Wally Purcell.
From this year’s Sophomore class, four parties are in the race for the Junior election. Bob Niquette, Lou Basso, Joe Conwell and Bob Rust hope to be elected president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer, respectively, Gerry Kelley heads another ticket, his running mates being Jim Hutchinson, Mike Dolan and Paul Curtin.
Dick Wolfgram and Larry Eaton combined with Joe McDade and Bob Schaefer to form another group of prospective Juniors, and Floyd Blair and Bill Bird are running mates for the office of president and vice-president.
From the class of ’54, there are four parties in the race. Ed White heads one party, his running mates being George
ASM Chapter's Activities
A dinner, a business meeting, and a technical session on May 9 will'constitute the May meeting of Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals.	'
At 8 p. m. in Room 5 of the Engineering Building, the Metallurgists will hear an address by Dr. Bernard R. Queneau, chief metallurgist for the U. S. Steel Company’s Duquesne (Pa.) Works. Dr. Queneau, a former professor at Columbia University and a Naval Commander during the war, will discuss the effect of temper brittleness on the physical properties of alloys steels and will review the latest theories on the cause of embrittlement.
The dinner will be held in the Notre Dame Dining Hall. Reservations are $1.75 and must be made before Tuesday noon.
Spring Conies to Vetviile
VETVILLE JUNIOR SET—Estelle Winne, Peter Birren, and Maureen Lyden hold Birren’s cocker pups Eenie, Menie, Minie, George—they didn’t want no Mo’l
13
Zhe Days
T
J- O most of the students on the cam-
pus today, the Depression and Teapot Dome Scandals seem almost like ancient history. The only Presidents most of us remember are Truman and Franklin .Roosevelt. The rest of the past is gotten only by a lot of hard work—the sweating out of History departmentals, for example. There is at least one priest on campus, however, who can really remember “way-back- ' I when.” He is Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., who came to Notre Dame in 1886—dur-
.ing Grover Cleveland’s first term—and	'
has been here ever since.
Father Ill got his cassock here at Notre Dame in’ 1887, and started to teach German at the request of Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, c. s. c., who was “ President of the University at the time. He taught “his boys” for 62 years before he finally retired last year- to take a well deserved rest. He also had the (
distinction of being the Treasurer of Notre Dame’s one and only Endovanent Committee. He didn’t like that job too | well because it took him away from the classroom, but he was successful in it nonetheless, and managed to raise a cool million dollars. “It was a lot of work,” he recalls. “I didn’t believe in sending out form letters, and wrote every request and acknowledgement letter by hand. I * guess I wrote over 5,000 of them.” 0	7
One Big Family
The early days were a lot different than they are now. Those were the days of smaller classes and more individual
Apparently there was no lack of fuel for campus bull-sessions in the old days, either: (upper left) fire destroys unidentified building whose name seems to have disappeared with the ashes, on the site of the present' Architecture Building. Notre Dame football was run a little more informally at the time of this picture, as one look at the turn-of-the century team here will testify, but the boys seem just as dauntless as any modern players; (bottom left) another relic of the past is the boathouse on St. Joe Lake, in front of which some prominent men on campus, circa 1900, have gathered to be immortalized on film. Picture was taken in the days when boathouses stored boats.
The Scholastic^
jgrjaiSS


»

</ yore
L
Rockne Era and ‘Family Style’ Education Recalled by Spry Octogenarian Father Ill
the hall and asked him what objection he had to playing Notre Dame. Stagg made all sorts of excuses, and finally-declared that the real reason was that there was always some schedule conflict . that prevented the meeting. “If it wasn’t for that,” Stagg said, “I’d be glad to play one of Rockne’s teams.” With that Rockne stepped out from behind the door and said: “Now I’m mighty glad to hear that. Notre Dame is willing to rearrange its schedule to meet you any time it’s convenient for you.” Stagg fled in confusion.

attention—everybody on campus knew everybody else. Father Ill thinks that this had a lot of good points. It gave a “one big happy family” attitude. Besides the obvious advantage of getting to know people better and developing a more pleasing personality, everybody had to live on campus, and everybody had a room all to themselves. “It made it a lot easier to study,” Father Ill commented.
The attitude was even different as far as war is concerned. “Today, the student doesn’t seem nearly as excited when he’s told he had to go into the army for a couple of years. I guess they are getting used to the idea.” During World War I they had an Army contingent here on campus; during the Second World War it was the Navy that took over. We liked the Navy a lot better,” smiled Father Ill. “Both the Army and Navy had fine boys, but the Army wore hob-nail boots in those days, and by the time they left, they had dug up so many floors that the University had to replace almost all of them or cover- up the scars with linoleum and tile. That was an expensive proposition' for a University with such a small endowment.”
experience
on his side.
, May 4, 1951
Soldiers Were Content
It seems that the Army men here dur-' ing the First World War were a lot more content with the status quo than the students are today, however. They got together in a bull session one day and decided they liked Notre Dame for ; three reasons. First of all, they liked it because “by ten o’clock it’s like a ceme-tery around here”; secondly they liked the food, and last of all, they liked it because the “professors are all so friend-
- ly.”
Father Ill also has many fond memo-■ ries of Knute Rockne, and considers him about the finest coach that ever lived. , He recalls that during Rockne’s prime •- there was another coach who was pretty well regarded among those in the know: ' Amos Alonzo Stagg. The two coaches never met on the gridiron, however, and this fact provided the sports writers of the time with a lot of material. They
Text by Charles Hands, ’52
Photo of Father III by Al Muth, ’51
were always trying to arrange a game between the two, and stooped to all sorts of devices to embarrass one or the other into it. One day, according to Father Ill, there was a convention of some sort in Chicago at which both Rockne and Stagg were present. The writers hid Rockne behind the door of one of the hotel rooms, and then stopped Stagg in

Students Never Change
But despite the physical growth and changes, Father Ill finds that the student is basically the same. He feels that Notre Dame leaves its mark on all who graduate from here. “The times change, but the people don’t.’.’ He has faith in the future of Notre Dame and expects to see it make even more progress than it has since he first set foot on the campus in 1886. He could be right; he has


Psychiatrist Merely Victim of False Notions; Dr. Ayd Explains Connection With Religion
By Toni Griffin. '53
ceived part of his training in the V-12 program, serving residency in psychiatry at the U. S. Veterans Administration Hospital at Perry Point, Md. He was staff psychiatrist from 1948 to 1950 at the latter hospital.
“At last,” I thought, “here’s my chance” A personal interview with a psychiatrist! “Would he seat me on a ‘couch* and proceed to psychoanalyze me? Would he support my belief that my roommate is a psychopath ?’’
During the course of a 15-minute talk with Dr. Frank J. Ayd, Jr., noted Catholic psychiatrist, the much-anticipated psychoanalysis failed to materialize, and so engrossed was I in the conversation, that I completely forgot to bring up the all-important problem of my roommate’s mental state.
I did, however, discover the importance of the problems faced by a psychiatrist, and the fact that his is a job little understood or appreciated- by the majority of .the American public. “A psychiatrist,” said Dr. Ayd, “may well be defined as a student of human behavior: his task is to find and correct any faults resulting from mental disorder.”
Dr. Ayd, whose appearance was sponsored by the Department of Religion, spoke in Washington Hall on April 26 on “Psychiatry and Religion.” He began with a prayer, offering the discussion “to Our Lady of Notre Dame, in the hope that more Catholic students may realize a vocation to psychiatry.”
“There are three kinds of Catholic psychiatrists,” said Dr. Ayd. “After completing his study of psychiatry, the first rejects his Faith; the second effects a divorce between his religion and his science; the third is one of a small group, those who are both Catholic and psychiatrist.” It is evident which type we greatly need.
During the course of his address, Dr. Ayd elaborated on the important problems facing the psychiatrist, and reviewing some of the erroneous philosophies of the profession in the past, pointed out in a most efficacious manner how religion and psychiatry can be reconciled.
A majority of Catholics, Dr. Ayd pointed out, have a faulty conception of psychiatry. Many believe psychiatric treatment is forbidden by the Church. This idea arises from magazine articles, books, etc., which give unwarranted generalizations founded on basic errors in regard to psychiatric procedure.
In truth, Catholic philosophers hold no objection to psychic determinism, so long as there is freedom of decision on
the part of the individual. The ordinary man can not, or does not, differentiate between psychiatry and “psychiatrism,” whieh is a distortion and misrepresentation of psychic determinism.
“To correct this situation,” Dr. Ayd stated, “we need more Catholic psychiatrists. The ideal psychiatrist is one who has perfected the combination of Tho-mistic psychology and theology with the therapeutic procedure.”
DR. FRANK J. AYD, JR.
Dr. Ayd is well qualified to speak on “Psychiatry and Religion,” being a practicing Catholic as well as a practicing psychiatrist. At the present time, he is head of the Department of Psychology at the Loyola Graduate School in Baltimore, and a lecturer in psychology and psychiatry at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C. Active in Catholic Action, Dr. Ayd is a frequent speaker for the Holy Name Society in Baltimore, and was recently elected co-chairman of the East Baltimore Hygiene Society for the third consecutive year.
After graduating from Loyola High School, Loyola College, and Medical School at the University of Maryland, Dr. Ayd took his internship at St. Joseph’s Hospital in Baltimore.
While serving residency in pediatrics at the University Hospital in Baltimore, he was called into the Navy. During his six years in service, Dr. Ayd re-
Many psychiatrists are not psychoanalysts; Dr. Ayd himself is not. This is perhaps unfortunate. Young, pleasing in appearance, and an interesting conversationalist, Dr. Ayd has the knack of putting a person immediately at ease. I, for one, was not only ready but eager to pour forth my life history, with all its problems and frustrations. I’m still not sure about my roommate.
Latin-American Law Board To Sponsor Last Colloquium
The last in a series of Colloquia sponsored by the Committee on Latin-American studies during the spring semester will be given next Tuesday at 4:15 p. m., in Room 101 of the Law Building. The Colloquium will be presented under the direction of Mr. Edward Barrett of the College of Law.
This is the second of two Colloquia on the question of the comparison between Latin-American law and Anglo-American law. The topic is to be discussed from the point of view of business and from that of cultural studies. The title of this Colloquium is “Latin-American and Anglo-American Law: A Comparison of Some Basic Concepts.”
After Mr. Barrett’s opening paper there will be a general discussion and the public is invited to participate in the discussion.
Station WSBT Broadcasts 'Dateline Notre Dame' Show
“Date-Line, Notre Dame,” a new weekly series of programs conducted by the University of Notre Dame, began last Saturday at 1:30 p. m. over WSBT, the South Bend Tribune Station.
The new series of weekly programs marks the reopening of the Notre Dame campus studios of WSBT. In cooperation with WSBT program director, Robert Drain, a direct line has been installed from WSBT to the Notre Dame campus for the programs, which will feature weekly personalities connected with or visiting the University.
Professor Jerome Fallon, director of radio activities at Notre Dame, will be in charge of the Notre Dame programs over WSBT. It is planned to present additional series of programs from the campus later in the year.
16
The Scholastic
17
Photos by Al Muth, ’51; John Kinville, ’52, and Jerry Sheehan, ’54
CLASS PRESIDENT Jim Mannion and Miss Lobby of Rockne Memorial (below) as
1 lit REMEMBER®^?
APRIL

Joan Dolan
(above) lead grand march.
Juniors and dates arrive for big night.

When they arrived doesn’t matter, nor where they stayed, nor how they killed time. The story begins Friday night— past the motley gauntlet they strolled, past the critical gaze of a thousand Sophomores, past the smiling doormen who opened the Rock to them. Perhaps they looked out on the sun-deck with their escorts, perhaps they stopped in the pink room, or the green room, for a coke. More likely they passed through the old iron gate into the blue-canopied room with colored lights shining under the trees. Seventeen men sitting behind little desks marked “HJ” were playing music, and so they danced, until the paper streamers sagged and the colored lights blinked off and the band played “I'll see you in my dreams.” But the week-end wasn’t over yet. Saturday at the Erskine, oi’ out to the lakes, a deluge that evening which was more flashflood than April Shower, and more dancing that night, Sunday they were beat; a walk around the campus wrapped up the week-end. Sunday night they departed—and Notre Dame was again left to the men.
Miss
crowns
date of
Comiskey,
and dates. Bill Corbett and
will always keep this pic. At th
stroke of one dance ended
HARRY



JAMES (left)
Alice Kent,
co-chai-man Charles McCarthy. Dancin
g (right)
in
the Rockne Gym.
RESTING
Miss Pat
BETWEEN DANCES,
Murray (below |.)
(above) Phil Maronik, John O’Brien,
Jim Lund, Tom
I—Juniors (below r.)
departed.





SIGHTSEEING DATES at Sacred Heart's memorial door, grottoand post office (above). At Erskine Country Club (below).
DICK MALECHEK, Bill Riley, Jack Meaney, Cathy George, Kathleen Pull, Tom Mangelsdorf (below) relax at buffet-dance.
Dr. Price Returns From Rome Congress; Reports Great Progress in World Federalism
Recently returned from Rome and the Fourth Congress of the World Movement for a World Federal Government, Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Department of Chemistry, reports great strides made in the world federalist movement, greater responsibilities upon America for the future success of the movement, and promising international repercussions to the Pope’s April 6 announcement on world government.
European Distrust
Dr. Price observed a growing distrust among Europeans toward American objectives and motives in world affairs. He feels that there is a vital need for a reappraisal of American foreign policy.
Long a prominent leader* in the United World Federalists, Dr. Price was one of the 12 delegates of the U.W.F. to the Congress of the World Movement for a World Federal Government held at Rome, April 1-10. He served there also as an observer for the Friends Committee on National Legislation. Attending the annual international Congress were representatives of 58 organizations for the promotion of world government in 14 nations.
Highlights of the Congress, the head of the Chemistry Department relates, were: an address by Count Carlo Sforza, Italian foreign minister, definitive action taken by the Congress in welding the world federalist movement into an important political force in world affairs, and most important, a major policy pronouncement by His Holiness Pope Pius XII on April 6, declaring the necessity for world government. The Holy Father’s warm support for the movement promises to have a great influence in the growing strength of world federalism.
Traveling from Rome to Zurich, Paris, and London, Dr. Price was deeply impressed by the great mistrust and suspicion among even violently anti-communist European citizens and officials toward American policy. In formal and informal gatherings, Dr. Price found Europeans more afraid that American motives, objectives, and rash tactics would be the cause of World War III, than they are afraid of a direct act of aggression on the part of Soviet Russia.
“It seems very evident,” Dr. Price continued with great earnestness, “that we urgently need to clarify for ourselves and for the world the moral basis for our actions in world affairs,” if America
is to dispel the great suspicion and mistrust held against her at present even among anti-communist peoples.
Dr. Price observed that Europeans today are taking a much saner and sounder view of world tensions than are Americans.
Addressing a 50-man delegation from the Congress on April 6 Pope Pius XII gave complete support and blessing to the movement for world federal government. In this far-reaching policy pronouncement, His Holiness spoke of the great need for* arriving at an effective
DR. CHARLES C. PRICE
world government, “even if only to end the competitive rearming of nations.” The Pope warned that the federal government must not become a merely superficial and mechanical arrangement, but he stressed the need for protection of the individual rights of man. Highly significant was the Pontiff’s concluding remarks, in which he congratulated the movement, urged it to approach its problems and task with moral courage, and gave them his blessing for success.
Pope Endorses Movement
Dr. Price reports that after the warm endorsement given by the Pope to the movement, the delegates were overwhelmed with pleasure and enthusiasm. Many feel' that the Pope’s statement, which was reproduced as the leading article of L’Osservatore Romana, will exert a far-reaching influence over the people and governments of the world.
In his report of the proceedings of
the Congress of world federalists, Dr. Price states that great strides were made in developing the world movement into an important political force in world affairs. For the first time, the movement was addressed officially by a foreign minister, Count Sfoi*za of Italy. For the first time, also, a government has officially supported the movement through a grant of two million lira approved by the Italian Prime Minister. The Notre Dame chemist noticed a number of delegates who were members of various European parliaments and governments.
The only Communist country in attendance at the congress was Yugoslavia. Although the Slav delegation came only as “observers,” they were apparently greatly impressed by the proceedings and ideas they heard.
The Political Commission of the world federalists reached an agreement that there were only two approaches to world federal government: United Nations reform and the People’s World Convention.
The American United World Federalists now carry on its shoulders a grave responsibility for the future success of the world federalist movement, Dr. Price explained. As a consequence of decisions made at last year’s Stockholm congress, the Americans, through U. W. F. now hold 40 pei* cent of the votes, and togethei* with Denmark, hold a majority. This shift in controlling power gives American members great political influence on the future of the movement.
30,000 Members in U. S.
United World Federalists, of which Dr. Price is a prominent leader, is the largest world federalist group belonging to the World Movement. U. W. F. is also the fastest growing, most dynamic federalist group1 in the United States, with a membership of between 30,000 and 40,000.
Dr. Price has been active with U.W.F. since its founding in 1947. The graduate of Swarthmore College and Harvard University was a candidate during the recent Congressional elections in the Indiana Democratic Primary elections for U. S. Senator. While in Rome, Dr. Price had an audience with the Holy Father with a group of Holy Cross Fathers. His nine days in Rome Dr. Price spent at the C. S. C. Home, where he celebrated “Notre Dame Night” with N.D. alumni in the Holy City.
In its four years of existence, United World Federalists has been active in trying to arouse public interest in world federalism among.i Americans. U. W. F. believes that the only way to obtain and preserve peace is through the
20
The Scholastic
creation of a federal world government, with strength to enforce its law upon nations in matters of armaments and aggression. U. W. F. would not scrap the United Nations and start all over; rather, it endorses U. N. efforts and urges that the amendment processes of the U. N. be used to transform it into a federal government.
Resolutions in support of world federalism have been reintroduced into Congress. Dr. Price asserts that chances for Congressional approval are better now than ever, despite an organized, vigorous opposition to U. W. F.
Some of the outstanding Americans active in the organization are Raymond Swing, Clifton Fadiman, Albert Einstein, Norman Cousins, Thomas H. Mahoney, Chairman of the Catholic Association for International Peace, and the Rev. Edward A. Conway, S. J. associateeditor of America.
Prof. Quinn Talks on Draff Situation in Radio Speech
The only manpower advantage which the United States can hope to achieve over the enemy in the current world crisis is an “ advantage of scholastic and technical know-how,” according to Prof. Edward R. Quinn, Head of the Department of Testing and Guidance at Notre Dame.
Prof. Quinn spoke Saturday over WSBT, the South Bend Tribune station, in the first of a new series of Notre Dame produced weekly programs entitled, “Date-Line, Notre Dame.” Prof. Jerome Fallon, director of radio activities at Notre Dame, appeared on the program with Prof. Quinn.
“We, as a nation, must keep ever in mind that we cannot hope to match the potential enemy in numbers of men,” Mr. Quinn said in the broadcast. “Our military manpower pool just is not adequate enough to do that. Our only advantage lies in scholastic and technical know-how. The more highly trained men we can produce as a nation, the better off we are going to be when we are called upon to put the knowledge and know-how to good use in the production of arms and the production of ideas.”
Prof. Quinn, in discussing the selective service college tests which he will give at Notre Dame for St. Joseph County residents, stressed that under the new selective service act “college students are not being excused from military service. They will serve in their turn, like everyone else, as soon as they have had the training that will fit them for the tasks that are vitally necessary for our national security, he explained.
“It is only fair to defer college students,” Prof. Quinn emphasized, “it is essential for the ultimate national welfare. A nation without a continuing flow of manpower into the areas of scholastic and technical productivity is doomed to defeat in this modern age.”
Prof. Quinn, who said he expects to administer between 1,100 and 1,300 of the Selective Service Tests each day on May 26th, June 16th and June 30th, revealed basic information about these tests over the WSBT program.
“I think it is necessary to emphasize that it is not a test of factual information,” he pointed out. “It is a three-hour test of ability to learn at the college level. The publishers have indicated that the most important part of the test is an ability to read and understand the kinds of materials that are studied in college. Typical excerpts from materials in the social sciences, natural sciences and the humanities will be presented, each followed by multiple-choice questions on what the passages meant.”
Prof. Quinn stressed that students cannot take the test until they have been accepted by a college or university and have actually entered into a program of study in the institution of their choice. The Selective Service College Qualification Test will be administered in May and June only to college students who are eligible to take it, he said.
The eligible college students, according to Prof. Quinn, are those who (1) are under 26 years of age at the time of taking the test, (2) are satisfactorily pursuing a full-time college or university course leading to a degree, (3) have not previously taken the test—it can be taken only once, and (4) have registered with a draft board and have a selective service number assigned to them.
Charity Chest Presents Statue to Fatima Shrine
“Contributed by the students of Notre Dame.” So the plaque will read on the white-marble statue of the Blessed Virgin which will reign over the Holy Cross Mission Band’s Fatima Shrine.
A check for $1,000, to cover the cost of purchasing and shipping the Italian-made statue, was recently presented by Jack Broderick and the Charity Chest Committee, on behalf of the student body, to Rev. Charles Callahan, c. s. c., the missionary priest in charge of the proj'ect.
The proposed shrine will be constructed on a 30-foot square rise located j'ust east of the Dixie Highway opposite the entrance to St. Mary’s College.
Against a backdrop of evergreens, the six-foot, six-inch statue of Our Lady of Fatima will stand atop a high pedestal and face the road. The setting will also include white marble figures of the three Portuguese children and some sheep, as well as an altar table for outdoor services.
Approximately $5,000 has been donated to the shrine fund thus far. Actual construction will begin as soon as another §3,000 is accumulated.
Future plans of the Holy Cross Mission Band include the building of a new mission house and a retreat house ad-j’acent to the shrine. The present Mission House is situated next to the log chapel behind the University library, in the Old College building. ■
YCS Broadcast Features Fatima Drama, Discussion
Robert E. Hohmann, University English instructor and an authority on the miracles of Fatima, said Sunday night in a special WND broadcast that the student’s duty in regard to Fatima is unceasing prayer.
The broadcast was sponsored by the campus YCS as part of their week-long celebration in honor of Our Lady of Fatima. A 45-minute show, it included a drama in the form of an on-the-spot report of the miracles and a discussion in which Hugh Brown, Al Decrane, and Tom Field questioned Mr. Hohmann.
The on-the-spot drama for the program was written by Ted Stelton, a student here who holds a $10,000 contract with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.
The discussion pointed out that many of the prophesies have already come true, for example, that Russia would spread her errors throughout the world and also that Lucy would out-live the other children present at the miracles.
It was also pointed out that the children could hardly have made up their story, because at that time Russia was democratic and Lenin had been forced to flee. Mr. Hohmann made it clear that there w;ere many disinterested witnesses to bear out the fact of the miracle of the dancing sun, which, occurred on July 13, 1917.
In response to queries on what Notre Dame students should do in light of Fatima, Mr. Hohmann said we should pray the rosary and, in the words of Mary, “not offend Our Lord anymore.”
CAMPUS MOVIES
May 12—“The Reformer and the Redhead”
May 19—“Big Hangover”
May 26—“Yellow Cab Man”
May 4, 1951
21
The Crosses of Gold
Relics of Catholic History in America Compose Unusual Sacred Heart Museum
Text by Jay Conlon. '52
Photos by Al Muth. '51
In small groups they begin to drift in, the N.D. man nudging the big doors with his shoulders, breaking the heavy silence of the church, the snap of high heels on the floor, suppressed feminine whispers, and the husky response of the hoy, garbled explanations and quizzical looks, it’s all part of it, the conventional Grand Tour of the campus on a prom weekend. The sedate silence of big Gothic Sacred Heart church is filled with the steady hum of the reverently curious on these weekends: they wander through the maze of altars in the rear, genuflecting at angles, peering at inscriptions and statues, plaques and niches, furtively sitting in a choir chair, scribbling a name in the Big Book for posterity, up and down and across to get a closer look at the Bernini altar, a stiff climb up the narrow medieval-like stairs to see the 1200-pipe organ, straining to make out the frescoes and mosaics, peering through the grills of the stately confessionals, and finally aimlessly wandering by the sacristy on the way to the Grotto. At most it’s a superficial job, this tour, a quick glimpse at a treasure of tradition.
Beyond the sacristy door which these visitors pass so blithely works Brother Boniface. Absorbed in the multifarious duties of Sacristan he can be found any day, or any morning at five a.m., preparing cruets, vestments, candles, missals for the ceremonies in Sacred Heart. Not only does he care for the material needs of the big church, but he is also keeper of tradition, self-appointed historian, and paternal caretaker of the many historical relics that have been deposited with Notre Dame over the last century. These relics are encased in a special room off the sacristy, and they range in variety and beauty from bejeweled ciboria to battered charcoal-hurning hand warmers, a necessity for the freezing fingers of early missionaries.
Ever since Notre Dame was selected as the site for the First American Eu
charistic Congress in 1894, she has rightfully claimed the title as a most unusual repository for historical relics of the Catholic Church in the United States. The priceless treasures have been bequeathed to the university by many clerical friends, as well as by continental European nobility, and special gifts of the Papacy. The collection in- .
eludes sacred vessels and vestments, croziers, episcopal rings and pectoral crosses, and taken together they unravel a graphic picture of the Catholic Church in the New World. They tell a poignant story of struggle, hardship, and success;
they give an intimate history of the generosity of the Old World to the New. '
Relics of early Catholic history include the ivory and ebony inlaid wooden crozier of Archbishop John Carroll, of . Baltimore, who was consecrated the first bishop in the United States in 1790. The collection is augmented by relics of the activities of missionaries in Canada ~ and India. There are chalices used by . former Popes, priceless vestments from China, France, and Spain. By far the most notable of the gifts by European friends are the religious vessels and vestments presented to Notre Dame by the Emperor Napoleon III. Notre Dame ” possesses a three and a half foot high gold monstrance which is a gift of Napoleon and which never fails to attract the visitor’s eye. Brother- Boniface remarked that it is rarely used, at most a few times a year, for it would need a healthy clergyman to carry it around the aisles of Sacred Heart church in . procession. Napoleon III also presented Notre Dame with a six foot bronze cru- j cifix and the Empress Eugenie, a gold | crown which in later years unfortunate-	j
ly disappeared.	1
Sharing popular interest with this	J
Napoleonic group are two exceptionally	J
unique ciboria. The first, of gold, is jeweled beautifully on the stem and base 1 and bears the seals of the United States, the seals of the Congregation of Holy Cross and of the Priest’s Eucharistic League. Engraved around the base are the words, “First American Eucharistic * Congress, 7-8, August 1894.”	j
The other ciborium, the largest, is	i
capable of holding 1200 Communion Hosts. In the colors of Notre Dame, it	j
is of gold decorated with blue cloisonne.	;
Ornamenting the stem are four delicate-	I
ly moulded statues representing St.	i
Peter, St. Louis of France, St Edward	J
and St. Henry (the latter two were	j
patrons of Father Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame).
Perhaps one of the most strikingpieces of the collection is the jeweled
22
The Scholastic


crown originally intended' for the statue of Our Lady on the Dome. Wrought of metal, it is fitted with various colored stones, and is so constructed as to contain 15 medallions which represent the mysteries of the rosary. This crown, along with the Empress Euugenie, was stolen in 1886, but was recovered by the South Bend police in a somewhat battered condition. The present crown is a rejuvenated replica of the original.
The majority of the museum pieces in the Notre Dame collection speak eloquently of the Spartan life led by the American missionary clergy. The pov
BROTHER BONIFACE
erty of the early priests and bishops is evident in the insignia of their offices and the sacred vessels they used. Many of the croziers of the bishops are carved from wood dressed with a thin layer of gilt. Others are starkly unadorned brass. Many are of metal lightly plated with silver and studded with colored glass to resemble gems.
Durability Once Prized
The episcopal rings and pectoral crosses are austere and harsh in appearance, valued by the prelates for their durability rather than for their ornateness. The necessary equipment of early missionaries includes inexpensive pewter cruets and bugia, Mass kits that are primarily functional, and vestments that bear the mark of Indian craftsmanship.
The Notre Dame collection is noted for its possession of the croziers of many of America’s first bishops. Gathered together in the collection are the croziers of the first bishop of Cleveland, of Mobile, San Antonio, Bardstown, now the diocese of Louisville, and
the Riocese of California. The twenty croziers in the collection are themselves a study on the evolution of the Catholic church in America. From the simple brass staffs of America’s early Bishops through the lavish gold croziers of recently deceased prelates, it is possible to trace the struggle that attended the lives of these pioneer clerics.
Supplementing the collection of Catholic Americana are historical religious objects from many parts of the world. There is a gold chalice that was presented to Pope Pius IX in 1875 by the Baldetti family, a pewter chalice that was used in France during the time of the Reign of Terror, to replace the more precious vessels destroyed by the mob, and a pre-Reformation silver and jeweled crozier which was the scepter of a Bishop of England. Among- the beauti-tifully woven vestments is the confessional stole of Father Damian, chaplain
JUNIOR AND PROM GUEST examining a collection of monstrances and relics in the Sacred Heart Museum which gives vivid history of the American Catholics.
of the lepers on Molokai, along with many of his letters. The amice of the recently canonized Cure of Ars, a close friend of Father Hudson, C.S.C., hangs in the collection. Most gorgeous and spectacular among the vestments is a set of six copes for use in Pontifical High Masses donated by Napoleon III. The vestments are of exquisite cloth of gold, decorated with gold embroidery and lined with red satin. They are removed from the cases for use only on special feast days.
This interesting collection of art treasures is always open to the public, and the musing tourist who wanders through Sacred Heart church to absorb the tradition of Notre Dame should not stop with a quick glimpse of the church, but take a few moments off from their flight to the Huddle and see a rare group of beautiful Catholic religious' vessels.	’
May 4, 1951
23
BELIEVE IN YOURSELF! Don't test one brand alone ...compare them all!
TRY THIS TEST! Take a PHILIP MORRIS—and any other cigarette. Then, here's oil you do:
4 Light up either cigarette. Take a puff—don't inhale— * and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose.
O Now do exactly the same thing with the other cigarette.
NOTICE PHIUP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER I
Unlike others, we never ask you to test our brand alone. We say ... compare PHILIP MORRIS...match PHILIP MORRIS . . . judge PHILIP MORRIS against any other cigarette!
Then make your own choice!
Remember...
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
MMRS
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
S PHIUP MORRIS
24
The Scholastic-

Klinemen Take Four-Game Road Trip
Wolverines, Spartans, Illinois Host to Irish
By Roger Fernandes, ’54
Starting next Tuesday the Irish varsity nine will play the first of four road games against the teams that may prove to be the toughest opponents ND will have to face this season. On Tuesday Coach Jake Kline’s lads will engage the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, Michigan.
On the next day they will journey to East Lansing for their second game of the season with the Michigan State Spartans. The Irish will wind up theii' baseball travels for the week with games on May 11 and 12 with Illinois at Champaign.
This Spring, Coach Ray Fisher of Michigan, is faced with another rebuilding job. Only six lettermen from the ’50 season have returned to the Wolverine lair. But Fisher has proved in the past that he is especially adept in molding tough, hard-to-beat teams from green, untried material.
Last year his Wolverines dropped a close 2-4 decision at Notre Dame. They made up for that defeat later on in the season when they trounced the Irish 13-1 at Ann Arbor. The overall baseball series record between the two teams show that the Irish have won only 16 while Michigan has come out on top in 40 meetings.
In their first eight contests this Spring the Wolverines came out on the long end of the score on five occasions. In their first two Western Conference outings Michigan went down to defeat before Illinois, 2-3 and 1-5.
This year’s Wolverine nine has been hard hit by losses through graduation, professional baseball," and to the services. Half of Coach Fisher’s 24 man squad is made up of sophomores and these youngsters figure heavily in his ’51 plans.
A few capable veterans form the nucleus of the Michigan team. Behind the plate they are especially strong with three men back from last year’s club— lettermen Pete Palmer and Lincoln
Painter, and Doug Peck, a reserve last season.
This trio of experienced backstoppers should help a lot to steady the green Wolverine pitching staff. The only lettermen back for mound duties are southpaw Bob Larwen, who pitched a few innings of Big Ten ball during the ’50 season, and junior Al Virgona, a righthander. Neither has had much seasoning. Four of the chuckers on the Michigan roster are sophomores.
The other two letter winners back with the club are first baseman Gerald Dorr and outfielder Leo Koceski, who, together with starting pitcher Pete Palmer, should lead the Michigan batting attack. Koceski hit .333 during the ’50 campaign while Palmer was the team’s No. 2 hitter with a batting average of .340. He drove in 11 runs.
On May 9 Notre Dame travels to East Lansing to meet Michigan State for the second time this season.	•
The Spartans handed Coach Kline’s nine their worst defeat of the season last April 25 at Cartier Field. The Spartans rolled over ND, 9-1, behind the combined hurling of Gus Carlson and Don Quayle. Carlson and Quayle limited the Irish to only four safeties, the smallest number of hits that the Notre Dame squad has knocked out in a single
Gridders Prep for Old Timer Tilt
TACKLERS CONVERGE on ball carrier in last week’s scrimmage in the stadium.
game to date during the ’51 season.
Coach Kline’s Fighting Irish will end the week’s invasion by traveling to Champaign, Ill., for two games with the University of Illinois. Last year the II-lini wrecked the Notre Dame nine twice, 21-0 and 4-1. In the series between the two schools they hold a decided advantage. They have beaten the Irish on 29 occasions while dropping only five games to ND.
Walter Roettger, Illinois coach, has only three regulars back from his ’50 squad that finished fourth in the Western Conference title chase. Almost half of the ’51 team are sophomores and as at Michigan the Illini hopes will rest on these yearlings.
This is especially true in the hurling department. Sophs George Maier and Carl Ahrens were great in high school and Illinois fans are expecting big things from them this season. Maier, a lefty, led Taft (Chicago) to the city championship as a prep. Righthander Ahrens pitched his high school, St. Ann, to four conference titles.	-
Two lettermen throwers back to bolster the mound staff are Herb Agase and Ed Zinker. They were the No. 3 and No. 4 chuckers respectively of the ’50 squad’s pitching corpse Agase had a three and nothing won-lost record
May 4, 1951
25
while Zinker broke even in two games.
Besides a whole crowd of promising sophomores to man the other positions Coach Roettger also has nine returning squad men from the ’50 club who failed to win letters but managed to see some ■ action. Behind the plate he will have a top notch receiver in team captain Bill Hoffman. Hoffman hit .271 during the ’50 season.
Dick Raklovits will also be back at the hot corner to steady the Illini infield. Last Spring he was third among the Illinois batters with a respectable .361 average. Seven of his hits went for home runs. Out in center field letterman Lou Krantz will be back for another season. Last year he hit the horsehide at a .305 clip.
Blazing-Hot Irish Cuesticks Win National Championship
Notre Dame again wears the crown of National Inter-Collegiate Champion— this time as regent of the pocket billiard world. In the recent Charley Peterson Invitational Tournament, Notre Dame’s team downed 51 other colleges and universities to cop the first place trophy.
JOHN WHALEY
John Whaley of Racine, Wis., and Sorin Hall, was high point man for the NDers, and top man in the entire MidWest. With the high-point men in the other four national districts, Whaley went to Ann Arbor, Mich., for the individual pocket* billiard finals. He did all right for himself, winding up in second position in competition with some of the best collegiate players in the country.
In the telephonic team tourney Notre Dame faced stiff opposition from such
26
schools as Michigan, Michigan State, Indiana, Purdue, Washington State and Wisconsin. When all the scores were in, it showed that the team from South Bend was the champ. Dan Finn, Senior from New York City; John Fish, a Dearborn, Mich., Sophomore; Sophomore Jim Foley of Canonsburg, Pa.; Paul Dombinski, a Morrissey Sophomore from the Bronx; and Whaley were the expert cuemen who totaled 435 points out of a possible 500 for the winning score. The National Champs of 1951 have three of their five-man team returning next year, and already they are aiming for another trophy to join its brother in the Rec Room.
Irish Tame Panthers, Fall Before Spartans
The last week of baseball brought a bright smile to Coach Kline’s face as Notre Dame poured on the power to win two of three games and boost its season’s record to five and three. The Irish lost the first of the three games to Michigan State, 9-1 at Cartier Field. Then the Klinemen journeyed to Pittsburgh to drop the Panthers in a two-game series.
In the game with the Spartans, the Irish could not seem to get started. Notre Dame collected only four hits off the combined efforts of Gus Carlson and Don Quayle, the least they have garnered off opposing pitchers this season. Captain Bob Nemes, who started for the Irish, was very effective for the first few innings. Nemes struck out the first two men to open the game; but after two were out in the second, the Spartans knocked three straight bingles to produce their first run of the game.
The Irish tied the score in the second inning. Jim Gillis hit safely, and Len LeRose followed with a single. Then Pat O’Neil stepped up and flied deep, Gillis tagged up after the catch and brought home the only Irish run.
Michigan State went ahead for keeps in the third, scoring three runs on two hits and an error. After sending home another run in the fifth, Quayle relieved Carlson and finished the game for State. The Spartans scored two runs in the eighth and two off relief-hurler Stan Konopka to finish the scoring for the day.
The Irish then went on to capture a two-game series from the Pitt Panthers at Pittsburgh 5-1, and 10-5 in 11 innings.
The highlight of the opening game was the pitching of Soph hurler Konopka who had a no-hitter for himself until the ninth inning. Two errors, one by Konopka, a fielder’s choice, and the only
hit, a single by third-baseman Joe Ross, sent home the Panther’s lone run.
Notre Dame didn’t give Pitt pitcher Lomond a chance to get set, as they hopped on him right from the start. Two errors, and a hit by catcher Tom Boland contributed to the first three Irish runs.
The Kline-men closed their series the following day, and things looked dark for the Irish until the ninth. Panther hurler Ray Hollis practically had the game in his back pocket when Durkin was permitted to reach second on an error. Then Hollis hit Bob Manning, putting a man on first and second. Jim Gillis singled scoring Durkin, and Boland doubled sending Manning across the plate with the tying run. The game was canned into the 11th inning when Manning led off with a walk. Gillis beat out an infield hit, and an intentional pass by Hollis filled the sacks. A bingle by Joe Ridge over the first baseman’s head knocked in two runs. Jack Cunningham homered to clean the bases and end the scoring. Jean Ferryman held the Panthers scoreless in the last of the ninth and was credited with the win.
—Robert Frolicher, ’54
Irish Tie Purdue Golfers;
Soph Tom Matey Shoots 137
The Notre Dame golf team seemed almost certain, at one time, last Monday to overwhelm the Purdue golf team, but in the end the Irish were lucky to get a tie.
Playing on their home course and under almost ideal conditions the Irish golfers took a 6/-2J4 lead at the end of the morning competition, and latei-increased that lead to seven points, 12/2-5/2.
The Boilermakers, however, staged a remarkable comeback and took eight of the last nine points to tie the match at 13/2 all.
Tom Matey was the standout golfer of the day with a 69 in the moi’ning and a 68 in the afternoon round. Captain Tom Veech carded a pair of par 72s. Norm Dunlop led the Boilermakers with 71 and 70.
Summaries: Best Ball Match: Tom Veech and Tom Klett (ND) beat Gene Coulter and Dick Wibel (P), 3-0; Tom Matey and Joe Moresco (ND) beat Dave Laflin and Jeck Hesler (P), 3-0; Charlie Dye and Norm Dunlop (P), beat Warren Higgins and Preston Murphy (ND) 2/2-/2.
Singles: Veech (ND) tied Coulter (P), 1/-1/; Matey (ND) beat Laflin (P), 2-1; Moresco (ND) beat Hesler (P), 2/-J4; Dunlop (P) beat Murphy (ND), 2-1; Wibel (P) beat Frank Mar-zolf (ND), 3-0; Charlie Houff (P) beat Warren Higgins (ND), 3-0.
The Scholastic
Introducing the Cro’dt
This, gentlemen, is the O’Donnell Trophy, and if you are wondering where you’ve seen it before, it used to hang at the west end of the Notre Dame cafeteria. It’s the symbol of the National Football Championship.
At the present time the trophy is in a place of honor somewhere on the University of Oklahoma campus. It was at Notre Dame only one year, but it may be at Oklahoma longer if the Sooners are able to renew their lease on it next fall.
But at the present time at Notre Dame there are some 75 determined young- men who are showing that they mean this trophy to stay at Oklahoma no longer than one year. They’re working pretty hard at their job every afternoon on Cartier Field. We can call them the ’51 Irish or any other name that would identify them as the players who will perform for Notre Dame in the Fall, but the CRO’DT characterizes the intention with which they seem to be working. They appear to be a 75 man Committee for the Return of the O’Donnell Trophy. That’s the high type of spirit that prevails among the ’51 Irish —they want nothing but the top.
Just how much of a chance they will have to gain the top will be known in a short eight days when they play the Old Timers in the annual game which winds up spring practice. Right now it’s not known who will be in the starting lineup for the grads, and it probably won’t be known until shortly before game time. Last year, for example, George Connor and Zeke O’Connor decided to come down and watch the annual show, but at the last minute decided they’d like to see it right up close—from the scrimmage line. Their- play helped the Old Timers to a 25-7 win. The Old Timers, by the way, had no less than seven AllAmericans on their squad in that game.
Whether they can muster as many this year is pure speculation, but they will have two to begin with. Both Bob Williams and Jerry Groom, All-American members from last Fall’s Squad, are due to start for the Oldsters. They, along with other Senior members of the ’50 squad, will form the nucleus of this year’s Old Timers.
An odd feature of the game this yearwill be that John Mazur and Williams will be swapping the positions they held in the game a year ago. Williams quar-backed the Varsity, naturally, but Mazur
was drafted into the Old Timer backfield at the last moment when Frank Tripuc-ka missed travelling connections and was unable to make it out here from home. In spite of having- seven AllAmericans around him, Mazur played cool football that day, and showed that he already had the equipment to step into the first string quarterback spot at any time.
But this year, unfortunately for Notre Dame, there is no one behind Mazur as there was behind Williams. Just how much of an obstacle! this is for the Committee is not known now, but it should be known to some extent one week from tomorrow.
Time Out
Two Sophs from Cavanaugh Hall are running away with the fishing contest currently being run on campus. Between them, Don Dombroski and Odilio Diaz have caught the five largest fish registered thus far. Dombroski has hauled in one of the biggest fish ever caught in the campus lakes—a 19 inch large mouth bass weighing 3% pounds.
Trade Meet Program Set for Next Thursday
The final four members of the ten- . man staff for the fourth annual Notre Dame World Trade Conference which will be held next Thursday, have been announced by the College of Commerce.
The Conference will include a morning round table forum, commencing at 10 a.m., a luncheon in the faculty dining hall, and a panel discussion beginning at 2 p.m., and will close with an evening dinner, also in the faculty dining hall.
The most recently named speakers for the local conference include Richard P. Hildreth, advertising-sales promotion coordinator for the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey; Clarence J. Ruethling, assistant vice-president of the First National Bank of Chicago; Andrew J. Degnan, of the Chicago office of Marine Underwriters — Chubb and Son; and James A. Gibb, assistant export manager of the Caterpillar Tractor Company, Peoria, Ill.
Mr. Hildreth, who is in charge of advertising activities in all of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey’s overseas markets, has been connected with Standard Oil since 1922. Previous to his appointment as advertising sales promotion coordinator in 1949, Mr. Hildreth served with the company as assistant head of the Foreign Marketing Department. Mr. Hildreth will deliver the . principal address at the dinner meeting of the conference.
Mr. Ruethling, who will preside as chairman of the morning round table discussion at the conference, has been associated with the First National Bank of Chicago since 1918. Elected assistant cashier of the Chicago Bank in 1940, he assumed his present position earlier this year. Mr. Ruethling has been active for more than twenty years in the Export Managers Club of Chicago and in other foreign trade organizations in the Middle West.
Mr. Degnan who will speak on insurance at the afternoon panel discussion, is a member of the Traffic Club and Export Managers Club in Chicago. Associated with Chubb and Son for the past twenty-five years, he was located in the company’s New York branch for ten years before moving to the Chicago office.
Mr. Gibb has been employed as mechanical and service engineer with Sugar Industry in Hawaii and Cuba, and as chief engineer and assistant manager of the Wailuku Sugar Company in Hawaii. He joined the staff of the Caterpillar Tractor Company in 1930, where he served as district representative in Latin America and export sales supervisor. Mr. Gibb was appointed
May 4, 1951
27
assistant export manager of the firm in 1942. At the local conference Mr. Gibb will discuss the part played by management in world trade.
Previously announced speakers for the World Trade Conference include Nicholas J. Murphy, vice-president of the Foreign Department of the Chase National Bank of New York City; Colonel Redington Fiske, of New York, editor of Export Trade and Shipper; Emil E. Schnellbacher, director of intelligence of the Office of Internal Trade in the U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D. C.; William E. Koerting, vice-president in charge of foreign sales at Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, Ind.; Luis G. Dillon, executive vice-president of Foote, Cone, and Belding International Corporation, New York City; and John K. Cunningham, vice-president of the Judson Sheldon Division of the National Carloading Corporation, New York City.
Mr. J. E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce, will preside as chairman of the afternoon panel discussion at the conference and will serve in the same capacity at the noon-day luncheon.
The Notre Dame World Trade Conference, which brings about an exchange of ideas among businessmen and educators was inaugurated by the College of Commerce in 1948. Since the first meeting, four years ago, nationally known authorities from every phase of overseas marketing have annually assembled at Notre Dame to discuss the socio-economic problems in world trade.
The popularity of a university-sponsored meeting such as the Notre Dame World Trade Conference was cited by Professor Wesley C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing and Chairman of the 1951 confab, when he said: “The first conference was held during May, 1948. The success of this first conference is well illustrated by the many business executives who now make the Notre Dame World Trade Conference an annual affair.”
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 4—BASEBALL at Illinois
Wesleyan
GOLF at Loyola (Chicago)
TENNIS at Michigan
5—BASEBALL at Illinois
Wesleyan
TRACK at Missouri GOLF at Northwestern TENNIS Michigan State
6—TENNIS Marquette here
8—BASEBALL at Michigan
9—BASEBALL at Michigan State
TENNIS at Purdue 11—BASEBALL at Illinois
Irish Trackmen Fly to Columbia Tomorrow For Meet Against Heavily-Favored Missouri
Hitting the airways for the first time tomorrow will be the track team which is flying out to Columbia, Missouri for a dual meet with the University of Missouri. The 24 trackmen making the trip will leave tomorrow morning and return the same night.
Missouri appears favored to come out with the win. They are loaded with individual stars headed by their captain, Bill McGuire, who hit a 4:10.7 mile and a 9:16.7 two mile last year—both of which are good times for national championship competition to say nothing of dual meets. They have another good two miler in Bob Fox who has hit the distance in 9:21, which means rough competition for the Notre Dame two-milers.
Last week in the Drake Relays Notre Dame’s top runner, half miler John Mohar ran his fastest race ever, till then —1:54.7—and a nameless Missouri man moved away from him with a 1:52 job!
Their quarter miler, Randy Vanet, had a nice reputation as a Sophomore two years back, but was out most of last year as a result of an injury suffered in the Notre Dame dual meet.
Missouri is also set in the hurdles— they had a pretty good shuttle-hurdle team last week at Drake, and have a good sprinter in Byron Clark.
Probably Missouri’s best field-event man is high jumper Bob Gordon who has
Leahy Unveils Squad In Old Timers' Game
Tomorrow’s scrimmage will mark the end of the fifth week of Spring practice for Coach Frank Leahy’s 1951 version of Notre Dame football. A week from tomorrow an expected crowd of 25,00c will witness the unveiling ceremonies of Leahy’s new gridiron machine as it is pitted against a squad of graduating seniors, alumni and reserves in the annual Old Timers Game in the Notre Dame Stadium.
As yet the only definites on the Old Timer roster are graduating seniors headed by last year’s All-Americans Bob Williams and Jerry Groom. Williams will handle the quarterbacking for the Oldsters while Groom will be at the center spot. Other seniors in the lineup include fullback Jack Landry, left halfback Bill Gay, right guard Fred Wallner, left tackle Bill Flynn, right halfback Dick Cotter, half-back Leo McKil-lip, quarterback Bill Whiteside, halfback Gene Smith, end Ray Jonardi, center Chuck Feigl and guard Bill Higgins.
hit 6’7 3/4” in the high jump. Since high jumpers are not noted for their consistency, Hughes Wilcox or Tom Hassinger could beat him if they have a good day. Laddie Stovall is their broad jumper and he’s done 23’6” which is about where Irishman John Worthington jumped when he was at his best. Worthington, however is recovering from a leg injury, and tomorrow’s performance is an out and out question mark.
Last week Notre Dame made hardly a ripple in the relay meets. Javelin thrower Jack Murphy didn’t even go to the Penn Relays as scheduled because Coach Wilson didn’t feel that his arm— always susceptible to early season injuries—was ready for competition. Tomorrow Jack gives the old flipper its first hard workout of the year in the Missouri meet.
John Mohar was the big boy in the Drake Relays for ND. The junior half miler ran the two fastest races of his life—1.54.7 and 1.54.3—in a futile attempt to catch the anchormen of the leading teams in the sprint medley and the two mile relays. In the two mile relay Notre Dame was sixth and in the sprint medley race they were fifth. Not bad since both of these races went in close-to-world’s-record time and Notre Dame wasn’t too far back in either.
—Ted Prahinski, ’51.
However, stars of previous campaigns are expected to return. It has been the custom in past years for players to trickle in almost up until game time, don their uniforms and play for the Alumni.
This year the Varsity will be out not only to prove to the public that they will be a good team next September, but also to avenge last year’s 25-7 defeat at the hands of the Oldsters. How successful they will be is dependent to a large degree on how the team, which is made up of many inexperienced players, will react to the fire of collegiate ball. In last week’s practice four of the starters were first year men—Joe Katchik at end, tackle Dick Hilinski, center Art Hunter and guard Frank Varrichione. Varrich-ione assumed the duties of right guard when Chet Ostrowski suffered an arm injury.
With but one week of practice left, the biggest improvement seems to be the downfield blocking and the spirit of the team. The offensive line led by Mutsch-heller and guard Paul Burns is blocking viciously and accurately. On defense, linebacker Jack Alessandrini has been outstanding in, his diagnosis of plays.
The Scholastic
28
Netters Split Two; Beat Badgers, Lose to 'Cats
The Irish netters won their first * match from Wisconsin and dropped their next one to Northwestern by the same5 close margin, one point. The score ►- in both matches was 5-4, and in each case it was the final game of the final doubles match which decided the outcome of the team match.
J At Wisconsin a week ago yesterday both teams won three points in the singles and one of the first two doubles »- matches. Jim Hennessey and Tom Over
holser then defeated Bob Reian and Jack Endres, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4.
It was almost the same story here last Saturday in the match -with Northwestern. Going into the last doubles match the score was tied at four all, each team having won three singles and one doubles match. This time, however, Notre Dame’s two top men, sophomores Ken Angyal and Ray Smith, lost to the Wildcats best, Dan Baumie and Curt Beusman, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2.
a
“READ / MORE
IN LESS TIME-”
say N. D. MEN
PAT TONTI, left, and Herb Hoene, right,
Dr. Adler Gives Talk Here On Liberal Program Monday
Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, nationally known author and Professor of Philosophy of Law at the University of Chicago, will speak here Monday night. His lecture, which will be given at 8 p. m. in the Law Auditorium, is entitled “Labor, Leisure, and Liberal Education.”
The General Program of Liberal Education here, which is headed by Dr. Otto Bird, is the sponsor of the lecture. Dr. Adler’s speech is to be one of many sponsored by Notre Dame’s General Program for the benefit of the public as well as for the specific students of the course.
The General Program, which has been inaugurated just this year, takes into account the study of the tradition of Western Civilization, from the time of the classical Greeks to the present day.
Dr. Adler, noted proponent of the Humanitarian School, is the co-founder of the General Program of Liberal Education at the University of Chicago.
are co-captains of this year's net squad.
Philosopher Smith Publishes Third Book; All in One Year
The publication of any three books in a year by the same author is no minorfeat, but when the books are in the field of philosophy, it’s a particularly significant achievement.
The publication June 1 of Footnotes for the Atom will mark the appearance of the third book by Vincent Edward Smith, young Thomist thinker, in just more than a year.
Dr. Smith’s book Philosophical Physics was published early in 1950 by Harper’s. Late last year Idear-Men of Today appeared under the Bruce imprint.
While still in the same field, the new book is more on the popular level as Dr. Smith shows how “a scientist-thinker sees hope for the tomorrow of a fearful age only in solutions beyond science.”
Editor of the New Scholasticism and on the philosophy faculty here at Notre Dame, Dr. Smith has written extensively for learned journals. His first book, Philosophical Frontiers of Physics, was published in 1947.
Whatever your future plans may be, more reading power will aid in your success.
Typical statements made by persons taking Foundation’s reading course:
Robt. J. Moskal
“I was amazed to find that in only 20 hours of instruction I was able to increase my reading rate from 311 words a minute to 1215 words a minute and at the same time to improve my comprehension,” says Robert J-Moskal, N. D. Law Student. “I am very sorry that I did
not have a chance to take the course when I was
a freshman/’
“. . . has helped in all forms of reading. My increased reading speed enables me to cut study and outside reading time in half,” says. Jack Becker, N._ D. Senior in Commerce. “Even the reading of involved and difficult material is made much more enjoyable.”
John J. Becker
GET STARTED NOW
... TO FINISH BEFORE EXAMS
First step is to test your college aptitude, ability to learn and basic skills. This tells you, among other things, your opportunities for reading improvement. This important survey is also available separately at a nominal fee. Then follows the eye-mind training which enables you to comprehend words and phrases faster. All this is done easily and conveniently — day or evening — without advance preparation.
Call, write, or stop in for full information today.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle ’ Phone 3-0077
May 4, 1951
29
Church-State Controversy Lingers in South America
The conflict between Church and State in Latin-America is so firmly fixed in tradition that improvements in these relations will have to be very gradual, according to Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame.
Dr. Hermens addressed a Seminar on World Affairs sponsored April 25 here by the University’s Committee on International Relations.
“A distinction must be drawn between Anglo-Saxon and Latin traditions in democracy,” the Notre Dame professor said. “Anglo-Saxon democracy never knew of any systematic opposition to religion. Latin democracy has, almost since its very beginning, developed an active opposition to religion—at any rate to religion in the form of Catholicism.
“At times the conflict was aggravated as much by the particular type of Church as by the particular type of State involved. The Latin Church was part and parcel of the old political order, and often defended it blindly regardless of its defects. In reprisal, it was attacked by the opponents of the old order, and a vicious circle was initiated from which no Latin country has yet completely escaped.”
Finally, Professor Hermens explained that there has not been enough emphasis in Latin-America on the rational basis of religion, as expressed by theologians. The failure to harmonize the emotional feelings of religion with reason has led to the renouncing of religion by a great many intellectuals, especially among the male population.
“There is, however, improvement being made in all respects,” he added. “As Latin-America becomes more democratic, the Catholic Church becomes more modern and more efficient. Ultimately, the Anglo-Saxon pattern of ChurchState Relationship is bound to spread to the Latin world, but it is a slow, long process.”
Fisher Fund
(Continued from page 11) sity will relinquish its rights as a beneficiary.
An interest rate of one per cent will be charged on all loans regardless of the amount. These payments must be made by the borrower on the first of October and April of each year.
The applicant must start repaying the loan four months after graduation or withdrawal from the University. Pay
30
ments of not less than ten per cent of the borrower’s income—or not less than one-twelfth of ten per cent of the total amount borrowed—whichever may be larger—will be required in equal monthly installments.
After the loan has been repaid, the money goes back into the fund and is made available for loans to other students. This method of revolving loans increases the utility of the fund and provides opportunities for an unlimited number of students over the years.
Fr. Stegman revealed that the first loan was granted on Feb. 1, 1950. Only four loans, however, were granted last schoolyear. This Fall the operation got into full swing. Loans varying from $100 to $900 a year have been granted, totaling $60,000 in loans outstanding at the present time.
Video-tising Is Pay Dirt With Big-Time Sponsors
Sponsors are hitting pay-dirt more effectively than ever before with their “Be Happy, Go Lucky” and “Look Sharp,” blurbs on the video screen.
Robert W. McFadyen, Manager of the Television Sales Planning and Research Department of the National Broadcasting Company, told a University of Notre Dame audience that “no advertising medium in history has started with such amazing distribution as has television advertising.” Mr. McFadyen spoke this week at the last of a series of five advertising media symposia sponsored by the Notre Dame Advertising Club, student organization in the University’s College of Commerce.
The NBC executive told the Notre Dame students that in the recent NBC-Hofstra study made in Eastern cities, it was discovered that for every dollar invested in television advertising there was returned an average of $19.27 in increased sales volume. The study was made over a period of time, and the pro-
“I think someone wants the phone.”
ducts used were package goods of nondurable quality, (such as tooth-paste, razor blades, etc,).	.
Mr. McFadyen hastened to point out, however, that as competition among advertisers increases the results will be less marked. The problem consequently arises as to the methods of cutting _ costs to the sponsors. These costs run upward beginning with approximately $19,000 for the regular half-hour show, he said, and increased sales alone will not carry the cost of such advertising when competition among advertisers stiffens.
Mr. McFadyen, who revealed that lO1^ million television sets have been sold in the United States in the past three years, pointed out that in Chicago alone 4 50 percent of the families own video sets which operate on the average of five and one-half hours each day. Because of the attention given the sets and the large number of persons viewing the shows, Mr. McFadyen explained, the importance of television as a mature media in advertising cannot be overlooked. All cities with populations exceeding 250,000, except Denver and Portland, now have at least one telecasting station, he said.
In giving his opinion on some of the more perplexing questions of the tele- _ vision industry, Mr. McFadyen declared that he doubts if television sets ever will reach the low cost of radio sets because of technical problems which increase the basic cost of construction.
As regards a coast-to-coast television hookup, Mr. Fadyen said present plans call for a completed cable across the nation by January, 1952, and “it should , be possible to see next year’s Rose Bowl football game over any television set in the United States.”
New Officers of Moot Court Sworn In at Annual Banquet
Incoming officers of the Moot Court Association assumed their offices at the first annual Moot Court banquet, held April 25 in the Faculty Dining Hall.
E. Milton Farley III took over as director, Donald Tufts as executive di rector; Donald Travis, Junior chancellor; William Fleming, Freshman chancellor, and Hugh Henry, director of publica- | tions.	'
Guests of honor at the banquet were J Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the Col- J lege of Law, Judge J. E. Peak of St.	I
Joseph Superior Court No. Two, and J.	i
J. Hemphling, vice-president of the St. v Joseph County Bar Association. Other	g
guests included about 25 members of the	g
St. Joseph County Bar Association, who | had served as judges of the various Moot 1 Court arguments, and the faculty mem- j bers of the Law School.	|
The Scholastic I

KfUicJuutj. AnxMtvl Ute JlaHi,
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.50 a day per man for complete camping equipment, canoes and food supplies. For Booklet, write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, — Ely, Minnesota.
No Pitchers’ Duels, These!
As the second week of interhall softball rolled around many teams bit the J dust for the first time, with a few others being dropped from the league because they did not show up for two or more games. The five teams that were dropped, were Lyons and Walsh from the gold league, Breen-Phillips from the blue league, and the Buffalo 8 and Erie clubs from the “A” league.
Swinging to one of the few surviving undefeated teams, the K of C. is way out in front of the “B” league with a 4-0 record. Among their ill-fated opponents last week was the Hawaiian Club, which dropped an 11-2 decision to the league leaders. Once again it was . fast-balling Bob Savage chalking up the win, while allowing only three hits.
> Stinking hard and fast, the K. of C. tallied six times in the second inning. In the third they came back with two more runs, capping the scoring with three in the final frame. All in all they collected 15 hits, with the big blow coming in the second on Gene Riley’s triple :	with the bases loaded.
Earlier in the week Savage and Co. whipped the Central New York Club by the same score, 11-2, and crushed the Syrian-Lebonese, 20-1. In four games .. Savage has allowed six runs to cross the plate.
Among the two undefeated teams in the gold league, St. Ed’s seminarians lead the pack with a 3-0 mark. In last week’s encounters they gained wins over Zahm and Badin, Seating the latter 8-6, . behind pitcher Dick Pappan. Again in the Zahm contest, it was Pappan who turned the trick, winning a loosely-played bailgame, 14-10.
' What really jolted the Zahmies and j starter Tom Sullivan was a ten run first inning from which they could not recover, even though they came back with four runs in the third and five in in the fourth. St. Ed’s thirdsacker, Jim Zuppa, paced the league leaders with two safe blows.
The only other unscarred team in the :	gold loop is Howard Hall, which gained
p	a couple of victories last week in down-
H	ing Alumni and Morrissey, 24-11, and
1	14-8, respectively.
•	In a blue league contest, St. Ed’s re>	ceived their first setback at the hands
i	of Mike Levis’ Zahm outfit, 9-1. Behind
the one-hit hurling of fastballer Matt i Kuluz, who fanned a total of 14 batters,
Zahm pushed across five runs in the third frame to insure an easy victory. Paul Johnson’s sharp double to left center with two on was the deciding blow of the inning. The game on the whole was very well played, with Kuluz, a Biloxi, Miss., product, in complete control all the way.
In the remaining games played in that league, Vetville, the top team, edged Sorin, 14-11, and Farley dropped Alumni green from the ranks of the undefeated, 4-1. Other results saw Cavanaugh nip Morrissey 8-6; St. Ed’s blue beat Sorin blue, 10-7; Kansas City wallop the St. Louis Club 15-6; Detroit out-slug Fox River Valley 16-14. This same Detroit Club slaughtered the Buffalo club 31-8, bub were outdone for the scoring record when the Central Illinois Club ran up a 43-8 score over Minnesota. In their respective leagues both these clubs, retain the top spot.
—Jack Sand, ’54
Baseball Loop brinks
For the second straight week, the Interhall baseball slate suffered because of forfeited games. On Wednesday, each division contributed a forfeit with Sorin winning over Cavanaugh in the east while Morrissey, leading the west, gained an automatic triumph over Alumni. Badin and Howard, original members of the western division, dropped out of the league leaving only four in that section. A protest lodged by B-P against Zahnj Blue on Friday, which is still pending, curtained the week’s action to two games.
On Tuesday, Breen-Phillips evened its record at one win one loss by topping Zahm Gold, 7-3, in five innings.
The tensest moment of the game was the top of the third as the Zahmites, trailing 4-0, loaded the sacks with nobody away. Frank Lane stepped to the dish and smacked a sizzling low liner which seemed tabbed for basehit territory. Jack Donahue, B-P hurler, stuck his glove down, speared the ball at his shoetops, spun and whipped it to third baseman who stepped on third and threw to second for one of those baseball rarities—a triple play.
Sam Tiano’s triple in the fourth enabled B-P to increase its lead as Zahm came to bat in the top of the fifth. In a last ditch effort, Frank Lane’s three-bagger gave Zahm two runs. However, Lane was stranded as Donahue whiffed (Continued on page 33)
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, hid.
iim/n
HEALTH SPOT I
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
Ill SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
CORSAGES
FLOWERS
for
All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
May 1, 1951
31
Veech, Milwaukee's Finest, Makes Master's; Puts Weight Behind Notre Danie's Golf Attack
By Bill Londo, ’53
While golf has never been a game of midgets, any such illusions that “shorties” like Ben Hogan and Sam Sneed might supply are quickly dispelled when Notre Dame’s Tom Veech is on the scene. For the only thing small about Tom is the size of his scores.
A description of Veech would lead one to believe that he is Frank Leahy’s starting right tackle, rather than the captain of the Notre Dame golf squad. “Tiny Tom,” as ND’s golf coach Father George L. Holderith has dubbed the Milwaukee linksman, packs 270 pounds on a 6’ 2” frame, which would be considered large even in the domain of Bob Toneff and Paul Burns.
However, Veech’s bulk is not what causes a stir whenever the Irish star steps up to a golf tee. For the native of the Wisconsin beer metropolis has amassed a series of titles and medals that would make even a French general burn with envy.
He has won about every Milwaukee city and district crown, and holds several course records throughout the Badger state. In addition Tom has been the 1947 Western Junior Amateur champion, 1948 Wisconsin State Open champ, a semi-finalist in the 1949 National Collegiate tournament, a quarter-finalist in the National Amateur, and twice Wisconsin’s golfer of the year.
Veech got his start on the fairways through the encouragement of his father, who is a low 70’s shooter himself. Tom was 13 at the time, and although he liked the game immediately, he did not take his first lesson until six years later. At 15, long before he took that lesson, Tom managed to win the North Hills Junior Club championship and be runner-up in the Wisconsin State Junior tourney.
At Milwaukee’s Washington High, ' Veech captained the golf team for three years. During his high school days he won the state school crown as well as the Brew city’s championship.
Father Holderith got his first look at Veech while the Notre Dame golf team was playing a match with Marquette. “Tiny Tom” approached him and inquired about the possibility of going to college at ND. The next year, the winter of 1948, Veech did enter Notre
Dame, and with the entrance many of Father Holderith’s worries left.
Veech is working on his third letter this season as captain of the linksmen. In match play since his matriculation Tom has won 16, lost three, and tied one.
“TINY TOM” VEECH
In 1949 Veech finished with an overall average of 71.9, which he trimmed to 71.3 last spring.
Mechanically Tom has the consistency that every top golfer needs. Off the tees he is an especially powerful hitter, and the same is true of his long irons. Veech’s toughest golfing assignment is on the greens, where he sometimes meets the fate of the ordinary duffer—three putts.
Although his outstanding achievement was his performance in the National Amateur last summer, which won him an invitation to the recent Master’s Tournament, Tom considers the triumph in the Wisconsin Open as his greatest victory. Tom posted a record score of 274, as he became the second amateui-to ever finish on top and the tournament’s youngest victor.
Veech is a Senior in Commerce and is majoring in Business Administration. After his graduation in June Tom would like to play the pro golf circuit as an amateur for a year, and then move into the play-for-pay bracket himself.
Placement News
Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Office, has announced job interviews for the week beginning Monday.
On Monday, Messrs. M. A. McCormick and T. F. Plimpton of the Inland Steel Corporation, East Chicago, Indiana, will interview accounting majors, engineers and candidates for their general management training program. On the same day Mr. J. A. Babb of the Equitable Life Assurance Society will interview those interested in administrative work. This interview will not be for a selling job.
Tuesday, a representative of the Travelers Insurance Company, Hartford, Conn., will see any persons interested in being group service representatives. On both Tuesday and Wednesday, Mr. H. B. MacCready of the Ford Motor Company will interview students for" a variety of jobs. The work will be in the Detroit area.
Dr. J. F. Zimmerman of Sinclair Refineries will see chemistry students on Wednesday. Wednesday and Thursday, Mr. R. C. Burke of the Royal-Liverpool Group of New York will talk to people interested in underwriting and accounting.
Mr. Dooley would also like to announce that on May 16 someone from the Indiana State Employment Service will register all those withdrawing from school at the end of the semester. A person’s registration will be sent to the employment office in the area in which he wants to work so that he may more easily get a position. There is a special division for teacher applicants. This service is free to all and no appointments need be made.
Maurice Mahon Is Killed In Fort Wayne Air Crash
Maurice E. Mahon, a January Graduate, was killed in an airplane crash near Fort Wayne, Ind., Saturday night. The funeral took place in Sacred Heart Church at 10 a. m. Wednesday.
Rev. Regis O’Neill, c. s. c., was the celebrant of the Mass. Rev. Thomas Fitzpatrick, C. s. C., delivered the sermon, and the Moreau seminary choii* sang. Burial was in St. Joseph’s Valley Memorial park with military rites at the grave.
Mahon was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mahon, 211 Dixie Way South, Roseland. Mr. Mahon works in the Chemistry Building.
While at Notre Dame Mahon was an active member in several organizations. After graduation in January he was affiliated with the F.B.I. Office in Cleveland, Ohio.
32
The Scholastic
YEARS AGO
------By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53-------
Fifty Years Ago
From the May 4, 1901, Scholastic: Mother M. Ascension, who aided Fathei* Sorin in the early work of building up Notre Dame, passed away during the week. She was 75 years old. . . . The baseball team defeated the University of Indiana, 7-0. . . . The topic of the trial debate to determine places on the debating team was “That the permanent retention of the Philippines is not desirable.” . . . Fred C. Prichard, president of the Falls Colliery Co., of Ferris, W. Va., made a brief visit to the University as a guest of the faculty. . . . The golf club was organized during the week and obtained a course on the north shore of St. Mary’s Lake.
Twenty-Five Years Ago
From the May 7, 1926, Scholastic: The University announced plans to put an addition to Lyons Hall and to construct a new hall similar to Morrissey. ... A collection of cuneiform tablets, some dating back to 2400 B. C., were on display in the Library. The tablets were a gift of Edgar J. Bouks, a noted archeologist. . . . The University orchestra was scheduled to go on a concert tour through southern Indiana. . . . Rehearsal began for “Lord Byron,” a lyrical drama in one act, written by Jack Graham and Norb Engels, students at the University. . . . George Bernard Shaw’s “Saint Joan” appeared at the Oliver during the week.
Ten Years Ago
From the May 9, 1941, Scholastic: In an interview with the Scholastic, Frank E. Hering, of the class of ’98, world-renowned founder of Mothers Day, stated that the spirit of Notre Dame men provided the inspiration for the founding of the day. Mr. Hering was a member of the board of University lay trustees. . . . The marching band was to go to Kokomo, Ind., for a concert the following Sunday. . . . Dr. Constantine E. McGuire, of Washington, D. C., and Nicaragua, spoke to the Juniors and Seniors on a socio-economic description of South America. Mr. McGuire was a member of the University board of lay trustees. . . . Changes in the contemporary world were discussed in a symposium sponsored by the Review of Politics. . . . Joseph B. Wells, vice-president of the D’Arcy Advertising Company of St. Louis, Mo., discussed the psychological and social aspects of advertising at an “Advertising Day,” program sponsored by the College of Commerce.
Knocking Around
(Continued from page 31)
the last batter. Donahue, going the route, received credit for his first victory while* Neil MacFarlan was the losing pitcher. .
Thursday found two Zahm teams playing each other with the Orange team handing the Gold their second defeat of the week in a squeaker, 7-6. The five inning contest was a thriller all the way.
Gold seemed to have this one in the bag, leading 6-3 as Orange came to bat in the home half of the last inning.
The rally started as Don Zech slapped a single. Next batter, First Baseman Tom Unzicker, who led the Orange attack last week against Walsh, smashed a towering triple to right center, scored Zech. With one out, Jim Libera-
LIFE IS SHOUT COLLEGIANS!!!
Why not devote it to God as a
FRANCISCAN TEACHING BROTHER
In the Classroom—On the Ball Field—In Club Activities—At Camp CHRIST and YOUTH need YOU!
Write: BROTHER LOUIS, O.S.F., 41 Butler St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.
right this minute.,.ro3ster^h!
•Ntscals (piMnKHNES-CtfAY) ktteuclKtnritMm4tnfeBirttfTteNKtiCaww.k«-*tai0BfciMMaaMjNfeMtt Is cmrsH if qulsuts cf gm satakls caffM ad aMKartiiv*ata(tam0;mnmariMm>) ^MsMUsmlactGsaaNr.
Boning up? You’ll cram more study into each night session by taking time out (just seconds!) for the quick "lift” of Nescafe*.
No coffee-pot. No grounds.
' No brewing. Yet Nescafe makes roaster-fresh coffee... right this minute! Simply put
More people drink NESCAFE than all other Instant Coffees!
tore was safe on an error as Unzicker came across. Jack Newman chipped in a single and Al Ryan followed with another to bring Liberatore in with the tying run, Newman going to third. With McGinn at bat, Newman streaked for home and slid under the catcher’s tag to give the Orange their second victory of the season, tying Sorin for the top spot.
Glenn Sliger, tossing fine ball in relief of starter Al Ryan, was the winning flinger. Frank Walters took the loss for the Gold. Ryan led his team’s attack with two singles while George Koch and Al Janette each had two hits for the losers.
After two weeks play, Sorin and Zahm Orange lead the Eastern division with two victories against no defeats. Morrissey tops the Western division with the same record.
—Bill Noonan, ’54-
1 teaspoonful in a cup, add piping hoc water and stir.
In flavor, price, convenience^ you’ll find it’s a real eyeopener. The 4-oz. jar makes as many cups as a pound of ordinary coffee, yet costs at -least 20^ less. Get some today ... for pure coffee etjojnuoi!
May 4, 1951
33
tioiiable.” So what’s to question? Everyone but Middle West “provincials” know that it is at least seventh place for both Windy City clubs this year as it has been for so many years in recent American history.
SMC Play
St. Mary’s College put on a fine production of Oscar Wilde’s farce, The Im-
Scnsational Juniors
It looks like the Juniors put on a Prom last Friday night that will go down in ND dance annals as hard to beat. Right on down the line, the dance has been consistently rated as magnificent.
The secret of success in this case seems to have been organization. Thanks to the masterful work of co-chairmen Bill Toohey and Chuck McCarthy, and to the hard work of the many committeemen, the evening and the weekend went smoothly and happily.
Some especially good points are worthy of note and emulation. The decorations were imaginative and pleasing, not only in the main ballroom, but in the other rooms as well. There was no annoying waiting in line for favors or coat-checking. The tables were arranged well.
Other dances might take a lesson from this example of organization. Hats off to the Juniors.
Class Elections
Next Tuesday the campus goes through the climax of the annual politicking and hand-shaking which marks election time. The various parties and candidates are well in the public eye and all that remains is getting out the vote.
If every student remembers what these elections mean, there will be no trouble along that line. The men you are electing are your representatives. They are the men in whom you have placed responsibility for leadership.
Their job is not easy. It is hard work and lots of worries. It is well to keep in mind, then, that you are voting for leader-representatives. The only rational approach is to vote and vote wisely.
Draft Tests
Expressing the fear that some students may not take the test for fear of getting a low score, General Renfrow pointed out that it is “vitally important for everyone eligible for the test to take it.”
This test has been termed the greatest surety a student can have that he will not be interrupted in the course of his education.
The first of these tests to be administered on the Notre Dame campus is scheduled for May 26. Final examinations have been postponed in order that as many students as possible may take advantage of this opportunity.
We urge all students to consider this matter carefully. Contact the military information office on the first floor of the Main Building for an application blank and further information.
On to the Duelling Field!
We accept the challenge laid down by brother-columnist “Killer” Janowski to the duelling field. We leave the choice of weapons up to him, and would have him arrange things with our seconds at his own convenience.
We would also reiterate our basic thesis for the records. As “The Killer” points out: “What will happen to last year’s seventh place Cubs is . . . ques-
Real Italian Pizza
portance of Being Earnest last week. With a St. Mary’s cast, interspersed with a few NDers, they gave the Wilde comedy a lively and sympathetic treatment.
The Swifts, Skipper and Walter, Alice Weiss—who is no stranger to the Washington Hall stage—Genevieve Doyle, and Charles Doherty were especially good.
The Last Word
Keep youi* hands off that questionnaire, Janowski!
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis 702 J. M. S. Building So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
Why pay more?
LONG PLAYING RECORDS (33 1/3 R. P. M.)
FACTORY NEW! EVERY RECORD GUARANTEED!
30% off
For FREE Complete Catalogue and Price List, write to:
RECORD HAVEN Stores (Dept. C)
520 W. 48th St., New York 19, N. Y.
If in N. Y. C. visit our Midtown stores: 1125 6 th Ave. 1U3 6th Ave. 1211 6th Ave.
In case you’ve done the near-impossible and have missed seeing the numerous notices regarding deferment aptitude tests, we take occasion to bring them to your attention.
Brig. General Louis H. Renfrow, deputy draft director, recently broadcast a radio warning to all college students who wish to continue their education beyond the end of the current term. He advised that all such students take the aptitude exam regardless of their class standings.
Pizza with home-made Italian sausage 75c
Pizza with scamorza Italian cheese 75c
Pizza with fresh mushrooms 75c
(Served from 7:30 till 11)
THURSDAY — STEAK NITE — $1.25
“A favorite with Notre Dame men”
PAPANDREA’s Spaghetti House 415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
34
The Scholastic,

THE DE PONT
DIGEST
Research Takes the Long View
"products of tomorrow” will come from the test tubes, flasks and stills of the research laboratory, the Du Pont Company recently expanded its Experimental Station near Wilmington. In this thirty-million-dollar addition, major emphasis is being given to long-range and fundamental research.
The enlarged Experimental Station with its 20 new buildings repre-
Fundamental studies are one of the most important phases of Du Pont research
Fundamental research is designed to discover new scientific facts without regard to specific commercial use. Yet from it have come many products of commercial significance.
At Du Pont, for instance, fundamental research has pointed the way
Where long-range and fundamental research is emphasized: the newly enlarged Du Pont Experimental Station near Wilmington. Photo: Aero Service Corp.
to products like nylon, the first wholly synthetic organic textile fiber, and neoprene chemical rubber, to name only two.
Expanding for Tomorrow
With the expectation that still more
Examining an infra-red spectrogram of polyvinyl alcohol in connection with the fundamental physical characterization of the polymer: J. R. Downing, Ph.D. Physical Chemistry, Illinois *40, and 1). C. Pye, Ph.D. Physical Chemistry, Stanford ’-13.
sents one of the largest and best-equipped research establishments in the world. Even so, less than half of the Company’s total research personnel is situated here. Du Pont laboratories in more than 25 other locations also carry on both fundamental and applied research.
There are now about 800 technical people engaged exclusively in research work at the Experimental Station. Assisting them are 1,500 others, in technical and non-technical capacities. The research people represent a wide range of training. Among them are organic, inorganic, physical, colloid, analytical chemists and biochemists; physicists and biophysicists; chemical, mechanical, metallurgical, electrical and electronics engineers; plant pathologists, plant
Carrying out experimental autoclave polymerizations of condensation polymers: -J. H. Blomquist, Ph.D. Chemistry, Ohio State ’41; O.A. Bredeson. Ph.D. Chemistry. M.I.T. ’41; J. E. Waltz, Ph.D. Chemistry, Indiana ’41.
physiologists, agronomists, entomologists, horticulturists and others trained in biological science. In addition, there are specialists who are not classified in any of these groups.
Free for Research
At the Du Pont Experimental Station every effort is made to permit the research man to concentrate on research. He is provided with the most modem laboratory tools and for the construction of special equipment he can call on a wide variety of services. These include machine shops, carpentry, electrical, welding, instrument-making, and glass-blowing shops. When the research worker needs any service or equipment within the scope of these shops, it is provided for him.
At this industrial research laboratory, Du Pont scientists are devoting themselves to extending the frontiers of science and creating "Better Things for Better Living___through Chemistry.”
DID YOU KNOW THAT...
Nylon came out of a fundamental research program begun in 1927. However, it took 13 years and $27 million in research and operative investment to get into satisfactory commercial production.
’SG.U. S.FAT.OFf
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRr
Entertaining. Informative — Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
WHAT EVERY SMOKER WANTS
Mildness
panel
A
SERIALS DIVISION UNIVERSITY LIBRARY NOTRE DAME IND
See BARBARA HALE starring in
LORNA DOONE
Always
Cop; right 1951, Liggett & Mius Tobacco
An Edward Small Production • A Columbia Technicolor Picture
Vo unpleasant After-Taste
Hundreds of prominent TOBACCO GROWERS SAY: "When I apply the Standard Tobacco Growers’ Test to cigarettes, I find Chesterfield is the one that smells Milder and smokes Milder."
A WELL-KNOWN INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION REPORTS: "Chesterfield is the only cigarette in which >
members of our taste found no unpleasant after-taste.

Chesterfield
co Co.