The Notre Dame Scholastic
451

S
. The beauty when life is seen as a landscape, heard as a symphony, smelled as a garden, tasted as nectar, and dwelt in as a house.’’
Gke
Noir re Dame 5 choicest ic
bisce- Quasi - Semper-Vic^uruS’-Vive-Quasi-Cras-Moritum
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Editor-in-ChiBf Graduate Manager
Happiness! Each letter in the word is a great golden apple to roll into the silver bowl that each and everyone of us is. Our happiness in life is in proportion to our filling of that bowl. Now,'inasmuch as the quotation above is suggestive of ways to enmesh the golden apples as they drop from the boughs of the tree of the World, let us briefly examine it.
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire..............Managing	Editor
Emil L. Telfel.........Assistant	Managing Editor
Thomas A. Cannon.......Assistant Managing Editor J. Archer Hurley.......The	Week
Walter Langford...............The College Parade
Joel Egerer.....................Music and Drama
Ramon G. Smith.....................Campus Clubs
Alfred E. Gall.....................Script Editor
Paul J.
Hallinan
Features
Editor
NEWS STAFF
“Seen as a landscape.” The trees and the mountains, the roses and the clover, the wall of the air, and the fountains of light; all are parts of a landscape which, once seen, can never be left.
“Heard as a symphony.” The violins in the mouths of birds, the harps in the tops of oaks, the pianos in the gradual ascension of mountain ranges, the cellos in rivers; all these, plus the orchestra that lies deep in every human being-, once heard, can never be unheard.
“Smelled as a garden.” Here selection plays a great part. And when the perfume heavy silks that we can discover for ourselves round about us, are shaken out, they can never, once flourished before our eyes and nostrils, be unremembered.
“Tasted as nectar.” The goblets of existence, the chalices of life, are always brimming over with the drink of the Gods for him who will but taste: once tasted the tongue can never rest content save that it taste again and again.
“Dwelt in as a house.” The house of the World has its walls blazing at the stars, its roof vaulting into planets, and its floor rooted in somewhere.
Vast enough; but just vast enough to suggest another; and the other— but infinity tolerates no comment. Nor by now, we suppose, do you!
James J. Kearney James Collins Howard Webster Austin Boyle
William J. Magakkal
Harry’ A. Sylvester,
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan-
John Motz
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
Jr.
Henry B. Asman
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon
George Auax Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors William Kaiu.
James Carmody
F. Granger Weil
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Local Circulation
Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation Frederick N. Davis......Local Advertising James L. Rizer..........Foreign Advertising
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin-
William Sherman-Frank J. Conboy
VOL. LXIII
The Week
JANUARY 17, 1930
Manager Manager Manager Manager
John Blanda
Andrew McGuan
Norman E. Duke
No. 15
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Coming Events ------------------------------
Music and Drama—Joel Egerer----------------- Work on New Law Building Begun-------------- I. I. E. Offers Foreign Study Plan---------- A Man You Know—Emil L. Telfel--------------- A Man About the Campus—Joseph Reedy--------- Campus Clubs—Ramon J. Smith----------------- Sorin, Seniors, Sagacity—Alfred E. Gall----- College Parade—Walter Langford-------------- Editor’s Page___---------------------------- The Wink_______ Marquette Smothered in 44-29 Score—John Kiener. Splinters from the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr—:- On Down the Line----------------------------
452
456 ■
457
460
461
462
463
464
466
467
468
469
480
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may’ be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building-.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
452
The Notre Dame Scholastic
of life and business runs in spasms; in spells, as it were. Two-thirds of the commerce of the retail world is said to be acomplished in the period known as the Christmas season. The postmaster no doubt knows his own rush season equally well; the rush of parcels the first few weeks of school, the pile of football tickets immediately following, the Thanksgiving rush, and then, just before Christmas, the few Christmas cards and many laundry bags on their way home. Elsewhere, the rush reason ends, but here, as well as in every university town, there is a new and unique - rush that hits the mails immediately after the opening of the year. Its impetus is in first class mail, with the stuffy envelope that denotes the “enclosed find return, stamped envelope.” For, my dear Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors, you must remember there are Seniors here; lots and lots of Seniors who will be unable, by any fair or foul means, to extend their course of education any longer. A few, of course, will teach to become “Masters,” neither of themselves or any freshmen, for that matter, but Masters just the same. The rest will become vice-presidents, clerks, struggling young authors, or promising young lawyers. All of this means work and many things like that, but most of all it means a place to work; a place to be found. So the two-cent stamps eat up the little sums set aside for afternoon shows, and the evening rush at the cafeteria is slackened somewhat as the malteds drop to plain dishes of cream. For every application costs the neat sum of five cents or more, and a Senior, about to earn his own living, must learn the value of even five cents.
Photographers must lead an easy life, as a rule. Taking pictures is interesting. Sometimes there comes a pretty girl ;sometimes a proud old gentleman; sometimes a giggling youngster or a bashful boy going for his first sitting. There are bridal parties, and dozens of things. But the great ideal of every photographer must be the taking of Senior pictures, in cap and gown. Of course, there is the result—anything from the appearance of an escaped convict, to the more benign look of a great teacher of men which some assume as soon as the weighty and gloomy atmosphere of the funny cap, and black, loose gown settles upon them. To most fellows, it is a matter of deepest concern. Four years gone, everything all over. It’s a serious problem, taking the cap and gown picture. But others feel different about it. All the dignity in the world will not lessen the fun of not knowing when the button in the collar will drop out and the shirt front drop off; nor of wondering whether the correct angle of the tie, enticed by
some helpful friend just before you sat down, will stay that way through the gentle brushings of the photographer as he tries to make the gown fit your size, or gently turns youi’ head from left to right, almost like a barber does, so that you can have two proofs to laugh at instead of only one. But now all that is over, too; even the re-sittings, and the only other chance you’ll have is to camp on the library steps and become automatically a member of every state club which has its pictures snapped there for the coming Dome.	■
Historians speak of the lull before battle. It is supposed to be a significant event in battles. In fact we hardly believe that there could be a real first-rate battle without this lull before it. One week hence the campus battle begins. Right now we have that lull before battle, in fact, from this particular lull we would predict the coming battle to be a first rate one. Men who have studied, their name is not legion, look at their less fortunate brethren, and encourage them, “It won’t be so bad, you may pass, forget about them.” But we less fortunate brethren are hard to convince. We have been in battle before. We have been under fire, and our decorations for service have been negligible. Exams are exams, and there are so many things that slip our minds about classes. Speculation is rife, perhaps prof so-and-so may give us a list of questions he will ask. Anyway, if we get through these exams we are cured. We shall take our battles and skirmishes more seriously. We accept the exams anyway. They are as necessary to college life as the proverbial eight o’clocks, and about as welcome, w E notice that the local Knights of Columbus have initiated a social club, whose purpose is said to be the promotion of social activities among the students. The appearance of such a club at this time is very welcome. Outdoor sports are tabooed, by convention—and Indiana weather. Students must keep busy even if they form grievance societies to spend their overflow of energy. Indiana weather will come in for its share of discussion. We may be rather short visioned, but we have always associated snow, sleet, slippery sidewalks, slipping students, and red flannels with winter. However, many of our friends say that back in Gentryville and Waxahachie such weather is unheard of. To those who-find local climatic conditions so boresome we suggest that they consider a membership in the newly organized club. There is no better way to forget January, and February, and to keep cheerful. Social clubs are organized to keep people cheerful. Give it a try.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
• ►-----------------------------
Coming Events |
❖—------------------------------
FRIDAY, Jan. 17—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main building, 7:00 p. m.— Scholarship dance, St. Joseph’s School Gymnasium, 8:15 p. m.
SATURDAY, Jan. 18—Movies, Douglas Fairbanks in “The Iron Mask,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh. — Interhall Basketball, 7:00-10:00 p. m.	.
SUNDAY, Jan. 19—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.; Benediction at 7:30 p. m.—Interhall Basketball, 9:30 to 12:00 a. m., and 1:30 to 2:30 p. m.
MONDAY, Jan. 20 —“The Home Town Number” of the Juggler may be procured on the stands. Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Mexican Falls, University Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, Jan. 21 — Wranglers meeting, Public Speaking room, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Journalism Room, Library, 7:45.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 22—Basketball, ' Notre Dame vs. Michigan State at Lansing.
THURSDAY, Jan. 23 — Spectators meeting, Journalism Room, Library, 7:45 p. m.
FRIDAY, Jan. 24—Semester Examinations, Classes taught on Mondays (but not on Tuesdays) at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15, and 2:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15.—Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications office, Main building, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Jan. 25 — Semester Examinations, Classes taught on Tuesdays at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 2:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15. — Movies, “The White Sister,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
ATTENTION!
Anyone interested in writing satire for the 1930 issue of the Dome may submit such material to the Dome office for approval. To be considered, the material must be presented before March 10.
Sophomores who wish to do editorial work on the Dome may apply to the editor in Room 339, Badin. Material will be judged, anti asign-ments given.
LAW CLUB FORMAL WILL BE HELD FEBRUARY 21 Robert F. Eggeman, president of the Law Club, announced this week that the annual Law Club Formal will take place in the Palais Royale in South Bend, on the evening of February 21. Eggeman has not named his committees for the dance as yet, but expects to have all the appointments finished by the first of next week.
The Formal, as in previous years, will be the first formal dance of the year, coming as it does before the Junior Prom. The subpoena form of invitations, a very distinctive feature of the dance, will again be used.
No orchestra has been engaged for the dance as yet, but Eggeman stated that he was communicating with many of the best orchestras in the Middle West and the best one available would be signed.
An early issue of the Scholastic will carry more complete details of the dance, and all those interested are asked to watch for the announcements.
LAW ALUMNI DIRECTORY NOW OUT
The College of Law' Alumni Directory for 1930-31 is now ready for distribution. One of the primary purposes of this directory, in addition to being a catalogue for the College of Lawr, is to bring the alumni of the legal profession “into closer intimacy with each other and with the law’ school.”
In the back of the directory is a list of names of those who have had law degrees conferred upon them. There is also a geographical list w’hich indicates the state, town, and date of admission to the bar of each of the graduates.
A.S.M.E. HOLDS MEETING
The Notre Dame Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, held its first official meeting last Wednesday evening, in Badin Hall Basement.
Final admission to the national organization was obtained this week, and the branch is now numbered among the 99 student branches which have been established in the leading Universities of the Country.
The officers of the branch are: President, Wm. Karl; Vice-President, Joseph O’Hara; Secretary, Arthur Kirk; Treasurer, Frank Murray; Chairman of Program Committee, Edward Duffy.
453
K. OF C. HOLD FIRST MEETING OF NEW YEAR
Monday evening, January 13, Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, held their first meeting since the holidays. In spite of the nearness of the semester examinations a large number attended. The major portion of the meeting was devoted to business. It was definitely announced that the initiation will be held on February 9 in the South Bend Council chambers. The banquet, to be held that night to welcome the newly initiated men, is in charge of Martin Travers, assisted by William Miller, who will make a further announcement concerning the banquet in the near future.
The annual formal ball of the Knights of Columbus will be held sometime in May. The faculty committee has not as yet decided on the date for this dance. Plans were submitted by Thomas Cunningham for a Knights of Columbus revue. The Minstrel Show given in 1928 was an unqualified success, and the general expression of opinion was that this revue would be also. The matter was finally taken under advisement by the officers. If it is staged, it will probably be in May.
The Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus has announced several valuable awards to be given to the council initiating the largest number of members before June 30,’ 1930. Nicholas Bohling says that Notre Dame Council should receive one of these rewards and if hard work will do it, shall do so. He stated further that with the large number of men eligible on the campus to become Knights there is no reason why many new men should not join by June.
The features of the evening were the accounts given of their trips by Joe Nash and Jack Cannon. Nash, football center par excellence, told of his experiences on the trip to Dallas, Texas, for the Midwest-Southwest game on New Year’s Day. Jack Cannon, All-American guard, spoke interestingly on the East-West game in Palo Alto, also played on New Year’s Day. Both men commented on the evidence they received in these games of the superiority of Rockne’s style of football over any other.
John Folk’s trio furnished the music for the evening. Daniel Cannon, in charge of the culinary department, served refreshments that met with the approval of all. The meetmeeting was adjourned at 9:30 p. m.
4-54	The Notre Dame Scholastic
CATHOLIC PRIZE ESSAY CONTEST ANNOUNCED
A national essay contest , conducted by the Literary Awards Foundation of the Catholic Press Association during the year 1930, has been announced by J. H. Meier, Secretary of the C. P. A. Two prizes, the first a check for S300 and the second, one for S200, will be awarded to the first and second best essays on “Catholic Colleges and Catholic Leadership.”
Any student or graduate of a Catholic college in the United States is eligible to participate in the contest. Only the two prizes will be offered. The Literature Bureau of the Association has charge of the 1930 contest. The committee members are the Eever end Wilfrid Parsons, S. J., editor of America, Chairman, Richard Reid, editor of the Bulletin, Augusta, Ga., and John F. McCormick, business manager of the Commonweal.
The length of the essays and regulations concerning the contest will be announced later by the Literary Bureau.
NOTRE DAME “JUGGLERS” POPULAR
The sendees of the ever popular Notre Dame “Jugglers,” / are being sought by many campus and South Bend organizations.
Among the engagements booked for the next few weeks are included, Our Lady of Hungary Parish in South Bend, January 30, Knights of Columbus South Bend, Feb. 5, St. Hed-widge Parish, Feb. 12, Kiwanis Club Dinner Dance at the Progress Club, Feb. 13.
Last Monday evening, Jack Folks and the “Juggler Trio” entertained at the K. of C. meeting.
Cronin Announces Senior Invitation Committee
Larry Cronin, chairman of the Senior Invitation committee, has announced the names of the men who will assist him in the work connected with the distribution of the invitations among the seniors. The committeemen will begin taking orders immediately after examinations, and each order must be paid for when taken.
The men who comprise Cronin’s committee are Thomas Galbraith, Ed Redman, James Friel, John McGee, William Dunlevy, Charles Cook, Ed
DEBATING TEAMS SELECTED
Debating, long a prominent activity at Notre Dame, is, this year, no exception. Approximately sixty-five candidates responded to the call of the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., for debaters in November. Since that time three preliminaries have been held, all of which were marked by decided earnestness and ability on the part of everyone who tried for the team. The candidates were finally reduced to twenty, who participated in the final tryouts held last Friday and Monday.
The six men selected from this group compare favorably with the representative debaters of former years. On the Affirmative are Stanton, O’Malley, and Keegan—all talented debaters; On the Negative are Walsh, Kirby, and Keefe—of equally outstanding ability. Six more men— McGreal, Baer, Connors, Hanna, Allan, and Phelan—were also selected to alternate with the other teams in some of the debates. All of these speakers will probably be given an opportunity to appear before the end of the season. Most of these men are veterans in the art of rebuttal and plea, although O’Malley, Kirby, Connors, Phelan, and Allan are newcomers on the squad.
The question which will be discussed in all the debates this season is, “Resolved: That the nations of the world should adopt a plan of complete disarmament, excepting such forces as are necessary for police purposes.” Several meets have been scheduled with admittedly strong teams. A practice debate was held with Albion College last Wednesday. The first public contest will take place on February 28, with the University of Detroit.
4
Gleanings
Conley and Al Shipacasse.	7
The contract for the invitations has been let to the Elliott Company of Philadelphia. There will be two styles of invitations as usual, Cronin said. One will have a heavy white paper cover while the other will be of blue leather. The name, Notre Dame, will be in raised letters on each program, as will a stamped impression of the Dome which will have a gold background.
Posters will be up on the campus soon, telling the exact date the committee will start work.
Eddie Luther, ’25, former cheerleader and member of the Glee Club, is at present Justice of the Peace in South Bend.
“Buck Shaw”, ’23, has resigned his contract as assistant coach to “Clipper” Smith, ’22, at Santa Clara. You may recall that Santa Clara is the team that overwhelmed “Pop” Warner’s strong Stanford “Cardinals.” t
Joe Byrne, ’13, of Newark, New Jersey visited old friends on the cam-pus last Thursday. He is one of the prominent followers of the “Fighting Irish” in the East. He spoke at the football banquet.
Con Hagerty, ’25, is at present studying medicine at the Rush School V of Medicine in Chicago. He is also teaching several classes for Freshmen.
Tom Happer, ’29, president of the Law Club last year, is practicing law in Elkhart, Indiana with Robert Proc- J tor, ’03, a noted alumnus of the Uni-
.	t-
versity.
William Wilbur, ’29, former baseball manager, is in the Engineering Department of the Chicago and Milwaukee Railroad in Chicago.
William F. Montavon, K.S.G., ’98, is the author of an important and interesting pamphlet, “Historic Background of the Lateran Treaty” just issued by the National Catholic Welfare Council.
The Reverend Philip Beaghan, C.S.C., instructor in Religion and a prefect in Walsh Hall, left Tuesday for New Orleans, La., where he will remain for the winter. \
Charles Collins, ’24, has re-signed as coach of the University of North Carolina football team for another year. The team under Collin’s guidance has made rapid strides on the gridiron.	—<
Angus D. McDonald, ’00, was recently elected to the Board of Direc-tors of the Guaranty Trust Company of New York, the second largest Bank in America. .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
455
Junior Prom Set For February Twenty-Eighth
Impetus has been given to the work of the committees in charge of the Junior Prom by the announcement of the date for the dance, February 28, having been definitely selected by the faculty dance committee as the evening for the affair. The selection of this date will give the committees several weeks more than is ordinarily given to the working out of plans and details, the date being two or three weeks later than has been the custom in past years.
Organization of the various committees has been rapidly perfected, the chairmen being under- the direction of general chairman William J. Sullivan. The program and favor committees have considered the displays of several leading manufacturers of dance novelties and will jrlace a contract with one of the companies soon.
Badin Hall Makes Claim For Campus Honors
Although an article of this kind is contrary to the very spirit that makes Badin—Badin, still as this is another phase of intra-mural competition it is advisable that we say what we have to say, not so much for purposes of self-eulogy, as for your information.
The hall is named in reverent memory of Father Badin, the first priest to be ordained in the United States, a missionary who came up from Kentucky in answer to the request made by Chief Pokagon to Father Richard for “a priest to instruct us in the word of God.” Father Badin pitched his camp on St. Mary’s Lake and spent the rest of his life in service among the Indians. He now rests in the Log Cabin Chapel erected over the scene of his labors. In the beginning there was the old Apprentices’ Hall which housed a few collegiate intellects who worked at different trades and made a living in an honest way. This building was later torn down and upon the present site of Badin, St. Joseph’s Hall was erected for apprentices and writers. Still later the wings were added, the name changed, and we have Badin as it is.
Way back when the present site of the new Dining Hall was occupied by a less savory establishment, upper-clessmen indulged their gastronomic propensities on the ground floor to the north wing of the building. We hasten to assure you that this statement is not made with the intention of substantiating Badin’s claim to
Four leading orchestras are being-considered by the music committee, and negotiations now being carried on will bring a definite announcement of the Prom orchestra within a few days. The decorations committee has developed an idea of unique designing for the Palais Royale ballroom, scene of the dance.
The ticket committee is completing plans for the distribution of tickets and will open the sale soon after the semester exams The price of the bids as set by the dance charter of the University will be five dollars. Bids for members of the senior class, limited to fifty this year, were exhausted shortly after the first announcement was made to the seniors. Distribution is to be made through members of the committee in each hall and off-campus.
campus honors but it is important historically for its effect on the animal life of the kingdom by the sea. Then the “rec” room was converted into classrooms which was not so much of a hardship as would appear at first as Badin enjoyed the reputation of having some'one hundred and thirty “rec” rooms. With the advance of the culinary art, the cafeteria made way for a community recreation room and a pressing establishment.
The personnel of the hall is an illustrious one, including Joseph Jachym, a sort of an athletic dean emeritus, ex-basketball captain who further distinguished himself in baseball. Frank Carideo, All-American quarterback for 1929, who has exhausted the superlatives of all the sport writers from the Atlantic to the Pacific, guards his scholastic average in the peace and quiet of the top floor of Badin where even the lights are toned down. Al Howard and Jim Lyons, Al Seymour, varsity football men, carry on the athletic tradition of the hall. Joe Gavin represents the hall on the basketball floor, while Kirby Shafer and Bob McDonald carry its colors around the track. Johnny O’Brien is the captain elect of the tennis team. Dan Barton, head cheerleader, does all his practicing within the same walls where Editor Bob Prendergast prepares the Dome's record of another year and Jim Rizer smiles as he totals the foreign advertising of the Scholastic.
JUNIORS TO SELECT CLASS PINS SUNDAY
Final discussion of bids, and the awarding of the jeweler’s contract for the Junior class pins, will take place
Vincent Busch
Sunday afternoon at 12:30 o’clock. The members of the Junior Class Pin Committee, headed by Vincent Busch, have had under consideration for the past several weeks bids of the leading jewelers of the country.
Representatives of ten of these companies will present their samples to the committee at the meeting to be held Sunday in the main offices of the Main building. At the conclusion of this meeting that company, which in the opinion of the committee, has merited the contract, will be announced by Vernon J. Knox, class president.
Vince Busch is chairman of the committee and the other members are: Mike Kinney, Harold O’Connor, Jim Swift, Joe Hughes, Freddie Ra-haim and Jack Lynch. .
“TRIBUNE” EDITOR TALKS BEFORE JOURNALISM
STUDENTS
An address on “Editorial Writing and Newspaper Work” was given by Mr. Frederick Miller, editor of the South Bend Tribune, to the journalism classes of the University, Thursday morning at 11 o’clock.
Members of the Junior and Senior classes, as well as the Press Club, welcomed the talk for its information concerning present day editorial work. Mr. Miller emphasized the present and future opportunities that the students have, and .encouraged their endeavors. He reiterated his invitation, extended the students early in the fall, to write for publication in the South Bend Tribune, and complimented them on their work thus far.
-A
I
456
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MUSIC AND DRAMA
MltlllllUttllll...  Illllll..
This week-end seems to be a busy one for musicians in Chicago. Four good concerts are on the bill for Sunday afternoon, and an especially good one Tuesday evening.
Mischa Elman, the noted violinist, is holding forth in Orchestra Hall at three-thirty. Elman is a noted tech-nichian and in the field of virtuosity he is possibly a little better than the world-famous Kreisler or the soulstirring Heifetz.
Naomi Hewitt, cellist, is giving a concert at the Studebaker Theater and right next Laura Stroud is to deploy on a Steinway.
Jose Echaniz is giving a piano recital at the Civic Theater on the same day and at the hour of three.
On Tuesday evening, January 21, Henri Verbrugghen will bring his noted Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra to Orchestra Hall. Henri is an unusual conductor bordering on the Stokowski type but not quite so energetic. Mr. Verbrugghen has chosen a good but not especially unusual program :
Overture to Euryanthe—Weber.
Symphony Number Two in D major, Opus Thirty-Six—Beethoven.
L’Apres Midi D’un Faun—Debussy.
Tone Poem from Don Juan—Richard Strauss.
Prelude to the Meistersinger von Nurnberg—W agner.
Beginning,February 2, the German Grand Opera Company will give an excellent presentation, for a week in the old Auditorium. The repetoire is as follows:
Sunday—Tristan und Isolde.
Monday—Das Rheingold
Tuesday—Die Walkuere.
Wednesday—The Flying Dutchman.
Thursday—Siegfried.
Friday—Don Juan.
Saturday—Gotterdammerung.
All of the operas are those of Wagner except the Friday night presentation which is a Mozart.
This Friday afternoon and tomorrow evening the Chicago’ Symphony has as its violin soloist no less than Paul Kochanski. Save for Suite Number Two in B Minor by Bach,
nt iiiihmiiiiih titimi ti
the rest of the program is mediocre.
In running over the programs for Sunday, January 19, we almost forgot the London String Quartet which is to play at the Goodman Theater.
This evening the Civic Opera Company is presenting no less than Fidelio {Leonora if you will) by the master of Bonn, Beethoven. The opera seldom if ever gives presentations on Friday night so this should prove especially good. It will be given in German with the following cast: Frida Leider, Kathleen Kersting, Rene Maison, Giusseppe Cavadore, Robert Ringling, Edouard Courteuil and Alexander Kipnis. Pollack is directing.	.
Let us now give music a rest and turn to the legitimate stage. The first thing that catches our eye is a show called Animal Crackers, which has among others the one and only pair of Marx brothers. This hysterical interlude is playing at the Grand Opera House and is to be recommended to anyone as a riot producer de luxe.
We won’t be able to see Pauline Fredricks in her latest, The Queen Was in the Parlour, but we are going to do so just as soon as possible, and until then take our recommendation and see it if at all possible. This actress has always proven excellent before so why not now? By the way, it is at the Garrick.
Fritz Leiber is doing King Lear next week and the week following will give his last series of performances in Chicago. This farewell presentation will take the form of a repertoire of the season.
John Drinkwater produced a truly fine comedy when he brought out Bird in Hand. It is as delightfully funny as anything that you can ever see and by all means do so. It is playing at the Harris and there are matinees every Wednesday and Saturday.
Illegal Practice is a fine bit of high comedy concerning lawyers and thrilling situations. At the Playhouse.
The Goodman is still hanging on to Tour du Monde which again we haven’t seen but can, without the slightest hesitation, highly recommend anything that this admirable little playhouse is producing.
SCRIBBLERS ANNOUNCE SHORT STORY CONTEST
Cyril J. Mullen, President of the Scribblers, announces that a contest, open to all campus short story writers, will be opened soon by the Scribblers, to select the best short story produced by a student author. There will be three prizes, of fifteen, ten, and five dollars each.
This contest will run coincident with the poetry contest being conducted by the same group. Both will have their closing date around the first of March.
POSTOFFICE CALLS 1929 ONE OF “BUSIEST YEARS”
According to Postmaster Fred J. Merline of the Notre Dame Post Office, 1929 was one of the greatest years in the history of the office. Since July 1 Mr. Merline and his four assistants have taken care of the sending of 35,000 registered letters, most of which had to do with athletic activities. In addition to these letters there is the great volume of ordinary mail that comes in and goes out of Notre Dame every day; there are the hundreds of money orders and parcels. Every year 15,000 special delivery letters are delivered by the three carriers hired especially for that purpose. Greatest of all post office problems is the sending of 360,000 pounds, or 180 tons of magazines to every State in the Union, and many foreign countries. The publications are the Scholastic, Juggler, Annals of Lourdes, Ave Maria, St. Mary’s Chimes, Holy Cross Courier, American Midland Naturalist, Alumnus, Notre Dame Lawyer, Notre Dame Retreatant, University Bulletin, and the Catalyzer.
“SCRIP” OUT FEBRUARY 10
The second number of “Scrip” will be placed on sale on the tenth of February, according to Louis Heitger, the editor. Several short stories, essays, and poems have already been submitted, and the editors are now trying to decide upon a cover-design for this issue from among the several that have been submitted. Abel Constance, the contributor who wrote the poem, “A Japanese Waterpainting,” published in the first number of “Scrip,” will have a poem in this number also.	•
The Notre Dame Scholastic
. 457
t.
-potrs
’■fjjsi rgv awpues-orai'ieiiu- ■ppesiDenw
tiwGinnis eno 'mLSi>Hix.jnsmwnn-<nflss
WORK ON NEW LAW BUILDING BEGUN
The plot at the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and the Dorr Road, scene of the Southern Cal bonfire and pep meeting, will be of gradually increasing importance on the campus during the coming months. At present it is a rather dreary looking field, cluttered up with stakes, a steam shovel, temporary sheds, and other manifestations of the work that is going on. As time passes, however, the new Notre Dame Law Build-
DOME PHOTOGRAPHS TO BE TAKEN IN FEBRUARY
Pictures of the various campus organizations and of the campus clubs, are to be taken at some time during the first part of February. The committee in charge requests the presidents of the various clubs to take up the matter at the next meeting. The usual rate will be charged for each page of space.
The photographs of the campus and of student activities must be submitted by the last week in February.	-
ing will begin to take shape. The plans and a description of the new structure were announced in last week’s Scholastic. The above sketch of the future home of the lawyers has been worked out by Maginnis and Walsh, who are the architects for the new edifice From the sketch it may be seen that the Law Building will be, by the beauty and dignity of its design, an important step in the University’s progressive construction campaign.
About forty men are now engaged
MASSMAN TO SPEAK HERE
Mr. F. H. Massman, Vice-President of the National Tea Company, Chicago, has been scheduled to speak in Washington Hall, on Tuesday, January 21, at 3 o’clock
Mr. Massman’s talk will be concerned with chain store methods of merchandising; and since he is affiliated with one of the leaders in the chain store field, one may expect that his talk will be interesting as well as instructive. All students are invited to attend the lecture, and juniors and seniors in the College of Commerce are required to be present.
in laying the foundation for the new structure. The excavation began on Wednesday, January 15, and it will be completed by the early part of next week. Work will then commence on the pouring of cement for the foundation which,' according to Mr. Joseph Biron, superintendent of construction, will be finished within a month. By the middle of February the newr Law Building will begin to take form, and Mr. Biron says that every effort will be made to have it completed by September 1st.
JOHN LAW TO COACH AT MANHATTAN COLLEGE
Johnny Law, whom every loyal son and rooter of Notre Dame will remember as the famous guard and captain of the National Championship football team of 1929, signed a contract this week to be assistant grid coach at Manhattan University in New York City for 1930. Law’s appointment is but another of the numerous coaching jobs accepted by the graduating members cf the -1929 squad.
458
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Review of “Lawyer” Reveals Pertinent Articles
One of the leading articles in the December issue of “The Notre Dame Lawyer” is that which is written by Mr. Walter R. Arnold, who is a leading trial lawyer in South Bend. His article appears under the title of “Dishonor at The Bar.” Someone has stated that more than half of the lawyers in the United States are dishonest, and Mr. Arnold has taken it upon himself to disprove that statement. Whatever may be the current idea concerning the honesty of United States lawyers Mr. Arnold contends that justified cause of complaint exists only in the case of some onetenth of the members of the bar. As one reads farther into the discourse, he finds out how such erroneous ideas are started and spread, and that if there is dishonor' at the bar it may be usually attributed to the fostering of the ill-educated and unprepared lawyer.
“Life Estates in Personal Property” was written by Walter R. O’Malley,
MONOGRAMS AWARDED
TO 32 FOOTBALL MEN
Major .monogram sweaters were awarded to 32 members of the 1929 “National Champions” football team, Tuesday afternoon. Sweaters were in form of jersey, slip-over and coat. The graduating players received stripes showing the years played on the team.
Those receiving sweaters were: Captain John Law, Captain-elect Tom Conley, Tim Moynihan, Ted Twomey, Jack Cannon, Jack Elder, Bud Gebert, Farnk Carideo, Larry Mullins, Marty Brill, Frank Leahy, Ed Collins, Manny Vezie, Joe Nash, Joe Savoldi, Paul O’Connor, Marchy Schwartz, “Doc” Kaplan, Regis McNamara, Dick Donoghue, Bert Metzger, Al Culver, Art Mc-Manmon, -Tom Yarr, Al How’ard, Joe Locke, Tom Kascis, John O’Brien, George Vik, Tom Kenneally, and Student Managers, John Quinn and Bernard Conroy.
NEW ADDITIONS TO THE CHEMISTRY LIBRARY
A list of the new books added to the Chemical Library this year for the benefit of all those who are studying the various branches of chemistry and who might possibly wish to use them, follows. Many of these books are valuable texts, others are chroni-
senior in the Hoynes College of Law. In this article O’Malley brings out the fact that today a man’s wealth is no measure of the breadth of his real estate holdings, on account of the taxation imposed upon it. Instead of investing in real estate, the tendency is to invest in stocks, bonds, and other forms of investment. In the course of the treatise, the author states what is necessary to create a Jife estate in personal property, and the advantages of the life estate in personal property over life estate in realty.
Leo John Scanlon, senior in the Hoynes College of Law, under the heading “Methods of Releasing Dower” informs his readers that the question of dower is of considerable importance on account of the increasing number of transfers of real estate involving large sums of money. The author also states how the release of dower may be effected, and each method is adequately explained.
MRS. ELLEN RYAN JOLLY HONORED BY POPE
The presentation of the cross and diploma, “Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice” to Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, LL. D. ’18, took place in Providence, R. I., on Sunday afternoon, January 5.
The signal honor bestow'ed on Mrs. Jolly is in recognition of long and valued service to the Church, and. loyalty to the Pope and Bishop. Mrs. Jolly led the movement which resulted in the erection of a monument to the “Nuns of the Battlefield” in Washington. Her book, “The Nuns of the Battlefield,” which chronicles the work of the nursing sisters in the Civil War, is now going into its third edition.
Mrs. Jolly holds the degree, Doctor of Law's, bestowed on her by the University of Notre Dame.
The Right Reverend Bishop Hickey presided. The Reverend Lawrence Broughall, C.S.C., who represented the University, gave an address.
cles of the success of various research chemists all over the country, and are valuable additions to the Library.
Solubilities of Inorganic and Organic Compounds—Vol. II—Seidell.
Petroleum Facts and Figures— American Petroleum Institute.
Aniline and Its Derivatives—Groggins.	'
(More books ivill be listed next week.)
SCRIBBLERS GIVE POETRY CONTEST RULES
Announcement was made in last Friday’s Scholastic of the opening of the Scribblers annual poetry contest. The attention of prospective entrants in this contest is called to the following rules:
1.	Any undergraduate of the University is eligible for competition.
2.	Poems must be typed on regular 83/2xll" unruled typewriting paper, and on one side only.
3.	Three copies of each poem must be submitted. These must be UNSIGNED. A sealed envelope containing a list of the titles of the poems submitted and the name and address of the person submitting the same must accompany all manuscripts.
'4. Prizes will be awarded as follow's: first prize, $15; second prize, $10; and third prize, $5.
5.	Poems shall be judged according to strict literary standards by disinterested judges, whose decision shall be final.
6.	More than one prize will not be aw'arded to any one contestant.
7.	Every poem will be judged individually on the basis of 100 points possible.
8.	The poem having the highest average of points will be awarded first prize; the second highest, second prize; etc.
9.	The contest closes at midnight, March 6, 1930.
As yet the judges have not been chosen for this contest. Last year Theodore Maynard, Katherine Bregy, and Vincent Engels acted in this capacity and it is hoped that equally competent judges wlil be secured to determine the results of this year’s contest.
The poetry contest committee consists of Philip de Roulet, chairman; Frank E. Seward, and John E. Dempsey. All poems should be brought or sent to Philip de Roulet, Chairman, Scribblers’ Poetry Contest, 230 Morrissey Hall.
NOTICE!
Anyone writing humorous material of any kind is urged to send the products of his labour to Joseph Abbott, Sorin Hall, for consideration in the selection of those skits and acts that will go to make up the Monogram Absurdities. Haste is urged, as actual work on the letter men’s production will be started soon.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	4-59
X.
Scanlon, Rohrbach and Gartland Win Sullivan Scholarships
Leo J. Scanlon
The Roger C. Sullivan scholarships, for having shown the greatest improvement in scholarship during the year, were awarded to Leo J. Scanlon, senior in law; Robert J. Rohrbach, junior in commerce, and Frank E. Gartland, sophomore in arts and letters, as announced through the office of the Reverend William H. Mo-lony, C.S.C., registrar of the University.
The scholarships were established in June, 1922, by a gift of $15,000 from Mrs. Leo Sullivan Cummings, and Mrs. Thomas Sullivan Brennan,
Robert J. Rohrbach
Chicago, in memory of their father, the late Roger C. Sullivan, Chicago. The income from this fund provides for three scholarships of $250 each, awarded annually to those applicants from among the senior, junior and sophomore classes respectively, who have shown the greatest improvement in scholarship during the year.
Leo J. Scanlon is the son of Mr. and Mrs. M. E. Scanlon, 616 Union street, Crestline, Ohio, and graduated from the Crestline High School in 1920. In his freshman year he was a member of the off-campus interhall
Frank E. Gartland
basketball team. At present he is an associate editor of the Lawyer, the monthly publication of the Notre Dame College of Law.
Robert J. Rohrbach, son of Dr. and Mrs. E. C. Rohrbach, Flat River, Mo., is a graduate of the Flat River- High School. He won a freshman track numeral for pole vaulting and is a member of the interhall basketball team of Badin Hall.
Frank E. Gartland, son of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Gartland, 21 Waldeck street, Dorchester, Mass., is a member of the Boston Club.
DR. KACZMAREK GIVES LECTURE ON HEREDITY
“What We Inherit” was the title of the lecture given in the North Basement of the Library, on Wednesday night, January 15th, by Doctor Regidius M. Kaczmarek, Professor of Biology. The lecture was the first of a series which the Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C. S. C., head of the Department of Sociology, has arranged for the coming months. They are to be given primarily for students in Sociology classes, but the attendance will not be limited. The number which heard Professor Kaczmarek speak on Wednesday night was far greater than had been expected, and the library room was filled to its capacity.
Dr. Kaczmarek began his lecture with a definition of heredity. He de--fined it as, “That particular germinal organization which is transmitted from parents to offspring.” He then proceeded to discuss his subject thoroughly and interestingly, illustrating the important parts with blackboard drawings. Dr. Kaczmarek, in the opening moments of his talk, said that he would attempt to explain his subject without resorting to too many technical terms.
Heredity, Dr. Kaczmarek said, is of more importance as a factor in influencing the life of a human being than is his environment. But he also demonstrated, through his illustrations, the fact that environment also
plays an important part in life. “No disease,” he said, “can be inherited. A distinction must be made between infection and heredity.” He also stated that no acquired charactersitic can be inherited, since it is impossible that such a characteristic be implanted in the germ plasm.
The Mendelian theory must be considered in a discussion of heredity, and Dr. Kaczmarek gave it an important part in his lecture. He praised Mendel highly, and attributed to him one of the greatest minds in the history of science. At the conclusion of his lecture Dr. Kaczmarek answered questions put to him by the audience.
460
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I. I. E. Offers Foreign Study Plan
A unique educational opportunity for students of French is offered by the Foreign Study Plan of the Institute of International Education, through its Committee on the Junior Year Abroad. The plan, which has been in operation since 1923, permits American undergraduates to spend their junior year of college in France. Full credit is given for the year’s work abroad. A minimum of four years of French, two of which must have been taken at college, is necessary.
In a letter to Professor Antonio J. Provost, Head of the department of Modern Languages at the University, Professor Bert E. Young of Indiana University, a member of the Committee explains the plan and points out its advantages. The students are stationed for the summer session at the University of Nancy or the Universit of Grenoble, and for the winter session at the University of Paris Courses in the general fields of literature, economics, philosophy, history, and the French language are given by distinguished professors. Expert tutors guide the students through these courses. “The activities of the students,” says Professor Young in his letter, “are not confined to the University curriculum; as for twelve months they do all their living in French, are received into French families, sit at French tables, are in close contact with French minds and personalities. They spend most of their time abroad in one of the centers of modern civilization, Paris, but they are able to visit many other parts of France and during the longer vacations they may travel elsewhere in Europe.”
Since the program of courses offered is not an easy one, and requires much hard work, the Committee advises that only those students whose record at college has been uniformly high should take advantage of this plan to study abroad.
The total expense of a Foreign ’ Study Year (from July to July), is about $1500. This includes ocean travel and all other necessary expenses except clothing and incidentals. A limited number of scholarships ranging in amount from $300 to a $1,000 have been established for students of exceptional ability who cannot afford the full cost of a year abroad. To be eligible for a scholarship a student must be in a foreign
study group organized and supervised by the committee.
Over three hundred graduates from seventy colleges and universities have already taken advantage of the Foreign Study Plan. Professors who have known these students before and after their European experience say that they have learned to speak French fluently and have made notable advences in culture, discrimination, and maturity.
Applications for the scholarships must be filled out and filed with the student’s credentials, not later than April 10, and mailed to the Secretary of the Committee on the Junior Year .Abroad, Institute of International Education, 2 West 45 th Street, New York City.
Students desiring more information about the plan should consult Professor Antonio J. Provost, Corby Hall, or write to the Committee.
TWO QUARTETS, LEE SIMS, WIN APPLAUSE OF
STUDENTS
Last Thursday night students went to Washington Hall to hear Lee Sims, versatile Brunswick Recording pianist, on his third visit here. They were surprised when a string quartet from Chicago Symphony was introduced, and applauded when its program was finished until an encore was played. They were more surprised when the Cotton Pickers, colored quartet of the National Broadcasting Co., were presented. Washington Hall rang with the full-throated “hallelujahs” of negro spirituals. Three times the Cotton Pickers left the stage to make way for Mr. Sims, and three times the excited cheering and whistling of the students brought them back.
At last Mr. Sims did appear, began to play, “Can’t We Be Friends,” and shifted from that into nearly every popular hit of the moment and a few of former years. The feet of a capacity audience tapped to the tune of “Moanin’ Low” and “St. Louis Blues.” Hands clapped more loudly than before when Mr. Sims introduced his wife and persuaded her to sing “Ain’t Misbehavin’.” After an encore Mr. and Mrs. Sims were permitted to leave for another year.
It is rumored that there has been a large sale of Sims’ records during the past week.
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE TONIGHT
The St. Joseph’s School gymnasium will be the scene of a dance sponsored by the Scholarship Club tonight. Women of South Bend connected with the club have co-operated in making the arrangements for the dance, and have promised the attendance of more than enough girls. Music will be furnished by that popular La Salle Hotel orchestra, under the direction of Myron Waltz. All classes are invited to attend.
Tickets may be had from representatives in all of the halls for one dollar. The first dance begins at 8:15.
DR. A. K. ATKINSON ADDRESSES BOY GUID-
ANCE MEN
The Boy Guidance Department of the University was addressed on Wednesday by one of the foremost figures in the field of organized training for boys, Dr. A. K. Atkinson, who is the educational director of the Boys’ Club Federation of America. He spoke to an audience of both boy guidance students and men majoring in sociology, pointing out the opportunities open to college—trained men in clubs, schools, and community centers. He described his work as director of the Federation, and emphasized the fine work that is being accomplished by boys’ clubs throughout the country. Dr. Atkinson concluded with a plea for more graduates to take over the responsibility in this rapidly growing field.
The assistant director of the Federation is a Notre Dame graduate of the class of 1927. He is Joseph Greeley, who became associated with the Boys’ Club Federation shortly after he was graduated, being later appointed to his position as assistant in charge of education.
VILLA MARIA COLLEGE
PRESENTS “FOOL OF GOD”
Professor Charles Phillip’s one act play, “The Fool of God,” presented in the University Theatre in the early spring of 1928, was staged at Villa Maria College, Erie, Pennsylvania, as a feature of the pre-Christmas season. The play, a poetic version of an incident in the life of St. Francis of Assissi, met with instant success, and was the subject of considerable comment, both because of its ideas and its rendition, among those who saw it.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
461
❖
A Man You Know
The office of Registrar at a university the size of Notre Dame is no sine cure. The Reverend William A. Carey, C.S.C., who preceded Father William H. Molony (the subject of
Reverend William H. Molony, C. S. C.
this article), as Registrar of the University, once remarked that the wear and tear on a registrar was aptly expressed by the English groom who said that “Hit’s not the first ’ard gallop that ’urts the ’orses ’oofs, but the ’eavy, ’eavy, ’ammer on the ’igh-way.” However, Father Molony seems to be bearing up surprisingly well under the “ 'eavy ’ammering," especially when one considers that he has a variety of other duties and interests which take up no small part of his time.
Father Molony was born in Crawfordsville, Indiana, where he attended the public and parochial schools. His high school education was received at Notre Dame. In 1903 he attended the University proper, receiving the degree of Litt. B. in 1907. He studied for the priesthood at Catholic University in Washington, at the same time doing special work in physics and mathematics. In 1910 he was ordained in Sacred Heart Church.
His first assignment sent him to St. Edward’s University in Texas, where he taught physics, chemistry, and mathematics from 1911 to 1913, and was also Director of Minims. The latter position, according to his own smiling admission, more than kept him busy. From 1913 to 1919 he held the office of Director of Studies. It is rather an interesting coincidence that the Reverend Emiel DeWulf, C. S. C., who is now Director of Studies
here at the University, was at that time President of St. Edward’s.
In 1919 Father Molony returned to Notre Dame to teach a variety of subjects, among them mathematics, chemistry and physics; and to act as prefect of the second floor of Corby Hall, until his appointment to the Registrar’s office in the fall of 1929. During the summer school terms of 1928 and 1929 he acted as Prefect of Religion for the religious attending summer school.
At the beginning of the present school year Father Molony was appointed Registrar of the University, to succeed the Reverend William A. Carey, C.S.C., who was appointed to the vice-presidency of Columbia University, Portland, Oregon. In addition to being Registrar, Father Molony also holds the chairmanship of the committee on scholarships and prizes. He is a member of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars, the Indiana Academy of Sciences, and has been a member of the American Chemical Society.
It was rather a hard task to persuade Father Molony to talk about his hobbies. He admitted that one of them was electrical experiments, but beyond that he would not commit himself. However, we noticed a neat pile of opera scores in his room. Upon being questioned about them, Father Molony admitted that music might also be considered one of his hobbies. We venture the opinion that it is his chief hobby, electrical experiments to the contrary notwithstanding, for, from the talk on music that we had with him, he disclosed a knowledge of music that was a revelation to us. During the course of the conversation Father Molony remarked that his -favorite piece of music was the “Preface of the Trinity.” He regards it as one of the greatest pieces of music ever composed.
ENGLISH DEPT. PREPARES QUALIFICATION EXAM
Preparations are now under way for the English majoi- qualification examination, which is to be given early in March. Applications are being turned in by students who wish to take this examination. According to the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., head of the English Department, the number’ of students who will take the examination will be slightly larger than the number that took it last year.
POST EXAM DANCE ON
JANUARY 28
Plans are readily nearing completion for the Post-Exam dance which will be held January 28 in the Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend, under the auspices of the Villagers lub. Myron Walz and his Hotel LaSalle orchestra radio broadcasters from station WSBT will play the program of dances, which will be from 8:30 to 11:30.
The dance will mark the unofficial celebration of the termination of the semester by the student body, and will be in the nature of an informal gathering of all the classes.
A new scale of prices will be inaugurated for this affair, the tax being a dollar and a half a couple, or 'seventy-five cents for “stags.” The ticket sale will start on the campus next Monday and will continue until the night of the dance. They may be secured from any member of the club.
ANDERSON VISITS CAMPUS
Hartley Anderson, ’22, former assistant coach at Notre Dame and football coach at Saint Louis University for the past two years, was a visitor on the campus during the past week. “Hunk” as he was familiarly known about the campus during his playing and coaching days, stated that he was undecided as to his future occupation, as he has resigned from his coaching duties at Saint Louis, but was considering several coaching positions.
“ROCK” OFF FOR FLORIDA TRIP
Knute Kenneth Rockne, accompanied by his wife and son, Jack, left last Sunday for Miami Beach, Florida, where he will bask in the sunlight for approximately six weeks. The trip is partly in accordance with doctors’ orders, who require Mr. Rockne to take an indefinite rest, and partly to recover from the strain of a victorious football season.
“Rock” had quite a limp when he boarded the train, but apparently is in good physical health.
NOTICE!
Contributions for “Scrip,” the literary quarterly, must be in not later than January 27. They should be sent to Louis C. Heitger, 305 Walsh Hall.
462
The Notre Dame Scholastic
i
A Man A bout the Campus
There are many approaches for interviewing prominent men about the campus, but to how many there are, the most conventional ones to be chosen, can only be answered by Mr. Emil “Judge”. Telfel, who regularly writes this column. In this particular
T. 'Vincent McIntire
case, however, it was only by means of a clandestine note, compiled by the “Judge” and forwarded to Vince McIntire, that the latter was forced to surrender, without questions or subterfuge. What the note contained would probably be food for material, but unfortunately it was not revealed.
Vincent hails from the village of Zanesville, Ohio, population 4,500. He is a senior in the college of Arts and Letters, and lives in Walsh Hall, within impinging distance of Bob Weschler and Tom Murphy. Vince’s ambition is to be an ambassador aftei- duly finishing an extensive course in the Georgetown Foreign Relations School.	■
Upon his arrival at Notre Dame, Vince was singularly honored as being
“Home Town” Number of “Juggler” Out Jan. 25
John L. Nanovic, editor-in-chief of the Juggler, announces that the next issue will be the “Home Town Number,” and will be out on Monday, January 20. This number will be one of the best yet issued. It will contain an entirely novel feature that is sure to capture the fancy of every student in the campus, and for that reason alone should be the most popular number of the year.
Nanovic claims that the idea of the feature in the “Home Town Number” has never been used before by any other college humorous magazine. The feature will be an eight* page “home town paper,” wherein the home
the first Freshman to enter Howard Hall. That was in the Year of 1926. Since that time he has served three years in Badin and contemplates his graduation while residing within the portals of Walsh, his present abode.
This year Vince is known as the managing editor of the Scholastic. He is one of the strong arms of Notre Dame journalism school, and when it comes to versatility he is just unsurpassable. His editorials on “The ' Fighting Irish” and “That Man Rockne” are examples of his ability as a writer and a journalist. Although he has not been alluded to as a Greeley or Watterson, present indications point to that end.
Besides serving in an editorial capacity, Vincent has been an active worker on the Dome and Juggler staffs, not to speak of articles which have appeared in Judge and other outside magazines.
When asked concerning his record here at Notre Dame, Vince replied proudly that the third Junior Prom is to be his mark. Without waiting for further questioning he added that radio was his hobby, stating, “I flatter myself that my repertoire of stations is unlimited.” He also said that Ethics intrigues him.
Although 109 is all that marks his door, a statement should be added that it is the pass to the Eagle Eye Organization. The charter members are the two gentlemen already referred to, Robert F. Weschler and Thomas Murphy. Should any information be desired concerning the Eagle Eyes we recommend you to the rector of Walsh Hall, and perhaps later in the year to the Editor of the Scholastic.
towns of the students will play an important part, hence the almost certain popularity of the coming number. The “old home town” feature will be further brightened by an “old home town” page, drawn especially for the Juggler by Lee Stanley, artist for the Central Press Association.
The “Home Town Number” has been made possible through the aid and co-operation of Henry Justin Smith, managing editor of the Chicago Daily News; R. H. L., conductor of “A Line-o-Type or Two” in the Chicago Tribune; the Western Newspaper Union, Chicago, and various home town papers.
N. D. Academy of Science Notes

Pre-registration for science students closes next Tuesday. Office hours of the Dean are 2:15 to 4:30 every afternoon until that day.
The Reverend J A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., addressed the Michigan State College Section of the American Chemical Society last Wednesday evening. The subject of his talk was, “The Chemistry of Acetylene.”
Twelve members of the Notre Dame Academy of Science have fulfilled obligations for receiving their keys. A meeting will be held soon, at which the keys will be fbrmally presented.
There will be a meeting of the A. A. A. S. this evening, Friday, January 17, at 7:45, in Chemistry Hall. Mr. Sieron will give a discussion on “Hardness Testing.” It is urged that all members in this section attend.
A meeting of the Pharmacy Club was held last evening at 7:45, in Chemistry Hall. Papers were read by Thomas Oester, Joe Gonciarz and Charles Quigley.
Leo J. Lovett, Ch. E. ’22, of the Engineering Department of the Singer Manufacturing Company of South Bend is the president of this section. These meetings are always exceedingly interesting. They are usually attended by the members of the Student Chemist Club of Notre Dame and all others who might be interested are cordially invited to them.
Wednesday evening, the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society held their regular meeting. Following the customary dinner in the University Dining Halls, Mr. C. E. Lentz, of the Singer Manufacturing Company addressed the members of the Society in Chemistry Hall.
The subject of. his address was “Glue,” a subject Mr. Lentz has had extensive and varied experience with, and on this matter he proved an unusually capable speaker.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
463

CAMPUS CLUBS
On this day___________in the year of Our Lord----------
this Charter is hereby granted to_______________________by
the Student Activities Council of the University of Notre Dame. The organization herein named agrees to live up to and keep, to the best of its ability the spirit as well as the letter of the provisions of this Charter enumerated below. The Student Activities Council reserves the right to cancel, void and nullify this Charter at its own discretion or at such a time as the stated organization fails to keep this agreement.
Article I
Section 1:
The total active membership of this Club shall be fifteen or more members and at no time shall fall below this number. Section 2:
If this organization is a State Club the membership shall consist of men living within the state designated by the name of the club.
If this organization is a City Club the membership shall consist of men living within the city or its environs designated by the name of the club.
The same limitations shall hold for District Clubs.
Article II
Section 1:
This Club shall hold itself ready at all times to cooperate with the Student Activities Council upon any measure or program for which the Student Activities Council calls upon said Club for aid and assistance.
Section 2:
This Club shall keep in touch and communication with all the secondary institutions of learning in the vicinity of the homes of the members of the Club for the purpose of encouraging students who are leaders in scholastic, debating, dramatic work, class activities and athletics to matriculate at the University of Notre Dame.
The Club shall take an active and intelligent interest in its Freshman members on the campus, with the end in view of encouraging said Freshman members in scholastic endeavor and any extra-curricular activity for which these first year men may be suited.
The President of the Club shall appoint one upper classman as sponsor of each Freshman when possible; and one upper classman for two or more Freshmen, when the number of Freshmen in the Club exceeds the number of upperclassmen in said Club.
Section 4:
If the organization herin named be a City Club, said Club shall arrange for at least one joint business meeting -or banquet each year with the Alumni organization in its home vicinity.
Section 5:
This Club shall be responsible to the Student Activities Council for the conduct of its members and guests at any social function sponsored by it.
Article III
Section 1:
This Club shall hold no meeting before Wednesday of any week in the scholastic year. Exceptions may be made, however, in case of urgent business when said Club has the express permission of the Club Chairman of the Student Activities Council.
Section 2:
This Club shall have at least two regular meetings each semester. Accurate accounts of all activities in these meetings are to be kept in a standard minute book, subject to investigation by the Student Activities Council. . Section 3:
The quorum of any meeting of this Club shall consist of at least two-thirds of said Club’s members.
Article IV
Section 1:
The officers of this Club shall consist of the President, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer.
Section 2:
Elections of the officers of this Club shall take place annually the second week of the scholastic year.
Section 3:
The names of the newly elected officers shall be submitted to the Student Activities Council Club Chairman not later- than October 1st of each year.	.	-
Article V.
Section 1:
This Club shall submit a report of all its finances, incomes, expenditures and any other financial matters accompanied by vouchers, bills and receipts to the Student Activities Council Club Chairman not later than May 1st of each year.
Section 2:	-
This Club shall not have a debit treasury later than May 1st of each year.
Article VI
Section 1:
This Club shall submit a report to the Student Activities Club Chairman not later than October 30th of each year upon the provision of Article I, Section 1; Article II, Sections 2 and 3.
Article VII
Section 1:
This Charter once rescinded may not be renewed under any circumstances during the same school year.
Signed----------------------------------------------
Club Chairman, Student Activities Council.
And so here we print for you the official Campus Club Charter for 1930. All club presidents are asked to consider it carefully and to explain its contents to their clubs at the earliest possible moment. -
There will be a meeting of all club presidents Sunday, February 2, at 10:30 a. m., in the Law Building. The meeting will be presided over by Jack Sigler, Club Chairman of the Student Activities Council, and an attempt will be made to better the conditions within the campus clubs.
Page —The Notre Dame Scholastic
MIIS
BY ALFRED ERNEST GALL
“T I ERE is a copy of College Humor,'’ I—I said the Feature Editor. “Write * an article on Sorin hall and follow the style used in the magazine describing one of the American universities.” The Power That Beez had spoken, so what else was there to do?
I listlessly thumbed the pages until I found the right place. With my Dunhill lighted, I proceeded to read and read until I came to the inevitable end. Remembering that my professors had told me to try to put myself into the same atmosphere which the author of an article is trying to create, I re-read the novelette, plunging deeply into the author’s sea of enthusiasm.
I was trudging across the campus, back in 1927, grip in hand, with my eyes taking in the panorama of the campus in the early fall. With freshman eyes, I say the glittering Dome, the spire of the church, Walsh hall set back among the evergreens—and then Sorin, with its four castellated towers.
“Here,” said I to myself, “is a real hall.” I was to learn later that it housed the proverbial 99 and 44/100% of the “campus personalities,” monogram men,
The “Mail-Wagon in Front of Old Sorin
“big shots,” and what not. Just a group of cosmopolitan personalities. Whatever it was, Sorin had an atmosphere which attracted me. Scheherezade certainly could locate a wealth of material here to incorporate in the 1000 and one nights.
College traditions are of the stuff that men dream of—they do not pass with the men who gave them form. Perhaps that is the reason Sorin hall has little or no unwritten history. Memories which had existed seemed to have passed like death in the night. With all due respect for the present inhabitants, however, it appears that the Sorinites of today are content with the reflected glory of the bleachers and the sidelines, all of which glory is justly theirs. Time with its seven-league boots has taken tremendous strides in a more mature direction. Gone are the days when Sorin hall ruled the campus—athletically, scholastically and socially.
When first built, the hall was used for divers purposes. Besides the rooms of the rector and his staff, it housed a chapel, the lecture room and chambers of the law department, bath rooms, a well-equipped reading room, and dormitory space for about 60 students. Only de-
serving students were allowed in th hall. And how they emphasized the won deserving!!
It seems that admission to the hall de pended entirely on the merit of the appli cant. He had to be of the elite, and men cleverness without corresponding serious ness and good conduct would not gain th< coveted honor for him. To quote fron the Scholastic files of 1890: “A desk chairs, a bookcase, a bed and othei necessary articles are provided by the college; the rest of the garnishing of the room is left to the taste of the student.’ Even in those days the students went in
$
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 465
K H ■
or aesthetic embellishments. They were hot to be blamed. Chacun a son metier. Adornments consisted of “baseball gloves bartered, as it were, with a physiologi-|al chart, nestling among the back num-iers of the Scientific American, all shad-M by Turcoman curtains sent by some pving mamma; there is a photograph of kudinal Newman perched on a volume
f Tennyson, and a synopsis of the ;----- case pasted over football
cores.” Which is somewhat of a de-■arture from the present day decora-;ons. Latest copies of the Post, Col-■ iers, Liberty, and the Cosmopolitan are
First of the Campus Hall Series
n
Any Night in Sorin “Sub
sandwiched between duties and textbooks; the cretonne curtains are mortal enemies of Joseph’s many-colored coat, and fashioned perhaps by some girl “back home”; photographs of this girl and that—maybe the girl; autographed pictures of the new Four Horsemen; a group picture of the National Champions; newspaper headlines of various happenings are wedged between odds and ends which are tacked or pasted on the walls. But then again—Chacun a son meet er.
The rules governing old Sorin hall were not many, but they were rigidly enforced. As there was a commodious common room, visiting in the rooms was not allowed; lights had to be out at a fixed time; unseemingly noises were prohibited; in fact, every reasonable restriction conducive to decorous behaviour and the formation of an atmosphere inducive to study was insisted upon. Those were the times when a Sorinite had too much respect for his standing to forfeit his privileges. A clandestine visit to town—were it possible—would mean expulsion; and there were no expulsions.
Gone, is the reading room. The club house atmosphere replaces the dormitory. Students go from room to room without even the formality of a knock, which may or- may not be a form of the much-discussed Notre Dame democracy.
The subway of Sorin is an institution in itself. It is here that the mighty problems of the campus are solved. Jim Armstrong, genial alumni secretary, tells of receiving letters from the older alumni, requesting the present address of fellows who used to live there. Just what is the magnetism in the subway? Why do students from the upper floors congregate there at night?

0
Reverend Walter Lavin, C. S. C.
Present Rector
A casual visitor in Sorin finds himself glancing at various tin-types and photographs of the Scholastic and Dome staffs of previous years. Father John O’Hara, prefect of religion, has his rooms and offices at the opposite end of the hall. His pamphlet rack, having thousands of religious leaflets, not counting the sentiments he expresses in his well-known daily “Religious Bulletin,” is also on the first floor. Father Walter Lavin (upper right) holds the fort in the hall as rector, assisted by Reverend Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C., and Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C.
When I recently asked a Sorinite what intrinsically constituted the real Sorin, he laconically replied, “Tradition and rats.” It has been my observation, however, that where one can kill rats, it is awfully hard to do away with traditions.
466	The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLECiE IWADE [
That plaything of the nation, the yo-yo, became so popular that Indiana University finally staged a Yo-Yo Hop as a pre-event for Dad’s Day. And that reminds us of our yo-yo champion. Folks, don’t be impatient with him for not having yet broken that record of 3,862 times. He assures us that he has really been too busy of late to be concerned with any such trfling things as championships. He has, however, practically promised us a new record by next week. So watch this page for- the glorious announcement.
Someone at the University of Oregon has discovered a successful way of keeping people in front of you from standing up and cutting off your view at football games. Every time anyone jumped uj> in front of this sage during the recent homecoming at Oregon, he shouted, “Hey, you with the three dollar suit, sit down!” And in every instance the offender promptly sat. Who was it that said the truth often hurts?
—o—
A contest is being conducted at the University of Washington at Seattle to determine which student of the sophomore class can grow the heaviest beard within a specified time. A prize will also be given for the worst attempt at beard growing. This latter part of the contest is most likely to result in a scoreless tie among a number of the candidates. It is too bad that no one at Indiana or Denver-thought of running such a contest in conjunction with their no-shave clubs.
The freshmen at Canisius College seem sadly lacking in respect for the lordly sophomores. The soph president called the frosh together and started in to talk them into subordination. But instead he talked them into boredom. One particularly bored freshman conceived an idea (this being, incidentally, the first time that such a thing has ever-happened in this country) , and he. passed it to his cronies throughout the hall. Then, at a signal from this leader, the freshmen interrupted the orator with a hearty and concerted birdie (also known as the “Bronx Cheer”). A cluster of sophs immediately surrounded the ring-leader and, as the school paper has it, “a suitable punishment was meted out to him.” -	'
The dean of women at Grinnell College decided that fifteen foot fences should be built around the base of the fire escapes on the women’s dormitories, and accordingly said fences were built. The real object was to frustrate romantic swains who persist in bringing then- dates home in the wee hours of the morning and assisting them into their, rooms via the fire escapes. The object as announced was that the fences were ornamental and intended to keep “peeping toms” away. Nevertheless and notwithstanding, the fire chief (perhaps in cahoots with swains mentioned above) decreed that the fences were fire hazards and had to come down. The dean of women protested loud and long, but all the same the fences came down. The University of Nebraska evades this fire escape problem quite cleverly. As soon as anyone pulls down the extension ladder of the fire escape, a bell automatically rings inside the dormitory and an outraged matron comes dashing out to take charge of the situation.
Cp-eds at the University of Washington have compiled a list of “Ten Commandments of Popularity.” The code, in , part, has these things to say: “Always be a lady. Dress in taste, and then don’t let your actions spoil the effect. Be a sport always, without yielding your ideals. Keep up on current events. Light chatter is sometimes unwanted. " There is always a time for serious topics. Above all other-things—be feminine!”
—o—	r
Attention, all you Day Dogs who fondly and secretly consider yourselves martyrs because you come a mile or two to school every day in and any weather. A student at the University of South Dakota goes sixty miles to class every day. And here is the catch—he does it in an air- , plane.
—o—
At Pennsylvania they have a Junior Week, during which time canes are sported by all third-year men. The opening event of the week is a colorful Cane March.
Two pep organizations at the University of Oklahoma, the Ruf-Neks and the Jazz Hounds, have been abolished as a result of paddlings they administered to freshmen in violation of the university rulings. Well, what more could you expect from groups with such names as those?
« The annual “Razzberry” of <Georgia Tech has died an. involuntary death. This publication was the recognized scandal sheet, 'mud-slinger, . and what-have-you of the school. But no longer cafi ihe students turn to the “Razz-berry” for the dirt on all the affairs of the place, for the chiefs high up have -decreed., that the publication cease existence.	.	.	-	A
—o—
Students in the speech department at the City College of Detroit are going to have the opportunity, if not the pleasure,-of hearing themselves speak, because a dictaphone is being installed in the public speaking rooms. So it may not be long before some of the students will be booing their own speeches. •	.	..
The Notre Dame Scholastic
467
L EDITORSJAGE J
*®IT W€N*T EE LCN6 NCW”
In a few days we meet the semester examinations in mortal combat. The battleground will be the class room; the weapons, pen and ink and brains. The advancing host will be led by the grim, implacable enemy of idlers, Major Learning. Amply supplied with heavy artillery and reinforcements, the enemy will give the students a tough fight.
The plan of battle will not be to the particular advantage of either side. Impartial judges will decide for themselves the victors of each day’s tilt. The Enemy will be led by three well known generals, Time, Learning and Diligence. Learning will lead the frontal attack with a heavy rolling barrage of mental strains calculated to break the mo rale of the defenders. Following closely behind the barrage will come several companies of attackers under the command of General Questions. Flanking both wings of the students’ line will be Time and and Diligence to harry and worry the desperate students. Then after a two hour’s grace they will swoop in and finish the fray.	.
At least six major engagements are expected. The casualties on both sides will probably be high. Early appraisals estimate the results to be a net loss of perhaps one-tenth of the student body. Woe to the student whose pen does not ring true. No pity for him if he has not availed himself of some protection in the four months’ preparation for the battle. The confidence which was his armour in the sharp quarterly skirmish will do him small good now if he has no keen insight and knowledge of the controversy.
The brunt of the attack will be intended for the idlers and the “no goods.” Their position will be in the center of the line. They look forward to the battle with misgivings and spend their time in frantic, last-minute attempts to patch the holes in their armour. 'But small hope for them. Their equipment, which was good in September, is rusted and worn through carelessness and misuse. Their casualties will probably run high. The fight will certainly be the fiercest in their sector. Known to all and sundry as the “die hards,” they will fight to the bitter end and go down with standards shattered to an ignominous and inglorious defeat.	.
Those who girded themselves for battle months ahead of time, who studied carefully the plans of battle, will be held in reserve. Their armour is bright and shining. Their pens ring true and they will probably carry all before them, before Time can rush a flank attack. Their armour will deflect any treacherous thrusts and their pens will scatter and confuse the enemy. Their superiority will make any casualties in their ranks highly improbable. They are the flower of the student body because they ' train as well as pray for victory. The “no goods” can only pray.
Ample plans have been made for the care of the dead and wounded. A select board will take charge of each college regiment and bodies will be shipped home with utmost tact and courtesy. Warriors who have fought well, but under handicap, will be referred to the “make up” rest camp for recuperation and another chance at the enemy in the June tilt.
Strictest adherence to martial law will be observed by the judges. They have orders to shoot down any traitors who violate the law by using cribs or other barbaric weapons. The strictest interpretation of the rules will be enforced. Instead of having recourse to religion as the sole weapon of defense, the combatants are urged to break a precedent and come with a brain full of knowledge.
—T. v. M.
468
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WINK
WHAT’S THE USE!
My old sweetheart’s a bride, I once was her lover.
For her lore had I sighed. My old sweetheart’s a bride, At her icedding I cried.
Who was her true lover?
My old sweetheart’s a bride; I once was her lover. .
—The Freckle-faced Psalm-singer.
And then there were the two Scotchmen who took a couple of hams to “the free treatment doctor” to be cured.
And the femme from Fort Huachuca who can’t keep anything to herself.
But even that doesn’t take the booby prize. Someone actually asked us how to play Contract.
There was a lady in Chicago who used to give very elaborate affairs at which the number of entertainers would sometimes equal the number of guests. Nothing was too expensive or too difficult for her to get, so she decided that at one of her future dinners she would have not only the Notre Dame varsity squad but also a very famous Chicago string trio whose price would have bought silk uniforms for Georgia Tech. Shortly after the winner was over a footman announced the W. String Trio. The hostess dashed through the living room to greet the musicians. The assembled guests heard a gasp and then, “Oh! There are only three of you.”
We know a young Communiste who, in spite of her notoriously avid interest in the Cause, refused to ride all day in a bus crowded with “Comrades.” Perhaps the fact that the bus was headed for Pittsburgh had something to do with it.
-	—o—
For that little breakfast party after the Prom may we suggest: Belgian hot house grapes; pink grapefruit with alternating sections of orange; squab; deerfoot sausage; Sherry brioches; toasted English muffins; potatoes par-issienne; Black Forest honey; marmalade; Sherry coffee; Sherry cigarettes? Of course, if this lacks anything we may be able to suggest a whole raft of things you’ve never wanted before.
-	—o—
Just before Xmas the New Yorker had among its gift suggestions the following: Ash trays, singly or in nests; $7.50 to $875 (ha-ha).
So we went down and got ambushed by a nest at $875.
The other night at “dinner” the Funny Fellow fouled the following fast one.	‘
Shaemus: Why not write your thesis on feminism in literature?
F. F.: Naw! That’s too broad.
Lines to be thought of when I meet J. S., who doesn’t knou' me:
Alas, I knew you not for what you are, - A creature fairer than all things above.
By far superior to moor or star—
You who love the friend I love.
And a few lines to be forgotten at the same time:
Hello, my dear. I think there was a time
I thought you ugly and a trifle dumb.
Perhaps it was something I ate—the clime— Well now—your time has come.
—Don Guil el Per.
—o—
You will all have to admit that the Don or whatever our newest contributor' is has done a very pretty little apology. Of course, since we don’t know J. S., there’s no telling whether all this is necessary. However, anyone knowing a J. S. can show the first four lines and say, “See what I wrote for you.”
Of course, with term duties, theses, plays, and what not, we hate to do this; but here’s “us” and here’s “Oui* knee” and now it’s “Bended” (and it’s not housemaid’s knee) so let’s have a contrib or two. Wazmus, Attache, The Vagabond Lover ... all have left us “maintaining a singing voice in the midst of a deluge” ... so we suggest Monsieur Sans-Gene-et-Sans-Souci write us an epic poem on the reopening of the gymnasium on the fourth floor of Walsh.
—o—
OUR HO-HUM DEPARTMENT
“John Marin is having an exhibit in Steiglitz’s new gallery which was constructed by Steiglitz especially for Marin and Georgia O’Keeffe.”
If you’re down that way, drop in. Marin is interesting.
Really! A curved brown line usually means “rhythm.” If you can figure out anything else in Marin keep it to yourself.
—o—
Then there was the “ad” in the Trib or HerEx for “JAZZ PIANO” from which we quote. If you don’t like our quotation go slide on your own cellar door.
“Hot breaks. Fill-ins. Blues, etc. taught. Open evenings. Call for free demon.”
Personally we never had any use for one, but if you haven’t a free demon in your home you can probably get a little one by answering the ad.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	469
Marquette Smothered Under 44-29 Score
Speedy Attack by Gavin and Crowe Brings Win to
Notre Dame
LONG shots, short shots, close shots, side shots, push shots— one after another they followed each other into the net as the Notre Dame basketball bombardment squad fairly peppered the ole backboard with this merry melange and the best the Hilltoppers from Marquette University could do was to hold the rapidly-increasing score down to 44 to 28.
What started out to be a slow, methodical basketball contest was turned into a speedy, slam-bang tussle before the first period was half gone, and from the minute Bill Newbold sank the first basket for Notre Dame until the final moment of play, there was no doubt as to the probable outcome of the game. After a brief flurry in the first half that pulled the Marquette five up to even terms with the Blue and Gold quintet, the tall northerners never had a chance
The best individual performances of the evening were those turned in by Norb Crowe, who won the Indiana game with his sensational last-minute basket, and little “Geever” Gavin. Crowe was easily the star by virtue of his six field goals which were flicked through the net from all positions of the floor. Without a doubt Norb was “on” last Saturday evening and his spectacular shooting in the contest was enough to put his teammates ahead with a substantial lead.
Gavin’s performance was indeed a scintillating one. His speedy floorwork was made all the more remarkable by the rapidity which he would maintain in getting down under the basket to send the ball through the hoop. Of Gavin it may well be said that he is one of the speediest and cleverest forwards to be seen on the local hardwood this season. His adeptness at handling the ball and un
canny passwork keeps his opponents whirling and sliding across the floor. His guarding was one of the main factors of the inability of the Marquette eagers to run up a largei' score. Gavin was successful in making four field goals and one foul shot.
Ray DeCook, the very promising sophomore and a rangy center, is credited with only two baskets but both of these shots were excellently executed ones from the side of the floor and a good distance out. DeCook’s goals followed each other within a minute and they neatly clipped the net as they shot through.
At the start of the game the Notre Dame passing attack was apparently in a bad condition, at least that is the way it looked to us, but with the injection of some new faces in the fray it gradually worked into perfect, well-coordinated machine-like passwork.
** •&
1929-30 Basketball Schedule
Dec. 2—N. D. 40, Kalamazoo Col. IS
Dec. 7—N. D. 49, Lake Forest 21
Dec. 13—N. D. 59. Albion 11
Dec. 19—Northwestern 30. N. D. 28
Dec. 23—N. D. 32, Iowa 19
Dec. 28—Ohio State 29. N. D. 22
Dec. 31—N. D. 22. Northwestern 19
Jan. 7—N. D. 30, Indiana 29
Jan. 11—N. D. 44. Marquette 29
Jan. 18—Univ, of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
Jan. 20—Fai. Mexico, at Notre Dame
Jan. 22—Michigan State at Tanting
Jan. 31—Wabash College at Notre Dame Feb. 4—Marquette Univ, at Milwaukee Feb. 8—U. of Pittsburgh at Nofre Dame Feb. 14—Butler Univ, at Indianapolis Feb. 18—Michigan State at Notre Dame Feb. 22—Wabash College at Crawfordsville Feb. 28—Butler University at Notre Dame Mar. 8—Univ, of Penn, at Philadelphia ♦------------------------:------------«
The bewildering speed of the Blue and Gold quintet wore down the strength of the Marquette eagers rapidly and by the time the first half was up, the Hilltoppers were well destined to defeat. Coach Cord Lipe used every one of his 12 men in an effort to stop the Fighting Irish but to no avail.
Marquette added to its score greatly by making 14 out of 21 fouls tries good for points. In this department Notre Dame was very weak, making only six out of 13 attempts. Andrews and Budrunas, lanky Marquette centers, played easily the best game for their team. Budrunas counted five free throws and his teammate O’Donnell was next in line in that department with four charity heaves.
Norb Crowe’s six field goals were enough to present him with the high scoring honors but both Newbold and Gavin totaled four buckets and a free toss for nine points apiece.
Tom Conley, newly elected football captain, took the floor during the course of the game at one of the guard positions and was greeted with a thundering reception from the audience.
470
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Score:
NOTRE DAME (44)			MARQUETTE B	(28) F P
	B F	P		
Newbold, f	4 1	1	O'Donnell, f 0	4 2
Gavin, f	4 1	2	Moser, f	0	0 0
McCarthy, f	1 2	1	Ruehl, f	1	3 1
Crowe, f	6 0	0	McElligott, f 1	2 0
DeCook, e	2 2	2	O’Brien, f 2	0 0
Busch, c	0 0	1	Andrew, c 2	0 3
Kizer, g	0 0	0	Budrunas, c 0	5 0
Smith, g	0 0	3	King, g	0	2 0
Burns, g	1 0	2	M’Namara, g 0	0 0
Donovan, g	0 0	4	Shipley, g 0	0 0
Conley, g	1 0	0	Gonyo, g	0 Bredow, g 1	0 0 0 0
	— ~	—		.... ,
Totals	19 6 16			Totals	7	14 6
Free throw	s missed-		—Newbold 3, Gavin 2,	
Burns, Conley	, Ruehl,		Andrew, King 3,	Ship-
ley, Budrunas.
Officials—Young-, umpire, Illinois Wesleyan ; referee—Schommer, Chicago.
MILLS LEAVES FEBRUARY FIRST
Tom E. Mills, will assume his duties at Georgetown University as director of athletics and head coach of football on February 1. Mills will have as his assistants, John Colrick and Tim Moynihan, football men of the past season who will be graduated soon.
The task of coaching spring football at the eastern university will befall Mills within a few months, and he will have Colrick to help him as the latter graduates with the close of this semester. Moynihan will join the two later and will be on hand when the fall term rolls around, it was said.
Georgetown has enjoyed seasons with enviable records during the past and several of the large eastern schools are found on the Georgetown schedule for 1930. During the past season Georgetown tied Navy and defeated New York University.
With these three men teaching their school all of Rockne’s tricks the influence of that coach will have spread farther and the team of another institution prominent in the football limelight will be added to the already large list of Rockne-coached teams.
RECORD BROKEN!
A record, as remarkable as it is true, was broken last Saturday when Franklin K. Lane High School, of Brooklyn, defeated Textile High School of Manhattan, 24-23, for the championship of New York City. The record referred to was that established by Textile’s diminutive pair of forwards, Willie Beckerman and Mickey Seiden, who started playing together in 1925 with, the 90-pound team of Clarke House, one of the settlement houses of New York, and since then until their team’s defeat by Lane last Saturday, they participated in ninety-nine consecutive victories.
Jack Elder To Participate In Important Meets
John Joseph Elder, the “Flying Colonel” from the Bluegrass state, has arranged for himself, this winter, a schedule which rivals the varsity schedule in stiffness, if not in length. Jack has accepted invitations to take part in practically all of the more important meets and games to be run off within the next month.
Jack opens his season tomorrow when he runs in the Olympic Sprint series of the Manhattan Games in New York City. A special sixty-yard dash and a seventy-yard dash are on
Jack Elder
his program for tomorrow. For the following week-end he has tentatively accepted the invitation extended by the Boston Knights of Columbus to take part in their games on January 25 in that city. Jack will “do his stuff” at the fifty-yard distance on this occasion.
A visit to his home in Louisville, Kentucky, his first since early last summer, will follow the Boston trip, and will afford a slight rest in preparation for the strenuous week which follows.
On February 8, he will accompany Coach John P. Nicholson, and part of the Notre Dame track squad to the
FROSH CAGERS CUT FOR FINAL TIME
The final cut in the freshman basketball squad took place last week when Freshman Coach Joe Jachym named 26 yearlings who will comprise the roster of the first year men for the remainder of the current season. Until last week 'the candidates for positions on the yearling squad numbered 31 and the cut was made in
Millrose Games in New York, where' he will again run his old favorite— the sixty yards Crossing over to Newark, New Jersey, he will take part in the Seton Hall games on the tenth, and then continue on to Philadelphia for the Meadowbrook Games on the twelfth.
This meet, according to Jack, will bring his track career to a close for all time. He intends to hang up his spikes for good and as Jack himself puts it, “earn my bread by the sweat of my brow.”
Jack completes his college studies at the end of the present semester. During his days here he has brought fame to Notre Dame as well as to himself. Competing first in track, Jack became one of the outstanding-sprinters of the country. He has tied the world’s record for the sixty-yards no less than fifteen times, and he, together with another well-known sprinter, are joint holders of the best time for the seventy-five yard distance. His six and one-fifth seconds in the sixty is as good as anyone has ever been able to do, while seven and two-fifths seconds for seventy-five yards has been done by only one other than Jack.
His fame as a football player is well-known all over the country. No team against which Jack played this fall was able to hold him. His runs to touchdowns ranged from about fifteen yards to one hundred. He was one of the fleetest halfbacks in college football this fall ancT there were not many more shifty than our own “Rebel.”’
Jack opened his college career in a sixty-yard dash in the Notre Dame gymnasium in 1927; he closed it in a hundred-yard dash in the Yankee Stadium in 1929. All that happened in ■ between these two dates would probably fill a book, but, as he opened his career, so he closed it—the greatest sprinter Notre Dame has ever had.
order to allow Jachym to devote more time to the individuals on the squad.
The lads in green furnish opposition nightly for the varsity five.
. Those who survived the final cut are . as follows: Baldwin, Sabo, Crosby, Donohue, Ferris, Jaskwich, Keating, LeCompte, Banas, McGrath, Quinn, Samp, Shroder, Shumacker, Szekely, Lukats, Terry, Thune, Vogele, Rapier, Aug, Cummings, McKeever, and Hafron.
																			
X			Th	e Notre		D	a	me S c h	O	I a s t i c								471	
1 i L ■1 □ -»• r ■	Results of Intemall The interhall eagers started their season last Sunday with practice games. The rough edges have yet to he smoothed off and the team-play as a whole is not well organized. There are, however, both teams and men who promise to shine as bright lights later in the season. In the heavyweight division most of the scores were close, with the exception of the defeat Morrissey handed Lyons, 28-11, and the SophomoreFreshman tilt, in which Sophomore took the big end of a 17-14 score. The lightweight section had some likely looking teams in Badin and Brownson, both outfits defeating their opponents by large scores. LIGHTWEIGHT BESULTS (Practice Games)	‘ Lyons, 10; Morrissey, 7 MORRISSEY (7)	LYONS (10) G F P	G F P Zimmers, f	0	0	0	Asman, f	0	0	0 Donleavy, f	0	0	1	Redman, f	2	2	0 Fuanigan, f	0	0	0	Flynn, f	0	0	0 Britz, f	110 Cashman, f 0 0 2 Roney, c	0	0	1	Gangdon, c	0	1	0 Heekin, c	0	0	1	Kaczor’ski, g	0	0	0 McKeever, g	2	1	0	Moriarty, g	1	0	0 O’Toule, g	0	0	1	Hawkes, g	0	0	0 Gorman, g	0	0	1	Dalton, g	0	11 Totals	3	2	5	Totals	3	4	3 Badin, 19; Walsh, 5 BADIN (19)	WALSH (5) G	F	P	Martzel, f	0	0	2 Chambers, f	0	1	0	Foley, f	0	0	1 Obelnus, f	10	0	Meyer, f	0	0	1 Nash, f	111 Derby, g	200 Comeford, f	0	0	1	Alexander, g 0	1	1 Fox, c	2	0	1	Goulet, g	0	0	1 Rohrbuck, c 3 0 0	- Smith, g	110 Totals	8 3 3 Totals	2 16 Brownson, 10; Carroll, 4 CARROLL (4)	BROWNSON (10) G F P	G F P Frank, f	0	0	0	Boyer, f	110 Sheehan, f	2	0	0	Naber, £	0	0	0 Brennan, f	0	0	0	Simmons, f	0'00 Lusardi, f	0	0	0	Duke, f	0	0	0 Burke, f	0	0	0	Sullivan, f	2	10 Gulhouse, f	0	0	0	Eho, f	0	0	0 Gandown, f	0	0	0	Regan, f	0	2	0 Totals	2	0	0	Totals	3	4	0 Howard, 19; St. Edward’s, 13 ST. EDWARDS (13)	HOWARD (19) .	G F P	G F P O'Malley, f	0	1	2	Duffy, f	0	0	0 Marra, f	2	0	0	Basker., f	5 10 Kelly, £	0	0	0	Cauley, f	0	0	1 Higgins, f	0	0	1	Eckert, f	10	0 Bailey, c	2	0	0	Monahan, c 0	0	0 Ramcey, c	0.	0	0	Fraitas, g	10	1 O’Shea, g.	0	0	2	Scully, g	0	0	0 Thompson, g	2	0	1	Rigoli. g	12	1			Basketbail rractic Freshman, 7; Sophomore, 6 FRESHMAN (7)	SOPHOMORE G F P	G Fisler, f	10 0 Kennedy, f 2 Freman, £	10 0	Mcgec, f	0 Higgins, f	0	0	0	Tunney, f	0 Pilled, f	0	0	0	Malloy, f	0 Sullivan, f	0	0	0	Mcgee	1 McLeod, f	0	0	0	Jackson, f	0 Vessily, f	0	0	0	Kiraly, f	0 Butler, c	0	0	0	Sm’thwaite, c	0 Loughray, e	0	0	0	Haggan, c	0 O’Connor, g	1	0	0	McCarthy, g	0 Rau, g	0 10	Malby. g	0 Totals	3 19	Totals	3 HEAVYWEIGHT RESULTS (Practice Games) Sophomore, 17; Freshman, 4 FRESHMAN (4)	SOPHOMORE G F P	G O’Neil, f	0	0	0	Hitzelb’g'r,	f	1 McL’ghlin, f	0	0	0	Augustina,	f	0 Payntan, f	0	0	0	Keeney, £	1 Waterson, f	0	0	0	Casey, f	3 Finneran, f	0	0	1	Gorman, c	1 Mazur, f	0	0	0	Giuffer, c	1 Buvar, f	0	0	0	Rogers, g	0 Baesplug, c	0	0	0	Streb, g	0 Branford, c	1	2	0	Sheeketski,	g	0 Draper, g 0 0 0 Conley, g	0 Canander, g 0 0 0 Nehuff, g 0 0 0 Litswtan, g 0 0 0 Donovan, g 0 0 0 Oliner, g	0 0 0 Totals	12 1 Totals	7 Badin, 9; Walsh, 8 WALSH (8)	BADIN (9) G F P	G Bloemmert, £001 Zilaick, f 1 Spalding, f	10	0	Deeb, f	0 Reaume, f	10	1	Stark, f	0 Medland, c	0 0	0	McDougal,	c	0 Hoffman, c	0 13	McCarthy,	c	0 Jane, w, g	0	0	1	O’Malley, g 0 Kinnally, g	0	0	0	Dillon, g	0 Jane, E„ g	0	1	1	Doane, g	0 Scholand, g	1	0	1	Walsh, g	0 Caughlin, g 0 Christ’ns’n, g 0 Totals	3 2 8 Totals	1 Sorin, 10; Corby, 8 CORBY (8)	SORIN (10 G F	P	G Snider, f	0	0	0	Malloy, f	0 Duke, f	0	0	0	Lordi, f	1 Taekens, f	0	0	1	Smith, f	2 Cooney, f	10	3	Kane,	f	0 Chrisman, f	0	0	0	Purcer, f	0 Ruppe, f	0	0	0	Cronon, c	0 Bisko, c	0	0	0	Nash, c	0 Bloom, c	10	1	Gilbertson, g 1 Welchons, c	0	0	0	Dillion, g	0 Henely, g	0	0	0	Doley, g	0 Redi, g	0 11 Hickey, g ’ 0 0	0						:e ( (6) F P 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 (17) F P 0 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 2 3 5 F P 1 0 1 1 0 0 2 2 0 2 2 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 7 F P 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 3 0 0 1 3		uiames, January 1 Brownson, 14; Carroll, 13 BROWNSON (14)	CARROLL ( G F	P	G Cagley, £	10	0	Benevino,	f	0 Delay, f	0	0	0	Burke, f	0 Manek, f	0	0	0	Malone, f	2 Jackson, f	10	0	Kasper, f	0 O’Donnell, f	1	0	0	McGuirl. f	0 Walsh, c	0	0	1	Clever, c	0 Quinn, c	0	0	0	Midland, c	0 Abercombe, c	0	0	0	Griffin, c	1 Hawk, g	0	0	0	Ford, g	0 "Knonbach, g	0	0	1	Harrison, g	3 Quinnan, g	1	0	0	Branchean,	g	0 Fayette, g	3	0	0	Van Allen,	g	0 Totals	7	0	2	Totals	6 St. Edward’s, 12; Howard, 8 HOWARD (8)	ST. EDWARDS £ F P	G Venables, f 0	0	0	Oelrich, f	0 Stanton, f 0	0	1	Kreman. f	0 Lipowski. £000 Oelrich, f 2 O’Shan’s’y, f 0	0	0	Ourman, f	1 Morrison, f S	0	0	Zgow, c	1 Uprechard. f 0	0	0	Corebery, c	1 Reese, f	0	0	0	Riley, g	0 Promgrove, c 1	1	0	Rynzwog, g	0 Vabrysiak, g 0	1	2	Meade, g	0 Rohrs, g	0	0	1	Hagger, g	0 Lozao, g	0	0	0	Cetro, g	0 Beasley, g 0	0	1	Hodgan. g	0 Smith, g	0	0	1 Penale, g	0	0	1 Totals	12 6 Totals	5 Morrissey, 28; Lyons, 11 MORRISSEY (28)	LYONS (11 G F P	G Law, f	3 10	Lynch,	f	6 Duffy, f	0	0	0	Powers, £	0 Melchione. £	2	0	0	O’Connor, f	0 O'Connor, £	0	0	0	Smith, f	0 Groves, c	0	0	0	Agnow. f	0 Doer, c	10 0	Dolan,	f	0 Swanke, c	6	0	0	Brown, f	0 Duffy, g	0	0	0	Mathewsin, f 0 Haywood, g	0	0	0	Erawlay. c	1 Dorr, g	0 0-0	Woods,	c	0 Baldwin, g	0	0	1	Skeehan, c	2 Kavan’gh, g	1	1	0	McEver, c	0 Moriarty, g 1 Palt. g	1 Totals	13	2	1	Totals	5 Off-Campus Heavies, 26; Ofi Campus Lights, 4 HEAVIES (26)	LIGHTS (4 G F P	G Duba, f	0	0	0	Jogarty, f	0 Louves, £	0	0	1	Qpox. £	0 Beehan. f	10	0	Cook, f	0 Schaquiky, f	0 0	0	Stowell. £	0 Hertz, f	3	0	1	Golden, c	1 Davis, f	0	0	0	Dollav, g	0 Beazly, f	10 0 Eichlen. g	0 Monihan, f 10 0	Brucken, g 0 Ameling, c	3 0	2 Koontz, g 0 Brink, c	10	0 Brichacek, c 1 0 0	’ Walsh, g	10	0 Otto, g	10	0 Bieken. g	0 0	1						2 13) F P 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 4 (12) F P 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 ) F P 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 1 3 ) F P 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 0 1 0	
	Totals	6 16	Totals	8 3 3	Totals	2	4	6	Totals	4	2	11	Totals	13	0	5	Totals	1	2	1
472	The Notre Dame Scholastic
SODAS	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
'	--(Mid-
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
Citizens National Bank
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
JEFFERSON NEAR MICHIGAN
Pass the Exams
with
DARKER
* ENS
-and-
Students Supplies
from
THE
OFFICE ENGINEERS
126-128 S. Main St.
Corner Michigan and Colfax
CUT PRICES on your Drug and Toilet Needs EVERY DAY
The Notre Dame Scholastic
473
KEGOWICZ IN CHARGE OF TRACK
The stringent duty of arranging and providing for the various trips on the indoor and outdoor track
Anthony W. Kegowicz
schedules has fallen upon the shoulders of Anthony W. Kegowicz, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters.
Kegowicz’s job is much more severe than in past years owing to the fact that the most pretentious schedule in Notre Dame history has been lined up for the squad. His duties will be relieved somewhat by the services of Franklyn J. O’Marah, who is the assistant manager in charge of track.
350 CAGERS OUT FOR INTERHALL TEAMS
Three hundred and fifty men turned out for the interhall basketball teams which opened their season with practice games last Sunday. This is an extremely large and gratifying showing and is perhaps the largest since the beginning of inter-hall basketball competition.
Off-campus had the highest number reporting, with one hundred and five out for the first practice. This is the spirit which has prevailed among the “day-dogs” since the first of the year, and which was shown all through the football season, when they copped that title, and especially at the time of the bon-fire preceding the varsity game with Southern California.
The popularity of basketball at Notre Dame has greatly increased during the last three years, and the addition built on to the gym six years ago is not adequate room for practice. This is a great handicap to the interhall eagers but the schedule has been arranged so as to give the players the least inconvenience, and not to greatly hamper their progress.
It is hoped by those in charge that sometime, in the not far distant future,‘another addition will be built on the gym, to be of sufficient size to
take care of all the need for room which Noti’e Dame will encounter for some time.
The regular season slated to open Sunday, January 19 will start tomorrow, due to the request of Coach George Keogan, who wishes the main floor for a varsity practice on Sunday afternoon.
There is sure to be keen competition from the first whistle in all the set-tos, and anyone wishing to observe the interhall boys “doing their stuff” on Saturday night and Sunday morning is assured of an interesting time.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL SCHEDULE Saturday, January 18 7:00- 8:00 p.m.—
St. Edwards-Freshman 8:00- 9:00 p.m.—
Howard-Carroll 9:00-10:00 p. m.—
Sophomore-W alsh Sunday, January 19 9:30-10:30 a. m.—
Brownson-Badin 10:30-11:30 a. m.—
Morrissey-Corby 1:30- 2:30 p.m.—
Lyons-Off-Campus
Why not be Modem Cook ELEC trically
Indiana and Michigan Electric Company
227 West Jefferson Street
474
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Seeing Is Knowing
A student knows what he sees. And he knows better what he sees clearly.
Defective vision is always an enormous handicap to learning.
Consult us about your eyes.
LEMONTREE’S
• Optometrists
2221/) South Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
PRESENTING
A NEW SERVICE
By Notre Dame Men for Notre Dame Men
CLEANING PRESSING REPAIRING of	'
Suits, Overcoats, ‘Dress Clothes, etc.
Unexcelled Workmanship Standard Prices Insurance Against Loss Satisfaction Guaranteed
See Our Representative in Your Hall.
The Student Tailoring Association
Phone 3-0580	Office, 128 Walsh Hall
Dan Halpin Jos. Thornton Dan Cannon
A Better ,Optometric Service.
The Home of RKO VAUDEVILLE and Radio Pictures
----Coming!----
“GOLF FIENDS” 25—Entertainers—25
------STARTING SUNDAY----
Paul Muni
IN
“Seven Faces”
------STAGE ATTRACTIONS -
EDITH GRIFFITH AND CO. “Love in the Ranks”
JOSEPH FREED AND CO. “What Might Happen”
FAUNTLEROY AND VAN “Two Oklahoma Slickers”
TWO OTHER RKO ACTS
---- STARTING WEDNESDAY ------
Alice White
’	IN
“Playing Around"
----------ON OUR STAGE--------
Youth & Beauty Revue
With
50 — Beautiful Girls — 50
Featuring
Elmer Coudy— Dorothy Coudy
and
MARIA FOKINA
The Internationally Famous Dancer

The Notre Dame Scholastic
475
NOTRE DAME FIVE FACES TWO HARD GAMES IN
THREE DAYS
Two of the toughest teams on the entire schedule; are to be met by Coach George E. Keogan’s Blue and Gold basketball artists tomorrow night and Monday, with Pittsburgh and the strong Fai team from Mexico, on those evenings respectively. The Notre Dame eagers will have to hustle back after their game with the Panthers on Saturday night for a practice on the home hardwood Sunday afternoon in preparation for their contest with the far-Southerners on the following night.	.
The Pitt Panthers have been undefeated so far-this season, and their victories include wins over Muskegon, Indiana, Northwestern, Iowa, Grove City, Ohio State, Nebraska, Montana State, Carnegie Tech, and Georgetown. And if Dr. Keogan’s orders are as well obeyed as they were last year when Notre Dame spilled Pittsburgh’s fighting team, 33 to 23, holding the widely-heralded Hyatt to five baskets and three fouls, he needn’t worry about the outcome of the game tomorrow night.
The Fai team is made up of the finest that Mexico affords in the form of basketball players, and has been
on tour of the United States for several weeks. A squad of 10 men is carried by the Mexican champs and their coach is Leoncio Ochoa. Included in the lineup is Claudio Mateo, a six-footer, who has been one of the leaders of the invader’s attack since beginning their tour through the United States. Others of the first team include Silvio Hernandez 'de Valle, Armando Luna, Juan Rico, and Angel Flores Rico.
Although from Mexico, not usually associated with the term basketball, the Fai team is a classy outfit and won the national championship of Mexico last year by virtue of its great performances on the court
SCHEDULE TWO MORE TRACK MEETS
Coach John P. Nicholson announced this week that two more events have been added to the 1930 track schedule. A dual meet with Butler University, of Indianapolis, will > be held in the Notre Dame gym on February 1, while the two-mile relay team and several other members of the squad will compete in the Seton Hall Games in Newark, New Jersey, on February 10.	-
These two events round out a schedule ■which calls for competition every week-end from February 1 to June 14
with the exception of three weeks between the closing of the indoor and the opening of the outdoor season. To off-set these three “free-days,” there is one meet scheduled for a Monday, and the preliminaries to two others. on the Fridays before the actual meets.
INTERHALL PRACTICE SCHEDULE
Week of January 19
TUESDAY		
Varsity		.Apparatus
Floor		Room.
St. Edward’s	7:00 p. m.	Sophomore
Carroll	8:00 p. m.	Brownson
Sorin	9:00 p. m.	Morrissey
WEDNESDAY		
Walsh	7:00 p. m.	Lyons
Howard	8:00 p. m.	Freshman
Corby	9:00 p. m. THURSDAY	Badin
Off-Campus	7:00 p. m. St. Edward’s	
Brownson	8:00 p. m.	Carroll
Morrissey	9:00 p. m. FRIDAY	Sorin
Lyons	7:00 p. m.	Walsh
Freshman	S :00 p. m.	Howard
Badin	9:00 p. m. SATURDAY	. Corby
St. Edward's	7:00 p. m.	Off-Campus
Carroll	8:00 p. m.	Brownson
Sophomore	9:00 p. m.	Morrissey
There’s a Plot to “SALLY” It’s not a Revue.
flRANADA
^adio—Kieth—Orpheiun Jk.
“SALLY” is all in Technicolor.
Don’t Miss It!'
==STARTING MONDAY—JANUARY 20	- - -=—■
Flo Ziegfeld's Famous Stage Show
“SALLY”
Featuring the noted Broadway star—Marilyn Miller
ALL-TALKING	ALL-COLOR ~I ALL-SINGING
The Notre
Dame Scholastic
SHAKESPEARE I TO JAZZ •
W^ARNER Brothers’ ‘Show v of Shows’ is drama, melodrama, and tragedy. It is comedy, travesty and farce. It is musical comedy, revue, - and opera. Shakespeare to Jazz! It is indeed the . . . .
SHOW
OF
SHOWS
JT has by actual count, 77 stars, including: John Bar-rymore, Richard Barthelmess, Noah Beery, Irene Bordoni, Georges Carpentier, Buster Collier, Nick Lucas, Winnie Lightner, Myrna Loy, Louise Fazenda, Ben Turpin and many others.
100 SHOWS! IN ONE •
^ARNER Brothers’ ‘Show v of Shows’ is 100 shows in one, and any one of the 100 is worth the price of admission. It has by actual count, 1,000 Hollywood beauties, all of them tinted by technicolor but none of them tainted by time.
STARTING SATURDAY
fOLFAY
TMBAmiyW
II	One of the Publix Theatres
Follow the
Basketball Team at home and abroad thru the columns of
THE
NEWS - TIMES
For week-ends in Chicago take the South Shore Line
Trains leave South Bend every hour on the hour
See Charles Woods in the Bookstore or call 2-5764 for complete information.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
Home of Paramount Pictures
Ci
The Notre Dame Scholastic

L
-------------------------------*
Splinters from the Press Box
4--------------------------------*
In basketball, as in no other sport perhaps, the smaller colleges seem to hold their own very well alongside the larger institutions. New York City alone boasts three schools, all outside of the Eastern Intercollegiate League, and the two of them, at least, smaller than most of the schools in the league, and yet these three schools outside of the league could probably beat any three teams in the league any day in the week. We refer to St. John’s, Fordham and C. C. N. Y. The last named, especially, under the skilled guidance of Nat Holman, sometime the “greatest basketball player of all time,” has attained to remarkable heights in the court game, in direct contrast to its notably unsuccessful teams in other sports. And even little St. Francis, in Brooklyn, has had its share of basketball fame. It is not so long ago that the best team ever put out by the Franciscan institution almost took Harvard, then intercollegiate champions, in a post-season game.
It is rarely that a school adopts a nick-name or pseudonym for its teams, but Hamilton College in upper New York, officially decided on January 11, 1930, the 126th anniversary of the death of Alexander Hamilton, after whom the college was named, to call its teams the Continentals. Buff and Blue have long been the colors of Hamilton, but the need for a more “significant cognomen had recently been felt,” to quote from the article dealing with the subject.
Last Saturday saw the inauguration of Mexico’s first set of Olympic games. Along with its plan to interest the people in physical training, then to modernize the country in general, the government of Mexico has inaugurated this set of games. This is a definite step for the better, but one cannot help wondering whether or not the main events will be the rifleshooting and knife-throwing contests.
—o—
Jack Elder competes in New York tomorrow night in the Manhattan College games against one of the greatest board of runners of all time, Karl Windermuth of Georgetown!. The slim wn-aith wrho wears the Blue and Grey of the Hilltoppers is a “glider”
in direct contrast to a “digger” such as is Elder, and were Paddock and Locke. In other words, he seems to glide along, barely skimming the boards. This style does not make for success outdoors, but it does indoors, as Wildermuth has proven. Neither Paddock nor Locke were more than mediocre on boards, and it is only the more to Elder’s credit that he turned in such remarkable • performance against Percy Williams last winter on boards. Because Wildermuth’s style is made for a board track and Elder’s for a cinder or dirt track, we look for the Colonel to have his hands full tomorrow night, not only from Wildermuth but from Jimmy Daley of Holy Cross, who is also at his best .on boards.	"
—o—
William Barry of Australia, one of the oldest athletes in active competition, recently won a feature 220 yard swim in Sydney in the fast time of 2:43. This is a remarkable performance when one considers ’ that Barry has been in competition for thirty years, winning a scholastic title in 1900. Other remarkable exhibitions of stamina and ability by middle-aged men were the performances of the Englishman, Hill, in the 1920 Olym-

For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 North Michigan Street
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
478
The
Notre Dame Scholastic
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street
Blue Corduroy Sheepfined Coats
$6.95
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
Blue Corduroy Trousers . . . $2.95 4 Buckle Galoshes .... . $2.98
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
U. S. Army Style DOUBLE- SOLED Field-Shoes Riveted Vamps $3.65
Sizes 6 to 11 Boys’ Sizes
2 to 5
$2.98

THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP
A. M. MYERS, Prop.
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
—o—
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS SERVICE

205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
Floivers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
The Notre Dame Scholastic
479
I

Pipes save no midnight oil
IF PIPES made the man, anybody at all could rise in the world just by smoking a few pounds of Edgeworth. But pipes do not make the man.
Men make the pipe—most men do. Somewhat depends on the individual, more on the pipe, and the tobacco is most important of all. Things must be congenial.
Edgeworth is a congenial tobacco, cool, slow-burning, fully flavored. Edgeworth has poise, kindly good nature, real tobacco personality — Edgeworth welcomes new friends. Many a good man has been pledged to pipes by Edgeworth alone.
Like to meet Edgeworth? Just ask with the coupon—and the postman will bring your first few pipefuls of the genuine, three years seasoned if it’s a day. Our treat, if you please.
Others have found Edgeworth and quit their discontent.
So may it be with you!
EDGEWORTH
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos — selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy it anywhere — “Ready Rubbed” or “Plug Slice”—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin.
Larus & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
(Witness my seal)
(and my seat of learning)
(and my postoffire and state) Now let the Edgeworth come! V
How Quickly Will You Become a
Business „ Executive!
Are you prepared for business?
Do you know enough about Finance, Management, Production and Distribution to QUICKLY develop into an executive in the business world; or will you, after leaving college, drudge along for years in the “school of hard knocks” and possibly never achieve the business success you desire?
In just nine months you CAN prepare!
Babson Institute offers you exactly the kind of training you will need most when you are out of college and on your own. Here you may receive a practical and thorough training under the direction of business experts. Here you will learn business fundamentals and, what is more important, you will gain the necessary experience in the practical application of chose fundamentals.
Students at Babson Institute keep regular office hours. They dictate reports, take part in conferences, and the basic “how” and “why” of business. Babson Institute is a place for work, not play; for the kind of “brass-tacks” training every ambitious young man wants! The instruction is intensive—no wasted time on trifles or useless theories.
Send for Booklet
You owe it to yourself to find outhow the Babson Institute Course may provide a direct route to business achievement for you. Send fora copy of our booklet “Training for Business Leadership” which gives full information. It will be sent free without any obligation on your part.
Mail this Coupon NOW!
BABSON Institute
■	G301 ab-on Park, Mass. g
B Send me, without obligation, “Training ■ ■ for Business Leadership” and complete | ■ particulars about Babson Institute.	I
I	’	•
g Name	J
J College	B
! Address	B
■	---------------------------------------- g
■	B
■	______________________________________ B
I	Home	J
I	Address	J
■	I
B City	State	B
Residence Phone 3-4041
Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist ■
702 J. M. S. Building
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
❖ pics, when he won the SOO-meter run at the age of thirty-eight, and the Finn, Stonroos, who won the Marathon at the 1924 Olympics at the age of 44.
Not wishing to unnecessarily postpone the conclusion of the current season and post-season, we nevertheless present what we think to be the five best offensive and the five best defensive teams in the country respectively; ranked according to their ability, as we see it, in each particular branch:
The Five Best Offensive Teams:
1.	Southern California
2.	Notre Dame
3.	Purdue
4.	Tennessee
•5. Pittsburgh
The Five Best Defensive Teams:
1.	St. Mary’s
2.	Notre Dame
3.	Iowa
4.	Fordham '
5.	Nebraska
Attempting to be as unprejudiced as possible about the matter, an old complaint has nevertheless been quite obviously revived. Certain Pacific Coast papers in post-season editorials complained about the dirty playing of St. Mary’s, accusing the courageous Gaels of all manner of mis-conduct on the playing field. It is high time that someone among the prominent sports writers rallied to their defense; too often in the past has this accusation been made, when some small Catholic college team has had a good season or defeated a major opponent. Such was the case in the past whenever Boston College upset Yale or Holy Cross defeated Harvard In an attempt to explain unlooked-for defeat, sports writers or publicity men have resorted to the old alibi of “dirty playing.” ■
Again, too often have the members of a softening race confused hard football with dirty football in order to justify their own cream-puff tactics. If the game is too rough as played for some people, let them resort to some other game in which the element of hard personal contact does not play quite so large a part. Foi-the present, for most people, and for a certain small group, always, American football ■will remain just what it is, the greatest game ever conceived, the only game of its kind, “the only game in which there is intimate personal contact.”
480
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦-------------------------------«
I
On Down the Line | i <■------------------------------»>
. . . JACK FURAY, 21, center on the 1929 Creighton Univ, football team was shot in the head t’other day . . . All he suffered was a severe headache . . . football would thus be a good protection for the Windy City gangsters . . . The University of Michigan football team will play seven games at home next year . . . and only two outside contests . . . Prior to the time he broke into the big show with the Phillies in 1915, DAVE BANCROFT, veteran shortstop, had never witnessed a big league ball game . . .
. . . BABY DELHI, finished next to last in a 12-horse field in a race at New Orleans recently, and was awarded third-place money • . . LOUISVILLE LOU, which finished third, was left out of the money altogether . . . the mistake of the placing judges was not rectified .. . Notre Dame has had an unbeaten football eleven four times in 11 years ... First in 1919, then 1920, 1924, and now 1929 . . . EDDIE MURDOCH, Oklahoma lightie, knocked out WILLIE SEGAL, N. Y. C., in two seconds last week . . . a left to the jaw was enough and is believed to be a world’s record for a speedy k. o. . .
. . . BILL ROPER, retired football coach at Princeton, was the Tigers’ grid mentor for 14 years . . . GEORGE BLACKERBY, who comes back to the ChiSox for another trial this spring, hit three doubles in a game four times while with Waco (Tex.) last season . . . PRIMO CAR-NERA, Italian heavyweight, is 6 feet 9 inches tall and lugs around 274 pounds ... he is said-to have a poor appetite . . . All he has for breakfast is two glasses of orange juice, four eggs, half a dozen slices of toast and two quarts of milk . . .
—o—
. . . MIKE and BERNIE BROPHY are brother hockeyists . . . but because MIKE plays with the Cleveland Indians and BERNIE for the Detroit Olympics they were pitted against each other this week ... DON BRADMAN set new world’s cricket record in Australia ... he hit 452 runs and was still undefeated when his team’s innings closed . . . which must have tired him somewhat .' . . The* Boston Bruins recently chalked up their 14th consecutive win in the Nat’l hockey league . . . and two days later were defeated.. .
1 855 - SEVENTY - FIFTH ANNIVERSARY • 1930
Measuring the progress of 75 years
From small shops to vast factories . . . from blacksmith’s forge to six-ton electric furnaces . . . from Joule’s theory of heat to superheat . . . from guesswork to science . . . from waste to economy— these hint the revolution in industry since 1855. The growth of Crane Co. through these years is a significant reflection of the growth of all industry. From a one-man shop founded three-quarters of a century ago, it has grown to a world organization, meeting in its own factories the power and production problems that have faced other manufacturers. Supplying the piping materials that have released power, effected economies, and increased production everywhere, it has of necessity met and solved piping problems as they have arisen in all industries^
Now in its 75th anniversary year,it serves all industries with the materials developed, the knowledge and experience gained. To engineering students, its customers of the future, it offers a valuable reference book and research manual on metal reactions under high pressure and superheat: “Pioneering in Science.” Write for it.
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES :83S S. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICE: 23 WEST 44th STREET Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Ninety Cities

The Notre Dame Scholastic
481
482	The Notre Dame Scholastic
adler brothers semi-annual clearance suits — overcoats — furnishings it is adler brothers custom to hold two sales each year — one in January and one in july. many notre dame men consider these semi-annual sales as outstanding opportunities for securing necessities at great savings
suits	overcoats
offering drastic price reductions
shirts
$2.00 shirts — now $1.65
2.50 shirts - now 1.85
$1.50 ties — now $1.15
2.00 ties — now 1.35
florsheim shoes
$10 shoes — now $8.85