Letters
Rasmussen Men's Shop
Sotith Bend’s Best
Dear Editor:
. . . was surely surprised to find out this year that the Prefect of Religion’s department had forgotten about the boys offcampus when it came to planning the annual fall mission. I know a lot of fellows that liked to take this time out before the start of the school year and get squared away with God. I see by the Scholastic that some of the freshman halls had retreats within the halls, and Dillon Hall had one for the upperclassmen in that hall.
It used to be that the campus was divided in two with half the students going the first week of school and the other the next week. What happened to that idea? Maybe it would be best to have a retreat for each hall, but who wonders about the poor offcampus student?
Will Frankman Off-Campus.
Scholastic inquiry brought this report: A big mission had been planned for the Navy Drill Hall tvith Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen conducting. Plans were upset when the Monsignor had to cancel because of a pressing engagement elsewhere. The fall mission was then left up to the rectors of the campus residence halls. Some of the halls have had a two or three-day retreat, but the practice has not been widespread. Scholastic leaves it notv in the hands of the Prefect of Religion.
Dear Editor:
I am writing to find out about that picture of the big airplane that you put in last week’s Scholastic.
I think I am one of those two students who are in the picture. The plane looked OK when it went over us so how can you guys get such a screwy picture. My roommate and I talked it all over and we are sure that this picture is a fake; as I have said before we were walking on the campus when it went over.
Why don’t you print stuff that is the truth? After all with all these bulletins and things sliding under the doors, we don’t know what is true and what isn’t.
Please print if it was a fake or not since I bet a quarter with the guy on the second floor. Thank you.
Roger O’Keefe Breen-Phillips
Oct. 1, 1948
fits so nice
around
your neck

VAN HEUSEN SHIRTS
with "Comfort Contour" collar styling just $3.50 and up
Yes, Van Heusen does things for a man. Keeps him handsomer and happier, in shirts that feature low-setting "Comfort Contour" collars (in many smart models); figure tapered fit; tug-proof pearl buttons; sanforized fabrics; and that old Van Heusen magic sewmanship. We’ve them in whites and new exclusive stripes.
Monday Store Hours: Noon ’til 8:30
Rasmussen
MEN'S SHOP
106-108 So. Main St.	130-132 W. Washington
3
TUXEDO RENTALS
Formal for All Occasions
LOGAN'S
107 N. Main Street Oliver Hotel
Place Orders Early
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
Dear Editor:
I should like to call your notice to a serious error appearing in the September 24th issue of youi' new and better Scholastic. “Dr. Elie Denissoff, of Leningrad, U.S.S.R., Associate Professor of Philosophy.”
. . . Dr. Denissoff has never been in Leningrad. He was born in Petersburg of Imperial Russia. There he had a promising diplomatic career which he left for military activity in the last war (world war I). But by the time he reached his post in Persia, the Bolsheviks took over and, with the signing of the separate peace, recalled theii' troops. Dr. Denissoff refused to return and joined the British Army, fighting against this Russia you have tried to associate him with. He hates and loathes U.S.S.R. as the enemy to all that he stands for and the annihilator of everything dear to his youth. In the first year of that upset his whole family disappeared. . . . He has never gone back, either in body or mind.
... If the Scholastic wishes to make amends to the good Doctor for this egregious error insinuated against his reputation, you will find him referred to as Dr. Elie Denissoff, Ph.D., with an Agrege degree from the Superior Insti-
Campus Clubs
The campus Confederates — THE REBELS — unfolded their Stars and Bars last Monday night and began formulation of strategy for again making themselves both the loudest and most active club at Notre Dame. The immediate problem will be to find additions to a carry-over program which includes the big Mardi Gras dance, lectures, and shrimp dinners.
For more immediate problems: Next Monday night, the club will meet again in Room 4 of the Law Building to elect two officers for interim terms. Jerry White’s resignation as treasurer leaves the post open to either Ray Streb, Don Derivaux, or Ian Landry. Corresponding Secretary Eugene Podesta was graduated in August, and the race this Monday night will be between Joe Beck and Derivaux.
Returning officers include Bill Slavick, president; Bill Leonard, vice-president; and Greg Despot, recording secretary. Slavick presided at the meeting.
tute of Louvain. He is a citizen of Belgium, coming to this country with the highest recommendations.
I should prefer (if you could) to withhold my name, although I am able to certify all these facts personally.
Name Withheld
SWEATERS...
Coat styles ... pull-overs sleeveless
by McGregor, Jantzen, Robert Bruce and Lord Jeff
3.95 to 21.50
One of Michiana’s largest collections in every style, color and size. All fine pure wools including cashmere. Get yours tomorrow!
THIS WEEK'S BROWSER WINNER George Stuhr. . . 200 Howard
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
Top of the Week
Saturday noon to Sunday night.
The Big One
The football season here at ND got under way last Saturday with all the hoopla of a Vel soap sales campaign. After the first half it looked as if the Purdue chances were as empty as a Tchaikovsky version of “Near You.” Along in the wee minutes of the second stanza, however, the affair took on the appearance of a Southern political rally with Messrs. Thurmond, Truman, and Wallace in attendance. The game got so exciting that Clashmore Mike took his big, brown eyes off a Dalmatian poodle in Section 38. ’Twas a nice victory. The game proved one thing. Al Zmi-jewski is the best back we’ve got. After the game, Coach Stu Holcomb, of the opposition, told Al he’d played in the Purdue backfield enough during the afternoon to earn his block P.
in Good Eating.” We quickly turned to the section marked “South Bend” and found Smith’s Cafeteria and the Oliver highly recommended. When we asked Mr. Ford what he thought about the absence of the dining halls and cafeteria on the recommended list, he muttered: “Stew bad.”
Class Consciousness
It’s a common practice for all teachers to start their classes with a prayer here at Notre Dame. Last Tuesday at the beginning of an English class, the prof (we’d rather not mention his name, merely said he’s a lover of the varilong vocabulary) discovered Jim Heaney al- -ready asleep in his seat. “We’ll start with a prayer,” he said. “Will you lead, Mr. Heaney?”’
“Lead!” said Jim, suddenly regaining
what we shall call consciousness. “Why I just dealt.”
World Series Views From Us to Youse
Having shaken the hand of Jim Costin, we feel in a position to call a few high and low ones on the series situation . . . From where we’re sitting (and these seats aren’t any better than bullpen box), it looks like Cleveland’s Feller and Lemon scalping the Apaches of Chief Southworth in six games . . . It’s too bad the local bistros can’t pick up the contest via video . . . Sack time will be at a premium when this bit of tribal warfare goes on the air ... I still think a series between the Cubs and the White Sox would be more interesting . . . The winner to get a franchise in the Three-I league.
Bottom of the Week
Eight a.m. Monday.
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
All who are interested in foreign relations are invited to join the International Affairs Club. Letters of application can he sent to D. Yer ex. 328 Morrissey, before Wednesday. Oct. 6.
One More Chance Dep't.
The Universal News cameraman, perched atop the greenhouse, shot up so much film in the first half that he figured he’d “hunch” the action in the second half. When Jumpin’ John Panelli took off on his 70-yard stroll down lateral lane, Mr. Universal was hunched over a filmless camera. After his bosses get a glimpse of his pictures, he’ll probably be sent to the museum next Saturday to catch his action shots.
The Week's Wash
Thirty-eight seniors, living on the third floor of Alumni, wrote an interesting episode in the gilded annals of Notre Dame history last Wednesday night. The occasion was the framing of Frank Parise’s “Old Faithful,” the first sock to make the trip to the laundry and back 37 times in a row.
Messquire
We just received our copy of the latest Duncan Hines manual, “Adventures
TOW
For a look that's new... team up to the "KICK OFF"
At one easy stroke you can get yourself the newest fashion slant extant. Just come in and ask for the handsome new ARROW shirt, tie and handkerchief ensemble called the “kick off.”
Soft shades of contrasting colors are.used in the corded broadcloth shirts. Specially matched Arrow tie and handkerchief for each shirt.
Shirts $3.65 — Ties... $ 1.50
Handkerchiefs... 65c
MEN'S SHOP . . . MAIN FLOOR
Oct. 1, 1948
5
CALENDAR
SPIRAL NOTEBOOKS
OCTOBER 1
COLFAX—Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein. It was inevitable! Better buy your programs at the door — you can’t tell the monsters from the comedians. But if you don’t care a pink penny about your aesthetic sen'ibility, run right in.
PALACE—Lulu Belle, Dorothy Lamour with more clothing than usual but not an oomph! more acting ability. Put this one on your “must miss” list. Coroner’s Creek—If you enjoy seeing two creatures stomping on each others hands—well by all means!
GRANADA — Babe Ruth Story — Being dragged around from the Colfax where it had a poor run. May not be here very long.
STATE—Mating of Millie—A surprise success. If the Strat taps run out you could spend your evenings doing poorer things than watching this. Fighting Mustang—Yipee!!!
RIVER PARK—Van Johnson and June Allyson in Bride Goes Wild. Laughing* boy Johnson and vulture-voiced Allyson should have stuck to the violin, you’d better stick home with the books.	.
WND—The campus station will be beaming its fifth night of operation with a lot of good news programs and operating proof that student organization can put big things over. One of the better things about post-war Notre Dame.
CAMPUS CLUBS — Starting under full swing again. Watch for the organizational meeting of yours.
OCTOBER 2
PITT GAME—ND men at the familiar Saturday radio routine. Number 20 for the Irish.
JOHN ADAMS—Hoagy Carmichael and his “Hollywood Stardust Revue.” A little bar room piano in the Carmichael way. Oh yes, and 35 “Headline Stars” 35—count ’em, if you can see for the stardust in your eyes.
OCTOBER 3
STATE—Invisible Man & Invisible Man Returns—An adaptation of H. G. Wells at some of his lighter moments. Rereleases but well worth the watching.
RIVER PARK—Bad Men of Missouri with Jane Wyman and thrush Dennis Morgan plus Shoulder-holster Raft and Jim Cagney in Each Dawn I Die. You will if you go.
OCTOBER 4	.
CHRISTMAS VACATION begins in only 79 days. Students ■ are advised to slumber late and long in preparation for the Yuletide festivities. Also be sure Santa gets youi* letter in plenty of time. Cadillac orders still aren’t up to date.
OCTOBER 5
RIVER PARK—Seng of Love with Kate Hepburn, Bob Walker and Paul (Kees-me) Henreid. Kate’s always good. Walker tries dumping his dithered juvenile approach. No luck. Henreid is the suave joyboy from the Riviera.
SLIDE RULES
•
DESK LAMPS
•
RING BINDERS
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
126 S. MAIN across from the courthouse
$]50 . $2°® • $35® • $5°°
Fashioned by Linkman
Or. Grabdw Pipe Co. Inc., Chicago u, III |
6
The Scholastic
^bame
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 October L 1948 No. 2
1 the	^beik
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailin" at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
The Staff
JOSEPH A. DOYLE. Editor
Associate Editors
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON
KENNETH A. THOREN..______News VICTOR DORR______________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN______________Features
HARRY MONAHAN.____________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT_________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER_____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN_______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER________________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________- Advertising JOHN T. CLARK______________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN._Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The gentleman on the inside looking out is Professor Orville Foster, head of Notre Dame’s newest educational e a s e r, the Audio - Visual d e p a rtment. The center, located on the second floor of the Main Building, is complete with films, projectors, photographic odds and ends, and beautiful red drape-. When fully in op-
eration, the department plans on supplying films to all Catholic schools in the midwest region.
(Photo by Jim Ferstel)
How About It?
Notre Dame is growing up. The student enrollment has reached a new high—over 5.000. Back in 1879—or even in 1939—Sacred Heart Church could adequately handle the crowds at the Sunday morning Masses.
Today, things are different. The Church, at best, can seat eight or nine hundred people comfortably. Six Masses, at 6, 7, 8, 9, 10:10, and 11, are made available to the student. Mathematically it works. Suppose we squeeze in 900 at each Mass. That’s 5,400 people—plenty of room for all with a few visitors besides.
But people just don’t work that way. The student who gets up three mornings a week at 6:30 or earlier thinks differently. Sunday morning is no time for regimentation: he likes to sack in. So he goes to a later Mass. What happens? Everyone flocks to the last three Masses and the Church is so crowded that everyone suffers. On football week ends, conditions are almost sacrilegious—people standing in the aisles, around the side altars, some even standing outside.
What’s the answer? There could be a late Mass offered in each of the residence halls. True, there would be some inconvenience—more sermon-preachers, and one priest would have to fast a little longer. ’ But if everyone took turns, it might work out. Even if this were tried in half the halls, it might alleviate some of the congestion in Sacred Heart Church at these later Masses.
Something should be done. You have to face the facts. Notre Dame is growing up. What worked before won’t work now—how about an answer to this problem before another football week end hits us?
A Happy Day
For the next month, America’s radios will take their worst beating in four years. It’s election time. Orators from both parties will expound their views in a never-ending stream of political cliches.
Most students will probably break their necks getting to their radios in time to change Senator Joe Blow to “Nature Boy.” It’s true that the latter may be a little more interesting, but we have a duty to bear up under the Senator’s word barrage now and then. Any person that’s as well educated as a college student should realize the seriousness behind a national election and try to find the reasons and platforms of both parties. That goes for all of us—not merely those of voting age.
However, eighteen-year-old Georgians arnd the rest of the students over twenty-one have a greater responsibility. Not only should they follow closely the coming campaign by listening to a few of the major speeches and reading the political columns of their newspapers, but they also have the task of voting this November.
Any person who is eligible to vote can do so, whether he is at home or not. Every state has made provisions for absentee voting. Those that are entitled to a vote should take steps now in procuring their ballot. Write to your local election committee now, so you will have time to go through the red tape that may be necessary.
It may seem like work, but it’s the most enjoyable work an American has. No doubt a lot of Europeans would go to the trouble—if they only-had the chance.
Oct. 1. 1948
7
worlds most
An impartial survey at 20 leading universities shows Parker is preferred by campus leaders. Senior men and women, senior athletes and class officers—all have voted Parker top choice.
You’ll find that you seem to think better—work faster with the sleek “51”. The precision balance guards against fatigue. You feel like writing! The 51’s exclusive alloy point starts instantly—glides with satin-smoothness. And you never need a
wanted pen
blotter! This pen writes dry with new Superchrome—the ink created for the “51” alone.
As a sound investment towards a successful school year, choose Parker “51” ... the world’s most-wanted pen. Pens, including new demi-size, $12.50 and up. Sets, SI8.75 to $80.00. Choice of colors, custom points. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis., U. S. A.; Toronto, Can.
COPR. 1*48 BY THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
$25 CASH GIVIN AWAY—for interesting, true stories about Parker “51” Pens. Base it on your own experience—or relate the experience of some friend. $25.00 for each story used. Just report the facts. Stories are judged on facts alone. AU letters become our property—cannot be returned. Address: The Parker Pen Company, Dept. S-47, Janesville, Wisconsin.
8
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 2 OCTOBER 1, 1948
Council Outlines Student Trip I Plans
STUDENT TRIP —1938 After ten years, still going strong
Office of Student Welfare To Supervise Discipline, Campus Clubs and Entertainment
Full details on the newly organized Department of Student Welfare were announced this week by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Father Joseph A. Kehoe, C.SC., the former P.D., is, as announced last week, the Director of Student Welfare, Assisting him will be Father Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., former Director of Student Activities. Father Kehoe will be in charge of all matters pertaining to student organizations, student entertainment, and student welfare in general. Father Barry, director of the sub-department of regulations, will handle exclusively disciplinary problems.
Among the first problems of Father Kehoe’s office is the rewriting of the Student Council’s constitution to include class officers in the Council's representation, and to set up a standard procedure for the handling of campus dances
and club treasuries. A definite schedule for dances will be established, along with a definite method of bookkeeping for club treasuries. Operating rules for club picnics and parties will also be written. Father Kehoe will meet with Council leaders in the near future to work out the new procedures.
Also in Father Kehoe’s realm will be student entertainment. As chairman of the Committee on Entertainment he will set the policy for the University glee club, band, orchestra, radio station, and • theatre. Father Kehoe will also be in charge of the Infirmary and chairman of the Board of Publications. In the latter category fall Scholastic, the Dome, the Juggler, and the Lawyer.
Father Barry will be responsible for most of the traditional duties of the Prefect of Discipline, including class absences, regulation enforcement, and dismissals.
Washington Named Relief Dance Site
Tentative plans for a Student Trip to Baltimore and for a gala Student Relief dance in Washington in connection with the trip were announced at the Student Council’s opening meeting this week.
Jim Cassidy, Chairman of the Stay Council, outlined the program for the Navy game outing. He stated that approximately 700 tickets would be available to Notre Dame students for the trip. The cost of the trip was set at §39 plus the cost of the football ticket.
Arrangements will be made for the Dining Hall management to serve supper at -5 p.m. on Friday, October 29, to all students making the trip. At 6 p.m. the special Baltimore & Ohio train will leave the St. Mary’s siding and is expected to arrive in Baltimore between 10 and 11 a.m. Saturday.
As soon as the game is over, the lads will return to the train to depart for Washington where rooms will be reserved for them in the Annapolis Hotel.
Stay Council member Lou Burns, who is also the National Chairman for the Student Relief Drive, announced that Saturday night the big student Relief Dance will be held from 9 to 1 ajn. in the huge Uline Arena in Washington, which can accommodate some 4000 couples. Members of the Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club of Notre Dame, hosts for the dance, will help Notre Dame students to get dates with girls from colleges in the Washington area.
Charles Carter and Charles Hellmuth are co-chairmen for the affair with club president Guy Perenich as advisor.
Funds for the drive will be raised by means of the admission charge plus the proceeds from the raffling off of Irish-autographed footballs every twenty minutes during the dance.
On Monday, November 1, Notre Dame students will leave Washington on the special train at 1:30 p.m. en route for South Bend, and will return to the St. Mary’s siding at 6:30 a.m. Tuesday.
Oct. 1, 1948
9
Sophomore Fall Dance Dates Announced As Cotillion Program Gains Momentum
By VIC DORR
With little fanfare and still less surprise, Sophomore Class president, Tom Logan gave the word last week to inaugurate the season’s drive for 1948’s Sophomore Cotillion. According to President Logan, this Fall’s sophomore-sponsored formal will be held on Friday, November 26, the eve of the Washington game, in South Bend’s Palais Royale Ballroom.
Up to the present time few definite arrangements have been made for the gala occasion, other than the appointment of committees by Dance Co-Chairmen, Tom Logan and Ray Miller. But the men from last year’s freshman class, one of the most active in recent years, have started the ball rolling and as plans progress this season’s Cotillion is expected to shape up and hold par with, if not surpass the Sophomore dances of the past.
Since the class officers and the Cotillion chairmen began conferring just last week, no band has been definitely selected to date, and no specific theme has been set aside for the affair. According to Logan, several popular dance orchestra leaders have been contacted, but their bids have not yet been received or voted upon. He expressed the opinion that in all probability an excellent dance band would be chosen to keep the Cotillion goers dancing rather than some famous big-name organization.
And as for the theme, since the dance night follows the celebration of Thanksgiving by just one day, it is more than likely that the anniversary of that ancient occasion will sneak into the overall mood to be designed for the evening of November' 26. But, as the co-chairmen pointed out, nothing is definite on that point now.
Neither have the prices been set on the bids for the Cotillion. A number of reasons enter into this fact. For one thing, the still-tentative band for the occasion has left a gap in the balancing of the budget. And for another, plans reserving hotel rooms in South Bend are still incomplete. The bid price is to be announced in the near future, however, Logan said. And at least one thing is for certain, that the purchase of a bid will include the formal dance, and a reserved seat at the University of Washington game on the following Saturday. An announcement concerning hotel reservations is forthcoming.
The dance was originally scheduled to be held on the weekend of the North-
western game, but was changed to the Washington weekend for two reasons— the local hotels were overloaded and could not lay aside the necessary reservations, and the reserved seats for the Northwestern fracas in the Stadium had already been sold out.
According to Co-Chairman Logan, there is an effort under way to prevent the overloading of the Palais Royale with couples who would like to dance but could not because of the crowd, as was the case in last year’s affair. A limited ticket sale is to be the solution to that problem, with approximately 500 bids being placed for sale in the future. Sophomores, of course, will have first crack at the ducats, followed by any upper classmen who may desire to purchase them as long as the supply lasts.
The Cotillion committees are operating in full swing now, Logan said, and every effort is being made to establish a strong foundation for what is expected to be a great dance. Besides the co-cliairmen Logan and Miller, Jack Coryn is heading the ticket committee; Dick McDonald, decoration committee; Walt McGovern, hotel committee; Ken-.Thorencpublicity; and Dave Schoen, favors.
Library Paintings Are Retouched, Repaired
During the Summer vacation, the University Art Gallery was kept busy receiving large quantities of revamped paintings which were sent out for retouching and repair. Mr. Frank X. Kelly revarnished forty-seven such paintings and cleaned thirteen.
On exhibit now is “Buffalomacco,” by Christofani Buonamico. This famous study of Madonna and Child accompanied by St. Anthony and St. Paul is on an indefinite loan from the Henri E. Nelson Collection of Chicago. Two other Madonna works are expected to arrive in the near future.
Three assistant catalogers have been ’ added to the Library staff. They are the Misses Louise A. Braxton, Helen Cheadle, and Charlotte Ann Trudelle. Mr. Charles T. McNerney is another newcomer who is working as Assistant Acquisitions Librarian.
A new Serials Department is being formed by Mr. Robert Poland, former Acquisitions Assistant of the University of Illinois Library.
Musicians Flock to Concert Orchestra's First Rehearsal
Approximately thirty musicians reported to Mr. Biondo, concert orchestra director, last Monday evening to begin fall practice. The group anticipates a full year, to include the presenting of several concerts, one of which is planned for this semester.
Practice was begun on Saint-Saen’s “Concerto in G-minor” with Charles Leinhart' acting as soloist; also on the “Symfoniette,” an adaptation of Shubert’s “Cavatina.”
Mr. Biondo said that any students who can play an instrument and are interested should drop around to the Monday night practices frcm 7:30 to 9:00. More members are needed for this fast-moving musical aggregaaion.
PUZZLER
HE MADE IT!
Gen. Winterbottom's B-36 :s seen in a I4-G pull-out from the extremely embarrassing position he found himself in last week's SCHOLASTIC. He narrowly missed demasting the clipper ship which sails the top of Dean McCarthy's home for weary accountants. For his extraordinary airplane driving. J. Templehof Winterbottom, USAF, was promoted to a full general from which position he promptly resigned, accepting the Presidency of Mildew-Harpsichord University. Commented heroscholar Winterbottom, age 25 (for he had aged five years during the flight), upon landing at his base, “Gee whith. what a cloath call!" Among those items missing from the giant craft when it landed were two copies of CATHOLIC COMICS and Winterbottom's false teeth.
10
The Scholastic
Growing Vet Village Plans Social Events
Under the progressive leadership of Mayor Bob Gardner, Notre Dame’s Vet-ville is moving ahead with plans, both cultural and social.
This bustling community now numbers close to 234 adults and approximately 130 children, although the latter figure is definitely a variable. Since only families with children are now being admitted to Vetville and, in addition, quite a few of the lords of the castles are stocking up on cigars, the ratio of offspring to parents is steadily climbing. However, a census will be put underway in about a week and the official figures on it should be released in the near future.
Father Bailey is now the vets’ chaplain. Vetville will continue to make use of the Farley Hall Chapel for religious services.
The Recreation Hall, close by the Navy Drill Hall, will soon be the setting for a number of varied activities, which bid fair to be the focal point for Vetville interest. Attempts are being made to give the meeting place more of a warm, homey atmosphere which will bring the folks together and help them enjoy their leisure time to the utmost.
Arrangements for a Great Books Seminar have already been completed. The course will be under the direction of Father Thomas Brennan and will commence within the next two or three weeks. This program is one that is sure to be of great appeal both to the vets, themselves, and to their wives.
Another event listed on the Vetville Calendar is the forthcoming Village Get-Together. This will be a dance held in the Recreation Hall with the prime purpose of helping the new residents get acquainted with their neighbors. Forty-five of these recent arrivals will attend this first gala affair of the Vetville social season on or about October first.
Mayor Gardner is trying to set up a , committee of fifteen or sixteen, the members of which will be split into pairs; one for dances, one for communications, one for the Great Books Seminar, and so on.
Bob, a Commerce student in Business Administration, will graduate next February. Elections for a new mayor and six new councilmen will be held during the first full week in December. Vetville has gotten an outstanding program under way. Let’s hope it will be continued !
Oct. 1, 1948
Labor Leaders Murray and Green Accept Nominations to Commerce Advisory Council
The appointment of the nation’s two foremost labor leaders, Philip Murray, president of the CIO, and William Green, of the AFL, to posts on the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce at the University of Notre Dame was announced last week at the conclusion of the Fall meeting of the Council by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
The acceptance of the appointments by Green and Murray brings the total membership of the Council to 31 at the present time. The Advisory Council, composed of leading business, industrial and labor leaders of the United States, was established early this year to stimulate closer relations between the College of Commerce at Notre Dame and business, industry and labor.
At the Council’s Fall meeting, which began last week, plans were laid for the 1948-49 Bishop O’Hara Seminar lecture series to be given at Notre Dame this year. Also under consideration were plans for the extension of special clinics on business problems to be held at the College of Commerce. The first of these clinics, a highly-successful trade conference, was held on the campus last Spring.
The extension of visual teaching aids in the college, the possible enlargement of public relations in advertising courses at Notre Dame, expanded faculty-student preparation of special studies, reports, samplings, and surveys for industry, and increased faculty participation in training programs were also discussed at the meeting.
Charles M. Reagan of New York, N. Y., vice-president of Paramount Pictures, Inc., is chairman of the Advisory Council. Judson E. Sayre of South Bend, Ind., president of Bendix Home Appliances, Inc., is vice-chairman. Other members who attended the Council’s Fall meeting included: Thomas E. Braniff, President of Braniff International Airways, Dallas, Tex.; 0. J. Caron, President of the Caron Spinning Company, Rochelle, Ill.; John A. Coleman, former chairman of the Board of Governors of the New York Stock Exchange and now a member of Adler, Coleman and Company, New York City; James E. Coston, theatre properties executive, Chicago, Ill.
Also: William R. Daley, President of Otis and Company, Cleveland,.©.; Robert E. Dwyer, Vice-President of Anaconda Copper Mining Company, New York
City; Kerwin H. Fulto, President of Outdoor Advertising, Inc., New York City; James Gerity, Jr., President of the Gerity-Michigan Corporation, Adrian, Mich.; Robert H. Gore, former Governor of Puerto Rico and prominent newspaper publisher, Ft. - Lauderdale, Fla.; James M. Hagy ar, President of Haggar and Company, Dallas, Tex.; Robert L. Hamilton, President of the Dumore Company, Racine, Wis.; Daniel P. Higgins, of the Eggers and .Higgins architect firm, New York City.
Also: Neil C. Hurley, Jr., President of' the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company, Chicago, Ill.; Herbert A. Mendelson, real estate investments executive, Los Angeles, Calif.; Robert H. O’Brien, Secretary of Paramount Pictures, Inc., New York City; JohnF. O’Shaughnessy,
APPEASEMENT SEMINAB
Dr. Zoltan Baranyai. recent addition to the Notre Dame faculty, will conduct a semester seminar in "Appeasement Policies Before and After Munich" in room 219 Social Science Building on Mondays from 4:15 p-m. to 5:45 pan. Graduate students, members of the faculty and juniors in the social sciences, history and philosophy are welcomed. Students attending regularly may receive one hour credit with approval.
oil and gas executive, Wichita, Kans.; Edward J. Quinn, of the Murphy, Lanier and Quinn accounting firm, Chicago, HL; Peter C. Reilly, Jr., vice-president of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation, New York City; John J. Reynolds, real estate executive, New York City; George W. Strake, independent oil operator, Houston, Tex.; JackP. Whitaker, President of the Whitaker Cable Corporation, • North Kansas City, Mo.; and Lester W. Foley, President of the Foley Lumber Company, Jacksonville, Fla.
Council members unable to attend the Fall meeting were Noah Dietrich, Executive Vice-President of the Hughes Tool Company, Houston, Tex.; Charles R. Hook, Chairman of the Board of the Armco Steel Corporation, Middletown, O.; John T. Kirby, Vice-President of the W. R. Grace Company, New York City; William H. Regnery, President of the Western Shade Cloth Company, Chicago, Ill.; and William K. Warren, President of the Warren Petroleum Company, Tulsa, Okla.	.
11
Lou Bums Heads National Relief Drive In Quest of $500,000 For Foreign Students
Presidential Timber To Get N. D. Support
By DAN BRENNAN
Louis J. Burns, Jr., recently appointed national chairman of the Foreign Student Relief Program, announced the official opening of the group’s second national fund drive* today, with their goal set at $5C0,000.
Burns, who directed Notre Dame’s participation in the campaign last year, declared that 151 member colleges of the National Federation of Catholic College Students are expected to participate in the drive, aimed at aiding destitute students in war devastated countries. These, plus 58 other Catholic colleges who will assist in the program, represent 225,000 students from all over the United States.
During the 1947-48 campaign, over $153,000 was contributed, and more than 38,000 pounds of aid goods were received.
Honorary chairman of this year’s drive is the Most Rev. Richard J. Cushing, Archbishop of Boston, and Episcopal Moderator of the NFCCS. Miss Eth-
LOU BURNS A $5004)00 job
el Dignan, formerly of Mundelein College, Chicago, will serve as executive director.
A fourfold purpose in the campaign was announced: the physical, intellectual, and spiritual assistance of student victims of war; the strengthening of Catholic student organizations at home and abroad; the vital demonstration of Christian principles in the modern
world; and the fostering among American Catholic college students of a sense of responsibility within the Mystical Body of Christ.
Purchase and shipment of relief materials will be made by the War Relief Services — National Catholic Welfare Conference. Specific allocations will be made through officially recognized student organizations overseas.
Preparations for the drive included conferences between regional directors and Lou Burns, Joe Conerty, of the University of Notre Dame, publicity director, Ethel Dignan, formerly of Mundelein College, Chicago, executive director, and Rev. Joseph E. Schieder, Ph.D., Director of the Youth Department of the NCWC. The cities visited by the group included Denver, Saint Louis, Cincinnati, and New York, where prominent Catholic colleges are located.
Plans for N.D.’s participation in the Student Relief Drive will be made as soon as a local chairman has been appointed. At the time of our publication, no announcement of the appointment had been made.
Foundation Reports Gain As Fund Drive Progresses
After a relatively slow start, the Notre Dame Endowment Fund drive has been steadily gaining momentum and is now slightly in excess of last year’s total, it was announced last week by the Foundation office. As the drive progresses still better results are expected.
Last Fall the Notre Dame Foundation program was concerned particularly with the bringing of committee governors and community chairmen to the campus to view conditions. According to James E. Armstrong, vice-president of the Foundation, this year’s plans are somewhat different in that efforts are being made to advance the campaign in various cities with the aid of -these governors. .
In addition to its campaign for the Endowment Fund, the Foundation has achieved considerable recognition through the medium of its new publication, Notre Dame. The primary purpose of this magazine is to acquaint nonalumni friends with the workings of the University.
Prospective voters at Notre Dame, whether residents of Indiana or otherwise, will have an opportunity to vote in the all-important November 2 elections, it was announced last week.
The principal requirement for those who would have their votes count in the coming presidential elections is that they be eligible under existing regulations, and that they be registered to vote with the St. Joseph County Board of Registration.
Campus registrations were conducted in the basement of the Dining Hall during the week for those voters, both local and out-of-state, who had not registered previously and who will find it to their liking to cast their ballots come November 2. The listing continued Monday through Wednesday and an average of approximately 200 students registered daily, it was estimated by the registrars. The campus registrations were sanctioned by the Department of Student Welfare, of course, and were under the supervision of Bert S. Cichowicz and Bernard C. O’Neill, local registrars for St. Joseph County.
Out-of-state students are eligible to vote in the November elections here in that they temporarily transferred their residence by signing up on the St. Joseph County books. Booths will be set up in the Navy Drill Hall on November 2, to accommodate all Notre Dame students who registered during the week. Students whose residences are in South Bend will be required to vote in their respective precincts.
Rumbling Plans of Seniors To Be Exposed at Meeting
Dormant is one adjective that cannot be applied to the senior class, according to prexy Pat Costello. Outwardly quiet, the class is, nonetheless, rumbling with pregnant ideas within. Plans for a fall picnic had to be cancelled because a policy regarding such off-campus activities had not been determined by the. Director of Student Welfare, and .'the Student Council, in time .for the final planning of the function.	*
A mass meeting of the senior class will be held in the near future. The year’s social program will be discussed at this meeting and adequate announcements will be made in advance..
Other senior officers include Marty Wendell, vice-president; James J. McLaughlin, secretary, and Don Murphy, treasurer.
12
The Scholastic
ND Generation Club Hatches Future Plans
A Law Building portrait of George Washington beamed upon the assemblage of thirty-five men. But as George was not an old Notre Dame man and had not a son or a grandson in the room this Tuesday night, he hung dismally unnoticed.
For the Generation Club, born last Spring, was saying its first mouthful. George Witteried, of Chicago and Howard Hall, told the gathering of Notre Dame progeny the lofty proposals of the Club’s twenty-man board of directors.
These students want—
To bring together sons and grandsons of former Irish—not only for a good time, but as a boon to the University, a help to the student body, and a means of renewing “auld acquaintances” among their fathers and fathers’ fathers.
To initiate get-togethers before home football games, when many old-timers unknowingly brush elbows with buddies of twenty to fifty years ago. This plan proved highly successful before the Purdue game. It will be renewed at the Northwestern fracas, when the generations will meet in Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room from 12:30 to 1:30 before the game.
To decorate the Huddle. With Student Council approbation, board members Joe Harmon and Dick Feldpausch. of Morrissey Hall, will lead a treasure hunt for pictures and pennants reflecting the athletic glory of bygone Notre Dame teams. Object: to make the name “Huddle” mean more than “coffee and doughnuts to students and visitors.”
Cooperation of alumni is essential to the consummation of such ambitions. In this regard Walter Clements, off-campus, will edit a page in the Alumnus Magazine to record all activities of the Notre Dame sons.
President George Witteried announced the officers for the 1948-49 year; vice president, George Patterson; secretary, Ed McCarthy; treasurer, Eric Rey de Castro; sergeant-at-arms, Ray Miller. Father Eugene Burke represents the faculty on the board of directors.
Next conclave of the Generation Club is scheduled for Thursday, October 14. Witteried said that he anticipates a substantially larger attendance.
As the meeting adjourned, each man stood in turn, announcing his name and the last year of his father’s or grandfather’s attendance at Notre Dame. Already a few have found “friends of my dad” in the roll of names.—Jim, Kingsley
Oct 1, 1948
'Action' is Keynote In Student Council As Holdover Members Open First Meeting
FATHER PHELAN
Worthy mediaevalist
Conference Names Phelan To National Board Again
The Rev. Gerald B. Ph lan.. director of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, has been re-elected to the board of directors of the Conference on Science, Philosophy, and Religion in Their Relation to the Democratic Way of Life.
The Conference, a national organization composed of educators and scholars from leading universities throughout the country, seeks to integrate the three fields of science, philosophy, and religion insofar as they affect the basic theories of American democracy.
Father Phelan announced this week that the Mediaeval Institute will sponsor five lecture series at the University this semester by noted scholars in mediaeval culture. Among the lecturers will be Dr. Stephen Kuttner of Catholic University. Next semester Father Phelan plans to bring Jacques Maritain, world-renowned Thomistic philosopher, to the campus. Details will be announced later.
Father Phelan has also been asked to prepare a memorial for Professor Maurice De Wulf at the meeting of the American Mediaeval Academy next Spring.
Emphasizing the immediate need for action in rebuilding the Student Council, stay council Chairman Jim Cassidy opened the first meeting of the holdover members last Monday night.
Drafting of a new constitution by Father Kehoe, Director of Student Welfare, in consultation with Council representatives is already underway, Cassidy added. Members of the Stay .Council, he said, have made several proposals for the improvement of student government which Father Kehoe has approved. One provides that the Council will be augmented by the admittance of the Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, Mayor of Vetville, Law Club President, class presidents, and a member of the Scholastic staff as non-voting, ex officio members.
A second proposal enables the Council to establish an office through which all student activities will be cleared in room 122, Main Building. Office hours will run from 12:45 to 4:00 p. m., Tuesday through Thursday.
Cassidy then outlined the immediate program of the Council to be prosecuted at meetings held Monday evenings. After the drawing up of the constitution, arrangements must be made for election of hall representatives. At present the Council is made up only of the stay council plus representatives chosen by the College Deans last semester. Next on the agenda are tentative plans for the creation of hall councils.
Student promoting organizations, Cassidy concluded, are to be coordinated through the Council by inviting their leaders to Council meetings.
Blue Circle President Bill Dugan then announced that this year his group intends to fulfill its original function: to carry out activities decided upon by the Council.
“The Blue Circle has no power to do anything without the O.K. of the Student Council,” he asserted.
Stay Council member Lou Burns thereupon moved that the Student Council as it now exists empower the Blue Circle to carry out its. traditional activities pending reconsideration by the reorganized Council. The motion was carried.
Other subjects brought up for discussion were the student trip to the Navy game, and the student charity dance to be held in Washington, D. C., in connection with the student trip.—Bill Bradley
13
Book Exchange
Smart Is The Man Who Brings Book Here; YCS Finds Answer For Bookbuying Shylock
By LAWRENCE CONNOR
Five years ago if you wanted to sell your old books you carted them across the campus on one of those nice spring mornings and dumped them in front of the book buyer from Chicago. When you got through arguing and exchanging dirty looks with today’s prototype of Shylock, you found you had worked him for an average of something like two bits a book. The whole ordeal had made you weak with exasperation. You were sure of one thing, though — the next time you would sooner let your books rot in a closet at home than let those jokers make a five hundred per cent profit off of you.
Well, that situation has been pretty well cleared up today. In 1943 Bill Roberts (a YCS member and since graduated) decided to do something about the racket. He came up with the idea of a book exchange. Since then the YCS (one of those quiet working campus outfits that do a good but generally thankless job) has built up an organization that really benefits the students.
Hugh Lane — one of five volunteei’ non-profit YCS workers who operate the exchange — estimates that 3500 books were handled during the first week of classes. That many books laid on top of each other would make a stack some-
A LITTLE MONEY
thing like twice as high as the Main Building. Business now will slack off until the end of the semester, but with the increase in the freshman class, it will likely be bigger than ever in January.
The procedure for cashing in on used books is simple enough; you take your books (not necessarily text books either) over to the exchange, and the fellows working there select a price they think your book is worth. 'Most of the books sell for 65 to 75 per cent of the original retail price. The exchange takes ten per cent of each sale for the upkeep of the service. When someone comes in looking for your book, you’ve made a sale. All. you have to do after that is pick up your money from the exchange.
Most of tha.t money was supplied last week, by the freshmen. They-all-seemed to need Reading for Writing and Smart’s Handbook — the two English course standbys. Still, some of the veterans used the service. Many realized that their G.I. eligibility was running out, so they bought used books and left their old ones behind.
Four other YCS men help Hugh in running the exchange: Bob Lynch, Jim Cunningham, Ray Martin and Jerry Spahn. Bob says they hope to enlarge
COMES IN HANDY
the store still more. Last summer new counters and shelves replaced the bare table and chairs that occupied the small room on the ground floor of the Main Building. He says their idea is to have books on all fields (politics, literature, science, etc.) available to anyone looking for editions that will add to a personal library.
When the spring semester begins remember the BX. You can help yourself and somebody else. The way they talk over there, you could bring in a copy of last week’s Look and walk out with thirteen cents in your pocket.
Med School Entrance Exams Planned Here
The selection of Notre Dame as a site for one of the examination centers for the Medical College Admission Test has been announced by Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science.
The test, which should be of interest to premedical students who are making application to enter a medical school in the fall of 1949, are to be held October 30, 1948 and February 7, 1949. Formerly known as the Professional Aptitude Test or Medical Aptitude Test,, it is sponsored by the Association of American Medical Colleges and is prepared by the Educational Testing Service at Princeton, New Jersey. The scores will be used by the medical colleges to supplement other data for determining admission of the applicants. The scores are not reported to the student but are sent directly to the member colleges of the Association.
The test, administered at a morning and an afternoon session, consists of four tests of general scholastic ability and two achievement tests—Premedical Science and Understanding of Modern Society. Dr. Baldinger advises that the test be taken in stride, without cramming and without undue concern. .
Applications to take this test must be sent to Princeton, New Jersey, before October 16, 1948; they may be procured in Room 202, Chemistry Hall. The administration of the test will be handled by the Department of Guidance and Testing; the time and place will be announced at a later date. Although the test coincides with the date of the Navy game at Baltimore, students are urged to take this test rather than the one on February 7. Many of the medical schools are selecting students for the 1949 class and will need the data for final consideration.
14
The Scholastic
Colorful New Professor
Once Served With Cossacks
Despite the versatility of Notre Dame professors probably few can match the record of Dr, Elie Denissoff, student, soldier, and teacher.
Dr. Denissoff, now Associate Professor of Philosophy here, began his colorful career in St. Petersburg, Russia, where he was born and raised. He went to Paris to study law but returned at the outbreak of World War I to enlist in the Russian Army. He served on the Persian Front in a Cossack Cavalry Unit but returned to St. Petersburg to become first secretary to the Minister of the Interior. At the outbreak of the Revolution he escaped to the British lines in time to take part in the siege of Constantinople.
After the war he returned to Paris to resume his studies. There he met Jacques Maritain, the renowned philosopher, and was converted to the Catholic faith. He took up the study of Philosophy at Catholic University and went on to receive his Master’s degree at the Sorbonne. He then married and settled in Belgium for- ten years before returning to the Louvain to take a Doctorate in Philosophy.
During his life he has received three scholastic prizes from French Universities and the French Academy. He has published a study in Russian on Russian Oriental Church History.
Dr. Denissoff came to America last May with his family and has enrolled his son, Basil, as a freshman here this year.
Month of Our Lady's Rosary Starts With Daily Adorations
Father Craddick, Prefect of Religion, has drawn attention to the fact that the month of. October has begun—the time when we pay special tribute to our Holy Mother’s Rosary. The Blessed Sacrament will be exposed daily on the Lady Altar of Sacred Heart Church throughout the month from 8:00 a. m. until 5:00 p. m. At 5:00 o’clock there will be recitation of the Rosary and Benediction.
As in the past, students will volunteer to take half-hour periods of adoration and prayer before the Blessed Sacrament. Father Craddick added that there will be no adoration on Saturday or Sunday, except the usual half-hour period on Sunday evening from 6:30 to 7:00.
Father Craddick urges that everyone honor the Mother of God through these periods of quiet, refreshing prayer and meditation.
Don't Be Cold When Winter Rolls Around! Find A Partner, Debate, and Win A Blanket
Would you like to have a Notre Dame blanket, adorned with your own name and class year, free?
You’ll have a chance to win one in the second annual intrahall debate tournament to be held next month. Both members of the winning team will receive blankets from the University.
Rules for the campus tourney are simple. Just form a team of two from any residence hall or off-campus to debate the topic of Federal aid to educa-
LEONARD SOMMER
Blankets plus
tion. Register your entry with Professor Leonard Sommer, Notre Dame debate coach, some time within the next three weeks. Further particulars on the resolution and hints on argument presentation may be obtained from Professor Sommer in room 328 of the Main Building or in 213 Sorin Hall.
The competition is open to all undergraduate students except members of the University’s varsity debate squad. Intrahall eliminations will be held where-ever necessary to determine representative teams.
Just as in last year’s tournament, when Cavanaugh Hall took the championship, the purpose of the contest is to s'imulate interest in the Notre Dame debating and discussion society. According to Coach Sommer, it will also act as a proving ground for candidates for the varsity squad.
Members of last year’s first team returning this season include Frank Finn, president of the group and threetime winner of the Wachtel Plaque aS national discussion and parliamentary
speaking chrmpion, Bill Carey, Jim Bey-mer, Tom Ninneman, Quintin Marlow and Joe Shelly.
A preliminary organizational meeting was held Monday, with over 30 aspirants to team positions attending. Another meeting will b2 held next Monday in Room 327 of the Main Building, and all who wish to try out for the squad are asked to come.
‘ Our traveling group this year will include from 12 to 16 men,” declares Coach Sommer. “With 100 exhibition and competitive debates on our schedule, all of them will get an opportunity to speak frequently.”
Stressing the importance of speech and argumentation in everyday life, Mr. Sommer extends a special invitation to freshmen.
“Last year, four of our six medalwinning d-baters were freshmen,” he points cut. ‘ They will vouch for the fact that this experience is an excellent aid in obtaining a broad education and cutlook.”
Home debates are scheduled tentatively this year with Loyola, Mundelein, Bradley, the University of Chicago, Pitt, Duquesne, St. Joseph’s, Western Michigan, Michigan State, Detroit, Wayne and Purdue.
Highlighting the schedule of tournaments in which the Irish expect to participate are a spemaT Purdue Invitational Tournament November 9,^ with only six pre-selected colleges participating; the Iowa Invitational, December 3 and 4, and the Grand National Forensic Tournament at Fredericksburg, W. Va.
Other prospective visits will be to tourneys at Iowa, Nebraska, Boston University, Wisconsin State Teachers College, Indiana University, Indiana State Teachers College, and West Point.
—Joe Dukert
Californians Meet to List Christmas Vacation Plans
President Joe Concannon called the California Club together last week for its first meeting of the year and the Golden Staters immediately started planning for Christmas vacation activities. Chief among the plans was the proposal to attend the Notre Dame-St. Mary’s cage tilt in San Francisco on January 3. Secretary Bill Cullen, has volunteered to check the ticket arrangements for the game.
The usual chartered plane for Christmas also received prompt attention.
Oct. 1, 1948
1-5
YCS Head Stresses
Duties To Society
“Catholic college students have a duty to society as well as to themselves” . . . that’s the idea behind the YCS program on campus this year, according to Bob Reynolds, president of the Notre Dame unit.
The promotion of Christian ideals depends upon the thousand and one factors which daily influence men’s lives, he explains.
“Newspapers, books, courses at school, movies, teachers and everyday companions determine to a large extent our outlook on life. If these influences are fully. Christian, the environment we live in will help us live a more vitally Christian life.”
College students figure prominently in this Christian environment, according to Reynolds. As members of the Mystical Body and as educated men, they have a definite responsibility in local and national problems. Active interest and participation in these vital affairs are obligations imposed by their education and their Christianity.
Here at N.D., the effort to interest students in their social responsibilities and fit them to carry them out will be threefold in scope. Notre Dame men will
PURDUE BAND FORMS A SHAMROCK Strength in numbers
Veterans Forum Scheduled For Monday at Legion Post
The next forum on Veterans Affairs will be held on October 4, 1948, at 7:30 p.m. at the Home of the American Legion Post 50, 411 West Wayne Street, South Bend, Indiana. The speaker of the evening will be Dr. M. L. McClung, Chief Medical Officer of the Indianapolis Regional Offive Area, who will discuss hospitalization and out-patient treatments. All service officers are invited to hear- Dr. McClung and any persons interested in Veterans Affairs will be more than welcome.
be urged particularly to realize their responsibility in the fields of politics, labor and economics.
No defiinite specific outline of how YCS activities will conform to the year’s over-all aim has yet been formulated. Organizational meetings have been held, and a tentative schedule of events is being planned.
The group’s social responsibility program is in line with the national program proposed by YCS members from all over the country at the YCS Study Week held last June in Cleveland. Notre Dame students attending the Cleveland meeting were Bob Reynolds, Curt Kies-ling, Frank Gywnn and Jim O’Donnell.
—Joe Dukert
OCTOBER ADORATION
There will be daily adoraton of the Blessed Sacrament in Our Lady's chapel in Sacred Heart Church during the month of October. Adoration will start daily at 8 am. and close with Benediction at 5.
Austrian Boy Wins NFCCS Scholarship
Among the first of 28 German and Austrian students to arrive in the United States as winners of scholarships awarded by the National Catholic Welfare Council is Ernest Haindl, from Vienna, Austria. He is beginning the academic year here as a graduate student in English literature, and will reside on the Notre Dame campus.
The University, as all of the individual colleges which the foreign students will attend, is furnishing room, board, tuition, and general fees in the scholarship program which is supervised by the department of education of the NCWC. Transportation and living expenses are provided by the Bishops of the United States and by Catholic college students themselves who contributed to the Student Relief Campaign last year.
The scholarship students will be attending 25 Catholic colleges in 14 states from Massachusetts to Kansas and from Texas to Minnesota.
The colleges participating in this program are: Regis in Weston, Mass., St. Anselm’s, Manchester, N. H., New Rochelle, New Rochelle, N. Y., Manhattan-ville and Fordham, New York City, St. Bonaventure, St. Bonaventure, N. Y., Catholic University, Washington, D. C., Chestnut Hill, Chestnut Hill, Pa., Rosemont, Rosemont, Pa., National Catholic School of Social Work, Washington, D. C., Xavier, Cincinnati, O., Mary Manse, Toledo, 0. Marygrove, Detroit, Mich., Siena Heights, Adrian, Mich., Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind., Rosary, River Forest, Ill., St. Theresa, Winona, Minn., St. Mary’s, Winona, Minn., St. Catherine, and St. Thomas of St. Paul, Minn., Clarke, and Loras of Dubuque, la., Webster, Webster Groves, Mo., St. Benedict’s, Atchison, Kan., and Incarnate Word, San Antonio, Tex.
All but two of the participating colleges are members of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, which last year raised over $153,000 and hopes this year to raise $500,000 in its Foreign Student Relief Campaign.— Dan Brennan
16
The Scholastic
DEAN MANION A challenge hurled
Manion Hits Lawyers In Serra Club Address
In a blunt challenge to the legal profession, Dean Clarence E. Manion of the Notre Dame College of Law said last week that “too many American lawyers are shockingly ignorant of the fact that the moral law and religion constitute the basis of our legal system.”
Speaking at the first Fall luncheon meeting of the Serra Club of South Bend, Dean Manion was introduced by Judge G. A. Farabaugh, widely-known South Bend attorney who was Manion’s former instructor at Notre Dame.
During the course of the address Dean Manion further charged that the ignorance of the inextricable relationship between religion and American law is particularly noticeable among lawyers who graduated from .law school in the last 25 years. He added that one of the greatest contributions American law schools can make to a peaceful and better world is “the projection of our law in its true God-related perspective.” He concluded by saying that “too many of us have forgotten that in the United States, law is an agency for the protection of God’s gifts.”
Carmichael Revue Tomorrow
Hoagy Carmichael’s Starlight Revue will be at John Adams High School Auditorium tomorrow. There will be afternoon and evening performances at 2:15 and 8:15. Tickets for this event are still on sale at Copp’s Music Store, but there will be tickets available at the door before the performances. The Revue is sponsored by the Junior League of South Bend.
Oct. 1, 1948
’Review of Politics' Hits Tenth Milestone
The tenth anniversary of Notre Dame’s Review of Politics is being observed this month with a special anniversary edition of the quarterly, according to an announcement by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of the Review.
The Review has gained international prominence in the ten years of its existence. Founded to “revive the Aristotelian conception of politics, a sovereign conception that embraced everything, every interest, every event, every idea affecting the life of man in the commun- • ity,” the quarterly has published the works of outstanding authorities in many fields.
Among the authors who have appeared in the Review of Politics are: Jacques Maritain, Don Luigi Sturzo, Mortimer Adler, Ferdinand Hermens, John U. Neff, Hans Kohn and many others. Editor of the publication since its inception has been Waldemar Gurian, internationally recognized political scientist. The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of Notre Dame’s Department of History, and Professor Frank O’Malley of the Department of English at Notre Dame have served as associate editors.
During the past year the Review has been praised in the Dublin Review, Commonweal and other publications.
FATHER SWEENEY AND FRIENDS This wook—on the inside looking up
Air RO Unit Here Up 300 Percent This Year
Notre Dame’s air force ROTC unit is up to four times its strength of last year, according to Capt. Thomas J. Hardy, adjutant here. Draft fear and world unrest have brought total enrollment in the program to’270 students.
About 130 are in the freshman group, where the greatest increase was noted. Most of the frosh are in the 18-19-year old age class, and prefer college military training over induction into the army.
Added personnel to command the enlarged enrollment include Capt. Joseph Weidner, who attended N.D. as a freshman in 1936. Weidner graduated from West Point in 1941 and served with the air force during the war. He will serve here as instructor and assistant executive officer. Other new personnel are expected later.
Still in command of the air RO unit here is Lieut. Col. Leonard W. Palmer, professor of military science and tactics. Major Peter A. Deisch, Jr., replaces Major Arthur Small as executive officer. The latter has been recalled to flying duty at an east coast air field.
The air force program was inaugurated at the University last year with 65 trainees, including 35 veterans. Establishment of the program followed separation of the air force from the army by the national defense act of 1947.
17
I
s
J
NEOPHYTES LEARN MGM TECHNIQUE The film goes in here
MOVIES PEP UP A LECTURE
(above)
It isn't Winterbottom
RECORDING UNIT TESTS SPEECHES (below) Oracko holds the record
Now
Getting eye-weary from the textbooks? Then sit back and prepare to relax to the hum of a movie projector. Education at Notre Dame is due for some radical changes with the assistance of its new and progressive Audio-Visual department.
Begun as a special project by Father Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies, the department has grown until it is almost ready to start its function of supplying university classes with the very latest educational recordings and pictures. As stated by Mr. Orville Foster, head of the new department, “It is the hope of the Audio-Visual department eventually to supply educational films and recordings for every subject in the University. Audio-Visual education is a dynamic educating medium that has too long been neglected by Catholic schools and universities in America. The administration of the University of Notre Dame, and particularly Father Kenna, should be highly commended for having fostered such a vital, forward looking, educational project.”	t
Located in beautifully redecorated, rooms on the second floor of the Main Building, the Audio-Visual center is-the new showplace of the campus. Deep reds and soft grays complement each other in the room’s new color scheme. Acoustically engineered throughout, the main classroom is designed and equipped for making high-quality tape, wire, and disc recordings. As explained by Mr. Foster, “Wi*h this high-fidelity sound equipment, the Audio-Visual center’s sound-motion-picture projectors, filmstrips, slides, and complete set-up for the revolutionary new opaque production combine to make the new Notre Dame Department one of the best equipped in the country. We are especially proud of the big, new, glass-beaded screen. Specifically designed for educational
You See It!
L A. J. SC RI BA
The Film's the Thing — Education Directors Let Students In On New Teaching Methods
work, it handles slides, moving films, colors, and opaques with perfection.”
Facilities already in use at the center include ten portable record players, individual booths, and a library of recorded language lessons. During the summer session of the university the center previewed a variety of sound films. A similar series is planned for later in the present semester. Though the library of available films for class work is not yet extensive, the program of supplying educational films for nearly every subject at Notre Dame is undei' way and expanding. Two classes in audio-visual education were taught during the summer term by Director Foster. Classes in the department are now in session and the amiable, energetic director plans additions to the curriculum in the spring term.
Department director Orville Foster has had a lot of experience in radio and audio-visual work. He took his M.A. in education at Notre Dame and did graduate study in audio-visual aids at the University of Chicago. In twenty-two years of commercial radio work Mr. Foster held a variety of jobs, including staff announcer, program manager, and musical director. At one time or another he produced programs for all of the majoi' networks.
Mr. Foster came to Notre Dame in 1939 as a part-time instructor in the department of education. Father Kenna appointed him director of the new Audio-Visual department in 1948, thus coordinating the earlier audio-visual work done by the other departments.
Says Mr. Foster, “The Audio-Visual center at Notre Dame has made only a beginning in its work. At a forum discussion held last summer at the University a panel of prominent men in the audio-visual field agreed that Notre Dame had assumed leadership in Catholic audio-visual education. Now from this start it is the aim of the depart
ment to develop its film and record library until it can ultimately supply Catholic universities, colleges, high schools and elementary schools on a regional, possibly national, scale.”
A flood of inquiring correspondence has swamped the center from its beginning. “Is the film rental library ready to take orders?” is the question most frequently asked by interested teachers, principals, and educators. Regrettably, the answer to this one must be that for
FOSTER AND BROTHER ROBERT Better than Ben Hur?
the present the center has only enough films to take care of Notre Dame’s own most vital needs. Though it is definitely planned for in the future, the center does not as yet own a large film library.
“Will audio-visual education make less work for the teacher?” is another very popular question with the people who write in to the center. In answer to this says Mr. Foster, “The common assumption that audio-visual aides are
work savers for the teacher is, or at least should be, quite wrong. When films, slides, or recordings are used correctly the work of the teacher is nearly tripled. Previews, testing, and planning more than make up for class hours when the aides are correctly used.”
The center got its first real trial this, summer and the enthusiasm with which it was greeted by students and teacherstudents alike has inspired Mr. Foster and associates to bigger and better things. The range of films is almost limitless. For instance, on the center’s bulletin board last week there were notices on films concerning insect life and the Olympic games tacked side by side-There are even films on B-29s as you. might notice on the opposite page.
“The possibilities of this new department are endless,” said Mr. Foster in an earlier interview. “We can produce educational films for every subject. We can record many unique events taking place here and record them for posterity. We can record great musical programs, great addresses, lecture series and all the rest. We have recorded Paul Hoffman’s graduation speech.”
The growing importance of this type of education was demonstrated by Mr. Foster when he predicted that in 18 months Indiana law will require teachers to have training in audio-visual education before they can obtain teaching licenses.
Conversely, audio-visual education is not going to be too much of a frolic for the student. The same old exams and drills will be there to discourage the snoozers who yearn for the peace of the darkened classroom. Spotlights on the demonstration table, self-illuminating blackboards, and a rheostat control to dim the room lights may give the impression of showmanship and the theater— but don’t sit back and relax too comfortably. The same old good-for-ten-pointer will follow on the main floor directly after the first act.
19
Resourceful WND Aims To Please Campus With New Roster of Entertaining Programs
Returning to the air after a three month lay-off, radio station WND has lined up a schedule of music, sports and news to delight the listener.
Guest speakers to be heard on the weekly current news discussion include Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the economics department, and Professor Alfred L. Scanlan, of the Law School. Another new program is the “Winter Theatre;” a revue of top Broadway musical shows such as “Annie Get Your Gun,” and “Oklahoma.”
Holdovers from last year include “Jump Time” from 7:30 to 7:45 each evening, and “Show Time,” another jockey show. These were declared the two most popular programs in a survey taken of the students last year.
Sports will get ample coverage in Frank Tripucka’s show on Monday night and Bill Halligan’s Review of Sports which is another program that has found favor with the students. Halligan plans to add national baseball news this year and will also cover other collegiate football.
To round out the evening, semi-classi-
STUDENT ATHLETIC CARDS
Due to the brief interval between the opening of school and the first football game, students were admitted to the Purdue game without ID cards. Ail students are advised, however, that the ID card will be necessary, in addition to the plastic holder, for admittance to the Michigan State game on October 9 and the remaining home games. NO EXCEPTIONS WILL BE MADE.
Gale.
601 North Niles Avenue — for —
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
HOURS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to 10 p. m.
SATURDAYS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to 11:30 p. m.
Call 3-0978	James and Josephine Bamber, Proprietors
cal and classical music will be presented from 9 to 10 each night.
Tonight’s schedule goes like this:
7:15—Show Time
7:30—Latin-American Music
7:45—Moonlight Serenade
8:25—Spotlight on Sports
8:30—Summer Theatre
9:00—Semi-Classical Music
9:30—Classical Music
Fellow Campus Seers Squint at Pitt Foe
If the cafeteria crystal-ball gazers can be considered accurate in their prognostications the Irish should walk all over Pitt without much trouble. Most of the people queried based their opinions on last week’s showing. Very few thought many conversions would be made.
Richard Borzilleri, Oyster Bay, N. Y. —ND 18, Pitt 0. “Seeing Notre Dame play last week I think Tripucka will pass for three touchdowns.”
Robert Butler, Glen Ridge, N. J.— ND 33, Pitt 0. “I don’t think Pittsburgh is strong enough to hold the ND offense or crack their defense.”
Paul Wells, Spring Green, Wis.—ND 39, Pitt 7. “This will show SMU which is the better team.”
George Elliott, Norfolk, Va.—ND 30, Pitt 14. “It won’t be any more than that; Frank’s going to take it easy on them.”
Pat McAteer, Pittsburgh, Pa.—ND 35, Pitt 6. “I saw Pitt’s fall practice and they didn’t look too good.”
Pat Caraher, Clearwater, Fla.—ND 35, Pitt 6. “Pitt can’t match the power of Panelli nor the passes of Tripucka.”
Literary Mag. Seeks Subscribers For Year
Changes never cease. Now the Juggler, the campus literary magazine, has decided to get uppity and will henceforth demand lucre for the privilege of reading it. Students wishing to receive the first issue by mail are advised to subscribe immediately. The rate is two dollars for the year, and subscriptions may be made to: The Juggler of Notre Dame, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. Copies of each issue will be sold at campus newsstands and in the halls at a price of fifty cents.
Announcement has also been made of the cash awards that will be made this year. They will be offered as follows: §100 for general excellence, §50 for fiction and §50 for criticism. Students are requested to contribute fiction, poetry, critical articles, and essays to The Editor, Juggler, 218 Badin Hall. Hopeful men of belles-lettres are asked to enclose self-addressed envelopes if they desire to have their masterpieces returned.
Rough ND-Purdue Fracas Amazes Morrissey Prefect
“I really don’t see how they take it,” said Father James Smyth referring to the men on the Notre Dame line. The remark was prompted by the N.D.-Pur-due game, the first collegiate football game that he had ever- seen.
Father Smyth, the Morrissey Hall fourth floor prefect from Liverpool, England, was amazed at the intensity of fight for yardage gain. Also he added, “It seemed to be a very clean game despite the roughness in blocking and tackling.”
“Some parts of the game are very much like rugby, especially the systems of downs,” he said, “but the ball moves much faster.” His first impression of the players was that they looked like robots from some H. G. Wells novel of the 26th century.
Father Smyth wasn’t sure that he liked the organized cheering. “At rugby matches the crowds are much quieter, but in soccer, especially if it’s a good game as Liverpool versus Manchester, everyone screams at once.”
The Purdue band with all their size and precision in marching and various formations fascinated him. “I don’t believe it,” he said in regards to the press statement that the band had only four days in which to practice.
He never doubted, however, an Irish victory even in the tension-filled third and fourth quarters. For an after-game comment Father Smyth said, “I was never so ragged in all my life.”
—Murray Powers
20
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC SPCBTJ
Pittsburgh Seeks to End Irish String
PiH Hopes For Win After 11-Year Famine
PURDUE TRAPS SITKO (14); HART (82) GETS HECK (74) Boilermakers meet the "Tank" ...
By PETE BROWN
In 1937 Pittsburgh’s dream backfield of Goldberg, Chickerino, Stebbins and Cassiano put on a whirlwind exhibition of scoring in the last five minutes of their game with Notre Dame to down the Irish .21-6. Tomorrow in Pittsburgh the Panthers will be working for their first win over a Notre Dame team since that day 11 years ago.
Faithful followers of Pittsburgh demanded last season that either the Panther schedule be eased or the University should seek good ball players. Before the Southern Methodist game they were betting that their heroes would win one of their first two games. They lost to S.M.U., 33-14.
A prime reason behind the upsurge of win feeling in Pittsburgh is the fact that the Panthers are fielding virtually the same team they have had for four seasons. Also, this is the second season for Coach Walter “Mike” Milligan and his
Rolfs Edges Hudak for Win In University Open Finals
Bob Rolfs squeezed past Paul Hudak to snatch the University Open Golf Tournament last Tuesday. Defending champion Ray Burian was close behind in third slot. The winner bested a field
PURDUE "B" vs. IRISH “B"
The Boilermaker “B" squad will attempt to wreak vengeance on the Irish "B" team for last Saturday's Purdue defeat when the two elevens tangle in the Stadium this afternoon at 3:30. The Notre Dame team will be composed of the non-travelling squad members of the varsity. Frosh coach Benny Sheridan will probably be in charge of the Irish Bees. A return game will be played at Purdue on October 30.
of 72 starters with a sizzling 288 for the 72 holes of medal play.
The opening field narrowed to 28 at the quarter finals, while only 14 remained to go the distance. It was a close contest going into the finals with Hudak, Burian and Tom Veech tied for first place. Rolfs stroked a 69 to pass the leaders and take the crown.
The quality of play shown in this tournament has given the Rev. George C. Holderith, C.S.C., varsity golf coach and manager of this tourney, high hopes for his link team next spring.
The 14 finalists completed the play in this order: 1. Bob Rolfs, 288; 2. Paul Hudak, 289; 3. Ray Burian, 291; 4. Jack Fitzpatrick, 294; 5: Tom Veech, 295; 6. Art Arquilla, 296; 7. Dick Conley, 300; 8. Jack Quinn, 301; 9. Bill Breen, 301; 10. George Stewart, 303; 11. Tom Klett, 304; 12. Frank Marzolf, 304; 13. Paul Buman, 308; 14. Vic Scharin, 319.—John Cronin
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS		
NOTRE DAME		PITTSBURGH
Martin			E			 Skladany
McGehee			T			Bolkovac
Fischer (c)_.....		G._	... Barkouskie
Walsh			C_.		 Radnor
Wendell—L			G_.		Boldin
Fallon			T___		Plotz
Hart			E			McPeak
Tripucka		—Q—		Cummins
Brennan		H		Lee
Sitko		H		Bruno
Panelli			F			 Abraham
single wing offense. The faithful adherents believe that their beloved Panthei- has teeth and claws again.
The medium for these teeth and claws to start operating is 30 returning lettermen. In all there are 21 men who have started at least one college game. At ends Leo Skladany at 210 lbs. and Bill McPeak at 195, regulars for the past three seasons, have a tight grip on the
Oct. 1, 1948
21
starting assignments. McPeak, one of fastest men of the squad, is used frequently on end around plays and drops back into the secondary on pass defense.
At tackles the Panthers have sophomore Nick Bolkovac and last year’s regulars Bobby. Plotz and Wilbur Forsythe. Bernie Barkouskie, Mike Boldin, Andy Kisiday and Flint Green will carry most of the guard duty. The center job will be split between Leo Radnor and Don Fisher.
The Pitt backfield is filled with speed and potentially good backs. Lindy Lauro, Tony DiMatteo, Carl De Pasqua, Lou Cecconi, Bill Bruno, Jimmy Joe Robinson and Bill Abraham round out the Pitt ball club that plays host to Notre Dame tomorrow.
The Irish move into Pittsburgh seeking their fifteenth win in a row. The two aces Coach Frank Leahy had concealed up his sleeve did not get too battered in the Purdue game as Notre Dame eked out what Purdue fans will call an upset win, 28-27. The shift of Captain Bill Fischer and Leon Hart to defensive tackles went a long way in bolstering what apparently was the main weakness in the Irish line. The second ace—sophomore Bob Williams replacing the fullback and working under the center with Frank Tripucka—showed great possibilities although not used so extensively.
Frank Tripucka put on a great exhibition of quarterbacking and passing. John Panelli with his linebacking and running demonstrated that his early summer knee operation is not going to hold him down. With his brilliant 70 yard touchdown he also aided greatly in answering the doubts about the Notre Dame spirit and power when trailing.
Notre Dame was fortunate in the Pur-
University Harrier Runoffs Tomorrow;
Hungry Contestants Request Race Change
By JIM HOWARD
Coach “Doc” Handy has announced that the annual University Cross Country championships originally scheduled for Sunday morning will be held tomorrow afternoon immediately following the broadcast of the Pittsburgh game. The change was made at the request of the entrants because of the faci that the morning run necessitated going without any breakfast. Since the game broadcast is on eastern standard time, the run will begin at approximately 4 p. m.
In conjunction with the announcement in the change of time for the extensive run, Coach Handy also stated that the entry list would be the largest in years due to the fact that freshmen will be allowed to compete for the first time. Several members of the regular track team who are stars in the distances and middle distances have also signified their
due game by coming out without one serious injury. The worst injury was suffered by Marty Wendell who needed two stitches to close a wound in his left hand. However, the injured hand did not stop Wendell from playing one of the best defensive games of the afternoon. Thus, the Irish will arrive in Pittsburgh at full strength.
There is a faint possibility that Ernie Zalejski might be ready for action. If he does perform that will give Notre Dame a 100 per cent efficiency average on corrected knees. Panelli, Fallon and Brennan have already demonstrated that surgery has not eliminated their efficiency.
intention of competing in the traditional battle. They are, captain of last year’s squad Ernie McCullough, half-miler Ray Sobota, and Pat Kenny, crack middle distance runner.
Barring the fact that one of the outstanding freshman wins the spectacular event, “Doc” Handy will select the entire starting group for- his first contest with Wyoming, here on Oct. 9, from among the seven first-placers. In case of bad weather conditions, the annual fracas will be shifted to the original time again.
The special arrangement enabling spectators to view the start, and positions at the end of each mile will again be in effect this year. Site of the grueling distance grind will again be the cross roads near the grotto. The fatiguing course is laid out in such a manner that it includes the area immediately surrounding both lakes, and covers more than three miles.
As announced previously, Jim Murphy will be defending his title against the attacks of his former teammates on last year’s record smashing harrier group. The entire 1947 cross-country team which amassed the best record in Irish history with six dual meet wins has returned, and gives promise of equalling their exploits of last year. The old squad members include Corny Styers, Bill Leonard, Jim Kelly, Jim Kittell, Lou Tracy, and Bob Mitchell. In addition, competition will be increased by the running of Tom McGuire, Irish distance runner, and three crack sophomores, Vai Muscato, Tony DaDamio, and Lou Lepry.
ORACKO SCORES FIELD GOAL ON PURDUE Three for the Irish . . .
PASS INTERFERENCE SETS UP TALLY . . . Six for Purdue
22
The Scholastic
Irish Golf Duo Conquers Pros in Exhibition Match
The exhibition golf match played here on the University golf course last week, ended in another victory for an Irish team. George Stuhr and Jack Fitzpatrick, co-captains of the Notre Dame golf team, defeated Harold “Jug” McSpaden, top flight pro and winner of 43 tournaments, and Johnny Watson, hard hitting pro of the nearby South Bend Country Club, by a score of two up.
Although Lady Luck seemed to favor the amateurs it was an extremely well-played match. The outcome was never certain until the last hole when both
"JUG" McSPADEN A lesson, learned
Jack and George sank birdies, while McSpaden and Johnny Watson were sinking a pair of par fours. George Stuhr had a deuce on the twelfth hole.
Playing to a gallery of 700 spectators these four put on an exhibition of golf second only to tournament play. The scores will show just how close the match really was. McSpaden and Watson got a slow start with 39 and 38 on the first nine, while Fitzpatrick and Stuhr were burning up the course with 35 and 36. The pros came in fast; “Jug” got a 34 and Watson netted a 36. But the Irish were even hotter’ with Fitzpatrick slamming out a 34 and Stuhr carding a 33.
After the pep rally McSpaden, an executive with the Goodall Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, showed a film in Washington Hall entitled “How to Improve Your Golf” with himself as narrator.
SPLINTERS from the Press Box
By Harry Monahan
Postscript
Our makeup editor was forced to use .the scissors on part of our prediction for last week, so we are going to put the deleted part up front this week where he can’t get at it.
Notre Dame kept its Rose Bowl record intact last Saturday by beating at least one of the participating teams. Yes, we are tabbing Stu Holcomb’s boys for the Big Nine crown and the free trip to Pasadena. Navy played host to the other Rose Bowl squad; we can’t see a thing to stop Pappy Waldorf’s California Bears from grabbing the Pacific Coast honors this year.
Sic Transit Gloria
Minnesota and Northwestern have started the annual humiliation of western teams. Where are the Warburtons, Schindlers and Howard Jones’? Aren’t there any Alberts, Standlees or Clark Shaughnessys to put the Pacific Coast back on its feet? Why this sector should
Spartans' Spunk Causes ND-Michigan State Sellout
A flash sellout of tickets to the Michigan State-Notre Dame game was the reaction of Monday morning quarterbacks to the week-end’s grid fare. The stubborn defense which the Spartans of Michigan State gave the defending Big Nine Champ Michigan stampeded the public into a lively interest in what was expected to be a mediocre game.
Ticket manager Bob Cahill tried to recall tickets from the downtown outlets when the long lines formed outside the athletic office and mail orders deluged the office. But the outside supplies were already exhausted.
“We haven’t sold any clothes today,” was the report of one downtown department store. “All they want this morning is football tickets.”
By 3:00 Monday afternoon the sold out sign was brought out and all applicants got the “So sorry” routine from the ticket office. The only home game to the Washington game on November 27.
show such poor grid play while every other sector rides the crest of a postwar boom is a prize winning question. In fact, it has even caused the Pacific Coast writers to drop their attempts to build up a Leahy-Cravath feud while they throw brickbats at each other about the solution.
If Lynn Waldorf can take his California Bears through- the mediocre western league play and get the New Year’s Day assignment, the western coaches are going to be on the spot. If he can beat Purdue, or the Big Nine sleeper, Minnesota, then the chips will really be down. We saw two teams coached by midwestern standards last Saturday and it was rough and tough ball. If Waldorf can take the midwestern technique and turn it on the Big Nine champ, those writers who have been complaining about the coaching material in the Pacific league will have the axe they need.
We think Waldorf will do just that. Know any high schools that can use some ex-college coaches?
Howie Odell may have his own solution for the Washington situation. His frosh roster lists three men from Gary, Ind., and one from Oak Park, Ill. In addition, one of his varsity tackles is Jim Foster, a 230-pound import from Center Point, Ind. Maybe it’s the midwestern material they need.
Is someone picking apples in your orchard, Frank?
Musings at Halftime
Wonder why the frosh-varsity score was reduced 50 per cent for the press. 69-0 is no disgrace to a group that had only been working together for four days.. . . Don’t gripe at your mailman. He may have had a bad day against Moose Fischer and beat the tar out of you just for relaxation. . . . Understand that San Francisco is planning a “Kevin O’Shea Day” -when the Irish eagers meet the Gaels of St. Mary’s. They can’t decide what to give him, the Golden Gate Bridge, the “Top of the Mark” or the Oakland Ferry. Remember the purity code, gentlemen. . . . Memo to the Athletic Board: Iiow about matching the frosh and “B” elevens in the Stadium
Oct. 1, 1948
23
one weekend while the varsity is on the road? We understand frosh coach Sheridan is all in favor of the idea.
Man in a Hole
Steve Oracko is the “rags to riches” candidate for this week. Missing three conversions didn’t help his reputation,
• —,
GUARD STEVE ORACKO
It's easier from the 25
especially when Purdue took that 13-12 lead. But for that 25 yard field goal was as neat a recovery as anyone could ask for. Oracko has the Boilermakers jinxed on those long boots as he turned the same trick against them last year. He completed only one conversion last year against Purdue, and was able to get only one last Saturday. But it was the one point which Coach Leahy said “looked like a million.” Maybe we had better let Steve try all the conversions from the 25-yard line.
Prediction of the Week
If S.M.U.’s Mr. Walker can do it, so can the Irish. Watch for Pitt to go pass happy against the weak aerial defense of the Irish. Notre Dame 30, Pitt 6.
The slim one point victory was dedicated to Coach Ed “Moose” Krause by the Irish varsity. No wonder his linemen were in there stealing the scoring honors. The Purdue game was the last for Krause, who gave up his tackle coaching spot to carry out his new job as Assistant Director of Athletics..
fifteen *47 Irish Gridders Defy Roger;
Treat Opponents Roughly In Most Pro Games
By JIM BUTZ
Fifteen Notre Dame men who wore green shirts with distinction last season are cavorting in the play-for-pay circuits this year. A sixteenth, Fred Earley, has decided that his injured knee could not stand the heavy work on the pro grid and has given up the game.
Despite the excellent advice offered by sports columnist Roger Treat of the Chicago Herald-American to the effect that Notre Dame football players seem more of a handicap than an asset to a pro club, both the National League and All-America Conference eagerly sought out and signed up every available lad with experience under the Golden Dome.
The Chicago Rockets signed five members of the 1947 National Champions, including tackles Ziggy Czarobski and Gasper Urban and halfbacks Floyd
BILL GOMPERS Buffalo Bill
Simmons, Russell “Pete" Ashbaugh and Bob Livingstone. Ashbaugh has been sidelined so far this season with a knee injury suffered in the All-Star game on Aug. 20. The rest of the boys, however, have been seeing more than their quota of action.
Next in line for claiming the services of former Fighting Irish, is the Buffalo club. The Bills added Bill Gompers at halfback, Bill “Zeke” O’Connor at end and Art Statute at center to their roster this year. O’Connor has been one of George Ratterman’s (himself a former ND grid great) chief pass targets, while
Statute has seen plenty of defensive duty. Gompers, after recovering from an All-Star injury, has been running well for the Bills.
The two top All-Americans of 1947 have been flashing the same form for the Chicago Bears. Quarterback Johnny Lu jack and tackle George Connor are playing a major role in the rejuvenation of George Halas’ club. Lu jack has been the top defensive back for the Bears in addition to his usual sensational play as offensive quarterback in the T-formation. Sunday, Oct. 10, will be “George Connor Day” as the Bears open their home season which should show that the “Moose” is doing right well—probably better than Mr. Treat, himself. Lu jack looked mighty impressive while intercepting three passes and directing the first scoring drive of the Bears in their 45-7 rout of the Packers.
The rest of the 1947 Notre Darners are rationed out one to a ball club. Cornie Clatt is seeing plenty of defensive fullback work with the champion Chicago Cardinals; Tackle George Sullivan is cavorting for Boston’s Yankees; Joe Signaigo is working as a guard for the New York Yankees.
The Cleveland Browns, twice champions of the AAC, grabbed Frank Kosi-kowski from Buffalo after an injury put Dante Lavelli, their star pass catcher, out of commission. Gentleman George Strohmeyer is tossing his chunky build around for the Brooklyn Dodgers.
BOB LIVINGSTONE A speedy Rocket
24
The Scholastic
Pomp and Dignitaries Impress Local Track Star at Olympics
Wearing the red and white of Canada, Ernie McCullough was the only 1948 Notre Dame trackster to make the trip to the Olympics in London this summer. Ernie, last year’s Irish track captain, was the Maple Leaf representative in the 400-meter run and a member of the 1600-meter relay team. While failing to place in either event McCullough performed well among the international champions and had an interesting trip while doing it.
The Canadian aggregation landed in England on July 21 and moved into their camp at Uxbridge. Daily workouts under the watchful eye of Coach Ken Yost were the order of business for the few days remaining until competition started. Proving that youth will always criticize the cook, the Canadian team had trouble getting used to the English diet; but this was soon corrected.
During the games Ernie had an opportunity to talk with Jim Delaney and Vince Boryla, ex-Irish athletes who were on the United States team. Ernie was most impressed by the dignitaries and pageantry of the opening ceremonies.
In competition he was third in his heat of the 400 meters, but only the first two qualified for the finals. The Canadian 1600 meters team also ran third and thus was eliminated.
The English newspapers furnished the Olympics with some comedy when they ran the following headline following the victory of one of their English runners: “Brave McKorquandale, his mustache bristling, breasted the tape.”
Ernie rounded out his European tour with sidetrips with his parents to Dublin and Paris. McCullough did not compete at the post-Olympic meets held at these two cities.—Joe Archibald
ernie McCullough Canadian Ace
Grid Fever Rampant On Hall Sports Slate
Interhall sports opened up on campus this week as hundreds of residence hall halfbacks and all-caf centers started working out on the practice fields behind the tennis courts. At the same time there was enough baseball fever in the air to draw several intramural nines out for a few fast innings before the rain forces them into the dugout. Tennis coach Walter Langford was also looking forward to sizing up the new net material with a winter tennis tournament.
Mr. Dominic Napolitano will again handle the gridiron reins as at least 10 teams will battle for a spot on the Stadium program for the interhall championship match. Interest in the campus football competition seems to be keener this year than in either of the previous two seasons and should provide a close race in both leagues.
For one thing the two powerhouses of last season have been scattered all over campus due to the strange mechanics of last spring’s room registration. A quick survey reveals that a good share of the championship Cavanaugh eleven is now holding forth in Howard, while their coach, Pete Varda, is an Alumni resident. The westside titleholders from Lyons have transferred to Walsh in large numbers. The fiery Lyons’ coach, Ray Chamberlain, signs in over at Dillon, but will coach the frosh squad from Zahm. But this doesn’t mean a thing as each hall eleven claims to be the “hottest” squad on campus. All in all it promises some interesting contests in the Stadium’s shadow during the next few weeks.
Play in the interhall baseball league has already started with Mr. Szekely, physical education instructor in charge of the diamond competition, throwing in the first ball last Monday. A double round-robin will be played and the daily schedule will be posted in the Rockne Memorial.
In addition to the two regular elevenman football leagues, six-man teams will - tangle for the campus touch football crown. These teams generally play a faster, more wide-open brand of ball with long downfield passing taking precedence over the running game.
All games are played on the athletic fields south of the tennis courts along Notre Dame Avenue. Though some of the fields may be in bad shape because of double duty as parking lots, generally the fields are in better condition than last year.
TACKLE AL ZMIJEWSKI High-scoring lineman
Six-Point Zmijewski, Calculus Calculator, Not Ready for Ripley
Many linemen play years of football without a hint of breaking into the scoring column, but Notre Dame’s Al Zmijewski seems to have no trouble at all. In his last two games, the husky Polish tackle has been the last of the Irish to reach pay dirt.
Last Saturday Leon Hart deflected a desperate Purdue pass from the end zone, and Al gathered it in and stepped over the goal line. Those six points were the difference between victory and defeat. In the season finale of 1947, Zmijewski crashed into the Southern Cal backfield, speared a lateral and ran thirty yards for a TD. That was Al’s first appearance of the year, too; he ' had been shelved with a head injury previously.	-
Now Al’s two touchdowns in two games are attracting the same attention Alex Agase of Illinois created in 1942. For a while it looked like Agase was trying to win the Big Nine scoring championship from his guard position. This week’s UP write-up on the nation’s collegiate scoring aces listed Zmijewski with .such backfield stars as Doak Walker and George Taliaferro.
(Continued on Page 28)
Oct. 1, 1948
25
Sheridan's Eager Frosh Gridders Excel; Show Happy Coaches Polish, Promise
Notre Dame’s freshman footballers will probably lose all of their games this fall, but there is a good reason. They play only the Irish varsity. Actually, the green-jerseyed crew on Cartier Field lacks in neither quality nor quantity; it represents one of the finest frosh squads in school history.
Playing with just a few days practice, the freshmen lost to the big boys by a large score in a Stadium scrimmage two weeks ago. Since then, Coach Benny Sheridan’s team has acquired plenty of polish plus thirty eager new men. Now Sheridan and his assistants, Dick Friend and Bill Vangen, have about eighty men under their tutelage.
The freshmen have no first string. Sheridan likes to alternate his boys to make sure that everyone gets his chance. While Sheridan himself refuses to single out any individuals in such a group, several of them shone in that first encounter- with the varsity.
A chunky second semester studentj Byron Boji, was rough and tough at center, and Francis Fox and Bob Ton-eff played bang-up ball at the tackles. The latter, biggest man on the squad, also specializes at placekicking. In the annual Ohio high school All-Star game last August, Toneff looked like a man among boys.
In the backfield, John Petitbon stood out. The former Louisiana prep sensation is big, elusive and fast. Chicago supplied two outstanding backs in Del Gander and Bill Barrett. Gander played at Mount Carmel under Bob McBride, former N. D. guard.
Outstanding punters to date have been Sam Abbott and John George.
A couple of names already famous at Notre Dame appear on the roster. Elmer Layden, Jr., one of the hardest workers in the whole group, has been practicing at both halfback spots. Then there’s Randall McGee too; Randy runs in the jackrabbit style of brother Coy.
Coach Sheridan plans intrasquad scrimmages every week and hopes to have some of them opened to the public, especially on weekends when the varsity is away. A decision on that will come later, however.
Any story on the frosh would be displeasing to their new coach if mention wasn’t made of the fine character of his team. Many of the players come here with very high scholastic averages, and he has already received several compliments on their conduct and likeableness.
Yes, it seems that the current freshmen will be a very popular Notre Dame varsity some day. Popular, that is, with everyone but their opponents.
An incomplete list of freshman gridders—Linemen: Frederick B a n i c k i, James Bartlett, Walter Belardinelli, Robert Benson, Floyd Blair, Byron Boji, Paul Burns, John Calkins, John Daut, Robert Dolmitsch, Thomas Fannon, Francis Fox, James Hamby, Dan Hip-skind, F. Johnson, Robert Kapish, Martin Kiousis, Ernest Knapik, Thaddeus Krzus, Terrence Logan, J. Marhoefer, John Mazur, Dan Modak, John Mut-scheller, Joseph Oakson, Chester- Ostrowski, Art Perry, Art Skinner, Richard Sweeney, Robert Toneff, Richard Weiler and John Zambrowski.
Active Irish Keglers
Aim for Successful Season
Campus clubs can begin ferreting the tenpin aces from their ranks for the Karnpus Keglers plan an even bigger and better bowling league in their second year of operation.
The league was a great success last year, concluding with a banquet at which awards were presented. Ernie Huffman, originator and mogul pro tern of the Keglers, is already planning for the coming season. A few new teams will be added to the group, but the number will be limited.
Some of the difficulties encountered last year will be avoided. Instead of bucking the autumn grid fever, league play will open shortly after the last football game. An effort is also being made to arrange some system of fines so that the number of forfeits can be reduced.
Two weeks ago, in Valparaiso, Huffman attended a meeting at which a possible intercollegiate league was discussed. The new organization would probably include such schools as DePaul, Loyola, Western Michigan, Illinois Tech, Valparaiso and Notre Dame.
The first meeting of the Keglers will be held soon. Club officers will be elected at the session. All interested bowlers and clubs are asked to watch for a notice of the meeting and be sure they are represented.
Backs: Samuel Abbott, Richard Balka, William Barrett, Frederick Bransfield, John Bush, Jean Butz, Thomas Caito, Joseph Caprara, David Flood, Fidel Gander, J. Gebert, John George, David Koch, Elmer Layden, Randall McGee, Tom O’Connell, John Petitbon, Anthony Rados and John Zancha.—Ralph Wright
COACH SHERIDAN AND CHARGES
Green material . . .
LAYDEN. GANDER. BALKA. BOJI AND PETITBON . . . ripens on Cartier 0
26
The Scholastic
NOTRE DflME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Winning Converts, a new volume edited by the Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, Professor of Religion at Notre Dame, has been named “Book of the Month” by the Messenger of the Sacred Heart. In the October issue of the Messenger, a feature article written by the Rev. Philip S. Hurley, S.J., is devoted to the volume. Father Hurley emphasized that the volume constitutes a new apologetic approach to an old problem and is one worthy of careful study in the classroom and at discussion groups.
The Rev. LEO L. WARD, C.S.C., Head of the English Department at Notre Dame, has just finished editing a new pamphlet. The Uses of Knowledge, a group of selections from the writings of John Henry Newman, was published by Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc., as the first of a new series of pamphlets.
For the benefit of those sophomores who haven’t yet noticed the loss, the second year class is lacking a treasurer. JOHN O’BRIEN, of Green Bay, Wise., treasurer-elect of this year’s soph class, entered the seminary at St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn., this summer. John was 147-lb. runner-up in last year’s Bengal Bout finals.
Another of Notre Dame’s former baseball catchers showed up well in the minors this summer. JOHN RATTAY, a sophomore last year from Cleveland, connected with a .322 average in the Class C Canadian-American league during the hot months. In 75 games he threw out 31 base runners attempting to steal —13 more than his nearest rival. Rattay belongs to the Cleveland Indians and will report to their Class A Wilkes-Barre club next year.
“Henry Wallace, Apostle of Confusion” is the title of an article by DALE FRANCIS, graduate student in Political Science, in the October issue of Integrity. Francis has written seven other articles for current or forthcoming Catholic publications, among them a story on LOBUND to be in The Sign, an article on the “First Mr. Dewey” in the November issue of The Marianist, “Before I Forget” in Information, and ethers in Young Catholic Messenger and the Catholic Boy. Francis will also publish a full-length story on the life of George Gipp in the fall of 1949.
WARREN FRANCIS KANE, mechanical engineering senior from Rockville Centre, N. Y., was awarded a prize of $25.77 during the summer for excellence in his paper entitled “Welding and the Golf Club.” The award was one of the many accorded undergraduate engineering students in the first annual engineering undergraduate program sponsored by the James F. Lincoln Arc Welding Foundation, of Cleveland. . . .
ED CASHMAN, graduate of the Cla?s of ’48 and composer of the campus hits “Let’s Get Going,” “Meet the Missus,”
ED CASHMAN A shot at Broadway
and “It Ain’t Hay,” was in town two weeks ago visiting with BOB RUETZ and other friends at the University. Ed was on his way to New York where he plans to spend some time with another Notre Dame Alumnus of that class, GERALD HEKKER. His plans for the future include a shot at fabulous Broadway. He is hoping the street with the bright lights will be in the market for some new show tunes.
Two other University of Notre Dame students. JAMES HAGEDORN and S. COMPANY, were awarded “honorable mention” for their designs of “A Small Bank” for the annual Kenneth H. Murchison award sponsored by the Beaux-Arts Inrt'tute of Design. . . .
The Rev. THOMAS T. McAVOY, C.S.C., Head of the Department of History and managing editor of the “Review of Politics” at Notre Dame, is the subject
of an article published in a recent issue of Herder's Korrespondenz in Freiburg, Germany. He is praised in the German magazine which points out that “the effort made (by Father McAvoy) to distinguish between the true history of American Catholicism and the European notion of American Catholicism has helped to promote a better understanding between the American Catholics and the Europeans”. . . .
DR. FERDINAND HERMENS, Professor of Political Science, is the author of an article entitled “Last 'Chance in Germany” which appears in the current issue of The Sign. Dr. Hermens recently returned to Notre Dame after a summer of teaching in German universities.
The Indiana and Michigan Industrial Engineers club heard DR. R. R. WILLIAMS, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, talk on “Atomic Energy in 1948 and the Future” last Tuesday night. Dr. Williams spent two years at the Clinton laboratories in Oak Ridge, Tenn., and was an observer at Bikini.
HARRY MONAHAN, Scholastic’s bouncing sports editor, has been named to Collier’s All-America board of college newspaper sports experts. The board will assist a coaching panel, composed of FRANK LEAHY, Jeff Cravath, Matty Bell, Bernie Bierman, Wally Butts, and Lou Little, pick Collier's annual All-America team.
Sam Pettengill, the Hoosiei- sage, came in for a lambasting this week from a Notre Dame law prof. PROFESSOR ALFRED SCANLON of the College of Law violently disagreed with a column by Pettengill in the South Bend Tribune and said so in that paper’s letters-to-the-editor column Monday. Said Scan-Ion:
“In (Pettengill’s) singular masterpiece of innuendo and fiction the above mentioned writer approvingly presents the fantastic shrieks of the turn-coat democrats, i.e. the dixiecrats, that proposed fair employment practice acts fully follow, in the administrative and judicial provisions, the Russian pattern in Stalin’s all races law.”
Oct. 1, 1948
27
Zmijewski
(Continued from Page 25)
He hasn’t had too much chance to see action, although this is Al’s third season with the squad. He played in two games as a freshman in 1946. At Newark, N. J., East Side High School, he lettered in football, basketball and baseball. Now civil engineering takes up most of his time off the gridiron.
When Scholastic called, modest Al, busy at his calculus, had nothing cosmic to say about his scoring accomplishments. However, if that “59” is found standing in the enemy end zones with a pigskin many more times, he’ll have to be ready with a quote for Bob Ripley.
Qet
NOTRE DAME
Pennants
Jackets
Gym Supplies
SPECIAL
Notre Dame navy-blue, reversible Letter Jackets $10.95 to $12.95
COLLEGE IAIAIL
By BARTON T. OAKS
Worst Joke Dept.
First Roommmate: Hey, what’s the idea of wearing my raincoat?
Second Roommate: Well, don’t you see it’s raining? You don’t want me to get your suit wet, do you?—Ball State News
With an English Accent
He: Am I the first man you ever kissed?
She: Of course you are, darling. Why do you boys all ask the same question?
Another One
A tramp knocked on the door of an English inn named “George and the Dragon.” The landlady opened the door and the tramp asked, “Can you spare a poor man a bite to eat?”
“No!” as she slammed the door.
After a few minutes, the tramp knocked again. The door opened and the lady reappeared.
Look to
GILBERT'S 813-817 S. Michigan Street
for ARROWS
HERE —1 You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
“Now,” said the tramp, “Could I have a few words with George?”
Notre Dame Scholastic, 1945
Browser
Customer: I would like to have a pair of alligator shoes, please.
Salesman: What size does your alligator wear?—Auburn Plainsman
Contest Winners, Beware!
“My wife ran off with the butler.”
“What a shame.”
“I’m satisfied. Furthermore, my house burned down and I haven’t any fire insurance. And to cap everything off, business is so bad that I am going bankrupt. But in spite of everything, I’m satisfied.”
“How is that possible with all your misfortunes?”
“I smoke Chesterfields.”
What do you think? I thought so, too.
Sports Equipment Bowling Balls Shoes
... a;
SONNEBORNRS
SPORTS SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave. South Bend, Ind.
Phone 3-3702
Rvsc 5 K*TZ
1 V FOX? MEN AND 1 VrOtWG MEN
far
ARROW Shirts
28
The Scholastic
It’s Adlers for ARROW
ON THE «*NEK... HKHI6AN $ MSHH6TDN
P^PHA DELTA PHI lh> g lETA PSI
ARROW GORDON OXFORD SHIRTS
ARE FAVORITES OF COLLEGE MEN
The NEW ARROW GORDON "FENWAY"
For the first time since before the war. Arrow is offering a wide selection of white, solid color and striped oxfords in several collar models especially designed for college men. Only Arrow shirts have the famous Arrow collar, Mitoga shaped-to-fit body and Sanforized label, assurance of less than 1% shrinkage. Arrow ties—$1 to $2.50.
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Music
By VEBNE KELLEY
Now that the yells for the Page Cavanaugh Trio have died down we can start discussing the shape of things to come in South Bend.
Perhaps you’ve seen the advertisements in the South Bend Tribune, if you’ve the price, announcing that the one and only Stan Kenton is coming to this haven of all top musicians to play a concert for the strange clan called “jazz fans.”
It seems Kenton never does too well, or rather, doesn't enjoy playing dance dates. He says it holds back his experiments with progressive jazz, and the man has a point there.
Few people of any age group like to go to a dance to stand in front, of the bandstand and watch the drummer break drumsticks. Besides, one of the Kenton trumpet men could easily rupture one’s ear drums without taking a full breath.
Which brings us to this! Kenton has found that for dancers he must play sweet music, or as close as his large crew can get to it, while for the jazz fans, who get kicks from jump tunes, he knocks off all this progressive stuff.
The night of the 16th will probably find only one set paying to hear the new king—the jive crowd. There’s no halfway deal about Kenton; either you think he’s great or you can’t stand him. Evidently there are enough people who like him to keep him in coffee money.
Sharing the bandstand with him will be June Christy. Whether you like her voice or not, the girl’s got something. That’s easy to see. Irv Kluger has replaced Shelly Manne, which is quite a disappointment to us, and Pete Rugulo is still penning the scores. The whole batch should prove interesting.
The new Jazz at the Philharmonic (No. 8) is out or will be shortly. It has Flip Phillips playing some of his finest tenor on wax and Bill Harris. He’s a trombonist. You know it!
If you would like to fill out your record collection with something terrific, which is not too symphonic, not too popular, not too jazzy, but a little of all three, pick up an album of “Music Out of the Moon.” Besides the “intriguing” cover shot, it has fine music, the kind you can play at a party.
Spivakovsky, the brilliant (the signs say so) violinist, will make an appearance with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra in John Adams Auditorium on Sunday, Oct. 4. Tickets for this performance, as well as for the entire concert season are now on sale.
29
Oct. 1. 1948
Two things every college man should know!
All-American Sweater Girl. Expert
at pass defense. T (rrific) formation. The formation of a "Manhattan” shirt is terrific, too.
This is a "Manhattan” Burt. Also leads cheers. Popular button-down collar fits and looks just right. Fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less. In white, stripes and solid-colored oxfords.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
Radio
By VERNE KELLEY
Station WND, Notre Dame’s own, is a pioneer in an activity which was too long untouched here at the University. From the article in last week’s Scholastic about its re-opening last Monday, it seems that it has expanded considerably and with only a semester of experience.
Frank Cronan was the boy who made the baby click. Most students don’t know just how much work he did to bring them a good station devoid of all the commercial trash one can’t help but hear everytime a wireless is turned on. But Frank Cronan didn’t do a one man job.
Pete Reiner, who did most of the dirty work involved—it is said he spent three weeks in one of the tunnels beneath the University without seeing another human—never has received much credit. Not even from the Radio Club. May we be the first to pat him on the back and say, “Well done, Peter.”
George Murphy, Bill Halligan and Frank Tripucka (the same guy who also knows a bit about the current sport, as you could see Saturday) were just about professional with their announcing. And Fallon Evans headed a staff of scripters which handled that end capably—if not too imaginatively. And that’s not taking anything away from Fai, either.
Rev. A. M. McDowell, c.s.c., moderator, gives the lads plenty of encouragement plus needed advice. So everybody’s happy because everybody did a good job.
This all leads up to one thing: this is another year. There can’t be any of this we-were-okay-last-year-let’s-do-the-same-stuff-again attitude. The students want a good station and deserve one. Just as The Coach says, “Every day you must improve. There can be no remaining the same, either you improve or fall behind.” Or something like that.
Therefore the new faces which will undoubtedly turn up and the familiar ones should try to improve. God knows there’s room. Listen in from 7 to 10 p.m., 630 on your dial and find out for yourself.
To get professional for a moment... check on “The Pause That Refreshes on the Air” (an houi’ of silence?), over CBS at 7:30 p.m. Sunday. Percy (ouch!) Faith’s “exciting” arrangement of “Jamaican Rumba,” and Jane Fro-man’s “Love Somebody” are terrific. It says here.
30
The Scholastic
N. D. Airmen Seek Home In Wild Blue Yonder, But Find Lectures, Tours, and Bivouacs
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base was the scene of the 1948 Air R.O.T.C. summer encampment which included thirty-two advanced students from Notre Dame specializing in either Administration or Communications. The encampment of 400 men representing a dozen colleges and universities lasted six weeks beginning on June 20th with the training period ending on August 1.
The men quickly learned that there is no Blue Print for an Air Force Base. The Air Force is a living and growing organization, and the men in charge who through years of experience have learned the principles can make rules to facilitate their work. This establishes a certain mobility of organization and at Wright-Patterson such a set up was needed, for not only is it the home of the Air Materiel Command, but also the headquarters for Research and Development which, of course, goes hand in hand with supply.
The afternoons were crowded with lectures, and tours of the base installations. Some of the things were very obvious, especially the tours of the Ail-Installations sections, but such interesting hours as were spent in- the Air Mu
seum and the base show unit’s rooms where many displays of jet propulsion and atomic energy were housed, along with an afternoon of Link Trainer instruction, compensated for the dull moments.
Flights were scheduled whereby students could take plane rides with proper dispensation and parental consent. No overland flights were permitted, but local hops and bombing missions where students dropped five pound bags of flour on their comrades in bivouac were frequent.
The last three weeks of camp included more actual soldiering with time being spent on the range where each man had to qualify with the carbine, although the opportunity to fire other small arms was available. An overnight bivouac was scheduled for each of the three squadrons. This included a ten mile hike in full field equipment out to the camping area, strafing and bombing by “enemy planes,” an overnight encampment, then the return on the next morning to camp in truck convoy. Physical training filled many hours of schedule with vigorous exercise, as well as volley ball, softball and touch football games. Even bad
minton and archery were included. Physical Fitness Reports went in twice: one the first week of camp and one the last.
Several afternoons were spent in preparing an adequate defense of the entire base. The men were taken out in busses •to strategic spots about the base where they were permitted to take notes on the terrain. They were given so much to work with in regard to fighting units and it was up to them to place them where they would do the most good. When their maps and defenses were completed the job was over and each man was rated on the validity of his set up. Then an officer gave a prescribed infantry defense set up for the Wright-Patterson Air Base enabling the men * to see where they had been off or had overlooked certain things.
Notre Dame men were active in almost every extra-curricular function. Bob Shaffer and Tony Ray, Chairman of last year’s Military Ball, distinguished themselves with a fine job in their work on “Operation Riot Call,” the year book type of publication which every man received through the mail after the encampment. Shaffer supervised most of the writing and editing while Ray worked on the business transactions.
Notre Dame almost completely dominated the field of sports by winning the cups both in Softball and Basketball.
NIX ON THIS!
DO THIS . . .
Clothiers	Tailors
Thousands know us as tailors. However, many overlook our complete ready-made suits and topcoats that are tailored to the same standards as our custom-made suits and coats.
When you see these suits and coats — gray flannels, gabardines, tweeds, worsteds, cassimeres in sussex blues and bracken browns — you will say that we have done well in keeping prices down and quality up, which in turn helps you make your budget go farther.
, Fifteen percent discount on all ready-made or made-to-measure Suits and Sport Coats to Notre Dame men only through months of October and November. .	.
Don’t fail to fill in your football ballot and win yourself a $100.00 Suit or Coat. October 8th is the deadline.
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
115^/2 - 117^2 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
Campus Representatives: Pete Francken, Tom Tearney, Gus Cifelli, and Mike Ivers
Oct. 1, 1948
31
Dick Soisson was the star hurler for the Notre Dame nine while such sluggers as Bob Roemaker, Tom Devanny, Bob Cannon, Mort Lewis and Al Jehle composed murderers row. In the net game Jack Sanders, Tom Kenney, Bud Carl, and again the versatile Messrs. Roemaker and Soisson came through for the Irish. The Volleyball championship went to Cincinnati University with the Irish having been beaten in the semifinals. Tom Hynes reached the finals in the Base-sponsored golf tournament, but got caught in the eliminations.
The Hike Song and the Victory March became camp favorites as marching • songs among the N.D. boys and before the camp was over the other cadets didn’t have to ask who was singing. The songs and the cheers were an integral part of the championships in sports and a great morale builder when marching back from a Saturday morning parade dripping with perspiration. They stood for that indomitable spirit that can make everything else even the continual harping of “on the double Mr.”, seem so very small and for the moment far away.
The boys played hard, but they worked hard, too, and before the camp was over
International Affairs Club
Invites New Members
International Affairs Club plan a full year of discussion and debate, beginning their activities with a general discussion on the United States foreign policy in South America. John Gallagher, recently returned from Brazil, will present the address at this meeting, scheduled for October 11. Present membership of the IAC leaves but little room for further enrollment but club officers are willing to accept application by mail to Secretary Dave Yerex, 328 Mor. Later in the year, the club plans to repeat the pleasing performance of last semester when a very profitable discussion was held with St. Mary’s International Relations club.
Fine Repairing •
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS. JEWELRY
wlarvirL
W E L E R
many friendships were formed with boys from other schools developing in a strong sense of mutual respect. The camp was tough, but it was short. The Notre Dame men were the last to arrive, made their presence felt while they were there and were the first to leave after the final pay. This group broke the ice, the rest should slide smoothly.
Attention!
BERT CLEANERS & DYERS
222-224 West Washington Ave.
Bert Cleaners will give Notre Dame students an opportunity to save 25% on all their Dry Cleaning, Pressing, Repairing, and Dyeing at our plant. Take advantage of our 3-Hour and While-You-Wait services. Use our free pick-up and delivery service.
For your 25% discount card, fill out this coupon and present it at our office.
Name.................................
Hall............... Room	Number......
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
Fish
Steak
Chops
and
(of course, Chicken)
HOURS:
11 a. m. to 8 p. m.
Closed Mondays
joe Molticldi.
213 N. Main St.
32
The Scholastic
Faculty Sociologists Have Leading Articles
Members of the university sociology ‘ faculty have the leading articles in two of the current sociological journals. “The Russian Mennonites: From Religious to Ethnic Group” by Dr. E. K. Francis is the leading article in the September issue of the American Journal of Sociology. It shows how so-called ethnic groups may grow out of a segregated religious community. Dr. Francis is preparing a book on the history of the Mennonites in Manitoba for publication in the near future.
The other article, by Mr. John J. Kane, appears in the current issue of the American Catholic Sociological Review. It is a study of Negro gangs in Philadelphia, based upon evidence which he discovered while serving as a member of the Philadelphia Crime Commission. Mr. Kane, a new member of the Department of Sociology here, has a master’s degree from Temple University and has been studying at the University of Pennsylvania for the past two years. He is preparing to submit his doctoral thesis on religious prejudice to the U. of Penn, later this year.
ND Celebrates at V-Dance, Co-Hop Tomorrow Night
Two dances will be open to students celebrating tomorrow night after the Pitt game.
Biggest attraction will be the weekly Victory Dance in the Drill Hall at 8:30. Special busses will transport St. Mary’s girls back and forth, and the usual regulations will apply. Admission will be $1.50 per couple.
Also scheduled for tomorrow night another of the Co-Hop’s occasional whirls. That’ll be from 8 to 11 p. m. at the Progress Club. Stan Seymour’s orchestra will play. Cost: 75 cents a head.
ATTENTION CLUB PRESIDENTS
Student Council this week requested that all geographical club presidents submit their names and campus addresses to the Council office in room 122 of the Main Building. These names and addresses will be urgently needed when the Council begins to contact campus clubs to formulate operating policies for the year.
It’s a pearl
of a shirt!
It's Adlers
for
Van Heu sen
ON THE CORNER—MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
Wide-spread Van Britt with "Comfort Contour” collar
All kinds of pretty maidens hang around when you wear Van Britt. This soft-collar favorite (with stays) comes in oxford at $3.95 and in broadcloth at $3.95 and $4.95. Sanforized,— a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! Action tailored, figure-tapered, tug-proof pearl buttons, too. Other Van Heusen shirts $3.50, $3.95, $4.95.
You'Ufind college men's collar favorites in
Van Heusen
the world’s smartest
nnupsjoNEs corp., n. y. i. n.y.
••van HEUSEN** IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE
Oct. 1, 1948
33
Browser’s Column
Max A. Browser
This little plan has worked on a smaller scale. It has worked in the case of the campus bowling league where all the clubs, under the direction of Ernie Huffman, put on a great show. It could work again on the grand scale we have proposed here.
It’s the old story of organization. We have so little of it among the students of Notre Dame. Perhaps that is why the students of Notre Dame get so very little done.
There is, on this fratiess campus, a vast network of organizations known, for lack of a more suitable name, as “campus clubs.” What a “campus club” is we cannot tell you. No one has ever told us and we certainly will never find out by observing these groups in action. But, whatever they are, they are organizing again. Their executive stationery is plastered all over the bulletin boards urging all from the “Anthracite” area, Columbus or the “Northeast Corner of Wyoming” to congregate with their “buddies” over “refreshments” for a ■“short, oh 'so short,’ 'we promise it will be short’ organizational meeting.”
From now until the late weeks of May there will be semi-monthly or monthly meetings of these institutions. There will be elections and smokers and Communion Breakfasts and the inevitable “Highlights of 1948” and “refreshments.” They are gay affairs, these “club” meetings. They serve a high purpose in bringing together all the men who live in the same state or are interested in the same hobbies or are studying the same thing. In too many cases they serve a not-so-high political purpose by affording an opportunity for a few pseudoward-leaders to gain office. And they offer free cokes. But, they are, on the whole, a failure.
They are a failure because they do not do enough. They are a failure because, like so many student activities here, they do not organize themselves. They are a failure because they stop at the cokes and the movies and the beer parties and go no further.
Last year the most ambitious of these groups, the Bebels, gave a hint of the great potentialities that these organizations possess. On January 23, 1948, they brought to the stage of Washington Hall, Ellis Arnall, famed liberal democrat and former governor of Georgia. Mr. Ar-nall’s speech was well received. It was a successful venture. And, what is even more notable, it was not accomplished by the Rebels alone. Although they were the guiding spirit behind the affair, it took the help of the Scholastic, the Student Council and the Law Club to
pull it off. In other words it took a little co-operative organization.
That is what we are driving at here— “co-operative organization” between the clubs. What could it accomplish? Well, for one thing it could bring into being a big inter-club dance to be held annually with the usual “name” band. It could sponsor more appearances by speakers of Arnall’s stature. It could sponsor big discussion forums, a sort of “Notre Dame Town Hall.” And, under a committee leadership, it could contribute funds and assistance to the Student Council whenever needed.
This does not mean that the clubs should surrender their dearly cherished autonomy. Although we are here specifically proposing a central club committee we do not mean to destroy the clubs as individual organizations. The “Met” club, although belonging to the central club committee would still remain a private club for students from the New York area. They would meet whenever they felt the urge and carry on as usual. Their parties would be their own as would their Christmas and Spring dances and no one would interfere. But, they would be asked to contribute some of their dues to the central organization, would be bound to help the central unit in any of its communal undertakings and would, of course, have a voice in governing the central unit.
Rumi cleaners
REMEMBER
ND Students Receive a 20% Discount at All Times
217 E. Jefferson	2 Blocks East of Kresge’s
Here and There . . .
The sad tale of the demise of the NS A is now unfolding. According to latest reports there was a meeting of the NS A national delegates in Madison . . . there were four delegates from ND all slated to go when they got the bad news from the Student Council that no funds were available to finance their trip. An appeal was made to the University Council. It was rejected. Notre Dame is no longer a member of the National Students Association.
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in / Good Smoking
34
The Scholastic
You are Always a Guest Here Before You are a Customer
Hickey-Freeman . . . Society Brand . . . Burberry . . . “GGG” . . . Alpagora . .. British-R . . . Dobbs
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR M
CILBERT'5
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
Home of Famous Names in Men’s Quality Clothing
EVERY EVENING
Oct. 1, 1948
35