,~,------------------------------~ 
eholastie 
November 16, 1973 

I .. 

Scholastic Recipe Contest 
We at the SCHOLASTIC are sponsoring a recipe contest. It sounds crazy 
' ' ~ 
and it probably is. If you've got a favorite recipe, whether you can cook it or 
' ) 
not, why not pass it along to the rest of us. The "cookbook" will make a perfect Christmas giftor you can hang onto if for later reference. 
There are five categories: soups, appetizers, salads, entrees, and desserts. The best recipe in each category will win a five dollar prize and the best recipe of all those submitted will win a .special grand prize: dinner for two at the restaurant ofyour choice. All contributions submitted will be published in the November 30 issue. of the SCHOLASTIC. Recipes will. be judged by the SCHOLASTIC and as usual the decision of the judge will be final. 
Join us .for a little light-hearted culinary experimentation. Besides, at the rate students are moving off-campus, it is essential to have some handy _hints for cooking·.· 
Recipes 
c/o The SCHOLASTIC 4th Floor Lafortune Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Ummmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm~mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm GUT! 

\ 

Editor Kerry McNamara Art Director Jim Purvis Production Manager Janet Cullen 
Assistant Editors 
Greg Conti, Jim Gresser, Pat Roach, Joe Runde, Jack Wenke 
Assistant Art Directors 
John Phelan, Tom Waldoch 
Sports Editor · · · Tom Gora Business Manager 
Joe Meyer 
Advertising 
Alice Christopher 
Circulation 
Frank Zaletel Faculty Advisor Frank O'Malley 

Stall 
Paul Bolduc, Paul Colgan, Kevin Dockrell, Betsy Dwyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Casey Pocius, Mary Siegel, Sally Stanton; Steve Shea;· Gil Zachary, Pat Sheehan, Jean McQuillan, Maureen O'Brien, Eileen O'Grady, Mark Nishan, John Whalen, Tom Bursic, Jack Brown, Katy Sullivan, Sean McLinden, Kathy Kelly, Tara Carey, Jorge Lopez, Jack Rangel, Tom McAndrews, Bob Griffen, Fred Graver, • Pat Fanning, Pat Dillon, Kevin McCormick, · Bill Murray, Frank Coughlin, T. J. Clinton, Mark Luppino, John Moore, George Sibley, Craig Spengel Art & Photography Mike Budd, Ed Earle, Nan Smith,:Tom Waldoch, John Phelan, Pat Hanifin, Joe Kuspan, Bill Foglia, Bob McMahon 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, 
Ind. 46556. The magazine·is represented for 
national advertising by National Educational 
Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, 
New York, N.Y: 10017. Published fortnightly 
during the school year except during vacation 
and examination periods, the ~CHOLASTIC 
is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, 
Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 
a year. and back numbers are available from 
the· SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu­
scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind . .. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the 
property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
copyright© 1973 Scholastic / all rights 
reserved / none of the contents may be re­
produced without permission 




SeholastiC 
Volume 115, No. 5 • November 16,c 1973 · Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINERS 

5 · Breakfast with George McGovern "I think I'm going to win that Senate reelection fight. It's going to take some hard work, but...." 
10 Jacques Maritain Center "A beggar of heaven disguised as a : man of this world." 
15 ·JFK -A Friend Remembers "He was the same Jack Kennedy · you.had always known; only he just seemed to be President, and he seemed to be President by nature." 
FEATURES 15 Sophomore Literary Festival -"a ·priceless forum." 17 Theater of the Deaf -Poetry without Words. · 22 Book Review -92 in the Shade. 24 Record Review -The Rolling Stones. 25 Kohoutek -The Comet cometh. 27 "Let's Go South for New Years" -An· interview with Ara 
Parseghian." 
REGULARS 

4 Letters 
4 The Crooked Rook 20 Week in Distortion 26 Coming Distractions 30 The Last Word 
Illustrations: Photos on 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 by Kerry McNamara and Mike Budd / Photos on 10, 11 by Mike Budd / Photos on 17, 18, 19 by Ed Earle and Mike Kulczycki / Photos on 28, 29 by Jim Purvis. 
~ 

Letters 
Dear Editor: 
I have just finished reading "The 
Social Stalemate: A Student Poll" in 
the November 2nd issue of the 
Scholastic. 
Could you please explain to me 
how we can learn to relate to others 
(social consciousness, awareness, 
whatever) when the social atmos­
phere (or at least a good part of it) 
seemingly revolves. around . alcohol, 
marijuana and perhaps other drugs 
which decrease your self-awareness? I think it is a strange and sad par­adox that in our attempts to relate to others we feel compelled to drink and smoke so that we lose awareness of ourselves. Seeing as we all have more in common with each other than not (at least in that we are . unique individuals) I fail to see how 
drugging oneself away from self­
consciousness can help us relate to 
others.: 
Don't get me wrong. I'm neither a 
teetotaler nor involved in a Temper­
ance League, but neither do I think · 
that ·an article involved primarily 
with psychological crutches. should 
be entitled "The Social ( ?) Stale­
mate/' 
.Sincerely, 
Thomas H. Sheridan 


The Crooked Rook 

ANSWER TO LAST PROBLEl\l 
1. Q-QNI threat 2 Q-N4 mate 
. QXR 2 P1Bl3 mate Q-N6 2 PXQ mate Q-Q6 2·PXQ.mate Q-K5 2 P-B4 mate 
. Q-N5 2 P-B4 mate 

The 
.Paulist is a modern 
man 
of today working for tomorrow 
seeking answers to the problems that beset us 
· in cities and suburbs · in parishes and .on campus ·..· pl"aying sharing. 

counseling celebrating · 
The Paulists modern priests on the move. serving Christ throughout . North America ; · 
For more information ab.out the, · Paulists, send for THE PAULIST PAPERS-a new vocation kit of posters, articles and recordings. 
Write to: 
Father Donald C. Campbell, 
Room 103 


Paulist Fathers 
415 West59thSt., New York, N.Y.10019 · 
SAMUEL LOYD :.· V Second Prize Set . "' . Paris Tourney. 
1867 
:White mates· in five. moves 
I" ' ,· 
SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE . 


Breakfast· with 
George.·McGovern·· 
The Scho"lastic and WSND were fortunate enough to join Senator George McGovern for breakfast the morning after his speech at Stepan Center. What follows is the. gist of a lengthy and most rewarding conversa­tion. 
Scholastic: In reiterating your stand on impeachment last night ... Senator, do you feel there is no possi­bility for resignation? 
McGovern: Well, I wouldn't rule that out ... I would prefer impeachment to. resignation, because I feel it answers some of the questions which might otherwise never be ahswered if the President were just to resign and walk off into the night. What I really think the situation requires now is that the President be re­moved from office, either by resignation or by impeach­ment. But I would Ilrefer. the impeachment route. I think ·that's what the Constitution most clearly pro­vides. I think that's what the present tangled and confused situation dictates. 
Scholastic: Do· you feel, in the vein of Senator Aiken, that we should "get in and do it or get·out?" 
McGovern: Yes; Ithink so: I think that the Congress can't just carp away at Nixon's misconduct and. then walk off without confronting the issue. The issue no_w is some 22 impeachable offenses which the House Ju­diciary Committee is investigating. I've read that list, and if any two or three or.four of them have validity, I think he should be impeached. ·.. 
Scholastic: Given the events of the past few days, do you· feel Nixon is perhaps changing· his stance on the issue and realizing that he has to face the people on this? 

1\lcGovern: I think he does. I think the President will make every effort to use the power and prestige of his office to convince the country that he can govern in other areas. I think Mr. Kissinger is going to be in orbit from here on out, partly because the foreign policy situation requires it but also because it's a very convenient diversion. I think that you'll see the Presi­dent doing things like the energy crisis speech and various other moves that will concentrate attention on him as a President in action on the country's prob­lems. But he must know,-from the advice he's getting from his own Republican leaders in the Congress, that· that's not going to be enough to still the anxieties and fears about his misconduct and Constitutional viola­tions. So I would think you'll see some further effort on the part of the President to clear his record. 
Scholastic: There are some signs that he is going to release some of the tapes and make them public. Do you think this will in any way alleviate the public furor that's been raised? 
1\lcGovern: Well, unfortunately, that's been preceeded now with an announcement that the crucial portions of the tapes that the Committee and the prosecutor wanted -either the tape malfuctioned or parts of the conversation didn't come through clearly. Now that may be true, but I don't think it's perceived to be true by most Americans; because they wonder, and I think understandably, why after months of saying that he under no conditions would release those tapes and violate his principle of confidentiality, the President suddenly reverses himself and then, weeks after that reversal takes place, we learn that the really pertinent tapes are defective. The whole thing, as I said last night, begs to be discarded by the public. 
Scholastic: Do you yourself believe that it was just a 
malfunction? 
McGovern: Vj,'ell, I'm puzzled as to how this could hap­pen. I know that tape recorders sometimes malfunction, but here was a sophisticated system, apparently in­stalled by the Secret Service -the tapes were main­tained by them, as I understand it -and the man who first told the Committee about it, Mr. Butterfield, said __ that he could not conceive that the tapes would not be in good order. He said that there might be some con-· versations from clear across the room that might come through rather thin. Bu_t he said that it was a sophis­ticated, sensitive system, and it would be hard for him to imagine the tape missing any really pertinent con­versation in the room. 
Scholastic: Is that the general feeling on Capitol Hill? 

· 1\lcGovern: I'm afraid it is. I'm afraid that the an­nouncement that the tapes were garbled or that the machine' was malfunctioning came too -late in the day. I just find it hard to think that during all this time somebody didn't sit down a~d listen to those tapes and see what was on them. And· it just seems v~ry strange to me that only at the last minute, after the President had reluctantly agreed that he would have to release 
6 

the tapes, that we then discovered the malfunctioning of the system. I realize that the President may be telling the truth. This is what happens when you yell "Wolf" too many times; nobody believes you'when you are telling the truth. 
Scholastic: If impeachment proceedings should be taken, how do you feel this will affect the balance of power between the Executive and Legislative branches? 
McGovern: Well, I would hope that there would be some restoration of Congressional influence and power, because I think there is an imbalance on the side of the Presidency now. I ._believe in a strong President, a strong activist President, and I think he ought to use all the powers the Constitution provides. But that will only work if the Congress does the same thing. If the Congress doesn't implement its constitutional powers; if it lets the legislative initiative, for example, grad­ually move over to the Executive branch, if it lets the budget process be decided in the Executive branch, if it lets executive arrangements on foreign policy be made in the Executive branch, and doesn't even have the information on which to make intelligent foreign policy or budget decisions, then that is not a proper functioning of the Constitution. So I don't view with any alarm at all the shift in the balance in the direction '.-­of more Congressional power: I would not want to see the Presidency crippled, and that's why I'm not ex­cited about a lot of new legislation designed to change the institution of the Presidency.. I'd leave it pretty much as it is. But I did think, in this uncertain area of war and peace, that the Constitution was not clear at that point, and that there was need, in view of what's happened in the last 25 to 30 years, for legislation· to spell out the differences there. 
Scholastic: Senator, what did you think of'the response 
to_ your speech last night? · 
McGovern: I was very moved. It was a tremendous response, I thought. And even on a Sunday night, in an off-election year, when there's nobody running for anything. If this had b~n November 1, 1974, if·would· have been expected. But .to come in at this stage, in the middle of the football· season, on a Sunday night 
. . . I was really startled by the size of the crowd.· 
Scholastic: What is the outlook .for South Dakota for 
the 197 4 elections? · · · , 
l\lcGovern: •Well, I think it's going to be a Democratic sweep.· We've-really turned.that statearound. I think I'm going to win that Senate reelection fight. It's going to take some hard work, but I think it can be done. 
Scholastic: In regards to Jaworski as special prose­cutor, do you feel that the assurances he got from Haig, that he will get whatever he wants from the President; and that he won't run into interference from the Presi~ dent in ·regards to any legal action for anything from the Executive branch, do you feel those promises are real? 
-THE SCHOLASTIC 

\ 
McGovern: Well, I don't know. I think we've now got a situation where it's, almost as important how things appear, as far as the restoration of credibility is con­cerned, as how they actually are. It's really appear­ances and images which are important now, as well as substance. And I don't think the public or the Con­gress are going to be satisfied with the results of a prosecutor who's named by the President, even though the President said he'd be willing to work out an ar­rangement where the man would not be fired without the approval of the Congressional leadership on both sides of the aisle. It just seems to me it would be far better for the Congress to go ahead and name an in­dependent prosecutor, or have the · courts name one, and provide· that he could not be ·dismissed unless the federal judge found him incompetent. I just think . that's a better way to restore confidence in the investi­gation. I don't know anything about Jaworski, though, and !'in not on the Judiciary Committee that's investi­gating him. 
Scholastic: Do you see the recent overriding of the President's veto of the War Powers Bill, after so many unsuccessful tries to override a presidential veto, as a sign that some of the Republicans that were supporting the President are abandoning him; and do you think there will be any further overrides of vetoes, if they occur? 
l\fcGovem: I think there were several factors which 
explain why we won on the War Powers Bill. It wasn't simply that the Republicans abandoned the President. It was the strong feeling against this country becoming involved again in an Executive war. And remember we voted right in the middle of the Middle East crisis. Most members of Congress are willing to supply mili­tary equipment to Israel, but they don't want American troops involved there •or anywhere else around . .the world unless Congress has a chance to share in the de­cision.. It isn't that we want to be isolationists, but we don't .want our troops committed by Executive action. So I think that factor was operating very powerfully. Then you add to that the erosion of the President's prestige in the Watergate scandal, and the frustration over previous failures on veto overrides. I think it all came to a head~. Timing had a lot to do with it, and even people who had voted against.the War Powers Bill in the House in some cases changed their minds and voted to override the veto. I think there were four who did that. So it may not be a precedent. It may just be that conditions were right in that one case to put to­gether a two-thirds majority. T wouldn't count on that ori. other efforts, though. I think it's very hard to over­ride a Presidential veto. 

Scholastic: The Vietnam war seems to continue even though the . truce has been called. Do you see any situation in which the President might recommit either naval or air forces, and any situation in which Congress would accept this? 
McGovern: I don't see any situation under which we'd recommit our own forces, but I'm very much disturbed about the ·continuing slaughter that goes ori there. This is the forgotten war. Btit if we can believe·the statistics of the Thieu.government, fifty thousand people have died there since we .left,, which is a terrible situation to call "peace with honor." It may be peace for us, but it's not peace for the people who continue to die on both sides. I think, to a considerable extent, because of the· sophisticated armament we've been pumping in there in the last ten years, if that struggle had been allowed to work itself out with the kind of primitive weapons they had, it would have been a much less costly and devestating war. But we left with hundreds of airplanes in place, helicopters, automatic rifles, artil­lery, flame throwers, tanks and all kinds of :;ophisti­cated equipment; a lot of it has been captured by the other side, and they're using it against us. As· a con­sequence, you have a very bloody conflict that we con­tinue to supply. I regret it very much. I think we should have broken cleanly and told the people of Viet­nam_ that they were on their own. I don't. know what the future of that government would be, but I don't know anyway, even if we stay on for another ten years in an aid capacity. And you wonder if all we're doing is just providing the equipment that they're going to use to tear their country apart. 
Scholastic: How do you feel the SEATO alliance now stands, in light of the Vietnam war? 
l\lcGovern: I think it's dead. It's not worth the paper it's written on. 
Schoiastic: Is that why some in Congress have at:­tempted to bury it in terms of individual alliances and treaties between nations? 

l\lcGovern: Yes. It's a good case of why we ought to review these paper pacts that .we .have all over the world. We went through a period, particularly when John Foster Dulles was Secretary of State, of getting everybody down on paper for or against ,us, and a lot of those agreements are pretty worthless. They don't really represent strength..I thiI?,k they all ought to be reviewed. We ought to review the some 42 different mutual security arrangements we have with individual countries, and s'ee whether or not it's in either our in­terest or theirs to continue those alliances. Most of them have never been ratified by th_e Congress; 
Scholastic: In light of this, how do you view NATO as 

an alliance? 
McGovern: 'I think NATO is important, but I would ­
like to see it. move more in the direction of an organiza­tion that can deal with problems of international trade, and of investment, and .of concerted political action, rather than primarily as a military force.. I think if we're really serious about detente between East and · West, we have to gradually ease off on these two power blocs that· face each other militarily. I'd like 'to see a systematic reduction of American ground forces in Western Europe; and their replacement, if they need to be replaced, by European forces. We can continue to provide'a nuclear shield, which is the principal deter­rent, but I really don't see why we keep 300 thousand 
· American troops in Western Europe. 
Scholastic: This wouldn't have to have a prior condi­
tion of reduction of Russia's support of the Warsaw 
Pact nations? 

McGovern: I'd like to see a mutual balanced reduction, but whether that happens or not,. I think it's in our ·interest to make some reductions. The Soviets after all have several million forces on the European con­tinent, that they can move into play very quickly..So even. if we were to pull back some of our forces from Western Europe we're not really changing the equatiori there very much, because our main deterrent against 

the Soviet move into Western Europe is the nuclear force... We can't argue on the one hand that we're improving our relations with Russia and that we're achieving detente and then say that we need the same number of troops there that we had fifteen years ago. 
Scholastic: Do you think we should drop back from being policemen of the world, as the British did? 
McGovern: Not as the British did because they vir­tually dropped out as a major force in the world power balance. But I think we could well afford to cut back on the number of bases we have abroad. . . It's a part of what I think is now a kind of obsolete military stra­tegy called the "forward strategy"; of assuming that we have 'to be ready to respond with forces in the field all over the·world... 
Scholastic: -To ,return to the question of Watergate... there seem to be two extremes of opinion on Watergate and its reflection upon the American political system in general. One extreme is that Watergate is simply revealing a sort of basic corruption that is inherent in politics. The other is the view that the Watergate de­bacle is actually a very healthy process whereby a basi­cally healthy and uncorrupted political system is purg­ing certain internal'impurities which are,unwelcome. 
McGovern: I would totally reject the first view, that it's typical of American politics. I think it's unprece­dented. I don't think there has ever been a time when the White House or high government officials acting for the White House broke the law so flagrantly, and misused sensitive agencies like the F.B.I. and the 
C.I.A. and the Internal Revenue Service. You might find som~e-isolated incidents of each one of the Water­gate crimes in ; previous administrations, although I doubt it;· but never has there been such a massive net­work of violations qf the Consitution. . . I don't think there's any precedent to this. Keep in mind that we've already had two major Cabinet-members indicted, in­cluding the former Attorney General; and people·sent to jail who were high in the President's confidence ­either on his staff-or on the Committee to Re-Elect the President. On the second question, I do think that the revelation of that kind of shocking conduct can serve a useful purpose, in that it's massive enough to really frighten the country about what happens when you put expediency ahead. of principle. · · 
Scholastic: Do you'think the results of Watergate will be arevitalizing of trust in th_e American political sys­temin general, or do youthink that trust has been severely wounded r McGovern: Well, temporarily we're severely wounded. We'll go through a period of very deep cynicism and skepticism about the whole political process. The an­swer to that question is not yet in. It depends on whether we demonstrate that justice is really going to reach to the White House and the· Executive branch, or whether we're going to let them get by. I think if the President is permitted to stay in office and· the whole thing is smoothed over, I .think we're_ in for a very rough time as far as the recovery of confidence is concerned. But if the wheels of justice turn, if he is either forced to resign or if he is impeached, assuming · that all or part of these charges against him are true, then it seems t<:> me that people will say "Well, that shows you can't break the law and get away with it." It may actually lead to a return of confidence in our system. 

' , 

,1 
Jacques Maritain Center 


A Unified Approach 
"Who am I therefore myself? ... Perhaps like every Christian ... a beggar of Heaven disguised as a man of the world, a kind of secret agent of the King of Kings in the territories of the prince of this world, taking his risks like Kipling's cat, who went out alone." 
Jacques Maritain 
Jacques Maritain was indeed "a kind of secret agent of the· King of Kings," whose special task and skill it was to open new doors and paths to mysteries that had remained locked away. But the French Catholic phi­losopher was not totally alone; some doors had been opened before him by_ Thomas Aquinas, whose disciple he was, and Maritain's new opening of Thomism in1o the modern world has produced many students who carry on his work. 
To act as a sort of international clearinghouse for the analysis of Maritain's massive work the University has created the Jacques Maritain_Center. The Center, under the direction of Prof. Joseph W. Evans and Fr. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. encourages the development and spreading of Maritain's thought. It is intended, as Fr; Hesburgh said at its founding, to be a place of "signifi­cant philosophical activity and publication," and has edited and translated a dozen of Maritain's most im­portant works. Thus Maritain's students become teach­ers of others. 
Evans stresses the importance of this dissemination of thought from one generation of students to another. "The human mind is a mendicant mind," he says. -"So the teacher-student relationship is founded in the na­ture of things -it is natural that those who have made some progress in the 'struggle with the real' should tell others what they see, and serve as guides and path­breakers and gadflies. At the same time this can work in reverse-getting to know students personally has been richly rewarding-they help me to see things more clearly." It is this kind of interaction that the Maritain Center is all about. 
10 
The links that tie Evans with Maritain go back many years. Before he came to Notre Dame in 1947, Evans had done Master's and Ph.D. theses· in Maritain's thought. He and Ward edited the first English an­thology of Maritain's works and a series of lectures on history that Maritain gave here in 1955. 
"I am a student of _Maritain," Evans explains, "be­cause I am fascinated by the range and depth of his thought. He really penetrat~ the essential reality of the human condition and tackles the fundamental ques­tions about the grandeur and the misery that is man." 
Evans reports that his enthusiasm is shared_ by an increasing number of his own undergraduate students. "One of them told me the other day, 'Old Maritain is difficult but clear; I like to read him because he is down­to-earth-not like those crazy guys H~gel and Hus­serl.' " 
_The work that Evans and Ward have been doing at the Center in the last several years has been primarily the vast job of translating and editing Maritain's mas­sive work. To date, Dr. Evans has translated seven of Maritain's most important books into English and plans several more. He has edited five more books, two with Fr. Ward's assistance. 
The Center has gathered an of Maritain's books in all their various editions, as well as the works of Raissa, Maritain's wife, and those of his closest associates. 
However a great deal more work is still _left. Many,,­of Maritain's books appear only in French and many of his articles and essays are scattered in various periodi­cals and pamphlets and must be pulled together.. Nu­merous essays that Maritain wrote shortly before his death have not been published at all. _One new collec­tion, "Approaches Without Shackles" will appear this fall in France and Evans may work on the English translation. 


Dr. Evans 


Evans has also recently finished revising, the Notre Dame Press edition of Maritain's seminal work, ·Integral Humanism, and completed a new translation of On_the Church of _Christ which will appear shortly. : -. 
-He: has-put an immense amount -of energy into edit-­ing and. translating another man's_ writings and Evans explains this dedication by saying that while ''it may be a humble work, it is also a supremely important one. I know that my holding this may come as a bit of an 'existential shock' to . some of my colleagues -in .the Academy, and also to some students. But I_ think it is the kind of 'existential shock' that the Academy: needs these· -day~and I don't believe in letting. the Academy 
call all the play·s for me.'-' . . . --_ _ _ --_ 
The importance of the work lies in the importance of Maritain's philosophy..It is based on the_principles ~f Aristotle and St.. Thomas Aquii:ias· but he_was an inde­pendent thinker in his own right and incorporated many insights · from modern science and from other philo­sophes: .He held. that -there is a "philosophia. -perennis" _:_a perennial philosophy _which is linked with the "simple," "natural," "common~sense", perceptions of men. in_ every period. He tried to_ develop it. by looking for greater_ insight not_ only ·in '.rhomist _philosophy but in other systems of thought because he sawphilosophy as progressing by_ "deepening understanding" rather ·than by "substitution" as in the_ sciences. . . 
During· his long life. Maritain published over. fifty books and ·countless numbers of articles on a wide variety of philosophical subjects: epistemology, meta­physics, ethics, esthetics, politics, social analysis, the­ology, history, humanism, . psychology. Perhaps 'his most important contributions were his_ demonstration. of how the different ways -of -knowing-science, phi­losophy, -poetry, mysticism,.-~nci_ so o~·-:--:•·can ~~rk to: 
NOVEMBER 16, 1973 
gether, each with its proper sphere; and how men of differing beliefs can work together in a. pluralistic so-.. ciety such ·as America towards the pursuit of the com­mon good. His renewal of Thomism offered a challenge to modern man to rediscover Being ·(as opposed to purely scientific analysis), Love and God. 
Maritain was born in Paris in 1882, the _son· of lib-. eral Protestant parents. He studied at the Sorbonne and .briefly. came under the influence of teachers who believed-that science was tlie -sole . answer -to man's problems. But there he also met his wife-to-be, Raissa, who was to collaborate with him on much of his work. Maritain said about her that ~•the best thing I o:we'to my studi_es at that time_ is that they enabled me to ·meet the one who since then has always, happily for me, been at my side in a perfect and blessed communion.'' _ 
Reacting_agafost.the_ extreme scien:tfsm of their pro­fessors, the Maritains were converted to Catholicism in 1906. Soon after this Raissa: introduced Maritain to Thomas Aquinas' Summa Theowgica; _which was for Maritain a "luminous • flood" .and tlie beginning of his life's work. From 1961, after Raissa's death he lived with the Little Brothers of Jesus, finally joining-the or­der in 1970. He died early this year. __ . ___ _ 
Dedicated to his memory'. and the dissemination. of his insights the· Maritain Center, Evans concludes, ''strives to put special emphasis on.the study of the_ re­~arkable new·• avenues of thought that Maritain has opened up. Any living and creative thought; no matter how well formed and articulated its expression may be, has need ceaselessly to grow. , We would like to think that our efforts will assist Jacques Maritain's thought to take root and grow in many minds of this and future 
gener~tions;'' · -· --· · 
, ,,, . .. -~:hanifif!, 
_.11 




J.F.K. 
I 
/ 

-A··Friend 
Reniert1bers 
_;Rev. John Cavanaug.h,.C.S.C. 
· As the tenth anniversary of the assassination of John _Kennedy approaches, The Scholastic turns to the member of the Notre Dame community most intimately connected with the events of that momentous weekend. Father John. Cavanaugh, President of.Notre Dame from 1946 to 1952, is a close friend.of the Kennedy family. In -a conversation with Bcnolastic staff member Greg Aiello,' Fr. Cavanaugh recalls the series of events which took him from South Bend to the White House, ­to Hyannis,·and'finally back to South Bend, in.the -. course of \vhat was for all who remember it orie of the most tragic weekends iri our recent history.· ­
': _;; Of'course, r knew he went dowri' to Dallas. I also· was aware·that lie·was working toward getting· ­more rights for the black people; and that this attitude of·his would·be_hostile fo·inany people in the·South; For that reasori and because of'rriy knowledge of him and the family I was attentive. I was over in Moreau Seminary then; a~d in order to ·hear this with iny:· •·· : : . hypertension· I would lie in bed like this, and it was right after· lunch and the: report was coming in like ·you would expecf, crowds on both· sides of the street, and· that they were all eager to ·see'him arid to.let him know that they were happy he was there: And it · started to come· across without much introduction the.t' 'we just g~(a report that the President was shot and-. we·wouldn't take this too seriously,'. the man kept say.;. ing; 'because we.haven't.had a chanceto verify it.' My ·reaction was that he had been shot. There wasn't a· ' 
-question in my mind ·whether he needed -to' verify it :: or ·not.. Maybe. everybody thinks ·of the worst possible thing and it's a·reality to you. Then the second report I remember· coming was in-examining where the shots ·came..from; at first they thought it was from a hilly . ­
.area ahead· and· to the right; but then they decided ·-­they cariiefrom the'Book.Depository . .. : • . .: ··. ­. -My phone'was ·ringing all the time: . People were: ~llirig and saying be' sure you listen'. -Finally I took.the' receiver ·off the; hook because. they were just -saying . 
the obvious things about listening in and this and:this. · ·A:fter I heard this I went over to the phone and called a very-good friend of mine, and also a friend of the-Kennedys, who was on the board of trustees of the · 
university, by the name of Voll. I felt the need of seei~g someone and talking to them. He said why don't you . come over and have dinner with me. . · 
Before I went with him, though, I called Hyannis Port and the nurse got on the phone and I asked her how Mr. Kennedy, _Ambassador Kennedy, was·and she said that they had been in touch with the doctor;·' He·_ v \\'.as wa_tching a niovie arid the c:i~ctor thought it.would~ be better not to tell hini'about it, but prepal'.e liini'!or it with the proper sedation.. They asked me if I :would come ·up there. The dodor thougliti(would be good _ ifhe had a nice restand then in the morning they _.. would.tell hirii'and they.thought niaybe if 1·were·there· I could be of some service to· him; '. . • --. ' 
So I decided to go ·up there tlie:next morning'.°'I _~ouldn't -get.a ;plane ~tff the·next'morning, Satur:«Jay morning; . . . . ,. . -. -· . -. . . . -So !~went over to· Mr. ,Voll's.' It was:Friday 'and we , 
-. 'were ·h~ving· tuna'fish ;·and'the telephone'rang ·and it . was-Sargent Shriver at the White House:· He 'said he knew that I was going. to Hyannis· Port, but he wanted fo -know if I would first come to .the -White . House.and offer mass.with the immediate members of · the family, and closest friends. I ·said sure: He· said .I coulc(~hen go by plane from the White House'up· to Hya:nriis:Port. So I got a·Private plane from Mr. Car-· inichael in South Bend. It was a·gusty evening, the wind·wasmoving the plane around and I took a·sleep~. ing pill and fell asleep; When we got to Washington . ··­ifwas'still this way, blustery. The attention at this · ? . ·time was partially the fa.ck of knowledge about who -. shot_hiin. Was-it.an individual or was he part of a · _group?· Did he have an identity with any.of our enemies? You had to have alfthese things in mind. ' .The -White -House automobile was waiting for me.The 'driver was a big, strong husky guy. He said, 'What is your name, he didn't" 'ask me; 'Are you Fr.".Cava_, · . naugh?°' I could see that he was filled with this too, · · .the ·uncertainty of just what'kind ofaplot this was. Everyone was bewildered by this thing.. · ­-·• we·went to the Mayflower·Hotet They had made· arrangements. When I got there, there was a·message _ from Mr. Shriver to call him im~ediately and I did. . .·, .~ 
·THE SCHOLASTIC 

The body of the President had been brought over to Maryland and they were preparing him, the body, for the funeral. He was never viewed by anybody because of the nature of the violence. So he just told me to come over in the morning.and he hoped we could have mass about 8:30, 9:00. He told me it would be best to take an ordinary. taxicab in the morning because, again, at that time you didn't know just what kind of a thing you were confronting. 
On a night like that you don't sleep much, but in the morning I took a cab like Mr. Shriver suggested. There was a black man who was driving the taxicab and I got in and told him to take me to the White House. He said, 'Where?' I said, 'The White House.' He.said; 'Do you know anyone over there?' I said, 'I may 'get acquainted with.them.' They,told me tOgo in the special entrance and when we got there they told the cabdriver to go around the block while they checked him out. He said,. 'I don't know. ifwe're ever going to get in here, Reverend.' I said, 'We'l.I just do what they want us to do and see what happens.' . 
So after a few.trips around the block. they signalled us to come in. When I got into the White House Senator Bobby was therewith John-John and Caroline. He. told.me that they would be delayed somewhat be-.. cause theywere still setting up chairs. Mrs. Kennedy had the arrangement changed so the mass could be in the spot \Vhere his body _Iay; which t thought was , · 
proper..:·•:, .. . . .. _. _ _ . . . . 
We were right:near the kitchen and Lhad had nothing ·1:0 eat and·I .wanted a cup of coffee. I asked Senator Bobby ifjt would be alright to go in and have a cup of coffee and he said, 'Sure.' So I went ouf and . they hada· little place like a bar with tall chairs. I · · 
asked if I could have a cup of coff~ and some orange juice and she said, 'Yes.' She was crying, this black girl who worked in the kitchen, because she said; 'You're sitting right where the President sat many mornings · when he asked for coffee· and orange juice.' . . 
·So after that-I went to the Oval Room, or. jusfoff. it, to see Mrs. Kennedy. She wanted to go over the details of the mass. I don'tthinkshe·had even changed the clothing she bad worn·inthecar. I thought at.the time what history there was in that dressbecause his·_· head had really been shot right into herJap. What I observed about her. was that she was thinking out, step by step; everything that was going to happen. The details of the procession, everything.·. Her husband• is no longer the President. The.re were a number of things she was turning overin her mind. . 
Then we went out and went to the mass. We said 

a. very simple black mass in the old liturgy, in latin . 
. l\frs. Kennedy and the children were sitting about an arm's length from where I was saying the mass. The casket was just across from the altar so that.I could Several of the family were nofthere. Senator Ted, Mrs. Rose Kennedy, and Eunice w~re a.Ii up with the father. 

After mass there was a breakfast _and then they had: a plane; the President;s plane, to take me from there . -up to Hyannis Port. The weather yetwas not very good. ·11: wasn't'raining, but the.flying conditions were not good. I noticed.this, tp.at_all throughout the flights, from South Bencf to· Washingtona'nd then from Washington to Hyannis Port, it was ·somewhat blustery. The state police of Massachusetts were waiting for· me and we had an escort siren and ali' that, and we . went from the airpo~t to the home. when I got to the' Ambassador's home! took.ari'elevator from the ground ·floor to the first floor.._They had this elevator because at this time he had been crippled by a .stroke a.nd ·this made it easier for them to get him up and down for. meals and things. He had been informed by this time 
.by Senator Ted and.they told me that he knew so I . wasn't too worried about that. To what degree he real­ized it is another thing. He was a sick man, they had given him sedation, and.you don't know at what point
of realization he is.. . . . . ._. . ' They shifted the conversation)'.ight away when I came ii Instead of dwelling on the event that brought 
reach across from where I . was and touch the casket. · me there they started to talk to him about something There was no occasion to do it, but itwas thatcio~e: : else, I think about the football gaine or something like 
. . . --~ 

that. We were there in the room for maybe a half 
hour and then I went into my room to unpack. After . 
that I saw him from time to time. This, again, was 
normal procedure when he was ill. The next time I 
saw· him I had a long talk with him and his nurse, 
Miss Gargan, who was very close to him. She was a . 
niece. Her mother was Mrs. Kennedy's sister. She was 
at Notre Dame as a novice with the Holy Cross sisters. 
She was thinking about being a sister. But she became 
ill and 'for the Kennedy family having helped her so 
much she decided she was not going to go on as a 
sister and they took her right into the family. 
·We visited all day. It was a time of tension. I don't suppose anyone is in for much cheap talk at that time. There was a general awareness of the tragedy that had taken place, _and you sort of respect that awareness. The members of the family who went to the funeral . were Mrs. Rose Kennedy, Eunice, and Senator Ted and the rest of us stayed up in Hyannis Port with the Ambassador. Mr. Kennedy had a· little thing in his · hand and every half hour when we were watching ·the funeral on Monday on TV, he would click this thing, .. and cut it off and rest. The tendency for him was to keep watching and not lose asecond ofit arid the · · strain might have been very great for him. But every­thing went well. Mrs. Kennedy returned Monday eve-. ning after the funeral. I stayed until Tuesday and then flew back to South Bend. 
I came fo know the Kennedys through the Am-_ bassador, who had been for several years a member·· of the board of trustees of the University. I was the vice president at this time and I would see him at meet­ings and I became acquainted• with him.. Then·he invited me to his home in Florida becausE{he khew I woulcl sometimes be in Florida.. I also would go from • time to time to Hyannis Port arid go out on The Marlin,
their boat. •. . . . . Through the ambassador I came to know Mrs. .._: : Kennedy and aUof the family as they grew up. John Kennedy was a' quiet man for a young man and with ' the priests, at least with me, always very reserved and respectfuL But he had a sort of playful humor you · ·' had to watch for. He had a great sense of humor and . great kindness, a··great awareness of other people. . He was not a cheap talker, a blah, blah, blah person. ·• Even before he was President, in conversations he was .very thoughtful and reflective: ·I remember I was down in Palm Beach with the Kenn·edys and he was sick at the time and writing his book, Profiles in Courage. He would come out from his room and show-me parts of the book and ask me what I thought of it. He was very modest about his writing . . He had a greater interest in biography than most people have. You wouid see this when he would talk about the details of the lives oi these famous people, the men who made the history of the United States. He had a great sense of respect for these men. 
He also had very handy bits of poetry. He was sort of Off-Broadway about his interestin poetry. It was not the same kind of poetry all of·us know, but they were poets that were very falented: ·' · 
He had a· tremendous· nieniory. -He had .a command of facts that was tremendously impre~sive to me. I also thought he had tremendous. taste. · He· never over-: burdened you in any way. · 
When he became President" ·people changed toward him more than he changed. ·The last _time I saw· him was maybe five weeks before he was assassinated. One evening he had a couple from'San Francisco by the name 'of Faye up at the summer White House in Hyannis Port. Mrs. Kennedy had just given birth to Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, who died, arid she was white and you could tell she l,tad just been in the hospital. Well, he wanted her to have a few laughs and he wanted his father to have a few laughs. He was wonderful · · about that because he kriew how to get laughs ·for them. 
There was no notable· change· in his personality after he became President. He retained tliat' same simple warmth_ .. There was ·nothing phony about him .. He was the same Jack Kennedy you had always known only he just seemed to be.President, and he"seenied to' be President by nature. He didn't have to say, 'I must · change now, I am President.' He was just himself. He had that same gracious way· he always had: There was a natural .dignity about· him, along with this great warmth arid playfulhumor. He was so much.the President that he didn't li~ve to play the part · · 
• C ' • ." -,-' • • •• : 



Since 1967, when it began as a three-day seminar on William Faulkner, the Sophomore Literary Festival has grown to the status of one of the most celebrated liter­ary events on any college campus in America. In a flurry of activity, a week packed with lectures, readings, informal workshops and meetings with students, the festival raises a wake of excitement which can be mea­sured only after it has departed. 
Each festival is diffe'rent, as they are undeniably reflective of the efforts and personalities of the com­mittee which works over· the previous summer and through the school year to put together the event . 
. Things have not run as smoothly as this year's com­mittee would have wished. For one thing, a change in dates prompted by the scheduling of the festival con­currently with the ND-SMC Theatre's production of Harold Pinter's "The Homecoming" had the committee hastily writing to previously contacted authors, almost in a panic at the· thought of the undoing of this sum­mer's efforts. 
Fortunately, there were few cancellations as a result of the change, although a major casualty was the loss of Lawrence Ferlinghetti, who had centered an entire tour of eastern campuses_ around the festival. 
SopItomore 




Citeraru 1estiva! 


Another aspect of the festival which raises definite 

feelings of frustration in the committee is the reluctance 
of many of the authors, especially _the major names, to 
commit themselves to dates far ahead in the future. 
Among those who consider the present too early for 
them are Tennessee Williams, Kurt Vonnegut, John 
Purdy and William Burroughs. What is too early for 
them, though, is becoming too late for the committee. 
The volume of correspondence carried. on between 

the authors and members of·the committee is reaching 
considerable proportions. Most of this is carried on with 
this year's chairman, Gary Zebrun, and David Green, a 
member of the executive committee. 
Hearing from the authors, whether or not they are 

sending good tidings, is a pleasure as most of them have 
very fine things to say about the festival. 
A sampling of quotes from the letters includes: Ray Bradbury-(in an extremely polite refusal) "I love you for continuing to ask. I really feel wanted by you nice people. . . But . . . this year ... as with others. . . I must stay here and finish a book and a screenplay ... for time is running out on me ... or so I feel. . . When · you hit your fifties, you really begin to add up your proj­ects to see what you can finish before it's too late. God 
willing, we will_ meet." 
Doris Lessing-(another diplomatic decline) "Yes, I 

do know about your festival and applaud it and every­
thing it stands for. And·indeed, what you people are 
doing there seems to me to be what literature needs." 
James Baldwin-(in his acceptance) "In haste. My 

fault. I was on the road. I agree with Doris Lessing, 
who is a friend of mine, and I'll be very happy to meet 
with all of you." 



... Samuel Hazo 
Joyce. Carol Oates~(i~ a happily r~ei~ed accept­ance) "I have _heard about the festival from m_ally other writers, who have enjoyed it enormously.. My own in­terests are not exclusively 'LUerary' however-I am very much interested in_ a kind of synthesis· of art and the newer Psychology (what is known as Humanistic or 
Third Force Psychology).''. . . -. . . , Michael McClur~(poet, also accepting the. invita-' tion) "My wife has not been to Indiana-I would like 
to bring her ~ith me-please include an extra set of accommodations ... provided that she has the, time in February to accompany me." . _ _ . 
William Styron-(declining regretfully) "The festi­val is an unusual and stimulating project . . . an im­portant and unusual literary event.'' . 

The-festival has also received acceptances from poet Samuel Hazo (a graduate of Notre Dame), novelist Isaac Bashevis Singer, poet Robert Creely, dramatist J Jason Miller, and humorist Bruce Jay Friedman. 
Tragedy befell the festival upon the deathof W. H._ J Auden, who had agreed just a few days before his death ' to appear at the festival. In lieu of this, the committee and Auden's agents have arranged a tribute to the great poet, featuring two of his close associates, Stephen Spender and John Hollander. 
The festival will be held from February 10th through the 16th. It is eagerly awaited by many at the Univer­sity, for it provides a priceless forum for the dynamic authors and thinkers of our times. Certainly, the event has earned a place on the University calendar as one of the most prominent occasions of the year. 
. -fred graver 

Theater of the Deaf 
Poetry Without Words 
Reviews are often repugnant~repungnant to write, 
repugnant to read. They are especially so when there 
is no public specifically waiting ori the morning after to 
pass judgement on the event of the night before. Such 
are the problems one encounters when reviewing for 
the Scholastic. Unless one is dealing with the cultural 
touchstone of an entire age -'-we think fondly of Chuck 
Berry -it is an unholy strain to -justify the review of 
an event which might well be more than a week old. 
The reviewer then finds himself either robbing old 
graves or at least attempting. to redigest an aesthetic 
meal, long ago consumed, already endured with in­
testinal fortitude, ·and then decorously discharged by 
the· human critical function. 
Even when• the critic is· not divorced by time-that 
is, when the critic is, for example,· a hardworking jour­
nalist straining to finish a review for the following 
morning's Daily White, he still must recognize his posi­
tion of perplexing responsibility. In short, when the re­
viewer takes his job seriously great questions inevitably 
arise: are reviews even important for when an indi­
vidual attends a_show, he· needs no one to tell him how 
he should feel? If a person does not attend the show, 
no amount of reviewing will ever make the event come 
alive. · .But the general conceit is that the reviewer's 
opinion is a professional opinion and, therefore, intrin­
sically valuable. One could also say that ·the reviewer 
is in fact a reporter and we need reporters. The circle 
could be run forever. In any event and however one 
might see such questions, the reviewer should have a · good reasor{ for doing what he does. 


And so in considering "The National ':!'heater of the Deaf," we must, in conscience, depart from normar critical exercises and journalistic maneuvers. In essence, this piece is written in the hope that the many who were not present at the "The National Theater of the Deaf's" performance might someday see them. In this regard, it is dull. to say .that they are excellent pro­fessionals for it is self-evident. _Their unique profes­sionalism derives, in short, from the well-wrought way in which they have one person on stage verbally narrate while another uses sign language concurrently to ex­press the same thing. Indeed, it is essentially meaning­less, in this case, to be obsessed by the process of the dramatic presentation itself. On the other hand, the 
· most . enveloping, most essentially pure and hence the most worthwhile and difficult aspect on which to write was the inexplicable and imminently pervasive quality of ."felt life" transmitted to the audience. · No.. critic, ·· however presumptuous or blasphemous, can • hope to reveal the roof of this quality because it exists only as spirit and is communicable only through the existential experience of the moment.-Even to approach the point 
of explication, one is forced to indulge in contradictions. 
The show was magnificently moribund, morosely en­chanting, and delightfully horrifying. Such oxymorons initially seem to clarify the issue no better than mudpies tossed into a clear stream make for a better view of the fish. Nonetheless, it is where we must begin and, for a hint of the way, let us look to the title of the show itself. 
In the program, we find that "The National Theatre of the Deaf" presents Optimism· or The Misadventures of Candide. The company presented their adaptation of. Voltaire's novel as a series of vignettes rather than• as a show possessing a completely coherent and inter­related plot. Even with this imagistic rendering, it took me little time to realize that I will never have the heart to read the novel. Thematically, Optimism or.The Mis: adventures of Candide traffics in blackness, chaos, sor~ didness, arid various species of horror while sardonically characterizing existence. in this life as "the best. of all. possible worlds." The world of ·Candide is without or­der, without justice; it is a world in which the.Church is a mockery and Christ is merely a fashionable emblem and a veneer thinly covering gross. evil; it is a world where absurd determinism is the catchall precept ­"there is no effect without a cause" -.and every hor­

i. 

rible cause produces a more horrendous effect. It is a 
play where one laughs so. that he may not cry. The 
world of the dramatization was, in short, one in which 
"optimism" seems as much out of place as the Pope . 
might be in a bordello . 
. Yet, even amid the blackness, even within the very 

cold and hollow center of the play, there burns a fiercely hot fever. The players present a profound affirmation of life. One must recall that all of the performers are deaf. Beneath the weight of such infirmity, it is not impossible to imagine that the deaf person in life might well become bitter and see reality in as black a light as Voltaire suggests in Candide. The quality of felt life, · however, resides not in the words that Voltaire writes but in the inexplicable and elusive beauty of the pre­sentation. For the deaf individual, the ability to com­municate is riot a gratuitous experience. In the vacuum of silence, the sign is the word; the sound is the void. 
To perform on stage -a medium which generally 
relies heavily on sound -is to affirm life. By tran­
scending their infirmities, by saying in effect that thi~gs 
can always become worse if one degenerates into con­
tinual, maudlin self-pity, the deaf players were and are 
extremely moving and princely splendid. At the very 
heart of the performance one divines the message that 
life is valuable and should be lived as fully.as possible. 
During the show, one of the performers . posed a_ ques­
tion to the others on stage and implicitly to the audience 
at large. She said, "Why are you still in love with life? 
Is there anything more. stupid than to carry a burden 

that one wishes to throw off?" Indeed one clearly inti­.mates that the "stupidity" is the same quality of purity which Christ attributes to children whose very holy and inarticulable . sense of the promise of life is the only experientially real and valid moment :of salvation in this life. 
-jack wenke 


Week ·in Distortion ,--,-, 

-


There are only. four _months until Student Body President elections are upon us once again. 
"So what?" you ask. "That's a long way off." 

And so it is. But check out the stores downtown. The Christmas decorations are appearing, and have been aroun·d for quite a while already. You can bet your:ballot that, ·ir1 a dorm room somewhere, or a(a designated dining hall table, ·plans are already'being laid, strategies are being made for the election. . ' . 
This is the dawning ·of the New Age of Apathy. 

The present student government is concerned with the mundane rather than headline-grabbing antics: . Stu­dent interest in things political is at a lower level than an ant's belly. This could be the last year of Kerstenist control, though .the incumbent SBP may choose to campaign against nonamenable. candidates and supp~rt 
others. ·­What if they held an election and nobody came? At the New Age of Apathy Training Table, headed by none.. other than last year's ageless political wonder. · Matt Kubik, the following· was overheard: . _ ''The atmosphere around here is about as intereiiting as watching a TV test pattern and Ijustwish somebody,. would change the channel.'' · 
_;,m,att·, 
"You know· what the high point of .my weekend was so far? Going back to my room last night and . counti1_1g my socks.'' · · · · , · · · .:....:.ateve frcim cleveland . 
'i . "<.••.. • • • ' . 
Steve: "Hey, what's happening?" _· __· . . 
Matt: "We're planning the New Age of Apathy:•· ·Steve: "Well, I.really don't care about it.'' 
So much for apathy. ·· • · 
Do you sincerely want-to be Student Body Presi.;. 
dent? If so, WEEK IN DISTORTION offers the follow~ 
ing guide to gaining the :rei(g)ns. of power. The sug.: 
gestions come from many sources, and may appear .to 
be co~tradictory at first. But then, so_ do most politi­. cians. -.. WEEK IN DISTORTION and the SCHOLASTIC as­sume no responsibility for the use· or misuse of'the 
following: : . . . . ·-. 
Be conservative. It's been the big thing for the past · three years and it will be the big thing this year. 
Don't be i1 joke candidiite. ·Last' year's joke candidate 
finished fifth. Ha Ha·. . . . . . .-·· . . . . 
Don't be a flaming a~~~chist: ·1..ast ye~r•s flaming anarchis~ placed<J~sf:witii_.°46 votes. · · · · 

"Make sure you've got a running mate who knows when to shut up." 
-michael earl goetz, the flaming anarchist's running mate. 

Now is the time for all good candidates to start writ­ing for the OBSERVER, and earn fame and glory by getting their names in print. It doesn't matter what you say or even how you say it, only that you do say it. You can always decide to bug out at the last moment and become an R.A. instead. 
· Know what to kiss and when. 
"I don't know how to become Student Body Presi­dent." 
dennis etienne, slYp 

Make sure your staff helps count the votes. ­
"Don't· think, and don't be ahead of your time." :, , · "'-jim roe, administrative -assistant. 
Lie low. 
If you don't live in the towers, go there immediately­and' start making friends. Most elections are. decided ·. iri the~towers. If you do live in the towers, grab agirl ' from Walsh as your running mate. With that combina-­tion you· should be unbeatable unless: you have. had, heaven forbid; political experience. 
on'e h~ndred Notre Dame political 'promises and, a token will get you on the subwayin New York. 
Halr'chairmen' are v~ry-useful for putting up your ·posters-and ripping everybody else's down. Drawing 
•moustaches is passe._ 
,. ·:' -'...., 
NOVEMBER 16, 1973 · 
Notre Dame has seen many philosophic proponents of the Christian Community. Good guys finish last. Philosophers finish behind good guys. 
Learn well the following about media endorsement interviews: 
1. 
The media have already decided the endorsement question before the interview. The sole purpose of the interview is to obtain· information to be used against you. 

2. 
Stock up on trivia. Questions on precise budget figures and precise female enrollment figures are always big favorites at these interviews. 

3. 
Don!t get the endorsements, it's the political equiv­alent of the SPORTS ILLUSTRATED cover 


· photo.· All you want (and usually all you· can· hope to get) is honorable mention; 

Stop in at the Student Government offices and check · out the whole operation before you decide to do some­thing rash, like announcing your candidacy.... 
The lakes are good places to hide ballot boxes filched from hostile halls, but don't repeat· the mistake made a while ago. Weigh the buggers down with rocks. 
' ' 
Announce late.-"Machines are too hard to oil." · --dennis etienne 
Vote early and ,often: 

"Anybody who has the gall to think of running right now is the type of person who shouldn't be elected." 
-jim roe 

Using the lobby phone in a girl's dorm as your. cam­paign phone will antagonize many people. · 
"If I know all this stuff, why don't I run for Student Body President? Because I'm smart,· that's why." · -t. j; clinton 
Book Review 
Ninety-Two in the Shade by Thomas McGuane. 196 pp., Farrar, Straus and Giroux, $6.95. 
In the age of "the literature of 

· exhaustion" when most contempo­rary fiction is so painfully self-con­scious and self-destructive, when the possibility of creating new and seri­ous stories is made suspect by many avant-garde critics, it is refreshing to read a book which expands the horizons of the more traditional mode of novel writing. Thomas Mc­
,'I Guane's brilliant third novel, Ninety­Two in the Shade, does just that. Through his finely honed descriptive technique, his daring, flamboyant range of language, his mad, frenetic humor-his sheer depth and accu­racy of vision-McGuane has trans­formed the raw, brutal experience of contemporary American life into an artistic creation of the first mag­nitude. The novel concerns itself, on one plane, with the tradition of cruelly absurd, anarchistic violence that is so endemic to the American Way. The story begins with the young hero, Tom Skelton, returning to his home in Key West to become a skiff­guide after a nearly suicidal affair with hallucinogenic drugs where he had "seen the tremulous threshold where another breath is a matter for deci.sion." He makes his home, fit-. tingly enough, .in an abandoned World War Two fuselage. Skelton's progenitors have · their . own eccen­tricities. His father, a highly literate former whorehouse proprietor _and Dada-type philosopher, has virtually withdrawn from' the human race, dividing his listless days under a mosquito net between TV watching 
and reading classical literature. Tom Skelton's grandfather, Goldsboro Skelton, is a bullying, cynical, ruth­lessly amoral capitalist who owns half the town as well as its politi­cians. At seventy he finds entertain­ment performing lewd antics on a trampoline with his middle-aged mis­tress. 
Skelton's insistence on cutting him-· self in on the fish-guiding market, leads him into a deadly serious rivalry with the more experienced Nichole Dance, a desperate, crudely instinctive guide whose shadowy past includes the point-blank murder of an exercise boy in Indiana. When Dance plays a devious practical joke on the unsuspecting novice, Skelton, in a methodically controlled rage, wreaks his vengeance by blowing up Dance's skiff. Thus the stage is set for the novel's inexorable movement towards the rivals' deadly confronta­tion. Skelton's respect for Dance throughout their psychological duel is related to his quest to become an accomplished skiff-guide-that is, his admiration of pure, ·· technical ex­pertise and the aesthetics 'of success­fully calculated action · in a chaot­ically indifferent world. At one point Skelton's father pierces his son with a deadly accurate appraisal: 
"Get off the violence. You're too 
romantic to .be any good at U. 
This bird Dance will eat you alive. , 
He knows how to do violence and 
you're a dilettante at it." 
Skelton thought with some ad­
miration that Dance's trick had 
bee_n a well-organized bit of cruel~
' . ' •. .
ty. 

Likewise when Skelton is witnessing 
I 
his pompous client's struggle to hook I a prize fish, he laments, in true Hemingway fashion, the idea that the nobly fighting fish might be won ''undeserved'': 
A fish that was exactly noble, thought-Skelton, who began to imagine the permit coming out of a deep-water wreck by the pull of moon and tide, riding the invisible crest of the incoming water, feed­ing and moving by force of blood; only tp run afoul of .an asshole from Connecticut. 
Comparisons with Hemingway are inevitable. Surely, McGuane'.s sense of "place," his topographical identi­fications with character, his lovingly detailed descriptions of Key West•~ tropical landscape, is as moving as Hemingway's Paris and Spain in The Sun also Rises. And like so many of Hemingway's heroes, lurk­ing beneath· ·skelton's secular prag­matism, lies a deep and troubled re­ligious sensibility, more akin to Kierkegaard than Camus. However, McGuane's paranoic humor and poetic exuberance clearly distinguishes his artistic. subject as -well as his style from .that of the great. American minimalist and machismo. McGuane's ability to juxtapose disparate per­ceptions in a wildly connective imag­ination,. leads. h_im ·fo. o_ccasional ex­cesses:, 

But there is a life that is not a life, in which the more adamant · obstructions of.. _the heart mas­querade as loss, dreams,· or car­buretor ·trouble.,'':A "silent ~an wastes his own swerve of mole­cules; just as a bee "doing its 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

number. on the flower" is as gone to history as if it never was. The thing and its expression are to be found shaking hands at precisely t.he point .where Neverneverland 
·and Illyria collide with the book of Revelation under the downpour of gackle droppings that· is· the present at any given time. 
Nevertheless, they are excesses we enjoy at the time almost as much as any sin of the flesh. Like · Thomas Pynchon, a writer to whom he bears a surprising resemblance, McGuane treads all civer the geography of lan­guage, fusing the most· subtle meta­phorical profundities with · hip, col­loquial humor. 
In the larger sense, Ninety-Two in the Shade is a haunting,· poetic med­itation cm· an·individual's awareness of and confrontation with violence and dea.th in a schizoid contempo­rary milieu. Near the beginning of the book, as he walks into his girl­friend's antique apartment, Skelton's morbid· reflections could almost sug­gest McGuane's ambition in the novel as a whole: -
Skelton perplexed himself as to how many dead had been trans­ported through the hallway. If you had a specific answer to that, you could possess . innumerable anec­dotes about mortality with which to regale your friends; or if you had no friends, then to address 'that not so finite darkness in which we are in corporate shareholders. The trick, finally, Skelton knew, was to keep them rolling in the aisles, saving the bes~ one for last, about how' we .die,.and die, and 
· die. 
NOVEMBER· 16,' 1973 
Although Nichole Dance's name might be a little metaphorically pre­tentious ("dance with death"), Skel­ton's confrontations with him prompt some of the most lyrical passages in the book: 
Violence. Why did this stillness go so well with violence? Like cup­ping your ear in the high wind to make a pocket of quiet. The palm leaves moved and sent long fingers of shadow across the ground: and detailed shadows gave way to va­cancy. And notionally, you see your spirit escape like smoke from a familiar corpse. 
It is no coincidence that Skelton specifically chooses to imitateDance's aggressive, dangerous,· individualistic style of guiding at the beginning of the novel. Their mortalities are in­extricably locked together in their common recognition of anarchistic necessity. Dance is a "private legis­lator" who carries a gun for essen­tial "credence and collateral." The more sophisticated Skelton has a broader vision of a violent anar­chism congenital in American life: 
Skelton on his lunar; fetid inshore tide did not for the moment be­long to the nation; except in the sense that the two principle ques­tions of citizenship, Will-I-be­caught? and Can-I-get away?, dominated his mind entirely, only slightly modified by the prime new world lunacy ofgetting from point A to point B. 
Skelton· is a tragic figure because, as his father tells him, "You have al­ways been dedicated to ordeals as a 
way of· driving your spirit to the place where its first confusions are." Skelton needs an awareness of immi­nent death, an existential angst, in order for his life actions to retain a 
. primal, purist significance. As Mc­Guane reveals in no uncertain terms: "Thomas Skelton required a sense of mortality; and, ironica.lly, it was Nichole Dance who was giving it to hiin." 
During the period building up to the inevitable confrontation, Skelton keeps his sanity by relying on a down-home piece of wisdom: 
· Well, 'thought Skelton, life looked straight in· the eye was insupport­able, as everyone knew by instinct. The great trick, contrary to the consensus of philosophy, is to avoid looking it straight in the eye. Everything askance and it · all 
· shines on. 
Skelton does not always heed his own advice. And thankfully for the reader, neither does McGuane. He looks directly into the instinctual violence embedded within the human psyche. Although the novel's impli­cations are universal, McGuane suc­ceeds in revealing the distinctive, in­eluctable maladies of American life '-its history of domestic violence, anarchistic lawlessness, and avari­cious materialism. · 
Thomas McGuane is a young Amer­

j
ican· author, making his art out of the daily evidences· of this country's I original sin. This is a story not about lost innocence, but about an inno­cence beyond recollection; 
-kevin·o'connor 

l
I/
;I
23 

Reeord Review 
. The scene at the Amphitheatre was a· combination of carnival, riot and religion. Barricades had been set up and traffic was at a virtual standstill as police vainly tried to control a crowd that stretched for blocks around this smelly, all-pur~ pose barn at the edge of Chicago's stockyards. Hippie ladies slinked about with their sleazy grace, people got high openly and ticket scalpers were asking a cool fifty for their extras. Wearing workshirts and jeans, in rags and velvet, every hip­ster worth his cokespoon was there from miles around. The usual. for­malities were forgotten: guys took guys, chicks went with chicks_ to the high noon of rock 'n' roll, the Rolling Stones concert. It was.a real event, as the fab five make it to these shores about once every three years, play to a few dozen packed houses, then split for the south of France or wherever it is that rock stars go to spend their American money. · The crowd had come for Jumpin' Jack Flash and the "greatest rock 'n' roll band in the world." What you see is what you get. What they saw was •an elaborately. staged, profes­sionally perfect · rendition -of _the Stones' greatest -hits, plus a few tunes-from "Exiles on Main• Street" thrown in for good measure. What they ·got was a large dose of one facet of the Stones' music. I remem­ber reading an interview where Mick Jagger said that he'd like_ to do some slower. songs like "Wild Horses" or "Moonlight Mile" but wasn't sure that the audience could -get into them. · While the Stones may not be famous for that type • of , music, they've always included a ballad _or · two in their repertoire. ·But whereas the rockers have usually dominated their albums and set the pace for them, it's the other way around on 
24. 
their latest. release, ~•Goat's .Head Soup.ii . . . ---. 
A year of touring all the hotel rooms that implies has honed the "Exiles" fat off their style and pro­duced soi:ne fresh· material to work with.-The Stones are rolling again. Always the musical chameleons, the Stones change directions just when 
. you think you've figured them out. They move through many and varied styles with ease; taking what they need and discarding the rest. Some strings here, a couple of horns there; always when it's least expected. 
Owing to the universality _of its themes and their musical treatment, "Goat's Head Soup" is a romantic album more than anything else. Styl­ized and unselfconscious, Mick sings: 
•"Went.. out walkin' through the woods the o(her day _ ·And the world was like a carpet laid before me . 
. The buds we~e burstin' and the air smelled sweet an' strange It seemed like a hundred years ago" 
He's never sounded better and the lyrics, finally audible sans the electric mud .·mixing, are on a par with anybody's, filled with a com­mon, earthy insight that belies Jag­ger's new found jet set status. Fol­lowing · the disastrous'. opener . of <'Dancing With Mr. D'.' (it stands for exactly. what you think it does), "Hundred Years_,Ago" sets the tone and t~eme _for what follows. Juxta­posing straight-ahead energy_ with melodic ballad, the Stones leave rock, country and blues in their wake as they shimmy and slide into "Coming Down. Again." Jagger's rough-as­silk delivery is punctuated by Charlie Watts' steady brushwork and some 
_ tasty piano by. the ever-present -Nicky Hopkins. For all practical purposes, the Stones have become an eight-man band with . Hopkins .on 
piano and _Jim . Horn and Bobby Keyes on_horns becoming an inte­gral part of the group. · _ 
"Angie" is reminiscent -of ."Wild Horses" and is one .of the few straight (they keep you guessing) love songs the Stones have ever done. Bordering on -the. sentimental and trite with its lilting strings and echo­
_chambered whispers,· the song. _is 

saved bY ,the .heautifu1.a.1Tarigemellf,"' c/ 
Keith· Richards' . fine, acoustic guitar and lyrics that only Mick could make you believe: · · · 
. "\J'ith no moneyin OU; coats . And no lovin' in our souls You can't say we never: tried" . 
. The ultimate realizati~~ -of this style, however, comes with_"Winter." A slow, winding mountain of a mas­terpiece, it_ hinges on Jagger's dra­matic delivery wrapped around some brilliant guitar work by. the duo of R~chards and Mick Taylo_r. All. the promise .of "MoonlightMile" is ful­filled in this bittersweet, __evocative song of love and yearning: 
. "It's sure been a cold, cold winter .My feet, they've been_ qraggin' ­, cross the ground . I hope it's gonna be a long, hot summer _ And our love will be burnin' brightl'. 
-Sandwiched. around these. mellow­er tunes are a couple '.'Exiles" stand­bys, "Silver Train"· and -"Hide Your Love." As usual. the rhythm section of Watts and Wyman. lays down a steady, compelling beat while Jagger and company skitter iri and · out, 
. THE SCHOLASTIC . 



tracling vocal and guitar riffs of the more familiar variety. "Heart­breaker" tells the modern urban blues. The organ plays, the guitars bray and the wah-wah spits out con­trolled energy as Mick slurs his best New York tough accent: 
"Police in New York city Chased a boy into the park In a case of mistaken identity They pu~. a bullet'in his heart." 
Mick Tayior's too-short but s~eet guitar solo and the "doo doo doo" vocal chorus. in place of horns are . the topper· to this one. So what if they did pinch the chorus right out of Lou Reed's "Walk on the Wild Side.". As.·T. ,s. Eliot once said, "hacks· borrow/artists steal.';-. .. The .Stones, always fast finishers, . wrap 'things up with "Star Star"·an -­all-out, high-energy rocker that 
.shows us they can still burn it up when they want . to. Nick squeals, screams, and struts while Keith does his guitar thing and the rest of the band charges in and around the leave-'em-laughin' pseudo-punk ma­
cho lyrics: · . --­
"Honey I miss your two-tone ·kisses.:•·· · · 
Legs wrapped ·around me tight When I get back to Fun City, girl, I'm gonna make you scream all.· 
night" 
·-· .. 

Although this song is the sure AM hit of the album it probably won't get airplay anywhere because of. th~ repeated obscenity.· Still, that's -just the Stones' way of saying that they don't. rieed ·11:. The release_. ·of ·;•An­gie's," at an unheard· of ·four minute plus, 'is a fu.rther statement of their 
· penchant for· the unpredictable. This time they may have opened the door for longer _songs to· enjoy singles
play:ori AM.-.. ; -•<· · -· · · ·· • · · , "Goat's Head Soup" is not the _u1-· timate Stones album ·you've: been -· waiting for (it'll never happen) but it's on a par with their best, which is -·­to say the best, period, and leaves. them with a lot more room to work in..the'.iuture. . . : -:-easey pocius 
The Comet 


Corpeth 

Men and wo'men of Notre Dame/St. Mary's-the· time has come to turn your eyes to the heavens.-.The biggest, the best, the most spectacular comet of the cen­tury is coming to our skies! ._ . 
In March, the Czechoslovakian astronomer, Lubos Kohoutek first sighted the comet which now bears his name. Kohoutek is enormous as comets go-the esti­mated diameter of its solid center is ten to fifteen miles, almost three times that of the brightest comets yet ob­served. It will pass extremely close to the sun....:....within ia million miles-closer th.ari all but 30 . comets pre­viously recorded. Scientists are making a concentrated effort to study the comet, hoping to learn:more about the origins and -nature of . comets in general. NASA has launched· a multimillion-dollar project dubbed 
-Operation Kohoutek:_. Planes containing infrared _tele­scopes will study the comet and . surroundings before and after it makes· _its pass .around the sun. · A ·_new observatory on South Baldy Mountain, ·near Socorro, New Mexico, is designed· particularly to study Kohoutek and NASA is planning to launch several rockets ·to gather data above the earth's. atmosphere. Sky Lab ill astronauts . Gerald Carr, Edward Gibson, and William Pogue :will also. get.into. the.act. They will be running a number of tests to monitor the comet and will -take two spacewalks, one on Christmas Day, to gather data from their instruments. The Mariner 10 probe is equipped, to, take photographs of Koho'utek, and· these, combined_with•the many pictures taken by _astronomers back on earth will give us our first 3-dimensional view of a comet. 
Kohoutek should become visible to the naked eye at 

the ·end of this month or.in early December, an hour or 
so before sunrise. By _Christmas it is expected to be the 
brightest object in . the_ sky ·besides. the sun_ and the 
moon.. In mid-January its .tail may stretch across .as 
much as one-sixth of the sky. The best time for view­
ing Kohoutek should be between January 10·. and 20 
when the moon is-out of.the way. It will pass closest 
to the Earth on January 15, when it will be 75 million 
miles away from us. Be sure to look for it-just after 
sunset, or else you'll miss-it sets below the -horizon 
in the early evening. · 
This comet will be bigger and better than even the 

famed Halley's comet, which last appeared in 1910 and 
will be coming again in 1986. Oh-and if you miss this 
showing -you won't have another -chanc~Kohoutek 
won't be back for 75,000 years. 
-sally stanton 
. -...· 
25



Coming Distractions 
NOVEl\IBER 16 
... Lion In Winter at the Elkhart Civic Theater, Bristol 
Opera House, Elkhart. . . . Godspell continues at the Morris Civic . . . . Hockey, University of Wisconsin, 7:30 p.m. 
NOVEl\IBER 17 ~ .. Cinema '74 presents Les ·Amants (Malle) in the Engineering Auditorium, $1.00, 8:00 & 10:00 p.m. 
... Basketball Exhibition, Varsity vs. Freshmen in the ACC, 2:00 p.m. Tickets 25c and 50c; all proceeds used by Student Volunteers to purchase Thanks­giving dinners for needyfamilies. 
. . . Hockey, University of Wisconsin, 7 :30 p.m . 
. . ; IUSB Faculty Recital, 8:15 p.m., Recital Hall, IUSB. 
... Lion In Winter continues at the Bristol Opera ; House, Elkhart. . . . Christ Child Society Ball, ACC . .-; . Orak Temple Ceremonies, Morris Civic. 
NOVEl\IBER 18 ••• Elkhart Symphony Orchestra, Helen Bodin, Amer­ican Concert,· Memorial High School, Elkhart. ... Les Amants (Malle), Cinema '74, Engineering Audi­torium, 8:00 & 10:00 p.m., $1.00. 

NOVEMBER 19 · . 
. . . Shakespeare film series continues with Hamlet (Wil­liamson), 7:00 & 10:00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium,. free. 
NOVEl\IBER 21 ..·. Mai Zetterling Film Festival, The Girls, sponsored .; by ·the Office of Continuing· Education (IUSB), 
8:15 p.m., Recital Hall (IUSB). . . . Virgil Fox (International Series), Morris Civic. · 
NOVEMBER 23 · . . . Lion In Winter, Elkhart Civic Theater, Bristol Opera . House, Elkhart. ...Prisoner of Second Avenue, Morris Civic (Broadway' Theater League of South Bend). 
NOVEMBER 24. . ; . Lion In Winter ·continues at Bristol Opera House, Elkhart.· ... Prisoner of Second Avenue continues at the Morris Civic.· 
NOVEl\IBER 25 • • • Merle Haggard, M~rris Civic. 

NOVEl\IBER 26 
... Shakespeare Film Series presents Othello (Olivier), Engineering Auditorium, 7 :00 & 10 :00 P•i;t1.•, free. 
NOVEl\IBER 27 '--_ ... AFROTC Lecture Series, Library Auditorium, 4:00 p.m. 
NOVEl\IBER 28 ; .. Notre Dame Glee Club, Sacred Heart Church, 8:15 p.m., free. · · 
... Electronic Music Festival, 8 :15 p·.iri., Recital Hall (IUSB).. 
·NOVEMBER 29 _ . . . 0 ... The Trojan Women (film),-Engineering Auditorium, 
8:00 & 10 :00 p.ni. . . . u 
· NOVEMBER 30 ... The Trojan Women (film), Engineering Auditorium, 
8 :00 & 10 :00 p.m. · ... K of C presents. Frenzy. . .. Judy Collins, Indiana University (Bloomington), 
· 8:30 p.m., Indiana University Auditorium. Tickets $4.50, $4.00, $3.50, $3.00, $2.00. . . . . . :Madrigal Dinner, 7:00 p.m., Regina Hall (SMC). 
Drawn from Nature/Drawn from Life, featuring works ·by Homer, Church and Huntington, continues at South Bend Axt Center through Nov; 25. · Paintings by Mrs. Katherine Barnhart continue ori show at the YWCA Art Gallery_ through Nov. 30. -· •· · American·Crafts and Folk Art show continues at South Bend-Art Center through Nov. 29 . Mary Dance, One Woman Show, opens at the Town & . Country Theater on Nov.. 30. Sponsorecf by tlie Women's Art League.. 
... . The following shows will continue ·at O'Shaugh:riessy Gallery through Dec. 30: 
Italian Renaissance Works from the Permanent Collec­tion. . XIX Century Work from· the Permanent Collection. .­"New Portfolio" of Josef Albers. . Port~ai~_from'the Permanent Collection: a_critical ex­
-amination of the forgotten art. of portraiture, ·fea­turing works. from the Italian Renaissance through the 1950's . 
-rick gering 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Let's Go South 
for 



New.Year's 
Ara has been a head coach since .195·1. He was the head man at his alma mater, Miami University of Ohio, from 195·1 thr_qugh 1955, and then became head coach at Northwestern from 1956 to ·1963 (his record against the Irish was four wins to no losses). Mr. Par­seghian came to Notre Dame in December, 1963, to be­
come. the school's 22nd head football coach. His record of '14-14-4 places him third in the victory column behind the legendary Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy. Ara's 100th career win, a 51-0 victory over Southern Cal in 1966, clinched the National Title for the Irish. His spectacular repeat this season might equally .well clinch 
this year's National Title. 
· Mr. Parseghian was born in Akron, Ohio, on May 21, 
1923. After graduating frcmi high school there, he en­
listed in the Navy and while in the service played foot­ball under Paul Brown at Great Lakes. Following his discharge, he entered Miami University where he com­
peted in football, baseball and basketball. He won All­Ohio halfback honors_ and received All-America, men­tion in 1947 wlien Miami played in the Sun Bowl. 
Following his graduation, Mr. Parseghian played with the Cleveland Browns until an injury brought a quick. end :to his professional career•. He.-.then moved into ·the coaching ranks when he returned to Miami as an assistant to Woody Hayes in ·1950, and moved up to the head coaching position when Hayes ~ent to Ohio State ·the }allowing year. . 
The Scholastic interviewed coach Parseghian with 
the· intention of talking about football as a career, a 
representation of one's philo_sophy of Zife,. rather than simply·a game.one plays on Saturdays. Mr. Parseghian was· interviewed by ·Tara Carey and ·Tom Gora of the 
Scholastic. . . . . 
SCHOLASTIC: Is there a_ philosophy behind your choice of football coaching a's a career? Why did you choose coaching as a profession? 
PARSEGHIAN: Of course, the most important thing in life is that you choose a profession that you enjoy. You decide on a profession for the kind of work, but at the same time, it sho~ldn't be all :work, but rather, en­joyment. Coaching for me is not really a work as a labor, but a physical and mental enjoyment. If there is one philosophy applicable to everybody, I would say that you should select your profession as one that you could become really involved in, that you. could enjoy doing. The ·problem ,with many people today is that they are dissatisfied with their work, or they jump around from job tojob.· · 
SCHOLASTIC: How did you decide on football coach­ing specifically? 
PARSEGHIAN: Well, I knew I wanted a job as a coach, I wasn't sure exactly__what sport I would even­tually end up in, but· I knew that I was oriented towards the sports. The opportunity to coach football then presented itself and I took it. ­
SCHOLASTIC: Why did you choose to remain in football? 
P ARSEGHIAN: I. enjoy working both physically and mentally with people, and in football, this is the chal­lenge.• Football really involves a multitude of _things; not only do you have the physical and mental strategy, but you also have the emotional and spiritual aspects of 



the game. And then there's the competition itself, to learn, despite what they might think, and I know that 
show you how well you've learned your lesson. Foot-· we can be. a real influence on them. Football is much ball seems to me to be a total involvement. like the classroom situation where you have your train­ing in knowledge, mental and physical execution, and SCHOLASTIC: How was it that you came to ND? finally, competition. Football can prepare these boys for many of life's lessons. · · PARSEGHIAN: Notre Dame was an opportunity that As far as the pro offers go, they get turned down 
presented itself at the right time; there are often some every year, and every year they come in again. But doors of opportunity ajar that you can nudge a little the best testimony that I'm not going to leave is that bit. As you know, I coached at Northwestern for eight I've been here for ten years and I'm still here, still head years before I came here. At that time (1963) Coach coach. · But, I don't say "ever" or "never." Still it's Devore was an interim coach following Mr. Kuharich. ten years that I've been here, and that's quite a while. 
At the end of that season, I called and told them that in .the event they were contemplating a change, I would be interested in the position. 
I wanted to come to Notre Dame because I knew the school; I had competed against them while I was at·Northwestern. 'Notre Dame was a nationally prom­inent school, with a fine· history and tradition. It was a great opportunity because Notre Dame had been down at that particular time. 
. . . 
: ' .-"'~::

-~.',;_,-~\/ii.>~ 
-.-,-,\·:~--"' _r;·-_ 
SCHOLASTIC: · How did you view our victory over Southern ·Cal? 
. PARSEGHIAN: I've been coaching ·for 24 years now, a lot of exciting things have happened, and I would have to say that beating Southern Cai is one of the 
·most important. It's a combination of reasons; · we have had such poor luck with them iii recent years, especially the occasions when they spoiled the national championship for us, as in '71. 
. . . -.

. . · : • p -~•...,,..nn · ·;mr-
SCHOLASTIC: Do you find that there is very much sCHo:tASTic: You've received many offers to coach pressure from year to year to· match or excell·the rec­pro' ball, yet you've turned them all down; Do you see ord of ·the previous year, or to come ·up \vith anew the professional' leagues as beirig a :step up to the "big and different strategy? leagues"? 
PARSEGHIAN: One. thing, coaching isn't like the PARSEGHIAN: Actually, I consider college football business world. There, though there are federal re­as the "big leagues." Not that I'm criticizing pro ball, strictions now, · profits can soar beyond expectation, . but I really enjoy the university environment. There is stocks can go from ten to a hundred; it's all very un-. some pressure, but as a coach here, I am not a busi­certain. In coaching, it's only ten games, no more,· no ness representative; football does not exist solely as less. If you've won them all, that's what you've ac­entertainment or as a moneymaker. complished. The next year, you can only duplicate that, 
But what is more important to me is ·the role of or get worse. A lot of coaches become victims of their . educator that a coach plays. We're dealing with boys own success that way. Everything's relative; a team . between the ages of 18 and 22. They have a lot to can win seven and lose three, in a given season that 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

might be a poor record, but following a two and seven 
season, that would be great. There's a ceiling on what 
you can do. , 
As far as ·planning, it's a balance of power.· You must continually research new trends, but nonetheless, you're still dealing with players, basic techniques, and good execution. From year to year, we'll probably be running the same play, but it's the execution that we•n· be working on. But I did say that you have to keep researching new plays, new trends. You must keep abreast of new developments. There are what I would call cycles in the strategy of coaching. For any innova­tion, the first thing I think of is how can I defense it. If I think it will be easy to do, then that play or move is not worth incorporating into my offense. But I have to explore it, because I may eventually face it, and I'll have to stop it. If it's exciting, I'll incorporate it; we're always looking and evaluating. 
SCHOLASTIC: It seems as if the teams we play agains"t experience a sudden boost in their ability. Is it a real threat that they pose, or is it merely the psychological threat of upsetting Notre Dame? 
PARSEGHIAN: The;e's no question that the intensity of .the competition we. play against makes it that much more difficult to beat them. They are always looking for. the upset. We are the only college football team to be nationally video replayed, .with national radio cov­erage, plus three of our contests arefeatured events on national television..The opposing coach: figures that if he can beat Notre Dame, he can prove exactly how good a coach he is, because it will all be replayed on Sunday. · · 
SCHOLASTIC: At the end of the season last year, and somewhat at the beginning of .the season this year, it s·eemed as if the team would build up a sizeable. lead in the first and second quarters, and proceed to watch it being pared away slowly and at times, dangerously, during the second half. 
PARSEGHIAN: Well, sure. If we're prepared for a game and go out there and score 28 or 35 points in the first half, you know that the intensity of the second half is going to drop off a bit. It shouldn't, and that's the coach's job to see that that doesn't happen. It can get dangerous if the other team really becomes emo­tionally involved in catching up. Momentum and having things turn around suddenly is so important in college ball where so. many of the teams are so good. This year, when we played. Michigan State, we almost lost by our own errors. At the half, the figures were 270 yards to some ridiculous figure, but theri we turned around and threw an interception for a touchdown, and fumbled for an eventual field goal. All of a sudden the score was 14-10, and we had to play a very conservative, calculating game where we couldn't do anything. No,· in every game we see a very serious and potentially dangerous. competito~:·. 
SCHOLASTIC: How about our prospects of being ·number one this season? 
PARSEGHIAN:. Well, a combination of fortunate cir­cumstances must first come about; First, we inust win all the rest of our regularly scheduled games, thus be­ing one of the possible six undefeated teams _in· the country. If we lose to Miami, for example, it's all over. The closer we get, the more incentive each team will have to beat us, and the harder they will be to beat. You have to remember that games are played on the field, not in the weekly ·prognostications. Next, we know that Michigan and Ohio will neutralize one another; somebody's going to fall from the undefeated ranks in that game, unless we have a rare tie, in which case both teams will· suffer. 

Just then, the telephone rang. Coach Parseghian talked for a few moments before returning to -the interview. 
· That was news about the next condition. A friend of mine from· New Orleans just·told me that' the seniors from Alabama have voted to accept a bid to the Sugar Bowl, if they get the invitation, and they'd like to play Notre Dame. We'd like to play the highest ranked.team in a bowl, and it seems ·uke Alabama can be that op­portunity. The other combination, Penn State and LSU, would probably end up in the other major bowl, the Cotton Bowl. In their last game of the season, LSU plays Alabama. If LSU beats _Alabama, and we have already accepted the bid to play against them. in the Sugar Bowl, we'll' be in a bad position to claim we're number one. It's such a combination of "ifs." 
Of course, the PAC eight winner, UCLA or USC, will also have to beat whoever goes to the• Rose Bowl from the Big Ten. It's such a combination of dependent sit­uations that it's very hard to predict. 
.The Last Word 
November is a time of memories. Dying leaves, blustery winds and the first traces of snow evoke visions of autumn adventures, high school football games, quiet, lingering moments with friends, and brutalities re­membered all too well. The memories prey upon the mind, and defy any coherent ordering. Expressing them becomes even ,lllOre grueling than sorting them out. But they all call to be expressed. They press upon the mind and demand attention. · 
The most unwelcome memory is one that has lasted ten years, unpleasantly reinforced by countless similar horrors which have recurred all too often in the interim. I was eleven when John Kennedy was shot. What had seemed a normal day of· classroom drudgery was sud­denly interrupted by an unexplained exodus to the adjoining church. The pastor came to the lectern, and his voice was trembling. His words were simple, but haunting. "Our President has been hurt very badly. Let us all pray together for him." And for what seemed an eternity we prayed, amidst dark, confused specula­tion about what could have happened to that distant figure who, though none of us really understood why, seemed to evoke the same mysterious respect.and awe as the Pope. Suddenly another priest came in and whispered something in the pastor's ear.. He interrupted our prayer. _Now his voice was even weaker. "We have just heard on the radio that President Kennedy died. Let us say one more prayer for him, and then everyone is to go home." And for the first and last time, the an­nouncement of an early dismissal brought no smiles to the. faces of children. We all just went home; some crying, most of us, too confused to cry, not knowing just what to do. The memory, haunting and vague, has lasted, and the violent deaths of the years that have followed .~ both of national· leaders and of the thou­sands of victims of the folly of national leaders, add to the memory's bitter grip upon us. -­
Left in such a slump, though, other memories thank­fully flow in which refresh the.spirit and make the cold winds of November seem less intruding. For November also brought to my home town the biggest high school football match of the year (at least as far as we were concerned). Held on Thanksgiving Day, it was often jokingly referred to as the only event of the year that every last person on Staten Island took sides on. Our loyalties switched with fortune (not being a studerij: at either school made such fickleness less disreputible). But the.outcome of the game was not really very im­portant. What was important was being there. And after three hours of cheering and foot-stomping in the crisp autumn air, we would return home ravenous to the smell of turkey and pumpkin pie, still reliving the big moments of THE game. Finally, we would join in our Thanksgiving feast, thankful for the day's excite­ment, happy to be together, and warmed by. familiar smiles· and endless supplies of good food. 
The memory of that warmth, that togetherness, that camaraderie both haunted and warmed me as I walked back towards Lyons the other. night. What warmed me was the thought of such togetherness and care. What haunted me was the thought that such feelings seem so unfamiliar here. · 
. -:-kerry mcnamara. 

-------------------------------~ 
p•age 1 


I I­

. PS.Form 3526 July 1971 
I 


.,..,.. , 






