



Legends ih the· Making 
by Carolyn LaFave .-. . • .. , . 
08
The AlunmisSenior Club was once a ha­ven for fowdy upperclassmen looking for a good time: Now: with patronage down,·. 
» ND Cribs by Sarah Shaheen 10 
ND plans to turn ftinto an all0age dance' Badin sophomores show off their decorated double. 
club and restaurant .· . . . . 
» A New Dimension of ND Media by Matt Killen 24 

.· 
Bowl Ru~< , , -· · •·· .• :: 
Scholastic takes a look at ND's latest media addition. 

by Gerardlvteskill ·, ;< _._· ·• ., . • . · ._..­


COVER: Scholastic's sports editor 

I
» A Little Ditty ... by Carolyn Sweeney 26 

. brea~s-do~n.-t.h~ !398. _ahd.. looks ifiside 
... About John Mellencamp's band, returning to the 

the_ Irish run to glory. . ·-.. • ·. · ._­
Heartland. 
From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 29 ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 30 Campus Watch 18 Calendar 31 Splinters 20 Final Word 32 

Vol. 144, No. 05 • 31 OCT 2002 

SCHOLaSTIC 


f' 
-_ 
. . 
·· 
_ 
Editor In Chief Sarah Childress 
Managing Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor 
Cristin E. Fenzel 
Assistant Managing Editor Annie Robinson 
News 
Mike Borgia Christopher Kelly 
Campus Life 
Sean Dudley, editor Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
Sports 
Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jimmy Atkinson, assistant David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment 



Leading by Example 
Looking ahead, I could see the large black "X" staring me down at the end ofthe lane through my goggles' foggy lenses. I took a deep breath as I finished my last stroke, ducked my head and ga:ve one last powerful kick. It was enough to flip me over, but myfeet hit the wall too close for a powerful push off and I finished my streamline far too early formy coach's taste. "Hey you! That tum was way too slow. Keep doing it until you get it right!" yelled an overweight, white-haired lady in a warm-up suit from across the pool. I sighed. Flip turns had never been my strong point. As a freshman on the varsity swim team, I had hoped my new high-school coach might give me some pointers, but she didn't seem interested in teaching the team much ofanything. She got tp practice late, gave us a set oflaps to swim and occasionally barked some criticism. She spent most ofher time in the pool office talking on the phone. Then she would take off early, leaving us to take in the lane lines and close up the locker room ourselves. That year, a few talented athletes managed to make it to the state championship, but our team record was dismal, and unity was nonexistent. We cheated in practice, claim­ing to have swum laps we hadn't. We hid from our coach in the men's locker room. We'd feign illness so we didn't have to swim. With the next year came a new coach. She arrived at practice early and left late. She got in the pool with us and demonstrated the proper way to make turns and smooth strokes, and how to finish a race. When we lost, she actually acted upset. That year, I finally learned how to do a quick, clean flip tum. An amazing thing happened. During practice, we started focusing on swimming instead of our tan lines. Seniors started to lead drills, not practical jokes. We finished with a much better record and the number ofpeople we sent to state doubled from the previous year. A new coach can make all the difference, and nowhere is this more apparent than the 2002 Notre Dame football season. After the first 0-3 start in Notre Dame history in 2001, coach Bob Davie couldn't pull the team together. It finished with a sloppy 5-6 record. Davie had lost the confidence ofhis team, and it showed. Davie was fired, and after the George O'Leary fiasco, the Irish finally landed the right man. Tyrone Willingham speaks in soft, even tones about the importance ofteam unity and success. And when he talks, players listen, and take it to heart. Under Willingham, Davie's team is undefeated. On page 12, Scholastic's Gerard Meskill takes a look at how much ofthis success can be credited to Willingham, and what it will take to get the team to the National Championship. 


Jessica Daues, Managing Editor 
Corrections: In the Oct. 10, 2002 article "A World Apart?" the professor who teaches English as a second language to graduate students should have been identified as Noreen Deane-Moran. In the same article, a photo caption should have said that the students pictured were performing Bhangra, a Pakistani dance. Also, the issue's cover was designed by Eric Doversberger. Scholastic regrets the errors. 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
· , Carrie E. Sweeney, editor . ~ Tracy Evans, assistant .. Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments 
Jennifer Osterhage, editor Meghan Gowan, assistant 
Design 


•1 Ryan Greenberg, manager Eric Doversberger, creative director David Redenbaugh Tekla Sauter 
Photography 
Mike McNary, editor Liesl Marx, assistant 
Graphic Design 
Maryn Necel, editor 
Copy 
Cecilia Hadley, chief Claire Hadley John Hadley Monica Kolf Kim Thompson 
Distribution 

. Mike McNary, manager 
,-·:. 
~ 
· 
Business 
Mary Ursu, manager Onlfne ' J-amie L. Moran, manager 
Advisor · Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturrts 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright© 2002. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. My editor went on vacation and all I got was this stupid ed notes. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for 

:J space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 
days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The . subscription rate is $35 per year. Welcome to the · twilight zone, that is our world. Available back issues 
-.< are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates 
, available on request. The opinions expressed in · j Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the .ci University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
31 OCTOBER 2002 



See life as 

we see it. 
A lifetime opportunity FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/~vocation 

KOLASA 

"American, provolone or pepper jack. " If you've got a craving for a sub, there's no such thing as grabbing a quick bite to eat at Lafortune 's newest dining establishment. The wait has been described as eve,ything from "typical" to "aform oftorture second only to the fires ofhell." Scholastic decided to find out what it is like standing in a different spot -on the other side of the counter. Senior Matt Kolasa shed some light on his experience working as a Subway 
"Sandwich Artist. " 
Why did you choose this paragon of 
at Subway my senior year because I wanted to be where a lot ofpeople were gonna be. I usually work the 7 to 9 p.m. shift. 
How stressful can things get with those never-ending lines of hungry Darners? 
It doesn't for me, I am usually the life ofthe party . . . plus, the other coworkers who aren't students are fun to talk to. 
What would you say is the busiest time of day? 
Um, its always busy at that Subway ... As a matter offact, our manager told us that it is 
PHOTO BY TRACY EVANS 

4 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 
31 OCTOBER 2002 




" 'State olperpetual ·inconse~ue~cej··i:.Rind cif Hke being in 

I47 Years Ago
student government here ·o_ri campus.'; .. . . ···>-·--.. · · ~ English ·professor Analyze This 
: ... 
In the October 7, 1955 issue ofthe Notre Dame Scholastic, we find the theories of a budding psychologist. The writer suggests 
"Have you.·r19_ticeq tharl've:~eenfollowing you everywhere?" 
using psychoanalysis to determine your date's 
:>,. _.··. · :: :· :i,'"_.!>verheard student on South Quad 
personality type. So, when you meet your date, you should ask her the following questions: 

· -Whenyou were young, wereyou ever afraid ofdogs? cats? birds? people? 
"Think of it as a learning experience, man." · -overheard construction worker on -What's the first thing you think ofwhen I site at Stepan expansion say: Red... ? Mother ... ? Scholastic ... ? Tree... ? Archbishop ... ? Rhubarb ... ? -Areyou twenty-one?

"I'm a blue-collar.student at a white-collar university." 
overheard student explaining why he -Areyou now, or were you ever, a member 
can't decide on a major ofthe Communist Party? -Have you ever-been refused life insurance for any other reason than minor colds? 

Ifshe says 'yes" to all ofthe above, she "Church vs. State." · likes you. Ifshe says "no," you like her, and -sign seen in the Notre Dame section ifshe doesn't say anything she's not a St. > at the Florida State Game Ma,y's girl. 
> · ­

Alright, psych majors, explain that one to 
us! 

-Jennifer Osterhage 


the third highest-grossing chain inthe coun­Hmm ... a meatball sub with ranch dressing Yeah, that's what! do.... That's why I have try, with only, like, an hour ofdead time. was pretty odd I make fun of some people gotten yelled at by management a lot. Actu­
who eat weird, like one person just got bread ally, I don't even know what they want me to Do you serve guys or girls more fre­and cheese -they're paying four dollars for say, but I get the job done so they don't care. quently? Have you come to recognize that! "regulars"? Is there any room for conversation with I would say there are more girls and a lot of How does the system work -do you yourcustomers? Aren'ttheyusuallycranky regular costumers ... all the Flex Points are have one duty for the whole time or do by the time they finally get to you? gone! I can't say I know too many by name you rotate? There's rciom·for conversation all the time. but a lot by appearance. I always make a I am the "Master Wrapper." All the townie ... Nah, I cheer people up. random joke to them or something. employees nicknamed me the "Sandwich 
Artist ofthe Year." The best sp.ot to work is Do you have an opinion on the Jared diet What is the most popular sandwich that probably either wrapping or the dressings. fad? is ordered? I kinda use it as a joke.... I always say, all Probably the (six-inch) teriyaki chicken. Do you ever get sick of asking what •· these Jared wannabes. Not that anyone's 
someone wants on the sub? Have you overweight.... I think why it's so popular is What is the strangest request you have thought of ways you can spice up your the whole healthy thing. gotten so far? position? -Tracy Evans 
31 OCTOBER.2002 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 


Since college is supposed to prepare you for life on your own, it's funny that one little piece of plastic provides Notre Dam·e students with all of life's-necessities. The worst part is that if anything happens to your ID, you.can't-do much until you get a new one. Here are some lost ID card 
facts:  ,  
Approximate number of IDs lost each year: 600  
Average number of IDs replaced each year: 2,000  Best excuses for a lost ID: "I was running by the lak_e  
Record ·number of IDs replaced for one person: 26 .  . and geese attacked me," and "It fell behind the molding on  
Most common reason for replacement: ID is "broken,"  the wall in my dorm room."  
(doesn't work in the system anymore).  

6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 31 OCTOBER 2002 
IJudgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 

++ CHRISTINA AGUILERA Her new look says, "I live on the streets, don't shower and can't afford any clothes." She's . "dirrty" all right. But somehow, we can't stop humming the song. 
t 
12:30 SUND AV NIGHT 
PARIETALS IN ZAHM 
Just when you thoughtthe ·_ · doors were locked, they open up, giving Zahmbies an extra 30 minutes. Mass ending at 
11 :30 p.m. changes all the rules. 

HOUSEKEEPER CUTBACKS 
Higher-ups think three cleaning ladies per hall are a few too many. Maybe so, but do they really think the boys of Dillon and Alumni are ready for do-it­yourself cleaning? 

++ CORNSTALKS OUTSIDE LAFORTUNE 
Nice attempt at decoration, but we don't need yet another reminder of the fact that South Bend is isolated from civiliza­tion by fields of corn. 
COMMUNAL DEBARTOLO 


BATHROOMS
.J. 
Girls might go to the bathroom in couples, but they don't actually go to the bathroom in couples. Somebody get some working locks on those stall doors. 
IDomelights COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 


NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 




:;t{~'ijrn:m~'.rHli.:r:t•;-:;;yyJfij'.qQtiiR•~f-lI;lf0,ii~.f~~-;: 
One TV Web site stands above all others 
JJ 
IMATTKILLEN 
The Internet has long since changed the way people watch movies and televi­sion. Complex fan sites and spoiler-filled "news" sites are ubiquitous and inescapable to anyone surfing online for TV shows and movies. But one site's approach to televi­sion has given itself a mime among network executives, show-creators and devoted TV fans alike. It's called Telev~sion Without Pity. Television Without Pity (or TWOP, as it's affectionately known 

by members) devotes the shows. Unlikethemis­itself to many of the In TWOP's forums, you erable sewers oftheAin't­mostpopular shows on won't find posts like "Real it-Cool-News talkbalks or thetube.Youmightnot World rulezzzz!" and other the mindless populace of find much discussion incomprehensible ravages official network forums, about J.A. G. or Yes, of the English language. the TWOP forums tend to Dear on the site, but __________ be filled with intelligent 
~cl~~ Bu.ffy to Alias to Survivor are featured at TWOP. 
TWOP's approach to television isn't sim­ply about fan devotion or exclusive news tid­bits. Instead, TWOP offers ridiculously de­tailed recaps of each episode ofall the shows · that it covers. Though some recaps can rwi well over 20 pages, they don't rehash what happened. TWOP's contributors fill their re­caps with witty and often merciless comments about the shows' characters and plots. As a recapper known as Sobell recently said about a character on C.S.L, "Oh, Nicky. It's a sad state of affairs when the extras are hired to mock you." 
The recappers have a seemingly encyclo­pedic knowledge of the shows they cover, often understanding the characters far better than the show's writers do. They also hold the 

Source: ""[ina Durski, card services manager 
l./.-=§§1-.'§" shows accowitable for continuity, pointing out everything from minor inconsistencies to major character deviations. However, it's n?t all complaints and negativity. When the recappers like a show, they give it credit. Still, their sharp criticism always seems to be bet­ter written and more entertaining than their high praise. 
The recaps ~e only half the fun. TWOI) . also houses extensive :foruins on the shows· . they cover, allowing anyone to post their 
thoughts and opinions on 
~~~~~ 
about the shows they watch but have high ex­pectations as well. · 
InTWOP'sforums,youwon'tfmdpostslike '.'Real World rulezzzz!" or other incomprehen­sible ravages of the English language that are prominent at typical fan sites. Instead, the fo­rums are filled with impassioned and reasoned debates about topics ranging from a character's moti.vationstoh!shaircolor, whichmanagenot to devolve into the personal attacks and argu­ments that are all too common on the Internet. 
Television Without Pity is a haven for people who appreciate both intelligent discussion and witty, sarcastic commentary on a variety oftele­vision shows. The site is replete with diverse dis­cussions anchored by an Internet rarity: people who are funny and can write in complete sen­tences. D 
check it out: televisionwUhoutpity.com 


•I 
It's hard to put a price on good taste. How does $1.99 sound? 



The Cheeseburger Value Meal. 

,/ 
I 
. I 


Legends 
in the making 
Alumni-Senior Club will undergo one more new transformation in its history of facelifts 
CAROLYN LAFAVE 
n 1975, seniors went to one place and 
one place only on Wednesday nights: 
Alumni-Senior Club. "Everybody knows Wednesday night is Senior Bar night," said Class of '76 president Augie Grace in a 1975 Scholastic article. Senior Bar, as Alumni-Senior Club has been affectionately called, was the place to be. 
Since the late 1960s, seniors at Notre Dame have gathered at different incarnations ofthe club -first, in an old house just south of the stadium, later, in the current nondescript structure standing in the middle of a parking lot. But in recent years, Alumni-Senior Club has lost some of its popularity, as students increasingly prefer off­campus locations to the university's historic campus club. In an effort to revitalize its once-booming nightlife, the administration is taking the initiative to change the facility, its style and its appeal to students. A new public restaurant, called Legends, will open in August 2003 in the expanded and renovated Senior Bar building. 
Priorto 1969, there was no nightclub or bar for students on campus. According to a Scholastic article from Dec. 5, 1975, each senior class decided on a specific bar at the beginning of the year and negotiated an agreement with its owner in which the class received a portion ofthe bar's profits and established regulations for student behavior. But seniors still hoped for an on-campus social venue. 
Their prayers were answered in J anuaty 1969, when the Alumni Association founded the "Alumni Club" in McNamara House with university support and opened its doors to alumni and seniors who were over 21. The Alumni Association 
I 
8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
maintained the license for the club while seniors managed and operated it. 
Students spent $3,200 on improvements to the house, including a new sound system. The first floor had three sections: a bar area, a billiard room and a "date room" with a dance floor and fireplace. Upstairs, there was a candlelit room where couples could share a glass of wine, a room for playing cards and a room with a color TV. 
The club was especially appealing because of its nightclub atmosphere, low beverage prices and comparatively high number of female patrons. The 1975 Scholastic reported that on some nights in 


1970 the club averaged 100 women and 250 men -possibly the best ratio for social gatherings on campus. 
The club continued to succeed with the seniors, but the Alumni Association, which had envisioned a gathering place for alumni, faculty and students, withdrew its support in the spring of 1974. 
The Class of '75 reopened the bar the following fall, naming it Alumni-Senior Club with the consent of the university and the Alumni Board. They put in a new music system, floors and carpets. There was a tavern upstairs that served wine, cheese, malt liquor and dark beer. There also was a coffeehouse-like room upstairs that had a small stage for performances. 
"It was the neatest two-story house," says Jim Shanahan '75, the club's general manager during his senior year. "Picture a beautiful colonial home1 but instead of a dining room table, we had a pool table. Instead of bedrooms, we had dance floors." 
Despite its surface appeal, Alumni­Senior Club was $8,000 in debt by the fall of 1975. Managers struggled to pay for building repairs and salaries. Wednesday nights and football weekends drew large crowds that kept the club running, but eventually the house needed repairs that the club could not afford. It was torn down in 1981. 
Construction of the current Alumni­Senior Club already had begun, however, with financial help from the university. For five years after opening it was run solely by students. "It was very active and very busy," says Ceil Paulsen, then assistant director of Student Activities. "There was 
a need to find a full-time manager, someone to be there to oversee everything." 
In 1986, the university hired Larry Briggs as general manager. A former area supervisor for Wendy's in Elkhart County, Briggs "brought experience and the ability to manage that kind of place," says Paulsen. "There was a lot of stability [at the club] because they had an on­site manager." 
Since the height of its popularity in the 1970s and 1980s, Alumni-Senior Club has fallen on hard times. Wednesday still is the night to go to the bar, but it 
frequently is the only night that the club sees any action, says Brian Coughlin, Director of Student Activities. Although football weekends draw alumni and dorms have dances there, the club usually is in use for only a few hours each week. "Business is down from previous years," Briggs says. 
Senior Quinn Smith, currently a student manager of the club, blames student mentalities and the administration. "Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 
31 OCTOBER 2002 


prefer to jump on the bandwagon and go to the same bars on their popular nights of the week," Smith says. "[The administration] places many stipulations upon Alumni-Senior Club as far as what we can advertise, where we can advertise, what kind of specials we can offer, etc." 
Legends will not be an ·ordinary nightclub in that underage students will be allowed inside. _The new facility will house a full-service restaurant and a dance floor 50 percent larger than the current one. This dance floor, known as the "programming area," will be open exclusively to students. On Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, it will be available. for live performances, such as bands, comedians and other entertainment groups. "The idea is that the space will become the hub ofcampus entertainment," Coughlin says. . 
Performances only will last until midnight, when the programming area will transform into a club atmosphere until 2 a.m. on Thursdays and 4 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. 
There also :will be an actual bar area for 

31 OCTOBER 2002 
. I 
.e.B!llil!&4 I 

I
.I . ... _i_ ___ ­
THE .BIG PLAN The university has 
a tentative plan'tor its renovation of 
Alumni Senior Club, according to 
Coughlin. The dance floor will be 
• moved and expa_nded, and a stage will be builno host bands arid comedians. The pub area, which will serve people ~1 or over, will pe only part of the restaurant area. 
-·­
patrons who are over 21, "separated to give students of age a place to call their own," Coughlin says. 
The restaurant area, with a pub-style atmosphere, will be open until 2 a.m. on Thursdays, 4 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, and until midnight or 1 a.m. the rest of the week. The restaurant will serve the general public, but Coughlin says the university is "going to cater to the on-campus community and those who come for campus events. We'll be doing extensive testing with the students next semester to develop food for the restaurant ... It will be completely unique," he says. "The idea is to come up with things like a signature hamburger." 
There will be 10 to 15 television sets throughout the building, including one large screen in the pub area. Coughlin hopes to see patrons there on weekends watching football games or other sports and hosting pre-and post-game parties. 
.Legends will be decorated with paraphernalia from various university legends, including sports figures, scientists and other notable graduates, as well as university myths and folklore . 


.YlllMEIIS  ~  
.ldDiS  

"It's all the things 
that make up Notre Dame history, and make 
up student life," says the Rev. Mark 
Poorman, CSC, vice president of Student 
Affairs, who played an 
important role in the plans for the new 
building. Poorman looked at 
other schools, such as 
Marquette University and Santa Clara 
University, to see how they handle social space. He realized that the key was to have food options. 
"If you create the concept as a restaurant, it allows you to put of­age and underage students together," he
j 
says. "It becomes a real 
_successful gathering place because everyone can go there." 
Briggs plans to stay 
on with the club after renovations are completed, though not as general manager. "I think the changes will be nothing but good for the club," he says. "We have not had the sales we need in the last few years, and with the new facility, I believe it will make a great place for the future ofthe club and Notre Dame." 
Coughlin says he hopes to develop the club's surrounding area as well. ''With this maneuver, it's exactly what people are looking for when they go off campus." 
But some students like Senior Bar the way it is. "I like the casual atmosphere," says senior Kara Roche, a Wednesday regular at the club. "It's laid back and you can just hang out with your friends." She fears the bar section ofLegends won't be large enough to function as a gathering place for seniors the way the current Alumni-Senior Club can. "I feel like they're taking away a tradition," she says. 
Alumni-Senior Club currently is enjoying its last year as an on-campus bar for 21 and over patrons. But its doors will reopen next fall to a new crowd and a new atmosphere. D 
.!l.EElkE 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 

BY SARAHSHAHEEN IPHOTOS BY MIKEMCNARY
Step into room 249 Badin Hall and you step into a world of color, spunk and pizzazz. Sophomores Kristin Clark and Stephanie Thibault went decoration-crazy on their two-room double, which is usually reserved for a Badin RA. The extra space allowed the girls to make their living area a work of art. Complete with countless posters, matching furniture and a cosmo­. politan fish bowl, this room could be, as Clark says, "the best-decorated room on campus." The walls ofthe two rooms are completely covered with posters offlowers, Superman and, naturally, Dave Matthews Band. In the social room, three star lanterns hang from the ceiling, and multiple strings ofND lights drape the walls. The furniture, too, is ornamental. Their green couch, chair and leafy carpet all match and complement one another. The item the two girls are most proud of is their coffee table in the center of the room. Its surface is a homemade masterpiece: the girls put together a collage ofpictures and covered it with glass. "We got a lot of our stuff from places like Costco and K-Mart," Thibault says, "And then just added our own creative 
touch." 

Their study/sleep room is filled with b ds, desks, wardrobes and computers. To make it come alive, Clark and Thibault completely wallpapered the room in pictures and ND araphemalia. It is sepa­rated from the first room by a curtain that · s both fancy and func­tional. Spotted with stitched white-and-ye low daisies on a blue background, the curtain also helps block ou sound and light from the social room. 
. The decoration ofthe two rooms is the result fa massive project by the girls and their parents. Before they starte they didn't know what style they were· going for. Clark says, "Wi kind of had an idea, but then we got here, put it all together, and ew what we wanted." Three days later, they finished. Their work is evident in the way the many posters, N flags and pictures are symmetrically hung, fitting into one another rfectly. Clark says their overall goal was to make the room"mor than just a dorm room." With almost no white space showing on e walls, Clark and Thibault have succeeded in turning their humble abode into a colorful art museum. 
10 SCH0LASTICCAMPUS LIFE 31 OCTOBER2002 
Dou Decke Out lnS 
Sophomores t ke advantage of an unusu lly spacious double to r lease their inner design gurus 
:;:: The girls' comm!:m room is decorated wall-to-wall with posters. 
Domer favorites include Dave Matthews, any scene from Animal House and a plethora of alcohol­
themed placards. 
» Clark's lofted bed is adorned with 
pictures, posters and her own special addition -an authentic road 
sign bearing her name. 
<< Visions of France dance in their heads ... A photo of the Eiffel Tower 
and a travel advertisement for the 
French Riviera transport the girls of · · 
249 from northern Indiana to more exotic locales. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 


BCS Rankings I. Oklahoma (3.33 points) • 2. Miami (6.69) • 3. Notre Dame (6.99) • 4. Georgia (8.24) • 5. Ohio State (9.49) » 
"Well, I think that the advantage there is it has a lot more excitement to it, and it prob­ably has a lot more controversy to it, which means you can get more opinions about it from the population," Willingham says. "But I would say that no matter what system we craft, it is going to have some shortcomings to it. And that's why I say this is one of the best systems that we have to date." 
Excitement for the general population might mean heartache to the Irish faithful, especially ifNotre Dame manages to finish with a perfect record but still is denied the right to play in the Fiesta Bowl. Indeed, with hundreds of possibilities looming for the four BCS bo"wls, it is both an exciting and frightening time to be a Notre Dame fan. Scholastic breaks down the likelihood that the Irish will land in each of the possible sites. 

Fiesta Bowl: BCS #1 vs. BCS #2 
Tempe, Arizona January 3, 2003 
Given that there are so many undefeated Division I-A schools this year, it is safe to say that Notre Dame must win its four re­maining games to stand a reasonable chance offinishing in the top two ofthe BCS stand­ings. (See sidebar forfurther explanation of the BCS.) As the standings sit now, Notre Dame is third, behind Oklahoma and Mi­ami. Should Oklahoma win out the rest of its schedule, it is almost certain the Sooners will be the top BCS representative in the Fiesta Bowl. However, the second spot is not as cut and dry. Miami' currently clings to a narrow 0.3-point lead over third-ranked Notre Dame. 
While the second edition ofthe 2002 BCS standings saw the Irish cut Miami's lead over them in half, this trend is unlikely to con­tinue. Notre Dame's lofty perch in the BCS is made possible largely by its strength of schedule, a factor that also influences the computer rankings. This is the same factor that has hurt the Hurricanes. However, those roles will reverse in the coming weeks. The Irish close their season against Boston Col­lege (4-3), Navy (1-7), Rutgers (1-7) and USC (6-2, 11th in AP and Coaches' Polls), a remaining schedule whose c'ombined record · (12-19, .387) ranks last among the eight unbeaten teams; Conversely, the Hurricanes battle Rutgers, Tennessee (4-3, 25th in the AP), Pittsburgh (6-2), Syracuse (2-6) and Virginia Tech (8-0, 3rd in the AP and 
31 OCTOBER2002 
Coaches' Polls), a combined schedule (21­18, .53 8) that is much closer to the other six undefeated schools, even though it only ranks ahead ofNotre Dame. Miami's advan­tage in this category should improve its com­puter rankings relative to Notre Dame's as well as close the gap between the two teams' strengths of schedule. Therefore, it is un­likely that the Irish can pass Miami without a Hurricane loss. 
However, it is far from certain that Mi­ami will conclude the season undefeated. 


Maryland 22-0 Purdue 24-17 Michigan 25-23 Michigan State 21-17 Stanford 31-7 Pittsburgh 14-6 Air Force 21-14 Florida State 34-24 
Virginia Tech could defeat the Hurricanes in the regular season finale. Still, if both teams enter that game undefeated, a Hokie victory might not do Notre Dame any good. Virginia Tech currently sits sixth in the BCS standings, thanks to a weak schedule. How­ever, the Hokies' last five opponents are a combined 26-14 (.650), which makes their homestretch stronger than any other unde­feated team's, except for BCS long-shot North Carolina State (22-11, .667). Should Virginia Tech finish the season undefeated, this strong schedule might elevate its com­puter rankings and schedule strength enough to raise them to the second spot in the BCS standings, and the quality-win bonus for de­feating Miami would make such an outcome more likely. Should this be the case, an un­defeated Notre Dame again would be left out of the national championship game. 
This scenario becomes even more com­plex when the ESPN/USA Today Coaches' Poll is considered. Currently, Ohio State (4th) and Georgia (5th) outrank the Irish in that poll. Since both teams face much stron­ger schedules for the remainder ofthe sea-. son, it is very unlikely that the Irish will pass either team in the Coaches' Poll should both remain undefeated. Passing both of these teams would reduce Notre Dame's total points in the BCS by one, a factor sub­stantial enough to decide whether the Irish finish in the top two. Furthermore, the toughest team remaining on Ohio State's schedule is Michigan. A Buckeye victory in this game would further weaken Notre Dame's strength of schedule. 
A final scenario involves a loss for two of the following three teams: Oklahoma, Miami and Virginia Tech. In this case, it still is possible that the Irish might be blocked from qualifying for the Fiesta Bowl. Ohio State has a dramatically stron­ger schedule than the Irish, which might allow it to leap ahead of Notre Dame in the final BCS ranking, assuming it wins the rest of its games. Even though Georgia's remaining schedule is even stronger than Ohio State's, it is much less likely that the Bulldogs can accomplish the same feat, since the BCS already rates 
their schedule the sixth strongest in the NCAA, leaving little room for dramatic improvement. Nevertheless, this scenario is not very likely for either team, but still exists as a possibility for the Buckeyes. 
Orange Bowl: ACC Champion or Big East Champion vs. BCS At-Large 
Miami, Florida January 2, 2003 
Should Notre Dame lose a game or one of the above scenarios play out, the Orange Bowl is a likely site for the Irish to conclude their season. However, there are several fac­tors that could affect the Orange Bowl's in­terest in Notre Dame. The most likely sce­

· nario that could keep the Irish out of the Orange Bowl is if Florida State wins the ACC. The BCS tries to avoid rematches, since novel matchups generate more rev­enue. With the Seminoles occupying the 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 


<< 6. Virginia Tech ( 10.88) • 7. Texas ( 15.64) • 8. Washington St. ( 19.71) • 9. N.C. State (20.73) • 10. Iowa (22.89) • • • • 
"If you're one of those teams, xou'd be screaming bloody murcler:' 
-Tyrone Willingham, Notre Dame head coach 
ACC's slot in the Orange Bowl, the BCS selection committee likely would seek an­other venue for the Irish. 
However, if Miami manages to win the Big East and not qualify for the Fiesta Bowl -a possibility if both the Hurricanes and Hokies finish with one defeat -then the Orange Bowl might choose Miami over Florida State. This would make it feasible for Notre Dame to receive an invitation to the Orange Bowl. This is not certain though, because the Miami community might stand to make a greater profit if the Hurricanes are not in the Orange Bowl. 
Miami fans largely come from the Miami area, and so are less likely to book hotels and frivolously spend money than are Florida State fans, who live seven hours north. Therefore, even if Miami is eligible for the Orange Bowl, the bottom line might block both the Hurricanes and Notre Dame from attending. 
On the other hand, it is possible that un­defeated North Carolina State might outlast Florida State for the ACC title. Ifthis is the case, then itis likely that Notre Dame could face the Wolfpack in the battle of college football's biggest surprises. 
Sugar Bowl: SEC Champion vs. BCS At-Large 
New Orleans, Louisiana January 1, 2003 

Much like the Orange Bowl, Notre Dame might find itself in the Sugar Bowl should it lose a game or be shut out ofthe Fiesta Bowl. Since the Sugar Bowl usually looks for lo­cal schools, Notre Dame's appearance in New Orleans is more likely to result from Orange Bowl conflicts than outright selec­tion by the Sugar Bowl committee, although that doesn't mean the Irish won't be invited to the Superdome strictly on their own mar­ketability. 
The one scenario that might increase the chances ofthe Irish playing on New Year's Day in New Orleans is if Georgia man­
ages to reach the Fiesta Bowl. Albeit un­likely, if this were to happen, the Sugar Bowl no longer would have the SEC champion and would be free to select two · of the remaining teams. In this case, the teams that fail to qualify for the title game again will determine Notre Dame's fate, since several of the eligible teams faced offin the regular season, and the BCS will do its best juggling act to prevent rematches. 
In this odd situation, the most likely Fi­esta Bowl matchup would be Georgia against Oklahoma. This would leave tlie possibility for another Florida State-Virginia Tech Or­ange Bowl, a traditional BigTen versus Pac­10 Rose Bowl and a Notre Dame-Miami Sugar Bowl. 
Rose Bowl: Big Ten Champion vs. Pac-10 Champion 
January 1, 2003 Pasadena, California 

The Rose Bowl is the most unlikely site for Notre Dame's postseason berth. How­ever, Ohio State's unbeaten season ensures that a trip to Pasadena is not impossible for the Irish, since the Buckeyes still can reach the Fiesta Bowl. For the Buckeyes to get to the title game, at least one of the top two BCS teams would have to lose, as well as Virginia Tech. Even then, it still would be a 
tight squeeze past the Irish and Georgia. A loss by one or both schools makes the pos­sibility greater. Ifthe Buckeyes do manage to secure a spot in the Fiesta Bowl, the Rose Bowl would be left without a Big Ten rep­resentative. 
However, for Notre Dame to replace Ohio State in the Rose Bowl, some interesting things have to happen. First, Oklahoma must be in the Fiesta Bowl, forcing Miami and Virginia Tech into the at-large pool. Florida State must secure the ACC. This would put Florida State in the Orange Bowl, setting up a desirable showdown with Virginia Tech. Neither Miami nor Notre Dame would be chosen for the Orange Bowl in this situa­tion in order to avoid a rematch. The Sugar Bowl would select Miami to face the SEC champion in order to secure the desired lo­cal matchup. This leaves Notre Dame bound for Pasadena continued on page 16 
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

31 OCTOBER 2002 
The BCS rankings are computed using five criteria: poll average, computer av­erage, schedule rank, number oflosses and quality wins. 
1. 
Poll average: AP and USA Today/ESPN Coaches media polls are averaged. 

2. 
Computer average: Each week, seven in­dependent computer rankings are tabulated to constitute the computer component ofthe BCS. The best six values for each team are averaged. 

3. 
Schedule rank: Schedules are ranked ac­cording to difficulty compared to other Di­vision I-A schedules. The assigned rank is divided by 25. The rank is calculated by de­termining the won/lost record ofthe team's opponents (two-thirds of weight) and the won/lost record ofthe team's opponents' op­ponents ( one-third). 

4. 
Losses: Each loss adds one point to· the BCS value. 

5. 
Quality wins: This component rewards teams for victories over opponents ranked in the top 10 of the BCS standings. The fi­nal value is based on final position in BCS standings, not on rank at time ofcontest. The value deducted from the team's BCS index equals ·one divided by: the BCS rank of the opponent. Therefore, a victory over the top­ranked team deducts 1.0, while a victory over the tenth-ranked team deducts 0.1. 


The values from these five components are summed to determine overall BCS indi­ces, with teams being ranked from lowest to highest values. 0 

.. : 'who brought hlostofhis assistants withhimfo,NotreDame; . ' ' -.. ·.-, .: ,:_:;, : .·. 



itf!i!li!!tltiiili:;i
). ·ers'exuberarifptaise cari give:an:fosight intOhowthe·miracleunfoldedthisY,ear; /·.. I 
{(!}::;~e.~,'.Wµ~~$Jl~xp:~pf1:%~:i~J~~~Wr~rrtt~,~:.~~?.l1tJf,~~~~ ~eyfaf.~11M.~¥.t~s,~:,::·•1
:-;;:tifreJiarrmg:a·battered collective: semesteeriiiTheir success '1ri'this department-made·-·> 
r!?:j~!;t~tiattt~r:~f:lf::1t:L t~it/0:frLt1fiitd~tl:nthi[j!rtll'.·to-·· -·. 

F. gether, ancLiet 'us" play as 'a''team, and T th1nkwlleri yo~ dd>those Jarid of things, -it 
'

1lil~i~-~l;~ieilr
.. ~S!~~H~h.ing·. f clt1blie>.¥'se :fe~ling'·tp~(_ the Irish· c@:e., iigairi c6i.ll9:),ecome ,gr.e~t, •· 
I~-~E•r.r~~fd[t~¼tJl~~~f
nize'the:pfogr~ss tfoify6u're making, whereas. if,y61,1 were flippip.fback arid forth .. • 
•thr~Jgh'.ciiffere11tsfylcis e\'eryw¢~k;YoJi might ri~t.b~ilbleto n6tite;tbf.prbiessthat, ·.•••.

?!11\!~I-R~~-~~~~~;;:
. <iftlifIrislj h~viri\:yef:fiiliy,gr~$ped WiHinghajn's. hew system, th~y· surely have. 
.,tiliilitiillifililie,
. .· afsdi;~J~C:t6cl thefoinier ~oach;~ defea:tisf~ttitude:.Shbrtly after Willingham ;ashired,· ·. : . 



,cllilf411t1\ilic
t ha,ye/\s#s: s6ph9mor.ej\mnin:g b.a¢l{Rya,11 G~artt,tCo~c4 Willingha.nfis'sucha great·); 
.:.·: :.-.-~--·. ,.:,.. : 

:ytha·t·W.·)l.lpigljam...:.···• •··•.pnn.·g...t!<>.-.>th.,e.. ::fri..)·h.. S·em.'.o.~.:.fu~t1ge·······r..•. J:ilrif'l·ynp·:... ·,:.:tj
'; 11otes \Vjllirigham's incfedible\patience;)i :vmue: tliat waif< J 
31 OCTOBER 2002 

Let Me Get That. The opportunistic lr!sh defense has capitalized Ion _opp6n~.n~• rn/s~akes this•s~ason, sc°cring9?~()in~ o~}4 tumov~?·/ . ·.· ...·.··•··.• Conerback Vontez Duff scoops up a Florida State fumble to start a th1rd~quarter scoring deluge accumulating 17 pomts in less than three minutes. 
continuedji-mn page 14 
to face the Pac-IO champion. Once again, it also is possible to move Miami to the Orange Bowl, opening the door for Notre Dame to join the Hurricanes on January 2 -but that depends on economics. If North Carolina State wins the ACC, then it's anyone's guess where the at-large teams would end up. 

Two National Championship Games? 
On top ofthese scenarios, there also is the possibility that four teams could finish undefeated. Should this happen, there could be two National Championship games. For example, assume that Miami and Oklahoma win the rest oftheir con­tests and face offin the Fiesta Bowl. IfNotre Dame and Geor­gia also finish unbeaten, these two could square off in the Sugar Bowl. In this case, it is possible that theAP Poll and the ESPN/USAToday Coaches' Polls could disagree on who the national champion should be, with one selecting the Fiesta Bowl champion and the other selectingthe Sugar Bowl cham­pion. Should this happen, then there would not be a consen­sus national champion. Ironically, this situation ofa splitNa­tional Championship is one of the primary reasons for the genesis ofthe Bowl Championship Series. 
It also is entirely possible for six teams to finish unbeaten, but the odds ofthis are not favorable. In fact, there still are hundreds of other feasible but less likely scenarios. Even with eight undefeated teams, there is no guarantee that any team will finish the season undefeated. Despite the uncer­tainty, common sense indicates that Notre Dame needs to win the rest ofthe games on its schedule ifit.wants a chance at qualifying for the Fiesta Bowl. Thatsame common sense also says that if the Irish do finish undefeated and are de­nied the right to contend for the national title, then perhaps it is time to reexamine the BCS formula 0 
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

c;niinztedfrompage 15 .· .·· . ........ . 
. ·.. Armed. v,itha newattitude. and led by acoach whose organiza~ tional_skiUs have earned him_comparisonst0 an army general,the · Irislitooktothepra.ctice field eager to becometlie bestfootbaH team. thry.cotild. BY the tiDJ.e. they left thatfield .for the first tiine ll~der .thejr newm6ntor, they realized thatpiacticewquld never bethe saine,
eitli~r: ·· · · · · · ·· 
.. . "[The coaches] prepare usinuch. inuch better for the upco111ing ~-games [than last season]," says Holiday. ''Really, practice is more like agamethis year. Everything we do in·p;acticeis a gaine situa0 . tion: w~ muchfaster, We clo things jn-1ess:amc)Untoftime.th~nwe·· .· didlastyear, and rthinkit's just helped out)tlot, not only thafbut · just fqrusto be out on our feet quicker andjust be in a game mode every situation that you'.rein:" . .. ..·· .· • · . . . ..· .·· 
•.That situation-based preparationhas played a majorrol~ ir1help-. ing the}rish size up their C()mpetition, whether 'ithas been atriple­. optio11 a.ttacl<·or a pr9-style p~ssing offense,'The results ·~pealc for themselves;.Notre Dame is undefeated at8~0,· amarkthatinchides 
· four victories .over-ranked opponents. In five seasons,.. Davie's.Irish managedjust five victories ~vet ranked teams,while r~cordingcOunt­less heartbreaking defeats. . ·. .·· .. . • . .. . . ...... .... ·. "We'ye gmwthrqughsomuch,to finally be able to turnthispr?­gram aroundl~ke we did_isoutstan~ingforus," -says fifth-yearse-. nior wid~ receiv~r.Aniaz Battle. ''.I J"()Ulcl think_ that pcH1ch Willingham had ahugeimpactwiththat._ftlunk coachWillirigham stepped _into this prografrrand turnedaJotofthihgs around for us, . gave us anew.mindset as far ashavingthe:detenni11ation andwill to
win." . .· . .. . . . . . . . . . . 
.. Ho\y\Villingllatn aµcl hi~ stiffrestofecftlu~teain'; faiths() ~uickly . ultimatelyresists analysis.Jo the Irish athletes, i(doesn't reallymat-.· .ter]h~ybeliev~ in the~mentqr and tr.u~t~h~t heltells them. J\1ore . importantly, theyknow.. thatWillingl:ia111 beHeyes.intheir.·abjlity •to 
..·· ,execute}lisvision.:With eachpassingSa~rcl~y; more ofcollege foot~··. ballis in21medJo agree with the Idshcoachf .. ·. . . ..• ·..· cf. 
...... , _,,. -·:-.-· ..-',·'., -,-··-. ", '. ·-.-. ·••.•.,• .. •·., 


1 
l 
I­
C/) 


<:( _J 

l 0 
I 
0 
CJ) 

7,500 copies of Scholastic distributed twice a month: 7,500 chances to make a difference 
· Applications are due November 10th. ·­. Pick up yours by the Scholastic office in the basement of the.South Dining Hall.  
C Assistant Campus Life Editor Assistant Copy Editor Assistant Graphic Design Editor Assistant Sports Editor Assistant Web Designer News Staff Web Designer  For more info e-mail: scholast@nd.edu or call: 1-7569  


I. 




froshette, and they proceeded to a clandestine location for a lesson on buffing boots. 
Not too long after, it became apparent where they had gone: Strange noises were emanating from the shower, and a crowd was gathering. From the sound of it, "Sarge" was drilling the young private, first-class. A cohort ofRAs and ARs was quickly on the scene-youthink the MPs are bad? These guys work for ResLife ­and they apprehended the young man without delay. His companion got away, for the time being. 
This chap decided that it was in his best interest to tell the AR that he was a visitor rather than a student, but the police were called and his charade was foiled. While he was being grilled, his satisfied young partner decided to step back out into the hall, wet hair and all. Within a matter of minutes, the ever-sharp NDSP deduced her identity and took her aside as well. 
At first, the two denied involvement, but their claims were soon undermined: one enterprising RA took on the noble task of sniffing out a crucial item ­brimming with DNA "evidence" -lying atop the shower <:!rain, and brought it to the police's attention. 
You can rest easy tonight, Notre Dame: Your safety is being preserved by the very best. They might not be able to recover stolen bikes, but not a sexual stirring will go unpunished by the ubiquitous Notre Dame security network. 
(A serious side-note that has been weighing on the Gipp's mind for quite some time, and that warrants mentioning in this context: Doesn't it seem that consensual sex receives· more negative attention on this campus than rape? We devote considerable energy to chastising those who agree to be sexually active; if we diverted our focus to the fight against rape and were able to prevent even one sexual assault from happening, it would be well worth it. This campus its entitled to its beliefs, but its sense of priority seems confused.) 
Just Get the Tip In 
Whew, that was a long one. We've got a bit more room, but no more good scandal. The Gipp heard something about a guy whose section-mates _refer to him as "Bob Vila" because ofhis purported handiness with his "monkey wrench," but the Gipp can't quite understand why this campus would want to know. What might interest us is to know why his section-mates are so well attuned to his personal habits or to his ability to please himself. 
You also might want to be on the lookout formenofthecollarnexttimeyou'restrolling around campus. Word has it from several sources that one ofthis university's notable transubstantiators has been spotted relieving himselfin the bushes. The Gipperwon't say whom, but ifyou keep your eyes peeled, you might catch a glimpse yourself. 
Well tipsters, it's time for the ol' Gipp to punch out. Keep onsendinginyourpremium tips, and the Gipper ;will do his best to give them the exposure they deserve. . 

18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 31 OCTOBER 2002 

------------------------------~~••••••••••••••••·••o•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
: · UniversityResources
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING 
, 


for Gay, Lesbian, f$l,
WORTH VOTING FOR? Bisexual Students 
"l'HE STANDING COMMt°TTE.E ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDEl!T NEEDS 

The Standing Committee on Gay and 
.. • •• • •

Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
). '. 

Contact: Sr. ML. Gude; CSC, 1-5550, orstudeni · 
I I 7J1embers (see web site for student contar;t info.) 

Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students •. and their friends; pertinent library resources in
'· .o 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) •••' Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu 

University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) · Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen 
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu ••• ••• • •• • ••• 0 ••• 
. For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
~I-~{~~~~1;1!~111~~~1t1~~!:~::s::fa~1~•=1t1:&''~:~~I2:I 



IThe Rant When it comes to Boston College, history is workin~ against the Irish 
. by Gerard Meskill -respond to the king of sports at gmeskill@nd.edii 
77e Echoes have been awoken. The 11 points until the fourth quarter. Their Dame shows up cocky, Saturday is going to Seminoles felt the Thunder. It's time performance against the Hokies was even be a scary day for the Irish faithful\ orthenationtoacceptthatNotreDame more impressive, as only three interceptions Despite all thatwarning,Idon'tbelievethat football is all the way back by Brian St. Pierre allowed Virginia Tech to the Irish will look down on this weekend's NotreDamefootballisofftoitsbeststartsince escape Chestnut Hill with its BCS life and a matchup. Tyrone Willingham has established 1993. Infact, thehistoricalparallels betweenthe 28-23 victory. Against the Panthers, a team two things during his short tenure as the Irish two seasons are remarkable. The 1993 Irish Notre Dame struggled with mightily, Boston coach. First, he doesn't tolerate slacking. defeated Michigan, Michigan State, Purdue, College managed to force overtime before Anybody who doubts that need only look at Stanford, Pittsburgh, USC and Navy prior to a finally losing by a field goal. the expression on his face during the last two November showdown with top-ranked Florida Boston College's four wins have <;:ome minutes oflastSaturday's game. It was certain State. Notre Dame upset the Seminoles in that against lesser opponents and have been far that ND would win, yet the Seminoles contest and faced Boston College at home the from impressive, with the exception ofa 43-0 continuedtoproduce offense, and Willingham 
following week This is the point where history gets ugly. 

[BC] drools at the opportunity to destroy their 
Underdog BC shattered Lou Holtz's perfect 

opponents' successful seasons, and that Pavlovian 
season,as DavidGordonnailedalast-second41­yard field goal for a 41-39 Eagles victory. The 

reflex is three-fold when they face Notre Dame. 

defeat cost ND the National Championship, as the Seminoles were bizarrely awarded the title despite havingthe same record as the Irishand a lossinSouthBendNotreDame:finishedsecond, lookingup atthe team theyhad beatenjust a few weeks earlier. You can bet BC's campus was littered with dirty grins and hearty laughs that day. 
Nine years later, the scenario is eerily similar: The Eagles once again have a chance to wreck Notre Dame's season just one week after the Irish beat the Seminoles. Ifthe Irish have their sights on the Fiesta Bowl -and they would have to be crazy ifthey didn't­they hadbetternottakethishistoryforgranted. 
Despite their 4-3 record and 0-3 markinthe Big East, BC isn't exactly a horrible football team. Their three Big East losses have come at the hands ofNo. 1 Miami, No. 3 Virginia Tech and underrated Pittsburgh. Against the nation's top team, the Eagles remained within shutout against Central Michigan. However, all this proves is that the Eagles live for situations like Saturday's showdown with heavily favored Notre Dame. They drool at the opportunity to destroy their opponents' successful seasons, and that Pavlovian reflex is three-fold when they face Notre Dame. If you don't believe it, just ask Lou Holtz. · 

It would be agreatinsultto USC to labelBC the best team left on Notre Dame;s schedule. However, it is notunreasonable to say that it might be the most dangerous one to the Irish' s dream season. The media is saying that Notre Dame should be 11-0 going into its showdown with rival Southern CaL In theory this is true, but it is a dangerous thing for Notre Dame's athletes to be reading, especially after an improbable thrashil)g of cine of college football' smostrespected programs. TheEagles are going to be bloodthirsty, and if Notre 

FOOTBALL: Following a 34-24 loss to Notre Dame on Saturday, Florida State defensive tackle Darnell Dockett offered the Irish little credit for their victory. Newsday quoted Dockett as saying, "Tal­ented? That center they brag about? What's his name? [See Irish Eyes On, Mr. Dockett.] Y'all go watch tape on him. We tore his ass apart every single play. That offensive line they brag about? We dominated it up front." · was visibly angry. 
Second, Willingham and his staff bring his football team to agame more prepared than 
•perhaps any other program in America. Just look at the way the Irish won their last three games. Against Pittsburgh, the Irish coaches _saw a weakness in Pittsburgh's secondary. They exploited it through Arnaz Battle, who made plays ahyill against Pitt's coverage. The same staff saw flaws in Air Force's rush defense. ND carried the baU,54 times in that game, amassing 335 rushing yards. Florida State's passing defense was rated 110th when Notre Dame arrived in Tallahassee. Knowing this, the Irish went to the air early and often. 
BC is coming to South Bend with a 0-2 record against top-10 teams to face the 8-0 Irish. IfN otre Dame wants to keep all the zeros where they belong, they had better show the Eagles some respect. D 
Yeah, congrats on your 1.5 tackles and holding the Irish to 34 points on Saturday. MEN'S BASKETBALL: Sophomore point guard Chris Thomas was named to the preseason All-Big East second team. The Irish hit the hardwood this Friday night against the Illinoif All-Stars in an exhibi­tion game. MEN'S HOCKEY: The Irish ice squad (3­2-1) faces offagainst the third-ranked Bos­

20 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 31 OCTOBER 2002 

Senior center Jeff Faine once dreamed of playing for Florida State. 


Our Calls

Today he is the undisputed leader of the Irish offensive line. Despite FOOTBALL suffering broken bones, a sprained 
OPPONENT: BOSTON COLLEGE 

foot, and injured ankles, he has WHERE: NOTRE DAME, IND.
. started every game since the beginning of his sophomore season WHEN: SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2, -30 straight over all. Faine (6-3, 
2:30 PM EST 

298) was named to Street & Smith's preseason All-American team. It's no Riding a euphoric high after routing wonder why FSU coach Bobby the fearsome Seminoles in its first Bowden called him "the best opposing trip to Tallahassee, Notre Dame center we've seen." needs to be wary of a letdown against 
> 
perennial pest Boston College. In a

The most influential person in my life is: my mother. She's been there through 
closer contest than many expect, the thick and thin. Even when my dad went away on mis_sions in the military, she was 

Irish top the Eagles, 27-21. always there for me growing up. 
GERARDMESKILL 
My favorite teammate is: Sean Mahan, my roommate on the road. 

SPORTS EDITOR My role on the team as a senior leader is: to set a good example for everybody on and off the field, to keep the team chemistry going and be a positive leader. BC has played well against Miami 
As the center ofthe offensive line, my duty is: to get the offense rolling out there and Virginia Tech already this year, and make all the calls to get the offensive line in the right frame ofmind and moving and it will have a solid showing here in the right direction. as well. Despite the Eagles efforts, 
> 
Willingham will have the Irish well­The ferocity on the line: breaks down the game to its purest. It's the most physical prepared and focused; ND will grindposition out there.You've got to go out there with the attitude that you're going to out their 9th victory. Notre Dame 20, own the guy across from you, that you're going to go out there to kick his butt. 
Boston College 10. 


My philosophy on ~ttacking defensive linemen is: to make the guy across from 
DAVIDMURRAY 
me think about quitting football, to make him think about maybe not getting up after ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 

the play, and make him think this might not be the game he wants to play. The biggest hit I've ever laid on someone was: against a Tennessee defensive end Boston College has "only lost to the
last year. He was running after Carlyle [Holiday]. I peeled back and knocked him very best teams in this country," says 
, right to his knees. He didn't even see me coming. It was a pretty big hit and I knocked Willingham. 1say, prepare to add Notre his chin strap off. 

>
Dame to that list of teams come Satur­


The one word that best describes me is: intense. 
day. The Irish defense stifles BC and My favorite movie is: Heat. Al Pacino and Robert DeNiro are my favorite actors. 

gets the job done again. Notre Dame How Tyrone has changed this team: From day one, he brought a totally different 28, Boston College 10. attitude and determination. Discipline is huge in his program. It's unreal how he JIMMYATKINSON won't accept anything]:mt the best out ofhis players, everything from how we play ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR on the field to what we're wearing after the game. Why I came to ND: it was the best place, best situation on and offthe field. I don't 
OUR CALLS RECORDS
regret the decision one bit, even before this year. It was the best decision ofmy life. 
DAVlDMURRAY: 2-1 
-Jimmy Atkinson 


JlMMYATKINSON: 2-1

> 

GERARDMESKILL: 2-1 

ton College Eagles (5-0-0) this Friday night goal in overtime). Georgetown on Saturday in a 3-2 loss. Se­at 7:05 p.m. in the JACC. Notre Dame's WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL: The Irish nior forward Erich Braun leads the team in junior defenseman Neil Komadoski is on a moved to 18-5 on the season with a 3-1 scoring with eight goals and one assist. three-game scoring streak with one goal and victory over Illinois State on Tuesday night. WOMEN'S BASKETBALL: Senior guard three assists in the last three games. Freshman middle blocker Lauren Kelbley Alicia Rattay and sophomore forward WOMEN'S SOCCER: Junior forward led the Irish with 15 kills and a .462 hitting Jacqueline Batteast were selected to the Amanda Guertin was named Big East of­average. preseason All-Big East first team. The Irish fensive player ofthe week for her efforts in MEN'S SOCCER: The l lth-rankedmen's open their season with an exhibition game Notre Dame's victories over Syracuse (2 soccer team saw its five-game winning streak against the Houston Jaguars Monday night, assists) and Boston College (game-winning come to ·an end in overtime against 7:00p.m.intheJACC. D 
31 OCTOBER 2002 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 







ilf'' f\Gf,~\;pt;;Jftlll
,,5191111 •··· . ei! ron cour •'•),:.y;.:,,;;•• 

.~~1~~~,?f~f&llfi\?li~~~Mtillfillf~li~lilf~f1\. 
DAVIDMURRAY 

As the student section T-shirt boasted ers are staggering. Swanagan, Humphrey and to the NCAA tournament." last season, Notre Dame has played Graves were the top three rebounders for the During the past two seasons, it has been star itself ''back on the map" in the col-Irish last year, and the latter two were first forwards who have played a dominant role lege basketball world. After a 10-year drought and third in scoring, respectively. In addition on the Irishsquad. This year's version ofNotre ofmediocrity during which the Irish searched to their numbers, this trio also provided the Dame basketball will rely on tremendous for the elusive path to success, the pieces of team with invaluable leadership and inspired guard play, primarily from sophomore the puzzle have begun finally to fall into place. their teammates to play to their full potential. phenom Chris Thomas. Thomas was last The Irish have enjoyed two consecutive sea-This year's group of senior tri-captains, year's Big East Rookie of the Year, and this sons in which they won at least 20 games and Matt Carroll, Dan Miller and Jere Macura, will year he's a preseason top-50 candidate for the reached the second round ofthe NCAA Tour-attemptto provide veteran leadership. Carroll, Wooden Award, given to the nation's best nament. They have had a player taken in the the most experienced of the three, is looking men's basketball player. He was second in first round ofeach ofthe past two NBA Drafts. forward to the opportunity to push his team-scoring last season and first in assists, steals, They have become one of pe-free-throw percentage and rennial powers in the strong Big minutes played. Thomas is East conference. most effective when driving to There is, however, more to the basket, and he is an out-success than simply being a standing defender. In order to competitive team with the abil-become the consistent scorer ity to give powerhouses a scare , that the Irish need him to be, or two, as ND did against Duke he must avoid settling for the in last year's NCAA tourna-outside shot, a problem which ment. As the wins increase in plagued him at times last year. South Bend, so do the expecta-Thomas's experience as the tions. The Irish0 must continue t floor general last year will to make the transition from i . make him a more polished, hunter to hunted. Fortunately, f ~llllllil complete player this year. the Irish have a coach who they ; · · · --¦ "I've got a year under my believe can take them where : belt," he says/'What I've been they want to go. fr looking forward to is playing 
..:

Third-year coach Mike is this year just so I can see how Brey's Irish teams have won ~ far I've come along, because I 
:,,:·

twice as many games as they ~ feel I've come a long way as 
>-.

have lost, compiling a 42-21 ~ far as experience and knowl­record at Notre Dame. Over the § : edge about the game." summer, Brey signed a two-year r--~~-~_.,.,-....,.-,.~,,.,...........,,,.__.....,.,.._, =.::-~::-,:-,-,-~. =~.,_..,...,..,,,.. a:.... Surrounding Thomas in the 
contracrextension, keeping him 's.-r.·... 'A.. to.·r!v,·o·~R. M.AN.·co·a·chMik~...·s~y(farl.·.;-.fl)\6·0····k.s ...o.··..n. a.·s·f·r·}~hm·a·n··y.·9r.In..<.••.'j backcourt will be senior 
on the Notre Dame sideline .Fjranc1s (far nghQ aemonstrates tenacious defense. ··. ..,.. ·•. c . ' ."<?• marksmen Carroll and Miller. through the 2008-09 season. · · · ·. · · ·· ·· < · .· ·.. , ·' · ·· •· · ·· · · ••· • ··· ' · 1 Carroll, a four-year starter, was
• 
The Irish have done great things by heeding mates to new levels of greatness this season. the team's best three-point shooter one year Brey's emphasis on senior leadership, hard . "I've been tc:r the NCAA tournament twice, ago. He understands his role in Brey's offen­work and team play. They will attempt to and it's my last year,'' Carroll says. "I'm Ciefi-sive scheme, and he often gives the team a · employ the same formula for success again· nitely setting my expectations higher for this boost with a big play on offense or defense this season. · team, and I think everybody else is too. Our when they need it most. Miller, a transfer from It can't be denied that the Irish have lost goal is to get [past] the second round of the Maryland, brings a lot of experience to the some of that leadership along with a lot of tournament." Brey agrees with Carroll's as-swingmanspotvacatedbyGraves.Atsix-feet firepower in last year's senior tri-captains sessment. "We've talked about trying to be eight-inches tall, he is a dangerous offensive Ryan Humphrey, David Graves and Harold an annual NCAA tournament team," Brey weapon because he can play both inside and Swanagan. The statistical voids left by the says. "And even though we lost three men and outside. He must play solid defense and con­departure of their three best frontcourt play-an NBA first-round pick, we want to go back tribute consistently on the boards. Torrian 
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
31 OCTOBER 2002 


Jones also should have a big impact off the of whom will see considerable playing time \ ..et1Q, •··.·•··•··s,yf!a.r,_~o.aµ~~Q .)I.s.so_r•.·.a.. 7-~l"Olln: :y.,1iwn.~.....1.~tely..£rano1~·hk'¢ly.~s•tfie;l:k:st;9tfqe:}/ 
players in Jordan Cornette and Tom Timmermans. Cornette, a sophomore, started several games for the Irish and played a vital role as a backup to Humphrey and Swanagan. He is skilled at defending the lane and re­bounding the basketball, and his gritty, inspir­ing style of play resembles Swanagan's. Timmermans, the only true center thatthe Irish have, saw increased playing time last year as a sophomore, and will see even more this year. He has worked hard over each ofthe past two off-seasons to improve his game, and it has begun to pay dividends on the court. Macura also will see some time in the frontcourt. He has the ability to be effective offensively, but he needs to assert himself more on defense. 
Brey's success in recruiting has mirrored his success on the court, and he has once again brought in a quality group of freshmen that will have an immediate impact.The most no­table ofthe bunch are forwards Torin Francis and Rick Cornett, and guard Chris Quinn, all 

31 OCTOBER 2002 
the college level." Cornett also will be a force in the frontcourt for the Irish. "He's probably our biggest and strongest guy on the team," Carroll says. "He blocks shots, and he's a heck of a rebounder." Quinn provides Brey with the luxury of a second true point guard who can spell Thomas. Freshman Omari Peterkin also might see some playing time in the Irish 
f:•,~ .-.--·> -·,,,,_ :. ,'; ,:·•:,-,-·:·: ·.,~-1::•l ~--.-~·::.·-?~-:: ~•: :~-·:_, y.:~-': -:_,,;.~-, ~'0=[.··.'..--•,·.· ·:. __.:-.. , _. 
"EY.ES 9.N~J"l::IE. ·FII.IVl(JUrijor~Tor(iari ··Jones 
:(shq6(1ng);·is one?dtthe';,rnost{y~rsatil.e.·· 1rJsh; 
"playl'lr.st•·66astipg!,ttie.;ii6iUfy tfplaythree.... 
:~W~r~ntposiH,9n~ qh IBe.·.c9~r.i:•-" ,..• /:;/;. ·:-,_·.. ·•· ·.· ·. 
frontcourt. -
Brey knows that his freshmen have big shoes to fill, but he believes they are up to the challenge. "Certainly when you lose Swanagan and Humphrey, your starting front line, we need [Francis and Cornett] to be big contributors right away," Brey says. "Our coaching staff and our senior captains have to bring those guys along as quickly as possible." He thinks that the freshmen already have de­veloped a lot during the off-season. "One of the things that helped our young guys is they were here for six weeks in the summer for a pre-college program. They got six college credits, they got in the weight room and they played with our guys, so they got used to Matt [Carroll] and Dan [Miller] and Chris [Tho­mas] andTorrian [Jones] leading them. I think that helped us to get offto a pretty good start." 

,.., 
____ ..:..:.~ 
~ . 
~MtffiA~fone~o(three se9,i,6r-"c:a@1irii; iMattCarrolJ (left) leads·afairly yqung teani;WithLa few fresh faces· and r~turning siars like.Chris 
ttnC>ii)a~i(?;ghtl:-•··•'•: ,/s: __ ~;;;i•ii:..•••••;·.••·•·.•••••·••.•• i••:.(i•~1 
Miller points out that, especially with a lot of young players on the team, Notre Dame must remain conscious of_the importance ofplay­ing one game at a time. "I definitely think we have a lot ofpotential," Miller says. "I think it's too early to label our team as a certain stage where we can reach. I think every game we'll get better, and as the year goes on, we'll just keep getting better and better as a team." 
Notre Dame will be tested by top-notch foes this year. The Irish have a tough schedule, which includes non-conference road matchups against defending NCAA champion Maryland and Kentucky in addition to always­competitive Big East play. 
But even with a relatively young team and a daunting road ahead, Brey says his players are confident that they can push themselves farther than ever before. ''My first team meet­ing, not that long ago, when I got the job on July 14, 2000, only one guy in the locker room could talk about the NCAA tournament ­Humphrey -but he did it when he was at Oklahoma. Now in the locker room, the older guys talk about getting past the second round and playing on. I think as a group, away from me, they talk about taking the next step as a program. There's no question that the older guys would like to see if we can get back in the tournament, and then play past the first weekend." 
So would the Irish faithful. D 
-Gerard Meskill contributed to this st01y. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 
a 

-=-=---ne__ 



II !JI



unension 
f 
m 
l!I 
I 
students pool talent, time and 

res urces together to create their 
wn 

--1--------@l€WisioA-Shgvv----+--1----­

MATTKIL EN 
Ontop o that, ND TV budget: The 
~ 

Television" to avoid legal conflict with the university. 
"Its been a real struggle," Johnson says. "We were actually expecting to get equip­ment donated to us from local stations, but that fell though and we've had to make do with what we've got." 
The result? The students' total reliance on one another. 
Cameras, the most important equipment, are borrowed from other students. "Some ofthe people getting involved are really into television and film, and they let us use their equipment," says sophomore Jessi Cisewski, a segment producer for ND-TV. 
She says it would be impossible for even just a few people to pull off the show, since each aspect of the production requires highly specialized duties. "I'm a math ma­jor," she says. "So I really don't know the technical aspects. I'm learning stuff like ed­iting as I go." Lack of funds has forced the students to 
ni-dig deep into their own pockets to pay for
lt's a S day afternoon in October, and versity has not recog ized the station ~Is a essential equipment to shoot the episodes. the ha ls ofO'Shaughnessy virtually are sanctioned activity nd provides neit er "We've been trying to get by with what we desertbd. But tucked away on the third funding nor the right o use its name. Te h-have, chipping in for tapes and other equip­
ment," says Junior Laura Giannuzzi, a seg­floor abtthe classroom---s a-n_-_d-o-ffic_e_-s-_,_ nically, ND-TV stand for "New Dimens on
about a d zen students have gat ered in the t · _-•· _-_--_· ·_--·-,_--__ building's oft. They sit r -_ · · ___­on the d1 · · · ­
study session or class project -it's the final production meeting for the first episode ofND­TV, the first television show ever produced ex­clusively by Notre Dame students. 
"It's a mellow chaos," says junior Lance Johnson, one of the show's executive producers. The students might have a laid-back attitude, but the pres­sures ofthe show don't let up. "Its been very time consuming, from auditions to shooting the segments to the ed­iting process·. With all things combined, at least 100 man hours 

have gone into the first MY, WHAT A LONG MIKE YOU HAVE Show producers and hosts Cheryl Turski and Tony Easterlin interview their first guest, episode," says Johnson -Mario Bird. ­
24 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
31 OCTOBER 2002 
ment producer. "But in the end, it's more hard work than anything else." 
The financial situation isn'tthe only prob­lem facing ND-TV. Starting a broadcasting station demands well over a million clollars. Even trying to broadcast the shbw on local networks would cost too much~ so the pro­duction has been forced to try local access 
cable. While that option is fr+, it means that ND-TV will join the exclpsive ranks ofsuch high-quality shows as weekly sc~~ol 
lunch menus and the pastor_wholreads sonp­ture from the comfort of his hoEe. I The production also faces theiproblem of 
its less-than-accommodating time slot ­every Thursday at 5:00 p.m., ahd t~en ev­ery other Tuesday at 10:30 P-~F-pni­dents had little choice in the time slots, s1nce 
the access channel gives precedepct to shows that have been on the longest. There's also the othernagging problem: Notr6 D~me students don't have cable in their ~odms, 
V 
V 

mands. "It gives us a chance to have a lot of cuss game-day strategy or playbook analy­people work on the show," he says. "At the sis. Johnson says the interview segments same time, we have some freedom to alter will focus on revealing the personalities be-the format from week to week." hind those well known Notre Dame faces. Parts-of-the-show,-Jike-the,1~ws segment, The first episode's spotlight segment will will try to the bridge the gap 'petween the focus on the marching band's week-long student ~ody,,,ancrm:e gre~ter ~out~B~~e-~-a--pr_e_p_a_ra-tiop.s, leading up to and including commumty/In the debut episode, which will the band's 1gameday activities. "I was kind I 6~ of a fly onlthe wall," says Giannuzzi, who "Io_s_e.e_t~-O-I._\L] snow-filmed much of the segment. Though__j Giannuzzi ~aid the band was incredibly or­oarnn1to wnafffis naW'\ ganized, hbr experience was very chaotic. I I ' "I was trying to think one step ahead the , t, , h l whole day.II didn't want to miss anything." 


I s ann azIng CD w a r 
, . :,, J 

w_9_v_9 C_Qfil8_.f__/
I 
_ Juniorta~ra-~iannazzi 
I 
meaning they'll have to catch the show\n_ lounges. I "Cable is our only option," says Jo1msoQ r~)'' "I'm hoping we'll work through it. i't1~ <{;'..f 
for the first couple years, the commuxity  ·.  
will be our larger audience." Johnson  ays  
they're trying to include as many peopl  as  
possible in the production, so word till  
spread about the program quickly: 'IWe  
hope people will make an effort to go to the  
TV and watch, because its something they  
will be interested in."  I  
Despite these challenges, the students (eel  
a student-run television show at Notre D~e  .  

is long overdue. "Television is a completely-; 
different medium," Johnson says. "It allows us to explore issues that th_e print media can't. You get a whole other layer of detail with television." 
"With a newspaper you can read about things, but with a TV-show it's quick and easier," Cisewski says. "You can easily be there without really being there." The stu­dents don't feel that ND-TV will conflict 
with the current student-run print and radio media available on campus. Instead, they hope their show will be seen as a viable new form of communication. "Television can give information quickly, as a broad over­view," Cisewski says. "People can get more information in a shorter time." 
The students hope to do this with their half-hour show by dividing it up into sev­eral segments -news, entertainment, an interview segment, a spotlight segment and a varying "random" segment. Johnson says this format not only is flexible but also gives the show the variety that the audience de­
31 OCTOBER 2002 . 
YOU LIGHT UP MY LIFE Jessi Cisewski and Njideka Motanya assemble part of the show's set. 
air Oct. 31 at 5:00 p.m. on Channel 3, ND­
TV is running a report on the local congres­
sional race, including an interview with 
Democratic candidate Jill Long Thompson. 
Johnson hopes the show will increase 
awareness about issues the student body 
doesn't typically discuss. But at the same 
time, the students think their audience will 
mostly be interested in campus issues. To 
address this, the show includes segments 
like an interview with Tyrone Willingham, 
which will be part ofthe debut episode. But 
don't expect the unflappable coach to dis-Though ~he show is getting ready to air 

now, the idea for it originated last spring. 
"I had first heard talk of it in one of my 
FTT classbs," Giannuzzi said. "To see it 
nowbal<into what it is now, its amazing 
how far we've come." 
Last spring, the core group of students 
working on the show established the for­
mat for ND-TV. They went home that sum­
mer working with possible ideas for the first 
episode, which has been six months in the 
making. Johnson admits she's nervous 
about the show's schedule, since that six-
month production schedule will shrink to 
two weeks after Oct. 31. A new show will 
air every other Thursday, with reruns air­
ing in the off weeks. 
Johnson remains optimistic about ND-
TV's future, even with the current lack 
of money. "We're hoping to find some 
sponsors from the community to help us 
out financially," he said. Johnson said the 
group also has applied for official club 
recognition from the university, and he 
hopes that New Dimension Television 
will soon transform into Notre Dame · Television. Until then, the students will 
continue to rely on their own pocketbooks 
and each other. 
It's just three days after the first episode's 
final production meeting, and that drab 
O'Shaughnessy loft has been transformed 
into a full-blown television set, bustling 
with activity. Bright lights hang from the 
rafters, and a live studio audience sits wait­
ing as the producers and hosts junior Cheryl 
Turski and sophomore Tony Easterlin make 
last-minute adjustments. But as always, 
some minor technical difficulties arise just 
before shooting is set to begin. "We're run­
ning a little behind right now, but bear with 
us," Johnson tells the audience. "It's just 
some minor lighting adjustments, but some­
times these things happen when shooting 
in the studio. Welcome to the world oftele­
vision." D 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 
CAROLYNSWEENEY
When John Mellencamp and his band arrive at the JACC on Fri­day, November 8, it will be a homecoming of sorts for the group that originated in, and so often sings the praises of, the Midwest. "We're close to home at ND," says guitarist and backup vocalist Mike Wanchic. "We all live in Bloomington, Ind., and that's a choice we made on pur­pose. These are our people. This is where I live, and where my kids were raised. I love this place." 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
Their story is a tale of a grassroots band that made it big. Wanchic met Mellencamp in the late '70s in a recording studio in Bloomington, Ind. A recent DePauw grad, Wanchic arrived· at the studio because they hired interns; Mellencamp, a Seymour, Ind. native, because he wanted to try his hand at recording demos. "I recognized his star qual­ity immediately, even though he was defi­nitely still in the rough," Wanchic recalls. "Some people just have it. It was the same way with Johnny Depp, who we met around 1980 when he was more ofa musician, play­
~ 
' .. ! 
-·,s 
~tr,
~-:-·.r.;-, ·. 




rg;:group 
'-,','.., ·. :.:·_:-::\'· 
:eartland 
i'::t.<::_>. 

ing with a group called Kidz. You could see that same quality in him. You know that people like John and Johnny are going to make it, no matter what." 
Despite the group's obvious promise, the early days were difficult as the musicians struggled to break into a notoriously cut­throat business. "When you 're a young band, it's you versus the world," Wanchic says. "You have to fight your way in, as this is obviously not an industry that welcomes you with open arms. You have to prove your­self, and this was the atmosphere we dealt 
31 OCTOBER 2002 

"L-wi;hfo~e-fii.'st-four_or five albums." tude and-their-Mfdwestemroots; ijiegrourconscie~~lle~;Rt~ltitheNewJe~..: :J 
0 
-Waiichkstuck~1thMellen0.t1mp thro~gp4xhlbits social·c<>ris~iousness ~atn,iaiiifests . :sey'$taf-'LeJge~ at the time. 
1-.,. ..~~ / .., ,' -. . • . . -, ..-. ·.. -. . _-: . ',. . . .., . --­
those early albums;--inclµ_ding' .Chestnut. : itselfinits music and in the :caus_es it.cham..: . . Despite the:im12_ortant messages behind Street Incident in 1976 and ]qhn.(;ougar:in . ·pioni The ban~ jusffiriished.its 15th Farm· •. the baild'ssongs aridpei:[ormances, it hasn't 1979, ~hich critics dis,tss§d as pop:fluff,_ , Aid, :c.oµce~. wi~?: fel~o¥:7· hea<l;li11.~r§. WpHe :~!wa~s been ;e,\1/arded f~r/t~ critical in­and which Mellencamp h1:!Ilselfnow_rec~g-}~els9:n, N~tl Young and·~ave)\'l,attliews; ·._ : . _ ~ights. "We'v_e_ · addr~ssed raci_s.m before," nizes as less tha1ys,llar. "They're terrible,_ . '" 1:'he group als~ halpromote4 iti; m,essage , /\Vallchfo says: ~•we wro_te _a : s(jtlg called embarassing," Mellencamp said in,a11 inter--·· thi:o.ughout the baii.d~s-18-album.'"'lfistory, • · "Chercy-.Bomb" around 19~8,:aii.d.Wh~n the
/ .• . . ·. •:. '. .... .· .. ' ..... •) . '~-----.,, ·-. ·---,.,.__-------·. . . _ ... -. . . .. ·' 
view withJhe St'.,: Lo_u!s PosfDifJJ(ltqb in .m()11t.rec:;1JtY on-~ttin' Heads, "".hich was"'<[ideo ~ame,~;itcfeE1tured athi,te girl da~c­1999. "I wrecked_th_e!)l up,:and I d1~Jeven ·~-~e.l.eased m O~tob.er,.2001. "John 1s a won-mg with a black_gu?°weJhot1gllt_ eyeryon.~ kno,_,I~as ~ec~ft!!:~1:1;1;":he, ~~Jtof-Iji~ ·de&l observe?·o{J'fb~le, and so these im-wa~~?twith:!1)~),~~easbft!tat..t>~:1flt~11f\ 
c~v~~s<>f_su~h,c!a,-.s~~~~-~s-J~911~~J:?.~3/port~tthemes ~e·E!;pa~ oI:-shootof~at no. We '\ere ~.?~~~detwith thr~a,J~J}yW )\ 
on the Chestnut aibum. "The vocaLperfor-quality," Wanch1c says., 6:uttzn 'Heads m-all over, mchidingtheJK.u,Klux] Klan::Aiidc ->\
f/6;.c:\;•::~};~,;\;;;;e/~~t; ::1:~~•p:~;fe•::•t~;t#~a.;n;h;:~ :~::,:g~f{~o~~ti~i;c~~!~i:'.~ 
-• ··.. 1did.ri!t knqvv: at1.ythmg abc;>Utth~·music." · emerged as particularly pqig11~nt after Sep-talk about ideas:like tli.i;pmd adcfr~ss big is.:\., ,, ·.•· . · A
/~f1J:£1~2!!;ff:~r:ff··• ·.·. ·.. ·· · v:,~ [j!!~~:;!~i\{i 

, s()un~ of~---e•n_·c.~n-s, livin_g a1d ;_to do,\b11t it's's01Tie_tl_1jng:o/e ha-::e \ :_: / w<>rking~ns11J.allt~~a~r9ss \ ..}~d~-jYo~ have to;use,y9urct t 1 the natto~: As a,.J:esult, lebncy, wisely~'\:~> ·· ·• ,'\ 1 
Mellenca,~p ~d Warichic/to-De~?ite:thtf ·con~roversi'es\ ! 
\ ...._e. w.atch._e·d alonglt·h--e_· _w _____b \
ge.careerth.. e·r_.?0:Yeyolve_:from the _____a2.·5·~rear,pop rests /easily'__ a__ Y_J_th.·an:ionge ____ .a·Jhe~-.d·_no·w·top·_ \ 
. 

songs ~g~eJ~te. ?Os.to/ the group~ o~--~~-,cpartf fu ~~~~f':\ soulfu~, •:-t~e~1.i::an -arH!fmS y~ars/thei_r:llJ.U~~e.11~ b_e~Il .me.t_\j . \'Ameri~ar Foo.I;'' "Jµptlee"· ~ithl~low~~l'~Vi~~s.__fronl~t\J 
: . . and '1Scarecr.?"'.-'' : d r ics ~nqfeJl?Yf ?1-t1sicrnps:,~I,1k~. J 11 
t ::· \'InJ9:~hi;"".lth,A~f~.1fan, < "~ aJ\yay-~:te:9H~.11t ?rstm~-~f:1 /1

~: ::it·:=:-:,:t:~" .. t:\fu.d~::•;=~1 /l
~ went\~r~+n_}elling_:80,QO~~o tlic;:re }le w~s at Farm AicJ,,liftJ/ / · ; [ \ four miH,\~n ~e~ords;' W,ancflf,c _ \: _"\ · I ./4~se!, tellm~ us_ we. we~e a 1u.e~i/ , -' \ ,~ays, explammg the b_and,s MAKING MUSIC WITH FRIENps Guitarist and backup vocalist Mike Wanchic/'[-mg band,_ . .-·wanch1c says.,. · / . qu~ck trip from"relati-y~·:ap..~~ ~et _Mellenc~mp in the '70s. TV(o:__deczades later, life goes on and the thrill of :_.--~'We're hearing this_from S~ei{t:-_ / nyrnitytothetopofthec~~s'A smgmg hasntgone. \ -.'J.. ,/ · _ Crow, James· Taylor, evecy~:me;/ \ 
. Sinc~that-turning 'point; :the \ \ \ L· .'_· -there. Ireallythink:we'reoneof group h)s~rned~36 gold, platinum and tember 11,thougli,it was written long be-/ thebesthandsinexistence.'I'mnotkiddifi'g. \multi~platinum,., reco;as,, ana 11-cr'rammy fore. "I think all so~'gf th)t~re not just pop" .-We blow th~_legs out·from under y,lioever ilc,_>f1ina,ti~_llS/ :M()St-,r~ently<Mellen~~ throwaways would tak'e~~tj._J~~~~~ .:: -s4ow~ ,up; at_ o~ conce~~;.· _ / _ ear~~d B~l~f!~ard:s 2~0~'.°'C~~~"".~~~:~er s~ch a tragedy:'-~-l~nc_~P.~to!~-~~-:_'. -_ Wanc~ic a~b~t~s th~~ s9cc~ss to t~eir which\~e'lllagazme'pres~nts_ annually ·to· ,,: __ Associ_?.te~-Fi:ess-em-her:thi_s·year. _ ·_ '. .:··_·:<:--:·_(:-honesty.· '.'Music is great ;when it's behev­artists whoi•~ave:not}ec:etyed rec9griitib~it .~\,; N,ie1l6ncamj,,111o~t·r~q~ntlyAellJ.OlfSfi',at~4S;'able,'' h~ S!1)1S; ''It doesn't necessarily have they des~ve'.' btliet/iwardees •-inc}1.1H~(/:his'c;,0111passiop: at cortci~rts:9npct6"b¢.i:7)m4\-to'liave;(so_cia1 mesfage to be great. Take 

~=~i~ll1Jittit~l~~!-i~1'1l~4t~(!:a:~.:i::::· 
pe~ple who us~d to laugli-.cat?t~fr~;:~~:~~Y' :~arf1:I1a,g~~.ne•• e~t.~r:~~:;'Q!~~(}{?{~f~:P;D•.Y~~feel.t.~t;~~re~e ~ob_Dylans and trymg to be friends," Wanchic §JJ-Y-S pf ~he ; 'famo~:q:y White.. v,Vht1;e ,9ft~i;i. wrpt~ a.bout:.,,....-John Mellencamps, who :anromcleJ1uman­
==~::::r-nn'!'!.····7::···=--· .... ·-.• .•,........ -...· ···: . •...•...• ·"" .-_, ....·•·· ,_.•.. ·-··•· ...• :~ --:--:. . •.. .. . . . .____ 
c~;~~~!~1ii::1:~~~:l?!ik=:~~:~~n~~:;•:~e!~.8~:~:e::s~:a~f ~tr~~:i:.ei/~~:,~:~=d~~r~!~~~ZA~·, ·. ··-I 
In keeping with this down-to-earth atti-Timothy White, rock'n'roll no longer has a will never die. Race, good versus evil, things_ 
I: 
31 OCTOBER 2002 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 

like that -these ideas are always with us. ally like giving birth. It's difficult, it's pain-Accg_mpanying.Mellencampand the band They're-of the utmost importance. At the ful, and it's s<:;riouslytryingwotk;"Wancliic · to_ND will be openingactAlide Peacock. ·--... same·time, we~lso making kick-ass, fun says.-"You've gotta stretch to come up with "We wenulrrou,gl;~ lot of CDs to pick the rockand rolLYouhave t~engage people jn . .,.,s~mething unique, especially after so mariy opening act, and,A,lice was just the one," 
the music so they hea;the ly[i.cs~Rhythm. is years. Our band does intense record-mak­the most fundamental pap:.<rl' a person. If ing, and we over-rehearse. So, when we step you get them feeli11g-tliebeat, now you've .. on stage, we're totally cooland relaxed.I got them. Now....you can;fell them a story. don't care if there are 50,000 people out You have/tc{\vo:rk·f(9Ih the waist to the · there -it doesn't)_gtherme.'\. '<.:::.__,__ Wanchic says. "W(? iove.~aving women open 

for us, to counterbalance.the show and add 
evenness.~' . . ~ 
Peacock is similarly excited to't9ur with ·Mellencamp-and the band; as they sl1are the 
head."/ / . . .· .After the ~9,ur;the group will focus,~n two ''sagie Midwestern roots,,~asy-going mcilt~I-
This 2hilosophy1has workedwellfor the newp1;9jects.: "We're working on a box,set ity, and social concerns. "R~ a big fan, so ifa"n~Ais it has recorded 29 top-40 singles albyrri, a-kind'-of a chronicle of everything: this tollf,will be fun," Peacock says. "Plus,\ since 1976. T~.e current challenge is to keep We've bee11a~~iving for a year now _:\ since we'~{ocusing a lot on the"~dwest, \ 

'.,things new. "More times than not, the audi-/ \ / ence would prefer to hear the songs that they' 
/ are most faµi.iliarwith. So, it has always be~n a balanci1g actwhen preparing for a ~how -what to put in and what to leave ouf. I've tried an~have always tried to entert~in and challenge myself and the audience aefd hope­fully en~ up with something that fe,els com­munal;', Mellencamp told the AP. I !, 
This tour, kic~g off in Nove~ber, is in-/ i tended tp do precisely that -chajlenge the / ' band by: introducing something different to' their routine. Not organized to prmhote a pai/ ticular alBum, the performances ar~ supposed toremindfanswhytheyloveMelle~camparid the band ~~y it loves music. "Tliis..isri't to _ sell records,"~anchicsays ofthe second l~...,;~ ofthe tour, wni~h began this summerandre­

.,\ s~es on Noveinper. Lin Eyansvill6, Ind. ,i \ We could care l_ess about sales +we re , playing because we w~nt to. Playing is'ridicu­,lously fun, but sadly, you tend to lose that as 
'\.._ ··.·· ·\ 
youpowandbeco~emor~{11cce.ssfuL W4~n 
·. / 

there a~ five serrus carrymg-~5 crew mem~ SHOW-OPENER Singer-songwriter ~lice Peacock bers and bo,okkeepers and security and what-"•·. opens for John Mellencamp in his'upcCJming tour '\ ever else, yoli'can ....!?se your roots.'Thitis to "tar~eting the cities of th~dWest · . · 'celebrate that we can-still.pJ~y and kickas~ ...., .. _. • ,.1 ___ _ __..-·< · ...· .__ . . aftef25years." • __ . "":--0--------..--.....-:;cgoing 1hrougl). qver 20 years of our: 
"I'm,going to. play the places !used to songwriting," Wanchic say~. "John is also play whenl"'started out,'' Mellencamp added working on the music for a musical written in an interview,_with the Denver Post this.·· by Stepl}en KingiThey haveJhe same agent, past August. "I don?t,\V~nt to make a.fbums.. alld Jo~always wanted to do a musica_l,_so' . I just want to go out and plaY.._~y music( they met and get alqng fanta~t.icall:f The 
The-tour·also-is·something c>f.a reward_. -story isadark,-Cainaand-A:od story about after years.oLlong... hoirrs-spent-ifftli-ere:--·an"American·f~y. John's dedicated to fin-cording studio. "The main part of making ishing the music for it this year, as it's about records is the recording time, which is re-halfway done." 

\and I'm from Ghicago, so my parents, and \ friends will be m'ror some ofthe shows.'' · \ 
\;peacock earned initial recognition after r'e, leti~ing herdebut albllpl, Real Day, entirely\ \ on ~er own in 1999. Sh~ recorded her most \,_ 
'i ··"recent self~titled effort wi\h plans to produce 
• .jtindependently again,. until a college friend / intro1f1uced her toexecutives\from Aware/Co­· lumbia records,who picked tip her second al­
bumJand released it this Sept~rber. . 
Pe,acock's blend of pop, rock and folk soudds _has drawn comparisdns to SherylCrof, •Shawn Colvin, Mary _C~apin Carpen­ter and even Joni. Mitchell; "I Mways sang," she1says. "Myfamilywas mu~ical, and I al-/ wefys found it _a spiritual way /of expressing 1· , n;i.yself. However, I thought 1;d end up in a / . / band or doing musical theater, not as a / 

1 
/s<;mgwriter. ·:hat kind of j~st happened:/ · / 
/ ·Throughout high schooland college, I wrote 1 songs as a wayto get ideas,,~ut, as a persqnal i thing. It became acaree1/ for me almost by; 
... I -', 

accident." . ·•. . ... _,/ /,./ . . / 
The fact th~t she;1s the fi~st Chicago • singer-songwriter to sign with a major la­bel sinceLiz Ph.ail in t}}e;,6~rly 1990s is no 
accident, how~v'er1 buttli~result of lots of . hard \VOrk,,a.r,i.'d~tlie same' appealing social . awareness evi~nt•i°i{ Mellencamp's songs. . USAToq.ay-calls her music demonstrative 
. · C>f «a warm_heart, an engaged mind, and a ,pr~ihg C()nsciencet. ' 
Togethei;··t11e_~cts are· 1'goi11g__ to leave people with their]aws hanging open;"·-Wanchic says simply. "I'v~·had"-a·great--0 .II career with John. We 're here to celebrate that." . 

31 OCTOBER 2002 31 OCTOBER 2002 





She Had Dumps Like A Truck 
Why conceal the latest trend in underclothing when it's just so pretty? 
JESSICISEWSKI
Thongs. I do not mean to broach a topic as personal as one's undergar­. ments, but I deem this discussion necessary. Most girls (and yes, even some guys) have at one point worn a thong: Many do so on a regular basis. Therefore, since this is a topic that affects or has affected each ofus, it is appropriate to deliberate. While it is great that we have the free­dom to wear what we choose, there does seem to be a conflict as to whether the reasoning be­hind sporting a thong is justified. It is comprehensible tha.t some girls will wear thongs because if they don't, the pants they are wearing will show an un­derwear line. This makes perfect sense -after all, we wouldn't want anyone walking around behind us thinking we actually wear underwear. That is one of a girl's best-kept secrets. As for me, I would much rather wear a thong. It is far more preferable to have the entire back ofthe thong rising above my pants every time I lean over, than to let anyone get a glimpse of a thin, barely noticeable underwear line. In addition to the apparent appeal to the opposite sex, many girls insist that wear­ing a thong is far more comfortable than wearing regular underwear. They even go so far as to say it feels like they are not even wearing anything. Steering away from the option of simply not wearing underwear at all, the level of comfort a thong provides remains questionable. Ifa thong is truly that comfortable, why aren't little kids wearing them? Or, for that matter, old women? These two generations seem fixated on the concept ofwearing what is comfortable, yet they do not choose to wear thongs. (Or maybe they do, but I would not want to be the one to ask for fear ofnightmares ofold, wrinkly ... well, never mind.) 

There are those who claim that everyday underwear gives them "wedgies'.' so they opt ... to wear thongs. Maybe they're not familiar with the term" butt floss," but ifthe prob­lem is "wedgies," well, I'm not so sure thongs are the best alternative. 
I'm not bashing thongs ... far from it. The 

only problem I have with them is that they 
really should come with instructions. Ittends 
to be demanding trying to distinguish the 
front from the back, or the leg holes from 
the body hole. And, it can be quite embar­
rassing walking around all day and then fi­
nally realizing that your thong is on inside 
out and upside down ... or so I've heard. 

But really, I think they are great. In fact, the reason I even bring up this topic at all is because I think we should have more uses . for them. Thongs should not be limited to the covert role of an undergarment. They 
need to be seen. 

There are several different styles of 
thongs, each having its own dual purpose. There are the nylon, cotton and spandex blend thongs that can be found at Victoria's Secret, which would be prime slingshot material. We could even have campus-wide thong-shot contests across the quad -to raise money for charity, of course. 
Not all thongs are cut outto be become sling shots. The more glittery or sequin-y thongs would liven up any dorm room walL These thongs would have the potential to 
catch and reflect light perfectly, so as to transform an average, dull wall into a unique collage of ... well ... underwear. It has ap­peal. 
Then, of cours~, there are ·the furry thongs that could double as top quality dusters or dishrags. 
·The extended strips of fur could grasp even those hard to reach corners of dust that collect on shelves, or the bottoms ofnarrow cups that regular size washcloths can't reach. 
The sheer, see­through thong is the only style that I would have to hold to its fundamental purpose. As Plato might have argued, some things are destined to a single role in our republic. 
Thongs are one ofthe most versatile types of clothing available today. Along with the already mentioned uses, they have the abil­ity to double as headbands, face masks, hair binders, sweatbands, eye patches and so much more. Undoubtedly, their original pur­pose has the most appeal, but it now seems that it would be almost prodigal not to ex­tend their objective. Why would we want to repress something that has so much po­tential? 


Submit an BOO-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu..··· 
. 30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 

31 OCTOBER 2002 



Now that midterms have passed, along with blessed fall break, you might have a few spare hours lying around-hours that must be 1 filled ifyou are to become a fulfilled human being: Here are a fewon-and off-campus optionsfor that free hour, afternoon, evening or • da.y. Why not use a bit ofyour free tinie to submit an event to scholast@nd.edu?. "(All submissions _are subj~~fto Scholastic approval.) 
A FEW MINUTES: . The Option for the Poor, presented by the theology department When: November 10-13 Where: McKenna Hall Auditorium How much: Free Why: For four days professors and priests from Sri Lanka to South Bend will gather to discuss "The Option for the Poor in Christian Theology." There will be daily seminars with topics ranging from "Poverty and Social Marginalization in Early Israel" to "The Option for the Poor in Context of Globalization: A Feminist Vision." Everyone complains about "The Bubble;" this is an opportunity to expand your horizons beyond campus limits. 
31 OCTOBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 31 



ADAY: 
Bob Dylan Concert When: November 1, 8:00 p.m. Where: Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Ill. How much: Tickets are $34.50-$64.50. Call Ticketmaster for details. Why: Sure, Rosemont, Ill. is sort of far away -but Bob Dylan is getting old. Real old. His voice is a bit scratchier, and his appearance gets a bit more death~Hke·every day. So, scrounge up some cash and catch this legend in concert before it's too late. 


AN AFTERNOON: 
Dia de Los Muertos Celebration When: November 3, 1 :00 p.m. Where: Lafortune and Zahm Hall Chapel How much: Free Why: When the Spanish Conquistadors entered New Mexico approximately 500 years ago, they witnessed natives practic­ing a ritual that appeared to mock death. Today, this once Aztec ritual celebrating the lives ofthose who have died has Catholic religious significance. The celebration begins with 
the blessing of the altar at Lafortune, followed by a procession to Zahm Chapel for Mass in Spanish at 1 :30 p.m. 


AN EVENING: 
Glee Club Fall Con­cert When: October 31, 8:00p.m. Where: Washing­ton Hall How much: Free 

Why: These sing­ing lads are good. So good they tour around the country. Alumni flock to hear their angelic voices and remem­ber the good old days at Notre Dame. In order to have this privilege after you graduate,youmustattend a Glee Club · concert now, so you '11 have something to be nostalgic about later. 

AFEWMINUTES: Supporting Project Warmth When: Ongoing Where: A closet nearyou How much: Free 
Why: SouthBend's glorious winter nearly is upon us. As you gaze lovingly at your North Face jacket with the removable waterproof shell, look also at that forlorn, unworn peacoat. Carefully remove it from the hanger, walk down the hall and place it in one ofthose big bins that say "Project Warmth." If you are peacoat-less, call your mother and· have her send your family's unused coats your way. 
by George Molnar 

On the Air 


... While I was broadcasting a home football game from the top of the old press box, Bob Hope, who was in town for a show, performed on the field at half time. 


George Molnar (BSEE '7I, MSEE '76) worked as a technician on the staffs ofWSND and the WNDU stations while studying at Notre Dame. He is now chiefengineer at the WNDU stations. 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
Anew TV service is beginning on the Notre Dame campus. Students will produce and record a program to be carried by South Bend's local access cable channel, reaching those on campus and in the local community. It's an exciting step forward -and the experiences ofND-TV's cast and crew will create the newest chapter in the his­tory of broadcast media at Notre Dame. I began my freshman year in 1967 with a techni­cal background in Ham radio and audio-visual op­erations, and quickly became a technician at WSND. Back then, WSND operated AM and FM stations from studios located in O'Shaugnessy's clock tower. Using carrier current technology, WSND was heard on AM 640 in all residence halls at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, and over the loudspeaker systems in the North and South Dining Halls. WSND-AM was operated by dozens of student volunteers. Disc jockeys would announce and spin popularrecords in a top-40 radio fashion. Newscast­ers would prepare and deliver hourly broadcasts of local and national news, weather and sports. Sales­men would sell ads and ere-ate commercials for local and national advertisers. Sportscasters would broad­cast play-by-play coverage ofhome and away football, basketball and hockey games and their related pep rallies. And engineers (like myself) would install and maintain all of the neces­sary broadcasting equip­ment, wiring and circuits. WSND-FM had a small 10-watt transmitter atop O'Shaughnessy on FM 88.9. The station had a sepa­rate group of announcers and programmers to sup­port its classical musical format, but shared many of the same students for news, sports, production, and engineering. Besides WSND AM and FM, there were six other local stations students could tune to -three AM and three FM. Two of them WNDU AM and FM, were owned and operated commercially by the university. Their studios also were located on campus in a tiny building east of Breen-Phillips, which now is the Centerfor Social Concerns. The university operated these radio stations together with WNDU-TV as a service to the community and also as a "laboratory" where students could learn the business of commer­cial radio and television. 

I enjoyed working at WSND. I remember engi­
neering the remote broadcast of a pep rally (back 
then they were held then inside the Old Fieldhouse) 
where I met Pat O'Brien, who played Knute Rockne 
in the movie Knute Rockne AllAmerican. And while 
I was broadcasting a home football game from the 
top of the old press box, Bob Hope, who was in 
town for a show, performed on the field at halftime. 
I told the broadcasters I'd go get him for an inter­
view when he returned to the press box. Boy, were 
they surprised when I came back with Mr. Hope, 
who did 10 minutes ofhis act during our broadcast! 
Over the years, WSND-FM expanded its cover­
age area to 20 miles around the campus, which has 
helped them earn loyal listeners in our area:WSND­
AM left O'Shaughnessy fornew studios created dur­
ing LaFortune's expansion and remodeling. It also 
changed its call letters to WVFI. 
As chief engineer at the WNDU stations, I have 
built upon the broadcast knowledge I gained as an 
undergraduate. One ofmy WNDU projects has been 
the expansion of cable television into campus aca­
demic buildings and residence halls. I also have been 
involved.in studies on how to deliver more TV chan­
nels with better quality to student rooms. 
Campus broadcast media, and broadcast media 
in general, have changed in many ways over the 
years. WNDU AM and FM were sold and have 
joined a large group oflndiana radio stations oper­
ated by Artistic Media Partners. CDs and MP3s have 
replaced records and cassettes. More television 
channels have become available and offer a wider 
variety of programs. And someday, computers may 
even replace traditional TV sets and VCRs. 
But through all these changes, campus media has 
remained available. WVFI and WSND continue to 
attract students and local volunteers. Students still 
entertain each other, spread campus news and gain 
valuable work experience. And there's proof that 
working in the "laboratory" provided by campus 
broadcast media can lead _to professional success. 
For example, our news director during the Vietnam 
protest era was Bob "Flash" Franken, now Notre 
Dame's print media coordinator. One of our station 
managers was John Sturm, who went on to work 
for the FCC and CBS. He now is president and CEO 
of the Newspaper Association of America. One of 
our student sportscasters was Joe Garagiola, Jr., now 
general manager of the A:rizona Diamondbacks. 
Who knows? Perhaps one day, some of the stu­dents who work for ND-TV will be regulars in your · living room. . 
31 OCTOBER 2002 




__< ill .· Li 
~'i:,~=.= . 
··~ (]] ~l-· 

~O .~ .; . (]J (ID .. ' 







