
~******************************************************** 
Need To Publicize An Event Or Promote Sales? 
Scholastic Has The Lowest 

Advertising Rates On Campus 
$3.35 per column inch $110 for full inside front cover ... Discounts for regular customers 
WE DESIGN ADS, TOO! 
. 

Get The Most For Your Mooey 
let Your Ads Be Seen In Scholastic 
Contact Julie Gschwind at the Scholastic office, third floor LaFortune or call 239-7569 for more information 
********************************************************* 


Contents 

February S, 1987 Volume 128, No. 14


Scholastic 


6 
Life On Both Sides Of The Podium 
By Steffanie Keller 

Teaching assistants at Notre Dame provide a link between faculty and students and learn something along the way 

9 
A Breed Apart 
By Kathleen McKernan 

Notre Dame's part-time faculty avoids national problems and finds its niche among its tenure-track colleagues 
Sports 
12/'V' Is For Confidence 
By Phil Wolf 

With help from John Shumate, hours of hard work, and f;m support, Gary Voce has gained self­confidence and improved his overall game 
15/Scoreboard 
16/Also Wearing The Green By Phil Wolf 

It's Digger Phelps' green carnation that has become a game-time trademark, but four assistant basket­ball coaches don the familiar boutonniere as well 
Cover photo by Allan Lim 

Departments 
2/Editorial 

4/Week In Distortion: Pac Man, Anyone? 
5/On Other Campuses: Smoke Gets In Their Eyes 
19/Restaurants: Anyone For Szechwan? 
20 / Calendar 

22/Music: How I Joined The All-Stars 
23/Movies: Feed Me! Feed Me! 
24/Final Word: Now I Lay Me Down To Sleep 
Scholastic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Darrie, IN 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75/year and back issues are available at $LOO/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS student advertising, Inc. 0 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 

2 
Scholastic 


Scholastic 

. Vol. 128 February 5, 1987 No. 14 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus­Vive Quasi Cras Moritums 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Maher Mouasher 
Managing Editor: Keith Harrison 
General Manager: Philip Coghlan 
Editorial Staff 
Larry Burke: Sports Catherine Coffey: Departments : Frank Lipo:·News Kathleen McK.ernan: News Greg Miller: Student Life. 
Aimee Storin: Copy · Bob Winn: Student Life 
Production 
Production Manager:· Matthew Bradley Design Manager: Jim Doerfl~r Photo Managc;r: Allan Lim Graphic Arts Manager: Maria Murphy 
· · Systems Maijager: Lawrence Pra:vecek 
Administration 
Comptroller: Pete Cespedes Advertising: Julie Gschwind Circulation: Mike Hoban 
Editorial Assistants 
Ed J ordanich: Sports · Steffanie Keller: News Kathy Scarbeck: Departments ~Phil Wolf: Sports 
Issue No. 14 Staff 
Layout Mary Faith Feeney Kris Malaker . Susan Serrato 
Art & Photography: Greg Alberton Mike Murphy 
Copy Editors: Sara Harty Liz Reeves 


Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine 

is accepting applications for: 

Any Notre Dam·e or Saint Mary's undergraduate may apply. Contact Maher Mouasher for details: 
: Scholastic office, 3rd floor LaFortune, 239-7569. 

Applications are due by Wednesday, February 11. 
f-50o/o-OFF-7 
t -. WITH THIS COUPON I t ;*Lj~g~~]a-4~Jf O --t 
t·-:S:7?~~f "~~'J'l1.ry t
r:r _, =-, . . ~./ ----~ ~~ 1~ .,_u~.-~---P I I 
t:, "----, \ = <,·"'?;-••-~ --.!; t 
' 
•-------·----· 6 Offer Expires 2-28-87 
·THE LYNDA BARRY 'n' MAff GROENING t FUNKY WORLD FUN CALENDAR -1987 
COLLECTOR'S EDITION 
t 

Featuring the Best of Their Syndicated· Cartoons Plus: 
• Birthdays of the Famous &Infamous • Flshln' With Matt 
t 

• 
Recipes &Party Tips • Cocikln' Fish With Lynda 

• 
Numerology • Vocabulary Builders 

• 
Gardening Hints • Treasure Map 


t 

• 
Puzzle Page • Deep Sea Creatures 

• 
Coupons • Charms & Hexes and much, much, much morel


t t
. Order your 1987 calendar today by sending check or m(?ney order to: 


' LIFE IN HELL, P.0. BOX 36E64, LOS ANGELES, CA 90036 
~~~~~~~~~~-4' 
February S, 1987 


Pac Man, Anyone? 
If studying exercise and TV won't cure the winter doldrums, an At~ri home video game might just do the trick 
By John Coyle 


Whoever said "the worst winter lever spent was a summer in San Francisco" must never have spent a February afternoon in a dorm room with three cabin fever infected roommates watching goldfish mate for entertainment. No matter how you slice it, Notre Dame is butt boring in the winter and February is the peak of butt boredom. So the question becomes, how does one entertain oneself short of counting the ants migrating south across one's floor. Depending on your zest for life and your ability to make the most of your collegiate years, there are several alternatives for passing away those long winter days. 
Studying is always an option. Because it's alwayf a:n, option, (and being a fan of slogans such as "I've only been here a month and already I'm two months behind"), I really can't endorse any but the most necessary academic endeavor as a means of combat­ting the winter doldrums. 
On the other side of the academic spectrum is the blow-off, party animal, couch-potato type. Hard to believe, but getting wasted seven nights a week and recovering seven days a week tends to get a little played, not to mention expensive, after a month or two. So partying the month away is out. 
If not studying or partying, perhaps exerc1smg, you say. Come on, let's be realistic here.· Fitness pro~ grams usually last about a week until the initial excitement and motivation wears off and you realize that sweating is just not fun. So, the Jack LaLanne school of thought is really not a viable alternative. 
Of course, there's always man's best friend ­television. And at first this seems like it could be the answer. But after a couple of days watching some of the local stations' provocative and entertaining after­noon shows, you realize just how mindless TV view­ing can be. There's only so rriany times you can watch Duane say "Hey, hey, hey" on "What's Hap­pening" or Patch telling Kayla, "Listen baby, I'm bad news" on "Days" or Jim Lang say "Guard, escort them to the booth" on "One Million Dollar Chance of a Lifetime." 
So what's the cure for winter boredom if academ­ics, all out partying, exercise and television don't do the trick? The answer is simple: Atari home video 


cise a 
,,.. To.he 
·. r,e..··•··~•-'U~F~.t..';~rii~ 
games. Hey, it's the perfect choice. It combines all of the aforementioned alternatives and wraps them up in one fun-filled game. 
You have to be smart to know whether or not to 
eat the last ghost in Pac-Man after the music stops 
(academics). You can celebrate a big win against the 
computer in Atari Basketball by having your player 
jump up and down and run all c:iver the court (party­
ing). It also takes a lot of energy and hand-eye coor­
dination to play Space Invaders (exercise)..And of course you play it on a television. 
I know everyone has one somewhere in their toy closet at home right on top of Light Brite and Chutes and Ladders. So have Mom send it on out. Maybe treat yourself to a couple new cartridges; have an Atari Olympics. The hours will fly by and before you know it, spring will be here and it will be time to scope the sun worshippers. Oh, by the way, did I tell anyone my Dad works for Atari? II 
Scholastic 


Smoke Gets In Their Eyes 
Several universities watch 'smoking wars' heat up as local bans lead to changes in campus policies 
A Notre Dame class ring, lost during a 
spring break 31 years ago, was recently returned to former Notre Dame student Thomas McCall. Buried under three feet _of Fort Lauderdale sand, the ring was found with a metal detector and returned after some detective work. In other spring break news, authorities are planning fun in the sun with athletic events rather than beer drinking. According to the National On-Campus Report, the Fort Lauderdale Spring Season Task Force is planning basketball, tug-of-war on the beach and water sports. Miami Beach will also offer Frisbee, weightlifting, and soft­ball. 

Off-campus students in Boston may find 
themselves spending nights behind bars rather than in front of them if they turn their stereos up too loud. The Chronicle of Higher Education reports that police may press criminal charges against anyone creating excessive noise between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. The new legislation allows enforcement officials to enter a home without a warrant if the noise level exceeds 50 decibels. Sentences can range from six months in jail to $200 in fines. The bill was aimed largely at the more than 10,000 Boston College and Boston University students who live in the residential neighborhood of Allston-Brighton, according to Boston City Counselor Thomas Menino. 
February S, 1987 

Duke, founded by tobacco money, has 
banned smoking from its medical center, reported the College Press Service. Harvard grad students, meanwhile, recently delivered petitions asking Widener Library on campus to reconsider its smoking ban. The ban was adopted in compliance with a new ban in the city of Cambridge on smoking in public places. In part the petition argues that "a lot of peo­ple work better when they smoke." Also smoking­related, University of Wyoming officials voted to defy a similar new ban in universi~y-town Laramie. 
University representatives said city laws do not apply to the state-owned campus. 
Rubber band powered airplanes earn 
credit in a University of Colorado course called Introduction to Flight. According to the National On Campus Report, more than 200 students design, build and write a paper about how their creations of" paper, silk, and balsa wood work. In other classroom news, it takes more than pulling a few strings to become a puppeteer at the University of Connecti­cut. Students majoring in puppetry must also take courses in . costuming, set design, art, acting, and directing. Puppetry graduates work on movies or with groups like The Muppets. Sometimes they form their own puppetry troupes. II 


News 

Life On Both Sides Of The Podium 
By Steffanie Keller 

Teaching assistants at Notre Dame provide a link between faculty and students and learn something along the way 

"In the beginning of 1985, I got a lead from a management professor I'd had before that a new professor in manage­

ment might need a TA," said Bev­erly Bean, a senior in the College of Business Administration. "So I knocked on his door and said 'Hi, do you need a TA?' Three days later he hired me and I've been working for him ever since." 
So· began the career of one of Notre Dame's many teaching assis­tants, or T As. Not all TAs started out like Beverly Bean, however. Many must serve as a teaching assistant as part of their graduate studies, while still others must apply through their school. Duties vary as well, ranging from research to actually teaching classes. 
Regardless of the individual responsibilities that each has, teaching assistants as a group are now a large part of life on most college campuses. "A group of professors and other educators realized that T As were becoming an· important component in teach­ing," said Robert Diamond, assis­tant vice chancellor of Syracuse University. "So we did a survey to compile data about the status of teaching assistants." 
The survey is the National Study of Teaching Assistants, and findings from it will be presented at the 1987 National Conference On Higher Education next month. Questionnaires were sent to TAs at eight major universities. "We sent out 4,200," said Diamond, who led 

the study, "and we received 1,357 responses." Among the findings of the study, which included TAs from all disciplines, was the fact 

that one in every 25 TAs said he or she did not have the proper background for the assignment. 
Diamond said the survey found that less adequate training was often given to those T As who had more responsibility. "In addition, one in every six T As was found to be teaching outside his or her dis­cipline." Similar findings have spurred some schools, such as Marquette University, to require increased training for T As. 
The Marquette Tribune reported "English-speaking TAs have varied training programs depending on the department they teach in and whether they are teaching a class or conducting a discussion section." Candidates for the position of TA also must 
have a 3.0 average, three recom­mendations and financial need. Foreign students at Marquette who desire the position of TA must take a two-week language program as well as departmental training. 
Notre Dame currently has no such general requirements. The selection of TAs and their duties vary from college to college and from professor to professor. "In a sense, the way it's looked at is that all math graduate students func­tion as T As," said Professor Wil­liam Dwyer, chairman of the Mathematics Department. "As for the requirements to become a: TA, they're the same as those to be accepted into the graduate pro­gram in mathematics. We try to get people who we think will be the most successful mathematics students based on their records. 
"Graduate students begin to function as T As in the second year of the doctorate program and then they follow a progression. They might start out as graders and. doing problem sessions. By the fourth or fifth year, most teach at least one section of a course." Dwyer said that T As most fre­quently teach freshman courses. 
Scholastic 


News· 

"Freshman courses are highly organized. It's a good place to start out, because the course is already laid out." 
As an architecture TA, Mimi Graham also deals exclusively with a freshman course. "(The faculty of the School of Architecture) choose six fifth-year students to TA the second-semester freshman design class. They ask the fifth­year students who is interested in becoming a TA and then make selections from there," said Gra­ham, currently in her fifth year of the_ architecture program. 
"Our duty is to go to all the lec­tures for the course and then a stu­dio class once a week. They assign each TA about 10 students whom we work with as critics of their work and to help them out. Once a week, we grade their projects using the guidelines of the profes­sor," said Graham. 
"The class is so large, it would be impossible for the professor to give each one individual attention. A TA can do that. I also think it's good for freshmen to have some­one they can talk to informally and ask questions, such as 'What's Rome like?' or 'What's it like to do a senior thesis?' It's hard ..for a answer all the questions that I wish someone had answered for me," said Hawes. "It's scary to be a freshman in college. Sometimes, I think they need to give themselves 


professor who went through all that IO years ago to answer those questions. But we can, because we have just been through all those things." 
John Hawes, a bio-chemistry graduate student who serves as a TA for Chemistry 115-116, said he agrees that working with freshmen is a vital part of his job as a TA. "I'm always trying to think of things to say to the students. I look at them and try to remember when I was in their place and I try to 

February 5, 1987 
a little more credit for what they know. They just need a little gui­dance." 
Freshman Meg Juliano needed more than a little guidance when one of her chemistry experiments exploded in the laboratory. "My TA stayed and helped me clean up and fix everything that I'd · done wrong. He was so patient." Hawes said that misfired experiments go with the territory of being a TA. 
"The sound of breaking glass is something a chem lab TA is always waiting for," said Hawes. "Part of our job is to ensure safety in the lab." In addition to main­taining laboratory safety, Hawes said he has a chance to talk and interact with the students in lab, aside from merely grading papers at the end of the week. "That's a nice thing about lab T As. I get to know my students well enough that I recognize them as I walk around campus." 
In her role as a TA, Beverly Bean doesn't have the interaction with the students that Hawes and Graham have. "The way the professor's class is run is that half the grade is individual, half is as a group. It goes by your perfor­mance and I can't measure that." 
Bean said that her job consists mainly of research. Her professor 
7 


News 


"just finished his dissertation. While he was working on that, I was doing a lot of library research for his dissertation. Now, I'm doing library research for articles he writes for management jour­nals." 
Joanne Wiggins, a theology TA, said she has held both roles as a TA. "Currently, I'm doing library work, grading, working with the 

,.,iri'~i~J:t::f
\ts·a;,~~ii!fu,\!!·l~ffi~:l~5ctt -Fn1ake·the workmorebearable.',' :}L:i> ·_-_ --Williair{She~h~rd, ~frifesJ~~ll:9,f__ 1J'ff~~.iC:~ 
and grading homework, they make the work more bearable." 
Shephard also said that TAs are very important to the undergradu­ate students -they are working with. "Undergrads need all they help they can possibly get. T As are closer to the undergraduate's back­ground and have a better feel for what an undergrad needs. Ideally, they're also quite accessible." 
professor's filing system and plan­ning and leading a discussion group once a week. What your responsibilities will be depends on the professor," said Wiggins, who has been a TA for two years. "This is the first year that I've had close contact with the students," she said, "and I really enjoy it. I enjoy getting to know the students and hearing their ideas." 
"It's important for a TA to communicate that (he or she) and the professor are a team. You sup­port the professor and, by the same token, the professor supports you. Sometimes, though, it's a lit­tle easier· for students to deal with a TA. You're closer in age than the professor and you don't have a formal title, which makes· you less intimidating. As far as duties go," said Wiggins, " it can be a lot of running errands. Mostly, you take the burden of picky details away from the professor." 
William Shephard, professor of physics, said that this may be the TA's most important function. "In many ways, especially in this department, T As are essential. There is more lab work than a faculty member can possibly do," said. Shephard. "By running labs 

Not all undergraduates are happy to have T As, however. "An English-speaking TA is pretty uncommon," said senior Tim Perenich, "although it was more that way when I wasn't a philoso­phy major." Perenich switched to philosophy from pre-med. Com­plaints such as these are not uncommon in reference to math T As, said Dwyer, but they may be unfounded. "A lot of people have problems with math. If they have a problem, it's easy to say it's an accent. People come in to com­plain and I'll question that excuse and the real problem will come out." 
"We receive applications for the graduate program from all over the world," said Dwyer. "We take the best ones and very often these are foreign students. The number of American math 
graduate students is dwindling." 
Dwyer also said that the first year 
of graduate school, during which 
students do not serve as T As, gives 
the foreign students a chance to 
become familiar with the English 
language. 
"I've seen cases of foreign stu­dents with heavy accents who are superb teachers and American stu­dents who have bombed com­pletely," said Dwyer. "It's more a question of dedication and per­sonality than nationality." 
Notre Dame President-elect Father Edward Malloy, who dealt with University academic affairs in his previous post as associate provost, said he agreed with Dwyer's views. "There are always going to be people from different backgrounds. The question is, can someone communicate effectively? If it's just an accent, then it's just a matter of getting used to it." 
Regarding foreign T As, Provost Timothy O'Meara said, "There is a problem, but we've got to do the best we can with it. It has some­thing to do with our society. Many of our grad students in the sci­ences are foreign. It's difficult to get students in our society interested in these areas." 
Although some students com­

plain, other Notre Dame students 
said they like the concept of T As. 
"Sometimes, a TA can explain 
things better because he or she is 
closer to your level," said fresh­
man Laura Ryan. Hawes said he 
agreed. "Often, they feel really 
comfortable with me. They're not 
as afraid to ask me a question. I 
provide a link between them and 
their professor." _ 
According to the national study that the Syracuse University group did on T As, three out of four T As hoped to teach upon graduation. Hawes, Graham, and Wiggins all expressed their desire to teach, although not necessarily right after graduation. All three said that serving as a teaching assistant had · been a valuable introduction to 
teaching careers. 
"I think I've learned a lot about how to be a teacher and just deal­ing with people in general," said Wiggins. "You'd be surprised at how well you can get to know peo­ple in just one semester.'11 
Scholastic 




ABreed 4part
By Kathleen McKernan 
Notre Dame's part-time faculty avoids national problems and finds its niche among its tenure-track colleagues 

At other universi­ties, professors without tenure or a position on the tenure-track have become what som~ 

faculty union organizers · call "academic stepchildren." How­ever, Notre· Dame's part-time faculty, called adjunct professors, have formed a definite bloodlink to academia. 
Notre Dame adjunct professors have many of the regular profes­sors' privileges. While adjunct pro­fessors at some other schools :.have difficulties in obtaining library privileges of the regular faculty. 

There are different levels of non-regular faculty at Notre Dame, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. Although, the role of part-time faculty within an academic community has become a national issue, at the University "very few people are officially part-time." 
Different types of non-regular faculty exist. First of all, O'Meara said, there is the emeritus profes­sor, a professor who at one time held a tenured position and has retired, but would still like to 
remain a faculty :tffember. The visiting professor comes from a tenured position at another 
•university. 
"Usually the people who come as a visiting professor are very well established in their field," O'Meara said. "They come here to have scholarly exchanges. Then there are adjuncts that come from within the community. Let's use the examp°le of a lawyer with a particular expertise. He would like to have a certain university con­nection. He would come here to share that particular area, and he would continue his practice down­town. 
"There is. another type of adjunct, whose primary occupa­tion is in another part of the University, like Father (David) Tyson or Father (William) Beau­champ, but who still would like to teach," O'Meara added. 
Finally,· at Notre Dame there are adjuncts who fit the definition of part-time that has created a national academic controversy. They are the part-time professors who teach usually one, two or three sections of a course and are not eligible for tenure. Former Associate Provost and University President-Elect Father Edward Malloy has an explanation for the University practice of hiring part-time professors. 

News 

"We have unfilled positions we Geraldine Ameriks hasn't found need to cover," he said, "as long as problems in becoming a part of we have needs and there are peo­the University, nor has she seen a ple to take those jobs, we will have vast difference in how part-time 

part-time faculty. Also, there are other people looking for jobs. Spouses of people here want part­time jobs or those who can't get a full-time take what they can get." 
In her eighth year at Notre Dame, part-time Modern Language Professor Geraldine Ameriks teaches three sections of intermediate level Spanish classes. Her husband, Karl Ameriks, is a full professor of philosophy. 

and full-time professors work in · her department. 
"As a part-time professor, you 

don't have to be involved in com­
mittees," Ameriks said, "You do 
have just as much work for the 
most part. With languages, it is 
different from other departments. 
They try to hire part-time 
language profs, partly because the 
graduate program is not particu­
larly large. In teaching a language, 
,· 111illl:lll!lllll i11i-r llllllllillll•ll l'llll'II l!'I 

though, the main thing you have to worry about is teaching." 
The emphasis on teaching is one reason the Department of Modern Languages and the Fresh­man Writing Program have the 
greatest number of part-time pro­fessors. Also, a greater degree of personal attention is in those types of classes. 
The College of Science has a program with the South Bend Center for Medical Education, with local doctors serving as part­time professors. The need for oral practice at the beginning levels of languages makes small classes, and therefore, a large number of sec­tions in a subject necessary. Notre Dame's Freshman Writing Program offers 115 class sections, a figure which places it close to the top of the University's list of large pro­grams. 
"The classes are small and it's a writing class," said Edward Kline, 

News 

English chairman and director of the Freshman Writing Program. "You always need more teachers in a writing class," he said. "If we fit everyone in Washington Hall, we could have three ·or four sec­tions of our English 109 and Freshman Seminar courses. But who'd grade the papers?" 
"In our department, they attend faculty meetings," Kline said. "We expect them to meet and confer with students. We don't expect research, but if they do it, it's nice of co.urse. They have offices and parking decals,. what they don't have is medical bene­fits." 
It's the question of medical benefits which concerns the part­time faculty and union organizers. Notre Dame part-time faculty doesn't really worry too much about unions for the adjuncts. They don't seem to feel a need. 
According to Geraldine Ameriks, there has been no talk at Notre Dame among the part-timers of the unions that have been sparking adjunct professor debates across the country. Faculty Senate Chairperson Jean Pee said, "We've never really talked about part-time faculty in my five years here." 
Some universities let part-time 

faculty dominate the teaching . faculty of programs. Community colleges also rely on part-timers for economic reasons. With the community colleges, as with Notre Dame; it makes financial sense to use part~time professors who com­mand lower salaries than tenured 
teachers .. 
This . tendency to maintain lower salaries and limit employee benefits among adjunct faculty is what has created the union contro­versy. Part-time professors at other colleges resent the lack of benefits and want higher salaries. 
Malloy said he understands the adjunct's desire for unionization. 

"Notre Dame is more of a com­
· "I think there are legitimate ques­
munity than those schools where 
tions," he said, "if someone's 
there is talk of unionization," Pro­
part-time for a large number of 
vost O'Meara said. "There is no 
years without salary and benefits ­
union here and no movement for 
that's where the controversy is." 
unionization." 1!1111 


LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13 9pm -4am 
BENEFITTING THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS OLYMPIC EVENTS 
Half-court Basketball  Broomball (corec)  
Water Lacrosse  Whiffle Ball  
Nerf Football  Indoor Soccer  
Relay On Ice (corec)  Obstacle Course (corec)  
lnnertube Water Polo (corec)  Volleyball  
Raquetball Singles  

ADVANCE REGISTRATION NECESSARY FOR OLYMPIC EVENTS SEE YOUR HALL REPRESENTATIVE FOR DETAILS 
SPONSORED BY NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
Ourthree-year and two-year scholarshipswon't make college_easier. 
Justeasier to~payfor. 
Even ifyou didn't stait college on· ascholarship_, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to Sl,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Interested? Contact Captain Domingo at 239-6264. 
ARMY RESERVE QFFILERS' TRAININC CC)RPS 
February 5, 1987 

Sports 


'V' Is For Confidence 
By Phil Wolf 
With help from John Shumate. hours of hard work, and fan support, 
Gary Voce has gained self-confidence and improved his overall game 
At 9:30 a.m. on Tuesday, · January 27, Gary Voce crammed his 6-9, 250-pound body into a small chair in a sociol­ogy classroom. Probably ri.o one in the class suspected that later the same day, Voce, Notre Dame's biggest basketball player, would stretch to his full height and throw his weight around to score 14 points and grab 12 rebounds against the Dayton Flyers. 
But it was time for Voce to "come of age," as Irish head coach Digger Phelps put it. The Notre Dame center, averaging only 2.6 points and 5.1 rebounds per game before meeting Dayton, had recently received the go-ahead from Phelps to shoot the ball. Last Thursday, against Marquette, Voce had six points and eight rebounds. On Sunday, he led the Irish with double-figure scoring and rebounding (15 and 10, respectively) against North Caro­lina 
"I always thought I could play on the post," Voce said after the upset of North Carolina. "Just because I didn't take shots in the past, that doesn't mean I don't have an inside game." 
David Rivers and Voce combined for 24 or Notre Dame's 37 second·h ¦lf points against the Tar Heels. 

Earlier in the season, however, Voce lacked the confidence in himself to become a major factor in the offense. Although he is a junior and a regular starter this season, Voce averaged less than 
6.5 minutes per game last year, making him awfully "green" for a junior. Phelps gave him a "job description" which said simply, "just play post defense, rebound, and score around the bucket on loose balls." 
~ 
;­
::i 
§" 


Voce, who was born in Kings­ton, Jamaica, first played basket­ball at the age of 12 when his fam­ily moved to Queens, New York. This season, he has been working extensively with former Irish stan­dout John Shumate, now an assis­tant coach with Notre Dame (see story on page 16). Both Phelps and Voce have given much of the credit for the junior center's improvement to Shumate, who says he understands the trouble Voce had adjusting to his starting 
role. 
"I think Gary was kind of afraid of the responsibility that was being put on him by every­one," Shumate recalls. With the graduation last spring of Tim Kempton, Ken Barlow and Jim Dolan, "everyone was saying 'Gary you've got to step in there. You're the man. You have to carry the weight.' I think Gary was insecure about himself as a player and he did not have the confi­dence that he could do the job." · 
And confidence is the key to Voce's game, Shumate says. "Gary's the type of person that when he got nervous his hands would go and he couldn't catch the ball," the assistant coach says. "Every time he'd do something wrong, I could look at his face and say 'uh-oh, there he goes. He's going to lose confidence in him­self."' 
Shumate's solution was hard work. He told .Voce that, although his starting position was relatively secure, only hard work could help him to improve. And Shumate has been there all the way for support. "Anytime he looked like he was losing his confidence," Shumate says, "I'd always look right in his eye and I'd just wink my eye to 
say 'hang in there."' 

Once he got the green light to shoot, Voce · proved he could score inside and outside. 
About two weeks ago, Phelps saw that Voce's hard work was beginning to pay off and he rede­fined the center's role to include taking baseline jump shots. With his coach's perm1ss1on, Voce "stepped out" for the first time in Notre Dame's 63-59 loss to UCLA on January 24. He scored six points in that game and grabbed 13 rebounds to help keep Notre Dame in the contest. 
Then against Dayton on Tues­day he established himself inside, powering his way to a perfect 6­of-6 from the paint, three times from offensive rebounds. Shumate was on a recruiting trip and missed 
13 



Sports 


the game, but Voce acknowledged him afterward. "Yesterday he told me just to go out and do what I've been doing," Voce recalled. "He said, 'Try to play aggressively and get double-figure rebounds,' and I said, 'Sure Shu.' I guess he'll be pretty happy when he comes back tomorrow." 
Voce's three field goals (in five attempts) against Marquette included a jumper, a short bank shot and a power layup. Against the Tar Heels he hit from outside and inside (including a two­handed slam dunk) for 5-of-7 shooting. Yacc's 78 percent field goal average against Dayton, Mar­quette and Carolina brought his season average to 57 percent. 
And Voce's play also brought 

•the Irish fans to their feet. There always has been a small contingent of Voce fans -ranging from Norm Muller of St. Michael's Laundry to Voce's fell ow Howard Hall residents -and the rest of the Notre Dame students were eager to join them last week. They raised their arms in a "V" salute, they spelled out "V-O-C-E," and they turned a "Go Irish" cheer into a "Gary Voce" chant. 
''When I was a freshman, I don't know why, but they always cheered when I came in," Voce said after the Dayton game. "I think they want to let me know that they're still there. I was kind of surprised to hear them." 
Shumate read in a newspaper story about the crowd's reaction to Voce at the Dayton game. " When you're the underdog, like Gary is, and you come along with his per­sonality, I can see where the kids would support him," he said, "but I was surprised to hear the crowd was going "Gar-y, Gar-y" and spelling his name out. 
"But Gary has star quality," Shumate continues. "A lot of players don't have star quality. He's got charisma. He's really a tremendously likeable person." 
Voce seems to be equally fond of Shumate. "I can see things better when Shumate does it," he says. "I know that what he says is true because I'm aware that he has done it before. This year I've been through a lot of ups and downs and he's been able to talk to me because he says he's been through pretty much the same thing. He's been like a big brother as far as telling me how to look at things." 

Nobody told North Carolina head coach Dean Smith how to look at Voce last Sunday, though. "I didn't think he was supposed to be that good a shooter," Smith said after the game. "Voce is the big improvement from the tapes I've watched. He hadn't played that well as such an offensive threat. He didn't even lqok to shoot in some of the tapes I saw." 
Future Notre Dame opponents likely will take Voce much more seriously. "I think they'll look at this and say, 'Well, maybe Voce is a threat now,"' ·the Irish center predicted. "As long as they're con­sidering that possibility of me get­ting the ball down low and scor­ing, I think they'll have to play" the · whole team differently.'' 
With offensive improvement has come even more confidence for Voce. He played as well defen~ sively as offensively against the Tar Heels, and he has . started going up to block shots which used to seem out of his reach. A student banner in ACC section 114 displays the motto of the newly formed Gary Voce Fan Club: "Confidence." 
While the students work to invent Gary Voce cheers Voce says he will continue to work to improve his game. "It's my junior year," he says. "I have one more . year left, and I hope to do big things before I leave." 
Perhaps Notre Dame classrooms can be outfitted with bigger chairs to accomodate a new Irish hero ..Ill 
Scholastic 

Scoreboard 

Irish Head For The Mountains 
HOCKEY -The Irish wrapped up the home portion of their schedule with a weekend split against Wisconsin-Stevens Point, win­ning Friday's game 2-I while dropping Saturday's contest 6-3. 
Junior goalie JEFF HENDERSON had 33 saves in the opener as MATT HANZEL and TOM MOONEY provided the scoring for the victory. The visitors' five first period goals wiped out Irish hopes for a sweep in the second game. 
Notre Dame travels to Colorado next weekend to face Air Force in what will be the beginning of five consecutive series on the road. 
WRESTLING -Notre Dame finished second to John Carroll University last Saturday in the National Catholic Invitational Tourna­ment held at the ACC. 
The Irish captured four individual titles in the I I-school meet. Freshman ANDY RADENBAUGH won the ll8-lb. competi­tion while sophomores DAVE CARLIN, 
· JERRY DURSO, and PAT BOYD won first­place trophies at I 26, 134 and 142 pounds · respectively. 
A 2 p.m. meet with Central Michigan is scheduled for Sunday under the north dome of the ACC. 
INDOOR TRACK -Despite the record­setting performance of football star and Scholastic athlete of the week TIM BROWN, the Irish dropped a close dual meet to Michi­gan last week, 67-64. 
Brown teamed with freshman GLENN WATSON to give coach JOE PIANE a strong showing in the sprint events. 
"Watson and Brown ran real well for us,'' Piane · said. "But it doesn't take much to sec that we really need to improve in the middle distance area especially since we got shut out in the half-mile against Michigan." 
:rhe track team visits Champaign, IL this weekend to run in the Orange and Blue Clas­sic. 
MEN'S SWIMMING -A Friday road trip to Bradley and a home meet with Kalamazoo on Saturday at the Rolfs Aauatic Center will make up a busy weekend for tne Irish swim­mers. 
·Two away meets were split by the team J;tSt week as Notre Dame beatCleveland State and lost to St. Bonaventure. 

Top swimmer for the Irish in their win at Cleveland State was sophomore ERIC BOHDAN. Bohdan finished second in both the 200-yard freestyle and the 200-yard backstroke. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -Sparked by a superb all-around game by Scholastic athlete of the week MARY GAVIN and the sharp­shooting of freshman ANNIE SCHWARTZ, the Irish drilled Marquette last weekend 95­60. 
Improved shooting and tough defense gave the Irish their most impressive win of the season. 
Notre Dame plays Miami at home on Saturday before going on the road against Detroit and Tennessee. 
MEN'S FENCING -Coach MIKE DeCICCO and his fencers extended their winning streak to 62 last weekend with convincing defeats of Michigan-Dearborn (22-5), Detroit (19-8), Tri-State (23-4), and arch-rival Wayne State (21-6). 
The 9-0 Irish were led by senior captain TIM VAUGHN and sophomore TIM GRIF­FEE in the epcc. 
"The performance of the epeeists has surprised me,'' said DeCicco. "l1someone had told me that this epee squad was going to dominate the solid squad from Wayne State, I wouldn't have believed them." 
Notre Dame will compete away from home for the fourth consecutive week when it travels to Columbus, OH for a nine-team meet on Saturday. 
WOMEN'S FENCING Coach YVES A URIOL'S Irish extended their record to 8-0 with a big win over Wayne State, 9-7, last weekend. 
Sophomores JANICE HYNES and KRIS­TIN KRALICEK were outstanding in the victory over the Tartars. 
The women's team will also be in Columbus this weekend, but All-American MOLLY SULLIVAN will not. Sullivan will be in West Germany competing in a World Cup Circuit event. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING -Ball State visits the Rolfs Center for the last home meet of the season at 2 p.m. on Saturday. 
AMY DARLINGTON, SUZANNE DEVINE, and BARBARA BYRNE were the stars for the Irish in two road victories last week against Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure. 
SMC BASKETBALL -The Belles increased their record to 8-5 with a 65-56 win over St. Francis last weekend at the Angela A thlctic Facility. 
JULIE RADKE had 17 points for Saint Mary's. Sister TAMMY RADKE added I J, while RACHEL BIR chipped in with 10. 
SMC SWIMMING -Led by senior captain PATTY JUCKNIESS, freshman ERIN TIER­NEY, and sophomores TANYA REEVES and PEGGY HALLORAN, the Belles won their first dual meet at home to up their mark on the season to 5-2. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
TIM BROWN 
This familiar face 
burned up the track at 
the ACC in last week's 
dual meet with Michi­
gan with the same suc­
cess that accompanied 
him during the 
football season. 
Brown, from Dallas, won the 300-yard dash with a new meet record time of :30.7. The Irish gridiron star and 1987 Heisman Trophy candidate also won the 60-yard dash in 6.2 seconds. This tied the Notre Dame record for the event. 


MARY GAVIN 
The 5-6 point 
guard from North 
Wildwood, NJ had a 
special day against 
Marquette. Gavin had 
11 points, IO steals, 
and 14 assists for a 
unique variation of a 
i! 
"triple-double ." Her \\ · 10 steals in a single game were a new Irish 
record, She is also Notre Dame's all-time 
career assist leader, and is looking to break 
her own season assist record of 205. 

February 5, 1987 
Sports 


Also Wearing The Green 
By Phil Wolf 

It's Digger Phelps' green carnation that has become a game-time trademark, but four assistant basketball coaches don the familiar boutonniere as well 

Back in November, in Notre Dame's first regular-season game against Indiana, start­ing center Gary Voce played a total of only eight minutes before being pulled out of the game for good by Head Coach Digger • Phelps. Some students held up a • sign which read: 
HiMom Keep the Cash Send a Center 
16 
I ~ 
§" 

With the graduation of Ken Barlow, Tim Kempton and Jim Dolan last spring, the Irish were left with little frontline experi­ence, especially at the inside post position. Voce, a starter every game as a junior this year, played an average of less than 6.5 minutes per game last season. The students calling for help knew that the Irish needed experience inside. 
What those students apparently did not realize when they made their sign was that Mom didn't need to send help; John Shumate already was on the scene. 

Shumate, a 1974 graduate .of Notre Dame, is one of four assis­tant coaches who work with Phelps. Along with Jim Baron, Matt Kilcullen and Tom Sluby, Shumate has helped coach this year's young Irish squad to a 12-5 record going into last night's game with LaSalle. 
It was a different group of stu­dents, presumably, who held up a sign at last week's game against Marquette and again at the North Carolina game, proclaiming them­selves to be the ''Gary Voce Fan Club." Voce had scored 14 points and hauled down 12 rebounds ear­lier in the week against Dayton (see story on page 12). Ask Phelps what he thinks, though, and he'll probably say there ought to be a "John Shumate Fan Club" instead. 
"I give all the credit to John Shumate for bringing Gary Voce along," Phelps said after the 66-55 victory over Dayton. "When he was here as a volunteer assistant after he finished in the NBA (in. 1981), it was Shumate who worked with (1982 freshmen) Kempton, Barlow, and Dolan to get them ready in the front line. He's a frontline teacher and he's a 
Scholastic 
Sports 

recruiter and those are the things that we want him to do." 
"What has helped me to under­stand my role is the fact that I was a head coach (at Grand Canyon College) before I came here," Shu­mate explains, "and I remember the things the assistants did that irked me and the job that I wanted them to do. I just put myself in that situation and I said 'How can I best benefit Digger Phelps and Notre Dame basketball?'" 
Scott Paddock, Voce's backup at center, explained how Shumate has helped the big men on the team both on and off the court. "We've been working with Coach Shumate since October 15 and we're just starting to see every­thing. come together," Paddock said. "He demonstrates and even plays against us. Being that he was such a great college player and a professional, it's easy to under­stand him the way he puts it across to us. On the court he's intense, but off the court he's laid back, and that comfortable atmosphere makes it easy to work with him." 
Every day at practice, the Irish go into "breakdown drills" in which Shumate works with the big men while Baron and Kilcullen concentrate on the guards. It· has been during these drills that Voce has made such great progress this season. But being an assistant "Number one, you've got to see coach means much more than just if academically he has the right running drills. background and you have to 

Second-year assistant Kilcullen spends much of his time tracking the academic progress of the Irish players. He makes sure they are enrolled in the right courses, that they are provided with proper tutoring, and that their perfor­mance is acceptable. 
Baron, who is in his sixth sea­son at Notre Dame, is in charge of all recruiting for the team. When recruiting a player, there are a couple of concerns which Baron must address. 
evaluate his transcript," Baron says. "The other thing that you look for is character. You look for kids that belong. at Notre Danie, kids that will fit in as far as the type of school -academically as well as athletically. That combina­tion is out there; you just have to look for it." 
Meanwhile, Baron shares opponent scouting duties with · Shumate and Kilcullen. The three ,pend several hours a day watch­ing game films of opponents to analyze their strengths and weaknesses. Generally, it takes three viewings of a film to break it down, Kilcullen says. First, the coach gets an overall impression of the opponent team. Second, he analyzes the offenses and defenses employed. Finally, he notes the "tendencies of individual" players. Practices then are structured to 
Tom
Dick 

DiBiaso Gillen McLaughlin
Kuchen 

Eight of Phelps' nine assistant coaches have gone on to head coaching positions after leaving Notre Dame. February 5, 1987 

Sports 


address the findings of the assis­tant coach who scouts the opponent. 
Each opponent is scouted by one assistant, who then is respon­sible for watching the Irish defense against that team's offense when the game is actually played. Another assistant watches the Notre Dame offense against the opponent's defense, and another coach keeps track of fouls, shoot­ing percentages, and timeouts remaining. 
During timeouts, the assistant coaches meet with Phelps on the court in front of the Irish bench for a few seconds before he talks 

Dick DiBiaso took the head job at Stanford in 1975; Frank McLaughlin, now the athletic director at Fordham, went to Har­vard in 1977; Dick Kuchen left Notre Dame for Cal-Berkeley in 
1978 and now coaches Yale; Danny Nee became head coach at Ohio in 1980 and took the top job at Nebraska this season; Tom McLaughlin coached at U. Mass after leaving Phelps in 1981; Pete Gillen became Xavier's head coach last season; Gary Brokaw is Iona's new head coach this season; and Shumate formerly headed the pro­
gram at Grand Canyon College. 
"I think that most assistants have the the dream of having their 
-----=-=== 
own team," Baron admits, "because then you cai implement some of the things you've learnea. I've been very fortunate to learn an invaluable amount here at 
Notre Dame under Digger." 
"I love how much I'm learn­ing,,, Shumate says. "It's like going to graduate school." But, he adds, "My reason for coming back here was to make a contribution to Notre Dame basketball." If Voce and the rest of "the big kids" -as Shumate calls them _ continue to win by heeding the advice of the former Irish star, Notre Dame's 
opponents may send their assistant coaches scrambling to review tapes of a very success[ ul Irish squad. ¦ 

Scholastic 

--'-~~~--------·--•­

Anyone for Szechwan? 
By Ron Mileti 
Exterior aside, The Great Wall Restaurant is a nice surprise, serving good Chinese cuisine in pleasant surroundings 
Connected to Randall's New Century Inn at U.S. 31 North, the Great Wall Res­taurant looks like the kind of place people pass on their way some­where else. A plain, boxy structure with a dragon painted on its front, the restaurant was marking the Chinese New Year with a special $7.95 all-you-can-eat buffet, or so the unappealing sign said. 
The interior of the Great Wall is a shocking surprise. Not decorated with worn paint and torn paper lanterns, as its exterior would indicate, the restaurant was instead adorned with elegant wall­paper, muted lighting and fine table arrangements. It was a har­monious blending of Chinese cul­ture and American polish, a com­bination few restaurants can create without seeming amateurish or artificial. 
-
The buffet was very pleasing to the eye. The. only complaint patrons might have with it is that it served only from one side, caus­ing lengthy backups reminiscent of the lines for Space Mountain at Disney World. Because the buffet is not a regular feature at the Great Wall, this problem would not arise on a normal night of din­ing. 
The restaurant's plain exterior can be forgiven and its interesting 
February 5, 1987 

interior can be praised, but in the end it all comes down to the food. Overall, it was very good, espe­cially taking into consideration the fact that it was served buffet style. At the Great Wall, the buffet was equal or superior in quality and flavor to similar entrees from the 

kitchens of other Chinese restau­rants. Almost all the buffet entrees are normally on the menu for moderate prices, ranging from $5.25 to $10.95. 
I started the meal with an appetizer called hot and sour soup, which is made with shredded pork, mushrooms, bean curd, spices and an egg-flavored broth. This szechwan soup's zesty taste was distinctive and delicious. The 
egg rolls were top notch -plump with vegetables and pork and not soggy or burnt. The sweet and sour chicken was especially good, with its sweet yet tangy sauce and its large and plentiful deep fried chicken chunks. 
Unfortunately, not all the dishes were as good as these. The hot pepper shrimp had hot black peppers throughout the vegetable base. After biting into one of the peppers, I spent the next ten minutes nursing my tongue back to health. Food that fiery should come with a warning. 
Among the desserts offered were fortune cookies, various cakes and gelatin. I sampled two different kinds of cakes, one car­rot and one German chocolate, and both were good. The carrot cake was similar to the Sarah Lee super­market variety. The German cho­colate, obviously not an authentic Chinese delicacy, was quite tasty nonetheless. 
All in all, the Great Wall Res­taurant was an unexpected delight. The establishment's interior, prices and quality food help custo­mers forget its bland exterior. Serving beer, wine and mixed drinks, the restaurant's hours are 
11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday thru Thursday, 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m., Friday and Saturday, and 4 to 9 p.m. Sunday. Dress is very casual and Visa, Mastercard, checks and cash are accepted. II 
19 



~D~ F(_t s-F(_t rr 
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
THURSDAY MEETING: HPC: 
All times are Chicago time. 
FILM: "Triumph of the Will" O'Shaughnessy Loft 7p.m. $1:50 
"One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest Engineering Auditorium 7 and 9:30 p.m., 12 a.m. $1.50 
LECTURE: Leo Stern Library Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. 
"Second Harmonic Generation Studies 
of Aqueous Corrosion On Electrode Surfaces" Dr. Bruce Biwer Conference Theater Radiation Laboratory 4p.m. 
"Analytic Invariants for Algebraic-K 
Theory" Prof. Steve Hurder Room 226 CCMB 
4:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's Post Toasties Board Room LeMans Hall SMC 
6:30 p.m. 
SPORTS: Wrestling vs. Michigan State ACC 7p.m. 
FRIDAY FILM: "Prizzi's Honor" Engineering Auditorium 7 and 9:30 p.m., 12 a.m. $1.50 
"A Sunday in the Country" Annenburg Auditorium 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $1.50 
LECTURE: "Catholic Higher Education in the American Context" Center for Social Concerns 
12:15 p.m. 
Carroll SYR Pangborn SYR Holy Cross (SMC) SYR Regina SYR 
SATURDAY FILM: 
"Prizzi's Honor" Engineering Auditorium 7 and 9:30 p.m., 12 a.m. $1.50 
SPORTS: Women's Basketball vs. Miami (Fla.) ACC Arena 1 p.m. 
Swimming vs. Kalamazoo Rolfs 
5 p.m. 
Saint Mary's Swimming vs. North Central College Rockne Pool lp.m. 
Compiled By Charlie Buckl_ey and Ace Corsetto 
l:aint Mary's basketball vs. Taylor University Angela Athletic Facility 1 p.m. 
HPC: 
Alumni Formal Cavanaugh SYR Dillon SYR Lewis SYR Pasquerilla West Formal Sorin SYR Walsh/ Lyons Formal McCandless Formal 
SUNDAY 

ART: Chester Brummel: Churches of Portugal O'Shaughnessy Gallery East Snite Museum SPORTS: 
Wrestling vs. Central Michigan ACC 2 p.m. 
MONDAY 

FILM: "Rules of the Game" O'Shaughnessy Loft ·7 and 9 p.m. $1.50 
"Freud" Annenburg Auditorium 9 p.m. $1.50 
ART: 19th Century European Prints, Toulouse Toulouse Lautrec, Cezanne, Daumier Drawing and Photography Gallery Snite Museum 
TUESDAY 

FILM: 
"Medium Cool" Annenburg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. $1.50 
MUSIC: 
The Beach Boys with Joan Jett and the Blackhearts ACC 
7:30 p.m. $13.50 
ART: Robert Berkshire: Paintings Little Theater Gallery SMC SPECIAL EVENT: Skating & hot cocoa ACC Rink 11:15 p.m. -12:15 Free 
WEDNESDAY 

FILM: 
"Easy Rider" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9 and 11 p.m. $1 
"October" O'Shuaghnessy Loft 7p.m. $1.50 
ART: 
Ruth Sinclair: Installations, Works On Paper Moreau Gallery SMC 
LECTURE: 
Ambassador Shevchenko "Soviet Foreign Policy and the Kremlin" Washington Hall 8 p.m. 
Michiana 




How I· Joined The All-Stars 
Rock and roll's impact on fashion continues, as Converse high tops become the newest rage 

Rock and roll and fashion have always been two hard animals to keep apart. From Elvis Presley to the Beastie Boys, rock musicians have continually set the trends and watched as the multitudes followed their lead. Sometimes rock's influence can create an entire look, with punk rock being an obvious recent example, but other times music impacts fashion in minute, almost unnoticeable ways. 
So the year 1987 is upon us, and everybody's looking for the Next Big Thing in fashion. No, it isn't going to be platform shoes; Sigue Sigue Sputnik foundered in resurrecting those last year. And I'd give plastic shirts another year to become really "hot." What'll be big, then? The answer is Converse All-Star high top sneakers, of course. Obvious, ain't it? 
These endearing little slices of Americana have been around for eons; they must have been, because every American film­maker shows somebody wearing a pair when depicting teenage life in the '50s. Usually it's somebody who's either dumb, a jock, or a dumb jock -someone with a really witty name like Moose or Noogie. Converse high tops are the shoes of the American middle class, the tough guys, the ones who sweat their lives out every day then 
By Tim Adams 


come home and down a cool six of Bud. 
Look closely at today's rock and rollers and · you'll realize that there's some strange kind of groundswell occurring. Joan Jett's been a Converse fan for years, and the . Clash and Sex Pistols both proudly flaunted their Chuck Tay­lors (an affectionate tag for the 
Albini's Converse-ial influence has manifested itself in a myriad of Chicago bands -the Slugs, Pre­cious Wax Drippings, 11th Dream . Day, and any number of hardcore groups -but underground acts from other locales, like Killdozer (from Madison via Minneapolis), Yo (from San Francisco), the Cir­cle Jerks (from L.A.), Lifeboat (from New York) and Doctors'· 
shoes, coined in honor of the enig­matic guy whose name is on every pair) when they were at their best, but it's today's underground that has fully embraced these hip pieces of footwear as their own. 

Steve Albini, the lead singer of Chicago's Big Black, has the ulti­mate Converse look: he's incredibly skinny and nerdy­looking, but his black high tops legitimize his presence anywhere. The skinnier you are, the bigger the shoes look, and the tougher you appear. But hey, I've seen some large humans no sane person would mess with sporting Con­verse All-Stars too, so what the hell. 
Mob (from Austin) have been seen in All-Stars, and that's just the tip of the iceberg. . Anybody who wants to be somebody has taken a flying leap into the first available pair of high tops around. These shoes just seem to be perfect for rock and roll. 
I'm no rock guru myself, but I succumbed to the urge to buy a pair of Chuck Taylors over the holidays. Sliding those babies on for the first time was a weird experience: at first they felt too big and looked pretty goofy, but after I got used to·'em I felt great. Since then, my acne's cleared· up, everybody who owed me money has paid me back with interest, Heather Locklear hasn't stopped calling, and people crisply salute me all over campus (even in O'Shag). 
Coincidence? I don't know for sure, but I'd have to say there was something in those shoes that brought out the cool ·guy in me. You've got to fight for your right to wear Converse. II 
Scholastic 

-~---. 
.-~~--~~-.-• •~ --~---.••~•.-..-•~---~-•~:-,.TO-~,,-•,-•:~:~-:-,~.;;__~~.:•,.~--~-~,:• •'-'<•~~•.-~.:--:_,-,,.,,.....-:.~~r:•••.:.••~•• ,_,•r-:~,'•••: .. ~•-.:~:-:> ,-:_,,~•'°_'•• •:-""•,'.<:: ~,.J~ 


Feed Me! Feed Me! 
·"Platoon" and "Little Shop of Horrors" satisfy a hungry audience 
By Alex Peltzer 



Finally there is a movie that does justice· to the tragedy of the Vietnam War. "Pla­toon" is a powerful film that leaves strong impressions of the nightmarish world that young Americans faced in the 1960s. 
This movie delves into the trenches and brings the audience right to the front line with excel­lent cinematography and stunning visuals. In one powerful battle scene after another, "Platoon" relentlessly relives the horror of fighting a strange war in a strange place. The audience, like the pla­toon itself, is rarely given a rest. 
But the strongest point of the movie is that it follows the fate of a single soldier. Private · Taylor, played by Charlie Sheen,is a ·col­lege student who leaves the shelter of college and volunteers to fight in Nam. By following Taylor and his platoon the movie gives the characters added dimension, mak­ing the horrors they face all the more tragic. 
The· film shows conflict not only with the Vietnamese but also between the Americans t_hem­selves. Many movies have tried to portray this inner struggle but few have done it as well as "Platoon". 
The film's only drawback is Taylor's narration, which becomes preachy and overdone at the end. 
February S; 1987 
Repeatedly hitting the audience over the head with the· same mes­sage, this ending becomes very 
sappy, quite a contrast from the rest of the movie. Despite this, "Platoon" could be one of the finest films of last year. 
"Little Shop of Horrors" could well be the next cult movie to hit the scene. It has all the features to make it the future "Rocky Horror Picture Show": strange plot, roc­kin' music and melodramatic char­acters. And most importantly, it is a fun movie to watch. 
Rick Moranis plays a nerdy but sincere florist, Seymour Krelborn, who unsuspectingly nurtures a bloodsucking plant into an enor­mous human-eating Venus flytrap. The grotesque plot is offset by the bizarre characters and the surreal atmosphere of the entire movie. 
The music is what makes the film really work. From the Motown sound of the street girls, who act as a kind of Greek chorus for the movie, to the surprisingly bold voice of Moranis and his dizzy blonde counterpart, Audrey, the audience is barraged by one hoppin' song after another. Maybe the best performance is by Levi Stubbs of the Four Tops. Stubbs is the voice of the plant, which constantly commands Sey­mour in a booming tenor, "Feed me, Seymour, Feed me!" 
Steve Martin adds to the fun with a hilarious song and dance about a sadistic dentist and Bill Murray makes a cameo appearance as a masochistic patient. All in all, the movie is non-stop crazi­ness, just the thing to catapult it to cult status. So watch out Frank N. Furter, here come Seymour and company.BJ 



Now ILay Me Down To Sleep 
A visit to the Shelter for the Homeless reveals that South Ben d's homeless are not just 'faceless bums' 
By Paul Sughrue 


O•n December 1.1inth last yea.r, I volunteered to help out at the South Bend Center for the Homeless. It turned out to be a night I would not, and could not, forget. It left me with harsh images reminding me that the "other half'' really does exist, that homeless people are real human beings and not just statistics. 
Upon our arrival at 10 p.m., the other volunteers and I were instructed to set up the cots that lay against the back wall. On each we placed a blanket. "Now remember," the shelter coordina­tor told us before letting in the homeless·, "treat these people like you'd treat anyone else. Do not look at them strangely. They are, believe it or not, real people." 
At 10:30, the doors swung open, permitting the homeless waiting outside to seek refuge from the bitter cold. They patiently stood in line to sign their names in the logbook. In all, there would be 31 names listed under "9 December, 1986." 
After laying their few belong­ings on the cots they had chosen, those desiring a shower went to where I was stationed. I was to dis­tribute the personalized bathroom bags -personalized because most 
24 

people at the shelter are regulars. Random questions flooded my mind. "Will these people resent me?" I kept thinking. "What if I can't find someone's bag? Will he pull a switchblade on me? Might not one of these men pick a fight with me? Isn't everyone here at least partially mentally dis­turbed?" 
· The first man -approached. "John Lysak," he said softly. I'd never thought of men who slept on park benches as having names. But they do. And they can talk. And they can be very polite. 
"John Lysak. .. here you go, sir." 
"Thank you," he said sincerely, 

looking me straight in the eyes. Of the approximately 10 people to . whom· I would. distribute the bags~ all but one would respond with a 
heart-felt "thank you." 
Those who had finished. taking a shower then joined the others for some hot soup and coffee. While watching them, my eyes caught sight of one woman in par­ticular, sitting alone sipping her soup; I looked intently at her face. It struck me that I could easily picture this woman happily mar­ried in the middle-class suburb where I live. It made me feel sick to think that if this woman had grown up under different cir­cumstances, she could just as easily be married with children to call her own, much less a bed. 
I joined up with the other volunteers after the lights were turned off. Before coming to the shelter, we had all sulked some­what about the prospect of doing homework into the wee hours of 

·the night. However, as we sat. around the kitchen table with 35 men and women in the next room happy to have a place to sleep, suddenly we did not mind having to do_ our homework quite as mut:h as we had before. 
I was awakened the next morn­ing at six a.m. to help serve donuts and coffee. Again the homeless were kind and appreciative. After eating, they rounded up what little they had and headed out into the South Bend cold, only to return 14 hours later seeking shelter again. 
If you volunteer to help out at the South Bend Center for the Homeless, I can promise four 

things: you will get very little sleep; you will often feel sick to your stomach; you will feel tremendous guilt; and you will be a better person for the experience. 
Those interested in volunteer­ing may contact Lynn Scott from 7 p.m. to midnight every day at 259-5770.11 
Scholastic 
.. ! 
I 
l 


Life In Hell 
L,\ F€. I~ 
1-\£L,.l, 

i:300 t-lES MV OLDER BRoTHER A-'P SISTER TOLD ME 
•HE. ALPHABE.T TRlC.I< 
\IJSIOE. M<:, tL-05€.T TH.E£e"S: A 
~OIJ CM COMc UP 1,J THE L.ITTLE oooQ., o.i.li;, BE.HirJt7. THO.T" 
'TR.E;E. FOl2.T l F :toV CAN LI t"TLE. OooQ., Tt-(E2e's A .--­
RE:C.ITE THE. WHOL..1:: &00b£L?-MA,J, AtJo HE.0$" AL.P\-1.ABE.T. r-i:--,,-­SET T~APS !N THE~€.-­








