
The S HOLASTIC 
MARCH 1, 1963 

THE CAMPUS SHOP QUALITY SALE! 
SAVE ON SUITS, TOPCOATS 
AND 
SPORT COATS 
The Campus Shop's semi-annual quality sale of men's fine suits, topcoats and sport coats is now in full swing! Come in soon . . . make your selection from our regular stock of famous-make men's cloth­ing. Save now ... charge it the Campus Shop way. 

NO CARRYING CHARGE 
MAKE YOUR SAYINGS NOW ... CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY! 
Get what you need now at Campus Shop Quality Sale Savings and charge it the Campus Shop way: pay one-third in June ... one-third in July ... one-third in August. Of course, there is never a carrying charge nor extra fee for this handy Charge Account service. So come in soon and save . . . enjoy the convenience of your Campus Shop Charge Account. 
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS 


THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: TOM HAMILTON 
When the Bell System recently product-tested the new Touch Tone telephone in Findlay, Ohio, they called on Ohio Bell's Tom Hamilton (B.S.E.E., 1960) to coordioate the project. Quite an honor since this was one of two Touch Tone trial areas in the entire country. 
This happened on Tolll"s second assignment with the company. Since colllpleting the project, Tom has joined the Fundamental Planning Engineer's Group. Here he makes engineering economy studies and submits progran.. for capital expenditures. Tom's performance has earned him the opportunity to attend a special six-month Bell System engineering course in Denver. 
Tom Hamilton and other young engineers like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America. 

The Scholastic 

Now a clean-filling, smooth-writing, moneY.-saving Parker cartridge pen ... only s395 
New PARKER ARR®W 



This pen can save you important money on car­tridges. Ours are BIGGER and last longer (each is good for 8 or 9 thousand words). But, even if you didn't save a dime, this pen would be worth the extra price. It's a Parker. 
And only Parker gives you a solid 14K gold point tipped with plathenium-one of the hardest, smoothest alloys ever developed. It should last you for years no matter how much you use it. 
The pen won't leak the way the cheap ones do. It has a built-in safety reservoir, and it must meet most of the tough specifications we set for our 
··: ···.·. ••.···· 
$10 pens. 'IE)'.}->If you have trouble saying it, say it with a Parker. If you're a little shy and have difficulty saying "I love you" or even "I like you very much"-say it with a Parker. 
The new Parker Arrow makes a beautifully ex­pressive gift and looks as if you paid a small fortune for it. 
The new Parker Arrow comes in black, dark blue, light blue, light gray, and bright red, with a choice of four instantly replaceable solid 14K gold points. Gift-boxed with five free cartridges. 
<f PARKER Maker of the world's most wanted pens 


Mlh 

Mlx9hulman 
GLAD RAGS 
The hounds of spring :ire on winter's tr:ices. Soon buds the crocus, soon trills the gi:int condor, soon come the new spring fashions to :idom our lissome limbs. 
And what will the American college student we:ir this spring? Gather round, you msc:ils, and light :1 :Marlboro Cig­arette and enjoy that fine mellow tobacco, that pure white filter, and possess your souls in sweet content, :ind listen. 
As everyone knows, c:impus fashions haYe alw:iys been c:isual. This spring, however, they ha,·e gone beyond being merely c:isual: they haYe become make­shift. 
The object is to look madly improvised, gaily spur-of-the-moment! For example, why don't you girls try we:iring a pe:isant skirt with a dinner jacket? Or matador pants with a bridal Yeil? Or Bermuda shorts with bronze breast­plates? Be rakish! Be im­promptu! Be devil-take­the-hindmost ! 
And, men, you be the same. Try :m opera c:ipe "ith swe:it pants. Or a let­ter-sweater "ith kilts. Or a strait jacket "ith hip boots. Be bold! Be daring! Be a tourist attraction! 
But all is not innovation in college fashions this spring. In fact, one of the highlights of the season turns time backward in its flight. I refer, of course, to the comeback of the powdered wig. 
This charming accoutre­ment, too long neglected, has already c:iught on "ith in undergrads every­where. On hundreds of campuses the bossa non1 is giYing way to the minuet, and patriotic undergraduates are dump­ing British tea into the nearest harbor. This, as you may imagine, does not sit well "ith King George III who, according to reliable reports, has been stamping his foot and uttering curses not fit to reproduce in this family newspaper. For that matter, a lot of our own people are steamed up too, and there has even been some talk about the Americ:in colonies declaring their independence of England. But I hardly think it "ill come to that. I me:in, how c:in we break "ith the mother country when we are dependent on her for so many things-linsey-woolsey, Minic 
* * 

Fashions come, fashions go, but year after year Marlboro Cigarettes, sponsors of this column, bring you the tastiest tobaccos and a pure white filter too. Try .Marlboro soon. 
balls, taper snuffers, and like that? She, on the other hand, relies on us for turkeys, Marlboro Cigarettes, and Route 66. So I say, if l\folly Pitcher and those other Radcliffe hotheads will calm down, and if gentlemen will cry "Peace! Peace!" we may yet find an amicable solution to our differences. But let not our British cousins mistake this willingness to nego­tiate for weakness. If fight we must, then fight we "ill! Paul Revere is saddled up, the rude bridge arches the flood, and the ROTC is armed! 
But I digress. We were smoking Marl­boro Cigarettes-O, splendid cigarette! 0, good golden tobaccos! 0, pristine pure white filter! 0, fresh! 0, tasty! 0, soft pack! 0, flip top box! 0, get some!-we 
tYP/ 

were, I say, smoking l\farlboros and talk­ing about spring fashions. 
Let us turn now to the season's most striking new feature-pneumatic under­drawers. These inflatable garments make every chair an easy chair. Think how welcome they w-ill be when you sit through a long lecture! They are not, however, without certain dangers. Last week, for example, Rimbaud Sigafoos, a sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh, fell out of a 96th story window in the Tower of Learning. Thanks to his pneumatic under­drawers, he suffered no injury when he struck the sidewalk, but the poor fellow is still bouncing-his seventh consecutive dav-and it is feared that he "ill starve to ~death. 
©I963 Max Shulman 
* 

The SCHOLASTIC 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vh·e Quasi Cras l\loriturus 
Founded 1867 
JOHN McCABE 
Editor 
JACK AHERN 
Managing Editor 

Associate Editors: John Bechtold, James Galvin, Ralph Martin, John Ohala, James Wyrsch. 
Business Manager: Jay Ward. 
Contributing Editors: James Devlin, Arline Hagan, John Kirlin, Frank McConnell, Robert McGowan, J. J. Pottmyer, Patrick Saxe, Thomas Schlereth, Carl Wiedemann. 
Assistant Editors: John Anton, Ken Arnold, John Buckley, Joe Caspar, Vince De Coursey, Stephen Enright, Bill Metz, Richard Notebaert, John Rogers, Joe 
Ryan, Terry Wolkerstorfer, Bob Ziels­dorf. 

Advertising Manager: Richard Roggeveen. 
Circulation Manager: Tom Dalum. 
Photography: Brian Beck. 
Faculty Advisors: Donald Costello, Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C. 
STAFF: Pat Bauer, Greg Callaghan, Dick Connelly, Dennis Corrigan, Al Dudash, Charles Dunn, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jack Gerken, John Gorman, Re....-: Lardner, Bob Lumpkins, Dick Maher. Julie 
O"Connor, John Pope, Jack Rowe, Gary Sabatte, Frank Smith, Richard Weirich, Don Wharton. 
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association · and the Associated Colle1,;iate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertisin!; Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazmes Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York Ii, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and e.xamination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip­tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be­comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
6 The Scholastic 
EDITORIALS 


N
ow THAT A STUDENT ROMANCE with a man of my "stature" seems to have begun, to paraphrase the opening bar of last week's SCHOLASTIC editorial, it may be appropriate for the somewhat reluctant partner to reply. The discussion appears to turn round three issues. The editors urged that the chief executive's office at Notre Dame be divided into two parts, one of which would be concerned with "day­to-day affairs." They believed that though a religious community is admirably designed to help those in it get over the cobblestones which pave the way to bliss, it is bound to come a cropper when it tries to run an institution of higher learning. They then con­cluded that only "a renowned lay educator" could guide "the organic growth of the development of the University. 
I shall comment on these issues as impersonally as possible. The editorial kindly attributed to me both "renown" and "stature." Since I accept the compliment gratefully for the sake of those I pre­sumably resemble, I shall ask the question, why did I come to Notre Dame? Obviously not to be presi­dent, since I could have kept right on being one. Of course I had once been young and happy here both as a student and a fledgling professor. But sentimentality had nothing to do with the matter. I had long entertained the deep conviction that a distinguished university with a sound core of theo­logical learning, of the kind Newman had advocated, was needed if Catholics in the United States were to move toward acceptance of higher education as perhaps the most important force in the making of the modern world. Because this was the kind of university Father Hesburgh was planning, it seemed at least conceivable that I could be of some help to him. I did not expect perfection either in the student body or in the institution. My experience with stu­dent bodies left no room for doubt on the first score, and Father Hesburgh dispelled all illusions concern­ing the second. I certainly have no reason to regret the decision. We still have a long way to go at Notre Dame, but we are trying to inch forward. I wish as much could be said for all establishments of higher learning in this country. 
Undoubtedly the top administrative office in any 
Concerning the University Administration 
university can be organized in different ways. But two things are clear. The big questions must in the final analysis be answered by one man, what­ever title you give him, and he must spend a great deal of time off the campus. For better or for worse this is now the rule. If the man in question cannot be seen outside his alma mater, he soon will become invisible in it, too. Why? Because whether it be Notre Dame or Columbia, M. I. T. or Indiana, a university needs faculty, merited prestige and money. Only the official in question can attract them. He is the symbol by which the institution is judged, even as he is the sole person who can light a fire under its natural inertia. A degree from Notre Dame is an asset only if Notre Dame has an honestly come by reputation for whatever gives value to a degree. Father Hesburgh represents that reputation t9 the world, and those who graduate will realize this a few years hence if they do not now. Of course the job is terribly difficult, as the editorial acknowledges. But one must not try to make it an impossible task by suggesting that the president stay home and de­cide that lights should not go out in Freshman halls at twelve o'clock. Surely the reason why deans exist is to cope with that kind of problem. True enough, if there be a dean who can deal ,vith such issues to the satisfaction of every student and faculty member, I have never heard of him. But this is his unfortunate responsibility. 
To proceed to the second point. It can be argued and sometimes is that the ideal Catholic university would be administered by laymen. Even in a less rarified atmosphere a lay vice-president or provost can be appointed. Here the question is one of human resources. When Notre Dame had Father Nieuwland, an excellent chemist was on the premises though he was a priest. And when later on it induced Fred Rossini to come here it acquired a first-rate scientist, though he is a layman. We may also concede that since there is a marked difference between the pro­fessional orientation of religious and that of the lay student or teacher, there may well be moments when the two do not coincide. Were this not so, the Com­munity would have no reason for existing. Its mem­bers must retire every day to the bosom of their 
March 1, 1963 
family, even as laymen go to theirs. 
But for my part, I have long since concluded that all this does not by any means prove that laymen should take over rather than assist in the administra­tion of a university like Notre Dame. Perhaps the decision is a bit biased because I have learned a good deal about presidents and faculties. If there be very many in the second group who do not spend time plucking the feathers out of the first, figuratively speaking, they have managed to remain hidden from view. And, alas, they are often justified in plucking. The scholar-teacher is an artist and an individualist. He appreciates his own native ability to run the academic show as deeply as he is persuaded that the administrative chores necessary to do so are beneath his dignity. This is all as it should be and one hopes always will be. Accordingly the chances, in terms of "renown" and "stature," are that a lay president would soon cease to be a paragon and get trimmed down to size, as is the immemorial academic custom. 
There are very serious reasons why the argument that Notre Dame would be better off under a lay ad­ministration seems unsound. The first is rather primitive: it is a quite brutal suggestion, in more ways than one. Notre Drune certainly would not be here at all if the Congregation of the Holy Cross had not built it piece by piece in what was once wilderness. I think the Community has a clear right to pride in its achievement. Nor does it seem to me muddleheaded to surmise that what has happened here in this place is a kind of miracle and that those for whom and through whom it has been wrought have the duty of grateful custodianship. Next comes a quite practical query: who except Father Hesburgh and his colleagues in the Community could induce the public, Catholic or otherwise, to give the great sums needed to keep the University going? If you talk frankly with the trustees, you will find that the answer is No One. The Community represents not ostentatiously but humbly all that has been done heroically in this country for the preservation of the Faith. People respond to that. Finally there is a reason for the situation now obtaining which seems to me of sovereign importance. The place of theology 
in a Catholic university is central, however moot the question of method may be. I do not believe that any layman in possession of all his mental faculties would at present accept responsibility for the theological and ecclesiastical implications of Catholic university teaching. Some time the situation may be different, but we are not talking about some time. 
Herewith my reply to the editorial is concluded. But I would like to add that perhaps we should look at the record. The plain fact is that by and large laymen are in charge of instruction at Notre Dame. In this respect the University has come a long way. During the past the going was sometimes tough and we still may not be wholly at ease in our inn. But certainly we are trying, and nobody more so than Father Hesburgh. There are people who believe we shall not pull it off, and others of course who would gladly see us fail. I also understand, perhaps only too well, how difficult student life can be now that standards are high and so much is expected of one. Even relative failure can leave wounds one vainly tries to cover with a grin. And so I realize that when one has become a Senior the elected silence may not sing and that it can seem that if one had gone elsewhere student life would have been richer and freer. But wait awhile. Camus said, shortly before the accident which took his life, that there is a death wish in every human heart. You will discover how true this is. And then, wherever you are, you will recall with joy that despite the well-advertised "mediocrity" of the sermons and the occasional rigor of the commitment, there was something luminous, living and persistent in the spirit of Notre Dame. You will want that for your children because other­wise you might wish that your children had not been born. 
-GEORGE N. SHUSTER 

"Careful, tough, informed criticism of any insti­tution implies a compliment; it suggests that the institution deserves to be taken seriously and that its directors are honest and open-minded." -Robert 
G. Hoyt, Editor of Kansas City Catholic Reporter, writing in The Commonweal, Feb. 15, 1963. 
J 
The Scholastic 
Cuba: 

No Invasion 
Please 

ALTER JUDD., the distinguished former Republi­W can member of the House Foreign Relations Committee, remarked to a Notre Dame Young Re­publican Club meeting that the time has come for a "national decision" on Cuba. He went on: "The situation in Cuba is intolerable." 
We would beg to disagree with Mr. Judd; for we think that a "national decision" has already been made on Cuba, that the American people, generally speaking, favor the Administration's policy. This policy was described by Ambassador Stevenson to a SCHOLASTIC reporter two weeks ago as a "policy of containment." In other words, the Administration is attempting to prevent Castro-type communism (whether it be favoring Chinese communism or Rus­sian communism) from spreading in Latin America. 
The idea of containment, first formulated just after the Second World War by George Kennan, has 
March 1, 1963 
been accepted by the American people as the correct 
principle for American foreign policy. In the instance 
of Cuba, the situation seems even more to demand 
such a policy. 

There are, perhaps, three alternatives for the 
U.S. in dealing with Cuba For one thing, this coun­try could attempt a full-scale invasion. But, as the New Republic noted several weeks ago, "authorita­tive estimates suggest that an invasion would be as bloody as Korea." Moreover, there is no "reason to believe that outside intervention could assure a stable,, democratic post-Castro government; three genera­tions of Cuban patriots failed to create such a govern­ment, and they worked without the stigma of foreign support." 
The second alternative would be to assist the 
"friendly" revolutionary force. However, in view of 
Castro's formidable defenses, only a full-scale inva­
sion could win. 

The third alternative is the one adopted by the United States -the containment of Castro. This policy is based on the supposition that Cuba's danger to this country is not primarily a military one. Rath­er, the real threat of Castro is to South America, for it has become clear that he is using his island as a base for subversion in South America. For instance,, Castro communists almost overthrew the Venezuelan government recently. The containment policy has several facets, one being the demand that the Soviets take their troops out of Cuba. Another facet is the extensive intelligence operation against Cuba to de­termine if there are any "offensive" weapons there. But the most powerful deterrent to Castro is, very likely, the Alliance for Progress. 
The Alliance, of course, seeks to bring about an evolution of social justice in South America rather than a revolution. Unfortunately, it has not yet met the expectations of its supporters. But if the Alliance does not eventually work, if the American people do not give it their wholehearted support (for they must provide most of the planning and financing of it), then blowing up Cuba will not solve the problem. Our greatest weapon against Cuba is not a military one; it is a strong, free, prosperous, and just Latin­American society. 


slander Professor Hacker are not very subtle. \.Vhen the reviewer describes the Lecturer as a " . . . former ( ? ) [sic] Marxian economist," he does not docmnent this statement. Perhaps he confuses those historians who use an economic framework with Marxists. Of course this would be absurd. Even if the reviewer's position is correct, how or why would it be relevant to a critique of a Cardinal O'Hara Me­morial Lecture? 
In summary, I am shocked that a member of the University of Notre Dame faculty would use innuendoes and other devious means to attack a leading scholar and guest of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
Sherman Shapiro 
Associate Professor of Finance 
and Business Economics 
Dear Editor: 

I have read your article on Saint Mary's three times and each time I read it, it got better. Naturally, I don't agree with everything you have said, but, in general, the article is very true. 
My first objections arose because I applied each of your statements to myself. I am neither rich, nor con­servative, nor sheltered. But your statements really do include a great number of Saint Mary's students. 
To help your analysis of our prob­lem, please refer to yours-"To state the problem succinctly we may say that there is a deep-rooted confusion in the notion of any university (or college) that is both owned and operated solely by a religious order... " 
JOBS IN EUROPE 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Mar. 1 1963-Would you like to work at a Swiss resort, a Norwe­gian farm, a German factory, a construction site in Spain, or a summer camp in France? Thou­sands of paying summer jobs (some offering $190 monthly) are avail­able in Europe to U.S. students. 
The American Student Informa­tion Service, celebrating its 6th Anniversary, will award TRAVEL GRANTS to its first 1500 appli­cants. 
For 20-page Prospectus, com­plete selection of European jobs and Job Application ( enclose $1 for Prospectus, handling and airmail reply) write, naming your school, to: Dept. R, ASIS, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The first 8000 inquiries receive a $1 coupon toward the purchase of the new student travel book, Earn, Learn & Travel in Europe. 
I think we have something in com­mon, don't you? 
Please accept my apology for my 

criticism after having read the article 
the first time. I hope that your efforts 
will be beneficial. 
Diane Shalala 
St. Mary's College 
OPEN LETTER TO STUDENTS 

Dear Editor: 
"La critique est aisee mais l'art est 

difficile." (You may not understand 
this sentence, but our President will.) 
Too much freedom and understand­ing on the part of Father Hesburgh gave rise to the opportunity to un­known students of Notre Dame to appoint themselves President of the University. The editorial written by these students claimed that there was a concentration of power in the office of President and that the effective authority was absent. Moreover, they insisted that there was "a total fusion of the function of religious leadership with the function of academic leader­ship (and the administrative appara­tus necessary to the direction of the academic end, the only reason for which a university exists), to the detriment of both." 
But every well-run university or institution cannot move smoothly un­less there has been an effective del­egation of power and authority. How was it possible for the biggest ex­pansion program of this University, intellectual and physical, to move forward so rapidly if everything wait­ed upon directive from a central authority? 
This must necessarily mean that there is no counteracting or de­structive effect between the religious and academic functions performed by the Congregation of Holy Cross and the faculty. 
For reasons that become obvious we feel that it is imperative that Father Hesburgh remain at his post as President of this University. It is as a direct result of Father Hes­burgh's untiring and full-time efforts, even while he is away from this campus, that we find daily proof of the continued excellence of his per­formance and that of this University. 
By the same token, we, expressing the opinion of many mature students on this campus, want to make known our gratitude to Father Hesburgh, and give him our full support. We are sorry that the opinion of a few, once more, has been made to appear the opinion of the majority of Notre Dame students. 
J.M. 
Walsh 

A. 
X. Cuvelier 321 and 211 Fisher Hall 


of "The Scholastic" carried an article by the Rev. Thomas J. Engleton, C.S.C., of Notre Dame's Department of His­tory. His article, "Revisiting the Rob­ber Barons," is purported to be a re­view of a Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture delivered on February 14. 
It is not my wish to comment on the illogic of this review. I am willing to grant such reviewers the right to be wrong, illogical, or even emotional. 

The purpose of these Lectures is to bring to the College of Business Ad­ministration and the University of Notre Dame leading scholars. By any standards Professor Louis M. Hacker of Columbia University is one of America's leading economic histo­rians. It is not the desire of the Com­mittee arranging these Lectures (of which Committee I am a member, but under whose auspices this letter is not being written) to endorse the views of its Lecturers. These talks have as one of their purposes the exploration of new ideas. 
It behooves the faculty of a uni­versity to concern itself with truth and relevance in reviews like this. Un­fortunately, this reviewer was con­cerned ,vith neither! His attempts to 
Authorized Triumph Dealer 
New and Used Sports Cars Sales and Service 
* 
BROOK'S MOTORS 
916 E. McKinley Mishawaka, Indiana 
The Scholastic 
e ...... 
},i,,,.........
-•­

aeo --•-­
EWEI..~:m8
»--~__..,.,c-r.., 

44th Birthday Safe 
March 4th through March 13th 
OUR FAMOUS YEARLY SALE­Excellent Savings in All Departments 
30% to 50% off 
on 

DIAMONDS • WATCHES • 14KT CHARMS & JEWELRY • CLOCKS • FASHION JEWELRY • GIFTS • WATCH BANDS 
Credit and Layaway available to NOTRE DAME MEN 

121 W. Washington CE 4-1311 



PUBllS'H\ER
. ' \ ' ' , t. 1 . ,,J 
. .. ~ .. .. .. ·, I f ...., _.. t...._f
E$\tAf3~t-~tS.F:t~s 

..
": ~--_ "·:'/ 
. 
BOOK PRICES 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
'kJe 'JtjdJ J~ {!)_, • •• 
THURSDAY, MARCH 7 
Engineers: • Electrical • Mechanical • Industrial 
==========For Positions In========== 
SALES ENGINEERING 
CUTLER-HAMMER Inc. 
Pioneer Electrical Man11fact11rers 
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
NICOLA'S 
CE 3-8283 
or 
For Fast Delivery 
Call CE 4-1565 
Free Campus DeliYery 
Restaurant in back at 
607 No. Michigan 

STAY WITH A N.D. MAN 
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL 
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31 • 
Reser,,ations: CE 4-0136 
• 
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. '38 LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. '3& 
,______________ -------' 
Contact Lens Specialist 
• 
Dr. T. R. Pilot 
Optometrist 
• 
EYES EXAMINED 
OPTICAL REPAIRS 
GLASSES fittED • 212 5. Michigan CE 4-4874 



Does a man really take unfair advantage of women when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer? 
All depends on why he uses it. 
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns. Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it helps prevent blemishes. 
So who can blame them if Bracer's crisp, long-lasting aroma just happens to affect women so remarkably? 
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because of this effect.• -How intelligent! !BJ 

Available at 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
The Scholastic 
ing $2.8 million, the 1107, as it is of­ficially called, can do in thirty seconds what the old model could do in nine

campus at a glance 
hours. 
• Gravitating, with brief case in hand, a new type of scholar, a cross between the intellectual and the businessman, the debater will cover the campus with his suave glibness and punctual posture. Fifty schools have sent their best tongues to Notre Dame to com­pete in the Eleventh Annual National Invitational Debate Tournament today and tomorrow. (See cover.) 
This is no stop-gap tournament, but 
is rated as one of the top three in the 
country. Debaters, both male and fe­
male, from all over the country, from 
Brandeis in the East to Redlands in 
the West, are entering. 
The Notre Dame representatives in 
this affair have been winning 65% 
of the debates in which they have 
participated. 
One of the most widely travelled 
organizations on campus, the debate 
team has briefed its way from Dart­
mouth to the Air Force Academy, 
from Miami, Florida, to Wisconsin. 
About thirty debaters, half of them 
freshmen, make up the team. 
The question to be settled this year is whether the non-Communist na­tions of the world should form an economic community. Preliminary rounds will be held in LaFortune and the semifinals and finals will be in 127 Nieuwland and the Engineering Audi­torium. Rounds are free and everyone is invited to the show starting Friday at 9:30 and proceeding at one and a half hour intervals through the day, the same for the finals on Saturday but beginning at 1:30. 

• If Bobby Kennedy can hike 50 miles, 50 people can tiddlywink 50 miles! Working on this premise ad­vanced by B-Pite Al Augustine, who just happened to have received a set of tiddlywinks for Christmas, 50 freshmen on the second floor of Breen­Phillips have tiddlywinked 50 miles up and down the second floor corridors. The marathon lasted from 7:00 p.m. last Thursday to 8:02 a.m. last Satur­day. Fr. Green, the second floor Breen-Phillips prefect, pushed the tiddlywink over the 50-mile mark. Fr. Kuhns, Breen-Phillips rector, then queried, "Is that nonsense over with?" 
Once Greg Hobbs of WSND picked up the tiddlywinks marathon for WSND, NBC-TV, Monitor Radio, and UPI got in on the act. 
Terry Briton, Frank DeMambro, and Jim Egan, the three freshman or­ganizers of the marathon, which took 2000 trips up and down the second floor corridor of Breen-Phillips, sent 
March 1, 1963 
a telegram to President Kennedy promptly upon the finish of the mara­thon. The last paragraph of the tele­gram read: "We would like to report that our thumbs are physically fit and we would like to challenge Bobby Kennedy to do the same." 
The freshman trio is awaiting a reply to their bid for an appearance on the "I've Got A Secret" TV show. 
• Jack Hildebrand read the sign ­25 miles to Gary. Blisters upon blisters and after two miles of hiking through slush, Hildebrand discovered he was 30 miles from Gary. He quit. 
Seniors Dan O'Brien, John Higgins, and John McTernan had started out with Hildebrand on a 90-mile hike to Chicago, Friday, February 15, at 
10:30 p.m., but they dropped off one by one. John Higgins got sick at the 35-mile mark, and John McTernan lasted 40 miles. At the 45-mile mark Dan O'Brien found his knees wouldn't bend any more. Hildebrand trudged on alone toward Gary before he became bewildered 30 miles away from his goal. 
The senior quartet plans to try 

again, but a trio of freshmen are training to challenge the seniors in the middle of March. Last Sunday, the three freshmen, Buzz Binzen, Bob Sullivan, and Rick Weirich hiked 10 
miles to Niles in two and a half hours to initiate their training. This Sunday they're hiking to Niles and back, 20 miles, to get in better shape. In their mid-March attempt, the three freshmen plan to spend three days covering the 95 miles to Chicago and will probably spend the nights in sleeping bags. 
• Taking up one full floor in the new computer and math building is Notre Dame's new Univac computer. Cost-Some of its amazing manipulations 
might inspire an ardent speed reader_ 
It can browse through a 250-page 
book inside of one second, and a 
simple little addition problem can be 
done in no less than four-millionths 
of a second. 
And, if anyone has any idea about 
testing Univac with an unsolvable 20 
by 20 determinant, it will cost them 
upwards of five hundred dollars per 
hour for prime time. 
But, for the more practically minded, 
one machine surgeon recently got the 
1107 to spew out "Happy St. Patrick's 
Day" 1600 times in five seconds -for 
four quarts of green grease. 

• As someone remarked, Brand X is more like greasy kid stuff. The cognomen and the jocose statement both apply to the latest campus publi­cation, which pretends to be eastern­oriented (a "la, The New Yorker) but manages to be more southwest desert or north-northwest insane. The staff includes many members of the Met Club. 
There was no need to eat the flyer which this publication sent around last week end announcing that this most comic effort at humor would be published against the wishes of authorities higher than Tim Wright, editor of The Leprechaun. Wright tried to avert the publication of Brand X by diplomacy. He asked Bob Urso, editor of Brand X, to join forces with The Lepreclzau,n to avoid fighting towards a mutual destruction, which appears imminent. Urso declined. 
Reverend Joseph Hoffman, Asst. Vice-President for Student Affairs, read a great deal of the copy for Brand X before it was published and did not, in any way, impede the pub­lication of Brand X. 
• 
John Hirschfelder, a sophomore~ was among the second five in the nation in the 23rd Annual William Lowell Putnam Mathematics Competi­tion. Classmate Tom Phinney was 28th of 1585 students taking this test of mathematical reasoning. Both individuals placed higher than those on the official Notre Dame team ( com­posed of seniors Michael Jones who tied for 33rd and Ed Siegfried and Fred Rickey who tied for 38th). Notre Dame took 15th place of 157 com­peting teams; Cal Tech was first. 

• 
The Ball in the North Dining Hall­Ballroom-Amphitheater e..'<ceeded the wildest expectations. The Brunch was well attended, and the Louis Arm­


(Continued on page 34) 

• Before a recent gathering of North­western University engineering fac­
On Other Campuses 
ulty and graduate students, Dr. Law­rence L. Kavanau, special assistant to 
• The Big Ten schools and the Uni­versity of Chicago have united to form the Committee on Institutional Cooperation. Under this system, a graduate student at one of the mem­ber schools will soon be able to study courses at any other member, in order to utilize special laboratories or li­brary collections, or to study under outstanding professors. He will regis­ter in and pay fees to his "home" university, but will be able to study at one of the other member schools for a semester or two quarters. 
Under this system, the schools hope to avoid some duplication of expendi­tures and effort, in addition to de­veloping greater specialities by in­creasing the number of potential stu­dents. 
• If the collegiate competition for grades is bad enough now, a recent proposal at the University of Florida would only make matters worse. The Speaker of Florida's House of Rep­resentatives proposed a plan to the State Board of Control, which would allow students with the best grades to attend state universities free. Stu­dents making D's and E's would also be charged more to attend college. 
The plan would save one of ten stu­dents $113 per trimester, but would cost poorer students up to $40 for every course in which they received a low mark. Another article of the plan 
Feiffer 
would provide no reregistration fee for students in the top ten percent of their class for the previous trimester or semester. 
• Ten students from the Arkansas Agriculture, Mining and Normal Col­lege were expelled for participating in sit-in demonstrations. 
A primary reason for the action, ex­plained the college president, was the administration's fear of the danger involved to the students for continu­ing participation in the demonstra­tions. Also, the probability that such demonstrations would be unfavorably received by the state legislature, which is due to appropriate funds for the college this year, was another fac­tor in his action. 
The students had previously been suspended for their actions, but pro­ceeded with their demonstrations. 
The demonstrations, against a lunch counter in a local Woolworth's store, were sponsored by the Student Non­violent Coordinating Committee. Ap­parently, a local group attempting to persuade the store managers to in­tegrate their lunch counters was on the verge of achieving success when the sit-ins began. One of the ground rules before an agreement could be reached in the negotiations was that the Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee have nothing to do with negotiations. 
the director of defense research, re­iterated a growing concern among military and civilian space planners. Our ambitions in space are out­running our engineers' ability to pro­duce them. The increasing complexi­ties of space research leave no room for incompetence. Yet the high degree of partial or complete failures in our space program illustrates that col­leges are producing, and industry is accepting, engineers without a suf­ficient background in even the most elementary fields as physics, mathe­matics, chemistry, etc., to achieve the reliability necessary in future at­tempts at the conquest of space. 
As a solution to this problem, Dr. Kavanau suggests increased liaison be­tween industries and colleges, in or­der that engineers be given practical experience in the application of class­room theory. Increased emphasis should also be given to the role of the engineer as a speaker and writer, since the engineer must be able to transmute his theoretical ideas into the hardware necessary to do the job and to do it right. Only when the engineer's ability to transmute and to apply the theoretical knowledge which he has at his disposal is ex­tended far beyond the present bounds will we be able to design and produce instruments of sufficient reliability and precision to make man's con­quest of the moon a reality. 
BUf,'5/R..,ARl31J'f l(OU OVeRWOf(1fJG r'RC6R~S~ fHR0V6H OUR. l)E'W 5£{5f€H OF 0/olTAt, COH· PVTfR Rmex fJIAL./~{:J l,fOUR CAL/,S [u//,/, GO TA~l/6!1 MUCH FAST£~ NJO Af ~ 
A. C0~$8t,6 9.VIAJG ~)WHICH uJ€ CN.J 1Hal PA~S . OIJ 10 YOU llJ 1/16 FORM "'" 
Of FVR'ftfER li£A/J~ltATIOIJ. 


U.lHAT I'M CAlll!J6 A80UT MR. l.{c5, [J6 Afc ALL AWARE OF 1H6 M£R!xrJ016LE5R /S !{OUR. ~ffVSAt, ALWxD CP.ARGES CF l76HIJMAfJ­6U. R€61ST6RED it:TftR 10 IZAf!OIJ, HR-H6RGrno1a€R, 
wt TOO RfAV 
1H€ ,\JEiiJ~-~
AUOW US 10 [HAUS£ ~ 
l{Oi.JK PRES€/JT -...__ PAP6f2 ~VlTOflAL.6. Mu tYlHA!JS€ FROK '-~ ) fl.SE L>JDUW £,.}€ !(NOW 
flcOjl,I WHICH PAPff2tj
CANAl-6 To = 
10 WlfHORNJJ
3441615. 

AVV€R1lSIIJG ? 

The Scholastic 

CONCENTRATION FLUCTUATIONS IN A STIRRED BAFFLED VESSEL 
by J. J. POTTMYER 
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 
A stirred vessel is maintained in a quasi-steady state by continuously introducing methanol and a conductive tracer solution and continuously removing the mixture through an overflow discharge. Properties of this system are studied by measuring concentration changes with a conductivity probe with suitable electronic equipment. 
Actually, the title and abstract of this article bear no relation to its contents. The author, a chemical engineer, has long been embarrassed in filling out job applications or grad school applications by not having published anything sufficiently scientific to be referred to in the appropriate blank spaces on these forms. This article is really somewhat light­hearted; but was rejected by the 25-cent humor magazine for failing to be crude and by St. Mary·s Chimes for failing to be sufficiently Kafkaesque. 
O
NE MORNING JOSEPH K. awoke from an evening of uneasy dreams with the thought that he must, quite soon, write a term paper for Theology. All the next day K. could not get this idea out of his head. K.'s professor was a bald, jovial little man, a priest whom K. knew casually. At first K. had actually followed the man's lectures quite closely-indeed the thought of such an important topic had its appeal to him also -but regrettably not for long; he had since ceased to listen and merely nodded now and then in class in the midst of the man's claims, until he forgot even to show that much interest. It was with regret that K. now recognized that the only way to save his case and advance his posi­tion and grade •was to write the re­quired term paper. 
When K. had finished his evening meal and removed his stained coat and tie, he left his room, tired, his mind quite blank, and walked to the library. Once in the library, he busily set about diligently copying call num­bers and titles from the card catalogue onto library call slips. K. found this chore considerably simplified by the fact that he overlooked all cards written in French. After thirty min­utes of copying, K. further simplified his task by choosing only books which appeared to have been trans­lated from French into English. K. judged these works to be of the utmost interest to himself. After another hour, out of pride at having finished and out of curiosity to see some books, K. hurried over to the wooden counter and presented his call slips to a matronly, white-haired clerk in a blue dress. The slips were im­mediately swished away through pneumatic tubes to unknown environs. After what seemed a very great length of time, interrupted monot­onously only by the click-whirr of the time clock every minute or by series of three or four loud buzzes from a distant part of the library, K., against his usual habit, began to study the external appearances with close attention and remained stand­ing for a while longer at the counter. High above on the walls were painted grotesque figures, one holding a switch with sword hilt attached with which he was whipping two others. Another green-handed being clasped the wrists of a grotesque man. Still another man, raising his hands to heaven, dragged some bloody artery with them. K. was allowed no more time to ponder these paintings, though, when one of the clerks re­turned his 362 call slips, saying that none of the books could be had. 355 were lost and 7 were checked out to faculty members. K., though fearing that it was hopeless to call anything to the attention of so minor an official as this clerk, nevertheless said to her, "I'm afraid I'm being treated most unfairly. Actually, I'm quite detached from this affair, and so I can judge it calmly. I, being completely innocent and having avoid­ed using greasy kid's stuff, can only be the victim of some cruel joke." Although K. intended also to mention that he faithfully read the magazine with the cluttered, crude cover based on classical themes rather than the magazine with the cluttered, crude cover based on comic-book themes, the clerk interrupted by saying, "Don't you see that you can't get help here." 

K. had planned to try walking through the swinging door, a plan which seemed quite possible without any ado, for almost everyone rushed in and out through that door which purported to allow entrance only to 
V 
V 

-/'(J y ,l5 

~----~.....­

seniors and graduate students. How­ever, K. decided that the dusty, yel­low, dimly lit stacks would only sicken him and add to his confusion_ Feeling a desperate need to breathe fresh air, K. hurried outside, being stopped only briefly while an old man searched for books under his coat. 
K. walked briskly from the area of Old No-Architecture (Library, Badin) past the Collegiate Gothic quarter (Dining Hall, Dillon, Law Bldg.) to the area of New No-Architecture. He hurried right to the very base of the most imposing monument in this area of campus. On top of this struc­ture was a large metal box, rumored by some of the people who claimed to follow campus events closely to be a heliport but thought by others to be the chancellery. 
K., knowing that whoever held the authority to get him his books must reside in that box, stepped through a door into the building and was never seen again. 
March 1, 1963 
count for being elephantine and vul­gar in paying her, and into her for being the sort of selfish wife that would drive a husband into scandals. What are really fine in this act are Miss Schneider's well-calculated and professional gestures, which alone mark her as a splendid actress. 
"The Raffle" is a hilariously funny story about a meek fellow named Cuspet, who is the village sexton. He wins a raffle that entitles him to a night of honest fun (in the movie's moral terms) with Zoe (Sophia Loren). Meek Cuspet has to be per­suaded by his mother to go have some fun instead of selling his ticket for thousands of lire to any of many willing buyers. Zoe, meanwhile, has become involved with Gaetano 
(Luigi Giuliani), a young and hand-
Two Busts and a 
Bonanza 

Boccaccio 10 is a mov~e oI three acts isolating three typical attitudes of a person towards his or her body. The attempt to be comical underlies the entire presentation, but remains only an attempt because the characters are so apparently ironic, even at first glance, that the dramatic revelation of their irony comes as no surprise and is even boring to the audience. This irony is especially sharp in Act 1, "The Temptation of Dr. Antonio," where it turns to a kind of self-mock­ing satire on prudery. Dr. Antonio (Peppino de Filippo) is a fatuous figure who goes about the city con­demning lechery in the name of a nebulous code of decency. He meets his real lascivious self, painfully obvi­ous all the while, when he becomes disturbed by a giant billboard rep­resentation of a sensuous Anita Ekberg who comes to life and be­comes seductive in the name of th2 devil -all of which makes the devil nothing and sex everything, pointing to the prurience that first energized Dr. Antonio's crusade against sex­uality. 
Act 2 is a bit more devious. Aptly entitled "The Job" it concerns a beautiful young woman, Pupe (Romy Schneider), married to a handsome count (Thomas l\llilian); she decides that she would like to go out and work for a living after hearing about her husband's scandalous affair with some call girls. She ultimately be­comes a prostitute for her husband, (which is supposed to be moderately funny). The irony slices into the some carnival worker. In an alto­gether ludicrous plot movement (that had to become either embarrassing or comic to the viewer) the fun begins when Cuspet comes to collect. His heavy-handed meekness is silly (in this context) and after making his eyes glisten for a while, Zoe ousts him and invites Gaetano to join her. Here the emphasis on blatant sensuality is thrown over for a somewhat higher value, romance. Miss Loren proved to be at least the best actress in Boc­caccio 10, and the meek-seeming 
Affio Vita, who played Cuspet, did very well in his character role. 
However, nothing in Boccaccio 70 is superb, nothing really is funny, and most of all the stories are too silly, the characters too simple. To make matters worse, the translations are obviously poor and the dubbing was awkward. 
Diamond Head fa a good American film; considering how few of these there are, it would even seem proper so say that everything about the movie is good. The characters are solidly portrayed, the acting is fine (except for James Darren), the timing, in places, excellent. The story, which manages to involve a plethora of socioethical issues-racial discrimination, tycoon money, the social relevance of love, dynasty, aloneness-is almost splendidly in­tricate. Charlton Heston, who plays the rich and powerful Hawaii agri­cultural tycoon, King Howland, con­trols the drama with a firm movie personality, seemingly taking all sorts of acting problems in his stride. Yvette Mimieux, his sister, Sloan, does what is probably her best screen performance by exercising an acute sense of timing and gesture. She falls in love with a full-blood Hawaiian, Paul Kahana (James Darren), to the -properly called-dismay of her brother. At their engagement party a fight breaks out and Paul Kahana falls gainst the open blade of a knife held by King Howland. The proper question, which indicates the real complication, is whether or not "King" could have turned the blade away. The incident becomes public and King Rowland's chance to be­come Hawaii's senator is ruined: everything falls away from him ex­cept his money. Finally his sister comes back to him, since it is he whom she loved all along, only to perceive the inutterable loneliness of his situation. A baby born to him by his mistress, Mei Chen (France 
Nuyen), provides a dramatic focus that makes the situation a bit more bearable. Then Paul Kahana's half brother, Dean, re-enters the picture. Played aptly by George Chakiris, he represents the good and perceptive person who ultimately sets matters right. He takes Sloan away from her brother, and with them they take the baby. After a long purging horse ride through the woods, Howland comes back to find himself quite alone, except for his servant, and still retaining his manly pride he jumps into his car to bring his child -"who is half Howland"-back. He has accepted his sister's romance, achieved a resolution, and so the movie ends. 
The photography is excellent, from a quasi-surrealistic dream sequence which explains through imagery the psychological forces at work in Sloan's mind, to the beautiful pan­oramic scenes of Hawaii at its best. The film is intense, not overlong, sometimes heavy-handed, but mostly quite good. -JAMES DEVLIN 
Tl,e Scholastic 
Scene: It's about 8 o'cl,ock at night and three boys are sitting in a booth of an Italian-American restaurant, talking to a woman of about fifty. The owner of the place, the woman, is talking. 
I think Notre Dame boys should boycott this town, like the boys from Kalamazoo did. Didn't spend a red cent in the town for two weeks. Those Reformed Dutch woke up mighty fast. I was down at the bank the other day and this lady says: "Well, Miss Coby, how are all your animals do­
ing?" I felt like hitting her in the mouth; had a good right once. An­other lady says: "What in the world are you doing in the Roman Inn with those animals?" I don't like this; you're not animals, not now anyway. You're my boys. You're human be­ings too, aren't you? 
(The boys nod and continue eating their pizza.) 
I used to run a motel for college kids up in Kalamazoo -1½ miles from Western, two from Kalamazoo. Their president protested, but they went right over everybody's head. We used to meet each other halfway; no trouble at all. 
People in South Bend treat you boys like s-. You know how much money you spend in this town? All right, let's name names: F--'s, E-'s, etc. 
There's no difference between Catholic boys and the others. I went to Catholic boarding school, but got tired of having mashed potatoes seven days a week and changing clothes un­der a bathrobe. 
I don't like liars and thieves. Par­ents make kids liars and thieves and not in material things, but in things that money can't buy. . . . I'm fifty years old and they said I couldn't run a motel alone. I did. How do you know unless you take a chance and risk something; you have to if you're going to treat a human being as a human being. . . . 
I've often said I'd like to die in an airplane; when I was going down I'd like to say: "Mister God, I'm not sorry for a single thing I've done. I'm only sorry for all the things I've never had a chance to do." ... As far as religion is concerned, I think 

-,l it's what's in yourself that counts; not what you believe outside. You have to respect yourself before you respect others. 
(A boy named Ray Glassmeyer, speaks.) 
RAY: I've never met anybody like you in my whole life, Miss Coby. 
Miss COBY: You haven't lived a hell of a long time, honey. . . I can't stand phonies, maybe that's what you mean. 
March 1, 1963 

RAY:  You've  added  the  personal  
touch.  
Miss  C:  Well,  aren't  you  all  

human beings? . . . For a couple of you boys, I wish I was thirty years younger. 
RAY: How about a beer, Miss Coby? 
Mrss C: The law says 21. I don't want your lousy thirty cents if it means that you jeopardize your careers and families. You work mighty hard trying to get an education. I don't want to kill it for you because of -a lousy beer; besides, the very walls have ears. ("The Night Has a Thou­sand Eyes'' is playing on the juke box.) 
Beyond William the Conqueror on my mother's side, I'm English. On my father's side, I'm French. It's French for the disposition and English 
Roman Inn Revisited 
for the bullheadedness. I want this place to succeed. I'm a perfectionist. If that ash tray belonged there, I'd want it there, if not, no. . . . 
I went from boarding school to summer school, from one room to an­other. The rooms, the people are everywhere, but you can't escape yourself. A change of place or friends can't make you what you haven't made yourself, you can only make yourself.... What you do each and every day is what counts. The future is an illusion; loving is only in the act of loving. I live every day as if it's going to be the last.... 
You can never stop reaching out 

your hand. Maybe 99 out of a hun­dred times, or even one hundred out of one hundred, there's no one to grab hold of it.... People want your body, your money, your warmth or intelligence, but they seldom want you. (There's a commotion in the background; it's samebody's birthday. Miss Coby walks over to the jukebox, puts in a dime, plays the happy birth-
by Ralph Martin 
day song, sends for a piece of cake with a candle on it, and sits down again.) 
I don't like stinking females; most of them have no generosity. . . . I'm not the average woman; I've been trying since I was 12 years old not to be.... (A dog enters; a miniature poodle with a rhinestone collar.) 
Here, Sir Winston! Don't ever take him to Roseland; they charge $7 to clip him. (Dog ea.its.) 
I think there should be some place in this town, respectable and clean; some place with good food, served nicely, where you're treated as human beings -where you can bring your date, where nice girls will like to come. I'm trying to make the Roman Inn like this. 
RAY: Gee, Miss Coby, this is the best place in town. 
Miss C: Hope they find out before it's too late. About marriage and sex now.... 
The End 

"Our Catholic schools were set up to save the faith and nwrals of boys and girls. That is an historical fact about which there is not the slightest doubt. That was and that remains their major, dominating end. . . . They were not set up to produce learning at all, let alone scholarship or an abiding interest in learning. ... Here we have an obvious and im,por­tant reason why Catholic schools have not in general produced learning and scholarship -they were not estab­lished to produce theni." Leo R. Ward, New Life in Catholic Sclwols. 
DURING MY INTERVIEW with Sister Madeleva, I told her that I regarded the rules, and the attitude of the girls toward them, as defeating the very good which Sister wanted so much for the girls. Though Sister Madeleva wants the girls to discover themselves, to establish their own identities, the rules seem to accom­plish just the opposite; for, in fact, the girls are not disciplining them­selves-they are yielding before an 
external force. A person's identity
sAINT 
MARY'S 
(PART TWO) 
can be lost in a welter of regulations. In answer to one St. Mary's faculty member's assertion that the rules were designed "to encourage a family spirit," I maintained tb.at the college years were precisely those when stu­dents should begin to head away from their families and start out on their own. I argued with Sister that, if students didn't begin to separate from their families at this age, there was a good chance that they might never do so, that they might go through life analyzing their problems in terms of what other people have done to them, instead of what they had done to themselves. 
Sister Madeleva, though now re­tired from the presidency of St. Mary's, is still extremely perceptive. Her eyes are very clear, her manner most gracious, her mind keenly pen­etrating. Sister Madeleva, paradox­ically, represents both the past and the future at St. Mary's. Under her guidance, St. Mary's grew from a position of being just another board­ing-finishing school to that of one of the best women's colleges in the United States. Sister was an inno­vator. She brought the famous Bruno Schlesinger to the campus in 1957 to set up the unique Christian Cultu!'e program, a course of studies designed after the recommendations of Chris­topher Dawson, the Silliman Professor of Catholic Studies at Harvard. Daw­son's concern -and St. Mary's -lies 
The Scholastic 
with the impact of Christian culture 
on Western civilization. (Incidentally, 
I found Christian Culture students at 
St. Mary's to be among the most in­
telligent of those with whom I spoke.) 
Sister Madeleva, after very patient­
lyand intently listening to my various 
objections to the rules, began by 
reflecting on the past St. Mary's. "I 
can remember when we thought 400 
students were an impossibility; now 
we think in terms of 1500." She con­
tinued, "In those days isolation was 
the key word-isolation from town, 
isolation from Notre Dame. I can 
remember when people considered it 
an awful shame when a girl got her 
name in the paper for almost any­
thing, even for a broken leg." 
Sister claimed that the rules at St. 
Mary's were "a product of Christian 
wisdom." They were designed, she 
told me, to allow the student, if she 
were willing to accept the discipline 
which her studies and the rules de­
manded, to "find her whole personal­
ity." 
Sister Madeleva thought most of her St. Mary's students left the college "with the ability to think for them­selves, with an appetite for great­ness." 
That was a striking phrase--"the appetite for greatness"-and a phrase that I found difficult to apply to St. Mary's girls. While it is true, as one faculty member told me, that the girls are very "bright," that there has been an average of one Woodrow Wilson fellowship given to a St. Mary's girl each year for the last four years, and that there is an abundance of outstanding lectures and plays pre­sented at St. Mary's every year, still the over-all picture of the St. Mary's girls is sometimes depressing. 
My basic thesis is that St. Mary's College is exactly what the parents and students at St. Mary's want the school to be. Unfortunately, looking at the record, what they want it to be is not often what Sister Madeleva wants it to be--a place where the girls can develop an "appetite for greatness." Further, the basic reason that St. Mary's and Notre Dame are not brought closer together, that there does exist a strained relation­ship between the two schools, is just that the girls and their parents don't desire this type of integration. 
There is a curious tension at St. Mary's these days, a tension between two ideas of education, one which has its roots in the past, another which, perhaps, is a thing of the future. The older idea of education has its roots in the France of the 19th century. Alexis de Tocqueville wrote of the France of that time: "women commonly receive a reserved, retired, and almost conventional ed­ucation, as they did in aristocratic 

times...." De Tocqueville noted some of the problems with this type of approach to education. He wrote: "They are suddenly abandoned, with­out a guide and without assistance in the midst of all the irregularities inseparable from democratic society." 
Sister Madeleva updated the old French philosophy of education for women, but tried to escape the prob­lem which de Tocqueville talked about, namely that when the graduate leaves college, she is not prepared to meet the exigencies of life. In 1944 Sister Madeleva wrote: "It (the small Catholic college) is a distinct educa­tional entity, not a university, not coeducational, public, professional. It is limited, segregated, isolated, cul­tural. There are those who deplore these limits. A former governor of Wisconsin, for instance, has referred to such colleges as 'cyclone cellars.' His description, however, carries im­plications finer than he intended. It indicates protection, privacy, serenity. These are conditions under which thinking can be done. And thinking is the proper activity of the college." She went on: "The true Catholic col­
lege will interpret the age for youth, will identify faith with practice, will reconcile apparent discrepancies, will point out distortions and dangers. Moreover, the college is not the prel­ude to life; college is a profound part of life." 

March 1, 1963 

There are many who think that Sister Madeleva did not go far enough, that the type of education offered at St. Mary's does not prepare the student for life, that, while rec­ognizing the need for isolation and quiet for study, there is also a need for an integration with society during the college years, that to keep stu­dents away from South Bend and even Notre Dame is to harm them. These critics of the theory that stu­dents must be isolated in order to do intellectual work then point out that man lives both in time and out of time and that he must constantly prepare himself or herself to meet the demands of everyday society. Often the challenge of particular un­controlled circumstances presents an ideal opportunity for education. To isolate the student, to make decisions for the student, always to present a situation where the family spirit, rather than the individual spirit, pre­vails is to do ultimate harm to the student. There could be offered anoth­er type of education, one that would allow both for an integration within 
time and also without time. Practically speaking, such an approach would offer more freedom to the student­to make him or her personally re­sponsible for his or her own actions. This type of education would allow a sufficient integration ,vith society, including all the "irregularities of democracy" which de Tocqueville noted. 
De Tocqueville, moreover, saw that 
women play a very important political 
role in society. "No free communi­
ties," he said, "ever existed without 
morals; and . . . morals are the work 
of women. Consequently, whatever 
affects the condition of women, their 
habits and their opinions, has great 
political importance in my eyes." He 
continues: "Far from hiding the cor­
rupcions of the world from her, they 
prefer that she should see them at 
once, and train herself to shun them; 
and they hold it of more importance 
to protect her conduct than to be 
overscrupulous of the innocence of 
her thoughts." 
The tension between these two 
philosophies of education exists at 
St. Mary's today. There is real con­
cern among those in power at St. 
Mary's today about preserving the 
old traditions, those traditions which 
included a deep devotion to God, to the Blessed Virgin, to the Church. Sister Madeleva called it an "Educa­tion for Immortality." She wrote: "Your college has educated you for immortality, for infinity, for the Beatific Vision. This is of ultimate importance. The communication of this education for immortality is your vocation to the world." Those who advocate the theory that education should include a closer integration with society, with time, argue that this ultimate goal, the goal of heaven, can be kept in mind while living in this world. The sooner one comes to understand what the world is like, the sooner one can improve it. To keep students alienated from sodety at the time when they are in their most formative years is to do irrev­ocable harm to the students. When the student finally reaches society after an education of isolation, the student often fails to adjust and re­acts abnormally to the hates and ills confronting him or her in this society. 
St. Mary's, for many years, kept itself isolated from Notre Dame and from South Bend, and the St. Mary's girls, isolated and innocent, were in­fluenced by these places. They were considered better off by ignoring these two influences until later in life, or maybe by always ignoring them. For years St. Mary's did not allow girls from South Bend to attend the school unless they boarded and roomed there. We must assume that the girls and their parents who patronized St. Mary's did like this sort of education. Catholics, especially American Cath­olics who have long felt the hard boot of a Protestant society, have had a tendency to isolate their women. Appearance was a most important thing; "strange" ideas, those outside the contemporary consensus, were out of favor whether the consensus was right or wrong. If one set one's women in an ivory tower, then one could be safe; for people aren't really concerned about those who are like them, who, to an eminent degree, respect the goals and aims of their society. Though there were disputes between Catholics and Protestants, Catholics always 1:lied to give the appearance that their side carried the standard of morality, closely safe­guarded by the purest women. No one could fault the Catholics for bad morals. 
But there is today a rumbling among Catholics in America. Amer­ican Catholics possess wealth and power. They are large in number­40 million. More and more they have 

been called away from isolation to join and, perhaps, to lead society. And Catholics have much to offer a secular society: they have a tradition which has had long experience with human nature and with the societies which humans have constructed. Of­. ten, because of this tradition and wisdom, they have a certain advan­tage in living in or leading society. 
Catholics are beginning to feel, then, that isolation is not what is demanded of them. A proper under­standing of man's worldly mission can come only through contact with the forces of society. Notre Dame has made advances away from isolation­the faculty encourages its students to lead society, and the administration has taken a few heartening steps to allow free play of ideas, of any kind, to come fonvard for discussion. Notre Dame has closer relations with South Bend than it ever had. Groups of all different kinds (ranging from a small Young Americans for Freedom group to an even smaller Christian Social Democrats club) now inhabit the campus. 
There are even talks among some administration leaders and many stu-
T lie Scliolastic 
dents of an integration with St. Mary's. Many at Notre Dame and, as I later found out, at St. Mary's, too, favor some kind of integration. The idea behind this is that women today face an increasingly complex role in society. Besides being a moth­er, a sheltered individual who cares for the children, she must often as­
sume a position in the P.T.A., in the 
hospitals, in business. 
I recall seeing a photo in the news­paper recently of a Vassar girl driv­ing a heavy semitrailer and smoking a cigar. Although this is a revolting extreme, it indicates the changing American attitude toward women. The double standard is fast evap­orating. Those at St. Mary's and Notre Dame who favor integration do so for several reasons. The first is that, practically speaking, both can share facilities. For example, Notre Dame could use O'Laughlin Audito­rium and the excellent drama facilities at St. Mary's. St. Mary's science stu­dents could use Notre Dame's re­search and computer facilities. 
A second reason for integration is also practical. There is a great need for a better social relationship be­tween St. Mary's and Notre Dame. One of the biggest problems con­fronting the social relations between the students of these schools is that the relationship has been purely social-one sees his girl only at a social function. Because one does not get to meet girls in class or at lec­tures, he is likely to date girls he really doesn't know and whom he really doesn't like. Moreover, social activities are unnatural in that they 
March 1, 1963 

don't allow one to meet girls on many 
different levels. 

There have been several attempts 
made to solve this problem. Several 
years ago, several St. Mary's girls 
took, for several sessions, a course 
from English Professor Frank O'Mal­
ley. Photographs of the girls sitting 
in a Notre Dame classroom which 
appeared in the South Bend Tribune occasioned St. Mary's cancelling the plan. On the other hand, the Notre Dame administration requested cheer­leaders from St. Mary's this year but had to cancel this plan when students protested. 
I asked several members of the administrations of both schools about the possibility of integration in the future. I had a pleasant conversation with Sister Renata, current president of St. Mary's. She said that some kind of integration was "not impos­sible." She noted that she had estab­lished a social center on the campus beneath O'Laughlin Auditorium's Lit­tle Theater, inviting scholars from both sides of the Dixie to join there in convers::i.tion. She talked about a community of scholars (a term com­mon to medieval colleges) and noted that already two faculty members were under joint contract with both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Sister told me that she wanted "more new ideas," and she called for suggestions from all sides. 
I later talked to Father Hesburgh, Notre Dame's President. Father Hes­burgh told me that he thought in­tegration was "a possibility." He told me, though, that "it must come from below." He, like Sister Renata, 
appealed for more new ideas, especial­
ly on the social level. 
What struck me so forcibly about 
Father Hesburgh was that both 
my talks with both Sister Renata and 
stressed the notion that integration 
for the two colleges must come "from 
below." I could not help but think 
that both schools are what the stu­
dents want them to be, what their 
parents want them to be. This article 
has been prejudicial to an extent 
because it has not considered what 
the Notre Dame students want. But 
it is true that Notre Dame in the last 
ten years has changed to a large 
degree because of the students it has 
received. St. Mary's will change, to a 
certain degree, when the students 
change. 
It is unfortunate that the students at St. Mary's do not want integration with Notre Dame. Their background, that of the well-to-do, bourgeoise Catholic household, is still imbued with the old ideas, the concern for appearance and for ivory-towerism. But there are hopeful signs among St. Mary's students. Last week they sent petitions to the administration asldng for better teachers. And sev­eral years ago the students refused to elect a student government until the administration gave them more of a voice. But these instances are few. The St. Mary's administration largely reflects the views of the stu­dents and parents who patronize St. Mary's. For them isolation from society, from men, is still the key word. Until there is a change in the general Catholic thinking, until Cath­olics think that they are an integral part of secular society, then there will be no integration between the two schools. 
Many Catholics still need to have their appearances to fall back on. Their women must still be in the ivory tower. Until Catholics realize they don't need appearances any long­er, that they are wanted and needed by secular society, until the ghetto mentality is shattered, St. Mary's and Notre Dame will stay apart. 
-JAMES R. WYRSCH 

In recent weeks many so-called student leaders (anti-administration fighters seems to be a more applicable label) have expressed rather vocal opinions in favor of more immediate social and academic freedom for the students of the Notre Dame Com­munity. Also, Student Government has been urged to represent the focal point of these opinions and to become an ardent opponent of an "autocratic hierarchical administration." To make things worse, not only is a segment of Student Government becoming agree­able to these opinions, but also our Student Body President has become the leader of this confused group. I say "confused" because these people have the confused idea of striving for long-range goals with the idea of working realistically with the situ­ation as it is now. 
Generally speaking, I do not oppose more freedom for our student com­munity; but I am in doubt as to whether or not this community is ready for it. If it is, it has failed to display any such readiness. Everyone says, ''I want more freedom" but few ask, "Am I ready to accept respon­sibility?" You have heard the language in the residence halls, and have wit­nessed the cheating in the classrooms. This student body lacks a great deal of social awareness. Until the mem­bers of the Notre Dame Community fully realize their responsibilities re­sulting from communications with fellow community members, there will be no valid argument for more free­dom. 
\Vhere, then. does Student Govern­ment fit into the present situation? 
believe that Student Government should be the leader of a movement for more social awareness and re­sponsibility. In order to lead, and more important, in order to be rec­ognized as a leader, Student Govern­ment must gain the respect of both the student body and the administra­tion. This respect will not be gained as a result of a "do-nothing" policy or as a result of immature action attempting to justify a previous do­nothing policy. Definitely, it will not be achieved by our Student Body President struggling with the admin­istration for the sake of struggling itself. Respect will be shown by the students when the Student Govern­ment begins working more in the interest of the students. Student Gov­ernment "leaders" will say, "How can we do that when we aren't given any real responsibility by the administra­tion?" This is hogwash. Just for ex­ample, problems involved with regis­tration each semester and yearly room distribution could be remedied if Stu­dent Government would take the ini­tiative and the responsibility. These are only two areas which directly affect the life of the student. Work in such areas would demonstrate a student government for the students. 
Those who are now yelling for stu­dent discipline boards and student control of hours say that working in the above mentioned areas would only constitute actions of a service organ­ization. Confused they are. First, Stu­dent Government should be of service to the students. Second, how can one expect the administration to grant more freedom, and thus more respon­sibility, when the students show nothing of responsibility in the service to the student community? 
Lastly, a word concerning those who blame Father Hesburgh for everything they think wrong. In my four years at Notre Dame, I have come to respect Father Hesburgh a great deal, not only as a priest, not only as a person trying to build the greatest of university communities, but also, simply as a man. I trust Notre Dame's future in his hands and I think he is deserving of every student's trust. If there are some members of our student community who do not have faith in our Presi­dent, I only ask that these people stop taking credit for his achievements at such times as when they are at home with family and friends. Also, I would ask these people to realize that Father Hesburgh is attempting to create a clearer identity for Notre Dame. He is not hoping to lose her present identity in order to become the "Har-
Service or 

vard" of the Midwest. He is seeking to create a Catholic community which will be healthier for all aspects of a student's development; the spiritual, intellectual, moral, and physical. 
Sincerely, 
Joe Simoni 
International Com:rnissioner 

Ed.: Mr. Simoni has been the unwit­ting victim of a common fallacy, whose· origin is administration prop­aganda. The administration would specify that, in X number of years, Student Government would be given a definite voice in the formation of university policy as regards student interests; then a continuation of the admittedly menial, trivial service functions of the Senate could be justi­fied as a gesture indicating potential responsibility and maturity. This has not and will not be done. 

Government 
At the Senate meeting on February 11, the air was noticeably tense and uncertain as the Student Government convened its third meeting. The ab­sence of the usually regularly sched­uled Senate meetings had attracted the attention of most students and Holy Cross Fathers. No one knew exactly what to make of Kevin Hart's decision to halt Student Government for the first semester, and certainly none of those who did profess to make any sense out of the action claimed that Hart had done a good thing. 
The first ten minutes of the dis­cussion were taken up mostly by Hart, who answered questions and stated his own views about student govern­ment and the atmosphere of lethargy and discontent around our campus. 
Someone eventually expressed his concern for the direction student government was taking and about the meaning of its overt inactivity during the first semester. This initial probe into the issue was enough to release a flood of thoughts from various senators. 
A few of the senators seemed to hold the following position. The stu­dent at Notre Dame is certainly aware of a few policies of the Administration which irritate him. Many students would appreciate being given more responsibility in the direction of their lives as students at Notre Dame. They would like the Administration to give more consideration to the rationale behind such rules as no cars for the student, no girls in the rooms, no week ends in South Bend, etc. But how can we persuade the Administra­tion to give a further consideration of the necessity for such rules? One argument was that, if the student would show more responsibility in his actions around the campus under the present system, then the Administra­tion would realize that it is dealing with responsible adults rather than foolish young men, and would realize that there would be no need for such rules. 
The argument contended that Hart's attitude toward student government has been especially detrimental to the cause of the students because the in­activity of Student Government seems to indicate apathy and irresponsibility. It is no secret that the Administration does not see eye to eye with Hart; and such dissension can only serve to cast the Hart Administration in the light of a recalcitrant; and respon­sibility excludes recalcitrance. 
This argument particularly irritated me because it clouds the issue! There are two issues involved here, but the preceding argument blends them into one, and thus is rather confusing and ineffective, since the senators were actually discussing the concept of stu­dent government and the concept of student. 
In my three years at Notre Dame the predominant role of student gov­ernment has been to administrate. The Babbitt, Keegan, and Buckley administrations have organized vic­tory dances, homecoming week ends, lectures, student trips. They made grants to charities and loans to vari­ous student organizations. During these three administrations, weekly senate meetings were always held, and debate within the meetings could last for five hours. Besides the senate meetings, weekly cabinet meetings were held, with debates of equal length ensuing. In addition, the stu­dent body president held informal con­ferences with student leaders. Thus, activity among its members came to be so identified with Student Govern­ment that Student Government seemed to be defined as weekly meetings, long debates, and midnight conferences. 
This definition of Student Govern­ment was present i,n a few senators' minds at the meeting last week. It evidently contributed to their view that inactivity (i.e., the lack of reg­ular senate meetings) spelled the death of Student Government. 
But is this opinion really justified? The main effect of the past govern­ments was the organization and ad­ministration of services to the stu­dents, of which Hart's government has provided more during the first semester than the other three pro­vided during their first semesters. Instead of condemning Hart for a disinterest shown through infrequent senate meetings, we should commend him for getting a Jot done without wasting anybody's time. Kevin has shown that in order to discharge the responsibility of student government, as that responsibility has been recog­nized in the past (i.e., the administra­tion of dances, etc.), it is not neces­sary to spend an inordinate amount of time per week as seemed neces­sary in the past student governments. It is possible to do the same amount of work in a lot less time. 
It seems to me that we should congratulate Mr. Hart for showing us that student government's job is not really in administrating various activ­ities, because such administration can be done in just two senate meetings a semester. Two meetings a semester do not seem to justify the existence of student government. But if ad­ministrative activity demands only two meetings, then student govern­ment had better look for a role other than administration to justify its ex-
istence. The three previous student 
governments have not sought an ad­
ditional justification for their exist­
ence. They did not have to because 
their periphery of activity in admin­
istration seemed to be justification in 
itself for their existence. Hart has 
shown us that a periphery of activity 
is not necessary to administer services 
and (most importantly) that the ad­
ministrative job of Student Govern­
ment does not offer sufficient justifica­
tion for student government at Notre 
Dame. 
It seems to me that student govern­ment should be the voice of the stu­dent, in addition to being an admin­istrative body. If it is to articulate the student position on certain ques­tions, then, in order to understand student government, it is necessary for us to investigate these certain questions, how they arise, what atti­tude causes them. By investigating these aspects we will be able to see what actions student government must take in order to articulate the student voice and effect student ends; thus we will be able to draw a more realistic picture of what student government should be. · 
If we wish to effectively represent the student attitude, then we should realize the sources from which the Administration's attitude stems, and the means which, when employed upon the Adn1inistration, will alter the practical manifestation of that atti­tude. 

Authority and discipline are im­portant words in the Catholic Faith. They are important words in a reli­gious order and the Holy Cross order is certainly no exception. These words are important on two levels. The first level exists because of the notion that perfection stems from guidance and direction from above. The Holy Scrip­tures (God's word) show man how he is to act if he is to be truly man. Man must be shown and directed towards his own good and his own perfection. This notion certainly is a legitimate one and manifests itself clearly in the structure of most reli­gious orders, and in the attitude of the Administration towards the stu­dents. This attitude will never be shaken because it is essentially too close to a Catholic Truth to be called into doubt. 
These words are important on the second level because they indicate the way to run any group of people in an efficient and orderly manner. The Army stresses these notions and re­alizes their necessity with regard to controlling large numbers of men. On this second level, these words have some special meaning for Notre Dame, because Notre Dame occupies a special position among universities in Amer­ica; i.e., it is prominent, it is Cath­olic. A reputation and a public image are very important things for Notre Dame, and a tight ship must be run to insure that the reputation and image are not shattered. Authority and discipline insure a tight ship. 
Utilizing these two levels, I hope you will be able to see the reasons for my dissatisfaction with the minor­ity viewpoint expressed in last Mon­day's Senate meeting. If we show the administration that we are respon­sible, this doesn't induce the Admin­istration to give us more responsibility in our personal lives; the administra­tion attributes our responsible actions to the efficacy of authority and dis­cipline as I have outlined them in my first level. Thus a display of respon­sibility in exercising the administra­tive functions of student government, rather than resulting in more respon­sibility for the student, merely results in a strengthening of tl1e status quo! 
At Thanksgiving of my sophomore year, student feeling had become so incensed with regard to morning checks, all-night lights, and the dining hall food that an extensive riot devel­oped. At the fall of next year, the changes we are all aware of were put into effect. Whether or not the riot was evidence that the changes were necessary, that certain things were causing discontent, and that the Ad­ministration had better begin inves­tigating these things with a criticlli eye. Such student action is evidently an argument against the status quo. It is an effective argument because it makes the administration realizing that a certain policy is endangering what is extremely important to Notre Dame, the public image. By threaten­ing the public image of Notre Dame, the student meet the Administration on the basis of equals, because both have a certain amount of power in their hands. By fulfilling the admin­istrative functions of student govern­ment, the students meet the Admin­istration on a paternal basis, and re­ceive a pat on the head for a job well done. 
Student Government at Notre Dame has usually been characterized by much activity in its own adminis­trating functions, and by a very weak voice when speaking to the Admin­istration. The vociferousness of past student governments had cloaked their ineffective voice with respect to the Administration so that the dichot­omy has been hidden from the stu­dents' attention. The silence of stu­dent government last semester has uncovered the real issue, the relation between Student Government and the Administration. 
I have tried to show that the role of student government should not be restricted to that of merely adminis­trating. This role can be efficiently discharged with only two senate meet­ings. It could be even more efficiently discharged by a few well-trained sec­retaries. I have tried to show that, although student government admin­istrative functions are not to be abandoned or demeaned, there exists a powerful and pertinent role for student government to fulfill. This role is to be actually capable of in­fluencing the Administration's attitude toward the student. Student govern­ment can be actually dedicated toward effecting student ideas only if it is willing to openly oppose the Admin­istration. All student issues will not require opposition to the Adminis­tration, but dedication of the student government to student issues demands a willingness to support a position contrary to the Administration, if such support becomes necessary. Kevin Hart's Student Government has shown this willingness, and thus has taken a step toward active student representa­tion. I have tried to suggest that · although the past three student gov­ernment presidents have held more meetings than Kevin Hart's, none has done as much to bring to light the central issue which bothers many Notre Dame students, the manner in which the Administration regards the student. 
-Edmond Collins 
Academic O<>rnrnissioner 
The Scholastic 

Father Dunne of the Theology Department delivered the second lec­ture in the Collegiate Seminar series; his springboard was, ostensibly, Mir­cea Eliade's Cosmos and History) a book which discusses briefly some of the elements in a cyclical theory of history, archetypes, myths, a theory of time, transcendental symbolism; and tries, in the end, to relate these to Christianity. Father Dunne present­ed a problem, Martin Heidegger's thesis concerning "the darkening of the world," and two solutions to this problem -Heidegger's own, which Father Dunne called Pagan Cyclicism, and a Christian view, as brought forth by Sorin Kierkegaard in the last century. 
Heidegger adumbrates four phases in this "darkening of the world." The first of these is the Flight of the Gods) seen in the religious decay of the eighteenth century and in the observa­tions of men like Nietzsche and Hegel in the nineteenth century who say, "God is dead!" Heidegger speaks of this wane of religious experience as being prevalent both in the West ­under the heat of industrialization ­and in the East -under the shadow of·Westernization -as a world-wide decay of the religious nisus. The sec­ond phase is called The Destruction of the Earth; Heidegger feels the world has become and is becoming less a fit place for human dwelling ­he detects an estranging and an alien­ation of man from the earth, really, of course, a self-estranging. The third phase, The Standardization of Man, is seen strongly first by de Tocqueville: the progress of equalitarian society (seen most clearly in Communism). This idea looks back almost nostalgi­cally at the era when social stratifica­tion not only existed but luxuriated, and conjures the cliche about conform­ity, the loss of individuality, and the deteriorization of men into biped sheep. And this leads into the fourth phase, The Pre-eminence of the Medio­cre) where no man is outstanding, where no man really does anything. 
Cyclicism is presented as a solution to this problem. Heidegger's answer is a return to the experience of primordial man at the origin of his­tory. This is a phenomenological idea: a living of the world directly as beyond and primary to language­the experiencing of a prelinguistic presence; and a return to the primor­dial state before what might be called the perversion or fallacy of history. This idea is essentially pagan; religion is bound up with history and language and with a retreat from primary experience into the mental conception of things, pat­terns, archetypes, transcendent sym-
March 1, 1963 
Christianit-g and Eternal Recurrence 
bols-abstractions. And these things must be obliterated in the return to the origin. 
Kierkegaard and other Christian existentialists advocate a return not to the origin but to the turning point of history, the incipience of Christian­ity. Where Heidegger's change would be like a renaissance, Kierkegaard's is a kind of Reformation. Hope in the face of a darkening world, a world of strangers, an anguishing world, comes by moving away from the world momentarily in what Kierkegaard calls "the leap of in­finite resignation" and then through a reassertion of experience with a simple leap, a simple belief, "God is." One must study Christ and the prophets, the Bible, and the real meaning of the religious experience in terms of oneself, and ·think of experience as originating thereof, with Christ, with God. 
Both of these views are based on a pessimistic interpretation of the world and of the direction of civiliza­tion. Heidegger's observations might be thought of differently. Father Dunne, in fact, admits a definite skepticism, and, while holding the so­called "darkening of the world" up for examination as a profound thought, managed to propose alternate interpretations. The decay of religious experience might be seen as a decay of invalid, unauthentic religious ex­perience. Through the progress of culture in a time of intense strain, pseudoreligion cannot remain tenable, becomes vitiate, dies. This decay, however, is ultimately good; it rep­resents the survival of only the fittest determination, and it sets into relief, by contrast, true religious experience. The "destruction of the earth" is not 
something baneful, in this optimistic light, but is a natural outgrowth of that god, Progress. Progress makes the earth unimportant, according to the optimists -or not really un­important, just honestly taken for granted. Man no longer dwells in a world; he is capable of adventuring into the cosmos, coming up with all sorts of intricate machines which take him away from the mundane small­ness of one planet into solar systems. Man should not put restrictions on his adventuring quixotic spirit; there are things to be discovered "out there." The "standardization of man" is not necessarily the mark of tame­ness and nonvital humanity; rather it is the mark of waxing justice, perhaps only a veneer, now, which allows man to say of his fellows, "all men are equal" ; but it signifies, none­theless, a growth of consciousness of the human condition, according to the optimistic position. The "pre-eminence of the mediocre" is not that at all; the phenomenon that leads to such a pessimistic conception is really the growth in civilization of a respect for the common man, the average man, who is incapable, owing to circum­stance, of achieving anything note­worthy, but who is human, and as such equal to all others who are human. 
Father Dunne made it clear that neither view seemed to him to be truly sophisticated; and that the former was more fully developed. His lecture left the problem of historical interpretation quite unsolved; but it did something important: it intel­ligently defined the problem, and managed to deepen the impact of Eliade's investigations. 
-JAMES DEVLIN 


A
NY HISTORICAL CLARIFICATION of the situation of contemporary theology requires clearing away cer­tain prejudices of the American Catholic conservative. These preju­dices are fully manifest when placed against the main current of European thought -thought which is loosely grouped under the terms of Existen­tialism and Phenomenology. 
That which is typical of the Cath­olic conservative is typical of the whole Anglo-American forte. "It is difficult," writes Cornelius Ernst, in the introduction to Rahner's Theo­logical Investigations) "to regard the English cultural scene, either inside or outside the Church, without a sense of dissatisfaction often amounting to an exasperated despair. . . . When, a few years ago, 'Existentialism' be­came briefly fashionable as a topic of conversation at Oxford sherry parties or in Bloomsbury pubs, it had all the limited interest of a freakish in­truder upon the urbane insularity of English culture. Potted introductions to 'Existentialism' poured into print, and caused hardly a ripple on the broad, smooth surface of English sensibility." 
Nearly the same misfortune has oc­curred on the American scene, in many ways similar in its myopia and anti-intellectualism. A sorrowful kind of provincialism has produced endless self-parodying attempts at categoriz­ing existentialism and phenomenology. A recent indication of this was mani­fest in the Graduate Record Exami­nations. Except for a trivial ref­erence to Wittgenstein, the exam in­cluded no references to any non­American philosophers in this cen­tury. How can one take seriously an examination which devotes twice as 
Intellectual Perspectives II 
many questions to Dewey as to Kant? 
However, as a Catholic center of 
learning, Notre Dame would be ex­
pected to be in a more natural con­
tact with European currents. But 
there are further complications aris­
ing from the fact that Catholic read­
ers suffer from the handicap of being 
dimly aware that "Existentialism" 
has somehow been officially con­
demned, though they are not very 
clear about what exactly has been 
condemned or in what terms. 
Strictly speaking, according to Ernst the condemnations in no wise apply to Karl Rahner. Therefore, they probably do not apply to Heideg­ger, Rahner's source. But what really needs to be thought out is the whole idea of the Church holding to a philosophia perennis-namely Thom­ism, "our traditional philosophy which is set forth with such clarity" 
(Humani Generis). 
A closer relationship of theology to philosophy is necessary, as has been achieved somewhat by existential theology. However, the condemna­tion found in Hurnani Generis (i.e.) existentialism denies "the immutable essences" of traditional philosophy and substitutes a view of "life ever in flux"), aside from its generality, seems to elevate these "immutable essences" to a level higher than idea, to a level coexistent with divine rev­elation. Further illustrations of an insufficient interrelation of philosophy with theology might be drawn from the Natural Law controversy over birth control. There seems to be a wish to rewrite the creed to read: "I believe in God the Father Almighty, the Greek idea of Nature and Reason, and the Roman idea of Law, and ... " Hermeneutics) however, (the term was brought into prominence by Bib­lical exegesis) is the science of mean­ing or interpretation. And to grasp the meaning of anything we must al­ways translate into the present. (Cf. Faith and Exi-stence) pp. 289-96) 
All knowledge of a historical kind is open to discussion which closes only when history closes. The her­meneutical question must, therefore, be brought to bear upon traditional philosophy and theology, upon state­ments of Popes and Councils, indeed, upon all human, finite utterances. This making present constitutes a kind of transcendental science. The hermeneutic reveals the need which Rahner describes: 
The status of theologia fund­arnentalis as an independent disci­pline alongside of or prior to dog­matic theology can, or perhaps bet­ter must) be granted and recognized. Moreover if a dogmatic theology grasps its own nature as some­thing supported by the faith which comprehends and judges all things but is judged by no other court and is beyond the comprehension of reason (in the sense of a superior tribunal), then it is clear that dog­matic theology must develop out of itself and within itself a theology of theologia fundarnentalis. It must, that is to say, declare as a part of its own proper discourse, the ex­istence, mode and meaning of a rational demonstration of the faith from without and with a view to those without, as possible and nec­essary.... We call this task of dogmatic theology fundamental theology) which is not to be con­fused with what Js currently known as theologia fundarnentalis. Such a ­
The Scholastic 
by Niichael wiurray 
fundamental theology has to con­
sider in like manner both the sub­
jective and the objective aspects of 
this possibility of a theologia funda­
mentalis. 

Elsewhere Rabner continues the tra­
dition begun by Newman's Essay on 
the Development of Christian Doc­
trine. Rahner's "The Development of 
Dogma" displays an awareness of the 
historical character of knowledge and 
the science of interpretation. 
It is an evolutionary, historical viewpoint like this, centered on the present, which would seem to indi­cate that a philosophia perennisJ or a correlative theology, is, in principle, a contradiction. In this context, Fr. Bochenski's declaration that "There is no Christian philosophy!" has a genuine meaning. The alternative view of philosophy and theology which has been developed here (truth as the historical process of transla­tion) is only a more systematic state­ment of the need to intellectualize the spiritual described previously in Part I. 
The notion of a philosophiaperennis is an intrinsic impediment in the de­velopment of an intellectualized spirituality. Against the context of the linear motion of history the no­tion of a philosophia perennis appears to be a leftover from the mythical) cyclical view of reality. Man, in other words, is not a natural species but a historical idea. A philosophy of man is meaningful only in the present, i.e., there is only contemporary the­ology and philosophy. Our thought can, of course draw upon the wisdom of the past from our privileged place in history, but it is the act of transla­tion, of making present, which is crucial. 



March 1, 1963 
(This past fall the Young Christian Students of Notre Dame surveyed a random, selection of students in an effort to discover areas of interest on problem,s of an international nature. A random sample of the student body was -z;olled, freshm,en through seniors in every hall and from o[f-cam,pus. The Y.C.S. believes that the answers received do not limit or define the scope of student interest in these fields; but th!J,t tlWIJ are, in a sense, indicative of some of the student feel­ing here at Notre Dame. 
Out of this survey the Y.C.S. is evolving a series of actions designed to iniplement the results obtained. The first was the debate on birth con­trol by Dan Fennell and Mike Dun­ning Sunday night. This will be fol­lowed by student debates on other 
j 
Only a few "idealists" thought the 

U.N. could actually prevent war. 
What are the aims of the United States in contest with commiunism? 
Forty per cent of the replies deemed containment or stemming the spread of communism to be the aim of the 
U.S. Twenty-three per cent empha­sized the ideological conflict between the two systems, expressing that the difference is based on freedom of the individual and the respect of his rights. Three other opinions divided up the remaining thirty-seven per cent fairly equally. Fourteen per cent decided that the aim of the U.S. was ultimately to destroy communism. Op­posed to them were twelve per cent who believed "peaceful coexistence" to be of primary importance. Only eleven per cent believed that the posi-
LET'S ALL FIGHT FOR 
pertinent subjects treated in the ques­tionnaire. Secondly, selected topics will be treated at length in the Leo XIII Lenten Lecture Series.) 
The questionnaire ran: 
Question: Can the United Nations work today? 
By about five to one, the students replied that the United Nations is merely a great debating society. Most thought that this function (a forum in which ideas could be exchanged and contacts made among the com­munity of nations) was ample justi­fication for the UN's existence. Others felt that debate was useless and that the presence of Russians and the mis­use of the veto power rendered the organization ineffective. One student even expressed the view that "We should get out fast." The statement of one of our seniors is interesting and characteristic of this viewpoint: 
". . . It provides a good place for 
B.S. about big problems and for solv­ing small problems of international relations. To this extent it is helpful. It will never bring us to world peace or world government; it is not even a step in the right direction in the latter and has never done anything of note in the former. Ultimately individual interests will be the decid­ing factor in the way the world pro­gresses and the U.N. will sit and watch." 
tive goal of "spreading the capitalistic system by example" was the chief aim of the U.S. 
Are these aims Christian? 
Two-thirds replied with a resound­ing "Yes!" One-quarter said "No!" The latter group stated that no evi­dent example was available or that politicians failed to realize any aims as Christian. Some declared that the aims they themselves felt were those of the U.S. would become Christian by mitigation, while others stressed that the adoption of a stringent course (i.e., "absolute destruction of com­munism") would imply Christianity. The remaining eight per cent believed that Christianity did not enter into the matter, or if it did then only accidentally. 
Is the U.S., or any other nation, obligated to support underdeveloped countries? 
Eighty-six per cent of those who replied answered "Yes," seeing the obligation as a moral one. The other fourteen per cent opposed them with resolute to vacillating "No's." Several drew the distinction between a na­tion's and a person's responsibilities. In essence a few stated that a nation's "charity begins at home!" 
Is there something more worthwhile in the European Common Market than merely economic advantages? 
A resounding "Yes!" Perhaps a third of the replies contained no an­swer whatever, or replied no, but the 
The Scholastic 

I l 
other two-thirds answered that the answered yes, their general thought Common Market would be much more being that a person under such cir­advantageous than a simply economic cumstances wouldn't have an oppor­entity. They all viewed a more unified tunity to grow and develop himself in Europe as very desirable. The preser­all the ways that he should. The other vation of peace was a first concern of third felt that subsistence level has many students. Curiously, they saw nothing to do with being a "person," it in two different lights. One large and that every man, regardless of his group thought that a united Europe economic level, can still contribute to would be an effective safeguard the world in his own little way. As against the spread of Communism to an example of the latter, one student the West. They attributed this to a answered that "God does not look at strong military defense, or to a boom­a person's bank account," and that ing European economy. Another the person was still the same in the group saw in the unity of the Com­eyes of God. And the opposite view mon Market. a safeguard against the was given by a senior sociology major, wars which have continued within who said, "Man's human soul must be Europe for a thousand years. One fed and developed in order for him to freshman quoted Christopher Dawson be called a real man." in pointing out that Europe has never How 'many of your friends are from been united, and that the European foreign countries? 
WORLD PEACE 
Economic Community (E. E. C.) When asked how many foreign stu­might accomplish this. A senior com­dents they knew, by far the majority mented that the unity introduced replied that the number was few or would be much stronger than the none at all. Those who did know more shaky balance of power concept which than a few had either been to a for­prevailed in eighteenth and nineteenth eign country or had a foreign student century Europe. for a roommate. "That question hurts" summarizes a number of re-
Can the world be fed without em,.­
ploying a crash birth-control pro­grani? How? 
A majority of students saw no need for birth control, answering that the problem generally is one of increased production and distribution, along with technical aid. On the other hand, several students thought that birth control should possibly be used to help alleviate the problem, with most of these advocating "natural" rather 


than "artificial" means. Also, most of 

spondents who immediately cited the
these students thought that this was 

cause as lack of contact, one suggest­
only a temporary solution until better 

ing that the University "isolates
methods could be found. A sophomore 

them." When asked the extent of
in Lyons stated that birth control 

their knowledge of other foreign coun­
seemed inevitable, and that even the 

tries, the affirmative answers de­
Church is broadening its approach to 

creased still more, with most men­
the subject, and is almost looking for 

tioning only what they knew from 
an excuse to adopt it in some lesser 

geography or other reading -Hem­
form. His opinion was countered by 

ingway, Kipling, and the like. The 
a sophomore in Morrissey who said 

degree of acquaintance in most cases
that birth control is a "chicken's way 

was slight; only a few indicated the
out" and that men must have confi­

ability to discuss social and political
dence in their minds and ingenuity to 

attitudes. One, granting the general
develop a better solution. 

lack of association, said, "Too bad we ls an individual less of a person if are Americans." he lives at the subsistence level? Do most students go beyond their About two-thirds of the students own areas of specialization? 
March 1, 1963 
Opinion was evenly divided on this 
question, which was interpreted to 
mean an active expansion of students 
into various areas of student life, aca­
demic or social. The question was 
also interpreted to mean "Do engi­
neering and science students go be­
yond their areas of specialization?" 
Students felt that the nature of lib­
eral arts studies is broader than these 
other areas. • 
Those that answered negatively said that there was neither time for nor interest in other activities. An AB­Engineer said: "The students here at 
N.D. are by and large a group of single men who think about them­selves and themselves alone-the at­titude around here is 'Yeame! ! !"' One engineer defended his position with the following logic: "I don't extend myself 
-"I was about to apply for CILA's South American project, but my mother was stricken ill." 
very much and neither do most of my friends. I believe my primary purpose is to become a good engineer." An­other engineer took the opposite atti­tude: "To my surprise most students go beyond their particular fields and often times the interests of some flabbergast me." 
Given the opportunity would you be willing to join the Peace "Corps 


or a like organization? 
Over half of the students inter­viewed expressed a desire to enter the Peace Corps, many with reservation. Nearly everyone interviewed thought the Peace Corps was worthwhile but most gave personal reasons for not joining. Many merely stated that the Peace Corps did not fit into their life plans ; others mentioned lack of quali­fications, the low pay, poor living con­ditions, long period of service, and the fact that they would still have to face the draft, as valid reasons for not entering. On the other hand, ·many students looked upon the Corps not only as a chance for doing good but also as an opportunity for broadening their horizons and experience. One comment was made: 
"Yes, I would like to join the Peace Corps. My reason for this is that I have been blessed with much, and I would like to have others share these things with me. I was about to apply for CII..A's South American project, 
Ibut my mother was stricken ill." 
29 
I
I 

O'Hara 


Tom O'Hara, the splendid sprinter from Loyola of Chicago, Saturday became the first sub-four-minute miler to run in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. He is also po­tentially the world's best miler, since at 20 he is still six to eight years from his prime as a runner. 
The Scholastic 

Wrestling 
struggles 
for stature 
In its fifth season on the varsity level, wrestling is still considered a low-pressure minor sport. But it has produced some outstanding performers. 
Wrestling at Notre Dame is just now beginning to win a five-year-long battle to escape from relative obscu­rity as a sport, and its ultimate suc­cess has been hastened considerably by such matmen as Ed Rutkowski, Fred Morelli, and Jack Barry. This trio has lost only three matches this season in dual competition; indeed, Rutkowski has lost only once in two years and Morelli not at all this season. 
The team, meanwhile, won matches from Western Michigan, lliinois Chi­cago Branch, and the University of Chicago and managed a tie with strong Bowling Green before losing to Cincinnati and Miami of Ohio on a disastrous road trip. 
Wrestling is in a unique position at Notre Dame. Until 1957 it was organized on a club basis, much as the rugby and soccer clubs are at present; though it has held varsity status since then, it is regarded as a low-pressure minor sport, and Notre Dame wrestlers are offered no schol­arship aid. 
Tom Fallon, a 1942 Notre Dame graduate who doubles as tennis coach, has been the wrestling mentor since its inception as a club sport. A stocky, white-haired, congenial man, Fallon argues that the conditioning required for wrestling is perhaps the most rigorous in athletics. 
"I believe that wrestling is the toughest sport to train for," he says. "Other people may argue that foot­ball or swimming is, citing the intense workouts the participants must en­dure. Well, our problem is that we 
March 1, 1963 

can't eat or drink heavily after a big workout; we have to control the weight of our wrestlers so that they'll be able to compete in the desired weight classes. 
"This means that a boy is going to have to curb his appetite at night ... he's going to have to be content with a salad and lay off the bread and butter. This personal discipline seems to me to require more both physically and psychologically than that needed for any other sport. I know at least a dozen boys on campus who could make the grade as topflight wrestlers 
but who don't want to make the 
sacrifice." 
Since there are no scholarships of­fered for wrestlers, there is no re­cruiting. Where does Notre Dame find its wrestlers? Says Fallon: "Weusual­ly find them in our PE classes, but seldom do we find people with previ­ous wrestling experience. This is true because most high schools, particular­ly Catholic high schools, don't have wrestling programs. Most Catholic high schools, in fact, don't even have PE programs." 
The wrestling season at Notre Dame, at least as far as team mem­bers are concerned, begins in early November with running on the golf course and calisthenics. In mid­November, the team starts contact work and reviews fundamental tac­tics; actual competition begins the first week in December and runs through the middle of March. 
In addition to dual meet competi­tion with other schools, Notre Dame takes part in several tournaments, the most notable of which are the Wheaton Invitational and the 41; the former is held at Wheaton College, the latter in Cleveland. 
Rutkowski has won the heavy-t weight championship at Wheaton for the past three years, and Fallon has high hopes that he will compete in the NCAA championships at Kent I.<!\ State in late March, symbolizing the rise of wrestling as a sport at Notre Dame. 
-Gary Sabatte 


SCOREBOARD

STUDENT  33 ITINERARIES  
TRAVEL...  featm·ing:  
STUDENTS CA.N AFFORD!  Western & Central Europe Eastern Europe & USSR Scandinavia • Spain Turkey • South America  
STUDY-TRAVEL  Israel• Greece  
PROGRAMS  36-60 land days ... from $510  
some scholarship assistance available Also Work Camp  also INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS and  
&Hosteling  BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS  
42-46 land days ... from $300  $239 all-inclusive by air  
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS International Student ID card................................... ,................. $1.00 Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings and Restaurants) .. Sl.00 Work, Study, Travel Abroad......................................................... $1.00 European charter flights and other transpoi·tation  
U.S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN tP~~.... ~20 West 38th Street, New York 18. N. Y '~:.l"' OXford 5-5070 "USNSA is a non-profit organi:ation scn:i11g the American student community"  

TECHNICAL GRADUATES 

ChE, ME, IE, Chem, MBA 
T 
ATLAS, a medium-sized, diversified chemical organization offers opportunity and responsi­bility to qualified men at all degree levels in the above-listed majors. 
TRAINING through orientation and on-the-job assignments assist new members of our tech­nical staff to adjust rapidly to the stimulating world of industry. 
L 
L1sTING our major chemical products ­polyols, polyester resins, surfactants, acti­vated carbons, only partially indicates the variety of our interests. Other areas include miniature electro-mechanical devices for aerospace applications, ethical pharmaceu­
ticals, and industrial explosives. Employment is available in product development, process 


development, product research, production supervision, quality control, and several staff areas. 
ADVANCEMENT on merit, interesting proj­ects, tuition aid, modern facilities, and planned programs of personal development all suit the man interested in his own future. 
SEE YOUR placement officer now for infor­mation about specific positions and locations. Make an appointment to discuss your career opportunities with our representative who will visit your campus on ­
MARCH 7, 1963 
Basketball: The Irish won a berth in the NCAA regionals, then split a pair of down-to-the-wire thrillers. After dropping a one-point decision to NYU, they came back to beat Detroit on six last-minute free throws by Sam Skarich. 
Swimming: Notre Dame's swim team also split in two contests, losing to Miami of Ohio and drubbing Kent State. Among the winners: Chuck Blanchard, who broke the school . record in the 500-yard free style with a 5 :33.8 clocking, Rocke Garcia in the 200-yard individual medley, Tim Kristl in the 200-yard butterfly, and Tom West in the 200-yard backstroke. 
Fencing: Ralph DeMatteis won five bouts and lost only one in Notre Dame's one-point victories over Illi­nois and Wisconsin. The Irish are now 10-1. 
Track: Carl Ludecke won the shot put, Jerry O'Connor the broad jump, and John Joe Mulrooney the high hurdles as the Irish finished second to Western Michigan in the Central Collegiate Conference indoor track and field championships. Ludecke's throw of 55-1 ½ set a new meet record. 
Bowling: Tom Schroeder rolled a five-game series of 944 to spark Notre Dame to an 8-3 win over Loyola. 
SCORES 
Basketball  
Notre Dame 79  NYU80  
Notre Dame 83  Detroit 79  
Swimming  

Notre Dame 41 Miami (Ohio) 54 Notre Dame 58 Kent State 36 
Wrestling Notre Dame 6 Cincinnati 20 Notre Dame 11 Miami (Ohio) 17 
Fencing Notre Dame 14 Wisconsin 13 Notre Dame 14 Illinois 13 
Track Western Michigan 91½, Notre Dame 51½, So. Illinois 41, Drake 18, Wayne State 9, Wheaton 8, Loyola 6. Bowling 
NotreDame8 Loyola 3 
SCHEDULE Basketball 
Mar. 2, Bradley at Chicago Stadium 
Swimming Mar. 1, West Virginia at WestVirginia Mar. 2, Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Wrestling 
Mar. 2, Wheaton at Notre Dame 
Fencing 
Mar. 2, Buffalo and Air Force Acad­emy at Notre Dame 
Track 
Mar. 1, Univ. of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Mar. 2, Cleveland K of C Relays 
The Scholastic 

GaTLAS 
CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES. INC. .An equal opportunity employer WILMINGTON 99, DELAWARE 
l 
I J 
I 
1 
LOUIE'S RESTAURANT 
FORMER MANAGER OF CASA PIZZA 
Now Localed al 
SOUTH BEND AVE. & CORBY 
• 
Free Deliveries lo Campus 
CE 3-0324 
• 
Homemade Italian Cooking 
Off-Street Parking 
937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
AQUINAS 
LWRARY and 
BOOI SBOP 
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 138 N. MICHIGAN • SO. BEND 
A Non-Profit Organization 


SPECIAL!! 
1 -8 x 10 Photograph in oil 
$17.50 
• 

CARLTON STUDIO 
State Theatre Bldg. 
PHONE: CE 4-9596 
OPTOMETRIST 
CONTACT LENSES In uiries Invited 
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 
1 to 24-H our SerYice 
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477 
Coming in the SCHOLASTIC in the near future: M. A. Fitzsimons on Sir Harold Wilson, who was recent­ly elected head of the Labor Party in England and E. A. Goerner on De Gaulle. 

Pooped •.• but must carry on? Snap right back and keep going!Take Verv& continuous action alertness capsules, Effective, safe, not habit-forming. 

I. 

The one lotion that's cool, exciting ~ -brisk as an ocean breeze! 
The one-and-only Old Spice exhilarates ... gives you that great-to-be­alive feeling ... refreshes after every shave ... adds to your assurance ... and wins feminine approval every time. Old Spice After Shave Lotion, ff'J ._{c), 1.25 and 2.00 plus tax. S H U L TON
<:JN(J/1,ice· -the shave lotion men recommend to other men I 
March 1, 1963 
33 



1. I'll tell mu what vou have to look °for in a job. You have to look for fringe benefits. That's the big thing today. 
Yes-the big thing. 



5. And you're not going to want to work all your life, are you? You're going to want to take it easy-you know, travel around, live it up. So you need a retirement plan that guarantees you plenty ofdough. 
I can see it now. 


The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States ©1963 Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, N.Y. Make an appointment through your placement office to see Equitable's employment representative on March 5th or \\Tile to William E. Blevins, Employment :Manager, for further information. 
Campus 
(Continued from page 13) 
strong Concert even more so, with 
all the seats and most of the aisles 
taken up by enthusiasts. The Com­
munion Breakfast was attended by 
more couples than ever before; and, 
coupled with the Carnival and the 
various extracurricular activities at 
local business establishments, this 
year's Mardi Gras developed into one 
of the best in history. 
The results of the Mardi Gras car­
nival were perhaps the most edifying 
to all concerned. An estimated $5,000 
was taken in during the first night 
alone, and, coupled with the increased 
raffle returns from sales at the Car­
nival and St. Mary's, the previously 
projected income was increased. The 
thirty-three booths were arranged in 

a different fashion than in previous 
years, to better facilitate the flow 
of people in the Stepan Center. And 

a new traffic control plan on the 
outside greatly reduced the tradition­
al jams and facilitated access to 
parking areas. 
The booths in the carnival itself showed renewed interest in the car­nival. Several clubs had exhibits at the carnival for the first time, in­spiring the old standbys to introduce new stunts to attract business. The Pitt Club, for example, held a pie throwing contest, while WSND held a hoagy eating affair. WSND's struc­tural engineers also brought about the biggest surprise of the whole carnival when, contrary to all ex­pectations, they succeeded in prevent­ing their diagonally-braced ( ? ) show­case, replete with helium balloon, from collapsing and crushing the Philadelphia Club's enterprise into abject oblivion. 
• 
Last fall, the University ground crew feverishly planted 150 trees around the Main Quadrangle. But in this Era of Excellence, the Adminis­tration could not plant just any commonplace trees like maples, elms or pines. As a matter of fact, of the new trees planted, there are 36 new species, many of which have never been grown in the Indiana wasteland. Included in the additions to the cam­pus are such standouts as the sweet­gum, the tulip tree, the corkbark tree, the Chinese chestnut, the sour­gum, the ruby red horsechestnut, the gingko, and the white blooming red­bud. 

• 
There are some very mentionable St. Mary's items: next Wednesday School for Scandal, by Joseph Sheri­dan, will be presented in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:00 p.m.; Thursday, also in O'Laughlin, Frank Sheed will speak on "The Modern Idea of God." 



6. That's why I say you have to look at the fringe benefits when you look for a job. 
But don't you also have to 
look for interesting work, 
good income, the chance 
for advancement? 
7. You sure do. That's why I'm going to work for Equitable. You get all those job advantages­and all the fringe benefits, too. 
I admire your thinking. 
Next week, the SCHOLASTIC will feature Fr. T. M. Hesburgh on the role of the University in the under­developed countries ( a topic recent­ly reviewed in the SATURDAY RE­VIEW).  
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED • DR. M. MITTERMAYER Optometrist 228 S. MICHIGAN  

BLOCK BROS. 
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON 
Jewelers to Notre Dame faculty and students for over 40 years
•
Featuring: 

A WIDE SELECTION OF N.D. JEWELRY 
• 
EXPERT. REASONABLE WATCH & JEWELRY REPAIRING 
• 

NATIONALLY ADVERTISED DIAMONDS AND WATCHES 
• 

Gift packages shipped to a/I parts of the world 

Frank talk about your hair: Vitalis with V-7 keeps your hair neat all day without grease • 


Naturally.V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery.Vrtalis® with V-7® fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dry­ness. keeps your hair neat all day withou_t_grease. Try it! 

COME TOWHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS SOUTH BEND 214 S. Michigan St. (next to State Theater) Westminster-Artia-United ArtistGrand Opening Sale Command-Phase Four-Atlantic 4 DAYS ONLY -THURS.-FRI.-SAT.-SUN. Audio Fidelity-ABC Paramount-Imperial . Chess-Argo-Womer Bros.-Cadence-EverestOpen Sunday-12 p.m. to 6 p.m. ALL FIRST QUALITY: No seconds. We guarantee our products to be of first quality. SINGLE 45 RPM..................................11c99c Record Sale BONGOS-PHONOGRAPHS-CLOTHS-ADAPTORSANY LP ALBUM FROM OUR HUGE STOCK ON SALE FOR SPECIAL 99c __ Ninety-Nine Cents -­99c DIAMOND NEEDLES VALUES TO $9.98 $2.47When you buy one in same price category at regular manufacturer's list price. GUITARS -TRANSISTORS-UKES WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS 214 S. Michigan St. ­Phone CE 3-4585 OPEN: MONDAY through SATURDAY ­9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; SUNDAY ­12 to 6 p.m.  

:rrm:tSttrtnt = • 'eeH!lfl:f:ase:'lt-50f':te:Y<':E':M'altt/'"t'e:ttS"~t;;;:, 'tl! 1 I& '"S'Q:M F '!'r Mef1:£:'r:t!i'1'Z--:=-ii"'!IY.'lttW-cn<i"..,~ 
NDS-E 

PO BOX 625 


•' 
. 
WIH1A\1f II§ UJJID IFIRl@ra1f ~ 
Up front, ahead of a modern filter, only Winston has Filter-Blend ... rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially p1·oces·sed 

for full flavor in filter smoking. It's what's up front that counts! 
PURE WHITE, : MODERN FILTER : 
---------...a--'-~•--------~ 
\ ~~-l_ ---------) 
PLUS l FILTER -BLEND UP FRONT 
Wfinn§lt@nn ilial§lt®§ g@@cdl 
Ilfilk® mi <Bfigmtll°®lttl:® §Iln(())unllcdl ~ 
~ ma~ It. J_ ltcynolds Tobacco Com11any, Winston-SJ!cm, X. C. 



