Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER io, 1883.	No. io-
[For the Notre Dame “Scholastic? ] In Re—Martin Luther.
1483—November io,—1S83.
BY ELEANOR C. DONNELLY.
I.
Answer! Doctor Martin Luther!
Thou art summonsed to the Bar,— From the lowest depths of Hades, Thro’ the fiery gates ajar:—	.
Thro’ the chaos of the ages, From the grave’s unhallow’d dust.— Come, thou unreform’d Reformer!
To the judgment of the just!
11.
In yon land of dismal Torture, Where the boldest soul hath blench’d:
Where the worm, undying, gnawetli, .
And the flames are never quench’d.— Hath it thrilled thy soul with rapture, Hath it filled thy heart -with glee, To recall this blessed (?) Birthday.
This Lutheian Jubilee? .
ni.
There’s a text somewhere in Scripture, (Demons chant it on this morn), Of a man for whom 'tivere better
That he never had been born !	•
In the dread eternal vision
Of these years of wreck and wrong,— What hath profited his boasting
O T Wine ?—of Wife ?—of Song ? •
IV.
Lo! the Song hath pass’d, like flashes Of fork’d lightning thro’ a cloud;
Lo! the Wife hath turn’d to ashes, In her rotten, mildew’d shroud;
Lo! the Wine, whose hot desire Thrilled along thine ev’ry vein,— Now, (a fierce, infernal'fire), Addeth frenzy to thy pain!
v.
There is room in yonder heaven-For the humble and the poor;
There are thrones of splendor given To the mourning, meek and pure;
But the Master hath no portion In the glory of His House, For the proud and lustful spirit That hath scorn?d its solemn* 1 11 * IV. vows.
vi.
He remembers,—He remembers. At Amiens of old,	'	~
When another famous Martin
Met the beggar, nude and cold,-— How his single soldier’s mantle 1	0
j	He halved with sabre-stroke,
!	That Christ, in that poor neighbor,
Might share St. Martin’s cloak!
vn.
. He remembers,—He remembers, ।	(As He mourns His faith’s decay),
1	How a namesake of St. Martin,—
j	Whose feast we keep to-day;—	-
j	Dead to love of God and neighbor,
i	By rebellious lust entic’d,
I	Rent, with proud, apostate sabre,
j	The seamless robe of Christ!
;	VIII.
Answer! Doctor Martin Luther!
Wert thou humble, meek, and pure? . Living, dying, like St. Martin, Obedient, chaste, and poor?
Is the feast-day of thy patron. All, thy friends would have it be?
Is thy dear four-hundredth Birthday. ^uite a gala-day to thee?
An Action at Law.
In many respects there is a notable analogy between the established procedure in the trial of a case at law and the rules customarily followed in working out a mathematical problem. Under the rules of evidence only such facts as-manifestly rest upon the foundations laid in the pleadings, can be introduced. Facts irrelevant, matters inferred, mere' suppositions, and statements calculated to mislead-, are carefully eliminated'from the testimony of witnesses. In solving a: mathematical problem every figure arid fraction of a figure must be correct and used in its proper place. Any oversight or mistake in this respect inevitably results in a wrong solutiori.
o	_	-
In commencing an action at law the plaintiff’s attorney makes out a prcecipe and files it with the clerk of the court. This contains the names of the plaintiff and" defendarit, mentions the nature of the action, alleges the arriount of damages claimed, arid requests the clerk’to make out a sum--mbns and have the sheriff serve the same upon the'

146
THE NOTRE DAiiE SCHOLASTIC.
defendant. The summons repeats the substance of the	and commands the defendant to ap-
pear and make answer to the allegations of the plaintiff at the next term of court. The sheriff reads the summons!; to the ^defendant at his residence, place of business, or wherever he may be found. If he cannot be found, a copy of it may be left at his home. The sheriff then returns the original summons to the clerk of the court, having written the time and manner of service over his name on the reverse. Thereafter it is filed away with the fracite, it being an important duty of the clerk to number each case in its order and keep together all papers and documents relating to it. The next paper filed, under ordinary circumstances, is called a declaration or complaint. This is a formal statement of the plaintiff’s cause of action. It is the foundation upp.n which the case rests. It must allege facts that can be proved, and only such. .It must be drawn with reference to the rules of pleading. It must be general and comprehensive enough to cover every fact that the plaintiff proposes to prove on the trial; for, under the rules of evidence, no fact can be introduced for which a foundation has not been laid in the declaration. Before the time set for the trial to begin, the defendant’s attorney carefully studies the charges and allegations set forth in the plain-tiff’s declaration. Having analyzed them and determined upon the line of defense, he files for the defendant a plea or answer, which is a formal and general denial of all the statements put forward bj' the plaintiff, and which closes with a request, technically stated, to have the matter referred to a jury for the trial of the issues involved. Should he not do this, he resorts to other pleadings, such as a demurrer, a plea in bar, a plea in abatement, or something else of like nature, with a view to hav-ing the suit dismissed, or the trial postponed, or the plaintiff’s declaration remodelled in some particulars.
The pleadings are sometimes marked by great technicality and wrangling; but soon or late they lead to a direct affirmation on the one side and a specific denial on the other. Then the case is practically ready for trial. When the case is called and-the jury are impaneled, the trial begins. The finesse of mere pleading is then at an end, and the law of evidence succeeds it and becomes paramount in developing the facts and shaping the testimony of the witnesses. However,' it forces the strictest compliance with the pleadings. The allegations of the plaintiff and the denials of the defendant, are the matters in issue; and the law of. evidence is strictly construed to prevent-sany thing foreign to.such matters from being made.a part.of the record. Otherwise, the conclusion reached would be held untenable, and a new trial would be ordered on appealing to a higher court. Every witness whose testimony is.introduced is restricted to the statement of what he personally knows to betrue; and only so much of that as finds an undoubted resting-place upon - the. pleadings is admissible. If it does not directly tend to support or contradict the allegations of the-plaintiff or the denials of the defendant,-it- cannot be received. And
thus the lawyers laboriously proceed in building up‘ the complex superstructure of the action. Days,-weeks or months may elapse before the termination of the trial; but the work is nevertheless un-weariedly carried on, and always within the limits prescribed by the pleadings. Fact after fact is sifted out and added to the supei structure, as figure after figure is added to a mathematical problem, until the consummation is finally reached.
The statutes and adjudicated cases, or precedents, involving like points, inform the court as to what the law is in each particular action; while the witnesses and documents offered in evidence make reasonably clear to .the jury what the facts are. When all the pertinent facts have been, received and the arguments by the lawyers finished, the court outlines for the jury the law covering the matters imdispute, or the issues raised on the trial. After the judge’s charge to the jury, the litigant, whose facts are the better sustained and the more accordant with the established principles of law, receives the verdict.
The law of evidence is of special importance. A lawyer who thoroughly understands how to examine witnesses, introduce evidence, and conduct his case, is almost certain to command a larg-e meas-ure of success at the bar. No oratory can compensate for lack of skill in procuring and introducing in proper time and logical order all the facts available. It is equally important to have excluded or to take exception to everything vulnerable in the testimony offered by the witnesses of the opposing litigant. A lawyer having a thorough knowledge of the rules of evidence, can reasonably hope to win at least two cases to the one that mere oratory or eloquence can influence. Besides, it makes him stand out prominently before the court, the bar, and the public as a man of extensive information and great natural resources. And such a man it is that establishes the facts entering into the superstructure of his case with all the clearness, precision and convincing accuracy of a mathematical demonstration.	H.
Conversation.
“ Ex conversatione parum attenta.”—St. Chrysostom.
Why write upon such a subject? To this question I answer, that-it regards the faculty by which God has given to men the means of holding intercourse with each other, and as it is principally the one most abused in our day, a few remarks on it may not be inappropriate.
In tfeating-this subject there are three things to 5 be regarded: firsts the faebthat it is the most.common action of our life;, second, the danger of this action; third,-the blindness into which we fall by not observing prudence and charity. How difficult it is for us to perform good actions and not think ourselves great! How often have we not seen men dazzle their own eyes by the glory of their good actions, and then try to dazzle the eyes of others! In this very sentence lies the secret of many culpable and vain conversations. 3 How frequently have we not heard people-ask, “How did you like it?” . “Was
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
147
it grand”? Why this vanity? I know you will say it is inherent in poor human nature to seek praise from others. I acknowledge this; but such people generally have a secret spring concealed in their hearts, a motive of pride and vainglory.
The second motive is the danger of this action. It is dangerous on account of its nature and time. It is necessary for nature to have relaxation in order to sustain itself. “ The bow cannot always be stretched, we sometimes relax it on purpose,” says St. Gregory, “ that we may afterwards draw it with more effect.” It is just as necessary for us, from.time to time, to give our minds some relaxation, as for the skilful hunteu to relax the string of his bow. What is this relaxation? It is nothing more than recreation. How do we employ our time-during recreation? This is the question. There are some persons who never take any recreation, or, if they do, they generally go beyond the bounds of Christian moderation. There is a limit to all things. This limit applies more particularly to our present subject. By this I do not mean we should be like the Pharisees of old who wore such long faces and practised all kinds of public penance—I mean to be cheerful, pleasant, and enjoying life as Christians should do.
Conversation is dangerous on account of the time when we generally take it. In most countries, conversation immediately follows the repasts. Can I say there is danger in this? I do say it, on account of the opposition which exists in us between the spirit and the flesh. Between these two there is a continual war. If our bodies are nourished it is evident that our spirit becomes weaker, consequently it is harder for the spirit not only to fight,' but even to maintain its ground against the flesh. I grant it is very hard for us not to exceed the bounds of discretion in this; but by observing a great vigilance over ourselves we can and will effect a renovation. Generally, our minds, after recreation, are so disturbed by the talk we have heard that we can hardly collect our senses in order to study or do our allotted work. As the waves, which are violently agitated by the wind, do not immediately return to their former placid condition, thus it is with the liberty of our minds after recreation. By this liberty they are granted a certain movement which does not cease at the end of recreation, and consequently it is very difficult to stop this agitation. Not only after recreation are our minds disturbed, but there is great fear for the whole, day; because the conversations which we have had, and the events which we have heard, all conspire to'overthrow that perfect-equilibrium which should be the foundation of all our actions. How does it happen that persons are so lax in their speech? Because they converse with those who are lax. Whence comes so much back-biting, detraction and calumny? On account of some hidden jealousy which one person has against another. He is’jealous because such a one eclipses him in his work. Because he has a rival whom he cannot surpass by fair means, and in order to vilify and blacken his character in the eyes of his fellow-men, back-biting and detraction are resorted to. Oh, in
what an unjust cause to abuse the most noble and valuable of God’s gifts to man! Far better would it be if we were to remain dumb all our lives than thus to misuse this precious gift. How often have we not- had occasion’--to pity the poor, dumb animal when'nearly sinking under oft-repeated blows of its cruel master ; but how much more is he to be pitied who makes a bad use of the gift of speech! *
Du •ing conversation we can practise a great many virtues—such as, forbearance with our neighbor when he speaks ill of us. In other greater actions we may be in danger of falling into pride, since they give us the occasion of practising many ■ virtues which we cannot conceal, for example, profuse alms-giving; but in a well-regulated conversation we have the opportunity of practising a great many virtues without the danger of pride. How can we perform our conversations in a proper manner? (1) By observing with whom we speak•; (2) by observing what we say, or the subject of our conversation; (3) by observing the manner in which we speak during our conversations. First, by observing with whom we speak. If we speak with, and are the boon companions of, bad and wicked persons, we may be sure that our conver- . sations will be of a bad ^and wicked character. The old and true saying—“ Tell me your company and I will tell you who you are,” can with all reasonableness be applied in this case.	:
Second, by a strict observance concerning what we say, or the subject of our conversation. I will not speak here of wicked conversations which are never allowable, but only of those which contain ’ some appearance of Christian piety. We must avoid vanity. We should never praise ourselves before others. We should onlv regard ourselves like the rest of men, weak and inconstant. When something unusual happens, how many mouths are opened to gulp down the news at the first breath! Everyone interprets it to suit his own fancy. Some add to it; others take away the value of it. All unite in saying nothing good about the poor, unfortunate being, who has been the object of their uncharitable remarks. Well might we say with the poet Ovid—Fama crescit eundo—“ Rumor increases in going around.” _
Third, by observing the manner in which we speak during our conversations. We must speak of facts not of rumors or mere fancies. What we have heard, if it be true, and we think it would be for our neighbor’s benefit, we may relate it just as we know it, neither adding nor taking away from it. We must not monopolize the whole conversation by. not 'allowing anyone else express his opin-ionj or, if we permit them to speak, by continually interrupting them.- We must avoid all raillery or defamation of the character of another. We should not .be ashamed to say to a man’s face what we said during his absence.' We may rest assured that what we have said will be repeated to him by those very persons who now-listen to us and-appear to be our devoted and best friends. If we would only bear this in mind, what trouble and anxiety would w’e not cease to give to one another! What more perfect exemplar of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
conversation could we adduce than our Divine Saviour? He came into this world to converse with men, but His conversation was such that it was never tainted with the least expression of bitterness. What a contrast between His conversation and that of the world at the present day! What do we find? Nothing but contempt, bitingsarcasms and sneers. Go where you will, you will always find some one or something to talk about. Would that all our conversations were interspersed with some respect of, I will not say Divine, but even human law. How often have we not had occasion to lament the immoral tone of the conversation which is carried on amongst the young men? When one speaks wickedly he shows that he has a corrupt heart, because, our Lord Himself has said, “ Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.” How often, in passing through the streets of our large cities, have not our ears been assailed by the ribald jokes and coarse puns of street urchins? Well might we exclaim with temporal 0 mores! “ Alas, the times!” “Alas, the public morals!” We can avoid all these faiilts, and a great many more, by observing prudence and discretion; by practising Christian charity towards our neighbor; by never allowing ourselves to swerve from the path of honor and truth for a mere party spirit; by not allowing ourselves to be carried away by the heat of a discussion. We have seen some persons nearly going mad because they were worsted in a discussion.
We cannot draw this subject to abetter conclusion. than by quoting the words of St. Augustine on Christian life: “For it becomes worshippers and servants of God to be gentle, grave, prudent, pious, irreproachable, unspotted, in order that he vyho beholds them may stand amazed, and wonder and say, these are -men of God whose conversation is of this nature.”
' .	J.D.C.
Books and Periodicals.
A Course of Philosophy, Embracing Logic, Metaphysics axd Ethics. A Text-Book for Use in Schools. Second Edition. Revised and Enlarged. By Very Rev. A. Louage, C. S. C., Provincial of Canada. Baltimore,: John B. Piet & Co.
A good English text-book of Philosophy has been, a long-felt want in. our schools and colleges. The.fact is that, of late, years, in our Catholic colleges, a special course, called; the Scientific Course, has. become.unusually prominent, and each year is meeting;with accessions. In this course, the classics., are practically ignored, and the comparatively, slight acquaintance with the. Latin language required .of the students, debars. them, from all .intercourse .with the standard philosophical works. At the same time, a£.the’cqurse,exists, and Is called for, it, must: be, recognized, and-made perfect by the. study of philosophy. -To. meet this, requirement we must have a^good^manuaLin English,—if notan original. work, at least a translation^ of? oneofourLatin. text-books. - The; work, before us is a, step in. the right direction it is^now. going through .its second
edition, and has been considerably improved by its adaptation to. the scholastic system, which is officially approved by the Holy See.
—We are indebted to Mr. C. Dewitt Cregier, - the Commissioner, for a copy of the “ Seventh Annual Report of the Department of Public Works, Chicago, for the Fiscal Year Ending Dec. 31, 1882.” This is a voluminous work of 303 octavo pages, giving an elaborate statement, with numerous charts and tables, of the work of the Commissioner during the year. The Commissioner’s report embodies an account of the early days of Chicago, from which we learn of an attempt on the part of the press^o support plank roads against the encroachments of the railway companies! A long extract is given from one of the city papers in which it is stated that plank roads were cheaper and better, and gave greater accommodations to both farmers and merchants, the stations being ten or twelve jniles apart, etc. The number of teams then arriving in the city each week was not far from 70,000. Chicagoans, reading this report will no doubt be struck with the change since Feb. 16, 1848, when the above-mentioned article appeared in the Democrat.	.
— The Phonetic Journal, edited by Isaac Pitman, the inventor of Phonography, and issued 'weekly from, the Phonetic Institute, Bath, England, is undoubtedly one of the best, and also, the cheapest, phonographic periodical published anywhere. It is now nearing the close of its 43d year of publication. Besides phonographic intelligence from all parts of the.world, articles on spelling. reform, etc., three pages of stenographic matter are given, weekly, in the Corresponding and Reporting, Styles. Prominent in the latter are “Leaves from the Note-Book of Thos. Allen Reed, now appearing. “ The Pickwick Papers ” (Easy Reporting Style). and “ Gulliver’s Voyage to Lilliput” (Corresponding Style) inaugurated the “ Pitman Shorthand Library ” in the serial form, to be. followed by “ Tom . Brown’s School Days,” by permission of Macmillan & Co. “Trifles; or, A Talk with Young Phonographers,” is one of a series of papers from veterans in the winged art that occasionally appear and add great interest to. the magazine. Price of subscription, 45. 46?. per. annum.
.	Scientific Notes.
—According to. the Wien Med. Blatter, the most expensive, drug now in the market is er,-gotinin; it costs.$3.35 a grain, or nearly $1,500, a pound:.	’
—A diver, at. 600 yards distance, from the. persons communicating with him, can converse with ease: with. persons, above water by means of-, the .telephone. .
' —Baron 'Rothschild of? Vienna- uses incandescent; light- iii; his carriage lamps. The.-electrical,, accumulators; are placed; under the coachman’s seat, and are off sufficient,- capacity, to - supply-light
! for 100 hours.	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
149'
—One of the chief features of interest at a recent county exhibition in England was an iron watch which had been turned out by a Kidderminster firm for the purpose of showing the extraordinary malleability of their metal. The watch is said to be perfect.
—The deepest sea-sounding ever made was in the Pacific ocean, in 1874, near the entrance to Behring’s sea. The depth was 4,655 fathoms, and the cast was made from the United States schoolship Tuscarora. The shallowest water in the middle of the Atlantic, 751 fathoms, shows the existence of submarine mountains 10,556 feet high.
—A horse can scarcely lift‘two-thirds of its own weight, while one small species of June-beetle can lift sixty-six times its weight. Forty thousand such June-beetles could lift as much as a draughthorse. Were our strength in proportion to this we could play with weights equal to ten times that of a horse, while an elephant could move mountains.
—New uses arc being constantly discovered for tin-plate, the latest being putting up oranges in cans after peeling and dividing them into natural sections. The experiment has been successful and it is likely to prove an important industry for Florida and California. Another use for tin-plate has lately been found in cases for patent medicines designed for Brazil and other warm climates.
_ —A non-conductor of electricity has yet to be found, for all substances hitherto discovered are conductors of the force under certain known conditions, but those which offer a great resistance to it serve the purpose of non-conductors in practice, although they may all be either classed as good or bad conductors. The best conductor know as yet is silver. The worst conductor is paraffine.
—In 1878 a remarkable discovery of bones of the fossil monsters known as Iguanodons was made in a coal mine of Belgium. Three years were oc.-cupied in removing the remains which are supposed to belong to twenty-three skeletons. One of the skeletons is now mounted in the animal’s semi-erect position, and stands fourteen feet high, and extends over a horizontal floor space over twenty-three feet in length.
—Mr. M. Wroblewski and Olszewski have obtained, a temperature as low as—136° C. by making ethylene boil in vacuo. Liquid oxygen was at this temperature easily obtained, colorless and transparent, like carbonic acid. Alcohol solidified (after being viscous at about—129°) about— I3°.°5, forming a 'white body. Liquid nitrogen has also been obtained as they informed the Academy of Science on the 16th ult.—Athenceum.
—The pearl fisheries on the coast of Lower California are growing in importance, and fully one thousand divers are now engaged in the work. The black pearls are readily boiight on the spot by agents of European houses, the prices paid depending on size, demand, etc. As high as $5,000 has been paid for a single pearl. They are found i.n waters six miles back from the coast. .Many
“ blue pearls ” are also found, but these are of but little value.	'
—It is said that glass is gradually beginning to take the place of wood and iron in the construction of bridges in England. The inventor makes blocks of glass, which he hardens by.a special process. In solidity it is said to leave nothing" to be desired. The experiments already made have given surprising results, and the cost is below that of bridges of wood or iron. Moreover, the glass cannot be injured by insects like wood, nor rusted like iron.
—Prof. Holeman, of Philadelphia, has made experiments in the effect of sound on the colors and shapes of soap bubbles. Being reflected on. a screen, they were at first a bluish gray. An intonation of the voice through a tube connected with a bubble first brought out a number of black spots on the reflection; and these were succeeded by a bright green, mingled with pink. The same tone always caused the same formation, but had no control over the color.
—The new and thrifty town of Pullman, near ’ Chicago, lies on a flat prairie, and the problem of drainage, which is so difficult to solve in a great many places, had to be met in Pullman. The following is the one adopted, and it is said to be satisfactory in its workings and profitable in its results: Sewers are built to empty into a sunken tank, from which the sewage is pumped through > a twenty-inch main to a farm three miles away. The system cost $80,000; the farm yields a profit of $8,500 a year.—Scientific American
—One of the finest conifers in Germany, known as the Royal Fir, stands near the village of AL bernau in the Erzgebirge Mountains. Its diam-eter, fortv inches above ground, is six feet ten inches, sufficient to conceal a horse and rider placed lengthwise behind the trunk. It begins ramifying at a height of thirty-four feet, and the full elevation to top of crown measures 154 feet. It is thought to be the tallest and strongest representative of the species, not only in Germany, but in the whole of Europe. This noble tree, which is supposed to be 500 years old, now shows signs of decay, having died out on .the apex of the crown since the year 1S74. The enormous dimensions of the tree may be better realized by cordwood measure. The shaft is estimated at cords, limbs and brushwood 12% cords, making in all 64^4 cords.
College Gossip.
—Typhoid fever is said to be prevalent at Yale.
—The Springfield Republican has four- Harvard men on its staff.	...
—The Methodist University of Dakota will-be. located at Ordway.—Ariel.	,
—Thirty-five per cent, of the students of Dartmouth are said to be skeptics.
i5°
THE NOTRE LAME SCHOLASTIC.
—St. Edward’s College, Texas, is directed by Rev. Fathei' Robinson, C. S. C.
—The new gymnasium at Amherst is to have a billiard-room for the use of the students.
—Amherst’s Faculty has taken a stand against intercollegiate sports.— University Monthly.
—Prof. Fiske has brought suit against Cornell University to recover money left it by his wife.
—Of all the students that enter our American Colleges only one out of ten graduates.—Niagara. Index.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Wigger, D. D., of Newark, N. J., has presented five hundred dollars to Seton Hall College.
—Mr. W. P. Willey, late of the Wheeling Register, has resigned his position to take a professor’s chair in the West Virginia University.
—The committee in charge of raising the $4,000,000 asked for by Columbia College last spring, have already secured $1,000,000.— Oberlin Re-viezv.
—St. Laurent’s College, near Montreal, is making .many improvements in the scientific department, under the direction of Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S. C. '	,
—The six prizes given at Williams College for literary excellence were without exception taken by students connected with the college paper.— Niagara Index.
—The Yale students have raised about $40,000 to be expended in new athletic grounds. They hope to make it $60,000 and have the handsomest grounds in the country.
—The Jesuits have established a flourishing college in Buffalo, New York. Their library is well .filled with valuable books imported from the European establishments closed bjr Bismark.
—Amherst College will hereafter give the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, open to graduates of three years’ standing who take an additional course of two years in literature and science.— Cornell Sun.	’
—President Strong, of Carleton College, calls for a $160,000 increase of the endowment of that institution. —Ariel.
What or where is Carleton College, anyhow? Does anybody know?
—The ^ueeiHs College Journal makes the ubiquitous “ Ex? authority for the statement that ■ “ $200,000 have been subscribed toward a Catholic University to be founded at Chicago.” It seems strange that we should not have heard of this before. . . ’	.	.	,
—President Seelye, of Amherst, says that a.student should not pursue a scientific course until well-grounded in the classics. Professor Huxley is of the same opinion, and is giving his son a thorough classical education, preparatory to a. course in the sciences.—Oberlin Review.	.
—Buterfligh: I say, Hams, I see you flunked in math. .
- Busibea: Yes, I sat up toe late the night be-, fore.	.	.
Buterfligh: Why, that was just my trouble.
Busibea: I sat up to cram.:
Buterfligh: Oh, I sat up to play poker.— Columbia Spectator.
—In colonial times, absence from prayers at Harvard was punished by a fine of 2d.; absence from public worship by a fine of qd.; tardiness, 2d.; for going to church before the ringing of the bell, 6d.; for “profane cursing,” a fine of 2s. 6d.; for playing cards, 2s. 6d.; lying, is. 6d.; sending for beer, 6d.: fetching beer, is. 6d.; for going into the college yard without the proper garb, qd. —Ex.
Exchanges.
—In Frondes Silvulce—from the Salford- Catholic Grammar School, England—we have a strong presentation of poetic genius in W. D. S.’s “ Two Sonnets,” J. A. S.’s “Rome” and “ The Cathedral of Cologne,” and a rhvmed translation of Horace’s Ode to Quintius Dellius, “ Aequam memento (Book II, Ode II),” supplementing a sketch of the life of the poet.
—The Swarthmore Phoenix is one of the neatest and best-edited exchanges that comes to our desk. But, withal, editorial complaint is made that sometimes when there is not matter enough to fill the paper, and application is made to the Alumni, empty promises and no matter is the result. This is the old, oft-told story over again. It seems strange that graduates after leaving college should find no time, or lack energy or inclination for writing.
—Our near neighbor over the Michigan border, the Kalamazoo College Index, although taking an early start this year, makes a fair display of literary articles. The “ Criticism of the Poetry of Mrs. Browning"” contains very good selections; the article on the “Evolution of Thought” is no commonplace production; and the quiet, unobtrusive tone of the exchange-notes bespeaks ability in the writer. If we do not mistake, he can show a strong hand and ready pen when occasion requires either. We are glad to have his good will so far, and hope we may deserve to hold it.
—The Ca'p and Gown, published by the Pi Omega and Sigma Epsilon Literary Societies of the Univei'sity of the South, Sewanee, Tenn., makes its first appearance at our desk. It is neat-in appearance and fairly well edited. “ A Student ” complains of . the high standard, required by the University fop graduation. He says that out of every fifty students entering the Freshmam class, hot more than ten are graduated, and of the few who, reach the B. A. degree not more' than one leaves with sound health and perfect eyesight; and this while thirty out of fifty are graduated at other colleges. Yes, but what kind of graduates are these from the “ other colleges,” so-called, and what is their “degree ” worth? In many cases, not worth the parchment on which it is written. If “ college ” faculties stultify themselves and grant degree's that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
151
•are ndt earned, as they do, the faculties are the gain-■ers, while the students—the whitewashed A. B.’s— Jareifhe losers.	:
—The Oscotian^ a neat and compact magazine of $6 pages, published by' the students of St. Mary’s College, Oscott, England, opens its October number with a short, well-written criticism of Mr. Swinburne’s new book, “ A Century of Roundels.” A few happily-chosen selections are given. The history of the College—a building or buildings said to be located “ in a valley on a hill,” is continued, sundry incidents in which make it readable even at this distance. The old-time sports are mentioned in detail, of which “ Bandy ” seems to have been the one in which Oscotians ’took the greatest pleasure, and always excelled,— •so much so that “ an Oscott man would look upon bandy played elsewhere with the same kind of •disdain that a captain of a smart cutter-yacht would Hook upon the sailing qualities of a canal barge.” 'The sketch headed “ St. Hubert and Hydrophobia”—evidently written by one who visited the localities mentioned—is a verv interesting one. We were not aware before, that St. Hubert’s intercession had been, and is, invoked—and very successfully, too, it appears—against this horrible madness. “ Cricket-Notes ” occupy two pages of. the magazine. We should like to see the “Jottings ” department extended in length and scope,' so as to give us a better idea of the local happenings among our brethren beyond the water; and if an exchange department were added there need no longer be an excuse for the report that English colleges have no papers.
—For a short story with long names we think the Queers College Journal takes the premium. “Abraham John the Baptist Christopher Columbus Tapperton”! What a load for an infant to carry! This story, with Principal Grant’s address at the opening of Convocation, and “ His Sideboards”—Nibs’s—constitute the general literature of the number. Rather a respectable showing up. Principal Grant, after glancing at the affairs of the college, gives the students some good advice m his speech. In concluding it, he says: “ Captain of a university football club nearly thirty years ago, and having just returned from crossing the great ranges of mountains, on horseback or on foot, the Chancellor and myself forcing our way up and down precipices, across torrents, through beaver dams, devils clubs by the million [Why is it that so many things and places are named after the d—1 among the mountains?;—Ed. Schol.] and the densest underbrush that I have ever seen, you maj- be-certain‘that.I am not likely to belittle sport, manly games or any kind of muscular Christianity. But I am afraid that some of you are a little inclined to forget the rule of proportion, and pnd instead of giving nine hours a day to study and three to athletics, would fain invert the proportion, or.worse, remit books to the Christmas or Easter holidays, which means to the Greek - Kalends. Gentlemen, it is an awful thing to be a fool! A fool is a man who does not live close to realities.
And a man is living in dreamland and not on terra firma who acts as if games of any kind would ' enable him to earn his living, develop his .'mind or form his character. Stick to the football, of course, but I will think less, of the good old game than I ever “did,, unless I find that the best footballers are also good students.” o	_
—The Cornell Era gives an emphatic denial to the report that the study of science is entirely superseding the languages, and especially Latin and Greek, at Cornell. The Era wonders how such a report could have been started, in the face of the fact that the languages, ancient and modern, are now in greater demand than ever before, and from one to three required in nearly every course laid out by the Faculty. “Instead of degenerating,” it adds, “ the study of all the languages is becoming more popular with Cornell students, as the -large sections in optional work will bear witness.” We could not fail to see the report alluded to, as it has appeared in most of the college papers, but we paid no attention to it. It may have arisen from the facultorial action of one of the one-horse colleges, in Illinois or somewhere else, that sports the cognomen of “ Cornell,” and which probably comes in for a share of the good or evil fame of the more opulent institution of that name. It is evident that one of these institutions—the younger one, of course—should get a.name entirely its own. As Asbury, alias De Pauw, has two names, perhaps it would part with one for a consideration. The Era has an able pen at the “ Exchange ” department this year. One of the so-called “ Prize Orations” is handled without gloves. To show the “ torrent of eloquence ” with which the “ University ” prize-orator in question flooded his audience, an extract is given, from which we in turn take the following tincture (brace vourself, gentle reader, and don’t allow yourself to be swept away by this “ torrent ” of “ University ” eloquence):
•‘ Great monuments stand in mute mockery of brilliant minds that once conceived and dextrous hands that once performed. The barbarian reasons where once the autoc-thonous Grecian tuned his lyre to sing the symphonies of nature and the diapasons of the gods. Where once the virgin goddess stood, with arm outstretched to the Aegean flood, and looked down upon the symposiums of the gifted, the low moan of the sentry ocean whispers of the dense fogs of human ignorance and the denser fogs of human superstititon that rest like a shroud upon its people.”
What think you of that, reader, from the prize orator of Central “ University,” Kentucky? What sublimity of thought! what grand language! what —but words fail us to adequately express our ad- ' miration. No quibbling over trifles, reader, but admire the complete whole of this “torrent” of eloquence. Of course, the sublimity of the“au-tocthonous,” here forming- the climax—bather prematurely, it is true—casts completely in the shade such slight inaccuracies as the use of -the circumstantial adjective “ Grecian ” for the noun, and the apparent nonsensicality of “the*low moan of the sentry ocean.” Verily, Kentucky is spending- its millions to some purpose in supporting a “University ” that turns out such -orators as the author, of the “Junior Prize Oration.”	’	’ -
THE 'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WE W 5DH0WIC.
Notre Dame, November 10, 1883. ,
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the N OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame. '
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
AH the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.yo far Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Order and facility in expressing one’s thoughts ' is undoubtedly a prime accomplishment. - It is one without which a great deal that .a student may have learned will be like so much lumber for which no use can be found. A person may delve into the mysteries of science and master its difficulties—his learning is of little use to himself or any one else unless he can explain what he has learned. Another may have traversed the domains of literature—be familiar with the best authors in half a dozen languages—but of what use is his erudition if he cannot show it? An English philosopher has said that reading makes “ a full man”; he gives us the key to this store of learning when he tells us that “writing makes a read}7 man.”
The painter gives us the fruits of his genius and his study in his pictures—the musician in his compositions and the delightful harmony of his strains. But the perfection of these pictures and these harmonies are the result of close application, of severe and continued practice, day after day, with the brush or at the musical instrument. So it is with the sculptor; and so it must’ also be with the ' writer. "To write well one must needs practise, and practise much’. Success in making the invisible stores of the mind visible to others will be in the measure of our persistent practice in writing.
• For a writer to do his work well, he must have learned the proper use of his materials. There are more than 50,000 words in the English language, and one must know how to use each word properly —at' least with a certain sense of propriety, for even our best writers sometimes make mistakes.
This requires both study and practice. Fie must have learned to express his thoughts clearly, and systematically, and this also needs much practice. Both words and thoughts must be arranged and re-arranged many times before we have perfect order and symmetry.
Good sense, as Horace says, is the first principle and fountain of good writing. But good sense alone will not suffice. Good writing, like good painting, or music, or sculpture, presupposes much practice in acquiring a skilful use of the pen. A person may be stuffed with scientific and literary-lore, and
“ In mathematics be greater
Than Tycho Brahe or Erra Pater,” -but his writing will be very poor indeed unless he has had persistent practice with his pen. Anyone who had read only the early productions of Thackeray, would hardly dream that he should reach the high degree of excellence that we have seen him attain. Macaulay’s writings are another example. Hazlitt possessed a deeper mind, was a more original thinker, possessed a richer vein and a more copious fancy, but Macaulay by persistent labor,—writing and re-writing, arranging and re-arranging his sentences, his words, his paragraphs, attained such a degree of excellence that his Reviews have been styled the Iliad and Odyssey of criticism, models of writing.
Few of those who are now known as great writers attained their success without hard and persistent labor. This is visible in Thackeray’s works; we can trace his progress step by step. Dickens and Coleridge had much practice in early life as reporters for the press. Macaulay erased and rewrote and interlined and changed as often as a dozen times. Cowper’s easy style is the result of much labor and study. We see Pope’s reputation as a poet established at twenty-five, but with all his genius Pope compressed the study and practice of an ordinary lifetime into those twenty-five years.
In this new ’ country, where most young men have to depend on their own exertions for a fortune, and professional life absorbs all our time, few may aspire to become authors, to *
“Leave their footprints on the sands of time”: still there are but few of our students who will not be called upon to handle the pen and express their opinions in writing. Therefore it behooves them to practise during their collegiate course; otherwise they shall make a miserable failure when put to the test.	_
—The following invitation has been sent to the parents and friends of the Minims, requesting their presence at the grand celebration in commemoration of the idp at present in attendance. The manner of the celebration and the reasons for the choice of the day are fully set forth in the circular: “Honored and Dear Friends:	-	'
“ It is my pleasant duty to. invite you to dine with your loving young son on the 24th prox’., the 41st anniversary ■ of our first arrival at Notre Dame. .	‘ "
I say duty, because of a promise I made, last year, to our
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
bright Minims—or, rather, the young princes as everybody calls them—to treat them to a Parisian dinnei' when their number would reach the round figure ofvoo. Last evening, at 5.30,1 heard a rush towards my door; then a clear knock; then an announcement from many voices: ‘ The 100th just arrived! your namesake, Edward Sorin Ewing, from Lancaster, Ohio.! ’ The next moment, another deputation, in a great glee, brought the living proof of the fact, in the person of a bright and charming Minim, the youngest son of Hon. Judge P. B. Ewing, a new prince, indeed, from all appearances. What ends so well must be well. This was a surprise, and an agreeable one. He had come just in time to be the long-desired 100th. Two hours before, another young American had arrived from Colorado, with his excellent and refined mother. The grand Parisian dinner was now secured on their part, and thev were anxious to know when I would redeem my solemn promise. My duty. was clear; it only remained to appoint the day. We consulted together, and the above date was selected, in preference to any other, especially when they learned my intention to invite their own dearly-loved parents to honor the occasion by their presence, and to see with their own eyes, not only with what decorum and refinement their children behave themselves, but likewise the exquisite manner in .which they present their play, ‘The New Arts.’ They readily understood that a little time would be required to prepare their play, their music, their singing in chorus, their drawings, etc. I feel confident it will be a delight, not only for our princes to see again, and so soon, those whom they love so well, but likewise for yourselves to ascertain how your precious sons are treated in their new palace, as they call it. This is, above all, what I wish— areal examination of their new quarters; of their studyhalls; their class-rooms, reading and play-rooms; their dormitories and wash-rooms; and out doors, their beautiful new park, with its map of the United States, etc., etc. When you find them so richly provided, healthy, bright, and happy, you will feel relieved from all anxiety, and say within yourselves: ‘If many more mothers knew of this place, there would not be room enough for all that would come.’
“ When the Palace was built, last year, for 100 youngprinces, nobody had any idea how soon it would be filled up. Now, from all appearances, an addition of equal size will be required before another year shall have passed. But of this we shall speak again on the 24th. Our best friends will tell us of the prospects of our ‘princely’ new start. We are resolved to meet all demands in this Department as well as in the two others; and in advance I make the engagement to welcome with another larger banquet for our young princes and honorable parents, ~vhen they shall have doubled their present number, and with it, our
- common joy and thanks to Heaven.
“Prof. Gregori, the Roman artist, is preparing for the occasion an elaborate tableau of the names, age and residence of all the princes present on the 24th inst., a printed copy of which will be handed or forwarded to their parents, as a memorial of the day. It is very likely that 10 or 12 more will be added to the 100 before the 24th prox.
“ The play will commence at 2 p. m., and the dinner at 4. “ Very respectfully,
'	“ E. Sorix, C. S. C.”
The Orpheonics.
The first , musical entertainment of the season was given last Wednesday evening under, the auspices of the Orpheonic Society. As the programme indicated, the occasion was made to mark the “solemn inauguration of the new Orpheonic Hall”—a large apartment in the College, which has been refitted, furnished and set apart for the exclusive use of the members of this musical organization. To accommodate the large audience which assembled, the exercises were held in . the
x53
----------------;	1	- Rotunda, which had been handsomely and tastefully decorated for the occasion. Interspersed among the floral hangings were displayed, in large and beautifully-painted characters, the various mottos of the Society, viz., Mens nostra concordet -coci nos-tree' Labor improbus omnia vincit; Deo nostro jucunda sit decoraque laudatio; Omne tulit -punctual qui. miscuit utile dulci.---------------------•
At half-past 7, all were in their places, and the entertainment was opened by the College Orchestra with Hermann’s beautiful overture, Le Diademe, which was rendered with precision and expression such as to delight everyone. Indeed, the-playing of the Orchestra on Wednesday evening cannot be too highly praised, and we are justified in predict- . ing that under the able direction of Prof. Paul, it will, during the coming year, reach a degree of excellence never before attained. When the Orchestra had concluded, the society prayer, Ave Maris Stella, arranged as a duet and semi-chorus, was sung. It is a beautiful piece of musical composition, full of feeling and melody, and was well rendered. The three numbers that came next on the programme marked a special feature in the exercises, being “ The Orpheonics’ Tribute to St. Ed- ' ward.” This part was made complimentary to Very Rev. Father General Sorin, to whom the Orpheonics would have presented their tribute of praise on the recurrence of his festival day, had not the illness of their worthy director prevented. The present occasion, however, was deemed suitable for the offering of a tribute which had been only “deferred, not forgotten.” This part consisted of an appropriate little address, well delivered by Master Eugene Wile, representing his Society, and two beautiful songs by Masters J. Devine and T. Cleary. These two young gentlemen possess excellent voices, which they used to good advantage. The oration of the day was delivered by Master Geo. Schaefer, who discoursed on music and musical organizations. He was followed by C. Porter, in a Latin address, complimentary to Rev. President Walsh. “The New Orpheonic Hall,” a song composed expressly for the occasion, was sung by Master Eugene Wile, followed by the full Chorus in the Dedication Hymn, which concluded the first part of the entertainment.	.
The second part was opened by Master J. Garrity in the song “ Oh! the Home of my Childhood,” in which he revealed the possession of a fine voice which, with trainining, will be made very effective. The remaining numbers consisted of an essay “Music and Religion,” well read by Master Henry Foote, and songs by Masters H. Foote, J. Courtney, T. Cleary and G. Schaefer. It was intended to produce the Cantata of last June as the concluding piece,.but a defect in the electric light brought the exercises to. an abrupt termination. However, the entertainment was pleasing to all present, and creditable to every one who took part. We hope the Orpheonics will correspond to the energy and talent of their worthy director, Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., and that during the year we may often have the pleasure of hearing them in these musical reunions.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
(S	-
De Omni Re Scibili et Quibusdam Aliis.
“ Blind and naked ignorance
' Delivers brawling judgments unashamed
On all things all day long.”—Miertin and Vivien
If there be one fact more( mortifying than an- ; other to cultured. Americans, it is< the superficiality | of their countrymen. Whether the public school ! system be in any sort to blame, or whether it is | merely the natural outgrowth of a new and rap- j idly-developed country, we know not; but certain ! it is that there are few persons who do not claim to know something on every conceivable subject. This man is firmly convinced that the .country needs a protective tariff'; and, in all probability, would quarrel with his own brother if he dared to advocate free trade. And yet, how little he knows of either! We had in Ohio, last fall, what is known as the Second Amendment: a constitutional provision, forever forbidding the sale or manufactures of intoxicating liquors. After a campaign of wonderful earnestness, with all the camp-meetings to aid it, with little children singing on the streets, and ladies with coffee for the tired voters, the amendment received over a quarter of million votes. What a vast army! what a terrible uprising of the people! YeDweie there, of that quarter-million, one thousand men who had ever studied the subject of prohibition? Were there ten thousand who stopped to think what the amendment, even if passed, could effect in Ohio?
With politics, so with religion. A flippant Illinois lawyer has set himself up as a guide in theology. After his example, men with a common school education will gravely tell us that there is an essential disagreement between science and religion. Bovs with very cloudy ideas about the multiplication of fractions “ can’t see ” the necessity for several prohibitions io the decalogue. For it never strikes the imberbis juyenis that there be things in heaven that even his mighty intellect “ can’t see.” When a man has a belief, founded on conviction, unshaken by investigation, let him speaks—’tis a right heaven-born ; but let him remember that his beliefs will be few, and not always clear and certain to his own mind, and these only—and not too often—need he proclaim. For religion, so for science, for arts, for letters. A year’s fitful study can make no man a proficient in all the natural sciences; a month’s daubing at an American boarding-school, a judge of fine arts; a few pages memorized from Shaw or Jenkins, a critic of universal literature.
Speaking of the second amendment, recalls the subject.^of- camp-meetings. They are quite the feature of the summer for many Buckeye towns.-Difference as ’twixt heaven and. earthy between some there may be; but the one we have in our mind. now, is fairly representative of the best class; Woods, stretching over thousands of acres,- (now somewhat thinned) with fallen trees as bridges over narrow gullies; great stumps, here and there,-remaining. In the centre, a vast auditorium (relig-. iously “tabernacle”) that will seat a thousand people. Around, a half-mile in all directions, tents and
। cottages, built in order along the many little streets. Cottages, with perhaps five rooms—three below, | two above-—sleeping-rooms, parlor, kitchen and
dining-room together. Before each house, a little patch of green, a fancy fence, and perhaps a ham-m'obk between two trees. Tents, generally smaller, only one story, thereby diminishing the room for sleeping. Partitions, often sheets or curtains hung across the tent. '	’	•
Precisely at five in the morning rings the bell for early church; the religious go, the non-relig-ious sleep. At seven, perhaps, they take breakfast; on the grounds we are describing they have pretty square meals. Large grocery and butchershop on the'ground—open even on Sundays, here in the very Civitas Dei of Methodism. Nay more, at the gate of this terrestrial “New Jerusalem ” stands the prototype of the heavenly gatekeeper; but, unlike Peter, he regards the pockets, not the hearts, of men. “ Ten cents from you, my friend, or you can’t enjoy religion.” Alas! no church, on this score, can throw stones at another. “A necessary evil,” we are told. After bieakfast —breakfast cooked on a gas-stove—the populations go to church, exchange gossip, go to the trains, to the post-office, to the telephone office, (if they have no clothes) to town. The day, as a summer day any place else, is apt to be dreary. The poetry of the place is in the evening. To see the woods, and with the little town among, to hear the gentlv-murmuring wind amid the trees, and the singing coming to us—broken, yet full of marvellous beauty; now almost lost, now coming with a fuller volume, as the many voices join in the glad refrain; all this is weird, and yet tranquil happiness.
There is a sound of triumph in their hymns, in their wonderful, many-voiced choruses—the hosts of the Lord are marching to storm and to take the citadel; the Christian is rejoicing in the might of the merciful Saviour; the repentant sinner is asking the anxious question to which the glad yea is in triumph given. No religion can lead the people without music, but the hymn is the sine qua. non of Methodism.
In this connection, perhaps we should add a few words as to the class of people who attend the meetings, and the character of the meetings themselves. We must, in the first place, distinguish between those who reside upon the ground and those who are excursionists for two or three days at a time. The second class generally hails from that portion of the universe delicately referred to by city politicians as the “rural districts.” They furnish a number of amusing types, but are, for all that,
■ earnest, faith-keeping people, with old-time tendens cies towards.- religion,-as-;symbplize'd., by shouting and the mourners’, bench. But even they mut-sadly see that their day is .past.
“ The old order changeth, yieldeth place to new.” With the increase of culture, or, more correctly speaking, respectability among its members, the old-time Methodism must pass away. Still, much of, the form, and something, too, of the spirit, will long remain.
When the meeting reaches a certain degree of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
enthusiasm, some old woman will begin to pray. Earnest, hard-working soul, with this chord one of emotion in thee; looking forward all the year— through the tiresome press of coarse duties, through the loneliness and the hopelessness—to this great, gathering; thy religion a life-poem, making thee, amid all thy drudgery, somewhat better than the beasts, if this were not to thee a belief and a reality, God pity you, indeed! She begins to pray, her voice low and trembling, and her speech ascending rudely to a certain climax; the ministers, in the meantime, are clapping their hands at every phrase. The woman grows more excited, and her voice, shaken with emotion, rises to a shriek. At this point, some one groans. The woman grows more impassioned; the excitement continues to increase; cries and groans arise from all sides; half a dozen begin to pray and cry at once; and in a moment the whole assemblage is seized by a certain, self-sought, emotional insanity, and then the “ shouting’’begins. Ridiculous, pitiful, with certain elements of the tragic in it.	’
The people who reside permanently on the grounds are generally non-members, or at least ukewarm ones. Their principal virtue consists in paying high rent, arid helping the regulars through at “praise service.” The grounds to which we refer have come to be a summer resort, corresponding after a fashion, to the sea-shore and the mountains. Their life has, we submit, something of the pioneer in it; and, like it, it generates a kindiv fellow-feeling among those who live together in the tented wood.
* *
Our dissertation on college poetry is for the present suspended, as our opening advice has already met with objection. Another reason for the suspension is, that we ourselves ( liorribtie dicta) have been seized with a sweet insanity, and against our better nature, writhing under self-contempt, have of late been writing alleged poetry. To us, an author’s inconsistency of life can never affect the truth or wisdom of his works; but many there be, we know, who do not share our broadness of view; so, for the present, we refrain from our abuse of college poets or poetising. In justice to the melancholy poets, we must, before leaving this subject, improve upon the verses given as specimens of their production. We beg leave to substitute o
A November Day.
“ All in a death-dumb, autumn-dripping gloom.”
—Tennyson.
“ The day is 'dull and the day is dark,
• Theair is sdggjr with'perit-iip rain; ' ">•' My heart is heavy with sullen pain—
For I am wearv!
«z
“ The slender trees are guant and bare, With heart-sick and death in all the air;
- The windy rain is cold and chill. The dripping vapor damps me still—;	.
And all is drearv! ”	.
-	Moore A Non.
Personal!
—John Gillespie (Com’l),of ’70, is a prominent business man at Burlington, Iowa.	-
—H&nry Hess (Com’l), of -’82, is one of the leading business men of Wheeling, Va.
O	O’
—A. Mullen, of 82, accompanied by his brother and cousin, visited the College a few days ago.
—Rev. D. J. Hagerty, C. S. C., ’75, who was seriously ill during the past week is now happily convalescent,	_	.
—Wm. McDevitt (Com’l), ’82, conducts a fine grocery business in De Witt, Iowa. Will takes the Scholastic, and is well pleased with the prog-, ress of his Alma Mater.
—John Donigan (Com’l), ’82, is engaged in the. drv goods business in De Witt, Iowa. John is pleased to see old college friends, and promises, in company with the other De Witt students, to visit Notre Dame next Commencement.	,
—Among the welcome visitors during the past week were: Mr. F. Nester, East Saginaw, Mich.; Mr. P. McAuliffe, the genial editor of the Valparaiso Herald; Mrs. Devine and Garrity, of Chicago, Ill., and Mrs. Fendrich, of Evansville, Ind.
—Wm. Flannery (Com’l), of ’82, is in the hardware business with his father in De Witt, Iowa. Will is hale and hearty, has fond recollections of his school-days, and, in company with J. Donigan, Wm. McDevitt and Ed. Ryan, made it most pleasant for a College officer, last vacation.
—Mr. E. J. McPhelin, formerly a contributor to the Scholastic, has for some time held,, and still holds, the position of Dramatic Critic on the Chicago Tribune. Mr. McPhelin’s verses in the Scholastic in former years bear evidence of poetic genius. He is also a graceful and forcible prose writer.	.
Local Items.
—“ Turn on the electric!”	‘
—Fat dudes are becoming a rarity.
—The Euglossians and St. Cecilians come next =
—The oyster spread was all that could be desired.
—How ye stalwart wing did rejoice last Wednesday!	’
—Competitions next week in the Commercial Course. .	.
—The St. Cecilians are having an excitingMoot Court. .
—-A coal shed has been built in front of the gymnasium.	’	'
—The St. Cecilians will celebrate their festival in a befitting manner.
—The deep sigh of the “masher” on his return to class was affecting in the extreme.	:
—Exciting games of football were played in all the departments on Thursday afternoon. _
I
i56	..	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—We are pleased to see B. Albert once more among the Prefects of the Junior Department.
—In spite of the late transfer from the Juniors to the Seniors, the former, still manage to fill their wing.	.
—Last Saturday evening the Astronomjr Class took a peep at the stars, through the large telescope.
—The “ Emperor” is hardly known by h:s best friends since he removed the debris from his upper lip.
—The decorations of the Rotunda on Wednesday evening were in good taste and displayed great artistic finish.
—The Orpheonics made their debut on Wednesday. It was successful, though the electric light failed at the last moment. .	.
—The Stalwart wing wishes to know if the oyster supper on Wednesday night was to commemorate the defeat of Butler.
—Prof. Ackerman has lately painted for the Seniors’ refectory the ruins of Sligo Monastery and the ancient cross and round tower of Clonmac-noise, Ireland.
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne, will open the lecture course in a few days. The distinguished prelate will speak , on “The Spanish Inquisition.”
—Mr. P. L. Garrity, of Chicago, has generously donated a grand gold medal for proficiency in vocal culture to be competed for by the members of the Orpheonic Society.
—The Crescent Club Orchestra is composed of the following Senior. students: ist Violin, F. Wheatly; 2d Violin, Sykes; Viola, H. Slosser; Cornet, J. Guthrie, and Bass, F. Quinn. . . -
—All the students of the. University were invited by Rev. President Walsh to partake of an excellent oyster supper last Wednesday evening, in celebration of the unusually large attendance.
—There are few “ dudes ” in the Muggletonian L. & D. A.,.since the rehearsal. And, if we judge rightly, a' dude will be regarded as a subject for the museum after “ The- Dude™ has been.played in Music Hall.	.
—The weather on last Thursday was charming enough to satisfy the most fastidious. P. S.—The reason for the publication of this item will become apparent when it is remembered that Thursday is our “rec” day.
. —-Prof. Stace has prepared an elaborate- notice, with a beautiful poetic translation of some, new Latin poems by the Holy Father, Leo XIII. They will appear in the pages of the “Ave Maria™ and will amply repay perusal.	.	-
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association are greatly indebted to Mr. Manly Tello, of the. Catholic Universe Cleveland,-for the copy of his interesting and well-edited paper which he kindly sends, them every week; . ..	. ■ .
—The Crescent Club Sociable of last- Thursday
evening was one of the most pleasant of the season. Good music, spirited dancing and enjoyable refreshments characterized the evening. The grads, return thanks for an invitation from the geno	o
ial director.
—An item appeared in these columns last week which met with an application very different from that intended by the writer. It is proper to state that “ the individual going to class somewhere between the College and St. Mary’s” was not intended to have any reference whatsoever to any student.
—A new painting will be placed on the tailor shop at an early date. It is designed as an apology to the Juniors for the apparent slight with ' which they were treated in the one that now appears. In this new work three Juniors will appear in various and appropriate costumes, and the whole, it is said, will far excel the present sign.
—The Curator of the Cabinet of Curiosities is -' indebted to Chas. Porter of Eau Clair, for a fine steel engraving of Shakspere and his friends; to Mr. Galarneau, of the Senior department, for remains of an Indian skeleton; to Bro. Bernard, for specimens of Zuiii pottery; to Bro. Edward, for two fine sea-shells, and to Master Dennis, of New York, for a fine collection.of foreign stamps.
—The '7th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrian Association was held Nov. 2d. The time of the meeting was taken up in holding a • moot court, which was very interesting. Those who took part were: F. Curtis, R. Devereux, T. Cleary, J. Dwenger, E. Holbrook, C. Mason, J. McGordon, C. Muhler, J. Henry, F. Murphy, J. Fitzgerald, G. Lewis, A. Eisenhauer, C. Cavaroc, and C. Regan.
—At the 9th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, Masters J. Courtney and ' W. Schott read well-written criticisms on the two previous me'etings; essays were read by D. Taylor, J. Hagenbarth, W. Mahon, W. Mugg, Schaefer, and H. Foote; declamations were given by W. Dexter, J. Monscheinr C. Stubbs, C. Porter and J. McDonnell. Public readers for this week are: E. Porter, J. Fendrich, J. Smith, J. Devine, E. Wile and J. Cassilly.	.
—The 3d regular meeting of the Orpheonic Association was held Thursday evening, Nov. ist. The reports of the various officers were read. Masters Marcotte, J. Baur, E. Howard, G. Lewis, and C. Metz were unanimously elected members. Vocal selections were-given by G. Schaefer, T.
' Cleary, J. Courtney and J. Devine. Short sketches of the lives of a few great musical composers were read by H. Foote, C. Porter, C. Cavaroc and E. Wile. The society wish to express their thanks to Prof. McCormack for favors received.
—The 9th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association [Minim Department] _was held Nov. 5th. A very interesting debate was conducted by Masters Meehan, W elch, Otis, Lindsey,, Papin, Kraus, Scherrer and Morrison. B. Lindsey delivered a declamation entitled “ Wash
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ington’s Farewell to his Army.” Master G. Tarrant was elected Recording Secretary. Masters Edward Sorin Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio, and Francis Coad, of Cheyenne, Wyoming Territory, were received, as members. The meeting closed with, a French song from Master Amoretti.
—The Detroit 'Free Press has wrestled with a postal card in Greek in regard-to a few remaining copies of the. Libretto of the Antigone. The following is the result:
“ In spite of the well-known position of The Free Press on the study of Greek, we have received from Notre Dame Post-office, Indiana, a postal-card invitation in Greek to attend the dramatic performance of “The Antigone” of Sophocles. We recall enough of that classic tongue to make out that the price of admission—we presume it is— is $i. Perhaps this scholarly erudition of ours is due to ’ the fact that this portion of the announcement is printed in this fashion—($i.) We shall forward the postal-card to Charles Francis Adams, Jr.”
—The sixth regular meeting of the Columbian Dramatic and Literary Club took place Oct. 26th. J. Cusack was unanimously elected to membership. L. Mathers gave a good criticism on the previous, meeting; W. E. Bowers, presented an interesting account of Lafayette’s career; W. C. Orchard spoke on Wm. H. Seward’s political life; P. Howard discoursed on Franklin; J. Kleiber and D. Reach described Texas and Missouri respectively; G. Kimmell eulogized Field’s cable; P. Galarneau stood up bravely for Ohio; C. J. Kaufmann won rounds of applause for his beautiful description of Holland. A. Ancheta and P. Galarneau were chosen organists for the Club meetings. .	„
—The conundrum/'^/, who’is quite a chronic in his way, entered our sanctum, a few days since, with an expression on his countenance bordering closely on the villainous. - As we saw him approach our desk we thought of some pious ejaculations taught us by our good mother to be said in time of temptation, and quietly motioned the propounder of conundrums-to-a seat. For a moment he gazed at us with “lack-lustre-eye,” then meekly asked if we wanted a classic conundrum. W'e said a classic conundrum was something the Scholastic had been looking for; but he interrupted us by saying that he must surely have been inspired to make a classic conundrum. We were very nervous by this time, and begged him to tell us what it was at once. Affecting the “ funny man,” he asked: “ Why is reading like a turkey dinner? ” We reached for the-yard-stick, but it was gone, so we figuratively threw our'Nd. 9’s at his retreating form, and resumed our..meditation on the frailty of man.
' —The. following criticism of‘ Mr. Jas. .Solon’s, Temperance lecture is taken, from the Peru, Ind., Sentinel:
Notwithstanding the .inclemency of the weather- last Sunday night,, St. Charles’school, hall, was crowded to excess. James Solon, of, Notre. Dame, handled. his subject, on Total, Abstinence, in a manner, that elicited admiration, and repeated applause, even from, those who, frequently have, been., listeners to temperance- addresses. In- a. thoroughly, dramatic. manner,;and with the most-accomplished.'skill, he ’dep.icted. the baneful consequences of the e vil of intoxication, and most persuasively- suggested—in
language weighty and sublime—the various motives for advocating the cause of total abstinence. The elegant wording, contrasting ideas, the masterly expression of the deepest thoughts, the wonderful modulation of his sonorous voice, the refined gestures, so well adapted to each polished sentence, these and many other features, which would require a more competent pen than, ours to describe, will never be forgotten bv his highlv delighted hearers.
We feel proud of our young collegian, and predict that after his graduation, in June, his voice will be often heard advocating the good cause.
—Last Thursday, an old-time friend of-the Juniors presented them with two barrels of apples. One of the boys proposed that they be taken to the Campus, and the captains of the “Reds” and . “ Blues ” chose into their respective clubs all those who would be willing to take a friendly bout at football. The proposition was unanimously agreed to and the boys proceeded to the Junior campus. The . grounds were measured off and goals put into po- • sition; an invitation was sent to the College Faculty, and a number of visitors accompanied them to the grounds. It was certainly a sight worth seeing; one-hundred and fifty boys, wearing white shirts with red-and blue ties, the colors representing their respective clubs, “ all eager for the fray.” Everything;being in readiness, the game was called as the bell on the College church chimed two. Both clubs took it very coolly for a few. minutes, the ball remaining about the centre of the grounds; they shortly commenced towarm to their; work, however; arid a fine exhibition of play- was witnessed, the members of both teams cheering when their side, gained an advantage. One of thespecta--tors remarked- that Hagerty, captain of the “ Blues,” showed better judgment, as he chose a larger number of “old boys” than his adversary, Capt. Ryan. It was certainly an advantage, as a large number of the.“ new comers ” never engaged in. a game of football before. Still, it was plain-to be seen that, a large quota of the “ Reds ” knew how to make good use of their hands and theii* feet; among-the number we might mention Dexter and Pohl. .One of the players, of. a. poetical turn of mind, shouted: “ Just look at Pohl, that good old soul, raise itl ” After a struggled!? forty minutes a goal was won.by. the “Blues.” The “ Reds,” nothing daunted, called for game immediately,, and by good play won the ' second bout in thirty-five minutes. The game now stood even, and long and loud were the cheers of the “ Reds.”- The deciding bout was commenced, and , for the first four or five minutes a duel was kept up between both teams,, the ball passing to and
. from the players; the “ Reds ” kept advancing from their different positions 'towards the ball arid endeavored to force it within their goal. Their tactics did not work. The “'Blues ” got the ball out of their grounds, and having a clear field soon got it into their goal, winning the game. Time, twenty minutes. Among the best players of the “ Reds ” we might mention Barons, Costigan, Dorenberg, Dexter, Gerlach, Eisenhauer, Weiler, and Rhodus; “ Blues,”—B'arella-, Courtney, Crawford, Fendrich, Halligan, }; Hetz, J. Kelly, D. Taylor;-McGill, Mahon, McDonnell, Marcbtt and Pohl. '	~
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has.given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.] '	;
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchando, Ancheta, Aguilera, Bowers, Burns, Brosseau, Barron, Buchanan, Becerra, Bailey, J. Burke, Browne, F. Combe, Coll, Callan, Cass, Cartier, Jas. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Creel, Conway, T. Carroll, Callaghan, Campbell, Connell, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf, Dolan, Eisenhauer, Ewing, Fishel, Farrell, T. Fenlon, Gonsor, Gandrup, Gibert, Goulding, Geiser, Gutierrez, F. Gallagher, Garrett, J. Gallagher, Godfroy, Hyde, Howard, Hopkins, Hellebush, Hausberg, Handy, Johnston, Kavanaugh, Kerndt, Kimmel, Kolars, Kleiber, Larkin, Long, J. McCarthy, Meyer, McErlaine, Mahon, McKinnery, Marquez, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, Mittendorf, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Neeson, Newman, G. O’Brien,* Eugene O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis; H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Porter, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Riley, Ramsey, Shields, Spencer, Steele, Saviers, Solon, E. Smith, G. Smith, Seegers, Tinley,K Teasdale, F. Uranga, J. Uranga, Whalen, Jno. Wagoner, Warren, Wheatley, D. Cavanaugh, W. Cavanaugh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Anchando, Barschulze, Barons, Berthe-let, Baur, Barclay, Breen, Courtney, Crawford, Curtis, Cavaroc, Cleary, Costigan, J. Devine, Dorenberg, Deader. ick, Dexter, C. Dennis, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fendrich, T. Finckh, Fierro, H. Foote, J. Garrity, E. Gerlach, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, E. Howard, A. Howard, B. Henry, W. Henry, Hoolihan, Houck, Holman, Hagerty, Jensch, P. Johnson, King, J. Kelly, M. Kelly, Letcher, R. Lewis, M. Loscher, Lake, Monschein, Mullane, Miller, Menig, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, McDonnell, Marcott, C. Metz, Mug, Muhler, O’Brien, J. P. O’Donnell, Plischke, C. Porter, E. Pohl, Quill, Rogers, Regan, Reynolds, Rhodus, J. Shea, Sedberry, Schmauss, M. Scheuerman, L. Scheuerman, Schott, Schaefer, Stumer, Stubb, P. Wagoner, Wabrauschek, Weber, Weiler, Wright, Williamson.	•	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Amoretti, Adams, H. Addington, J. Addington, Boos, Bunker, Butterfield, Benner, Brown, Bailey, F. Coad, W. Coad, Crawford, Curtis, Crotty, Cole, Costigan, Cummings, A. Devine, Dirksmeyer, Delaplane, Dungan, Devereux, Ewing, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Garrity, Gonzalez, Grunsfeld, Harris, Henry, Johns, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Krause, Keefe, La Tourette, Landenwich, Lowenstein, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Loya, McNally, W. McGuire, T. McGuire, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGill, McPhee, McVeigh, Morrison, Morgan, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, Moye, Meehan, F. Nester, A. Nester, Noonan, Nus-baum, M. O’Kane, F. Otis, B. O’Kane, O’Connor, Padden, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Quill, Quinlin, Quiggle, Rebori, Studebaker, Stange, Salman, Schmitz, Spencer, Schbneman, Sokup, Steele,'L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Smith, Stewart, Tarrant, Thomas,' W. Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, - Uranga, West, Welch, , Weston, Wright, L. Young, C. Young. '
* Omitted by mistake last week.
P. Johnson, Pohl, Deaderick, Holman, King, Jensch, J. McGordon, Cleary, Grunsfeldt, G. Costigan, W. Wright, Rhodus, Anchando, Uranga,: Barela, G. Lewis, Terrazas, Yrissari, E. Ryan, Muhler, J. Hopkins, G. Noye, Barclay, M. Clarke, J. Henry, Harris, Baur, Williamson, Ruppe, McCawley, Kleiber, Marcotte, F. Brown, A. Dennis, Hagen, Breen, F. Combe, Houck, Trepannier, Duffin, Aguilera, C. Warner, Whalen, Gonser, J. Burns, P. Howard, W. Mahon, McErlaine, De Wolf; J: Wagoner, Gandrup, W. Barron,-J. McCarthy, Dexter, Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Creel, Gonzalez, F. Manga, Hausberg, Marques, Connell, Anchando. Becerra, J. Manga, J. Rogers, Spencer, Celia.

, Dedication Hymn.
SUNG AT THE INAUGURATION OF THE NEW ORPHE-ONIC HALL.
There’s music in the streams that flow Adown the em’rald vale,
There’s music in the trees that grow
. In yonder lovely dale;
There’s music in the gentle breeze That speeds along the plain, :
•	There’s cadence in the summer seas, '
And voices in the main.
: Ah, music sweet! O heavenly Maid!
We will be ever thine;
We now invoke thy genial aid, And worship at thy shrine. -Within these walls thy accents sweet Will often swell the breeze,	.
And dulcet sounds, both mild and meet, , Will float’mong yonder trees. '
We Orpheonics oft will sing	-
Thy choicest, sweetest lays;
.This hall with harmony will ring To celebrate thy praise.
Like Orpheus of the long-ago, . Whose lyre is known to fame, With choicest notes our hearts will glow . At dear old .Notre Dame.
Let harmony, in sweetest voice. Be e’er our end and aim;
• Let no discordance be our choice .At world-famed Notre Dame!
But let us often tune the lyre	'
Within this gorgeous hall, And seize the sparks of music’s fire, And list her charming call.
.	. Class Honors; y .
[ In the following list may he found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]	.	‘	.
PREPARATORY COURSE^
Messrs. Halligan, J. Warner, Gimbel, F. Rogers, Regan, J. Fitzgerald, Sedberry, Barrons, Menig, R, Devereux, Leffingwell,- Schott, Hemisbaugh, A. Eisenhauer, Borg-schulze/ A. Mullen, Hagenbarth, P. Wagoner, Schaefer, Schmauss, McGill, Arnold, Chaves, Cavaroc, E. Porter,
. The, .Conscientious Chinee.—We reproduce .the following amusing anecdote from the Musee des FaMles:— When Aragb; the great traveller, was in China, he found himself in want of a pair of trousers. He gave the necessary, material to a ,Celestial tailor, and to ensure that it should be properly made, he also gave him an old worn pair of trousers, covered with spots, and somewhat “holy?’ , “ I want you,” said he, “ to make my trousers exactly like this pair.” The skilful Chinaman carried out his order with a rare fidelity. He soon brought back his work, together with the model he had made use of. Arago then found himself the happy owner of t-wo old garments exactly alike; equally worn, equally spotted, and equally "“venerable.” .	’	’	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	159
Saint ary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Mr. and Mrs.-Van Dyke, of Detroit, also Master Charlie, paid St. Mary.’s a short visit.
—All are delighted, to welcome to St. Mary’s, after an absence of a few months, Mrs. M. M. Phelan.
—In the report of Oct. 27, the name of Miss M. Schmidt was omitted by mistake in the list of those who drew for the badge in the Junior Department.
—Mrs. Col. Steele, of Lancaster, Ohio, a sister of Mrs. General Sherman, is a welcome ^uest at St. Mary’s, where she will spend the winter. Her two daughters are entered as pupils.
—Rev. Father Jenkins honored the young ladies by his presence at their weekly reunions on Sunday evening, October 28th. After listening to the reading of vtheir good points and three very creditable-recitations, he made some very pleasant and encouraging; remarks.
—The French pupils tender their most hearty thanks to a former and much-loved classmate, for a most beautiful gift intended as a reward for improvement and proficiency in the language they are endeavoring so earnestly to acquire. By request the name of the generous donor is omitted, but their gratitude is increased by her modesty.
—The Junior’s badge was drawn this week by Miss C. Fehr. Those who shared her honor were Misses I. Allen, Best, Bailey, Barth, Chaves, I. Cummings, Dodge, M. Ducey, C. Ducey, M. Dillon, A. English, H., E. and S. Jackson, Keyes, McEwen, Metz, Murphy, Naylor, M.'Papin, Richmond, Regan, Rqddin, Schmidt, Shepherd, Scott, Stumer, E. Sheekey, Snowhook, Van Horn, Wolvin.
—At the regular meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society, Oct. 31st, the life of Mme. de Sevignewas read. Those familiar with French literature will remember Madame de Sevigne as noted for the perfection of her letter writing.' She was a granddaughter of St. Jane Frances de Chantal. The members of the-Graduating Class recited Goldsmith’s “ Deserted Village,” and the members of the first Senior Class gave, from memory, Bryant’s “ Thanatopsis.”"
—The gold cross presented by Mrs. Chaves, of Belen, New Mexico, and awarded in the Senior Departmentjbi; graceful^and'aexguisite manners, is won this mohtlL By Miss-Gertrude Ashton.^ -,Tne following young-ladies had also the honor of draw-ing'-fdr this beautiful prize: Misses J. Reilly, M. Bruhn, Cones, Munger and Ginz. Very Rev. Father General complimented the young ladies upon-theirsuccess. Though the standard is very high, still we hope to see a larger number' on the list next month. Many more are very graceful and polite, but through thoughtlessness have fallen below the requirements.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
1st Tablet—Misses Ashton, Adderly, A. Babcock, C-Babcock, Bruhn^Beal, Billings, Black, Burgher, Call, M-Cones, M. Cummings, Campbell, Carney, Dunn, Danforth, Dowling, Evarts, Fendrich, Fitzpatrick, Fogerty, Fisk, Addie Gordon, Allie Gordon, Ginz, Gove, Gavan, Gage, Heneberry, Helpling, Heckard, Hunt, Hale, Horn, Holt, Hart, Hetz, B. Haney, Hack. B-Johnson, Keenan, Kearns, Kearsey, Kearney, Keating. King, Legnard, Lintner, Lea-high, Munger, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, Mooney, Mohl, McCarthy, Neu, O’Connell, L. Priestman, M. Priestman, Papin, R. Platte, Quill, Reilly, Ryan, Russell, Reynolds, Ramsey, Rosing, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, - E. Sheekey, Scully, Schmaltz, Sear, Stackerl, Todd, Tynan, Udall, Vandebogart, Weckler, Williams, Wilson. 2d Tablet —Misses A. Allen, J. Duffield, L. English, B.'English, L. Spotwood.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
,rst Tablet—Misses I. Allen, Best, Bailey, Barth, Cummings, Chaves, Dillon, Dodge, Alary Ducey, C. Ducey, A. English, Fehr,’B. Halsey, Haney, H.'Jabkson, E.Jackson. S- Jackson, Keyes, McEwen, Metz, Naylor, Otis, Papin, Richmond, Regan, Roddin, Shephard, Schmidt, N. Scott, Stumer, Sheekey, Snowhook, Van Horn, Wolvin. 2d Tablet—Misses Brown, M. Eldred, Lord, Lucas,-Murph v.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
rst Tablet—Misses Chapin, Ducey, English, L. Johns, V-Johns, Lindsey, Murray, Paul, G. Papin, M. Reynolds, A. Schmauss, Steele, Van Fleet.. ‘	:
Class Honors.
[The following are the names of the young ladies best in classes—according to the competitions held during the month.]
Geology—Misses Johnson, Fendrich, Todd; Astronomy —Misses Dunne, Call, Papin, Duffield, Gove, Ginz, Keenan, Ashton, C. Campbell, Cummings, Mohl, Sheekey, Todd, Ramsey: Geometry—Misses Keenan, Papin, Ginz, Dunne, Duffield, Gove, Helpling; Literature—Misses Gove, Papin, Keenan, Ginz, Call, J. Duffield, Dunn, Ashton, Ramsey, Rosing, Sheekey, Stackerl: Rhetoric—Misses A. Heckard, Munger, Helpling, Udall. Williams, S. St. Clair, L.. St. Clair, Rosing, M. Ducey, L. English, Danforth, Bruhn, L. Black, Hunt: History—Misses Keenan, Gove, Call, Duffield, Ginz, Papin, Dunn, Ashton, M.Cummings, Sheekey; Philosophy—Misses Helpling, Kearney, Wilson, .Keyes, Lucas, Morrison, Duffield, L Allen, S. St. Clair, L. St-Clair, A. Babcock, Hunt, G. Legnard, Horn, Quill, Hart, Carney, Sheekey, Dillon, Reynolds: Chemistry—Misses Heckard, Danforth, Munger, Mohl, Cummings, L.English, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Helpling, Carney, Morrison, Williams; French—Misses O’Connell, Dunn, Mohl, Malbceuf; Grammar—Misses Adderly. A. Babcock, E. O’Connell, Kearsey. Horn, Hale, Vandebogart, Sheridan, Shephard, Kearsey, A. Murphy, Legnard, A. Allen, Quill, Dillon, E. Sheekey, Stackerl, Morrison, A. Duffield, Hack, Keyes, Kearney. Horn. Wilson, Kearns, Mooney, C. Richmond, Moshier, Van Horn, Snowhook, Lintner, Spotwood, Fehr, E. Jackson, Ryan, Schmidt, Gavan, -B. English, Lucas, C. Babcock, Halsey, Bailey: Algebra—Misses Reilly, Munger, Heckard, Kearney, S. St. Clair, Carney, O’Connell, Ramsey, Williams, Danforth, L. English; Arithmetic—Misses Shephard. Hale, O’Connell, Kearsey, Dillon, E. Sheekey, Wolvin, Legnard, Rosing, A. Allen, Mooney, C. Ducey, M. Cummings, A. Duffield, A. Babcock, Keyes; Vandebogart, Sear, I. Allen, Lintner, Quill, Hart, Gage, Moshier, Fisk, C. Babcock, ;H. Jackson, E. Jackson, Hack, Kearns, Regan,-Van Horn, Barth. Schmidt, Halsey, Haney, Spotwood, Fogerty, Dodge, Fehr, Richmond, Campeau. Chaves, M. Otis, A. Malbceuf. Lord, Leahigh, Hetz, I. Cummings, Reynolds; United States History—Misses B. Snowhook, Schmidt, Mponey, Van Horn, Moshier, Fisk, Lintner, Richmond, Fehr, Dodge,. Spotwoot, -Halsey, Scully, ?A. Gordon, .A. .Gordon, C. .Babcock; “Geography—Misses Chaves, Campeau, Best, Brown, Burgher, Barth, Otis, Russell, McCarthy, Cummings, Stumer.
160	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NEVIUS & CONKLIN.
ESTABLISHED AND BELIABLE
DENTISTS,
Cor. Michigan & Washington Sts.,
South Bend, Indiana,
employ the latest methods in treating Natural Teeth and Roots. Superior work and reasonable prices. An effective tooth powder prepared by ourselves, and guaranteed to contain nothing injurious to the teeth, is constantly kept in stock. Will visit Notre Dame each Thursday during the School Year.
G. F. NEVIUS.	F. G. CONKLIN, D. D. S.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, postpaid, -	-	-	-	$1.00
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
814 Arch St., Philadelphia. Pa.
L S. & K. S. Railway. i
On- and after Sunday, May 27, 1883. trains will leave South Bend, as follows:	x
GOING EAST:
2:32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8I00 p.m.
rr.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55; a-.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives-at Toledo, 245 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland", 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3.55 a.m.
6.21. p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.28 p.m;; Cleveland. 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32. aun., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m-Chicago; 6.10 a.m\
4.55 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.50 a.m.
Chicagq; S.2o a.m.	,
74oa.m Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte; 8.20 a.m.
Chicago, 1040 a.m.	.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3:15-p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4-35 P-m- Special: Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22-p.m.; Chicago, 8.00 p.m1.
F." C. RAFF, Ticket Agt;, South Bend.
' J. W: CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt*., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN; Sup, W. Div., Chicago.
- W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l-Pass. Agent, Chicago.
PL P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland:
JOHN-NEWELL. Gen’l'M’ger, Cleveland.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT, iE. E Arnold, class of ’78.) Attorneys-at-Law, 470 Louisiana,Avenue, N W., Washington, D. C. Practice'in the District .Courts, and Court of Claims, before the Executive Depart* ments'and Committees of Congress. Special attention given to Claims of all kinds, including Customs, Land Office Cases and to securing Pensions.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils.receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P.O., Ind.
The Only Through Line from Chicago by way of
Pacific Junction, or by way of Omaha or Kansas City, or by way of St.
Joseph and Atchison,
TO DENVER DIRECT
t
Connecting at above named points in Union Depots with t	Through Trains for
SAN FRANCISCO
And all points in> the Far West. It is the Great Through Car. Line of America, and finest equipped R.R. in the World for all classes of travel.
Through Tickets via this celebrated Line can be secured at- any R. R. Coupon Ticket Office in the United States. Baggage checked through.	.
Ticket Offices, 59 Clark St., 47 Monroe St., Grand Pacific1 Hotel, 16th. and-Canal Streets, and at Depot. All-Trains' leave Chicago from Union. Passenger Station, on Canal St., between Madison and Adams Streets.
T. J. POTTER,. PERCEVAL LOWELL, Vice-Pres., and. Gen’l Mgr. . Gen’l Pass. Agt.
Cor. Adams and Franklin Streets, Chicago.