Program Guide Request Line: 239-6400
	*		z		& =	=3	z	o	
Wednesday	Laura Polantanouich	Marshall Rrmintor "No More Music By The Suckers: Mojo Strikes Back"	Secret Shout	Bill LaMonaca "Catherine the Great Loues MR.* Ed"	Greg Murphy "Ancient Chinese Secrets REUERLED!!" i	Rich FqIdo “The Jazz and Sometimes Classical Show"	Paul Broderick "RM Broderickast"	Mike Bertin "Kneel Jung"	Keuin Flaherty “Stooge's 4-H Festiual □ f Catholic Guilt"
Tuesday	Jeff Brady "Red Eyes + Chili Fries"	Darrell Clarke Happy Hour at "Statutory Bar"	Michael Schwabe "El Hombre Sombrero"	Alyson Naimoli “Marlene's a-Go-Go Dancing"	Keuin McDonough "Unadulterated Pap"	5-6 Lou Florez ^'Alternate Goo Unbearibly Lou Irresistibly You" 6-8 Dead Air 8-9 Sports Talk		uan Langrill "The Audio Mood Ring"	Erik Christensen "Spank me till !	1 yodel"
Monday	KELLY MCLAUGHLIN	Chris Murphy i "Dancing Disco । with the Tao"	Elizabeth Hayes " I will talk, you will listen"	TASHA GUTTING	Dane McMahon "Who Stole My Butt?"	KATIE WHALEN	Debbie Wunder "The Lizard's Thicket"	Tom Fellrath "The Aduentures of DJ Big Flap in the World of Corporate Rock"	John Strieder "Parking"
	7-9 a.m	E to r— 1 Ch	E Q. 1	1 - 3 p.m.	3-5 p.m.	5-7 p.m.	7-9 p.m.	9-11 p.m.	11 p.m. -1:45 a.m.
ii ciiuui iiiy ELAveiitziiue
SPORTS
14 Of Youth and Legends
16 National Champions : 1988
DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Letter
4	Campus Watch
12	Coming Distractions
19	On Other Campuses
20	Behavior Modification
21	Week In Distortion
22	Glancing Back
24	Final Word
FEBRUARY 20, 1992 ■
Specialty Shows 5-7
Tuesday: Maximum R & R, Dead Show and Sports Wednesday: Jazz
pm Daily
Thursday: Hip Hop
Friday: Reggae
S at u rd ay: H a rdco re/P u n k
Sunday: Metal
if the Fighting Irish
Thursday	Friday	Saturday	Sunday	
<aren Holderer 'Mind the Gap"	Chris LUeirup "Pancakes and Maple UJeirup"	iiM VW .* As Y.T;7"		
Craig Gillard "Craig's Circus of Hormones"	Maruin Miranda	10:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.		
		Jason UJinslade "Jazum Jetsam’s Oscillating Audio Sculpture"	Sal Ciilela “Technicolor Vaiun"	
Jim Uoppke MTD's Breeding Ground"	Chris Infante "Patriotic Hymns for Domers"			
Keuin Kriner	James O'Brien "Florida Euans"	uoe Lannon "Moue your butt Stimpy. It's a higher mammal"	Joseph fldams "Tireiron"	
Jenn Karaite Charm School for Hand Puppets"	Rnnemarie Benson "Styrofoam"	Kelly Daugerdas "Left on the Rag"	Mike Montrog "Smell the Gloue"	
Hip Hop Ji th UJarrick Muldrow and Tara Payton	Reggae uuith Bernard Baez	Hardcore/Punk "Out of Step" Chris Infante Erin Koukenlomatis	Metal "Thrashin, Bashin, Bangin Chris Eb.ert	
Jeff Jotz Death of Rock"	Kim Massman	Rosanna Pensiero "The Rozz-Stafarian	Jim Maloney & Pat Finn	
aue Richardson "Trouser +Serpentitus"	Rolando Deflguiar "I'm Proud to be an American"	Chris Seidenstiker	Dan Byrne "Rudy's Reuenge"	
HleK Nunez "Flight of the Cosmic Hippo"	Bill Hoiking "I'm a Stranger Here Myself"	Ken Usgood "Blast to the Past" Rn Early 80's Reuiual with Chee ku s Maqqet"	Mike Goodwin & Mike Kolodjieski "Hours of Worship"	
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTICE DAME'S STUDENT
piscepuasrSemp^. Victurus ^Viva Quasi
Founded 1867
EDITOR lan'Mteheii^
MANAGING EDITOR
ManQkudaXfX^^^
EXECUTIVE EDITOR j
Ratnaa. Doyle >
Editor: Margaret .Kenriy- •/ Assistant: Denisse Marion-Landais
GAMPUS.LIFEMX iEditorrHizafet^ ?
: Assistant:MaricelleRuiz-'Cate id r ■	W.ir MA
'SPORTS
Editor: Jon PaulibottsM-
Assistant;
Ei^^iftMSNT&X
EditorrElizabethGraner
.^DEPARTMENTS'^
^dit6r:RauI
IAssistant:^ Nick'Spangler

EDITOR'S NOTES
Last Chance
For all you procrastinators, this is your last reminder. All applications for next year’s editorial board of Scholastic are due tomorrow by 5 p.m. in the Scholastic office at 303 LaFortune. In case you still haven’t picked your applications, they will be available in the office until tomorrow’s deadline.
In This Issue
Although everyone at Notre Dame should be used to celebrating anniversaries by now, next week also marks the 25th anniversary of the Sophomore Literary Festival. Campus Life writer Andrea Feaster takes a look at this year’s program. Her first article takes an in-depth look at the poet and prose writers who will speak during the upcoming week. The second article looks back at some of the prominent authors who have graced the Sophmore Literary Festival with their presence over its 25 year history.
Entertainment editor Liz Graner reviews the new movie Naked Lunch. News writer Angie Buckingham’s story on Safewalk explains the goals of the service and also presents some of the reasons why students don’t always call Safewalk for an escort. In Sports, Pete Dedman tells us about this year’s men’s tennis team as they prepare for • the National Indoor Team Championships in Louisville this weekend. In Glancing
Back, we take a look at the history of JPW over die past 40 years. Finally, the usual departments columns, On Other Campuses, Behavior Modification and Week In Distortion appear in this week’s issue.
Patricia Doyle
Executive Editor
Correction:
In the “Glancing Back” story on the Knights of Columbus which appeared ; intheDec. 5; 1991 issue, someinformar tion?bri; the Notre Dame Council’s fundraising activities was incorrect. Fuhdsraisedby thecouncil’s steaksales. are not used for social events. Rather, themoney raised is donated to Concilia Homes ; for the RetardedandGibault •School for boys, two, charities sup-: ported by die Knights. Council social: programs are actually funded through dues, donations, hall rental fees, ticket ■ .sales. and interest on council funds. Scholastic regrets 'the error. ' - .•,
;g^lpR^FF^
r^gradley^Kec^ XTa^Hekii
g^^^^aylqr^
'4y! fos’i"-’"	‘tX';/ - '^0//',	; ;;
^YST^K^ ke vih; Har^m an MS
>5Mana§e/rScptfe
key^'B^
S'

Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during exammalion and vacation periods al the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN46556and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN46542. The Subscriptionrate is $25.00/^ backissues are available al $125/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of ScholasticoroflheUniversityofNotreDame,ilsadminisiration,facultyorsludents. Editorials signed Scholastic represent theopinionofthemafority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. AU rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.
2
SCHOLASTIC
LETTER
Hall President Defends HPC Action to Close Meetings
Dear Editor:
Elected officials have a special responsibility to justify their actions. HPC has taken a lot of abuse in the last few weeks: some of it justified, much of it not. It is time the wall of silence came down, so that student government can maybe finally get down to the business of governing.
Yeah, I know — you’re tired of hearing about this. So am I. But I have to protect my “publicly abrasive” (The Observer, Editorial, Feb. 7) image (and my cheesy grin); besides, it’s about time some relevant facts actually got reported. The infamous “closed meeting” of HPC was orchestrated by ... me. I wrote the executive session orders, I pressed for their passage. Here’s why:
Public assemblies, from Congress on down to your local Board of Education, hold closed meetings, and not just for national security reasons. Ethics has gained prominence in public discourse; sadly, it’s usually approached in the style practiced by scandal-mongering carrion birds roaming the third floor of LaFortune. But ethics means more than who’s sleeping with whom. When a member of an assembly is accused of misconduct, especially involving personal use of public money, that member is probably going to get expelled if not arrested. When an entire assembly is accused, the masses either storm the Bastille or return the bums to office, depending on where you are (1789 Paris v. 1992 Washington, DC).
One small catch, though ... the charges have to be true. Rob Pritchard wrote an article accusing HPC members of a variety of things, from deceiving their hall councils to outright theft of dorm money for shirts and an “activity fee.” Problem was, about 3/4 of the charges were just plain false. A lot of HPC members were sympathetic to Pritchard’s concerns about the dinners and the lack of effectiveness—I used this page not six months ago to criticize HPC on similar grounds—but no one can be sympathetic to a man willing to publish lies about his colleagues, whatever his underlying motives. At best, Pritchard was guilty of negligence and folly; at worst, he engaged in character assassination and slander. In fact, Pritchard retracted the majority of his charges because they were blatantly untrue.
And so we closed the meeting: to prevent the thing from becoming an even bigger circus. Closing the meeting didn’t make a darn bit of difference to the content of what was said; nor did it change the availability of what was said. What The Observer and Scholastic never told you was that the meeting was taped and a verbatim transcript was made public — Monica Yant was hand-delivered copy from myself. Call me at239-5078 and I’ll send you a copy. So, despite what you’ve been told, everything at that meeting is public record — and we can all stop waving the First Amendment like a bludgeon.
As far as the food goes, that’s the only legit’ issue. At Flanner, we gave HPC some leftover bratwursts from the Navy game that I
wouldn’t feed to Fr. Griffin’s dog Darby O’Gill III. It was intended to send a “publicly abrasive” message. But each dorm has to deal with this individually. Ask your hall president how she’s spending your money. If you don’t like the answers, fine: impeach her. But please leave me out of it
There are far more important things happening on this campus than juicy gossip and name calling. Your class sizes are going up while class availability is going down. Rectors reign like feudal lords over their respective fiefdoms. Homophobia and racism lurk in the shadow of the Dome. It’s still a bigger crime to snuggle with your sweetie while watching a movie at 2:15 in an opposite sex dorm than it is kick 300 guys out of Pangbom. And what do our unelected, self-righteous monopolistic publications care about? Dinner. It’s about time we cut the crap, roll up our sleeves, and get done to the business of self-government—by taking responsibility for our lives atND.
Theodore Roosevelt (another man with a reputation for “public abrasiveness”) called this business “the arena.” It’s not pretty or nice, and if you can’t handle the criticism you don’tbelong here. But it is anoble calling to put up with all of it for the sake of trying to serve the common good. No one is immune from criticism in the arena; it is time campus media and HPC both learned that. Maybe I’ 11 start a column called “Public Abrasion”...
Rich Delevan
Junior
Flanner Hall co-president
Scholastic welcomes letters to the editor on every subject in the magazine.
Leiters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should indude their year in school and college. Faculty members dtould include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reservesthe right to reject letters that are libelous ar obscene by thelawsofthe United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to :
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN46556
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
3
___NEWS COMMENTARY_
CampusWafc/i
BY THE GIPPER
I-
|	Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Scandal scandal scandal
The Gipper got a look at the letter on page three of this issue and got all excited. If you passed it by before, go back and read it now. Go ahead, the Gipp will wait here and hum quietly to himself until you get back.
Hum de dum, hum de dum
Oh, you’re back. Well, anyway the Gipper was so pleased at being a “scandal mongering carrion bird” as well as a lowly scribe at a “self-righteous monopolistic publication” that he almost forgot to take umbrage (it’s a word, honest!) at: “There are far more important things happening on this campus than juicy gossip and name calling.” Maybe, the Gipper replies, but what’s more fun? And so...
Juicy Gossip and Name Calling
No, only kidding. But if he were the type, the Gipper might ask what kind of “circus” was expected to occur if reporters from the dreaded fourth estate were allowed to attend the now-infamous closed meeting. The Gipp hates to disappoint worried HPC members, but he doesn’t think that “60 Minutes” or “Nightline” were planning on covering the proceedings. The “circus” would have consisted of a reporter with a note pad, and maybe a tape recorder. Closing the meeting didn’t stop any “circus,” it only protected fragile HPC egos and kept the student public from knowing any but the official version of what happened at the meeting. (Of course, the official version may be entirely accurate, but how would one know without an independent transcript to compare it to?) What about the gag rule? How much time passed between the closed meeting and the release of the official transcript? The questions just go on and on.
Morrissey allocated $75 to buy pizza for this week’s HPC meeting. (To the credit of Morrissey’s hall government, the expenditure was debated and approved by their hall council.) Now, the Gipper would hate to be accused of scandal mongering, so he wants itknown that even he would not stoop so low as to mention what $75 might have bought
Monger monger monger
On the other hand, the $75 that fed HPC for one night might have supported a child like Lami for over six months. “Twelve dollars a month can change her life forever... a life spent in a wooden shack, built on stilts, over a disease-infested swamp. And at night she gets a bowl of rice to eat and goes to sleep on a floor mat. Her only toys are a worn out teddy bear and a ragged doll. Her secondhand dress is patched and too small for her. She desperately needs a better diet to build strong bones, medicine when she is sick, water that is not contaminated, and a chance to go to school.” But HPC ordered pizza.
All Kidding Aside
The Gipper doesn ’ t wan t to make light of the very real problem of world hunger and poverty. You actually can sponsor a child for $ 12 a month; write Children International at P.O. Box 419413; Kansas City, MO 64141 for more information.
In comparison to serious world problems, student government intrigues seem childish (hint: they are). It’s just that the Gipper
expects behind-the-scene machinations and secretive meetings from the real world; he had hoped for a bit more from fellow students.
One last note before giving up on a “dead horse”; it is the students who run student government. The student government constitution includes rules for an initiative process. With apetition signed by 15 percent of the student body, an election may amend the constitution by a two-thirds vote of the students. All right, now the Gipp promises to drop this whole issue forever.
February, Schmebruary
The Gipper still wants tips on how to kill the etemally-long month of February at Notre Dame. How have you gotten through this 29-day leap-year wonder so far? See “CampusWatch Continues,” below, to contact the Gipp.
Hmm...
If you read that other publication’s account of this week’s senate meeting, you missed out on one suggestion by Senator Dave Certo. Certo now wants to look into how campus media endorse candidates, whether they should be allowed to do so, and what procedures they should use if they do. The Gipp hopes it’s not just a case of sour grapes, since neither campus publication endorsed Certo’s ticket.
CampusWatch Continues
When the Gipper isn’t off blathering on obsessive tirades, he likes to report on the hidden goings-on atNotre Dame. Write him with your tips: 303 LaFortune, call 239-7569 or drop off a note at the Scholastic office (between 2 and 5 p.m.). Tip the Gipp! You'll be glad you did!	□
SCHOLASTIC
MOVIE
Naked Lunch Has It All
Sex, drugs and typewriter creatures rule the screen in the new film from David Cronenberg
by Elizabeth Graner
T) eople who are the slightest bit X squemish about anything are definitely at a loss when it comes to life. Bugs, for instance, freak the living hell out of me. Naked Lunch, a film written and directed by David Cronenberg, which is very loosely based on the William S. Burroughs novel of the same name, would have been a whole heck of a lot better of an experience for me if I hadn’t been hiding in my coat and choking on my tongue the whole time.
The basic plot of the story centers on the main character, William Lee (Peter Weller), a Burroughsesque writer who is making ends meet with his job as an exterminator, when he discovers that his wife, Joan (Judy Davis) has been shooting up his roach powder, which she contends is a “very literary high” (getit? Kafka? Kafka?). Lee tries the stuff, gets hooked on it himself and eventually gets busted for posession (funny, with his being an exterminator and all). It is during this interrogation that we meet the first of the gross, yucky bugs accreditted to special effects artists Chris Walas and
Photo courtesy of Twentieth Century Fox
Writer/Director David Cronenberg shows us the bugs not to be messed with in his Naked Lunch.
Stephan Dupuis — a giant talking roach. It is at this beginning of the end at which our friend the author starts his trip (literally) down Hallucinogen Highway.
A series of macabre yet ironic and lightly amusing events follow, and the viewer’s enjoyment is based upon her ability to er, stomach certain scenes. Lee, in order to
escape his troubles (including legal) relies upon the help of another hallucinogen. The drug, which was at first intended to counter
act and treat Lee’s “friend’s” addiction to roach powder, is made of the crushed Giant Aquatic Centipede. Its side effects, no doubt the hallucinations, have as their purpose to scare the addict away from anything remoteley chemical for, well, life. The general progression of the film explains this quite fully.
Lee’s hallucinations bring him to a ficticious land called Interzone, which is actually Burroughs’ Tangiers. Lee is now playing the role of a spy whose responsibility it is to write reports about his findings and experices. Interzone is rich in mystery, libido, talking typewriter creatures and exotica. The individuals and talking typewriter creatures with whom Lee comes into contact seem to know all about Lee’s past and his problems, and do not hesitate to tell him what they think of him. Joan Frost (also played by Judy Davis) is the promiscuous wife of expatriate writer Tom Frost (Ian Holm), and takes an elusive but immediate liking to Lee. Lee’s attraction to Joan Frost is definitely a stem of his problems relating to his own wife, whom Joan Frostresembles in both look and action.
Much like the book, the scenes in Naked Lunch which are reality and the scenes in which Lee hallucinates become almost indiscemable. The film’s only memorable slap of reality occurs as Lee is discovered sleeping in a great pile of soot (bug powder?
Judy Davis is Joan Lee and Joan Frost and Peter Weller is William Lee in David Cronenberg’s Naked Lunch.
Photo courtesy of Twentieth Century Fox
I’m not sure) by his fellow writer friends and mentors Martin (Michael Zelinker) and Hank (Nicholas Campbell). The two try to straighten Lee’s life out and discover that Lee’s “reports” from Interzone are actually the makings of a book entitled NakedLunch.
The film is an overall impressive production. Like stated above, the special effects are almost mind-boggling. The yuck count totals at fifty mugwumps, which are alien-like creatures with several penile implements on their heads which emit two hallucinogenic substances when they like what the author types (we could actually strike a deal here if it were Moosehead), four typewriter creatures, several leaping sex blobs and forty black centipedes, not to mention the scores of roaches. The supporting cast includes Roy Scheider as the slimy Dr. Benway and Julian Sands (ARoom with a View, Arachnophobia) as Cloquet, the wealthy Swiss with the wonderful car. NakedLunch is a good film which deserves your time and effort to withstand its ickiness.
Throughout the film, William Lee searches and unconsciously learns about what it is to be a writer. Whenever he becomes aware of his writing, he stops in fear of the reality. It’s a pretty good excuse, don’t you think?	’ □
Elizabeth Graner still ponders the answer to the compelling question, "What the heck does ‘Mama say mama sah ma ma koo sah’ mean anyway?"
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
5
NEWS
Who Ya Gonna Call? Safewalk!
Notre Dame students express discomfort about calling the Safewalk service
by Angie Buckingham
r B hey would never do it in New York 1 City, Chicago, Los Angeles or Washington, D.C. Their mothers have warned them aboutit time and time again. Yet every
were to pick up the phone and dial B-L-U-E. This number would connect him or her with the Notre Dame Safewalk dispatcher who would immediately radio for a team to walk the caller to his or her destinaton. A team is usually able to arrive in about five minutes.
Safewalk began operaton on January 15,
1990; it was proposed by Gina Mahoney, a student who has since graduated. The Safewalk mission statement is: "ND Safewalk is a free security service provided by Notre Dame students and university se: curity/police designed to promote safety to all who walk on the Notre Dame campus."
day Notre Dame women do it anyway — walk around campus alone at night.
Despite general apprehension concerning the security of the campus, students are reluctant to call Safewalk, a student-run escort service. Six teams of two Safewalk escorts each work every night to field an average of just eight calls from students.
Notre Dame is not exactly a big city, but there are incidents of violent attacks on campus. Contrary to common stereotypes, men are not immune from, saftey concerns. On the front page of The Observer on February 3, there was an article about a male student being assaulted walking from Main Circle to his dorm.
Even though there are real dangers present, at night students frequently
walk unescorted around the Notre •
John Bingham
Safewalk teams can be easily recognized around campus by their uniforms.
Dame campus. The threat of an attack could be alleviated if these students
SCHOLASTIC
John Bingham
A Safewalk team escorts a student across the campus.
According to R.G. Starmann, an Alumni junior who is assistant director of Notre Dame Safewalk, there are six different teams who work between 6 p.m. and 2:30 a.m. The Safewalkers work a combined total of 29 hours each night. Starmann said
that since its inception, Safewalk teams have completed over 3000 safewalks, receiving an average of eight calls per night.
Yet, there are many Notre Dame students who refuse to call Safewalk. A senior in Lyons said, “I think it’s a fantastic and necessary service. Why I don’t use it, I don’t know.”
An informal survey of 23 undergraduate women from five different dormitories and off-campus has shown that 20 feel unsafe at times when walking around campus alone. Of those 20 women, only six have ever called Safewalk.
Many of the women said they would feel uncomfortable calling Safewalk; they also said that calling Safewalk would threaten their feelings of independence. An RA from Lewis said, “I can take care of myself.”
A few students stated that they be
lieve they are “hypocrites” for walking alone when they feel unsafe, but they don’t think they will ever call Safewalk. A Lyons senior said, “It's like admitting you're scared to walk home alone.”
The Safewalk service is operated through Notre Dame security, said Starmann, and it
employs 31 escorts. The director of
Safewalk is senior Matt Farina. The escorts have to go through an initial training program and subsequentrefresher courses. Phil Johnson, assistant director of security, said that the training programs instruct the teams on “what to do in case of an emergency as
R.G. Starmann is the assistant director of Safewalk, which was instituted in January 1990.
well as how to recognize suspicious people.” The teams are also informed of university policies concerning the program. The courses also consist of some self-defense and emergency training, and when the applicants are screened, people with previous first aid and other types of emergency
training are given priority.
The service is available when it gets dark, so the hours vary slightly during the fall and spring from their current winter hours. The Safewalk teams consist of two people, and they generally walk around campus when the weather is warm enough to make the service easily accessible to students. During the colder months, the teams stay in heavily populated areas such as LaFortune or the Oak Room, where they are able to still remain visible.
When called, a Safewalk team will walk a student anywhere within the confines of Notre Dame’s campus. The service will even walk students up Saint Mary’s Road as far as U.S. 31, at which point Saint Mary’s security will take over.
A recent policy change by security has
made it possible for students to call Safewalk from any of the emergency call boxes located around campus, Starmann said. If a student wants an escort from a parking lot to his or her dorm, he or she needs only to call security from a call box.
The student then waits in his or her car in the parking lot with thecar’s lightson to signal the team. The directors of Safewalk are working with security to install a phone at car level in D2 so students don't need to get out of then-cars to call Safewalk.
The women surveyed mentioned ' several places where they feel unsafe walking on campus. Among the areas targeted were the area around the lakes, the path between Sacred Heart Church and the Administration Building, the area around LaFortune — including Crowley and Washington Halls—God Quad in general and the various parking lots. These are all poorly lit areas of : campus, and some of them have many trees and bushes. Two Lewis freshmen said that it’s a hassle to call Safewalk, and they just walk quickly through those areas that frighten them, rather than wait for the escorts.
A number of students did say they would
use Safewalk if they felt that they needed to, and they are happy to know that it’s there. When asked, all of the women responded that Safewalk is a necessary service of the university. A resident of Lewis Hall said, “It's another way the university can help
maintain a safe atmosphere.”	□
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
CAMPUS LIFE
Lucille Clifton, author of Good Woman: Poems and a Memoir 1969-1980
The 25th Annual Sophomore Literary Festival attracts distinguished authors and poets from around the nation
by Andrea Feaster
The 25th Annual Sophomore Literary
Festival continues a tradition of celebrating contemporary American authors in the areas of poetry, fiction, non-fiction and children’s books. Acclaimed poets and novelists have been invited to Notre Dame to give lectures and selected readings of their works, in what is perhaps the most diverse festival of recent years.
Poet and fiction writer Lucille Clifton, author of both adult and children’s literature, is a three-time nominee of the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Clifton is the winner of an Emmy Award and the 1984 Coretta Scott King Award.
Clifton’s teaching background includes classes on racism and sexism in children’s books and prose and poetry workshops. A frequent guest of poetry readings, Clifton enjoys this activity as an opportunity to “meet people around the country who are interested in poetry.”
Although she claims that her own college experience had little to do with poetry, Clifton asserts that college, like “any experience that allows one to learn, helps in one’s art.”
A native of New York and graduate of both Howard University and the State University of New York at Fredonia, Clifton is presently professor of literature and creative writing at the University of California at Santa Cruz.
Her most recent publication is Quilting: Poems (1987-1990). Other writings include Two-Headed Woman (1980); My Brother Fine With Me (1975), a children’s book; and works featured in The Black Poets and the Norton Anthology of Literature by Women.
Another poet with roots in New York is Linda Pastan, who graduated from Radcliffe College in 1954 and earned an M.A. from Brandeis University. Of her college career, Pastan reports that at that time, “they did little to encourage one’s creativity. There were virtually no writing courses.”
Pastan “sort of did the ‘50’s thing” and got married after herjunior year in college. Al-
SCHOLASTIC
though family life diverted much of her attention away from writing, Pastan still garnered the Dylan Thomas Award from Mademoiselle magazine her senior year. However, it wasn’t until her late 30’s that she became more serious about authorship.
Cuirentpoet laureate of the state of Maryland, Pastan will discuss selections from works which have appeared in Ms., Esquire, The American Poetry Review, and others. A prolific writer, she has had seven volumes of poetry published. Pastan’s latest work is a collection entitled Heroes in Disguise (1991). She was awarded the Di Castagnola Award from the Poetry Society of America for The Five Stages of Grief (1978). Her other works, including A Fraction of Darkness (1985) andPMIAM:New and Selected Poems (1982), have earned numerous honors, one of which was a nomination for the National Book Award in 1982.
“Writing,” according to Pastan, “is an
C.K. Williams, author of Flesh and Blood
isolating kind of a thing,” because aside from paper and pen one is utterly alone. She
blizzard
the snow
has forgotten
how to stop
it falls
stuttering
at the glass
a silk windsock
of snow
blowing
a poem by Linda Pastan
appreciates the chance to get in touch with her audience on tours and lectures like the SLF. Pastan enjoys her career, calling the solitude and society “a great contrast.”
In addition to authorship, Pastan is a former teacher for the MFA program at American University and is involved with Vermont’s Bread Loaf Writer’s Conference. ,
C.K. Williams, an active writer, lecturer and innovator, claims a wide variety of publications that bear his work. A poet and translator, Williams has written six books of poetry, several volumes of translation (including Euripides’ The Bacchae), and has had works appear in periodicals such as The New Yorker and Mademoiselle. David Lynch’s films The Grandmother and Eraserheadbenefitted from Williams’ work as script consultant. He was awarded a National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship in 1985.
A New Jersey native, Williams graduated from Buchnell University and in 1959 received a BA from the University of Pennsylvania. In his work at the Institute of the Pennsylvania Hospital he implemented a program of poetry therapy for emotionally-disturbed patients. In the late 1960’s he aided in another group therapy program for disturbed adolescents. Williams’ background alone speaks of his creativity and diversity of interests which show in his role as lecturer, judge for writing competitions and visiting professor at colleges and universities nationwide.
Presently professor of poetry at George Mason University, Williams’ latest work is entitled A Dream of Mind. His 1988 volume of poetry Flesh andBlood, which earned him the National Book Critics’ Circle Award, was compared by Stanley Kunitz to the works of Walt Whitman and William Carlos Williams.
Harold Brodkey, a Harvard University graduate, is the author of award-winning novels and short stories. His most recent collection of stories, released in 1988, is Stories in an Almost Classical Mode; his latest novel The Runaway Soul (1991). Brodkey has also had poetry and works of fiction printed in Discovery, Esquire, and New American Review. This distinguished author was awarded the O. Henry short story first prize in 1975 and 1976, and the 1974
FEBRUARY 20,1992
9
Brandeis University Creative Arts Award.
According to Contemporary Authors, a compilation of writers’ profiles, Brodkey’s work “examines events and feelings in the minutest detail.” The short stories in his First Love and Other Sorrows (1957) are centered around “adolescence, college, marriage... Al of the tales deal with youthful love.” Many take the form of autobiographical narrative.
Pulitzer Prize-winner Alison Lurie draws on a lifetime of writing experience to produce her works of fiction and non-fiction. The New York-raised Chicago native has focused much of her fiction on social situations, often targeting details of human relations. Her non-fiction work has included a study of fashion history, The Language of
Clothes (1981), and children’s books such as The Heavenly Zoo (1980).
A graduate of Radcliffe College, Lurie was awarded the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Award in Literature in 1978 and was nominated in 1984 for the American Book Award in fiction. Her novel Foreign Affairs (1984) won her the Pulitzer
bottom: Linda Pastan, author of PM/ AM: New and Selected Poems; right: Alison Lurie, author of Pulitzer Prizewinning Foreign Affairs
Prize for fiction. Vanity Fair and The New York Times Book Review have featured Lurie in articles and reviews.
Currently Professor of English at Cornell University, Lurie’s most recent pubheation is a colection of essays entitled Don't Tell the Grownups: Subversive Children's Literature (1990).
Internationally-acclaimed poet and fiction writer Toby Olson has much to offer his audience by way of variety and sheer number of publications. Having produced six novels, sixteen books of poetry and works that have appeared in well over200 anthologies, magazines and newspapers, Olson’s career hasspanned a wide variety of media.
A board member on the PEN/Faulkner
Award for fiction, Olson has also served as judge of contests held by the National Endowment for the Arts and the Fiction Collective Fiction Contest.
Olson’s latest, The Pool (1991), follows his receipt of the Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship in fiction, Bellagio, Italy (1987) and the Temple University Creative Achievement Award (1990). Productions of poems set to music,Relache onEdge (1991) and Birdsongs (1989), are two of his more recent innovations.
His writing career began-in 1969 with a book of poetry entitled Maps. Two additional works are expected soon. Olson has taught at Long Island University and is currently professor of English at Temple University.	□

10
SCHOLASTIC
CAMPUS LIFE
Enduring Excellence
Since. 1967’s Faulkner symposium, Sophomore Literary Festivals have brought prominent writers to Notre Dame
by Andrea Feaster
Guest speakers of past festivals have included W.P. Kinsella and Ken Kesey
The Sophomore Literary Festival has preserved its tradition of excellence through much evolution.
Professor emeritus Ernest Sandeen says that the original festival “was an entirely different idea.” The forerunner of the festival was a 1967 symposium in which several authors and experts discussed the work of William Faulkner.
Planned initially as the first half of a two-week program, the Faulkner symposium was to be followed by a week of social events and informal talks between students and prominent authors. Due to limited funding, however, only plans for the first week were carried through.
The symposium was entirely organized by sophomore students and sponsored by the sophomore class. According to Tom Noe, a member of the committee and current editor of Greenlawn Press, the original intention was to provide an opportunity for “contact with living authors of some importance”and “to generate desire in students to become writers — great writers even.”
Noe says that some claim that the 1967 event was “the finest conference on Faulkner ... People were astounded that it had been run by sophomores.” With respect to sophomore direction, Professor Sandeen believes “there is a kind of naivete that I think is very attractive to the writers.”
Much activism occurred on campus in 1967, and “students were taking an initiative in their own education,” says Noe. This period also saw the inception of the Sophomore Lecture Series and the Hall Fellows Program.
In 1968, under the direction of chairman John Mroz, the SLF’s format changed. Mroz “brought together, surprisingly, a group of the most prominent writers of the period,” states Sandeen. Thatyear’s festival
“had a surprising turnout and was a great success.” Guests that year were Norman Mailer, Joseph Heller, Wright Morris .Ralph Ellison, Granville Hicks Bruce, William F. Buckley Jr., Kurt Vonnegut, and Isaac Beshevis Singer. In an article in The Observer, April 10,1968, Mroz correctly foresaw the Literary Festival “as an annual event at Notre Dame.”
Professor John Matthias remembers the 1968 SLF as a “strange week” that began with Lyndon Johnson’s announcement that he would not run for re-election, and ended with the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. Prof. Sandeen recalls, however, that all the authors “stayed, all of them stayed.”
In an article in The Observer, November 21,1968, SLF director for 1969 Jim Metzer said, “The festival will be geared to the student body ... The whole purpose of bringing all of these speakers to Notre Dame at the same time for a “literary festival” is to attract attention and stimulate more interest among the students.”
The list of distinguished guests of the SLF is extensive. Participants from past festivals include Allen Ginsberg, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates, Tennessee Williams, Susan Sontag, Ken Kesey, and W.P. Kinsella.
By allowing students and faculty to interact directly with successful authors, the SLF remains a vehicle for inspiring and educating potential writers. “Literary standards have always been very high,” says Matthias, and “readings, workshops, social events provide a unique opportunity” for participants to discuss and answer questions about the craft of writing.
Matthias, who has been in attendance throughout the festival’s history, emphasizes the impressive “continuity of tradition and excellence of offerings... The names of the participants speak for themselves.”
Notre Dame is known internationally for the SLF. According to Matthias, people return from the festival and relate its offerings to colleagues and associates.
The guest lecturers and participants of the Sophomore Literary Festival seem to possess a symbiotic relationship. While students and faculty gain practical knowledge in the art of writing, the authors and poets reap the benefits of informal interaction with a decidedly refreshing audience. □
11
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
Send information for your event to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Colin Clary at 239-7569.
Thursday 20
Movie: "Total Recall," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.
Lecture: "Postmodernism and the Critique of Political Economy," 4:15 p.m., Hesburgh Center for International Studies.
Basketball: Women vs.
Detroit, 7:30 p.m., JACC. Performance: "Our Town," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m., $7.
Friday 21
Movie: "Terminator 2," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Thelma and
Louise," 7:15 & 9:45p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: Folk Dancing. 7:30 p.m., Club House, SMC.
Performance: "Our Town," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m., $7.
Saturday 22
Movie: "Terminator 2," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Thelma and Louise," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Basketball: Notre Dame Men vs. UCLA, 2:00 p.m., JACC.
Performance: "Our Town," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m., $7.
Workshop: "Community Master Class in Modem Dance Technique," 10:00 a.m., Regina Dance Studio, SMC.
LaFortune Information Desk:
239^128:^
Senior Class;®3^5|^
:^SniBO||S^e|O
7361^:^

Sophomore Class: 239-5225
JACCTicketInformation:239
■
'.-JT;


Touch Four
Pial 239-2500, thenpress x 2101 for movie info. ;
x 2114 for the music line" x 2112 for concert info.; g x:2117 for theatre infd.
x 2525 for college eyerits
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
x 1903 for movie reviews x 1300 for local sportsinfo.
x 1301^
xl213for worldnews '•
Sunday
23
Tuesday
25






Performance: "Our Town," Washington Hall, 3:10 p.m.,
Sophomore Literary Festival: Lucille Clifton, 8:00 p.m., Library Aud.
Monday
24
Sophomore Literary Festival: Linda Paston, 8:00 p.m., Library Aud.
Film: "Citizen Kane," 7 p.m., Snite, $2.
Sophomore Literary Festival: C.K. Williams, 8:00 p.m., Library Aud.
Wednesday 26
Sophomore Literary Festival: Harold Brodky, 8:00 p.m., Library Aud.
COMING SOON...
Zahm Acoustic Jam February 27th!!!
Morrissey Film Fest February 28th!!!
Movie Theatres:
Scottsdale Theatre:
291-4583
Town &Country Theatre: 259-9090
University ParkCmema East: 277-7336
University ParkCinema West ;	277-0441 :	?
100 Center Cinema I&II:
259-0414
Photo courtesy of Tri-Star Pictures
'Terminator 2" is playing Friday and Saturday in Cushing Auditorium.
Forum I & II Cinema:
277-1522
By beating the Legends of Tennis Team, the Fighting Irish found out that they can beat the best
Mari Okuda
Players of the Legends of Tennis Team pose for a photo before taking on the
By Pete Dedman
T n between Junior Parents’ Weekend ac-JL tivities on Saturday, the Notre Dame Men’s Tennis team was in action, providing entertainment for a large crowd at the Eck Tennis Center. Notre Dame faced the The Legends of Tennis team, comprised of former pros who have qualified as “Grand Champions”, based on their extraordinary careers on the Men’s Tour. Led by the outstanding play of senior captain Dave DiLucia, junior Andy Zurcher, and strong doubles performances, the Irish defeated the Legends 6-3.
Notre Dame improved on their 1992 record of 4-0, and are continuing to play impressive tennis early on in this spring season. After returning a week early during Christmas break, to prepare for their opening match on January 18, the team posted victories over Minnesota, Colorado, Michigan State, and Texas. Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss scheduled this particular match against the Legends team
specifically as a warm-up for the coming weekend, as the team travels to the National Indoor Team Championships in Louisville, where the Irish will face a tough Florida team, which is currently ranked 5th in the nation.
The Legends of Tennis team featured some tough players itself though. Representing the Legends on Saturday were former U.S. Davis Cup players Hank Pfister and Gene Mayer, former Australian Davis Cup team member Colin Dibley, Peter Fleming, who won seven Grand Slam titles as John McEnroe’s doubles partner, and Notre Dame women’s coach Jay Louderback. Britain’s John Lloyd, held from this weekend’s play due to injury, was replaced by Notre Dame men’s assistant coach Brian Kalbas, to round out the team. Notre Dame scheduled to play the Legends as the first tournament of its kind, but the idea is sure to spread quickly to other college campuses.
The concept for a Tourney of Legends
was introduced by agent Peter Bauer, who represents the participating players. All of the pros were excited about the idea, and take a serious approach toward training and playing for theLegends of Tennis team. The honor of qualifying as a Legend is at the same time accompanied by a zeal for partaking in a great opportunity.
As Coach Bayliss explains, “playing these former stars in a tournament format is great experience for our players.” All of the Legend team members are over 35 years of age, and remain active on the over-35 pro circuit What it boils down to is a simple matchup of youth versus experience, Bayliss noted. He went on to point out that the pros’ distinguished careers do not serve to intimidate the younger opponents, but rather relieve the pressure placed on the college players; seeing as several of the Legends have won titles at Wimbledon, the U.S. Open, The French Open, and the Australian Open, a loss is certainly no disgrace. Before the match, Bayliss said he really
14
SCHOLASTIC
wasn’t sure how his players would stack up.
Notre Dame stacked up well, to put it mildly. Atthenumber one singles slot, Dave DiLucia disposed of HankPfister 6-1,6-2, in a match that was over in less than an hour. DiLucia’s service game was practically flawless, highlighted by ten aces. Complementing his power game was DiLucia’s characteristically lightning quick speed, as Pfister struggled with every passing shot he attempted, finding the Notre Dame captain’s net game to re-! sembleabrickwall. Pfister,38,pointed out how hard it is to keep up against the physical ability which so many college players possess. “They play loose, hit hard, and run everything down,” he said. For “King” Dave, who is currently number two in men’s collegiate rankings, the match was perhaps a foreshadowing of even greater things to come in a future professional career, although Bayliss emphasized that “this one match would not determine how a player like Dave will do on the pro circuit” At the moment, Dave is the only college player to be invited to the U.S. Pro Indoor championships in Philadelphia, to be held later this month.
Chuck Coleman also had a strong, albeit short performance, beating Colin Dibley 6-0, 6-4. Coleman, a junior, says he enjoyed playing Dibley, who from 1981-83 held the number one spot among the men’s 35 and over tour. Despite the lopsided score, Coleman says Dibley was especially helpful after the match, giving the Irish number four singles player some pointers on his game. Andy Zurcher, playing at the ’ number two position for Notre Dame, gave Peter Fleming some pointers of
his own. In an exciting match that came i downtoacoupleofkeybreaks.Zurcherwon 6-4,6-4, againstFleming, who is playing his first year on the 35 and over circuit Mark Schmidt was probably not so awestruck by his opponent, Irish assistant coach Brian Kalbas. Nevertheless, the two had a good match, both players having to handle a lot of low slices. Schmidt managed to keep Kalbas back with a heavy dose of well placed approach shots, as he worked the ball all over the court. Forced to stay on the defensive for most of the match, Kalbas lost
to the Notre Dame junior 7-6,6-2.
The Legend team was able to scrap up a couple of singles victories, though. Jay Louderback defeated Ron Rosas 6-3, 6-2, and, in the only three set singles match of the day, Gene Mayer, utilizing a two-handed forehand as well as backhand, triumphed over Will Forsyth, 6-4,6-7,7-6, at number
Mari Okuda
It took DiLucia less than an hour to dispose of former Australian, French and U.S. Open doubles finalist Hank Pfister (shown above) 6-1,6-2.
three. Forsyth, who says he had a poster of Mayer on his wall at home, was able to overwhelm Mayer at times with heavy topspin and a breaking serve that often jammed the former two-time French Open doubles champion. Mayer, however, played a patient game and succeeded in leading his younger opponent into several longer, drawn out points, until he forced Forsyth intoerrors. Thematch wasabitofaletdown for Forsyth, who has been playing solid tennis as of late, and is currently enjoying a number 43 ranking in the men’s Collegiate
Tennis standings.
Doubles play proved to be especially exciting, as each match lasted the full three sets. The team of DiLucia and Coleman, ranked 11th in the nation, beat Pfister and Fleming 6-1, 6-7, 7-6, while Zurcher and Forsyth won in similar fashion against Mayer and Dibley, 6-4,6-7,7-6. In the final doubles match, sophomore Tom North and junior Chris Wojtalik faced Louderback and Kalbas. The Notre Dame coaching duo was perhaps able to use their familiarity with the Irish players’ game, as they beat North and Wojtalik, 6-3,4-6,7-6.
Overall, the Irish’s doubles play is one aspect of the team that has improved as of recent. It is just one more asset to complement a singles lineup which already possesses depth as well as tremendous skill. DiLucia comments that “everybody on the team is making a jump right now.” Besides Dave, who has a firm hold on the number one position, all the players from the 2nd through 6th slots are capable of playing at the same level. Ranked 36th in the Collegiate poll, Zurcher in particular has been playing strongest among the juniors, who comprise almost the entire varsity team. Chuck Coleman also “came out really fired up for this season,” remarked teammate DiLucia. It will be interesting to watch this class throughout the rest of the season— next year, with DiLucia graduated, someone will have to emerge as a leader for the team.
For now, though, the Irish surely are not looking that far down the road. Their major concern is #5 Florida, who they’ll face in the first round of the
National Indoor Team Championships on Thursday. Schmidt notes that this will be “a great opportunity to take advantage of, but we certainly can’t look past them [Florida] right now.” He feels the overall team goal, however, is “to make the NCAA’s and improve upon what we accomplished last year. We need to play consistent tennis as a team, and that means no letdowns.”
That type of attitude seems typical of thewhole Irish team, which has improved by leaps and bounds with each season under Bayliss.	□
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
15
A Tradition of Excellence: 1988 National Champions
Coach: Lou Holtz.
Tri-Captains: Ned Bolcar, Mark Green, Andy Heck.
Notes: With aregular season record of 11-0-0 and a34-21 thrashing ‘ of West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl, the 1988 Fighting Irish football team was the first to win a consensus national championship for coach Lou Holtz ... The members of the graduating class of 1992 were freshmen during the 1988 season ... The season was full of fantastic finishes: a two point win at home over Michigan in the season opener and a one point win at home over archrival Miami sent the Irish to the top of the polls... All-Americans on the 1988 team were DE Frank Stams, OT Andy Heck, LB Michael Stonebreaker, DT Chris Zorich and LB Wes Pritchett... Also in 1988, Knott and Siegfried Halls opened up as women's dorms.
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
LaPhonso Ellis: Ellis, a senior forward from East St. Louis, IL, led the Notre Dame men’s basketball team in scoring with 28 points and in rebounding with 15 as the unranked Fighting Irish upset the tenth-ranked Syracuse Orangemen 101 -98 in the Carrier Dome. Notre Dame has now beaten Syracuse three times in a row on the road. Arguably the most exciting of Ellis’ points were scored when he slammed down an underhand alley-oop pass from guard Daimon Sweet with 3:17 left in the game.
16
SPORTS

sswwiiafwais
£
1988 national Championship Team
Fr»nj Raw: niRua. HuC-ewM. htiicic. Abwir.	IteL Rnkw, t’r.-whcf, SMrm.	Swopd
Rovt:	Majtgsr. Algv. Gukw*.	.$»«c«rA x.Vsuaisr, tjswwu:. (M’h.	SskoRwlC. Klsifc,
thiR "nurd k^w; Lys.li. Kto. WpM. Pfiw.i	. <'.aww. At«x DK\»e. H«?. McDrvi«t
Mrfihww.	Jjil&Kb IWib R<>^-;	SfuapaU Ikw 1W.. Ikaty,
(XM-iM M.:t amAfark-y. S;;.iV..	MdwtSix Kjft&ek. Sexto- HseW,?. RotoFcty.7micb. Fifth
Rw, Alto. Dx&». S-s.-i:. 1Fk1!V. i'fciwv*. f;xto;in<. Wh&ciS-naan. C&«. Gaton. -Held:. &sn&i. RytthX&vA&ttt&i.
D««. Bh'iAa fax*.	Csh&so, Ksiidiw, Maw>>v. Stswig, fcitow. Ab®?,:,
Fr.	C Mtxxd. Vrfwto. Pxxiy. Sexnito. Scswwy. Scwmh Rjjwj Gtotx Whry,
WiiSH'sA I®'. {Swh. Rii-rt. Ttiwle. (T;;xk.®:, Fac.-fr,. i.
September	10	W	Michigan	19-17	H	59,075
September 17		W	Michigan State	20-3	A	77,472
September 24		w	Purdue	52-7	H	59,075
October	1	w	Stanford	42-14	H	59,075
October	8	w	Pittsburgh	30-20	A	56,500
October	15	w	Miami	31-30	H	59,075
October	22	w	Air Force	41-13	H	59,075
October	29	w	Navy	22-7	A	54,929
November	5	w	Rice	54-11	H	59,075
November 19		w	Penn State	21-3	H	59,075
November 26		w	use	27-10	A	93,829
			(11-0-0)			
			Fiesta Bowl			
January	2	w	West Virginia	34-21	A	74,911
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Becky Alfieri: Alfieri, a freshman from Spencerport, NY, turned in an impressive performance for the Notre Dame women's indoor track team at the Purdue Invitational in West Lafayette, IN, as she placed second in the 3,000 meters with a time of 10:23.5. The Fighting Irish also received help from fellow freshmen Monica Cox and Eva Flood who placed fourth in their respective events - the 55-meter dash in a time of 7.43 and the mile in a time of 5:05.1.
SCHOLASTIC
BEST WISHES TO THE MEN'S & WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TEAMS
OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
FIGHTING IRISH
FROM YOUR FRIENDS
JUST SOUTH OF THE GOLDEN DOME ITALIAN DINING WITH AN IRISH VIEW'
Share in their growth to full manhood
Fr. Thomas Conlon, SMA
SMA Fathers, Depf. NDS
23 Bliss Ave., Tenafly, NJ 07670 201-567-0450
1412 South Bend Ave 232-4244


ON OTHER CAMPUSES
Penn State Academic-Wear
t
Better than a Dead show
That campus job not paying the bills for you? Take a tip from Kelly Green (his real name, not his color) and build yourself an LSD simulator. Green got the idea 12 years ago when he was tripping on the drug as a ski bum in Colorado, according to the College Press Service. When he stopped taking LSD, Green decided to research it in a library.. Combined with a gadget he found on a boat, Green invented the Kaleido-Sky, also known as the Day-Dreamer or LSD Flight Simulator. The device is placed over the eyes as you blow into a small tube. The air spins a small disc that flickers small specks of light on the eye. Green sells over 3000 of the toys each year at $ 14.95 a piece. “It takes the golden signals from our local star and spins them into optical poems,” states LSD advocate Timothy Leary. Where’s the best place to market the toys? You guessed it. “I sell a lot at colleges and at Grateful Dead shows.” Whoaaa.
College Press Service
The best of both worlds
We’re not the only ones plagued with a reputation as more of an athletic institution than an academic one, according to an advertisement in the Penn State Weekly Collegian. SciTech, a sweatshirt manufacturer has gone so'far as to make sweatshirts reading “Penn State Academics - XXL.” The ad states, “We’re so proud of our University’s athletic prowess, but we’re proud of our academic reputation as well! Show how you feel by wearing this fine quality, heavy weight, ash sweatshirt...” It is uncertain whether the company will continue the line of clothing with “Penn State Food Service” or “Penn State Hair Stylists.”
Fortune awaits: Run a campus bookstore
Students at Stanford University now know where the obvious excess revenues at their bookstore are going. An article in the Stanford Daily depicts senior managers of the Stanford Bookstore enjoying supreme perks including the use of a large stone summer house in central California and a fleet of luxury cars. The Daily discovered the perks during an investigation of the tax-exempt, nonprofit corporation independent from the university. One expenditure included $69,000 to furnish the summer house with a hot tub, satellite dish, and bedroom set and other necessities for California living. Nine cars owned or leased by the Bookstore for unrestricted use include a 1991 Infiniti Q45,1990 Cadillac Biarritz, 1989 Acura Legend and Mazda RX-7 convertible and Volvo 740. Seniors depressed about the job market, head west.
Painfully boring
For those of you who consider yourselves inevitably boring, there is now the Boring Institute of New Jersey to provide you with role models, according to the College Press Service. Their list of “Most Boring Celebrities of 1991 ” was recently published. Members of the list must pass the test of “massive media overexposure.” Topping off the list for is Madonna. “She earned $63 million for grabbing her crotch, but poor Pee Wee Herman gets busted. Go figure? She’s parlayed a bad attitude into superstardom, but, thankfully, we can ignore her, even if MTV can’t,” writes founder Alan Caruba. The Institute nominated Geraldo Rivera with the statement, “Will someone please tell him we just don’t care?" Other members included William Kennedy Smith, Kitty Kelley, Arnold Shwarzenegger and Julia Roberts.	□
Edited by Mike Owen
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
19
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION
Recycled Food: Huge Shocker at; ND
It's been another wild, wild week in Michiana. Actually, the weather feels like a really bad Indigo Girls song playing over and over and over. Nice analogy, I know. Anyway, the mail is a little weak this week so it's your fault for being titles and not sending anything good in. Enjoy. Joe Jack Manners
Dear Mr. Manners:
Just one more quick note about Junior Parents Weekend. I had a great weekend, the best ever. But, of course, I'm a bit prissy so I had to find something wrong. You don't get pristinity by being laid back now do you? I didn't think so.
If you recall, the Presidential dinner was chicken and rice. Both the chicken, the rice, and just about everything else had almonds in them. We survived, but upon going to the dining hall this past Monday night, what did I see? Brown rice with almonds! EEEWWW! Mr. Manners, did they really recycle our $26 a plate dinner and feed it to others? Did they scrape it off of the plates or just what was left on the silverware? I'm really grossed out and have not been back to the dining hall since. An environmental conscience is one thing, but I certainly do not like pre-chewed food! Your thoughts and comments would be most appreciated.
Sincerely,
Constance Wyne
Howard Hall
Dear Wyner:
How naive are we? Do you really think that University Food Services would actually throw something outjust because you only touched half of it? What about hamburgers on Tuesday that become soup for the rest of the semester? And chili? Take it from a man who's worked in many a restaurant, chili is on the level of whatever must be thrown out before the Board of Health arrives. I don't think they really scraped it off of your utensils, but you can bet it wasn't fresh out of the oven. Through their magic, they parlayed $26 into big savings at your local feeding trough. Disgusting, but it's reality.
Food seems to be a big problem on this campus. No one raves about it, but we automatically get 21 meals whether we like it or not. I'm glad the long lines of student body presidents and hall presidents have taken a stand on the fact that the record meal consumption per week must hover around 15. Don't bother them, they get free grub. Soon we'll be able to use our ID cards to charge more food that we didn't eat in the dining halls. Necessary, huh? Let me get off of my soapbox for now. At a school that condemns greed, it certainly is hard to avoid their example. Oooh, I'm fuming. Do something!
Dear Mr. Manners:
I'm trying to plan my spring break and I'm running out of time. My friends what to go to Daytona with all of the other meatheads, but I'm not sure I went to spend a week in a junior high movie plot. What do you think I should do?
Chief Pale Skin
Flanner Hall
Dear Chief:
I am of your tribe also, so I will be returning to the Sunshine State. Daytona is not the only place with beer and babes. Look at the heinousness of the above picture - and skip further south. Or, just hang in theBend for the week. Visit exotic ports of calllike Osceola, Granger, and maybe even Niles. You won't have the bronze look, but you will be intellectually challenged. And that's what we're here for, right?	□
’Write me: 303 Lafortune, Campus Mail
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
m



By Nate FitzGerald
Back in the early ‘80s, when I was first becoming aware of hygiene and personal appearance — that one might put a little thought into how he wore his hair or how he rolled up his pants leg (or if he wore a thin splatter-paint tie), I also took great pleasure in ridiculing my father for his embarrassing sidebums.
“Dad, you look like you just walked out of the Seventies or something,” I would tell him. After all, they stood out because while the rest of his hair was dark brown, they were white and crept dangerously far beyond the point where the top of the ear is attached to the head.
Of course, at the time, I was trying to sport a Billy Idol-style spiked haircut (clashed a bit with Pier Connection and Polo shirts), and as a prepubescent, didn’t have much say in whether my hair style continued onto my face or not Then, just a few years later, when shaving had actually become a chore, there I was letting the’bums slip quietly down in front of my ears, day by day, like vines.
As fashion goes, they seem to rise and fall like hemlines or any good empire, and now they’ve apparently been legitimized once again after making it prime time with the fresh princes of “Beverly Hills 90210.” Those cads obviously stole the idea from Nicolas Cage, in one of his myriad ’bumclad roles.
Unfortunately, most girlfriends don’t approve of ’bums. In fact, a friend last semester who’d procured some killer ’bums surprised me one day when he came to class with his bums missing. “Dude, your ’bums ran away, what happened?” I asked. He just stared at the floor in disgust.
She’dput forth an ultimatum: “Either me, or the ’bums.”
One must stand firm in the face of such exercises of power. Though repulsive to some, ’bums are an affirmation of one’s
manhood. While a woman can be as wild or conservative as she likes with her clothes, she can never grow such regal facial frizz.
The daily debate over whether or not to let
them slide can be as distressing as the decision between the striped or the flowery tie for that interview with Leo Bumetti. Yet, to some it becomes a challenge to themselves and their friends. The diehards will sit by their roommates’ bedsides at night, whispering, “grow your bums, grow your bums.”
‘Bums have other virtues as well. They define the face, give you character, and offset the ear so it looks more clearly like Africa.
And predictably, they are an Elvis-icon, though how one wears them denotes which period of the King’s career he is paying tribute to. Short hair a n d
closely- g|
trimmed, Even the mutton-chop sideburn Is back fueled by and say, “Jeez, I lobe- the temporary primacy of Beverly Hills, 90210 looked stupid back
length ‘bums marking the early years, and bushy mutton chops signalling thepre-death, drug muddled Elvis.
So now that ‘bums have crept onto a significant number of Domer heads, does it mean that we actually have a few rebels or nonconformists here? Or are we all simply too well read in fashion mags, Teen Beat and TV?
Hence a few bum(ing) questions:
-Are they a viable gauge for political or sexual preferences?
-Can one be a Republican and have ‘bums?
-If they’re truly regaining popularity, will the President-elect in November have killer ‘bums? (Check out that ten dollar bill, Alex Hamilton let them creep on down.)
So far as I can tell though, the only presidential candidate that may have had the potential to. sport ‘bums at any given time in his life is David Duke, so perhaps we’d better leave that out as a fashion prerequisite for our next prez.
Finally, to those of you who are new to the world of ‘bums, be careful if you’re heading South for Spring Break. Therein lies the utterly embarassing “burn-tanline syn
drome,” when one gets a sunburn and afterwords gets his ‘bums trimmed, consequently exposing white patches where the ‘bums had formerly been encamped.
The message is simple: try it, you might like it.Without such telltale markers of Time, how else will we be able to look back at photos 27 years from now
then,” (“But I sure was thin”).
Doubtless, my father does. And now I bemoan that his ‘bums have been driven back a little, by his barber or Time, while the rest of his hair grows to match the color of his‘bums.	□
Nate FitzGerald is an off-campus Senior who hopes to be an understudy for Jason Priestly some day.
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
21
I 8 A 2- 19 9 2

Glancing Back
JPW celebrates its fortieth anniversry
By Patricia Doyle
A nother Junior Parents’ Weekend ZTL has come and gone. This weekend’s celebration marked the 40th annual JPW at Note Dame. Since its conception in 1953, JPW has undergone many changes, but has always managed to give parents a taste of their children’s lives at Notre Dame.
Forty years ago when Notre Dame was still an all-male university JPW was known as Junior Parent-Son Weekend. However, even forty years ago many of the events that
The President, racullq, and the Members of the Junion Class
of the Universily of Nolpe Dome invite you Io allend ike
16th Annual Junior Parents-Son Weekend
to be held at ike Univepsity Friday Marek 29lk, Saturday Marek 30tk, Sunday March 31st.
took place are similar to those of this past weekend. Junior Parent-Son Weekend took place on April 18,1953, and the highlight of the weekend was the presidential dinner on Saturday Night at the Dining Hall.
In an editorial in the April 17, 1953, Scholastic, entitled “Looking Over An Investment,” remarked:
The Scholastic wishes to extended a hearty welcome to all parents who will be attending the Parents-Son Day here tomorrow, and also to congratulate the juniors for their initiative.
When this event was first announced, many of us were a bit skeptical. We thought that such festivities would be more successful in the Fall on a football weekend. This could serve as the drawing card and the weekend could be built around it
After a little thought, however, making a football game the drawing card might defeat the whole purpose. This way the parents are here entirely because they want to get a good look at
their son’s school, and the University can devote all its energies to them.
Tomorrow the parents will be seeing the everyday Notre Dame, not the festive Notre Dame of football Saturdays. They will meet the teachers and administrators, and will even eat in the Dining Halls with their sons, we are told.
Again, welcome, and thanks to everyone who is helping the “stockholders” to appraise their investment
The weekend was a joint project of the Junior Class and the administration. It was a one-day event, “designed to ‘better acquaint students’ parents with the everyday life their sons lead on campus,”’ said Thomas W. Carroll of the University’s Department of Public Relations. The charge for the luncheon that was held at the dining hall was one dollar and the cost of the presidential dinner was two dollars. There were college workshops on Saturday, afternoon and the movie “Football Highlights of 1952” was shown. About 350 parents attended the weekend in 1954. According to the March 19,1954, issue of Scholastic, “the schedule [called] for an active and complete tour of the University.” The March 18,1955 issue of Scholastic stated that parents were given, “an opportunity to eat lunch with their sons in the Dining Hall, under usual student conditions.” Parents were invited to attend their sons classes on Saturday morning and mass was also held on Sunday morning with a special section reserved in S acred Heart for parents participating in the weekend.
In 1965, during the 13th annual Junior Parent-Son Weekend, as the University was growing, parents of some 400 juniors at-
22
SCHOLASTIC
university of notre dame du lac
In 1989, the dinner and the brunch were held in the North Dome of the ACC.
tended Junior Parent-Son Weekend. Guided
junior students attending the weekend, Fri-
demic workshops were held on Saturday morning with a continental breakfast to discuss career decisions and opportunities. Hall parties were held on Saturday following mass and dinner in the ACC. The weekend concluded on Sunday morning with brunch featuring guest speaker Lou Holtz.
Currently, JPW is still held in February. There is an opening gala on Friday night, academic workshops on Saturday morning, dorm luncheons, a Presidential dinner, and a closing brunch on Sunday morning. The weekend is planned by a fifteen member alljunior committee. The weekend itself is run by the JPW sophomore committee. This year’s JPW used a nautical theme, with a Bon Voyage Gala, a Captain’s Dinner and a Farewell Brunch with guest speaker Lou Holtz. Although JPW has changed over its 40-year history, the purpose has remained the same — to show parents the academic, social and cultural aspects of student life at
Notre Dame.
tours were offered of the Notre Dame Memorial Library, the LOBUND Laboratory, the Computing Center the Radiation Research Building and Nieuwland Science Hall. University President Father Hesburgh and other officers of the university were available to receive parents on Saturday afternoon atLaFortune. The weekend concluded with a Communion Breakfast bn Sunday morning following mass with breakfast speaker Johnny Lujack, a former All-American quarterback at Notre Dame.
By 1967, over 1400 parents were expected to attend the weekend. JuniorParent-Son Weekend was still held in March in
day night activities also took place. The Notre Dame-Michigan hockey game was followed by a social hour at the ACC. The President’s Dinner was moved to North Dining Hall, as well as the breakfast on Sunday.
In 1981, a record 900 families came to JPW on February 6-8 and parents attended classes with their chil-
1970 and parents were invited to several dren on Friday. Later panel discussions on Saturday afternoon that evening, a “cockcovering such topics as: conscientious ob- tail-dance” at the ACC jection, co-education and its implications, was held.
and a critical evaluation of education at The theme of the
Notre Dame.
1973 marked a significant change in Junior Parent-Son Weekend. With the admission of women in 1972, the weekend became Junior Parents ’ Weekend. It was also held in mid-February as opposed to March in previous years. In 1974, with 800 parents of
1986 JPW was “Broadway Comes To Notre Dame.” Decorations and food on Friday night centered around this theme, all relating to musicals. The aca-
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
FEBRUARY 20, 1992
23
________FINALWORD
Turn Loss Into
9	I by James Gannon
Opportunity I
Gannon, Sheehy and Daly are leading the campaign to make
Pangborn co-ed.
It is possible to see the eviction of Pangbom’s residents as an opportunity, not a loss. For the first time in years there is nothing stopping the university from establishing a co-educational dormitory. No residents who have not already been evicted and no reason for assuming that we, as responsible adults, cannot handle living in the same building as someone of the opposite gender. With this in mind, we propose that Pangborn be converted to a co-ed dorm.
Also, in order to demonstrate that the student body is serious about co-educational housing, we suggestPangbom be made chemical-free. S howing that there are enough people willing to sacrifice their right to possess and consume chemicals, among them alcohol, within the dormitory should serve as proof of the responsibility and depth of commitment of those choosing to live in a co-ed setting.
The extent of student support for co-ed housing is well-known. Recent student government surveys have found that the overwhelming majority of students favor co-ed dorms and would not be disturbed if their dorm was converted.
The ways in which co-ed housing would improve campus life are also well-known. Malefemale relations at Notre Dame are inexcusably poor. Men and women, segregated by building, have little opportunity to truly know each other outside of the classroom or the sexually-charged atmosphere of the Domer party. Gross stereotypes of one another abound. Just watch any campus talent show or listen to a group of women or men talking after parietals. Are their depictions of the opposite sex legitimate? Or are they a symptom of the antagonistic male-female relations encouraged by single-sex dorms?
Segregated living quarters help perpetuate many of the unrealistic perceptions and expectations of the opposite sex responsible for a large part of the sexual hostility and self-destructive behavior found on this campus. ‘Hooking up’ becomes the focus for many partygoers and alcohol becomes a crutch for a number of those unable to relate to members of the opposite sex.
A co-ed Pangborn, while not a cure-all, would allow genuine friendships to develop between members of the opposite sex while, at the same time, nurturing the respect for one another which is
often lacking at Notre Dame. Men and women could interact on a daily basis and know each other for who they are. Not objects. Not enemies. Just people.
And co-educational dormitories would not detract from Notre Dame’s ‘Catholic character.’ It has been shown again and again that co-educational housing can work at Catholic institutions. With Villanova’s recent acceptance of co-ed housing, no national Catholic university, outside of Notre Dame, refuses to allow their students the choice between single-sex and co-ed living. Even Notre Dame has no moral qualms with co-ed housing for its London Program students.
The conversion of Pangborn into a co-educational dormitory is certainly feasible. The dorm is small enough for an experiment in co-ed living and the increased number of incoming women will not immediately fill it. Co-ed housing is desired by a majority of students, is in keeping with Catholic teaching, and should greatly improve student life.
So what stands in the way of converting Pangborn to a co-ed dorm? Nothing but inertia. It has been years since students have mounted a serious effort to lobby the administration for a choice between co-ed and single-sex housing.' Now the time is ripe.
This Wednesday a group of students came together for the first time to plan and coordinate such an effort. In the meeting, we discussed the petitions which we hope to circulate in the dining halls (one asking whether students would support the establishment of a co-ed, chemical-free Pangborn, and another if they would be willing to live in such a dorm). In addition, we spoke about drafting a proposal calling for a co-ed, chemical-free Pangborn, then presenting it to the administration. In our opinion, this proposal will be seriously considered if unified student support were to be shown through the actions of student groups, our petitions, and the campus media.
In the meantime, we challenge the student government, campus groups, and most importantly, the student body, to make themselves heard on this issue. It is time for us to demand to be treated as the adults we are. Write to Scholastic. Write to The Observer. Write to the administration. For a brief moment, we have the opportunity to determine how we live. Let’s take advantage of it
If you too are fed up with complaining about Notre Dame’s lack of co-ed housing and, instead, would like to help make it a reality, feel free to contact James Gannon at X2348 or Catherine Sheehy at X4852.	□
24
SCHOLASTIC
TW&	(ZOcst: *
QW (uM.tJHiPirfrP &f1W pAnMiie op
To EHtP/? TK Ntw CoH)/nsrt'LAL-'F&££ PM>B<M HAU-
■fa. tw-mY P^ n&A. pfj -ntis	‘f-
PXAbAiHtrimL HUS/va/.
AS A feSCP&M 1NST1TUW , IT SEeMs iiXoGnCAL To DiScomWe Fu^pinIGi feSBARGH Tbol^t