The Notre Dame
SCHOLASTIC
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
Does Your Budget Include This Important Market?
Now comes the new year and a new advertising budget. Probably yours isn’t going to be so large this time—and we can understand why. But before you slash appropriations look around you at the successful companies who continue their contacts with the public.
❖ ❖ ❖
And when you have decided upon the correct amount, CAREFULLY select your medium. Now, more than ever, every dollar in your appropriation must pull more than its weight in returns.
& & & &
We ask that you consider the SCHOLASTIC. Space in this live news weekly contacts a compact market of over three thousand students who depend upon South Bend merchants for their needs, and does it so economically that you can’t afford to leave us out of your budget. A call at 3-1121 will bring a representative to your store.
^he Scholastic
At The Ijniversity
Notre Dame, Indiana
January 8, 1932
One ■
Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria 111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
Uhe Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
SURPLUS STOCK
Men’s High Grade
Florsheim $10 Oxfords
$4.85
Tan calf—Built-in arch support.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists	'
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
and
SODA GRILL
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
Two
The Scholastic
“Wake Up The Echoes...99
THE GLEE CLUB
They Shake Down The Thunder
.January 8, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed'to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
-i	.	■
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865	’
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June S5, 1918.
NEIL C. HURLEY
Editor-in-Chief
WILLIAM W. CORR JAMES S. KEARNS
........................Managing	Editor
.............Assistant	Managing Editor
Associate Editors MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM BLIND ’
News Staff	'
EDMUND STEPHAN.............News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL	Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY- ROBERT DILLON PATRICK CORCORAN. LARRY DUNDA THOMAS HILS	BERNARD COUSINO
ROY SCHOLZ	MITCHELL TACKLEY
JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND THOMAS FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY.............The	Week
JOHN PICK..............College Parade
JOHN CONLEY............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON.........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN............Music and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER...........Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES E. McFEELY.......Sports Edtior
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JOSEPH BORDA WILLIAM O’GRADY WILLIAM DREUX	JOHN LYNCH
JOSEPH KURTH
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON.........Features Editor
HARRY BURCHELL EDWIN KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN...............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation. Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR.........Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS...........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager
VOLUME LXVII
JANUARY 8, 1932
Number 11.
S UMMARY
COMING EVENTS
o o o
NEWS
Pugilists train for big Scholastic boxing show to be held February 12; Bengal to benefit from the proceeds________________________________________ 5
Junior class president appoints Neil Ebert to Prom chairmanship_______________;—‘------------------ 5
Dr. Sherry, of Lourdes, tells of cures effected there in illustrated lecture to a capacity audience in Washington hall_________________________________ 7
New heating plant for the University opened with ceremony; Father O’Donnell coals the first fire-11
FEATURES
Joe McCabe, joker, actor, editor, athlete, rooms with •	a red-head_____________________________________12
John Ryan sees sign of American taste in art becoming better because of the distinguished character of recent radio programs-----------------13
Burning of the old gymnasium recalled___________14
John Pick points out the best novels of the season-15
EDITORIALS	.
Basketball Boos—Prom Problems—Sixty Years of Service ___________________________________19
SPORTS
Basketball team wins from St. Thomas; defeat Northwestern twice during the holidays---------20
,	Interhall plans announced for basketball season-22
West Coast hails Nordy Hoffmann’s great defensive play in charity game 24
Three Notre Dame men named on Literary Digest consensus all-American 26
o o o	_
FRIDAY, January 8—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main Building.— Concert orchestra practice, 6:30 p. m., Husic Hall.
SATURDAY, January 9—Movie, Washington Hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State College at East Lansing.
SUNDAY, January 10—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, January 11—New Jersey Club meeting, 7:45 p. m., basement, Walsh hall.—French Club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 1, Main building.
TUESDAY, January 12—Italian Club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 1, Main building.—Concert orchestra practice, 6:30 p. m., Music Hall—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard Hall “rec.”	’
WEDNESDAY, January 13—Wranglers’ meeting, 7:00 p. m., Seminar room, Law building.
THURSDAY, January 14—Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
^\nOTHER tradition went out with the old year in the person of old Albert. There will be no obituaries for him, no fine sermons, but we all liked him, anyway. Through many years here he had acquired a reputation somewhat like the one of the Headless Horseman, who was a bit more symbolic than concrete. There were stories of what he had been in the old days, tales of pathetic misfortunes —and no student knew whether there was any truth in them. But there was a sort of sympathy for the old fellow, and a sober reminder to us embodied in him. His phrase “son-a-bicycle” has achieved local fame, and many will remember him stumping along in the dark on old Eddy road, shaking his cane wildly and declaiming to the air.
♦ ♦ ♦
|t begins to look as though the fine old pastime, eating, is regaining some of its old time favor. We are reminded of this by the fact that there is a best seller called Dining in Chicago, and that the sophisticate’s handbook, Vanity Fair, publishes this month a list of the best chophouses in New York, with mouth-watering additions of attractive special dishes. There was a time there when the practice of making a rite of dinner grew quite passe, and sandwiches and the like headed the list of popular eatables; but now, to the gratification of well-padded persons like ourselves, we can go from soup to nuts without gathering any porcine tags behind our name. Which reminds us that we ate heartily and often during the holidays of a dish that you may remember from a long time ago. It’s German, and the natives call it hausenpfeffer, which is stewed pickled rabbit to you. It it’s made with the right seasoning it is unbeatable. You must come to our house sometime and find out the taste of that Irish favorite, pigs-in-the-blanket.
E wonder if anyone else got a laugh out of Winchell the other evening when he professed his great admiration for Arthur Brisbane, and even went so far as to quote a few of what Arthur calls his “pepograms”. If Walter was really sincere, we are going to class him next to the old sage, Brisbane, who is our idea of the most inane columnist-philosopher in existence. Then again, Winchell may have a more subtle sense of humor (which his idol hasn’t) than anyone ever gave him credit for. As for Brisbane, we may stand alone in our opinion, but we always classed him with Eddie Guest and Elbert Hubbard, < very sloppy, wise old birds with the sorry habit of dashing off sentimental homilies and having the nerve to sell theii’ gems. It’s too bad that Winchell had to go worshipful over someone who would better be a subject for some of his sharp jibes.
♦ ♦ ♦
T HIS paragraph was ordered by Editor Neil Hurley to be on the Christmas dances. But on the advice of our pals, the club presidents we refer you rather to the obituary notices.
♦ ♦ ♦
Clarence KAPLAN was buzzing through Sorin sub last Tuesday night with an air of great mystery and gathering together some of the inmates for a whispered conference. They all went out later in a body, still with the secret-society look. It turned out later that Kap got the lads together to go downtown and vote for his candate. The payoff came when the fellows found that they would have to sit through a tiresome meeting, and so walked out disgustedly in a body, leaving Kap and^ten residents of South Bend to the mercy of the speakers. These Democrats stick together for just as long as the cigars last. ,	'
January 8, 1932
Five
STUDENTS TRAVEL HOME BY RAIL, PLANE, AUTOS
Mexican Students Fail by Ten Hrs, in Cross-Continent Dash.
By William Flynn
Airplanes and railroads, automobiles and flivvers, feet and thumbs, were used to send home Notre Dame’s three thousand vacation seeking students for the Christmas holidays.
They all wanted speed, and as the rate of speed achieved was in direct ratio to the money in their individual pockets, each selected his means of travel. Eleven were in such a hurry and had so much money that they left South Bend in airplanes. They were bound for New York, Detroit, and Chicago.
The ones who were not in such a hurry went by train. About five hundred clambered abroad the Metropolitan Special at noon, December 18 to see the main streets of Buffalo, Rochester, Albany, and New York.
Far Westerners treked into Chicago during the afternoon of the first day of vacation. Some of the longdistance travellers waited until evening to make their trains in Chicago. Eastern trains were late and in one case a coast train was held forty-five minutes so a student could make the train.
Four students went to Mexico City. They left South Bend determined to break the existing road record between Notre Dame and the southern capital. They failed by ten hours, but covered the last one thousand miles in twenty-four hours flat.
Another party, bound for Holyoke, Mass., purchased a used car in which to make the trip. At Elkhart the car gave up the ghost. They commandeered another from the dealer and it carried them to Cleveland and then retired from active service. The party got home Tuesday evening.
Hitch-hiking came in for its share of usefulness. One New Yorker, travelling with luck, thumbed on ride from South Bend to Cleveland. From there he got another in a Pierce Arrow to Times Square.
In all, Notre Dame students travelled about 1,500,000 miles during the holidays in approximately fortyeight hours. This is something like eighty times around the world which . is something different than around the world in eighty minutes or even nine days.
Scholastic Boxing Show
Scheduled for Feb, 12th
Ebert Named Head of Prom Committees
John F. Finneran, president of the junior class, announced early this week that Neil W. Ebert, junior in
Neil Ebert
He heads twelve committeemen.
the College of Science, has been appointed general chairman of the Prom of 1932, to be held on Friday, February 5.
Ebert is a resident of Sandusky, Ohio, and at present is studying premedical work at the University.
Plans for the Prom have been made in entirety. Favors have been selected, and the site and orchestra for the dance will be announced next week. As the result of a conflict in dates with a charity dance to be given by a South’ Bend organization on the night of February 5 it is possible that the Palais Royale, scene of the majority of Notre Dame dances, will not be available.
As suggested by an editorial in this issue of the Scholastic, a likely alternative is . one of the wings of the University’s dining halls. Such an arangement is receiving serious consideration from the men in charge of the affair.
TITLES AT STAKE
Bengal Missions to Benefit by Fistic Battles; Medals to be Given to All Fighters.
By Billy Magarrell
Notre Dame boxers will wind up an intensive training schedule in the gymnasium here on February 12th to participate for the University championships in the first annual Scholastic boxing show. The proceeds for the event will be given to the Bengal Mission fund.
The date for the event was approved yesterday by the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline/ who gave his full support to the undertaking.
The entry list is not complete, and boxers desirous of competing for the series of awards that are being offered by the Scholastic should send in their names as soon as possible to the Boxing Editor at the Publications’ Office.
Medals are being offered to each contestant, while specially prepared gold medallions will be awarded the winners of the various bouts.
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, who will be handed the proceeds immediately following the fights in the gymnasium, enthusiastically responded to the suggestion when a Scholastic representative visited him recently to acquaint him with the plans.
Cooperation of all campus organizations has been promised to aid in swelling the Bengal fund to large proportions on the evening of the affair.
Officials have not as yet been appointed, but will be named at an early date, with the promise of boxing enthusiasts here that all efforts will be united to make the event the greatest fistic exhibition ever held at Notre Dame.
Matches will be arranged only between boxers of equal ability, so that bouts of championship, calibre will stud the card.
The seven divisions which will be-used at the night of Hie fights will include the following weigths: 118
(Continued on Page 20)
Six
The Scholastic
CURES AT LOURDES ARE EXTOLLED IN ILLUSTRATED LECTURE WEDNESDAY
ECONOMISTS HEAR LYNN
European Financial Crisis Discussed at Seminar.
Dr. John Sherry of Shrine’s Medical Staff Gives Fascinatsng Account
By Edmund Stephan
Dr. John A. Sherry of the Medical Bureau of Lourdes gave an illustrated lecture last Wednesday evening in Washington hall before a capacity audience on the miraculous cures that have taken place at that world famous shrine in France.
Approaching his subject first from the point of view of a Catholic layman who lived and worked about the grotto itself for years, the doctor stressed the marvellously religious spirit and tradition upon which Lourdes has thrived since the day when the Mother of God appeared there to a little shepherd girl and told her to commemorate the spot, that others might make pilgrimages there and seek blessings.
At the outset of his talk Dr. Sherry laid particular emphasis also on the fact that contrary to many of the statements made in recent years the life in and abvout Lourdes is by no means being commercialized. True, hotels and shops and places of entertainment have sprung up, but only to accommodate the million and a half pilgrims who journey there every year. The town exists for the shrine and not vice versa.
Next came an interesting account of the life and duties of the medical bureau itself. It is composed of a few doctors who live there permanently and of several transient physicians who visit the shrine to study the unique cases, and they are unique. Any doctor, from any country, with sufficient proof of his identity may become a member of the staff.
In connection with the examination of the patients who have been cured of their tumors, their cancers, their shrivelled arms and legs, and their blindness, Dr. Sherry told of the very strict and rigorous routine which these people are subjected to before their case is said to have been cured by miraculous aid.	'
Testimony that the ailment existed before the trip to Lourdes, positive evidence that the disease is how com
pletely cured (and the doctor emphasized the word “completely”) and a return for another examination after twelve months are essential in every case. Only structural, organic ail-
Bev. William Molony, C.S.C.
He is responsible for Washington Hall lectures.
ments are considered. Any functional disorder, such as neurasthenia, or hysterics is ruled out, since their cure might possibly be attributed to a mental state aroused by the patient.
Dr. Sherry then gave the five characteristics of the cures at Lourdes: They are the results of no remedial quality of the water itself; they are always instantaneous; there is never a period of convalescence; there is an inconstancy in ■ the manner in which the cure is effected, sometimes a case being healed while a patient is in bed in a nearby hospital, while he stands in a throng before the Blessed Sacrament or as he shivers to his neck in the water about the shrine; the functional part of an organ is often restored while the organ itself is still useless; that is, people often hear with deaf ears and
(Continued on Page 10)
A paper dealing with the economic effects of the European balance of power entitled “A European Crisis,” was given last, night by John Lynn before a meeting of the economic’s seminar.	‘
“Failure, bitterness, bankruptcy,” Lynn read, “is the picture of Europe thirteen years after the war to make the world safe for democracy, and a ratification of the treaties that itiade Europe over on the basis of self determination.
“The application of self determination emasculates great empires, gave birth to two new nations, greatly enlarged others, and condemned scores of racial minorities to live under alien and oppressive rule.. German; Ruthenians, Bulgars and Magyars are separated from their own peoples by the millions and their cries for reunion are just as passionate and just as bitter as were those of the French in Alsace.
“Religious and economic principles were generally ignored. Millions of peoples were cut off from their natural markets, while great nations and great cities, especially Austria and Vienna, were reduced to slow economic starvation.”
These injustices must be remedied before there can be any hope of permanent peace, economic or political, in Continental Europe. Politically Europe can only be made over by a new war.
Lynn went on to explain in a German tariff which had awakened the suspicions of the French and caused them to make an attack on the German nation in a financial way. This attack, he claimed, had a great effect on all the nations of Europe and brought near ruin on the German nation. The United States, he said, was dazed by the results. A solution to the situation might be expected, Lynn thought, from the coming elections' in France, Germany and the United States.
A discussion of Lynn’s paper and the problem which it presented were discussed immediately following its reading.
January 8, 1932
Seven
9
ASMAN RESIGNS POSITION
Corr and Kearns Promoted To Executive Positions.
AS SOME “BURN UK THE HOME TOWN OTHERS CELEBRATE AT NOTRE DANE
William W. Corr and James S. Kearns received major appointments on the Scholastic this week to succeed Henry B. Asman, who resigned
William Walsh Corr
He scribbles at a nezv desk.
as managing editor previous to the Christmas holidays.
Asman in his resignation stated that it was made necessary because of increased detail work on several scientific experiments with which he is working in the College of Science.
Corr, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was named managing editor yesterday by Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief. Kearns will fill the post of assistant and in general will have direct supervision over copy that appears in the Scholastic.
The new promotions both went to men who have served two years on the publication and have previously handled executive positions. Kearns was drafted from his old position at the sports desk to fill the present gap, while Corr has been active this year as associate editor.
James McFeeley, a junior in the College of Commerce, will succeed Kearns as sports editor.
K. of C. To Meet Monday
John Witliff, lecturer of Notre Dame council announces that there will be a special feature at the next meeting of the council to be held Monday. The feature, he said, is to be a surprise.
“South Bend Not So Bad” Say Californians In Reply to Wild, Wild Stories
By Walter Johnson
All the pent-up enthusiasm, the restrained spirits, the inhibition accumulated through a semester of campus life came to the front when Notre Dame men, students and alumni, met for the annual home town display of collegiate hilarity. Club Christmas dances, in many cases the only activity of the organization, were unanimously acclaimed social, if not financial, successes.
Ranging from the Chicago club’s formal dinner dance, with its “admission by invitation, five dollars,” and striking as lavallier favors, to Kokomo’s representatives, making merry in the Egyptian room of the Hotel Hayes, the functions represented every phase of sophistication and formality.
❖
Contrasted with the more or less hectic vacations, featured by parties, dances, theaters and what have you, of those living within commuting distance we have the same period at Notre Dame itself.
But then it really wasn’t so bad— as those who stayed will proudly inform you. First there was the Villager’s dance, and any of the sixtyseven couples attending will defend it against whatever New York, Chicago or Gary had to offer.
♦
The Palais, Colfax, Palace with its new vaudeville, and Granada helped to fill in the time then till Mr. Borland’s offering on Christmas Day. A regular turkey dinner, one so delicious and so plentiful htat many students actually inspected the University kitchens to satisfy themselves as to the source, featured the holiday.
♦
One must admit, however, that the various halls were rather silent and lonely. With bridge game next door eliminated, the session across the hall absolutely non-existent, and no one whistling or singing down the cor
ridor, Walsh and Lyons were not quite the same. Even unlocked front doors, no restrictions and unlimited time for sleep failed to mitigate the gloom.
Christmas on campus — only for strong men, and Californians.
Francis Donalty He ran the Utica Club dance.
Even now, after almost a week, the inevitable influx of “Was she pretty and did I wreck my father’s car?” stories has shown absolutely no sign of mitigation. According to firsthand reports, (and who has been able to escape them) the w. k. depression had little effect on holiday pleasure.
Perhaps the greatest difficulty with a civilization which allows such reports to be circulated is that one must equal and even surpass the preceding story if he is to retain .any sort of reputation. As a result the thing goes on indefinitely.
❖
Something ought to be done about this Christmas card situation. Emily Post does not commit herself; the Catalogue and even the “blue” book are equally so. To put it rhetorically: Does one or does one not.
“Back to the mines,” after two eminently satsifactory weeks of re-
(Continued on Page 10)
Eight
• The Scholastic
BROWNSON WINS TITLE
Declared Debating Champions at Meeting of Wranglers.
Brownson hall was officially announced the interhall debating champion at a meeting of the Wranglers, Notre Dame honorary forensic society, last night. The announcement
Tim Benitz
Urges Broivnson men to oratory.
was made by James O’Shaughnessy, chairman of interhall debating.
Every member of the Wranglers sponsor and coach debating among the freshman halls. Judges are secured from the faculty and regular debate technique and presentation are used. Each hall, before the season is completed, participates in eight debates.
This year the proposition debated was: Resolved, that a moratorium be declared on all world war international debts for a period of five years.
For a month preceding the Christmas holidays the Wranglers were busy training the participants, planning attacks, and introducing the freshmen to new strategies. Only one debate was forfeited this year, an especially fine record in comparison with previous interhall debating seasons. The entire series of twenty debates, embracing the five freshman halls, was completed just before the holidays.
The victor, Brownson hall, won six debates and lost two. The team was coached by James Boyle and Tim Benitz. The runner-up, Carroll hall, coached . by John Pick and Francis Cawley, won five debates and lost two. Dillon, Sophomore, and Fresh-
(Continued on Page 16)
Breen Medal Finals To Be
Held Jan. 14
Finals for the annual Breen medal oratorical contest will be held Thursday evening, January 14, at 8:15 o’clock in Washington hall. The winner will represent the University in the Indiana State meet in Indianapolis.
The speakers who survived the preliminaries have a wild range of subjects. John F. Bezek, freshman, Pennsylvania, will speak on “World Peace.” William Whelan, a sophomore, who hails from Nebraska will discuss “Reparations.” “The Constitution” is the subject of Maurice Powers, junior seminarian. George Ryan, a senior Texan, has as his topic “Prohibition.”
The judges will be Professors Frank Kelly, Albert C. Doyle, and William Farrell.
Debaters Meet Daily
Tryouts for this year’s debating team are meeting daily in the auditorium of the Law building. Professor William J. Coyne, of the speech department, is the coach of this year’s team.
The topic to be debated by Notre Dame students during the coming season, which will begin early in February is: “Resolved that the* United States should adopt a compulsory nation-wide plan of control and distribution in major basic industries.”
Is College Spirit Hokum?
By N. S. F. A. Service.
Dean Charles M. McConn of Lehigh University recently told the faculty and student body of Brown University that: “College spirit and loyalty stuff is pure and simple hokum.” The dean attacked the theory that extra-curricular activities are more important for the training of character than studies and that athletes are more loyal to their colleges than scholars. “Athletes,” he said, “go out for teams primarily because of a desire for publicity and personal ambition.
“Dazzy” Vance receives about six dollars for every ball he throws.
N. D. DEAN IS ELECTED TO NATIONAL OFFICE
Father Miltner Made VicePresident of A. C. P. A.
Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters of Notre Dame, was elected vice-president of the American Catholic Philosophical association at its annual meeting held at St. Louis university, December 29th and 30th. Reverend James A. MacWilliams, S.J., of St. Louis, was elected president.
Notre Dame was also represented by Professor William Roemer, Reverend Leo Ward, C.S.C., and Reverend Julien Sigmar. The general topic of discussion was political philosophy. Various papers on this subject were read and discussed at length both in its historical development and in its present status.
The round table meetings dealt with various problems of current interest such as the nearest teleology, the Philosophy of religion, and all theories of matter. A special feature of the convention this year was a banquet held in honor of the Right Reverend Monsignor Pace on the occasion of his 70th birthday and the 40th anniversary of his professorship in the Catholic University of America.
One hundred and twenty-five members were present at this year’s convention. The membership of the association is steadily increasing. During the past year no fewer than twenty colleges and thirty individuals took out membership.
____________________________________/
Another Sorin-Corby Battle?
Gridiron players of Sorin and Corby halls, who last November expressed their anxiety to aid the Bengal Mission fund by an interhall charity game, turned their attention to the Scholastic’s boxing show this week.
Rumor skirted the halls that each would put a representative into the ring, who would fight for the championship of the senior halls on Feb. 12th.
Should the proposed fistic battle, supplant the lost gridiron tussle, both halls will still be contributing their share to. the Bengal fund.
January 8, 1932
Nine
NEW CLUB IS ORGANIZED
Architecture Students Granted Charter For New Activity.
Students of the Architectural Department have been granted a charter for an organization to be known as the Architectural club of the University of Notre Dame.
Under the guidance of Francis W.
Francis W. Kervick
Under his guidance a good year is expected.
Kervick, who was elected to serve as Honarary President, the club member expect to have an active organization.
Clif Hyland has been chosen to head the club, and he will be ably assisted by Louis R. Chreist who will act in the capacity of vice-president. James Malcolm and Frank Kelly will assume the duties of secretary and treasurer, respectively.
The purpose of the club is to establish firmer relations among the architectural students and to increase the student’s interest in the professional aspect of Architecture.
A smoker to be given in the near future will formally open the club’s activities.
Tea contains twice as much caffeine as coffee.
Human beings are used as bloodhounds in Abyssinia.
Dome Photo Section Is Completed
The work on the 1932 Dome is steadily advancing. The exact date of publication is not definitely known as yet, but it is thought that in early May everything will have been finished and the yearbook will be put into circulation.
The first cuts have been returned. They include views of the different halls, the football squad and the various games. Jahn and Ollier of Chicago are doing the engraving. The photographer will be back sometime this month to take pictures of the faculty, and of the activity men who have not had their pictures taken. There will be no more photographs taken of the members of the junior or senior classes.
There will be no theme to the Dome this year. Most of the plausible ones have been exhausted. As there are few available that pertain directly to the school it was thought a better book could be made without one.
Joseph Lopker, well known campus artist, is doing the division pages. The other art work is under the supervision of Art Becvar. Leslie Rad-datz, editor, says: “This year’s Dome is going to be different; there are several good features and most of the art work is unusually good.”
Prof. Willard L. Groom Gives Organ Recital
Professor Willard L. Groom, member of the faculty of the Notre Dame Academy of Music, gave an organ recital at St. Patrick’s church in South Bend Monday evening, January 4. He was assisted by Homer F. Reiter, tenor of South Bend.
The program given by Prof. Groom consisted of ten selections and included music of such noted composers as Louis Verne, Joseph W. Clokey, J. S. Bach, J. Lewis Browne, Healy Willan, John Ireland, Mendelssohn, Sullivan, Kreisler and Pietro Yon.
The next recital will be given by Prof. Groom’s brother, Lester W. Groom, of the Columbia School of Music, Chicago, and will take place the first Monday in February.
ROCKNE DRIVE AMONG STUDENTS TO RE-OPEN
Contributions to Be Received Monday to Saturday.
The Rockne Memorial Drive committee announced this week that the student drive for funds would be reopened next Monday, and would continue through Saturday of next week. The committee believes that students who did not have a chance to contribute prior to the vacation period will be able to give at this time.
The last venture of the committee to obtain contributions from the students met with little response, which necessitated the prolonging of the drive indefinitely. It is expected that this time the campus will support the drive in a body and that the campaign will finish up in a blaze of glory.
Beginning Monday evening, every hall will be thoroughly canvassed, and the progress of the various halls will be made known through a barometer placed in a convenient spot.
Former ‘Scholastic’ Editor Has Book on Adolph Ochs Printed
John V. Hinkel, former editor of the Scholastic, and now affiliated with the New York Times, has recently had a book, “The Contributions of Adolph S. Ochs to Journalism,” published in a limited edition by the daughter of Mr. Ochs for private distribution.
Hinkel wrote the manuscript in partial theses work for a graduate degree in journalism at Columbia university.
A letter, which is enclosed on the front flap of the book, is from Publisher Ochs to Hinkel, in which the owner of the Times thanks the author profusely and winds up by stating that ‘I consider your work the greatest compliment ever paid me in the field of journalism.”
Law College Notice
Second and third year Law students who wish to arrange their program of studies for the next semester may do so at the office of Dean Konop.
Ten
The Scholastic
STUDENTS TAKE PRIDE IN NEW RESIDENCES
New Chapels In Use In Dillon and Alumni Halls.
Students living within the portals of Alumni and Dillon Halls apparently take an unusual aemount of pride in the two buildings. The rooms are furnished in a manner considerably above the average; corridors reveal a startling absence of cigarette “buts”; floors are kept surprisingly clean; ink spots seem to have no place, and much to the pleasure of the two rectors, Reverend Raymond J. Clancy, C.S.C., and Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C. S. C., all residents appear to desire that nothing at all happen which might mar the two halls.
The chapels of the residence buildings are now completed save for a temporary seating arrangement. The cornice work is particularly outstanding in the two sanctums, while the woodwork too receives many commendations.
Landscaping will take place in the early spring; trees, bushes, flower gardens will be planted and sidewalks laid.
“Huns” Celebrate Christmas
The German Club of the University held its Christmas jamborie Wednesday evening, December 17, in Walsh hall. An address by Neil Ebert on Christmas in Germany was one of the highlights of the affair. German songs were sung and all members were presented with Heidelburg steins.
It Was Just a Mistake
Raymond J. Riordan, a student in the College of Law, was erroneously reported as married during the holidays. A similarity of names caused the error which has kept Ray busy explaining locally. The young man who was married was likewise said to be a Notre Dame student, which is not the case.
Faculty Member Married
Professor Walter Carter Langford of the Department of Spanish was married here during the Christmas vacation. Mr. Langford and his bride are now at home at 1101 Woodward Avenue, South Bend.
Campus Opinions
Question: “Do you think that the dining hall is a desirable place to hold the Junior Prom?”
William Blind, Sorin hall, senior: I think that it would be a very desirable place to hold the Junior Prom o rany school function of that nature. The usual complaint of too small a dancing area would be eliminated, and it would give the University an excellent opportunity to utilize a facility up to this time unrealized.”
J. William Gosselin, Howard hall, junior: “I don’t like the idea of holding the Prom in one of the dining halls. It has been customary to hold the class dances in town, so why not continue? It is one of the big affairs of the year, and since all other school functions are held on the campus, it is a change to be allowed the dances in town.”
Don Sullivan, Corby hall, senior: “I think it is a fine idea. One wing of the building could be quickly cleared because only about two-thirds of the hall would be required for the dance and tables could be piled up in the other third and hidden by screens. The faculty dining hall and board rooms could be used for lounges. The dining hall is also well equipped to serve refreshments.”
Granger Weil, Alumni hall, junior: “I believe that using the dining hall for the Prom brings the dance closer to the campus and might in time become one of the most valued traditions of the junior class and the school.”
George Beaudin, Alumni hall, junior : "If the dining hall could be properly decorated I see no reason why the Prom could not be held there. A suitable lounge, of course, would also have to be provided. I believe the dance would be enhanced by this touch of campus atmosphere.”
Registrations Increasing
More applications for admission to the University next September have been sent to the office of Registrar Robert B. Riordan up to the present than had been received at this time last year.
PHARMACY CLUB MEETS
Hears Interesting Discussions at Semi-annual Banquet.
The first regular semi-annual banquet of the Pharmacy club was held , Saturday, December 12, 1931, at 6:00 p. m. at the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend.
Thomas Oester, graduate student in pharmacy, acted as toastmaster and introduced the two speakers of the evening. Mr. Robert McKenna, district representative of the Eli Lilly company of Indianapolis, gave a short talk on the experimental work done by his company.
The other speaker introduced was Mr. Weinke, of the Van Schank Mutual Wholesale Drug company. He presented an interesting discussion on “Competitive Merchandising and its Relation to Pharmacy,” in which he talked of the struggle between the small independent druggist and the large chain companies. Consequently the smaller stores dealing only in drugs and associated articles are slowly eliminated. In this relation he regarded what the young druggist of today has to look forward to.
The next meeting of the club will be held next Tuesday, January 12, at 7:45 in Chemistry hall.
STUDENTS RETURN TO N.D.
(Continued from Page 7)
prieve, seems even harder this year than ever before. “Tapering on” is apparently an order of the day. Pictures replace dances, bridge games sub for parties, and classes are used to make up shrunken hours of sleep. Soon, however, books will be cracked, reviewing begun; a week or so before examinations things will be back to normal, and Christmas vacation only a pleasant memory.
LECTURES ON LOURDES
(Continued from Page 6)
see with blind eyes after a trip to the grotto.
A review of some specific cases closed one of the finest lectures given in Washington hall for some time. Dr. Sherry’s services were obtained by the Reverend William Molony, C.S.C., in charge of University entertainment.	—
4
January 8, 1932
Eleven
ALBERT PASSES AWAY
Campus Figure Dies During Christmas Holidays.
They buried Albert the morning of the fourth of January. The President sang his requiem mass. Many of the priests were in the stalls. The Sisters who had been so good to him were there. Johnny Magnan and Jim McCaffery and others of the now thinning ranks of Notre Dame’s faithful workmen carried his frail little body into the Sacred Heart Church and then to Cedar ..Grove cemetery. Thus quietly he went as the students unheeding and unknowing rushed to the first classes.
Albert was a familiar figure to many generations of Notre Dame men. He worked in many capacities, but these later years, because of his infirmities, he was chiefly occupied in keeping the main quadrangle tidy. He raked up the leaves, trimmed the walks and in his spare time with a nail on the end of a stick he speared the stray bits of paper and put them in an old sack hung from his shoulder.
Albert was blind of one eye and lame. The blindness came long ago as a result of the splashing of hot lye; the lameness came from the kick of a mule which resented Albert’s coming into his stall.
Of course, there were many legends about Albert, where he came from, how many years he was at Notre Dame, what his other name. When he was taken to the hospital and the Sisters asked him his last name he answered in characteristic fashion, “How do I know?” He was just Albert to all of us and that is enough.
It was his wheelbarrow that gave Albert the most concern. It had a way of disappearing that sent him on mang a long hunt. It was handy for one wishing to transport a trunk from St. Edward’s to Lyons Hall. Then Albert would pick up his cane and hobble off in search of it. His mutterings aroused sympathy and sometimes help. It was thus originated his strongest expression of indignation, “Son-of-a-bicycle.”
Once Albert rated a cartoon in the Dome. Pictured in front of Walsh hall with stick and bag and papers lying all around him he was being asked, “What’s the news, Albert?” To which he replied, “Don’t know. I haven’t (Continued on Page 22)
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the Notre Dame Scholastic staff this evening at 7:00 o’clock in Room 222 of the Main Building. Attendance is compulsory for all staff members and candidates.
The regular editorial board meeting will be held as usual at 6:30 in the Publications office.
EDUCATIONALISTS HEAR FATHER NIEUWLAND EXPLAIN DUPRENE
Reverend J. Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C., inventor of the synthetic rubber, Duprene, was the speaker at a recent meeting of the Educational Confraternity. He explained how Du-
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.
He explains his Duprene.
prene was made and how he discovered it.
Duprene, he said, will not replace rubber but merely takes its place when rubber proves not satisfactory. Duprene is superior in quality but more expensive than rubber.
In explaining his relations with the DuPont company, Father Nieuwland stated that the amount which he is to receive for the patents has not as yet been definitely determined.
As a conclusion to the lecture, samples of the new product, Duprene, were shown and compared with ordinary rubber, Father Nieuwland explaining how it could be commercialized.
Professor M. L. Pettit of the sociology department, and members of the probation department of the South Bend courts will be speakers at the next meeting of the Educational Confraternity to be held January 19.
MANY PARTICIPATE IN MILITARY ACTIVITIES
Registrar Riordan Receives Reserve Commission.
Notre Dame, unlike many American colleges and universities, does not have compulsory military training as a part of its curriculum. Many students and professors here, however, have decided to be prepared to take part in their country’s defense, if necessary, at any time in the future.
Registrar Robert B. Riordan has received notification of his promotion as captain in the Nataional Field Artillery Reserve.
Professor J. L. Apodaca of the department of Economics will appear before the local Board of Military Examiners this evening. Mr. Apodaca is slated for a commission in the Military Intelligence Reserve.
Clarence Kaplan and John C. Boyle, students at the University, have enlisted in the Infantry Reserve Corps to complete work required for commissions in this branch of the service.
Robert Streb, another student enrolled at Notre Dame, recently received his commission as a Second Lieutenant in the Field Artillery Reserve Corps.
A number of other students are likewise attending the local troops’ school preparing for commissions in the various branches of the reserve corps.
Engineers* Formal Postponed
The Engineer’s Formal, previously scheduled for January 15, will be postponed until after Easter, it was announced Monday by Raymond L. Pfeiffer, president. The change in date was necessitated by a conflict with the Sophomore Cotillion at St. Mary’s.
The new date has not yet been selected but will be made known within the next few weeks. The chairmen, as announced before the Christmas holidays, will remain the same: Joseph Toussaint will be general chairman; N. Altman will be in charge of decorations; F. Murray, tickets; G. Franzwa, publicity; F. Frank, arrangements; G. Hodges, patrons; and John Bleeg and Joe Nugent, programs.
Twelve
The Scholastic
MUSIC AND DRAMA
SENIORS ENTERTAIN AT SCIENCE MEETING
By John E. Ryan
THE NEW YEAR begins with fair signs of some possibilities in the way of music and drama. Though the season thus far has given us little in the way of art in the theatre, still a note of accomplishment has been struck in the revival of some old plays, in the return of several veterans to the theatre, and in growing interest in the theatre, especially among college people.
V
DESPITE the financial losses suffered last summer at Ravinia and elsewhere, thousands of people throughout the country responded to the call, and since any display of interest is a welcome sign in America, music-lovers need not be altogether pessimistic. The benefactors of art, likewise, must find some consolation in the thought that each year sees more and more people in attendance at musical functions.
Perhaps the most obvious reason for this belief that art is about to take a prominent place in American life, is the distinguished character of our radio programs of the past few months, as contrasted with those of previous years. In the library, Mr. Byrne has posted a list of select broadcasts, including symphonies, operas, travel-talks, and lectures, many of them trans-Atlantic programs to be re-broadcasted over nation-wide networks.
, . V
THE CYNIC might make a considerable stir with the comment that “Grand Hotel,” the play of the year, was done by Vicki Baum, who may never have seen America. But then,
A large “Grid-graph” was installed in the Columbia University gym for a play-by-play description of the Columbia-Cornell game. A system of lights indicated all plays as they took place at the game at Ithaca, N. Y. Football spirit was brought out by cheer leaders and a section of the band, which played in the gym during the half.
he, too, would be embarrassed, as he would be forced to admit that Leon-tovich, whose acting has well nigh overshadowed the work of Frau Baum, is a native of Chicago, whose first recognition was gained in that city.
HE CAMPUS ITSELF has something to boast of in the fact that
during the- year 1931 three plays were produced, mainly through the skilful direction of Professor Frank Kelly, and the sacrificing labor of a considerable number of students. When a director must train almost a complete new cast for each play, he has a difficult piece of work before him, and that has been the case with the University Theatre. Equally tedious is the part of a student whose time is fairly well occupied with things scholastic, who may never before have played in a Shakespearean performance. With the consideration of these things in mind, one can scarcely deny that the University Theatre has had a fine year, particularly since one of the plays produced was written by a student, Richard Sullivan, the author of “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop.” ,
V
IN RECOUNTING the achievements of the past year on the campus, one must not forget that the Band has contributed immensely to the interest of football fans who saw Joe Casa-santa’s boys march at all the home games. The “Jugglers” have been selected as one of the college orchestras to go abroad this summer, and the Glee club was successful in winning the state prize for such organizations when they sang in Indianapolis during the month of December.
A disarmament petition prepared by students at Barnard college has been signed by approximately seven hundred students. It is to be sent to the American delegation to the International Conference on Disarmament. After a compulsory assembly at which ' disarmament was discussed, six hundred signatures were obtained, and the number is steadily growing.
Bacteriology and Pharmacy Are Subjects of Papers Read.
The Academy of Science of Notre Dame held its regular meeting last Monday evening at 8 p. m. in Science hall. Papers were presented by Henry B. Asman and Casimir Vaikasa, both seniors in the College of Science.
Henry B. Asman
He tells about 19th century medicine.
A historical sketch of medicine in the first half of the nineteenth century was the subject of Asman’s paper, while Vaikasas discussed “Bacteriology and the Pharmacist.” Both papers were well received.
Plans were discussed for the beginning of a question box in connection with the meetings—a feature of the Academy’s activities several years ago. Questions will be answered by the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator of the Academy and dean of the College of Science.
It was announced at the conclusion of the meeting that Dr. Quinlan, prominent South Bend dentist, will be the speaker at the next meeting of the Academy on January 18. Dr. Quinlan addressed the organization several years ago and was one of the most popular men ever heard on the campus.
That South Carolina is being recognized, not only for her athletic prowess, her musical talent, and her scholarship, but also her initiative and practicability is a fact shown by an article which recently appeared in Retailing, publication of Women’s Wear company, New York.
January 8, 1932
Thirteen
DEPRESSION AFFECTS CHRISTMAS PARTIES
Many City and Section Clubs Fail To Make Expenses.
By John E. Conley
Now that the most important function of each campus club has been performed, that is the annual Christmas dance, once more they may return to their normal state of oblivion. All along the Atlantic seaboard and as far west as Minneapolis there were dances sponsored by student organizations claiming existence on the Notre Dame campus.
Music by the best orchestras, unique honors, clever programs, staid males garbed in ensembles of black and white, and charming feminines dressed in Parisian gowns all combined to make the affairs social successes, but old man depression could not be staved off long enough to ensure the financial success of the functions.
Almost every club fell far behind its desired quota, and many did not fare half as well as in previous years of prosperity.
The Chicago Club was one of the heaviest sufferers, taking a reported loss of two hundred dollars.
The problems facing the officers and the previously all-important committee members is where and in what manner the deficiencies are to be made up. Naturally charity begins at home, but the usual solution of having the club members dig down and pay up is hardly in keeping with the times.
One club went so far as to run two dances on two successive nights. This idea might be carried out by those clubs who plan to have Easter dances.
If in spite of these precautions the affairs continue to be money losers, it has been advocated that all such social activities be abandoned both for the good of the club, the school and the locality in which they are staged.
In 33 attempts at carrying the ball so far this year, Bernie Leahy has gained 222 yards. That makes his average gain per try 6.73 yards.
• Five-cent bills were once used in the United States.
The dome of the Washington Capitol is made of cast iron.
A Man About the Campus »» Joe McCabe
By Steve Hawxhurst
It is not at all an uncommon thing for one to enter Sorin and find a group of traditionally dignified seniors holding their sides as they laugh with no little abandon. Where there is an effect there must be a cause,
Joseph McCabe
“. . . Beware, frosh, of the power of the press.”
and the cause of such a situation is often a certain Joe McCabe.
To look at Joe, one would never be led to suspect his surpassing abilities as a teller of tales, of humorous tales. He is undeniably short, has a serious Irish face (if you can imagine such a thing), and in some manner looks as if he was not wearing professorial glasses for the simple reason that he had forgotten them. He sits, or more often, lies on anything soft, and in his twangy Yankee accent tells stories that make others shriek while he merely grins sheepishly.
It is this quality of being able to tell a story well that first gave Joe his chance at entering the cast of the University Theatre, which might be termed a doubtful blessing. You all saw Joe in that stirring melodrama, “Gold in the Hills,” and can
Debate Tour Progresses
Special to the Scholastic by N.S.F.A. Service.
From the Australian press several thousand miles out across the Pacific, come reports on the Pacific basin debate tour conducted by students from the University of Oregon. These students are conducting this venture in an attempt to promote good-will between Australians and Americans.
readily appreciate what a pleasure it must be to live near or even know a man of such genius.
As does Rog Beirne, another star of the local opera house, Joe plays “B” team football. Although he was cut from the freshman squad in his initial year, Joe thought enough of himself to come for the varsity the next fall, and found a niche as quarterback on that other team you see going places from in front of the post-office.
Then some one found out that Joe could write stories as well as he told them, and he began to contribute to our dignified and widely-credited literary publication, Scrip. Joe did some fine work for this publication, and was rewarded with the position of editor this year. He has worked exceedingly hard and was ■ successful in bringing out a fine magazine shortly before Christmas.
The other Irishman in 201 Sorin is a chap with very red hair and the name of Frank Reilly. Joe says that Frank’s only claim to fame is that he has roomed most of four years with the great McCabe. To which Red merely replies that the “great McCabe” is not so great. If anyone ought to know the extent of your greatness, it’s a roomie of four years standing. Both, by the way, are members of that dread vigilance committee, the Blue Circle.
One would think that the theatre, football, Scrip and the South Bend Inn would interfere with Joe’s rating scholastically, but it is a fine sign for those who advocate the pursuance of many extra-curricular activities that, in spite of his work he has maintained a ninety-two average for the last three years. There is every likelihood of a “magne cum laude" being engraved on that sheepskin certificate Joe will get next June.
The three debaters, Robert Miller, Roger Pfaff and David Wilson, are winning “convincing victories” by “overwhelming majorities,” and “flooring Australian representatives by popping questions like machine guns,” say two Sydney newspapers, the account in one having been written by Frank Russell, world noted journalist Frank Russell, world noted journalist.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
1900!—Gym Burns to Ashes As Fire-eaters Are Powerless
N. D. MEN TOUR EUROPE
Undergraduates Will Conduct Eucharistic Travel Agency.
. By Roy Scholz
“Fire, Fire”—excited cries of students . . . trampling of feet . . . smoke pouring across the campus. Students dismissed from the three
(Scholastic Photo)
“The Gym’s On Fire”
o’clock class, rush to the scene. The Gym on fire!
The flames spread, giving off great volumes of smoke. The University fire department arrived; it was a new fire department with new equipment, and soon four steady streams of water were being poured upon the burning building. The fire steadily gained headway and before long it became evident that more help would be needed. A first alarm was sent to South Bend, and in fifteen minutes an engine from the city arrived. A second, and then a third alarm followed, but the fire had too great a start.
The Gym was doomed. Gradually the roof caved in, and its walls crumbled. As night came on it stood cut against the sky, a silhouette, a charred, darkened skeleton.
All this took place on Friday afternoon; Nov. 9,-1900, but two years after the structure was built. In some unknown way the fire had started in the basketball practice court. Soon it spread to every part of the building and continued until the great Gym with its thirteen lap track and forty-yard straight away was but a twisted mass of steel. Trophies of the years before were de-strnved, leaving only memories of the athletic contests in which Notre Dame was the victor. Its wreckage left a championship track team with
out a place to practice, and the students without means for physical exercise.
With the needs of the student body foremost in mind, even before the ruins had stopped smouldering, the
Reverend President Morrissey had called a meeting, and immediately the building of a new and greater gymnasium was discussed.
Several meetings followed, and by the next Thursday, workmen were on hand to clean away the old debris; contracts had already been let for the new gym.
The work progressed rapidly and soon the new building began to take shape. The new gym is fireproof in construction. Throughout iron and brick replaced the old wood and plaster walls and roof. The track room is fifty-three feet longer with a much greater seating capacity than before. The Scholastic at the date of the dedication quoted “hot and cold water may be obtained in the new showers at the simple turn of the handle.”
So rapidly did the work progress that less than three months from the tragic - burning, the new gym was dedicated.
On February 8, 1901, the new building was inaugurated with an interhall track meet.
Since the dedication many a starting pistol has set the winged-foot men of Notre Dame off on the way to new records, and many new trophies have been won there L to show the prowess of Notre Dame men. And in a few years, perhaps, this fine old building will be but a memory.
Four Notre Dame students will this summer conduct a tour of American undergraduates to the Eucharistic congress and for an extended stay in Europe.
Announcement of the plans was made last night by John E. Ryan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, who is general manager of the trip.
Thomas Cook and Sons, working in collaboration with the Clara Laughlin Travel Services, will handle the arrangements for the tour. The Cunard steamship line has been selected to transport the students across the water.
Films of Rockne Presented to Notre Dame by Fox Corp.
Two complete reels of film, covering the activities of Knute Rockne from the time 'of the Army game in 1923 until the time of his death, were presented to the University recently by Jack Darrock, the Mid-West manager of the Fox Film corporation.
These reels are a collection of all the shots which were taken of the coach for a period of nearly eight years and they contain everything of any importance in Knute Rockne’s life until last spring.
A duplicate copy of these reels was presented to Mrs. Rockne as a living memorial to her husband.
A private showing of the film was given during the holidays for the members of the A. A. staff.
Paramount news reels of the last season’s Navy and Penn games were also recently acquired by the University through F. A. Felbinger, the Chicago manager of the Paramount news service.
New Jersey Club Meeting
There will be a meeting of the New Jersey Club Monday evening at 7:45, in Walsh hall basement. The report on the Christmas dance will be read and plans will be made for entertainment and social activities for the coming months. President S. A. Bon-tempo urges all members to attend because of the important business to be discussed. ■
January 8, 1932
Fifteen
»
HEATING PLANT FINISHED
Father O’Donnell Fires Boiler In Opening Ceremony.
BOOK REVIEWS
By John Pick
One of the four boilers in the new modem $250,000 heating plant at Notre Dame was fired December 24 by Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, in an opening ceremony.
Prominent Notre Dame priests and engineers in charge of the newest University project stood near. Reverend James Bums, C.S.C., provincial; Reverend Thomas Irving, C.S.C., assistant superior general; Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., former president of the University; Reverend Edward Finnegan, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart church on the campus; Reverend Dominic O’Malley, C.S.C., superior of the Community house; L. B. Tilson, of Detroit, architect and superintendent, and C. C. Wilcox, of South Bend, were among those watching the ceremony.
On January 1 all four boilers were used but the plant will not be completely finished until February 1, the engineers said.
All of the University buildings can be heated under ordinary circumstances by two of the boilers and in extreme weather three must be pressed into service, leaving one for emergency. Each boiler produces on the average 135 pounds of steam pressure, which, however, can easily be raised to 200 pounds. Each boiler has a capacity of 400 horsepower. All four have the capacity to bum 150 tons of coal a day, although the average daily consumption of coal at Notre Dame is 75 tons.
Thomas Hickey of South Bend, was general contractor of the plant. Albert Kahn of Detroit, was the architect and engineer.
Konop Represents N. D.
Dean Thomas F. Konop, and Professors Rollison and Richter, of the Notre Dame College of Law, represented the University at the annual meeting of the-Association of American Law Schools held in Chicago on December 28, 29, and 30, held at the Drake hotel.
Dean Konop served as a member of the auditing committee at the meeting. The convention takes place once a year and various reports are made and discussions of legal topics are held.
THE LITERARY harvest in America comes later than that of the grain. Publishers hold back their cornucopiae of new books to let forth a flood for a holiday c rop. This year’s was greater than ever.
To start with that which will please the most—novels: Bess Stricter Aid-rich wrote a rather simple story last year, A Lantern in Her Hand, and it was a best seller in no time; she has used the same character, Abbie Deal, in her new book, A White Bird Flying, which has the same beauty and sincerity of the earlier novel. (Appleton, each $2.00.)
❖
Women are writing a number of novels. Margaret Ayer Barnes took the Pulitzer prize with Years of Grace. (Houghton, $2.50.) And then there is Miss Cather’s Shadows on the Rock, (Knopf, $2.50), which Fanny Butcher in the Chicago Tribune nominates for the Pulitzer award this year. Another woman produced a best seller in Divarf’s Blood, (Viking, $2.50); she is Edith Oliver. Susan Spray is S heila Kaye-Smith’s latest offering. (Harper’s, $2.50.)
*
NOT TO NEGLECT the gentlemen: we have August by Knut Hamsun. The Road Back, (Little, $2.50), by Eric Maria Remarque, a fitting sequel to the famous All Quiet on the Western Front. Roarck Braford, one of whose books was the basis for “Green Pastures,” has a novel about John Henry, and John Henry was a real super superman. John Galsworthy’s Maid in Waiting will take care of any Galsworthy addicts.
O. E. Rolvaag’s last book, Their Father’s God, written shortly before his death this fall, the third of a trilogy dealing with the settling of the northern states. Giants in the Earth, the first book, told in the life of Per Hansa of the coming of the Norwegians to Minnesota and the Dakotas, their struggles and triumphs in colonizing. Peder Victorious, the second, takes up the epic with Per Hansa’s son, Peder, and his romance with Susie Doheny.
’T’HIS third story, a unit complete A in itself, goes on to portray the vital problems of readjustment which face the second generation. It is a poignantly written account of the young married life of Peder and Susie, their difficulties in adaptation and helplessness in crises.
If the story of Peder’s winning Susie should be called Peder Victorious, then Their Father’s God is “Peder Defeated.”
Too, the story deals, though not primarily, with the continued growth of the West, its development into communities of size and wealth and importance.
The story is surely as great as Peder Victorious or Pure Gold; some critics think it tops Giants 'in the Earth. We think that this last book is at least up to the standard of anything that Rolvaag has written and may come to be classed with his best. One reads with a very definite feeling of regret that there can be no more of its kind.
❖
Mystery and murder stories are too numerous to mention; you will find hundreds in any book store. A word to the wise, though: Mrs. Belloc Lowndes has been called the mystery writer superb by a whole fistful of critics in the last year or so.
♦
Agnes Repplier has a new book of essays, Times and Tendencies. The Gold of Neivman is a selection of the cardinal’s works by J. J. Reilly.
Remember D. B. Wyndam Lewis’ brilliant studies of Francois Villon and King Spider? He has written the life of Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire, calling it Charles of Europe, (Coward McCann, $5.00).
Poetry lovers should be easy to satisfy. New anthologies come as surely as death and taxes. Louis Un-tenneyer’s latest is American Poetry from the Beginnings to Whitman. There are three good anthologies of Catholic poetry — Shane Leslie’s, Thomas Walsh’s, and Theodore Maynard’s.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
News From The Collegiate World
N. D. GRAD IS RUNNING FOR CLEVELAND MAYOR
Scholarships For Flying
Written specially for the Scholastc.
With flying and ground school scholarships totalling $7,245 in cash value, a nation-wide competition among college students for the Third Annual W. E. Boeing Aviation Scholarships offered at the Boeing School of Aeronautics, Oakland, Calif., was opened today.
The first prize award will be the full Boeing Master Pilot ground and flying scholarship covering 204 hours of flying and 924 hours of ground school instruction at the school. This course requires nine months for completion and its tuition value is $5,275. Second, third and fourth award winners are offered a choice of the Boeing Master Mechanic course, the Boeing Master Pilot ground course or the Boeing Private Pilot ground and flying course.
It was announced that any undergraduate student who will have completed one year of study in college by July 15, 1932, and who ranks scholastically in the upper one-third of his class, is eligible to compete for the Boeing scholarships. Members of the 1932 graduating class are also eligible.	'
Change In Education Is Hope
By N. S. F. A. Service.
Professor John Dewey in the second address of the “Men of America” series sponsored by the National Advisory Council on Radio Education, said that “unless education undergoes great transformations and prepares future citizens to deal effectively with present-day and anticipated problems, our civilization may collapse.” He warned that: “The schools must meet new forces which may wreck us unless they are intelligently regulated. How can education stand still when society itself is changing under our very eyes?”
“Buy a doughnut” was the cry heard at the University of Oregon recently when the Y. W. C. A. sponsored the “Oregon Doughnut Day” to raise money. In all, 570 dozen doughnuts were sold on the campus.
A Faculty-Student Conference
By N. S. F. A. Service.
“What’s wrong with the faculty?” and, “What’s wrong with the students?” will be the topics of general discussion at a faculty-student conference arranged by representatives of Oregon State College, Reed College and the University of Oregon.
Delegates to the conference, who will meet at a hotel atop Mt. Hood, will consider the relationship between faculty and students, and will criticize present lecture and classroom programs.
No More Lipstick
By N. S. F. A. Service.
“No lipstick Saturday,” is the warning issued by the sophomores of Tulane University. Freshmen will be forbidden to appear with the slightest trace of lip rouge. A committee of sophomores will be on guard ready to go into action when necessary. Refractory freshmen will have their faces branded with lipstick and be’ compelled to sit through the afternoon’s football, game with their war paint in prominent view.
Diplomas vs. Dogs
By N. S. F. A. Service.
“College students might as well be given hot dogs as diplomas when they graduate from college, for at least they could eat the hot dogs, but they can do nothing with the diplomas.” The foregoing statement was given by Dr. W. C. Krueger, instructor in psychology at Detroit College. Dr. Krueger also deplored the present system of required credits, and derided the idea of mathematics and the classics as ideal subjects for improving the mind.
“Unless a scholar can search and tell the world what he discovers, it would be well that the University perish from the earth,” was the statement made by Professor Miller, who was removed from the Sociology Department of Ohio State University - last winter because he attacked military drill and upheld several liberal causes.
Ray Miller, *14, Has Hat in Ring; Studied Law Here.
Ray T. Miller, ’14, is the Democratic candidate for mayor of Cleveland in the forthcoming January primary elections, preceding a special election in February, according to James Armstrong, alumni secretary.
Miller is second of the five Miller brothers, famous in football and legal activities at Notre Dame. He is at present prosecutor in Cleveland and a highly respected member of the Cleveland bar.
While at Notre Dame, Ray played football, at halfback and end, but never reached the heights of fame enjoyed by his famous brothers. After graduation he enlisted in the army, serving in Mexico and later in France, as a captain of machine gunners.
He fought at Argonne forest and at St. Mihiel. Just prior to the great war he prospected for gold, gave it up, and prepared for the bar exam, when the great war interrupted his activities.
Ray was elected to the office of prosecutor with the expectation that he would produce action, and his record has not been a disappointing one. His first move was to clear his office of politics and to enlist the aid of capable men. His activities have included besides the determined war against crime, a fearless campaign against political corruption in Cleveland.
BROWNSON WINS TITLE
(Continued from Page 8)
man tied for third place, each losing five debates.
.An all interhall debating team, selected by the . judges of the various debates will be announced at the interhall debating banquet to be held next week. At the same time President Neil C. Hurley will award the Lemmer Trophy for Interhall Debating to the members of Brownson hall.
January 8, 19J2
Seventeen
The Bowery Scene From “Gold In The Hills”
Joe McCabe, Jim Carmody, Roger Bierne, et al, in a touching moment of the University production, dining which the uptown swells in front get the thrills and shocks of their lives. But ’twas all in fun and the ladies and gentlemen of the cast crashed through with a tremendous success.
NOTRE DAME “LAWYER” GOES TO PRESS; WILL APPEAR SHORTLY
Material for the January issue of the Notre Dame Laivyer, quarterly publication of the College of Law, is now in the hands of the printer. The magazine will make its appearance on the campus in the latter part of this month.
The January number is the second issue of the publication for the current year, the first one having been released in November. The members of the editorial and managerial staffs have worked hard to make the number as successful as the preceding issue.
Articles by professors of the Notre Dame Lavr school as well as professors of other schools, and South Bend lawyers will appear in the paper. The publication also contains valuable notes by students of the college as well as comments and book reviews. Edward C. Massa is editor of the magazine.
In Arabia only Mohammedans are allowed to drive automobiles.
Doubts that many have been entertaining as to the- advisability of the University Theatre participating in the revival of the melodramatic thrillers of the nineties were shattered with the presentation of “Gold in the Hills, or the Dead Sister’s Secret” in Washington hall before the holidays.
It was a natural. Had there been a box office, its records would have fallen.
Miss Theresa Chisholm, dramatic instructor at St. Mary’s, took the part of the persecuted heroine with a remarkable stage finesse. William Walsh, a junior in Arts and Letters, led the student cast in the audience response with his portrayal of the sleek and moustached Richard Mur-gatroyd, who didn’t do right by Little Nell or any of the family, willingly.
John Leddy was close to a draw with Walsh in that characterization of that honest son of the soil, Jack Dalton, always there in peril or in storm.
To go beyond these natural leads is to get into a maze that can be blanketed with one description — excellent.
REHEARSALS BEGIN FOR CONCERT ORCHESTRA; TO APPEAR JAN. 21
Organization of the Notre Dame concert orchestra has been taking place during the past week under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa. Members of the University band will play in the orchestra.
Last year the orchestra had a membership of 60. As yet the personnel of the new orchestra has not been decided upon. Members on the reserve list of the band are eligible to try out for parts. They are asked to report to the music hall on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons at 4:15 o’clock.
The concert orchestra will make its first appearance on the evening of January 21, in Washington hall under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel.
Notre Dame’s aerial record for the seven games already played show^that 16 passes have been completed out of / 65 attempts. The successful throws x have netted 306 yards.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
EDITOR*/ PAGE
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
The Scholastic is just a trifle proud. Little 1932, theoretically garbed in typical Ghandi manner, has rolled back another year upon her heritage that extends to the year 1865.
Terms of peace ending the Civil War had just been arranged; General Grant and his forces had received the sword of Confederate Leader Lee reuniting the states of the Union when The Scholastic unpretentiously rolled its first copy off the press.
Vastly different than the present publication, the first issue 67 years ago was nevertheless an unforgettable epoch in the history of Notre Dame.
The Scholastic of 1932, proud of its grizzled old age or more than six decades, is sobered by her moss-covered legacy. Those years have not always been ones of glorious adventures on the high seas of collegiate journalism. They have been often marked, by untiring labor of editors and writers of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries whose visions have chartered a rough sea, but a worthy one.
The Scholastic may now look about and survey her Notre Dame of which she is proud of her part in building. She visions, too, her platforms for the future.
She will determinedly wage her battle to rid the campus of that great Notre Dame hoax, the Vigiance committee of the Blue Circle.
She will drive for an increasingly active S. A. C.; for a determined support of Scrip by the undergraduates; for the abolition of certain useless city and state clubs, and for the complete support of the several good plans outlined by the President’s Council.
Harking back into the yellowed pages of her historic volumes, present editors, sobered by the influence that they have attained, enter into the New Year with a full program of activities that is unparalleled in undergraduate life.
BASKETBALL BOOS
The far-famed spirit of Notre Dame, long one of the prized legacies of local undergraduate bodies, seems at the present time to be tending toward a degradation that should not be countenanced.
When the Notre Dame gymnasium resounds to a deep guttural booing, unleashed for the appeasing of the second guessers in the stands, it is time for some restraining action to be considered. Student leaders, conscious of the reflection cast on the ideal Notre Dame sportsmanship by this conduct, have asked that steps be taken to remedy the practice.
A recognition of the evil, a request for its elimination should be enough. Booing an official at any athletic contest is intrinsically an unsportsmanlike action. Notre Dame in the past has always accepted that.
A survey of the stands at recent games reveals, however, that largely groups of lower classmen, principally freshmen, are responsible for this new verbal assault that greets many of the officials’ decisions. This belies the moss-covered maxim that Notre Dame has always stood for the highest principles of courtesy and sportsmanship towards her opponents and the men whose work it is to officiate at athletics contests.
Booing an official falls far short of that standard of fair play and as it falls, drags with it the reputation of Notre Dame as a courteous host, a graceful winner, and a good loser. It must not go on.
PROM PROBLEMS
With the announcement this week that the Palais Royale, site of all Notre Dame class dances, may not be available for the Junior Prom on the evening of February fifth, comes the thought that the best and practically only alternative would be one of the wings of the University dining halls.
In the dilemma which now confronts the various chairmen the most important item seems to be that of space; the dining hall would eliminate this consideration immediately.
The arrangement suggested has other advantages, too. A satisfactory financial agreement could unquestionably be effected; the lay faculty dining room would furnish an excellent lounge; the soda fountain in the cafeteria might easily be put in use.
Should this be successful, all class and club dances might profitably be held in a Notre Dame atmosphere by staging their nocturnal parties in like fashion.	'
1
January 8, 1932	Nineteen
COLLEGE EALAEE
By John Pick
Fish Conscious
Not to be outdone by Eastern centers of learning where. horse-shoeing has been reduced to a science, Stanford university announced a course in fishing. One would expect that the student would gain a thorough grounding in the art of tying flies, in the maintenance of tackle, and in fly casting from the faculty of arts and sciences. Such an apparently logical deduction is wrong, for the prospective anglers are to be taught by the department of physical education. The delicate art of Isaac Walton becomes productive material in the hands of Lionel Strongfort and Earl Liederman. Perhaps next month’s issue of Breezy Stories will carry in the bold type of a full page advertisement, “Become a man in seven days with my new fishing course.”
But if Stanford is to be given the benefit of the doubt, some ulterior motive must be found. Perhaps it is a subtle method of advertising the Golden State. “California” and “fish” are to become synonymous. Again it may be hoped that men trained in this course will sometime prove that even the color-blind fish is not oblivious to the magnificent coloring of the California scenery.
Economical Paris
University of Paris students can live cheaply in the Latin quarter. Expenses for two semesters rarely exceed $250. Tuition is about six dollars a semester.
Again Paris Does It
We do not suppose that there are many failures in the course, “Appreciation of Rare Wines and Other Liquors,” that is being offered at the University of Paris.
Utilitarians
The Dean of Boston university estimates that a college degree is worth $75,000. Several hard-pressed alumni, we are told, are seeking to have theirs cashed in.
At Last .
At last a system for getting perfect notes of all lecture courses! Students at McMaster University, Ontario, have arranged to have a stenographer at all lectures in the guise of a student and record in short-hand the professors’ discourses. Then typed copies are sold to all students desiring them at a cost of approximately fifty cents a week.
“Dear Teacher"—
The students at Kansas state have made their bid for nation-wide publicity. In a recent issue of The Collegian, the student publication, 26 professors were put on the “black list.” The article gave the names of the instructors and the reasons why they were disliked by the majority of students who have been in their classes.
This startling information was obtained by a questionnaire, in which the students classified the instructors in the following groups: black, white, checkered, and grey. Those who made a place for themselves on the black list were described as “unfair,” “cocky,” “irritating,” “dull,” “mean,” or were condemned for not knowing their subject, or for not making it interesting and understandable.
We think this is a very effective measure on the part of the Kansas State students. We are sure that this will immediately help the teaching situation at their college. After receiving such just criticism, and having their faults published in the paper, we are positive that the faculty will immediately become fair, humble, pleasant, interesting, will become acquainted with their subject, and will bring toys to class to amuse their darlings.
But best of all, to get back in the graces of the all-powerful students whose disapproval means everything in the world to the professors, we suggest that these 26 instructors give all the students “A” in the courses they are now taking. We are sure that this will compensate for any irritating habits the instructors may have.
Tiv&nty'
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Cagers Down St. Thomas, 34-19
Keoganites Hit Stride To Win Twice From Northwestern; 32-25 and 22-21
STUDENT BOXERS SEEK 1932 CAMPUS TITLES
Wildcats Defeated In Holiday Series; Indiana and Purdue
Whip Blue and Gold.
The Notre Dame cagers won a rather uneventful game from the St. Thomas (Minn.) quintet by 34-19 on the Notre Dame court last Tuesday night. Coach Keogan started his second team which was decidedly outclassed by the visitors, and then in the second quarter substituted the varsity, which after a slow start began to function increasingly well until by the fourth quarter the contest was a complete rout.
It could have been called Crowe night, so good was the play of the two brothers from that noted Notre Dame basketball family, who together collected one half of the Notre Dame total, ten points for Captain Norb and seven for Leo. Ray De Cook came in for his share of scoring honors also scoring seven points.
The St. Thomas five was small and fast, and although out-fought by the Notre Dame seconds, kept everyone but Leo Crowe well under control and possessed a 13 to 7 lead when, aftei' four minutes of the second quarter had been played, the varsity took the floor.
Captain Crowe immediately went into action scoring twice from the floor, and DeCook added another as the half ended 14-13 in favor of St. Thomas.
The second half was an entirely different story. The Fighting Irish displayed the brand of basketball that enabled them to twice defeat Northwestern during the holidays and had little difficulty in scoring at will. Norb Crowe added three more field goals during this half, while DeCook counted twice from the floor
and once from the foul stripe. DeCook’s first tally, a shot backwards over his shoulder while moving away from the basket, had the spectators dazzled, as well as the St. Thomas
Coach George E. Keogan Welcomes neiv year with win from N. U.
team which immediately called time out.
Baldwin scored twice on two brilliant dribbles under the basket, but Newbold’s only tally was on a technical foul when St. Thomas took their fourth time out in the second half.
St. Thomas displayed unusual ability from the foul circle, but was decidedly outclassed, being held to five points in the second half and to six after the Notre Dame varsity went into the game.
Summary:
Notre Dame (34)	c	f	p
Schumachei-, rf ................1	0	1
Albert, If .....................0	0	0
Krause, c ......................0	0	1
Johnson, rg ....................0	0	0
L. Crowe, 1g ...................3	1	2
Newbold, rf ....................0	1	2
(Continued on Page 25)
Magarrall Handles Training of Local Glove Hopefuls.
Billy Magarrell, winner of the South Bend division of the Tribune Golden Gloves tournament last year, and boxing expert on the Scholastic will be at the gym daily to aid competitors in conditioning for the bouts.
(Continued from Page 5) pound class, 126, 135, 147, 160, 175, and the heavyweight. No weight advantage will be greater than three pounds in any division except the heavyweight.
Admission will be charged all students and townsfolk, but the entrance fee will be nominal. A twenty-five cent charge will be made to students, while ring-seats, which will be put on sale at all down-town stores, will probably be fifty cents.
Special sections, however, will be reserved for all students, so that Notre Dame undergraduates will have points of vantage to witness the battles for University championship honors.
“Butch” Devoult, last year’s heavyweight champion, though unable to defend his crown this year because of physical disability, will aid Jerry Duwan prepare for his bid for the title in the coming tourney.
Carideo in Charity Game
Frank Carideo, ’31, two-time allAmerican quarterback on the teams of ’29 and ’30, is the headline atttrac-tion in a charity game to be played by two all-star elevens on the West Coast this month. Carideo, who- is now back-field coach at Purdue University, will direct a team of ex-college luminaries.
January 8, 1982
Tiuenty-one
Whoa Wildcats!
BASKETBALL RESERVES DROP TWO CLOSE GAMES
Purdue and Indiana ‘B’ Teams Win Early Season Tilts.
Ed Krause
Purdue “B” 23, Notre Dame “B” 18 December 15, 1931
In a fast, rough game the Notre Dame “B” team dropped a close decision to Prudue’s “B” squad, 23-18, Tuesday afternoon, December 15, on the local court.
Purdue, flashing a long-passing, fast-dribbling attack, led, 15-12, at the half and then withstood a rally by Notre Dame which threatened to overcome a 19-17 lead.
O’Connor and Keating starred for Notre Dame with four points apiece, while Dornte with three baskets and Kirk Garrett with two ringers and three charity tosses led the Boilermakers.
Summary:
Notre Dame “B"	g	f	p
Angsten. f .......................1	1	0
Keating. f........................1	4	0
Schraeder. c .....................1	0	0
Tobin, c..........................0	0	3
O'Connor, g ......................2	0	0
Oelrich. g .......................1	0	2
O'Neil, g.........................0	0	0
Millheam. sr......................1	1	2
Newbold, sr ......................0	0	0
Totals ...........................6	6	8
Pur.nuE “B”	G	f	p
Hertzing. f.......................2	0	0
Disjack. f .......................0	1	1
Dornte. f.........................3	0	3
Fehrinsr. c.......................1	1	1
Garrett, g .......................2	3	0
Harmon, g ........................1	0	1
Huzar. g .........................0	0	2
Totals ...........................  9	5	8
Referee—Burnham (South Bend).
Indiana “B” 20, N. D. Reserves 14
December 12, 1931
Whose twelve points led to second victory over Northwestern.
Aided by a three-goal rally in the closing minutes of play Indiana University’s “B” team defeated the Notre Dame reserves, 20-14, here on December 12.
The game was close and exciting throughout, not more than a point or two separating the teams, until the sudden splurge which netted Indiana three baskets near the end of the game. Indiana held an 11 to 9 lead at the half.
The Dauer brothers starred for the tall Hoosiers with 10 points between them. Angsten and Keating took the (Continued on Page 29)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
With the appoinment of Charles F. Weiss, associate football manager, to take the place of John Fredericks as head of the interhall program, interhall sports are once more in full swing.
Starting this week, 15 teams in lightweight and heavyweight leagues will start practice for the Interhall basketball competition slated to open on Sunday, January 31.
The teams this year will consist of 12 men selected by the coaches, after a thorough trial is given each man. At present there is some slight delay on the selection of coaches, but the choice is expected to be completed by the end of the week.
With the entry of two new teams, Dillon and Alumni halls, in the league, it has been decided to do away with the round robin system which has been in force in the past, whereby each team meets every other team. Under the new system, the leagues have been divided into two groups and the winners of each group will fight it out for the league championship. In this way interest is certain to be maintained until the final game, March 20, while often in the round-robin system the title is decided long before the season ends.
In Group I will be found Lyons, Morrissey, Sophomore, Dillon, St. Edwards, Badin, Corby, and Sorin, while Group II will be composed of Howard, Brownson, Carroll, Alumni, Walsh, Off-Campus, and Freshman.
The games this year will start earlier than did last year’s. The morning games (There being games only on Sunday instead of three times a week) starting at 8:30 while the afternoon frays will commence at 1:30.
Coach Johnny O’Brien and most of his Sorin hall 1931 champions, with the exception of Bernie Leahy and Marchy Schwartz, have departed and this should encourage teams made up of men who were unable to get anywhere last year. St. Edward’s is thinking seriously of annexing its second Interhall title of the year and will present a strong team in each league. Several other hall squads look exceptionally strong and one of the closest races in Interhall history is expected.
The practice schedule for the first two weeks has been prepared by Managers Wirry and Lewis and is printed below. Additional information will be posted in the halls and a-complete schedule for the season will appear in an early issue of the Scholastic.
Interhall Basketball Practice Schedule—1932
Varsity Floor
Apparatus Room
Monday, January 11
Sorin	7	p.	m.	Freshman
Corby	8	p.	m.	Brownson
Walsh	9	p.	m.	Carroll
Wednesday, January 13
Alumni	7 p. m.	Dillon
Badin	8 p. m. Sophomore	
Lyons	9 p. m. St. Edward’s	
Friday, January 15		
Off-Campus	7 p. m.	Sorin
Howard	8 p. m.	Corby
Morrissey	9 p. m.	Walsh
Monday, January 18		
Freshman	7 p. m.	Alumni
Brownson	8 p. m.	Badin
Carroll	9 p. m.	Lyons
Wednesday, January 20
Dillon	7	p.	m.	Off-Campus
Sophomore	8 p. m.	Howard
St. Edward’s	9 p. m.	Morrissey
ALBERT PASSES AWAY
(Continued from Page 11)
seen a paper for a long time.”
Often one might see him taking a little rest, leaning against a tree and looking up at the Dome. It was not an empty gesture we are very sure. That Fair Lady looked with love upon his poor little crippled body and when he said in his last moments, “I must go bye-bye, now,” She was there waiting for him and she took those old gnarled hands in hers and led him, all new and young and supple again, into a wondrous vision.
We are glad he lies under the trees in Cedar Grove for always in the autumn there will be someone to rake the leaves.
CAGE TEAM TO FACE MARQUETTE TUESDAY
Play Michigan State and Penn Out of Town During Week.
With the fresh scalps of Northwestern- and St. Thomas dangling from their belt, the Notre Dame eagers are girding themselves for three important struggles looming on the near horizon.
Marquette, Pennsylvania, and Michigan State are the three foes who will be met within the space of a week.
The boys from Marquette will come with vengeance in their hearts, Tuesday night, keenly remembering the two close decisions, 30-23 and 26-25, that Notre Dame eked out over them last year. The Hilltoppers will place a veteran quintet on the floor, one which has shown far superior form in comparison with last year’s team.
Decisive victories over two formidable Big Ten teams, Wisconsin and Chicago, established Marquette as one of the strongest teams in the Middle West.
The team is built around Budrunas, tall, husky center, who ranks with the best at that position. Gorychka, the only sophomore on the team, has been hitting the hoops with regularity, while Shipley and Ronzani, two veterans, have been functioning in their usual capable fashion.
A capacity crowd is expected when the Ramblers and Hilltoppers clash and a lively evening is in prospect.
Pennsylvania will also be looking for vengeance when the Blue and Gold travel to Philadelphia the end of next week. Last year the boys from Quakerdom came out on the wrong end twice, 31-19, and 21-20. Pennsylvania is something of a dark horse, but any team that is barely nosed out by Pittsburgh must have strength.
Notre Dame will play their second game of the year away from home when they journey up to Lansing tomorrow night to meet Michigan State. The Spartans are enjoying a good season with victories over Ohio, Cornell and Western Reserve, and will be trying hard to keep their home slate clean.
Coach Keogan will probably start the combination of Newbold and DeCook forwards, Krause, center, and Burns at one guard post with Baldwin and Captain Crowe alternating at the other, against these high class opponents.
January 8, 1932
Twenty-three
SCHOLASTIC SWIM MEET DRAWS CLASSY FIELD
INTRODUCING— w-a	BILL NEWBOLD
Pre-holiday Tank Contest Gets Increased Support.
The pre-holiday swimming meet sponsored by the Scholastic met .with even more success than that held last year in the campus tank.
v	The entry list contained swimmers
of more than average ability and proved that there is plenty of interest in the aquatic sport on the campus, thereby giving hope to the possibility of another similar program in the near future. It also brought out that j there is a wealth of material on the campus should N. D. ever have a tank team.
Due to the lack of training and conditioning, the times recorded were not of the sensational variety. Notwithstanding this, many of the en-*	trants showed possibilities,and
should develop into varsity candidates, should a team be organized.
High scoring honors for the evening were divided among four men, each having registered one first .	place. There were no double win-
’ neds, and Charley Nash, with a sec-and and a third to his credit, was the only double scorer.
In the first event, the forty-yard dash, Dan Moore was returned the winner, with Sullivan and Nash fin*	ishing in that order. “Red” McCar-
thy was the next winner, and seemed to have things all his own way in the breaststroke event. The fortyyard backstroke was won by Peter Dorschel, who splashed his way across the finish line with plenty to J	spare over his rivals, Lacey and
O’Shaughnessy.
The decision of the judges in the fancy diving favored Buckley of Walsh hall, who gained a slim point advantage over Nash and Joe Kennedy. This proved to be one of the 5	outstanding events of the evening.
A team consisting of Fagan, Dorschel, Lacey and Burchell were the victors in the 100-yard relay, while in the medley event, the trio of Dor-•	schel, Moore and Farrel showed
themselves superior to the other contenders.
Grateful acknowledgment is due to Father Sigmar, Granger Weil and the officials of the South Bend natator-ium, .whose assistance was a most
William Milton Newbold, known to the trade as just “Bill,” is another product of the Indiana high school basketball world. Just now he is enjoying the distinction of leading the
Bill Newbold
He leads the Notre Dame scorers.
Notre Dame squad in the scoring department.
Fame in this basketball business
vital part in the running off of the meet.
40-YARD FREE STYLE—Won by Moore; second, Sullivan; third. Nash. Time
40-YARD BREAST-STROKE—Won by McCarthy ; second, Murphy; third, Farrel. Time :26.5,
40-YARD BACK-STROKE—Won by Dor-*schel; second. Lacy; third, O’Shaughnessy. Time :26.5.
FANCY DIVIN—Won by Buckley; second, Nash; third, Kennedy.
100-YARD RELAY—Won by Fagan, Dorschel, Lacey and Burchell. Time :37.6.
MEDLEY RELAY—Won by Dorschel, Farrel and Moore. Time :33.7.
is no new thing to Newbold, for last year he was given honorable mention on Les Gage’s All-American basket-balF selection which appear in College Humor. Bill is forward and much of the success of Coach George Keo-gan’s squad during the current season can be directly attributed to the uncanny eye of Mr. Newbold. ,
In his room on the first floor of Sorin hall, the Rushville, Ind., boy labors away at his law books. Since this is Newbold’s first year in law and the fourth in the University it is a mooted question as to whether the cage star will enter this coaching game or carry on in the legal department.
Five brothers has Bill Newbold— one of them was also a basketball player of note with Notre Dame in the two years preceding his graduation in 1929. Then, too, Jim Newbold now is a sophomore and a guard with the “B” basketball team.
Like Norb Crowe, Newbold claims distinction because of his affiliation with the interhall champions in football. He acted as trainer for St. Edward’s hall, campus winners.
In addition to his other activities here and there about the campus, Bill is something of a politician. At one time he was secretary of the Pre Law club and last year was a candidate for the secretary of the present senior class, but Tom Burns beat him to the post.
Newbold waits on table in the faculty dining hall, and it was there in one of his more or less reflective moments that Bill is said to have confided in Norb Crowe, the other basketball playing gentleman, that he had once been chosen as an “all-time all-Rush County, Indiana, forward.”
When queried concerning the statement, Newbold flatly denied the accusation, saying that it was Crowe who was an all-time “something-or-other.”
During the summer months the forward keeps in trim by means of his job as a life guard at Cedar Point on Lake Erie, at Sandusky, Ohio. He also likes track as an activity which tends to keep the athlete in shape for his particular sport.
In addition to reading history in carload lots, Newbold is a devoted reader of O. Henry’s short stories.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
HOFFMANN STARS IN COAST CHARITY GAME
By James S. Kearns
MR. GALLICO’S TONG WAR
Trailing along in our usual style, several jumps behind the newest of sports chatter, we came across a most interesting little tempest that seems to have blown itself out sometime late in the fall. It appears that the w. k. Mr. Paul Gallico gave vent to a few remarks in his daily “Handle With Tongs” column. The remarks apparently were of the same sort that is not uncomomn among certain of our self-styled football purists. Since they were made in re: Notre Dame’s football system, success, and specifically, the 49-0 trimming handed Penn last fall, we found the counter attack of the volunteer defenders quite interesting. Says Mr. Gallico in a later column:
“The best letter, a corking piece of writing and reasoning, came from Franklyn E. Doan, Notre Dame, ’29. . . . Here are some quotes . . . ‘For the past twenty years this country has gone haywire over systems . . . They all worked for a while, but all these swell systems—the Federal reserve, the tariff system, etc., took a peach of a licking. The only system that seems not to have been attacked by depression is Rock’s.
‘It looks like sour muscats to me. You seem to be all goose pimples because Knute Rockne knew so much more about what he was doing than anyone else in the same profession’.” •
The contributor, a former Scholastic sports editor, went on with more persuasive handling of the situation attending Notre Dame’s successes: the Alumni-by-adoption, the speakeasy cheering section, the regular hangers-on at the winner’s camp. All in all it was certainly “a corking piece of writing and reasoning.”
There isn’t anything we could or would add, but we’d like to raise our whispering tenor as a rather distant echo to Franklyn Doan’s stentorian roar in defense of Notre Dame football and football system.
V
FOR OUR BOXING BOYS
Elsewhere in these columns is a message to the No. 1 Fighting Irish from the more authoritative type
writer of Billy Magarrall. The Scholastic boxing tournament (proceeds to the Bengal Missions) is at this writing in the first stages of organization. With its announcement in this issue of the Scholastic, plans will go ahead rapidly for its staging. Those in charge promise one of the outstanding attractions of the indoor sport season.
A certain very large share of the success of the venture rests with those men who will compete in the tourney. “Now is the time” is a pretty threadbare sort of bromide to pass out in the line of advice, but if anyone should really be wondering about it, why, now is the time to get in shape for the boxing-meet.
Stamina is an invaluable asset to anyone hoping to go far in an event of this kind, and it can not be acquire over night. So if the gladiators don’t mind a bit of editorial prodding, we’d like to urge the entire group to start training immediately.
V
A BLOW FROM BILL BOELTER
Among the all-this and all-that teams that have poured in on us this last month, the following selection came from Bill Boelter, assistant football coach at Drake university. Boelter is the chief Drake scout and during the course of the season saw 16 major contests.
His all-Star team represents his choice of the best men he saw in action after viewing these teams: Simpson, Iowa State, Creighton, Baker, Wyoming, Notre Dame, Northwestern, Drake, Fordham, Boston, Missouri, Colorado, Grinnell, St. Louis, Centre, Washington, Nebraska. Marquette, Washington and Jefferson, and Kansas Aggies.
The first team follows: Ends—Kos-ky (Notre Dame), Cronkite (Kansas Aggies); tackles—Krause (Notre Dame), Marvil (Northwestern); guards — Hoffmann (Notre Dame), Rhea (Nebraska); center — Yarr (Notre Dame); quarterback—Thomas (Grinnell); halfbacks — Schwartz (Notre Dame), Murphy (Fordham);, fullback—Rentner (Northwestern).
Joe Kurth of Notre Dame was paired with Jack Riley of Northwestern at tackle on the second team.
N. D. Luminary Plays Brilliant Game For All-East Team.
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
San Francisco, January 1.—Nordy Hoffman, Notre Dame’s All-American guard, gave ample proof of his right to that honor here this afternoon before an exacting audience of West Coast grid fans at Kezar stadium.
Stationed at left guard for the victorious all-East charges of Andy
Nordy Hoffman
One of the greatest defensive guards of the year.
Kerr and Dick Hanley, Hoffmann was one of the outstanding features in the annual New Year’s Day charity tilt. The blonde bone-crusher from South Bend stood out as one of the greatest defensive guards seen on the coast this year.
Surprising the crowd with his exceptional speed, Hoffmann raced down the field' under Bill Morton’s long punts to down the ball time after time. Defensively, he teamed with Ookie Miller of Purdue and Herman Hickman of Tennessee to form a center barrier that withstood the best onslaughts of the western stars.
Hoffmann, who lives in Seattle, was expected to leave for his home immediately after the game for a brief staq before returning to Notre Dame.
January 8, 1932
Tiuenty-five
Keoganites Win Two Games From Northwestern (Continued from Page 20)
N. Crowe, If.....................5	0	1
DeCook, c .......................3	1	0
Baldwin, rg .....................2	1	1
Burns, Ig........................0	0	1
Voegele, rf .....................1	0	0
St. Thomas (19)	g	f	p
Nonejko, rf .....................2	4	2
Sammon, If ......................2	0	1
Bilski, c .......................1	0	1
Vesovich, rg......................1	1	0
Schuveiller, 1g .................1	0	1
Gilchrist, If.....................0	0	0
Toddie, rf........................0	0	0
Rhody, If.........................0	0	0
Eckrhart, 1g .....................0	0	0
> Referee—Kearns (DePaul) ; Umpire—Young (Bowdoin).
Notre Dame, 22; Northwestern, 21. December 31, 1931.
The Notre Dame basketball team handed the Northwestern Wildcats ' their second trimming in ten days at Evanston, New Years Eve, 22 to 21.
Leading the attack of the revamped Keoganites was Ed Krause, giant center. The big, hard-working sophomore racked up four field goals and , a like number of charity shots to take the scoring honors for the evening. In addition to his basket shooting activities, Krause flashed a brilliant all-around floor game and defensive Play.
Notre Dame led at half-time 10 to >	8 on the strength of eight points re-
corded by Krause. Going into the second half, Northwestern rallied and moved out in front. Joe Reiff, Wildcat offensive star, caged three field goals to put his team in possession of a substantial lead.
> Notre Dame whittled the margin down a few notches near the middle of the period and came on with a rush in the final minutes to snatch the decision. Dick Davis, sensation of the earlier Northwestern defeat, entered the game and caged a pair J of field goals.
Those points, together with another basket by Krause and free throws by Newbold and Krause, gave the Blue and Gold their margin of victory.
The game saw a new Notre Dame * combination experimented with and indicated that the shakeup had bene-fitted the Fighting Irish offense considerably. DeCook, veteran center, was moved to forward and Krause substituted at the pivot post. This move necessitated the benching of • Captain Norb Crowe but he was worked into the fray at a guard position during the second half.
Newbold and DeCook seemed to strike a scoring slump during the evening as neither managed to score from the field. It was the first game
in six starts that Newbold was held without a field goal.
Summary:
Notre Dame (22)	fg	pt	pf
Newbold, f ......................0	2	2
Voegele, f ......................0	0	0
DeCook, f .......................0	0	2
Davis, f.........................2	0	0
Krause, c........................4	4	2
Baldwin, g ......................0	1	0
N. Crowe, g......................1	0	0
Burns, g ........................0	1	4
Johnson, g ......................0	0	1
Totals ..........................7	8	11
Northwestern (21)	fg	ft	pf
Johnson, f ......................1	4	1
Reiff, f.........................4	1	3
McCarnes. c .....................0	0	2
Smith, g ........................0	2	1
Brewer, c .......................2	0	0
Farber, g .......................0	0	4
Culver, g........................0	0	0
Totals ..........................7	7	11
Referee—Schommer ; Umpire—Lane.
PURDUE, 32; NOTRE DAME, 24 December 15, 1931
In a very rough game that was much more closely contested than the score indicates, the eagers from Purdue university handed Notre Dame a 32 to 24 licking before 5,000 fans on the Notre Dame court December 15.
Purdue had things well in hand all during the game, leading at half time 18 to 7; during the second the locals had several excellent opportunities to take the lead and each time Purdue rallied to keep its lead. Even Coach Keogan’s frantic fourth quarter substitution of all the giants (Continued on Page 28)
NINE NOTRE DAME MEN NAMED ON SO. CAL. ALL-OPPONENT
Nine Notre Dame football players of the last six years were named recently by Coach Howard Jones of Southern California in his selection of outstanding opponents who have faced his Trojan elevens. The complete list, covering the eight years of Jones’ stay on the coast, included seventeen gridders.
Stanford placed four men in the group while Washington, Washington State, California and Pittsburgh can-tributed one each. At least one Notre Dame star was named for every position with the exception of the fullback post.
The Notre Dame men named by Coach Jones were: Conley, end; Twomey, Culver, Kurth, tackles; Hoffman, guard; Boeringer, center; Carideo, quarterback; Schwartz and Brill, halfbacks.
400 Attend N. N. Y. Dance
Two hundred couples attended the annual Christmas dance of the Northern New York club according to Albert Seymour, president of the club. The dance was held Wednesday, December 30 at the Elks club, Malone, New York, and the music was furnished by Halsey MacPhee and his Red Jackets. William P. Brown was general chairman of the affair.
NEWBOLD LEADS POINT-GETTERS
Composite boxscore of the first seven basketball games (including St. Thomas game).
PLAYER	*G	FG	FT	PF	FTM	PCT.	PTS.
Newbold	7	14	9	15	9	.500	37
DeCook	6	10	4	6	7	.364	24
Davis	6	10	3	5	2	.600	23
N. Crowe	■	7	10	1	6	4 ‘	.200	21
Krause	5	7	7	6	2	.777	21
Baldwin	6	9	2	8	3	.400	20
Voegele	6	8	2	5	4	.333	18
L. Crowe	'	5	8	1	4	2	.333	17
Burns	7	3	5	17	2	.714	11
Schumaker	5	3	1	1	0	1.000	7
Johnson	7	1	1	6	4	.200	3
Fehlig	1	1	0	0	1	.000	2
Schroeder	2	0	0	2	0	.000	0
Oelerich	1	0	0	1	0	.000	0
Totals	7	84	36	82	40	.474	204
Opponents	; 7	48	44	64	45	.494	140
* Key : G—games free throws missed;	: FG—field goals: PCT.—average on		; FT—free free throws	throws; ; PTS.-	PF—personal fouls ; -total points scored.		FTM—
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Library Gets Portfolio
A portfolio of “Studies in International Relations” is now in the reference room of the library. Its contents consist of fifty separate “reports,” each of which deals with a special topic concerned with International Relations.
Subjects such as “World Politics,” "International Treaties,” “Nationalism,” and “Imperialism” are treated. Each bears the name of one of the seniors of last year who was a member of the Philosophy seminar.
A similar- list of papers is planned as a record of the work to be done by the seminar during the second semester.
The best of the studies compiled by the seminar students over a period of years will be preserved annually for reference purposes.
Joe Young Injured
A vacation injury has robbed track Coach John P. Nicholson of the services of one of his most promising sophomore cinder stars. Joe E. Young, flashy middle distance runner, suffered a painful injury to his left knee in a tobogganing mishap.
Young, a former Seton Hall prep star, was expected to come through
QtiiaiiimittiiiiiiiititiHifttaiiiiiiHitaiiiaiiHiiiititimiuiauiaQ :	1932 Football Schedule E
= (Officially released by Jesse C. Harper) £
E	October 8—	E
E	Haskell Institute at Notre Dame.	E
E	October 15—	5
:	Drake	University	at Notre Dame.	=
5	October	22—	:
:	Carnegie Tech, at Notre Dame.	=
z	October	29—	z
E	Univ,	of Pittsburgh	at Pittsburgh.	E
E	November 5—	E
E	University of Kansas at Lawrence.	E
E	November 12—	E
E	Northwestern Univ, at Notre Dame.	:
=	November 19—	=
E Navy (place to	be	decided).	E
E	November 26—	E
E Army at New	York	City.	E
=	December 10—	E
=	University of Southern California at	E
z	Los Angeles.	•	=
B...iiiiiiuimiunninmllllllimillliiluuliliillllliimuillA
with numerous points during the coming indoor season but the injury will probably incapacitate him for some time. He is at this time confined to his home in Glen Ridge, N. J., and will not return to Notre Dame until about the end of January.
Texas U. Has Novel Quiz
Cheating was compulsory on a quiz given recently in a psychology class at the University of Texas.
“Look at your neighbor’s paper, compare your answers, change your seat if you wish; cheat in any way you can provided you do not talk,” were the instructions given at the beginning of the class period. Elated students needed no urging, and with complacent expressions, they carefully copied each others answers and willingly exchanged paper for purposes of comparison.	• •
Material covered by this quiz, had also been covered by a previous test on which no cheating was possible. A method of testing,' involving individual codes' which were used in answering the questions, had been prepared.
The purpose of the second quiz was solely experimental and no credit was given. Results of the experiment have not been announced yet.
Spectators Notice!
President Edmund A. Stephan announces that it is essential that all members be at the next Spectator meeting, Thursday, January 14, at eight o’clock in the Law building.
SATURDAY - SUNDAY - MONDAY
January 9, 10 and 11
----ON OUR STAGE-
STAR ACTS
5 VAUDEVILLE
Headed by
One of America’s Greatest Radio Personalities
PETEK meeiNS
SUMMERS & HUNT
in “After the Ball”
MORGAN & STONE
in “Stringing Along”
The Young American Tenor
MEYERS-LUBOW & RICE
in “A Dance Escapade”
Mr. DuPont from Wilmington
North Carolina with Margie
New Palace Orchestra under direction of.
Robert M. Helmcamp
PALACE
yON THE SCREEN
< MARY ASTOR \ RICARDO CORTEZ John Halliday
—in—
“MEN OF CHANCE”
Drama of a woman
against the wurld.
SPORTLIGHT 7 x PATHE /
X. NEWS -S
January 8, 1932
Twenty-seven
N. D. GRIDDERS NAMED ON CONCENSUS ELEVEN
“Literary Digest*’ Picks Yarr, - Schwartz, and Kurth.
Three members of the 1931 Notre Dame football team, Captain Tommy Yarr, Marchy Schwartz, and Joe Kurth, were placed on the Literary Digest’s all-American “eleven of elevens” recently.
The selection was made as a con-
Fighting Irish star polled five votes to four for the Panther.
Captain Tommy Yarr was named center bn the eleven ahead of Maynard Morrison, Michigan, and Ralph Daugherty, Pitt, his two outstanding rivals of the year. Yarr, like Kurth, polled five votes while Daugherty and Morrison divided the remaining six.
Chief among Notre Dame’s opponents who were given places were Quatse of Pitt, Baker and Pinckert of
Southern California, and Rug Rent-ner of Northwestern. Rentner was placed at fullback where he was the most popular choice despite the fact that he also ran second to Schwartz in the halfback race.
The complete team: Ends—Dalrymple, and either Smith or Cronkite; Tackles — Quatse, Kurth; Guards— Baker, Munn; Center—Yarr; Quarterback—W ood; Halfbacks—Schwartz, Pinckert; Fullback—Rentner.
Start the New Year at Robertsons Grill and Tea Room
Music and Dancing each
Wednesday, 12-2 o'clock and
Marchy Schwartz
Every selector named him.
Saturday, 6-8 o'clock
sensus of eleven of the most prominent all-American teams of individuals and press services throughout the country. Those considered by the Digest were: Grantland Rice, New York Sun, New York Evening Post, Lawrence Perry, New York World-Telegram, Associated Press, the AllAmerica Board, the Hearst Consensus, the N. E. A., College Humor, and Parke Davis.
Schwartz led the Notre Dame representatives in total number of votes by collecting one from each of the eleven collaborators. He was far in the lead of the other candidates for backfield berths and shared the honors of being a unanimous choice with Jerry Dalrymple of Tulane, and Clarence Munn of Minnesota.
Kurth was placed at tackle together with Jess Quatse of Pittsburgh. The
South Bend's smartest place to eat at popular prices
Bring your date here; you'll like it
Sixth Floor
ROBERTSON’S
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
KEOGANITES WIN 2 GAMES
(Continued from Page 25)
on the Notre Dame squad, an effort to counteract the size of the opponents, failed to produce a combination that could successfully break through the Boilermaker’s defense.
With all-American Johnny Wooden in the van, and an array of good eagers to back him up, the downstate team presented an attack that the Notre Dame five could not stop. Al
though they hied the great Wooden to a single field goal his mates were not idle during the operation, and Eddy, Stewart, and Parmenter had things pretty much their own way.
The Notre Dame team played far from its best game, the shooting of the players being decidedly off form, and with Johnny Baldwin unable to play the second half as a result of an illness which kept him confined to the infirmary until almost game time it was apparent that the Blue and
Gold squad was considerably below its full strength.
Summary:
Purdue (32)	c	f	p
Eddy, rf .......................3	1	3
Keller, If .....................1	4	2
Stewart, c......................4	0	1
Wodden, rg......................1	3	0
Parmeuter, 1g ..................3	0	3
Porter, rf .....................0	0	0
Notre Dame (24)	g	f	p
Newbold, rf ....................4	2	1
N, Crowe, If ...................0	0	1
DeCook, c ......................0	0	1
Baldwin, rg ....................0	0	3
Burns, 1g.......................1	2	4
Davis, If ......................1	1	0
Voegele, c......................1	1	0
L. Crowe, rg....................2	0	2
Johnson, 1g ....................0	0	0
Schumacher, rf .................0	0	0
We're 75
Years Old—
And we know that we can continue in business only by keeping up with the times in style, quality, and value in men’s clothes and haberdashery.	.
With this in mind we firmly resolve to give you in 1932 even more for your money than we have in the past.
Referee, Schommer; Umpire, Moloney,
Indiana 23, Notre Dame 18 December 12, 1931
Trailing at half time, the Indiana university five opened up in the second period with a new style of play and finally grabbed the long end of the score in the dying minutes of the game to defeat Coach George Keogan’s charges, 23-18, shortly before the Christmas holiday.
It is really only a matter of record that we retell the Indiana victory as the contest took place long before every good son of Notre Dame went home to gorge himself with the traditional turkey, but the Hoosiers will not be forgotten very soon by the Blue and Gold backers. It was a game five that entered the fray after the first half and the manner in which they topped the home lads was very creditable.
Notre Dame’s own play was handicapped by the loss of Baldwin, the chap who was confined to the infirmary, and Tom Burns, who hurriedly fouled the visiting team four times and was taken from the game before it was fairly under way.
But in the persons of Johnson and Leo Crowe, the latter a sophomore.
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke, OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St.
Est. 1900
SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
January 8, 1932
Ttventy-nine
and brother of the Notre Dame captain, Keogan found two guards that could cope with the Hoosiers and almost turned the trick. There seems some sort of a conspiracy to keep this Crowe family in the limelight, but their play against Indiana was evidence of their kowledge of the game.
Newbold, at forward for Notre Dame, and Suddith, Indiana guard, each registered three goals from field and a foul throw, but they were surpassed by Zeller, who rang the bell for six foul tries and a field goal. It was this success at the foul line that eventually resulted in the victory by Indiana.
The lineups and summary follow:
RESERVES LOSE TWO
(Continued from Page 21)
scoring honors for Notre Dame with two baskets apiece, while Oelrich’s guarding also featured.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (14)	c	f	pf
Fehlig, f .........................0	1	0
Angsten, f.........................2	0	0
Keating, f.........................2	0	0
Alberts, f.........................0	0	0
Schrader, c .......................0	1	0
Tobin, c...........................0	0	. 2
Oelrich, g Newbold, g O’Neill, g Minnot. g .
Totals ....
10 2
10 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
6	2
Indiana (20)	c	f	pf
Everett, f ........................0	1	0
Rainbolt, f .......................0	0	1
V. Dauer, f........................3	0	1
Hoffer, c .........................1	3	3
Tucker, c..........................1	0.	0
R. Dauer, g........................2	0	1
Opasik, g..........................1	0	0
Totals ............................8	4	6
Referee: Bumham (South Bend).
Notre Dame (18)	c	f	pf
Newbold, f .......................3	1	3
N. Crowe, f........................1	0	1
DeCook, c ........................1	1	1
Johnson, g .......................0	'1	2
Burns, g .........................0	0	4
L. Crowe, g ......................2	0	0
Davis, f .........................0	0	1
Krause, c..........................0	1	1
Totals ...........................7	4	13
Indiana (23)	g	f	pf
Campbell, f.......................0	0	2
Tucker, f..........................1	2	1
Dickey, c ........................2	0	0
Suddith, g ...............-.......3	1	3
Zeller, g........................ 1	6	3
Weir, gf .........................0	0	0
Hodson, f ........................0	0	1
Blagrave, g........................0	0	0
Totals ...........................7	9	10
A Pointer
on TOES
Score at the half: Notre Dame 9; Indiana 5. Officials: Schommer, Chicago, referee; Gitchell, Indianapolis, umpire.
• N. J. Club Holds Formal
Among those who attended the New Jersey club Christmas formal were Governor A. Harry Moore of New Jersey; Heartly “Hunk” Anderson, senior football coach at Notre Dame; Edgar “Rip” Miller and John ' O’Brien, football coaches at Annapolis Naval academy; James “Sleepy” Crowley, football coach of Michigan State college; and Paul “Bucky” . O’Connor. The dance was a success according to a report made by Sal Bontempo, president of the club, and > over two hundred couples attended. - William C. Blind was general chairman of the dance.
Style calls for narrower toes. Men call for generous toe room. The Walk-Over ’’METRO” has both—ample inside width and streamline
custom appearance . • Of smooth black calf
Optometrists	Opticians
ROGERS
Dr. E. S. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
212 South Michigan Street
The “Metro” is one of the many
new fall Walk-Overs for men at $7
We carry a complete line of the famous Ball Band Rubber Footwear
WAI

SU. O f S -FOR M -E N
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
P
A
Thirty
The Scholastic
N. D. 32, WILDCATS, 25
Schumacher and Davis Lead Way in Pre-holiday Win.
It was Schumacher’s big night when the Fighting Irish first met the Northwestern Wildcats in the local gymn on Monday, Dec. 21. With the count as close as 26-25 and with five minutes remaining to play, Schumacher replaced Newbold at forward and rang the basket for five points to aid in bringing the score to 32-25, its' final status.
When the time grew short, Notre Dame, in order to protect its slim margin, stalled to pull out the Wildcat defense and then sent Schumacher in for easy shots.
Rielf and Johnson, Northwestern forwards, were tied for high point honors with eight counters each. The Blue and Gold were led in scoring by Davis at forward with three field goals and a free throw.
Summary:
Notre Dame (32)	fg	ft	pf
Newbold, f .......................3	0	2
Schumacher, f.....................2	1	0
DeCook, f ........................1	2	2
Davis, f..........................3	1	2
N. Crowe, f.......................1	0	2
Voegele, c ...............•.......1	0	2
Baldwin, g .......................1	0	'2
Burns, g .........................1	2	1
Johnson, g .......................0	0	0
Totals ..........................13	6	13
Northwestern (25)	fg	ft	pf
Rieff, f.........................4	0	2
Johnson, f.......................2	4	2
McCarnes, c......................0	0	2
Perry, c.........................0	0	0
Smith, g.........................1	1	1
Lockhart, g .....................0	0	0
Farber, g........................1	2	1
Brewer, g .......................0	2	0
Totals ..........................8,	9	8
Referee—Schommer; Umpire—Lane.
Texas University Has Oil Field
By N. S. F. A. Service.
Austin, Texas, Jan. 3.—The University of Texas not only owns oil
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
Dr. L S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
fields in the plains of West Texas, but it is also the possessor of a miniature field of liquid gold on its own campus. This field is located in the basement of the Engineering building for the use of the students in the department of petroleum engineering. It is a perfect imitation of a field which was constructed at Sugarland, Texas, at a cost of one million dollars. There can be found in this minute construction derricks, oil wells, and pipe lines.
If You' ve Made Any New Year’s Resolutions ....
» » » »
here’s one to add: “Dress well in 1932.” This is one resolution that will pay you good dividends—in appearance, in self-assurance, and in prolonging the life of your clothing.
You can’t fail to keep this resolution if you entrust Spiro’s with your clothing problems— Hart Schaffner & Marx clothes are famous for correct styling and highest quality.
And remember, prices on these fine clothes are down to the level of sixteen years ago!
Come in and see for yourself.
» » » »
Sami Spiro & Co.
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
119 South Michigan Street
Columbia university is offering courses for its alumni in an attempt to stimulate intellectual relations between the university and the alumni. This is quite in line with the trend towards adult education which is fast disproving the theory that one’s intellectual life must end at graduation. The courses will be given by prominent members of the faculty on . such subjects as art, science, and international relations.
V
January 8, 1932
Thirty-one
Junior Year Abroad
By N. S. F. A. Service.
Early reports from Professor Camille von Klenze, director of the Junior Year Abroad at the University of Munich, indicate that an excellent start has been made with the fifteen students from the United States who sailed to take part in the project early in September. The American colleges represented are the following: Wellesley (5), Vassar (3), Smith (2), Bryn Mawr (1), Mount Holyoke (1), St. Lawrence, N. Y. (1), Lehigh University (1), Carleton College, Minnesota (1). Two from Stanford University, two from Smith, and one from Vassar were obliged to withdraw.	.
Eleven months will be spent in study at the University of Munich. From nine until one from Monday through Friday, classes in phonetics, grammar, composition, and literature are conducted, each student following them all. The group is subdivided into small contingents according to ability and previous training. In the afternoon private lectures are delivered to" the entire group by various professors, as preliminary training for the lecture courses to be attended at the University after November 1.
The first of these lectures was delivered by the director, and dealt with the geographic, historic and ethnic individuality of Germany.
The Alumni Weekly of Princeton University has published an article, “Is Princeton Too Smooth?” which discusses the reasons for the poor showing of their elevens in recent seasons. By “smooth” the author means cultivated in the social arts at the expense of ruggedness. The problem is much discussed by Princeton alumni, some of whom feel that the undergrads lay too much stress on their ability to shine in the drawing and ball rooms of New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore.
Hints to the Program Selector
By N. S. F. A. Service.
A plan has been worked out at Brown University whereby the student may consider the temperament of the professor as well as the desirability of his course in making out his program. On the opening day of college a “Who’s Who” is given to each new student, giving a short account of the degrees, professional experience, and principal avocations of each member of the faculty.
Students and Sino-Jap Crisis
By N. S. F. A. Service.
Jan. 4.—An appeal for American student support in the maintenance of peace between China and Japan has been received from President Lin of Fukien Christian University through the offices of the China Union Universities. Appeals of this sort from the student group of one nation to that of another are of great importance in the creation of international unity. It would be a significant step in international relations if student initiative would devise some method of supporting fellow students in China.
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
You can still order
Photographs
By White Studio
Youll only be a college student once---but a portrait lasts forever.
307 Walsh Hall
0. A. CLARK’S Restaurant 104-106 N. Michigan Street
❖ ❖ ❖ SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST AND MOST RELIABLE EATING HOUSE.
❖ ❖ ❖
Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
♦	❖ ❖
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
♦	♦ ❖
WE HAVE NO KEY
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
For Food Treats
Dine at
Varesio*s
Restaurant
EXTRAORDINARY
Spaghetti with chicken and mushrooms
* * *
Chicken en casserole
* • $ ❖ *
Steak with mushrooms
¥	-J- 5jt *
Fresh vegetables served with meats
* * * *
Fixed price dinner or a la carte
* * * *
Phone Niles-1331 for Reservations
Varieso’s
1202 So. Third St.
Niles, Michigan
On the Old Pixie Highway, Next to the Mushroom Farm
On Down the Line
CHARLES WILCOX, a player on Heidelberg U., in the first game of his college career, in the first play of the game ran 95 yards to a touchdown . . . Seven is BURT INGWER-SEN’S unlucky number for this was the total number of points scored by Iowa this year and as a result Mr. Ingwersen has resigned . . . OHIO WESLEYAN in a game with Miami university fumbled the ball three times and each time recovered it, the ball never touching the ground and as a consequence of the unintentional play they gained thirty yards . . . ED KRAUSE, all-American tackle of this year’s varsity, was an all-State football player when he was 15 years old. . . .
A plan is under way at the present time to organize intercollegiate billiard matches among the Big Ten schools ... The PITTSBURGH basketball team depends largely on ice cream for training and is, according to them, the secret of their success; they are one of the co-holders of the eastern title . . . Out of the first eleven men on the TULANE football team there are ten different nationalities represented . . . HOCKEY is more popular than basketball at Michigan, the gate as a basketball game was $32 while the hockey team drew a $416 gate. . . .
EVERY PLAYER on the first team at Southern California is from California and all but two are from the Southern part of the state . . . PAV-VO NURMI’S heart is three times the size of a normal heart and is, according to doctors, one of the reasons that he is such a brilliant performer on the cinder path ... A PLAYER on the Detroit football team was nominated by his teammates as the most valuable player to his team and he was only in one game and that for one minute . . . MICHIGAN’S swimming team was beaten last week for the first time in three years. . . .
TOP FLIGHT, the two-year-old filly, is the biggest money winner this year in racing: the total of her cash winnings is over $219,000 . . . there is no depression in racing . . . A PLAYER at Manchester college has participated in every football game for the last three years; has had two years of competition in basketball and baseball and has never missed a minute of play in the two latter sports ... CHARITY benefited to the extent of a million dollars as a result of post-season football games....	}
Here’s
One Smoke for MEN
IET the little girls toy with their
■4 long, slim holders—let them park scented cigarettes with their powder compacts. That’s the time for you to go in for a REAL MAN'S smoke.
And what can that be but a PIPE!
There’s something about a time-proven, companionable pipe that does satisfy a man’s smoking instincts. You become attached to it—like
She won’t borrow the way it clears your pipe! your head, stirs your imagination, puts a keen edge on your thinking.	a
And you know the heights of true smoking satisfaction when you keep your pipe filled with Edgeworth. It’s
the finest blend burleys. And its rich aroma have made Edgeworth the favorite among pipe tobaccos in 42 out of 54 leading American colleges and universities.
Edgeworth? You can buy Edgeworth wherever good
of choice, selected mellow flavor and
The smoke you can call your own
tobacco is sold. Or, if you wish to try before you buy, send for special free packet. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a Wend of fine old burleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes, 15^ pocket package to ^x.50
LIBRARY