

April 14, 1 988 

Show Off Your Bad Aftitwk With A 
SCHOOL IS HELL T-SHIRT 
Other Stunning Designs: 
• WORK IS HELL IF F!:1 • LIFE IN HELL (Thr ClassirJ 
• BONGO 
• 1·SWEAR TO GOD I DIDN'T DO IT 
Send to: 
Life in Hell 
P.O. Box 36E64 
LA, CA 90036 
Allow 4-6 wks. delivery. Free catalog with order, or send $1. and an S.A.S.E. 

Notre Dame's Student Magazine April 14, 1988 




epartments 

6 I Week In Distortion: Filling Station By John Griffin 7 / On Other Campuses: BeamID;g With Radioactivity By Mike Farnan 21 / Music: Previous and Reviews By Ann Seifer 

Cover 
23 / Calendar 
8 / The Best Defense 
24 / Final Word: One Down, Three to Go 
By Steffanie Keller 
By Steve Wagner 
11 / Take a Bite Out Off Crime By Marita Kurst 

tudent Life 
14 / AnTostal & Jim Grogan: The Legend Continues By Maggie Sieger 

Sports 
17 / Sportsweek 18 / Irish Not LaX About Winning By Pete LaFleur 

Scholas:lc Is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., MIiford, IN 46542. The subscription rate Is $20.00/year and back Issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed In Scholastic are this of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, Its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material become the property of Scholastic. Scholastic Is represented nationally by CASS Communications, Inc. 
• 1988 Scholastic Ma"gazlne. All rights reserved. Reproduction ln whole or In part without permission Is prohibited. 
April 14, 1988 
Editorial 


Awareness Is Key 
Although the number of assaults that have occurred at Notre Dame is not remarkably high, the fact that any attacks occur shows that the situation as a whole needs improving. Certainly students should take more precautions when walking Bround at night. But some of the burden must fall on the University. Increased lighting has been a positive step taken but, as DirectorofSecurity Rex Rakow has said, awareness is the key issue. Students must be willing to listen to advice -but that advice must be made available. The absence ofpamphlets about assault prevention on the Notre Dame campus reveals an incom­plete commitment to inform students of real dangers. At Saint Mary's, a lower rate could be attributed to a well-publicized escort service and efficient distribution ofeducational materials. Through better publicity and utilization ofNotre Dame's escort service, potentially dangerous situations could be avoided. The Security Department, along with the Office of Student Af­fairs, must do a better job informing students of services. Also, making students aware of the need to be careful, even though the University may be reluctant to mention an aspect of life on campus which is less than golden, is necessary if Notre Dame wants to be as safe as is realistically possible. 
Scholastic 



Scholastic 

Letters 


Counseling Director Explains Confidentiality 
Dear Editor 
The February 25 issue of Scholastic contained an article and an editorial which addressed the issue of confidentiality within. the Student Health Center and the University Counseling Center (UCC). I am the Director of the UCC. I would like to address some of the issues which surfaced in the article and respond to the editorial request for clarification. 
-I first must note that all ofmy comments were in response to the author's citing of the "opinions of some students." I do not believe that these views are shared by many Notre Dame students. Those who share this view are misperceiving the situation. I will explain our policy ofconfiden­tiality, clarify our relationship with the Office of Residential Life, and provide an accurate picture of grow­ing student use of the UCC. 
Our policy of confidentiality is presented in written form to a student before s/he meets with a counselor. It is also discussed during the initial session, at the end of which the student acknowledges under­
standing the policy with his/her sig­nature. Our policy states that no in­formation willbe shared with another person unless 1) The student requests (signed release) us to do so or; 2) There is clear danger (threat to life) present. We are then mandated by law to take preventive action which may include bringing others in for assistance. When a student signs a release, s/he decides what can be re­leased and to whom it should be re­leased. Typically ths is requested by a student whens/he wishes to verify to someone else thats/heis participat­ing in counseling. No details beyond verification of participation are pro­vided. While we always inform stu­dents that in life-threatening situ­ations we must take action, I note that in my own 15 years ofclinical work I have never had to do so. In these same 15 years of work at four university counseling centers, involving coun­
. seling ofmore than 15,000 students, I am a ware of this type ofaction being taken three times. 
I would like to add that within our office confidentiality is taken very seriously. When discussing a counseling relationship with other professionals, we use initials rather than names. Only in cases of clinical supervision (e.g. our work with in­terns) does another person know the name of a student. This is done with the student's knowledge and consent. 
The Office of Residential Life (ORL) is one of a number of offices which seek our consultation. In so doing, their motive is to obtain an assessment by a trained psycholo­gist or alcohol counselor. We evalu­ate the need for counseling or some other tyupe of intervention. The 

3

Letters 

editorial' s implication that our role is to uncover other violations and thus put the student in further jeopardy is simply not true. We are never asked for details. ORL expects us to com­ment on what they already know that the student has done. When we con­sult with ORL (and other offices) in this way, we inform the student be­fore the interview begins ofourrol, of 
the fact that we will make a recom­mendation to ORL, and ask the stu­dent to acknowledge this with his/her signature. 
! must also address the issue ofstudent use ofthe University Coun­seling Center, and specifically the suggestion (editorial) that more stu­dents come here because ORL is sending them. Stated simply, the increase in students' use over the past two years has been exclusively of students who are either self-referred or are referred by friends, faculty and staff. I would also estimate that this was true for the previous three years ofmy time here al though we have not kept such data for all five years. The number of students referred by ORL remains constant and is thus a de­creasing percentage ofourtoal. In the article I cited the Fall of 1987 when 415 students (a record number) sought counseling. During the se­mester the referrals from ORL were down slightly and constituted less than 7% of oi.Ir clients. To state this positively, 100% of our growth in student use has been with studetns who came voluntarily and are not completing some type ofcontractural obligation with another office. I wishe to emphasize this point be­cause this issue is very important to all ofour staff. We have worked very hard over the past five years to pres­ent a positive, proactive, professional image of our office. Each year more than 3000 students participate in educational programming offered by UCC. OUr name change was in­tended to "normalize" our image and thus break down barriers to students' use. 
Finally, I would like to say that in hindsight I simply should have said to the reporter that I am not re­sponsible for what "some people think." Some people think that the earth is flat. I know that the over­whelming number of ND students who seek professional counseling will opt for our office. A few, for variety of reasons, will use commu­nity services. Psychology graduate students, those who want ongoing therapy with a psychiatrist (MD), off campus graduate and undergraduate students and children of faculty and staff are more likely to seek help in town. However, I can guarantee that no psychologist in South Bend ex­pects to build a practice on ND stu­dents. Neither commjnity agencies nor private practitioners expect to see mahy students except for services which w_e do not provide. The reason for this, I believe, is that the know, as I know, that our staff both in training and knowledge is clearly the best prepared to work with college stu­dents. 
Patrick W. Utz Director University Counseling Center 
Senate Story Vague 
Dear Editor 

We support your effort in the March 3 issue to inform the Notre Dame community aboutthe workofStudent Senate. However, we feel that the ·slanted view against Hall Presidents Council was unnecessary. A member ofHPC should have been contacted to be given an opportunity to respond to the comments of Mike Jaeger and 
Mike Carrigan. 
Your article stated that HPC's vot­
ing on three amendments onFebruary 
16, "indicated a negative attitude 
toward the Senate on the part of the 
HPC." Neither Jaeger nor Carrigan 
asked why we voted down the resolu­
tions nor were they present at the 
discussion. Each of the amendments 
was discussed as length. We voted 
against two of the proposals because 
we disagreed with their contents and 
effects, not as a vicious attack against 
the Senate. 
Concerning the Business Board and 
Student Union Board amendments, 
some members of HPC . believe the 
feelings of those involved were not 
quite so "unanimous" as presented in 
the article. In discussions with stu­
dents affiliated with the affected busi­
nesses and SUB, many of us found a 
hesitancy on their parts to see the 
amendments passed. 
Regarding the third proposal, pre­
sented to us that night, we voted 
against allowing the Senate to have 
sole control over amending the 
constitution. HPC's role in the proc­
ess is a necessary step, as the HPC is 
a more representative forum for stu­
dent body opinion. "The Senate 

4 


Letters 

would like to work with the HPC, but I'm not sure if that's a mutual feel­irig," said Carrigan. A proposal to 
eliminate our voice in the amendment process certainly is not a move to­ward better cooperation. 
We stress that we do not wish to create more conflict or tension be­tween the Senate and HPC. Rather, we feel that our views have been unfairly represented through your article. We hope to continue working on good terms with the Senate and make the decisions, based on merit, that will help them revise the constitution. 
Robert Daley and Tim Salmon HPC Co-Chairmen 
and 21 members ofHPC 

The Editor Scholastic LaE_ortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Scholastic An ounces 88-89 Editorial Board 
Scholastic announces new members of its general board for 1988-89. They will start their duties immediately with this issue. 
Terry Lynch an English and history major, will serve as managing editor. The junior from Wallingford, Penn. was previously assistant sports editor. He also worked as a sports copy editor and sportswriter for The Observer as a freshman and sopho­more. 
Paul Bintinger, a junior eco­nomics major from Madison, NJ, has been chosen business manager. Mike Farnan, a junior economics major from McMurray, Pa. has been named executive editor. This year he was departments editor. 
Andy Hilger has been chosen news editor. The freshman from Wayne, Pa. has worked as assistant news editor and written for the news department. 
Kevin Boughal, a junior American studies major, has been chosen sports editor. Boughal, from Northport, NY, will be interning with the South Bend Tribune this summer. 
Maggie Sieger has been se­lected student life editor. The junior American studies major from Hous­ton, Tex. has been news editor, and will join Boughal at the South Bend Tribune. 
Amy Weber has been chosen departments editor. Weber, from Canton, Ohio, is a sophomore Ameri­can studies major who previously was production manager. 
Allan Lim, a civil engineering major, will resume his duties as pho­tography manager. The junior from Malaysia will be starting his third year at that post. 
Mike Wieber, a freshman from Waukesha, Wisc., has been selected copy chief. The business manager has written for the sports, news and student life sections. 
Matt Langie has been named systems manager. The sophomore business major is from Pittsford, NY. 
ARE YOU HIDING YOUR ARTISTIC ABILITY? 
Break out of your she_ll and join us at Scholastic ... We are now accepting applications for the position of 


DESIGN EDITOR 

April 14, 1988 
Week In Distortion/ John Griffin 



The Filling Station 
It was a dark and stormy night 
island, they could surely pinpoint
turned and slapped Quinton Daniels 
and the grime on the floor was as 
their whereabouts and organize a res­
cheek. She picked him up and carried 
thick as the stench in the air. The 
cue mission."
him out, eager to learn respect. 
One of the group, appalled by 
It is a disgusting scene where 
room was overflowing with students 
the lack of education on behalf of the
of both sexes swaying to the musical 
lies and compromises are made 
others, once again had to set them
gyrations they had long ago memo­
nightly and virtues do not exist. As 
straight. "Please, please. Don't you
the young harlot was carrying her
rized. 
people realize how modem society is 
In the center of the bar Quin­
trophy out, she ran into some friends. 
manipulated by the Nielson -ratings? 
ton Daniels, an ND football player, 
She greeted her friends with a 
They would never save them as long
was proving the importance of verbs 
friendly wave, but her comrades ig­
as they were pulling in 28 points. As
to the english language by not using 
nored her and headed for another cor­
soon as the ratings went down, they 
them: Quinton: "Hey, you, I (want to 
ner of the bar. 
rescued them. Boy,are you dumb." 
take) you home tonight." The unsus­
pecting student from the campus on 
ANOTHER CORNER OF THE 
YET ANOTHER CORNER OF
the other side of the lake was aghast 
BAR (Director's note: stench and 
for this was Quinton Daniels, the hero 
grime -same. Time -same. Night ­
THE BAR (Director's note: It is ab­
solutely crucial that this scene be
of the Miami game, the fabulously 
same. Get the picture?) 
place in the northwest corner.) 
famous football star. 
Six girls, stretching the limits 
of their intellect between group trips 
She said in stuttered speech: 
A lonely police officer sits on 
his bumpy stool checking I.D.' s. It's
"You want to take me, me, me home 
tothefemalerestroom, are discussing 
all the same: a smile here, a wink
tonight?" 
recent reruns of Gilligan's Island 
there, a caressing here and there, but 
Quinton: "Yes, you lucky 
:"What I want to know is, if the isle 
alas only for a moment, (sigh) all of
one. Me and my letter jacket ( want to 
were only inhabited by Gilligan, the 
his life he had dreamed of a career
take) you to bed. I (will teach) you 
Skipper too, a millionaire and his 
fighting crime, but what does he get 
meaning of the word "respect."" 
wife, a movie star (whoa), the profes­
but a handful offake LD. 's and empty 
The young girl was once 
sor and Mary Ann -then who was 
11
promises: "I promise I'm 21,11 I'll
again astounded for this was educa­
behind the camera?" 
bring my I.D. 's next time, 11 11I am too 
"You idiot wench, we watch
tion she had not paid for and "respect" 
6'7"," and, of course, "I promise I
was a word she did not understand. 
that via satellite. They filmed them 
really will be 21 some day." If it
Quinton: "How would you 
from space." 
like to meet my friend Richard? He's 
wasn't for the gun and badge through 
"Oh my God. Your insensi­
a big guy, and he's good,just like me: 
which he viewed himself as a true
tive attack upon my integrity is an 
he can always rise to the occasion. 
crime stopper, he would have become 
abomination to reason itself. Clearly, 
The darling of the night 
if they could focus the camera on the 
a university president long ago, .. ¦ 


6 
Scholastic 

' 
I i 


Beaming with Radioactivity 
Officials are beaming at Cleveland's Case 
Western Reserve because of a recent fine levied by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The school was fined $10,000 for its failure to safely monitor procedures in university laboratories using radioactive materials writes The Chronicle ofHigher Education. The October spill of 
-low-level radioactive materials occurred at the univer­sity-affiliated hospital, Rainbow -Babies and Childrens' Hospital. Apparently, in addition to not following safety procedures, an investigation found that the spill was not cleaned up orreported soon enough. No word yet as to the possibility ofa Chernobyl-type occurrence to clean up the ever-growing bacteria in Lake Erie. Who knows, maybe the Cleveland Indians will finally break .500 this season. Nawwww! 
Cornell University has sitting on its lap the be­
ginnings of what could become a major resource for research on human sexuality. Cornell, seemingly on the cutting edge of homosexuality issues, has made its posi­tion clear by accepting archive materials on homosexual­ity by the Mariposa Education and Research Foundation. According to The Chronicle ofHigher Education, this or­ganization is dedicated to dispelling common misconcep­tions about sexuality. In addition, Cornell alumnus David 
B. Goldstein, once publisher ofThe Advocate, a magazine that covers homosexual issues, has bequeathed to the uni­versity an endowment to help build the Mariposa collec­tion into a comprehensive archive on human sexuality. Mr. Goldstein died in 1985 of somewhat mysterious causes -it seems his entire immune system broke down. 
--Killing puppies in protest of "the brutality of 
war" is what a University ofWisconsin student proposed ort March 24, causing a backlash of counter-protest and police investigations. In light of this, Philosophy major David Reed reneged on his threat to bum a 10-week-old dog calling it a "prankish threat to kill one mythical animal." The 26-year-old student may be under investi­gation by campus police for cruelty to animals following a stink made by the Humane Society, reports the College Press Service. "I am quite pleased" by the publicity, said Reed, who explained he was moved to make the threat by President Reagan's dispatching of 3,200 United States soldiers to Central America. He added, "People panicked to save the life ofone mythical puppy while thousands ( of people) were dying" in wars and famines in the Middle East, Centrai America, Afghanistan and Africa. One unidentified police official was heard to say that if a cat was threatened, the response wouldn't have been nearly as severe. 
A bomb threat at the Metcalf Lab on the cam­pus of Brown University recently forced students and faculty to be evacuated for about 30 minutes. An article published in The Brown Daily Herald, reports that noth­ing was found after a thorough search of the premises. Brown police received a call from an unknown person who threatened an "explosive protest" in Metcalf, said 
•Mark Nichol of the Brown News Bureau. This was interpreted as a bomb threat and the building was cleared out. This follows another recent bomb threat at another building at the same time of day -9 a.m. The coincidence is almost too strong, prompting officials to cross examine syllabi and attendance records. Maybe, just maybe, this is the work of an evil, perhaps even disgruntled, student. Whoever called never gave a reason for the protest. 
Edited by Michael Farnan 

~, . . . --~ 
>•·. ... f -•~""-'-' ~ -----~ ~~"" ~ • ~\-....., ' 

The Best Defense 
Awareness is the key factor in the prevention of assaults according to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's Security. 
By Steffanie Keller 
The statistics can be shocking. A survey of 1100 campuses conducted by Towson State University officials and reported in the Chronicle of Higher Education found that two-thirds of residence hall directors found violence on their campus to be out ofcontrol. Another survey, this one conducted by Mary Koss, a professor at Kent State Uni­versity, found that one in eight women on 32 campuses had been raped. Things like this couldn't hap­pen here at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. Or could they? The last rape occurred on the campus in 1978 and the reports of physical assaults are minimal accord­ing to Richard Chlebek, director of security at Saint Mary's College. "We had two assaults this year," said Chlebek. "One was an intimidation (a threat of a physical assault, but no actual assault) and another minor assault and battery between two stu­dents." In 1987, there were only three assaults, Chlebek said. All were minor-and no one sustained serious injury. At Notre Dame, with its larger 
emollment, stat1st1cs are a little higher. "We divide assaults into two categories," said Rex Rakow, Direc­torofNotreDame Security. "There is aggravated assault which involves serious bodily injury, and other as­saults, such as minor shoving matches in the hall and fights at con­certs." 
There were no aggravated as­saults reported in 1987, one in 1986 and three in 1985 said Rakow. "There are really just a handful each year." The numbers for other assaults were 26in1987,22in1986and29in1985. "We're seeing things staying about the same," said Rakow. "We have lots of patrols and observation to prevent such activity." 
Notre Dame has not had a rape reported since 1985. In that year, Rakow said, there were two attempts and one rape reported. "We have more altercations between male combatants than we do assaults on women," he said. The two March attacks on women included one of a Saint Mary's student on Saint Mary's road and the other of a graduate stu­dent in the O'Hara-Grace townhouses. With regard to these assaults Rakow said,"We assume rape might have been the intention, but both students kept a cool head and managed to scare away their attack­ers." 





If an actual rape were to occur, security forces at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would react differently according to the directors of each security department. Saint Mary's security would 
send out a bulletin regarding any assault and then tum the investigation over to Saint Joseph's County police department, while Notre Dame would proceed with its own investi­gation. 
"We're a bona fide police agency," said Rakow. "We have our own police officers and three investi­gators who handle cases all the way through. The sheriff is confident in our expertise, which provides a num­ber of benefits to the community. If you need aid, you know the officer is familiar with the unique problems of this community and really cares. 
"This is a pretty non-violent and nice community," Rakow said. "What we need to do is be more protective of who we let into our homes because dorms are homes." Chlebek said he felt awareness was the biggest difficulty. "The best advice I 9an give, and I can't stress this enough, is for young people to be more concerned for their own safety, to utilize the help that is available to them." 
Notre Dame senior Heather Koch also said she sees awareness as a problem on campus. "People just don't think it's a possibility. How many times have we walked back from D:-2 at 3 am and not thought anything ofit?" Koch said. "By being ignorant, we are asking for trouble. People here are tremendously trust­ing, to our own detriment." 
year. "If a student is stranded off­campus and she calls the security office, the supervisor on duty makes a decision to either send a cab or, if she is nearby, dispatch a patrol car," he said. Students are expected to reim­burse security for the cab fare and to 
,.,..-,.---------------_,...,·""",·---,.-,__ ,..,,,, utilize this service only when they
'.~i1i~t~Jtil~{~,IJ !~~chilii:~:~o~nili;IT'::~=~~n J;}fn]t~i,lli~it1ir~:gJJ iliat!:P::0:e~n~v~!~~ t~:: ill 
~~~i~g;.f?( ~f?1J'.l>le;';\Peqple; office on safety measures. The ones 
.M~t~,.•;at~ trefuend?risly'•·tr~stJ ~~:~t~yo~~:~a~~ i::~~:r:i~~: 
··••k\~ili:tii!
k[~•• '!~J~fgient.'itHtl 
To combat this ignorance, both 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have 
programs to increase students aware­
ness of necessary safety measures. 
The security forces at both campuses 
meet with hall staffs before classes 
begin each fall to apprise them of 
services available through security 
and precautions to take.-Both cam­
puses sponsor escort services to stu­
dents alone at night. 
"We provide an escort service 

which is used by about 800 students a 
year," said Rakow. "Requests go up 
immediately after an assault or rumor 
of an assault or during bad weather." 
Rakow said they provide escorts for 
one or two people. Larger groups 
have safety in their number. 
At Saint Mary's, 2,306 escorts 

were provided during the 1986-87 
school year. As of March, they had 
already provided more than 900 this 
year. In addition to the escort service, 
Chlebek said Saint Mary's security 
had instituted a new program this 
~::i~::1:s~:u!e~~~c;to~e;;rd~~:~ the number of thefts had dwindled since the beginning of the school year. Saint Mary's had a number of flyers available on assaults, date rape, escorts and self-protection. Chlebek said that pamphlets had been placed in dorms as well. Anothers~curity measure at Saint Mary's is the various emergency phones located,. on campus. "When you pick one up, it automatically connects you with security," said Chlebek. "Students are encouraged to call should they see any suspicious activity." Phones are located in park­ing lots, tunnels, and other easily accessible locations, he said. Rakow said that the security force at Notre Dame sometimes schedules talks in dorms. "We come when they invite us,"hesaid. "Crime prevention is only as good as the ears are will­ing." The Physical Plant is one area in which crime prevention has been a top priority according to. Donald Dedrick, Director of the Plant. "Each year, we continue to improve lights in 

areas where we think they are defi­


cient," said Dedrick. "Each year stu­dents or security may point out an area to us and we act." Dedrick added that lighting has been improved this year from the JACC to Ivy Road and on North Quad. . 
"We try to keep all the lights lit and maintained," Dedrick said. "We have a part-time student whose job is to go out at night and check for lights that are out and report them to us. We try to keep all the lights clean and maintained." 


"Each year, we continue to improve lights in areas where we think they are deficient. Each year students or secu­rity may point out an area to us and we act." Donald Dedrick, Director of the Physical Plant 
Through services such as these, security forces on both campuses hope to continue to maintain low rates ofassaults, but they stress the need for student cooperation. "We're here to provide a safe environment," said Chlebek, "But [the students] have responsibilities as well. All we can ask is that they be aware and if they see anything suspicious, call security. Hopefully, we'll be able to prevent assaults." 
There are three million Americans alive today who have had cancera And no one out oft cancer patients get well! 


*"Three million strong all across this land We saved their lives working hand in hand We're proud, oh, we're proud We helped three million Live anew! While we can think While we can talk While we can stand While we can walk While we can fight While we can give Join our quest for life Right now!" 

Join us with your · generous contributions 



Comfflmfing 

Years of Life! 

Joilus 


10 



Take A Bite Out Of Crime 
Newly implemented Crimestoppers will attempt to alleviate the on campus crime situation 
By Marita Kurst 
0 ne evening Susan glanced out of her dorm window only to notice that a man 
with a television set in hand was leav­ing a neighboring dorm. A week later, she saw that security beat had reported that a TV was stolen. What should she do? 
As a concerned Notre Dame stu­dent, maybe Susan should call Cam­pus Security and tell someone what she saw. If she does that, however, she will have to give her name and help out with the investigation of the 

t;, theft. Susan doesn't want to be called as a witness; she feels she doesn't have the time to get involved. 
While the above story of "Susan" is a hypothetical example of crime on campus, it is not unlikely that things like it have happened. For one reason or another, someone who sees suspi­cious behavior may decide not to call Campus Security. Recently, the sen­ate has passed, what they hope will serve as an alternative. 
Enter Crimestoppers. A program which has been regarded as very successful in many large cities, Cri­mestoppers has not been imple­mented at any university in the na­tion. (At least, that is, until now.) In an effort to encourage the members of the community to perform their civic duty, soon Crimestoppers will be a part of Notre Dame's total security package. 
Crimestoppers is a national cam­paign to promote community in­volvement in solving crimes. It uses techniques such as a publicized "Crime ofthe Week" and a telephone hotline to increase the number ofciti­zens giving information about spe­cific crimes. Callers are given the protection of anonymity through as­signed code numbers, and may re­ceive a reward if the tip leads to the arrest of a criminal. 
The plan to begin a Crimestop­pers pro gram at ND was set in motion in early February, according to Brian Holst, the senator who first proposed the idea to Student Senate. Lieuten­ant Sam Walsh, head of the South Bend Crimestoppers program, was approached and provided "invalu­able assistance,"Holst said. With this help, Holst's proposal was passed at the March 21st Senate meeting. 
The vote on the Crimestoppers issue was 11 to 4, with the "dissension the result of concern about paying people to do their civic duty," said Holst. The program being imple­mented on campus will, therefore, not place emphasis on the reward compo­nent. Instead, campus Crimestoppers will focus on awareness and educa­tion of crime, and the anonymity of­

ftiiij!~;e s#rtl~l~~irif a4~]!.. J ·•.fi.~.~..~~,,~~.~·~ ..~9~~·f~.• i111i.~)ye~r·c!~rp~g~J~i-i~e~t?llP~I~},~!it'~{1eisrpj9p1e· ml!' ii~w t6ilt;.M7e't¢WQ~~ing to~~~ 
i.f;:'.·•··:····,;I;: .•.••. ;)•.•..••...••....•. ,r·.•·•.··i•••·;,L·•······•···········••xi'I•···
R~\fa~OW(J?ir~ct9i-()( 
.GalllJ>US Se~gr~ty . . . 
ress. An executive board composed of members of the administration, faculty, staff and student body has been meeting to discuss plans to pro­mote the awareness and education of crimes on campus. A visit from "Captain Crimestoppers" in late April, said Holst, will help to publi­cize that Crimestoppers is coming. 
1n the meantime, the concern 

about the reward dimension of Cri­mestoppers has not completely sub­sided. As more students become 
'--'-'-------'-----""'----~~~ aware that Crimestoppers is actually 
fered through the use of the Cri­mestoppers hotline. 
On Thursday, April 7th, Notre Dame was accepted as an affiliate of the local Crimestoppers division. Soon members of the Notre Dame community will be able to call 288­STOP, the number that is already set up in South Bend, to report informa­tion about campus crimes. Tips deal­ing with Notre Dame will be passed on to Campus Security, according to Director of Campus Security Rex Rakow. 
. "We're going slow with Cri­mestoppers," said Rakow. "I'd be surprisedifany cases were solved this year (through Crimestoppers), but at least people will know that we're working toward it." Brian Holst, a former student senator from district one, also doubted that Crimestoppers would begin in earnest before the next school year. "We're geared toward starting in August," said Holst. 
For the present, the organization of the campus Crimestoppers is in prog­being brought to Notre Dame, the debate goes on. Many people ques­tion the morality ofoffering a reward for what should be the civic duty of members of the community. 
~------------------------,-------, 


It's not enough to say you can't commit crimes against one another. Crimestoppers is a response to people being victimized. We're not trying to buy morality, we're trying to protect victims." Senior Brian Holst, former District 1 Senator 
On the other side of the argu­ment, junior Reni Cohan said, "It's really idealistic to think people would turn in any information. I think there would be a better response with a reward." The reward does not pose a moral dilemma to Cohan, because the information provided is helping to do something positive for the commu­nity. Cohan felt that the reward would not be the only incentive if emphasis is placed on the community's effort to help stop crime. 
"It would be wonderful if every­one were appealed to by a high sense of duty," said Brian Holst, "but they aren'. Iii 
"I think people should be able to turn in information without pay­ment," said freshman Elisa McNitt. "They should do iton their own integ­rity, because itisfortheirprotection." McNitt does approve of the concept behind the Crimestoppers program. "I like the idea of anything that's going to make campus safer," she said. 
Crimestoppers 



288 -STOP 
Scholastic 





It 'S HIP, It 'S HRPPENIN' ,-It 'S NOt\l, It 'S WDWII 
It '5 about to be the Bcholla5tic Uepartment5 Uepartment '5 fine5t 1}ear...bnt me need 1JOUf' hellpl 
********************************* 
Scholastic is searching for afew good people to fill the al' com­puter with some good stuff, some of YOUR good stuff. If you think you can help us out, we want to meet you! 
We want to see what you're made of...We need ALL KINDS of material: Music Reviews and Previews Movie Critiques Comic Relief...you could write the next Week In Distortion! News from other Campuses (you compile it from Scholastic-provided text, but add your own BIT OF WIT to make the people chuckle) And don't let these limit you, if you can think of adecent column idea, let us know! 

So don't be shy, step right up to the Scholastic office on the third floor of LaFortune, or contact Amy Weber, De­partments Editor, at 239-7569. 


AnTostal & Jim Brogan The Legend Continues 
Secret judges will be searching for an expression of true AnTostal spirit during Notre Dame's weeklong celebration of spring 
BY MAGGIE SIEGER 
Spring has sprung at Notre 
Dame and that_ means: slush, 
raging winds, walks around the lake, Bookstore Basketball and, yes, AnTostal. 
This year, AnTostal is hoping to present the AnTostal Jim E. Bro­gan Spirit Award to some deserving group. Secret judges will be roaming the campus iooking for outrageous displays of spirit during AnTostal week. The award is given to the person or people who provide the most spirited example of what AnTo­stal is all about-having fun. 
"The judges are secret so that no one can unfairly influence them," said David Duncan, 1988 AnTostal Co-chair-person. "In the past, there have been bribe attempts." 
Jim Edward Brogan, a 1970 Notre Dame graduate, was one of the ingenious students who founded AnTostal in 1967. 

"We were looking for some­thing to do to celebrate spring that would cost little to nothing," said David Ryan, a 1969 graduate and AnTostal co-founder. "Jim was a natural comedian from the begin­ning." 
Brogan stayed at Notre Dame fortwo years ofgraduate school, until he was asked to leave "for having too much fun," and continued to have a big impact on AnTostal. He intro­duced the legendary "Kisser" game, AnTostal Impersonations, and a tal­ent show. 
The AnTostal Jim E. Brogan Spirit Award was created "sometime after I left. Probably within 1 or 2 years.," said Brogan, in a telephone interview from his Los Angeles home. It consists of a plaque, in­scribed with the winner's name and hung in La Fortune, and $50 cash. 
"No one has won the award in recent years," said Duncan, "because no one has done anything spectacu­lar. It's not something we have to give each year. We want the people who win it to really deserve it." 
"In other words, do some­thing totally outlandish," said Cushnie. 
14 
Scholastic 



Brogan is now a stand-up comic in California. "I really started my career during AnTostal. One of my friends did some impersonations and I thought it would be a good idea to have a little contest during AnTo­stal. About 12 people signed up for the show and it was my job to say a few jokes between the real acts. 
"Hundreds of students showed up_for the contest. We set up a stage and a microphone and did it. Even Father Hesburgh showed up. I don't know if I was more nervous when I appeared on stage for the Tonight ~how or for AnTostal." 
During AnTostal's first year, Brogan "just helped out." He col­lected empty pie plates after the pie­in-the-face contest and entered every single event. 
"I did it because there weren't too many people who would enter some of the events; " said Brogan. "That first year, it was just an idea in Ron Mastroni's and Dave [Ryan's] heads. We had no idea that it would be so big and so popular. " 
For his remaining years at Notre Dame, Brogan was in charge of publicity for AnTostal. The award originated from some of the stunts Brogan pulled. His plan was to pub­licize AnTostal, the newest addition to student fun at Notre Dame. 
"Mostly I just publicized myself. I put my picture in the [AnTostal] Booklet as much as I could," he said, in an earlier inter­view. 
Brogan· "feels very funny" about having an award named after him. "lt feels kind of silly, really," he said. "I went back for AnTostal once or twice after I left ·and heard about [the award]. I have a great fondness, for the weekend. It was terrific fun." 

. Asked ifhe had any \\lords for 1988's winn:er, Brogan replied, "congratulations. I'll look to see them on the stage doing stand-up in a couple of years. I just hope they aren't thrown out like I was." 

April 14, 1988  15  
'  '  
'  '.  '1'  I  I  '! 11­ •  .  -•  ----~·~---~'" - .. ;:,___i_,,_  

Live the Tradition Together 



Sub cribe to cholastic 

FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send ___ years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address _____________________ 
City ___________State ___Zip _____ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __ years = $___ 
Baseball 
The Notre Dame baseball team upped its record to 20-13 (6-2 in the Midwest Collegiate Conference) by talcing four games from rival Xavier last weekend in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Irish coach PAT MURPHY got solid performances from all his players as Notre Dame increased its winning streak to six games. Key performances were turned in by PAT PESA VENTO, who hit .412 and stole four bases, and DAN PELTIER, who hit .357 and had three RBIs in the weekend series. 
In Saturday's doubleheader, the Irish collected a total of 29 hits as they won both games by scores of 14-2 and 13-4. Pitchers MIKE PAS SILLA (3-3) and KEVIN CHENAIL (3-2) picked up the victories on Saturday. Notre Dame swept Sunday's doubleheader by scores of 6-1 and 7-6 as pitchers BRIAN PIOTROWICZ (4-3) and ERIK MADSEN (6-2) upped their combined record to 7-1 since spring break. 
The Irish will face a tough opponent this coming weekend when they host the University of Detroit in back-to-back double­headers. The Irish are looking for no less than a split in the series, which would most likely ensure a MCC tournament bid. After their series with Detroit, the Irish will travel to Kalamazoo, Michigan to take on Western Michigan on April 19. 
Track 
The Notre Dame track team sent a number of runners to the Purdue Relays last weekend and came away with some impressive performances. 
Sophomore GLENN WATSON won the 110-meter,high hurdles in a time of 14.4 seconds while freshman MARK LAVERY took third in the 800 meters in a time of 1:55.1. MIKE BURNS turned in an excellent third­place finish in the steeplechase with a time of 
9:43.4. The Irish also took second place in the distance medley relay in a time of 10: 11. 
In the field events, the Irish got strong performances from freshman JOHN COLE, who placed second in the high jump with a leap of 6-8, and BRIAN DRISCOLL, who took third in the javelin with a throw of 178-1. The only Irish win in the field events came from senior TIM SMTI'H, who won the discus throw with a toss of 158-10. 
The Trish travel to tbe west mast this 

weekend to take on the Cardinals of Stanford University on Saturday April 16. 
Golf 
The Notre Dame golf team travels to Columbus, Ohio, this week to compete in the Robert Kepler Intercollegiate, April 15-17 ., The Irish will face, among other teams, the power­house Ohio State which is seeking its eighth straight Kepler title. The tournament will in­clude Big Ten and Mid American Conference schools along with several major independents. 
The Irish look for senior captain DICK CONNELLY to repeat his performance of last year, when he finished 15th out of 120 golfers in last years Kepler Tournament. The Irish are also hoping that junior PAT MOHAN will continue his outstanding play. MOHAN tied for medalist honors during Notre Dame's last outing, the Purdue Spring Invitational held April 1-3. MOHAN led the Irish to a third place finish out of ten teams as he shot rounds of?l-75-78. MOHAN currently leads the golf team with a 75.9 stroke average for the spring season. 
Lacrosse 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team upped its record to 7-1 after defeating Kenyon College in double overtime last Saturday by a score of 7-6. Junior attacker and leading scorer JOHN OLMSTEAD netted the winning goal for the Irish. Senior goalie MATI McQUILLAN had an outstanding game, recording 14 saves in the contest, including several in the overtime periods. 
Notre Dame entered this week with a six-game winning streak, the longest in Irish lacrosse history. Notre Dame hosts Lake Forest on Wednesday before taking on Denison College on Saturday. Earlier this year the Irish defeated Lake Forest 11-6 in the Midwest Classic in Chicago. Denison, however, has given the Irish problems in "the past, holding a 6­2 series advantage after dominating Notre Dame 14-8 last year. 
Injuries will hamper the Irish as they enter this week's action. Notre Dame is without the services of senior attacker JEFF SHAY, who is out for the season because of ligament damage in his knee. DA VE KIDDER, ART BRADY, and MA TI McQUIL­LAN have also been hampered by injuries. 

~,jjij11\1 
. . -' ; last .ieek1s rnat?hes 
· '< .·· ,. (agai11s,~ . Purdu( ~M 

If~;~~lJ$ni~1~t)(~,H
overToled.6 iri the doubles cqmpetition> . . . . 
Men's Tennis 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team stands at 14-10 on the season after fmishing 2-2 in last week's action. The Irish return home to face Indiana State and Ohio this weekend. 
The Irish iost 5-4 to Michigan State last Wednesday, despite wins by RYAN WENGER, DAN W J!!LSH, and PAUL ODLAND in the singles competition. 
In their first outdoor matches of the season last weekend, the Irish beat Louisville 6­0, lost a season rematch to Southern lliinois 5-4 and defeated Bradley 8-1. 
The doubles team of DAN WALSH and PAUL DAGGS went undefeated in three matches last week, while freshman PAUL OD­LAND won all four of his singles matches to up his season record to 10-2. 
Women's Tennis 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team won two of three home matches last weekend, losing to Northwestern 3-6 but defeat­ing Toledo 8-1 and Purdue 8-0. The 10-13 Irish complete their spring road schedule this weekend when they face Southern Illinois and Mankato State. 
In last weekend's action, freshman CECE CAHILL upped her record to 16-3 with three wins in the top singles position. ALICE LOHRER also finished undefeated in the number three singles position. 



A team best 8-1 start g1vesldsh Lacrosse a 
good shoot at conference Champs 
By Pete LaFieur 

T 
he numbers on the scoreboard 
warned of something to come: 666­

-six goals for the Notre Dame la­crosse team and six for Kenyon, in the sixth period. The Kenyon Lords had patiently controlled the ball in the two sudden death overtimes and their zone defense had sty­mied the Irish attack. But Notre Dame quickly responded by moving the ball upfield. Senior tri-captain Tom Lanahan found John Olmstead open near the net and from there it was destiny. Olmstead powered through two defenders and drew the goalie out As the shot entered the net the Irish team stormed onto tlie field with an 8-1 record and a key Midwest victory. 
"That truly was a game from hell," 
junior attack Mark Healy said of the game 
that saw the Irish blow a 5-2 halftime lead. "The pressure was very intense in overtime and if we had lost it would have been a long bus ride home." 

The circumstances surrounding the Kenyon game are typical of the excitement that has followed the team all year. The Notre Dame lacrosse team is on the verge of a ten win season, an accomplishment that it has never achieved in its seven year varsity his­tory. 
The Kenyon game was the fourth this year in which the Irish had to ·hold off the opposition after establishing a considerable halftime lead. According to head coach Rich O'Leary, that ability shows the team's over­all character this season. 
"Winning a game in double overtime helps build the character in your team espe­cially since it looked like Kenyon had all the momentum," O'Leary said. 
The scoring ability of attack John Olmstead has contributed to the excitement of the season. He has 25 goals and 12 assists for the year and is on a 60 point and 41 goal pace, which both fall just short of the single season records. Olmstead is the sixth all­time.scorer for the Irish with 86 points and he set the single-game scoring record against Michigan when he tallied five goals and four assists. 
"John has a strong desire first ofall to score and he will work hard to get off a good shot," O'Leary said. "He almost always draws the defensive attention and that opens things for others. John comes up with the big plays for us and puts his body on the line when the time comes." 
The Irish attack was faced with a 

major setback when senior creaseman Jeff 



Shay suffered a season-ending knee injury against Lake Forest three weeks ago. Shay was the team's third leading scorer. Sopho­more Dave Carey has stepped in for Shay and along with fellow starting sophomoreattack­man Brian McHugh, will be counted on to pick up the slack. 
Despite the loss of Shay, the team has been able to adjust to challenges all year. The majority ofthat credit goes to the middie line, which is responsible for controlling the tran­siLion from offense to defense. 
The middie line has the unique bal­ance of leadership from the seniors and sur­prising contributions from the freshmen. Senior tri-captains Tom Lanahan, John McNicholas, and Art Brady have emerged as the first-middie line while freshmen John Capano, Pete Gillin, and Mark Brady have played key roles in the backup middie posi­tions. 
Lanahan said the captains comple­ment each other well and emphasized a key factor between himself and McNicholas. "I've played with the kid (McNicholas) since seventh grade and I'm glad to beplaying with him now. I look for him when I look for the open man and we know how the other guys play." 
That sense of teamwork and comple­menting each other is evident throughout the team. Depth at middie has allowed senior John Burtis to play a key leadership role on several middie lines while juniors Dave 

Coach O'Leary has guided the team to an 8 -1 record. 

Kidder and Mark Rizzieri have contributed in roles such as faceoffs despite having been injured during the year. Sophomore Mike Quigley adds further depth to the middies because of his speed and ability to secure ground balls. 
"On the team this year we have no one star and luckily we have the depth such that many guys can come up with big plays when we need them," O'Leary said. 
The defense is anchored by starters senior Randy McDonald and juniors Kevin O'Connor and Doug Spencer. Sophomore Jeff Salamon, like Shay, went down with a knee injury early on but junior Brendan Cahill and freshmen Dave Barnard and Eamon McAnaney have filled in when needed. 
Senior goalie Matt McQuillan is re­turning after missing all of last season. He is backed up by sophomore Jeff Glazier, who started every game last year. The Irish de­fense has been particularly effective in man­down defense, holding 75% of the time. 
Just as all the players have stepped forward to fill roles, so too must the team realize its responsibility to make lacrosse more popular in the Midwest and more competitive with the east, said Lanahan. Notre Dame and other Midwest schools such as Michigan State and Ohio State have trav­eled eastward to take on the traditional pow­ers. Meanwhile, the competition within the Midwest continues to improve each year. 
O'Leary sees the competition in the Great Lakes Conference, which Notre Dame won in '85 and '86, as "tighter than last year." Defending champ Michigan State is still the favorite among the seven teams, alLhough they lost badly in two games back East and lost 17-7 toDenison. Ohio State, meanwhile, lost to Michigan State and came up short against AirForce by only one goal. Thus, it appears that the Great Lakes title could be decided in the last week of the season when the Irish host the Spartans and the Buckeyes. 
The Great Lakes Conference eliLe compete with the North Coast Athletic Con­ferece (NCAC) leaders for the Midwest Lacrosse Association crown, which is cho­sen by a selection committee. The five team NCAC is led this year by perennial powers Ohio Wesleyan and Denison and surprising Kenyon. Wesleyan was runner-up in Divi­sion III last season and is among the top ten 

"One of our main goals is to make the program at Notre Dame more competitive with teams all over the country" Lanahan said. "De­pending on how we do this year affects what kind of teams we would play next year. A good season puts us a step closer to playing a whole new league of 
teams" 
teams in the nation. 
Notre Dame closes their season with four big games in the final two weeks. They host Denison on Saturday at Kraus stadium and then travel to Ohio Wesleyan for a game April 23. The Irish then close out the year at home with the Spartans on the 27th and the Buckeyes on the 30th. 
The Irish's only loss this year was to Air Force, who O'Leary says has the inside track to the NCAA Tournament western bid. However, should the Irish •win all their games-especially Michigan ,State-and if Air Force falters, Notre Dame could be se­lected as the NCAA Western representative. 
Lanahan said the final games will be key in judging the success of the season. "One of our main goals is to make the pro­gram at Notre Dame more competitive with teams all over the country," Lanahan said. "Depending on how we do this year affects what kind of teams we would play next year. A good season puts us a step closer toplaying 
. ------~-------­
I.. -------­


a whole new league of teams." 
Lanahan estimates that the Notre Dame lacrosse team is among the top 30 teams nationwide. He said the team is now striving to break into the top 20. But the team's primary goals are to win the Great Lakes and Midwest crowns, and that all hinges on the final six games. The team realizes their toughest games are ahead of them. Yet, according to O'Leary, tbs simple fact that the Irish are in a position to go after at the titles is a testament to the team's ability to cope with adversity. 
"We've played most of our games on the road and have been using a lot of under­classmen. The fact thatwe'vecomeoutofthe first nine games with only one loss is great considering all that," 0 'Leary said. "Now we can realistically say we have a shot at making the NCAA tournament and that's a tribute to the growth oflacrosse in the Midwest and the conviction of the guys to make Notre Dame a consistently competitive lacrosse power." 
John Olmstead, as the team's leading scorer, is on his way to a new scoring record. 

/: 
Iii 
L 
I I 
I \ 

Music/ Ann Seifert 




Previews and Reviews 
Bad news, then good news. First off, I have to fulfill a promise that I made in my last article. I'm sorry (somehow) to print that Husker Du has indeed broken up. It seems hard to believe that the Warehouse double album was their last. These three Minneapolitians were truly historic figures on the underground music scene for many years. Hats off to you, guys, you are/ were the greatest. And now to bum out more of you, the Housemartins too, have called it quits. It seems that when they formed, they vowed secretly to re­main together for only three years. They even set the date for the break­up. That date has passed. Can you just imagine the chaos at Elektra (their label) when this was discov­ered? Not too cool... Okay, now some good things. The Jazz Butcher released his newest album, entitled Fishcotheque, last week on Relativity records. The LP sounds great, especially the first side. Check that one out if you can. The big new band hitting the col­lege charts is House of Freaks. Their album, Monkey on a Chain Gang, moved up 40 notches on the college charts two weeks afterits first appear­ance, and with good reason: every single song is strong and very good. The LP is out on Rhino Records and 
is rock/guitar music with nice vocals by the Richmond, Virg. group. It's well worth your time. 
Restless records has released a cynical and absolutely hysterical punk album by the Pajama Slave Dancers, titled Blood, Sweat and Beers. "Defreeze Walt Disney" and "Psycho Date" are just two of the many killer tracks on this album. It absolutely SHREDS! 
Midnight Oil's album Diesel and Dust is one of those albums that grabs you and becomes better and better as you hear it more and more. "Wara­kuma" and the single "Beds Are Buming"moveme. SST is issued the debut Run Westy Run LP on April 1, and believe you me, it will make some waves. They are from Minneapolis. A REPLACEMENT(haha) for Husker Du?-Just possibly. 
The new New Order single "Touched By The Hand of God" is· okay. It doesn't really take the lis­tener into new realms of music, but it is not trash either. Besides, every­body knows that their 1981 debut album Movement is their best any­way. At least I hope you all knew that. 
Wire has a new single out and a new album, A Bell Is A Cup Until It's Struck, due out in late late April, so I hope you didn't spend all of your money during spring break. Also, Billy Bragg will have a live album out in May. 

I'm embarrassed to admit that it tool me a while to listen to John Stewart's Punch the Big Guy album, because it had a boring cover. How­ever, after I finally got the record out of the sleeve, I was hooked. Mellow acoustic guitar, sad vocals and haunt­ing 1 yrics a bound. Very moving stuff, 
especially "Botswanna", the single, which has a line that goes, "And the pictures of the children with the flies in their eyes." Never judge an album by its cover. The Damned compilation double album is out and and spans the group's singles from 1976 to 1986. Its 1976 single "New Rose" beat the Sex Pistols by a mile. Even though their newer stuff is pretty lame, The Damned do not deserve to be forgot­ten. They were just too good for that. Listen to The Light At the End of the Tunnel, and you'll see why. I'll leave you with a good story. · While on tour in Europe, the rocking band The Leaving Trains was forced by officials at the West German border to set up and perform an im­promptu concert on the spot to prove they really were musicians and not drug smugglers.. They played some Sex Pistols and Stooges covers and were then allowed to enter the coun­
try. Can you believe it? 
April 14, 1988 

Coming Distractions 

THURSDAY, APRIL 14 


LECTURES 
"Cantor and the Continuum 

i 
i Hypothesis", by Dr. Mary! Tiles.
/.
I 122 Hayes Healy 
I 
! 
SMC Department of English reading by Denise Levertov, poet-'in-residence. Carroll Auditorium. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 15 
EDUCATION 
Department of Economics Public Policy Workshop with John Palmer, Urban -Institute. 131 Decio Hall. 
Kellogg Institute Seminar (Brown Bag) "Journalism During the Transition to Democracy in Brazil" by Carlos Eduardo lins da Silva. 105 La\v School. 
SPORTS 
SOFTBALL SMC vs. Butler University 
3:00 SMC Baseball Diamond 
FILMS 
"Matewan" Annenberg Auditorium 7:00, 9:30 SATURDAY, APRIL 16 
SPORTS 
TENNIS ND Men vs. Indiana State 9:00, Courtney Courts 
Nd Men vs. Ohio University 3:00, Courtney Courts 
SUNDAY, APRIL 17 
MUSIC 
ND Chamber Orchestra Spring Concert 4:00, Washington Hall 
SMC Student Recital Karen Kee, French horn 7:00, SMC Little Theater 
22 


•' • ' ,.,, ! • ., 
,•,'~ ,, --~ . . . 
.. 


MOVIES 
University Park West Good Morning Vietnam 7:00, 9:30 The Unbearable Likeness of Being 8:00 The Fox and the Hound 7:30 Vice Versa 9:30 
University Park East Bright Lights, Big City 7:30, 9:30 School Daze 7:00, 9:30 The Seventh Sign 7:45, 9:45 Johnny Be Good 7:30, 9:30 18 Again 7:30, 9:30 Police Academy V 7:45,9:45 
Town and Country Bad Dreams 8:00, 10:00 Moonstruck 7:45,9:45 Biloxi Blues 7:10,9:30 Scottsdale 18 Again 7:40,9:40 The Fox and the Hound 7:15 Johnny Be Good 9:00 
South Bend White Sox Friday, April 15 Cedar Rapids Reds 7:00 Saturday, April 16 Madison Muskies 7:00 Sunday, April 17 Madison Muskies 2:00 

CONCERTS 
The Radiators The Vic 3145 N. Sheffield Friday, April 15 
The Ventures The Vic Monday,__April 18 Ziggy Marley Park West 322 W. Armitage Sunday, April 17 
Baalam and the Angel Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark Friday, April 15 Gaye Bykers on Acid and Pop Will Eat I ts elf Cabaret.Metro Saturday, April 16 
23



Final Word 


school. In fact, I should have just retired with my high school GPA an 
extra-curricular activities! Notre Dame, however, draws the best. haven't set too many curves this ye (zero, to be exact). I do think my newfound humility is an asset, though. It gets me to work harder, learn more, and respect the skills o 
others. 
So freshman year is almos over for the Class of 1991, but the memories are just beginning. Those ugly blind dates for SYRs(they sure looked good in the <logbook, though), the first trip to Beacon Bowl, and th endless stories about spring break at Padre-these are all things that will b remembered for years, even if w wished to forget some of them now. 
I don't think my year has been that much different from other fresh­men. It has been fun, but I am kind o glad the year is winding down. I a anxious for next year to come, though, when I'll be living in a spa­cious triple, not the eight by fifteen foot heat box I presently occupy, 
when I'll feel more comfortable with my classes and at least be able to find them, and when Ill no longer be lowly freshman, but a mature (who an I kidding?) sophomore. Ill 



One Down, Three To Go 
By Steve Wagner 

he drive up US 31 from Indi­
napolis was anything but re-axing. Sure, I was excited, but at the same time I was nervous. Reality had arrived-the days of SAT's, prom nights, and curfews were over. The same kid who started high school with fears of not being able to open his locker now was a freshman at the University of Notre Dame. Would I like my roommate? How hard would my classes be? Could I even find my classes? The first few weeks.of school seem so long ago. Thank God. I lost track of the amount of "let's-get­acquainted" cook-outs I attended when the number hit triple digits. Getting up early Saturday morning to go tailgating was difficult at first, but, by the second game, I jumped out of bed with enthusiasm. After hearing so much about fall football weekends at Notre Dame, I wasn't disap­pointed. Leaming to balance my checkbook wasn't so easy, either. I'm so fariri the red, my banker thinks I'm a Communist. Memories remind me of the lessons learned throughout the last eight months, and my initial uncertainty about ND has been erased. Like most freshmen, getting used to dorm life was important to 
me. Luckily, the upperclassmen don't haze you, they help you. From the beginning, the older guys in Dil­lon made it clear that_they, with cars and valid ID's, would help me in any way. The dorms do a great job getting freshmen involved socially, and my dorm was no exception. Here only one week, I found myself on the front page of the Observer with a bra over on my head. (My roommate and I had won the Dillon scavenger hunt.) In addition to getting socially on track, dorm life also let me know how im­portant religion is here. I've attended Catholic schools all of my life, but religion takes a different form at Notre Dame. Mom and Dad aren't making me go to church. I want to attend Mass on Sunday night. Eight months ago I did not feel this way. But then again, eight months ago I was not at Notre Dame. 
I must be forgetting · some­thing about my freshman year. I had fun and went to church ... what else did I do? Oh yeah, the reason I'm paying tuition: academics. 

Arriving at Notre Dame can be a real slap in the face for a lot of freshmen. For the first time in their lives, classes are hard and grades don't come easy. Like so many other freshmen, I came here following a very successful four years of high 





(BUi 1't\6 R~l, WORi..-o IS Wo~SE) 
WHY GO TO CO LLE.6E? 
SO FAR \t-) ~\Fe, YOU'VE. BEEN ST\JC'!:::. WIT!-\: 
•IRKSOME. Tc:STS 
• A~l'lO'{IN(:, BVS'{wo~K 
•IRRLTATl~G C:,A.~o~S
\~?"--._,J 
• ~Olt.!Tl.l:SS R!Jl-E$ 
• ~OURS E. LI:· 

HOW 'TOlcl..L 8'( Me~Et.Y 6l-A.JWJ6 fITTKE i MAIL-Oll-lE.71-{EQ oi;?. t.!OTYOIJ HAVE Bt:E.J ., ACCcPTE.D TO THE COl-l-EGE OF '(ol.1'1. (HOICt J: 
Tlllt'<: £).IVtLo!'E. Tlllol EtJYEl.01'£ PosTcAQc,, ~ 
~~.~~
~ BA'1. uttol\. ~
--------------~£
YOUR COLLE(,E PREPAgATIOtJ ; TIME.TABLE 
1-ic-,.i-OE_i_G/£._~--DO-lJ'T_S_W_cA_T_lT.-.-N-0----1:t; 
• 4''" C,l!Al>E MPrl"ER-(.\)\{AT T~I{ SAY,.. YO<JR Sc.HOOL RE.COQo WI 1..L
©
_ NOi Fo1.1..ow You i=oR "TtlE ~cST 01= 'iouji?. l-lFE • 

G 
STAIIT Sll)Elrr1~.8.£G1,J PtAN111~G Ut.l\)lel\C.Atrr COl,(.€6'-PRtPAl:!A~'t' S~I.E.PlC~ D1PP'( ~o~ca.le 
AcnVtTll:) il-l~T WIU. too~ G,ooQ otJ 
Yoo~ C.oi..t.e.c.e APP~ICA"TlO"'· 
L,~ "Tit£ FRElWlG Cot-\M.ENC.E.. 

G 
SeCOME 0@/S£SSE.o Wtn\ l/oul2. 
~Pot.rr IWteJlut. C.oNTll'IIIE 
01PPY &~v~e1tut,Al Aa"lllli\ES'. 

\QTII GP.A.OE
Q 
IJJ~Y ABout TW: lit? c;R~et.. 


0 
1"~"t:t P~l\p.\1,-IP,~'i AP'T ITUOc: 
T~. IJOf-\lT ~~El2..W~RoS'. 
CH~ O<Jt COU.E.6E: 6u10E ~ -Tiu. lfou~ e't,c. <i,t.A,I: O\JEe.. 
1"A.l::E APTI T\JOt TE:S"t>. \lot"rr-BE.FOQE. i:!.11117 AFTtR. 
T~',' TO \G..i05!.E 51.-0W SIN\clr,)(; tEJ-l~ATlON. ~\tilt: A I..OT OF BEE2. 
Co,.lT 1"3U ~ ~5?.E.IJ'ttEV DIP f'( At.T 111 lT\EC,. APPl-'( TO StH00t.~. TA.~ AP'TITVOI: °tt"o°t'S AGA•fll. V0M.1T 8£.e:ote., ouQ.i.i(', BR.EA~. ANo A~Te.e. -. 
PllEPA.RE. FOP-AR.Ree,A>J i' JO'-( 02. ~SP£~-re ~HAME.. 
ll)K~"tcllcJL H~PP&J~, 2cl..A'IC. 
l T0S fl)6t" "™-E &Ii) 0~ '{oue.. 1,1F€.rr'c; .)OST ~e SE<i11'1N1,I{, 01=1\lE &:,ti,: 



,!
·, 
·, ,-.·..-·••-•.-•··-·... -· ·~ ­






