HOW THE STARS GOT STARTED
S
Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey say: “Our Dad led the brass band in our home town. He started us on our way tooting in the band when
we were eight years old. We watched and studied successful musicians as much as we could, worked real hard and, little
by little, began to get there?
THE I FABULOUS
FOR MILDNESS AND FLAVOR
6
I STARTED
THE GUYS WHO ENJOYED
SMOKING MOST WERE
UKE CAMELS FLAVOR
DORSEYS

IVE SMOKED CAMELS 15-20 YEARS SINCE I DISCOVERED camel's SWELL
FLAVOR. AND
WONDERFUL MILDNESS
SMOKING CAMELS
LONG AGO. I WATCHED, AND
GUYS WHO SMOKED
CAMELS.THERES NOTHING
k

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America's most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!
amels agree with more people THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
Scholastic
Vol. 95 March 12, 1954 No. 18
WANTED
Founded 1867
£ntered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BM/N SURGEONS
FOR GUIDED MISSILES
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ....................Features FRED C. ECKART ............News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ....Assistant News JOHN A. ADAMS .......................Copy
ROBERT B. FROLICHER .........Sports JERRY D. BAIER ........Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..........Circulation BOB FOWLER__________Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE_______Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey. Tim Devereux. Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton, Robert Kaufman. John Kelly, Eugene Les-mez, James Mason. James McIntosh. Charles McKendrick. Jack Mullin. Francis Newman, Dick Norton. Jim O'Brien. Henry O’Bryan. Tom Quinn, Dick Rust. Pete Sturtevant. Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Norman Wendrowski.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus. Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Kit Eckl, Gary Gates, John Guegen, Dave Kilkeary. Jack Kirby. Ray Lescher, Dick Mannion, Jim Morris, John Phelan, Bob Ruhl. LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: The Bengal Bouts have always been close to the heart of Scholastic’s editors, since they were first dreamed up by one of our predecessors back in 1931. The Scholastic handled promotions for the Bengals for many years until—like everything else that people seem to like—they grew .up too fast. Our thanks to Father Brennan, “Nappy” Napolitano, and publicity man John Snakard for lining up another interesting evening for St. Patrick’s night when the finalists start slugging it out for the missions in Bengal, India.
CORPORATION
Fundamentally, guided missiles are planes without pilots or "pilotless” aircraft. To enable the missile to fulfill its mission, a substitute is needed for the human element.
Our "brain surgeons”...scientists
ironies and servomechanisms departments...supply this substitute.
Complex electronics systems are the brains of a missile. Servomechanisms provide the "muscles.” Engineers are needed to develop these important "brain-muscle” systems. You can’t possibly find a more chai-
• ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS
•	MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
•	AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERS
•	PHYSICISTS
•	MATHEMATICIANS
Contact your Placement Director to arrange for an appointment on...
March 11 and 12
or write to
ENGINEERING PERSONNEL
P. O. Box 1 Buffalo 5, N.Y.
March 12, 1954
3
Fish, Steaks, (hops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
V2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
Joe Nabicht’s Restaurant “Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Want to travel and study abroad?
Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Visit the countries of your choice .. . study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour .via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.
VBlUV aWU*
Week Query A Snap
Editor:
The WEEK is slowly, but surely driving me nuts.
Do you mean to infer that it takes an alumnus of the synthetic subway variety to discover that one Jack Dittmer of Iowa and Milwaukee Brave fame is the answer to your query? Perhaps I should be more charitable toward the current crop of Notre Darners, as I had the pleasure of seeing Jack perform against the ’49 National Champs, as well as cavort in the flannels of the transplanted Braves last year.
Heartiest congrats on “The Frank Leahy Era”; also The Week in the same issue of the Scholastic. That issue will be treasured as a permanent part of my collection of reading material pertaining to Notre Dame. I’ve read reams of printed matter on the Irish, and her sons, but yours was tops.
Sincerely,
Fred Weineck
Sorry, you, finished late. Mr. Murphy announced the tvinner in his column on March 5.—Ed.
Always A “However” •
Editor:
I had the good fortune of receiving the Feb. 12 Scholastic—indeed one of the most enjoyable Scholastics I have read. However (and there always seems to be a “however”) there was one discordant note, and that appeared as the sole contribution to your “Letters” column.
I can honestly say I have never read a more pompous, bombastic letter in my life. Master Jackson’s desire to show us his accomplishments in English grammar is appreciated; he may have a good point, but I can truly say that it was never discovered in the morass of useless verbosity.
It occurs to me that the effective mode of punishment would be to separate Mas-' ter Jackson from his pocket Thesaurus.
Yours very truly, Alan Pando
Eng. (SC) USNR
Class of ’53
P. S. I have tried to keep this letter simple for the youth’s sake. I’m sure
■ (Continued on Page 6)
DRRW TURBOW
\0PT0METRIST
— OPTICAL REPAIRS --------
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces” --- EYES EXAMINED---------
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
Aaumad, liitaMf, and Book Sitop
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
HOW’D YOU LIKE TO...
earn $5000 a year...
be an officer in the air force...
get an exciting head start in jet aviation...
AND
belong too great flying team?
Captain Maurice G. Steele and the Aviation Cadet Selection Team No. 401 are coming to Notre Dame to show you how. They’ll be here three days, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, March 17, 18, and 19. Meet them in the Cafeteria from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.
4
The Scholastic
Parker-Wiiternwd
Inc.
by Ken Murphy
Top of the WEEK
In five short days Sweeney’s will be selling mucho beer...
36-23-36
Meandered over to another of the many exercise's so instrumental for seniors before graduating from the old alma mammy the other Saturday—the annual measurement of bodily lengths to make sure we will fit into oui- burlap sacks on Commencement day. The affair was held in the Vet Rec Hall. We were never in there before, which is probably one
reason why they had the measuring there. Probably figured that none of the other fourth-year men had seen it, either, and it would be kind of nice if they knew what it looked like before leaving here. It isn’t such a bad place, we suppose, if you’re a vet.
One fellow in line near yours truly noticed on the measurement card that a gown with bachelor’s cap was a buck eighty-five while a master’s cap and gown was two smackers. After thinking it ove'r carefully he finally decided to spend the extra fifteen cents and get a master’s degree.
Proof-Reader, Printer: Take Note
Mr. and Mrs. North and 'South America and all the ships at sea . . . the kid who won the contest was Al Parillo— Parillo, with an “o”—not Parille. Sorry, Al, it was spelled right when it left the old Remington. By the way, finish the crossword puzzle?
A Rally? No, O’Reilly
In case you didn’t know, and it didn’t look like anyone did, there was a pep rally over in the Fieldhouse last Monday eve for the basketball team. At least the basketball team was there, so we imagine it was for them. We would’ve asked somebody, except there wasn’t anybody else there. Oh, Father Joyce and Coach Jordan and Frank Crosiar were there, but they were up with the team.
It wasn’t so bad, though. The team made quite a racket clapping for Jordan, Crosiar, and Father Joyce and these three did likewise' for the team. The band got in a couple of toots now and then, and the whole thing had the makings of a pretty good brawl until one of the cheerleaders stuck his two cents in.
It was right after Rosie had suggested that the student “body” might
like to hear from the other seniors on the team that cheerleader captain Ed Hannan grabbed off the mike and started yelling some sort of cheer, whereupon the band struck up the Victory March and goose-stepped out of the place . . . and we never did hear from the other seniors.
All we’ve got to say is Father Joyce and Coach Jordan were lucky they got their speeches in when they did.
Fourth Row, On the Aisle
We took in The Lavender Hill Mob at Washington Hall last WEEK—you know, one of those jobs with Alec Guinness in it. It was the first movie we’d attended over at the local popcorn-less palestra since last year, when we saw something about a man in a white suit —with Alec Guinness in it (both the movie and the suit).
You know, after thinking about it, seems that Alec was over there a couple of times before that, too. Maybe it would be a lot simpler just to give him an honorary degree, eh what?
Personals
Everybody will now kindly turn to the next page, ’cause this is sort of personal :
We’re sorry you slipped and fell and we honestly hope you didn’t hurt yourself, but we just can’t refrain from saying “we told you so.” Here you thought we were a wise-guy columnist trying to be smart when all the time we were just looking out for your own welfare; P.S.— Now will you keep off the front steps of the Main Building?
Bottom of the WEEK
... and Walgreen’s mucho alka-seltzer.
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
hrhr-Wiiternwi
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
1151/2-117y2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
March 12, 1954
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquete and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Letters
(Continued from. Page 4) he can dish it out; but I have my doubts as to whether he could understand it.
■
Editor:
I am in business with Frank Leahy, and I was very much pleased with the wonderful article which appeared. in youi- fine publication.
I have been reading about Frank Leahy ever since he and I were first associated at Boston College, and I never have seen an article which was more complete, more thorough and more accurate than that by Mr. Ken Murphy.
Kindest regards.
Sincerely yours, Bill Sullivan
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts of the country for Seniors and graduate students in Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics Also for Seniors in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER NOW at the Placement Office On the main floor • Administration Building INTERVIEWS on MARCH 15-16
Senate Committees Sponsor Devotions and Social Sunday
The local Lenten social agenda will again include family rosary devotions Sunday afternoons in Sacred Heart Church at 2:30 p.m., followed by an informal social in the Student Center.
Student nurses from St. Joseph’s Hospital and St. Mary’s students will attend. Cards, movies and records will offer the entertainment for the afternoon.
The Sunday afternoon mixers are a combined function of the Student Senate spiritual and social committees. The spiritual commissioner is Fred Paxton while Phil Bolin heads the social committee.
Notre Dame Selected as Site For '55 Relations Conference
Notre Dame’s Economic Round Table discussion group was successful recently in nominating the University as the site for next year’s International Relations Conference. The designation of Notre Dame as host school assures the campus organization of the offices of president and corresponding secretary for the midwest region during the 1954-55 academic year.
This year’s International Relations Conference for the Midwest saw some 20 colleges and universities participating. A delegation of ten represented the University in a discussion of economic, military, and political problems facing the nations of the world.
The Economic Round Table is a current affairs discussion group which meets weekly> and gives its members the opportunity to develop a thoughtful interest in immediate social, political, and economic issues.
6
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 18	Notre Dame, Indiana	March 12, 1954
Plans Complete For 2nd Parent-Son Weekend; Fr. Hesburgh, Coach Brennan to Meet Parents
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, Terry Brennan, head football coach, and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will welcome parents of the Junior Class to the second annual Parent-Son weekend to be held Saturday and Sunday, March 20 and 21. Both Father Hesburgh and Terry Brennan will meet parents personally in the Student Center while Father Burke will speak at the 9 o’clock Mass Sunday.
Parents may begin their weekend with Mass in the Dillon Hall chapel Saturday morning. Masses for the parents will be at 8:30 and 9:15 a.m.
Saturday morning there will be guided tours throughout the campus. Parents will see the Nieuwland Science Building,
Lenten Devotions to Be Held Wednesdays at 6:45 P.M.
The Lenten Series opened March 10 in Sacred Heart Church with a brief talk by Rev. John A. O’Brien followed by Benediction.
This Lenten series by Father O’Brien will continue every Wednesday night throughout Lent at 6:45 in Sacred Heart Church. Lenten devotions are especially recommended by His Excellency the Archbishop of the Diocese' of Fort Wayne as a substitute for the recent dispensation from Lenten fast and abstinence.
Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion, stated recently, “I suggest students make this series a must. Local dispensations do not absolve the student from the obligation to practice penance during Lent. Additional private devotions should supplement positive' offerings like daily Mass and Communion.”
There will be daily adoration from 8:30 to 5 every weekday from Monday through Friday. On Friday evening the Novena to the Sorrowful Mother is held at 6:45, as usual. A week-end of recollection for each residence hall is planned to coincide with the closed senior retreat on the Palm Sunday weekend.
Students are urged to read the Religious Bulletin for further announcements concerning devotions during Lent.
the O’Shaughnessy Art Galleries, WNDU’s new radio station and actual classes in the O’Shaughnessy Building. There will also be a bus trip to LO-BUND, Notre Dame’s famed research center.
Lunch will be served in the Dining Hall under the usual student dining conditions.
Deans Will Meet Parents
During the afternoon, the deans and the faculty of the various colleges will be on hand to meet the parents. Student representatives will conduct tours through each of the buildings.
From 3:15 to 5:15 p.m., Head Football Coach Terry Brennan will be present at the Student Center to meet the parents during the continuous showing of the movie “Football Highlights of 1953.”
The President’s Dinner will be held Saturday in the Dining Hall. Father Hesburgh will speak; Jim Sherer, Junior class president will be the toastmaster, while the Notre Dame Glee Club will provide the entertainment. After the dinner parents may meet Father Hesburgh and other University officials in the Student Center.
Sunday morning, Father Burke will speak and the Moreau choir will sing the High Mass in Sacred Heart Church. There will be a reserved section for parents and sons at this Mass.
To accommodate parents, special bus transportation has been scheduled directly from the Oliver hotel for parents staying downtown for the weekend. These buses will be on hand to pick up and to bring back the parents from the campus at prescribed times. A bus schedule will be given parents when they register Saturday morning at the Morris Inn.
The Blue Circle will have information booths in the Oliver Hotel, the Morris Inn and in the Dining Hall for the parents’ use.
Parents who could not be accommodated in the Morris Inn have been notified and reservations made for them at the Oliver Hotel. Students wishing to check on the rooms of their parents should see Jim Sherer in Room 102, Sorin Hall.
Circle Begins Member Drive This Wednesday
Gene Howley, chairman of the Blue Circle, has announced that the honor society’s annual membership drive will begin Wednesday and continue through March 28. Application for membership must be made in writing before midnight March 28 to the Committee on Membership, Blue Circle Honor Society, c/o the Student Center.
Applicants for Circle membership are to submit a lettei- stating reasons for application, scholastic average, college major, and previous activities in high school and college. New members will be selected on the basis of personal interviews by panels of Blue Circle members.
To be considered for admission, the applicant must possess an accumulative academic average of at least 80 percent,
GENE HOWLEY
Room for 18 in Circle
a satisfactory disciplinary record, and must have attended the University for at least one semester.
The Blue Circle’s constitution limits membership to 45 men. This includes, nine sophomores, 13 juniors, 17 seniors, and six members at large. There will be-openings for 18 new members this year. Pat O’Malley is chairman of the membership committee.
March 12, 1954
Irish Melodies From Carillon Bells to Echo Across ND Campus on St. Patrick's Day
By JIM GIBBONS
On Saint Patrick’s day, as is traditional at Notre Dame, familiar Irish airs will resound through the campus. The arrangements will be played by Tom Murphy, a senior in Arts and Letters from Indianapolis, who will be seated in the Clavier room high in the main spire of Sacred Heart Church.
Tom Murphy will be playing the first carillon ever installed in the United States. This bell collection was cast in 1850 by the famous bell masters of Bolle, France, and purchased by Father Sorin in Le Mans.
Has 23 Bells Dedicated to Saints
The collection contains 23 bells in all, with each bell personified and dedicated to a particular saint. Six of the bells were solemnly consecrated, and 17 simply blessed, by Archbishop Purcell on November 12, 1856. Each bell is en-
Self-Styled Fisherman
Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Department of Art at Notre Dame, won first prize of $100 for his self-portrait called “Trout Fisherman” at the current Northern Indiana Art Salon. The Salon was held at the Edward C. Minas Co. of Hammond, Ind. The painting, done in oil colors, was judged the best in the portrait classification and was awarded the Col. Walter J. Riley prize. Photo shows how the artist posed before a mirror “in costume” as he worked at the half-way stage of his painting.
graved with the name of its maker and the date of the casting.
The bells vary in size from nine to thirty-nine inches in diameter although each is identical in form. They are suspended from timbers approximately two feet thick, but each hangs independently of the other. The bells themselves do not swing, but are struck by mallets controlled by the player. The mallets are connected to a series of pegs and pedals located in a room just below the bells. These pegs must be hit firmly by a clenched fist in order to obtain the proper sound. The bells are tuned by ear, by tightening or loosening the wires connecting the pegs and the mallets.
The tradition of the bells, begun in the late 1880’s, was interrupted during the past decade. It was not until early in 1952 that the bells were rehung and rewired and the tradition was carried on again. Previously the bells worked on the player piano principle and were so arranged that a revolving drum, with pegs at suitable places, tripped a hammer against the lip of each bell.
There has always been a bell in Notre Dame’s history. In 1843 the first bell was brought over from France by Brother John. It was hung in the Old College and blessed by Father Sorin on Christmas Eve. Although it was small compared to the bells of today it brought much joy to the priests and Brothers. It weighed approximately 600 pounds and was quite sufficient for the size of the campus.
Storm Destroys Belfry
When the new church was built, the bell was transferred to a belfry above the sanctuary. The belfry was destroyed in a wind storm in 1851, and later that year the bell was given to Saint Mary’s College.
Late in the summer of 1851, Notre Dame purchased a much larger one from the bell works in Cincinnati. It weighed 3,220 pounds, and it was elevated to the main spire of the church.
The chimes were added at this time followed by a large, booming bourdon, weighing 15,400 pounds. Hung directly beneath the chimes, this bell was rung for solemn Mass and as Father Hope said in his book One Hundred Years, the bell also called the students to the fine meals served by the French nuns, who were wonderful cooks.
The bell was solemnly blessed and dedicated to St. Anthony of Padua by
(Continued on Page 17)
Dr. Kane, Father Nealy Give Marriage Talks
The Marriage Institute will present two Notre Dame faculty members as guest lecturers on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Dr. John J. Kane, head of the' Department of Sociology, will speak on “Tensions of Mixed Marriages.” Rev. ■ Francis D. Nealy, O.P., will discuss “Canon Law on Marriage.”
Dr. Kane, a member of the faculty since 1948, studied at St. Joseph’s College and received his doctorate' from the University of Pennsylvania in 1950. He is a specialist in the field of family, race, and ethnic group relationships, and interreligious tensions. Dr. Kane is the author of Marriage and the Family, a Catholic Approach.
Father Nealy, born in Chatham, New Brunswick, Canada, studied at St. Mary’s College, Halifax, Nova Scotia; Notre Dame; and the Catholic University of America. Formerly an instructor at Providence College, he has been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1949. From 1942 to 1946, Father Nealy was a chaplain in the European Theatre of Operations. He attained the rank of major and was awarded the Bronze Star.
The Marriage Institute lectures are open to seniors, graduate', law, and married students. After every lecture there will be open discussion from the floor. Tickets, 50 cents for the remaining lectures, will be on sale' at the door. Three books on marriage are awarded as prizes at every lecture.
Bill Guilfoile, chairman of the series, points out that, “Seniors should try to attend all the lectures, thereby obtaining an integrated picture of married life.”
Fr. Joyce Dedicates, Blesses WNDU Studios Wednesday
The new studios of WNDU were officially dedicated and blessed last Wednesday by Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University.
A reception and open house for sponsors and radio people from South Bend and Chicago were held in conjunction with the event. Among those' present were Joe Boland and Art O’Neil of WSBT, Warren Wheeler of the South Bend Tribune, William F. Reilly, central division manager of RCA Victor Thesaurus, and R. W. Durst, vice-president of Hallicrafters Corp.
Featured during the day’s special programming was a transcribed personal interview with Bing Crosby by Tom Cassidy.
8
The Scholastic
!
i i
For the past several weeks over 75 usually calm young men have been vigorously pounding one another in the Fieldhouse for two hours each afternoon. The reason for this physical exertion— 42,000,000 people in Bengal, East Pakistan will benefit through Holy Cross missions.
Tonight the’ second preliminary round will begin at 8 p.m. The final round of the preliminaries will be held tomorrow night, followed by the semi-finals next Monday and the finals on St. Patrick’s night.
All this activity finds its roots 23 years ago when someone decided to promote a boxing tournament and let the “talkers” show what they could do. The Bengal missions needed help most so this scheme developed into the annual Bengal Bout tournament.
The Scholastic backed the fights for the first few years but the detail work became too great and the Knights of Columbus jumped at the chance to promote future events.
All proceeds from the 22 years of activity have been used to finance Holy
FATHER TOM BRENNAN and “NAPPY”
The men behind the punches
Cross activity in 24 mission stations, three hospitals, five orphanages, five high schools, and ten colleges now thriving in Bengal.
Recognized as one of the most fertile fields for missionary work in India, Bengal has only a little more than 40,000 Catholics out of its total population of 42,000,000.
Father Brennan Promises Action
Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., the genial general chairman for many years, promises some real slugfests this year. John Snakard is the promoter who will lead the financial drive.
Above the dirt track in the Field-
“Guts, Leather
house, the long high-ceilinged boxing gym has been under constant invasion by the eager fighters who daily spar with ten punching bags, shadow box, do calisthenics, then conclude their workouts with a two-mile jaunt around the track.
Mr. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano is responsible for all this energy as the bout’s head trainer and the man who will guide only nine boxers to a title and a small gold boxing glove award.
On St. Patrick’s night, the finals will get under way at 7:30 p.m. This year’s guest referee and recipient of the award for having done “the most for boxing in the last year” will be welterweight king, Kid Gavilan.
Brennan Gives Gavilan Award
Gavilan will receive the award from the new Irish football coach, Terry Brennan. Coach Brennan is a former Bengal Bout champ, having won the 165-pound title back in 1947.
Gavilan will doff his coat and become “the third man” in the ring for the 147-pound title clash. Gavilan will be accompanied by his trainer and handlers.
Gavilan became a national hero in his native Cuba when he won the welter crown by defeating Chicago’s Johnny . Bratton in 1951. Last year in defense of his title, Gavilan easily beat last year’s Bengal award winner, Chuck Davey. This April the “Keed” will meet Bobo Olson for a crack at the middleweight crown.
Gavilan wishes to follow in the footsteps of Ray “Sugar” Robinson in winning both the welterweight and middleweight titles without defeat.
Cabral, Kelly Push Walsh
Bob Joseph, last year’s 165-pound champ, will be the only defending champion this year. Ed Sarna, light heavyweight winner in 1953, has switched to the middleweight division. Jerry Boyd, who lost to Sarna in the 1953 finals, is the leading contender for the vacated position. Larry Ash and Lee Getschow are also strong contenders for the title.
Heavyweight Jim Walsh is the only veteran returning in that division. Walt Cabral or Bob Kelly is expected to come through and challenge Walsh on Wednesday.
A 36-year-old Korean marine vet, Al Ireland, is the outstanding personality
Catholicism”
I
Just a Sample ‘53 Bouters Squaring Away
entered in this year’s bouts according to “Nappy.” He is the most wounded marine in the history of the United States and also a former service boxing champ.
Tom Magill, current titleholder, will be out to retain his crown against the efforts of Ireland and the other 127-pound contenders.
Tickets for the semi-finals and finals may be purchased from hall representative’s. Jerome Smith, student Grand Knight, is seeking more financial returns this year. He has stated that “Buying a ticket to see good boxing and benefiting a charity at the same time is an unbeatable bargain.”—Dick Connelly
Daily Workouts The Best Possible Shape
March 12, 1954
DR. CAPONIGRI
Sunday.- “Italy in Free World”
Dr. Caponigri Gives Aquinas Talk Sunday
Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, associate professor' in the Department of Philosophy, will speak on “Italy in the Free World” Sunday evening as a presentation of the ninth annual Aquinas Lecture Series. These talks are sponsored by the Aquinas Book Shop and are given each Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Progress Club, 601 West Colfax Ave.
Dr. Caponigri has studied at Loyola and Harvard universities and received his doctorate in philosophy and literature from the University of Chicago.
He has had yearly stays in Italy, in 1950 as a research professor under the Fulbright Act at the universities of Naples and Rome, and again in 1952 on a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to the Italian Institute for historical studies.
His first book, Time and Idea, was published in England, and another, History and Liberty, will appear this Fall.
The following week, Rev. Godfrey Diekmann, O.S.B., of St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn., will discuss “The Holiness of Marriage.” Father Diekmann, a well-known speaker, conducted Summer courses at Catholic University and Notre Dame. He has also edited the liturgical magazine; Worship, since 1938.
On March 28 Dr. Patrick Casey of the Department of English at Loyola University will discuss “Sense in Censorship.”
The serie’s will conclude on April 4 with Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., of Notre Dame’s Department of Art, speaking on “Beauty Excommunicate.”
Christopher Fry's 1951 Broadway Smash Hit, 'The Lady's Not For Burning,' Opens March 18
Next Thursday at 8:30 p.m. the curtains will rise for the first performance of The Lady's Not For Burning. With Eugene’ Gorski and Miss Eleanor Kaskey in the starring roles the play is expected to be one of the better productions of the University Theater this year.
Christopher Fry, the author of the play, is noted for the blank verse poetry which he employs to unfold the story of his play. Besides The Lady’s Not For Burning, he has also written A Phoenix Too Frequent and Venus Observed.
15th Century Setting
The Lady’s Not For Bzvrning. a three-act poetic drama, is set in a 15th century English village. The play tells the story of the disappearance of a rag man and the humorous, and at times absurd, events which follow^ A young girl is accused of murdering the’ rag man and a soldier confesses; but the rag man is not dead, he is just missing.
First produced in England, the play had a successful Broadway run during the 1951 season.
Gorski, the baritone soloist for the Glee Club,, will portray the male lead of Thomas Menlip. Miss Kaskey will play the role of Jennet Jourdemayne,
HOLD EVERYTHING!
Contrary to the announcement in our editorial page last week, Scholastic will not publish the results of its survey on seniors’ midnight lights until next week.
—Ed.
the young girl accused of murder. In the supporting roles are Miss Rody Oppenheim, as Alison Eliot, and Richard Robison, as Tyson, the mayor of the village.
Jerry Godwin and John Nolan have the parts of Nicholas and Skips, respectively, while Miss Nancy Irgang portrays Margret. Others in the cast are William Bellis, George O’Donnell, Philip Donahue, and Leland Croghan.
Prof. John Tumpane of the Department of Speech is directing the whole production. Assisting him as technical director is John Kirby, who also has charge of designing the sets. Dave Friske is stage manager, and Stephen Steckbeck will supervise set construction.
Performance dates are Thursday, March 18, and March 19, 20 and 21. On Sunday, March 21, there will be a matinee and an evening show. Tickets will be on sale at the main information booth
of the Main Building from 1 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday next week.
On the days of the performances tickets go on sale at 6 p.m. General admission is $1.00 and the price for students and faculty is 50 cents.
Hayawaka Resumes Semantics Lectures
Dr. S. J. Hayawaka, noted lecturer and reviewer, will resume his series of addresses Monday and Tuesday in continuance of the Spring Guest Lecture Series of the College of Commerce.
The talks for the coming week will be staged in the Law Auditorium Monday at 4:30 p.m. and Tuesday at 2:30 p.m.
The series of addresses is entitled “Semantics—The Science of Words.” General semantics has to do with words, and also the people who use them and how they use them.
At present, Dr. Hayawaka is a lecturer at the University of Chicago and a guest lecturer at Kansas University, University of Denver, University of Wisconsin, and Columbia University. He is president of International Social General Semantics and rice-president of Social Contemporary American Art.
Foui- of Dr. Hayawaka’s talks were given during the past tw’o weeks. Dates for the remainder of his series are March 22 at 4:30 p.m., March 23 at 2:30 p.m., March 29 at 4:30 p.m., and March 30 at 2:30 p.m. All sessions will be held in the Law Auditorium.
Students, faculty, and public are invited to these lectures.
DR. HAYAWAKA More About Words
10
The Scholastic
Bethlehem, Chevrolet Head Job Talk Lists
The Placement Bureau has announced the schedule of interviews from March 15 to >19. These interviews apply, unless otherwise stated, to both master and bachelor candidates expecting to receive their degrees in either June or August, 1954. Special note is made of the opportunities for doctoral candidates.
Only those officially registered in the Placement Bureau are eligible to sign up for the interviews. A special announcement is made to those engineers interested in the Bethlehem Steel Corp. “Loop Course.” They are urged to see the Placement Bureau at once. This is the last call.
The schedule of interviews follows:
Monday: Philadelphia Naval Shipyard, Philadelphia; National Bank of Detroit; Socony-Vacuum Oil Co.
Monday and Tuesday: Bell Telephone Co.
Tuesday: Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corp.; General Chemical Division, Allied Chemical and Dye Corp.; CutlerHammer, Inc.; Metals Research Laboratories, Electro Metallurgical Co.; Chase National Bank of New York City.
Tuesday and Wednesday: Touche, Noven, Bailey, and Smart, a public accounting firm; Ford Motor Co.
Wednesday: Sherwin-Williams Co.; Montgomery Ward; Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corp.; Dodge Manufacturing Corp.
Wednesday and Thursday: U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station; U. S. Naval Air Missile Test Center; U. S. Naval Electronics Laboratory; U. S. Naval Ordnance Laboratory.
Thursday: Talon, Inc.; The Trane Co.; State Farm Insurance Co.; Chevrolet-Flint Manufacturing Corp.
Friday: Armour and Co.; The Torrington Co.; The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U. S.; Liquid Carbonic Corp.
Those qualified for and interested in the above interviews should come to the Placement Bureau, Main Building, as soon as possible to sign up and to get additional information and qualification blanks.
Graduate Students Establish Philosophy Tutoring Service
A philosophy tutoring service, which offers personalized instruction in all undergraduate philosophy courses, has been inaugurated at Notre Dame .by two graduate students.
John Fitzgibbon, teaching fellow in philosophy, and Richard Spurney, graduate assistant in the bureau of Testing
and Guidance, recently announced the establishment of the service. Their aim is to “place personal guidance and professional tutoring at the disposal of every student.”
According to Fitzgibbon, the two graduate students plan to tutor undergraduates through the entire semester in order to avoid “needless and distasteful cramming at examination time.” They believe their method will enable the student to maintain satisfactory progress throughout the course and deepen his appreciation of philosophy in the process.
,Spurney may be contacted for further information at Apartment 18, Vetville, and Fitzgibbon at 234 Tonti St., South Bend, or by phone at 4-4478.
THE COXSWAIN
WHO WANTED TO BE A NUDIST
The coxswain of a leading university crew didn’t like to be tossed in the water after a victory. He didn’t like it so much the crew started tossing him in-the water any old time they saw him near it.
He complained bitterly that it was ruining all his sportshirts. He liked nice sportshirts, but all he owned had either shrunk or streaked or spotted. He was not a happy coxswain. With no more sportshirts, he contemplated joining a nudist colony.	•
He told the whole wretched tale to the Dean of Men.
The Dean said, “You like really good sportshirts, eh? Something like a fine gabardine?”
“Uh huh,” the coxswain beamed.
“Try this—take S5.95 down to the nearest men’s store and get a Van Heusen Van Gab. It’s the best-looking gabardine sportshirt you’ve ever owned and it’s completely washable—any kind of water. What’s more, it’s got real pick-stitching on the collar, pockets and cuffs... it’s got a Sportown collar that looks as smart with a tie as without. Van Heusen really knows how to make 'em.”
Said coxswain is now sportshirt king of the campus. Owns Van Gabs in all smart non-fade colors. Called best-natured coxswain on east coast. Doesn’t wait to be dunked by crew. Jumps in, Van Gab and all.
Senior Weekend Ducats Go on Block March 29
Ticket sales for the 1954 Senior Ball will get underway Monday, March 29, at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, Ticket Chairman Tom Stubler announced recently. Cost of the bids is $9.25.
One-fourth of the 580 tickets available will be saved and placed on sale Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons, March 30-31. Ninety tickets for the Communion Breakfast on Sunday will also go on sale with the bids at S3 per couple.
Ball-goers will receive free ducats for a Friday afternoon open house in the Center and Saturday night dance there.
SWISBBSBMM!
11
March 12, 1954
‘SCHOLASTIC’ FICTION
The Scholastic is looking for fiction writers for short story features in future issues.
All those interested are invited to submit their work to the Scholastic for consideration.
Entries will be accepted in the Scholastic’s office, located in the basement of Farley Hall, Sunday and Monday nights before 9 p.m., or may be submitted to Paul Fullmer, Feature Editor, 415 Badin Hall.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED • OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
RESTRING WITH
At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.
STANDS UP in your racket • Moisture Immune • Lasting Liveliness
STANDS OUT in play
• Harder Smashes • Better Cut and Spin
ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKET STRING Choice of The Champions
COSTS LESS than gut
APPROX. STRINGING COST: Pro-Fected Broid....$6.00 Multi-Ply Braid..$5.00

Aviation Cadet Selection Team Here for Conference
The Aviation Cadet Selection Team from O’Hare International Airport, Park Ridge, Ill., will be here next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, March 17, 18, and 19. Members of the team will be in the Cafeteria from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. answering questions and counselling interested students concerning the cadet program.
“At present there is a big need for both pilots and aircraft observers in the Air Force,” says Capt. Maurice G. Steele, the team’s commander. “We will be glad to talk with anyone about these training programs. We feel that pilot and aircraft observer training offers a young man a great opportunity to gain wide experience during his military service.”
At the start of training the cadet receives a free §10,000 insurance policy, medical and dental care, food, housing, uniforms, flight clothing and equipment, and a regular monthly allowance of §109.20.
Successful completion of training .results in a commission as a second lieutenant with a salary of over §5,000 per year, an aeronautical rating as pilot or aircraft observer, and a 30-day leave with pay, plus unlimited opportunities for education and travel.
Glee Club Sings in Symphony at Adams Auditorium Sunday
Sunday at 4 p.m., the South Bend Symphony Series will present the Notre Dame Glee Club in conjunction with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra in the John Adams High School Auditorium.
The Glee Club will sing three numbers, “How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place” from the requiem of Brahms; the prayer from “Lohengrin,” by Wagner; and the “Battle Hymn of the Republic,” by Steffe-Ringwald, all with the accompaniment of the orchestra.
The highlight of the school year for the Glee Club is the annual Easter tour. Approximately 40 members of the club make the trip, singing in the eastern sector of the nation.
This year’s tour will begin on Easter Sunday afternoon with a luncheon sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of New York at the Hotel Pierre. That night the club will make its seventh annual appearance on Ed Sullivan’s TV show, “Toast of the Town.” Sullivan’s show has an estimated weekly audience of 45,-000,000 viewers.
During the following week the Glee Club will perform in Summit, New Jersey; Washington, D. C.; Philadelphia; Pittsburgh; and Buffalo. The Club closed the tour on Saturday in Cleveland.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, March 13—Ember Saturday of Lent.
Sunday, March 14—Second Sunday of Lent.
Monday, March 15—Monday of the Second Week of Lent.
Tuesday, March 16—Tuesday of the Second Week of Lent.
Wednesday, March 17—Feast of St. Patrick, Confessor.
Thursday, March 18—Feast of St. Cyril of Jerusalem.
Friday, March 19—Feast of St. Joseph.
Eight Law Juniors Survive Moot Court Quarter-Finals
Eight Law School juniors survived the quarter-final eliminations of Moot Court competition for the annual Dean’s award, which were held here recently.
The students surviving the eliminations were: John W. Houck, Mark S. Tolle, Joseph F. Gargan, Thomas J. Griffin, Wilber L. Pollard, Robert J. Maley, James J. Kelly, and Armand P. Deatrick. The arguments were concerned with administrative' law, introduction of evidence, and property questions.
Judges for the contest included Hon. Aldo J. Simpson, judge of LaPorte County, Hon. Alban Smith, judge of Elkhart County, and Carl L. Chatten, South Bend attorney. Law students and faculty members also served on the judging committees.
The Notre Dame Moot Court was established in February, 1950, and was designed to give budding barristers an opportunity to secure practical experience under court conditions. Participation is open to all junior law students on a voluntary basis.
Irish Speakers at Brooklyn In Hopes of Snaring Trophy
The Debate Team hopes to keep up its trophy-winning pace at the Brooklyn College Tournament held today and tomorrow. The meet is one of the largest in the East, drawing over a hundred teams each year. The Irish speakers have won the meet the last two years, and a win this weekend will retire the •rotating trophy.
Representing Notre Dame are President William Hank, Vice-President Don Dowden; Novice Director Charles Doherty, and Freshman Allan Riley.
The team has brought home four trophies and a medal in the past two weeks of debating. The next meet ■will be held here on campus next weekend.
12
The Scholastic
THE BIG ONE! NOTRE DAME BATTLES INDIANA
Big Ten Champs Provide Regional Opposition; ND Downs Wolfpack, 80-70, to Win Sectional
By BILL NOONAN
Notre Dame puts its championship hopes on the line tonight in Iowa City against defending champion Indiana. The clash between the old rivals may well be the key game of the entire NCAA tournament.
The teams met in the NCAA last year at Chicago in the regional finals. The Hoosiers, with Don Schlundt scoring 41 points, whipped the Irish, 79-66, and went on to win the championship.
The Irish, winners of 17 straight, have another and more recent motive for revenge. In December, Indiana handed ND one of its two defeats, 66-5-5, at Bloomington. In that game, ND had a woeful 20 percent shooting average.
To beat the Hoosiers, Notre Dame must stop the one-two punch of Schlundt and Bobby Leonard. These two have
sparked Indiana in almost every game the past two years. Schlundt, the 6’9” center, tallied 544 points this season, an average of almost 25 points a game.
Leonard, however, according to many observers, is the key man on the Indiana team. Although he averaged 16 points a game, Leonard is most recognized for his play-making and clutch playing.
A good example of Leonard’s worth is the Notre Dame game: early this season. Dick Rosenthal held Schlundt to nine points, but Leonard, hitting consistently from the outside, scored 22 points.
The third highest Indiana scorer is Dick Farley, a 6’3” forward. Farley averaged a little over 10 points this season. At the other forward will be 6’5” Charlie Kraak, one of the best defensive men in
the Big Ten. Burke Scott will be Leonard’s running mate at guard. Both. Farley and Scott averaged 6.5 points per game.
The Hoosiers won the Big Ten conference with an 11-3 record. Their overall record was 19 wins, three losses. The ’ losses came at the hands of Oregon State, Northwestern, and Iowa.
The Irish gained the opportunity to meet Indiana last Tuesday night, when they defeated Loyola of the South, 80-70, at Fort Wayne. The Irish were far from impressive and seemed to be looking ahead to tonight’s game'. ND moved to a 10-point lead in the first quarter and never trailed from there' on in. Loyola, however, gave the Irish and their fans a scare in the third quarter when they whittled the Irish lead to five points.
Loyola’s Dick O’Donnell, who averaged only nine points a game during the season, gave the Irish all kinds of trouble with his long shots. O’Donnell scored 32
(Continued on Page 15)
>	HOOSIER HOTSHOTS! . . . CAN THEY DO IT AGAIN?	I
.	Charley Kraak, Bob Leonard, Don Schlundt, Dick Farley, Burke Scott, Coach Branch McCracken	>
Irish Harriers Capture CCC Indoor Meet; Ten Members Travel to Milwaukee Relays
By winning five of the 12 events and tying for first in another, Notre Dame’s track squad finished on top to capture the 27th Central Collegiate Conference Championship and thereby dethrone the defending champs from Marquette.
The host Irish compiled a total of 59 points, while the Hilltoppers were next with 38.- Third place went to Michigan Normal with 23%, while the other teams in the order of finish were: Western Michigan, 18 4/5: Bradley, 16; Drake, 12 3/5; Central Michigan, 8%, and Wayne, 3 3/5.
Anticipation was high as the mile event got underway. Sophomore Bill Squires set a new Notre Dame record earlier this year by running the mile in 4:13.7. Squires won the event in 4:16.2 as he paced himself very well and won going away.
The two-mile run was one of the most exciting of the running events, as Bob Allen of Marquette, trailing all the way, but pacing himself magnificently, finally took over at the beginning of the final lap. Allen kicked home a 9:33.8 winning time. ND’s Jim Daly crossed the line in third place.
The Irish’s Jack Alexander supplied the crowd with another exciting finish as he won the' 880-yard run. Trailing all the way, and running second behind Bill Squires going into the final turn, Alexander turned on a savage burst of speed and drove past the finish line ten yards ahead of Squires. Alexander’s time was 1:55.7.
Notre Dame’s versatile sophomore sensation, Bernie Allard, had the best qualifying time in the 60-yard high hurdles, but had to settle for a second place to Western Michigan double winner, Russ Henderson. The winning time was :07.6, while Allard was clocked at :07.8.
Participating in the high jump Allard fought to a first-place tie with Dick Richardson of Bradley. Both men cleared six feet three inches, but each failed in three attempts at the 6’4” mark.
John Bennett, NCAA outdoor broad jump champion last season, and the possessor of a 24 feet 6% inch leap this year, furnished Marquette with one of its two first places as he leaped 22 feet 5% inches.
In the shot put Ben Zajeski of Notre Dame finished first with a toss of 48 feet 1% inches as Notre Dame and Marquette completely dominated this event. Hilltoppei* Frank Scaffidi finished second with 47’4” and his teammate Dean Mielke placed third. Jack Cunningham and Nick Raich of the Irish
placed fourth and fifth respectively.
In the 60-yard dash, it was all Ira Murchison of Western Michigan, as he won the event in :06.3 seconds. Tim Keyes of Michigan Normal, Gordon Busse of Bradley, Al Pestrichella of Notre Dame and Jim Podoley, Central Michigan’s one-man track team, finished next in that order.
Notre Dame took second in the 440-yard run as Glenn Davis of Michigan Normal, last year’s 440 champ, outdistanced Dennis Malec of ND. Davis’ time was :50.3, one full second slower than the existing record of :49.3 set in 1932 by Notre Dame’s present track coach, Alex Wilson.
Two heats were run in the mile relay, as places were awarded on competitive times. Notre Dame’s team of Bill Copeland, Alexander, Dick O’Keefe, and Schoenig won the event with a time of 3:24.4. Drake, Michigan Normal, Marquette, and Wayne finished in that order.
The leading collegiate pole vaulting duo of Jim Harrington and Capt. Joe Springer left the field far behind except for Bradley’s Paul Erickson who tied Springer for second place. Both men cleared 13 feet 8 inches. Harrington jumped 14 feet, but was unable to beat his own Notre Dame and meet record of 14 feet 3% inches.
Accounting Bowlers Replace KC for Lead in Gold League
After leading the Gold League since the first week of the season, the K of C Club has dropped into second place behind the Accounting Club. The K of C, which once held a seven-point lead, now trails the Accounting Club by a couple of points in the tight race.
The Cleveland Club continued to move still further away from the rest of the pack in the Blue League by taking three out of four points from their closest competitors, the Met Club. The Clevelanders had a 986 series, the high for the day, and three Cleveland bowlers rolled a series of 530 or better.
For the fourth time in five matches Notre Dame’s bowlers dropped a match by a count of three games to two, this time at Valparaiso last Saturday. Notre Dame still managed to take total pins from Valpo though, and thus took more points than Valparaiso according to the Peterson scoring system.
John Aquilla again led the Irish with a 915 series and 201 and 205 single games. Paul Pfohl also turned in a 210 single game, Notre Dame’s best effort of the day, and Buz Velotta hit an even 200 game.
Kentucky Edges W.Va. For Hall Cage Crown
Led by Paul Hornung and Bill Ryan, the Kentucky Club edged the West Virginia Club, 45-43, in the interhall cage finals last week to capture' championship honors.
Kentucky jumped off to a 12-10 first period lead as Hornung matched hook shots with the outside set shooting of Bob Joseph and Bob Cavanaugh of the Virginians. However, three push shots from the corner and an amazing lay-up by Joe Goebel, the game’s high scorer, gave West Virginia the scoring edge in the second quarter. A last-second shot from some 50 feet out by forward Sherrill Sipe's put Kentucky ahead, 22-21, at intermission.
Goebel, Joseph, and center Chuck Hanley were the big pointmakers for West Virginia in the final quarter as they outscored the Kentuckians, 14-11, but the gap was too much to overcome. Ryan’s five points in the last quarter, including two crucial free throws in the closing minutes of the contest, proved to be the clinchers for Kentucky.
For the victors Ed Hannan, a senior guard from Paducah and Alumni, ac-
KENTUCKY’S STARTING FIVE
Stave Off Loser's Late Rally
counted for four points. His running mate at the other guard slot, Sipes from Louisville' and Cavanaugh, tossed in eight points. Center Paul Hornung was high man for the Kentuckians with six field goals and four free throws for a 16-point total. Bill Ryan, a sophomore forward from Maysville was Kentucky’s second highest scorer with 13.
West Virginia’s starting lineup was composed entirely of seniors. Joe Goebel, a forward from Parkersburg and Walsh Hall scorched the nets for nine field goals to capture game scoring honors.
14
The Scholastic
Leonard, McCoy Lead ND All-Opponent Squad
Indiana’s Bob Leonard and Michigan State’s Julius McCoy were the only unanimous choices on the 1953-54 Notre Dame All-Opponent Basketball team for the regularly scheduled season. Navy, however, dominated the squad, placing two members, John Clune and Don Lange, on the starting five.
Along with Leonard at the other guard post was DePaul’s scrappy little 5-10 playmaker, Jim Lamkin. McCoy and Clune won the forward slots while Lange edged out the Hoosier giant, Don Schlundt, for center.
Lamkin, a junior, was the highest point-maker of the quintet against Notre Dame. Lamkin squirted through the tight Irish defense for a two-game total of 48 points, scoring 18 in the first encounter in Chicago stadium and 30 in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse with his one-man performance.
Lange, a junior at Annapolis, scored a tidy 23 points against the Irish. His teammate, Clune, the highest scorer in Navy history, dumped in 18 in the losing battle. Leonard, in his last year for the Hoosiers, poured in 21 points to help hand the Irish its first defeat of the season last Dec. 14. McCoy, the Spartans’ sensational sophomore, burned the nets with 29 points, but to no avail as the Irish fought from behind to edge out Michigan State.
Other opponents receiving votes were: Young, guard, Canisius; Togo Palazzi, Holy Cross forward; Louisville’s Chuck Noble, forward Boris Nachamkin of NYU and Indiana’s Schlundt.
The results of the games against the Irish by teams which these players represent, were: ND 84, Navy 72; ND 74, Michigan State 71; ND 59, DePaul 53 (first game); ND 86, DePaul 71 (second game) and ND 55, Indiana 66.
NCAA Tourney
(Continued from Page 13) points, hitting on 12 of 24 from the floor.
ND’s Dick Rosenthal also hit on 12 of 24 field goal tries and wound up with 31 points. Joe Bertrand had 16; John Fannon, 15; Jack Stephens, 10; and Bill Sullivan, eight.
The winner of the Notre Dame-Indiana game will meet the winner of tonight’s opener between L.S.U. and Penn State tomorrow night. L.S.U. received a bid to the tourney when Kentucky declined after they had beaten L.S.U. Tuesday night.
Penn State, who beat Toledo, 65-50, at Fort Wayne, has a 15-5 record; L.S.U. has won 20 and lost three'. The losers of tonight’s games will play in the consolation game tomorrow night.
by Bob Froiicher
The Old Stamping Grounds
Junior Stephens continued to find easy pickings in his favorite fieldhouse in Milwaukee last Saturday. In the last regularly scheduled game of the season, the Irish guard scorched the nets for 29 points. In his three years on the varsity, Stephens has averaged 21 points a game against the Hill-
toppers in Marquette. As
JUNIOR STEPHENS Home Sweet Home
a sophomore he again carried away scoring honors with 20 points, while in his freshman year he poured through 14 points, coming in as a substitute for Entee Shine, former Irish guard.
Stephens’ scoring spree pushed him ahead of Joe Bertrand into the number two spot in pointmaking with 381 points. Bertrand was close behind with 375. However, with the first tournament game under their , belts, these two are deadlocked in the race and are well on their way towards the 400 mark. Both have 391 points. If both Stephens and Bertrand go over the 400 mark this year, it will be the highest scoring trio in Notre Dame history.
Led by Captain Dick Rosenthal the 1953-54 squad has already become the highest scoring team Notre Dame has ever fielded. Rosenthal saved the Irish from possible defeat Tuesday, tallying 31 points to raise his total to 463 and
a very respectable 20.1 average. The Loyola (New Orleans) win also set a
new record for the Irish as they chalked up their 17th consecutive win.
What’s Wrong With the Students?
Everyone will agree that basketball pep rallies are something new around Notre Dame. Usually the novelty of a new thing attracts enough people to form a representative audience. This has not been the case. Two rallies have been held for the hoopsters before they left for away games and only a handful of students turned out for either one.
Week after week during the football season, those who carry the great Notre Dame spirit packed the fieldhouse to listen to various guest speakers and members of the football team. The players on the basketball squad aren’t any different. They are one of the greatest, if not the greatest, teams Notre Dame has ever had. They deserve just as much backing as football. They have held a national ranking all season. If the students have any appreciation for the fine work of the basketball team, they sure' did a good job of keeping it under cover at the recent pep rallies.
Fencers Face Chicago, Tech; Pick NCAA Representatives
The Notre Dame fencing team will match blades in the third triangular meet of the season against the University of Chicago and Lawrence Tech tomorrow in Chicago. Coach Langford’s boys, led by Captain Rod Duff in the epee division with 19 wins and three losses, Dick Hull, foil, with 18-4 and Gerry Finney, sabre, 21-1, are expected to have little trouble with either school.
Finney, a senior and last year’s sabre representative in the NCAA meet for the Irish is shooting for 30 wins this season. With four matches remaining he
is expected to reach his set goal. It was Finney’s spectacular performance that helped lead to the Illinois upset two weeks ago.
This year the Irish will be represented in the NCAA meet by Duff, Hull, and Finney. Last year the team finished seventh but hopes to win a berth in the ’ top five this season. The best a Notre Dame fencing team has ever done is sixth, the best any Midwestern school has placed in this meet. The meet will be held in Chicago on March 26 and 27.
The fencing team’s remaining matches are at Cincinnati—a triangular affair with the Wildcats from Kentucky and the host Bearcats furnishing the opposition on March 20.	■
March 12, 1954
15
Lack of Church Policy Cited by Fr. McAvoy
Bev. Thomas T. McAvoy has ventured in The Catholic Church in World Affairs, a book to be published April 3 by the University of Notre Dame Press, that although American Catholicism is characterized by a remarkable religious uniformity, its lack of a national political organization makes it “difficult, if not impossible, to speak of a national Catholic attitude on any political or social matter.”
Father McAvoy’s chapter on “The Catholic Church in the United States” is •one of 16 contributions to the volume on various aspects of the Church in the contemporary world.
The most important chaiacteristic of the Church in this country, in Father McAvoy’s opinion, is “its almost absolute division into diocesan units with the individual bishop in almost absolute control of the institutions and faithful •of the diocese.”
Except in matters of Catholic doctrine and practice, “there is little uniformity in these dioceses or their bishops,” Father McAvoy writes. Noting that some bishops might be classed as liberals and others as conservatives, he says that ^the fact that they are uniformly de-
Once there was a Senior who was up against the grim prospect of Graduating. With Social Security 42 years away, he recognized the need of a job to Tide Him Over.
So he burrowed manfully through Classified Sections, under "Help Wanted”, in search of the Right Niche. Spotted it, too. A honey. The right field, a Substantial Salary, me location, pensions and benefits Up To Here. The ad asked for Brief Histories from applicants.
He wrote immediately. Not cockily but convincingly. A masterpiece that took four nights and filled several pages with Deathless Prose. It left no doubt that here was The Man for the Job. He slapped on a 6-cent stamp, dropped it into the box, and sat back waiting for The Calk
105 N. Main St.
voted to the spiritual life of the Church in matters of essential faith and morals makes the contrast among them in personal, social and even political matters quite evident to the close observer.”
Further evidence of diversity within the Catholic Church in the United States, in Father McAvoy’s opinion, is “the lack of any organized national support” for Catholic educational, scholarly or literary organizations.
The Notre Dame historian underscores the fact that “the' American Catholic minority is approximately 85 percent urban, that it has an even higher percentage of persons of non-English ancestry in its congregations, that about 90 percent of those Catholics of English-speaking ancestry are of Irish origin.”
Considering the urban concentration of American Catholics, Father McAvoy finds it “not surprising” that Catholics are “influential in political matters in larger urban centers where numbers can be brought to bear through the ballot box, or that they have considerable influence in those labor organizations which thrive in urban surroundings.”
“Neither is it surprising,” Father McAvoy writes, “that along with millions of other urban workers the mass of Catholics have little economic security, but are dependent upon earned
A JOB IS A JOB
IS A JOB
WHEN YOU GET IT
OR the case of the six-cent patsy
P.S.—he didn’t get the job. His epistle wound up 334th in the pile, and they never got down that far. Hired one of the first eight, as a matter of fact—all of whom had had Enough Perspicacity to flash the data by telegram and land On Top of the Heap.
Before you start jockeying for a job, be sure to latch onto your free copy of the Telegrammar, Western Union’s ingenious pocket-size guide to telegraph use. (Just write Room 1727, Western Union, 60 Hudson St., New York City.) And remember, whatever the Project, you’re smart to use Telegrams to Get the Jump on the Competition. Telegrams get In, get Read, get the Reaction you want. Wonder-workers in all kinds of ventures ... whether you’re Dickering for a Date, a Hotel Reservation, or Pesos from Pop. Just call Western Union.
Telephone 3-6101
wages and that like all urban groups, despite Catholic doctrines on marriage and the family, they tend to die out.” Father McAvoy concedes that there are wealthy Catholics in the United States but says that their numbers or influence are not great “in those activities in which large funds are required.”
Father McAvoy sees “a desire among many Catholics to have a proportionate share in determining public opinion. The acceptance of disestablishment doe's not in any way disfranchise Catholics or bar them from a full practice of their Catholic faith. Neither should it prevent them from leadership in American public life.”
Lawmen Will Present FBI in Fact Forum
The Federal Bureau of Investigation will demonstrate investigative and fact-finding techniques at an all-day Fact Institute to be held under the auspices of the College of Law on Thursday, it was recently announced by Dean Joseph O’Meara. Rolf T. Harbo, assistant director of the FBI in charge of training and inspection, will direct the sessions.
The purpose of the Institute, according to Dean O’Meara, will be to “emphasize the decisive role played by facts in legal controversies, to explain the various investigative techniques useful in both civil and criminal cases, and to indicate where certain kinds of frequently needed information can be obtained.”
While the FBI regularly provides such training for its own agents and certain law enforcement groups, the Notre Dame Fact Institute' is believed to be the first of its kind at a law school, Dean O’Meara indicated.
The Institute will be open to students of the College of Law, members of the bar associations of St. Joseph County and surrounding counties, and all who plan to study law. The program:
8:30 a.m.—Introductory comments.
8:40—The fact-finding job; basic methods of fact-finding; the role of the FBI.
9:30—Fact-finding interviews; demonstration based on practical situations.
10:30—Searching for physical evidence; defining objective and organizing the search.
11:55—Fact-finding by expert accountants.
12:30 p.m.—Luncheon.
1:30—Fact-finding film, A Day With the FBI.
1:50—Fact-finding by scientists.
2:30—Fact-finding	film, Collection
and Preservation of Evidence.
3:30—Fact-finding in civil cases.
4:30—Fact-finding in civil cases.
5:00—Question and answer period and discussion forum.
16
The Scholastic
Irish Melodies
(Continued from Page 8) Bishop Maurice F. Burke of Cheyenne in 1888. This bell, like the chimes, was cast in France and is inscribed with the names of all the donors. It is suspended from a cradle-like structure, and was rung by means of ropes. Students, six on each side of the bell, pulled on the ropes in such a way as to tilt the cradle causing the tongue to strike the side of the bell.
Today the bells of Sacred Heart are electrified and are rung by the turn of a switch. The huge bell is no longer on a cradle but is suspended from a rigid structure. When the switch is thrown a great steel mallet strikes its lip or outer edge producing a mellow bourdon that can be heard for miles.
The bells of Sacred Heart will be all dressed up this St. Pat’s Day in kelly green, and from the French bells will come such ballads as “My Wild Irish Rose,” “Over in Killarney,” “When Irish Eyes are Smiling,” and other Irish folk songs familial- to all the Fighting Irish. This fine tradition has grown with Notre Dame, until now it is a much anticipated part of student life.
As a student once wrote: “No music in the world is more pleasing on a sweet Summer evening, after all the world is hushed to rest, than the melody of some holy song . . . borne from the bells over the surface of the lakes.”
St. Mary's '54 Variety Show Takes Stage Next Weekend
“Time ’n Tempo,” St. Mary’s 1954 Variety Show, will be produced next Friday and Saturday nights at 7:30 in St. Angela’s Hall. Benefiting the college building fund, the show will be open to students, faculty, and their guests.	•
Mary Ann Hoben is general chairman of the show, written by a committee headed by Kay Hardesty. Under the direction of Patricia Denholm, the show, through a series of separate sketches, concentrates chiefly on music and dancing in the United States.
Original music was written by Peggy Maher, with lyrics by Peggy Maher, Kay Hardesty, and Molly Maloy.
FORUM LECTURE
The fourth lecture in the current States of Life Forum will be presented by Dave Burrell, student in the General Program, Thursday evening at 7:30 in Room 127, Nieuwland Science Hall.
Speaking on the general topic of the student vocation, Burrell's lecture will concern present opportunities and responsibilities!
Three Opportunities to See Europe
1.	SUMMER BICYCLE TOUR
Travel through Holland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Germany, Switzerland, France and^ England. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, bicycle and equipment, room and board at student Hostels. Tour conductor: Dr. Clement
H. de Haas from the Univ, of Leyden. Limit: 25 students. Time:
8 weeks. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price
$690
2.	SEMINAR TOUR IN EUROPE
Special program for students of Political Science, History and Geography, German, Italian. Art and Architecture, and Liberal Arts. Program lasts 95 days and attends Seminars and lectures in famous universities in Holland, Germany, Italy and Austria. Also attend the famous Salzburg Music Festival. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, room and board, and eOGE tuition. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price.
3.	STUDY AND TRAVEL PROGRAM—Two Semesters
Live in Vienna, Austria and take the English taught courses offered by the University of Vienna. Student groups travel and e.xplore nine countries of Europe and North Africa with competent professors. Courses are creditable. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, complete room and board for 10% months while in Europe, tuition at the University, travel expenses and special lectures. Deadline: June 1, 1954. Price_
SCHOLASTIC CREDITS WILL BE OFFERED BY NOTRE DAME FOR PROGRAMS NOS. 2 AND 3 For further information see Walter Clemens, 326 Badin Hall between 6:30 and 7:30 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES, 7325 S. Maryland, Chicago 19, Ill.
5
cn/iw^r-
V/hat's wrong with pur dancing
—«ce to?

Don’t let Door dancing steal your popularity. Come to Arthur Murray s now and let one of his experts bring
out
your dormant dancing ability.
Just a few lessons will give you the latest steps, thanks to Arthur Murray’s “Magic Step” Method. So don’t miss out on good times, come in or phone now.	’
Arthur Murray
120 E. Wayne
2-3339
17
March 12, 1954
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
AMOoiates
228 So. Michigan St.
by Gordon Bergquist
Some time ago I was informed that the general program of one of the student discussion groups for this year is to-investigate the problem of the American ethos. Now this has nothing to do with them but it did set me to wondering what would be the result if someone undertook to do something similar in regard to the Notre Dame ethos. More particularly, I was interested in the cultural aspect of this as applicable to the Notre Dame milieu.
Probably the staple of the Notre Dame man’s culture (as well as its epitome) is the movies. Almost any night in any
HOW'D YOU LIKE TO
meet
HE WILL BE HERE
ON CAMPUS TO SHOW
YOU HOW TO . .
as an Aviation Cadet.
CAPTAIN
MAURICE G
STEELE?
O Hare National Airport
Park Ridge, HL
earn over
become an officer
m the air force
get a head start
in iet aviation
Team No. 401 will be at
ca-
Force.
*5000 a year
be a part of a great
flying team
See him while you can
Captain Maurice G. Steele
and the Aviation Selection
Notre Dame on Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday, March
17, 18. and 19. He will be
available between the hours
of 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. from 5 p.m. “ p.m. in the Cafeteria to those desiring
further information on
reer opportunities in the Air
given hall you can find impassioned discussions of what downtown South Bend has to offer in the line of quasi drama. And almost as invariably you will find that the discussions center about such indices of excellence as the presence of noted beauties, the number of jokes, the size of the screen, and, more bluntly, the amount of “sex” involved. Rarely does one even hear a whisper of consideration regarding whether it actually is a good movie or not.
Hates To Be “Left-Out”
An indication of the Notre Dame man’s dependence upon movies can be seen in the reaction which occurs when a movie which is a bit above the general run in excellence appears in town. Studies are forgotten and all is subordinated to the mad desire to see this picture so that one will not feel left out in the discussions that will ensue for days. This does not seem to be an indication of the Notre Dame man’s excellence as a dramatic critic, but rather of the esteem in which the movies — admittedly a rather low, commercialized form of entertainment—are held.
The local radio station also makes its contribution to the devious modes of the Notre Dame culture. Practically its sole product is music, which, it must be admitted, is good in itself. However the greater part of the volume which pours from the loudspeaker is that curious combination of sex, sentimentality, and stupidity.
Cites “Spell of Book Clubs”
There is an old saying to the effect that “you can judge a man by the books he keeps.” Drop into any room on campus and the odds are greatly in favor of your finding either nothing aside from the required textbooks, or a vast amount of what passes for literature today. The honored few that consider themselves greatly cultured will have fallen under the spell of the book clubs
and will have retired to let a group of men whose sole aim is money, pick their reading material.
The great gods in this field are the outpouring of Mickey Spillane and the two-bit pocket books which are bought on the sole recommendation of the cover, which promises never-before-revealed delights. Perhaps one can even find a copy of the “Kinsey Report” hidden deep in the bowels of some desk drawer. By and large, the Notre Dame man displays an abysmal lack of knowledge when it comes to the field of literature.
Even in the matter of conversation the cultural attitudes of the student are aptly revealed. Rarely, except, for some unknown reason, among Law students, does the conversation even hinge upon the field of academic endeavor as such. The farthest that most students will go in this regard is to excoriate and demean the professor who gives a test upon which a modicum of original thought is required. In general the conversation centers about sports, parties, .drinking, and women. Admittedly these things are worthy of discussion but not to the exclusion of all else. It is a sad commentary on the Notre Dame man’s intellectual life.
Culture Is Entertainment?
The prime mistake which is made by the ordinary student is to regard all forms of “culture” such as we have been speaking about, as entertainment. Culture, as such luminaries as Matthew Arnold and Jacques Barzun have maintained, is a form of education in itself. It is not the sterile, emasculated thing that some dillettantes would have it but something that is almost a necessary adjunct to the learning process. And it appears that even at a university, which is dedicated to the purpose of educating, an important facet of education is not only being neglected but even laughed at!
18
The Scholastic
MEET YOURSELF—
IO YEARS FROM NOW
Ever wonder what you’ll be like when the class of ’54 holds its 10th reunion? If you started to work for one of the Bell System companies after graduation, here’s a pretty good idea.

INTERESTING, RESPONSIBLE WORK: Perhaps a Commercial Manager, the company’s representative and spokesman to as many as fifty thousand customers. Or a Transmission Engineer, helping to provide the telephone needs of an entire state. Or a Supervisor in the Traffic Department, responsible for the speed and quality of local and long distance service in several cities and for the personnel relations of a large number of employees.
WE MAKE SURE THERE ARE PLACES TO GO: The number of college men hired is related to the number of administrative and technical positions expected to be available in the next 10 or 15 years. It is our policy to fill these positions from within our organization.
ARTS, SCIENCE, BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION AND
ENGINEERING GRADUATES are among our particular needs. The specific degree is not as important as the total effect of your college training.
NO MATTER WHAT YOUR MILITARY STATUS, contact your Placement Officer soon for details on the opportunities for employment with the Bell System.
®BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Copyright 15J4, Itccm & Mtou,Tom«?> Co,
$ r
on
Like I tell you
by the thousands changing to
— enjoying the one cigarette that's highest in quality—low in nicotine.
And remember, only our Chesterfields have this proven record with smokers. No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. Both these statements are a matter of record.

.B^ccoco

%
7’3
CHESTERFIELD
BEST FOR YOU