VACATION CLOTHES ARE READY FOR YOU NOW
The Campus Shop has handsome, practical vacation clothes for you ... wherever you plan to go. Come in soon and select yours.
Handsome Wash ’n Wear Sport Coats, from... Cool Cotton Wash Slacks.......................... Catalina Swim Trunks, from....................... Trim-tailored Walking Shorts, from............... Wash and Wear Cool Short Sleeve Sport Shirts. Practical Wash and Wear Suits.....................
16.95 5.95
. 3.95
. 4.95
. 4.50 .39.95
GILBERT'S
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
IN JULY
IN JUNE
IN AUG
No Carrying Charge
Get whatever clothing you need . . . when you need it ... and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . one-third in August. Of course, there is never an interest or a carrying charge. Use this convenient way to buy vacation clothes ... a tuxedo for the Prom . . . whatever you need.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS
^GILBERT’S
i
On Campus WShuhnan (Author of“l Was a Teen-age Dwarf", “The Marty Loves of Dobie GiUis”, etc.)
CRAM COURSE NO. 1: MODERN EUROPEAN HISTORY
The school year draws rapidly to a close, and it’s been a fun year, what with learning the twist, attending public executions, and walking our cheetahs—but are we ready for final exams? Some of us, I fear, are not. Therefore, in these few remaining columns, I propose to forego levity and instead offer a series of cram courses so that we may all be prepared at exam time.
We will start with Modem European History. Strictly defined, Modem European History covers the history of Europe from January 1, 1962, to the present. However, in order to provide employment for more teachers, the course has been moved back to the Age of Pericles, or the Renaissance, as it is jocularly called.
The single most important fact to remember about Modem European History is the emergence of Prussia. As we all know, Prussia was originally called Russia. The “P” was purchased from Persia in 1874 for $24 and Manhattan Island. This later became known as Guy Fawkes Day.
Persia, without a “P” was of course, called Ersia. This so embarrassed the natives that they changed the name of the country to Iran. This led to a rash of name changing. Mesopotamia became Iraq, Schleswig-Holstein became Saxe-Coburg, Bosnia-Herzegovina became Cleveland. There was even talk in stable old England about changing the name of the
country, but it was forgotten when the little princes escaped from the Tower and set fire to Pitt, the Elder.
Meanwhile Johannes Gutenberg was quietly inventing the printing press, for which we may all be grateful, believe you me! Why grateful? I'll tell you why grateful. Because without Gutenberg’s invention, there would be no printing on cigarette packs. You would not know when you bought cigarettes whether you were getting good Marlboros or some horrid imitation. You would never be sure that you were buying a full-flavored smoke with a pure white filter, a cigarette that lets you settle back and get
Today you can buy Marlboros all over Europe, but you might have to pay a premium. In all 50 of these United States, however, you get that fine Marlboro flavor, that excellent Marlboro filter, in flip-top box or soft pack at regulation popular prices.
comfortable—in short, a Marlboro. It is a prospect to chill the bones and turn the blood to sorghum—so if you are ever in Frank-furt am Main, drop in and say thanks to Mr. Gutenberg. He is elderly —408 years old last birthday—but still quite active in his laboratory. In fact, only last Tuesday he invented the German short-haired pointer.
But I digress. Back to Modem European History. Let us turn now to that ever popular favorite, France.
France, as we all know, is divided into several departments. There is the Police Department, the Fire Department, the Gas and Water Department, and the Bureau of Weights and Measures. There is also Madame Pompadour, but that need not concern us because it is a dirty story and is only taught to graduate students.
Finally, let us take up Italy—the newest European nation. Italy did not be
come a unified state until 1848 when Garibaldi, Cavour, and Victor Emmanuel threw three coins in the Trevi Fountain. This lovely gesture so enchanted all of Europe that William of Orange married Mary Stuart and caused a potato famine in Ireland. This, in turn, resulted in Pitt, the Younger.
All of this may seem a bit complicated, but be of good cheer. Everything was happily resolved at the Congress of Vienna where Metternich traded Parma to Talleyrand for Mad Ludwig of Bavaria. Then everybody waltzed till dawn and then, tired but content, they started the Thirty Years’ War.
© 1962 Mas Shulman
GLANCES
Charles Bowen, in the March 13, 1959, Scholastic told of Hepzibah Fuddle University and “A Leader Among Men.” Read it again on page 7.
In the week’s “News and Notes” you can read about the engineers’ industrial show and a $1 million gift from I. A. O’Shaughnessy... page 9.
It’s the Debate team’s week end of glory, with the Notre Dame Invitational Tournament, one of the “really big ones” in the country, starting today . . . page 10.
The Finance Forum features Egbert of Studebaker . . . page 10.
Latest development in the progressive improvement (we hope) in student-faculty relations . . . page 11.
CJF isn’t far off, and an introduction to “the New Jazz,” by Frank McConnell, is on . . . page 13.
Entertainment for those who feel in a Lenten rut, John McGuire’s “In Town and Around” . . . page 15.
See the winning entries in the recent photo contest. . . page 15.
For the results of that most charitable of all University events — the Bengal Bouts — see . . . page 19.
How our football team is progressing in spring practice is the core of the Joe Kuharich interview . . . page 19.
The state of things in general “As We See It” is summarized on . . . page 20.
Junior lineman Ed Burke is profiled . . . page 21.
Art Graham reports on the week’s activities in our governing body . . • page 22.
Opus Dei: what it is and how it originated, is the subject of the “Forum” by John Gueguen . . . page 25.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mad at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School i ress Association and the Associated Collegiate rrestr • l$ ^presented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC i* printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip* tion rate a $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notr-Osme, Indiana. AU unsolicited material be comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
4
i	'
J APRIL FOOLERY: During the course of the year, there have been a number of items which have come to our attention, but which, because of their relatively picayune nature or isolation from the mainstream of community life, did not seem to warrant a full paragraph of comment. So, in keeping with the mood of the season we will mention all or most of them now: First, matters for rectification; then, points which call for commendation; finally, a few selected thorny questions.
‘ Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor	'
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
news staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stopp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Wharton.
features editor
. TOM HOOBLER
features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R.‘ E. McGowan, Brian Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Pesto, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD
Bob Chiappinelli,	.
. Terry Woikerstorfer.
sporis staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys, Bob Scheffing, Tom Kirtner, Joe Ryan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE .
SECTION FIRST: Lines at special events, such as dances and room reservations for graduation week end, are generally handled with a noxious mixture of barbarism and bureaucratic bungling . . .
There is a general decline in public piety, as evidenced by such wanton profanations of the Lenten season as the Sorin Hall Mardi Gras ...
Ecclesiastical regulations permitting, we ought to have 2 or 3 a.m. Masses Sunday mornings for those who sleep during the day; also, Sacred Heart Church must be about due for a diamond jubilee bath . . .
And then, the attempt via directive of the Dean of Students to interpret moral behavior in terms of dress shirts and blue jeans, probably ought to be abandoned . . .
The reactions of some commissioners and station managers are symptomatic of (choose 1): a) vulnerability; b) hypersensitivity; c) hybris . . .
The dining hall insists on keeping that stupid one-milk rule which saves no time and perpetuates an inconvenience; plus, we wonder how many generations it will take for the genetic effects of watered catsup to become an active threat . . .
Perhaps there’s no way out of this one, but we wish it weren’t necessary to sabotage spring the previous autumn by spreading that fertilizer . . .
Bicycle racks don’t cost much, and by now most of the bugs have been worked out of them ...
If the winter sidewalks can’t be completely drained, we would at least like to see puddles that we can walk around . . .
There is no reason why we should be publicly addressed during meals so loudly and so often . . .
The rules restricting off-campus students in their choice of apartments seem overly protective, rather unrealistic, and hardly in keeping with the “new regime” on campus . . .
The Library fines, when enforced, are piratical . . .
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky. photography—trian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
SECTION SECOND: Laudamus igitur: the Religious Bulletin, coming up from Dooleyism; WSND’s extra hour of programming; the performances of the Fine Arts Quartet; the student-faculty coffee hour; the extended Library hours; the proposed journal of student scholarship in philosophy and the social sciences; the new Christian Social Democrat Club (with reservations).
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Dalum.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
SECTION THIRD: We wonder:
1)	Who is Alexis Coquillard?
2)	Where has the Maine Memorial been taken?
3)	What is the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society?
4)	Why the two shafts at the rear of the Main Building?
5)	How did we happen to get hold of Orestes Brownson?
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C
— W. & Z.
5
REPERCUSSIONS
"CONGRATS” Editor:
I would like to take note publicly, via REPERCUSSIONS, of the 1962 Auto Show. Congratulations are indeed due to the Engineering Open House committees responsible. Granted, they had nothing to do with the new geodesic dome or the agreeable weather; but these two factors combined with an excellent show literally attracted thousands.
Good organization and planning produced, on a large-scale local level, the finest piece of positive public relations that I have seen here. I hope the University will consider this point important and, while not functioning for the purpose of selling automobiles, will, nevertheless, encourage the future development of this affair.
Richard Plante 5 Fisher
Editor:
We believe Father Sheedy and Mr. Howett should be commended for the various art exhibits which they brought to Notre Dame during the year. The Clowes Collection, which is currently on display, is undoubtedly the most impressive that has been shown at Notre Dame in the past several years. The presence of paintings by Perugino, Bosch, Rembrandt and El Greco presents a remarkable educational opportunity, and we, along with many other students, would like to express our appreciation.
Gary Townsend Jim Kolb 141 Fisher
HOMILETICS Editor:
I agree with Mr. Maguire that your editorial on sermons in Sacred Heart Church was the best of the year. May I also say that Mr. Maguire’s letter of commendation was one of the
poorest you’ve printed? To suggest a comparison between good sermons, however badly needed, and a priest’s daily Mass, is to lack a hierarchy of values, a basic Christian sense, and prudence. Such a commendation of an editorial is rather a demonstration that sermons do indeed need radical improvement.
The kind of thinking exhibited in Mr. Maguire’s letter is, nevertheless, enlightening. It may explain why with 6,000 Catholic young men within these hallowed halls, most priests offer their daily Mass, year in and year out, alone, acolyte-less.
Fr. Jerome Brooks, C.P.
Editor:
The excellent suggestions in the Scholastic editorial of March 9 have fallen on barren ground, to judge by the sermon at 12:15 Mass in Sacred Heart last Sunday. This display had to be a milestone in the decline of homiletics at Notre Dame. *
(Continued on page 24)
Cool, clean Old Spice After Shave Lotion always gets you off to a fast, smooth start. Feels just as good between shaves as it does after shaving. Rates A-OK with dates. 1.25 and 2.00 plus tax.
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
S n o t_ t o rxi
6
The Scholastic
A Leader Among Men
by CHARLES BOWEN
Xhe following manuscript was composed a couple of years ago as my (unsolicited) contribution to a Life series on education. Perhaps it is just as well that its publication at that time had to be cancelled because of the outbreak of the Hungarian Revolution, for now you can see it for the first time:
AN INTIMATE PEEK AT
HEPZIBAH FUDDLE UNIVERSITY
Recently I spent several days on the campus of this young, progressive University and, under the guidance of handsome young Henry Hornrim, the student body president, I made a thorough tour and talked to all the members of this academic community, from the highest (Administration) to the lowest (students). I believe I succeeded in getting a pretty good grasp of the vital elan that makes Hepzibah Fuddle the talked-about place that it is. For your convenience I will first fill in a little of the background. History: The University is named after a pioneer who granted the land on which it is built, on the outskirts of Festering Elbow, Mont. Miss Fuddle crossed the prairie to Festering Elbow as a little girl of 19, in her daddy’s Bentley. She expressed the desire that a university should be founded there in 1951, and presented the land, just before leaving for Monaco. Growth: Finding that Miss Fuddle had neglected to provide for payment of salaries to faculty members, the trustees had a difficult time at first in recruiting capable professors. Various devices were tried, and eventually they discovered that the greatest success was achieved by a very simple method, indeed, one of the oldest: the press gang. A competent goon squad was sent to various campuses around the country, and soon H.F.U. boasted a faculty of the most famous academic figures in the world. They are treated very humanely. Development: Thanks largely to the devoted work of the
March 30, 1962
University’s president, J. P. (Big Daddy) Lish, H.F.U. has acquired a reputation for efficiency that has attracted brighter young students from all over the country, especially those who are interested in becoming executives. This tendency is shown by the size and quality of the H.F.U. student government, which is unique among American universities in that 75 per cent or more of the total student body hold some office. (“We keep thirty mimeographs busy all day long,” Henry told me proudly.) There is no doubt of the quality of this training. Today not a single corporation of any size or importance is without at least one office in which the ashtrays, blotters, wastebaskets, decanters, etc., are emblazoned with the H.F.U. seal (a ranch wagon rampant on a field of gray dacron, and a Greek inscription which roughly translates: (“Creatively realize your life-potential.”)
Other universities could learn a lot from the efficiency of Hepzibah Fuddle. For instance, students are not only assigned numbers which they keep for four years, but these are tattooed on their foreheads and they are addressed by number instead of name. Once a week the students assemble in Thrombosis Memorial Auditorium, where President Lish delivers a brief progress report and a list of the newest traditions is read. The students then file out, singing the H.F.U. song. It is written to the tune of “Humoresque” and I caught a couple of lines:
Throw away that can of beer And practice how to look sincere, Elections come in just a little while:	'
Though you may not be a reader, You can be a student leader,
All you need’s a pitchfork and a smile.
The University has devised a revolutionary plan for the distribution
of scholarships. They are given to every third applicant, regardless of merit. The system is founded, as Henry advised me, on the theory that the student gets the scholarship not on his own merits, but on the accumulated merits stored up by the faculty.
Henry Hornrim, himself, is an interesting personality. He is blond, 5'6", and comes from a little mining town in Connecticut. Henry majors in Leadership. “How did you get to
• be student body president?" I asked him.
“Well, actually, I didn’t deserve it any more than any of the rest of the guys. I let them know that, too. I went around to their rooms — I try to see all the guys in their rooms at least once a week — and told them that I wasn’t any smarter than they were, but that I’d do my best and be really humble and sincere. I guess they went for it.” He smiled shyly, an event so dazzling that for several minutes I could not see. “You know,” he went on, “sometimes it gripes me the way fellows complain about the uselessness of this student government. They forget the real positive results we achieve. Like the disciplinary thing.”
“Huh?” I asked.
“Well, we made a formal complaint about the University’s shutting off the oxygen in the corridors after ten. In less than two years they gave in. Of course,” he added, "that was right after one of the housemothers got the bends. But without a responsible student government they never would have listened.”
“What else have you done?”
“Lots of things. We have a constitution, for example, that runs over twelve pages. Not to mention our own student courts, judges, juries, lawyers, detectives, police, and jails. You couldn't have done that kind of thing without some people who were interested in organization.”
I had to agree.	’
.7
Here’s a college shirt with the distinctive tab collar minus the nuisance of a brass collar button to hold the tabs in place.
From the
“Cum Laude Collection”



The authentic British tab collar,
The tabs snap together under the tie knot giving you the crisp, clean “savoir faire” look. Try Tabber Snap for a change of pace in striped oxford white and colors.
$5.00
a	p/ufy^
Give your neckline a lift with the Tabber Snap collar so ingeniously contrived it takes only seconds to adjust the tabs under the tie knot.
Smart for college men who want a distinctive collar change and true comfort. See us for a complete Arrow selection of shirts, ties, underwear.
$5.00
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
8
The Scholastic
ONE MORE OPEN HOUSE
The Industrial Show, the second half of the Engineering Open House, bows in today in the Stepan Student Activities Building and runs through Sunday.
The show will center around a display contributed by the students of the Notre Dame Architecture Department. This display will consist of a large reflecting pool around which will be several smaller individual exhibits made by architecture students.
A space division of the show will include the payload of a Pioneer rocket, a model of the Saturn rocket, three solar power plants, and a Talos missile.
Other displays will include a model nuclear power plant submitted by Westinghouse and a 10,000-watt light bulb from General Electric.
Other exhibits are concerned with closed-circuit TV (“Look, Ma, I’m on TV.”), transistors, thermoelectric couples, and tractors by Wheelhorse. Short films on engineering will be shown in a small theater to be erected in the building.
Among the organizations submitting displays are Bendix, the U.S. Navy, General Motors, Grumman, Douglas Aircraft, Chrysler, Indiana Bell, Libby-Owens-Ford, Dodge, and International Nickel.
During the afternoons of the Industrial Show, the laboratories and Computing Center in the Engineering Building, along with the labs and drawing facilities of the Chemical Engineering and Architecture Buildings, will be open for inspection. In the labs of the Architectural, Chemical, Metallurgical, and Civil Engineering departments, undergraduate students will present student project displays.
Hours of the show are from 2:30 to 5:00 this afternoon and from 7:00 to 10:00 this evening. Tomorrow the show will be open from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. Sunday hours are from noon to 5:00 p.m. A shuttlebus service from the circle and St. Mary’s to the Activities Building will be run regularly.
$1,500,000 CLOSER
Notre Dame was given a giant boost forward in her development campaign with the gift of $1,000,000 from I. A. O’Shaughnessy, oil ex-
I. A. O'SHAUGHNESSY
ecutive and philanthropist of St. Paul and Golden Beach, Fla.
O’Shaughnessy and his late wife were the donors of the $2,500,000 O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, which was dedicated in 1953, and the Mestrovic Sculpture Studio, which was added to it in 1955. This new million-dollar gift qualifies the University for an additional $500,000 from the Ford Foundation.
O’Shaughnessy is president of the Globe Oil and Refining Company of St. Paul and a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Trustees. He received an honorary doctorate from the University in 1947 and was awarded Notre Dame’s Laetare Medal in 1953.
BUT WHO IS PIERRE?
Complete with sidewalk cafes, a 30-foot Eiffel Tower, simulated parks, and 2:30 and two-day car permissions, the Junior Prom, Une Nuit a Paris, will have ticket sales Thursday night at 7 in rooms 2a and 2b of the LaFortune Student Center.
Ralph Marterie and a 15-piece ensemble will entertain between 9:30 and 1:30 Friday night May 4 in the Stepan Activities Building. Bids for this dance are going at $7.50 per couple. Two all-expense week ends for two will be given away at the Collegiate Jazz Festival Saturday night, Apr. 7, to two fortunate bid purchasers* Included in this gift are such delicious items as free lodging for
two nights in the Town Tower Motel, use of a convertible, a dance ticket, Friday night’s meal, Saturday’s Dick Gregory performance, and Sunday’s brunch.
The less fortunate may also hear Negro comedian Dick Gregory, and attend the brunch at 11 a.m. Sunday with Father Hesburgh, or migrate with the rest of the class to the Dunes.
NEWS BRIEFS
Tom Colleton, a senior political science major, has been awarded a Root-Tilden Scholarship to the New York University Law School. Two Root-Tilden Scholarships, which provide full tuition and maintenance for an entire legal education, are awarded to students in each of the ten Federal Court circuits. Colleton is one of the two winners in the area served by the seventh U.S. Circuit Court. He is Student Body vice-president and on the AB Dean’s List.
-------o------
The Bookmen are now taking applications for membership, which is open to current freshmen, sophomores, and juniors who have a sincere interest in literature and a desire to communicate with other students in an atmosphere different from that of the classroom. Letters of application may be submitted to Robert Stepsis in 309 Badin before Apr. 13. Students should mention their college, academic average, extracurricular activities, and current literary interests. The student should also mention a topic he would like to develop into an essay for presentation td the Bookmen. The topic need not deal with contemporary literature.
-------o------
Oscar Lewis, a professor of anthropology at the University of Illinois, will speak on “The Culture of Poverty” in the Law Auditorium on Apr. 15. Prof. Lewis, who received his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1940, went to India in 1952 to study peasant culture as a consulting anthropologist for the Ford Foundation.
----:—o-------
Twenty-nine Notre Dame students have been awarded fellowships and fifteen others have been accorded “honorable mention” in nation-wide competitive programs sponsored by the National Science Foundation. Fourteen seniors won fellowships for graduate work elsewhere, eleven graduate students were awarded graduate fellowships for study here, and four graduate students received summer fellowships for graduate teaching assistants.
9
March 30, 1962
Photo by Fabian Bachrach
SHERWOOD EGBERT
FINANCE FORUM INTO FOURTH YEAR
The Finance Forum, sponsored by the Finance Club of Notre Dame, will be held for the fourth consecutive year in the Morris Inn, from Monday through Wednesday. Speakers will be Sherwood H. Egbert, keynote speaker at the annual banquet, 6:15 p.m. Monday; George J. Waccholz, 2 p.m. and Russell W. McDermott, 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday; and Osmond A. Jackson, 10:30 a.m., Wednesday. A panel discussion on the stock market will close the forum at 2 p.m. Wednesday.
Egbert is president of the Studebaker-Packard Corporation. A 16-letter-winner in high school, he dropped out of Washington State University after his sophomore year, but later got a job as an engineer. He was in the Marines during World War II and came out a major with the Bronze Star. He held various administrative positions until, at 40, he joined Studebaker-Packard in his present position in 1960.
George Waccholz, of St. Paul, is controller of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co., vice-president of Revere Camera Co., and assistant treasurer of the National Synthetic Rubber Co. He will speak on “A Simple Control System to Attain Profit Targets.”
McDermott, from Indianapolis, is president of Banker’s Mortgage Corp, and Bankers Growth Corp., and executive vice-president of Bankers Life Insurance Co. For 16 consecutive years he has been a member of life insurance’s “Million Dollar Round
(Continued on page 22)
TELEVISE NOTRE DAME DEBATE TOURNEY
Forty of the nation’s best debate teams are competing today and tomorrow in Notre Dame’s Tenth Annual National Invitational Debate Tournament, directed by general chairman Ray Kelly. The topic for the tournament is “Resolved: That labor organization should be placed under the jurisdiction of the antitrust laws.”
After yesterday’s registration, the teams are debating the preliminary rounds in LaFortune Student Center today until four and tomorrow morning from 9 to 12.
Then the teams entering the quarter-final round will be announced at a Debate Luncheon in the Morris Inn at noon.
These teams will meet at 1:30 p.m. in the Engineering and Law Auditoriums and in 123 and 127 Nieuw-land Science Hall. Semifinals will follow at three in the Engineering Auditorium and Room 127 of Nieuw-land. The two remaining teams will clash for first place at 4:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. Both WSND and WNDU will broadcast this debate.
Awards will be presented immediately after the finals. The tournament’s first place team will be inscribed on the Rev. William A. Bolger Trophy, retained at Notre Dame, and will receive the Richard D. Schiller Trophy, and one-year pos
RAY KELLY, MAURICE O’SULLIVAN, CHRIS LANE Debaters gather for two-day argument.
session of the Studebaker-Packard Corporation Travelling Trophy. The next three teams will be awarded 20-inch trophies.
Awards for first and second place individual speakers will be desk sets, with certificates of merit for the next eight.
Junior Chris Lane, Debate Club president, from Yonkers, New York; and Maurice O’Sullivan, senior from Kansas City, Kans., are trying for Notre Dame’s fourth victory in the tournament’s ten years, the last one three years ago.
Last year, although seniors Jay Whitney and Guy Powers received the first and second place individual speaker awards, Notre Dame failed to advance beyond the preliminary rounds because of a three win-three loss record in the first round. Northwestern led the field of 44 teams, followed by King’s College, Southern Illinois, and the University of Miami.
The entries this year, along with returning Northwestern, include Princeton, Dartmouth, West Point, Augustana, and Marquette. Dartmouth, West Point, and Augustana have also won in the past.
According to President Lane, Notre Dame’s tourney is one of the top three in the country in atmosphere, organization, and quality of competition.
10
The Scholastic
experiments in
student-faculty relations
Beer would draw more than Seven-Up.
by Vince DeCoursey
On Friday afternoons a small but potentially influential group of students and professors meet in the informal atmosphere of O’Shaughnessy Lounge to talk about subjects of common interest. Ordinary as this may seem, it is the first of a series of steps being taken to foster a radical change in the concept of education at Notre Dame.
These students and their professors are laying the foundations for a more intimate connection between the two segments of university life. They hope to bring about a sharper recognition of the student-faculty relationship that is so necessary to university life.
One of the intrinsic segments of university life is the close relationship between the student and his teacher. This relationship is taken as a matter of fact in most universities, and it is the invaluable complement to rigorous study for both teacher and student.
But here at Notre Dame this aspect of education has been seriously lacking both in scope and understanding. To many students, the teacher is some advanced form of robot pouring out facts and figures in an IBM-like procession and then judging whether or not a certain individual has retained a sufficient number of these facts for a passing grade.
Thus the misconception of a “good prof” as one who hands out the highest grade for the least amount of work is a natural outgrowth of the system. It is felt that a mutual under
March 30, 1962
standing both by teacher and student will greatly aid in rectifying this fault.
The ultimate realization of studentfaculty relations is, however, much broader than the discovery of the teacher’s role in education. In its ideal form both the instructor and his pupil become keenly aware of each other’s existence, and in this atmosphere they both work their problems out through a mutual understanding.
Here at Notre Dame the student directs his entire life to the University. The center of student life is not O’Shaughnessy hall, the Engineering, Biology, or Commerce buildings, but rather it is the Main Building. Like a boy looking up to his father, the Notre Dame student looks up at the Golden Dome, and oftentimes the student’s only relationship in this monolithic structure is an antagonism between himself and his rector. In this type of structure the professor is left on the outside looking on at the confusion within. Here often the only contact the professor has with his students is the three 50-minute classes each week and perhaps two or three more times each semester in a more indirect way through term papers and exams.
To change this tide several things are being done to center the university around the student-teacher relationship where it belongs. The recent stay-hall residence plan is designed to give everyone more responsibility as well as more freedom. Numerous professors bring many ©f their students to their homes and offices to discuss problems and to become better acquainted.
On the campus itself, a YCS study a few years ago pinpointed the problem and from there other campus
organizations have tried in various ways to change the situation. Most of these attempts, however, did not meet with much success.
A new effort is being made through these informal meetings each Friday afternoon in the faculty lounge of O’Shaughnessy between a certain number of professors and their students. This group, though small at first, is expected to grow and graduate perhaps to the Art Gallery. Eventually it is hoped that a sustained momentum will necessitate even larger quarters on a permanent basis where students and teachers may get together to talk. The Rathskeller or a proposed campus bar would be the most likely place for this. Other projects, such as faculty and students eating together in the dining halls, are also being discussed by teachers, students, and administration.
Some of the initial views and criticisms of the meetings are that there is a disparity between the number of teachers and the students attending. Many times a professor will not know any of the students at the gathering and vice versa. But all are agreed that the initial step has to be taken and that the difficulties will be ironed out as relations improve.
But, of course, the main obstacle to all this is the student himself. He must get over his false notions of student-faculty relations and inculcate within himself, in place of a fear of authority, a desire for learning. Along with this desire, he must acquire the recognition of the necessary part his professor plays in the role of education. Or as Cardinal Newman put it: “An academic institution that cannot claim a personal relationship between students and professors is like an Arctic wasteland.”
11
by Frank McConnell
Perhaps one of the most interesting aspects of this year’s Collegiate Jazz Festival will have relatively little to do with the particular musicians appearing. It is to be assumed that the same extremely high standard of musicianship demonstrated last year will be again evident, of course; but since college jazz — as, indeed, most jazz — is admittedly eclectic, and since the Collegiate Jazz Festival offers a fairly extensive sampling of national trends, I think it may be possible to get an inkling of the influence on young musicians of one
of the most fascinating and fertile conflicts in modem jazz. I mean the conflict between traditional improvisational forms and what one critic has called the new, “free” jazz.
“Free jazz,” depending on one’s personal opinion of Ornette Coleman and Teo Macero, of course, may or may not be a misnomer. Coleman, a self-taught musician with a plastic alto saxophone and a collection of knit sweaters (for the collegiate audience, I suppose), and Macero, a tenorman with a degree from the Juilliard School of Music, along with trumpeter Don Ellis and pianist Hall Overton, have in the last two or three years been amazing, shocking, or amusing listeners with a totally new, experimental brand of jazz most neutrally described as free improvisation; carrying the harmonic extensions of bop or post-bop to their logical extreme, these musicians have eliminated from their music any tonal center whatsoever, and, at least in Coleman’s more recent recordings, any definite time signature. You pick up your horn and blow; and that’s all. The results are usually interesting — especially Macero’s pieces “Adventure” and “Sounds of May”; but the listener after a few hearings is reminded of Leonard Bernstein’s comment on Schoenberg: “Fascinating, but one wants to run open a window somewhere." Some have compared Cole
man to the magnificent Charlie Parker. But Coleman’s solos, bereft of a key center or a signature, appear for the most part simply as groups of unrelated and not extremely original ideas, punctuated by honkings — which are, after all, not emotive exclamations, but simply impolite noises. Listen to Coleman’s “Focus on Sanity” (and pretentious titles, by the way, are another good indication of self-conscious lack of intelligence), and then listen to Bird’s “Yardbird Suite” or “Dewey Square”; really, any comparison at all is simply a statement of the obvious.
The problem raised by the proponents of “free jazz,” though, is a real one and an important one for the future of this most vital music. Jazz is basically improvisation — a set of individual musical ideas based on a given series of chords, played usually in a given time signature. And the normal form for a jazz performance has always been a head arrangement: That is, the composed melody is stated, the musicians solo alternately by improvising their own ideas on the chord structure of the written part, and then the original composed line is played again. The concentration, of course, is on the improvisation, and head arrangements were a fine convention for at least fifty years. But jazz recently has discovered itself as an art —
12
The Scholastic
usually an embarrassing discovery for any genre — and along with this self-awareness have come problems relating to the aesthetic merit of the typical performance. And, surprisingly enough, these problems are basically related to the time-honored and universally laughed-off objection to jazz: “But I can’t hear the melody.”
The question is one of unity or coherence. Improvisations are always original, at least in the sense that they are definitely not the melody. How, then, is some kind of basic correlation achieved between the written part and the solos in a typical head arrangement? For an example of what I mean, listen to the Dizzy Gillespie-Charlie Parker recording of “All the Things You Are,” made around 1946. The solos by Gillespie and Parker are wonderful, and perhaps the most beautiful thing these two ever did together. But the piece, judged by a standard stricter than the mere conventional, is not a whole; the break between Parker’s and Gillespie’s solos and the theme statement is obvious and disturbing, once one begins really to listen before the solos begin. The same is true of something like Dave Brubeck’s “Blue Rondo A La Turk”; the theme is fine, hypnotic, and complete, and the solos are swinging, intelligent, and — as always with Brubeck’s group — tasteful; but where is the connection? (As a matter of fact, the latter recording contains a break unusually severe because of an abrupt shift from 9/8 to the more conventional 4/4 time.)
One solution, of course, is Coleman’s : eliminate the traditional framework of the solo, eliminate tonality and rhythm, and present the improvisation in its pristine form. Unfortunately, pristine forms have an annoying tendency to become crude ones, and the aesthetic necessity for some frame of reference and some initial, orienting statement of this frame — in our case, of this set of progressions — is no less imperative than that for unity and integration. Another way of getting around the
problem is the use of short four or five-bar solos to punctuate a continuous arranged line written to simulate as closely as possible a jazz feeling. I don’t mean by this the feverish, cymbal-and-drum-roll-laden imitations of Kenton and Basie perpetrated by every dance band in the country; I am speaking here entirely in the context of small group jazz, the realm where the important and exhilarating things are almost exclusively accomplished. Perhaps the best example of the method I am talking about is the Miles Davis nonette of 1949 (heard on the Capitol album, The Birth of the Cool). The results of this method, at least in the Davis group, with the tunes “Godchild” and “Boplicity,” are delightful, subtle, and mature, with early hints of the peculiarly wry melancholy which has become Davis’ trademark. But as I implied, this kind of jazz is really, after all, a getting around the problem, as much as Coleman’s less intrisically valuable attitude. One simply can’t shorten solos without eventually stifling the soloist. And significantly, it is Miles Davis himself, who, in his later recordings, has contributed most valuably to what seems the third and most reasonable alternative solution.
Miles Davis, first, is probably the most lyrical and original musician playing jazz today. In spite of, or perhaps even because of severe technical limitations (he probably fluffs more notes in a single uptempo number than most trumpeters would in a whole night’s performance), his playing is both more carefully conceived and more logically pleasing than that of any of the myriad Dizzy Gillespieites working now, who inhabit permanently the upper registers of the horn and seldom hold anything more leisurely than an eighth note. His sound is a peculiarly mellow one, suggesting, as someone has said, a reed pipe rather than a trumpet, and his style is an immensely subtle mixture of the wry melancholy earlier mentioned and significant understatement. Indeed, it is Davis’ style, in the broadest sense of the word, which seems to hold his solution to the problem of making the jazz performance a coherent whole.
The style is lyrical. It is based on a concept of solo which is an extension and gradual elaboration of the original melodic line, rather than a technical and boppishly academic extension of the progressions. In many ways, it is a return to the swing-era (Continued on page 16)
March 30, 1962
13
Of Special Interest The master of jazz piano will be in town at the Morris Civic Auditorium tomorrow night at 8:30. He is renowned for his grunting improvisations — which is particularly wondrous in view of the fact that he doesn’t read music. Some in the audience might say, “obviously...” but nobody can outstylize Gamer —. sheet music or no — when it comes to the piano.
The night before — to get in the mood — the Gospel Singers will stage an all night singing concert starting at 8:15.
. Tickets for Gamer cost $3.50, 3.00, 2, 1. And are on sale at the Morris Box Office until concert time.
Betty Allen, soprano, will appear on the SMC campus in O’Laughlin on Wednesday at 8:15 p.m. Tickets may be obtained through the South Bend Music Association.
On the same evening the Germano Quartet will appear on our side of the Dixie in the University Art Gallery — at 4:15 p.m. Admission is free: you can’t beat that...
On Sunday the Student-Faculty Film Society will screen Nights of Cabiria by Fedrico Fellini. As might be imagined, it is an Italian art film . . . and will be shown at 3 and at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Avon Art. A Weekend with Lulu is in the same tradition of British humor as Carry On Nurse: very droll, and at the same time, very madcap. It is, as publicized, welcome entertainment.
Jolly old Mr. Monkhouse is off for a week end with his intended (Lulu, of course, as played by Shirley Eaton) in his trailer . . . only “Mum” doesn’t think that it is such a good idea to go off unchaperoned and the young couple are plagued by Mum as well as by a certain ice-cream truck . . . and an English ferry. Yummee-Scrummee... ! Bob Monkhouse and Leslie Phillips.
At the same time, on the same program, Our Man in Havana, with Alec Guinness — which will be in its third South Bend showing.
Together, however, the two shows provide enough good British humor to keep any Irishman happy.
(Week: Lulu 6:15, 9:35; Our Man 7:45. Sundays: Lulu 6:13, 9:27; Our Man 4:30, 7:44.)
Colfax. Walt Disney is to be revived — at least for a little. Pinnochio will play a two-week stint — after Ben Hur and King of Kings; it goes to show the industry’s change of heart. Pinnochio is an Italian puppet with a great circle of friends including one famous Jiminy Cricket, a goldfish, and a cat. And the slew of woodland creatures that have made Disney pictures so very popular. Perhaps it isn’t on the arty side — but it has managed to make money. Not meaty college material — but not messy kid stuff. Besides, your SMC honey probably will lap it up.
(Pinnochio: 1:25, 3:25, 5:25, 7:25, 9:25.)
Granada. Satan Never Sleeps moves into its second week. It is a delightful and entertaining picture which smacks of Going My Way and Brother Juniper. William Holden is cast as the trouble-seeking, trouble-curing Father O’Banion— pulpit master of a little mission in Communist China . . . Clifton Webb is the white-haired pastor of the little papal outpost — and France Nuyen is an oriental minx whose coy charm suits the sentimental tastes of director Leo McCarey perfectly. Weaver Lee supplies the action: he is cast as a Communist
(Continued on page 16)
These three photographs ^eti
Notre Dame ph°t0
GRAND PRIZE, First Place F First Place wildlife anC First Place sports and
14
the winners of the recent Kaphy contest.
5rtrait division: Brian Beck scenes: Paul Gore
ction: Dave Larsen
15
'In Town'
(Continued from page 14) convert attempting to rock the Church’s strong foundations . . . Entertaining.
(Satan: 1:30 — 4 — 6:30 — 9.)
The Kiver Park. La Dolce Vita will play in the Mishawaka theater for a very limited engagement. This is the controversial Italian film which viewed the sicker side of Roman life. Another chance to see it if you missed it the first time.
(La Dolce Vita: 1:45.)
meant to be indicative of any kind of movie standard — sort of like a week-long Saturday matinee. In case you are interested — the former is the main feature and concerns, of all things, a journey to a seventh planet. By astronauts. And it includes horrible monsters and creatures in true Jules Verne tradition. Pretty horrible. Stars Rich Chonek.
THE NEW JAZZ
(Continued from page 13)
On campus. Washington Hall will present a surprise this week end: there is no knowledge as to which show will be pesented — you’ll have to watch a bulletin board. The New Jersey Club will show Who Was That Lady with Tony Curtis and Janet Leigh in 127 Nieuwland at 7 and 9. Terrific show: don’t miss it.
—John McGuire
The State. Journey to the 1th Planet and Guns of the Black Witch. What is there to say? Both are not
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED DR. M. MITTERMAYER 228 S. MICHIGAN
THE SAFE WAY to stay alert without harmful stimulants
NoDoz keeps you mentally alert with the same safe refresher found in coffee and tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Absolutely not habit-forming. Next time monotony makes
ideas of a consummate musician like Coleman Hawkins; in more important ways, however, it is a definite progress, a real extension of the melody itself rather than of the harmonics of the theme. Listen to “Teo” on the Columbia album, Someday My Prince Will Come. There is a melodic original statement — reminiscent of Spanish folk music, as a matter of fact — backed by a highly original and fascinating % rhythmic pattern; the theme is stated by Miles’ single horn, and his solo is really a melodic toying with the theme, a progressive embellishment of it, in which fragments are repeated and given different rhythmic emphasis. After a
you feel drowsy while driving, working or studying, do as millions do ... perk up with safe, effective NoDoz tablets. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
brief piano-bass-drums interlude, John Coltrane (a giant himself, probably the only appropriate partner for Davis) begins a solo which is at first hearing the direct opposite of Miles’ quiet, subtle noodling: a brutal, powerful, frantic solo, which nevertheless is still primarily lyrical — although lyricism here is a wild, sombre thing ’ — and still a concentrated attempt to extend the theme itself as far as is can go, to orient the solo toward not only the harmonic but the melodic structure of the original statement. “Teo” is a magnificent performance, and its magnificence is in great part due to the natural unity of theme and improvisation, a unity found in all the best of Miles’ work, and, in another way, in Coltrane’s recordings, in Davis’ “Four” and Coltrane’s “Summertime,” for example.
Since bop brought jazz to the high level of complexity it has had since the mid-forties, problems in expression and improvisation have multiplied marvelously. The problem of lyricism and organic unity is an important one, and one, of course, which will never really be solved, since no art form is competent to solve any of its problems completely. Jazz, like any art, is basically nothing more than high-level play, and perhaps its most disturbing paradoxes are merely touchstones for the interested critic. But they are nevertheless real, and their partial resolution of immense interest. Perhaps this year’s Collegiate Jazz Festival will reveal a generation of atonalists, junior Ornette Colemans, waiting to invade the recording labs and the night clubs. But I doubt it. What the Festival will reveal will be the bias which this exuberant, fertile music is probable to have for the next few years, and the atmosphere in which intelligent listening will have to orient itself, for its pleasure and its satisfaction. And it will, indeed, be a very interesting festival to see and hear.
—Frank McConnell
The Scholastic
16
LENTEN LECTURE SERIES
Prof. Frank O'Malley will lecture on "Contemporary Novels and the Sufferings of Christ" Tuesday night at 8 p.m. in 104 O’Shaughnessy. The public is invited.
Stig M. Claesson, a distinguished Swedish scientist and professor of physical chemistry at the University of Uppsala, will deliver a series of three Peter C. Reilly lectures at Notre Dame. His topic will be “High Intensity Photochemistry.” Lecture dates and times are Apr. 2 and 4 at 4:10 p.m. and Apr. 6 at 3:10 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. Claesson is currently a visiting professor at the University of Delaware.
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SATURDAY, MARCH 31 AT 8:30 P.M.
FAMOUS JAZZ PIANIST With Bass & Percussion Accompaniment
TICKETS: $3.50, $3.00. $2.00, $1.50
ON SALE: Morris Civic Auditorium, Office Engineers
Only Jockeu T-shirts are V	O •***> •
Power-Knit to keep their fit
A VISION
OF SPRING
March 30, 1962
The Jockey Power-Knit T-shirt is man-tailored . . . from the exclusive nylon reinforced Seamfree® collar that stays snug and smooth ... to the extra-long tail that stays tucked in. It’s Power-Knit with extra top-grade combed cotton yarn to take the roughest kind of wear a man can give it . . . and still not bag, sag or stretch out of shape. It’s a Jockey ... -the man’s T-shirt... Power-Knit to * | OU keep its fit.
Jockeu
I*	®	COOPEH't. IHCOUPORAttO. KENOSHA. WtSC.
17
t
&
■a
*
-m-?'' /’ / ’	<•
^4

If they don’t beat you on the scoreboard, they beat you physically...”

Cliff Livingston, N.Y. Giants

/ T>:
> *-	< X






U It’s one of those games where you can win and get beat at the same time. Lots of bruises. Face guard or not, you’re going to get it. Being a bug on close shaving doesn’t help matters. It was rough going for a while until this remington came along. For me, these roller combs make all the difference. I shave as close as I want without getting the scrapes, fj
The closer you try to shave, the more irritated you’re likely to get Only Remington*—because of its adjustable roller combs— allows you to shave c/osermore comfortably, more safely. Try it.
REMINGTON SELF-POWERED LEKTRONIC Shaverwith exclusive roller combs. Shaves without a cord. Frees you from sinks, outlets, bathroom tie-ups. Powerful sealed-in cells recharge on shaver’s own charging stand for shave after shave without a cord. Also: Remington Roll-A-Matic* plug-in model with roller combs. Both are now being featured at your college or university store.
• 1M2 «V RPCRRY RANO CORPORATION

18
The Scholastic
Reardon Tops Bengals
A Fieldhouse crowd of over 4000 mixed cheers with occasional boos as the ten 1962 Bengal champions were crowned last Friday night To the surprise of none, and the plaudits of all, Tim Reardon was presented with his second straight “Outstanding Boxer” award.
The card opened promptly at eight o’clock as Bill Sanneman faced Bill Freidheim for the 126-pound crown. Both fighters concentrated on offense, with Freidheim emerging victorious in a close decision.
Bill Sullivan of Cavanaugh was TKOed at 1:40 of the second round by a charging left thrown by Howard’s Sam VanNess.
Junior Jack O’Donnell of Dillon then floored Pat Williams of Badin in taking the 147-pound crown.
Ted Valenti repeated his Wednesday night performance as he leveled a continuous attack on off-campus senior Frank Callahan in one of the night’s most exciting bouts. Freshman Valenti earned the 156-pound title by decking the beleaguered Callahan for the second and last time at 1:06 of the second round.
ABC-TV commentator and honorary referee Don Dunphy took this moment to enter the ring and wave to his fans.
Losers in their last bouts, Pat Hughes and Jack Hildebrand battled in the before-intermission bout, with Hughes edging Hildebrand to become junior middleweight champ.
NAPPY and HIS BOYS: Dominic Napolitano, Don Dunphy, Cliff Bellone, Ray Siegfried (Outstanding First-Year Boxer), Bill Goodwine, Dick Trujillo, Tim Reardon (Outstanding Boxer), Ross Rosi, and Tom Miller.
Tim Reardon showed why he is undefeated in Bengal competition as he methodically slugged his way to his third straight championship by de-cisioning outclassed Mike McGrath for the middleweight title. Both Dan Manion and Rich DeRosa received their respective 178-pound and junior-heavyweight trophies amid boos: Manion’s close decisioning of Bob Biolchini was followed by DeRosa’s taking the nod over fellow Californian Greg Wood.
“Nappy” Napolitano took this opportunity to calm the crowd and award the Mills trophy for “Best First Year Boxer” to Keenan’s Ray Siegfried. The “Most Improved Boxer” award went to Bill Goodwine of Alumni, with Dillon’s Cliff Bellone also receiving an award. Senior Dick Trudillo received the Sportsmanship trophy, and then Tim Reardon was given the longest ovation of the evening when he was presented with the “Outstanding Boxer” award.
A freshman from Kennedy country defeated a junior from Bethlehem, Pa., for the heavyweight title in the night’s quickest bout. The crowd thundered its amazement when Bob Cappadona battered John Slafkosky down for two eight-counts in less than a minute and then continued the assault until he was awarded a TKO 75 seconds into the fight. It was a fitting climax to an exciting evening.
—Joe Ryan
PROGRESS REPORT:
We’re On
Schedule
by JOE KUHAR1CH
as told to BOB CH1APPINELLI
During the spring, fundamentals are stressed almost exclusively. Our over-all practice sessions have included a little bit of everything with blocking being stressed more than anything else. We are also holding daily tackling practice.
As far as changes in position, Ed Burke has been switched back to tackle from guard. He played tackle as a sophomore, and we are confident that he can readjust and become one of our number one tackles.
Right now it is difficult to pick out strong points on the team, but we do have many experienced ends, several outstanding guards and a very fine bunch of fullbacks in Lind, Snowden, Gray, and Maxwell.
We have been working the freshmen as a group before the varsity practice and have found several who can help us. Pivec, an end, tackles Arrington and Atamian, guards Carroll and Maglicic, quarterbacks Huarte and Bonvechio, and backs Bliey, Hogan, Cappadona and Rakers, are, of course, very inexperienced now; but we are hopeful that they will come along to add to their respective positions.
We have rotated the boys quite a bit both in the backfield and the line, and trying to name a definite first string right now would depend more on how much they played last year than on what they have done so far in practice.
Basically anything and everything that the boys do on the field in spring practice is to demonstrate that they can do that particular job better than the next boy. We are hopeful that this attitude will carry over to the fall and that the players will demonstrate then that they are better than their opponents.
Actually, we have had fine weather for the first few days of practice and I hope that it continues. If it does, we have every reason to believe that our practice schedule will go right through and our game on the 14th will be in keeping with our original plan of getting in the entire 20 sessions before the boys go home for Easter.
19
March 30, 1962
>AS WE See IT
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Rogers vs. Roger: “Maris couldn’t carry my bat” So said Rogers Hornsby. And he could very well be right.
For although Roger Maris can legitimately claim fame as one of baseball’s greatest power hitters — perhaps the greatest for a single season — his greatness ends right there. He is a purely mediocre defensive player; he is not exceptionally skilled as a base runner; his lifetime batting average is only .261, although he hit a spectacular .269 last season; his value to his own team cannot be compared to Mickey Mantle’s; and, in fact, his ability as a slugger has yet to stand the test of time.
Hornsby, on the other hand, is considered the greatest right-handed hitter of all time: he has a lifetime average of .358, he has hit over .400 three times, and reached the .424 mark in 1924. He was also a good base runner, an excellent defensive second baseman, and a good power hitter. As an all-around baseball player, Maris can’t touch Hornsby.
Hornsby also called Maris a “bush leaguer,” which also is true if Maris’s actions are any indication. His refusal to pose with Hornsby, his refusal to sign autographs, and his “no more interviews” attitude toward newspapers all seem to give credence to Hornsby’s charge that he is a “swelled up guy.” This is all inexcusable for a man in Maris’s position, for a national hero. It is too bad that a “little punk ballplayer” had to break Babe Ruth’s record of 60 homeruns in a season, officially or not. . . . Any comments? . . .
Good Move: Joe Kuharich couldn’t have made a better move than utilizing Boston Patriot halfback Angelo Dabiero as an assistant coach during spring drills. The players respect Angie personally and for his football knowledge, but most important, his enthusiasm is infectious. . . .
The Stanley Cup: Toronto should have too much for New York’s Rangers, and the big question is whether the Black Hawks can repeat their conquest of les habitants, Montreal’s Canadians. I think they can, primarily because “sick” Glenn Hall is the best clutch goaltender in hockey, and because of the bold rushes of the Hay-Hull-Balfour “Million Dollar Line." After disposing of Montreal, the Hawks should have relatively little trouble with the Toronto. . . .
TENNIS
With the advent of warm, springlike weather, the Notre Dame tennis team is preparing itself for the ’62 season, which opens next Saturday, April 7, against Bradley University.
Handicapped by the loss of two All-Americans, Don Ralph and Bill Heinbecker, the Irish will have a tough time equalling their 17-2 mark of last season. However, four returning monogram winners — Joe Brown, Jim Whelan, Jim Bemis, and Maury DeWald — give this year’s squad a sound nucleus of experienced players. Ranked number one is Brown, a junior; he is followed by sophomore Skip Davidson, senior Whelan, soph Bob Fitzgerald, and senior DeWald.
Although Coach Tom Fallon feels that this season’s team won’t have the superiority in the top spots that it did last year, it will have better over-all balance.
Beginning with the opener against Bradley, ND faces one of its roughest schedules in recent years. Big Ten powers Michigan, Michigan State, and Northwestern all have top-ranked teams, and should be the strongest opponents.
After facing Bradley and Kalamazoo College, the tennis team will make a spring trip to Washington, D.C., April 18-28, to compete in the Cherry Blossom Tournament against Georgetown, Indiana, and George Washington University.
The Irish then have eight remaining matches at home, against Michigan State, Purdue, Michigan, Southern Illinois, Iowa, Detroit, Toledo, and DePaul; the season closes at Western Michigan on May 21.
COACH TOM FALLON
TOM GRACE AND BOB FERREL
GOLF
The 1962 Notre Dame Golf Team has started spring practice sessions in preparation for this season’s schedule, opening on April 7 against Western Michigan here at Notre Dame.
Rev. Clarence Durbin will take over the coaching chores which were handled last year by Rev. George Holderith. Under Fr. Holderith’s tutelage, the Notre Dame golfers turned in a 11-3 season last year. Fr. Durbin coached golf at Portland University from 1948 to 1959 and compiled an impressive record of 146 wins and 30 losses with three ties.
This year’s linksmen will face the largest and toughest schedule they have had in a number of years. There are a total of 25 matches, 11 more than last year. Then, on June 17-24, the National Collegiate Championship will be held at Duke University.
The mainstays of this year’s ND squad will be captain Tom Grace, a senior from Lathrup, Michigan; Bill Busemeyer, a senior from Cincinnati, Ohio; Pete Bisconti, a junior from Brooklyn, N.Y.; Bob Ferrel, a sophomore from Appleton, Wisconsin; Dick Adamson, a sophomore from Kenosha, Wisconsin, and Skip Vaughan, a sophomore from Houston, Texas.
Backing up this probable first team will be seniors Al Highducheck, Bruce Odlaug, Craig Vollhabler, and Russ Beaupre. The junior golfers will consist of Mike Voss, Ken Nelson and Terry Kitch.
The Irish golfers open the season at home against Western Michigan on April 7, and on April 21 face seven foes at Columbus, O.: Ohio State, Indiana, Purdue, Michigan, Pittsburgh, Ohio University, and Kentucky.
The Scholastic
20
PROFILE:
“Big Ed”
With the graduation of Notre Dame’s top four tackles, much of the work load at this position next season will fall on the imposing shoulders of "Big Ed” Burke, a 6'2", 255-pound son of a Chicago policeman.
If anyone can bolster the sagging Irish line spot it will be Burke, a regular tackle as a sophomore and a valuable guard last year.
Burke’s biggest game to date was the Southern California delight last fall. With the Trojan’s Don Nelson serving as the equipment, Burke played a game of “bounce the quarterback” in leading his mates to a rousing 30-0 rout.
While usually only the flashy backs are known to the average fan, Burke’s colorful style of play distinguishes him from the pack of unheralded linemen. One of the most impressive sights this past season to Irish fans was that of “Big Ed” crashing through the line to demolish the enemy’s aerial attempt.
Burke, an All-City and All-State performer at Chicago Mendel, has been switched back to his original tackle post because of the lack of experienced talent at . the position. Coach Joe Kuharich is depending on Burke to be the Irish mainstay at this key spot.
Burke’s future plans include a try at law school; however, his immediate ambition and duty is to provide the experience and ability around which a talented, but green, line can be developed into the rugged interior wall which is a requirement for the achievement of a winning season for the Notre Dame eleven.
30, 1962
Finance Forum
(Continued from page 10) Table.” He is chairman of the Indi
anapolis Symphony Society. His talk will be “Life Insurance, Mortgage, and Development.”
Osmand Jackson, of Chicago, will speak on “Significant Developments in International Trade and Finance.” He is foreign department vice-president of the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago.
T. T. Murphy, assistant dean of the College of Business Administration, will moderate the panel discussion. Other members will be: John P. Dempsey, of Redder, Peabody and Co., Philadelphia; Vernon Esse, Cleveland, of Paine, Webber, Jackson and Curtis; and Roy C. Belknap, manager of the Detroit office of McDonnell and Co.
Special Purchase! golFclubs 5 IRONS - 2 WOODS $32.95
★ RECO SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main St. Next to Oliver Hotel
Avital new album
“CLOSEUP IN SWING”
The MOST swinging pianist in contemporary music-in a Delightful-lnventive-Unique-Virile-Moving-new Collection
An Explosion in Improvisation!
AT YOUR RETAILERS NOW • STEREO AND MONAURAL
KIM UUtK	Distributed by ABC-PARAMOUNT
{Another Garner Album Bestseller* DREAMSTREETS
ArKEARING AT MORRIS CIVIC THEATRE MAR. 31—8:30 P.M.
Q'takam
A PLEA FOR LEADERSHIP
NFCCS (National Federation of Catholic College Students) is sick. It is lacking in financial support and leadership. Its organizational structure is stifling. No one doubted that NFCCS was in bad shape, the big question Monday night was whether we get out, or assume the leadership of this
tottering organization.
Probably half the students at Notre Dame have never heard of NFCCS and few of the Senators before Monday night knew much about it. There were two motions before the Senate: Shall we continue our affiliation with NFCCS? Shall we pay $750 dues for this year or a token $75?
In order that the Senators might be more acquainted with NFCCS, Mike Phenner, a third year law student at Notre Dame, and former President of NFCCS, was invited to speak.
Phenner told the Senate that NFCCS is composed of student government members from Catholic colleges. Its purpose is to serve as the “voice of the Catholic college student community” and to “develop vocal and competent laymen.” “It matters not if the students never hear of
NFCCS. It works through student government.”
In the longest speech heard by the Senate this year, Phenner undertook a defense of the principles and objectives of the organization. He said there was a need for Catholic students to organize on a regional and national level and he outlined some of the programs which he knew from his own experience. They included the development of student governments, scholarships, financial aid to a university in Formosa, a national academic program, and a national travel program.	,
Phenner then approached a theme, | that was to be echoed the rest of the evening, our role as leaders. “The students of other Catholic colleges have been crying out for leadership from this university.” “This student government operates on a highly so- J phisticated level. I have seen a lot of student governments. They operate . on a much lower level.” “Better that Notre Dame get out and stay out than continue its hypocritical participation in this organization."
Debate lasted for about three hours. Paul O’Brian, Notre Dame’s present representative to NFCCS said, “I feel that there has been ecclesiastical control.” He said this would thwart Notre Dame’s leadership. Earl Linehan said, “We are talking in terms of what we can give to NFCCS.” j
Dick Meece said, “Are we leading J the Catholic universities or are we ‘ just trying to follow Harvard. Don’t we have the responsibility as the leading Catholic university to lead the Catholic universities?” “I would suggest that there has been a real failure on the part of the Senators with regard to NFCCS this year.”
The Senate voted unanimously to stay in NFCCS and then began the debate on the $750. Buckley was against it. “Not paying $750 will be the first sign of Notre Dame’s objecting to the way the organization ? should be run.” Hart was for it. “There is no 10% participation in my mind. I think we should take part . 100%.” Jack Clark was for it. “It doesn’t seem to me you can make a horse work by starving it to death.”
The $750 was voted down by a slight margin. It is now up to the Senate to find out what has to be done for NFCCS and do it.	j
The fact of the matter is that the j social commissioner is able to do whatever he pleases with little or no censure from the Senate. If a commissioner will not take the responsi-bility of representing the students fairly, the Senate itself must assume the responsibility.
The Scholastic
22
NCAA Fencing Tourney
Although finishing the ’62 season with a 7-8 record, the ND fencing team is anxiously looking forward to the NCAA Tournament this week end at Ohio State. The list of 35 participating colleges will be headed by N.Y.U., which won the tourney last year and sends back its same team this year. Last year ND finished in a tie for 13th place with the Air Force Academy, but Coach DiCicco sees a possible finish in the top ten this year.
Co-captain Tom Shipp in the sabre division, Co-captain Dan Kenney in the epee, and Mike Bishko in the foil are the three Irish representatives. Shipp (25-14), Kenney (23-16), and Bishko (24-14) piled up 72 wins for ND this year. Coach DiCicco says Shipp and Kenney have a good chance of finishing high in the national ranks, but Mike Bishko will have his work cut out for him because of the number of high-caliber foil-men this year. All three being monogram winners last year, Coach DeCicco feels their experience and poise should be assets in the NCAA tourney.
In reviewing the season, DiCicco says the team was hurt by the inconsistent winning of the three top men and the lack of reserve strength to fill in with victories; but sophs Dick Marks, Steve Dreher, Sam Crimone, and Jack Joyce have shown much Promise for next year.
In his first year as fencing coach here, DiCicco has produced three fine fencers for the NCAA tourney, and has developed a well-balanced nucleus for next year — a coaching job well done.
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE’S
SUGGESTED READING LIST
No. 6
Each week in this space, the Notre Dame Bookstore will present a list of books which have been recommended by the various department heads and their staffs as among the most profitable and worthwhile in their field. The purpose of this is threefold: First, to provide the student with a guide for his outside reading; second, to provide a medium for the departments in furnishing this guide; and third, to provide a guide for the Bookstore in its stocking of better books.
•
THIS WEEK’S FIELD IS
THE AMERICAN NOVEL II
SHIPP, KENNEY, BISHKO
March 30, 1962
The Last Angry Man, by Gerald Green, Pocket Books, $.50. The story of a tough doctor in Harlem who is turned into a national hero by television, and his fight to retain his way of life in the face of his fame.
The Wall, by John Hersey, Cardinal $.50. An epic novel about the persecution of the Jews in Poland during the war, the book rises above a mere tirade about tolerance to a more universal appeal.
The Hamlet, by William Faulkner, Vintage, $1.25. The first and best of a trilogy about the Snopes family and their rise to control of Yoknapatawpha county.
The Great Gatsby, by F. Scott Fitzgerald, Scribners, $1.25. This book has been read by most of Notre Dame for some class or other, but Jay Gatsby and his almost invincible American dream still retains its holding power on rereading.
The Sim Also Rises, by Ernest Hemingway. Scribners, $1.45. The Lost Generation has become a cliche now, and the writers of that time are dismissed as disconnected Romantics, but for Hemingway his novels and the hard athletic life they deal with were a desperate struggle to reorient the visible world when he can no longer believe in the invisible one.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, by Mark Twain, Rinehart, $.75. After a winter in South Bend, Huckleberry Finn’s odyssey down the Mississippi with Jim seems the ultimate in sound thought.
All these books are available at Notre Dame Bookstore
summER jobs How to get yours! pte
Campus Integration . . . Military Deferments . . . Burnett . . . Ribicoff.. . Brubeck . . . Saroyan.
plus
News .. Books.. Records .. Careers ... Fashions ... and
• mors in
CAM PUS ILLUSTRATED The New National Magazine for ALL College Students
At Newsstands & Bookstores
Repercussions
(Continued from page 6)
That the sacrifice of the Mass must be suspended to accommodate such histrionics is incomprehensible to the thinking Catholic. The content and tenor of this harangue took on the note of parody as the students sat chuckling in the pews. Only a sense of decorum restrained the congregation from a more vocal reaction.
That this pietistic demagoguery was addressed to an academic community indicates, I think, a profound deficiency in American Catholicism— or, at least, an anti-intellectual conditioning on the part of the clergy. I don’t mean to impugn the intentions of the priest involved, but sincerity does not justify the continuance of such exhibitions in the House of God.	Maurice Callahan
KNIGHTHOOD DEFENDED Editor:
As Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus I would
like to question Mr. Butler (one of Mr. Brady’s antagonists in the March 9 issue’s “Repercussions”) in his identification of the typical Knight with the “indoctrinated, unquestioning, circular” Catholic thinker. He asked what the typical Knight stands for, and I answer in the words of Pope Pius XII: the Knights are “the Standard Bearers of Catholic Action, collaborating in the hierarchical apos-tolate for the defense and triumph of the Faith.” I do not claim that every Knight is a reincarnated Crusader, nor that there are not some who are indoctrinated, unquestioning, and circular in their thinking. But the typical Knight? It is the sum total of the work of the hundreds of thousands of typical Knights which has made the K of C — to quote Cardinal Gibbons—the “strong Right Arm of the Church.”
Donald J. Gelhausen, Grand Knight
Notre Dame Council No. 1477
._____ SIC FLICS
, A*-

“If it’s all right with you Captain I think I’ll drop R.O.T.C.”
u* KING
IGAI^ETTES
:	t, Mvoi tosacco ta.
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
24
The Scholastic
FORUM
OPUS DEI:
TO SEEK PERFECTION
IN THE WORLD
by JOHN GUEGUEN
(John Gueguen received his A.B. and MA. from Notre Dame and is now doing his doctoral work with the Committee on Social Thought, University of Chicago. In 1955 he was features coeditor of the Scholastic.;
In our day the Church has encouraged active participation of the laity in her works of apostolate. She has seen in the social and professional situation of ordinary Christians both a responsibility and a unique opportunity to advance the life and doctrine of the Church.
Pope Pius XII made an important contribution to this new emphasis when he opened to laymen a way of perfection by creating the Secular Institutes. For the first time it became possible for a man or woman to become consecrated to God while remaining in the middle of the world, striving for heroic sanctity and inspiring the same ideal in others, without drawing apart from secular occupations.
The result has been to place at the service of the Church an elite of Christians prepared by true asceticism, the scientific knowledge of Christian doctrine, and professional excellence to carry the light of Christ to all classes of men in their own environment. In the words of the late Holy Father, these are “chosen
souls who not only burn with the desire for individual perfection, but who, remaining in the world by virtue of the special vocation God has given them, can find new forms of association accommodated to the needs of the times which allow them to lead a life adapted to the acquisition of Christian perfection.” Among these new associations of the faithful, there is one called by Pius XII “the model of Secular Institutes.” It is Opus Dei — the Work of God. When the Holy See gave approval to its Constitutions in 1947, Opus Dei became the first Secular. Institute of Pontifical Right. Three years later the Institute received the Church’s definitive approval.
The members of Opus Dei are dedicated to a life of Christian perfection through the practice of the Counsels of the Gospel and the exercise of the apostolate. They continue to live and work in the world while receiving from the Institute their spiritual, doctrinal, and apostolic formation. As they are not religious but remain laymen, they are not distinguishable by dress or other external sign from their professional associates; they keep the same rights and duties as other citizens. Since their consecration is a personal and private one, they feel no call to publicize it. Although their secularity excludes a
25
March 30, 1962
canonical common life, some live in houses of the Institute devoted to corporate apostolic activities. A few receive Holy Orders (after working for some time in a secular profession) in order to serve the others as priests of Opus Dei. Since the Institute is devoted entirely to giving its members formation and conducting works of apostolate, it is not concerned with the content of their professional, social, political, or cultural views and leaves them with complete freedom to follow their own preferences within the limits of the Catholic Faith. Opus Dei has a supernatural and universal character which lifts it above national, racial, class, or poli
“... an elite of Christians prepared by true asceticism, the scientific knowledge of Christian doctrine, and professional excellence to carry the light of Christ to all classes of men.”
tical divisions, and unites the members in a common spirit, everywhere the same. There are separate sections for men, women, and the diocesan priests.
Opus Dei was founded by Msgr. Jose Maria Escriva de Balaguer, who was a young priest in Spain when called by God to that task on October 2, 1928. As the President General of Opus Dei, Msgr. Escriva lives at present in Rome at the Institute’s central house. He is author among other books of The Way, whose crisp and terse directives have already made it a spiritual classic. It has been translated from the original Spanish into a dozen Western and Oriental languages.
An apostolic aim arising from the compulsion all Christians share to concern themselves with others pervades the members’ lives, and along with their own sanctification, is the motive force behind the formation they receive. For their vocation is precisely to sanctify their professional work and turn it to the good of souls, fostering the life of Christian perfection among all social classes and showing by word and ex
26
ample how all legitimate human activities can be harmonized with Christian life and doctrine.
Without distracting from the importance of this individual apostolate of its members, Opus Dei gives itself with special vigor to the realization of corporate works of apostolate. These works, through which the Institute has become known to millions of people on all the continents, have been undertaken in approximately fifty countries where it is established. They include educational, charitable, social, and cultural institutions ranging from universities and technical schools to centers for the cultural development of workers and farmers
and home management schools for women.
The formation of youth holds an especially important place among these corporate works. Most commonly this formation is given in residences and other centers for university students, of which some 200 are now in operation. These centers aim to synthesize the spiritual, intellectual, and human aspects of life and to provide a stimulus to the maturing of selflessness, a sense of responsibility, high ideals, and a desire for outstanding professional achievement. Opus Dei opened its first center for students in the United States in 1949 in Chicago. Since then the Institute’s apostolic work in this country has expanded steadily. Centers for university students are now operating in a dozen Eastern and Midwestern cities. Windmoor House, 1121 N. Notre Dame Ave. in South Bend, is one of the newest of these centers, having opened in 1960. Another nearby and related enterprise of Opus Dei is Shellboume, a conference center located on a 45-acre site in Porter County, Northern Indiana, which is still in the planning stage. Although
primarily intended for workshops and seminars in which groups of professional men might explore ways of giving Christian criteria to their particular areas of concern, it will also help to complement the formative program of Windmoor and other student centers in the Midwest with week ends of study, seminars, summer courses, days of recollection, closed retreats, and other activities.
Outside the United States Opus Dei has started three especially significant works of apostolate in the recent past. One is the Catholic University of Navarre, in Spain, which became a pontifical university in 1960. Although founded only in 1952, the university is already providing instruction in faculties of arts, sciences, civil law, canon law, medicine, journalism, business, and civil engineering. It has been opened to make a contribution toward the universal task of Catholic intellectuals of bringing about the Christian synthesis of theological, scientific, and cultural endeavor. The faculty, some of whom are members of the Institute, strives to establish close relations with the students so as to provide a formation that is more than academic. Through a concentrated program of bringing students from other countries, especially from lesser developed lands, the university has already acquired a pronounced international character.
Another educational institution directed by Opus Dei is Strathmore College in Kenya, an interracial higher certificate school opened in 1961. Strathmore works out its educational program along lines designed to develop greater understanding among students of the many ethnic groups in East Africa. The government of Kenya, recognizing the need for such an enterprise, has given strong support.
In Japan Opus Dei has established the Seido Language Institute and Cultural Center, where regular and specialized courses are given to develop conversational skill in modern Western languages. When its new building, now under construction, is completed, the study of linguistics and a general cultural program will be added.
These corporate works of Opus Dei, so distant geographically, illustrate the universal character of the Institute. With all its other works, they share a deep apostolic purpose, and they place at the service of the Church new instruments for the salvation of souls.
The Scholastic
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
. LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
SUMMER JOBS in EUROPE
THE ‘new’ WAY TO SEE & ‘live’ EUROPE
SPECIALIZING IN ‘European Safaris*
For summer jobs or tours write: American Student Information Service, 22, Avenue de la Liberte, Luxembourg-City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ONLY!
' CAMPUS CLUBS! ORGANIZATIONS! INDIVIDUALS! >
FABULOUS
PRIZES!
SAVE VICEROY PACKS
ENTER THE BIG
EMPTY PACK CONTEST NOW!
RCA-VICTOR . Console Stereo PRIAt \ phonograph...
4 speeds, 4 speakers. AM-FM tuner.
BOX
3rd
prize
PRIZE
GET COMPLETE RULES AND TURN IN EMPTY PACKS TO
son PACK OR FLIPOPEN

2nd

RCA-VICTOR Portable Stereo Phonograph... 4 speeds,' three speakers.
GENERAL ELECTRIC Clock-Radio Sleep-snooze alarm, muted slumber switch
CERTIFICATES •
II nil/ TA U/|K| Just save empty Viceroy Packs llU W I U II111... you may win one of these exciting prizes for yourself or your club. The group or individual collecting the most packs wins the first prize. 2nd prize goes to the second largest number of packs collected ... and so on. Eight exciting prizes ... all to be awarded on this college campus! Plan to enter... plan to win. Start saving Viceroy packs today! Ask your friends to help you!

HUDDLE
TURN IN EMPTY PACKS
MAY 12th — Between 8 and 5 Entries accepted this date only

Its whats up front that counts
PILTE R~BLEN D makes the big difference in taste. It’s the good taste of rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially processed for filter smoking. Fine tobaccos and the pure white filter make Winston America’s best-selling
filter cigarette. Smoke Winston!
Winston
F,tT^-ctG4 * Ga^ttEs
Also available in crush-proof box. ____________________ R. 1 REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.