1962 Rambler American "400” Four-Door Station Wagon, Superb appointments, 125 HP Overhead Valve S'x
M Performer At A Real @©©D Price
Of all 16 U.S. cars that have 6-cylinder engines standard, only one other gives you so much power-per-pound as the Rambler American “400”. That’s performance.
You save plenty because Rambler American prices are the lowest of any U.S.-built car—bar none. That's value.
Want to get down to cases?
1.	Rambler’s all-w elded Single-Unit construction uses almost twice as many welds as are used in other
cars. That’s why Ramblers are so rattle-free, last so long, feel so solid.
2.	Every Rambler, in addition to 13 other rustproofing steps, goes through a Deep-Dip rustproofing bath—right up to the roof.
3.	Every ’62 Rambler has DoubleSafety Brakes—one system for front wheels, one for rear—priceless protection. Self adjusting too.
4.	New exclusive E-Stick automaticclutch transmission is yours in any 62 Rambler American for only
§5	9.50*—and it gives you the economy of a stick shift, too.
The number of advancements in the ’62 Rambler can make your head spin—yet all the prices are loiver.
If you want your money to talk big, go talk to your Rambler dealer.
•Manufacturer’s suggested factory-delivered price.
(RAMBLER
World Standard of Compact Car Excellence
ENGINEERS SCIENTISTS


SHOE FITS...
IF THE
. . . then we probably have nothing to offer you now. We like to fill our big-shoe jobs from within. So if you’re looking for room g > ry senior engineers and executives of the future must com	P Pnaineerina
ranks of today. Many of our top men began their careers in our engineering departments — and not so long ago. Time now for you to take that first step, sign up for an interview with the men from General Dynamics.
We'll be on campus soon to discuss opportunities at our Astronautics and Convair Divisions in San Diego, California; Pomona Division, Pomona, California; Fort Worth Division, Fort Worth, Texas; Electronics and Telecommunication Divisions, Rochester, New York. See your Placement Officer or write Mr. H. T. Brooks, Manager of Personnel Placement, General Dynamics, P. O. Box 2672, San Diego 12, California.
GENERAL DYNAMICS I CORPORATION Gill’HID
•	|	AN EQUAt. OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
3
THE CAMPUS SHOP QUALITY SALE
Suits, Topcoats and Sport Coats
25% DISCOUNT
Save one-fourth now on our fine quality topcoats, winter and year around weight suits and sport coats during the Campus Shop semi-annual quality sale of men’s clothing. Shop now for best selection.
4
The Scholastic
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Take advantage of the savings during the Campus Shop Quality Sale and charge it the Campus Shop way . . . pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . .. and one-third in August. There is never a carrying charge. So, shop soon while selections are good . . . save one-fourth now . . . pay next summer.
Fine Quality
SPORT SHIRTS
at savings of
1/2
The Campus Shop Quality Sale of men’s fine sport shirts at savings of exactly one-half. Solid colors, plaids, checks, stripes in all colors, combinations and styles. Stock up soon!
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS...
I LB € RT'§ ^©ampu^^hoE
On the Campus—Notre Dame
February 23, 1962
5
(Author of “Rally Round The Flag, Boys”, "The Many Lores of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
On Campus MaxMman
UNITED WE STAND
The entire academic world is agog over the success of the Associated Colleges Plan—ACP, for short. I mean, you go to any campus in the country these days and you will see students and faculty dancing on the green, blowing penny whistles, grabbing each other by the elbows and yelling, “About that ACP, Charley—like wow!”
And who can blame them? The ACP is a plan not only simply brilliant, but also brilliantly simple. All it is, is a loose regional federation of small colleges. Let’s say, for example, that in a given region we have a group of small colleges, each with its own academic specialty. Small College No. 1, let’s say, has a fine language department; Small College No. 2, let’s say, has a fine science department; No. 3 has a fine music department; etc., etc.
Well sir, under the ACP these various colleges federate. A student in any one of the colleges can take courses in the specialty of any of the other colleges and—here’s the beauty part!—he will receive credit for the course at his home college. Thus he enjoys all the advantages of a big university without losing
thecomfy coziness of a small	U
college!
Well sir, you can see what a good idea the ACP is. I respectfully submit, however, that just because a thing is good is no reason not to try to make it better. Like, for
instance, Marlboro Cigarettes. Marlboros were good from the very beginning, and people found out quickly and sales zoomed. But did the makers of Marlboro say, “Okay, we’ve got it made. Let’s relax”? Well sir, if that’s what you think, you don’t know the makers! They did not relax. They took their good Marlboros and kept improving them. They improved the filter, improved the blend, improved the pack. They researched and developed tirelessly, until today Marlboro is just about the most admirable cigarette you can put a match to. There are, in fact, some people who find Marlboros so admirable they can’t bear to put a match to them. They just sit with a single Marlboro in hand and admire it for ten, twelve
Three cheers for American ingenuity, which gave us the ACP, the collarbone and MGM . •. that’s the Mighty Good Makin’s you get in Marlboro, the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste. Settle back and enjoy one. You get a lot to like.
years on end. The makers of Marlboro are of course deeply touched by this— except for E. Rennie Sigafoos, the sales manager.
But I digress. The ACP, I say, is good but it can be better. Why should the plan be confined to small colleges? Why should it be confined to a limited region? Why not include all colleges and universities, big and small, wherever they are?
Let’s start such a federation. Let’s call it the “Bigger Associated Colleges To Encourage Richer Intellectual Activity” -BACTERIA, for short! -
What a bright new world BACTERIA opens up. Take, for example, a typical college student—Hunrath Sigafoos (son, incidentally, of the Marlboro sales manager). Hunrath, a bright lad, is currently majoring in burley at the University of Kentucky. Under the BACTERIA plan, Hunrath could stay at Kentucky, where he has made many friends, but at the
same time broaden his vistas by taking a course in constitutional law at Harvard, a course in physics at Caltech, a course in frostbite at Minnesota and a course in poi at Hawaii!
I admit there are still a few bugs in BACTERIA. How, for instance, could Hunrath attend a 9 o’clock class at Harvard, a 10 o’clock class at Hawaii, an 11 o’clock class at Minnesota, and still keep his lunch date at Kentucky? It would be idle to deny that this is a tricky problem, but I have no doubt American ingenuity will carry the day. Always remember how they laughed at Edison and Fulton—and particularly at Walter Clavicle who invented the collarbone.	c shulmaB
GLANCES
Chris Foley sneaks a glance at an article in Time, 1984 . . . page 9.
Mardi Gras is the issue of major significance covered in this week’s “News and Note” . . . page 11.
And what was found at the bottom of Pandora’s box? For an article about him, see . . . page 12.
This week’s transactions of our university legislative body are reviewed by Art Graham . . . page 13.
How to go about being married is the problem seniors meet in the annual Marriage Institute . . . page 13.
Oklahoma senior J. T. Philips, WSND station manager is interviewed on .. . page 14.
This week we feature an article on the valuable work being done by Notre Dame’s speech clinic . . . page 16.
Much Ado, the brilliant St. Mary’s musical adaptation of Shakespeare’s Much Ado About Nothing, is reviewed on . . . page 18.
John McGuire describes what is going on “In Town and Around” . . , page 20.
The week’s bridge-work is to be found on . . . page 21.
Irish eagers are hoping for an upset against Bradley University in Chicago tomorrow night. What are the chances? . . . page 25.
John Jordan thinks that the present freshman basketball team is the “best since Rosenthal.” Read about this group on . . . page 26.
Last Sunday’s blizzard stranded a number of visiting maidens from Barat and Rosary College. A saga of gallantry . . . page 30.
“Community or the Gift of Tongues” is the title of Jerry Brady’s “Forum” comparing the social consciousness of students here with those at the University of California . . . page 32.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second da»s mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip* tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be* comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor	'
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
newj staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stopp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Whorton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E. McGowan, Brian Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Pesto, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
sports staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys, Bob ScheiFmg, Tom Kistner, Joe Ryan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky. photography—Brion Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD, -Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Dalum.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
LET US NOW PRAISE ACTIVE MEN: Few subjects are more popular material for solemn student seminars than some variation on the theme of “the student and the world community.” Unfortunately, it is probably equally true to say that at Notre Dame such talk is very rarely generative of significant action. Jerry Brady, Student Body President here in 1957-58, observes in this week’s “Forum” (p. 32) that compared, for example, to the University of California, there is a lack of meaningful student organization at Notre Dame, both with respect to problems on our own campus and those problems which are pertinent to the larger communities of city, state, and nation. Though many things at Notre Dame have changed since Mr. Brady last wielded the gavel in the Student Senate, in this important respect his criticisms are almost as telling now as they would have been years ago. The number of noteworthy activities concerned with the “world outside the walls” can almost be exhausted in an off-hand roll call — the Blue Circle’s Help Week and Christmas caroling, the Monogram Club’s charitable activities and performances, and the International Relations Council’s work with local Negro groups seem to just about exhaust the list.
Consider what “significant social issue” has been getting the most attention and publicity in recent weeks at Notre Dame, claiming the energies of a large number of students, the YCS, and the Student Senate — the Thilman boycott question. The tacit admission that so many intelligent and active students have nothing more significant on which to expend their energies than the obstinacy of a single tavern-keeper ought to make a large number of faces red.
We are much against racial discrimination as anyone else, but there are a number of aspects to this particular issue that have been obscured amid the simplistic cries of “racial justice for all, immediately and everywhere.” In the first place, the tavern accommodates all of about two dozen patrons at any given time, and the number of Notre Dame Negroes who would go there, if any, could probably all fit comfortably in a telephone booth. Moreover, the question whether Notre Dame ought, as a body, to take specific action against this particular tavern-keeper is one which, if approached properly, would be extremely difficult to answer, and would involve so much inquiry anff discussion that it shouldn’t be worth bothering about. South Bend has a population of more than 130,000, many of them Negroes and immigrants. If Notre Dame students can’t find enough social problems here to involve them, they must be , suffering from some form of psychological myopia. But no, the whole campus hears the stirring clarion call to defend our lives, our fortunes and our Sacred Honor — boycott Ed Thilman.
I As for significant public controversy, it is hard to decide whether Notre Dame’s lack of same is due to squeamishness more on the part of the students or on the part of the Administration. The easy god of prudence-wrongly-understood has been invoked to justify paralysis of debate. While the main impetus for such debate should come from the student body, yet the Administration can and should tolerate more such activities than they have been willing to allow in the past Why, for example, was a student movement to establish a chapter of the Young Americans for Freedom quashed by the authorities last year? Why the dishwater and milquetoast constitutions for the campus Young Republicans and Democrats?
Like Mr. Brady, we would like to see Notre Dame have a daily paper, but I we can’t help wondering if enough of significance actually happens on this campus to make such a project anything more than a “venture in triviality.” For the plain fact is that at bottom, activities at Notre Dame, despite their solemn trappings, rarely transcend the trivial. Student Government is not the worst example of this fact, but only the most evident one. If Student Govem-ment, and students in general, wish to operate in spheres of significant action social, political, moral — they would be well-advised to give some consideration to those in which they would accomplish the most good.
CURTAIN CALL: The Speech and Drama Department of St. Mary’s College is to be congratulated for their production of what may be the finest and most original college musical in some time. To all involved in Much Ado we express our thanks for an excellent evening and our hope that this is not the last of such attempts to do more than the expected.
7
OUR COVER: Bob Hope has brought brightness and humor to everyone. This week’s cover tries to bring out this feeling.
—TOM HANSEN
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
New“wetter-than-water"action melts beard’s toughness—In seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—in seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave...fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.
S M U UTO IM
REPERCUSSIONS
OPEN DATE
Too bad we have an Easter vacation this “social” year. Had this not been arranged in advance the Social Commission might have been able to schedule at least one (possibly two) Big Name Entertainer(s) for Holy Thursday or Good Friday. Those two dates already taken, however, it looks like another mediocre Lenten social season; unless, of course, the Commission can get up something big for the Palm Sunday Weekend. Perhaps a “Penitential Ball” ...
John Root 318 Walsh
AMBASSADORS
Editor:
On the first day of February we had a union meeting at the Marine Corps Hall on Riverside Drive at which time we had the opportunity to have two Notre Dame students from your debating team, Mr. Korb and Mr. French, debating in regards to the Postal Service.
We members of 330 were very impressed with Mr. Korb and Mr. French and truly they gave a good account of themselves not only in their debates but also in their behavior. Students of their caliber are truly wonderful representatives of your Notre Dame University. We hope that this message reaches the proper authorities at your school.
Leo T. Wallisch South Bend
COACHING COMMENTS
Editor:
Having just read the last issue of the Scholastic I noted with special interest your section on the basketball team. I have watched Freshman Coach Gibbons three or four days a week the last few weeks, and it is very obvious that though he drives them extremely hard and at the end of the practice session they are physically exhausted, they respect him and work very hard for him.
In contrast to this situation, on the other end of the court, the varsity is practicing, and from all outward appearances not caring whether they are coming or going. Coach Jordan takes no interest in the team to speak of. He just stands in the middle of the court, sips coffee, and generally does nothing to try to improve the team. Don’t you think it would be a good idea to appoint Mr. Gibbons as the varsity coach? His ability to communicate with the players is unques-(Continued on page 22)
8
The Scholastic
19 8 4
by Chris Foley
(From Time magazine, Feb. H, 198%)
ACH autumn finds an ever-increasing percentage (46.8) of females among the masses discarding summer jobs and heading back for another two semesters of college. By and large the distaff students choose from schools as widely scattered across the country as their male counterparts; by far the greatest number, however, head for a northern Indiana city which boasts the largest institution for the higher education of women in North America.
The city is South Bend, Indiana, and the school is the University of Notre Dame, whose enrollment (6,467) far overshadows its rivals in size and, according to many educators, quality. Originally a male institution, Notre Dame was seized some years ago by a handful of volatile nuns from nearby St. Mary’s College in a bloodless coup. Its students choose from 114 majors in the university’s 5 major colleges, Arts & Letters, Science, Engineering, Commerce, and Excellence.
Though the chaste pastel uniforms of the past have been redesigned (they are still pastel), Notre Dame has stuck firmly with the stringent disciplinary and academic program that has turned out remarkably stable* graduates as well as a sprinkling of standouts, such as Attorney General Caroline Kennedy. Despite an academic disaster of sorts a few years ago when a brand new radiation center blew up a brand new library, Notre Dame has steadily increased its prestige and entrance requirements. The curriculum, once described as a blend of Thomism and
• Not long ago a visiting Harvard psychiatrist ywas astounded to find not a single undergraduate suicide in Notre Dame’s history. Two hundred thirty-seven Notre Dame women have married men who Jater committed suicide, however.
February 23, 1962
the split-T, has widened its horizons so vastly that it now contains elements of the wing-T and spread. Notre Dame has long given science its due. Campus physiologists recently debunked an age-old myth by sawing the top of the head off a 19-year-old and pouring in some knowledge.
FRIGHTENING IRISH. Whatever Notre Dame offers in its classrooms, however, will never achieve for it the renown and love won by its fabled green-shirted Fighting Irish. Currently coasting along on one of its commonplace winning skeins, Notre Dame has so completely dominated intercollegiate football for the last decade that head coach “Grammaw” Bruno is said to rank somewhere between the King of Sweden and the Prime Minister of Canada in terms of sheer power.
The student body backs up the team with a gusto unmatched since the peak of Naziism. Shrieking for such campus heroes as two time all-American fullback Sadie Bonesmash (My Daughter’s Chances in Pro Ball, TIME, Oct. ’83), Notre Dame women raise an ungodly frenzy at Friday night pep rallies in the campus field house that almost invariably signal an overwhelming victory the following afternoon.
During the week and in the offseason Notre Dame students concentrate on studies and such academic sidelights as lecture series and military drill. Notre Dame has WAC, WAVE, and WAF ROTC, and nearly half of its enrollment stands tall under the glaring eyes and shrilled commands of student officers.
For relaxation there are free movies in Washington Hall, where the masses
greet Hollywood’s gods of love with a vocal verve that has more than once caused temporary discontinuation of cinematic presentations.
POOR COUSINS. An alternative is a date with that unsightly blob in the total Notre Dame picture, the St. Mary’s boy. These forgotten wretches are an outgrowth of the original Notre Dame revolution, the straggling (1,507) males who inherited the facilities “across the road.” Descriptions of St. Mary's boys by Notre Dame women range from general disapproval to rather detailed and animate deprecation. (“Fantastic!” scowls one Notre Dame woman.) Relations between the two schools seem to have been strained from the start, with the expensive tastes of St. Mary’s boys being an oft-quoted reason. Perhaps stemming from the comparative wealth of St. Mary’s boys’ families (average yearly income: 1.4 million), the reaction by Notre Dame women in general is one of dismay. “By the time,” complains one ND sophomore, “you take a St. Mary’s boy to a show, get something to eat, and pay cab fare both ways, your beer money is shot for weeks!”
Outsiders would never know the vast consequences of a Notre Dame woman finding herself even a farthing short in her brewery allotment. “Having a few with the girls” at any one of a dozen South Bend spots is both a trademark and a point of pride at Notre Dame, a fact emphasized by an old Saturday night standby, the 12:15 bus back to the “circle." This weekly caravan rolls through the midnight streets resounding with the chirruping of hundreds of woolen-stockinged young women shrieking their familiar drinking songs in allegiance to their own Notre Dame.
9
IBM
WILL INTERVIEW MARCH 1
Candidates for Bachelor’s or Master’s Degrees are invited to discuss opportunities in:
Engineering and Sales
This is a unique opportunity to find out about the many career opportunities at IBM. The IBM representative can discuss with you typical jobs, various training programs, chances for advanced education, financial rewards, and company benefits—all important factors that affect your future.
SOME FACTS ABOUT IBM
An Unusual Growth Story: IBM has had one of the exceptional growth rates in industry. It has been a planned growth, based on ideas and products having an almost infinite application in our modern economy.
Diverse and Important Products: IBM develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of products in the data processing field. IBM computers and allied products play a vital role in the operations of business, industry, science, and government.
Across-the-Country Operations: Laboratory and manufacturing facilities are located in
Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Vestal, Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vermont; Lexington, Ky.; San Jose, Calif.; Bethesda, Md.; and Rochester, Minn. Headquarters is located in New York City with sales and service offices in 180 major cities throughout the United States.
The Accent is on the Individual: No matter what type of work a person does at IBM, he is given all the responsibility he is able to handle, and all the support he needs to do his job. Advancement is by merit.
The areas in which IBM is engaged have an unlimited future. This is your opportunity to find out what that future has to offer you. All qualified applicants will be considered for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin.
Your placement officer can help you to learn more about IBM. He can give you literature describing the many career fields at IBM. He will arrange an appointment for you with the IBM representative. If you cannot attend an interview, write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:
W. F. Wahl, Branch Manage) IBM Corporation, Dept. 882 618-620 N. Michigan Street South Bend 1, Ind.
Phone: CE 2-8251
®
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company.
10
The Scholastic
TWO QUEENS RULE MARDI GRAS
Two queens of Mardi Gras, one for the weekend and one for the ball, will be one of the innovations at the pre-Lenten carnival this year. The big change is, of course, the use of the new Student Activities Building.
Thirty-one clubs and organizations are planning to have booths at the carnival this year. Booths were distributed on the basis of plans submitted beforehand, and on past record — consistent winners were invited back.
A sample of the clubs and organizations which will have booths in this year’s Mardi Gras carnival are the Architecture Club, Chicago Club, Dixie Club, Hawaii Club, Knights of Columbus, Met Club, St. Mary’s, and the Sophomore Class.
The necessary element for the use of the new Student Activities Building by Mardi Gras time is favorable weather so that finishing touches, including calking the geodesic dome, may be applied.
ND PLANS LANGUAGE SCHOOL
From June 18 to Aug. 3 of this year, Notre Dame will conduct a Summer Institute for Secondary Teachers of German and Spanish. According to the Institute director, Dr. Charles Parnell, of the Notre Dame Modem Language Department, 54 teachers, representing both private and public schools, will be enrolled in the program^
The Notre Dame Institute will be held under provisions of the National Defense Education Act in cooperation with the Language Development Program of the U.S. Office of Education. Similar institutes were held at Notre Dame during the summers of 1960 and 1961 for teachers of French and Spanish.
Eligible for the Institute are those who have a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent, who have a minimum of two college years of study of the target language, and who will be teaching that language on the secondary level during the 1962-63 school year. Tuition and fees of all trainees will be underwritten by the government, and public school teachers will receive a stipend of $75 per week plus an allowance of $15 per week for each dependent.
The principal objective of the institute, said Dr. Parnell, is “to in
February 23, 1962
crease the participants’ own skills and knowledge and to show them how best to utilize these skills and knowledge to render their teaching as effective as possible.” The program will include a Civilization and Culture Course, conversation classes, a course in Linguistic Analysis and Pattern Practice, and a Methods Course with Demonstration Class. Extensive use will be made of Notre Dame’s language laboratories.
CLOSED CIRCUIT TV
Notre Dame’s initial experiment with closed circuit educational television got under way Wednesday, Feb. 14, when 90 students heard guest lecturers Frank O’Malley and Joseph Brennan of the English department and Robert Leader of the Art department speak on “William Blake: Poet, Artist, and Historical Personage.”
Operating under the direction of Terrence Spencer, the video-taped program was broadcast through the facilities of WNDU, and shown to several sophomore English sections as part of the regular discussion of William Blake. Three monitors were utilized in this first showing in O’Shaughnessy Hall, and more will be used as this method of teaching is perfected.
Professor Spencer views the telecast as a qualified success. Hampered at the outset by technical difficulties, the program, nevertheless demonstrated the potency of this medium as an educational tool. More such lectures will be taped for future use when these technical problems are resolved.
PROF. TO EXPLAIN LITURGY
Rev. John H. Miller, C.S.C., assistant professor of theology at Notre Dame and a specialist in the liturgy of the Roman Catholic Church, will appear with John B. Mannion on CBS Television Network’s Look Up and Live program Feb. 25 and Mar. 4 (Sundays). Mr. Mannion is the executive secretary of the North American Liturgical Conference.
The discussions will be concerned with various aspects of the liturgy. The first program will deal with the priesthood and the sacramental sign as the two most essential principles of the liturgy. The subject of the second will be the prospects of reform
of the liturgy at the forthcoming Ecumenical Council. Both programs will be viewed locally over WSBT-TV at 9:30 a.m. CST.
Fr. Miller, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1960, holds three degrees from the Athenaeum Angel-icum in Rome, and he holds a doctorate from the Theological Faculty of Trier, Germany. He is the author of Fundamentals of the Liturgy, editor of the Yearbook of Liturgical Studies, and a member of the board of directors of the North American Liturgical Conference.
SCIENTISTS OPEN HOUSE
The 1962 Science Open House will be held on Saturday and Sunday, March 17 and 18. Entitled “Modem Science in Perspective,” the guiding purpose of this year’s open house is to give the public, especially high school students, their parents and teachers, a clear perspective of modem science.
Activities include projects and demonstrations in the various sciences by high school, undergraduate, and graduate students; a guided tour of the LOBUND Institute; and movies oh scientific matters that are specially directed at the layman.
On Sunday awards will be presented, including the Dean Henry B. Froning award for the outstanding project in the high school division of the Open House. Chairman for the 1962 Open House is John Lefelhocz and the assistant chairman is Dan Omilianowski.
TWO PROFS TAKE U.S. POSTS
Two Notre Dame professors have been named to advisory posts with government agencies.
Dr. C. F. D’Alelio, professor of chemistry, has been named a member of the Research Advisory Committee on Materials of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The committee advises NASA in the formulation of its programs of aeronautical and space research and in the maintenance of communication with scientific, industrial, military, and other governmental organizations. Prof. D’Alelio, a polymer chemistry specialist, has been a faculty member since 1955.
The other post is that of consultant (Continued on page 22)
11
HOPE FOR SENIOR CLASS
Patriot of the year Bob Hope will be honored by the Senior Class at its annual Washington Day Exercises next Tuesday at 8:15 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. He will be presented with the plaque and citation of the Patriot award, after which he will address the student body. At the same ceremony, the Senior Class will present an American flag to the University, to be flown for the first time at commencement.
Hope, of course, is best known as one of America’s leading comedians. But he was the overwhelming choice of the Senior Class for Patriot of the Year in recognition of his monumental contributions to the morale of servicemen during the past two decades. Since 1940, Bob Hope has traveled over two million miles for charitable purposes; during the war, he broadcast from almost every GI post in this country. He has spent Christmas with servicemen in Alaska several times and with the blockaded men in Berlin in 1948. His travels have taken him to every state in this country and to Africa, Japan, England, Greenland, France, and Korea.
The list of his citations for benefits and assistance is too long to include, but prominent among his recognitions are the Medal of Merit from General
BOB HOPE
Eisenhower; honorary commissions in the Army and Marine Corps; citations from the Treasury Department for his bond selling efforts; recognition from his own profession as America’s leading comic and “No. 1 Soldier in Greasepaint”; and countless expressions of gratitude from hospitals, bases, and organizations. (This category includes a letter thanking him for his visit to the Navy men at Notre Dame in 1940.)
Born Leslie Townes Hope in London, May 29, 1903, he came to Cleveland with his family when he was five. He became “Bob,” he says, because on his high school roll call, "Hope, Leslie” sounded too much like “hopelessly.” From jobs as a clerk, professional boxer, and newspaper reporter, he gradually moved to success in vaudeville as a singer and dancer.
He starred in the musical, Roberta, in 1933, and quickly became a star in the infant radio industry. By 1938 he had his own show. That same year he played in his first movie, The Big Broadcast. In 1950 he made his television debut, thus conquering all major entertainment media.
He is married to the former Dolores Reade. They live in the Toluca Lake section of the San Fernando Valley, California, and have four adopted children : Linda, Tony, Nora, and Kelly.
Hope is known for his financial acumen almost as much as for his entertainment success. He and dose friend, Bing Crosby, are several times millionaires, Hope’s wealth coming mainly from profitable investments, which include shares in
So This is Peace; and Have Tux, Will Travel. The proceeds from his second book were donated to the War Relief Fund.
The Patriot of the Year Award was instituted in 1954 as a part of the traditional Washington Day ceremonies begun by Father Sorin. The award is presented annually to an American chosen by vote of the Senior Class who has contributed to his country’s welfare in his own particular capacity and who “exemplifies the American ideals of justice, personal integrity, and service to country.”
Hope is the first entertainer to be chosen. Last year’s recipient, Vice Admiral Hyman G. Rickover, represented a continuation of the precedent of choosing newsmaking celebrities, who have included Wernher von Braun, J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, President (then Senator) John F. Kennedy, Vice-President Richard M. Nixon, Attorney General Robert Kennedy, and General Curtis E. LeMay. It was felt that the selection of Rickover added much to the prestige and significance of the award. Despite some criticism to the contrary this year, the selection of Bob Hope has at least maintained the level of discrimination demonstrated by previous classes. Bob Hope is a great entertainer, but he has used his talents to great advantage for his country’s service.
Perhaps the most significant item in the long list of Bob Hope’s contributions to his country is a single statement which sums up his activities during World War H. “He re- ' fused all offers for appearances for personal remuneration and devoted the time to appearances concerned with the war effort.” The sacrifice indicated in this summation is one measure of his patriotism; but, further, the positive contribution he made to the morale of 10 million servicemen away from home makes Bob Hope an admirable choice for Patriot of the Year.
Professor Frank O’Malley has written the dedication address for the presentation of the 1962 Senior Class Patriotism Award to Bob Hope. In part it reads:
"_____Humor is true and lasting and stirs elemental juices sown where laughter begins, at the root of things. Yours, Sir, is the humor that certainly comes from the heart of humanity; it is the genuine humor that rises out of a charitable consciousness of human foibles. Long has it brightened the lives of our citizens at home and eased their burdens with laughter." — J. Peter Clark
the Los Angeles Rams and Cleveland Indians. His interest in sports is also seen in his skill at golf—a talent he often uses for benefit tournaments.
He has written 4 books: They’ve Got Me Covered; I Never Left Home;
The Scholastic
12
/Ini Qnakam
Two-Sided Pancake
It’s a very thin pancake that doesn’t have two sides, and after Monday night the Thilman’s pancake was considerably thicker. Chris Buckley, SBP, related his talk with Mr. Thilman and the Senate passed a toothless motion.
At present Thilman provides a carry out service for Negroes, but won’t serve them in his tap. According to Buckley, Thilman feels that his serving of Notre Dame Negroes would necessitate his serving of Negroes in general.
If Thilman’s fears are realistic any kind of student action would be out of the question. Even if Thilman would be willing to run a Negro bar, would any of our students be willing to patronize it?
Thus it was a weak motion which Tom Bishop, chairman of the civil liberties committee presented to the Senate and had passed unanimously. The motion suggested to the students that they withhold their patronage from establishments which discriminate unjustifiably against Notre Dame students. No mention was made of Thilman’s.
Debate on the motion was opinionated. Bishop wanted his committee to be free for further action. Buckley, who seemed to side with Thilman, told Bishop that any further action would have to be okayed by the Senate. When Stu Hilbert, the Informer representative, condemned any action against Thilman’s as unnecessary, Buckley told him his remarks about Thilman’s were irrelevant. Meece contradicted Buckley, and Castaldi pointed out that Buckley and Bishop had made many references to Thilman’s. Hilbert was allowed to speak.
No longer is it necessary to have a 3 average to become a Senator. Monday the minimum was lowered to 2.5. Apparently the Senate now believes itself to be a mediocre body and is adjusting its entrance requirements accordingly. Commenting on the 2.5-3 average group Dick Meece said, “A certain type of candidate might come out of this group who might not take the Senate too seriously.”
Most evident in the long debate on trivial matters (not mentioned) was a lack on the part of the Senators to see into the heart of problems and to avoid irrelevant debate. To a certain extent this is unavoidable, but the Senate certainly didn’t help matters by making the popular but less capable man eligible for the Senate.
February 23, 1962
MARRIAGE INSTITUTE
Opens in Two Weeks
The Notre Dame Marriage Institute, sponsored by the senior class and the Department of Theology, will present its first lecture on Mar. 7 in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m.
The speaker will be Father Walter Imbiorski of the Cana Conference of Chicago, who will speak on the topic, “Marriage is Holy.”
Father Imbiorski
Father Imbiorski was ordained at St. Mary’s Seminary, Mundelein, DI., in May of 1951, and was assigned to St. Francis of Assisi Parish where he was an assistant for five years. In 1956, he was appointed assistant to the directors of the Cana Conference and the Catholic Action Federations.
In July, 1957, Father Imbiorski served as a delegate for the Cana Conference and the Christian Family Movement to the Pan American Family Life Convention which was held in Montevideo, Uruguay.
The “New Cana Manual,” which is a reference book on the Cana movement, was edited and published by Father Imbiorski in 1957.
For three months during the summer of 1959, Father Imbiorski was
on tour in the Far East at the request of the United States Air Forces, conducting Cana Conferences for military personnel and their wives.
Father Imbiorski was appointed by Chicago’s Cardinal Meyer' to the position of full-time director of the Cana Conference early in 1959.
Other speakers for the Institute will include Mr. and Mrs. John Drish of Evanston, DI., speaking on “Growing Up Through Marriage,” on Mar. 14; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., on “Courtship and Marriage,” on Mar. 21; Dr. Louis Leon of Evanston, on “Plain Talk on Marriage,” on Mar. 28; and Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Christin, Jr., of the Notre Dame English Department, on “Romance and Marriage,” on Apr. 4.
All lectures will be heard in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. on their respective dates.
Ticket sales for resident students will be in the senior halls next Monday and Tuesday, between the horn's of 10 and 12 p.m. Off-campus students may pick up their tickets in the Rathskeller between the hours of 12 and 2 p.m. on the same days. The Marriage Institute is purposely for seniors and graduate students, but underclassmen anticipating marriage in the near future and wishing to attend may purchase a ticket after having received permission from Father Putz at the YCS office in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center next Monday and Tuesday, between the hours of 12 and 2 p.m.
EXCELLENCE HITS CJF
According to the recognized voice of the jazz world, Downbeat, “the caliber, of musicianship at the Collegiate Jazz Festival, at the University of Notre Dame . . . was encouraging.” This year Collegiate Jazz Festival 1962 presents a “New Excellence in Collegiate Jazz.” It means, simply, that all the good things from the successful 1961 festival will be more refined and more polished for 1962.
From 25 to 30 college jazz groups from across the nation will gather under the new geodesic dome beginning Friday, April 6, and concluding
13
★ NOTRE ★ DAME ★ STUDENTS
Eat At
EDDIE'S DINING ROOM
1345 Ironwood Drive
10% Student Discount
with the finals on Saturday evening, April 7. The panel of judges who will evaluate and select the winning groups includes: Charles Suber, the publisher of Downbeat; jazz critic Bob Share; and musicians Sonny Rollins and Henry Mancini.
Chairman Tom Eiff announced tentative plans for Henry Mancini to lead the CJF All-Stars of past years in some of his own arrangements as an added feature of CJF 62.
The 1962 Collegiate Jazz Festival’s executive committee consists of Eiff, Mike Sanderson, Terry Burke, Charlie Murphy, Dave Paliganoff, Bob Fennel, Paul Tschirhart, and Mike Whitney.
The Board of Advisors includes Lawrence Berk, Willis Conover, Dr. Eugene Hall, John Hammond, Herman Kenin, Stan Kenton, John J. Maher, the Rev. Charles McCarrag-her, C.S.C., Kenneth Morris, and Fred Williamson.
J. T. PHILLIPS There are bound to be internal conflicts
APOLOGIA PRO WSND
ENGINEERS
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO.
-----— INTERVIEWS--------1
TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 27 & 28, 1962
We need BS and MS ENGINEERING and SCIENCE majors for RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT	PRODUCT DESIGN
PRODUCT SERVICE	SALES PROMOTION
IF YOU WANT-
opportunity to build your future by working hard—by contributing something extra—by doing a little more than is expected ...
Sign up today at your PLACEMENT OFFICE to discuss employment with our representative
We ore on equal opportunities employer
In the light of recent rumors of policy conflicts and internal shake-ups surrounding radio station WSND, the Scholastic sent reporter Dick Maher to interview J. T. Phillips, station manager of WSND. In the course of the interview Phillips commented on the station’s policy, its functions, its internal conflicts, and its future, as well as other questions of general interest concerning WSND.
Basically, our function is to entertain. We attempt to broadcast what our listeners want to hear. Our music might generally be called study music, although we do intermix pop music. ■We do not, however, play rock and roll since our surveys show that, contrary to what you might think, rock and roll does not enjoy immense popularity among the students.
We also serve as an information agency, publicizing the activities of various campus organizations. We also cover the news on a national scale.
As station manager and policy formulator, could you give us an idea of WSND’s policy on controversial matters?
No controversial matter is all black and white. ... If this were so, there would be no controversy in the first place. To quote an old adage, “There is some grey on both sides.” We will take a definite stand on a matter only if (1) the matter is highly important; and (2) the right dictates that we take a stand. But wTe would much rather present the facts and let the students form their own conclusions. It is not our place to tell them how to think. You can imagine
44
The Scholastic
how quickly we’d lose our audience if all wTe did was to tell them, “Do this” or “Do that.”
Are individual announcers free to express their own ideas on the air?
It is very difficult to express our position without risking cries of censorship, etc. Let me say this: We do not encourage announcers to express their personal views on the air. If they do, they must be sure to say that it is their own view being expressed. But no matter how definitely this might be stated, their words might be subject to misinterpretation. Many people hear radio programs in snatches; they do not always catch the full context of what is said. Thus it might be dangerous for an announcer to speak, since what he says might be open to misinterpretation.
Sometimes these remarks by the announcers deal with other organizations on campus. Do you approve of this?
There is a good deal of give and take between the organizations on campus. Nobody really minds exchanging jokes about the activities of the different organizations.
It is quite a different matter, however, when the remarks are “destructively critical.” Nobody has a right to malign another organization on campus. Should this happen on WSND, and it hasn’t this year, I should consider it a most grave matter and act accordingly.
There has been rumor of internal shake-ups at WSND, based on policy and personal conflicts. Do you have (Continued on page 20)
ATTENTION!
ALL
SENIORS
ATTENTION FACULTY
Moore's Annual Sale of CAPS. GOWNS. HOODS
Measurements for caps and gowns will be taken at the Student Center on Tuesday, February 27th and Wednesday, February 28th.
Hours will be from: 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
All measurements must be taken at this time.
TUES., FEB. 27TH & WED.. FEB. 28TH BETWEEN 10:00 A.M. & 5:00 P.M.
In the Student Center
Money will be collected at this time also.
February 23, 1962
15
Hearing Test for Advanced ROTC Candidate
A WOMAN'S WORK
WITH WORDS
by John Pesta
The University speech clinic is a room (328 Main Building), a couple of office desks, several pieces of technical apparatus, and Mrs. A. T. Lynch: fair improvement over the state of affairs that Mrs. Lynch, the clinic’s director, found awaiting her six years ago when she initiated the service.
Today the clinic provides private or group instruction for students who speak too fast or too slowly, too high or too low, whose voice is nasal or ’ conspicuously accented, who confuse sounds, who have difficulty hearing, or who stutter. Foreign speaking students who wish to amend their oral English can also use the clinic’s special equipment and materials. Those taking the course — generally about 45 undergraduates and gradu
16
ates a semester — meet with Mrs. Lynch weekly at mutually convenient hours. No books are necessary, and mimeographed materials, as well as the use of the department’s equipment, is included in very reasonable fees. Depending on the degree of private direction desired by the student, rates vary from ten to 40 dollars a semester. It should be noted that students may enter the program at any time during the semester. Townspeople, too, occasionally take the clinic’s programs at slightly higher rates. “Phasers” and victims of cerebral palsy are the usual town participants.
It is true that the majority of students receive whatever training they need along the lines of speech development in their basic English and other courses. But the clinic is
not geared to the needs of the majority: the close attention and guidance of an expert speech therapist is required to offset pronounced irregularities in the spoken language.
Holding advanced accreditation in the American Speech and Hearing Association, Mrs. Lynch brings to her task a wealth of professional capability. Before assuming her position at Notre Dame, she conducted similar programs in the Bakersfield, Calif., city schools and at Central Michigan College. Not merely a professional skill, however, does Mrs. Lynch offer her students: her vivacity and personal interest are traits that captivate one immediately.
In at least one important way Mrs. Lynch’s clinic is unique — the term
The Scholastic
is her own — from those of other institutions. “Our service,” she says, “is meant only as a service to the students. We’re not training any speech therapists here.” The distinction is important. Both the particular attention and the personal atmosphere would necessarily be lost were the University to offer degrees through the clinic. As Mrs. Lynch sees it, closest contact is essential for progress in these areas.
It has been possible, though, at some universities, to take a doctor’s degree in speech therapy for over thirty years. This is no new field, Mrs. Lynch says, although it’s taken almost that long a time to arrive at anything resembling a unified outlook on the problems of certain speech defects. Considering the question of stuttering, perhaps the most interesting phase of this work and one which concerns almost half of the clinic’s participants, a good deal of probing has been done. In Dr. Wendell Johnson’s opinion, stuttering is one hundred per cent psychological. He writes in Toward Understanding Stuttering, “In the time of your grandmother it was commonly believed that stuttering was caused by nervousness or heredity. . . . Your grandmother took for granted, as most folks still do, that stuttering is caused by a defect •of. the-body or-else-by a flaw in the personality.” But as members of Dr. Johnson’s school are proving by scientific research, such conclusions are entirely unfounded: “We speak of ‘the stutterer’ as though stuttering were a problem only for, and of, the speaker. Meanwhile, of course, it involves his listeners too. In fact, when a speaker who is said to be a stutterer speaks where no one else can hear him, he seldom, or never, does what we call stuttering. This means that it takes at least two persons to stutter, the one who speaks and one or more who listen.”
Because children have as their constant listeners parents or other heartily concerned relatives, a scrupulous attitude on one of their parts can easily be the cause of a person’s stammering throughout life. The mother who puts the “stuttering” label on her child’s speaking habits is confronting him with something he cannot understand. Truth is, Johnson would say, all children have a certain nonfluency in their speaking .habits. And what’s more, most adults
February 23, 1962
Discussion Group for Participants in the Speech Therapy Program
do too — consider the number of ah’s and uh’s in your own conversation. But drawing a child’s attention to the situation is the very cause of the difficulty. “Stop stuttering, Jimmy!" may be just as injurious as rigging Junior’s bed with a recording teaching him how to stutter.
In battling the folk superstitions that in past years thwarted efforts at understanding stammerers (for instance, European surgeons until recently believed, on Aristotle’s authority, that stuttering could be cured by cutting away portions of the person’s tongue) therapists have noticed many curious aspects of the problem. That eight of ten stutterers are boys is possibly due to the fact that parents seem to expect more of male children, demand perfection — more pronouncedly. All these things merely tend to prove that this is no physical prob
"Particular Attention and Personal Atmosphere"
lem, nor one of personality. Over-zealous parents can condition all too easily in children a fear and anxiety of speaking. Problems that would normally work themselves out are needlessly and foolishly made worse.
Because roughly half of Mrs. Lynch’s own students have a stuttering problem, it’s her job to help them face their difficulty as realistically as possible. “Working with a stutterer is like working as a lawyer,” she says. “I must persuade him to change his way of speaking. I must show him that his values are far too high, unreasonably so.” An item that she emphasized again and again was that her job is not to train for perfect speech — no one has that — but, rather, normal speech. The speech programs are anything but lectures in public speaking.
Equipment that the clinic has garnered during its brief history include two tape recorders, a monaural and a dualtrack not unlike the affairs in the language labs, as well as a more formidable device, an iometer. Some schools when approached with the idea of establishing speech development programs envision bulkheads of costly equipment ranked in vast straddling clinics. It’s a mistaken notion. The work that Mrs. Lynch does with her few tools is valid testimony to the value of an unpretentious but well-directed and dedicated program.
CRITIQUE
MUCH
ADO
by Carl Wiedemann
£—
This critic had long considered the musical comedy an inferior, inane, and stupid form of entertainment, but the original musical Much. Ado, presented by the drama and music departments of St. Mary’s College last week, gave serious cause for reappraisal. To fans of the musical comedy, Much Ado must have been a gem. To a professed foe of the musical form it was completely enjoyable and worthwhile.
The most rewarding features of Much Ado were that it was an original musical and that it was adapted from a play by Shakespeare. Original theater seems like something colleges should attempt more often, and they probably would if they could be assured of some measure of the success of Much Ado. Doing an original musical was a bold step and certainly in the right direction. A musical version of Shakespeare was an excellent choice for a college audience, which is usually quite familiar both with Shakespeare and musicals.
The principal complaint I have always had with musicals is the general putridity of plot that seems to be the rule. Much Ado ran no risk of problems with the plot by adapting a script by a moderately competent dramatist and writer of comedy.
Shakespeare suffered no injustice at the hands of Mr. Cronin and his troupe. That Much Ado About Noth-
ing fitted quite easily into the musical idiom was due to the intelligent and smooth editing and adapting work of Messrs. Rathgeb, Cronin, and Spencer. The play lost none of its coherence in the adaptation. It is easy to justify presenting Shakespeare as a musical. (or a musical based on Shakespeare) to the purist, since no one does Shakespeare as it was written any more. The disappearance of the platform stage, the introduction of intermissions, the American dialect which is hardly suited to rattling off King Lear
18
The Scholastic
in two hours, and many other developments of the last three hundred years preclude presenting Shakespeare in the original, so now Shakespeare can be done legitimately just about “as you like it.”
The songs had little disruptive effect, as I said, on the flow of the play. Perhaps because they were so well suited to their respective plot situations. There seemed nothing strange about Myrna Walker as Beatrice singing a hymn of repulsion to males, entitled “A Man” after an exchange of dialogue in Leonato’s orchard. The preparation of twenty original songs to fit a Shakespearean play and a modern audience would be quite an accomplishment with the help of Gilbert, Sullivan, Lerner, and Loewe, and so the music generally did not come up to the lyrics, at least in variety and originality. The melodies tended to be rather indistinguishable, but as an original score the music was awfully good. The lyrics were most skillfully written by Sheila O’Neill and T. J. Spencer, especially Don John’s justification of villains and Benedick’s martial love song.
The only places where the show dragged were the dance numbers which seemed unnecessary and prolonged, but otherwise the pace was crisp, as Shakespeare should be, and musical comedy should be.
Much Ado as Shakespearean comedy was more than competently handled. The diction and articulation were notably good and Shakespeare’s comedy was not sacrificed to the musical form. If anything, the musical rendi-. tion seemed to brighten the comic effects. For some reason the only scenes that didn’t really take with the audience were some of the farce comedy episodes, which should have
been the funniest. I’m at a loss to explain why, because it wasn’t due to the fine work of Bill Herbin as the buffoonish Dogberry, a difficult role.
Tony Bill will probably never get a recording contract, but his singing didn’t detract from his performance because what he lacked in vocal abilities he more than made up for with verve and enthusiasm. The jaunty Senor Benedick came to full life with all his crackling wit in the person of Mr. Bill, who bounced and strutted about the stage making Benedick totally engaging, if somewhat of a bearded imp. The character of Benedick seemed at times almost unable to contain Tony Bill’s palpable zest for the role. He improved from a strong start as the play went on and seemed at the end in danger of stopping the show.
Myrna Walker presented a terribly modern version of Beatrice, but Much Ado was a modern musical based on Shakespeare, and in the play Beatrice is a girl with modern ideas. Her singing can’t be faulted and her Beatrice was a good match for Tony Bill’s Benedick in the running verbal battle the two carry on. In the musical numbers, Miss Walker was obviously in her element, whirling them off to perfection, but at the same time she didn’t seem to experience any problems with the Shakespearean dialogue.
Lyndon McCray as Leonato and Bill Barth as Don Pedro were steady and solid in roles requiring solid, steady performances. These two did perhaps the best jobs of acting Shakespeare.
Barbara Piedno as Hero made the best of what is actually a small role. Mike Ritschel, opposite her as Claudio, will never make the Old Vic company,
but was fine as a musical comedy performer. Mr. Ritschel’s voice was the best male voice in the show.
Among the various and capable minor roles, a pat on the back should go to Michael Nabicht for his solemn and convincing portrayal, amid the laughter, of the fat and fair Friar Francis.
Special commendation should go to Donald Rathgeb and his stage crew. The use of the drops was extremely imaginative, a highlight of the show, and seemed tailored perfectly both for musical comedy and Shakespeare. The scenery was really superlative.
Again, the secret of success for Much Ado seemed to be the perfect organization and execution of the whole show, songs, dances, sets, and Shakespeare. Much Ado as a musical loses none of its unity and flow and gains a whole new dimension of entertainment. Though not yet a convert to musical comedy, I must say that Much Ado was just first rate.
February 23, 1962
19
'WSND'
(Continued from page 15) any comment on this?
In any organization there are bound to be internal conflicts. Conflicts arise whenever people work together. Conflicts arise from their very nature. Naturally, working in the manner we do, in close personal touch with one another, occasional problems are bound to result. Paperwork causes conflicts. Delegation of authority causes conflicts. Personal feelings sometimes cause conflicts. But WSND has • no more internal conflicts than any other organization of its type.
The conflicts I am referring to have occurred within the last two weeks.
Many things have happened during the last two weeks. Our principal concern now is with the program “Controversy.” This is the program which features the debate team. On their recent show, the moderator came out quite strongly against the Army BOTC, relating many things, some substantiated, some not. The result of these statements has been real controversy. As of now, we are trying to straighten out this furor and guard against its recurring in the future.
Is this the incident which caused the reported numerous resignations at WSND last week?
No, that is an entirely different matter altogether. There has been •some concern among those who are due to take over the station in April that I might, in reality, still run the ■station. This question has come up -almost every year at WSND.
Then this is the reason for the ^resignations.
There have been no wholesale resignations at WSND. In relation to this last incident, no one quit the station or even submitted a letter of resignation. The whole question was -settled three hours after it began.
Well then, how many resignations have you had at WSND since the :start of the scholastic year?
Five or six people at most left WSND since September of 1961. This is not a terribly large turnover, con-:sidering we have fourteen departments and a staff of one hundred and twenty-five. Studies played a large part in several of these resignations.
Has anyone quit because of a direct policy conflict with you?
No one has quit permanently because of a difference in agreement in policy. In an operation such as this (Continued on page 31)
.20
Of Special Interest. Not a whole lot doing in this Midwestern center of class and culture. A hibernation after the wealth of plays and recitals of the ■ last few weeks. But there is a smatter of worthwhile things to do. Top on the list is the film version of Puccini’s Madame Butterfly which will play to a one-night stand in the State Theater on Wednesday night, at eight. Tickets cost a dollar. But this is the first of a series of four filmed operas to be shown on consecutive Wednesday nights and the series ticket sells for $3. The show is in color with the very talented cast including such greats as Karou Yachigusa, Michiko Tanaka, and Nicola Filacouridi. Doors open at 7:15 p.m.; seats will not be reserved.
The Notre Dame music department presents a recital by the renowned violinist Sally O’Reilly in the University Art Gallery at 10 a.m. — for nothing... can’t go wrong. Recommended by critic and connoisseur, Willie Weinsheimer. 1
Something exciting that might interest you is the third production of the j current season of the South Bend Presbyterian Players. This go around it’s j Diary of Anne Frank — and it will play this weekend and next at the Presby-	|
terian Social Hall, 333 West Colfax. Almost in the middle of town. Betty Hager,	1
Charlotte Cady and Sue Shriner have the leads . . . and, as usual for this J company, it is very well done . . . excellent entertainment. Tickets are $1.25 j and may be procured at the box office or through the answering service	|
(CE 4-0802). The performances begin at 8:15 p.m. . . . but don’t wait until the	j
last minute if you are interested. Tickets are going fast.
The Avon Art. Two British comedies this week . . . Wild for Kicks is one and French Mistress is the other. British comedies are usually very subtle, very whacky, and, occasionally, very funny. Owen Murphy and Sheila Goreman star in the former — Agnes Lorrent in the latter (she’s a French Miss, eh what?). That’s is all the info that I’ve got on them. They are supposed to be “dandy fun” . . . but the titles don’t suggest comedy to me!
Colfax. Spring must approach: the season of spectaculars at the Colfax i has returned. Due to contract agreements the more expensive films are around for long periods of time. The first big feature, King of Kings, is now on tap. To elaborate on the story would be ridiculous ... it concerns the Christ, and non-denominationally — if that is possible. Thus the meat, it would seem, of the story is anyplace but on the bone. Yet the message (compassion) gets across and it IS a spectacular. Philip Yordan wrote the screenplay. Nicolas Ray : directed. The cast of thousands is topped by Jeffrey Hunter, Siobhan McKenna, ; Robert Ryan, and Carmen Sevilla.	j
{King of Kings: Week 2 — 8; Sundays 1:30 — 4:45 — 8.)	t
Granada. Dover Come Back is one of the funniest flicks to hit South Bend all year. Very imaginative, tremendous dialogue, and a well-executed plot' All of which combine to make any Lover glad he came back. It would seem that this movie is Pillow Talk all over without even the names being changed. ) But this isn’t the case. Rock Hudson and Doris Day handle themselves expertly J and Tony Randall provides excellent support. A tittle risque in spots, unethical ; even . . . but still an enjoyable show in every way. Edie Adams supplies the j cheesecake; Jack Krushen supplies clouds of multi-colored smoke.	j
{Lover: 1 — 3 — 5 — 7 —9.)	’
(Continued on page 22)	j
The Scholastic j

Tomorrow, Notre Dame, along with approximately 200 other colleges and universities, will host the annual National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament. The tournament begins at 2 p.m., and the entrance fee is a dollar per person to defray expenses. The national winners of the competition will square off on national television on the Charles Goren show.
A par tournament attempts to limit the factor of luck in a competition. In a regular event, the contestants are rated on the basis of randomly dealt out hands and there is too much uncertainty that the most skillful pair will win for a one-shot event. Therefore, the hands are specially prepared for the tournament and designed to stress both elementary and advanced principles of the game. To receive a rating, a pair must perform the task unknown to them as designed by the problem maker. If they succeed, (“bid and make slam,” “stop game,” “bid and make game,” etc.), they receive a Par; if they fail, nothing. The rest of the column will be concerned with various hands and what to look for in them,
CONTRACT: Six Heorts OPENING LEAD: K of C . PAR: NS bid and make slam
N
S—2 H—62 D—QJ8765 C—5432
W	E
S----	S—QJ1098765
H—548	H____
A932	D—K104
C—KQJ1098	C—76
S
S—AK43
H—-AKQJ10987
C—A
The first hand involves a super safety play. Declarer, after taking the opening club lead, must now lead a small spade from his hand. If he Plays one of .his honors, West will ruff and return a trump, leaving declarer with another spade loser. February 23, 1962
Against any lead, declarer can now ruff with the high trump on the board and return to his hand to draw the remaining trumps.
CONTRACT: 4 H OPENING LEAD: 2 C PAR: EW defeat game
KQJx 108x AKQJx x
S—xxx	xx
H—Axx	KJ9
D—lOxx	xxx
C—xxx2	AQJ109
; AlOxx
Qxxx xx Kxx
In this particular problem, after East takes his club ace, he must see the runnable diamond suit on the board and shift to a heart. Declarer foils any lead but the jack by ducking to his ten. By the lead of the jack, East secures three tricks for himself; for after the ace takes the queen, East’s K-9 over the board's 10-8 will produce two more tricks when the suit is returned. Any other lead enables declarer to sluff his losers on the diamonds.
CONTRACT: 4 S OPENING LEAD: K D PAR: EW defeat game
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE'S
SUGGESTED READING LIST
No. 1
Each week in this space, the Notre Dame Bookstore will present a list of books which have been recommended by the various department heads and their staffs as among the most profitable and worthwhile in their field. The purpose of this is threefold: First, to provide the student with a guide for his outside reading; second, to provide a medium for the departments in furnishing this guide; and third, to provide a guide for the Bookstore in its stocking of better books.
•
THIS WEEK’S FIELD IS
AMERICAN LITERATURE
The Cycle of American Literature, Robert E. Spiller (Mentor, 50#)
The Liberal Imagination, Lionel Trilling (Anchor, 950
The American Novel and Its Tradition, Richard Chase (Anchor, 95#)
The Flowering of New England, Van Wyck Brooks (Dutton Everyman, $1.85) A “Scarlet Letter” Handbook, edited by Seymour L. Gross (Wadsworth, $1.95) The Modern Novel in America, Frederick J. Hoffman (Gateway, $1.25) Achievement in American Poetry, Louise Bogan (Gateway, $1.25) American Humor, Constance Rourke (Anchor, 95#)
Studies in Classic American Literature, D. H. Lawrence (Anchor, 95#)
All these books are available at Notre Dame Bookstore
S—xx H—xxx D—xxx C—Qxxxx
S—xxx	S—xx
H—Qxx	H—xxxx
D—AKQx	D—xxx
C—Kxx	C—J1098
S—AKQJ109 H—AKJ D—xxx C—A
ROCCO’S
537 ST. LOUIS AVE.
TUES. AND THURS. SPECIAL-$1.00
Try Our New Specialty ‘Po’ ‘Boy’ footlong Sandwich—$1.00
Carry Out — CE 3-0976 "Just a forward pass from Notre Dame*'
IN THE SAME GREAT TRADITION
ROCCO'S Restaurant
CARRY OUTS — OPEN SUNDAYS Private Dining Rooms for Clubs and Parties — For reservations call:
CE 4-7224
18142 SOUTH BEND AVE.
21
'kibitzer
After taking three rounds of diamonds, West exits with a trump, because he must figure declarer for the remaining strength. Declarer runs off six trump tricks, and upon the last, West must sluff from S— HQxx D— CKx. Ordinarily, this would be a guess, but West must figure declarer for the AK of hearts and A of clubs. From partner’s sluff of his three worthless hearts, he can not have the jack; furthermore, declarer in the bidding has a distaste for no-trump. Therefore West must keep his queen guarded for the setting trick.
CONTRACT: 4 S
OPENING LEAD: 2 H PAR: EW stop game
QJ109xx xx AQ JlOxx
Ax	xx
xxx2	Jxxx
xxx	xxxxx
Axxx	Kx
Kxxx AKQ Kxx Qxx
In this final hand, declarer opened a no-trump and by the Stayman Con-
'ln Town'
(Continued from page 20)
River Park. More repeats, per usual. This time a double header: Breakfast at Tiffany’s with Audrey Hepburn. A very warm, very pleasant picture. And Back Street a picture with everything that has nothing. Both, both I say, will be playing in Mishawakaland.
The State. Tennessee Williams wrote only one novel . . . and that in 1937. Gavin Lambert has watered it down to present The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone — a morbid little story all about lonely, old ladies and mercenary, Italian gigolos. Vivien Leigh is the American widow; Warren Beatty is the handsome fortune seeker. Lotte Lenya, Jeremy Spencer, and Jill St. John round out the crew. Jill St. John could out round the forms in a French curve factory. This isn’t like Williams meant it to be . . . and is more like a poor try than good representation.
(Roman: 2:30 — 5:50 — 9:15.)
Washington Hall. There will be a 22
vention became declarer at four spades. West opened the fourth best heart and East’s jack fell to declarer’s queen. Declarer led out the king of hearts from his hand, and West stopped to think. Partner has one of the minor suit kings and only that, from the opening no-trump bid. Therefore, the defense can count on only three tricks unless East holds the doubleton club king specifically, a club ruff furnishing the setting trick. In the actual play, West led back a small club and the defense gathered their two aces, king, and club ruff to set the contract.
When declarer, one should suspect any routine hand, for an infrequently used safety may be the key to the contract. On defense too, one should pay special attention to the bidding and strive at all times to set the contract, no matter how odd the distribution or specific the cards partner must hold. Overtricks have no value; you must bid and make your proper contract or hold declarer to the required number of tricks. As you see from the previous examples, what you’re asked to do is never impossible to conclude from the bidding and play properly conducted. Anyhow, straight Goren with no frills is your best bet for a system. Psychs and pre-empts have no place, because they often deprive your opponents of a chance to make their par and earn you nothing anyway. See ya Saturday.	—Wally
show on Saturday night. . . now that the thespians have again retired. Big Deal on Madonna Street, an Italian comedy a la Rififi.
(2:30 — 6:30 — 8:20.)
The following Saturday, the film to be shown is the classic Western, Shane. Two days before the showing, on Thursday, March 1 (before our next issue), Professor Donald Costello will give a lecture on the subject of “The Western Movie as an Art Form.” The lecture will be given at 8:00 in 104 O’Shaughnessy. Here’s a chance to justify your taste in movies to the pseudo down the hall who only goes to Italian art films. (Come to think of it, what’s wrong with Italian art films?) Don’t miss it.
Campus Clubs. Just one club reporting this week: the Detroit Club will show the Mating Game in the Engineering Auditorium on Sunday.
Other than that, Bob Hope will appear in the Fieldhouse along with the biggest senior turnout in history. You might call this: On the Road to Patriotic Recognition . . . without Lauren Bacall.
— John McGuire
'Repercussions'
(Continued from page 8) tioned. He makes the players respect him and they work for him. The varsity does not seem to care what happens. Surely a 27-point deficit at half-time against North Carolina, a team which is certainly not ranked in the top 20, and a 47-point loss to Kentucky, in which we were outrebounded 75-40 by a team whose tallest player was 6’5” tall is not indicative of so-called “fighting spirit.” , Surely it would be a shame to i waste such talent as Walter Zahm, | Larry Jesewitz, Ronnie Reed, Jay Miller, and Larry Sheffield. If Gib- , bons were coach of these boys on the varsity, it is a reasonably safe bet> that Notre Dame could easily crack the top 10 in the Nation, if not next year, then certainly the year after. I firmly believe that if a poll of student opinion were taken, they would be in favor of this.
T. McManus 154 Farley Hall
New and Notes
(Continued from page 11)
to the Office of Planning and Research of the Newly-formed Area Redevelopment Administration in the U.S. Department of Commerce. This position is to be filled by Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, holder of the Jesse H. Jones Professorship of Business Administration. He has been head of the Department of Business Organization and Management in the College of Commerce since 1952. For several years, Dr. Bergin has conducted research on industrial development and economic growth, notably in the Southern states.
NIH LISTS LOCAL PROJECTS
Research grants totalling more than $90,000 have recently been awarded to scientists in Notre Dame’s Biology ; Department and LOBUND Labora- i tories. The grants will support cancer ' and hepatitis research and continuing ? studies on the nutrition of germfree | animals.	J
The National Institutes of Health i will support two research projects | directed by Dr. Morris Pollard, head j of LOBUND and associate head of j the Biology Department. The govern- i ment unit has assigned $14,388 for j “Laboratory Studies with Hepatitis Viruses” and $15,870 for research on “Metabolism of a Viral Chemical
The Scholastic
Indicator System.” Another National Institutes grant was given to chemist Bernard Wostmann for research on “The Feeding of Caesarian and Natural-Bom Germfree Rodents.”
Cancer research grants have been received from three area organizations. They are the Cancer Society of St. Joseph County, $12,000; the United Health Foundation of Elkhart County, $7,000; and the LaPorte Community Cancer Association, $1,500.
US AIDS ND
In the past Notre Dame scholars have benefited to a considerable degree from government aid. This past year was no exception. During October and November, University professors in science and engineering were awarded grants totaling $235,000.
The U. S. Atomic Energy Commission was the most generous benefactor, extending aid totaling $115,367 to four scientists. A grant of $17,000 went to the Rev. Cletus Bachofer, C.S.C., for research on “The Effects
FACULTY RECITAL
There will be a faculty recital of music of the clarinet and saxophone •n Washington Hall next Monday, at 8:30 p.m. Featured will be James Fleisher on the clarinet and saxophone, William Smith on the piano, and the Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., as tenor. Admission is free.
of Radiation on Electrophysiological Processes.” Another grant of $98,367 went to physicists Charles Mullin and John Mihelich and chemist Richard Pilger.
The National Institutes of Health awarded two grants to Notre Dame’s LOBUND Institute. The director of the Laboratories, Dr. Morris Pollard, received $20,000 to underwrite studies on “Metabolism of a Viral Chemical Indicator System,” and the Rev. James poll, C.S.C., was awarded $8,176 to investigate “Experimental Histomoni-asis in Germfree Turkeys.” Notre Dame’s germfree animal research center also received a $25,000 grant from the Office of Naval Research for its general operations.
Other grants included a $37,000 grant to chemist Ernest Eliel, from the National Science Foundation, and a $28,860 grant to engineers Kwang-Tzu Yank and F. N. M. Brown, from the David Taylor Model Basin (a government facility).
February 23, 1962
TO SEE HHIPE omm?
A Munich songfest, a London theatre party, the Lido Club in Paris, the Student Inn in Heidelberg—all are part of American Express' 1962 Student Tours.
This year, American Express will take students to a Bavarian songfest in Munich; a party at the famous Student Inn in Heidelberg; on a gondola tour of Venice by night; a theatre party in London; a “Sound and Light” spectacular at the Roman Forum; open-air opera and concerts in Rome, Verona and Salzburg; a Swiss fondue dinner; on a visit to the Flea Market, and to dinner and show at the Lido Club in Paris. Does that sound square? There will be ten student tours in all. These tours are priced from $1132 up, including transportation. Details are arranged by a regular tour escort. You needn’t fuss overtimetables and road maps. You'll have more time to learn, to see things, make friends and have fun.
The tours will leave New York June 8 through July 12 and return July 26-Sept. 5. They last from 6 to lOi/a weeks. Six tours feature transportation on the new S.S. France. In addition to Western Europe, itineraries include Russia, the Scandinavian countries and Israel.
One group will be led by Notre Dame’s Rev. Michael J. Gavin, C.S.C. Father Gavin knows how to show you Europe. See him on campus for tour information.
If you’d like full information—itineraries, prices, departure and arrival dates—on all ten 1962 American Express StudentTours, mail in the coupon below.
American Express Co., 101 South La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois Please send me literature on your 1962 Student Tours of Europe.
Name._______________________________________________________________
Address_____________________________________________________________
City Zone______________________________________State
Also, please send literature to my parents.
Name._______________________________________________________________
Address__________________________________________________;__________
City________________________________Zone State
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE
101 South La Salle Street, Chicago, ANdover 3-1718
Our future is in the hands of men not yet hired
At Western Electric we play a vital role in helping meet the complex needs of America’s vast communications networks. And a career at Western Electric, the manufacturing arm of the nation-wide Bell Telephone System, offers young men the exciting opportunity to help us meet these important needs.
Today, Western Electric equipment reduces thousands of miles to fractions of seconds. Even so, we know that our present communications systems will be inadequate tomorrow; and we are seeking ways to keep up with—and anticipate—the future. For instance, right now Western Electric engineers are working on various phases of solar cell manufacture, miniaturization, data transmission, futuristic telephones, electronic central offices, and computer-controlled production lines—to name just a few.
To perfect the work now in progress and launch many new communications products, projects, procedures, and processes not yet in the mind of man — we need quality-minded
engineers. If you feel that you can meet our standards, consider the opportunities offered by working with our company. In a few short years, you will be Western Electric.
Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will receive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Relations, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when our college representatives visit your campus.
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.;
Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers In 33 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
The Scholastic
24
Irish Hope for Upset Against Bradley
by BOB SCHEFFING
Notre Dame’s basketball team, setting a record pace in one respect with 14 losses against only six wins, has a chance to pull “the upset of the year” against the powerful Bradley Braves. The Irish-Brave game will be preceded by a rematch of Loyola and Marquette in a doubleheader at the Chicago Stadium. National scoring leader Loyola will be looking for revenge against Marquette which handed the Ramblers one of their two defeats this year.
The Irish are currently sporting a four-game losing streak as they assault the all-time Notre Dame basketball loss record. Earlier in the year, the Green managed to go from December 16th to January 13th without a win, amassing six straight losses, before battering Detroit at the Fieldhouse. Yet with three games to play, the Irish could end the season with a seven game losing skein and a 6-17 record — hardly a banner year.
Bradley has only one starting player returning from last year’s squad which ran second to the NCAA champs, Cincinnati, in the potent Missouri Valley Conference. Yet fellow coaches have not wasted any tears on Coach Chuck Osborn. With All-American Chet Walker back, things cannot be considered too bad. Walker is averaging 27.5 points a game and Bradley has an 18-4 record. Chet “the Jet” hauled down 327 rebounds last year to propel his squad to national team leadership in that department. His sure jump shot and ability to lead the patented Bradley fast break make him a real threat against any team. Last year he had a shooting percentage of .562.
Sophomore center Joe Strawder came through in fine style, posting a 20-point scoring average. Yet he was dismissed from school before the crucial Cincinnati game of last week. Loss of the 6'8" phenom hurt the Braves both physically and mentally as they lost to the Bearcats, 72-57. As it now stands, Bradley and Cincinnati are tied for the conference lead. If Bradley should falter, they are a cinch for the NIT.
Strawder, dismissed for disciplinary reasons unknown, Will have to wait one year before he can seek readmission to Bradley. His scoring loss will have to be taken up by another sophomore, guard Rich Williams. Williams, an accurate shooter, has concentrated on setting up Strawder and Walker. Now he will have to add to the scoring punch. Other starters are Ed Woodka and Lee Edwards who were reserves on last year’s team, which declined an NTT berth.
For those making the student trip, it is interesting to bote that the halftime entertainment will be provided by 0 inarching members of the Bradley Mari-N-Ettes. The young ladies are chosen for their dancing ability and academic achievements.”
On nex^ Tuesday, the Irish continue their traveling a game at Evansville. The Notre Dame representa-ives will be seeking their first win this season against oosier competition. The ND team has absorbed losses "oin the University of Indiana (122-95), Butler Uni-*ersity (twice), and Purdue (115-90). This not-too-im-som S1Vh rnar^; against local competition, if not brightened on/T a*	a w*n over diminutive Evansville, will be
of the blackest marks on Irish athletic files.
in th 3T1SV^^e has a 15-8 record and is second to Butler e Indiana Conference. Their leading scorer is Buster
February 23, 1962
JOHN MATTHEWS
26 points against Purdue.
Briley, who is averaging 20.4 points per game.
In last week’s competition the Irish were manhandled by Detroit. The Titans, led once again by prolific scorer Dave DeBusschere, ended all Irish aspirations for a .500 season. Eddie Schnurr, Armand Reo, and Karl Roesler were able to hit with a fair amount of consistency, but the Titans outrebounded the Irish almost two to one. DeBusschere collected 33 points and completely dominated the boards. Detroit now stands a chance for an NIT invitation. They boast a 14-7 record, after losing two stars in the basketball scandals.
Olympic hero Terry Dischinger, playing only 32 minutes, poured in 35 points to demolish the Irish at Fort Wayne. Twice an All-American, and a sure bet to repeat this year, Dischinger received a standing ovation when removed from the game with eight minutes to play. Since • Jerry Lucas has already been territorially drafted by the Royals, Dischinger is the hottest pro prospect this year.
The high point of the game for Coach Johnny Jordan, if any, was the improved play of John Matthews who had 26 points. Matthews has progressed steadily this season in his first year as a starter. At first he showed ability to move the ball and now, with his emergence as a scoring threat, he can be counted on to help out next year when three starters graduate and only two experienced players return.
25
FROSH CAGERS ‘BEST SINCE ROSENTHAL'
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
“They’ve got great potential, all they need is experience.” This was Coach John Jordan’s brief estimate of the 1962 freshman basketball team. He elaborated: “For all-around ability this is the best team I’ve seen since Dick Rosenthal’s back in 1951 — and they went to the NCAA regional final as seniors.”
John Jordan’s optimism sounded, at the same time, hopeful and cautious; though more cautious in his appraisal of the freshmen than most, he is certainly not alone in his hope. Interest in the freshman basketball team has been brought about primarily by two factors: an unusually talented group of freshmen and a disastrous varsity season.
As Jordan himself put if. “We had a good recruiting year, and we needed it badly. We have eight boys on scholarships this year, because we were able to get the players we wanted; we’ve had few boys on scholarships the past two seasons because we just haven’t been able to get the talent we were after, and there’s just no sense in giving scholarships for the sake of giving scholarships.
“Ability? Yes, I think the freshmen have more natural ability than the varsity, but the varsity would probably edge them now on experience.”
Had this talent cropped up on another season’s freshman team, it might have escaped the notice given it this year. But the miserable season through which this year’s varsity has stumbled has caused students to look elsewhere for hope on the basketball horizon. And in the freshman team they found it.
Whether the confidence of Jordan and the student body will be justified remains to be seen, but there is reason to think that it will.
Said Freshman Coach Jim Gibbons: “They have the ability to go as far as they want; it’s all up to them. They’ve gotten more work with the varsity than any freshmen since I’ve been here, and they’re more advanced.”
Looking forward to next season, Jordan expects sophomores to be predominant on the varsity, and has made specific provisions to give them experience: “No matter how good they are, they’ll still have ‘sopho-moritis’ and three games at home to open the season should give them confidence.” Among the eleven teams the Irish will face at home next season are Navy, St. Joseph, St. Francis, Detroit, Renssellaer, Valparaiso, DePaul, Butler, Michigan State, and North Carolina.
Here is Gibbon’s player-by-player evaluation of the team:
WALT SAHM: Center, 6-9, 210, Indianapolis, Ind. “One of the hardest workers on the team. He’s especially valuable because he can play three spots in our 1-3-1 offense: high post, low post, and wingman. At the high post he’s a good feeder and has an exceptionally good jump shot. He’s good at the low post because he hooks well with both hands, and has the height for rebounding; as a wingman, he moves exceptionally well for his size — in fact, I’d say he has more good moves than any freshman I’ve ever seen here — and can hit well from outside. He’s also a good man on the fast break because he gets the ball upcourt in a hurry.” -
RON REED: Forward, 6-5, 195, LaPorte, Ind. “Probably the most pleasant surprise on the team. He’s a good high post man — effective because he feeds well and has a good jump shot from the key; he gets his shots off very quickly and drives well-
The Scholastic
26
Coach Jim Gibbons talks shop with (L to R, front) Owen Dowd, Mike Sweeney, George Burke, Nick Sordi, Larry Sheffield, Pat Dudgeon, and Jim Affeldt. L to R, rear: Jay Miller, Walt Sahm, Pat Zilvitis, Ron Reed, Dick Thoenen, and Art Mier.
He’s strong and a good rebounder and tipper for his height. Ron is also very quick for a man his size.”
JAY MILLER: Forward, 6-4, 190, Goshen, Ind. ‘‘Jay will play outside forward for us. He has an excellent jump shot and good touch. He’s been working hard on his driving game, and it’s improved quite a bit. Jay has great spring — I think the best i	since Tom Hawkins — which should
|	help his jumper considerably; a
j strong rebounder on both boards.”
>
larry Sheffield: Guard, 6-0, 165, Troy, N. Y. “He’s potentially one of the best backcourt men we’ve had here, and an excellent ball handler and dribbler. He’s very tough one-on-one offensively because he has such good moves and can stop and start so quickly. ‘Shef’ has a good Jump shot from around the key, and °Ur strong man on the fast break, h b®611 our toughest defensive a Lplayer. Larry's had some trouble
February 23, 1962
working into our system, and I expect him to improve even more when he gets used to it.”
LARRY JESEWITZ: Center, 6-8, 220, Chicago, Hl. “He has been out the last month of practice with a knee injury, but until then had shown great improvement. His hook is only fair, but he’s been working on it. He has good speed, and seems to be better facing the basket on his jump shot. A good rebounder, he should get even better when he gets more aggressive and learns to get better position.”
PAT DUDGEON: Guard, 6-0, 175, Frankfort, Ky. “Slowed up by a bad ankle during the early weeks of practice, Pat has played both the point and side spot. He’s been effective at both because of a fine jump shot; he has good touch and is always ‘on the rim.’ Although he had some trouble getting his shots away at first, he has developed his moves well.”
JIM AFFELDT: Guard, 6-0, 170, Cedar Rapids, la. “Jim’s shown lots of improvement late in the season; a very hard worker. He’s a good one-on-one man, but will be better when he develops his outside jump shot. A good fast break man, he also ranks with Sheffield as the team’s top defensive player.”
DICK THOENEN: Forward, 6-5, 185, Mexico, Mo. “Dick is another boy who’s shown a lot of improvement late in the season. He has a good jump shot, and will probably play either the high post or outside as a wingman — probably at the high post. He’s a pesky rebounder — a lot like John Me Carthy — and has a good second and third effort; he also has an intuition for being where the ball is.”
Other squad members include George Burke, Dave Clements, Owen Dowd, Tom Gutrich, Art Mier, Nick Sordi, Mike Sweeney, and Pat Zilvitis.
27
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU _ Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
Back to classes...
prepared for every course with
famous | educational * paperbacks perfect for and reviewing
Over 100 titles on the following subjects:
ANTHROPOLOGY ART
BUSINESS
DRAMA ECONOMICS EDUCATION
ENGINEERING ENGLISH HISTORY
Average price $1.50
ON DISPLAY AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
SWIMMING
The luck of the Irish apparently ran out as the swimming team dropped two close meets to Bowling Green and Western Michigan last week.
Bowling Green came to Notre Dame with All-American Gary LaPrise and two determined relay teams. The Irish boasted a 4-1 record with victories over Western Ontario, Wayne State, Ohio U., and Northwestern, and with a defeat at the hands of Wisconsin far behind them.
Victories by Bob Lieb, Tony Devine, and Chuck Blanchard set up the excitement, as Dave Witchger managed to nose into second behind teammate and co-captain, Joe Bracco, to tie the score with but one event remaining: the seven-point 400-yard freestyle relay.
Coach Dennis Stark pitted Bill Vasu, Ernie Arras, John MacLeod, and Bob Lieb against a Bowling
BARNES & NOBLE COLLEGE ^OUTLINE k SERIES
LANGUAGES MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY POLITICAL SCIENCE PSYCHOLOGY SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY SPEECH STUDY AIDS
Green team anchored by LaPrise. Ahead slightly at the three-quarters mark, Lieb couldn’t hold the lead against LaPrise and Notre Dame finished on the short end of a 51-44 score.
Western Michigan proved to be equally tough. A total of five records fell, with the Notre Dame mermen accounting for two. With a 23.3 effort, junior Bob Lieb tied the 50-yard freestyle record he had set against Northwestern earlier this year. Chuck Blanchard, a sophomore from Cleveland, took more than four seconds off his 440-yard freestyle record set against Bowling Green, ending up with a 4:51.2 timing.
These two record-breaking efforts, together with firsts by Blanchard in the 220-yard freestyle, Randy Wise in the 200-yard butterfly, and Jim Grever in the 200-yard backstroke, put the Irish ahead 46-42 going into the last event. Again Coach Stark pitted his best against the opponents. Again the opponents proved equal to the task. Western Michigan came up with a record-breaking performance to take the event and the meet.
Indoor Track
Notre Dame’s track team leaves tomorrow for the Central Collegiate Conference championships in Kalamazoo, Mich.
As usual, chief opposition for Alex Wilson’s troupe will be host Western Michigan — runnerup last year and, before that, team champion for four straight years. WMU will probably roll up points in the 880 and 1000-yard runs and in the two-mile, whereas the Irish must score heavily in the hurdles and field events. Other teams entered in the meet are Central Michigan, Drake, Bowling Green, Southern Illinois, and Detroit. Outstanding individuals are Tom O'Hara of Loyola, who last week registered a 4:02+ in the mile, and Southern Illinois' Joe Thomas, consistently around nine minutes for two miles.
Last Saturday Notre Dame ran in the Chicago Track Club’s AAU invitational in the Chicago Stadium — a meet which saw more contestants than spectators. The Irish probably won it although no score was kept. Notable performances came from John Mulrooney, who defeated Olympic Silver Medalist Willie May in a 60-yard high hurdles heat, and Pete Kirk, second in the shot put and third in the 56-pound weight throw.
Meanwhile, in the New York AC’s meet in Madison Square Garden last Friday night, freshman Bill Boyle tinned in a 56.5 clocking for the ND Frosh — good enough for a third place in the 500-yard run.
The Scholastic
28
Fencing
Notre Dame Head Fencing Coach Mike DeCicco expressed confident sentiments concerning tomorrow’s fencing match at Madison, Wise., featuring the Irish, Wisconsin, and Illinois. DeCicco commented that if his charges come up with the same effort that marked the 17-10 Michigan State victory last week, both Wisconsin and the Illini will be in for a tough afternoon.
Wisconsin is ranked as the second place power in the Big Ten fencing circle. Illinois has improved recently and holds an impressive victory over the Air Force Academy.
Currently, the Irish have five victories for the season as opposed to four losses. In their latest outing with Michigan State and Ohio State Universities last weekend at the Field House, Notre Dame split with the two, losing to Ohio, 14-13.
Against the Spartans, the ND fencers were victorious in all three weapon classes.
WRESTLING
After a respectable third place finish in a ten-team field at the Wheaton Invitational tournament last Saturday, Feb. 17, and after a Thursday meet with Miami of Ohio, the Notre Dame wrestling team faces Cincinnati in the Fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon.
At Wheaton, heavyweight Ed Rutkowski repeated as champion of that division, and Dick Martin again took a second in the 123-pound class. Fred Morelli (137) took the other Notre Dame second, and Scott Carroll (130), Jack Barry (147), and John Gibbons (157) all finished fourth.
Rutkowski’s performance was probably the best of the meet, as he pinned two opponents before winning by a decision in the finals.
Finals of the Interhall Wrestling tournament will be held in conjunction with the Cincinnati meet tomorrow.
CYR’S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leadin? Barber Shop •
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair •
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
■ •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Cool, clean Old Spice Alter Shave lotion always gets you off to a fast, smooth start. Feels just as good between shaves os it does after shaving. Rates A-OK with dates. 1.00 and 1.75 plus tax.
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
S M U L- T O Nl
February 23, 1962
29
DEBATE
BLIZZARD DETAINS BARAT AND ROSARY
Michael Harrington and Fulton Lewis III will debate on the House Committee on un-American Activities on next Wednesday at 8:00 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. This is sponsored by the Academic Commission of the Student Senate.
FAMILY SKIING CENTER
HOLIDAY
8KI RESORT
Travent city, Mich.
Ski night and day. 1J runs. T-bar lift, tows.
- Snow-maker, Sno-pack-•r. Lodge, food. Excello n t accommodation* nearby. Special «kl elub ind family rates.
Free	HOLIDAY—BOX MW
Brochure	Traverse City, Mich.
Wrltei // Windsor S-5033 or T-W7S
Those pushing down last Sunday night’s veal and spinach in the West Dining Hall were pleasantly interrupted about mid-meal by a hectic march of women through “W” line. Stranded in South Bend for the evening by a combination of inclement weather, cowardly bus drivers, and fearful college presidents, the 74 representatives from Barat and Rosary colleges left over from the Sunday afternoon mixer found themselves temporary guests of the University.
To solve this ticklish problem, Notre Dame’s student government was called in. One student politician was dispatched to Ziggy, and after assurances that the University would assume all costs, persuaded him to feed the helpless females. Meanwhile Tom Colleton was sent to the Hoffman Hotel to arrange boarding for
the girls, blatantly ignoring the many students who had graciously offered their own domiciles to any needy lasses. The usual six dollars per room was covered by Notre Dame, but according to Colleton a bill will be sent to the girls’ colleges later.
To ensure accurate coverage of this unique story, the Scholastic office immediately sent three editors and two assistant editors to the scene, leaving two reporters remaining in the office to complete the evening's work. Arriving at the Hoffman, the editors-turned-reporters came upon a scene of frustration and despair. A large contingent of Notre Dame men had come to the hotel in search of a nonexistent party. The only girl present was Mildred Williams, aged 65, the Hoffman’s desk clerk. She spent most of the night restraining some overanxious students from visiting the holdovers.
The perceptive and ears-alert Scholastic staff, now filled out to a full battle group by the addition of a photographer and the two reporters who were left at the office to complete the evening’s work, were informed by an official source that the
CAP AND GOWN PORTRAITS
Those students wishing cap and gown portraits may make appointments in Room 2-C of the LaFor-tune Student Center next week, Monday thru Friday, from 1 to 5 p.m. No sitting fee is required.
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly typed papers begin with Corrasable! You can rub out typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’s that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Saves time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrasable in light, medium, heavy weights and /. Onion Skin in handy 100- y *Z	/
sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION

E; PITTSFIELD, MASS.
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
“big party” was not being held at the Hoffman but at the Student Center.
Having found the girls at the Student Center, the Scholastic staff dispersed, each seeking the personal end of a big story. Individual comments from the girls weren’t gathered from the interviewers until the next morning, however, since some reporters evidently thought the deadline on the story wasn’t until the next night. One girl, Susan O’Bryan of Chicago and Barat College, said that when she entered the West Hall “a large hoot went up, and all eyes turned toward us. I felt like I was on a runway.”. When asked how she liked the food, a girl from Rosary replied: “I was too excited to eat although I didn’t take any potatoes.” Another from Barat said: “The last time I was at Notre Dame for a mixer the Cafeteria served veal; we had veal this time too and I was wondering if it was left over from the last time.”
—Jim Wyrsch
30
The Scholastic
'WSND'
(Continued from page 20) trouble always arises when new policies are tried out. A new man is in charge each year. He must organize the whole station into a close-knit organization. Naturally some people will oppose his policies. This happens every year. Someone may become disgruntled and quit because of these policies or because he did not get a promotion. I don’t know. But, to my knowledge, no one has quit over a disagreement in policy.
SPEAKER APPEALS FOR ETHICS
“The business manager of today is carrying on the work of God; he has a Christian vocation,” were two points brought out by Edward S. Jamieson in a talk on business ethics at the Communion Breakfast of the Commerce Senior Day, Feb. 18.
Mr. Jamieson, of Chicago, graduated from DePaul University and received his master’s degree in busi-

DOING IT THE HARD WAY by
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN'S
SHAMPOO
ness from the Harvard Business School. He is president of Jamieson, Inc., a rapidly expanding textiles firm, and is chairman of the National Coordinating Committee of the Catholic Employers and Managers Study Groups.
He explained that businessmen have a noble purpose, defined by the popes: to produce and distribute goods and services for the natural needs of others, to serve the common good. Because of the nature of our society, the Christian businessman has more opportunity to let his influence be felt than in many other phases of life; and as a Christian, he has the vocation of bringing Christ into the economic order.
There are many problems in business ethics today because, contended Jamieson, although most men know the moral principles, they fail in applying them in specific instances. These can be solved only from within; the leaders of business themselves must initiate the move toward better business practices.
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
PAUL DESMOND with Strings. ‘‘Desmond Blue.” The haunting saxophone of Paul Desmond, winner of the “PLAYBOY 1961 Alto Sax Jazz Award,” is newly and neatly set amidst strings, woodwinds, harp and rhythm. Inspired solo improvisations. Includes title theme, 8 more.
somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control. Keep your hair and scalp really clean, dandruff-free!
AVAILABLE IN LIVING STEREO ANO MONAURAL HI-FI
RCA VICTOR^ ^^The most trusted name in sound^)^
February 23, 1962
31
FORUM
COMMUNITY
OR THE GIFT OF TONGUES
by Jerry Brady
Jerry Brady was Student Body President at Notre Dame in 195758. After graduation, he travelled throughout Africa and Europe serving as Father Hesburgh’s secretary. Following a six-month Army tour of duty, he entered the Law School of the University of California at Berkeley, where he is completing his third year.
Next week, Mr. Brady gives his suggestions for increasing the scope of significant activities at Notre Dame, and observations.
ELIEVE me, when I came to the University of California in 1959 I tried to maintain my prejudices. But I couldn’t. I had to admit that my fellow students were doing a service to their university which we Catholics had not done for ours, by plunging it into debate on important matters.
Sometimes it has been blatant action like a demonstration or picket line which focused attention. In May, 1960, 1500 students demonstrated against the House Un-American Activities Committee at its hearings in San Francisco. On the second day more than a hundred students were rounded up and hosed by police, 64 were arrested (all were either acquitted or charges were dropped) and a national debate on the merits of the committee and police methods was begun. Since then students have been fighting against the film “Operation Abolition” made by the congressional committee which branded the students as communist dupes.
There have been pickets of the Atomic Energy Commission offices and the Armistice Day Parade urging disarament, of large chain stores to force integration of their Southern lunch counters and of ROTC drills to end compulsory ROTC. One student went on a three-day hunger strike on the steps of the library until he
32
was excused from ROTC as a conscientious objector.
There have been 24-hour vigils against capital punishment when Caryl Chessman and others were executed at San Quentin and another at Berkeley when Russia exploded its 50-megaton bomb.
All received wide publicity and excited debate on campus. In several cases students lost jobs, scholarships and future employment by their boldness.
Although this predominantly liberal expression is the work of only a few students, particularly a campus political party, it has a broad base of sympathy, of perhaps 8,000 in the case of the “riot” at the congressional hearings.
Can you remember any time Notre Dame students were actively involved in some problem outside their campus — or for that matter on any significant issue?
In 1953 Notre Dame students playfully broke hundreds of glasses when they thought they would be deprived of their usual ration of milk. In 1957 hundreds of spoiled steaks served at the dining hall were stacked in front of Ziggi’s door. In 1959 the victorious College Quiz Bowl team returned from their only victory to be greeted by a mock rally. And last Thanksgiving hundreds of golden domers ran amuck in a revolt against . . . what was that all about? We have to go back more than 25 years when students completely torpedoed a convention the Ku Klux Klan planned for South Bend to find student action on a significant matter.
But then we would all agree that demonstrations are at best mere symbols and at worst exercises of an indignant ego, that it is constructive action which counts. What is the record here?
Some Cal students are off at work camps for the migrant workers or
the American Indian, others collect food for Negro victims of economic boycott in Tennessee, some are political hucksters at election time. A half dozen were freedom riders, ten were in Africa on “Crossroads Africa” last summer, two hiked half way around the world urging disarament and one was just released from an East German Prison following conviction for aiding the escape of refugees. One student alone organized and found finances to send 30 people to work among the poor in Venezuela, while the Peace Corps was a campaign promise.
I will leave it to you to tally up the number of your fellows actively involved with race relations, disarmament or more approved Catholic matters like lay missionary volunteers or the ecumenical movement. In my experience Tom Dooley is the exception to a rule of parochial activism at Notre Dame.
Again, I told myself, I had missed the essentials. Students should study, think, not act. Their real contribution will be an intellectual one which they will forfeit with immediate activity. Our atmosphere should be judged on an intellectual scale.
I propose we look at three criteria of intellectual involvement in the society and the first one is the speakers who come to a campus. Outside speakers of every sort never miss an opportunity to speak at Cal without j an invitiation from the president or r the thought of adding to their pres- j tige. They come by student invitation j with the assurance of a lively, well-	j
informed audience. Even as I write	t
between semesters, Communist Gus j Hall, Fred Schwartz, head of the Christian Anti-Communist Crusade and a leader of the Kenya legislature, Gikonyo Kiano, have spoken. Last year the daily newspaper carried lengthy reports of most of the 260 speeches given by visitors.
The Scholastic
In the next few weeks count the number who visit Notre Dame. I remember one of the few in 1958. Ann Landers. Location and size do not alone account for the disparity.
The second criteria is what students are reading in the way of serious magazines treating current problems. If right now you wanted to buy a copy of The New Republic, Human Events, The Christian Century, Catholic Mind, Cross Currents, or Foreign Affairs Quarterly, where would you go? Bookstore, cafeteria, Huddle? You won’t find them, yet there are at least six places at or near Cal profitably selling every worthwhile magazine and paperback published in English.
Finally, consider the organizations at each campus and their aims.
Organizations and ad hoc committees quickly form at Cal to meet a need and wither when the work is done. In the last three months chapters of the Americans for Democratic Action, the Student Peace Union, the Student Alliance Against Totalitarianism, a middle of the road political party and a committee to urge the establishment of a department of religion have all sprouted and begun to produce. A score of similar groups were already in operation.
JuDGING from the list of campus organizations at Notre Dame, students are devoted to preserving home town cliques, promoting their professional careers, or improving social life. Most of them have contracts in perpetuity
with distributors of rusty movies. Two are devoted to the arts and the one which sounds most promising, the IRC, is entered only after clandestine vote and can muster no more than 60% average attendance.
These matters would be less important if they did not speak of a general stupefaction in public life at Notre Dame. I have been forced to conclude that what has added vigor and perspective to Cal (recently rated third best in the country), without detracting from the studies of more than a few, is lacking at Notre Dame. The current liberal-conservative debate is encouraging but hardly enough.
Eavesdrop on a few bull sessions, read the “Repercussions” section of the Scholastic, go to a Washington Hall movie, turn on the radio, go anywhere trying to find in the culture a serious, sustained student interest in the great problems of our times. It is simply not part of the milieu.
This is most unfortunate at a time when the need for intelligent Catholic leadership outstrips its need for churches and schools. It is not enough that the university produce a few leaders of political parties . (where Catholics have excelled for some time) or that our art and science astound the world, important as that is. The university must have a public life of open intellectual battle which will form a broad-based awareness. “Civilization,” says Thomas Gilby, O.P., “is formed by men locked together in argument.” Until there is some atmosphere of concern for the
problems of civilization, groups to argue them consistently, and public forums such as a newspaper in which to argue them, the university will not be a community.
Campus problems with which students are now preoccupied are too petty or too much outside their control to be the only fit subjects for this dialogue of the community. Only the life of the society off-campus, for which we are to be apostles, provides bones on which we can all chew. And if we should gnaw on a hand which feeds university coffers or some anachronistic limb of the Church iself, that is one of the prices of education for maturity. The papal encyclicals, which we are all called on to implement, have not and will not form our societies through adherence to well-trod paths.
Perhaps things have changed. Four years ago student government, for example, saw itself aj more than a service organization or a date bureau and had advanced to such things as lectures in the residence halls, political parties on campus, and committees to recommend changes in the curriculum. But anything outside the campus was outside our concern.
Model U.N. Day, a success at Cal, was a flop, the World University Service (which solicits scholarships for students in underdeveloped countries) a burden, and a resolution condemning apartheid in South African universities could be subtly squashed by the administration with the acquiescence of the Senate.
It is not until one leaves the cam
Noontime speeches in this centralized plaza are an extremely popular means to publicize a cause. A man on the way to Prison for contempt of the House Un-American Activities Committee drew 7,000 in the building seen in the rear. February 23, 1962	33
pus that he can see how these things are important to put things in perspective and concern students in society in general.
The secular university is a good vantage point to see something else as well. The spiritual core of Notre Dame life gives balance, selflessness and fortitude to its men; its intellectual life is serious and guileless. The secular man cannot countenance the ignorance of opponents because his ego is identified with his cause,
“Campus problems with which students are now preoccupied are too petty or too much outside their control to be the only fit subjects for this dialogue of the community ”
but the religious man takes up a cause as a fiduciary for those who will benefit and battles respectful of his adversary-
When the Notre Dame student is so uniquely equipped to assume a leadership role, it is all the more unfortunate he has not gotten the word.
What can be done to create the atmosphere which will produce the man caught up with his social responsibilities will, I hope, be more clear as I make a few suggestions later in this report to you.
Before then, it is important to consider one of the central factors in the Notre Dame climate and its implications.
Jt costs an average of $2,750 to go to Notre Dame for nine and a half months. Few families with an income of less than $10,000 a year can afford to send a son, so there are few from the lower class. You know what this means. Think of the number of Negroes at Notre Dame not on athletic scholarships. Think of how many students you know whose fathers belong to a union. Its no wonder no one is interested in the NAACP or trade unionism.
Since the Church members do not devote a great percentage of their money to higher education, the university has to scramble for new buildings and higher salaries. Scholarships, which could bring in poorer students or foreign students, must come last.
Graduate students, who could bring wider knowledge and diversified backgrounds to student life, are only beginning to come.
Ninety-eight per cent of the stu
dents are Catholic. There is no one who believes seriously in a Protestant religion or agnosticism, few such people visit and non-Catholic professors keep the matter to themselves. Consequently there is no religious conflict or dialogue.
The curriculum has been fairly well confined to certain avenues, particularly in religion and philosophy. Our exclusive diet of Thomism is matched in no non-Catholic university. We are able to go through four years with
out seeing a Protestant theologian or secular philosopher given his day in court.
Physical isolation, in many respects a blessing, keeps us from the contamination of slums and reactionary nationalistic enclaves, while social life follows established patterns.
There are of course countervailing values and much of this will change with more money and better students. But let us not misunderstand our present plight: Notre Dame is so homogeneous it is a Catholic university without catholicity or universality. The university is left to the moderately rich white Catholic.
Freedom Riders leave from Berkeley last summer.
Those who are comfortable in their wealth and can afford a little compassion might get involved in the society, as our national politics illustrates. But the newly and moderately rich, whose sons populate the campus, as yet have too unfirm a grip on the ladder of success to consider anything but a career and status. Affiliation with the unorthodox is dangerous to advancement. Can you imagine what would run through the mind of an interviewer at the placement bureau when under “Extracurricular
Activities” you list “vice chairman, NAACP; member, Student Peace Union”?
There are a few things the university can do to ameliorate the situation. It could hire a few of the young professorial bulls who thunder around other universities trying to excite students to their pet causes. It could
choose visiting professors on the basis of their attractiveness to students as Cal has chosen C. Northcote Parkinson, Aldous Huxley, C. P. Snow and Lewis Mumford, in the last two years. They could. do something about the abysmal — and I’m sure that’s the right word — isolation of student from professor. However I prefer to think the administration’s major contribution will be to tolerate what its students are going to do.
Certainly they can safely tolerate quite a bit. Few students anywhere are more immune from such things as Communism as Notre Dame’s homogeneous bunch. One would think the infirmiry gave apathy injections with the entrance physical.
34
The Scholastic
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38 LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
NAB1CHT CAFETERIA
★ 1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★ FREE PARKING
DR RW TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ONLY!
CAMPUS CLUBS! ORGANIZATIONS! INDIVIDUALS!
A/ |\ V PRIZES! j UA vkn
SAVE VICEROY PACKS

SOFT \ Pack or flip- . OPEN
BOX i
LSI / RCA-VICTOR
< Console Stereo PR'*’6 \ Phonograph...
.. I 4 speeds,
\ 4 speakers, <	^4 AM-FM tuner.
2nd
PRIZE
5W*
RCA-VICTOR Portable Stereo Phonograph... 4 speeds,' three speakers.
3rd / ^GENERAL nnt7£\ electric PR'*-1- 1 Clock-Radio
I Sleep-snooze alarm, muted ^4 slumber switch
CERTIFICATES
8th
Pritt
7th
Prize

ENTER THE BIG

1
nUiV IU If UY... you may win one of these 1 exciting prizes for yourself or your club. The group ’; or individual collecting the most packs wins the first : prize. 2nd prize goes to the second largest number ’ of packs collected ... and so on. Eight exciting J prizes ... all to be awarded on this college campus’, i ■ Plan to enter ... plan to win. Start saving Viceroy packs today! Ask your friends to help you! •
GET COMPLETE RULES AND TURN IN EMPTY PACKS TO
TURN IN EMPTY PACKS
HUDDLE
MAY 12th — Between 8 and 5 Entries accepted this date only