THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	OCTOBER 15, 1943	NO. 14
iJiAue.:
S Irish vs. Badgers at Madison Tomorrow 0 Navy-Marine Dance Tonight S New Lecture Series to be Launched S Champion Drum Majors Lead Band
V-12 DANCE WILL EMPTY ALUMNI TONIGHT
; At AdleJL So.;
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913
OFFICIAL DISTRIBUTORS OF THE NEW REGULATION
U. S. NAVY UNIFORMS
fat SammMio^etl 6^facon^ awl
We carry complete stocks, at all times, of the new regulation uniforms, furnishings, caps, braid, insignia and devices.
The Finest in Men's Apparel
Fashion Park ... Worsted-Tex ... Alpacuna Suits and Coats Botany Ties ... Bostonian and Mansfield Shoes ... Arrow and Van Heusen Shirts ... Knox Navy Hats ... Westminster and Interwoven Hose ... Meyers Gloves .. . Hickok Belts ... B.V.D.'s
Hi
■ DROP IN AND VISIT OUR NAVY STORE '	Checks cashed without charge.
it Aren't we wen't tpn weal it!
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtoivn bus terminal.
2
: JWcml Adleft, Ca.;
South Bend’s Quality Store since 1913
FOR NAW MEN — Store Open Saturday 'til 9 P. M.; Sunday all day
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers’ Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50 NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SEE THE NEW SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers
$1850
M*X ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from doivntoum bus terminal.
3
BY BILL TALBOT AND JIM CUNNINGHAM
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1807
HERE AND THERE AND WHY NOT
Something new has been added: Saturday’s potatoes in Monday morning’s scrambled eggs. . . . What’s happened to the graduation invitations? After all, a graduation isn’t graduation without a few gifts. It happens only once in a lifetime. . . . The familiar cry that is now as dead as the ghost in Washington Hall: “Anybody in here got any Michigan money?” . . . Any day now St. Mary’s will make its annual suggestion inviting us to a Sadie Hawkins Day race. . . . Incidentally, when one S.P. was asked last week by a V-12 Dance chairman if he would mind being a guard at the dance and keeping out stags from the Rock, he replied that he wouldn’t mind it, and that he even might be inclined to take them in. (He hasn’t been around here long, either.) . . . By the way: Some one asked us recently why the Rock isn’t in good graces with us. Well, it all goes back to about 1860, when the girls from St. Mary’s used to have a pet deer for a mascot. At that time the graduate girls were in the habit of giving the boys on the Scholastic a big cake, baked with their own little dish-pan hands, as a sort of going-away present in reverse. That was all well and good (not speaking of the cake, understand). One year, some of the boys got sick; and, of course, there were certain inferences. Well, they blew up over the issue. And then we got mad right back at them. And there you are. Anyway, we doubt if the present generation can bake a cake.	.
DEAR MURPH:
This here’s my last letter for a long interim, beings as how I and 3000 other guys are approximately about to be examinated once and for all. Being a phy-ed major, I see where I’m in for a lot of hard homework with somersaults and tailspins, etc. (How you like that “etc.”?. It’s French for “I’d tell you more only I ain’t got the time to.’’)	.
It is superfluousness to aver that I’m going to the big V-12 dance. Like getting
a date — it was a hard fight but she won. ‘Course I don’t mind that mile walk over there and getting her and having her dance all over my feet like a caisson and then walking a mile back along the lake and then falling down in bed like I was dead, ’cause I’m just a peripathetic at heart anyhow. But I was being just as desperate as that guy on the signboard who had to walk a mile for a Camel. My feet will feel for him. But don’t get me misunderstood. They’re all nice kids — in their own sweet little way.	.
Well, I got to be about mindin’ my business, so will take this opportunity to bid you adieu, pip-pip, toodle-loo, and all that there.	•
Yours till the cows come home and milk gets cheaper, Augustus Gump.
WEEK-END AWAY
We knew there was something going on last week-end because there wasn’t a civilian on the campus. And judging by the attendance at Sweeney’s, the whole Marine Detachment must have, gone to Ann Arbor also. They report that it was the most unfriendly town they have ever been in; that’s why everybody went to Detroit. But they sure like the Michigan V-12 set-up. They found that the V-12 enjoy all-night light and any number of ten o’clock permissions — so they say.
STAY-AT-HOME
.	We , didn’t get to Ann Arbor to watch
Miller, and Mello play hop-scotch on the Michigan turf, but we have heard tales that were brought back by some of the more capitalist brethren. We wonder that • Ann Arbor (pop. 26,000) still stands as a . city, what .with 86,000 ag, gressive (six fights in the north bleachers alone) fans pouncing on and off it in one afternoon. But its spires still rise, ' and its populace can still say the Wol-~ verities are the best 'darn team in the whole city. . . . And bets!! Not.a.guy on the - campus . will admit he won less than §33.45, from some denizens of , Zahm or Cavanaugh.-	. ' , .
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole.......Managing	Editor
Bill Carey...............Sports	Editor
Dick Ames.,..............Campus	Editor
James Schaeffer______;__Admin.	Editor
John Mattmiller........Circulation Charles Renaud.........Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey.......Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week	(Wm. Talbot and
.........(James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters....Bill Waddington N.R.O.T.C...........H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina Marines ..............Lou	Riepenhoff
'. Members of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate-Digest. .Represented for national advertising- by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published 30 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin’ Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
., Staff-meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave -Maria Building: Sunday through .Wednesday at 7:15 p.m. ■ ‘	' J .
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
‘ Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	~ _ J
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	■
VOL. 79
OCTOBER 15, 1943
NO.14
V-12 Dance Tonight
This is the night that 600 Marine and Navy V-12 students have been awaiting for five weeks: the night of their first formal dance, the Notre Dame V-12 Ball. Girls have been imported from all corners of the country, and the boys have been dodging in and out of afternoon classes trying to get to down-town stations and back.
Eddy Howard and his “Band of the Year” will play from 9:00 till 1:00, the ball-goers will be dancing to tunes like “Careless,” “If I Knew Then,” and “A Million Dreams Ago,” all of which, Eddy Howard himself has written. Along with his thirteen-piece orchestra, Howard is bringing a famous piano team and vocal quartet. There will be plenty of good music to go with the moon tonight.
Queen of this year’s ball and guest of General Chairman John Toole, is pretty Miss Helen Schlindler, Sophomore at St. Mary’s who hails from Mishawaka. The guests of honor are Captain and Mrs. H. P. Burnett, and Lieut. Comdr, and Mrs. W. S. Howell. They will greet all arrivals at the reception line in accordance with formal Navy tradition, a
The Navy Drill Hall, site of the grand
Queen Helen Schindler
This Time Eddy Howard Will Find no Tophats nor Tails
affair, has been undergoing decorating operations all week. The dance will have a naval motif, with huge blue and white drapes and multicolored signal flags streaming down from the walls. Special arrangements have been made so that all checking will be taken care of in the old gym. The band will be surrounded by palms and seated flush against a colorful broad drapery.
Arrangements have been made also whereby buses will accommodate the ball-goers in their trips to town and. St. Mary’s. Likewise, all local taxicab companies have promised to have , a large fleet of cabs ready for the students and their guests.
No corsages will be allowed at the dance, because they mean an added and
unnecessary expense for the V-12 men.. But the Favors Committee has arranged - -to give every girl a. small carnation-group corsage, with expenses coining out ; . of the dance fund. There will be no complimentary tickets for the chairmen of the various committees. -	- :
Refreshments will not cost the ballgoers anything, ■ either. The Refresh-: ment Committee has contracted with a catering service to have punch-served to all the dancers. Nothing has been spared to make the dance a. great sue-, cess for the V-12 _ students and- their guests.	’’
Also attending the dance will be approximately 30 other officers stationed
-at Notre Dame. The; music win start immediately after the reception, about 9:00.	■	. = -	'
’ ■ ‘	. 5' ■ /
Announce Used Book Exchange to Start Next Week; Sponsored by C. A. S.
Past Scholastic editorials have called for it, students have moaned for it, and next week CAS will begin it — a secondhand book exchange, to be known as BX. Civilian students will be able to turn their used and unwanted texts into a central exchange, and buy all needed books there at the beginning of next semester.
The new non-profit project will open Thursday afternoon at 2 p.m. in room 10 of the Main Building, and will be open daily from 2 to 5 p.m. until the end of the semester. Lists of all texts to be needed next semester will be available and only these will be accepted, but this includes almost all texts now in use.
Prices paid will be determined by the retail sale prices listed in the catalogue
Freshman Dream: After Meeting Professional Book-buyer
of a well-known second-hand book company. A 10% service charge will be made against the retail prices to pay for the upkeep of the project, but this will still allow students prices 200 to' 300% above those paid by professional buyers who invade the campus regularly.
Student life will be boosted by the exchange through elimination of scalping by upperclassmen, through givingstudents a better price for their used books, through lowering initial cost of books at the beginning of the semester, ■ through saving students’ time by centralized sale, and assisting the bookstore in its ordering of new books by being-able to tell them exactly how many used books of each kind are on the campus.
CAS finds it advantageous to inaugurate the BX now because of the small student body, making it easier to get started, and the fact that books will not be changed much in the future because of the V-12 rules.
Students who turn in texts next week will be given a receipt which can be exchanged next semester for cash or applied against other texts. Men leaving school may mail in their receipts.
All members of the faculty have cooperated in drawing up the lists of texts to be used next semester, and Brother Meinrad of the bookstore has given his help and approval to the project, which will aid his work.
♦*« ♦*<	♦*<> •*« A A A A A A A A
V
V Number five in the current series *♦’ of CAS Co-Hops will be held at the
•	£ Progress Club Saturday night, with a ❖ ❖ guaranteed smooth 10-piece band on ❖
*	*' hand. Plenty of dancing partners will
V be available, but navy, marine, and ♦♦♦ $ civilians may bring their own dates, ❖ & and it is rumored that St. Mary's ❖ ❖ girls with dates are going to be al- ❖ lowed to go.' In spite of the size
❖	of the new band the admission is ❖ *2* being kept down to the usual 35c, ❖ and the refreshments will be served ♦♦♦
& gratis. Dancing begins at 8 p.m. and ❖ ❖ ends in plenty of time to catch the ❖ ❖ last bus for N. D. Last week's Co- ❖ ❖ Hop drew a crowd of 435 to the Indi- ❖
ana club; but, as always, there were & & too many girls.
❖ *
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	<5»	«j»
Record Collection Made
for Anti-T.B. League
A letter from the St. Joseph County Anti-Tuberculosis League, revealing the results of the collections made by the high school girls at the recent Georgia Tech game, was received by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
The amount collected was $625.47, the largest donation ever received in one day through this method. Even during the former times of prosperity the League never reached such a high point, and, of course, all connected with the venture were very much pleased.
The girls who did the collecting worked in teams, one team from each of five high schools. South Bend Catholic won the competition, bringing in a total of $227.68. Evelyn Jurek of this team won the individual honors with a collection of $36.26.
The League thanked all those who
were so generous in contributing, and hopes that it may receive the same cooperation at the games which are to be played here yet this season.
Sophomore Reality: After Meeting Professional Book-buyer
6
Professor White of Michigan to Launch New Lecture Series; Speaks Oct. 15th
BY JAMES E. ARMSTRONG
Alfred Holmes White, professor emeritus of chemical engineering of the U. of Michigan, will launch a significant new series of lectures at Notre Dame on Friday, Oct. 15.
The series will be known as the Martin McCue lecture series, and is made possible by the generosity of Mr. C. A. Breitung, Dallas, Texas, an alumnus of the U. of Michigan and a long time personal friend of the president of Notre Dame, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Professor White will speak at 4:15 on Friday in the Engineering Building auditorium on “The Past 50 Years in Engineering — and the Next?” The address is open to all engineers and to any other student or faculty members interested.
Professor White has taught for 50 years, most of that period at Michigan, where he retired as chairman of the department of chemical and metallurgical engineering. He was in World War I as a lieutenant colonel and head of the nitrate division of the Ordnance Department. In 1941-42, Professor White was president of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education. He had previously been president (1929-31) of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, and is a member of many professional and honorary societies and fraternities. He has written several books and more than 100 articles in various technical journals, dealing mainly with illuminating gas, Portland cement, and nitrogen processes.
Honors N.D. Professor
Martin McCue, for whom the lecture series is named, was similarly an outstanding professor for a long span in Notre Dame history. When he died in October of 1932, — he was then dean emeritus of the College of Engineering —he had completed more than 50 years at Notre Dame, where he was graduated with the Class of 1879. The Religious Bulletin said of Professor McCue then “. . . He was a thorough Christian scholar. Although he had few equals in his field of applied mathematics, he was not merely a mathematician. His culture was Catholic in the fullest sense. His
mind was remarkably keen, his taste covered wide ranges of thought, and his reading covered, it seemed, every worth while interest. . . . We can say in the broad human sense that Martin McCue was a saint. . . .”
When Professor White opens the Martin McCue series on Friday, those in attendance will have the rare privilege of hearing a man who has devoted more than a half century of sacrificing service to American education commemorating another man who similarly devoted more than a half century of service to American education. From men like these has come the rapid breadth and depth of higher education in America. From men who studied under them, like Mr. Breitung, has come, too, the generosity that has aided in the perpetuation of their work.
You Can't Please Women, "Scholastic" Staff Finds
No one can deny that life is sometimes a series of novel circumstances. No one on the Scholastic staff is unaware of that fact, a fact thrust most forcibly perhaps on several individual members, but felt with equal poignancy by all.
All Notre Dame men are acquainted with St. Mary’s. All Notre Dame men have some degree of acquaintance with “The Week,” a column in this magazine. No one is ignorant of the tension which at times has existed between these two. parties, a tension brought to frenzy during the days that “some creature named Woelfle” (the expression originated at St. Mary’s) was the brain behind “The Week.” Jack Woelfle was a strange, saturnine sort of fellow, who for unknown reasons cherished a rather well developed antipathy for the girls across the road. And he did not hesitate to voice the rancor that was in him. All of which led to great weeping and gnashing of teeth among the young ladies, a constant state of feud between them and our Sunday afternoon emissaries, and a disappreciation of the Scholastic by the Rock in general.
To combat this situation of undeclared but often violent warfare, a new policy was adopted by the Scholastic and in particular by the writers of “The Week.” St. Mary’s was to be praised, feminine
sensibilities were not to be outraged with any statement even approximating the truth, a glow was to be cast around those singularly unglowing girls, and a truce was thus to be hopefully fabricated. The results of this new policy have been the proof that life does not always turn out as expected.
The girls read the lovely things that were said of them. They gathered around and read them again, rather enjoying the new sensation. But eventually it began to pall. There was no longer a zest in living for them, the healthy balance of a few well chosen epithets was missing, and they did not like it.
Notre Dame men who received the Scholastic and did not see the usual digs were disappointed. One reader wrote that he had to put the publication on the floor and stamp on it in order to squeeze out a laugh, now that the old reliable topic had been made taboo.
After a brief period of numb disappointment, the staif had a conference and decided that the time-honored tradition must not* die. And so once again the pen is being unsheathed, and a warning of total war is issued.
Just to start hostilities, the girls of St. Mary’s are reminded of a saying that has sprung op on the NJ), campus this semester. It runs something like this: Four out of every five college girls in the country are good looking; Hie fifth goes to St. Mary’s.
, Don’t be disappointed if that isn’t as vitriolic as you might want, girls. A promise is made that “things will .. get worse. ...”	.
Postoffice Feels Load of Crowded Campus;
New Record for Mail Handled This Semester
Standing quietly in the shadows of Walsh Hall is one of the smallest buildings on the campus. And yet, despite its size, there is probably no other one building on campus more vital to student morale than this post office.
Daily, within its prim stiffness of brick and mortar, the labor of pumping life-giving words from the folks, the brother in the army, the girl from the old home town, and all the pals that have been separated goes on. It is the link that connects the Notre Dame man with the roots that have been so widely scattered, and if it were broken for even a few days the results here would be a sadness beyond all relating. But instead of being broken that link is now stronger than ever, straining to withstand the taxing load which has been placed on it.
But the flow along this chain of connection is not all in one direction. Since July 1, until Sept. 15, there have been 300,000 letters and cards mailed out. This was the number recorded during that period by the cancellation machine, and so is considerably inaccurate, since thousands of articles of first class mail too bulky to be sent through the machine, had to be stamped by hand. Two-thirds of this number was “Free Postage Mail” sent out by Navy and Marine men vzho are stationed at the University.
Roughly 300 parcels are received daily, . most of which are for service men. As a matter of fact, almost everything that flows through the Post Office is either from or for. the military; the civilians hold a. monopoly on one thing only, and
The Post Office; Morale Builder
that is the number of S.W.A.K. which pour in for them. These tantalizing’ missives also serve a purpose for the trainees, however; in the crowded mail bags they are close enough to smear and perfume a good many strange letters. There is a section of student opinion which considers this point worthy of note.
The distribution of the mail is done efficiently and quickly by a staff of student carriers, who, incidentally, lead a very uncertain life as a result of their task. No one outside of politics is more at the mercy of the masses than they. In their relations with the restless men waiting breathlessly at the door for mail, or shouting down the hall to them for confirmation of hopes or fears, they lead a life only of extremes; it is either myrtle and roses all the way, or tincture of iodine and gall, depending upon the quality, content and regularity of their deliveries.
All parcels are picked up at the Post-Office. The most obvious excuse for this practice is to enable all the receiver’s buddies to get a crack at his box of fudge or crackers before he bars himself in his room. There’s something of the love of the chase in that rule.
The V-7 mail is taken by truck to the Naval Station in Morrissey Hall where two Navy clerks sort it out by sections and make delivery to Lyons, Howard, Morrissejr and Badin Halls.
More than 3,000 sacks of parcels and mail pouches were received during this semester. A lot of mail is addressed incorrectly and corrections have to be
made; some mail has to be forwarded, and here too accuracy and speed are required.
In addition to this heavy work, the clerks working in the office take care of the sale of war stamps, Bonds, Postal Savings, and making out and cashing Postal Money Orders. Bond Sales average $5,000 a month.
Making sure that this work is carried on smoothly and correctly is Postmaster Brother Theogene, who has held this office since 1916. The post office was in the small building- now located behind Chemistry Hall, but in 1932 the present quarters were erected.
Assisting Brother Theogene is Brother Marcellinus, the assistant postmaster. Brothers Martial, Jean, Eli, and Ramon are the other clerks, and all are members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Helping them in their work is Mr. Ervan Albert of South Bend.
A promising note for the future is the fact that Brother Theogene expects 2,000 packages for Thanksgiving, and over 12,000 for Christmas. That should be good news to many, and those who are doubtful of realizing benefits from this prediction, should feel at liberty to clip this column and send it home as a gentle reminder. The address here is Notre Dame, Indiana.
Gala Opening of Service Center Next Monday
Culminating its efforts of the past two months since moving to its new location in August, the South Bend Service Center will have its gala opening next Monday, Oct. 18. All the facilities and services of the Center will be in full operation in an all-out effort to show the people of South Bend just what goes on behind those doors after the service men pass through them.
The Marines and naval, groups stationed on campus will be given time to go down to the Center Monday between 6 and 9:30 to a dance to be held there in celebration of this opening.
The public will be invited to attend, inspect, and enjoy the festivities of opening day, so that the people who make this Center possible can see where their contributions of time, work, food, books, and money go.
The Center does not want the navy men to feel they are “guinea pigs” in this demonstration; it is just that they want to be. functioning as they do on any Saturday afternoon, so that people will get the -actual picture of the . working Center., ; '
The Red Cross Canteen will serve a
8
supper at 6:30 for the men, and dancing will be continuous until 9:30. The new music room will be open to lovers of classical music. Recently the Center received a letter from a Marine stationed at Notre Dame saying' that he hoped the Center would be able to keep the new radio-victrola which he had been listening to during the afternoon. One of the hostesses had told him that it was too expensive for the Center to keep. In the letter there was enclosed a quarter, and the writer expressed hopes that this would be the first quarter of a large collection donated towards the radio-victrola. The Center wishes to thank this Marine foi' his spirit of helpfulness, and
Kress and Smironiotis Twirl for Notre Dame;
Hold State and National Championships
After interviewing Jim Kress and Ted Smironiotis, baton twirlers with the Notre Dame band, I found that in addition to their many individual accomplishments they both had a virtue in common: modesty.	‘ •
Jim Kress was born in Detroit, Mich., and started his twirling career at the LaSalle High School. He became interested in the baton art while there, and began practice with a home-made instrument. A broom stick and metal ball were thrown .together for this first baton, and since the ball came from his mother’s sewing machine, it led to a • certain amount of domestic unrest.
Jim almost lost enthusiasm for his practice after a few unfortunate accidents with the bulky baton, but he hung onto it until he was able to buy something more along regulation lines.
One of the most exciting*, if rather embarrassing, experiences, after having become drum major with the school band, occurred while marching in a parade in Detroit. It seems he kept on going* when the parade decided to swing off on the side street, and he and the band lost each other in the shuffle.
But winning the state championship in twirling made up for any of the trying times that Jim met earlier in his career. .
Another glad day for Jim was when he became drum major with the Notre Dame band. It had always been one of his ambitions. Kress is now in U.S.M.-C.R., a sophomore in the college of architecture, and lives in Cavanaugh Hall.
Ted Smironiotis is also a native of Michigan. He was born, in Benton Harbor and became interested in twirling while watching his brother, who acted as drum major for the University of Michigan.
the Scholastic suggests that this method of donation be entered into by all those who have enjoyed the music and wish it to continue.
Another of the new features which will have its initial use is the writing room and the library, which is being worked on in order to rush its completion in time for the Monday celebration.
This Saturday, the Fourth Regiment of the Cadet Corps of the Center is staging a barn dance from 8 to 11, and invite all the boys to be there. The music and the atmosphere will all be in keeping with “barn-dancing,” and the evening promises to be a load of fun for anyone dropping* around to the Center.
While in high school Ted won the state championship for five straight years, and received many invitations from midwest colleges to appear with their band during half times of some of their games. He may be remembered by many for the fine exhibition he gave here at the Iowa Seahawk game last season.
Ted has won innumerable contests with his baton, and has some thirty-odd medals and trophies to show for it. One of these trophies is for the Eastern States Championship, and another for the National Championship. Two of his most recent accomplishments have been the winning of the Indiana State contest, and first prize at the campus vaudeville show held a few weeks ago.
In his spare time Ted teaches twirling, and several of his students have taken prizes in various competitions. Ping-pong*, tennis, basketball and photography take up any minutes that are left over from this task.
Ted is a V-12 freshman. He is enrolled in the. College of Engineering and lives in Dillon Hall.
La Raza Club Holds Annual Columbus Banquet
The La Raza Club held its annual banquet last Sunday evening in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle in commemoration of the day that Columbus discovered America. .
’ During the banquet, the members of the club had the opportunity of listening . to speeches delivered by professors of Notre Dame and by* distinguished guests. The ever-dependable “Bitsy” Repilado acted as toastmaster of the banquet, pre
senting the new members of the club who have arrived during the last few months.
The table decoration was arranged, so that each member of the club would have at his place the flag of his country. The members of the social committee, Mario Dutriz and Jose Cardenas, made preparations for the banquet.
Mr. Miguel Vila of Chile proposed a toast (with a glass of water) for a better understanding between the Latin American nations and the United States.
Exam Schedule Set by
Director of Studies Office
Two hour semester final exams will be held, the Director of Studies Office announced, from Thursday, October 21, to Wednesday, October 27. Students must take their exams with the proper sec
tion and any examination outside of the assigned days is not valid for credit, emphasized the Director* of Studies. Exams will last one hour and fifty minutes.
The complete schedule follows: (Monday in the left column means Monday, Wednesday, and Friday; Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.)
Classes taught at 8:00 on Monday 9:00 on Monday
10:00 on Monday 11:00 on Monday
1:15 on Monday 2:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday
' 4:15 on any day
Classes taught at
8:00 on Tuesday
Will be examined at
8:00 on Friday, Oct. 22
8:00 on Monday, Oct. 25 '
10:00 on Friday, Oct. 22
10:00 on Monday, Oct- 25
2:15 on Monday, Oct. 25
2:15 on Friday, Oct. 22
8:00 on Wednesday, Oct. 27
9:00 on Saturday, Oct. 23 '
Wil] be examined at .
8:00 on Thursday, Oct. 21
9:00 on Tuesday - 8:00 on Tuesday, Oct.-26	,
10:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Thursday, Oct. 21 •	- .
11:00.on Tuesday	10:00 on Tuesday, Oct. 26
1:15 on Tuesday	2:15 on Thursday, Oct.* 21 *- .
2:15 on Tuesday	2:15 on Tuesday, Oct. 26
3:15 on Tuesday - 10:00 on Wednesday,Oct-27
A class taught after 5:00 p.m. on any :. .. . . day . will be examined at 7:00 pjn.von ; . ; Friday, October 22.
Notre Dame Favorite to Swamp Badgers; Wisconsin Undermanned and Inexperienced
BY BILL CAREY
Sports Editor, Notre Dame "Scholastic"
The pricking daggers of the Fighting Irish phalanx will tear upfield tomorrow afternoon at Madison to knife the scarred and bandaged Wisconsin Badger. Toast of the pigskin world, Notre Dame is a topheavy favorite to shower Harry Stuhldreher’s boys beneath an avalanche of points. The game should develop true to form—but never bet on the bounce of a football.
The Notre Dame - Wisconsin rivalry budded at the turn of the century and has blossomed into a biting rivalry. 1942 saw the Madisonites virtually rip the heart out of a promising Irish club, when they clawed their way to a seven-all tie. In the baptism of the new Notre Dame "T” formation the scrappy Badgers capitalized on ND fumbles to freeze a deadlock.
The nucleus of the Wisconsin team that faced the Blue and Gold only 12 months ago lined up at Ann Arbor last week in the Maize and Blue moleskins of Michigan. Mars’ re-location board of football bone and muscle saw fit to erase these names from the roster of the Dairy State university, and sprinkle them liberally on other more blessed campuses. Pleasant, indeed, is the task of the football mentors who received red, white and blue - ribboned gift packages of these hearties.
Despite discouraging handicaps Coach Harry Stuhldreher, one of Notre Dame’s immortal Four Horsemen, has whipped together a unit comprised of Navy trainees and talented Freshmen. After a disastrous exposition to big time fire the inexperienced Badgers have jelled into a squad that gave Camp Grant and Iowa telling tests of strength. They make up for their lack of quantity and quality with a commendable brand of raw-red courage. The game tomorrow will be a pure match of power against spirit.
Last Saturday the Irish steamrollered Michigan in what had been publicized the top game of the year. Frank Leahy’s lads were superior in every department of play, save first downs strangely enough, and plowed downfield at will before an amazed throng of 86,000. Combining a Houdini shrouded offense flashing from the basic T, and line play that could be likened to a flood levie, the Notre Darners bashed and foxed their
way to the victory of the year. Critics, one and all, hailed the sons of Our Lady a probable national champion.
Four Slashing Tee-Toters
Grinding out yardage for the 1943 edition of the South Bend juggernaut that has rung the bell 131 times in three games is a backfield that may go down in history as one of the finest developed at the campus of the twin lakes. Bertelli, Miller, Rykovich, Mello — the slashing Tee-toters — have pulverized every defense thrown against them. Blanketing the ball behind a haze of spinning bodies, men in motion, hunched backs and lashing arms they have pranced through every foe. Colorful as an Indian blanket, this combination has caught the fancy of the Mid-west with prairie fire swiftness. Averaging close to eight yards a thrust they have raced over the chalked strips in three stadiums to date. Should they keep up this torrid pace football immortality is theirs.
Angelo Bertelli—the Magnificent Faker—is the outstanding field general in collegiate football today. Fritz Crisler tabbed him the most polished ball handling magician in amateur or professional competition—Sid Luckman of the Bears included. The right arm of the Springfield Rifle is the deadliest in the land. His aerial thrusts a rationed quantity, he has pitched but 19 times for 14 completions and- six big scores. It is the fear of Bertelli’s big bat that spreads enemy defenses for the inside running thrusts. Ange has tallied. twice himself and has hit the bull’s eye on the conversion target 14 straight times. Just to gold plate a diamond Bert has suddenly become a defensive bearcat. The light haired native of Massachusetts is the pulsating heart of the team.
Halfbacks Creighton Miller and Julie Rykovich flank fullback Jim Mello on the arms of the terrible “T”. Miller has been called the most dangerous left halfback in the nation. A sure fire candidate for All - American honors this blond mercury travels with the speed of a PT boat and the elusiveness of a panic-stricken colt. Rugged, eel hipped, feather footed—his 15 yard average per crack at Ann Arbor, says more than a book of praise. Rykovich, only a sophomore and
More thousands and more touchdowns tomorrow
!
fresh to the “T”, has readily fallen into! the exacting assignments of - his spot." Julie has developed into the college star? that high school press notices prophesied.-Hometowners up Gary way judged himj better than their other local products ’ Tom Harmon and Kuzma—enough said.?
For his weight fullback Jim Mello is I the hardest runner in Mid-Western col-| lege circles. Shy of 188 pounds, this! native of West Warwick, R. I., cracks i
I 5 ! '	I

OU
of
at ov ex Ft wi
Notre Dame
Limoni (188)..
White (212) ..
Probable Stclrtii
Posifioi
I
... l.e. ..
.G
Coleman (200) Signaigo (200)
Czarobski (212) yonakor (220) _ Bertelli (175) ... Miller (190)__ Rykovich (190)
Mello (188) .....
RG
I
R.r.

io
!
0: i out at a pile of flesh with the crispness of a bull whip. His seasonal average as r; a line plunger is over seven yards per L- attempt. Jim is another who cannot be n |	overlooked when national plaudits are
si extended. Substitute backs John Lujack, L* Fred Early and Vic Kulbitski have run • with reckless fire and abandon.
si '
Seven Steel Ramrods
si The Notre Dame line has stood all S|	(Continued on page 19)
f I
I *
toting Lineups
5
>sition	Wisconsin
L.E._____________(187) Ramlow
LJ._________________ (184) Lee
t
-.6._______________ (196) Fisher
_______________ (211) Keenan
R.5._______________(170) Davey
_________________ (193) Doar
R-E. _____________ (190) Eulberg
SU._______________(195) Hodges
L/d. .....___ (175) McLaughlin
I
R.H_______________ (185) Kindt
FX______________(190) Dooney
Wisconsin Powerhouse of Last Year is Gone;
Present Team is Poorly Manned
BY LEO CARY
Sports Editor, the Wisconsin "Cardinal"
One year after Elroy Hirsch twisted his crazy-legged way to the tying touchdown against Notre Dame, one year after the Wisconsin football team stopped the undefeated march of Ohio State and usurped the ten-year dominance of Minnesota, Badger fans still think of their 1942 eleven as of something in the present. They turn their eyes toward the twelve former Wisconsin gridders now stationed as marines at Michigan and yearn for what might have been. And in so doing, they almost forget that Wisconsin has a football team this season, too.
So rapt are Wisconsin fans in their memories of the past that they overlook the struggling wartime eleven which meets Notre Dame here in Madison Saturday. Loss of every man from last year’s squad leaves no familiar faces to be reared to the altar of pigskin popularity. The red-hot Wisconsin spirit which once left Madison pulsating with football fever every autumn weekend, has simmered down to a bewildering, unusual apathy.
Notre Dame Contributes
Len Calligaro, a Badger dependable for three years, was the only veteran face known to Cardinal fans as the season opened, but after two games, he was ruled ineligible. Freshmen and an ever-changing group of naval trainees now take turns in the newspaper headlines. But no one name is as yet a Badger by-word.	.
Notre. Dame, itself, may prove the source from which this year’s Wisconsin stars will be drawn. Joe Keenan, roly-poly Irish center, started his college competition under the shadow of the Golden Dome before moving to Iowa Pre-flight last autumn. A 211-pounder, he’s already winning his way into the crowd’s heart with his ubiquitous linebacking. Ray Dooney, a fullback on the Irish freshman team of last fall, reported well after the season had opened but is now bidding seriously for a starting post.
Broken Field Runner
Paul “Mickey” McLaughlin is another navy boy who may win his way into the fans’ favor. Older than the average squadman, McLaughlin built up a reputation at Detroit under Gus Dorais before entering the service. Notre Dame’s great line may
keep him botded up behind the line, but if he gets into the open, look outl .
Pre-draft freshmen are playing big roles in the backfield. Don Kindt, who runs hard and kicks well, has seen action through 237 out of a possible 240 minutes and is as . consistent as a machine. Packing only 157 pounds on his six-foot frame, Cliff Washbum is first-rate as a backer-up, precise and cool as a passer. And little Clarence Self can run like all-get-out.
War Vets in Lineup	■
When there’s shoving around to be done, linemen Sid Fisher and Matt .Whatley can take care of themselves. Guard Fisher was a marine sergeant for over a year, and Tackle Whadey was with the Pacific fleet in both the Coral sea and Savo island engagements. After five years in the navy, however, Whadey still needs time to get back into the swing of football.
These inexperienced kids and navy trainees will make Madison realize sooner or -later that they have the spirit typical of all Wisconsin elevens. They were outweighed 20 pounds to the man but held Camp Grant to a 10-7 win. They rose up in the fourth quarter and edged out Iowa,' 7-5. .
The outcome of the Notre Dame game here Saturday leaves no-one in doubt. Wisconsin fans hope that Coach Frank Leahy withdraws his first team early; they hope that the Badgers can score at least once, as they have in every game to date. But a repetition of last year’s batde seems out of the question.	.
Probable Small Crowd
Another packed stadium is out of reason, too. Crowds this year have averaged 20,000, just half the number that saw the Irish-Badger tilt here in 1942. Wartime transportation is responsible, to a large extent for the drop.	.
Home games have seen the Cardinal’s poorest showings, for the 33-7 trouncing .. from Marquette and the 25-7 loss that weekend to Illinois were both suffered at Gimp . . Randall. If Wisconsin can make this game interesting, the red ‘W’s” may glow again* _ from every Madison store window and- ' Badger fans may learn that there’s “glory-even in defeat.”	.. 4 - J
INTRODUCING
By Al Lesmez
Continuing the Miller tradition of outstanding players started by his father, Harry “Red” Miller back in 1909, Creighton Miller is now in the process of becoming one of the country’s outstanding running backs. His excellent work last year helped pave Notre Dame’s gridiron glory road.
I asked Creight to wait for me in the Cafeteria, and there, aided by a couple of sodas, we got down to the “business” of our meeting. This blonde, blue-eyed, German-Irishman is as modest and as friendly as anyone would want to meet.
Miller was born in Cleveland, Ohio, on September 26th, 1922. After living there for 13 years, his family moved to Wilmington, Delaware. There he attended Alexis du Pont High School where he tried his hand at basketball, track, baseball, and football. Wrestling, boxing, bowling and many other of his activities would make the full particulars read like a “Superman” script. But looking at this 5 foot, 10 inch — 192 lb. husky, it was not hard to believe that many things were possible. It is this that makes him so likeable — a distaste for anything which resembles conceit. So Creight asked me not to say anything about all the contests, the boxing matches, the wrestling,' and the swimming meets which he won, but it made too much of a good story to be shut up in my mind, and I thought I’d let out just a little of it.
While at Alexis du Pont High School, Creight won 13 monograms while “trying out his hand” at a few sports. He ran the 100, 220, Broad-jump, Shot Put, and threw the Javelin. In one particular meet he entered 7 different events and won 5 of them. He had never tried any of these events before except the high-jump and the broad-jump, but his natural agility and strength proved a greater asset to him than practice. In baseball he played shortstop. He captained the basketball, track, baseball and football teams for du Pont.
Creight, however, thought it was much more interesting to tell me about the time he was hit by an automobile and knocked out for 20 minutes. A slight case of amnesia resulted.
Between sips of soda, Creight confessed that his most interesting hobby is trying to beat Father Brennan in ping-pong, an unaccomplished task to date. Another of his hobbies, one which is dying out because of his lack=of time,
is seeing every picture which comes to South Bend. Now he has to be content if he can manage to see one picture every other' week or so.
Once during his fifth year in grade school, he played on five different football teams at the same time. This was a lot of fun, and it gave him good practice for what was to come. But one day two of his teams were scheduled to play each other. For a while he was stumped, and could not decide which was his fav-
Creighton Miller
orite crowd. After some heavy pro and cons, he decided to play for both. The first half of the game was played on one team, the second on the other. Creight would not tell me which team won, but I suspect it must have been a deadlock 1
Again Creight forced me off the subject of sports, and,he was off on a tangent away from -his achievements. It seems he is a very interested follower of the various problems in the welfare, education and social activities of our Catholic women’s colleges. He has made a study of current problems by frequenting one of our closer institutions. Creight’s friends kid him that he certainly must be well progressed in such a study, judging by the great number of visits he has made there already.
Miller spent six weeks with the Army down at Fort Dix, but was given an hon-. orable discharge. That changed his plans for a while, but he now wants to enter Law school.
His greatest thrill was running for three touchdowns in his last game at du Pont High, bringing his team an 18-6 victory.
“Nothing would please me more than to beat Michigan,” he said. “I’d father lick them than any other team on our schedule. Michigan can look forward to as tough, a game/as we’ve played all season.” .	’•
Miller has a baby cousin who was born just last week, but already is registered foi' the class of 1963. Even the $10 registration fee has been paid. That is really keeping alive this Miller tradition of good Notre Dame men started by “Red” Miller, and carried on by uncles Walter, Jerry, Ray, and Don. Don, of course, was the famous right half of the great Four Horsemen. Creight’s brother, Tom, contributed more than his share for the past three seasons to uphold the quality of the Fighting Millers. And now Creight carries on, leaving a record behind him that will be tough to beat . . . but there’ll be another Miller along. And you can’t tell about a Notre Dame Miller!
Press Writers Laud Powerful Notre Dame„Steamroller
By John McKeon
Notre Dame’s victory over Michigan won for the Irish an undisputed claim to national football supremacy as well as the enthusiastic praise of the country’s sport writers. Presented here are comments printed in some of the leading papers.
H. G. Salsinger, Detroit News:
“Notre Dame is a great team, and undoubtedly the best in college today.” Francis J. Powers, Chicago Daily News:
“It was the worst defeat any Michigan team has received in Fritz Crisler’s six seasons as head coach.”
Tommy Devine, U.P. for Pittsburgh
Press:
“This Notre Dame team, ranked by veteran observers as among the greatest ever produced in the collegiate football capital, literally blasted Michigan out of the contest with long range striking-power and its explosive speed.”
James S. Kearns, Chicago Sun:
“The Irish running power and Angelo Bertelli’s great forward passing literally riddled Michigan’s defenses and Big Bill Daleys getting little help, couldn’t keep the Wolverines in the game, which turned completely chaotic in the last half. . . .”	; /
The Football Nezus:
. “The margin. and method of Notre - (Continued on page 18)
12
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
The cheering and pageantry has subsided. Michigan Stadium, quiet after the-scene of Saturday afternoon, has again become a quiet bowl around a plot of turf. The crowd has dispersed and America’s football public now resumes its wartime burden. The stirring story of another great “Fighting Irish” aggregation can be put into black and white for
Bill Waddington future generations. You all know the one-sided story of the triumph over the Michigan Wolverines with the spectacles that were contained within the process. No, it wasn’t an Ohio State encounter of ’35. There was no fourth quarter of smoldering embers out of ' which a Notre Dame victory was to emerge. It was strictly a case of Irish supremacy. The command of the rushing and passing attack was part of the Irish disposition last Saturday afternoon. Michigan, that had relied almost wholly on a ground attack before the contest last week, took to the air in desperation, as the local seven marlin hitches resolved to keep their- cleats in the terraSfirma without giving in. Punting, yards gained, and the percentage of passes completed all added to the difference in score — all three most strongly counted on the victor’s side. Now that it’s over and the staunch supporters have interchanged their bills of exchange (fins, saw-bucks, and doublesaws), it inevitably occurs to Mr. and Mrs. J. Q. Fan that Frank Leahy has a machine embodying. all the characteristics which will bring about a fruitful season. But then again, no one can take away any credit from Fritz Crisler’s squad. Having received the cream of the crop through the Naval trainee program, Michigan was out to prove their claim to national superiority. But this ascent was thwarted by a bunch of stalwarts who were determined to show their worth, and rightly did so. Without doubt, the focus, of attention on this single classic brought out its nationwide predominance. Now, the Wolverines have been eliminated and it’s up . to the boys of N.D. to carry the brunt of the mid-west prestige to the eastern
front. A ’43 saga is history, but what sweet reminiscing it will make.
Proves Their Worth
When Michigan pressed its way to the N.D. six inch line with two downs in which to go over, the key words were “they shall not pass” — and they didn’t. We observed this to be the outstanding determinate in figuring the ability and strength of the opposing- lines. In last Sunday’s edition of the Chicago Tribune, however, Wilfred Smith overlooked the major importance of this Irish stand. He failed to give the situation any kind of blow and resultingly those who turned to their Trib last Sunday didn’t get a full conception of the great line power and durability. Oh well, that’s life!
Packing 86,00.0 people into last week’s game at Ann Arbor was really a problem of accommodation but what it proved most conclusively was that America definitely wants football — wartime or peacetime. Those of the nation who are pigskin-minded, and practically everyone old enough to speak is included in this category, finds their late fall amusement in watching gridiron action of some type or other, be it grade school, high school, or intercollegiate. But the colleges have always pioneered the deals that have led to high school set-ups, so now America looks to its colleges to keep the sport a going concern.
. Those who pessimistically look at the situation propound the argument that intra-murals take the place. In those schools where intercollegiate football is still retained, it is known that the intramural program is just as expanded, if not more so, than those that have temporarily abandoned the sport. Furthermore, the American public can derive no moments of relaxation from intra-murals. With the tension of war, this amusement must be supplied as a tendency to ease the nerves and not add to the stress. Harvard dropped football and naturally their traditional rivalry -with Yale. Presently, a group of enthusiasts have gotten together at Harvard, • formed a team, and have challenged Yale. Try to stop American youth! They want to play football' and the nation wants to see it. . To those institutions that have stood by the game and kept it going, we think it most apropos that they be awarded the Army-Navy “E”
for production, for they are truly producing the bodies, spirit, and cooperation that makes these United States the high standard of the world that it is.
Predictions for tomorrow:	.
Notre Dame over Wisconsin
Illinois over Pittsburgh
Indiana over Iowa
Minnesota over Camp Grant Purdue over Ohio State Northwestern over Great Lakes Army over Columbia Navy over Penn State Seahawks over Missouri California over U.C.L.A. ; . Iowa over Nebraska
Students Expect Another Win, Opinion Poll Shows
By Al Lesmez
This column made an understatement of the fact when it called Bob Gludowatz “an old forecaster.” He came so close to hitting the actual score last week that we must admit Bob is something of an expert. We surmise that Bob must be in close confab with the coaches and the players to know so accurately the results of the games, and since this is the third time in a row in which he has guessed the closest, we ask him to try to repeat his performance. Therefore, he again takes- the stand as our guest.
Sophomore Bob Gludowatz, Detroit, Mich.: “I think Wisconsin wil be tougher than everybody thinks but with the power and deception the team has shown so far, they’ll walk all over the Badgers. I think the game will turn into a rout with the score mounting to something like 55-0.”
Morgan Cartier, Jr., V-12, Grand Rapids, Mich.: “The fellows are doing swell this year and I don’t think they will let Wisconsin keep us from the na-
. tional championship. The final score will be 48-7.”
' Junior Dan Dooney, Newark, N. J.: “I think our team will crack along the way somewheres, and I wouldn’t be surprised if Wisconsin pulled one out of the hat to clinch this one 14-7.”
Sophomore Dick Sadowski, Pensacola, . Fla. :“Due to the fact that we have a score to settle with Wisconsin, I believe we will do our uppermost to defeat them by the greatest possible score. My opinion is a final score of 60-0.”
Bill Mayers, V-12, Pasadena, Calif.: “It seems almost impossible that any ' team could beat ours, but I’m betting that Wisconsin knocks over our pretty apple-cart and whips us 21-13.”
Junior Richard J. Deeb, St. Petersburg, Fla.: “After the slaughtering bf . -
13
Michigan last SaturdajT, it is no secret that N.D. has a powerhouse of a team. Although there is a possible chance of over-confidence, I’m sure there won’t be enough to beat Notre Dame when they play us. Besides, N.D. is out for revenge against Wisconsin for holding us to a tie last year. We will win easily by 55-6.”
Irish Trounce Mighty
Michigan Eleven, 35-12
By Joe Fahey
In the most important game of the
current national gridiron season, the
Notre Dame football team romped to a
35-12 victory over the Michigan Wolverines. The game w a s featured b y good generalship, hard running, and accurate passing. Notre Dame got off to an ominous start when Ryko-vich ran back the
opening kickoff to mid-field where he fumbled the ball in the midst of a flock
of blue jerseys. But, to the disappointment of the Michigan fans, it was ruled that Michigan was offside on the play.
Creighton Miller tallied the first touchdown in the opening period after an exchange of punts. He broke off his left tackle on a 66 yard gallop. He was almost forced offside at midfield but outran three Michigan backs to give Notre Dame the lead. The Wolves came right back on a sustained march down the field. A pass from Daly to Rennen-bohm put the pigskin on the four yard line. On the next play Daley bulled over, giving the Irish a 7-6 lead at the end of the quarter. In the second period, Ber-telli’s perfect pass to Fred Earley started that freshman on a 69 yard run down the sidelines. After that, with the exception of Bill Daley, who was a one man team all afternoon, Michigan was never’ in the game. Miller’s brilliant 55 yard broken field run was called back and a holding penalty imposed. But the Irish kept possession of the ball and drove down to the one yard line but failed to score.
In the third quarter, which ran twenty-three minutes because of an error in the score board clocks, Notre Dame’s second team made an excellent showing, led by Johnny Lu jack’s slash
ing runs. At one point Michigan drove down to the Irish one foot line on third down. Twice Daley crashed at the center of the line but was snowed under. Miller scored his second touchdown on a 16 yard pass from Bertelli. Jim Mello also scooted across for a fourth score and Bertelli, who decided to add scoring to his achievements, went over on a quarterback sneak.
In the last seconds of a seven minute period a pass from Hirsch to Daley accounted for the other Michigan touchdown. The surging crowd stayed off the field long enough to have Pregulman miss his second conversion attempt of the day, his second failure this year. In contrast, Angelo Bertelli placekicked his fourteenth straight between the crossbars.
Bunker Hill Air Base
Squash N.R.O.T.C., 42-6
By Jack Houghteling
Hopelessly outweighed and outclassed last Saturday, the N.R.O.T.C. football team fell before the onslaught of Bunker Hill Air Base’s squad of ex-college men and All-Americans, 42-6. The game

PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% - 117% No. Main Street (Upstairs)
North of the Oliver Hotel
Regulation Naval Uniforms — $38 Upwards Blues — Khakis — Whites also
Raincoats — Overcoats — Caps
Every Garment Tailored To Your Measurements — We Welcome Your Inspection
OPEN SATURDAY AND SUNDAY AFTERNOON
Phone — 3-6318 for appointments
Bill Roberts 406 St. Ed’s.
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES
Jim Cunningham 406 St. Ed’s
Paul Reilly 9 Brownson Hall

Ouditun
14
was played at Kautz Field, Kokomo, Indiana, before a crowd of 3,000.
The contest was the first time that any N.R.O.T.C. unit in the country had ever participated in intercollegiate ath-
You say you're from Notre Dame?
letics and marks a great step forward for the Notre Dame unit.
The Notre Dame team was not at full strength for the game as two members of the starting line-up, Al Bohn, end, and Jack Houghteling, guard, were declared scholastically ineligible two days before the game. John Johnson, 200 pound starting guard, was unable to play because of a sprained ankle suffered earlier in the week.
Injuries during the game also played a big part in the Irish team’s downfall. Al Stello, starting fullback, threw his shoulder out of place and was unable to play after the third quarter. “Tex” then took over’ the fullback spot but had to be removed a few plays later when he suffered a head injury. Bob Griffin then had to move from right half to fullback. Frank Sullivan, first string center, twisted his ankle in the first half and was used only sparingly afterwards. The whole team was pretty well banged up, and operated at far below par.
Lieut, (j.g.) Mal Kutner, former AllAmerican Texas end and Iowa Seahawk . star, was the main gun-in the “air sail
ors” attack. He scored three of the Bunker Hill touchdowns and started the scoring with a 55-yard jaunt in the first quarter. Bob Gordon, Tom McLaughlin, and Jim Norris also raked up Bunker Hill touchdowns. Two points were added to the Air Base’s total when in punt formation a bad center got away from Ed Ghigliotti and rolled over the goal line before he could down it.
The lone N.R.O.T.C. tally came in the fourth quarter when quarterback Frank Beaudine snared a Bunker Hill fumble
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
No matter what branch of the service you are headed for, you will find AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES the best way to carry your money. They are not only spendable everywhere, but they have an important safety feature that protects you. It is this: if they are lost or stolen, you get a prompt refund.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75c for each $100. Minimum cost 40c for $10 to $50. For sale at banks and Railway Express Offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES
: listen in fa CHfQUf YOUR MUSIC • Station mm
Popular Vocal and Orchestral Hits • 890 on Your Dial TUESDAY and FRIDAY—9:15 P.M.
in mid-air and dashed 50 yards for a touchdown.	.
Saturday afternoon, Oct. 16, will be the highlight of the three-game N.R.O. T.C. schedule as the squad will journey to Appleton, Wis., to meet the Lawrence College Vikings. The game is the home-; coming contest for the Vikings who last Saturday held Marquette to a 27-0 score. The game will be an over-night stay for the team as the squad will leave school at 6:30 Saturday morning and return at 6:30 Sunday evening.
SOUthnshore
15
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
YACHT CLUBBERS NOTE
Along about this time most of the Commerce men begin to blow off about how hard their courses are. That ain’t nuthin’ according to Ohio State’s Lantern and the Indiana Daily Strident. Courses in Russian and Cryptography are now being offered in the regular curriculums of these universities.
STUDENT COUNCIL?
Purdue’s Student Senate is made up this year of members of the various military units on the campus as well as the civilian students, the Exponent tells us. While this semester is too far gone to attempt any such setup, something of the sort should be done to bring about better relations among the bodies of men on the campus in the next semester.
Civilian and naval students on the Georgia Tech campus are conducting a contest to name the queen of all Techmen’s girls. The winner will be dubbed: “The Girl I’d Rather Be Restricted With.”
An Ugly Man contest was sponsored last spring on the San Jose College campus by one of the local fraternities. At a penny a vote §150.00 was earned by the ballots to contribute to a war purpose.
Here’s one we stole from the Indiana Daily Student:
A man stood at the Pearly Gate, His face was worn and old;
He merely asked of the man of fate Admission to the fold.
“What have you done,” Saint Peter asked,
“To seek admission here?”
“Why, I tried to estimate my income Tax from now to the end of the year.”
The gates swung open sharply As Saint Peter touched the bell ;
“Come in,” he said, “and take a harp, You’ve had enough of Hell.”
A CHALLENGE
An editorial in a recent issue of the DePauw offered a challenge to the civilian students to imitate the V-12 trainees on campus. The service men have been putting on a show every Friday since
their arrival at the Indiana school. It’s a thought for all the units on the campus here to mull over. Certainly there is more talent on the campus than was displayed in the show a few weeks ago. What say we do something about it?
There may be a number of colleges and universities throughout the country that are suffering a decreased enrollment, but you can strike Indiana and Ohio State off that list. At the last report there were 3650 students on Indiana’s campus and 9500 down Columbus way.
Said a Marine trainee to a V-12 working his way across the campus, the other day, “And what Wave are you replacing?”—With apologies to the DePauw.
Both Illinois and Ohio State are having difficulty trying to get a hundred men together* for their marching bands in the football season that is already upon us. Not so with the N.D. Band, which numbers a hundred men again this year. Tire formations the boys are practicing now are knockouts, and this year’s outfit puts Notre Dame’s rating far in the lead, despite its handicaps in getting the band together for practice due to the personnel’s military regulations.
Have a Coca-Cola=Welcome, Short-Snorter
when short-snorters (trans-ocean flyers) meet and compare their autographed dollar bills, the invitation Have a “Coke" is fairly sure to follow. At home and abroad Coca-Cola has become a symbol of those who see things in a friendly light.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of South Bend
It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
■the global high-sign
,© 1943 The C-C Co._____
16
Father John A. O'Brien
Authors Two New Books
The Rev. John A. O’Brien, professor of Religion at the University, is the author of two hooks just released.
Discovering Mexico, published by Oiir Sunday Visitor Press, Huntington, Indiana, is designed to present the highlights of Mexico to the American reader. It presents not only the most inter-
Rev. John A. O'Brien
esting features of Mexican scenery and architecture, but also gives a closeup of the social, economic, and religious conditions prevailing in the Republic of the Rio Grande.
The author has made several lengthy sojourns in Mexico, traveling from coast to coast and making it a point to go to out-of-the-way places off the beaten . track of the tourist. In this way he has captured much of the peculiar and distinctive charm of Mexico, and has woven into his portrayals some of the colorful life and habits of the Indian people, who bulk so large in the Mexican population. The volume is written in a friendly, kindly spirit of understanding, with a fine appreciation of the distinctive' contributions of Mexico to the art and culture of the world.
Father O’Brien offers to the reader the key to Mexico’s mystery and enigma. That key is the realization that Mexico is saturated with Catholic tradition, life and culture. The foundations of its civilization were laid by the Spanish missionaries and its customs and life were bom out of a deep religious faith.
Father O’Brien’s other new book, The Priesthood in a Changing World was published by the St. Anthony Guild Press, in Paterson, N. J., and presents both the ideals of the priesthood and the problems of the priestly ministry amidst the changing conditions of American life. It sketches the ideals of tEe priest-
THIS Coast Guardsman stands watch over the convoy — telephones warnings that keep • it in protected formation—helps to get fighting men and fighting equipment through to their destination.
On every hattiefront—at sea, on land and in the air—telephone and radio equipment made by Western Electric is seeing plenty of action.
For 61 years, this Company has been the manufacturer for the Bell Telephone System. In the important war work that Western Electric is doing today, college graduates—men and women of varied abilities —are finding opportunities to serve their country well.
Buy War Bonds regularly—from note till Victory!
> Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM.
IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
17 /
hood as portrayed by Christ and His disciples and by the great spiritual writers of the Church in all centuries of the Christian era.
Father O’Brien’s book, h o w ever, sketches these ideals, timeless in their unchanging validity’, not merely in an abstract manner, but in the light of contemporary needs and against the back-o-round of the enormous changes which have taken place in the social, economic, and religious life of America in the past two decades.
Interhall Football League Folds Up After Two Games
By Al Bisbee
With only two offically-played games on record, the 1943 interhall football season has drawn prematurely to a close. Due to several reasons, the main one lack of time for practice, the Phy Ed department and the individual coaches have found it necessary to call quits for the year.
Many of the students came out only on Sundays for the games, with little or no practice during the week, and as a result, were out of condition for real playing. The servicemen’s only chance for leave being on the week-end, Sunday was a poor day on which to play, although the only one which was open at all. Many of the teams, too, were somewhat unorganized, with few of the men knowing the plays and their respective assignments.
Those long deficiency lists kept much potential material off the Cartier gridiron; and the approaching exams in the middle of the interhall season didn’t help any either. Then again, Phy Ed five times a week and early-morning calisthenics have taken a little of the extra fire and ginger out of most interhallers.
Early-season enthusiasm seemed to indicate that there would be a sufficient response to the grid call, but the boys have found that they can’t do everything.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE w. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
So the slate rests blank except for two games, played October 3, in which Zahm powerhoused Alumni 43-0, and the Sorin civilians toppled Dillon 14-6. Had the N.R.O.T.C. squad decided to play the interhall teams, competition might have been heightened somewhat. As it was, however, Dillon, Alumni, Cavanaugh, Zahm, and the civilian halls under the name of Sorin were represented. Alumni made a worthy effort to remain in the running by holding separate practice sessions at different times of the day, but most of the other teams were unable to follow this example.
Last Sunday a scheduled Dillon-Zahm tilt was not played; while Cavanaugh whipped Sorin in an unofficial contest, 33-0. Because the civvies did not have a full eleven-man squad, a player was borrowed from the Cavanaugh reserves and the boys went to work. Officially the score does not go down in the books.
The interhall pigskins are packed away for another year and perhaps for the duration, unless some radical change is made to allow more time for the players.
PRESS WRITERS LAUD N. D.
(Continued from page 12)
Dame’s triumph convinced most observers that the current Irish outfit is one of the greatest of a long line of powerful teams developed at the South Bend school.”
Wilfred Smith, Chicago Tribune:
“A thoro trouncing which in point differential exactly avenged the worst defeat the Irish ever had received in the eleven game series and which satisfactorily assuaged memories of that afternoon eleven months ago when Michigan won at Notre Dame.”
Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune:
“It just wasn’t supposed to be possible for any college team to make this Michigan team look like helpless sandlotters through most of the first three quarters but that is just what the Irish did today to gain revenge for the 32-20 pasting Michigan handed them last year.on the Notre Dame field.”
Associated Press:
“Roaring to the heights not reached by any of Notre Dame’s greatest teams, The Fighting Irish battered Michigan’s touted Wolverines, 35-12.”
Arthur Sampson, Boston Herald:
“Notre Dame cemented its hold on first place in the national standing by trouncing powerful Michigan. The Irish were dynamite on land and overhead.”
Howell Stevens, Boston Post:
“As the result of its epic 35 to 12 victory over Michigan at Ann Arbor, Notre
SERVICE MEN
You are always
Welcome
at the Navy Canteen
Make the Navy Canteen Your Club
Regulation Haberdashery
Coca-Cola Gum
Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
18
Specialising in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Dame not only became America's unchallenged 1943 football monarch, but also proved it is one of the greatest gridiron machines of all time, vying with such notable former South Bend Products as the illustrious 1919, 1920, 1924, 1929 and 1930 units.”
• Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. DJ).S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. • PETER J. ROSE. D J).S. .
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend.Ind.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years $4.00
Collected Poems of
Charles L. O’Donnell $2.50
. . . at the Bookstore
NOTRE DAME FAVORED (Continued from page 11) year like seven steel ramrods. When tested it blends into a solid chain, each • link-working in perfect coordination. The scissor sharpness of their downfield blocking against the Crislermen made possible the all out efforts of Miller. The standout to date, if it is possible to select one, has been tackle Jim White’ the New Jersey strong boy. Jim’s play -against Michigan and the highly touted Merv Pregulman was of All-American caliber without doubt. Guards Pat Filley arid Joe Signaigo turned in their most sparkling performances of the young season against the Wolverines. Center -Herb Coleman, tackle Ziggie Czarobski and ends Paul Limont and John Yonakor all played championship ball. The outstanding defensive performance of the year, however, was turned in by the second line of Kuffel, Zilly, Sullivan, Adams, Perko, Meter and Szymanski when they hurled back Bill Daley twice from the one foot line.
If the Irish play against Wisconsin as they did against Michigan, BEWARE BADGERS. However the team has passed over its early season hump in decisive games with Georgia Tech and Michigan on successive Saturdays. Naturally therefore a let down must be expected—a certain lack of the fire that has been present for the past two tests. Coach Leahy will undoubtedly take advantage of the opportunity to give his reserves the experience needed to carry on, when and if any members of the team are snatched away at the end of the present semester. Another disadvantage to be considered is the fact that even though completely scouted Irish quarterbacks will use as few plays as possible at Madison. Like Pittsburgh it may be another afternoon of basic foot-baU.	.	.
We know that the 1943 edition of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame is definitely of National Championship rank. Tomorrow they face an undermanned and inexperienced Wisconsin eleven. A great team extends itself every week whether the opposition be threatening or not. Our boys will be tempted to overawe the Badgers with their newspaper clippings, and club the foe into-submission with a reputation. Trust to Frank Leahy,- however, to ward off this evil.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist ' .
• FOOT AILMENTS 406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation .
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
A-.
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. TnJ
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building Phone 3-1254	,	* South Bend. Indiana.
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building	. -
L. E. Fisher, MJ).	M. J. Thornton, MJ).

Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES PLAIN “T” SHIRTS N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFTDRINKS ■	CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
NEED’S NURSES---ENLIST NOW
Co£jn$ht 1945, Ijggett & Hriu Tomcco Co.
^AR *iO
CLAUDETTE COLBERT
PAULETTE GODDARD
VERONICA LAKE
PHOTOGRAPHED ON THE ACTUAL SET OF PARAMOUNT'S NEW PICTURE SO PROUDLY WE HAIL'
AN EPIC OF THE NURSES ON BATAAN
OVER
Good Tobacco, Yes... the * y right combination of the WORLD’S
Best Cigarette Tobaccos ..
It isn’t enough to buy the best cigarette tobacco,
it’s Chesterfield’s right combination, or blend, of these tobaccos that makes them so much milder, cooler and betterJasting.
Good Tobacco, yes... but the Blend — the Right Combination—that’s the thing.
\Smoke Chesterfields and find out how really
good.a cigarette can be