THE NCTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE I AHI. IND.
^he SNotre Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
College Parade
. ..By Harry Walters
THE STAFF
.	AL LESMEZ
Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	-	-	- Nervy Associate Editor
ROBERT RIORDAN -	-	-	-	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON ------ Sports Editor BOB O'TOOLE ----- Circulation Manager AL KUENZLI ----- Advertising Manager
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY ----- Observations JOHN POWER ------ The Green Banner HARRY WALTERS -	-	-	- The College Parade
GEORGE KRAUSER -	- . Splinters from the Press Box
ART WAGNER ------ Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR FRANK GRIMALDI TACK McGRANE
ENRIQUE LULLI BOB COCHRAN JACK MILES TOM McNALLY JIM CAREY
RALPH HAYMAN RON BYERSMITH JOE BRESLAW JOHN FEENEY
NO MORNING CHECKS FOR GARRY
Our first exchange this week does not come from the Purdue Exponent, or the Ohio State Lantern, or the Miami Student. We happened to notice the following item of local interest in the Daily Sentinel published by the good citizens of the incorporated village of Fairmont, Minn.
“Gorman Garry, who made a U-turn at 11 o’clock last night, failed to appear in court this morning. They gave as his excuse, that he overslept. Justice Bonboy was lenient and assessed Garry with a five dollar fine. He paid.”
The Gorman Garry mentioned in the dispatch is our own Mike Garry, the old Minnesota U-turn specialist and circum-locutionist par excellence.
Mike always does find it tough to make morning checks.
WE'RE DIGGING INTO THE PAST
The Jitggler, Notre Dame’s now extinct humor magazine, provides a wealth of material. The following bit of iambic pentameter was published in the distant days of Feb., 1930 but seems all the more appropriate today in our present plight.
“Trade Mark"
I knew the minute I saiv him
That he was a grad from Notre Dame
Though he carried a stick
And wasn’t sick Nor was he lame.
His hat was black and round on top, As most good derbies are.
His spats were light, His shirt was white, And he rode in a snappy car.
But still he was from Notre Dame.
And that I cannot forget, For the first thing he said, As he bowed his head, Was, “Who’s got a cigarette?”
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD	DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising ■ by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York CSty—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. TH k SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
MORE FROM THE “JUGGLER"
Radio Manners
If she wants a date—Meter
If she comes to call—Receiver	..
If she wants an escort—Conductor
If she wants to be an angel—Transformer
If she proves your fears are wrong—Compensator
If you think she is picking your pockets—Accelerator
If she goes up in the air—Condensor
If she wants chocolate—Feeder
If she is a poor cook—Discharger
If she eats too much—Reducer
If she is wrong—Rectifier
If her hands are cold—Heater
If she fumes and sputters—Insulator
If she wants a vacation—Transmitter
If she talks too much—Interrupter
If she is too narrow in her view—Amplifier
If her way of thinking is not yours—Corrector (Continued on page .19)
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
•• Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
JANUARY 12, 1945
No. 8
Dr. Frank Cislak to Address Chem Society
Civilian Informal in "Rock11 Tomorrow Nite
Tomorrow night will find the Notre Dame civilian students dancing to the music of Tony Bristol’s band at the first of a series of pre-Lenten informal dances sponsored by the Student Council. Dancing will be from 8:00 to 11:00, and tickets are now on. sale at $1.20 per couple. ’	- ■	•
The committee appointed by council president Robert Riordan and headed by Jim Retter has selected Phil Luppi as chairman of this initial event of the series. With the help of students from Zahm hall, Mr. Luppi has worked out a program which is sure to please all who attend.
Late Permissions Granted
An announcement which may be of special interest to prospective dance goers is that Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, has given all those who attend the dance 12:30 permissions. The reason for this extra permission is to enable those students with dates from South Bend to have leisure to take their dates home and return to their halls on time. Dancers must arrive by 9:30, and may not leave until 11:00.
Also of interest is the announcement by Sister M. Catherine Marie, C.S.C., dean of women at St. Mary’s, that St. Mary’s students attending the dance will be given 11:30 permissions.
Bristol's Band to Play
As reported previously, dancing will ‘ be from 8 to 11, and music will be provided by Tony Bristol and his band. The students who have heard this embryonic aggregation in rehearsals say that dance-goers are in for a treat when they step out to the fine music the band will deliver.
Council Prexy Asks Cooperation
Student Council President Robert Riordan has issued a special plea to the student body to support this dance and co-
(Continued on page 7)
Com. Hutchinson To Be
V-7 Executive Officer
Commander George Hutchinson, USN, of Newton, Mass., has assumed the position of executive officer of the midshipmen's school at the University, replacing Lieut. Commander W. P. Burleigh, USNR, who was serving temporarily following the retirement of Commander Thomas C. Scaffe, USN. This assignment will be the first time in over nine years that Commander Hutchinson has not been on sea duty.
Commander Hutchinson has seen action in both the Atlantic and the Pacific. Ships to which he was assigned took part in the sinking of one Japanese and three German submarines, were units of the armadas which bombarded Guadalcanal and Munda, and participated in the invasion of Southern France and aided in convoy duty.
Upon his graduation from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis where he was prominent in track, Com-mandei- Hutchinson was assigned to the old aircraft carrier Lexington and served there for two years as junior officer. Later he was communications and watch officer on the staffs of Admirals F. J. Horne and Ernest J. King.
He then served on the destroyer Flus-ser, and during the three and a half years he was on her held every job up to and including executive officer. He was then assigned to the then newly commissioned destroyer Gansevoort as engineering and damage control officer. It was on this destroyer' that he went to Guadalcanal, New Caledonia and New Zealand.
Next he was executive officer on the destroyer Fletcher which operated almost entirely in Savo sound off Guadalcanal where three of the biggest battles in the Pacific were fought although the Fletcher did not get to take part in any of them.
Commander Hutchinson was transferred to San Francisco in April, 1943, where he assumed command of a World (Continued on page 13)
Will Speak on Wednesday, Jan. 17 at 7:30 p.m.
Dr. Francis E. Cislak, director of research of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation of Indianapolis, will be the speaker at the 189th meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society. The meeting will be held at 8:00 p.m. on Wednesday, Jan. 17, 1945, in Room 213, Chemistry hall, University of Notre Dame.
Dr. Cislak will speak on “Coal Tar Bases”—a field in which he is an outstanding authority, as much of the work in this field has been done under his direction at the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation. For at least three-fourths of a century, coal tar has been a valuable source of aromatic hydrocarbons, and in this capacity has served as the chief raw material for many explosives, dyes and drugs.
Within the last few years processes have been developed, chiefly at the Reilly Corporation, for the isolation and utilization of another group of substances from coal tar. These are the coal tar bases, most of which are heterocyclic, bases of the pyridine type. Several of these bases, notably pyridine itself, are excellent solvents, and are finding wide application in this capacity.
Their mild basic properties are also of value—for example, if coal tar bases are added to the acid pickling baths used to remove scale from steel, the action of the bath is controlled so that the scale is removed, but little of the steel is attacked. This process is saving large quantities of steel at a critical time. The chemical properties of the coal tar bases are finding wide application in industrial processes, and many important products are being made from these substances. Vinylpyridine is made from coal tar bases, and is a constituent in one of the best, and newest, of the synthetic rubbers.
Pyridine bases are used in large amounts in the synthesis of nicotine acid (Continued on page 17)
3
"How Mature Are You?" Answered by Type of Music Preferred; Concert Band Success
BY OCTAVE EMOND
Perfonning before a near - capacity crowd in the Navy Drill Hall, the University Concert Band scored a hit under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope at the winter concert Wednesday evening, Jan. 10, with the famous. Dr. Frank Simon appearing as guest soloist and conductor. The full, rich program was well received by the large audience, especially the Sousa marches under Dr. Simon’s conducting.
Ensign Richard Tainter, bandmaster of the Midshipman - School here, conducted the opening, “The Star Spangled Banner.” Approximately one-fifth of the 95-member group appearing in the concert were midshipmen.
Bach’s “If Thou Be Near’” provided the smooth opening offering and was followed by Hildreth’s gay and frolicking “One Beautiful Day.” The third selection on the program was Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. -5 in E Minor, “Andante Can-tabile.” Concluding the first portion of the concert were “Waltz Triste,” by Sibelius, and the rhythmic “Song of the Bayou” by Bloom.
Following the intermission, Dr. Simon played his own composition, “Willow Echoes,” as his cornet solo. He then scored a surprise hit by playing an “English Coach Horn Gallop” on a plain and intriguing instrument which he said was an instrument' used by a rider of the early English ■ stage coach - to announce the arrival of the coach at towns. Taking the baton, Dr. Simon, dean of American bandmasters, then conducted the band: in three stimulating and rollicking- Sousa marches, “King Cotton,” “Semper Fidelis,” and “The Stars- and Stripes Forever.”	.
Concluding the program, rhe band played the “Victory 'March,” Ensign Taintei- conducting.
In these days when many millions of souls are being chased from their corporeal cabinets by Mars’ mad symphony • of-horror, the popular regard for music 'has become a vicious whirlpool of con-•flicting opinions. The vast majority of > musical criticisms which dart from out - the societies of the common man are founded too often upon little more than ignorance, prejudice, or a Reeling of selfimportance.
Music is not to be taken lightly; it is a great emotional sparkplug. It is an audible literature as rich and developed
as that of the great masters of prose and verse. It is a vast misty panorama of human development—a tonal portrait of life’s great shadows. It is a rich liqueur most essential in the proper development of a healthy soul.
Ever since man’s first footprints dented the virgin crust of this sphere, some crude form of music has been in evidence. In those most early days simple drum rhythms served to whip up men’s
Reflection
As I ventured forth on yester morn, And the fog lay dense all ’round,
I wended my way to the Lady in hopes A little comfort might be found.
Past the Library and doivn to the Lake, Through the trees along the way, Each brittle twig wore a coat of shining armor, Each shone forth in brave array
And the cones hung down from the evergreens
Like some fantastic baubles from another world,
Like silent bells, quieted by her nearness As if to catch a sign or word.
But the birds, bless them, twittered and - sung
. And as I knelt for a moment of prayer They made the scene complete as though The world knew no strife or fear.
The flakes sifted down in solitude To come to rest as if at home .
Returned from heaven, pure and white As I, enlightened and at peace, went on my way.
—A Veteran
emotions until they foamed over to find expression in wierd barbaric dances. Now, after centuries of .advancement, we discover a striking change—the drum rhythms are more complex, and the dances are more weird. -
One defense in behalf of the modern brand of orchestral composition (jazz and swing, lest you be confused) is its great domestic appeal. Picture a cozy drawing room with a billowy easy-chair drawn up before a crackling log fire. A drojvsy cocker spaniel is stretched out lazily on the thick, warm carpet. The windows are painted with frost and a
muffled howl from the wind is heard as it beats vainly against the impregnable walls of the little cottage; everything creates an air of quiet security. After consuming a savory supper, you slowly settle back, tune on your radio, close your eyes, relax—and listen to Slicker Sam, the trombone man, with his Jivin’ Five tear into “Steam Shovel Stomp.” What a band! What music!
Music is a medium which stirs primarily the emotions of man. The completeness or maturity of one’s emotional development is reflected greatly by the type of music one enjoys. Modern swing music descends to such low levels that it fails completely to inspire one’s emotions (except in a negative manner). Its popularity springs from its appeal to the instincts just as the weird drum rhythms of the early savages moved them to a frenzy of muscular convulsions. The mooney love ballads of the day also strain the definition of music in order to be classed as such. They reflect little more than morbid passions, and their contributions to society are greatest when they are “leastest.”
The importance of great music can readily be seen (but is seldom noticed) in almost every good theatrical, motion picture, or radio presentation. If music were abolished from these fields, they would become as tasteless as a green apricot. Music is the perpetuating element of emotional development and experience. It is something to be cherished, admired, sought and understood.
Riley Band Plays for V-I2
As part of the regular winter recreation program, the Riley High School Band will appear in Washington Hall next Wednesday before V-12 trainees and their guests.
The Riley organization, under the direction of Mr. Melvin Dean, numbers 110 pieces and is one. of the outstanding . high school bands in the state. Featured with the band will be .Miss Teresa Ku-harich and Mr. William Andre, vocal soloists.
Program for the evening will include: “Overture Militaire,” “Entry of the Gladiators,” “Molti Soli,” “Amparito * Roca” “I’ll See You Again,” “Woods in Autumn,” “Song of the Bayou,” “Begin the Beguine,” “The Very Thought 'of You,” “Amor,” and “Men of’Iowa.”
Platter Chatter: Vaughn Monroe will be in Hollywood in February for a picture appointment and to debut his’band at the famous Hollywood Palladium dance spot. Monroe will feature his-new singing quartet there.
4
Robt. Hamilton to Speak
In South Bend Tuesday
Next Tuesday, Jan. 16, Mr. Robert L. Hamilton will talk before the National Association of Cost Accountants in South Bend. Mr. Robert Hamilton, and James, his brother are both Notre Dame graduates of the class of ’34 and ’35 in business administration and accounting respectively.
After graduating, both brothers joined their father’s firm the Dumore Electric Co., Racine, Wisconsin, and with their vigor and knowledge made of it an important manufacturing firm of fractional horse-power motors now working for the U. S. government.
Not content with honoring their old Alma Mater with their important work, Mr. L. H. Hamilton Sr., and his two sons established a fund, the Hamilton Fund, in November of 1942 of $2,500 intended to provide an award in cash or suitable equivalent, each academic school year, to the graduate of the College of Commerce of this University who has made most improvement in public speaking in the four years of undergraduate work. A committee of faculty members of the College of Commerce and of the Department of Speech select the beneficiary of this award.
The Hamilton Fund is only one of a number of generous contributions with which these alumni have favored Notre Dame.
Wranglers Open Drive For New Members
At the Jan. 4 meeting of Wranglers, Notre Dame discussion club, it was announced that applications would be accepted for membership in the organization. This announcement was made in a discussion of the club’s activities in. the coming year..	.	- '
Wranglers was originally organized in the early ’20’s by a group of Notre Dame students. Rev. John W. • Cavanaugh, C.S.C., acted as chaplain and advisor for the club. In its inception it was intended to provide for intelligent discussion of all the vital problems: economic, social, political, and philosophical. Through its many years, Wranglers has always been faithful to the cause of discussion and thought.
The normal program of the club consists of a weekly paper by a member and an ensuing discussion. At least one meeting of the semester is a special formal banquet.	‘
Anyone interested in applying for membership to' Wranglers ' should see David’ Armstrong, president, 226 Walsh hall or Dick Martin, vice ^president, 233 ‘ Sorin" hall, or’any other member of the Wranglers.
V-12 "Frolics" and Ball Only Fortnight Away; Committees Complete Plans for Week-end
The time separating the V-12 from one of its prime social flings has been narrowed to a fortnight and intense lastminute preparations are being made to insure proper prosecution of the big event. Athletic specialists are dusting off their recently augmented rating badges with an eye toward impressing out of town guests.
Service center girls have added another layer of cosmetics and speak in enraptured tones of a life-long interest in Vaughn Monroe’s music. Inhabitants of the music-world have been at each other’s throats for the last two months for the privilege of “blowing their- brains out” at the local stiff-shirt frolic, but
hostilities have now ceased and all are resigned to according the honor to leader Monroe.	.
In the course of music arrangements every baton waver from Nasal Twang - to Chris Cross begged to be able to break contracts at Meadowbrook or the Palladium to provide our kind of syncopation but one look at Marilyn Duke convinced the music committee that the Monroe aggregation was most deserving. The trainees, who will provide the human end of the affair, are now affording large dividends to holders of Burma Shave and Shinola stock in a Frank Merriwell- attempt to transform themselves from Sad Sacks to Clark Gables before Mabel arrives from Shamoken.
Plans for the big week-end brighten
with each passing day. The signing of Vaughn Monroe has already assured the complete and unprecedented success of the ball on Friday and main emphasis on the part of Ed Brown and the committee is directed toward rounding out the week-end. Saturday night will see the return of the new and reorganized V-12 “Commanders” under the able direction of Notre Dame’s foremost exponent of the clarinet, Red Morris.	.
Backing the licorice-stick revelings of Morris will be his revitalized ensemble of 15 famous Flame-Throwers. The “Commanders” will provide the music for the informal dancing before and after the Saturday night floor show. The floor
show itself will be composed of two distinct parts; first the Royal Hawaiians, led by Geraldine Roy who will create an atmosphere resembling Oahu and Waikiki with a program of Hawaiian music,-chants, and hulas.
This quintet is widely renowned throughout the Middle West as a skilled and authentic tropical string quartette.
After the performance by the Royal Hawaiians, the Navy will go thespian again to present “Sailors on Parade.” TheFloradora Sextette is holding secret rehearsals to perfect their various revolutionary ballet routines. All attempts by Vera Zorina and Muriel Abbott to contract ballerinas, “Twinkletoes” Sullivan and" “Gazelle” Westenkirchner "fdr ’ap-
(Continued on page 18)
5
Joe Martellaro Works on Electronic Invention; He Also Finds New Method of Plotting Curves
By PATRICK GROGAN
Concrete evidence that long - haired super-scholars and veteran scientists do not have a monopoly in the field of research and discovery can be found right here on our own Notre Dame campus this semester in th? form of a freshman resident of Zahm hall.
Joseph A. Martellaro, 20-year-old chemical engineering major, is fresh from the Army with an honorable discharge and again free to continue his college education which he began two years ago. At that time Joe put in one semester in prep engineering at Fordham university before Uncle Sam pointed his finger and said, “I want you!”
A native of Rockford, Ill., Joe began a career in science somewhat unwittingly. That is, when he opened a small radio repair shop in his home town after graduating from Rockford West high school in 1942, it certainly was not an evident beginning in science. But Joe capitalized on his business venture by picking up more than a little knowledge of electricity and radio. Soon he was doing some experimenting on his own, and it was not long until he. was building electronic equipment for soundprojection systems and burglar-alarm apparatus. On his burglar-alarms he capitalized again, this time in handy
Knights of Columbus Outline Boll Plans;
Ben Mammina Chosen General Chairman
The first major social event of 1945 has been announced as the Knights of Columbus Ball, scheduled for the night of Feb. 9. Richard M. Sadowski, recently elected Grand Knight of the local council has selected Ben Mammina, deputy grand knight, as general chairman of the event.
Other chairmen announced by Mr. Sadowski are Robert Riordan in charge of publicity; Harry Ryan, patrons; Ernie Howard, refreshments; Walter McDermott, music; Dick Martin, decorations; Bob Benes, arrangements; and Dawson Boone, tickets. In addition to these committee heads, an executive committee has been appointed consisting of Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., Brother Meinrad Secard, C.S.C., Ernie Howard, Ben Mammina, and Grand Knight Sadowski.
cash, by installing them for several of his fellow store-owners.
When Joe entered the Army, he did not lay aside his ambitions in science, which had become by that time more than a hobby with him. About a year ago, Joe got an idea for making the process of finding out what things are made of, simpler and more exact. For years chemists and physicists had identified some chemical elements by the positions of the colors of their glowing vapors on the spectrum, which is a colored band of light consisting of the seven colors of the rainbow and their varying shades. But why could this method not be made into a process more accurate and into one applicable to all elements, plus many other substances? And if this new physical testing process could be perfected, why could it not eliminate many more complicated chemical testing methods?
So Joe Martellaro set to work on the plan of an electronic instrument which would do just that. Instead of determining an element by the color of its light waves, this instrument would convert the frequency of these light waves into an electrical current which could be measured by a gauge just as a radio frequency is measured. Since each ele-
Details have not yet been revealed, but Chairman Mammina has assured the student body that this will be a dance which will challenge any other organizations sponsoring balls this year. With the enthusiastic backing of the entire Notre Dame Council of Knights of Columbus behind this undertaking, its -success is assured.
The local council was recently re-organized when a special election was held to fill certain vacancies which had resulted from the departure of the officers. In that special election, Richard M. Sadowski was elected Grand Knight, replacing Tim Cotter. Others elected were Dawson Boone, chancellor; Robert Riordan, treasurer; Brother Meinrad Secard, C-S.C., trustee; and Bill Orr, outside guard.
ment has its own characteristic lightwave frequency, the device would give the reading for that unknown which was being tested.
The principle could be applied also to other materials consisting of more than one element, Joe believes, and it could even lead to the discovery of new elements. The testing instrument is still almost entirely in the planning stage, but members of the University’s science department have said that they believe it is very practicable, and that although some previous work has been done along these lines, no one has come as close to perfecting a like instrument as Joe is now.
Joe frankly says that it may take him two or three more years to complete his invention, because of the limited amount of time he can give to it, due to his heavy class schedule. Other complications in work on the apparatus are that it will have to be adjusted to accommodate those elements with extrem ly higher low-frequency light waves which are beyond the range of the measuring gauge, and that frequencies will have to be amplified in order to make more sensitive distinctions between elements tested. However, Joe does not think he will run into financial difficulties while at his work, since he estimates the cost of building his “element detector” to be relatively cheap.
If Joe Martellaro is successful in his undertaking — and the odds are overwhelmingly in his favor — he will have accomplished greater things than most people get done in a lifetime. But even this is not the sum total of his ideas. On top of all this, Joe has come up with an original mathematics theory which has also been credited by a department member of the Notre Dame faculty.
The gist of the theory is that certain laws of geometry can be applied to the drawing of geometric graphs, where these rules have never before been applied. When they are used in this new sense, an entirely new interpretation of curve-plotting results. This idea first worked its way into Joe’s mind while he was studying analytic geometry here, and he has been encouraged to experiment further with the theory by applying it in his advanced work in mathematics.
So Joe’s story may be the story of a new son of Notre Dame with potential prominence being built up in him. He expects to take up graduate work here on the campus for his doctor’s degree after completing his course in chemical engineering, and it certainly seems safe to predict that wide fields lie open to Joe Martellaro after he finishes his education.’
6
BY JOE
“Attenhut! Hand Salute!” With these notes of command the bugle sounds “To the Colors.” The music floats across the air with a stateliness never attained by any other piece.
Everyone within hearing distance stiffens in respect for the Ensign as it moves up the staff.
Everyone within seeing distance feels a thrill of pride to be part of this nation which it represents.
A sudden breeze catches and unfolds it. Placed before the onlooker’s eye is the reason for this nation’s fundamental unity. Years ago there were thirteen colonies, thirteen stripes; and then there were forty-eight states, forty-eight stars.
Under this star spangled Banner there grew up a set of ideologies. No longer was acceptable the time-worn belief that the common man was the chattel of the aristocracy. Man found his dignity; he was not to be put in the same class with things inanimate.
Instead he was given opportunity to
Students Favor Training in Post-War Schedule
BY DON NUECHTERLEIN
1/ the Dawns Early Light”
: BRESLAW
discover his abilities, and to make use of them in fair competition with those around him. In gaining this freedom for himself he learned to become tolerant; he knew that if he did not extend his privileges to his fellows, he himself did not possess them. As a result, the citizenry of the nation created a truly democratic state.
Wherever this flag has flown, men have looked up and found inspiration. Inspiration to retain, to enrich, to fight for all the liberties which it grants. Thus the flag has become a responsibility. Thousands have died for it; but millions will live so that the ideals for which it stands will not be forgotten. With the same inexorableness with which the Ensign is raised every morning and lowered at sundown, the nation must progress onward. It makes no difference if the weather is fair or foul, difficulties must be surmounted. The Stars and Stripes has flown proudly, and will continue to do so for a long time to come.
necessity for our country’s safety, I would say it’s a waste of time and money. However, if it has to be, I don’t think a little “boot-camp” will hurt anyone.”	.
We didn’t get such a rousing reception at the door of Bill O’Connor of Co. G. Bill thinks that the discipline would do a lot of good for some of the fellows he knows. “I think it should be something like V-12 so a fellow can get some education. And besides that, I’ve saved a lot of money since I’ve been in the Navy and I also learned how to make a “sack” and keep my room clean.”
Then we found out that it was a chpp by the name of Nunzio Marino who was the cause of Bill’s meeting us with a broom. So we trotted up to Co. H to hear what he had to say for himself. It was plenty. First he got out his dictionary and began to look up words. He said he had to show some guys how intelligent he was. “I think the idea is positively superb,” he answered, “The significant influence of thoroughly indoctrinated and well-trained troops would achieve remarkable esteem from all the world, and would earn for us the respect due a country of our calibre.”
Bill Riley of Co. I says, “Besides safeguarding our country’s welfare in the future, it will build strong bodies and make the young fellows who go through this training much healthier.”
Frank Gilligan, 4th Co. of NROTC shares the views of most of the other fellows. He suggested, “Let the fellows choose the time they want to serve their year, just as long as it’s between the age of 17 and 21. Six months to a year should be sufficient if they train them in practical ways.”
For our question this week we chose one which we thought might be of interest to both civilian and navy men alike. When we asked the question, “What do you think of compulsory military training after the war?” it wasn’t very long before we received a direct answer to the question.
Our first interviewee was Francis Craig who spends most of his time in Breen-Phillips studying. He thought that it would be an excellent idea if young fellows got one year of military training. “Between the ages of 18 and 21 would be the best time. The training should be. like 'boot camp’ or army basic training.”
Jerry DeMott: of Co. A expressed a sailor’s point of view. “I think it’s a good idea. Of course, it has both good and bad points, but our country needs trained men.” Jerry thought that one year right after high school was the best time and that each fellow should be able to choose his branch of service.
Adrian Debevec of Cavanaugh said he definitely was against it. “When this war is over I think we should forget about anything that has to do with war. After all this is supposed to be the last one anyhow.”
Dale Winnie of the 3d company of the NROTC likes the V-12 setup quite well and feels that one year of this type of training after high school would be a good idea. He replied, “It should be considered a fifth year of high school.”
I believe Bill Hassett of Breen-Phillips had the V-12 unit in mind when he gave us his opinion. “Some of these young guys getting out of high school need a little discipline taught to them. It should be on the order of the V-12 program, but I’d say that a lot more liberty should be granted.”
John Wichmann of Co. J was more or less on the fence about the whole thing. “Well, if it weren’t an absolute
INFORMAL DANCE TOMORROW (Continued from page 3) operate with the regulations necessary for its success. Late permissions have been secured so students with South Bend girls can get them home and return to the campus on time. But if any abuses are made of this leniency, the entire privilege must be revoked in future events such as this one.
St. Mary’s girls will have extra permissions with sufficient time to return from the dance and; be in by 11:30. If the girls do not get in on time, we cannot reasonably expect the Dean of Women to grant such late permissions in the future.
The entire success of this and future informal dances depends on the enthusiasm and cooperation shown at this initial venture. The Student Council has done its utmost to assure the success of the dance; the rest is up to the student body as a whole.
7
OBSERVATIONS
Assignment of Men Eligible for Midshipmen Training March 1945: The preliminary roster of one hundred seventy-one apprentice seamen eligible for midshipman training on or about 1 March has been received at Notre Dame V-12 for verification and for rating of every man of his officer-like qualities as judged by his company instructor, his barracks officer, and by reports on his work when on working details and when under direction by his trainee officers. A general estimate on the quality of his academic work is also required by the Bureau of Naval Personnel. The list includes all men still classified as engineers who are now in their eighth semester of engineering studies, as well as the deck and irregular supply-preference candidates and former pre-medical students ^ow classified as irregular deck trainees. A limited number of men will be selected foi* training in the Supply Corps, and first preference will be given to men who indicate a preference for duty in the Supply Corps and whose record indicates appropriate preparation for that specialized training. As the physical requirements for appointment in the Supply Corps are sometimes less rigid than for line officer appointment, according to the Bureau bulletin, students qualified for special service only will receive special consideration provided they are otherwise fully qualified for such training. V-12 officers have been asked also to indicate on the preliminary report on the midshipman candidates which men. have had sea duty and which have had storekeeper experience in the Navy prior to entry into V-12. Those who have had sea duty will be among the first to be ordered to midshipman school. The list does not of course include pre-medical students who are finishing this February.
Full Quota of 39 Approved for Flight Training for March: The list of 39 men approved for the flight training program for this March has been received. As in the past, it is not expected that it will be possible to accommodate immediately all students selected for flight training at Pre-Flight Schools. Accordingly, a number of the men in this quota will be ordered to temporary duty at an aviation training station, prior to being ordered under bi-weekly quotas to PreFlight. Schools. Priority in transfer to Pre-Flight School, will be given to those men who reported to V-12 Units on 1
March 1944 from Tarmac duty. All students in the Navy V-12 Program who were found fully qualified for transfer to flight training on 1 March 1945 were approved because of the very recent expansion of the flight training program.
Certain Pre-Medical Trainees to Receive Additional V-12 Semester: Because the majority of the Medical Colleges under contract to the Navy are returning to the system of one new class each twelve months instead of one each nine months, most of the students in V-12 who are completing pre-medical requirements this March will not be ordered to medical school until September or October 1945. Those who are not beyond their seventh semester of college now and whose schedule of pre-medical studies for an additional term is approved by the dean of pre-medical studies and later by the Bureau of Naval Personnel may be given an extra semester beginning this March. Those who are not given the additional term will be placed on interim duty in Naval hospitals as in the past, until their medical class opens. There are 24 pre-medical men at Notre Dame whose finishing date would ordinarily be this March.
Men Finishing Next Month: Nine engineers, 162 deck candidates, 90 N.R.O.-T.C. men, and 39 pre-flight candidates • will be completing their work in V-12 at the end of next month, a total of 300 candidates, in addition to some of the 24 pre-medical men mentioned above who will be transferred to Naval hospitals.
Captain Gabel’s Ship Completes Test Run: The U.S.S. LAVACA, commanded by Captain Walter S. Gabel, USNR, former executive officer of the Notre Dame V-12 Unit, met all tests and trials in its first run. It left the shipyard after being christened on Thursday, 14 December, only 59 days after laying the keel was begun, a miracle of production. The LAVACA is the last of a transportbuilding series of attack transport ships, built by the Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation for the U.S. Navy. Capt. Gabel first saw the LAVACA only a few minutes before he stepped aboard at the Oregon yard Thursday noon. The paint on the decks was still soft, and the painters were still touching up some of the gear. The photograph of the ship and of Captain Gabel during the christening ceremonies appeared with the in
formation quoted above in the Portland Oregonian.
Increase in Scheduled Future Output of Aviators from the Flight Training Program: In June 1944 the scheduled output of aviators from the flight training program was drastically reduced, about seven thousand aviation students in the various stages of the program being withdrawn solely as a result of quota restrictions, not because of failure. Recent reconsiderations of fleet requirements and the need for more frequent rotation in combat areas have indicated the desirability of increasing the output of aviators. This increase makes it possible to restore to flight training the students who withdrew from flight training who having successfully completed two or more years of college chose to go to reserve midshipman training. Those individuals who are not undergoing reserve midshipman training will be allowed to complete the course and receive commissions prior to being restored to flight training. Those men who were returned to the V-12 Program will not be returned to flight training until completion of four terms of college, including any terms completed prior to reassignment to the Navy V-12 Program. The “deadline” for the return of applications for reinstatement in the V-5 flight training is 15 February 1945, and application forms have been sent to all ships and stations.
Food Brings Memories of Home to the G. I.'s
John J. Greeley, Central Street, Hallowell, Maine, an American Red Cross field director, is a firm believer that an American hotdog or hamburger served to a fighting soldier overseas can do more to lift the morale of a man than any one thing. And he should know, for he has served for the Red Cross with the armed forces on the Solomon Islands, in Australia, and is now directing a club canteen in the China - Burma - India theater.
The most gratifying part of his job, Greeley declares, is to see the amazed looks on the faces of the men as they find real American food put before them. He spent five months in Australia setting up Red Cross snack bar canteens, then was ordered to report to India to continue his work in that theater.
Greeley received his A.B. degree from Villanova College and Catholic University; his M.A. from the University of Notre Dame, and his Ph.D. from New York University.
“I’m bombarding the Japs from all sides with hamburgers!” remarked Greeley, “and pretty soon we should be serving them in Tokyo!”
8
GET THAT V-12 BALL DATE —BUT QUICK!!!
The semesterly V-12 Ball, now traditional to the Notre Dame Navy V-12 unit, is only two week-end liberties away (we find it much more pleasant to express time in exciting week-end liberties rather than dull days and weeks). We don’t know whether or not you had this already figured out, but we’ll give you two-to-one-odds that nearly every “eligible” girl in the vicinity—and many, hundreds of miles away—is well aware of the fact, and is patiently waiting with a well-planned acceptance for someone who invites her to attend this gala affair.
Don’t be too sure of yourself and wait until the very last minute to ask your . guest. A lot of guys, like “Nippie, he’s often wrong,” might be fooled, surprised and stunned; to say nothing of being suddenly and abruptly awakened to find themselves without a date at all (and no stags are allowed, you wolf). Besides it says here that the gals would like a little time to get their formals squared away (maybe it’s curved away, but never-the-less it does take time).
We’re not trying to scare you, nor insult you, but don’t become what is commonly called, around V-12 Ball time, a “Schloomp”; and get that date for the V-12 Ball—but quick! (P.S. If you would like to get a date for the Ball, but don’t happen to know an eligible, tender babe —we realize that this is highly improbable—PLEASE show up at Dillon 148, knock twice and ask for Art, because frankly he has a few more than he can keep happy about this affair. It is really a “melancholy episode”; just ask anyone who is in the same unseaworthy craft.)
DECLARATION AFTER EXAMS
There are to me, two kinds of guys, The only two that I despise.
The first Td really like to slam— The one who copies my exam.
The other is the dirty skunk, Who covers his and lets me flunk.
WANTED: TWO GIANT BULLFROGS!
Ever since Dennis “Frog” McCarthy, A/S, of 115 Alumni received a booklet on “Giant Bullfrogs,” he has been seriously considering raising them in his washbasin. If there is anyone knowing the whereabouts of two bullfrogs, will they please contact Seaman McCarthy.
—Paid Adv.—
Columnist’s Note: This is supposed to be one hum-dinger of a good joke and the pay off to a lot of fun. We don’t quite understand it, but it does sound interesting and we will expect and graciously accept a few fried frog legs in payment for this advertising space. We will add the suggestion, absolutely free of charge, that the interested party raid the zoology department—being sure to borrow a pair of live bullfrogs, because we are told that those pickled ones aren’t so good.
- ❖
ATTENTION ALL EAR BANGERS— "CHIEF NEEDS CIGARETTES!"
As long as we seem to be in the advertising business, we may as well put in a little plug for “Chief.” The “Chief needs cigarettes,” could be read on the Dillon Hall Navy Barracks’ bulletin-board last week. A few extraneous statements by trainees were added, such as — “We would like.a littlemore liberty, too.”
“Tough luck, Chief.”
TROLLA. VICK; LODIAN, NICK RECEIVE DEMERITS FOR SLEEPING IN!
Here is a dandy little story that just drifted in, as most stories are bound to do, eventually. This one is somewhat different in that it is based on, what are supposed to be facts.
A couple of sailors in Alumni Hall Navy Barracks devised a plan by which they could sleep in until 0700, get caught, have their demerit cards lifted, be put on the demerit list, BUT still not suffer the tortures of extra watches or E.P.D. nor even really get any demerits out of the deal at all. This must have been a pretty good, and surely useful and handy plan.
Things went right along according to schedule; but when Trolla, Vick (vic-trolla) and Lodian, Nick (nickelodian) didn’t show up for E.P.D. they couldn’t be found on the muster lists.
GRADE SCALE:
93-100: Goes to every class, gets every lesson.
87-92: Goes to every class, .gets most lessons.
80-86: Goes to most classes, gets some lessons.
70-79: Goes to some classes, what lessons?
0-69: What classes? What lessons?
❖
PATRIOTISM PERSONIFIED:
A Navy V-12 student is double-timing across the campus toward Science hall, approximately 0800. Two navy color guards are about to raise the Stars and Stripes—which event means that the hurrying hero will have to slow down to a stop, face the music, come to attention, and salute until the bugler has sounded the last note. However, beside being in the navy, very much in a hurry, late for class, and patriotic, oux- subject is quick to act and spouts, between breaths: “Hold that flag, mates, I’ve got to get to class.”	.
❖
THANKS, LUPPI
Not many of the navy readers of this column are aware of the fact that the cartoons appearing here are the workmanship of none other than a Civilian.
This columnist wants to go on record right now as thanking most heartily the excellent efforts of Phil Luppi for doing such a good job of portraying navy life.
My guess is that he must have been a V-12 trainee at one time or the other .... or at least, has a girl friend in the Waves.
9
Father O’Donnell Proposes Use of Schools as NI
Annual Football Testimonial Banquet Hears President Oppose Militaristic R« ie
Opposition to compulsory military training after the •war as set forth in the Guerney - Wadsworth bill now pending before congress was voiced by Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University last Monday evening, at the annual testimonial banquet tendered the football squad by the alumni club of the St. Joseph Valley. In his address, before nearly 600 enthusiastic members, Father O’Donnell outlined a course of training, dictated by Catholic philosophy, and partaking of a more intense use of scholastic atmosphere, no less than scholastic facilities. The full text of his address:
Intercollegiate Athetics in the Changing Scene
The football squad, Acting Coach Ed McKeever, and the members of the coaching staff know what I think of the 1944 season, because I have already congratulated them. It was a good season, an excellent season, typical in many ways of Notre Dame's athletic tradition. As for myself, one of the things I like most about the team is that it won graciously and lost graciously. Then, after losing, it came back to win again and again and again. That is the Notre Dame way of doing things.
But the Notre Dame ivay means much more than conduct on the gridiron on Saturday afternoons during October and November. At this moment, for example, thousands of alumni and students are fighting all over the world for the simple but eternal truths that they learned to cherish while they were working and playing in the shadow of the Golden Dome. One hundred and sixty-five of them have given their lives in defense of those truths. In the true spirit of our holy Faith we know that these dead have not died in vain, for in the words of the militant Cardinal Mercier: .. the soldier who dies to save his brothers, and to defend the hearths and altars of his country, reaches this highest of all degrees of charity. ‘Greater love than this no man hath,’ said our Saviour, ‘that a man lay down his life for his friend’.” ■ I shall be brief tonight, because I will not be party to a postprandial marathon such as some we have known, in the past. Yet, there are a few matters I want to tell you about.
Leahy to Return
First, I think you will agree with me that the old saw, “out of sight, out of mind,” does not apply to Frank Leahy. He is somewhere in the South Pacific, but he is present in our thoughts, as I
10 ■
know we are in his. You will be glad to hear that Frank is coming back to Notre Dame after the war. Before he left to take up his duties with the Navy, he came to my office to say good-bye. The good-bye developed into a long, pleasant conference. I think I may say that he was happy when he left. At any rate I offered him a long-term contract, postwar, which he readily accepted. I do not mind telling you that Coach Leahy’s impressive won-and-lost record is only one consideration that prompted me to act as I did; and it was definitely not the first consideration. Notre Dame demands more than teaching excellence of her coaches. First, she requires integrity of character and devotion to the principles that have made Notre Dame a great University. We have been fortunte in having had many such coaches in the past. We know we have such a one in Frank. In both his private and professional life he is a Christian gentleman whose influence on youth and interest in their welfare is a notable contribution to contemporary
■^America. And Frank’s outlook in regard ; to Notre Dame is always refreshing and i: wholesome. He has the true perspective j toward Alma Mater and what she has meant to him in life. No individual or group of individuals on the campus or !
. elsewhere dims his vision as he pays tribute to her benign influence and the •• inspiration she has been to him since student days. So, to Frank Leahy, somewhere in the Pacific, I say, God keep you and bring	you	home safe.	J
J
McKeever Lauded	i;
’	>
From	what	I have said of our re- j
quirements, you may get an idea of our ;! regard for Ed McKeever, whom I chose I to carry on in Frank’s absence. But to ' think of Ed only as a “fill-in,” as it were, does him much less than the justice that is his due. If the 1944 season proves any- I thing at all, it proves beyond all doubt j that Ed McKeever has arrived. In his ; own right, he is a figure to be reckoned ! with in the sports world. In so far as I ■ am concerned, he can stay at Notre j
litary Training
£ ientation
i
■ Dame as long as he likes. Frankly, I like p the Leahy-McKeever combination.
.	Athletics A Means to An End
5 '
•• Secondly, you may consider the follow! ing the first plank in Notre Dame’s ath-> ’j letic program. Before long’the..National :	Collegiate Atliletic Associationjviir meet
s in Columbus, Ohio, to discuss some prob-• lems which in my opinion need serious i thought and appropriate action. I shall
J not mention them specifically, but they i center around the thesis .that intercolleg-I iate athletics must be safe for the col-• ; leges. Now is the time to attack irregu-‘ I: larities in the program that are detri-i mental to the schools as-well as to the
' best interest of the young men who take part in the various sports programs.
! Notre Dame believes that an athletic । policy should be one of principle. And I the first step in the preservation of that ; principle is that athletics are a means • to an end; not an end in themselves. A : student enrolls to get an education. By : accepting him, the school obligates itself ; to give him that education. When the school permits anything to interfere with . this purpose—athletics or any other exi traneous influence—it fails to justify the only reason for its existence. On the other hand, however, athletics have a legitimate and important place within a well-rounded curriculum. Let the colleges and j universities make sure, through the N.C. I A.A., that athletics are put in their rightful place, and that they are kept there by proper safeguards. If the goal j is to be achieved, the problem must be attacked sincerely and honestly. But if the atmosphere at Columbus is merely charged with empty protestations and word - mongering, the conference ■will have developed into just another meeting, and no tangible good will result. Now is the time for constructive action. The day of temporizing is past. The
. N.C.A.A. has a serious responsibility. Personally, I believe it will acquit itself I with courage and foresight. If it does not, the day of reckoning will only have j been postponed, and effective action by i another group will be taken. I personally do not want to see the dawn of such a day because of what intercollegiate athletics have meant to America.
Opposes Militaristic Nation
The third and last point I wish to I make has to do with compulsory military training after the war. The subject is not irrelevant. On the contrary, it is (Continued on page 12)
Football Banquet-- A Toast to the Tops— Has Many Headliners Paying Tribute
BY BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
The 25th Annual Civic Testimonial Banquet honoring the Fighting Irish grid club of 1944 is nothing but memorable history now. This night of notables, as expected, turned out to be a fitting tribute to the football team and its staff of coaches.
At the outset, Toastmaster Albert Doyle promised that the Silver Anniversary celebration of the affair would be resplendent with more silver flowing from under and over the bridgework rather than a lot of words taking up time. After it was all over, that was the story—there was a lot of good stuff pouring from all the speakers.
Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend, started off things by promising Notre Dame the same civic support that they have always had in the past, for no matter what happens, South Bend is behind the Irish.
Capt. Barry Makes Comparison
Capt. J. Richard Barry, commandant of the Notre Dame Naval Training school, made the analogous comparison of football to the Navy in which he stressed the use of strategy, hitting the enemy where they’re weak and keep plugging at that spot until reinforced, then concentrate on a new opening. The1 individual’s ability to figure- out maneuvers is another quality the Navy desires in a man, and football has given many that opportunity. The Navy will never have cause to abandon its strong alliance with football.
Coach Lynn Waldorf of Northwestern was all out in his praise of Notre Dame and especially did he cherish the intimate series that has existed between the two universities. It is a series that is getting to be more revered as the years go by, a series that he hoped would continue for many, many years to come.
From the Southland, Coach Claude Simons of Tulane was grateful for the chance of playing Notre Dame and wants to perpetuate the series. He welcomed Father O’Donnell and the Notre Dame team of ’45 to New Orleans.
Jim Kearns of the Chicago Sim, who represented the hungry press, as he put it, spoke not only for himself but the rest of his colleagues who received such splendid cooperation in covering Notre Dame games. The ease with which a writer is able to prepare his copy is indicative of the fine accommodations made for them and it is this sori of thing
that makes the working press feel at home.
Father O'Donnell Discusses Sports
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, gave the evening a touch of realism. After acknowledging the paramount duties of the armed services, he saluted them for the splendid job they are doing. In conjunction with the building of men, he emphasized the triumvirate that makes the man—the body, the mind, the spirit. In no little way does athletics contribute to all three essentials but in order that there may continue a high standard, he said that we must see that our sports are protected against other influences—in fact, man’s entire way of doing things under a democracy must be protected.
The Dean of the Southern coaches, Bill Alexander of Georgia Tech, was most high in his praise of Notre Dame. He alluded to his old friend Rockne several times, mentioning the spirit of football that “Rock” had brought forward. But most of all, he was sincere in his praise of Notre Dame as a University, the greatest sectarian' University in the land as he put it and after a few anecdotes he concluded with the serious note that became imbedded in everyone’s mind before they left, “Name another University like Notre Dame if you can,” surely the greatest humble tribute that any institution of learning could ever want.
Crowley Still Riding High
When Comdr. Jim Crowley rode the Notre Dame gridiron for three years, 1922-24, as one of the Four Horsemen, he took no back seat, and, last Monday’s banquet appearance was no exception for Jim is still riding high. This time, it’s with the Navy but he couldn’t help recall the days at Notre Dame—topping off his bit to say with a most vivid imitation of Rockne. Jim further added a serious note in his words of consolation concerning the boys overseas when he said that the fathers and mothers should not worry for they’re all getting the best. As a man who has been in the Pacific zone, he was well qualified to make this statement.	-
For the departing Eugene “Scrapiron” Young, erstwhile trainer who leaves Notre Dame, he was presented with three war bonds and a gun by Joe Boland, (Continued on page 19)
i i
11
FATHER O'DONNELL'S SPEECH (Continued from page 10) germane, because Notre Dame has had a large experience in training men not only for military duty, but also for all other duties that may be expected of good citizens. I have in mind Notre Dame’s tradition of education which develops the whole man. matures his faculties of intellect and will, and instills within him the devotion to God and Country which makes true patriots. I also have in mind Notre Dame’s belief in mens sana in corpore sano, which made our boys quickly adaptable to the technique and rigors of modern warfare. Notre Dame can speak on a subject that is so close to her.
Permit me, therefore, to outline clearly what is contemplated. All able-bodied young men between the ages of 17 (or 18) and 21 years of age are to undergo a year of continuous military training under the exclusive control of the Army and Navy. Afterwards, they would be classed as reservists for a period of four or eight years and would take such additional refresher training as may from time to time be prescribed by law. This is a digest of the Guerney-Wadsworth bill now before Congress.
I am opposed to that bill as it stands, although I subscribe to the prevailing belief that henceforth we must be military, but not a militaristic nation—and there is a vast difference between the two. That is, we do not want the European system, which would weaken our schools and undermine our home life. We do not want a military caste. Far less do we want to become victims of the pragmatic ideology of such a caste. Furthermore, we must be careful to protect the parent’s right to determine the education of his child. The problem is difficult, but we should be able to work out a solution in the time American way that will serve our country’s best interests. .
Suggests Intense Use of Schools
As a means to the end we want, I suggest a more intensive use of universities, colleges and high schools as a training ground for the army and navy; and also a revival of the national guard, strengthened and adapted to the mechanism of modern warfare so that it will be literally a guard of the nation. This course has possibilities worth exploring. And these possibilities should be explored after the war, and not before. Why the haste? Why all the speed? Let us adopt the old Latin slogan, festina lente, make haste slowly, as we consider a problem that bristles "with difficulties and is such a radical departure from our traditional American policy.
My proposal presumes a peacetime nation. If we must prepare for another war, which God forbid, the complexion of the question is completely changed. Then,
I suppose, the only course to follow is to apply the principles of the Selective Service Act, with this reservation, namely, that some serious thought be given to the nation’s future leadership. The reason is that if we continue the present policy it will not be long until we have lost most of our men capable of leadership in all branches of human endeavor.
Yet there is consolation in this: my experience with the Navy, in its admirable administration of the wartime program, leads me to believe that its officials will determine on a plan that will be acceptable to all Americans, as our country takes on the character of a military nation, post-war.
I realize that I have spoken rather seriously this evening, but I do not think too seriously. The times are critical, and Notre Dame is playing an important part in them. As alumni and friends, you should know where Notre Dame stands, that here is the true Christian, and American, philosophy of education. She still puts first things first. She believes in sound progress, but always with basic principles as a point of departure. She cannot, and will not, compromise with truth. She cannot be a party to that iniquitous philosophy that robs man of his dignity and integrity as a person—that philosophy that led John Edward Spear, a private in the Army of the United States to write:
“Professors, writers, learned men, what do
You, faced with present circumstances, say
About the things you taught its yesterday?
For I remember clearly still how you, Enthroned upon the seats of wisdom, threw
With pompous show and scholarly display
The ancient laws God gave to man, away, And introduced the lawlessness you knew.
You taught us this in days before the war.
What teach you now? There is no wrong or right?
Truth is a myth? Man needs his God no more?
You do not dare, for war has brought to light
Your lies; so give us back the truth you swore .	.
Away, that we may honorably fight.”
Let America harken to the voice of Private Spear so that God and the moral law may become an integral part of the lives of all of us. Then the Atlantic Charter will have meaning and purpose and Poland will still be the test of complete victory. -
"Moose" Krause Arrives in South Pacific Area
BY SGT. KEITH TOPPING (Marine Corps Combat Correspondent)
Somewhere in the Pacific, (Delayed) — Already notable for the many well-known athletes currently serving with military units here, this island recently
received a visitor who can match any in sports reputation, and dwarf them all in size—Marine First Lieutenant Edward “Moose” Krause, 31, of 8220 South Paulina Street, Chicago, Ill., the famed football-basketball All-American from Notre Dame.
Stopping here briefly en route to a Leatherneck aviation unit at an advanced base, for duty as an air combat officer, Lieutenant Krause, all 252 pounds of him, evoked glances of amazement and awed whispers as he rambled about the island hunting up friends from his playing and coaching days.
The “Moose’s” collegiate playing days ended in 1933, when he was named to several All-American football and basketball teams, but he remained in the sports spotlight as a coach of both sports until October, 1943, when he joined the Marine Corps.
At the time, he was assisting head coach Frank Leahy with the Notre Dame grid team, and was top mentor of the basketbailers. He was given a duration leave by the University’s athletic officials and expects to return to the same post after the war.
The giant Leatherneck declares his greatest sports thrill came when he was elected captain of the first College AllStars team, which in 1934 met the Chicago Bears, that year’s professional champions. It ended, in a scoreless tie, with Krause playing 57 minutes.
Lieutenant Krause, whose wife, Elizabeth, and their four-year-old son, Edward Jr., reside at the Chicago address, was commissioned a second lieutenant (Continued on page 16) .
12
K SPORTS
Doc Handy Optimistic Despite New Squad
With the curtain-raiser only three weeks away, the Irish meeting Western Michigan and Marquette in a triangular meet in the fieldhouse, track coach,
Mr. Elvin “Doc" Handy
Elvin “Doc” Handy is one of the busiest men on the local scene. Daily workouts in the gym are bringing his inexperienced squad into fighting trim for the two months of the indoor season which gets under way February 3.
Minus the services of all but seven members of his strong 1944 outfit, Mr. Handy has had to start from scratch. Working with boys, few of whom have had more than high school experience, he has had to work hard, drilling them in fundamentals. The squad is showing definite improvement, however, and it should be able to compete favorably with all its opponents, most of whom are likewise manned by wartime personnel.
Coach Handy was faced with the same prospect in September as his team embarked on a rugged cross-country schedule. Hark work paid off, however, as a look at the record shows he produced one of the Mid-west’s top-flight hill and dale quintets.
The men upon whom Handy is relying to start the season are:
2-mile—LProche, Donnelly, Muening.
1-mile—Tully, Clark, Matthews, Mahoney.	-
% mile — Culver, Slovak, Provost, Rouch.
%-mile — Jones, Murphy, Zursch-miede, Janson.
Dashes — LeBrew, Jones,' Zursch-miede, Bruke.
Hurdles—Lindahl, Walsh, O’Neil, Mc-miede, Burke.
Weights—Kelly, Sullivan, Scott.
Pole Vault—Stouble, Vossberg, Brennan.
High Jump—McGee, Hull.
Broad Jump—McGee, Dwarte.
N.D. Returns Home to
Face Marquette Quint
Playing their first home contest in 1945, the Irish will be out after their sixth straight fieldhouse win as they take the floor against Marquette’s under-par Hilltoppers next Wednesday night. Kellogg Field, Miami,. Alma, Loras, and Purdue have all been subjected to the woe of local hardwood and Coach Clem Crowe plans no letup.
A series that started back in the early part of the century, there has been much in the way of close basketball even if the won and lost column doesn’t seem to substantiate that fact. For despite Notre Dame’s 28 wins as against 10 losses in the long span, there have been many occasions when fewer than five points separated the two teams when the final horn sounded — even several times when only two and three points turned out to be the margin of victory.
Coach Bill Chandler, who is active all 40 minutes of every game, will be on hand again this season and with him will be his son, Bill, Jr., who has already won four basketball monograms at the Milwaukee institution. Other than young Bill, there are only two other lettermen back, center Pedro Prade, and guard Bob Meyer, each having won a single award.
Last year’s pair were split with the Irish taking the home encounter, 52-46, and then losing at Milwaukee, 60-43.
A Notre Dame team that has tasted the fruits of victory but twice on opponents’ courts this season, once against Wisconsin and the other against the Seahawks, will sorely need the satisfying effects of the local atmosphere that may help to return them to the winning ways they once knew in early season play. As it stands, they have chalked up seven "wins while dropping but three.
Irish Trim Seahawks 49-44, for No. Seven
Ending the first of their 20-game billing, the Irish chalked up win number seven with their 49-44 victory over the Iowa Pre-Flight club at Iowa City last Wednesday • night. Only three defeats mar the Notre Dame record.
Despite the little fray that occurred with seven seconds remaining in the contest, Coach Clem Crowe’s boys emerged victorious amid the mild mixup. Three times during the final period the Seahawks drew within a point of the Fighting Irish but Notre Dame was able to exert sufficient scoring pressure to turn, in another mark on the black side of the ledger.
After the Seahawks, who had been favorites to win Wednesday’s game, had taken a lead of 11 to 6, Vince Boryla, Irish pivot man, sparked a rally that enabled the Blue and Gold to hold a 29 to 22 advantage at half time. The opening ten minutes of the final period found the Cadets closing the gap to within a point. With five minutes of the contest still in the balance, the Pre-Flighters were trailing, 42 to 41, but the Irish at this point scored seven tallies and staved off repeated threats.
Boryla Still High
Vince Boryla, for the second time this season, gave Iowa fans a demonstration of accurate basket shooting. On the occasion of Notre Dame’s recent game with the University of Iowa, he scored 26 points to tie the Irish all-time individual record for a single game, and last Wednesday he fell one point short of a repeat performance with 10 fielders and five charity tosses. T. S. Ary, Joe Holland and Jim Klein shared scoring honors for the Navy quintet with nine points apiece. Trailing Boryla in behalf of the Irish cause were George Ratterman with eight counters, Bill Hassett with seven, John Dee with five and to round out the scoring, Paul Lammers with foui-.
COMMANDER HUTCHINSON (Continued from page 3) War One four-stacker destroyer, the John D. Edwards. It was on this ship that he helped escort a convoy to Casablanca, then spent three months in South American waters under Admiral Jonas Ingram, and then was an escort for the aircraft carrier Guadalcanal when she went to the Pacific theater of operations. His last command prior to assignment here was the destroyer Macomb, of which he took command in March, 1944. He continued to command the Macomb for seven months of duty in the Mediterranean, during which time he took part in the invasion of Southern France.
13
Hugh Burns Succeeds "Scrap" as N.D. Trainer
Hugh Bui-ns, a native of Michigan City, Ind., has been appointed trainer for the Notre Dame athletic teams, it was announced late last week by Ed McKeever, acting director of athletics. Burns replaces Eugene “Scrapiron” Young, Irish trainer for 15 years, who recently resigned. Burns will assume his new duties within the week.
A graduate of Notre Dame in the class of 1939, Buras has been acting as a coach and trainer since graduation. He was coach at Chicago’s St. Francis de Sales high school for a year, and then went to Cincinnati, where he has remained ever since as trainer for Xavier University teams, and coach at Roger Bacon high school.
Burns has a medical discharge from the Marine Corps with which he served for 18 months.
Coach Meagher Signs Miami Contract
Lt. Comdr. John Francis Meagher, head coach of the United States Naval Pre-Flight school at Iowa City, Iowa, has signed to coach the Miami team of the All-America Football conference, Harvey Hester, president of the club, announced recently.
Meagher played at Notre Dame before World War I and coached at St. Edward’s of Austin, Rice Institute, and Alabama Polytechnic before entering the navy.
The new Miami gridiron leader played end on the 1915 and 1916 Notre Dame elevens, where he teamed with Slip Madigan, Clipper Smith, Jimmy Phelan, Dutch Bergman, and Charley Bachman, all of whom later made good as college coaches. Meagher withdrew from Notre Dame in 1917 to enlist in the marine corps and remained in service for foui- years.
Following his discharge from the marines, he was appointed coach at St. Edward’s where his teams went two years without a defeat. In 1927, he produced another undefeated squad and received an offer from Rice which he accepted. In 1933, he transferred to Alabama Poly and remained there until his entrance into the navy two years ago. His last season at Auburn, 1942, was one of his best. The campaign was climaxed with the defeats -of Mississippi State, Florida, Georgia Pre-Flight, Louisiana State, and Georgia’s Rose Bowl
eleven headed by Frankie Sinkwich and Charlie Trippi.
Meagher was born in Chicago, and his athletic ability was shown here as well as at Elgin, Ill., where he moved with his family.
His contract with Miami is for two years and he will report for service as soon as he has completed his duties with the navy.	•
He has made public his optimism for the success of the league, for after signing the contract, he said, “I know those gentlemen down there and they are a great group to work with. Miami is a sports minded community and I believe we can make it one of the best centers in professional football.”
"The Lakes" Deals Irish
Third Loss. 59 to 58
BY JOHN FEENEY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Seven hard-scrapping Notre Dame basketball players personified their moniker “Fighting Irish” by battling on even terms with the star-studded Great Lakes cage aggregation for more than 39 minutes at the Naval Training Station last Saturday night only to be beaten on Mickey McGuire’s long swisher in the final 20 seconds. The score was 59-58, the Sailor’s margin being only that of a free throw as both fives netted 23 fielders. The setback was N.D.’s third of the campaign as against six wins.
With two minutes left, the Irish were in command, 57-55, but nemesis McGuire knotted the score with his fourth bucket. Little Johnny Dee, N.D.’s offensive ace with 25 points to his credit, edged his mates ahead on a free toss. Then came McGuire’s desperation heave which settled matters.
At half-time the Blue and Gold trailed, 27-30, and, with Vince Boryla, the club’s pivot man and high scorer forced to operate with four fouls against him, prospects for a win seemed remote indeed. Nonetheless, Clem Crowe’s men led, 48-44, with fifteen minutes of the second half already gone. McGuire again came to the Gobs’ rescue and, together with Randie Clark, put “The Lakes” ahead, 49-48. Notre Dame came back again and regained an advantage it maintained until the dying moments.
Dee, who in the three tilts just previous to the Saturday tussle, had dropped in but 11 points, hit his stride and fell only one short of the Irish scor
ing mark while amassing 25 points on 11 field goals and three charity tosses. George Ratterman and Bill Hassett accounted for 12 and ten digits, respectively. Boryla, who fouled out with seven minutes remaining, was closely guarded throughout and potted only two fielders and three gift shots for seven points, far less than his average output of 16.9.
Center Walt Budko was high for the winners with 14, and McGuire ranked second with ten.
An Editorial
A BREACH OF COMMON DECENCY
This week’s signing-up procedure for rooms for next semester has brought to the fore the extremely poor spirit of a few of the civilian students on campus.
In some cases, the boys with the high averages . . . those that should be the leaders among us . . . signed up for choice rooms without regard for those already in the rooms, using the necessary regulations of the room-assignment system to capitalize on their lack of a common decency among friends.
There were cases in which boys flatly asked for rooms already occupied, thus making it necessary for the present room-mates to break up, move their furniture, perhaps lose room-investments such as paint, fixtures, furniture, etc., in which they had shared expense.
It is this spirit of unfriendliness, and unconcern over “the other guy” that is being found more and more prevalent on this campus; it is a spirit that needs stamping out in this home for young Catholic gentlemen.
There is no reason why some few fellows can’t act like the majority, asking before-hand whether someone planned to remain in his room next semester, and if so, respect that person’s desire. What is intelligence—and a high average—if it avoids steps of such a down-to-earth simplicity? Instead there is scheming and planning . . . anything to get the best at the expense of the other, without feeling the least bit repentant.
I say it is up to the others on campus to weed out this unwanted element and treat it with the same spirit of the “lake-parties” which were so famous in ■ our school-life before.	j
I hope this reminder is all that I is necessary for some of these unfriendly fellows; let them realize the injustice of their action, although by cold law, they are perfectly free to take anyone’s room, especially if their grades are THAT high.—The Editor.


to the Freshman Ball and in order to get drag across the Dixie, he resorts to the low form of scandal writing under a fictitious name. If you really want a date Chuck, just say so. I know her roommate. Jim Mangan was standing idly by in the corridor waiting for “the good looking girl” (singular) to pass by.
THE HOME FRONT
Holy Cross, Ind., Jan. 7—Scene of news coverage shifted this week from Harry Walters’ Flame Room in the Page Hotel to the Belleville Lumber Yard fire, hence to the Sunday afternoon Battle of the Sexes at St. Marys. ’Tis a beautiful day in Indiana as I sit in the Oriole watching operations proceed. Bud Malone sits at the next table facing a barrage of questions as to whom he dated while St. Marys was away. Bud says nothing but “Get me a mouthpiece.” Red Carey does a stretch run down the corridor with some filly—I mean girl— closing in fast. One of the hostesses just asked Harry Zeilstra if he would like to dance, and he says “Leave me alone— I haven’t any cigarettes.” As I left, the gals counter offensive was penetrating deep into the Irish stag line and so we made a strategic retreat, due to overwhelming odds.
YE OLDE DRAFT
Memories of olden days have returned to Sorin as in the cafe; and in the hall you see the politicians in big huddles questioning future legislation. Talk is not whether to enlist in the Army Air Corps, the V-12 or join the ill-fated E.R. C. It is just over the plain old draft as set up in 1941 and slightly modified in 1945. Said Frank Linehan as he scurried towards Bendix in quest of an essential, job and a date: “This Byrnes guy isn’t kidding.” Dick Martin was hustling to Union Station for reservations to Toronto. But Senator Mike Garry sat complacently back in his chair and said “We haven’t a thing to worry about. Simply take an ice pick and perforate the other one.” Vince Meli grabbed his copy of the Constitution and said: “They can’t do this to me legally unless they have 200 red points and not even Byrnes’ wife has that many.” The editor was worried that this thing is so serious that they might take even 2-A’s. Quote your authority, Lawyer.
AH! LA DANCE
Rumors of social life on campus run rampant this week as Zahm hall's allcivilian dance opens festivities in the Rock, tomorrow night under the guidance of Phil Luppi, dealer deluxe. Plans also are under way for the always successful K. of C. Ball with Ben Mammina appointed as chairman. This will be a super
affair on Feb. 9. Get your dates and tickets now, and don’t ask us where to get dates. Even if we knew, we wouldn’t tell you.
THE VICTORY MARCH
Talk about Notre Dame reunions, Herb Coleman, N.D.’s most loyal midshipman (Mike Malloy is the other one) will do it up right when he parades to the altar early in March with Bill O’Connell as best man to hold him up, and Tom Bremer and Pat Filley as ushers.
"PERSECUTED" IS PERSECUTED
Ventured forth into the portals of the Tower Bldg, last Sunday to witness the big dealers operate. These are the boys who, contrary to Notre Dame Public Policy, continue to act as St. Mary’s espionage agents and divulge the secrets of the Irish student body.
Take Chuck Sartore, for example, whose contributions appear under the alias of “Persecuted.” The real truth of the matter is that Chuck is dying to go
❖
ODD BITS
Bob Lewis, known on campus as “Senator,” and in Chicago as the “Mayor of Washington Blvd.” is now romancing with a WAC who possesses the title of the “Most Kissable Corporal in Colorado.” And who is it that goes for the “Dopiest Doll in Delaware?”
We’ve heard a lot of phony excuses on “Ways and Means to the Heai-t of Mr. McAuliffe, and Excused Cuts,” but the fishiest still belongs to Frank Paulson who claims that the snow drifts were so bad the trains weren’t running, and he had to drive from Colorado to Indiana, and broke down in Nebraska._____Conveniently.
Notre Dame’s Chicago night spot is rapidly becoming the glass house of the beautiful West Side Hotel the Graemere. One will remember the holidays and the night Red Kennedy, Tom Kane, Larry Romagosa, Frank Kent, and John Rin-ella took over. Kennedy is a solid piano player and Rinella’s soft shoe dance._ Well we are still waiting to see that.
15
Navy Inter-Company Basketball Started
Civilian interhall basketball got under way last Monday after a short recess due to the Christmas lay-off. Therefore, there are no scores to report. However,
Navy at Play
basketball eases into the spotlight to occupy our interest for a while.
The sailors began court proceedings last Monday. There are three leagues composed of teams from Alumni, Dillon, and Walsh halls. A round robin will be played in Dillon, with a double round robin in Alumni and Walsh. This is due to the fact that Dillon is represented by six teams, while Alumni and Walsh have only four. Three champions of the three halls will enter a playoff for the service championship. These playoffs will take place in the Navy Drill hall. The service champs will then meet the top civilian quintet for the campus title. ” Lieut. (jg) Brewbaker and Chief Clason are in charge of the set-up.
"MOOSE" KRAUSE IN PACIFIC
(Continued from page 12)
Feb. 2, 1944. Upon graduation from the Air Combat School at Quonset Point, R. I., in May, he was promoted to his present rank. He served briefly at the Miramar, Calif.;; Marine; Air Station, before leaving for overseas duty. ’
He expects to be top busy in his aviation assignment to coach his unit’s athletic teams. “The athletic ‘officer will handle that,” he says, and then with a slow grin, “although I probably could be talked into lending a hand now and then.”—USMC
16
NTEPS
FRO/A THE
QESS BOX
By GEORGE KRAUSER
Last Saturday the Irish suffered a heart-breaking defeat from the Great Lakes five, marking their fourth loss in seven clashes with the Sailors. In each of the three seasons preceding this one, first the Lakes triumphed but the Irish always managed to win in the second meeting. On February 20 the Blue and Gold will have their chance to make history repeat itself when they tangle with the Bluejackets in Chicago Stadium. The close 59-58 game found Johnny Dee bouncing back into the scoring spotlight as he cashed in 25 chips for the night. The contest was decided from the free throw line as the Sailors dropped in 13 out of 21 tries while the Irish countered on 12 of 21 attempts.
With the season fast approaching the halfway mark, Vince “Bullets” Boryla continues to pace the Irish pointmakers, having tallied 142 points in nine contests for a 16 point average per game. He also holds the individual point record for a single game with Bob Faught. Vince dropped in 26 points against Iowa, while Faught pitched in a similar total against N.Y.U. in Madison Square Garden on Feb. 14, 1942.
The Irish coach, Clem Crowe, is the first of the six famous Crowe brothers of Lafayette, Indiana, who made sports history as basketball and football players on the University campus. The Notre Dame leader gained his greatest fame when he won all-Western honors on what was probably the late George Keogan’s greatest club, a team that lost but once in 20 games. During his coaching stay

Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
at St. Vincent’s College in Latrobe, Pa., and Xavier University in Cincinnati, Crowe’s teams racked up 204 wins and lost only 77 times.
Two weeks from tomorrow, Jan. 27, Kentucky’s Wildcats will be the Irish opponent, and since the Wildcats are undefeated and boast of recent victories over Ohio State, Temple, and Long Island, this game may be the toughest yet for our boys. Kentucky has been paced by their 6' 5" center, Alex Groza, who pumped in 27 points against previously unbeaten Temple and 25 against Long Island University. Groza, scheduled to leave for the Army sometime in January, may still be around for the Irish meeting.
On the football front the Iowa Hawkeyes will be a gridiron opponent of the Fighting Irish next fall. Iowa has beaten Notre Dame three times and stands as the only team playing football that has not been beaten by the Irish.
Other court teams that the Irish will play in the future marked up wins over (Continued on page 17)
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
—~ "-----Try Our .	,	■■
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp , French Fries, Green Salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations .
SUNNY ITALY Ml
CAFE N. Niles
A Notre Dame Tradition.
s J
$
5

Seven Winners Emerge From Wrestling Finals Three Champs Retain Crowns of Last Semester
The finals of the Winter wrestling tournament were held in the old Gym on the basketball court last week. The tournament was the second in three months and saw three champions successfully defending the titles they won last semester.
Whitaker, Harrington, and Archer were the repeaters in the 128, 165, and heavyweight divisions respectively. It was the third consecutive title for Archer, former Illinois state high school champion.
stated that, “Eisenhower could not be stopped!” This is the same man who is now General Eisenhower, the supreme commander of Allied forces. In the first instance he was a halfback for the West Point Cadets. It seems that history surely repeats itself.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS ANO CONSULTATION
The tournament was under the supervision of Dr. John Scannell, head of the University department of physical education, assisted by Specialist J. P. Durdach, Navy wrestling instructor, who supervised training sessions and refereed the finals. Results of the bouts in each class:
DISEASES AND SURGERY OP MOUTH ANO JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND. INO.
128 lbs.—Whitaker (Dillon) pinned Buckley (Alumni).
135 lbs.—Clinard (Dillon) pinned R. G. Brown (Dillon). '
145 lbs.—K. Z. Zike (Dillon) decisioned L. Kontras (Alumni).
155 lbs.—E. L. Resler (Dillon) pinned W. B. King (Dillon).
165 lbs.—T. A. Harrington (Walsh) pinned S. L. Fellman (Dillon).
170 lbs.—I. P. Rehkopf (Alumni) pinned J. T. Ray (Walsh).
175 lbs.—C. F. Gobel (Alumni) pinned D. Kent (Breen-Phillips).
Heavyweight—A. E. Archer (Dillon) pinned W. A. Beaverson (Dillon).
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
SO3 3HERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3*1294
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHKRLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
DR. F. CISLAK
(Continued from page 3)
(one of the B vitamins), and this cheap source material has made the vitamin available at a very low price. The pyridine bases are also used in large quantities in the manufacture of fungicides, insecticides, waterproofed cloth, and numerous other products, Dr. Cislak will discuss the isolation of the coal tar bases, and many of their uses.
Dr. Cislak started his college career at the University of Notre Dame, but later transferred to the University of Chicago, from which institution he received the B.S. degree in 1925 and the M.S. in 1926. He was awarded a Ph.D. degree in chemistry from Northwestern university in 1929. He has been associated with the Reilly Tar and Chemical
Corporation for many years, and is now their director of research.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from page 16) the past two weeks. N.Y.U. trounced Colgate 57-36, Cornell 52-30, and Connecticut 73-45. Detroit University conquered Fort Wayne Army 55-32, but Marquette lost to Western Michigan 4845.
In an account of the 1913 Army-Colgate football game, the writeup
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.s.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-406 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-M74
From Down-town South Bend . to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.	*
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R..
17
AIR WAVES
MIRTH AND MADNESS
Garry Moore and Jimmy Durante get together to jam the air waves with a half-hour show of mirth and madness on the “Moore-Durante Show” Friday, Jan. 12 at 9:00. Georgia Gibbs, the program’s lovely vocalist, contributes a popular song to the accompaniment of Roy Bar-gy’s orchestra.
TOP RANKING ENTERTAINERS
Mirth and music for service personnel and civilians by stars of the stage, screen, and radio is the billing for “Stage Door Canteen,” variety program, scheduled for Friday Jan. 12 at 9:30.
FR. KEHOE LISTENS IN
I understand that due to numerous difficulties with Fr. Kehoe’s office, there will be a number of students on campus Saturday night. So we would like to remind you that Lawrence Tibbett will co-star with Joan Edwards on the “Hit Parade” Saturday, Jan. 13, at 8:00.
STATIC
When Fanny Brice, as Baby Snooks on her comedy show, answered the telephone, a voice asked, “Is this the Higgins residence?”
“No,” answered Snooks, “but they live here.”
EVERYBODY WILL BE THERE
Screen star Akin Tamiroff, Count Basie, and Tom Howard with the entire cast of his comedy-quiz program will meet on the “Kate Smith Program” Sunday, Jan. 14, at 6:00. This will be a real hour of drama, fun, music, and variety, so don’t miss it.
WELL! WELL! WELL!
Harriet Hilliard was trying to persuade her husband to get up in the morning, explaining: “Ozzie, Gloria can’t make the bed with you in it!”
“She did yesterday!” said Ozzie.
THE TWO RELIABLES
The “Lux Radio Theatre” and the “Screen Guild Players” remain as our Monday standby and as the two favorite programs of the week. At 8:00, the Lux Theatre begins with “The Master Race” and at 9:00 the Screen Guild present their top flight stars. So be prepared for an hour and a half of the week’s top entertainment.
V-12 FROLICS (Continued from page 5) pearances in Carnegie hall have failed and an outstanding routine is expected. Supporting the Sextette will be members of the “Nites and Daze” troupe fresh from recent successful engagements at Washington Hall.
The Tea Dance on Sunday will be held in the Service Center with a local band creating the racket. This will be an informal affair intended mainly to fill the last few hours before train time and to enable Mable to bow out of the picture in a blaze of glory in an atmosphere conducive to good-byes. Ted Gallagan, South Bend’s leading maestro, will make things melodious.
Since Thursday of this week became dough-day with the distribution of the slave wages accorded apprentice seamen, the time is ripe for the purchase of bids before Sweeney’s and Rosie’s perform the usual inflation which leads to pauperism. The ticket committee placed tickets on sale yesterday at the end of the pay-lines and supplies are rapidly diminishing. Housing accommodations are still available from all tales of the “Winter-Frolics.” The week-end is not to be missed by any one who is not anti-social and all who spend Jan. 26, 27 and 28 doing the polka at Zeebee’s or pushups at the Old Gym will live to regret their folly.
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus.
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00 •
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to: PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
THIS MODERN AGE
Danny Thomas told Fanny Brice on “Toasties Time” that cooking isn’t what it used to be.
“No sir!” exclaimed Danny, “they don’t make cans like my mother used to open.”
❖
DEATH AND THE DOLLS
. — is this week’s chilling drama on the “Inner Sanctum.” Raymond squeaks the door at 8:00 on Tuesday night, so be prepared.
Dr. Joseph Tiffin, Purdue university psychologist, collaborated in development of the Ortho-rater, a master-machine for testing the eyes.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrist* and MIg. Optician* 228 S. MICHIG AN ST. Evening* by Appointment
Valentine’s Day COMING!
February 14th
Stop in and look over our attractive line of
VALENTINE CARDS
GIFT SUGGESTIONS:
N. D. Jewelry Book Ends Souvenirs Pillows ▼
N. D. Book Store
Badin Hall
18

Roundtable Meets
“The goal toward which we should be striving in our relations with South America is not one which seeks for its end, isolationism of the Americas, but rather a genuine partnership with our Latin American neighbors,” Ed Ball, NROTC cadet, told members of the Economic Roundtable in a talk entitled “Post-War Industrialization of South America.”
Ball stressed that the United States must not attempt to exclude the outside world but instead form a relationship which can set a pattern of peace and prosperity for the rest of the nations of the earth.
“Throughout this war the people of Central and South America have joined with us to defeat our common enemy. The unity which has followed from working out oui- mutual destiny has been unparalleled in history and we are deeply indebted to them,” Mr. Ball told the group.
Mr. Ball concluded that foundation has been laid in the unity which we achieved during the war. “Now is the time to think about the mutual benefits of continued unity.”
Bill Nelson, of NROTC, was temporary chairman of the meeting, and James Clynes, president, presided at the business meeting immediately following. William Downey, professor of economics, was the faculty moderator.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 2)
HERE AND THERE
At the University of Minnesota, the Newman club, campus religious foundation for Catholic students, will be active this month for the first time in five years— The Daily Kansan gave its readers an added service last week, advising them to wear woolies because of the cold temperature—The college student population of Indiana totals 18,096, a decrease due to the war, of three percent, according to enrollment figures reported by 18 colleges and universities of the state.
Aeros Show "Conquest of Air" at Latest Meeting
By BOB SNYDER
The Aero club held its third meeting of the semester- last evening, at which time two films received from the American Institute of Aeronautical Sciences were shown. They were, “Fortress in the Sky,” a 30 minute technicolor sound film on the Boeing Flying Fortress; and “Conquest of the Air,” a 40 minute sound film depicting the history of how-man learned to fly, and the development of the art to the present day, including a diagrammatic exposition of how an airplane flies.
The chairman of the local chapter of the American Institute of Aeronautical Sciences presided over this meeting, at which approximately 30 members were present. Among other plans discussed were those for having a dinner downtown later in the semester. Refreshments were served at this meeting.
The next gathering is scheduled to be held one week from this coming Thursday, on January 25. At this time a film from the Wright Aeronautical Corporation, entitled “Cyclone Combustion,” will be shown. This is a 25 minute sound film dealing with the phenomenon of detonation and methods of controlling it in an aircraft engine.
Woolen blankets, so fine that one 18 feet long can be rolled inside of a bamboo pole, are made in Mysore, India.— Bits Out of Life
GYM PANTS
PLAIN "T" SHIRTS
FOOTBALL BANQUET (Continued from page 11)
president of the St. Joe Valley Club.
And to end things, there was the amiable Ed McKeever, still pouring the credit of a successful season on the boys and the coaching staff who worked with him. From the time he took over Irish head duties until the present* Ed has been a man’s man and last night’s ova-■ tion in his behalf when Father O’Donnell said that he could stay at Notre Dame as long as he wanted was testimony of the faith that Notre Dame and her friends have put in him. McKeever’s one hope, however, was that before the 1945 season rolls around, he’d like again to see college football being played on a peace-time basis.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plau.
MONOGRAM "T" SHIRTS
TOBACCO
PIPES
HOLD THAT HAIRLINK!
HARPER
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP.. . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION TREATMENTS SI OO
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
STATIONERY
SANDWICHES
Phone 4-1481
METHOD MEN'S SHOP
THE HUDDLE
19
wtti »o««co ca
Copyright 19-35, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
ENJOTCHESTEBHEEITS’BIGHT-COMBINATION * WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS

HE TIME IS NOW s^t right, swing yom partner and catch the beat. ..
ONE — for Real Mildness
TWO — for Cooler Smoking THREE — for Better Taste One-two-three and your smoking pleasure’s complete.