A Campus-to-Career Case History
IFinfield Giguere, here tuning the coils of an IF strip on an experimental FM receiver that uses the new high-frequency transistor.
“Our business is new ideas, new developments’’
Winfield J. Giguere, or Giggs as he is o	co
known, graduated in 1954 from the University of New Hampshire with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering. Shortly after O	O	J
graduation he joined Bell Telephone Laboratories in Murray HilL New Jersey.
“Experience has come my way in a hurry." says Giggs. “I’ve worked on carrier system amplifiers, speech transmission problems, and experimental types of coaxial cable. The Labs are always pushing ahead, trying new ideas, exploring new developments.
“For example, right now I’m working with ’the transistor that smashed a fre
quency barrier.’ This new transistor has a cut-off frequency of at least 500 me and can be used to amplify 2500 separate telephone conversations simultaneously. It will make possible broadband, high-frequency amplification in many fields using subminiature components.
“There are thousands of other fascinating projects underway at the Bell Labs. You see. at the Labs our business is new ideas, new developments; and that’s one reason why I like working here. It’s exciting. If there are better ways to communicate. you can bet the Labs are looking for them.”

Winfield Giguere is typical of the many young men who are finding careers in Bell Telephone Laboratories- Many other career opportunities exist in the Bell Telephone Companies, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information about these companies.
Bell
Telephone System
March 23, 1956
THE TRADITION OF FINE CLOTHES
AT GILBERT'S GOES BACK NEARLY A HALF CENTURY
Authentic styling . . . quality tailoring ... a selection of clothing names that you know is a tradition at Gilbert’s that goes back to the very founding of the store. We feature a variety of brand names because we know that to achieve individuality you must have a selection. Come in now and see these styles for spring. Fresh, new, and authentic.

f.
The Scholastic
NO CARRYING CHARGE
USE YOUR CAMPUS SHOP
JUNIOR EXECUTIVE CHARGE ACCOUNT
Dress Right. . . you can’t afford not to! .. . and Gilbert’s Campus Shop will help you do this with a Junior Executive Charge Account. Buy what you need now. . . . Pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August. There is no interest or carrying charge, of course. It’s as simple as that! So come in now and get what you need. . . . Just say “Charge it, on my Junior Executive Account.”
Home of Skipper Sportswear
March 23, 1956
S.P.M.W.H.M.S.W.
Editor:
In the current issue of the Scholastic a serious writer accuses me of humor.
By way of adding a touch of sensibility to his theme, may I suggest that he try to attain a modest immortality by promoting a Society for the Encour-agreement of Wit and Humor among College Professors. (S.E.W.H.C.P.)
From the treasury of laughter which would inevitably result, millions of dollars could be earned by selling or loaning the masterpieces to television, the movie industry, to radio and to Mr. James Thurber. The greatest single source of revenue, however, would come from the export of wit and humor to Ireland, particularly Southern Ireland, because, all legends notwithstanding, that distressful country has suffered a fun-famine since the fatal day, about the time of the Boer War, on which Mr. James Joyce went into exile. With the re-entry of wit and humor, the Irish could be persuaded to abandon their morbid cult of Finnegan's Wake, and to turn to life, love and marriage. Finnegan, I may add, is a symbolic synonym for Erin Go Bragh.
College professors are not ungenerous, they may be relied on to use the fabulous income of their new Society to endow a further Society for the Protection of Magistral Wit and Humor from Misrepresentation by Serious Writers. (S.P.M.W.H.S.M.S.W.)
Owing to the almost constant gloom of my childhood, the historical reasons for which are outlined above, I am unable to savour the humor- of the remark attributed to me. Perhaps an even more intensive study of my well-thumbed opera omnia of the Viennese antiquary, Dr. Freud, may set in motion the glands that have long refused to serve my Risus-factor.
Should that fail, I shall continue to (Continued on page 8)
35^
Subscription 75 f per year
INVENTORY
Repercussion .......—....-........- 6
Entree —............—------------- 7
View __________-__________________ 9
Campus Scene ........—....--------11
Folio ____________—............—.17
At a Glance....................  20
Showcase ______________________  24
Irish Scene--------------------- 25
Bridge.....................    ..30
Back Page..................    —.34
Available at 13 Sorin
The Notre Dame

King Size
Cheese Pizza
ONLY
$1.00
AT
Albano’s
Every day of the week (except Wednesday) plus many other benefits for your purse.
All that is needed is an ID card to benefit from these prices.
Listen to this
T-Bone Steak $1.25
Spaghetti Plate 75c
Ravioli Plate 75c
Special rate for Notre Dame Club banquets.
See us first and save.
415 N. Michigan St.
Phone: CE 30903
Scholastic
Vol. 97 March 23, 1956 No. 19M
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame.b Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate off-postage. Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized^ June 23, 1918.’	|
JOHN ADAMS Editor
1
5'
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
I
CHARLES McKENDRICK .. .News Editor!
......Copy Editor J Production Manager^ ......Assistant News®
ED JOYCE ...... BOB KAUFMAN.... DAVE KUBAL .... DAVE THOMPSON james McDonald JIM STEINTRAGER JIM O’BRIEN ...
.Assistant .Assistant .Assistant
Newsi
Newsy News I
Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator I
RICHARD NAVIN HARRY CONLON
.......Art Editor!
Business Manager!
NORB RADZIWON Circulation Manager!
JIM FITZGERALD.......Photo Co-ordinatorK JOE NORTON ...................Sports	Editor^
JOHN GLAVIN ...............Assistant	Sports £
RAY LESCHER ...............Assistant	Sports B
Spring Juggler
Waiting for you at the
• BOOKSTORE • CAFETERIA
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. LeeE Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas s Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-J ley, Joe Heimoskl, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim i Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-a carski, Dave Noland. Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett. J Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield. Davids Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh. E.
SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Andrew Carnazola. M Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early. John Grady, Russell g Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz, Robert g Parnell, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff. J’ BUSINESS STAFF: Bob Parker and Loran Sheffer.gr
Member of Catholic School Press Association. As-J-sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for nationals^ advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.,X~-420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the S' school year, except during vacation and examina- g; tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-gi dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre® Dame, Indiana.	£
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.S'
ON THE ‘COVER the panorama and^ tragedy of Christ entering Jerusalem^ on Palm Sunday is captured in one I bold stroke by Cover Artist Dick Navin. |
The Scholastic

by William M. Malloy
student senate: marbles and acorns
We were sitting in our room memorizing Lucretius whence came from the door a knock. “Anon,” we said, and lo, a timid German stuck in its ^head (which we can only describe as a burnt cork covered with spinach). It dribbled and shook as it spoke in its native tongue:
“Ish-dat ish-dat Entree huh?”
And we: “Ya da ish-dat Entree ya.” And he: “Entree huh?”
And we: “Entree ya.”
And both together: “Huh da ish-dat Entree ya.”
His name was Flanagan. He threw in |>a letter and slammed the door leaving ' a few pieces of carrot on the floor. It was a treatise on the nature of the Student Senate titled, The Nature of the Student Senate Reconsidered-.
In Song-.
Little boy, little boy
I can hear your sweet words You ask about the Senate And a flight of bluebirds.
0 little one, will you listen To your daddy right now . . . And I’ll bring you a bluebird To choke with your towel.
or
To kill with your trowel.
(optional in last chorus.)
In a series of meditations:
What is a Senate you ask? A Senate is a bent fence, a 'box of marbles and acorns, a little mouse, a nominalist with an inverted propeller. ... A Senate is a contribution of sludge from Pitts-burgh, apple tarts from Mishawaka, and asparagus from Ralph Martooney’s trouser cuff.
Yes, a Student Senate is more than just a game of cheese ... It is more than a disciple sitting on a hedge, a vibraphone with an agent intellect ... or coexistence between a lighthouse and a probable sentence. It is mashed potatoes in May, monkeybars at the Stratigon, Chelly at the Surf and Supper, and a world of individuals.
Finally, a Student Senator is a Gretch-in’s cabinet, a hemlock with its limbs sawed off, a scraggly undertrump, a pocket full of undertow, a Manion forum, a prof with a Cartesian jog trot, a sick brick, the breath of a Mexican bean beetle, a butcher hanging by its trammel, a flying hennit with an abstract construct, and a teabiscuit with a green flag.
hi Confidential Senate Papers:
Traveling about steam-pipes can be exhilarating, ft can also 'be informative. I found an old pamphlet that had once been the leading Senate promotional scheme. As the basis of its argument, it printed the following paragraph:
“Notre Dame was founded . . . and invented rubber. The faculty here consists of five-hundred, including buildings. Notre Dame invented shoes. Although it is a Catholic institution, Notre Dame has both students and professors. Notre Dame invented rubber shoes.”
And now (read the letter) I reveal for the first time the Senate’s most desperately guarded secrets on campus since the first theft of Fr. Sorin’s statue:
The Dome is SUPPORTED BY PEPPERMINT STICKS.
Sorin rats are NOT native bora, but
ARE IMPORTED through the pipes from the Main Building.
Father O’Brien has written some books that haven’t been printed yet.
Notre Dame HAD a swimming team in 1911, (this is known definitely now) as their trunks are still hanging on a line stretched across Father Brown’s closet.
Tom Crehan has more hair than you think. A GREAT DEAL of it is jammed into an envelope, and it remains at this very moment under Fisher Hall. An excavation will be necessary to verify this.
The late Fr. Crustcsc ate WITH THE STUDENTS during an evening meal in 1947. They had STEAK. Though he CLAIMED THAT he LIKED the meat, the TRUTH IS that he put (it) into his sleeve and deposited the stuff at the bottom of the pool. Yes, fans, and it can be observed during the week any time between phy. ed. classes. Note: It has been recommended that no student attempt to remove the matter (if the Administration could have, they would have scraped it off long ago). But it has concretized to the pool floor. And they try to claim it’s a plug.
* sjl
We thank Mr. James Flanagan whose effort and research has given us the undeniable conclusion that South Bend is a good place to empty your ash tray.
THIS WEEK’S SUCKER LIST
Mr. Jay Henderson.
Mr. John Meagher.
Mi-. J. Scotus Erigena.
Mr. Tom Crehan.
Wasleski (first name withheld, sent only 20 cents).
Miss Gladtosee Leapyear.
March 23, 1956
7
. Repercussion
(Continued from page 6) read “Entree” in the hope of eventually seeing its sub-conscious humor.
Fr. John Quinlan Fisher Hall
Bull on the Boards
Editor:
The campus-wide elections begin slowly, but usually finish with furious, last minute furor. This may indicate that the innumerable 14x10 posters, and those of more ingenuous tastes have had a telling etfect on the student populus. But this is not necessarily so, for to draw this conclusion would be wishful thinking.
At this time I believe we can see most vividly a defeat in a system so
necessary for any modern community— the system of communication. Notices for practically any type of event can be handled through WSND or the Scholastic, but these approaches have two glaring drawbacks: 1) the almost prohibitive cost for a sustained use, 2) a sustained use of these channels would be needed in order to reach a good proportion of the students—not everyone listens to the radio all the time, nor do all the students read all of the Scholastic.
The bulletin boards would seem to be the best method of reaching the most students, and this I believe is true. Under the existing procedure for controlling the bulletin boards, there seems to be little unity if any. There is an “understanding” however of “survival of the fittest” in posting and maintaining the
desired effect of a poster. Great coni fusion reigns and bulletin boards become so congested that many posters, and meeting notices, and the various other notices for general consumption are many times covered up, lost, or even marked without concern for a fellow student’s energies and financial expense.
This problem of communication, not only concerning bulletin boards, but comg munication on all levels at Notre Dam’ (College, Faculty, student, etc.) presents a problem worthy of most serious consideration by all individuals and groups concerned with bettering education, for I believe that the problem can only be resolved by a re-education of the people involved in communicating in this community.
John S. Cywinski
234 Alumni	(
YOU ARE UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO BUY! You purchase only the records
you want, when you want to buy them...right at.your dealer’s wunter!
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE On the Campus
Nationally Advertioed Pricey thown—optional
Two Weeks only-from RCA Victor
3 FREE ALBUMS
PLUS $24 SAVINGS
on future record purchases... all for only $3.98!
New RCA Victor “Save-On-Records” Coupon Boole brings sensational savings to record lovers!
1 You buy the RCA Victor Save-On, Records Coupon Book at your record store for only $3.98. It contains 24 coupons, each of which saves you one dollar on the purchase of select albums throughout the year PLUS Three Free Bonus coupons, each entitling you to a free $3.98 RCA Victor album.	2 You immediately fill out the first coupon in your Save-On-Records Coupon Book and give it to your dealer. This Registry Coupon entitles you to any RCA Victor Album worth $3.98 in his store... absolutely FREE. You can take this album home with you right away.	3 Every month from then on for a full year, you will receive, from your dealer the RCA Victor Save-On-Records Bulletin. It will describe two new $3.98 RCA Victor Albums, that are being offered in advance of regular release, to owners of Coupon Books. One album will be Classical, one Popular.	4 You decide which you want, both, one or none. Then bring your Coupon Book back to your dealer. By presenting the monthly coupon or coupons to your dealer, you save one dollar toward the purchase of each of the albums, each a $3.98 value. They will be mailed to your home for only $2.98 each.	5 During the year you will receive notification of two more FREE RCA VICTOR Albums... one in July and one in October. These are Bonus Albums available FREE only to Coupon Book owners. Take your other two Free Bonus Coupons down to your dealer and get your albums.
8
The Scholastic

censorship
"VVTe’ve been asked occasionally by both students and lA' non-students just how much policy control is exercised over the Scholastic by the University administration.
This is a question that can’t be answered in a word or two, because a reply must be modified by bringing certain necessary facts to the questioner’s attention.
First of all, the Scholastic is not a financially independent student publication. About fifty per cent of our operating costs are absorbed by a direct subsidy from the University’s overall fiscal budget. The editors don’t have to depend on street-corner sales each week for revenue. (From the agonized cries of some concerning the appeal of this Myear’s magazine, we would gather that the editors would be "'peddling shoelaces if such were the case.) Naturally, then, you treat the hand that feeds you with no little respect.
Secondly, Notre Dame is not a “state” or secular institution; it is a private, Catholic school. This simply means that, galling as it may be to all of us, anything “of, for and by” Notre Dame will be construed by outsiders as being, not merely collegiate, but Notre Dame, which in turn will be termed Catholic. In such a situation one would be guilty of a lack of prudence if he did not try to put his best foot forward at ail times.
_ With such necessaries established then, we can answer Wthe question. We would say that things could be a lot tougher here. Of course, we follow the “party line” to some degree, and in certain instances we have been highly miffed by the administration’s disapproval of our “taste.” But we don’t have to present every line of copy to the University president for Monday-morning approval.
Much clamoring for freedom of the collegiate press has been heard lately. But even “state” schools, which are usually cited by students at private institutions as possessing “collegiate freedom,” have their woes.
Most of them must answer to so-called “boards of publication” for every line of type that goes into a publication. A Northwestern’s board wielded its strong arm a few years ago. Not long ago, board action was taken at the University of Illinois. Witness, too, the collapse of the Colorado Flatiron. This was an independent student humor magazine, which got a bit too “free” for everyone concerned.
And recently the censor’s stamp has been applied deep in the heart of Texas—a supposedly “free-rangin’ ” place. It seems a certain student newspaper was going to come out in favor of governmental controls on the consumer price of natural gas, just when sponsors of a Congressional bill to abolish controls were getting up a full head of steam. Censorship this time came not from the administration directly, but from wealthy outside gas producers who pres-1 ® sured the administration into suppressing student opinion on the matter.
# * #
The grass is not always greener on the other side.—P. L.
concept
One of the finest dinners I have attended in my four years at Notre Dame was given last Sunday night by Father Hesburgh for Notre Dame’s student leaders. What made it so outstanding was not so much the first-rate dinner itself as the remarks of Father Hesburgh afterwards—it is certainly too bad that every man at Notre Dame could not have heard what he said, those that did were rather impressed, to say the least.	.
Father first briefly congratulated the student leaders on the fine job they had done this year and then threw open the floor to any question anyone wanted to ask. Among the most interesting and important questions, which covered nearly every phase of student life, was one on Notre Dame’s plan for future enrollment.
In answering the question, Father began by recounting his past-week’s activities—he had been at Annapolis, sitting on a board to decide its budget for the coming year; he had been on a board to pick the much-sought-after GM scholarships from the many thousands of applications: he had been in Detroit picking the Ford scholars for the coming year; and he had wound up the week in Chicago with a committee meeting for the gigantic 540 billion-electron-volt atom smasher which will be built in the Midwest soon. The point of all this was that this was fairly typical of his “weeks” and that the disconcerting thing he found everywhere he went was that only here and there did he see another Catholic besides himself sitting in on these and other responsible committees. “Only one cabinet member is a Catholic . . . and the reason why there aren’t more can’t be chalked up to discrimination and nothing else. The simple fact of the matter is that there just aren’t enough competent Catholics to go around.”
Relating this to the question of enrollment. Father Hesburgh surprised everyone by saying that Notre Dame planned to cut back its enrollment to 4800 and with the completion of the huge new dormitory-cafeteria program, all students will be housed on the campus (with the exception of some grad students and residents of South Bend). The thinkin? behind this is that the most effective university education is obtained with all students living on the campus, and 4800 students seems to be the optimum level of enrollment.
The present program for adding facilities and distinguished professors will not only be continued but stepped up to provide the very best in every respect for the 4800 students. New curricula have been designed and others are being designed which will utilize these facilities to the utmost.
Already this year more than 4000 applications have been received for 1200 slots in next year’s freshman class—it is conceivable that this number may rise to 10,000 in the next 10 years. Thus, with Notre Dame taking the cream of the high school crop and providing the very best in teachers and facilities for them, Notre Dame will be graduating 1200 topnotch men every year, men not only sound morally (the great battlecry of Catholic universities now), but competent.
The idea is not new, but the accomplishment of the fact is, and from where I’m sitting, the fact will be accomplished. The ramifications of this concept are fantastic when you stop to think about them—and every one of them goes to make a Notre Dame diploma increase in value with every passing year.—J. A.
March 23, 1956
9
ALL THE PLEASURE COMES THRU
I
£
S7

TAPEUON;

CIGARETTES
K

/
modern size
Here you have the best in filtered smoking —Filter Tip Tareyton, the filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier... the only one that gives you Activated Charcoal filtration. All the pleasure comes thru... the taste is great!
F
i-t £■
J,
J
©A- T. CO.


fTltertipTAREYTON
£
I F
I 5 -
PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
10
The Scholastic
r
Scene
LaFORTUNES GIVE $125,000 -FOR CENTER COMPLETION
Remodeling Work Scheduled for Coming Summer; 8 Improvements Include Dance Floor Enlargement
by jim McDonald ► t
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph. LaFortune have I promised the University a gift of §125,000 for completion of the Student Center according to announcement made this week by Rev. James E. Norton, (	C.S.C., vice president of Student Affairs.
Work on the further improvement of the Center is slated to begin this summer.
The LaFortunes have agreed to equal ) ^oth. the results of this year’s and next 'year’s Mardi Gras. In addition they will make-up the difference needed to com-1 plete the Center. They have already donated generously to the impi-ovement of the old Science Hall, now named the LaFortune Student Center.
* The completion of the building con, cerns remodeling the basement, first, and second floors of the old Science Annex.
The basement will be remodeled to j ^nclude 480 lockers for off-campus stu-^tents. It will serve as the location for the Campus Press, YCS offices, photo I lab and a storage room for dance props.
The pool and ping-pong tables will be , transferred from their present location.
in Washington Hall to provide a game room with tiered floors.
The Huddle will be moved from its present location to the first floor of the annex. Though it will remain essentially a “standee snack bar,” tables will be set up along one side to accommodate 1 ' ^approximately 76 students. Hotplate fa' ~ cilities for snack lunches of hamburgers, hot dogs, chili, and soup will tentatively be included. A storage room for the use of the Huddle will also be located there.
The present YCS office, located on the mezzanine, will be converted into a graduate students’ lounge.
Improvements are also scheduled for the second floor. Two balconies with French Louvre Doors opening out will be added to the front and rear of the •Carron Court. The annex section in " ^back of the Court will be remodeled into a lounge convertible into a ballroom.
I Thus facilities for three dance floors !	March 23, 1956
will be available for small affairs. In the case of a large dance, both ballrooms on the second floor will be used. With the addition of the rooms alongside it, the Court will thus be enclosed by one large dance area. The band will be located along the main stairway leading to the second floor, providing a view of the orchestra from all sides.
The publication offices will be moved from their present location in the basement of Farley Hall to the wings of the annex on the second floor. The Scholastic office will include separate offices for both editor and associate editors. Each editor will have a dropwell desk, complete with typewriter. A rounded copy-editor’s desk will fill out the center of the room. Extension earphones and modern filing cabinets will also be provided. The Dome office will be essentially the same, except for a large bookcase located in one corner and layout tables.
Previous gifts by the LaFortunes made possible the conversion of the old Science Hall into the present Student Center. When queried as to the reason for their latest gift, Mr. LaFortune stated, “The reason why we have so much interest in helping Notre Dame finish the Student Center is that the present Student Center has been used, and used well.”
TIME CHANGE
The South Bend area will go on “fast” time at 2 a.m. this Sunday. Clocks should be turned ahead one hour tomorrow night. The Sunday Mass schedule, the meal schedule for that day, and classes on Monday will be regulated to the new time.
Midnight permissions for tomorrow night will terminate on “slow” time, but beginning Sunday, all permissions will be geared to “fast” time.
MR. AND MRS. LAFORTUNE
Student Center’s benefactors.
Fr. Harvey Selects Spring Musical Cast
George Kleindorfer will play the title role in the year’s third presentation of the University Theater, Fintan’s Rain-boiv, according to Director Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C.
The spring musical will be presented May 9 through 13.
Jerry Dodge is cast as Og, the leprechaun, and Bob Vrancken will play Woody, the romantic lead. Both appeared in the University Theater’s presentation of Seventeen, last season.
Three character roles will be performed by Joe Maier as Buzz, George O’Donnell as Rawkins and Bob Moran as the Sheriff. From St. Mary’s College, Sue Brown has won the part of Sharon, and Virginia Thomas the part of Susan.
The dancing chorus will be made up of Phillip Donahue and Pat Smith, Gene Leyval and Judy O’Donnell, Don Ferrone and Judy Merton, Dan Dalton and Betsy Finneran and Don Liddy and Hannah Gi'asberger.
Singing partners will be Le Anna Swartzbaugh with Jerry Trafficanda, Jackie Baumer with Bill Jackman, Pauline Stavrapoulous with Joe Mocarski, Pat Costello with Jim Reidy, Kay Flinn with Jim O’Donoghue, Sue Henderson with Tom Plofchan, Thamer Sacco with Dave Shanahan, and Linda Lee with Pat Heffernan.
11
Crehan, Martersteck. Massey, McCartan Win 'Dome's* Outstanding Senior Awards
The names of the four outstanding seniors who will receive the annual Dome awards were announced this week by Editor Don Sniegowski. Picked for their special contributions to the University in academic, spiritual and extracurricular activities were: Tom Crehan, Karl Martersteck, Gerald Massey, and Pat McCartan.
Crehan, an English major from Bellflower, Calif., has been active in student government as president of Howard Hall in his sophomore year and Senate secretary last year. He has been a delegate from Notre Dame several times to NSA meetings and this year is student body president.
Martersteck, from Rocky River, 0., is Blue Circle chairman, a company commander in the NROTC unit, and a member of the Arts and Letters advisory council. He will graduate Magna cum Laude in? physics.
Massey is president of the Tri-Mili-tary Council, battalion commander in the NROTC unit, and a member of the Senate. The Ottawa, Ill. senior received a Fulbright scholarship and a Woodrow Wilson fellowship to continue his studies. He graduates Maxima cum Laude with a major in philosophy.
McCartan is station manager for WSND and a member of the Blue Circle. He is on the Arts and Letters advisory council and will graduate Magna cum Laude in political science.
The Dome awards are traditional honors given to two to four seniors for their activities at the University.
juniors from the Scholastic, WSND, Blue Circle, Senate, and each of the four undergraduate colleges, plus the yearbook editor. The editor makes his choice with the advice of the committee and submits the final names to the Administration for approval.
Two pages in the Dome will be devoted to the four winners and each winner will be presented a plaque at the publications’ banquet in early May.
Engineers Disclose Open House Theme
“The Engineer—Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow,” will be the theme for the College of Engineering annual Open House, which will take place April 20, 21, and 22.
Activities will get under way Friday, April 20, with a welcome address given by Dean Karl E. Schoenherr and a keynote address by an outstanding industrial executive. These will be followed by a demonstration lecture.
An auto show will be held in the Drill Hall during these three days. Among the cars to be shown will be the Pontiac “Strato-Chief,” two experimental cars from the Chrysler Corp., and one from the Ford Motor Co. There will also be displays of motors and chassis of present-day autos.
The air show to be held Saturday morning near the Aero Building, will be comprised of an army plane, a helicopter, and planes from the Civil Air Patrol.
A chariot race is also scheduled fo^ that morning. In this race, contestants from each of the engineering depart? ments don Roman togas and attempt to pull homemade chariots over a 100-yard course.	»
Aimed at the whole student body and the general public of South Bend, pari; ticularly the high school students, the. Open House tells the story of the engi^ neer—what he is and what he does® During this time, all seven departments^ of the College of Engineering will bd open to the public, and will have reprel sentative displays. Tours of the depart? ments will be conducted for visitors.
In keeping with the theme, displays and student-constructed projects wilL portray the evolution of engineering to-? gether with its possible future contribu?. tions.	4ft
FROLIC TICKETS
Tickets for the Freshman Frolic will be on sale tonight in the basement of the Student Center from 5 until 7 p.m. and on Sunday from
f r i
£
6:30 until 9 p.m. Bids are $5.50. Hotel reservations and tickets for (.
the Communion breakfast the week- t
end of the Frolic may obtained at this time, George Hahn announced.
David Carroll and his
also be Chairman
orchestra

I
will offer melodies to blend “Carousel” theme at the dance May 4 from 9 p.m. a.m. in the Student Center.
with a formal until 1
£
Car permissions and dence will be given the Frolic. A special rate tuxes will be available, announced.
2 a.m. resi-night of the on summer it was also
The
award committee is made up of
$
CREHAN, MARTERSTECK, MASSEY AND McCARTAN Campus leaders gain coveted ‘Dome’ awards.
12
The Scholastic
Soil Testers Uncover Oil Near Zahm Hall; Experts Seek Source of Mysterious Sample
by GEORGE OESS
Oil was discovered at the north end of the Notre Dame campus last week, before any prospectors were able '"to pack their bags and set out to make fortunes in this far off oil field, soil testers had the oil barrelled and sitting in a little bottle on a window sill in
the geology department.
A drilling team for the Soil Testing Service Corp, of Prairieview, Ill., dis-
covered this deposit of “black gold” in the field east of the Infirmary and north Zahm Hall; this was the site of one-time temporary Freshman Hall built during World War I. The team
is checking the soil in this area as a preliminary to the laying of the foundation for the new residence hall which
will be situated there.
These samples will be sent to the architect, who will use them to determine the best method of constructing the foundation of the building.
James Strancel, of Chicago, one of the /^Irillers who found the oil said that it was brought up in a sample of soil from about 20 feet down. His opinion is that the oil may be merely part of a small pocket of oil or may have seeped up from further down.
However Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick of the geology department isn’t quite as optimistic as Mr. Strancel. He feels that the oil might have come from used crankcase oil which has been discarded ,^by the Notre Dame Fire Department ^vhose engine house is located about 200 feet to the southwest. Dr. Gutschick said that if enough oil had been emptied into the ground at the engine house it could have filtered downward to ground water level and then spread out along the top of the water, reaching out to where the drillers took their sample.
If this was the case and if the drillers would have gone a few feet deeper they probably would have dipped into a water table. To further substantiate this (opinion the geologist pointed out that the drillers took another sample about 100 feet to the northeast at the same depth and there was no indication of oil in this region.
Even in the light of this credible opinion it isn’t impossible to believe that there is oil in this region. Oil was discovered near Fort Wayne in 1886 and also in 1889 in the Southwestern part of the state near the Illinois border. In 1937 Indiana was 18th in oil production in the United States and produced nine times as much oil as the entire country of Italy. This was before five new oil fields were found in 1938.
The shallow depth at which this oil sample was found detracts from the possibility of any appreciable amount of oil existing, because most wells don’t produce oil at such a level. In 1938 the average depth of producing oil wells in the United States was 3,230 feet—considerably more than 20 feet. However, the first oil well in the United States, which was discovered by E. L. Drake in 1859, at the present site of Oil City, Pa., was only 69 feet deep.
Also, even in view of his crankcase oil explanation, Dr. Gutschick pointed out that the oil sample did not smell like refined oil, but rather, had the odor of crude oil.
Pick 'Feste Romana1 As Senior Ball Motif
“Feste Romana” has been selected as the theme for the Senior Ball to be held May 18 in the Drill Hall for 600 seniors and their dates. The formal dance will be held from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Residence permissions will be granted until 3 a.m. The price of the Ball bids is $10. Flowers will be optional.	.
One hundred-fifty tickets will be sold for the dinner-dance at the Gold Rooms of the Oliver Hotel on Saturday, May 19. Dinner will be served at 7:30 p.m. to permit those who go to the “dunes” time to attend the dance. Tickets for the dinner-dance will be $7.
Following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday, there will be a Communion Breakfast served in the Dining Hall. Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be guest speaker. Tickets for the breakfast will cost $2.75.
Tickets for the weekend events will be sold from 7:45 to 9:30 p.m. on April 10, and from 7 to 9 p.m. on April 11 and 12.
Chairman Jim Kramer announced a different arrangement for the purchase of tickets this year. Those who want a bid to the Ball and the Communion Breakfast and downtown hotel reservations only, may obtain them in Alumni, Fisher, and Walsh Halls. Those who want a bid for the Ball and Communion Breakfast, a room for their dates in the Morris Inn, and a ticket for the dinnerdance may obtain the tickets in the Student Center. All tickets will be sold on a first-come first-served basis. No tickets will be sold after April 12.
Hotel rooms for the seniors’ dates
LES ELGART
Serenades seniors May 18.
will be available at the Hoffmann, LaSalle, and Oliver Hotels. Rates for these hotel rooms are $8 for two nights. There are also a few rooms available in the Morris Inn. Those who want a room in a private home for their dates may obtain one from Pete Cannon in 364 Alumni.
Weekend car permissions will begin at noon on May 18 and extend until noon May 20.
Fr. Mathis to Deliver Talk For YCS Theology Series
Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., director of the Liturgy Program for the University, will deliver a lecture entitled “New Holy Week Liturgy” next Monday at 8 p.m. in the Student Center. The talk is the last in a series of theology lectures sponsored during Lent by the Young Christian Students.
Father Mathis is the founder of the Liturgy Workshop and the Liturgy Program at Notre Dame. He has served as editor of Liturgy Piety and as a teacher at Holy Cross College in Washington D. C., and at Notre Dame.
Indianapolis Alumni Receive Donation From Campus Club
The Indianapolis Campus Club recently donated $300 to the Indianapolis: Alumni Scholarship Fund. The campus: club is one of the few clubs that contribute to its alumni scholarship fund.
The four year, $2,000 scholarship is given to a graduating senior in one of the city’s high schools each year.
Edgar McNamara, chairman of the scholarship committee said: “We feel that the Indianapolis Campus Club should be highly commended by their fellow students for this unselfish action.”
March 23, 1956
FT. LAUDERDALE'S HOLLYWOOD BEACH HOTEL
Site of Florida Club's ‘Swing and Swim.’
Florida, Met, Chicago Club Dances Top List As Groups Complete Vacation Social Plans
will provide the music. Tickets will sei ” ' for $4.
Other dances in the East are planned by the Buffalo and Philadelphia clubs. The Buffalo event will be in the Buffalo Launch club in Grand island, N. Y.,	।
Wednesday, April 4 from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Ed Ayers is dance chairman.
The Philadelphia club has planned its dance Tuesday, April 3, in the Philo^ patrian Club. Tickets are $3 and music^ will be provided from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. by a local college band. George Mitchell and Ed Broderick are co-chairmen.
The Cincinnati club will hold its dance in the DAV hall at McMillan and Victory Parkway on Friday, April 6, from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. John Reinhold is chairman of the event. Tickets will be-. $2.50.	W
The Tudor Arms Hotel will be the scene of the Cleveland Club’s dance on Monday, April 2. Bill Malloy and his orchestra will provide music. Tickets are $2.25 on campus and $3 at the door. Terry Conway and George Hahn are cochairmen.
The Connecticut club will hold its dance at the Wampanoag Country Club in West Hartford, Conn, on April 2 from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Tickets are $4 anc^ may be purchased from hall representatives or at the door.
Student clubs throughout the country are completing plans this week for Easter dances and parties to be held during the holidays.
The Florida club will present its annual Easter dance Monday, April 2, at the Hollywood Beach Hotel, Hollywood, Fla., located five miles south of Ft. Lauderdale. Dancing and swimming at the hotel will be from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. The dance will be informal. Tickets will sell for $4 on campus and may be purchased from hall representatives or Ticket Chairman Jim Sweeny in 174 Dillon. They will be $5 at the door. Bob Pleus and Dick Gorman are cochairmen of the affair.
The Met club dance will be held Easter Sunday night, April 1, at the Penn-Top Roof of the Hotel Statler. Ley Dryer* and his orchestra will provide music from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. Tickets are $4.50 and may be obtained from hall representatives. Jack Kelly is chairman of the dance and Paul O’Connor is in charge of ticket sales.
On Friday, April 6, the Chicago Club will hold its annual Easter dance at the Sheraton-Blackstone Hotel in downtown Chicago. Dancing will be from 9:30 p.m. until 1 a.m. to the melodies of Bud Dinwiddie and his orchestra. Tickets are $4 on campus and $4.50 in Chicago, but will not be sold at the door. Jerry Sweeney is chairman of the dance and Bud Freidheim ticket chairman.
The New England club will present its annual dance in the Empire room of the Hotel Kenmore in Boston, Tuesday, April 3. Music will be provided by Frankie Vigneau and his orchestra from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Tickets are $5 on campus and $6 at the door, announced Dick Walwood, dance chairman.
The Sheraton-Blackstone Hotel in Detroit will be the setting for the Detroit club dance Friday, April 6. Fred Netting and his band will play from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the Grand Ballroom for students and their dates.
The St. Louis club dance is set for the Statler Hotel, Monday, April 2. Hal Havird and his band will play in the Missouri Room from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Tickets are $4.
Elsewhere in the midwest, the Kansas City club plans to hold its annual dance in the Aladdin Hotel from 9 p.m. until midnight. Les Copeley and his orchestra
ATTENTION SENIORS
The Senior Class is making a movie of its members, the graduating Class of 1956.
Any senior interested in taking part in any of the scenes please contact the Senior Movie Committee, 414 Walsh. Please note the time you have available.
Local K. C.'s Set Date For 'Knights1 Nite* Ball
For the first time in five years, the local Knights of Columbus are staging a semi-formal ball to be held on April 20 from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. at the Soutl^ Bend Council Home. Late permission™ and car privileges have been granted for the “Knights’ Nite.”
Tony Rulli and his orchestra will provide the music for the dance which approximately 250 couples are expected to attend. Bids are priced at $3.00. Sales are now being held in the halls through hall captains. Tickets may also be obtained in the Walsh Hall basement offices of the K. of C. every weekday between 3:20 and 5:30 p. m.
Dance Chairman John Woulfe anQ j nounces that flowers and refreshments will be provided by the committee. The theme for the dance has not yet been selected.
The K. of C. ball was formerly one of the more popular dances on campus a few years ago until competition of numerous college and class dances crowded the social calendar. This year’s ball is an attempt to revive the dance aftei* a December poll of members showed an interest in it.	A
In addition to Woulfe, other member^ of the dance committee are Roger Bennett, tickets, and Ron Francis, publicity.
14
The Scholastic
•'All I Want Is Bermudas,' Says Soph Golfer; Senators Then Pass Revision on Link Dress
Massey Twins Win Grad Study Awards
A strong wind blew down the center of the campus Wednesday night, March 14, and a few of the last snow flakes of the winter cluttered the sky, but students ^were still entertaining thoughts of an "Indiana spring. In the amphitheater of the Student Center the legislators, alienated from the cold, discussed the usual business. That is, almost the usual business.
It was 11:45 p.m., and the Senate had been in session for over four hours. All necessary business had been taken care of, and President Crehan asked if there was any new business. Jerry Slater, ^senator from Badin, asked if he might yield the floor to Robert Duffy of Howard Hall.
Duffy took his place in front of the
Campus Polls to Open For Monday Election
Students will go to the campus polls Monday to choose representatives for ^the positions of student body president, : the four college senators, and four class officers for each of next year’s sophomore, junior and senior classes.
Elections will take place in all but the senior halls and in the bus shelter. Freshman, sophomore, and junior students living in the three senior halls, along with off-campus students will cast their votes in the bus shelter.
Voting hours in the residence halls will be from 12 noon to 1 p.m. and 5 to 6:30 p.m. In the bus shelter balloting will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 3 to 6 p.m.
In order to vote a student must show his identification card to the Blue Circle representative in charge of the poll. No student will be permitted to vote without first showing his identification card.
Preferential ballots will be used again in this year’s elections. As an example, if there are four men running for the same office, the numbers one, two, three or foui- are placed after each candidate’s name according to the student’s order of preference.
Starting shortly after 7 p.m. Monday, ballots will be counted in the Student Center. The ballot counting will be open to all students.
Nominations for the various offices closed yesterday. Absentee ballots were cast yesterday by dean’s list students who are starting their Easter vacation early.
ft.Members of the Blue Circle Elections Committee are: Dick Lewis, chairman;
Bernie McGowan, Tony Yurchak, Jim Kennedy, Jerry Slater and Bob Branick.
senators and opened his proposal, “All that I want from you is Bermudas.” There was a slight giggle from the front row.
Duffy went on, “I move that the Student Senate suggest to the administration that it alter its position concerning student’s dress on the University’s golf course, in order to permit the wearing of walking (Bermuda) shorts.”
Freshmen exploded with joy in their seats, eager sophomores waited expectantly, self-important juniors grumbled,
THE ‘DUFFER’
Gilbert’s would approve.
firmly entrenched seniors mumbled tradition.
Midnight was drawing close, so Joseph Ryan, senator from Morrissey, suggested that because of time the motion be tabled and brought up at the next meeting—rejected.
Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of Student Affairs, was asked what the University’s policy was on the motion. Father Norton replied that there was in effect a long standing rule that no shorts are to be allowed on the golf course.
Duffy spoke to the senators, “When that rule was made, the St. Mary’s girls were not allowed to go downtown.” Uproarious laughter.
A vote was finally called for on the debated “shorts” motion. A unanimous “aye” was submitted to the Senate records.
The motion on the wearing of shorts on the golf course will now go to a senate committee which will iron out the proposal, and refer it to the administration.—Dave Kubal.
Twin brothers in the senior class have been awarded grants for graduate study in two nationwide competitions, the University announced recently.
Gerald J. Massey has received a Fulbright grant to study philosophy at the University of Louvain in Belgium. James L. Massey has accepted a National Science Foundation Fellowship to continue his electrtcal engineering studies at the University of Illinois. They are the sons of Mrs. Russell Sperry, Ottawa, Ill.
The Massey brothers, roommates in Alumni Hall are both members of the Navy ROTO and are scheduled to be commissioned second lieutenants in the U. S. Marine Corps. Gerald is a battalion commander- in the Navy unit and is president of the Tri-Service Council representing the Army, Navy, and Air Force contingents on the campus.
The 22-year-old twins were graduated from St. Bede Academy, Pera, Ill.
James Massey is one of three electrical engineering majors at Notre Dame who have been awarded National Science Foundation Fellowships, according to Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School and campus coordinator of graduate grants. The other two are Robert W. Minck, Defiance, O., and George Krembs, Merrill, Wise. A fourth NSF fellowship has been awarded to Gordon D. Bennett, a geology major from Elmira, N. Y. Minck, Krembs, and Bennett have chosen Stanford, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Penn State respectively for their graduate studies.
William J. Weldon, Flushing, N. Y., also has won a Fulbright grant and will study history at the University of Lyon in France.
GLEE CLUB CONCERTS
The Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, will present a preview of its Easter tour program in two concerts to be given in Washington Hall Sunday and Monday at 8:15 p.m. Admission is free.
Religious and classical selections representing a variety of composers and countries will open the program. Following this will be folk songs and negro spirituals.
After intermission, there will be a baritone solo by Rudolph Pruden and a piano solo by Edward Ney-Ion. The performance will close with semi-classical and “pop” tunes 'woven around a theme of “Four Years at Notre Dame.”
March 23, 1956
15
Butler, Harvey to Speak at Mock Convention As Top Senators Indicate Campaign Issues
Democratic National Chairman Paul Butler and News Commentator Paul Harvey will address the mock Democratic national convention April 16-18, it was announced this week. The campus political conclave, held every four years and alternating between the two major parties, is sponsored by the Academy of Political Science.
Butler, who will speak April 16, is a 1927 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School. His son, Paul, Jr., is a sophomore in Notre Dame’s pre-medical course and his daughter, Maureen, is a student at nearby St. Mary’s College. Both will be members of the Indiana delegation at the student convention.
Harvey, scheduled to speak April 17, addressed a mock Republican convention on the campus four years ago when President Eisenhower was the students’ choice for the White House. Harvey’s newscasts are heard regularly over the ABC Radio and Television networks. He will cover the two national political conventions this summer.
Edward Robinson, a junioi- in Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters, will be the keynote speaker at the mock convention. The 22-year-old student ran for mayor in the primary election at Dearborn, Michigan, last year.
Representatives from each state and territory will serve on the delegations, credentials, rules and platform committees for the convention, in order to speed up activity during the convention. All appointments were filled last Wednesday. Delegates wishing to bring something before any of the committees should contact Cas Taylor in 3 Fisher, or Ed Vizard in 128 Fisher.
Senator W. Scott Kerr of North Carolina has commented to the Academy that the “declining farm income” and “the health of our over-all economy” will be the two most important issues of the coming campaign.
Senator J. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, 1948 Dixiecrat candidate for President, hopes that individual states “send independent and uncommitted delegates to the convention” in order to “meet the challenge posed by some elements of the party to state sovereignty. - . .”
Other statements have been received from Senator Herbert Lehman of New York and Senator Earle C. Clements of Kentucky.
Dr. Paul Bartholomew, professor of political science and originator of the quadrennial mock convention, is faculty adviser for this year’s event.
WSND Ranks Number One In Student Listening Time
A recent radio listenership survey showed that 68.4 percent of all listening time on campus is devoted to WSND, according to Station Manager Pat Mc-Cartan.
The survey also showed that 34 percent of the students prefer classical music and 39 percent favor “pops.” The most popular programs were “Request-fully Yours,” “Afternoon Concert,” and “Penthouse Pops.” The best liked news show was the “Five-Star Final.”
WSND sales, according to Sales Manager Jerry Higgins, are averaging 20 percent higher than the record broadcasting year of 1954-55.
Party After Bengals ■ To Welcome Champs
Social Commissioner Pat Logan an-	,
nounces that three events have been	1
planned for the weekend with a party after the finals of the Bengal Bouts as main attraction.
Tonight at 7:45 p.m. in the StudentW Center there will be an open house party. Girls will be present from St. Mary’s and । St. Joseph’s Nurses Home. Admission will be $.25.
A “Champions’ Welcome” is scheduled j for Saturday evening at 10 p.m., following the boxing bouts. Jim Crowley, guest referee for the bouts and recipient of this year’s Bengal Award, is being invited to attend the short coffee-^ hour in the Rathskeller to meet infor- , mally with the students.
Sunday afternoon, at 2 in Sacred Heart Church, Stations of the Cross will be held with girls from St. Mary’s and St. Joe’s participating.	'
Following the services in Sacred * Heart Church, there will be a musical afternoon party until 5 p.m. with a disc jockey from WSND broadcasting the^ party direct from the Rathskeller. *
Logan stated that there will be an advance ticket sale only, with the ad- ■ mission price set at $.25. Tickets will be on sale in the Rathskeller tonight from 5 to 7 p.m.
Juggler on Sale Today; Expect Sales to Double
The spring edition of the Juggler^-came off the press today with sales for the issue expected to double according to Editor John Meagher.
Five hundred copies of the literary quarterly will be available at the Cafeteria, Bookstore, and downtown bookstores. It will also be sold at the South Shore Railway station.
A story from last year’s spring edition is included in All Manner of Men. This anthology of Catholic fiction, pub- £ lished by P. J. Kenedy & Sons, is re- * viewed in this issue of the Juggler.
Contained also in this edition are short stories, poetry, essays, and reviews of several recent books.
A special subscription rate of $.50 for both the spring and summer issues is now being offered. Those interested can contact the business manager in Room 13 Sorin.
Manuscripts for the summer edition are now being accepted. Manuscripts £ > can be given to John Meagher in Room K ’ 5 Sorin, or mailed to: Office of Publications, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
16
The Scholastic
BCSKSSHSaS
saw
Loading the litter for a long haul.
Odin.
gleeful in transit
text by BILL JACKMAN
photos by GERRY TRAFFICANDA
It all started in 1915 when law student Ward Perrot organized a sketchy twelve-voice chorus to sing at functions around the campus. This was the beginning of Notre Dame’s Glee Club. But it wasn’t until 1928, under the direction of Joseph Cassasanta, that f^the Club made its first concert tour to the west coast. They’ve been on the road ever since.
Mr. Daniel Pedtke took to the podium in 1936, and during his 20 year reign as director the Glee Club has toured the nation twice annually, covering close to 10,000 miles a year and making themselves the most travelled group on campus.
Once again, on March 27, thirty-six ^men will pile on to a chartered bus at iythe Circle and make for New York City, some 17 hours away. It will be the beginning of the annual Easter tour. This one begins with four days off in New York City. The singers should be well rested for the 2000 mile grind ahead of them. After two conceits just outside New York (Patchogue, Long Island, and Perth Amboy, N.J.), they will bus it up to Massachusetts for concerts in Pittsfield, Uxbridge, and Holyoke, Mass. There will also be a day off in Boston.
After the Holyoke concert, the Club will move down to New Rochelle, N. Y., where they ■will be entertained by the College of New Rochelle day-hops before giving an evening concert. Wilmington, Del., Pittsburgh, Pa., and Youngstown, Ohio will be the remaining concert stops on the way back to the campus. In all, the Glee Club will be out 15 days and will give 9 concerts.
But as the reader may have guessed, it isn’t quite as super neat as it sounds. Who wants to ride 2500 miles on a bus? Naturally; nobody does. But anyone in the Glee Club will tell you that the good times had on tour infinitely outweigh the
bad bus rides. And some of the four year men claim that they have become quite comfortably accustomed to their portable home on square wheels, as the bus is affectionately titled. They have found ways to cushion the shock of long rides. The good Indiana Bus Company thoughtfully supplies the riders with card tables. Those who would rather not deal over the wheel bring foam rub
Study in concentrated time passing.
ber mattresses along and sleep the miles away either up in the baggage racks or on the floor.
Once the bus gets into a city, the men have no trouble finding something to do either before or after the concert. The sponsoring groups usually arrange receptions for the Club members following the concerts. There are eight receptions scheduled on the coming Easter
March 23, 1956
17
Pedtke’s pigeons’ warmup coo.
18
Everything but the so-and-so pitch pipe.
tour. These are frequently frequented by the local lovelies of the community.
Every tour has its humorous and anxious moments. Two years ago in Vicksburg, Mississippi, for instance, the bus crossed a bridge that looked like something out of “Sleepy Hollow.” Its capacity was four tons. The Club’s bass section alone weighs almost that much. The rattling of rosary beads was quite audible. On the more humorous side, there was the case of the baritone who left his shoes behind in New Orleans and stood in the back row wearing white bucks for the rest of the concerts. The next night, an equally absent-minded second tenor left the pants to his concert tails in Houston. When the Club got to Tulsa, director Pedtke unexpectedly called on him for a solo and he stepped out in light grey flannels. Awfully natty, but hardly Glee Club attire.
The Glee Club numbers high among its achievements its participation in the
Scrape and polish for opening night.
Philadelphia Music Festival of 1953. The event was held under the lights in the Municipal Stadium before 90,000, and the program included such entertainers as Jose Ferrer, Eddie Fisher, the Ink Spots, Jeanette McDonald, Arthur Feidler, and Olympic skating champs Dick Button and Tenley Albright. Past appearances on Ed Sullivan’s and Eddie Fisher’s television shows have also brought them before millions of viewers.
But it’s not all play and no work for the members of the Glee Club, especially its student officers. Their work begins in the summer before the schoolyear gets underway. The publicity manager is busy preparing the publicity to be used by the prospective sponsors. But these
prospective sponsors aren’t just handed^ the Club by some professional booking agency, as is the case with many Glee Clubs. For Notre Dame’s student president and business manager it involves writing scores of letters to alumni clubs, K. of C. councils and the like throughout the country.
When organizations in seven or eight cities have been contracted for concerts.^ the business manager begins a new task: that of arranging transportation and lodging for the 36 singers, the director, and a chaplain who will eventually make the tour. Working with no pre-allotted financial aid from the University, it is the job of the business managei- to make ends meet with receipts from the concerts he is able to book. Notre Dame’s is one of the few financially self-sub-_ sisting collegiate Glee Clubs in the coun-V try. In the course of the year, there is a turnover of around $12,000 in Glee Club business. As the Club is a nonprofit organization, their concert fees are just enough to cover the expenses for the year. Thus each year the Glee Club must start off from scratch and make their own way through two tours and innumerable shorter one-concert trips to Chicago and other nearby communities.
But the student officers aren’t the only® ones who work. Every one of the more than 100 Glee Club members is required to practice one hour a day, five times a week in the Glee Club room at O’Shaughnessy. When the time for a tour rolls around, tryouts are held and 36 men selected on the basis of attendance at practice, voice quality, knowledge of the music, and personality. The competition is quite keen to put it mildly, and it’s a tough job for director Pedtke and^


Anyone see that missing light bulb?


Bag rack sack; at home or away.
Best dressed team in town.
rest are rolling in pinochle, sleeping,
the or
aisles, playing discussing the soon as they
Symposium.” And as
the student officers to select just 36 out of the Club as a whole. The 36 who «vill make this year’s Easter tour were ‘-'selected two weeks ago to accustom them to working as a unit during the intensified practice sessions preceding the tour.
And then it’s all over. The tour is set and they’re out on the road again. The work of the officers is done and the new men who are making their first tour will find that it’s well worth the time spent coming to daily rehearsals back on the campus. This is where the men really Wget to know each other. The older members know that things go about the same on every tour and that the funny character lost by graduation last year will always be replaced by someone else equally talented at keeping the rest of the Club laughing. By the time the bus gets to Elkhart on this tour, one guy will be hanging one-handed from the baggage rack making like a monkey while the
make their first stop for eats it will resemble the descension of Attila and his gang of Huns.
Three or four of the men invariably get behind the counter to help the astonished owners take orders and flip cheeseburgers. And then the Club will be off on the road again leaving the owners standing there without food, but, some 80 dollars richer and kind of happy
that something new came along to break up the daily grind. These kind of people are the Glee Club’s greatest admirers.
What’s more things are said the men of the of their work.
every once in a while and printed that make Glee Club pretty proud For instance, excerpts
from an open letter written by Rev. Raymond O’Connor S.J. that appeared in a souvenir program of the 1954 Springfield, Illinois concert went like this:
Dear Friends:
Just in case somebody wonders why we brought the University of Notre Dame Glee Club back to Springfield for the third time, I’ll give you the reasons.
First, we consider them to be the best college Glee Club in the nation. This should surprise no one—they have the habit of producing champions at N.D.!
Secondly, let’s face it—we sponsor this concert to make money for the growing program of our parish I We know that the Glee Club can be sold and that those who buy will be more than satisfied. And yet—and here is the point—we do not have to give Notre Dame 90% of the gate! We are able to make a modest and satisfactory profit.”
It’s tributes like this that make the men of the Glee Club enjoy singing, and especially for charities like Father O’Connor’s all over the country. And they have fun doing it. What more could you ask for?
At a (fiance
AVON
A British thriller, The Night My Number Came Up, finishes tomorrow. Michael Redgrave and Alexander Knox are the thrilled; Sheila Sim provides the screams. A re-release of The Yearling runs Sunday through Tuesday. Fine entertainment for young and old; it’s about a deer. Greg Peck, Jane Wyman and the now-forgotten Claude Jarman, Jr. are starred.
COLFAX
Another re-release, this one dating back to 1946, starts Sunday. It’s the Song of the: South (not the whistle of Dixie) based upon the life of Joel Chandler Harris. Walt Disney and his cartoon creations, notably Br’er Rabbit, get together with some real live people. You may have liked it in 1946, but you weren’t a teen-ager then. The Man Who Never PPas, another shaker from across the Atlantic, ends tomorrow.
GRANADA
Susan Hayward plays the role of a slobbering wino who finds a new life in the form of the AA. Taken from Lillian Roth’s autobiography, this one is in the running for several Oscars, including the Best Actress Award which Susan Hayward may cop. Eddie Albert plays the anonymous alkie who shows the way to Lillian after her career hits the rocks. Runs through next week. P. S. It’s I’ll Cry Tomorrow.
PALACE
Lone Ranger; A-l. If you want to relive your high school days both here and at home during the vacation, see this one and then try to analyze it for the folks. Should show that you should still be in high school. What does “Kimosabe” mean anyway?
The second tour de force is Jaguar, with our old friend, Sabu—the somber savage with the best native vocabulary in India.
RIVER PARK
Kirk Douglas makes eyes at the Mediterranean Indian maiden, Elsa Martinelli, in The Indian Fighter, war-whooper complete with the usual scalpings and arrows-in-back. Ends tomorrow. A co-feature is It’s a Dog’s Life, based upon the Bar Sinister. The narrator is of the canine variety; he gets his zeifangs into some meaty descriptions of pathos, irony, symbolism, etc.
Starting Sunday, Forever Darling begins its run for a length of time a little short of forever. Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz are the TV fugitives who co-star. Walt Disney’s Living Desert is an excellent complement.
STATE
Today and tomorrow, a tremendous double bill featuring two films on the second trip around. Marty, number one candidate for Best Picture of ’55, features Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair in the tale of the middle-aged butcher who wants to get married. This seemingly uninteresting plot becomes of intense interest through the efforts of the unlikely hero Borgnine, and the trenchantly honest script.
Every character, every line is real; r much so that the viewer keeps thinking of something his friend has said, or something he himself has said. There will not be a picture of this type ever made better. If you haven’t seen it, don’t miss it. If you have, you won’t need this recommendation.
Also, Love Me or Leave Me, affords excellent entertainment for those wh^ missed it first time around. Doris Day is starred in one of her rare dramatic roles, and she performs well as a Chicago syndicate hood’s doll. James Cagney provides the force in the show as he bulls his way through a strongarm part which must have been written with him in mind. Doris’ renditions of ten Rogers and Hart songs are unexpected high points in the realistic, unsugared Hollywood version of the brash 1920’s.	1
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM
Man on a Tightrope, 3:30 and 7:30 today, admission 25c. Another in the Senate series of quality movies, starring Frederic March, Gloria Grahame, Terry Moore, and directed by Eli Kazan of “Waterfront” and “Streetcar” fame, this film features the gripping suspense involved in an escape from the Iron Curtain, as well as the collective chaimug of Misses Grahame and Moore. ’
Arsenic and Old Lace, Wednesday, April 11 at 3:30 and Nieuwland Science 127 at 7:30. Great comedy for post vacation blues. With Cary Grant, Josephine Hull and Boids Karloff. Complete with two old ladies who poison people they feel sorry for, and Teddy Roosevelt in the basement digging the Panama Canal, naturally.
CENTER AMPHITHEATER (
Free Senate Sunday Series, March 25, Charlie Chaplin in Burlesque on Carmen, as the famous lover, Don Jose. Originally timed for release with Cecil B. DeMille’s original production of the authentic Carmen, the little man “murdered ’em.”
Same as above, post vacation, Bill Bendix returns in Taxi Mister, in a typical role. Times on both shows: 12:30 and every hour on the half hour following till 8:30.
POST VACATION TIPS
Pinky with Jeanne Craine, Ethel Barrymore and Ethel Waters, Engineering Auditorium. 3:30 and 7:30. The controversial picture of a white-skinned negro girl and her problems. Sympathetically handled and brilliantly done. April 12.
Also, Kind Hearts and Coronets, with Alec Guiness, April 19, shows continuous from 12:45. One of Guiness’ greatest, and the one which made him famous. No further recommendation needed.
Reviews by Plunkett, Yeifang and James
20
The Scholastic
The Law School
war on mediocrity by BOB GORMAN
What’s going on over there?” “I hear it’s really tough.” These are typical of the comments addressed to Notre Dame law students by undergraduates who may have seen lights burning in the law library from 7:00 in the morning until past midnight every clay, or heard rumors of the high “casualty lists” following the 100% final exams taken by the law students twice a year.
What is going on over there? In the words of Dean Joseph O’Meara: “Father Hesburgh has said: ‘Neither God nor man is well served by mediocrity.’ Excellence is our platform and we can be content with nothing less. This requires, on the part of the Law School, the highest of standards and, on the part of the ^tudents, sustained hard work. In no other way can our graduates be properly prepared for the great responsibilities that lie ahead.”
Dean O’Meara came to the Notre Dame Law School on October 29, 1952. He brought with him a program of definite ideas, culled from a long career as an eminently successful attorney in Ohio law practice, of what it takes to make a responsible, thinking, proficient ^awyer. These ideas, and the goals toward which they are aimed, are reflected in the system of legal education now in existence at the Notre Dame Law School.
Above all else, the emphasis of this program is on consistent, rigorous class work and study. As the Dean has said, a fighter is not trained by letting him take his ease. The class load, though only 15 hours a week on the average, is demanding, and it is expected by the -faculty that the student will keep Rictively abreast of it. To that end, all law students, including those who are in the combination program and are technically still college seniors, are prohibited from engaging in any extra-curricular undergraduate activities.
In addition to actual class study, the law student is required to quickly acquire facility in legal research. A research problem, usually in the form of a case involving disputed points of law, is given to each freshman in the first semester ^of the first year. Junior, or second-year students are required to research and write up four such problems in each semester of the second year.
Besides the standard law-school courses, Notre Dame students take classes each year which are designed to foster an understanding of the larger background and substance of law as the basis of the social structure, and to reveal to the student the grave responsibilities of his life as a Christian lawyer. These consist of courses on the History of the Legal Profession, Jurisprudence,
and a seminar on Natural Law. To achieve these same ends, summer readings are also required, usually two books for the summer. The emphasis on the broader aspects of legal education is reflected, also, in the series of lectures and panel discussions which Dean O’Meara arranges for the Law School. Typical of these was a recent panel discussion on the young lawyer in politics. Included in the four speakers were the Attorney General of Ohio and the Lieutenant-Governor of Michigan.
Examinations are given in the Law School but twice a year. At the end of each semester, three nights of exams are held, 6:30-10:30 p.m., with four or five half-hour questions per course, to determine the entire course mark for the semester. On the fourth and final night of exam week, a comprehensive exam covering all courses the student has taken in the past three semesters is given. At present, the comprehensive consists of four one-hour questions, and
the score on the comprehensive counts 50% toward the law student’s average for the semester. The average of his regular semester- courses makes up the other 50%.
The tension during exam week is considerable, of course, since, to quote a cliche, the eggs are all in one basket.
Though the number of failures is considerable, it is probably not as high as mmor would have it. First year failures—and this is the year in which the fatality rate is highest—have averaged just under 20% in the past two years.
The emphasis on class study and preparation is not an exclusive one, however. There are a great many student activities carried on in The Law School. The most prominent of these, perhaps, is the editing of a legal quarterly, the Notre Dame Lawyer, by members of the senior class. The Latvyer features articles by leading members of the legal profession and writers in the legal field. Student work consists of comments on recent cases and notes on trends and positions of the law. Membership on the editorial board of the Lazvyer is a highly contested affair. Unlike many other law schools, the freshman and junior students at Notre Dame are given an opportunity to write for the legal quarterly, though only seniors are eligible for editorial positions. According to a 1954 committee report of the Association of American Law Schools, the Lawyer ranks among the leading law reviews in the country.
Moot Court competition is also carried on by the law students, involving the preparation of appellate briefs and arguing of mock appellate cases before a three-judge court., The two winners of the Notre Dame competition constitute a moot-court team which advances to national competition at the Chicago regional. This year’s Notre Dame team (Edward Broderick, William Fagan and Ronald Mealey) romped through Chicago-Kent College of Law and Northwestern University before dropping a narrow decision in the semi-finals to the University of Chicago, which easily defeated the University of Illinois in the final round, to go to the national finals in New York. Freshman students are required to prepare and argue one appellate case in their second semester, and most choose to do this in a preliminary practice-round of Moot Court.
This appellate court experience is paralleled by the practice trial court in the senior year. In the senior practice court, the law student handles a legal case from original papers to final judgment, with a jury, actual witnesses, and a federal judge presiding.
The service organization of the Law School is the Student Law Association* (Continued on page 29)
March 23, 1956
21
The Graduate School
depth and diversity
by JOHN KEARNS — art by BILL GLASS
Students in the Graduate School at Notre Dame are faced with an amazing- diversity in fields of study. Though relatively small, the Graduate School offers training enabling the student to become a parole officer,, a physicist, a musician, or a mere scholar.
And diversity is not limited to subject matter, for students have the opportunity of studying under professors from all over the world, professors who hold degrees from such varied schools as National Peking University, the University of Louvain, and the University of Notre Dame.
In the Graduate School more than in any other school of the University, must the student have a zeal to learn. Students cannot just “get by” for a few years and then pick up a degree.
Requirements for admittance to the Graduate School are not overly difficult; the student must have had a B average in his major undergraduate field of study, and he must get a satisfactory grade on the Graduate Record Examination, the graduate counterpart of the College Board Exams. But once a student is in the Graduate School he is not necessarily on the road to a degree, for that road is a difficult one to enter.
The student must maintain an average of 75%, satisfy prerequisite require-
A little podium action broadens speech men.
ments of his major subject, and be approved by the Graduate Council before becoming a candidate for a master’s degree, and, in addition, those Mushing to become doctoral candidates must pass comprehensive exams in their major and minor fields.
And after achieving candidacy, the student has to write his dissertation (if
One seated Engineering grad (most of them are deep-seated) said recently, “my gosh, the ‘Scholastic’ covers have really been fantastic!”
one is required) and to pass his final examinations.
There are three general programs leading to degrees; two for the master’s degree and one for the doctor’s.
Leading to the master’s degree are the research and the non-research programs. The former requires a dissertation on some subject of the major field and a proficiency in either French or German, while the non-research program, “designed to meet the needs of prospective teachers in elementary and secondary schools,” does not. The research program requires twenty-four credit hours, and the other requires thirty, while both have a minimum residence requirement of two semesters.
Doctoral candidates must be proficient in French and German, and must write a very comprehensive dissertation. The minimum residence is three school years.
There are four divisions of the Graduate School: Arts-and-Letters, Social Science, Science, and Engineering, and each contains many departments.
In the Arts-and-Letters Division is the Department of English, headed by Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C. It has the
One of the Art Department grads will not Bengal this year, but still shadows.
largest staff of any graduate division, edging out the Philosophy Department by three teachers. The purpose of this department is to produce “teacherscholars,” and the degrees of Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy are offered. The student pursues the three branches of literary study, which are linguistics, criticism, and literary history.
At present, the Department of Speech offers a graduate program only in the Summer Session, but this will probably be extended in the future. Only the M.A. is offered. Graduate work in Speech is chiefly intended for the training of teachers. Courses in public speaking, theater, speech education, speech correction, interpretation, and radio and television are offered.
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. directs the Department of History, whicl^ prepares students for research and for teaching. Students are trained in research and the use of historical materials. There are six fields of concentration: Ancient History, Mediaeval History, Modern European History, American History, Latin American History, and Fai- Eastern History. But courses leading to the M.A. are limited to the fields of Mediaeval, Modem European, Latin American, and American History, those leading to the Ph.D. are the same, ex-^ cept that Latin American History isn’P included.
The Department was recently endowed with two John Lingard Fellowships, which are awarded to promising students of the English Reformation, who then study under the direction of Rev. Philip Hughes, the celebrated Church historian.	?
The Mediaeval Institute is an autonomous unit within the University and does not fall under any division of th^<. Graduate School. It was established in 1946, and is now under the direction of Canon A. L. Gabriel, O. Praem.
22
The Scholastic
pure and simple chemist at work.
The purpose of the Institute is the study of medieval thought, culture, and history. Courses are offered in the philosophy and theology, the life, both secular and religious, and the culture of the Middle Ages.
These courses lead to the degrees of Master of Mediaeval Studies and Doctor of Mediaeval Studies. Although students must select a major field of ^concentration, their program includes study in all the above courses.
The aim of the Department of Philosophy is “to produce good philosophers, disciplined scholars, and well trained teachers of philosophy.” The Department is headed by Rev. Herman R. Reith, C.S.C. The writings of St. Thomas Aquinas form the basis of study, but modern techniques and problems of contemporary importance are ^not neglected. The special fields of con-centration are Mediaeval Studies, Philosophy of Science, and American Philosophy. The degrees offered are Master of Arts and (surprisingly!) Doctor of Philosophy.
At present, Rev. I. M. Bohenski, O.P., of the University of Fribourg, who is one of the most outstanding Thomists of today, is a member- of the staff, brought here through the Distinguished Professors Program.
Oddly enough, there is no full time P? graduate program in theology at Notre Dame. Such courses are offered by the Department of Religion only during the summer. They are intended mainly for those preparing to teach religion, and lead to the M.A.
The basic aim of the graduate program in theology is to present basic courses in the principles and methods for studying Tradition, Scripture, Theology, etc., to apply these principles and methods in study, and to give a relatively ly broad coverage of Catholic Doctrine.
The Graduate Department of Art is most active during the Summer Session, but its activity during the regular school
year is increasing. It is under the direction of Mr. Sessler, and offers the degrees of Master of Arts and Master of Fine Arts. Graduate courses are offered in painting, sculpture, and design. The most well known of the staff is undoubtedly Ivan Mestrovic, brought to the University by the Distinguished Professors Program.
The Department of Music, under the baton of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, offers an M.A. in Music. The field of concentration may be Composition, Music Theory, Music Education, or Applied Music. The courses of study are intended to prepare the student for teaching, performing, arranging, composing, or advanced work in theoretical research.
In the Social Science Division of Graduate School, the Department of Education, under the leadership of Mr.
Chinese say . . . Oh, soooooo; man reading Socity or Plito is mark of grad Philosopher.
Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, is engaged in meeting the need for administrative and supei-visory personnel for our expanding school systems. Both the M.A. and Ph.D. are offered. Students are prepared for positions as school superintendents, school principals, and guidance workers in schools and colleges. They can also become college teachers of Education.
The Department of Political Science is headed by Rev. Stanley J. Parry, C.S.C. Offering the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, the Department attempts to train students for research and for teaching in the fields of government and theory, or for administrative functions in domestic and foreign affairs.
Fields of concentration in the Department of Political Science are political theory, public administration, international relations, comparative government, and Soviet studies.
The concentration in Soviet studies is a new one. It includes ideology, back
ground, and method of Soviet Policy. Only one other university in the country offers courses in Communist Ideology.
Combining the Departments of Political Science, History, and English is the Program in American Studies, whose chairman is Mr. Aaron I. Abell. This is also a very new program. The aim of these studies is to integrate knowledge of American life in the past, with the ultimate aim of applying it to studies of American life today. Thus the course does not prepare for a specific profession, but equips the student for a broader understanding of his life and times, and a fuller participation in them. The student majors in one of the three departments and minors in the other two. A special seminar in American Studies is held, bringing the three fields together while concentrating on a particular period in American life.
The Department of Sociology, headed by Mr. John J. Kane, offers two main fields of study: general sociology, which leads to the M.A. and Ph.D. and correctional administration, leading to the M.A.
In the United States, as yet not many Catholics have become sociologists, and, as a result, sociology is dominated by non-Catholics and secular- values. Recently, the Pope called for the establishment of Christian sociology at all Catholic universities.
The aim of the graduate program in general sociology is to produce college teachers and sociologists for service with Government agencies. The Correctional Administration program, taught only in the summer and during the Fall Semester, trains men for the fields of probation, parole, and correctional institution work. A good deal of field work is required in this curriculum, and there is no research program.
In the graduate study and research (Continued on page 31)
Grad student English majors are noted for their urbanity.

March 23, 1956
23

virgin lips
by TONY SPERANZA
HE was eleven, and she was bashful. It was their first party. Here is what happened. . . .
“Bonnie, do you like me?”
“Yes, Clyde, I like you.”
“Then why won’t you kiss me?”
“I don’t like to kiss boys.”
“Who do you like to kiss then— girls?”
“I don’t like to kiss anybody.”
“Why?”
“Because . . . because it spreads germs.”
“Don’t you kiss your mother and father?”
“Yes.”
“Doesn’t that spread germs?”
“That’s different. They’re in the family.”
“You mean you’ve all got the same germs?”
“I guess so.”
“I think your germs would like my germs.”
“I don’t.”
“I’ve got nice germs—real nice genus.”
“No.”
“No what?”
“I won’t kiss you.”
“Bonnie, you’ve got to kiss me.”
“Why?”
“Because everybody else is kissing.
Look. Susie’s kissing Albert. And look over there. Penny’s kissing Joey.”
“Don’t look at them.”
“Why not?”
“It’s impolite to watch people while they’re kissing.”
“They’d look at us if we were kissing.”
“Well, we’re not kissing.”
“Come on, Bonnie.”
“No.”
“What am I going to tell the guys after the party?”
“What do you mean?”
“All the guys will be talking about all the kisses they got, and I won’t be able to say anything.”
“You boys are terrible.”
“You girls are worse.”
“You’re fresh, Clyde. Do you know that?”
“Bonnie, you are the most stubborn girl I’ve ever met.”
“And you are the freshest boy I’ve ever met.”
“I came to this party so I could kiss
you, and now you’re ruining the whole thing.”
“Well, I’m sorry, but I’m not kissing you.”
“Okay. Okay. You sit there and I’ll sit here, and we won’t do anything but breathe.”
“You should have thought of that sooner.”
And after the party, I’m going to tell everybody that you’re a prude.”
“I am not a prude.”
“You are so.”
“You don’t even know what a prude is.”
“I do too. It’s a girl who doesn’t like to kiss boys. And you’re one.”
“I’m not a prude!”
“Yes you are. And I’m going to tell everybody.”
“I’ll say you’re a liar.”
“Nobody listens to a prude.”
“Clyde, I hate you.”
“Good.”
There was a long silence. Then . . .
“Clyde?”
“What do you want?”
“Are you mad?”
“Yes.”
“Will you stop being mad, if ... if
I kiss you?”
“It depends.”
“On what?”
“It depends on how good you kiss.”
“I don’t think I kiss very good, Clyde.”
“You can try.”
“You won’t laugh at me, will you?”
“Of course not.”
“And will you stop being mad?”
“Maybe.”
“O . . . Okay.”
There was a shuffling sound, a loua smacking sound, and a sighing sound. Then . . .
“Clyde? Clyde!”
“B . . . B . . . B . . . Bonnie! WOW!”
“Was I all right?”
“Gulp!”
“Clyde, what’s the matter?”
“No . . . thing. Nothing.”
“Don’t you like the way I kiss?”
“S . . . Sure. It’s just . . . You surprised me.”
“Do you want me to kiss you again?”
“Let’s wait awhile, okay?”
“You kiss very nice, Clyde.”
“Thanks.”
“You were right about our germs.
Mine liked yours very much.”
“How do you know?”
“I can tell.”	।
“You can’t be sure about those things, you know.”
“I’m sure.”
“Bonnie, I—
“Sit closer to me, darling.”
“Dar . . . Look Bonnie, I don’t think—
“Closer.”
“I’m too close now.”
“Oh, you’re miles away. Come on Clyde, don’t be a prude.”
“I was just wondering if—	.
“What, Clyde, what?”	'
“I was wondering if you would like a cup of punch. They’ve got very good punch, and you haven’t had hardly any. I mean you haven’t hardly had any. I mean—
“I don’t want any punch.”
“Well I’d like some.”
“Clyde, wait a minute.”
“I gotta get some punch.”
“Clyde, I think I love you.”
“Bonnie! Don’t say that!”	I
“Why not? It’s true.”
“Somebody might hear you.”
“I don’t care. Darling, I—
“And stop calling me darling. If one of the guys should hear you, I’m sunk.”
“Darling, strangers don’t count when two people are in love.”
“I gotta get some punch.”
“We mustn’t allow the rest of the world to influence us, Clyde.”
“Bonnie, you flipped!”	(
“Oh Clyde. How can you treat me this way?”
“Look Bonnie, I think—
“Darling—
“Will you cut that out?.”
“Clyde, doesn’t the fact that I kissed you mean anything.”
“You kissed me, Bonnie, but—
“A kiss between lovers is much more than a kiss, darling.”
“WILL YOU CUT THAT OUT!”
“Darling, you’re so cruel.”
“Where’s the punch? I gotta get some punch.”
24
The Scholastic
!)>uik Scmt
BASEBALL SQUAD OPENS IN TALLAHASSEE
Veteran Klinemen Begin Season Next Week; Pitchers to Hold Key to Successful Campaign
by JIM GOETHALS
The veteran-studded Fighting Irish baseball squad will commence theii- 1956 season next week, meeting a selected ^;roup of powerhouses in a tournament at Florida State University in Tallahassee. The tournament features such other participants from the East, Midwest and South as Illinois, Wisconsin, West Virginia, North Carolina, Brown and host Florida State. These teams will be matched against each other for single games on March 29 and April 2 and 3, with twinbills slated to be played on March 31. Then on April 4 and 5, an ^elimination tournament will be held among the teams to determine the tourney winners.
As for Notre Dame’s chances for top honors, Coach Jake Kline sums it up like this: “The boys are shaping up well, but we’ve been at a disadvantage in preparation in that we’ve been confined to indoor practice. But it could be a successful trip if the inexperienced pitching staff comes through for us and ^the veteran ballplayers show theii- stuff.” * However, Coach Kline said the starting line-up was still uncertain, and in particular, the starting outfield. Never-
DON SNIEGOWSKI Hot corner mainstay.
theless, he did affirm that about 20 players would make the trip to the land of sunshine and palm trees for the tournament. Last season, in an Easter-time southern exhibition series held at North Carolina, the Irish charges emerged with a 2-3 mark.
Infield Secure
Fortifying the infield for the Irish this year will tentatively be lettermen Lesso, Hurley, Carideo and Sniegowski.
Hustling senior veteran Mike Lesso will handle duties at first base this year. Mike was hampered by an injury last season and consequently saw limited action, but was ably relieved by Jim Cusack. However, this year- Lesso will try to resume where he left off two years ago as a sophomore when he maintained a .300 average and showed some timely fielding.
Handling the keystone sack will be junior Ed Hurley, who acted as captain of the team during most of last season. Hurley, son of the well-known American League umpire, has a fine throwing arm and is a really solid infielder.
Leading candidate for the shortstop starting berth is chunky, hard-hitting junior veteran Jim Carideo. Carideo, who is the nephew of former Notre Dame All-American quarterback Frank Carideo, was the regular shortstop last year as a sophomore. Playing in all 17 games last season, he hit .256 while knocking in 13 runs to share the top spot in this department along with outfielders Dan Nespo and Jim Cusack.
The best prospect to handle the “hot corner” is Don Sniegowski, recent winner of the Rhodes scholarship award. Sniegowski was formerly a pitcher, but was switched to third base early last season, where he remained until sidelined in midseason with a broken wrist. Up until this injury, he led the club with a commendable .371 average.
Outfield Uncertain
All in all, the infield packs plenty of power, hustle and experience to form the nucleus of the team. The outfield,
ED HURLEY
Sparkplug second baseman.
on the other hand, is not so set. Coach Kline has been shuffling and reshuffling his five top prospects, Joe Yaeger, Capt. Dan Nespo, Jack O’Drobinak, Bill Tesch-ke, and Jim Cusack in an attempt to get the best trio. As things stand now, Yaeger, Nespo and Cusack have the best chances of securing starting berths in the outfield.
The veteran Joe Yaeger finished the regular season last year sporting the
ELMER KOHORST
Veteran backstopper.
March 23, 1956
promts, j oeczp-j c^z^':-c..'-..C	~'.o ~:of/.^f i.t ~'/f^
ir.izi -^.'X	LazC	vt£ the
top r/mr hitter O's thf-. cHb, colfectir.g :.ri::s-. ns:;?. and 33 itliV'A.
t:.O Other	J';
‘.?.x; ',w gz-rtet; for the Iri.eh, paced the ts-^m after midsewm with a .342 overall mark and gwatted in 33 runs while playing in the outfield for a Vsr-tiort 'if the season and filling in for ty- injured f-esso at first base for the remainder of the -%a?zm.
Pitching Lacki Experience
But the big question mark to a successful &Awm rogta vzith the pitching staff. With last year’s tvzo starters gone now, much of the Burden rests on the arms of two junior righthanders, John Hammel and Paul Besser, all oth-i-rr. being untried in college competition.
Hammel, a good hitting pitcher vzith a .364 mark last season, worked a total of 36 innings on the hill for the Irish and vzas tagged vzith tvzo defeats against one victory. The burly fastball-er Besser toiled 21-2/3 innings and finished vzith an 0-1 mark. Seniors Angelo Capozzi and Jim Finn, a converted infielder, also figure to carry some of the pitching load, as do a group of goodlooking sophomores.
Handling the catching duties this spring will be junior Elmer Kohorst, veteran of one season. The spirited, hustling receiver was the leading hitter last season on the southern tour, and finished the regular season of play with a .288 mark.
Badini+es Win In+erhall
Swimming Championship
Savard back stroke enabled kirn to nudge Out Tom Smith of Lyons and John Chomeau from Off Camnns. The 50-yard breast stroke championship was taken ir: Barry Voight of Cavanaugh in 32.0. Paul Boyd was second and Zahm’s Tony .Aranata third. Badin’s 260-yard relay team of Leyden. Al Stepan, Phil Reilly, and Don Adams slithered to a victory in 2.08.0.
Langford Sends Top Three To NCAA Fencing Tourney
A trio of Notre Dame’s finest fencers will represent the Irish today and to-morrovr in the annual NCAA Fencing Championships at Annapolis, Md. Don Tadrowski in epee, Dave Friske in saber, and Jack Friel in foil will attempt to match or even improve on last year’s fine showing, vzhen the Irish fenced to a seventh place finish.
Tadrowski, who was 37-9 this season, will be defending the NCAA individual epee championship which he won last year. And as Irish Coach Walter Langford commented, “They’ll all be up for Tadrowski this year and it will be extremely difficult for him to repeat as champion. But, with his competitive spirit and ability, he should do "well again this year.”
Friske gained his saber berth by edging out team-mate Frank Dwan. Friske’s season mark w'as 28-13 and Dwan finished the season with a 26-15 record.
TADROWSKI, FRISKE, FRIEL
Irish swordsmen head for Annapolis
26
The Scholastic
Irish Open Spring Gridiron Practice April 9; Brennan Has Job of Replacing Seven Starters
Annual Bass Fishing Contest Opens After Easter Vacation
With the return of spring the Notre Dame man’s fancy turns, once again, back to football, and the spring grid practice at Cartier Field. This year ^oach Terry Brennan plans to swing ''dpen the gates to the clamoring photogs on the first day after the Eastei- vacation, April 9, for Picture Day. On the following day, April 10, the Irish master will run his boys through their first workout of the year. The squad will practice four days a week for five weeks, winding up their session on Saturday, May 12, with the Annual Old-Timer’s ^ame.
W “This year we’re out to find a club two-deep,” says Terry Brennan, “with a sprinkling of a third.” Graduation bit deeply into the Notre Dame ranks, and Brennan wants not only to plug the holes this spring, but also to build a solid bench. “The door is open to everyone,” he added. “I don’t want to play eleven men for 60 minutes a game, as I was forced to do at times last year.”
When the Irish left Los Angeles last Wall, nineteen seniors had ended their college grid days. This leaves a tough rebuilding job for Coach Brennan and his assistants, especially in the line, which lost fourteen men. Gone is the “heart” of the squad, Captain Ray Lemek, and with him, guard Pat Bis-ceglia, center Jim Mense, tackle Wayne Edmonds, end Gene Kapish, guards John McMullan and Gene Martell, and tackle George Nicula. All-American fullback ^)on Schaefer, who averaged 4.4 yards every time he ran the ball, leaves the backfield, along with Dick Fitzgerald and Paul Reynolds.
The big gap for ’56 will be at the fullback slot, while both guard positions, both tackles, and one end flank can be considered wide open. During the spring workouts, the Irish brain-trust -will concentrate on filling these six positions and finding additional depth.
The picture brightens with the return ^f Notre Dame’s brilliant quarterback and field-general, Paul Hornung. With him come Capt. Jim Morse and Dean Studer in the backfield, Dick Prendergast at left end, and Bob Gaydos at right guard. The vacancy at center could well be filled by either Ed Sullivan or Lou Loncaric. Behind Hornung comes another snappy quarterback, Larry Cooke. But since both Hornung and Cooke ‘will see their last year of action, the search turns to freshmen for the future, with high hopes for Bob Williams, Norm Odyniec, Dick Selcer, or Mike Dugan.
This spring Coach Brennan will have
five assistants to ease his headaches. Replacing Marquette-bound Johnny Druze, Jack Zilly will work with the ends. Another new name added to the Irish coaching staff is that of Jim Finks, who will tutor the new quarterbacks. Bill Fisher returns to his line job, and Bill Walsh, center coach, will also help out -with the guards. Concentrating on the halfbacks, Bernie Witucki will again take charge of the backfield, with the aid of Frosh Coach Jack Landry.
Campus rumors claim that the freshman squad is one of the best in years, and that the present frosh will dominate the Irish action this spring and next fall. “Yes, we may have many freshmen on the team this spring,” says Terry Brennan, “but”—he emphasizes— “that’s up to the upperclassmen themselves.” The present sophomores and juniors may seem to lack line strength, but they will have plenty of time to prove themselves during the hot days ahead.
INTERHALL BASEBALL
There will be a meeting today for all representatives of campus clubs and halls who wish to enter teams in the Interhall Softball League. Coaches of the various teams are asked to report to Room 1 of the Rock at 4:30.
FATHER BALDWIN—IRISH IZAAK WALTON
Anglers to test skill after Easter.
The annual Father Baldwin fishing contest will open its attack on all bass in both St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s lakes on April 9. This year’s contest will run for six consecutive weeks up to May 20 and during this period weekly prizes of §5 will be awarded to the student catching the largest fish. Besides these weekly prizes, Chairman Clarence Schlehuber announced that a grand prize of §10 will be given to the person catching the largest fish in the six-week period.
No Entry Fee Required
The fishing contest is free and open to all students. Either of the two campus lakes must be used for their conquests. Although most of the winning fish have been caught from shoreline fishing, a boat may be obtained by contacting Chairman Schlehuber in 47 Sorin or Father Baldwin in 220 Howard. Both stressed that all reservations must be made at least one day in advance.
The winning bass will be judged on their length and all entries must be deposited at the rear entrance of Corby Hall within 24 hours after the catch. Last year’s winning bass tipped the scales at seven pounds, a prize winner in any national contest. All students planning to enter the contest are reminded that they must supply their own equipment.
Fishing fans are also reminded to attend the regular Casting Club demonstrations in the Fieldhouse.
March 23, 1956
27
Cramming for Exams?
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam __or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
is 35c KroSK s 9Rc
Dorms) 60 tablets —
mpoz
AWA KE NE RS
SAFE AS COFFEE
minis UBLA1Y ui
INK 8IIP
We SeU Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
New Club, Tournaments Spark Handball Action
Handball seems to have taken over the interests of the campus athletes during the slack season and at the present time we have: a doubles tournament Just completed, a singles competition approaching the half-way point, and a doubles tournament sponsored by the Chicago Club nearing completion.
In the doubles tournament which had been, running since the beginning of the Spring semester, Ray Lemek and Pat Bisceglia last week defeated Carl Eck and Meyer for the championship.
Bisceglia had been called in to substitute for Ray’s original partner, Jim Daly, when he was forced to step down because of an injury. The two linemen then went on to defeat Don Leone and Tom Pendergast in the quarter-finals while Eck and Meyer were downing Ed Shipstad and Frank Reilly.
The other doubles competition, sponsored by the Chicago Club, started on March 1st and at present is in the final round. The championship match will be played today, and the winners will receive trophies from the club for first and second place.
Singles Tourney Underway
Pairings have been posted in the Rock for the singles tournament which got underway this past week with 38 men competing for the awards. The competition will run through the remainder of the month of March and the entire month of April, with the final match being played on April 30th. Interhall medals will be awarded to the first three places, with the semi-final losers playing off for the third place spot.
In order to create a greater interest in handball a Notre Dame Handball Club has been formed under the direction of President Tom Mark. The club at present is composed of Mark, Frank Epstein, Carl Eck, Don Leone, Tom Nicknish, Tom Pendergast, Frank Reilly, Ed Shipstad, Bob Holland, Dick Pfar-rer, and LeRoy Todd. At present the club is attempting to bring the two national champions from Chicago here to the University to stage an exhibition. Mark is also attempting to obtain movies on handball for the club meetings. Four of the members will travel to St. Louis, Missouri to represent Notre Dame in the N.C.A.A. championships which will be held in that city April 11-14. There are no particular requirements except that the student display an interest in handball. Anyone wishing to join may do so by contacting Tom Mark at 120 Morrissey or attending the next regular meeting, which will be held following the Easter vacation.
Trackmen in Chicago For Daily News Relays
After fruitfully pitting their track prowess against the country’s best indoor* track talent by capturing two of the three events they entered in the Cleveland K. of C. Relays last Friday. Notre Dame will compete in the ChF cago Daily News Relays tomorrow night in the Chicago Stadium. Representatives for the Irish will be in the one and two-mile relays, the high jump and the 60-yard dash.
The Irish crack mile relay foursome of Bill Keegan, Joe Foreman, Aubrey Lewis and versatile Bill Squires paced off a rapid 3:21.3 to take top honors in that colorful event. Indiana and third^ place Pittsburgh experienced baton trouble and trailed ND while Iowa was disqualified for finishing after not bothering to retrieve their baton they dropped while going into the final turn. The Irish runners, however, realizing that a trackside fan had caused the Iowa man to drop the baton, displayed noteworthy sportsmanship and voluntarily relinquished their gold medals to the Hawkeye team.	f
Bernie Allard evened an old score with fellow Californian Ernie Shelton (and for everyone else because Shelton had never been beaten before) going 6' 8" in his high jump specialty. Shelton, former Southern Cal ace who cleared 6' 7", is regarded as the top U. S. high jumper and chief Olympic choice.
Notre Dame’s two-mile relay troop, composed of sophomores Dale Vanden-burg, Ed Monnelly, Dick DiCamillo an^ senior Squires gathered third place behind New York University and Pittsburgh. Cleveland Arena fans saw why Pitt’s Arnie Sowell is rated the world’s best half miler. Sowell sped away from the Irish anchor man, whom he was tied with at the hand-off, and covered the distance in 1:48, nearly closing the gap between the first-place N.Y.U. runner.
Aubrey Lewis, ND 60-yard dash hope, failed to enter his event because the train was late.	*
BENGAL BOUT FINALS
Don't forget the finals of the Bengal Bouts to be held tomorrow night in the Fieldhouse. Champions will be crowned in nine weight divisions. The annual Bengal Award will be given to Mr. James Crowley, former Notre Dame football great and at present chairman of the Pennsylvania State Athletic Commission. Mr. Crowley will oIsoa present trophies to this year’s cham-*' pions. The first bout will begin at 8:00 p.m.
28
The Scholastic
Law School
(Continued from page 21) which sponsors smokers, dances, and acts as an intermediary between the lawschool administration and the students. Tournaments in tennis, handball, and basketball are held each year under the direction of the Association, and a Law J?all is held at the South Bend Country Rlub each fall and spring.
Two clubs have been organized in the Law School within the past year. One of these, Gray’s Inn, is a fraternal society patterned after the old English Inns of Court and devoted to advocacy and fellowship. The Inn holds periodic meetings in an informal, off-campus atmosphere, pursuing topics of legal, cultural, or scholarly interest. The second ^f these new clubs is the Barristers’ 'Wives, a social and service organization composed of the wives of the married law students.
Within the past few years a change has taken place in the academic background of the law students. Formerly, the great majority of the students were men who had taken their undergraduate work at Notre Dame, and the bulk of these men were in the six-year combination program. In recent years, however, there has been a steady increase in the number of law students who did their
undergraduate work at other universities. The present senior class still reflects the former situation. Reflecting the new trend, the junior class is equally divided between men with Notre Dame degrees and those with degrees from other educational institutions; and in the freshman class there is a predominance ^f men from other schools.
™ Of course, the Notre Dame undergraduate colleges are also well represented in the freshman law class, by such men as Charles Doherty, a Magna, cum Laude commerce graduate last June and one of the country’s outstanding college debaters.
For the first time in the history of the Law School, there are now several scholarships available each year to aid outstanding college graduates in their law studies at Notre Dame. Two of ^hese, the John J. Cavanaugh Scholarships, are specifically restricted to Notre Dame men. A Cavanaugh Scholarship, providing tuition for all three years of law school, is awarded to an outstanding graduate of Notre Dame’s Arts and Letters College and of the Commerce College each year. The other scholarships are open to all, whether from Notre Dame or another university.
What’s going on in the Law School? In short, there is a great deal of activity, £*or things are on the move. It is activity \vith a purpose: the development of truly excellent lawyers in the Christian tradition.
March 23, 1956
...and get a better shave! Old Spice Pre*Electric Shave Lotion sets up your beard—tunes up your shaver. Stops dragging, clogging and over-heating. The new, non-oily lubricant, “Isophyl”,* prepares the skin for easy gliding... lubricates the shaver cutting edges for greatest efficiency.	JOO Nofederaltu
JACOBY’S ’ BRIDGE
NORTH
	Spades Hearts Diamond: Clubs	A 2 3 s A J 6 2 A 8 7 6 4 3
WEST	EAST	X Spades	K	10	9	6	Spades	J 8 7 4 V Hearts	KJ 10	9 6	Hearts	A 4 2 Diamonds Q	10	7	5	Diamonds K 9 8 3 Clubs	....	Clubs	10 SOUTH Spades	Q 5 Hearts	O 8 7 5 Diamonds 4 Clubs K Q J 9 5 2 The bidding: South	West	North	East IC	P	3C	P 4C	P	4D	P 4H	Dbl.	6C	Dbl. PPP Opening lead: 10 of diamonds.		
Criminal	carelessness on the part of	
the defense enabled South to bring home an over-ambitious slam contract in the above hand. Declarer won the Ace of diamonds, East indicating possession of the diamond King by playing the nine, then a low club was led to the King. South now led the Queen of hearts from his hand, which West won with the King. West led a small diamond, a low dia^ mond was played from dummy, and East played the King. South ruffed with a small club, led a heart from his hand and trumped in dummy, led another small diamond and trumped in his hand, trumped another heart in dummy, got back to his hand by leading a low club to one of his honors, ruffed the last heart with the Ace of clubs, and then led the last club from dummy winning the trick in his hand. At this point everyone ha^ three cards. South had the Queen ancr one spade and one trump left. West had the King, 10 of spades and the Queen of diamonds. The dummy held the Ace, one spade and the Jack of diamonds. When South led his last trump, West was squeezed. He actually played the 10 of spades, South discarded the Jack of diamonds from dummy, and when the King of spades dropped under the Ace, declarers Queen became the twelfth trick. If West had played the Queeru of diamonds instead of a low one afte^ he won the King of hearts, there would have been no squeeze at the finish of the hand, since East would hold the high diamond rather than West.—Jim Jacoby.
SHULTON New York • Toronto
Sunny I inly Cafe
A NOTRE DAME TRAD/T/ON
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
Order a full year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
LIBRARY BOOKS
All library books borrowed by students should have been returned to the Library by March 22. If there is any need for use of books after that date, they may be renewed-until March 26. Library books may" not be taken out of the city over the Easter vacation.
30
The Scholastic
Grad School
(Continued from page 23)
pursued in the Department of Economics the aim is to take the purely secular aspects of economic theory, practice, and policy and to correlate them with sound ethical and philosophical teachings. The Department is headed by Rev. Thomas ''JI McDonagh, C.S.C., and the Master’s degree is offered.
The Science Division of the Graduate School involves a different subject matter than either of the divisions described above. Although the students may be closer to the actual reality of the world, they are much farther from its human aspects than students in the two preceding divisions.
^The Department of Mathematics provides courses toward the Master of Science, and the Ph.D. Mr. Arnold E. Ross is its head. The graduate program is intended for the training of teachers and for training in research.
Due to the increasing complexity of everything in the world, and the resulting use of mathematics in almost every field, there are tremendous opportunities open to the graduate mathematician.
Mr. Charles C. Brambel heads the Department of Biology which offers the M.S. and the Ph.D. The aim of the program is to prepare students for teaching and for research, and the two chief branches of study are botany and zoology.
Headed by Mr. G. Frank D’Alelio, the Department of Chemistry has more fellowships and scholarships than any other graduate department. The M.S. and ^h.D. degrees can be earned in organic, ^organic, physical, and radiation chemistry. The importance of the graduate chemist in teaching and particularly in research is obvious.
The physicist today is the basic theoretical and technical scientist. The program of the Department of Physics, which is directed by Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., tries to give the student a good working knowledge of experimental and theoretical physics in order to prepare him for both research and teaching. ^Although there is no lack of opportunity for those with a B.S. in engineering, the graduate student in the Division of Engineering is becoming increasingly common. Graduate work is offered in aeronautical, chemical, civil, electrical, and mechanical engineering, in metallurgy, and in engineering mechanics. There are numerous opportunities open to the graduate engineer, both in the teaching profession and in industry.
This overall look at the Graduate gjchoo! is apt to make it seem rather sprawling and disjointed, but all those in it, both students and teachers, are united in a quest for knowledge.
GOOD DANCBIS
ALWAYS HAVE FUN
And you con be a good dancer overnight Enroll NOW at Arthur Murray’s
• Are you having as much fun as you should? Don’t let good times pass you by. Come in to Arthur Murray’s now and learn all the latest steps. Then you’ll agree that good dancers have the most fun. Learning to dance the Arthur Murray Way is so easy, too, thanks1^ to his tested methods. So come in or phone now before the winter season gets under way.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St. CE 2-3339
DRRWTURB0W
XPPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
-- EYES EXAMINED -
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-6777
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIES STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
WHY NOT?
Drive a ’56 Chrysler or Plymouth home at Easter! Save the cost of freight to your home town.
BUY NOW!
See Jack Moulder, ’38
MOULDER MOTOR
215 So. Lafayette, South Bend Chrysler — Plymouth
March 23, 1956
31
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
LT. THOMAS A. DOOLEY, Medical Corps, U.S. Naval Reserve, will speak in Washington Hall on Friday, April 13. Dooley will recount his experiences with the Navy’s “Passage to Freedom,” in which 750,000 refugees were transferred from North to South Viet Nam. A reception will follow in the Student Center. Admission is free.
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts of the country for Seniors and graduate students in
Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics Also for Seniors
in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER NOW at the Placement Office On the main floor • Administration Building
INTERVIEWS on APRIL 17, 18
For Your “Crew Cut” kru-kut
HAIR TRAINER
WITH LANOLIN
Bridge Director Announces | Winners of Two Tourneys
Winners for both the monthly Master Point tournament and the new tedm-of-four tourney, tried for the first time last ”, A Sunday, were announced this week by Prof. John Turley, campus expert and tournament director.	r
Taking one whole master point forw .605 average in the north-south direction last week were Lew Solomon and Jack Steinthal. Mike Regan and John Adams won the east-west point with a .600 average.
Second place awards of .5 master points went to Tom Betterton and Bob
Keeps th* Hair in that "Stand-up* Position
If you have stubborn hair to comb, KRU-KUT will keep it in place. At Drug Stores and Barber Shops.
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11—1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 2'/2x3'/2 in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
‘SCHOLASTIC’ COLUMNS
Manuscripts for a humor column, and the ‘Back Page' for next year’ A SCHOLASTIC will be accepted until May 19.
The humor column should contain humorous incidents relating to the campus or national college scene, or both. The “Back Page” should attempt to correlate campus or current events of interest to Notre . Dame campus life.
Every applicant should submit at least three separate manuscripts. All entries should be addressed incare of the SCHOLASTIC, Box 185,< Notre Dame, Ind.
32
The Scholastic
"erschinski, north-south, and to Tom Lee and Jen-y Farley, east-west.
In the team-of-four match, an average of .643 nailed down first place honors for the team of Steinthal-Solomon-Barrett-Volante. Second place went to the table of Moran-Shields-Stettler-Car-ley with a .571 average.
A one-hour bridge “bull session” con-«cted by Turley is to precede regular ly which will start at 2 p.m.
Name Senior to Represent ND at Advertising Meeting
Don Williams, a Sunland, Calif, senior marketing major, was named yesterday to represent Notre Dame at the Apnual “Inside Advertising” conference ^o be held in New York during the week of April 9 to 14.
Sponsored by more than 100 leading newspapers, advertising agencies, network broadcasters, and other leaders in the field, “Inside Advertising” is host to one student from each of 75 universities teaching journalism and advertising.
A year ago, the conference’s highest award, “Outstanding Advertising Student of America,” was won by Notre ‘Warne’s representative, Jack Sorrano. Both Williams and Sorrano received their training in the advertising classes conducted by Prof. Ronald S. O’Neill.
Competition to represent Notre Dame was unusually keen this year, Williams being closely pressed in the final judg--'.ing by Joseph Weibel, Akron, 0.; James Rosenheimer, Jackson, Wis.; Robert Morsches, Fort Wayne, Ind.; and Jerry Higgins of Kansas City, 'Mo.
Students Organize Chapter Of American Organists Guild
A student chapter of the American Guild of Organists was initiated recently at the University. The Guild is founded on the idea of the mediaeval guild system, and offers certificates in fields corresponding to the guild fields of apprentices, journeyman, and master. These «rtificates, associate, choirmaster, and How, are awarded to those who have successfully passed an examination given periodically by the Guild.
The Notre Dame student chapter plans a series of visits to various churches in the St. Joseph Valley, where they will inspect various makes of organs. The chapter will provide concerts for the St. Joseph Valley chapter, with which it is affiliated.
Officers of the Notre Dame chapter are: John Guinn, president; John Probst, ^ce-president; and William Pacholke, secretary. Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, who holds a fellowship in the Guild, is super-visor of the student chapter.
March 23, 1956
DESIGNED FOR SCORING!
These 1956 Registered Spalding top-flites® are the sweetest-playing clubs in the book. Plenty of golfers are lowering their handicaps with them.
The secret? They’re synchro-dyned® Clubs — scientifically and exactly coordinated to swing and feel alike.
What’s more, these beauties will stay handsome and new looking. The irons feature a new and exclusive tough alloy steel with high-polish finish that will last and last.
P.S. The new Spalding PAR-flites,® also fine-quality clubs, are offered at a popular price. The irons also feature Spalding’s new tough alloy steel heads with high-polish finish. Like the top-flites, they’re sold through Golf Professionals only.
Spalding
sets the pace in sports
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Joe Nabicht’s Restaaraat 213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our SpeciaUg “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Ralls 01.15
FISH, MS, cws At Prices You Will Appreciate
33
Back Pac^c
&
by Curt Matthews
modern art
and modern man
Before I plunge headfirst into this increasingly controversial subject of modern art in order to show how very little I do know about the area, let me first explain that my knowledge, what little there is of it, is that of a layman —not an authority.
Also it might be wise to say that I’m not far along enough in this subject to draw all my own conclusions. What little I know and understand about modern art most often comes from the pages of somebody else’s book or acticle—not, I must confess, from my own limited appreciation developed from long hours in a museum. When it comes to modern art I am not what the Spanish would call an a^cionacZo. My interest in modern art does not go beyond my natural curiosity. And this I feel is the same way it effects a lot of other people.
However, in spite of my layman’s knowledge and my unviolent interest in modem art I think it’s an area that anyone who cares to consider it will find well worthwhile.
I say this because, as I understand it, art is first and foremost, a man expressing his emotions. If this is so then it seems certainly worthwhile to investigate the expressions of the emotions modem men are experiencing.
Art has always, and always will, by its nature, reflect in a subtle way what man felt in a period in history. Art serves as a three-dimensional mirror to the realities of man, his environment, and how he is affected by the same.
I’ve always held that an artist does what he does because he is influenced from without and creative from within. By that I mean he is limited in his experiences to what his culture, his civilization has to offer. But, he can take these experiences and mold and charge them with his own personal emotions, imagination, and creativity.
•If Michelangelo were suddenly to be placed in our culture I doubt if he would be able to paint anything for some time in spite of his creativity and his skill. He would be so immediately confused by our telephones, jet planes and automobiles—in short, our culture—that he simply would have nothing to say—no clear experience to convey.
An artist therefore is, consciously or unconsciously, mirroring his age. He sets forth on canvas, in literature, in music, what he experiences. And what he experiences is largely due to when, where, how, and with whom he lives. And so, I think a consideration of modern art is a somewhat necessary endeavor for modern man if he is really interested in knowing and understanding better his world and himself.
When this subject of modem art comes up it usually divides people into two very distinct camps, those who like it and those who don’t. I qualify myself with the former, but with certain modification.
When the artist becomes so abstract and distorted that he fails to communicate his experience, then to me, he fails as an artist. This is a distinction a lot of people will make I think. (That’s why I mention it.)
However, there are those who say that as long as the modem artist winds up communicating some experience why can’t he do it more conventionally. There are several very good reasons, it seems to me.
First, freshness, originality, and spontaneity are just as much a part of artistic expression as conventionalism. Secondly, the modern artist deals with ideas, not concrete and well-defined objects. This calls for distortion and abstraction which may, it must be admitted, sometimes get out of hand.
Thirdly, and the point of this entire
consideration, the modern artist is dealing with a whole new and different world of experience than the more commonly known conventional artist dealt with. The world of the 20th century is considerably more complex with the cross currents of emotional experience than the world of the Renaissance. X
Paul Klee, one of the modern artists I feel has not distorted beyond the point of communication, went through a much faster and more involved set of experiences than Michelangelo. To the extent that he can communicate these emotions, and make me experience them also, I would say that Klee is a good artist, regardless of how bizarre and unconventional his method of communication may seem to some.
How would, say, Michelangelo paii^ the Golden Gate Bridge or a disturbing dream. These are the subjects that Klee and othei’ modern painters must deal with just as Michelangelo dealt with peasants and fishermen. Their problem is to re-create the experiences—and in our world the experiences are often not so well-defined and artistically simple as a fisherman’s bicep.
If this is true, and it seems so to me, then why should not modern man make a definite and sincere effort ijp understand more about modern art and the modern artist? Those who refuse to make this effort are missing, through their own fault, the translated experiences of their contemporaries. If modern men, living in the world that inspires the modern artist, cannot understand him, who, I wonder, ever will?
To continue to enjoy the artistic expression of four hundred years ago is not wrong; but to .fail to make an effort to understand the same sort of exprej, sions that have had their origin in out own period seems to me to point up some mild sort of deficiency.
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
And, an Arrow repp always sets off an Arrow shirt just right. Tie, $2.50.
Check this new collar style - the ARROW Glen
Here’s a broadcloth shirt with features that please the college man with an eye for style. The collar, (button-down, of course), is a shorter, neater-looking model. The fine broadcloth cools you throughout the warm days ahead. The trim checks are available in 7 color combinations, including blue, tan and grey. $5.00.
-M/IOIF
—first in fashion SHIRTS • TIES • SLACKS
Check, and double-check our new ARROW Glen
This new button-down broadcloth shirt comes in a neat check. It’s a natural with a solid color suit or jacket. We have the Arrow Glen now, in 7 color combinations—and that means your favorite is here waiting. Check us now for the Arrow Glen . . . and don’t miss seeing our ties. Arrow never offered so handsome a collection. Shirt, $5.00. Tie, $2.50.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
c
bn the
So Quick
DRAW ■
1. SUPERIOR TASTE, wi
is good to your taste
EM
America’s Best Filter Cigarette
7T
— its superior tobaccos, rich yet light and mild, are especially selected for filter smoking. For the flavor you want, here’s the filter you need.
2. SUPERIOR FILTER. The flavor comes clean! Only L&M has the Miracle Tip—pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. L&M is quick on the draw, actually improves your enjoyment.
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.


EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
KING SIZE w
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
