	Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.	—
Vol. XVII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 2, 1884.	No. 21.
The Impossible Rhyme.
£The first verse of the following jingle appeared in the London Times. It has suggested the lines oo
that follow. J
When “loon’s” been used, and “shoon,” and “spoon,”
And “stiver” sounded “stirrer,”
Think of the bard reduced to “ coon,"	.
And left alone with “ liver.”
Oh, then, how blessed is the boon,
How doubly blest the giver,
Who gives us one more rhyme to lune, And one more rhyme to river.
When “ shove’s ’’ rung in, and “ love,” and “ dove,”
And “sin” been rhymed with “grin,”
The reckless rhymester soars “above,”
And votes his business “ thin.”
Oh, then, how blessed is the man Who has at last “ arrove ’’
In a position where he can
Show “love” will rhyme with “stove.”	•
And we recall, with deep regret, That poets write of “ darlings,” To which they have discovered yet The single rhyme of “starlings. It is in vain they glibly prate
Of “ sparklings ” and of“ darklings;”
They cannot find, at any rate, Another rhyme to “darlings.”
Oh, luckless bard, whose name is Smith, Cease not in your endeavor;
Remember that you still have “myth,”—
’Twill bide with you forever.
And then you have both “ pith” and “ fifth,”—
These rhymes come still more easy;
And don’t forget that “monolith ”
Will make your writings breezy.
John Fresh.
A Favorite Catholic Poet.
In the lower portion of Philadelphia, not far from the very busiest of its marts, there is a quaint assemblage of old-time homes. They stand, sedate and comfortable-looking, in the various order of our ancestors’ tastes,—doors not exactly in line, windows not all of one height; here a heavy gabled pediment, and several high steps; there a modest arch and one low broad doorstone. At intervals,
certain of the high steps retain the stiff iron railings ornamented with brass knobs which were once the pride and torment of Philadelphia’s housewives; and, now and then, a house with walls of a different tint yet more diversifies the’lohg monotony of the right-angled streets. Contrasted with the exact reproduction of block after block in the upper and larger portion of the city, these individual homes are rest-and refreshment to eye and mind. - The prose and poetry of life alike have an existence here. There is food for the imagination and nurture for the artistic sense on every side. Placid reminders of a gentle-hearted past linger in prim Quaker corners; stately reminders of a colonial past wait upon the opening of massive portals; holy reminders of the high-hearted resolves, the enduring faith, the unquestioning hope, the fervent charity of a Catholic past, hover over old St. Mary’s, and descend as with a triple blessing upon old St. Joseph’s. For here, Jong ago, were Catholic homes; and here, early in the history of Philadelphia, the altar of our Lord was reared by Catholic hands. And here in this atmosphere of other days, brightened by that halo the years deepen and intensify, close to these hallowed walls with all their clustering inspirations and memories, lives the Catholic poet, Eleanor C. Donnelly.
She dwells gmong her own people, and her mother’s home is hers. The gentle and refining influences so evident in her writings lie close around her, as one is quick to perceive when the threshold of that home is crossed. There is a household possession of love for the beautiful in art and song— love for the highest sfood here and hereafter. .Hers has been the happy lot of but few poets,—the care, the shelter, the ready sympathy of kindred spirits, who are also kin. She has been free to work out her beautiful and blessed tasks, while she has been tenderly bound to the actual life of a more prosaic world.,.. The result is a most lovely character, in which the exaltation of the poet is strengthened and finely tempered .with all human sympathies and gentle home virtues'. '	‘	.
Miss Donnelly, as a general thing, is not easily accessible'.' The claims of her work, her family, her poor, and her Church, added too often to the delicacy of her health, have forced her to forego an extended acquaintance, and to deny herself the social life for which she is eminently fitted. But there are happy exceptions to the general rule. ■ It is possible to find her “ at home, ” and to enjoy an
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
hour with one of the brightest, most -unaffected, most earnest, and most tender natures. She greets a visitor with a warm, sweet manner that opens one’s heart to her on the spot. There is nothing of the traditional poet’s abstraction, or shy, proud consciousness. She is, in her own estimation, one whom God has chosen to do His work in a way that pleases -Him, and she is glad to do it just in ■that wav, getting happiness and heartiness and joyousness out of the doing and the intervals. To hear her speak of her work, her interests, and her aims, is to be continually impressed with her utter unconsciousness of self, and continually moved to sympathy with her earnestness and single-heartedness. She has lived the life of a carefully trained, carefully taught, carefully guarded Catholic girl. In the midst of a loving family, she has seen on all sides of her the earnestness which still places the inner life before all outer advantages. Born of the blessed Irish race, she has inherited its gifts and graces in a special manner. Her faith and her people are the whole of her life; and her people are all loving souls who know her God; all sorrowful souls who need Him; all ungrateful souls who forsake Him; all hardened souls who defy Him. To strengthen, to console, to woo and to win in God’s name—for this she lives. The events of her life have been such as arise from these labors. She has no story that can be told in everyday language, since hers is essentially a spiritual life. Her father was a physician, who died at his post combating the unseen enemy of pestilence. To his daughter have fallen the weapons of such a hero nature, and, as simply, earnestly, unflinchingly, she bears her cross of ill health and her burden of daily duties. She sees nothing more than her duty in the exercise of her gifts. A beautiful and true humility has lovingly been granted her as its handmaiden.
That Miss Donnelly is a poet of no mean order there can be no doubt. The spontaneous, heartful utterance, the easy, rythmic flo\V, the fire, the pathos, the purity of a poet, are all hers. A poet has been defined as one who puts into words the thoughts of other men; and this, too, Miss Donnelly certainly does. It cannot be said that she interprets the thoughts of all then, for, thank God! she has not run the gamut of the passions even in fancy; but she is such a poet as her life has made her—a pure, true, tender, graceful, heaven-aspiring woman soul. The womanliness gives the touch of nature to experiences wider than her lot, and adds .warmth to her most ethereal fancies. In some sense, her meaning is for all hearts^ but Its highest and deepest are for Catholics alone. All poetry has its origin in Catholic truth. There is beauty of form, at least, in Catholic legends and saints’ lessons, but only to Catholics stands forth the beauty of their spirit. These legends and lessons gain a new beauty of form under Miss Donnelly’s touch. She sees in her “mind’s eye” the .passage of events, and then clothes them in the '.words best suited to set forth their harmonies and 'contrasts. She has the power of reproducing in another’s rhiiid her own' ideas,' and of awakening
the ideas of others bv the suggestions of an admirably chosen word. She is very rich in words, and rhymes seem to spring from the tips of her fingers, so easily and so sensibly are they woven upon the fabric of her thoughts. There is a naturalness in her most elaborate efforts which adds greatly to the pleasure of their'perusal, and there is an earnestness in her lightest verses which carries home their lesson. She has published four volumes of poems. The first appeared in 1873, and contains Sacred Legends, Poems of the Civil War, and Miscellaneous'Poems. Some of these “ had drifted into print,” as she says in the modest and graceful preface, and already secured a hearing for the remainder. Two years after, in 1875, she made an offering of another volume to the Church of St. Charles Borromeo, in Philadelphia, and it appeared under the title of “ Domus Dei,” also the title of the first poem, which recalls the generous love of olden times, when men brought their best to the building of the House of. God. Again, in 1880, she bestowed upon the Irish Famine Fund the labor of her brain and hand in a volume entitled “ The Legend of the Best Beloved”; and in 1881 her fourth volume was issued—“ Crowned with Stars.” It was published to aid in placing upon the dome of the University of Notre Dame a statue of the Blessed Viigin, crowned with twelve stars of electric light, and contains, first, twelve poems commemorating twelve different graces with which Our Lady was crowned and gifted. The generous ardor of her nature, and the cause in which it is enlisted, can readily be gathered from this record of wholesale devotion of her labors. She has given royally, for .she has given her .best; and she has given wisely, for she has honored Eternal Wisdom and Infinite Love.
The volumes must speak for themselves. To separate a verse here and there from the chain of exquisite thoughts, in which they are linked and help to form one perfect whole, or to select any one poem for special note, would give no fair idea of Miss Donnelly’s powers. The poems are chiefly religious, and the legends, although told before, have not been told so charmingly. Some of them are quite new to the general reader. “The Two Quests of the Abbot Paphnucius” is one of these. It is the story of a holy man sent by God from the desert, to warn the lovely Greek sinner Thais of the end of her evil life. This first quest ended in her reformation and devotion to a life of penance. Years after, Paphnucius yearned for some tidings of this ransomed soul, and went deeper into the desert, consumed by this divine fire of sympathy, to beg the prayers of St. Anthony’s monks, to put his soul at ease. The prayers were heard, and a vision sent, revealing the honors reserved in heaven for “the sinner Thais,” whom Paphnucius had helped to save. The story is exquisitely told; delicately, yet with fervor; loftily, yet with tenderness. “ The Bronze Berenice,” or the legend of the woman who touched the hem of our Eord’s garment and was healed; “ Gualberto’s Victory ” and “ :Th’e.Legend of the Best Beloved,” are'also new; and' the last, the loveliest. “ The Best
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	323
Beloved” was a poor, little, stupid convent Sister who became a leper through her ministrations to the poverty-stricken sufferers with the same loathsome disease. Shut away into the bell-tower of the church, kindly ministered to, yet necessarily alone, the patient, hunible, loving soul in the tortured body drew very near to the Sacred Heart of Suffering and Love—so near, He gave to her the title of the Best Beloved among her Sisters, revealing it to the abbess. The theme is one replete with tenderness and holy lessons, and one which appealed to every fibre of Miss Donnelly’s heart.
Of the miscellaneous poems, “Patience” and “Misunderstandings” are simply exquisite, full of heavenly comfort and heavenly wisdom. The first stanza of “ Patience,” repeated as the burden of the song sings in the heart like the chirp of a God-watched sparrow, through darkest hours:
“ Every cloud hath a sunbeam, Every bird hath a nest, Every grief hath a solace, And every care a rest.”
“Misunderstanding’s” closes with a balm for that sorest of pains, the wound in a heart which has been faithful and yet been doubted:
■ “ And we may trust our faults and failures, too, Unto His love, as humble children should;
Content that if all others misconstrue,
* By Hun, at least, our hearts are understood.”
In the hymn written for a Catholic literary society, entitled “Revere the Church, thy Mother, and Love thy Fatherland,” there is a magnificent and inspiriting rhythm worthy the subject, and perfect as a deep chord on the harp. In the memorial poems, the poems of sentiment and feeling, there is varying merit, but they are ■poems. In the beautiful aspirations, the jewel-like prayers, so glowing and so pure, Catholic piety may find expression lacking to many fervent yet mute souls. It is- impossible to read Miss .Donnelly’s poems and not, at least, desire a better life, a closer union with Infinite Perfection.
Besides the volumes spoken of, Miss Donnelly has edited a collection of letters and memorials of Blessed Margaret Mary, entitled “ Pearls from the Casket of the Sacred Heart”; and her latest publication is a selection from her'poems of twelve “ Hymns to the Sacred Heart,” adapted to music. She is a steady worker, and we may hope for more and sweeter echoes from a heart that widens and deepens and quickens with life’s wear.
Personally, Miss Donnelly is a very womanly presence—neither too tall nor too short. She has soft, brown hair—that fine, sensitive, living hail' which defies all rules, and breaks away from all resti aints into waves and rings. She has Irish eyes and an expressive, mobile mouth, which suits her pleasant voice, and glad, gentle manner She talks well and easily—very easily, and with that command of words her writings prove. She is a singer in a double sense, for the choir of St. Joseph’s (and Catholic music generally in Philadelphia) is largely indebted- to her and her sisters for their generous use of their voices.
Much of Miss Donnelly’s time is spent at St. Joseph’s and she is closely -linked with the old
church in the thoughts of Philadelphia’s Catholics. Indeed, one traces the influence of its charm in the outcome of her talents. No doubt, it has deepened her poetic nature, for it appeals to all the poetry of any nature. It is so old, as years are reckoned in the New World, that the mighty present has pushed it out of sight; and one must search carefully for it, and finds it down a narrow, dark alley, beyond a low, arched gateway, and across a square paved courtyard, where some trees whisper and sigh softly in the quiet of the place. Very high buildings partly surround this court on two sides; the dwelling house of the Jesuit Fathers forms the third; and the fourth, opposite to the gateway, is the church. Except for its two long windows, it has no churchly aspect. It is of brick and gray stone, like the house, and the entrance is through a low, square tower in an angle of the court,,and over a stone sill worn hollow with the tread of countless feet. There are odd, foreign-looking old lamps or lanterns affixed to the house, and between the windows of the church there is a bust and tablet to the memory of Father Barbelin—likewise commemorated by Miss Donnelly in several of .her sweetest poems. He was a saintly French priest, who, for thirty years, was a gentle presence at St. Joseph’s. Within the church, all is shadow-dimmed, age-mellowed,—peace, comfort, rest! The sanctuary lamp, slow swinging and trembling as it vibrates with the pulsing of the busy life so near and yet so separated, and burning its heart out night and day before the Love it symbolizes, seems a very lodestar to the heavy-hearted, the happy, the aged, the active man of business, whom it draws forever through the open gate to the closed door of the Tabernacle. There is always some, one kneeling before it, always some one waiting .for the “still small voice” which speaks “through the lattices ” where our Lord lies hid.
. Miss Donnelly is often among the silent worshippers. In and out among the to-days and yesterdays of Philadelphia’s past and present, alone in her quiet, far-up chamber, waiting before the altar where a heritage of prayers have left their fragrance, she lives a beautiful, tranquil, spiritual life, which shapes itself, as God wills, into fairest expressions of the love He teaches her.
Sara Trainer Smith in The “Afe MariaT
- The Process of Canonization.*
Among the many subjects treated of in the Catholic Church there is none, perhaps, about which non-Catholics love to busy themselves more thzm that of the “ Canonization of the Saints.” They maintain that she does not possess Divine Authority on this point; and that Canonization, as it takes place in the Roman Church, is nothing more than an ingenious transformation of a like pagan ceremony, known.as “Apotheosis,” and of which historians, such .as Dion and Herodianus, have left us a minute account.
* Paper read before the Archconfraternity, .Sunday, Jan. 13, by James S01.0N,’84.	• - .
334
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Now, the first difference between “ Apotheosis ” and “Canonization” is this: that while among the pagans the deification of certain personages, such as Romulus, Octavius, Tiberius, etc., resulted from an interested enthusiasm, inspired by national pride or base flattery, the Canonization of the Saints depends upon the testimony of numerous and trustworth}7 witnesses, supported by heroic acts of virtue, and wonderful miracles. Besides, the supreme honor of “ Apotheosis ” could be paid only to kings, princes, and emperors; while, on the other hand, all classes are liable to be canonized, without any 'ther motive than the eminent moral qualities, or martyrdom heroically endured for the faith of Jesus Christ.
In the days of paganism, it often happened that persons defiled, degraded, and stained with every vice, were raised to the dignity of “immortal gods.” How different the action of the Church when proposing to our veneration one who is adorned with all virtues—a lover of God and mankind, whom we are allowed to invoke, not as a God, but as an intercessor between God and man! ’
According to Etymology, Canonization means the act by which some one is placed in the canon, or catalogue of the Saints. The ceremonies of Canonization in the early ages of the Church consisted in writing the Saint’s name on sacred tablets which were read at Mass. When this had been done, churches were erected in his honor, and the Holy Sacrifice was offered up there, to thank God for his triumph and implore his intercession.
According to its present acceptation, we would say that “ Canonization is a lawful, solemn, and definitive declaration, by which the Sovereign Pontiff places in the canon or catalogue of the Saints a person who has been beatified, and so. authorizes his or her veneration in the universal Church.” The term Canonization, however, is not as old as the thing itself. The first mention of it is made in the 12th century by Uldaric, Bishop of Constance, writing to Pope Calixtus II for the Canonization of Bishop Conrad.
It is necessary to bear in mind that the right of canonizing must, of necessity, belong to the.Church. Since God wishes us to honor the Saints, he should give the Church the proper means of proving their sanctity beyond doubt, else the faithful might be led into superstition or idolatry. It would be heresy to deny the authority of the Church teaching that the Saints ought to be invoked. Hence the Church must have received from Christ, her Founder, the right to distinguish with certainty those whose sanctity entitles them to be worshipped or venerated. Hence it would be heresy to deny the authority of the Church regarding the Canonization of Saints. “ Consequently,” concludes Benedict XIV, “ the Pope, as the .infallible head of-the Church, when speaking ex cathedra, and defining some point of doctrine, cannot err in Canonizing the Saints.” And he who would support a contrary opinion, though he would not be a formal heretic—since the point has not yet been defined by the Apostolic See—yet would rashly maintain an erroneous, impious, and almost heret
ical statement, and be liable to the severest canonic penalties.	*
.This custom of venerating the true servants of God, far from being a new one, goes back to the first days of Christianity. During all times, and from the first centuries to our own day, the acts of Martyrs and the recital of Confessors or Virgins were carefully collected by some special officers called “Notaries”; and the voice of the people, as well as the sanction of the lawful pastors, agreed in inscribing such illustrious personages in the catalogue of the Saints.
It is a fact that at Rome St. Peter and St. Paul were publicly venerated by the members of the primitive Church, as tradition testifies. We are told that St. Clement, one of the immediate successors of St. Peter, had appointed seven secretaries to write down the principal particulars con- . cerning Martyrs; and these precious documents were to be faithfully kept in the archives of each church. Later on, a canonic tribunal was established for the purpose of examining these various relations, criticising the testimonies, and passing final sentence on the facts themselves. It was only after such a severe scrutiny that the relics of a Martyr could be presented for public veneration; and in this case they were called “vindicated,” a word then signifying the same as now the word “ beatified.”
But in order to make the judgment more certain, there was at Rome a kind of Supreme Court charged with revising the acts of the particular churches, and centralizing, as it were, the whole process of canonization.	‘
This fact of canonization is attested by the epistle of St. Ignatius, martyr, to the Romans; by the acts of St. Dionysius the Areopagite;. by St. Vigil, Bishop of Trent, and by a letter concerning the Martyrs of Lyons addressed to Pope Eleu-therius.	-
- This was the manner of canonizing up to the 12th century. From the time of Alexander the III (A. D. 1161) this discipline was changed, and •the right of beatifying and canonizing was reserved exclusively to the Sovereign Pontiff. Since that period especially, and owing to the most severe ’ regulations laid down by Sixtus V, and later by Urban VIII, the manner of proceeding in the Canonization of Saints is as follows: When a person having died in the odor of sanctity is looked upon as a servant of God, and it is rumored that he works miracles, the Bishop of the place, authorized by the Holy See, draws up, on the evidence of trustworthy witnesses, a statement of facts, proving the farne and sanctity of the one whose case is under consideration.	1
Besides this, he has to make certain that no worship was yet paid to the deceased. Also the strictest silence should, be kept as to the previous examination itself, and the witnesses that may have been heard during the course of the episcopal inquiry.
The authentic report of the Bishop is carefully sealed up and sent through a special messenger to the Congregation of Rites in Rome, and there
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
examined with the greatest care. It is his duty to procure all necessary documents to throw light on the subject, and acquaint the congregation with them.
Those who are appointed to seek the judgment of beatification or canonization are called “Postulators-” of the cause, and at this period the candidate receives the title qf “Venerable.”
The Congregation of Rites forms a court. The following are the persons who appear in it: first, a president, who is the relater of the cause; second, two advocates acting as postulators, and commonly known under the name of God’s advocates; third, two advocates against, who are the promoter and sub-promoter of the faith, generally called the advocates of the devil. Their office is to raise all possible difficulties regarding facts and laws, so that the truth may be discovered, and, if necessary, that the cause may be brought to nothing; fourth, several notaries or clerks transcribe the depositions with a most scrupulous fidelity; fifth, an archivist to keep all the documents of the process under lock and key; sixth, one or several interpreters to translate faithfully into Latin all papers written in a foreign language; seventh, able jurisconsults are procured, so as to study all questions of law; eighth, physicians, surgeons, mathematicians, and natural philosophers; these latter being consulted when there is a question of miracles. Such is the constitution of this High Court of Justice which has to judge of the most solemn cases wherein man can appear.
Here is, in short, the manner of proceeding with the investigation: ist, no one concerns himself about the canonic investigation of a servant of God until 50 years after his death. This admits of exception only in cases of extraordinary sanctity, as, for instance, in our own times with St. Alphon-sus Liguori. Then the Sacred Congregation begins by examining the works of the person, if he has written any. The least proposition contrary to the Catholic faith or to good morals is sufficient to put an end to the cause altogether. The works being examined, the course o'f procedure is suspended for 10 years, so as to give time to discover writings that might have escaped the judge’s knowledge. At the end of the 10 years the postulators of the cause beg remissorial letters. There are Bulls by which the Holy Father appoints commissioners to inquire at the place where the deceased lived, as to the certainty of his miracles and heroism of his virtues.
The requisite virtues are the three Theological, Faith, Hope, and Charity; the four Cardinal, viz., Prudence, Justice, Fortitude and Teniperance. As to the first, the Congregation reviews the reports of the commissioners, weighing carefully- all the depositions of the witnesses. There must be several witnesses, all Catholics who are not to be led away bv any7 personal interests; and they' ought to have seen or heard of, the. facts themselves, even as to their smallest details, and presenting all the guarantees of age, knowledge and character prescribed by7 the Canon law. «
Careful and prudent as this tribunal is in pass-
325
ing sentence only after ten, twenty, and sometimes thirty years, it is much more so especially when there is a question of miracles. In a question of miracles the number of witnesses must be considerable, and the conditions of the inquiry proved most severe.
Two miracles, at least, are necessary to proceed to the beatification; and to obtain a canonization two others must have been performed. Every miracle must be proved superior to the whole force of nature, and ought not to be possibly ac-• counted for by any art or natural remedy; its effect must be visible and steady; and it must, finally, have been wrought by the servant of God to confirm a point of doctrine or the sanctity7 of the one who is going to be beatified.
But, as we know, miracles may7 be of different orders. A miracle is of the first when directly opposed to the laws of nature, or when there is a creation of new substance, for instance, the resurrection of the dead to life. It is of the second when it is only above the general laws of nature, such as the cure of a paralytic or a stone blind. And of the third, when it is scientifically proved to be in its performance opposed to the effects of merelv natural laws, such as the healing of an incurable disease.
To be miraculous, the cure must have taken place immediately, on a sudden and at the highest period of the malady; no efficacious remedy should have been used. It must be incontestable, complete, and nor followed by relapse. Here, particularly, is the inquiry severe, even beyond measure: all possible precautions are taken by- the judges; all competent scientists consulted, all witnesses cross-examined again and again, in order to avoid the least chance of doubt, error, ordelusion.
After the holv Congregation of Rites—com-posed of twenty-seven Cardinals, not less illustrious by7 their profound learning than by wonderful experience,—have most carefully7 discussed all the parts of the process, then it is entirely7 submitted to the examination of a general assembly7 of all the Cardinals, Archbishops, and Bishops of the Roman Court.
Meetings follow meetings. The Pope presides at several of them, asks the opinions of all the Cardinals and other consulters without giving his own, recommends himself to - their prayers, and commands public supplications to be offered in be half of the cause; in a word, no means is omitted of gaining light. If, after all possible precautions have been taken, there remains the least doubt, the cause is postponed, and often dropped out altogether. Hence, it is only when the Vicar of Christ is fully convinced that he publishes a Bull giving authority to proceed to the ceremony of beatification.
Now, we can ask: “ Where on earth is there to be found a tribunal as careful and severe as the one mentioned? ” Either the truths regarding facts— and the plainest, facts—cannot be possibly7 established, or we must admit that, after such long, close and continued researches and contradictory debates, the truth must necessarily- come to light, and amount to undeniable certainty. ...	.
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Books and Periodicals.
Writing Exercises for Gaining Speed in Phonography. Adapted to all Styles. By Elias Longley. Cincinnati: Robert Clarke & Co. Price, 15 cents This is a writing-book of 32 pages designed by the veteran stenographic and reporter and author, Elias Longley, and is therefore eminently practical as an exercise book for students. It is, we believe, the first of its kind in this country. There are two sizes of ruled columns—one eighth and three-sixteenths of an inch respectively, either, of which can be used, the other constituting the space between the lines. A small portion only of the book has stenographed head-lines; it can therefore be used by students of any system, though the head-line portion adapts it best to the Pitman Eclectic. Two slight defects mar the general excellence of the work, and are likely to mislead selftaught students. The head-line strokes arc three-sixteenths of an inch long, while it is evidently the intention to write in the one-eighth inch ruling, and the upward “r” when joined above is slanted too much, making it too long. This last great defect with beginners, and should not be encouraged. We have no doubt that both these inaccuracies will be remedied in the second edition. The paper is excellent, the engraving clear, and the book throughout is neatly gotten up.
—St. Nicholas for February is a bright, crisp, and cheerful midwinter number, and the seasonable frontispiece—an original wood-engraving, by Elbridge Kingsley,—is called “ A Midwinter Night.” Accompanying the frontispiece is a paper, entitled “An Engraver on Wheels,” which gives a pleasant and instructive account of wood-engraving in general, and, in particular, of Mr. Kingsley’s peculiar methods and place of work. “ Historic Boys,” a series of sketches by E. S. Brooks, which bids fair to be of unusual-interest, begins in the number with “ Marcus of Rome, the Boy Magistrate,” a vividly written account of some incidents in the boy-life of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius; Mayne Reid tells in “The Land of Fire” of a thrilling pursuit and escape of its heroes in a manner which explains how that country derived iis name; Albert Durer is the subject of one of Mrs. Clement’s popular “Art and Artists” papers, which is accompanied by several reproductions of the master’s works; while Louisa M. Alcott’s second “Spinning-wheel Story,” entitled “ Tabby’s Table-cloth,” is a tale of the Revolution and the Rebellion that will be eagerly read by boys and girls alike.
—The retirement of Mr. Carl Schurz, a few weeks ago, from the editorship of one of the leading journals of New York, on the ground that irreconcilable differences of opinion existed between him and his associates with regard to the conflict of the telegraph and railroad men with their employers, has awakened curiosity in no ordinary degree; and hence when he defines his position upon the question at issue, viz., “ Corporations, their Employes, and the Public,” as he does in the North -American Review for February, he is sure to command an attentive hearing. . The
question “Must the Classics Go?” is discussed by by Prof. Andrew F. West, of Princeton College, who presents a very forcible argument for	.
the retention of Greek and Latin in the curricu-
lum of our educational system. “Race Increase in the United States,” by Congressman J. Randolph Tucker, makes a very subtantial contribu-	,
tion to sociological science. The Rev. M. J. Sav-	*
age, in pointing out sundry “ Defects of the Public School System,” advances certain views of the ends to be attained by State education, which, if accepted, would very materially modify, and indeed revolutionize, the existing system. Finally, an important question in hygiene, “ Rival Systems of
Heating,” is treated by Dr. A. N. Bell and Prof.	।
W. P. Trowbridge, who point out the advantages	;
and disadvantages, from the standpoints of both economy and of health, of the different methods in use for warming houses. Published at 30 Lafayette Place, New York, and for sale by booksellers generally.
—Many noted names lend weight and importance to the table of contents of the February Century^ ' either as subjects or as contriubtors to the number.
In the frontispiece is given one of Rembrandt’s most effective paintings, engraved with a skill that has seldom been excelled in the magazine. This painting, “ The Head of a Man,” is from the “Hermitage” in St. Petersburg, containing a remarkable but little-known art collection, of which Richard Whiteing gives a description in the same number.
Signor Salvini contributes his “Impressions of	J
Shaksperc’s ‘Lear.’” The two articles on Dante are well calculated to extend the interest in his genius. Keats is also illustrated in a remarkable way by a full-page engraving of his life-mask—proba-	i
bly the most expressive portrait of the poet that has ever been published. Edmund C. Stedman contributes a brief essay on Keats. “ How Edwin Drood Was Illustrated,” by Mrs. Alice Mcynell, reveals considerable of the “ mystery” of Dickens’s unfinished story, as it was' partly revealed to Mr-Fildes (who was the illustrator), and partly anticipated by him. Sketches of some.of the characters, by Mr. Fildes, are given with the article, and are printed here for the first time. The “ Bric-a-
Brac ” department has the benefit of a humorous sonnet by Robert Browning, and of live short poems	1
by Austin Dobson, which were inscribed in copies of his books presented to American friends. A full-page portrait of “Lieut.-Gencral Sheridan” is accompanied by a striking desciiption of his military career, by General Badeau. George B. McClellan writes of “The Princes of the House
of Orleans,” including special reference to their scr-	1
vice in the Army of the Potomac.- We regret that space will not permit us to notice at length the editorial on “Modern Catholicism.” The writer thinks he can foresee a future union between Catholicism and Protestantism, as if there ever could be any union between truth and error!
Perhaps this sentence expresses all in a nut-shell.
“So far as Pi otestant bodies are concerned, there is nothing in their principles to hinder them from making any changes whichdncreasing* light may require.”
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
No, for they have no fixed principles, no settled dogmas of belief,—the word religion, as applied to their system, is a misnomer. With the Church it is far otherwise: she maintains and teaches to-day the same dogmas that she received from her Founder,—Who is the Truth and the Light—and no “increasing light” can' require "any change. In a word, it may be said that the editorial simply expresses, in its own way, the conviction that is daily increasing its hold on intelligent minds, that Protestantism, as a system, is decaying. .
College Gossip-
—The number of students working in the chemical laboratory at Harvard is 208.
—A Williams College student named Gest was killed on the 16th, while coasting.
—It is said that there are over 300,000 students in the colleges of the United States.
—Six students at Columbia have elected Sanskrit this year under Dr. Perry.—Argonaut.	‘
—Three women have passed the examination and taken professors’ chairs in the University at Paris.	. "
—Oxford, Cambridge. Durham and London Universities have opened their doors to women. —Argonaut.
—Mr. Matthew Arnold lectured lately at the University of Michigan and seems to have been well appreciated.
—Galesburg College, Galesburg, Ill., was destroyed by fire lately. The library and college furniture generally was saved.
—The University of Toronto and the University of Michigan have each lost an advanced student by death from typhoid fever.
—We learn from The Argonaut that there are seven students in Sanskrit at the University of Michigan. Columbia has but six.
* —Matthew Arnold lectures once a year at the Cambridge University, England, and by so doing holds his professorship in the University.
—The new Law School buildingat Harvard University is named Austin Hall, after Mr. Edward Austin, who gave the money for its erection.
—Judging from the number of plays recently produced by the English Universities, the dramatic element must be in the ascendant.—’ Varsity.
—The college paper of Colby University*complains that their only fire apparatus consists of “water pitchers and a few pails.”—Herald-Crimson. '	’	’
—A Freshman wrote home to his father:- “Dear papa—I want, a little change.” The paternal parent replied: “Dear Charlie—Just wait for it. Time brings change to everybody.”—Ex.
—At the close of last term, five gentleman students were suspended from Monmouth College for joining a secret, society;. and during vacation,
three ladies Were temporarily suspended'for the same reason.— University-Press.
—A new monthly scientific periodical, entitled Scicncia Catholica, is to be published at the University of Coimbra, in Portugal. Dr. Luiz Maria da Silva Ramos, one of the Professors in the University, will be the editor-in-chief.	‘
—The Herald-Crimson advocates a second course in American history at Harvard. A few years ago two courses were open at the University; now there is but one, which is esteemed one of the most popular and .useful in the College.
—The Board of Regents of the University of-Wisconsin has given an order that fire escapes be provided for the Ladies’ Hall, hose for the hydrants, and that such further steps betaken as may be deemed necessary for the security of the lives of its inmates.
—Prof. Hennequin, of Ann Arbor University, has almost completed a French and American dictionary, begun by Prof. Fasquelle, which will, for the first time, present the philology of both languages in juxtaposition. It will be issued during the coming year.—Badger.	'
—At Oxford the Philothesphian Club has suc-.ccssfully produced “The Merchant of Venice”; and at Cambridge, Girton College [for women J has played the “ Electra ” of Sophocles, the music of “ Antigone ” being adapted to it. It is proposed, also, to produce the “Birds” of Aristophanes shortly.—’ Varsity.
—Monmouth College has had another sensation. The members of two Gieek fraternities, we learn, have been notified that their presence there is no longer agreeable. Monmouth is becoming notorious for the spirit of insubordination existing among its students, this being the third eruption of the kind within recent dates.
—“ It was not for the Liberal, ” says the London Times, “or for the Minister of the United States at St. James’, that the St. Andrew’s student voted; it was for the author of the ‘Bigelow Papers’ and ‘Under the Willows’ and ‘Among My Books.’ Their candidate was the friend of Hawthorne, the successor to Longfellow’s chair at Harvard; one of the leaders in the society which has invested Cambridge, in Massachusetts, with something of the halo of Weimar; the expert in English literature who has redeemed the name of Fielding from u n m e ri ted reproach es.”
—The seemingly unbounded dramatic zeal which I mentioned a week or two ago as having broken out among the undergraduates has now extended even to the colleges of the fair sex. On Saturday last the students of Girton (a young ladies’ college which is familiarly known as ‘-Girlton ’) performed the 'Electra of Sophocles, in their gymnasium, before an audience which, alas! was restricted to ladies, fathers of students, and classical lecturers of the College. The music written by Mendelssohn foi- the Antigone was adapted to Electra, and the whole performance is said to have been most successful.—Cambridge Univ. Cor. ’ Varsity.z
3i8
THE.NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.Notre Dame, February 2, .1884.	.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: ’ • * •
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as bn subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	.	.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
' Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address . EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete .for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
’ The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Our Staff-
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
Jno. A. McIntyre, ’84.
James Solon, ’84.
W. H. Bailey, ’84.
Elmer A..Qtis,-’S4.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
—The examinations have come and gone; and it goes without saying-that they have been remarkably thorough and impartial on the part of-the Faculty. As to the work of the students, it will be shown more or less clearly by the list of averages appearing in another column. As usual, some have done very well, some only fairly; while a few, in one or more studies, have practically failed. - Of course, in every examination -there is a certain amount of chance; and some' students, had they exchanged questions, might have exchanged grades. Still we may safely say that while a high average need not show a high degree.of scholarship, a low one most certainly shows a serious and .culpable loss of time'during. the past term. Indeed we venture to say that a principal reason for middle examinations in?;the higher classes is to convince students, by taking, as it were, an invoice of their learning, that loss of study 'means deficiency’in knowledge.	.^...
‘With the beginning of a new term, let us hope that the many good resolutions may be in the main lived up to, and in the stead of a few days’ violent' cramming in June, there may be steady study day by day;—the best earnest of success in the next examinations. ‘	.
—From the frequent complaints about missingmail-matter, and especially “second class” matter—such as newspapers, etc.,—we judge that some of Uncle Sam’s “boys in blue” take summary measures to get rid of it. From what we know, and have heard from others, it would be safe to say that at least one fourth of the second-class matter placed in post-offices throughout the United States never reaches its destination. Of a dozen papers- addressed to persons at the college, and known to have been placed in the post-office at Denver, Colorado, but one was received at the Notre Dame Post-office. What became of the rest? It would be hard to determine exactly, but they were surely diverted from their proper destination while en route from Denver to Nctre -Dame.
The President of the University states that the college authorities have experienced similar losses. Of the Annual Catalogues mailed to applicants.— all of which are carefully and legibly addressed— scarcely one in four is delivered. There can be’ no mistake about this. When a Catalogue is mailed, a note in the same mail announces that it has been sent. The note is always received, but in three out of every four cases word is sent in that no Catalogue had been received. What becomes of the other three? Ah, that is for the postal servitors to answer, as no one else is in the secret. A short time ago two mail parcels—both first-class matter, by the way—were sent from the Notre Dame Post-office to Portland, Maine. One of the parcels fetched up at Lewiston, Me.; at latest accounts the other had not been heard of.
Now, this is an ugly and most aggravating state of affairs, and well worthy the attention of the postal authorities at Washington. We hope they will see to it, and bounce the offenders. .	*
Eye-Lashes Twelve Feet Long.
It’s in a work of fiction, but then fiction is sometimes stranger than truth. And George Eliot is such a careful delineator of character and personal peculiarities that it must have been sketched from nature. Open “ Daniel Deronda ” and read chapter-xlviii, where Gwendolen is in a tantrum of unusual. altitude, even for .her,..poor.ME Lush .being the. victim. . ■	.	'	.
“When she was four yards from him, it was hardly an instant that she. paused to say in a high tone, while she swept him with her eye-lashes—” '
Theie, you see, four yards, or twelve feet, was the distance between them, measured presumably at light angles. But in the' action of sweeping, particularly when devilling out corners, you hold the broom . with a certain obliquity. I think I have noticed an angle as great as 370 13' 42"-in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
329
the direction of broomsticks wielded by the energetic persons who pervade the corridors raising a dust. The secant of this angle is 1.255,^33, which would require an eye-lash a little more than fifteen (15) feet long to effect the desired jabster-sion, and even then nothing is allowed for.the’bent margin which produces the necessary friction, without which complete cleanliness cannot be insured.
Eye-lashes such as these are undoubtedly scarce, but we should not withhold our belief in them on that account. George Eliot is acknowledged to be one of the most accomplished writers of fiction that the nineteenth century has produced, and her reputation is above the sneers of the skeptic. If any have the hardihood to doubt her assertion let them 'prove that no such eye-lashes ever existed.
Justin Thyme.
1	- I.
The Entertainment.
On last Sunday evening, the Faculty and students were invited by Prof. Lyons to hear the great elocutionist of Chicago, Prof. W. E. Lyman. In reviewing the performance of the evening, it is only proper to say that several circumstances, beyond the Professor’s control, prevented his rendition from being as fine as his powers and reputation had warranted his audience to expect.
The first recitation, entitled “ Love in a Balloon,” was a piece of clever impersonation, which at once put the speaker ch rapport with his audience. Its successor, however, representing the murder by Gloster of Henry VI, was not so favorably received; a fact probably due to the extreme difficulty of the same person assuming the various roles of a dialogue. “ The Spanish Cavaliers,” which was next on the programme, was an amusing, well-written piece, and was splendidly brought out in the recitation. “Mark Twain’s Italian Guides,” well known at Notre Dame, was delivered with considerable humor, and enthusiastically received. “Sheridan’s Ride” (delivered by request), “The Rum Maniac,” “ Sunday Breeches,” and the Professor’s own original anecdote, were delivered exceedingly well in varying styles of declamation. The piece of the evening—inasmuch as it was the one.most looked forward to—was the “Trial Scene” from the “ Merchant of Venice.” Suffering as he was under several disadvantages, for example, the difference to be noted in eight characters, Prof. Lyman delighted all his hearers. If, however, we might venture a criticism, it would be that the. actor’s conception of Shylock too closelj* resembled that,of Richard lll, as given in the earlier part of the evening. There ‘was’also, at times, a certain indistinctness, which was more or less noticeable throughout the evening.
During the several interludes the audience were delighted by some of the sweetest music we have ever heard at Notre Dame, thanks to Professor Paul and his young disciple in music,-Master Schott. All in all, the entertainment was a most pleasant one, and we join in thanking the two elocutionists for the literary treat afforded us. , S.
\Catfrolic Columbian^
A Pleasant Surprise.
bishop Watterson made the recipient OF_A MAGNIFICENT GIFT FROM NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
The following^ beautifully worded address, printed upon silk, with artistically illuminated bord-ers, was presented to-the Rt. Rev. Bishop on last Monday afternoon, accompanied by the- gift of a magnificent gold chalice. Both were^the appreciative offerings of the Faculty, of Notre Dame University, Ind., and were sent through the hands of W. J. Clarke, Esq., who made the presentation in a few well chosen remarks. There were no formalities attending the affair as it was done privately and 'without ostentation; and the Bishop’s' surprise was the more complete as he anticipated nothing of the kind from the informal visit of the. gentleman charged with the conveyance of the gift, until it was placed in his hands. It is unnecessary for us to say that the generous souvenirs were gratefully received and duly appreciated:
TO THE RT. REV. DR. WATTERSON, BISHOP OF COLUMBUS,
WITH THE NEW YEAR’S GIFT OF A CHALICE- ' ~
Happy New Year! ” now resounding. Fills with-joy the Christian lands;
Hearts with hope and pleasure bounding : Offer gifts with friendly hands.
On this day our Saviour bleeding :	...
First received the Name adored—
Name all other names preceding;	. .. .
Bending knees salute Him Lord.
To his service consecrated, Prelate, thou dost speak His will;
And His gifts to us donated
Dost dispense our souls to fill;	- *
Chief among those gifts unnumbered.
Precious e’en where all excel, Ransom of our souls encumbered
With the chains of sin and hell,
Is that Blood on Calv’ry pouring * From His Sacred Heart and Hands, ’Mid celestial hosts adoring,
Spreading graces through the lands.
And.-His Blood to Heaven raising Dajly in the holy fane,
Thou dost offer worthy praising, And for us those graces gain.
' Thus do we this chalice bringing .	.. .
Beg thee at that sacred rite,- '	- - .
While the angel choirs are.singing.
'And with human pray’rs unite,
Beg thee special pray’rs to offer—	L
Pray’rs for us at Heaven’s throne; - -	. - .
Take the gift then, that we proffer: .	....
Take it,—not the gift alone,
t But with it our aspiration	_
Forthv welfare all unfeign’d,'
May we see its consummation	. r
When the gate of Heav’n is gained.
33O?
THE 'NOTRE DAME-SCHOLASTIC,
■	Exchanges. '
—The Cornell Era has donned a new cover and is more attractive in appearance than formerly. The engraved title and symbols" are tasteful' and - appropriate. The Era al ways looked well, but the rage now is for ulsters, reversible or otherwise, and the Era editors determined to be in the fashion..
—That sterling paper The Catholic Standard, of Philadelphia, continues to enjoy well merited popularity under the editorial management of Mr. George D. Wolff. The Standard enters upon the 19th year of its publication this month, and marks the event with a new dress of type. Mr. Wolff, the editor, is a writer of some note, occasional contributions from whose pen are met with in our higher periodical literature,—notably in the American Catholic Quarterly. The outcome of his labor on the Catholic Standard characterizes him as an indefatigable worker as well as an able writer.
—The editor of the Penman's Art Journal, a reliable authority in a matter of this kind, says:-
“ We are constantly met with the remark that good writing [penmanship] is a gift,—‘To some it comes perfectly natural,’ while ‘others never can learn to write well.’
“To us this ik sheer nonsense. We believe that any person possessed of average common sense and a good' hand, can learn to write, with fair facility, a legible style of writing, and that this is as certain as it is that he can acquire a practical knowledge of arithmetic, grammar, geography, or other branch of education.”
—The College Revieiv has been greatly improved- of late, both in matter and appearance. Sb it seemed to us, at least, when looking- through the January number. We can hardly say what changes have been made, but the paper looks .	brighter and better in a general way. A new
dress, perhaps,—and, it may be, a new editorial board. Among so many exchanges that come to ,	our table every week, improvements occasionally
‘	escape our attention. We see it stated in the Re:	vierv that Shurtleff has had a thousand dollars
:	coolly thrown at it without solicitation,..and that
' *	more is likely to follow. Isn’t it rather strange
;	that nobody ever thought of giving any money for
‘	the support of a college paper or magazine? But,
i	perhaps, people generally suppose that college edi-
I	tors get rich on the dividends of their papers, and
j	that there is no need of bringing coals to New’	. castle. Very likely.' The Scholastic has a
;	thousand subscribers, but we don’t think we shall
j	build a suburban villa and. retire to the enjoyment
I	of our otium cum dignitate,—not this year, at any
!	rate; some other year, perhaps-
!	'	—The essays.in. the Wesleyan Ree. possess the
j	merit of originality—a- better term, perhaps, would
be personality.’ -The thoughts are: expressed in a .	. free, natural way, if not always in the’ best form.
“Genius and_Work,”.in the current number, is al;	most homely- in ; its simplicity, but withal the
j	thoughts are’welliand tersely expressed. ~“Is gen-
•	ius work? and iswbrk genius?”"are strange ques-
tions with which to .open an article. It implies an expansive idea; however, which- in other words - would lose nothing in freedom while gaining in beauty and strength? ;Then, again, it looks equally
strange to draw a parallel between men of such diverse spheres as Alexander Hamilton and Mozart, between Helmholtz, Galileo and Laplace, and Gortchakoff, Gladstone, and Von Moltke. But when the writer adds that “ the mind of everyone of these was a workshop—never did blacksmith hammer at his anvil more vigorously than they at their labors—intense, forcible, protracted work brought them their results,” we begin to see what he means, and to like his forcible, if strangely original, manner of expressing his thoughts. Narcissa’s article on the. “ Peculiarities of the French” possesses a certain captivating dash and brilliancy. We have thought here, too, and plenty of it; though not necessarily deep—the subject hardly calls for depth—the cogency of the reasoning and the justice of the conclusions strengthen a pleasing style. Altogether, we are much pleased with the Wesleyan Bee and its writers in what we have seen of them. The Locals, Exchange and College Notes are gotten up in good style.
—The Vidette-Re-porter shows a progressive spirit. Some time ago it procured a fount of Greek type for the use of the paper—now it comes out with' some engraved lines in stenography at the head of its Shorthand Column,--a sort of nondescript shorthand, either tinkered by the engraver or special to the writer, and therefore somewhat of a mystery to the writers of the “ mystic script” in general, no matter what system theirs may be. If we decipher it correctly it speaks a truth, however; the general aim of people nowadays is to save time and make money, and a thorough acquaintance with shorthand will often enable them to do both. The Vidette-Reporter seems to be neglecting its Greek of late—like ourselves. Perhaps the novelty there, as here, has died out, and Greek is not appreciated at'its value. For our own part, we think we shall have to get a small fount of Hebrew and German to prevent stagnation, and bespatter our columns with a little of each, with French in ordinary type for a change. If to these we could add a fount of Shorthand like Mr. Isaac Pitman’s—Mr. Pitman’s' text-books are set from shorthand type, like other books—we would have quite enough change for a while, we think. We have, by the way, compositors foreach of the above languages, as well as one who can turn the ■“ mystic hooks and ; crooks ” into longhand print without transcribing the notes. This item, by the way, is set direct from lsaac Pitman shorthand, and is written in ten lines of a sheet of very narrow note-paper. If the reader be curiously inclined he can write it out in longhand and see how much it will make. [There ( was but a single change from copy in the proof.]
;	■ Personal
i —Richard P-Mayer, of ’77,. is in business with ’ i his' father in. Chicago.
! -- __N. B. Rapplye, Esq;; of Chicago, paid a-short-visit to Notre Dame, in company wrth Prof. Lymam ; Miss J. F. Fenton, the efficient manager of the Western Union’s offices in South Bend, was’ among the visitors-at the1 College during-the-week. -
THE'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
33*
—Prof. L. G. Tong, of South Bend, was a welcome visitor to the College, last Wednesday. He came to take part in the examinations of-the Classes in the Commercial Course.
—Master E. M. Holbrook, Junior department, was called home during the week by the death of his father. He has the heartfelt sympathy of his fellow-students and Professors.
—Mr. William Mulligan, of Longmont, Col., has been visiting friends at the College this week. The Rocky Mountain excursionists of last vacation are glad to see acquaintances from the Centennial State.
—J. F. Kelly (Com’I), of ’73, writes all the way from Mahukona, Hawaii Islands, where he has settled after extensive travels through the Southern States and Mexico. He is engaged in successful business, and, though somewhat lonesome, is content with his position. He often thinks of his Alma Mater, and sends greetings to all his .old friends.
—Harry R. Whitman, elder son of Mr. and Mrs. M. I. Whitman, of Detroit, has left Notre Dame University to attend Ann Arbor in special studies. During his stay at Notre Dame, Harry has made hosts of friends, not only there, but here in the city, the old home of his parents. He is a young man of great ability and strength of character that is bound towin him a prominent'position in the world.—South-Bend Tribune.
—Prof. Hoyne, our esteemed Professor of Law, notwithstanding the many duties of his position at the University, finds time to attend to cases in Chicago, and invariably with great success. The great case of “Wagner vs. Union Stock Yard and Transit Co.,” which was tried a few days ago, and in which Prof. Hoyne was the Attorney for the Plaintiff, was decided by the jury, bringing in a verdict of $15,000 in favor of the plaintiff. It is needless to say that this result is due to the skill and efforts of the distinguished Professor.
Local Items.
—What is your averager
—Examinations are over!
—The spring dude has recovered.
—Rev. President Walsh granted rec on Tuesday.
—Classes for the ensuing session are now. reorganized.
—The First French Class received the best average— 100.
—Our esteemed contemporary, The Vincent Times, is booming.
_>	o	_
—The students received their programmes of study for the coming session last Thursday.
—Our friend John says that “ every planet is either transparent or opaque! ” (Cor) Rect(e)!
—The Juniors Slipped on Wednesday evening to sweet strains from Elbcl’s South Bend Orchestra.
—The regular winter festival of the Junior department will take place next Saturday evening.
—To-morrow, the 4th Sunday after Epiphany, Mas§' No-Jj p- 23; Credo, p. 106. Vespers-, p. 53;
—The Junior Euglossians had a pleasant reunion, Wednesday evening, in the Junior reading-room.'
—The Speed Class in Phonography, for advanced. students ready for dictation, will be from 85^ to 9^ a. m. in Room 4.	'
—The great thaw on Wednesday was followed by severe cold on Thursday; as a consequence, ex- . cellent skating was enjoyed.
—Overcome by the terrors of examination, the ♦. author of “ The French Revolution ” has postponed the continuation of his article till next week.
—The Greek Classes are said to have passed an excellent examination. The members of the . Board speak highly in praise of the answers given.
—Prof. Unsworth has been presented a hand- • somely-bound and gilt copy of Milton’s “ Paradise ’ Lost,” illustrated by Dore. The book is a testimonial from Prof. Unsworth’s Composition Class.
—Prof. Edwards entertained the members of the Junior reading Club on Tliesday evening and the Seniors on Wednesday. On each occasion music, games refreshments, etc., provided an enjoyable time.
—The Junior Gymnasium, has constantly been’ undergoing improvements, forwarded by the ge- . nial Prefect, Bro. Albert. The inside walls have lately been painted in imitation of granite, thus ’ rendering its appearance bright and cheerful.
—To-day is the Feast of the Purification. Solemn High Mass was sung this morning, preceded' ' by t-he solemn blessing and distribution of the candles. An excellent sermon on the ceremonies and the festival was preached by Rev. J. O’Hanlon. •
—An exciting half-mile race on skates took place on St. Joseph’s Lake, Thursday. The best time was made by Carroll in 70 seconds, followed by* Coll and Guthiiein 71, and Kelly in 72. Theice-was in good condition, and rare sport was enjoyed.-
—Wednesday, the 6th. is the 70th anniversary of Very Rev. Father General’s birthday. The occasion will call forth many good wishes, and fervent prayers that the venerable Founder may live to see many more happy returns of this anniversary. ■
' —Last Wednesday evening, the members of the Junior Crescent Club enjoyed a very pleasant recep- ' tion in their reading-rooms tendered them by Prof. Edwards. Elbel’sfull Orchestra discoursed beautiful music forthose who wished to “swing the light' fantastic,” after which refreshments were served! '
— The phenomenon of bright zvhite smoke can, be seen at Notre Dame almost any evening aftertlie electric lamps are lighted. The dense column of smoke from the smoke-stack, which during the day is so densely black, tinder the influence of the electric light assumes the appearance of a white cloud..
— The Shakspere Circle have finished the-study of “The Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and are; ' now occupied with “ Macbeth.” The members o£; the Circle seem to be quite enthusiastic in thein appreciation of the great dramatist. They are indebted to the Professor of English Literature for time and kind services placed at their disposal. _ / -
—The examination averages were read in- the Rotunda, on> Thursday morning, by Rev. Presi- .
332
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
dent Walsh. At the close, Father General addressed a few words of congratulation and encouragement to the students.
—Very Rev. Father Granger met with a painful accident, early yesterday morning, through the capsizing of his cutter while returning from a sick call. The reverend Father was thrown heavily on the frozen ground, and a large cut made in his forehead. The wound though severe, is. we are glad to say, not serious, and we hope before many days to see him once more in our midst.
—The toth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society was held on January 29th for the purpose of electing officers for the coming session. The result of the election is as follows: Rev. T. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. Edwards, Honorary President; Prof. J. Lyons, President; Bros. Emmanuel and Paul, C. S. C., Promoters; 1st Vice-President, L.Mathers; 2d VicePresident, J. Kleiber; Treasurer, D. Reach; Recording Secretary, L. Gibert; Corresponding Secretary, Win. Orchard; Historian, T. Callaghan; Librarian, F. Combe; 1st Censor, A. Jones; 2d Censor, J. Hyde; Sergeant-at-Arms, W. Mahon; Marshal, E. Smith; 1st Property Manager, J. Rogers; 2d Property Manager, W. Ramsay; 1st Prompter, P. Howard; 2d Prompter, W. E. Dennis; Organist, A. Ancheta.
—Another biography of Joseph Haydn has appeared, in the form of a translation from the German of Franz von Seeburg, made by the Rev. J. M. Toohey, of Notre Dame University, in Indiana. The work has been excellently and smoothly translated; and the subject-matter is of a nature likely to commend itself, not alone to musicans, but to the general public. It is not so much a connected biography of the great composer as it is a collection of the most interesting personal events in his very eventful life; and they are very charmingly told. It makes no pretensions to be an analysis of his music or an exposition of Kis musical genius. On the other hand, it tells us what we like to know of the personal character of a man so universally beloved that he is known to the world by the endearing epithet of “Papa”; and it tells us these incidents with just a flavor of romance about them, such as Rau gives to Mozart, Beethoven, and other musicians whose biographies have been ideally treated by him. Haydn’s life at Eisenstadt, in London, and in Vienna; his adventures, escapades, freaks, and caprices; his personal associations; as well as his triumphs, his home-life, and his professional career, are full of pleasant, genial, and kindlj’ traits, which’are delightfully shown by Von Seeburg, Loth by description and in short sketches. The Rev. Mr. Toohey has done his work as a labor of love, and evidently as a tribute to the old composer’s simple and childlike piety and unaffected goodness of heart. It'is a work which appeals to the general reader as well as to the musician, which cannot often be said of musical biographies. (Joseph Haydn: The Story of His Life. Translated from the German of Franz von Seeburg, by the Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.: J. A. Lyons.)-—Chicago Tribune.
The Minims’ Column.
—The monopolist celebrated his birthday on the 29th.
—The Rev. Chaplain of St. Mary’s entered the , “lists” with the “lightning calculators.” o	o
—The Minims, according to all reports, acquitted themselves at their examination in a’princely manner.
—The enlargement of the Minims’ Hall is becoming a constantly-growing necessity, and it- is proposed to add two wings to the present building, one on the east side and the other on the west. Prof. Gregori has submitted to Father General an artistic and beautiful design for these additions, •	O'
which, if carried into execution, will make the “Palace” the finest building in Notre Dame.
_	B	o
Among other things, each of the wings will be surmounted by a magnificent fresco similar to the one which adorns the present building.
—The Minims’ Board of Examiners consisted of Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Father Shortis, Bros. Justin and Emmanuel, Prof. J. F. Edwards, Messrs. Kelly, O’Connor, Bailey, and Gallagher. Very Rev. Father General proposed the following problems to the Class in Arithmetic: “ The four Studebaker Brothers are worth $20,000,000; what is the interest of each one’s share at five per cent, for a year? for a month? for a day ? ” In less time than it took to state the problem a volley of slates were presented to Father General, showing the interest for a year to be $250,000; for a month, $2,083.33; ant^ f°r a day, $684.93. The second problem was: “If a father gave his daughter 5 cents the first day of the month, and promised that he would double the amount of the previous day, each day, until the end of the month, how many dollars should she receive • on the 30th day?” In an incredibly short time the “lightning calculators”—as Rev. President Walsh calls them—presented their slates, showing that while the father gave only 5 cents to his daughter on the first, he should, according to his agreement, give $26,843,545.60 on the 30th day. Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh, and all who participated in the examination, speak in praise of the intelligence shown by the Minims.
Examination Averages. •
| No Average under 60 is published.] SENIOR DEPARTAIENT.
J. Anchondo, 85; J. Ancheta, 9S; R. Aguilera, 87; F. Baca; 81; J. Bannigan,9i-; W. Bowers, 71; J. Burns, 75; G. Brosseau, 71; W. H.‘ Barron, 84; T. Becerra, So; W. Bailey, 99; A. Browne, 82; F. E. Combe, 87; J. T. Carroll, 73; C. E. Carroll, 95; A. Coll, 84; P. Carbajal, 75; T. Cass, 75; Jno. Cusack, 80; L. Celia, 84; J. Conway. 84; M. Connell, 78; B. Cussen, 71; J. Dunn, 73; F. Delgado, 80; J. De Groot, 79; G. De Wolf, 89; G. De Haven, So; S. Dickerson, 95; M. Dolan.’93; A. J. Dennis, 72; W. Dennis, 69; F. Danielson, 81; N. Ewing, 98; L. Feltz, 66; F. Fishel, 78; W. Fogarty. 80; J. Farrell, 96; T. Fenlon, 83; E. Fenlon, 81; H. Fitzgerald, 7S; M. Gooley. S3; D. Gen-ser, So; O. Gandrup, 76; L. Gibert, Si-; P. Goulding, 92; A. Gonzales, 82; J. Guthrie, 76; J. Geiser, 98; T. Gutier-
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
333
|	rez, 78; XX7. Gray, 99; F. Gallagher, 88; J. Gallagher, 72;
g	P. Galarnean, 87; J. Hafner, 77; J. Hyde, 71; E. Howard,
|	70: J. Hellebush, 66; C. Hausberg, 94; XX7. Hetz, 73; XX7.
3	Johnston, 92; A. Jones, 67; J. Kelly, 73; L. Kavanaugh,
| '	89; G. Kimmell, 68; C. Kaufman, 83; C. C. Kolars, 90; J.
t	Kleiber, 91; F, Lucas, 91; R. Leffingwell, 75; J. Mitten-
I	dorf. So; XX7. McCarthy, 73; G. Moross, 73; G. McErlain,
JI .	97; V7. Mahon, 89; J. McCabe, 80; J. McKinnery, 90; L.
* 5 .Mathers, 89; R. Marquez, 81; C. Murdock, 92: S. Murdock, 96; A. McMurray, 74; J. McIntyre, 98; J. McCabe, 67; P. McLaughlin, 69; J. Neeson, Si; J. Nadeau, 61; J. ;	O’Brien, 94; E, Ott, 97; M. O’Dea, 91; F. O’Rourke, 85;
•	E. Otis, 98; M. O’Kane, 87; XV. O’Connell, 80; J. O’Don-
nell, 79; Eugene O’Brien, 71; H. Paschel, 87; C. Paschel, 78; E. Pour, 6S; T. P. Carroll, 77; J. Quinlan, 67; J. Rudge, 86; T. Ryan, 62; J. Rogers, 86; J. Reach, 95; J. Riley, 77; XV. Ramsay, 94; J. Solon, 92; J. Shea, 79; H. Steis, 90; XV. Slattery, 76; J. Spangler, 79; XV. Callaghan, 89; M. Sykes, 86; O. Spencer, 90; T. E. Steele, 87; D. Saviers, 97; E. Smith, 77; G. Smith, 93; A. Sanchez, 85; C. A. Tinley, 98; F. J. Violette, 77; XX7. Veale, 74; C, Warner, 82; J. XX7ilson, 99; XX7. XX7halen, 80; J. XX7agoner, 91; F. X\7ag-oner, 80; P. XX7arren, 75; J. Burns, 100.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
XX7. Akins, 87; A. Adler, S3; B. Arnold, 85; L. An-I chondo, 8S; E. Arkins, 82; XX7. Borgschulze, 88; XX7. H. Barons, 61; XX7. Berthelet, 68; P. Barela, 77; J. Baur, 79; D Barclay, 89; J. Breen, So; A. Chirhart, S3; J. Courtney, 86; F. Curtis, 86; J. Chaves, 81; M. Coleman, Si; P. Cavaroc, So; D. Cartier, 75; S. Crawford, 72; G. Crilly, 78; T. Cleary, 94; M. Clarke, 90; G. Costigan, 96; T. Cas-silly, So; C. Combe. 83; J. Dwenger, 73; R. Devereux, 90; J. Dorenberg, 71; T. Deaderick, Si; F. Dexter, 97; C. Dennis, 69; C Duffin. 86; A Devine, 63; A. Finckh, 95: J. Fitzgerald, 75; F. Fehr, 85; XX7. Fierro, 85; H. Foote, 83; j J. Garrity, 82; E. Gerlach, 87; E. Gimbel, 91; J. Grothaus, 71; J. Grunsfeld, 83: F. Hagenbarth, 95; XX7. Hemisbaugh, 1 h 74; E. Howard, 78; A. Howard, 70; B. Henry, 68: XV. !	Henry, 96; XX7. Houlihan, 68; I- Halligan, 94; E. Huestis,*
si	72; P. Hagen, 91; C. Harris, 88; G. Houck, 82; J. Hetz,
i .	73; S. Holman, 89; J. Hagerty, 90; F. Jensch, 74; P.John-
’	son, 84; T. King, 76; J. Kelly, 82; M. Kelly, 85; J. Let-
cher, 91; G. Lewis, S3; R. Lewis, S3; M. Loescher, 87; ,	N. Leony, 78; P. Lake, 87; M.Mulkern, S3; J. Monschein,
; I	S7; P. Mullane, 87; A. Miller, 80; G- Menig, 76; T. Mc-
?	Gill, 86; C. Mason, 85; XX7. Mahon, 68; J. McGordon, 81;
J	C. McGordon, 68; A. Moye, 82; J. McDonnell, 94; F.
Marcotte, 79; C. Metz, 71; F. Murphy, 82; XX7. Mug, 98;
.	B. Muhler, 75: A. Nester. 75; S. O'Brien, 94; J. O’Don:	nell, 79; A. Plischke, 61; C. Porter, 86; E. Porter, 86; R.
Perley, 72: E. Pohl, 78; D. Quill, 80; C. Regan. 79; B. Rothschild, 76; C. Reynolds, 94; J. Rhodus, SS; T. F. Ryan, 74; F. Rogers, 83; J. Ruppe, 87; C. Stubbs, 94; J. Shea, 88; H. Sedbcrry, 70; M. Scheuerman, 73; L. Scheuerman, 75; XX7. Schott, 91; G. Schaefer, 86; L.
• Stumer, 87; E. Smith, 92; E. Schmauss, S3; L. Saunders, 71; J. Talbot, So; D. Traylor, 90; A. Terrazas, 76; G. Tarrant, 85; D. Tewksberry, 69; E. Trepanier, 79; J. Uranga, 90; A. XX7arner, 73; H. XVarner, 70; E. Wile, 86: XX7. XX7agoner, 82; j. XX7right, 86; XX7. XX7abraushek, 82; S. Waixel. So; J. XVeiler, 78; T. Williamson, 79; P. Yrisarri, .73; J. Foster, 65; T. Cohen, S3; F. Thurston, 70; G. Car-■ tier, 7S4 D. Armijo, 82; J. Strauss, 84.
.	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
E. Amoretti; 85; H. Addington; So; J. Addington, 95; J	E. Adams, So; J. Bunker, 95; C.Brown,82; XV.Bailey, 84;
J. Boos, 78; XX7. Butter field,-So; F. Benner, 73; F. Coad, 87;
v M. Coad, So; M. Crawford, 75; M. Cummings, 90; XX7. Cole, S2; E. Costigan, 95; C. Curtis, 84; F. Crotty, 95: P. Commings, 60; J. Devereux, 91; XX7. Devine, SS; C. Delaplane, 92; P. -Dungan, 79; H. Dirksmeyer, 90; E. S. Ewing, 95; J. Ernest, So; J. Fulwiler, 7S; J. Fitzgerald, 95; F. Garrity, 80; J. Grunsfeld, So; A. Grimes, 73; C. Harris, 73; XX7. Henry, 82; C. Johns, 80; J. Kelly, 95; E. Kellv, 95; J. Kraus, 93: G. La Tourette, 93; G. Landenwich, 78; B. Lindsey, 95; C. Lindsey, 91; A. Loya, 72; J. Lewis, .	70; A. Meehan, So; R- Morrison, 95; A. Moye, 72: F.
Mullen, 75; A. Mullen, 81; A. McVeigh, 90; XV. McPhee, 95; J. McGrath, 84; E. McGrath, 85; W. McGill, 75; XV.
McGuire, 70; F. McGuire, So; H.Morgan, 81; F. Nester, 95; A. Nester, St; F. Noonan, 84; L. Nusbaum, 70; F. I. Otis, 92; J. O’Connor, 78; M. O’Kane, 93; B. O’Kane, 02; J. Padden, 73; R. Papin, 90; Xr. Papin. So; XX7•. Prindiville, 91; D. Prindiville, S3; D. Quill, So; C. Quinlan, 92; XV. Quiggle. 92; V. Rebori, 89; J. Studebaker, 90; XV. Stange, 95; H. Schmitz, 93; S. Shoneman, So: J- Sokup, 75; L. Scherrer, 92; C. Scherrer, St: E. Scherrer, 92: F. Salman, 92; C. Spencer, 92; C. Smith, So; E. Thomas, 92; XX7-. Tomlinson, So: C. Tomlinson, 78; J. Uranga, 70; C. XVest, 90; J. XX7right, 90; XX7. XX7elch, 92; F. XX7eston, 82.
Note.—A few students do not figure in the above report, owing to absence through sickness.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
senior department.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta. Aguilera, Baca, Bowers, Burns, Brosseau, Barron, Becerra, Bailey, Browne, Combe, J. Carroll, Coll, Cass, Jos. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Celia, Conway, Connell, Cussen, Dunne, De Groot, De X\7olf, Dolan, A. Dennis, Danielson, Ewing, Feltz, Fogarty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, Gonser, Gandrup, Goulding, Gonzalez, Geiser, Gutierrez, Gray, F. Gallagher. J. Gallagher, Hyde, Howard, Hofstetter, Helebush, Hausberg, Hetz, Johnston, Kelly, Kimmel, Kleiber. Lasley, Lucas, Long, McGinn, Morass, Mahon, McKinnerv, Mathers, Marquez, C. Murdock, Mittendorf. McIntyre. T. McNamara, J. McNamara, McLaughlin, Mahoney, G. O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Porter, Quinlan, Rudge, Rvan, Rogers. Reach, Riley, Solon, Steis, Slattery, Scholfield, Sykes, Steele, Saviers, Smith. Sanchez. Tinley. Teasdale. J. Uranga, F. Uranga, X7iolette, XX7halen. XVarren.
junior department.	.
Masters Aikins, Anchondo, Arkins, Borgschulze. Berthelet. Barela. F. Brown, Baur, Barclav. Breen, ?».. Chirhart, E. Chirhart, J. Courtney, Curtis, Chaves, Coleman, D. Cartier, Cavaroc. G. Cartier, Crilly, Cleary, Clarke. Costigan, Dwenger, Devereux, Dorenberg. Dexter, C. Dennis, J. Devine, Finckh. Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fendrich, Fierro, Frain, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, Hemisbaugh, E. A. Howard. E. J. Howard, A. Howard, J. Henry, XX7. Henry Halligan. Houlihan, Hilliard. Huestis, Hagen, Holbrook. Houck, J. Hetz, Holman, Hagertv, Jensch, P. Johnson, J. Kelly, M. Kelly, Letcher, G. Lewis, R. Lewis, Loescher, Leony, Lake, Monschein,* Mullane, Miller, Mahon, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, J. McDonnell, Marcotte. C. Metz. Muhler, Mug. McCawley, McCabe, J. Nester, O’Brien, Plischke. C. Porter. E. Porter, Perley, Reynolds, Rogers. Stubbs. Shea. Sedberry, M. Scheuerman, Schott, Schaefer, Stumer, J. Smith. S. Straus, Schmauss, Saunders, Talbot, D. Taylor, Tarrant, Trepanier, Uranga,’P. XX7agoner, X\7right, XX’abraushek, XX7aizel, XX7iI-liamson, H. Cohen, XX7ilkes, McCullough, Major, Thurston, ■ Rhodus, XX7. XVagoner.
minim department.
Masters Amoretti, J. Addington, H. Addington, Ackerman, Brown, Bunker, Bailey,’Costigan. Cummings’, Cole, Curtis, Crotty, Crawford, M. Coad, Devine, Dungan. Devereux. Ewing, Ernest. Fitzgerald, Grunsfeld, Henry, Johns. J. Kelly, E. Kelly, La Tourette. Landenwich. Lewis, B. Lindsev. Loya, F. McGuire, Murphy, J. McGrath. E. McGrath. Morgan, McPhee, McVeigh, Morrison, A. Mullen, F. Mullen. Manzanares. Meehan, Nathan, A. Nester, Noonan. Nusbaum. O’Connor, M. O’Kane, Paden, X7. Papin, D. Prindiville, Quill, Studebaker, Stange, Schmitz, Spencer, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer. E. Scherrer, C. Tomlinson, XV. Tomlinson, Uranga, XX7est, XVeston, XX7right, Krause, Boose, B. Inderrieden, C. Inderrieden.
* Omitted week before last.
334
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Saint TFiary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Danie University.
—A delectable sleigh-ride has been promised to the Juniors by the Prefect of Studies.
—The use of roller skates furnishes the favorite exercise for the young ladies, at present.
—By accident the name of Miss R. Bailey was omitted from the list of Juniors who drew for the badge for politeness last week.
—The Holy Angels’ Society met, as usual, on Tuesday evening. The recitation of the Office of the Holy Angels is one of the pleasant occupations of that hour.	.
—It is rumored that a juvenile concert will be given in the vocal room some dav this week. It is ..looked forward to with great pleasure, as the proficiency in music of the Juniors was everywhere remarked.
—Those who drew for the Juniors’ badge for politeness are, the Misses Best, Bailey, Dillon, Durlacher, M. Ducey, English, Eldred, Fehr, H., E., and S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, McEwen, Mosh-ier, Richmond, Schmidt, Sheekey, and Snowhook. It was won by-Mary Dillon.
—The following programme was given at the Semi-Annual Entertainment, Jan. 31, 1884:
Barcarole......................................Campana
-	■ Misses J. Reilly, M. Bruhn, and E. Neu.
Accompanied by Miss L. Fendrich
Polonaise A flat.............................F. Chopin
Miss M. Beal.	.
Recitation..............................Miss	M. Munger
Song—“ Air and Variations ”.....................Procle
■	Miss M. Bruhn.
“Invitation to the Dance”......C. M. Von Weber—Tansig ■	Miss J. Reilly.
Essay.................................Miss B. Johnson
Song—“ Lost Birdling”........................Centemeri
,	Miss J. Reilly.	'
Essay (German).............................Miss	C. Ginz
Concert ValseBtude...................'.... Chopin-Joseffy
-	Miss L. Fendrich.
Recitation............................Miss A. Murphy
Chorus..........................From	Oratorio of Samson
'	. Vocal Class.
Acc’d by Miss L. Fendrich
—School examinations are often very tedious to spectators, and sometimes are calculated to extort hosmall degree of sympathy and commiseration, on account of the evident embarrassment—sometimes to a really painful degree—which takes possession of the candidates. Not so this year at St. Mary’s. The simple, unhesitating manner and ihe unaffected determination to acquit themselves perfectly on the part of the pupils, from the lowest to the highest, from the elementary branches up to the most abstruse, are subjects of unmeasured praises and congratulations. If at any time during the year the moments have been wasted, the preparation for the present ordeal has brought about a complete indemnification for the past. The .modest self-possession,-clear, grammatical delivery,-and . readiness to meet the keen cross-examination .with
pertinent and graceful replies is everywhere admitted to be an improvement on former like occasions.
Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Fathers Shortis, Saulnier, Stoffel and Fitte were present at the examination of the Graduates. The examination in Mental Philosophy was conducted, chiefly by the Rev. Chaplain, whois the teacher of that branch. Geology and Trisf-onometry fell to the sprightly and searching interrogations of Fathers Walsh and Fitte. The elegant deportment of the young ladies, no less than their ready familiarity with the respective sciences, drew forth many praises from the learned questioners. The examination in Trigonometry was particularly brilliant: Miss Belle Johnson distinguished herself; and the.young mental philosoph-.ers were pronounced mistresses in that subtle science. Hard, too, as is the subject of Geology, the fluent grace with which the voung ladies discoursed thereupon imparted to its stony-heartedness much interest, if not an actual beauty or sublimity.
Very Rev. Father General and Father Stoffel presided at the examinations of the German Classes, and the most complete satisfaction was given by the pupils.
Among the excellent examinations, that of BookKeeping ranks high. The First Senior Class in Logic and Astronomy gave more than ordinary satisfaction. The skilfully-executed figures on the •black-board for demonstration, which covered the entire south side of the class-room, were very fine. Only artists could have wielded the crayon with such good results as were displayed in the representation of the earth’s orbit, and of the action of the sun-rays in producing the change of seasons, etc., • etc. Time and labor were not spared, and for this the Class is indebted to the Misses Campbell and Papin.
The Second Senior Class passed a good examination in Rhetoric; their replies were prompt and clear. The Third Senior Arithmetic Class is highly spoken of by the Board of Examiners for their readiness in replies and their perfect understanding of Discount, Profit, and Loss.
The First Preparatory Grammar Class is praised for clear appreciation, intelligence, and the expertness in parsing displayed in the examinations. The fundamentals are well understood by them. The Second Preparatory Class passed a good examination in Grammar also; their orthographical tournament was excellent. .
—-The Semi-Annual Examination in Instrumental and Vocal Music was honored by the presence of Very Rev.-Father Superior-General, and Rev. Father Saulnier, C. S. C., Mother Superior and her assistants; several ladies from various parts of the country, now visiting the Academy, were also present. The corps of music teachers, presided by thfe Prefect of Studies, constituted the examiners. Two hours and a half were devoted during seven days in examining the progress of every pupil in the various giadcs, according to the limits required in the Musical Course .of . the Conservatory. On
TSE NOTRE SCS0LAST7C.
•335
the Bulletins sent to parents and guardians the exact standing in class of every pupil -is marked. Promotions and reorganization of classes for the next session are as follows:
. To graduate in June in the Advanced Course-Miss Laura Fendrich.
To graduate in the First Course—Misses J. Reilly, M. Beal. Promoted to this Class—Miss M. Cummings.
o ___
Promoted to First Class, 2d Division—Misses B. Gove, E. Neu.
Second Class—Misses H. Hunt, A. Allen. .Promoted to this Class—Misses H. Keenan, A. Shephard, M. Bruhn.
3d Class—Misses Mary Hale, Clara Ginz, M. Tynan. Promoted to this Class—Misses E. Keating, E. Sheekey.
3d Class, 2d Div.—Misses May Adderly, E. Carney, Mary Dillon, E. Todd, M. Scully. Promoted to this Class—Misses H. Jackson, L. Van Horn, E. Horn.
4th Class—Misses H. Ramsey, L. English, C. Campbell, R. Evarts, K. Fehr. Promoted to this Class—Misses M. Morrison, A. Babcock, Mary Ducey.
4th Class, 2d Division—Misses M. Sears, Jennie Duffield, Anna Murphy, B. Snowhook, A. Gavan. Promoted to this Class—Misses C. Lucas, M. Munger, W. Moshier, M. Malbceuf, K. Ducey, Felicia Castanedo.
5th Class—Misses Etta Call, Ada Duffield, D. Fitzpatrick. Promoted to this Class—Misses R. Platte, G. Wolvin, L. Williams, S. Dunne, L. St. Clair, H. Quill.
5th Class, 2d Div.—Misses M. Wilson, N. Danforth, M. Fisk, Agnes -Keyes, M. Chaves, K. Sheridan. Promoted to this Class—Misses L. Priestman, B. Kearney, A. English, G. Regan, E. Jackson.
6th Class—Misses B. English, Mary Otis, S. St. Clair, Alice Gordon, M. Steele, M. Barry, Addie Gordon, A. Legnard, C. Richmond, M. Murphy, E. Lintner, M. Schmidt, E. Roddin, M. Hetz, B. Haney, Jennie Fogarty. Promoted.to this Class— Misses C. Babcock, R. Billings, FI. Brown, Mary Mooney, H. Stumer, M. Reynolds.
6th Class, 2d Div.—Misses M. Kearsey, Ella Sheekey, R- Bailey, R. McCarthy, E. O’Connell, ; E. Kearns. Promoted to this Class—Misses M. McEwen, S. Jackson, D. Best, M. King.
7th Class—Misses M. Helpling, Jessie English, C. Leahigh, I. Allen, A. Ryan. Promoted to this Class—Misses L. C. Johns, F. Steele. 2
Promoted to Sth Class—Misses Alice Schmauss, M. Ducey, R. Metz.	.
Promoted to 9th Class—Misses E. Cliapin, B. Murray, M. Lindsey.
.	Harp.	t
Promoted to 4th Class—Miss M. Dillon.	;
Promoted to 4th Class, 2d -Div.—Miss/Neu.	:
Promoted to 5th Classi-Miss L. .Priestman.
Promoted to 6th Class—Miss D. Fitzpatrick.
Guitar—Misses M. Beal, A..' English. "
Violin-iM-iss-E.-Carney. ‘	.
Organ—Miss Catharine Sheridan.
Vocal Department. •
1st Class—Miss J. Reilly.	.
2d Division—Promoted to.this Class: Miss M. Bruhn.
2d Class—Promoted to this Class: Misses E. Neu, M. Tynan. . '
- 2d Div.—Promoted to this Class: Misses-B. English, C. Babcock, C. Gihz, H. Ramsey. ::
3d Class—Promoted to this Class: Misses S. St. Clair, M. Ducey, C. Ducey, H. Jackson, Agnes English, M. Beal, E. Sheekey.
4th Class—Misses F. Castanedo, M. Otis. . . ’
5th Class—Misses Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, M. Chaves, C. FehryC. Leahigh. •
‘ Roll of Honor* .	 •
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY,'CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
’	JUNIOR	DEPARTMENT. .
/st Tablet—Misses Bailey, Best. Barth, Chaves; Dillon, Durlacher, M. Ducey, Eldred, Fehr, Haney, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, McEwen, Moshier, Richmond, Shephard, E. Sheekey, Stumer, Schmidt, Snow-. hook. 2d Tablet—Misses Allen, Brown, Duffield, English, Halsey,/Lucas, Murphy, Malbceuf, Otis, Regan, Wolvin.
. MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
1st Tablet—Misses Chapin. Ducey, English, Lindsey, L. Johns, V. Johns, ^Jurray, G. Papin. Paul. M. Reynolds, Schmauss, F. Steele, Van Fleet. .	•
* No report handed in from the Senior department.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed ■	’ Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,	.
by	.	.
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
•Published to Aid in Piacing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal •/ ;
Statue of the Blissed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.	'
Price,- . -	-	- gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00."
"Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE, .
'	' Notre Dame,'Indiana.
EUGENE .F. ARNOLD (Class Of ’78).	W. H. LAND VOIGT.
ARNOLD & LAND VOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law, 470 Louisiana. A venue, N.-W4 WASHINGTON, D.C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKENDORF,
FLOR 1ST.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
AI. WATS OH HAKO.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
Tne Miuim Department.
This is a separate Department in the 1 nstitution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental^ and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—St25, per Session of Five Months
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
PATENTS
MUNN & CO., of the Scientific American. continue to act as Solicit.irs lor Patents. Caveats, Trade Marks, Copyrights, for the United States, Canada, England, France. Germany, etc. Hand Book about Patents sent free. Thirty-seven years'experience. -Patentsobtainod through MUNN & CO. are noticed In the ScrnxTtiTC American, the largest, best, and most w;-'ely circulated scientific paper. $3.20 a year. Weekly. Splendid engravings and interesting information. Specimen copy of the Scientific A mer. icnn sent free. A ddress MUNN & CO.. SCIENTIFIC American Office, 2ol Broadway, New York. ,	,
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED with the geography of this country will see by examinjngthismapthatthe
L 8. & 18. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. iS, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10.54 a-m-> Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
S.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.	’
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, io-co p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
.	GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m.
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m.
Chicago, 7.51 a.m.	_
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. .Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m.
Chicago, 10.11 a.m.	'	’
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.: Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
• 4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte.
4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J- W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago. .
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
TOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
CBICAG0,R0CK18LA«DiPACIF[CR’Y Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St, Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kanka-' .kee.has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis ana Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Fold-era of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pro. A Gen’l M'g'r,	Gen’l Tkt. * * Pao. AgL
CHICAGO.