Vol. XXVII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, September 30, 1893.	No. 4.
Fraternal Benefit Societies.*
BY JOHN r. LAUTH, ’68.
I shall undertake, in the brief time at my disposal, to deal in a general way with one or two phases of the much-vexed labor question, such as, first, the old guilds and recently organized labor societies; and, second, why their insurance feature is preferable to a pension fund for workmen. It may be in order to say, by way of introduction, a few words touching the dignity of labor and the attitude toward it of the Church.
Cardinal Manning said: “Labor is capital in the truest sense. The strength and skill that are in a man are as much his own as his lifeblood; and that skill and strength which he has as his personal property no man may control.” And according to Adam Smith, “The property which every man has in his own labor, as it is the original foundation of all other property, so it is the most sacred and inviolable.” Labor is the exercise of the best powers of man. As Herbert Spencer says: “All observing instruments, all weights and measures, scales, micrometers, thermometers, barometers, etc., are artificial extensions of the senses; and all levers, screws, hammers, wedges, wheels, lathes, etc., are artificial extensions of the limbs.” And how, then, since it is so potential an agency, and so much more enterprising when free than when controlled, can it be consistently sought to have the law apply to and control its operations? The answer is, that it is.
. * Substance of the address delivered before the Catholic Congress, Chicago, Sept. 8.,	'
sought simply to have the law define its rights within the scope of reasonable freedom, so that they may not be invaded to its detriment by unscrupulous and designing persons. It should be made possible for workmen to collect their wages with less difficulty. They should be enabled to recover damages in case of personal injury through the employer’s wrong without weary years of delay, and heavy expense. In fact, in many respects the law could and should serve them more efficiently than it does.
I need not hesitate to state that the Church has always been well disposed toward labor. She interposed in behalf of the villeins of the feudal period at all proper times, and finally succeeded in bringingabout their emancipation. She favored the guilds during the Middle Ages, and steadily sought to promote their welfare. She opposed slavery in every form and shape from the beginning, and does so still. To her the condition of the working population has always been a subject of special solicitude. The great labor encyclical of Leo XIII. affords ample proof as to the attitude of the Church in this respect. It expresses sympathy with labor and the legitimate aspirations of toilers through-' out the worlds It points out the reciprocal duties of labor and capital. It urges the necessity of ameliorating the condition of poorly paid and neglected workers. It acknowledges the right of laborers to combine in fraternal societies and unions with a view to securing remunerative wages and protecting their interests. It asserts that it is the right of the State, if not its duty, to interfere in behalf of shorter hours, better sanitary conditions, and the prevention of female and child labor in exhausting employments. It contends that the standard of labor should not be that of mere subsistence,
sorinE dame
SCHOLASTIC
but such as may facilitate the acquirement of property, provide for the feebleness of old age and the diminished earning capacity, resulting from accident.affoid opportunity for moral and intellectual improvement, and give the means of cultivating the physical powers, together with time for necessary recreation. That, surely, is a most enlightened view to take of the labor question. The most enthusiastic advocate of the rights of the working people could not reasonably ask for more.
The Church says, in the language of the Gospel, that “The laborer is worthy of his hire.” But at the same time she informs him that he has reciprocal duties in that he must faithfully seek to promote the interests of his employer, and exercise reasonable diligence in the performance of his work. “If a man will not woik, neither let him eat.”* In short, he should be a true laborer as defined by the great Bard of Avon in “As You Like It”: “I am a true laborer; I earn that I eat, get that I wear, owe no man hate, envy no man’s happiness, glad of other men’s good, content with my harm.”
I shall now refer more particularly to the guilds, so notable and important in their relations to labor during the Middle Ages. Fraternal societies, composed of artisans, existed in Greece and Rome at an early period. They became incorporated under the last of the Caesars. The Church recognized and favored them, and they became the Christian guilds. In 364 Valentinian I. confirmed the privileges granted by the preceding emperors. In succeeding centuries all persons who were members of a particular trade in a city or locality became united in a guild, which had the right to regulate the production and sale of the things made by such trade. A person was not permitted, to work at a trade unless he had become a member of the guild controlling it, and one df the primary conditions of membership was to have served as an apprentice for a designated number of years. The apprentice was bound out to a master, of whose family he became for a time a member. His moral education and technical training w. re committed to the niaster. He was nquired to learn to make the tools of his trade, as well as to do its work. Only one cr two apprentices could be taught at a time. When the young man had served the’requisite number of years, he. became a j mmex man or hired workman. *	. '
A stainless reputation was accessary to mcm
• Thes?., ii', 10.	:
bership in the guild. Known immorality or dishonesty was a sufficient ground for expulsion. The guild settled the hours of work and the fate of wages. In certain lines of handicraft workmen were accustomed to travel from town to town in order to see the different processes of carrying on their trades. When the savings of a workman were sufficient to enable him to pay the prescribed fees, and his technical skill was proved by the making of what was called a masterpiece, he rose to the third and highest stage of the industrial order and became himself a master. But he remained subject to the control of the guild which, in conjunction with the local authorities, regulated the hours of labor, the holidays, etc.
The guild acted also as a court of arbitration for the settlement of controversies between the master and his workmen. It restricted the number of workmen that a master might employ. This removed from him the temptation of seeking to get rich by their labor. Thus, too, the number of masters was kept comparatively large, and every industrious apprentice could hope to become one in time and attain to the highest grade in the industrial ranks. .	.
The guild carefully guarded against the sale of goods adulterated, or ill-made, or of short weight or measure. It discharged the duties, also, of a benefit society and popular bank. It aided sick members and took care of the families of those deceased. It had a corporate fund, or regularly collected subscriptions or dues from the members, and was thus in a position to make advances to such of their number as were in difficulty, to support the aged, and to maintain the widows and orphans of members deceased. Each guild had a patron saiqt whose festival it specially celebrated. For example, St. Joseph was the patron saint of carpenters, while St. Crispin represented shoemakers and workers in leather. Religious exercises, and the giving of alms were recommended and fostered. Production was so arranged as to keep all employed. About the time of the Reformation, the religious element of the guilds became subordinated to the more worldly aims and selfish interests of the members, and thereafter they declined and finally disappeared, although within recent years an cff. rt has been made to revive them.
Referring now to more recent times: We know historically of only one labor organization as having had an existence in this country prior to the revolutionary war, and that was
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the Calkers’ Club of Boston. The word “caucus ” is said to be a corruption of it in our political nomenclature. In 1792 a trades’ union of shoemakers existed in Philadelphia. The earliest strikes of which we have record took place in the same city in the years 1798 and 1805. Two or three years later there was an extensive strike in New York. However, it is only within the past twenty-five years that labor organizations have made anything like substantial headway in this country. They comprise now over two-thirds of all our artisans and workmen. The individual trades are, generally speaking, well organized, and seek, so far as practicable without the active exercise of the religious principle, to follow in the footsteps of the old guilds. The efforts heretofore made, however, to band them together in unity of purpose and active co-operation in respect to matters affecting them jointly or as a whole, have not been specially successful.
In Great Britain, labor fraternities or trades unions came into being with growth of factories and the destruction of domestic hand industries. The organization of these unions was prohibited by law and so remained until 1824. They began in secrecy and their maintenance often depended upon the exercise of force and violence. However, little by little, they won toleration and recognition. In 1875 they had become so powerful as to secure public approval. The working people of France, Germany, Austria, Italy, Belgium, and the continent generally, have also organized labor fraternities or trades’ unions. The spirit of the French revolution, toned down to a kind of a weak socialism, seems to pervade a large number of them. However, they have won successes.
In 1883, French premier made arrangements with the land bank of France for advances of 20,000,000 francs to build 13,000 dwellings for artisans in the environs of Paris, O	'	•	_
the government guaranteeing payment. The houses were sold to workmen under agreement that payment should be made in twenty annual instalments of less than the ordinary rental of the poorest city quarters. The work of erecting them was begun in a period of financial stringency, and thus thousands of artisans who could not afford to be idle were kept employed. Moreover, the city of Paris borrowed 50,000,-000 francs for the erection in like manner of model tenement houses designed for rent to persons not able to pay more than 150 or 300 francs a year. The tenants are relieved in part from taxation while occupying these tenements.
The German insurance bill of 1887 provides that all workmen who pass the age of seventy years, or become completely and permanently incapacitated for work, shall have a pension. The bill affects only workmen, apprentices, servants and administrative employes having a yearly pay of not more than-.2,000 marks. Premiums on the insurance must, have been paid for thirty years, or for five years where it is claimed on the ground of disability. A third of the premium is paid by the insured, another third by the employer, while the other third comes from the imperial treasury. The pension rate in the case of old age is i20 marks a year, while it varies from that amount to 250 when given for disability. Women, under like , circumstances, are entitled to only two-thirds of what men receive. The pension system of Germany includes civil officials and even teachers. The greatest burdens that the working classes of Germany have now to bear consist in heavy taxes and service in the army. The generality of the pension system and the enormous standing army necessitate the imposition upon the labor of the country of an extraordinary burden of taxation. And yet, strange to say, there seems. to be no special opposition to the pension policy, which has a firm foothold in the country. .
The fraternities of workmen in Belgium have been a source of much concern to the government; yet numerous salutary laws have been enacted at their instance. For example, wages must be paid in cash; two-fifths of salaries not exceeding 1,200 francs are exempt .from execution for debts; councils of industry have been established to reconcile differences between employers and employes; debts contracted in liquor houses cannot be recovered; and those who sell liquor to intoxicated persons, as well as the intoxicated persons themselves, are liable to fine and imprisonment.
The influence of labor fraternities properly conducted has been salutary. They have contributed to secure higher wages, bring about shorter hours, remove middlemen, or subcontractors and support members when out of work. They resemble the guilds in acting as benefit societies and insuring members against accident; sickness and old age. Moreover, they expend large sums in a direction foreign to the solicitude of the guilds, and that is in providing for unemployed members. 'All who were ab|e and. willing to work had plenty to do in the time of the guilds.
I need hardly apologize for referring so often
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to the guilds, for every person interested in the growth of our modern fraternities of workmen may study them with advantage. Such study in connection with the perusal of the late encyclical of our Holy Father on the subject of labor ' cannot fail to arouse something like a fitting •appreciation of the great and constant interest
of the Church in the welfare of the working people. The Church favored the guilds, and the guilds were powerful and prosperous while they hearkened to and obeyed her. In the same spirit she favors to-day our fraternal organizations of workmen. She favors them, not as revolutionary bodies, not as materialistic agencies, not as societies banded together for purposes so mean, selfish or unworthy as to make secrecy seem necessary. On the contrary, she favors them as a means of enabling workmen to secure and maintain their rights; to advance their common interests by means of the educational agencies available; to be guided by the same ethics and rules of morals collectively that individually they acknowledge; to be good citizens and obedient to the laws, and to be directed by the light of faith in Him who wrought with His own hands and gave His life for others.
These societies are beneficial in a high degree when honestly, intelligently and properly managed and directed. The members are mutually benefited, and the interests of the entire community advanced. The place of meeting becomes a school in the most practical sense. Men thus brought together become a great force for the accomplishment of good. They combine almost spontaneously to defend right against wrong in contests involving that issue. Viewed in that light, our labor societies deserve the support and co-operation of all good citizens without reference to vocation, position, or station. The old guilds had such support, employers, merchants, public officials and clergymen co-operating with them; and no one can deny that they contributed to promote the common good, maintain the public tranquillity and restrict to narrowest limits the evidences of poverty and mendicancy.
The insurance feature of these societies is deserving of unqualified commendation. It is essential to their prosperity, if not their very , existence. It aims at realizing in a secure and comparatively easy way some of the chief ends for which we live and labor. It provides for sick and needy members. It is by their bedside in illness and their grave in death. It alleviates their last suffering by the assurance that want
shall be averted from those near and dear to them. It stimulates the courage of the widow and orphans. It affords them the means of battling successfully against the adversities of the world. It enables the careful and provident mother to maintain, educate and rear her children as good Christians and useful members of society. It bespeaks a continued interest of the members of the fraternity or union in the family of their deceased associate and an effort to procure suitable employment for the children.
A workman acting by himself and for himself frequently forgets till too late the important duty of making provision for his helpless family. His example teaches selfishness, improvidence and vicious habits to his children. In their poverty and bitter, need they are prompted each to look out for himself. The tie to the family centre is broken. They lose sight of one another, and their fortune is as varying as their environments. Again, the mother’s death may be hastened through the weight of her sorrow and the consciousness of her helplessness. Then the last hope is gone. No one is left to guide them in the way of religion, in the path of morality, in the instruction of the schools. Look around you in this great city—aye, even in the State and country! Trace to their origin vice and intemperance, indifference to religion or even actual apostasy. Do they not, as a rule, lead you up to a condition of things such in the main as I have described? How many children might be saved to the Church and morality, to the school and usefulness, if provision were made for them before the death of the father—if they could continue to live under the family roof-tree!
Men are differently constituted. It may as well be admitted that a great many of our working people seem to lack the power to save. There can be no doubt, I submit, that every man of that class would derive advantage -	-	o
from joining a fraternal benefit association. In it he would meet the best element of workmen —men who read and think, men who enjoy a sense of manly independence in the consciousness that neither in sickness nor death need they or their families fear the poorhouse or soul-withering consequences of abject poverty. Membership in it would teach him to be practical, industrious, economical and attentive to the probable wants of the future. It would make him self-respecting and manly. It would encourage him to strive and provide a home for his family, and to surround himself with the comforts of life, if not the luxuries. It
i
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
would bring him into closer relationship with his associates of the brotherhood than ever he would' otherwise be. He would become interested in their welfare and they in his. They would advance mutually their common weal. Their interest in his welfare would make him a greater power in the community than ever he was before or could be without their co-operation. In short, he would become a steadier man and better citizen.
The insurance feature of such societies is, in my opinion, far preferable to the German policy of pensioning workmen. We know that in this country there is a formidable feeling of opposition to anything like a civil pension list. Moreover, we may well believe that no man of becoming pride would wish to be a beneficiary of the government on a civil pension list in the face of that feeling. His pension dole would be regarded simply as a gratuity or charitable offering to aid him in keeping out of the poorhouse. It would not tend to stimulate to honorable enterprise either him or his children; but it would tend to make him a mere creature of the government or an automaton, so to speak, wh'ich might be moved at its will, this way or that. In fact.it might become dangerous to the liberties of the country to have so great a power subject to the caprice of any administration or political party.
In the fraternal society a member gives a legal consideration for what he or his family is to receive. It is honorable for him to receive it; for it proves him to have been industrious and frugal, intelligent and far-seeing. It provides means to rear and educate the children, and his example is a salutary inspiration to them. They are kept together and work with and for one another until grown. They live long enough under the same roof-tree to know and share the beautiful love distinguishing the relations existing between parents and children, between brothers and sisters. Such children are proud of their parents and proud to remember and do what their parents taught them. They are. true to one another, and seek to be guided by the inspirations and hallowed memories of their youthful companionship.
Fortunately, in this glorious country of ours —a country formally placed under the standard of the cross by the great discoverer whose achievement we commemorate, this year— labor is to-day freer to act and stronger in union than ever it was before; and the influence . of our fraternal benefit societies has not been without avail in contributing so to .make it._
53
But its freedom may become license and its strength dissipated and lost in outbreaks of lawlessness unless it acknowledges and seeks to be guided by sound moral principles, such as the Church prescribed for the guilds. To these principles our fraternal benefit associations have sought to conform so far as. practicable under existing conditions. Let them be strengthened; for they tend to secure unity, impart confidence and increase the power of labor. Let them be established far and wide, and, like the guilds of old, they will satisfactorily settle the hours of, and remuner-. ation for toil. Acting in line with the sound principles prescribed by the Church, as indicated in the recent labor encyclical of Pope Leo XIII., it would be within their power, as of old, to provide steady employment at fair, wages for workmen, teach them to become • “true laborers,” and solve the many serious problems presented by the labor question.
The Organic Cell.
I.
The first thing necessary for us to know is. what an organic cell is; and the best definition., is that of Prof. Carnoy, who calls it “An elementary organism, or an individuality, of., organized being.” This definition is at.present., accepted by all biologists.
The cell was first discovered by. Robert. Hooke, in 1665. At that time the microscope., was not as well equipped as it is at the present. day. All that he was able to observe was an homogeneous liquid (protoplasm) which was enclosed by a wall, and for many years after nothing new had been observed.
The nucleus. The nucleus was discovered by. Fontana in 1781. He gives a description of it., which makes it quite clear to the student, namely, “An oviform body provided with a spot in the centre.” He also observed the granular substance in the cell, the longitudinal-strije of the. muscular cell. Later on another ’ biologist, by name of Meyon, discovered in the' ^vegetable cells the starch grains, chlorophyll ;bodies, and crystals. The nucleus is an essential element of the cell, and can be seen both in animal and vegetable cells. It is beautifully described in the works of Valentin; but.was first discovered through the researches of Fontana. Although the latter discovered several of the most , important parts of the cell, he never
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
54
took it Upon himself to write and publish a full history of them. In the works of Valentin it is described as “A small, round corpuscle, or a kind of second nucleus within the nucleus.”
The protoplasm was so named, first by Perkinje and Von-Mohl. It is the active and essential part of the cell.
The study of the minute structure of the cell requires first a reliable microscope. This should be of a clear, magnifying power of at least three hundred diameters. A section knife is the next requisite. Now when the student finds a section thin enough let him place it upon a slide, place a drop of water on it and cover with a cover glass. If the section be an exceptionally good one, he should remove it and stain it; but not until he has seen all the parts of the cell as they naturally are. The section should be removed from the glass carefully and put through the staining process.
The object of this is to produce a chemical change on all the different parts of the cell. This change is merely in color, as the nucleus may stain a red color and the protoplasm a yellow or some such color. After staining it should be mounted again in balsam and covered with cover glass; and after it is once dry it can be kept for many years with the parts unchanged. The best specimen for cell study is the vegetative. The protoplasm and nucleus are very distinct and can almost be studied with the low-power.
What is protoplasm? “It is an albuminous substance characterized in typical cells by possessing the property of spontaneous movement.” This definition is simple and clear. Unstained protoplasm is colorless, and resembles putty to a great extent. In the protoplasm of the vegetable cell may be seen minute green bodies moving about. These are the chlorophyll bodies. The beginner, observing the cell entirely green, is apt to imagine that it is its natural color; but on close focussing it will be seen that it is nothing more than these minute bodies closely collected within the cell-wall. Another substance or two may also be observed in the cell; they are the fat-globules, and a watery fluid containing glycogen, which serves as nutrition for the cell. In addition a few foreign particles are seen.
One thing more that is contained in the protoplasm is what is called the reticulum. Its appearance resembles to a great extent that of a spongy network; and it is indeed a beautiful spectacle when under a good microscope.
Movement of protopldsm. The means by which
the protoplasm is able to move from place to place can be best observed in the blood corpuscle (colorless). The movement is called amoeboid, because it is carried on the same as that of the minute animal called amoeba. The amoeba and corpuscle both throw out pseudopodia, which is nothing more than the essential substance of the animal itself; it is nothing more than the changing of its form from a round to an irregular one. The pseudopodia is nothing more than hyaloplasm, that is when first extended. This is due to the flowing of the hyaloplasm from out the meshes of the protoplasm.
In the protoplasm of plant cells the movement is beautifully illustrated. One of these movements, which is very plain in itself, is called the rotation of protoplasm. The best plant cells for this purpose can be found in the cells of the Chara, or commonly called “Stoneworts.” It is also very necessary that the plant from which the cells are studied should be young. These cells are somewhat wedge-shaped, pointed at one end, and are either short or elongated. We have seen that the celt is enclosed in a sac or network as it were. Now in these young cells it will be noticed that the protoplasm occupies the entire space within the sac, and as the cell grows older a drop of watery-like fluid appears near the centre of the mass, and increases in size until the protoplasm is reduced to a thin layar (primordial ventricle) which then lines the inner portion of the membrane. It will be noticed that the protoplasm flows very slowly about the interior of the sac, moving upwards on one side and downwards on the other and across the ends, constituting an unbroken circuit. Still another movement, called the circulatory, is seen in the vegetative cell. There is a great difference between this movement and that of the last mentioned. In the circulatory movement may be seen the peripheral streams, and also the strands which cross through the central space and form a loose network. In observing the movement of the leucocytes— when properly stimulated so as to give the observer a good opportunity to see the action thoroughly before the leucocyte ceases to move —can be derived the best results, and also the observer can easily recognize a separate morphological bearing in the observation concerning amoeboid cells.
What we have learned of these cells is due to the study of embryonic development of lower animals. In some of the cells of the embryo of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the echinoderms they often find their way out from between the cells clustered around them by this amoeboid movement and into the jellylike substance in which they move freely about. It is indeed very interesting to make these observations.
II.
We come now to a very important fact contained in the protoplasm, which we call the reticulum, or, as it is commonly called, “the protoplasmic network.” It is not visible in some cells, but nevertheless it is present. At first sight it may be taken for chlorophyll grains, or some other granular substance. The first means by which it can be distinguished by one who has the slightest knowledge of them is by the color. What thus appears as granular substances is nothing more than the place of intersection of the network, or as knots also, because they possess the power of twining about themselves. As to its dimensions the reticulum seems to vary greatly, some being coarse while others are extremely fine. The reticulum is made up of threads of a hyaline material, and in these threads are embedded a great many minute bodies called microsmata. The phenomenon -called karyokinesis is one in which the fibrous network and the microsmata take an important part.
It is a well-established fact that in cells where the microsmata exist life exists also. They cluster together, differentiating in one way and then in another; and by their various gatherings .give rise to different forms and constituents of
• protoplasm. The hyaloplasm which is found-in between the reticulum is a clear substance. The deuterplasm, we know, supplies the protoplasm with its nutriment. And still the biologist, ' after having discovered such minute constituents of the cell as those just mentioned, is still endeavoring to make new discoveries of the objects contained in these parts; and should they have the good fortune to discover, more it would perhaps interfere with a great deal of what is known of cells at present which we now consider as facts, and make a decided change in the minutest portions of this subject.
The nucleus. The nucleus lies embedded in the cell protoplasm, not always in the centre of the cell, but very often along the cell wall, to which it appears as if closely attached. It resembles a. small and beautiful pearl. Its appearance is very striking, and is. well presented in the nucleus found in the cell ot an onion. The size of the nucleus differs greatly according to the various cells. In some cells
they occupy perhaps nearly the greatest portion contained within the cell wall; and, on the contrary, they may be so small as to be hardly recognizable. In few words, then, we may say that “A nucleus is a rounded body suspended in the protoplasm, and is distinguished from the other parts of the cell by its higher refractive power, and also by the intense color it assumes when treated with staining fluids.”
On close examination of the nucleus it may be noticed that there is present a membrane enclosing a clear fluid which is. known by the name of achromatin. Now if we observe the achromatin more closely it will be noticed that there is contained within it another substance which appears to us as a very irregular network, called chromatin. The chromatin is that part of the nucleus which presents to us the change in color of the nucleus when-in contact- with staining fluids; and from this we rightly conclude that the nucleus is made up for the most part of this fibrous network.
J It seems wonderful that, small as the cell is and the nucleus contained within, there still exists within the nucleus another small body, called the nucleolus, found suspended in the nucleus network. Some scientists claim that there is existing in the nucleolus another body, but it still remains to be demonstrated.
i Cell division. No doubt a beginner in the study of the cell will imagine that the cell division is one of the most difficult things to understand; on the contrary, were he fully acquainted with the cell structure it would prove as simple to him as his alphabet Some may still regard it as a theory; but it requires very little time and work to demonstrate. The mode of division is as follows:	'
; We observe the cell as one single cell. A little later there takes place what is called the division of the attractive sphere; and this again appears to determine the division of the 'nucleus. When the nucleus divides it undergoes several wonderful changes. First, the network of chromoplasm of the nucleus charges into iuhit resembles a kind of skein, and into the ! k .in enter perhaps the nuclear membrane and uucleoli. As yet it is not certain whither the latter two disappear, but it is thought they enter the skein. -If the .-k in becomes looped in and out of the central space, it resembles a ro-ctte.to some extent. -
The filaments are broken into a number of separate portions taking the form of the letUr V, and are called chromcsems. The number of •
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
chromosems generally depends upon the species of the animal or plant. In some the nuclei at this period of division may contain only four, and at others they may amount to twenty-six . and even thirty. When they become visible they are seen to be arranged in such a manner as to appear like a star. The chromosems divide again into two parts, and the fibres separate into two groups also; and for a short length of time the end appears, as it were, hooked together. The two groups when separating take different directions, one towards each end or pole of the now elongated nucleus, and form another star-shaped figure at each of the .poles. Each star at each pole undergoes the same transformations as the first nucleus, the only difference lies in the order, which is merely the reverse; as, for instance, the skein more open and rosette-like at first, then a little closer, and the net-work. Finally it passes into a typical reticular condition of a resting nucleus.
The division of the protoplasm. Following the division of the nucleus comes the division, of the protoplasm," which seems to radiate from the ends of the nucleus, making indeed a beautiful spectacle to the eye; for even the smallest.part of nature lies here embedded, and it is indeed worthy of admiration. It may require a well-experienced eye for this; but the student can assure himself that such is the case, as the radiating lines give sufficient evidence of this fact. Other lines which are produced by a spindle-shaped system of achromatic fibres which lie within the nucleus, and diverge from the poles to the equator, are more difficult to be observed than the chromatic fibres. Their importance is, however, not-less than that of any of the others. The achromatic fibres seem to act as guides within the nucleus along which the chromosems are conducted to dyaster or poles; and thus it is that in this wonderful and true manner cell division is performed. Now that we have arrived at the end of the cell division it is best to take up the germ-cell next which will also be of great interest and of importance. . ,	-
HL
It<is certain that the simplest manner in which to study the cells is in their modifications.. Again we should always, bear in mind that all animals and plants arise, from a single cell, which we call the germ-cell. It forms part of the body of the parent and is essentially similar to'the cell. The multiplication of the germ-cell takes, place immediately after its; detachment from the parent. They continue to multiply,
and develop until they form an individual exactly like the parent. For. an exact demonstration of the germ-cell we should take the egg of the star-fish, because it is clearer than any other egg.
The form. The egg is almost spherical, which is regarded as representing a typical form of the cell.	.
The structure. In the egg, as the one mentioned above, there can be distinguished three distinct parts, namely, the cell-substance, the nucleus, and the membrane or cell wall. When taking the perfectly typical cell we can easily distinguish that the cell substance is merely a mass of unmodified protoplasm. Now it may seem rather strange to some how these cells or star-fish ovum receive nourishment. This is very simple; for when examining the ovum we observe small granules of proteids which are lifeless, and there is also present a fatty substance (deutoplasm) ; these particles serve as food for the developing embryo.
The nucleus. The. nucleus of the germ-cell is the same as the nucleus in a typical cell, and is found in the cell substance. Its lustre is the same, and is acted upon by the stains in the same manner as those of the common cell. The structure is identically the same.
The cell wall or membrane serves as a sac, and its constituents are soft, lifeless substances. The division of the ovum of the star-fish differs somewhat from that of the common cell. It first divides into two halves; these again subdivide into two, making four, and so on, developing by twos. This mode of division is the “cleavage” or segmentation of the egg, and from the subdivisions the future animal is built up.
The embryos of the higher animals are derived from the germ-cell by a process essentially like the one just mentioned, although the form and order of division may be somewhat more irregular.	■
Epithelial cells. We must not overlook the epithelial cells, as they require as much attention and study as the preceding. In the histological study of man we observe these cells in {many different parts of the body; in fact, they are to be found almost everywhere, as on the surface of the body, lining the internal digestive system, respiratory tracts, closed serous cavities, inner coats of blood-vessels, and ducts of all glands. All these parts are,covered and lined internally by the epithelial cells. The epithelial in life seiye various purposes both as a protective layer, and in the stomach and
S33
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	$7
intestines and the alimentary canal they serve the purpose of secretion.	. .
What is meant by a protective layer is that in life the epithelial cells are worn away, either by friction or by the changes in the temperature; and as soon as they die, or are worn away, others fill their places. The best illustration that might be given is that of an army at battle. As soon as the front ranks are mowed down, the next rank advances, takes their place and protects the rear. As the new cell advances there is but little fear of the nerves and blood vessels being injured.
’ In the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane and glands they act as principal agents in separating the secretion from the blood, or from the alimentary fluids.
Ciliated cells. These cells are chiefly found in the Eustachian tubes, Fallopian tube, and the ventricles of the brain, central canal of the spinal chord, and also in a few more of the internal organs. The cilia are seen moving and lashing on the infusoria (the best illustration of cilia movement), and by this movement they propel themselves, and cause a current in the water which causes small particles to be drawn towards the animal which it uses for nourishment. In the human body the cilia serve the purpose of keeping the interior of the organs moist with mucous fluid. By this lashing movement the mucousus spread over the mucous membrane. The ciliated cells lie in such a manner as to resemble a column; and they are often called columnar epithelium. Their appearance is very striking, presenting a . beautiful spectacle.
In a word, the cell, the unit of life, is certainly the most interesting subject connected with the science of animal organism.
E. M. Schaack.
Books and Periodicals.
—Scribner's Magazine for October has a notable list of contributors, including W. D.. Howells, Robert Louis Stevenson, Joel Chandler Harris, H. C. Bunner, Harold Frederic, and Will H. Low. The contribution of Mr. Howells is a remarkable one. Under the title “The Man of Letters as a Man of Business ” he discusses with perfect frankness the whole relation of literature to business, especially the relations of the writer with the editor and the publisher. It is a striking presentation of those things about which the public is so often misinformed. Another article of unusual inter
est, both intrinsically and by reason of its literary associations, is Robert Stevenson’s journal of the voyage made by Sir Walter Scott in 1814 around Scotland in the light-house yacht. This intimate view of Sir Walter by a man of such acute perceptions as the great engineer of Bell Rock light-house, is peculiarly genuine and free from the glamour which Scott’s great fame has usually cast over those who have written about him.. There is an introductory note by Robert Louis Stevenson, the illustrious grandson of the author of the diary, which links a third interesting personality to the narrative. The illustrated articles of the number represent an unusual number of the best known American and foreign artists,including Remington, Frost, Will H. Low, Francis C. Jones; and a group of famous Frenchmen, Monvel, Delort, Lynch, Marchetti, Jeanriiot' and Courboin. The last-named group forms, the subject of an interesting article by.F. N. Doubleday, who has visited the artists in Paris, and gives glimpses of their personalities as well as of their work.
—“Electricity at the World’s Fair” opens the October number of The Popular Science Monthly. The subject is a fascinating one,’and Mr. Charles M. Lungren, who writes the article, has given faithful descriptions of the enormous generators, the marvellous electric fountains, the electric railway and launches in operation, and other wonders of the electrical exhibit. Objects of special interest are shown in pictures. A less picturesque subject, though of more general concern, has been chosen by Fredrick A.Fernald, who describes the exhibits relating to the daily life and-labors of the home, under the title “Household Arts at the World’s Fair.” An account of the system of caring for the insane recently adopted by the State of New York is given by Dr. Andrew Macfarlane, together with some suggestions for improved care-of curable patients, under the title “The Duty of the State to the Insane.” The Fish Commissioner for the Cossack district of Russia, Dr. Nicolas Borodine, contributes a notably interesting account of “The Ural Cossacks and their Fisheries,” with illustrations. Another fully illustrated-article, by Henry L. Clarke, describes “A Characteristic Southwestern Plant Group,” embracing those monarchs of the American desert, the. agaves (century plants), cacti, and ; yuccas, Illustrations are used also by John C. Branner in describing “The Lip and Ear Ornaments of the Botocudus.” In “ Criminal Festivals,” M. Guillaume Ferrero tells how murder, cannibalism, etc., persist in tribal observances long after their general practice has been given up. Prof. James McK. Cattell.writes on “The' Progress of Psychology,” and foretells some of ; the practical applications of this science. ‘/The Problem of Colored Audition.” is treated by M. Alfred Binet. “ Some Characteristics of North1 western Indians” and a “Sketch.of Werner, von Siemens” complete the body of the magazines
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W seHffl-WE.
Notre Dame, September 30, 1893.
^ublts^rti tbtri) J5sturb«g fiuring JCtrnt Kimt at N. B. Snfbrreitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIQfoas entered upon the Twentyseventh year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including -the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
—The Rt. Rev. Joseph Rademacher, D. D., will take possession of his new see of Fort Wayne on Wednesday next, October 4. All at Notre Dame respectfully extend to their beloved Ordinary their heartfelt wishes Tor many long years of health and strength to govern the diocese to which, to the joy of everyone, he has been transferred .by the Holy See.
—On Thursday morning Solemn Requiem Mass for the repose of the soul of the late President Walsh was celebrated in the college church by the Rev. President Morrissey, assisted by Rev. Vice-President French, and the Rev. Prefect of Discipline Regan, as deacon and subdeacon. The members of the Community and all the students attended, and united their prayers with the Holy Sacrifice for the lamented departed.
—Tne Rev. Dr. Lambert has communicated to the Philadelphia Catholic Tinies an interesting description of his recent visit to Notre Dame in company with the Apostolic Delegate. Among other things he said: “Archbishop Satolli may well feel pleased with the warm reception accorded him on his arrival in South. Bend for a second visit to Notre Dame. The enthusiasm so freely shown is convincing of the warm spot that every true Catholic heart has for his Grace, the Monsignor.”
The Opening' of the Scholastic Year.
As announced in our issue of last week, the formal opening of the scholastic year took place on Sunday, the 24th inst. Classes had begun promptly on the second Tuesday in September with between three and four hundred students in attendance in all the departments; but it was decided to postpone the opening Mass to Sunday last, the Feast of the Blessed Virgin. Accordingly at eight o’clock on that day a Solemn High Mass was sung in the college church, Rev. Vice-President French being the celebrant, assisted by the Rev. M. Regan and the Rev. W. Houlihan as deacon and subdeacon. Rev. President Morrissey delivered a very impressive discourse to the students on the opening of the scholastic year, dwelling particularly on the duty that devolved upon them to begin well an epoch on which so much depended, and from which so much was expected by their parents, by themselves and by their Alma Mater. He said they had come to Notre Dame to acquire an education, and it would be to their advantage, now at the very beginning, to understand well the meaning of this very important word. To some it means the acquisition of a certain amount of knowledge which they do not now possess, and which is to be of use to them in after-life. But it means more than this. Mental culture is, unquestionably, something of great importance. In the age in which we live, and in the avocations of life in which one may be engaged, it is of indispensable necessity. But the acquisition of knowledge ought not to monopolize our efforts and energies. The education of young men, as considered in a Christian institution, has a broader meaning than the mere cultivation of mental powers. All our faculties are God-given, as well as our intelligence; and for this reason they would be frequently reminded that mental culture is not more worthy of their attention than the development of other powers; for instance, the preserving or increasing of physical energy, the polishing of manners, and, above all, the strengthening of their moral and spiritual natures, which means the enlightening of their minds, so that they may always know what their duty is, and the building up of their wills that, with God’s help, they may be always able to perform it. To be learned is well; but a man, in the true sense of the term, is a nobler object before God and man than the scholar.
The aim of an institution like this is to be
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the foster-mother, not merely of scholars, or artists, or scientists, but of men in the truest and noblest sense of the term—men whose character, influence and example will be a power for good in the world about them. It was certainly their desire to become men of this kind, and the labors of the present year ought to contribute materially towards the realization of this laudable ambition. Whether or not such would be the case depended largely upon themselves. In this work, as well as in any other that may engage their attention, it would be folly to look for a harvest without having labored for it; to expect a reward which no efforts of their own had merited. The aim of every good student ought to be to become more learned, more virtuous, more manly. To this end there is no royal way, no short cut; he has a threefold aim, and to realize it he must have recourse to a threefold means: work, submission to rule, prayer. To labor faithfully and conscientiously at the tasks prescribed, whether agreeable or otherwise; to take advantage to the fullest extent of all the means of spiritual improvement which are placed in such abundance and within such easy reach in an institution of this character, and to accept the college rules as the code of laws which should be as loyally obeyed as they are freely chosen, such are the resolutions which every good student ought to form at the opening of the year. And on the fidelity with which these resolutions are kept will depend, to a great extent, the success and happiness of the year.
These considerations were enlarged upon with an earnestness and eloquence that made a deep impression upon the minds of all present, and aroused, no doubt, in every heart a firm determination to make, so far as in them lay, the coming scholastic year one of the brightest and most successful ever passed at Notre Dame.
In conclusion the reverend speaker made a touching reference to the death of the late lamented President Walsh, saying in substance:
“A great, change has taken place at Notre Dame within the last few months., There is absent from our midst to-day one whose friendly grasp and placid smile greeted you for years past on your return to your college home. As I ascended the pulpit this morning I could not help but be impressed with a feeling of intense sorrow; for my memory brought me back to this time a year ago when there stood before you a man whom you, old students, knew well, and with you to know him was to love him. No more shall he speak from the pulpit those words of wisdom
and sound advice which it was your pleasure to listen to and drink in with a devouring earnestness. God spared him not to you; God spared him not to the Community which he loved so well, and to whose interests the best days of his grand life were devoted. Father Walsh, that good, noble, Christian gentleman, is no longer with us! There is a void in our ranks that can never be filled. But though dead,he still lives; though absent from his dear Notre Dame, his spirit hovers and will hover around het1, guiding and directing those who are to follow in his footsteps. His influence before the throne of God for the efforts of those left behind him is sure to be felt, and from that place in heaven, which to-day I feel assured is his, he will look down upon his work and give strength to us all to perpetuate it. He is gone, but his memory will, for many long years to come, be fondly cherished by the students of Notre Dame and by us who were associated with him in the cause to which his life was devoted—Christian education.”
---:----«-•-*-------
[From the Boston “ Pilots
The Apostolic Delegate at Notre Dame, Ind.
An invitation—most graciously extended to me among others—to accompany the Apostolic Delegate, Mgr. Francesco Satolli, Titular Archbishop of Lepanto, in his visit to the University of Notre Dame, Ind., afforded me a most favorable opportunity of studying and appreciating the work accomplished in that marvellous institution. A special car was placed at the disposition of the Apostolic Delegate and those who accompanied him. These were: Most Rev. Mgr. Redwood, Archbishop of Wellington, New Zealand; Mgr. Seton, Jersey City; Mgr. James Nugent, Liverpool; Rev. M. Hy vernat, Professor • of Biblical Archaeology and Oriental Languages at the Catholic University at Washington; Rev. Dr. Thomas O’Gorman, Professor in the same University; Rev. George Dougherty, formerly of the American College, Rome, now of St. Augustine’s Church, Washington, who accompanied Mgr. Satolli as secretary; Very Rev. B. Baldi, Vicar-General of the Servites in the United States; Father Tommaso Moreschini, Superior of the Servites in Chicago; Rev. P. Cronin, editor of the Catholic Union and Times of Buffalo; Rev: L. A. Lambert, editor of the Catholic Times, Philadelphia; Rev. T. Malone, editor of the Colorado Catholic; Rev. Father McShane, Chicago; Rev. Dr. De Paradis, Coal. City, Ill.; Hon. W. J. Onahan, Chicago, to whose
I i
6o	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
constancy of purpose and unwearied efforts so much of the success of the great Catholic Congress just closed has been owing; Rev. Father Murray, Andover, N. Y.; Rev. Father Kennedy, Liverpool, England; Count M. Harry Cassell, Private Chamberlain of His Holiness Leo XIII., of Rome, Italy, and Denver, Colorado, and P. L. Connellan, Roman. correspondent of The Pilot. The comfort and pleasantness of the journey were largely owing to the considerate foresight of Mr. J. F. Edwards, the genial Professor of History at Notre Dame.
It was an honor, that each felt in a special degree, to'be admitted to travel in this intimate manner with the distinguished envoy of the Sovereign Pontiff, Mgr. Francesco Satolli. On occasions like these one sees the man more-nearly, and finds more opportunities to study his characteristics in aspect and in manner. The popular voice, expressed both in the conversation of private life and in the public press, has declared him a most remarkable man, of vast energy and ability. No one who has surveyed that square high head, broadening out over the eyebrows, noble in form and proportions, could doubt of the depth of intellect and power of thought with which the owner is gifted. The thick/ dark eyebrows, with the. straight furrow—indicative of mental concentration—dividing them, form a shadow over the bright and piercing eyes, that adds wonderful effect to the intentness of the man’s look. The inward vision.that his absorbed gaze tells of suggests many thoughts to the onlooker. When Monsignor Satolli has listened to his interlocutor with all that gracious kindness and deep interest, so characteristic of the learned and well-bred prelates of the Catholic Church, he seems to become absorbed with the consideration of what has been said to him, giving it most intense and serious thought. In some , respects his mobile features resemble those of Savonarola, as depicted in that beautifully expressive bust of terra-cotta that stands in the cell of the martyred Dominican at St. Mark’s in Florence; and which, though a forgery of recent date, is one of the most artistic works in a city of art. The large mouth, drawn up at the corners, reminds you of the same feature in the countenance of Leo XIII. His figure, too, is thin, sinewy and nervous,-showing a capacity for . labor and fatigue surpassing that of men more largely built. The voice is somewhat hard when he addresses crowds, but soft and musical in.familiar conversation. That he is of. a highly nervous, temperament is evident to those wlib have
been some time in his presence; but this rather enhances than detracts from the emphatic expression of his conversation. When speaking in public in his own beloved language, the sweet syllables fall clearly and distinctly from his lips without hurry or confusion, and clothe thoughts that are worthy of such harmonious language and limpid expression.
Born, as he told me in conversation, in the . small town of Marciano, twenty-eight kilometres (about eighteen miles) distant from Perugia, on the borders of three dioceses, and in the hilly country above that Lake of Thrasy-mene, on whose shores Hannibal defeated the Romans, while an earthquake occurred unheeded by the contending armies, Mgr. Satolli was in his youth a remarkable pedestrian. “I have been travelling for the last two months,” he said, “but scarcely ever walking.” Father Baldi, of the Servites, who was of this party to Indiana, was well acquainted with the birthplace of the Delegate, the old city of Marciano, as he, when dwelling in Perugia, was accustomed to pass his summer. villegiatura at a villa belonging to the Order of Servites, which was situated in Marciano. And, if I mistake not, Father Baldi received Minor Orders at the hands of Mgr. Satolli.
On arriving-at South Bend, the Papal Delegate was made the object of an ovation which. might gratify the heart of a sovereign. The air was filled with the sounds of music performed by two bands, and the enthusiasm of the people was so great that it was with difficulty a way was made for the Delegate to reach the carriage awaiting him. As the procession of carriages passed through the town, on each side were seen the members of various societies drawn up in file, under the direction of Chief Ma'rshal John Dombrowski. Here were the St. Stanislaus’ Band, the Knights of St. Casimir, St. Boniface’s Branch C.K. of A., St. Stanislaus’ Society, St. Mary’s Society, St. Aloysius’ Society, St. John’s Society, St. Hedwige’s Band, St. Hedwige’s Society and the Ancient Order of Hibernians. >	:
As the party proceeded through the one-mile long avenue, shaded by noble trees, that leads to the University, the gilded statue of the Madonna, surrounded by electric lights, forming, as it were, the halo of this “ Star of the Sea,” greeted the eyes and gladdened the hearts of the visitors to this shrine of religion and learning. It was a devotional thought that suggested this form of illumination, and the sight of this far-shining.figure is fruitful in the awakening of holy aspirations.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	61
After the Mass, celebrated in the fine church by the Papal Delegate at 8 on Thursday morning, the guests visited the buildings. The church, dedicated under the invocation of the Sacred’ Heart, has been described as “certainly one of the most beautiful religious temples in the United States, at least as regards its interior. It is a veritable storehouse of Catholic art, where hours may be pleasurably spent in examining masterpieces of decorative painting, beautiful altars, statuary, stained-glass windows, sanctuary lamps, and the like accessories to architectural beauty.” Out of Tuscany in Italy I know no building so artistically decorated within as this exquisite structure. It reminds the observant traveller of some beautiful basilica in Orvieto or Siena. The scheme of artistic decoration followed out by the Roman painter, Signor Luigi Gregori, who worked here close upon fifteen years, is pre-eminent in unity and harmony.. The yellowish green tints of the imitation cipollino marble columns of the nave agree in color with the painted bigio marble walls. The story of the Incarnation and of the Redemption are told in many frescolike paintings on the walls. Broad in treatment, and although conventional in style, scenic and brilliant in effect, these paintings are a delight to the eye and a pictured volume over which the mind ranges with the greatest profit. Such works were in the Middle Ages named the books of the poor; to-day, with all our rapid . reading, they continue to be books for rich and poor alike. Ceilings and walls are covered with them; the windows are glowing pictures of saints and martyrs; the statues are representations of Christ, of the Blessed Virgin, of St. •Joseph. The great mystery of the Eucharist is suggested rather than displayed at the side altar by the excellent copy of the central portion of Raphael’s first great fresco in the Vatican Stanze at Rome—the Disputa del Sacramento. Here, at this same altar, many relics of the saints are exposed to veneration. “Its collection of sacred relics,” says a writer, speaking of the church, “is one of the greatest attractions to Catholics.”
The advantage of having one artist to do all the decorative work of the church is made evident here. Signor Gregori has managed the whole. Hence there is harmony in color, a consecutiveness in subject in the paintings, and a suitability' of one part to the other which is felt rather than particularly observed in this i most devotionrinspiring church. The same artist has painted the walls of the great hall in the main building with scenes from the
life of Christopher Columbus. These are done in imitation of richly-colored antique tapes-tries; and are very effective. In other halls, and notably in the library, there are collections of pictures, portraits and busts of the bishops of the American Church, living and dead; of prelates associated more or less closely with the institution; and laymen who have been conspicuous as exponents of Catholic thought, or Catholic men of talent. Amongst these are the late Mr. MacMaster, John Gilmary Shea, John Boyle O’Reilly, and the well-known author and Professor in this University, Maurice Francis Egan.
Every department of letters and science is cultivated within these walls. Many of the humble teachers in this institution bear names that are well known throughout the length and breadth of the United States, and even far beyond these wide limits. Father Zahm’s able and successful’ efforts are going far to convince an unbelieving world that there is no real discord between religion and science, when science is clearly understood and accurately interpreted within its own sphere. The name of the Rev. D. E. Hudson, editor of the Ave Maria, is known and loved wherever highly intellectual Catholic literature finds an entrance/ To many readers of this most excellent journal, Notre Dame, Indiana, is but the place from which their favorite Ave Maria issues. And even in that respect alone the place is worthy of a visit. Those who have the happiness of meeting Father Hudson, and becoming acquainted with him, will readily understand how it is that the Ave Maria is so remarkable a publication, and whence its power for good is derived.
It is impossible to tell here of the various departments that constitute this institution, and of the perfection of each and its fitness for the end in view. What struck me as the predominant note of the whole place—men and buildings—was the cheerfulness, I might almost say the gayety, of it all. That feeling was strongly borne in upon me on my first visit to the church, which is, in its brightness and brilliancy and harmony and richness, a species of Te Deum in stone and color. There the Fathers are cheerful and happy, as are all who lead holy lives away from the turmoil of the world and the avarice of men. Even the venerable Founder of this grand institution—the man who has seen it grow from an humble wooden house to its present grandeur, where it has assumed almost the dimensions and population of a town—the Rev. Father Edward Sorin,
62
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
though aged and enfeebled, is still cheerful. Here religion is not an integument of gloom to be assumed on certain days, and painfully worn, but a bright robe for daily, aye, for perpetual use. Tke celebrated Sydney Smith, of St. Paul’s, London, wrote once to his brother concerning the extraordinary reversal of natural laws which had taken place in the case of both of them. The brother had “risen by his gravity,” while Sydney had “sunk by his levity.” Perhaps such a one as Sydney Smith would have found his true level in an institution such as this, where cheerfulness and holiness are happily reconciled.	-	*
A visit was also. made by the Apostolic Delegate and the other guests to the grand convent school of St. Mary’s—a mile distant, where the Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross teach 230 boarders. This also is an institution worthy of the thought which gave it birth, and of the noble ladies who conduct it. The octagon-shaped church here is an architectural gem, and shines like a jewel within. After his visit the Apostolic Delegate, accompanied by some of the clergy and laity, walked through the woods back to Notre Dame, conversing on the way with different persons and . on different themes. I will not readily forget the clear and elaborate discourse on;the presentpolitical state of Italy, its menacing dangers,. and the hopes of a better future, with which the Delegate was so kind as to favor me on the pleasant walk under the welcome shade of the trees of Notre Dame.
.	P. L. CONNELLAN.
Personals.
—Rev. President Morrissey is in Chicago to-day.	.
—The Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., officiated at Dowagiac, Mich., on Sunday last.'
—Mr. H. A. Reilly, of the Comptroller’s office, Austin, Texas, and his estimable wife, were welcome visitors during the week. ,
—The Rev. H. Frechette, of Laval, P. Q., accompanied by his father, :paid a brief but t pleasant visit to the University on Thursday.
—Mr. James A. O’Reilly,’69, a leading and most successful lawyer of Reading,-Pa., paid a flying visit to friends at Notre Dame on Thursday. J.	.	'	■ ■ -
—Mr. J. Finnerty, of Denver, Col., always a welcome visitor, was at the University during the week, and entered his son in St. Edward’s Hall.
—Our genial Prof. M. O’Dea has won many
distinctions as one of the efficient judges of the electrical exhibits at the World’s Fair, and made hosts of friends during his sojourn in the White City.	’
—Mr. J. Brown, of Butte City, Mont., and daughter were among the welcome visitors of the week. His son Joseph returned with him to resume his studies in Brownson Hall.
—Mr. Samuel S. Murdock, ’86, of Lafayette, Ind., accompanied by his accomplished wife, paid a very pleasant visit to Alma Mater on Thursday, and was warmly greeted by many friends.
—Very Rev. Provincial Corby went to Cincinnati on Thursday. With the diocesan committee he will accompany the Rt. Rev. Bishop Rademacher, and assist at his installation in the See of Fort Wayne on Wednesday.
—The Very Rev. C. H. McKenna, Sub-Prior of St. Louis’ Dominican Convent, Louisville, Ky., visited the University on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week. His visit was a most agreeable one, and he expressed himself as very favorably impressed with all he observed at Notre Dame.
—We are glad to announce that the post so long and so acceptably held by Prof. Liscombe will be filled this year by Prof. Preston, formerly of St. Francis’ College, Quincy, Ill. Prof. Preston is a genial and accomplished gentleman, and much is expected from the musical classes during the coming year.
—Cards of invitation have been received for the marriage of Miss Josephine Beaubien, of Detroit, to Mr. Samuel P. O’Brien, ’85, of South Bend. The, ceremony will take place in St. Ann’s Church, Detroit, at 10.30 a. m. on Wednesday, October 4. Many friends at Notre Dame extend their heartiest congratulations and best wishes.
—Many of the old students miss the genial smile of the Rev. J. F. DeGroot, C. S. C., formerly Director of the Manual Labor School. Father DeGroot was ordained during the past vacation and immediately appointed to the Vice-Presidency of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas. The best wishes of his friends follow the reverend gentleman to his far-off field of labor.
—Very welcome visitors to the University during the week were Brother Tobias, Visitor General of the Christian Brothers, and Brother Odo, of La Salle Institute, Toronto. They took great pleasure in visiting the various buildings and admiring the many educational advantages afforded at Notre Dame. At the same time their visit was heartily enjoyed by all with whom they came in contact. .
. —The. Most Rev. P. W. Riordan, D. D., Archbishop of San Francisco, the Rt. Rev. L. Scanlan, D. D., Bishop of Salt Lake, and the Rev. M. D. Connolly, Rector of St. Paul’s Church, San Francisco, were welcome visitors to the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	63
University on Sunday last. Archbishop Riordan retains the old-time affection for Alma Mater, and was particularly pleased to greet the venerable Founder who was his President in the days of ’56 and ’58. We hope that the distinguished : visitors will soon find an opportunity to pay another and a longer visit to old Notre Dame.
—We omitted to include among our visitors of last week Mr. James E. Dougherty, of New York, who accompanied his friend and associate Vice-President of the Superior Council of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul, Mr. Joseph A. Kernan. Mr. Dougherty is one of the most zealous and practical Catholics of the great city of New York; and, together with Mr. Kernan, does most efficient work in furthering the objects of the noble Christian organization whose origin, history, aims and results the latter so ably presented before the Catholic Congress in Chicago. Both gentlemen, we are glad to learn, retain the most pleasant memories of their visit to Notre Dame.
—The Rev. John Lauth, C. S. C., who spent the last week or ten days in visiting the World’s Fair and friends in Milwaukee and Watertown, returned yesterday (Friday) to resume duties at Notre Dame. We are glad to hear from him of the flourishing condition of the College of the Sacred Heart at Watertown, Wis., under the capable management of its accomplished President the Rev. John O’Keefe, C. S. C., and also of the progress of St. Bernard’s parish directed by the Rev. P.W. Condon, Dean and Pastor, and his assistant, the Rev. J. Coleman, C. S. C. All these reverend gentlemen are well known to former students of Notre Dame, by whom this little item of news will be read with pleasure.
Local Items.
—Prepare for St. Edward’s Day.
—Classes are all booming right along.
—Has Ned arranged his “refectorial list” yet?
—A grand symphony concert is spoken of for the near future.	•
—The Carrolls have the new set of base-ball uniforms—the finest on the grounds.
—The Scholastic “box” will be found in the students’ office right under the telephone.
—Music by the vocal societies and the Band and Orchestra is promised for St. Edward’s Day.
—Special exercises of devotion will be held each evening during the month of October in honor of the Rosary. ,
—Note.—Please give “copy” to the Editor and call on him for “proofs.” It is unnecessary to call at the printing office and may interfere with work.
—Bro. Charles, for so many years the genial prefect of Music Hall, has resigned his position, owing to ill health. He has been succeeded by Bro. Bonaventure.
—The Carroll special base-ball team claims a forfeited game from’ the ex-Carrollites, the latter disappointing them by refusing to play at the last moment.
—Notice.—The genial Director of the Tailoring Establishment requests us to announce that students bringing articles of clothing to be fepaired should have the same marked by Bro. Bernard.
—Alexander Carney was elected captain of 'Carroll Hall special base-ball team last Tuesday evening. Messrs. Walde and LaMoure also received a number of votes. All the Carrolls wish Captain Carney success.
—To-morrow (the first Sunday in October) is Rosary Sunday. All the indulgences of the Portiuncula may be gained, on the usual conditions, by those visiting the Chapel of the Holy Rosary in the Church of the Sacred Heart.	.
—It is a pleasure to all see our venerable Father General as he takes his daily drives through the premises of his beloved Notre Dame. This evidence of activity and supervising interest is the source of consolation and encouragement to everyone here.
—The singing by the college choir on last Sunday was a pleasant surprise to all. The excellence of the music, when one considers the little time used in its preparation, reflects great credit on the young gentlemen and upon the Professor of music. Mr. Preston sang an exquisite solo at the Offertory.
—The fall meeting of the Tennis Club was held last Wednesday evening. The following officers were elected: President, L. Baldwin; Vice-President, F. Barton; Secretary, W. Frey-tag; Treasurer, P. Foley. The following were admitted to membership: A. Rumely, F. O’Brien, B. Bates, R. Slevin, E. Englefritz, W. Rice.
’	'O'.
—We gratefully acknowledge the receipt of an invitation to attend the dedicatory exercises of the new St. Joseph’s Church in Mishawaka on the 22d prox. The Right Rev. Bishop Rademacher of Fort Wayne, will officiate anjd the sermon will be delivered by the Rev. President Morrissey. The exercises will be directed by the energetic and-zealous Pastor, the Very Rev. Dean Oechtering.
—Rev.President Morrissey visited St. Edward’s Hall on Monday. He gave the Minims some excellent words of advice as to how they should spend their time during the scholastic year. He said that, judging from the bright, intelligent faces before him, the Minims of this year would keep up the brilliant record of the department.
—Thursday afternoon the special Law class team appeared upon the field to defend their
64
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
laurels which they had won in many a hard-fouerht same durino- the last season. They had a record to be proud of as they had appeared against, and battled with, the best teams of the University and had come' out unscathed and undefeated. This year the class has very good material for a first-class nine; but notwithstanding this fact, there were some who thought that they could be easily beaten. They accordingly selected a nine of the best players in the University, outside of the Law class, and challenged the class team, to a game for the championship of the University. The success their efforts met with, the score best shows. At no stage in the game did the picked aggregation stand any chances of winning whatever. They were simply outclassed at every point. And “now they’re sorry that they spoke.” Gibson, for the Law class, pitched a fine game holding his opponents down to 7 meagre base hits. The fine work of Chassaing at short, and Sweet behind the bat, deserves special mention. With such men as McCarrick, Schmidt, Burns, Chassaing and Gibson, the Law team has a bright future before it. The feature of the game was McCarrick’s three-base drive to left field. Following is the o
Score by Innings:—1 234567S9 Law Class:—o 0070030 3=13 Picked Nine:—o 0013002 2=8
—Law Debating Soci ety.—Last Wednesday evening the Law. Debating Society met in regular session. The minutes of the preceding meeting were read by the clerk, and on motion of Mr. Kirby they were adopted. On motion of Mr. McGarry the subject for the next debate was chosen as follows: “Resolved, That the interests of the American people would be advanced by the annexation of the Hawaiian Islands.” Messrs. McGarry and Mott were appointed to argue on the affirmative side of the question, and Messrs. Chidester and Ryan the negative side. Mr. Mott then, in a very eloquent manner, opened the debate for the evening. The subject in question was: “ Resolved, That the prosperity of the country would be best promoted by the exclusion of ' the:Chinese under the provisions of the Geary Act.” . He handled his subject in a very able manner, and on its conclusion was loudly applauded. Mr. McKee then took the floor in the interests of the negative side and •- developed, some points not conceived in the philosophy of his opponents. The bursts of applause that frequently interrupted his remarks testified, to..the appreciation of his audience. Mr. Kennedy continued the argument for the negative. His logical reasoning and breadth of thought elicited great applause from the society. Mn McGarry, in closing, pointed out . what he thought to be errors in the arguments of the negative, and proceeded to correct all erroneous impressions concerning the Chinese. It being time to adjourn, he closed his argument V for the evening.
Roll of Honor.
. SORIN HALL.	.	.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bolton, Carney, Correll, Cullen, Casey, Crawlev, Devanney, Davis, Eyanson, C. Fitzgerald, Funke, Flannery, Flannagan, Hudson, Hervey, ■ Jewett, Kuhnert, Kearney, Keough, Monarch, J. McKee, Maurus, C. Mitchell, H. Mitchell, McCarrick, McFadden, Murphy, McGarry, Mott, O’Donnell, Powers, Ryan, Scherrer, Schillo, Schopp, Walker.
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Brinker, Baur, Barrett, Beyer, W. E. Bates, Byrne, Blanchard, Brennan, Brady, Burns, Bennett, Barton, Baldwin, B. Bates, Black, Cullinan, Campbell, Clark, Corry, Crane, Callahan, Cavanagh, Covert, Colby, Cook, Chassaing, F. Dillon, A. Dillon, Dorsey, F. J. Donohoe, F. C. Donohoe, Duffield, Esgen, Fagan, T. Falvey, Foley, Freytag,* F. Falvey, R. Flynn, A. Flynn, Galen, Grady, Gordon, Gilmartin, L. Gibson, N. Gibson, Hilligan, Hinde, Hermann, Hennessy, Harris, Hartnett, Henneberry, Hagan, Hesse, Ilgenfritz, Johnson, Kramer, Kinsella, Kerndt, Kennedy, Karasynski, Kirby, Krembs, Ludwig, Lawlor, Loser, Lane, Maynes, Moore, Maguire, Maloney, Mott, Murray, McHugh, Marmon, Ney, O’Neill, O’Rourke, O’Connell, O’Brien, Oliver, Prichard, G. Pulskamp, E. Pulskamp, Palmer, Piquett, Quinlan, Roper, Rice, Ruppe, Rumely, J. Ryan, J. J. Ryan, Reilly, Schwartz, Stadler, Smith, Spalding, Slevin, Sweet, Sullivan, Steinhaus, Stace, Tinnen, Vignos, Welty, Walker, Weaver.	.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Benson, Benz, Bloomfield, Black, Bopp, Burns, Clarke, Connor, Cooke, Chase, Cornell, Chauvet, Carney, J. Ducey, A. Ducey, Druecker, Doherty, Dutt, Dixon, Dannemiller, Foley, Fennessey, Fleming, Fox, Farley, Fitzgibbon, Franke, Gausepohl, Graham, Gonzales, Gavin, Hurley, Harding, Howell, Healy, Howard, Hoban, Jack, Jones, Krollman, Kegler, Kasper, Klees, Lanagan, Lansdown, Ludwig, Lowrey, Lan try, LaMoure, Lohner, Lippman, Maurer, Munzesheimer, J. Murphy, E. Murphy, Massey, Maternes, Monahan, Miles, Mills, J. Miller, L. Miller, Miers, Masters, McShane, J. J. McPhillips, J. A. McPhillips, McCarrick, Ortiz, O’Neill, O’Mara, O’Brien, Pendleton, Phillips, Romero, Rockey. Reinhard, Roesing, Reber, Shillington, Swift, Strass-heim, Sullivan; Sparks, Schaack, Swigart, Stearns, Tinnen, Tuohy, Tempel, Thome, L. Trankle, F. Trankle, J. Treber, W. Treber, Walde, Wilcox, H. Wilson, R. Wilson, Wensinger, Wigg, Wagner, Weitzel, Waters, O. Wright, D. Wright, Wymetal, Whitehead, Ward, A. Yglesia, L. Yglesia, York, Zoehrlaut.
st. Edward’s hall.
Masters Allyn, Ayers, G. Abrahams, L. Abrahams, Byrne, Bullene, Brinckerhoff, Bump, Clune,. Christ, Cross, Croke, ,D. Campau, F. Campau, L. Clarke, A. Clarke, B. Clarke, R. Clarke, Corry, Corcoran, A. Coquil-lard, J. Coquillard, Cressy, Dugas, Devine, J. Dawson, C. Dawson, Davidson, Dalton, Durand, Everest, Elliott, Englehardt, ,Fortune, Feltenstein, Finnerty, Flynn, Freeman, Graff, L. Garrity, Green, Leo Garrity, Girsch, Gimble, Healy, Ralph Higgins, Roy Higgins, J. Higgins, B. Hess, Hershey, F. Hess, R. Hess, Ives, Jonquet, A. King, K. King; Kelly, Lohner, Langley, Lawton, Lysle, Morris, A. Monaghan, C. Monaghan, Moxley, Minnig-erode, E. McCarthy, J. McCarthy, Emil McCarthy, G. McCarthy, McGinley, McElroy, W. Maritzen, H. Mar-itzen, Morehouse, Noonan, Otero, Ortez, O’Neill, Peck, " Perea, H. Pollitz, W. Pollitz, Roesing, Robb, Romero, H. Rasche, L. Rasche, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Schni- -der, Swan,’ Shipp, Steele, Shillingtori, Terhune, U. Thompson, L. Thompson, Wells, Wagner.
* Omitted by mistake last week.