w rora dote
SCHOLASTIC
mu (wus nuns mom
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR ELMER F. LAYDEN
IN THIS ISSUE
PRESIDENT'S RADIO TALKS COTILLION PLANS
PLANS FOR STUDENT TRIP CAMPUS RADIO PLANS
OUTLINE APOLOGETICS COURSE
PREVUE CARNEGIE GAME CARNEGIE EDITOR'S SLANT VARSITY-FROSH GAME INTERHALL FOOTBALL RULES FALL TRACK PRACTICE
THE WEEK
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
COLLEGE PARADE
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX INTRODUCING
OCTOBER 2, 1936
FOR HIGHER GRADES IN COLLEGE
Get the Pen That Never Runs Dry in Classes or Exams
The All-American College Favorite
IFith Double Ink Capacity and Full-length Visible Ink SupplyShows DAYS AHEAD When It's
Running Low
Do the thing that you know is the thing to do—replace your old-style pen with this miracle Vacumatic— Parker’s revolutionary invention that holds 102% more ink WITHOUT INCREASE IN SIZE—that shows the ENTIRE ink supply, not merely the last drop—shows not only when your pen is empty, hut shows DAYS AHEAD when it’s running low, so it CAN’T run dry against your will!
Today the Parker Vacumatic is the world’s long-distance writer and Style and Beauty Winner—the sac-less marvel whose simple working parts are sealed in the top—never touched by ink, hence won’t -corrode or fail. That’s why it’s GUARANTEED Mechanically Perfect.
In the hands of millions of users, using all kinds of ink, this marvelous pen has repeatedly proved that it "can- take it” anywhere and any time —it never leaves its owner gasping for ink in classes or exams.
If you’ll go and try its marvelous
SCRATCH-PROOF Point of precious Platinum and Solid Gold, you'll give your old-style pen to the rummage sale. Look for the smart ARROW clip—this ARROW identifies the genuine. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.

GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
Junior, $5 Over-Size,
Pencils, $2.50, $3.50 and $5
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
October 2, 1936
No. 2
REV. JOHN F. O'HARA. C.S.C.. CONTINUES TALKS ON WEEKLY CATHOLIC RADIO HOUR OVER NATIONAL NETWORK
GYMNASIUM PACKED FOR YEAR'S FIRST PEP MEETING
Continuing his talks on the Catholic Hour over the National Broadcasting Company network, the Rev. John F. O’Hara,-C1S.C., president of the University, will speak, next Sunday, on “Temperance and Fortitude.”
In his talk last Sunday, Father O’Hara told why there are so many philosophers in the world today. He said, “The philosophers of the appetites are as numerous as the sands of the sea-shore. The reason for this is not far to seek. Every man has it in his nature to seek a reason, if not an excuse, for everything that he does. The two most fundamental impulses in our nature, the two strongest, are those that refer to the preservation of the race.”
He jvent on to tell of the ways of some men with regard to their morals by saying, “Those who rationalize against their better judgment; those, that is, who sin, and then seek an excuse for their sin, are most likely to become active crusaders for a false philosophy. They seek to quiet, by force of numbers, the inner voice of conscience. It is because of the activities of this particular kind of men that it has been said that ‘every false philosophy is an excuse for somebody’s sin’.” ,
In closing, Father O’Hara said: “The pure man cannot be a coward; he has fought too many fights—and usually without the inspiration of applause from onlookers; he cannot be base; his love of God has elevated him above baseness; he cannot be a traitor; fidelity has burned into his soul. Purity is an indispensable virtue, for men.”	. 2 ; .
Italian Club Meets
The Notre Dame Italian Club will hold its first meeting in Carroll Recreation Hall Tuesday evening, Oct 6, at 7:45. President Joseph Mangelli extends the club’s invitation to all freshmen Italian students and wishes to stress that the ability to speak Italian is not a necessary requisite for membership in the Club.
Professor Pasquale Pirchio, organizer of the Italian Club, will give a brief talk on his travels through Italy during the past summer.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. The nation hears his talks.
First Football Dance Set For Saturday
Fall social activities will be officially inaugurated for the semester tomorrow evening. following the Carnegie Tech game. The year’s initial affair will be a football dance sponsored by the S.A.C. which will be held at the Jefferson Plaza, and tickets, priced at 75 cents a couple, may be purchased from all S.A.C. men.
The dance will last from 8:30 to 11:30. Disciplinary regulations for the dance will be as in previous years, which means that students attending the dance are to be back in their halls by 12 o’clock. Ticket sale will close Friday evening at 5 o’clock. Andy Reidel’s orchestra, one of the more popular local musical units, ■will provide the music.
S.A.C. President Phil Bondi has appointed Scott Reardon, junior class president, as chairman of the dance. Reardon will have as his assisting committee all the S.A.C. members. \
One of the finest turnouts in the past four years, greeted the 1936 Notre Dame varsity football squad at the pep rally in the gymnasium last night in preparation for the Carnegie Tech game to-morrow. The rally was pushed back one night because of the First Friday devotions, and lasted only about 45 minutes because of the upperclassmen’s Mission.
Philip Bondi, president of the S.A.C., acted as chairman of the meeting, and introduced the speakers. The team was formally spurred on by the University president, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Clarence “Pat” Manion, professor of law, and Elmer Layden, athletic director and head coach, who introduced the various members of the team.
John Lautar, newly elected captain, spoke briefly.
Seventy-Five Present For Dome Trials
About 75 candidates attended the first Dome meeting of the year, held Monday night. All will be given a chance to prove their worth within the near future.
Individual pictures of the Juniors will be taken starting Oct. 13. Members of the Dome staff will canvass the junior halls and make appointments for the pictures. The juniors thus approached are asked to be on time for their appointments, thus facilitating the taking of their pictures.
Individual pictures of the seniors will be taken as soon as all junior pictures are finished.
The Dome is also making a call for snapshots, taken by the students, of anything which they might desire’ to see reprinted in the yearbook. This is being done in an attempt to make the book as universal as possible. All snaps are to be identified on a separate piece of paper- and mailed,.or brought to John Cottingham," 217 Dillon." 'None of the snapshots will be returned. -	-
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
SOPHOMORE COTILLION SET FOR OCTOBER 16 JOHN MULDERIG APPOINTED CHAIRMAN ORCHESTRA, PRICE, UNDECIDED
FOOTBALL SEATS RESERVED
By Harold A. Williams
The annual Sophomore Cotillion will be held on Friday, Oct. 16, the week-end of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game, Joseph McDermott, sophomore class president, of Chicago, Ill., announced early this week.
This announcement came as a surprise to members of the Sophomore class for it had been previously learned that a decision by the faculty dance committee had set the Cotillion date for a week-end on which there was no home football games, a departure from previous Cotillions. Since student opinion expressed through the S.A.C. was so strong for a dance in connection with a football game, the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, agreed to allow the Cotillion over the Notre Dame-Wisconsin week-end provided the students would not use their automobiles.-
Contacting Orchestras
The only definite action taken for the dance so far has been the appointment of Mr. John Mulderig, of Auburn, N. Y., as chairman.
Price of the tickets for the Cotillion will not be determined until the orchestra has been selected. McDermott said no decision has been made concerning the orchestra, but several entertainment bureaus in Chicago are being contacted for information regarding outstanding orchestras traveling in the Chicago area.
Football Dance Saturday
A special section of the Wisconsin side of the field will again be reserved for Cotillion goers and their guests. The price of the tickets has not yet been set by the athletic office, but it is understood that it will be practically the same as former years. A football dance on Saturday night will probably be another feature of the Cotillion week-end.
The faculty dance committee cooperating with the Sophomore class is composed of the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; Mr. Robert H. McAuliffe, off-campus prefect; Mr. Paul R. Byrne, Librarian; and Mr. Thomas P. Madden, associate professor of English.
Club Presidents Elect Ling Council Head
Gene F. Ling, of Lakewood, Ohio, president of the Cleveland Club, won the presidency of the Presidents’ Council by “rule of the hat” at the election of officers on Tuesday, September 29, in the north basement of the library. Edward J. Reardon, from Kansas City, Mo., president of the Missouri Club, was chosen as secretary.
Following the custom established in the Fall of 1934 to prevent politics, the officers were chosen by drawing three names out of a hat containing names of all the members. The persons whose names were drawn second and third became secretary
Gene Ling
President of Presidents.
and president, respectively. In this “election,” Timothy R. King, of Niles, Ohio, president of the Youngstown Club, was the “defeated” candidate.
Arthur Hoffman, member of the S.A.C. and president of the Fort Wayne Club, was the presiding officer pro tern.
The Council, this year composed of some 41 presidents of literary and geographical clubs, and of classes, was originally organized in 1931. Its purpose is to knit the clubs more closely together, and to facilitate direct cooperation with the S.A.C.
At the next meeting, officers’ names and proposed activities must be presented by the presidents, for no club can obtain a charter without holding activities. The charter must be renewed every year.
MANY NEW VOLUMES ON THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LIST
•
The first volume in a series of publications in medieval studies sponsored by the University of Notre Dame, was completed during the past summer by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Ph.D. The work entitled, The Works of Peter of Poitiers, Master in Theology and Chancellor of Paris (1193-1205), was first written in French and presented as a dissertation to Ecole des Chartes de Paris. Later, translated and revised, it was presented to the Catholic University, and finally it appears in the Notre Dame Library in its new form.
Three first editions, donated by Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, Irish scholar, who lectured at the University during the past year, augmented the Notre Dame Library’s ever increasing collection. Each of the works, Laila, Roohk, History of the Republic of Texas by N. Doren Mullard, and An Exploring Expedition into the Rocky Mountains by Captain J. C. Fremont, bear the personal autograph of Daniel O’Connell, famous Irish patriot and scholar.
Varied Titles
The new supply of books now available in the University Library appeals to a wide and varied number of interests. Some of the outstanding publications now included in the library are: The Moral Universe by Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen; Strange Holiness, Pulitzer prize winner volume of poems, by Robert P. Tristram Coffin; Inside Europe by John Gunther, Daily News reporter; and, Listen for a Lonesome Drum, a New York State Chronicle, by Carl Canner.
Some 25 paintings, loaned by the Bendix Foundation to Notre Dame, were recently hung in the University Art Gallery located on the top floor of the library. These paintings, by modern 19th century artists, include works by such well-known artists as George Innis, Gary Melcheres, Gerald Cassidy, and Daubigny.
Jersey Club Smoker
A Freshman Smoker was announced for next week by Joseph Quinn, president of the New Jersey Club. As the date is indefinite, hall bulletins will be posted.
This year the club is headed by J. Quinn, president; Joseph Moore, vicepresident; Leonard Habig, treasurer; and William Costello, secretary. Plans for the year include a rally before the Army game, a Christmas dance and various business and social meetings this semester.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
5
CASASANTA PICKS PERSONNEL OF
1936 BAND
•
By Richard A. Riley •
Ninety men, eighty regulars and ten reserves, were chosen by Professor Joseph Casasanta last Tuesday to form the personnel of the 1936 University of Notre Dame Band. Uniforms were issued to each member of the band.
For the past two weeks, the band has been drilling on Brownson Field each afternoon, perfecting the formations to be used tomorrow afternoon at the Carnegie Tech game. Considerable interest in the activities of the band has been manifested by the student body, and students have lined Brownson Field each evening to watch the members execute the various intricate formations.
The candidates for the Glee Club have been practicing each day at 12:30 in the Washington Hall music rooms under the able direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta. If the musical renditions heard each day after lunch from the music rooms may be used as a criterion, it would seem that the Glee Club is fast becoming a harmonious well-balanced organization.
Bacteriologist Leaves For Pittsburgh
Mr. Philip Trexler, chief assistant in the bacteriological research laboratories at the University of Notre Dame is leaving South Bend Friday for the Western Pennsylvania Hospital Institute of Pathology, Pittsburgh, Pa., where he will spend several months working on a research problem begun at Notre Dame.
In Pittsburgh he will work under the direction of Dr. Ralph Mellon and Dr. Philip Hadley, two of America’s most noted bacteriologists. After the present study is completed, Mr. Trexler will return to Notre Dame to continue his work in the laboratories of the new biology building now under construction on the campus.
Mr. Trexler, has for the past two years been associated with Prof. Arthur Reyniers at Notre Dame.
Among other equipment of value in medical research, air-conditioned incubators have been invented in which small animals may be raised in an absolutely germ-free condition, for inoculation to show germ reaction. Another “m a c h i n e” automatically photographs and counts bacteria, eliminating human error. Dr. Reyniers was the inventor of this equipment, with Mr. Trexler collaborating.
ARMY GAME IS CHOICE OF STUDENT POLL FOR ANNUAL TRIP; RAILROAD RATES DELAY FINAL DECISION
Back To The Canes Of Yesteryear
For Lawyers
Distinction after some six years of book lugging comes to the senior law students tomorrow afternoon when that age-old tradition of cane carrying will be revived once again. The dignified third year lawyers will flaunt them in all their glory at the Carnegie football game. Patrick Fish-
President Patrick Fisher Gets lawyers mahogany canes.
er, Indianapolis, president of the Notre Dame Law club, engineered the obtaining of canes. He stated that this tradition dates back to early days of the Law School.
The new canes are of dark mahogany with bakelite tip and handle. Some controversy arose as to their selection, but the dictates of style and uniqueness were responsible for the final decision. The senior lawyers also informally discussed the old question as to whether it is correctly called “carrying a cane” or “wearing a cane.” President Fisher stated that to his knowledge it was “carrying.” Edward, the former Prince of Wales, now king, always insisted the expression was “wearing.”
Campus criticism always arises when the lawyers first strut with their canes as to the appropriateness of a cane and the trouser-sweaterjacket combination. Such critics are requested to remind themselves that this tradition first began when Esquire and the word, “smoothie,” did not exist. To change that original condition would be nothing short of revolt.
Other than the subject of canes,
PITTSBURGH IS CONSIDERED
Definite decision on this years student trip was postponed this week by the University Council pending negotiations with railroads for special rates. The two games being considered are the Army tilt at New York, and Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh.
1,275 students answered a poll circulated by the S.A.C. last week in which they signified intention of making the student trip. Nearly 1,000 favored the trip to New York while 250 would rather go to Pittsburgh. Others answering were equally in favor of either game.
Railroad and game tickets for the Army game would cost between $25.00 and $30.00 while the expense of a Pittsburgh trip would vary between $15.00 and $20.00 according to available figures. The amounts are approximate, and details are being worked out by the S.A.C. along with the University Council.
Interest has been centered around the Army game largely because of the traditional color of the contest, which has come to be one of the nation’s headline gridiron duels. Last year’s game in New York, which ended in a 6-6 tie climaxed a series of five games in New York City. In 1930 the game was at Soldier’s Field, Chicago.
Pittsburgh, too, has been a consistent rival of Irish teams, for several years they seemed to have gained domination of the series. Last year’s 9-6 victory put Notre Dame back in the winning column.
On the questionnaire, students were asked the question: “Do you favor having more than three pep meetings this year?” The answer was overwhelmingly in the affirmative.
Tentative plans advanced for the New York trip call for an overnight stay, probably at the McAlpin Hotel. No definite arrangements have been made for any accommodations, and no choice has been made in the event of the Pittsburgh trip.
Announcements of the trip will be made definite as soon as the University Council arrives at a decision.
President Pat and the boys are discussing plans for the Lawyers’ Ball, monthly social meetings with guest speakers, weekly business get-togethers, and a continuance of the Law Club’s foster-child, the exclusive and elusive order of “Lodge.”
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
CAMPUS RADIO STATION TO INAUGURATE
YEAR'S PROGRAM ON FOUNDERS' DAY; ALEKSIS IS MADE DIRECTOR
SIX LECTURERS SET
FOR EARLY FALL APPEARANCES
NEWS PROGRAM PLANNED
The new year’s activity in campus radio will be ushered in with a special inaugural program to be broadcast on October 13th, Founder’s Day. Tentative plans for this program call for a concert by the University Glee Club and an address by some officer of the University. During this term the group will carry out an ambitious series of programs that will include many of the most popular features of last year as well as many new ones.
The series of radio lectures by members of the faculty will be continued. These programs are released through the local station and also in the Chicago district by WIND in Gary. “The Scholastic of the Air,” weekly resume of campus news, will again be heard every Friday afternoon.
It was announced this week that Norbert Aleksis, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters from Waterbury, Conn., has been appointed to the position of Student Director- of Radio. Aleksis spent this past summer with Station W1XBS, Waterbury as an announcer and assistant director of radio dramatics.
He wishes to remind the radio group that the first meeting of the year will be held next Monday evening at eight o’clock in the studio of the Engineering Building. Everyone who is interested in learning announcing, script writing, radio dramatics, or musical programs is invited to attend. Freshmen are eligible.
Last year the University station presented campus speakers, the Notre Dame Glee Club and Band, the Moreau Seminary Choir, and many other programs featuring local talent. One of the highlights of the year was the Campus Amateur Contest won by St. Edward’s. This contest will be revived this year, according to present plans.
Dr. Franklin To Lecture
Dr. Edward Curtis Franklin, emeritus, professor of organic chemistry, Stanford university, recognized authority on liquid ammonia as an electrolytic solvent, is to lecture here Tuesday night, at 8:00 p.m., on “The Nitrogen Analogs of the Alcohols, Aldehydes, Ketones and Carboxylic Acids.” He will speak in the auditorium of the Engineering building. •
Spanish Student Tells Surprise Of War
“The revolution in Spain was as unexpected as it is terrible” declared Sebastian Bonet, of Barcelona, Spain in a personal radio interview broadcast as a special feature program last night. Bonet is a graduate of the College of Arts and Letters and is this year a student in the College of Engineering.
“When I arrived home in June,
Sebastian Bonet
Barcelona seemed serene.
Barcelona seemed very much as usual. There were a number of labor strikes but there was no indication that we were about to have a revolution. It was the assassination of Calvos Sotelo, royalist leader, that precipitated the revolution. Though unexpected, the revolution, when it came showed every evidence of long and careful planning. When the fighting broke (Continued on Page 9)
Rev. J. H. O’Donnell, c.s.c., Prof. Arnold Lunn and Rev. W. A. Carey, c.s.c. Mr. Lunn announces plans for his course in this issue.
Arnold Lunn, widely read English Catholic apologist and author, now a member of the faculty in the new Apologetics course, will head a list of six prominent men who are to appear on the Fall lecture schedule which the Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., director of Washington hall activities, released this week.
Among the others are the Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, professor of philosophy of religion at Catholic University, and Richard Reid, 1936 Laetare medalist and nationally known Georgia lawyer, journalist, and educator. Msgr. Sheen is to lecture on philosophy while Mr. Reid is to discuss Catholic Action with its application to modern journalistic practices.
Dr. Arthur Haas, internationally famous Viennese scientist and now a member of the faculty, is to lecture on some subject in the field of physics.
Other speakers to appear are Rev. James Martin Gillis, editor of the Catholic World, and Paul Mallon, noted Washington political analyst
Scrip Deadline Set
Friday, October 23, has been made the deadline for contributions to the first issue of Scrip, Editor Philip Welsh announced this week.
Writers are urged to submit short stories, verse, criticism, essays, drama or any other of the short literary forms. Editor Welsh said this week that Scrip contributions have already been received from several campus writers who were represented last year, but there is room in the first issue for new names.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
ARNOLD LUNN TELLS AIM AND METHODS OF NEW COURSE
“We should aim at producing a team of Notre Dame debaters on fundamental religious issues which would be as formidable and as famous as the Notre Dame football team” said Mr. Arnold Limn in a recent prospectus of his course in Apologetics.
“There is a special obligation for Catholics to keep alive the interest in classical culture,” he added, “for it was the Church which saved that culture in the dark ages and may it well be the Church who will save that culture in the darker ages to come.”
Mr. Lunn’s classes are on the history of Christian culture. He will begin with the Greek culture as a standard of comparison, for the Greek culture was the finest produced by humanism, just as the Catholic culture is the finest culture inspired by a belief in the supernatural.
He went on to point out that Greece gave Christianity a philosophy, for Scholasticism is based on Aristotle.
“The study of Greek humanism is of particular interest today because the world is reverting to humanism, a philosophy in which only human values count. But whereas the Greeks were groping toward the light, the modern world has rejected the light, and consequently there is little reason to hope that our modem humanists will produce a culture to compare with the magnificent culture of Greece” Mr. Lunn continued.
He further commented, “It is important that Catholics should realize that Catholicism is not only a religion but a culture, and that Catholicism influences and informs every aspect of life: morality, art, architecture, and even sport.”
On Monday evenings throughout the term there will be debates in which various students of the University will defend and attack fundamental beliefs, for Mr. Lunn believes it is of vital importance that Catholics should master the case which they have to meet.
Of interest to Mr. Lunn’s listeners is the fact that they must know the case for Communism better than the Communists themselves. He showed the futility of arguing with Communists until one feels competent to take either side of the case. In these informal meetings, Mr. Lunn hopes to teach these young men to speak on both sides so that in later life no argument will take them by surprise or even seem unfamiliar.
Rev. E. P. Burke, C.S.C. At Harvard For Anniversary
•
The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., represented the University of Notre Dame at the Tercentenary Celebration of Harvard University held at Cambridge, Mass, on Sept. 18. Delegates of more than 500 colleges and universities from all parts of the world and a host of distinguished guests were present at the colorful ceremony that marked the 300th anniversary of the founding of the oldest college in North America.
The convocation was held in the new Tercentenary Theatre. Here, in the presence of the President of the United States, and the Governor of Massachusetts, the delegates, seated in order of the age of the institutions they represented, witnessed an impressive program which included the conferring of 62 honorary degrees and the reading by John Masefield, poet laureate of England, of a special poem which he wrote for the occasion.
Patricians Roster Open
Under the guidance of President Matthew J. Bruccoli, a frequent contributor to Scrip, Notre Dame literary periodical, the Patricians will soon open an active season of discussions and radio broadcasts on classical subjects.
Students who are interested in joining this classical organization of the University are invited to send • their applications to the. president at 333 Sorin.
Italian College Man Charts Own Course
Professor Turley Says in Reviewing Trip
“American students .who study in Italian universities deride the autoc-
Prof. John P. Turley Tells of travels.
racy of Mussolini,” was the statement made to an interviewer by Mr. John P. Turley, assistant professor of Latin in the College of Arts and Let-
MEDICAL DELEGATES TO VISIT CAMPUS NEXT TUESDAY
Approximately 1200 prominent doctors will be guests of the University next Tuesday afternoon when the 87th annual convention of the Indiana State Medical association convenes in South Bend, for three days starting Oct. 6; The delegation will visit the art galleries in the library, the New Infirmary and other buildings on the campus.	.
Dr. J. J. McMeel, attending physician at the University and president of the St. Joseph county association will extend greetings to the delegates at the initial session Wednesday morning at the Jefferson Plaza.
The annual session banquet will be held at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the west dining hall where the principal address, “Are Doctors Human?” will be delivered by Dr. Gordon Laing, of the University of Chicago faculty and general editor of The University Press. Another address-will be given by Dr. J. H. J. Upham of Columbus, Ohio, president-elect of the American Medical association on “Changing Times in Medicine.”
Among outstanding men in the medical world who will attend the convention are: Dr. Frederick A. Collar, professor of surgery at the University of Michigan Medical school at Ann Arbor; Dr. Russell Cecil, professor of clinical medicine at Cornell University medical college at Ithaca, N.Y. and professor of internal medicine at the New York Polyclinic Medical school and hospital in New York; and Dr. Lincoln F. Sise of the Lahey clinic at Boston, Mass.'
ters. Mr. Turley, for the past year studied Roman Law at the University of Pavia, near Milan.
“Registration,” he said, “differs in Italian universities from American universities. A student registers himself. That is to say, he fills his own course since there is no catalog published. Each professor publishes his own subject and the student who has chosen that course is unaware of what phase the professor will discuss until the class convenes. In our universities, the student knows the outline of the course, but it is different in Italy. After the student has selected his classes, he is given a registration book called the “libretto.” Before the student can enter the class he has to get the signature of the
(Continued on Page 9)
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
LaRaza Club Hear Mass For Insurgent Army
•
A special Mass for the insurgent forces in Spain will be said sometime next week in Sacred Heart Church at the request of the La Raza Club, a society of students from Spanishspeaking countries. The twenty-five members of the club will attend the Mass in a body, and all students are invited to attend. The day of the Mass will be announced later.
Plans for the club’s annual banquet were discussed at the initial meeting last week and were referred to a committee consisting of Sebastian Bonet, Jaime Creel, and Carlos de Landero.
A tentative schedule is being arranged for the soccer team which the club has sponsored since 1932.
Nine new members were taken into the club at the first meeting by Telmo de Landero, president of the organization. Other officers are: William Benavides, vice-president; Enrique Brias, secretary; and Louis Alaman, treasurer.
Wranglers To Meet Tuesday Night
The first meeting of the Wranglers, debating society, will be held in the Law Building Tuesday night. Meetings have been postponed until this date in order- that they would not interfere with the Missions.
Plans for the coming school year are similar to those of previous years. Under the direction of Richard Meier, president, they will organize interhall debating, appoint coaches for the halls, and choose the judges. These interhall debates will get underway on or about the first of November. This year the Wranglers will again direct the Indiana Catholic Oratorical Contest at Notre Dame.
Chicagoans Plan Year
The Chicago club, organization of Notre Dame men living within 25 miles of downtown Chicago, drew a record crowd to a dance it sponsored June 9, in the Knickerbocker hotel, Chicago. Music for the dance, held annually during the summer vacation, was furnished by Jack Russell’s orchestra.
Officers of the club for 1936-37 are John Maloney, president; Andy Pu-plis, vice-president; and Dick Carroll, treasurer. Plans, which are incomplete at the present time, provide for several smokers during the year.
This week’s celebrity is Albert John Schwartz, of Salina, Kansas, stadium manager, and one of the assets of Walsh Hall. Unless he suffers an intellectual collapse, he will be graduated magna cum laude from the College of Arts and Letters, an Economics major.
His official duties are supervising the gate-keepers and ushers at home games and making all the trips to take care of our interests in foreign stadii. Answers to the innocuous nickname of “Al,” and the indicative one of “Little Man.”
Al’s temperature soars when he hears good swing music; he likes Herbie Kay’s band because of Shirley Lloyd. His roommate, class presi-
dent Parker Sullivan, complains of the disorder in 337 Walsh, caused by Al’s penchant, for pictures of girls. He shares with his father a stampcollecting hobby; shares with no one an ■ assortment of over one thousand book matches.
He could walk up any dark alley on the campus without fear; he hasn’t one enemy at school, a truly remarkable record. About St. Mary’s: he has only a sporadic interest; sometimes spends rainy Sunday afternoons there developing his conversational knack.
In his more foolish days, he was a Boy Scout. He acquired his round shoulders from supporting more than thirty merit badges. In high school, he was president of his class for three years. No record of his activities in the fourth year.
Our boy does not smoke, but he burns matches and flicks cigarette
VINCENTIANS MEET FOR FIRST TIME OCTOBER 4
The Saint Vincent de Paul society, only charitable organization on the campus, will call its first meeting of the schoolyear at 11:00 a.m. Sunday, Oct. 4, in the K. of C. lounge.
The society was founded on the campus in 1933 by the Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., professor of religion, for the distinct purpose of aiding the needy in a spiritual and material way. Its membership was composed of students who volunteered their services. During its initial year the society, through the efforts of its members, succeeded in contributing a vast amount of clothing to the poor and the sick.
Its progress has been rapid since that time, and last year it handled, besides its original work, cases involving juvenile delinquency and family aid.
From time to time bulletins will be posted in the various halls to remind the students to gather old magazines and clothing which they intend to discard. After sorting, these articles will be distributed to the poor of the vicinity.
All students wishing to join the society should attend the Sunday meetings, which will be held every week, or visit the office at 10 Lyons hall where the necessary information is available.
Science Head Lectures
Rev. Francis Wenninger, C..S.C., dean of the College of Science, spoke on the “Liturgy of the Catholic Church” before a meeting of the South Bend Deanery, National Council of Catholic Women held last Monday afternoon in the Christ the King parish hall, Roseland.
lighters incessantly while talking. He will need diplomacy in his managerial capacity this year. He exhibited his talent for tact in explaining the presence of a gaudy Stutz radiator cap in his room.
For relaxation he visits the home towns of his friends during vacations and never fails to liven proceedings.
Although his athletic activities at Notre Dame have been limited to managing, things were different at high school. He played three years of varsity basketball, and, one year, his team won the state championship in its division. Al has a medal signifying his selection as one of the first eight on the All-State team.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
9
THE WEEK
By John A. Gillespie
Italian Collegians
(Continued from Page 7)
Faux Pas
Freshmen continue to contribute the comedy. On a recent night one of the species strolled into the cafeteria for a taste of that collegiate atmosphere, and perhaps a milk shake. As he sauntered past the scales he became aware that all the occupants of Notre Dame’s Rainbow Room were staring and — yes, laughing at him. What could be wrong? He gazed at his classy cut cords, with a fashionable lack of crease. They couldn’t be the source of such rudeness. A feeling of confidence possessed him as he inspected his glittering blue and gold belt buckle (name of merchant upon request). That, too, was irreproachable. But still they laughed. He was at the nail-biting, Adam’s-apple-swal-lowing stage. Such moments make or break a man. He was about to break when a merciful classmate saved his soul from further shrinkage by tipping him off. In all his innocence, he was carrying a large flashlight. Advice to said sufferer: At Notre Dame the only flashlight bearers are properly authorized officials, such as prefects and night watchmen. And don’t give us that gag about rugged individualism.
* * *
On Food and The Lack Of It
To freshmen and newcomers: As you yell vainly at the table for more milk; as you zealously guard your lone pat of butter; as your cheeks sink in more and more; and as you tighten your belt another notch— remember that it was not always thus. In days gone by all griping about food was confined to quality, not quantity. Perhaps the pork made you break out in fiery rashes, but it was served unstintingly. Whence comes this curtailment of courses? Who will answer for this outrage? Maybe the cafeteria, alarmed at dwindling receipts last year, has exerted insidious pressure. Certainly the tea room has profited by the extra cokes and hamburgers bought by famished men. They are hanging out the S.R.O. sign these nippy nights. Last week we caught a junior carrying three ham sandwiches to dinner. This must stop—revolution impends.
* * *
Shirts and Smirks
Last fall returning students were pestered by an inimical regulation. Only so many shirts could be washed each week; only so many socks, handkerchiefs, towels, pajamas could be used. Extra wash was charged for. That was tolerable, if not welcome, but this year the treatment at the hands of the charming ladies in Badin has dropped to a new low. Let us suppose that you have incurred
a bill of forty cents. You sneak into the dispensary with a guilty feeling of indebtedness. You know what’s coming and you are prepared to take the rap. But then the charming lady hands over your brown package with a smirk, a sneer, and a dirty laugh. She gloats “You owe 40 cents,” and you blow up. You feel as though you have murdered your grandmother with a meat axe. You don’t mind paying, but the “We-win” chuckle is too much.
* * *
Bottom of the Week:
Sunday afternoon in a down-town picture palace. By the time you get to the cab stand after dinner, you are approximately fortieth in line. You arrive in town at one o’clock and take your place in another line, this one stretching to Walgreen’s Six fellows ask you to buy their tickets, and you lose fifty cents in the transaction. Stumbling up the poorly lighted stairs, you are guided to a choice spot in the third balcony, about two and a quarter miles from the screen. The picture may be interesting, but you’re no judge because you can hear only every other word—sound carries just so far. At least half of the audience is made up of fans not yet in their teens; they cheer madly for either Roosevelt or Landon when the news reel begins. One chubby boy in your row makes three round trips to the lobby, knocking your hat to the floor each trip with a malevolent dexterity. A philosophical clique behind you discusses the world in general and themselves in particular, all in loud, clear tones. Three hours pass; inane comedies come and go; you wish you had brought a lunch. Suddenly your time has come, for you the show is over. Your joints creak on the way out. You think longingly of the comfort and quiet of your room and, hurrying back to school, wonder why you hadn’t been content to stay there.
* * *
Broken Dreams
So the little, neat building tucked behind Walsh is the Post Office. It is probably the most popular place on the entire campus, including the candy store and the laundry. From it come huge, mysterious packages which collect equally huge and mysterious crowds. And now they’ve gone and put up an artistic sign which ■ precludes the possibility of error. On i wet afternoons we used to pretend it was an arsenal, or an armory, or a penthouse; but now an imagination hasn’t a chance. The many boys who swelled with elation as they pointed out the Post Office to visitors will have to confine their directive accomplishments to the dining hall and the main building. All this because of the mania for signs.
professor in the libretto and then take it to the Secretary of the Faculty who signs it. There is no council and the Secretary of the Faculty settles all academic questions.”
When asked about the attendance at classes Mr. Turley commented that attendance at class is theoretically not compulsory, but the requirement for completion of the course is to pass the final examination. He further added that to enter the final examination the student must have the professor sign the libretto to show that he has frequented the course.
'“When the student takes his final examination, he is examined by a board of three. All examinations are oral and each professor has ten votes to determine who passes his course,” he said.
“Student life which they call ‘Vita Goliardica’ differs from our American schools. Students leave school the day before Christmas and return the 26th of December although vacation lasts a month. They do this that they may loaf since they can’t do such at home. Clubs are not very prominent but the one oustanding organization is the ‘Guf a Fascist society. This organization of Italian students publishes all class lectures after they have been corrected by the professors and gives them to the students, who rely heavily on this aid for passing the final examination,” he exclaimed.
Mr. Turley explained that the terms of - a recent reorganization of Italian universities, a student must pass 19 examinations to receive a degree in the two years required. But he can carry any number of hours.
Tells War Surprise
(Continued from Page 6) out the government had to issue arms to the mob but in many cases these arms were used against the government. It is a struggle of Fascism against the anarchy of Communism.”
When asked about the part which radio -is playing in the conflict, Bonet replied “Radio is playing a very important part. It is the only medium of communication that remains and both armies depend upon it almost entirely.” In answer to a question regarding the international aspects of the revolution he said,. “I don’t feel qualified to discuss that but I do know that the Italian, German, and Portugese Fascists are actively aiding the Rebels and likewise the French Communists are sending supplies to the Loyalists.”
Bonet was interviewed by Norbert Aleksis, student director of campus radio activities.
10	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
CALENDAR
Friday, October 2
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial rooms, editorial staff 6:30 p.m., general staff 7:00 p.m.; Upperclassmen Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p.m.
Saturday, October 3
Upperclassmen Mission, Sacred Heart Church, services 6:30 a.m.; Football, Carnegie Tech vs. the Notre Dame varsity, Stadium at 2:00 p.m.; Movie, “Magnificent Obsession,” at Washington hall, first show for the Freshman will begin at 6:40 p.m.; Football dance sponsored by the S. A. C., Jefferson Plaza, Andy Riedel’s orchestra.
Sunday, October 4
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m.; Officers’ meeting, Knights of Columbus, K. of C. chambers in Walsh hall; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, K. of C., 11:00 a.m.; Radio address by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., National Broadcasting Co., 5:00 p.m.
Monday, October 5
Glee club practice, Washington hall, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, Washington hall, 4:00 p.m.; S.A.C. meeting, basement of library, 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, October 6
Glee club practice, Washington hall, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, Washington hall, 4:00 p.m.; First meeting for the reorganization of the Metropolitan (Met) club, basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Italian club meeting, Carroll recreation hall, 7:45 p.m.
Wednesday, October 7
Glee club practice, Washington hall, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, Washington hall, 4:00 p.m.; Bookmen meeting, Coimnerce bldg., 7:45 p.m.
Thursday, October 8
Glee club practice, Washington hall, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, Washington hall, 4:00 p.m.; Law club meeting, Law bldg., 7:45 p.m.
Winegardner Named
Charles Winegardner, a senior, was named executive committeeman axd chairman of the membership drive in the first meeting of the Commerce Forum board of directors. The announcement was made Monday afternoon by Al J. Criith, president of the club. Other members of the membership drive committeee are Walter Nienaber and George Bonfield. The committee will begin next week enlisting new members from the commerce school men who have the qualifying 82% average.
Thomas White was placed in charge of securing speakers for the club’s weekly meetings. ’
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Often, far too often, do we hear college decried as but a mere machine. Skeptics and self styled critics have been making this accusation and others of a smiliar nature for quite some time. It is decidedly refreshing then when we find our higher educational institutions defined in an entirely different light. Such a definition was expressed recently by Northwestern’s Dean of the College of Liberal Arts. “College, he said, is not a machine; let’s call it, rather, a sieve through which the strong and able student is separated from those who simply go to college because they are sent.”
Exchange Excerpts: Coach “Stubby” Allison of California University has a 40 year old Cherokee Indian chieftain as a tackle aspirant this year. The chief won his coveted “Big C” back in 1917 as a backfield man but he confesses that he has slowed up a bit since then so he believes it best to play in the line where speed is not the prime requisite. . . Ohio State has a Freshman enrolled whose registry card admits to his being 52 years old. More proof that it’s “never too old to learn.”. . . A few days ago 100 first year men turned out for Frosh crew practice at California. The bus used for transporting them, however, only had room for 60 men so two score of the hopefuls never reached the water. (There’s a moral to this of local significance but since it’s so obvious we won’t bother to enlarge upon it.)
Did you know that football was a well known sport in the days of Queen Elizabeth? We didn’t either, but the Daily O' Collegian maintains that ’tis true, and as proof offers the following pigskin jargon extracted from the works of William Shakespeare (we refer to the Stratford-on-Avon Shakespeare and not the Shakespeare of Staten Island).
“More Rushes! More rushes!” — Henry IV.	.
“An excellent pass.”—The Tempest
“Down! Down!”—Henry V. -
“It’s the first time that I ever heard breaking of ribs was a sport.”
—As You Like It.
We have no intention of turning this column into a “Book of the Week Club” advertisement but we would like to suggest that, if you possibly can, by all means read John R. Tunis’ book Was College Worth While?. The price is within your range and it will easily repay you. It’s a startling and scorching indictment of those who fail to ask the question “Why.”
S. A. C. SWINGS INTO VARIED PROGRAM
•
Stepping along at a fast pace, the S.A.C., under the guidance of its president, Philip Bondi, this week named the varsity cheerleaders for 1936, discussed plans for the forthcoming Freshman Smoker, and outlined a tentative future program at their weekly meeting held last Monday in the basement of the library.
Tom Gillespie, Robert Siegfried, Frank Farrell, John Celia, and alternate Jerry Flynn were appointed to the cheerleading squad by a committee composed of head cheerleader Walt Nienaber, Philip Bondi and the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C. In addition, Charles Kull, Thomas Shelly, Fred Sisk, and Richard Fitzgerald were selected for action later.
Richard Delaney, Engineering 4, was appointed chairman for the Freshman smoker, first social event for the class of ’40, scheduled for the near future. Assisting him in the preparations of plans are Jack Fox, John Wilson, and Joseph O’Brien.
Among the other activities under consideration by the S.A.C. are the establishment of a political discussion group, a winter program to include several tea dances and an ice carnival, and the annual hall football decorations.
Organize Western Club
Plans went forward this week for the organization of a Far Western club to include students living in the Rocky Mountain, Pacific and Northwestern states.
For several years there has been no organization open to these men. Preliminary plans were advanced at a meeting Wednesday; future sessions will be announced later.
Bookmen Seek Members
Harold A. Williams, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, is in charge of the selection of new members of the Bookmen Club, it was announced by Robert McGrath, president of the group. The Bookmen, sponsored for the fourth year by Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, of the history department, will enlist six new members to complete the maximum membership of fifteen. Applications for membership from all classes in the University will be reviewed at the regular meeting next Wednesday.
The phases of Catholic literature, in a unified program of speakers and discussion, will be featured in the second semester of the year. The first semester will be devoted to general reviews and discussions besides several smokers, to be held in South Bend.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE . . .
The epitome of the ineffectual, is that anomaly—the intellectual . . . Boys, this column refuses to be noncommittal . . . There’s a freshman over in Cavanaugh who bought a round trip ticket to Seattle for the Washington -_N otre Dame game, (Seattle papers, please note) . . . GEORGE SCHERMER (Dillon) has
"I'm All Set—I Know His Corrector."
two pet rabbits in his room; maybe he is going hunting with that homemade .22 . . . JACK BAKER, BILL ARNOLD (Lyons) and DAN SULLIVAN (St. Ed’s) were seen at Dorr and Niles road giving out their very best pepsodent smile. Result: no hits, no runs, sore cheeks . . . “MIKE” BRIAS and JIMMY GOM
EZ were guests during the summer of MILLER (BRING-’EM-BACK-ALIVE) MALLETT ’36. How we miss that wanderer in strange places! His tales of daring and bloody adventures have earned him a place among Notre Dame immortals. An aching void is left — mostly aching.
ANDY PUPLIS spent the summer
at Paw Paw lake. “Shrimp” are found at the seaside, Andy . . . Our vote, for representative to the foreign mission, goes to J OE CRIS ANTI. Overheard in Oliver mezzanine, “I wouldn’t take her as a premium for cigar coupons.
JOHN CAVANAUGH will take all bets that he is man enough to jump
out of the third story over in Alumni; we’ll take that bet, John . . . There’s a senior in Walsh whose socks are old enough to vote ... To TOM BOTT, we suggest the theme song, “Love Is Everywhere” . . . “CHICK” MALONEY, (Walsh) stylist extraordinary endorses French back shorts.
Splinters from here and there: TONY BAYOT, by popular demand, will be held over for another eight months . . . BOB LeMYRES’ (Walsh) popularity is overwhelming, he was “no’d” twenty times last Saturday.
JOE CORCORAN (St. Ed’s) tells the one of the freshman coming into the bookstore asking for a freshman cap. JOE (DRUM-MAJOR) PAWLOWSKI, is growing temperamental, either he is head drum-major or none —at the moment it looks like he’ll be none.
Excerpts from Test Papers
A blizzard is the inside of a fowl.
A connoisseur is a person who stands outside a picture palace.
An epistle is the wife of an apostle.
A polygon is a dead parrot.
With face downcast CHUCK DAILEY, the romeo kid from Brooklyn and Atlantic City, said “me no like” to a report that his palsy walsy, “BULL” JAKOP, is stuck at Marquette . . . people are beginning to wonder when JACK FOX and. JOHN DIMATTEO are going to make that long deferred trip through Gary, East Chicago and Chicago. . .
We often wondered where JOHNNY PLEAD has been hiding these past two years, and out of the dark we came into the light, there he had always been in Carroll Hall . . . speaking of Carroll, why is it that JOE DIMATTEO, the footballer, wants to make his escape? . . . the Italian dub ups and elects AMERIGO DI BRI-ENZA president; now the poor fellow has to take up Italian; too bad . . . managers are gluttons for punishment, JOHN DONNELLY is even taking up Accounting, which, to hear Cy Stroker babble, is plenty tough, but, of course, nothing is too tough for the managers . . . JOE DINEEN is plenty popular these days for he is a fellow townsman of the Herkimer Hurricane, LOU AMBERS . . . DON HICKEY is becoming a South Bend institution; the lad was pouring glasses of water for the boys at Clark’s one day for about an hour— running for office, Don?
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C............Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.........................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER....................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle____________________________College Parade
John Hurley___________________________________Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan_______________________“Scholastic of the Air"
Joseph Rotondo____________________________fn The Juggle Fein
’ News Staff
Louis DaPra_______________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams______________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven________________________________Frank Reilly
Graham Starr_______________________________Gregory Byrnes
Richard Riley Robert McClain
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley________________________________Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride_______________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby John Clifford
Charles Callahan_______________________William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott_________________________________James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger__________________________________Art Editor
William R. Dooley, ’26______________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	October 2, 1936
No. 2
THE S. A. C. REVIVES . . .
FOR THE first time in several years, the Student
Activity Council is starting the year with a definite program of action, with all indications of sincere effort to do its job well. This year’s Council is well, manned, from the president down, the men are well chosen and are capable of performing to the benefit of the University, the students and themselves. So far their action has been splendid.
The knotty problem of information booths for incoming students was very well handled this year. In this connection too, the Villagers Club, under President Ted Prekowitz and his aides, did a fine job in helping the S.A.C. Through the voluntary effort of the Villagers off-campus men were driven to their residences. Many new men were lost in South Bend, and the Villagers certainly performed a much needed task.
Freshmen have been wondering about the much quoted “S.A.C.” This is the Student Activity Council, members of this Council are elected by the student body for the express purpose of turning over to this group the problems involved in managing certain student affairs. The Council works with the University Council in planning student activities. The S.A.C. can be very valuable, it
I has been in the past. It can also be extremely useless, it has been in the past. This year’s S.A.C. is off to a splendid start. Details of many kinds have been met, it has been active in making arrangements for the student trip, it has handled the organization of the Presidents’ Council, it has taken over direction of the first football dance of the year to be held tomorrow night, it has started solid plans for re-organizing the Metropolitan Club. In short, it has shown signs of real life.
It is the hope of every student that the S.A.C. continues to function well. Nothing is more useless than a set of inactive elected officers, nothing could be a worse mill-stone around the neck of student activity.
WELCOME CARNEGIE...
TOMORROW afternoon the eyes of students, alumni and thousands of Notre Dame’s friends will be turned, figuratively at least, upon the stadium where another Notre Dame team starts a new season. Some of these, most of them indeed, are hoping urgently for overwhelming victory, some few will be satisfied if the team manages to win—but without exception they are watching for something else. They are hoping to see a Notre Dame football team.
Notre Dame teams have been famous for winning, some of them have been famous for losing, but each and every one of them has been famous for playing football in the courageous way it should be played. Tomes have been written about the Notre Dame spirit, experts have probed statistics and opinions to arrive at a solution for Notre Dame victories. Their search was fruitless and they should have known it would be—there is nothing mysterious about Notre Dame’s success on the gridiron. Notre Dame players simply play the game with hardhitting sportsmanship, they train hard, practice long hours, but in spite of this, football is not their ultimate goal in life—football is a game, and Notre Dame players look on it as such.
Tomorrow we welcome Carnegie Tech, traditional gridiron foes, whose mettle has been proved time and again. The Tartans are worthy competitors; we welcome them to the campus with a spirit of friendliness. Tomorrow we are going to play them—true, we will play hard, so ■will they, we hope to win, so do they; but when the last quarter is over we will still realize'that we did not turn the world in its course—it was simply a game.
SWAMPED . . .
RECORD turnouts are greeting every call for recruits in campus organizations. The Glee Club was answered by 125 aspiring singers; the Band had to turn musicians away; the Campus Radio Group reports constant interest; The Dome call was answered by 75; The Scholastic had a turn-out of 30 men to fill five vacancies.
This enthusiasm should produce real results in every phase of student activity.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
13
It’s a Matter of Bait...
It was on 59th off Fifth, where anything can happen. “Hungry Henry” lounged against the wall near the subway entrance west of the Plaza, and waited for a fat sucker. It was midway between four and five, and the office crowds were just beginning to show. Henry liked this half - hour of the day: he often caught one of the well-to-do coming from, work, and once in a while he worked a five or even a ten from one of the kind-hearted women of the Plaza. So he just lounged against the wall, with a twig of a cigarette in his lips, and waited for something to happen.
Gusts of people were blown intermittently up onto the street from the subway trains. Mostly they were middle-aged, these workers from far downtown, and they had a vacant, uninspired look on their faces. Most probably they were thinking whethei-it would be hamburg or hash for supper. But there were dashes of younger folks, and of older ones too. Henry looked them all over casually, seeing no chance of gain in them. Perhaps he might work a nickel or a dime, but it would not be worth the while. He sucked the last lungfull of smoke from the drooping tubule in his fingers, and then flicked the butt expertly through the front window of a slow-moving car. His gaze followed the car toward Fifth Avenue, and then he softly whistled to himself.
Striding along together down 59th were three young men. Their well-polished black shoes swung metrically like pendulums, the crisp creases of their trousers cut uniformly through the warm air, and their swinging arms were terminated by hands which held newspapers. “Trout!” chanted “Hungry Henry” delightedly, “Trout,” and he moved cautiously away from the side of the building, and into the middle of the pavement.
Henry had eaten at two, but you would never think it to look at his pinched face now. He sucked in his cheeks to make them look unquestionably hollow, dropped his shoulders with all the art of a Chaney, and half-closed his eyes. His feet shuffled a dejected symphony on the concrete. He was an old, good-for-nothing, dying - on - my - feet sidewalk -comber.
The three young men crossed Sixth Avenue with a dexterous sprint, and swung into regular rhythm again on the sidewalk. Apparently they did not see “Hungry Henry”; they chatted exuberantly to one another, only
now and then looking ahead to find open lanes in the crowd. Henry looked up when he knew that they were only twenty feet away, and when they were only twelve he lurched neatly into their midst. He stumbled, and made as if to fall. Two of them grabbed him immediately, and he knew for certain they were trout, trout of the fattest and most luscious variety. His brain whirled ecstatically as his knees shook.
“Whoa, there, old fellow!” The eldest of the three grabbed Henry firmly under the arms, and set him up straight like a sack of flour. Henry put forth a timid little smile, then permitted his legs to buckle again. The eldest held him firmly, and looked questioningly at his companions. They were looking on with wonder; and Henry knew they had seldom seen a man who was weak with hunger. “Think he’s sick, Bill?” the youngest asked anxiously. The eldest shook his head slightly, “Just famished.” He spoke curtly, and Henry knew that a large evening was before him. He shook a little, and then started to sniffle, raising his coat sleeve, frayed as a coat-sleeve could be, to his fishy eyes. The middle-aged one cleared his throat embarrassedly, “What’ll we do with the pool’ old coot?”
Bill, the eldest, looked over at the park for a moment, and his chin tightened. “We’ll just have to get him a good feed.” “Where?” “At the club,” declared Bill firmly. The eyebrows of the youngest went up like kites, and he whistled sharply. “Why not? We’re not going to eat there anyway, and we have to meet Frank afterward. We haven’t time to do anything else!” “Okay by me.” “All right here.” So the three stepped in line again, and moved up the street toward the Club, but this time they didn’t stride, for the eldest held “Hungry Henry” firmly by the arm, and Henry moved creakingly and slowly.
Henry hadn’t spoken a word, for he knew trout, when to pull them and when to let them run. Now he dropped in a feeble word. “Sorry to worry you gentlemen like this,” and he saw the youngest swell up a bit at the title. There was another buck sure. “Just hungry” rambled Henry. “Hungry, yeah, I was hungry.”
“Well, you won’t be in about 30 minutes,” Bill broke in brusquely. They had reached the door of the Club. The three young men and the old one marched up the entrance steps and into the lobby. A doorman
By Vincent W. Hartnett moved toward them, but stopped as Bill reached ’ for his wallet. The doorman frowned at Henry for a moment, and then he smiled compre-hendingly at Bill. “The grill, sir, no doubt?” he politely insinuated. Bill nodded shortly, and the four stepped to the cloakroom.
As the elevator drew them rapidly to the grill floor, the three young men spoke little. They deliberately refrained from looking at Henry, and when they spoke, it was about eating. They were all very hungry, they agreed, and they would like to stay a long while at table. “Hungry Henry” smiled to himself at this tact. Their plan suited him perfectly: he was always hungry, it was part of his trade. He knew that he could wolf-ishly gorge a meal worthy of a San-dow, and do it with all the assurance and skill of an artist.
The elevator jolted a little, the gates slapped open, and the four moved into the corridor. Bill went a little ahead, grasped a tuxedo-clad waiter, whispered in his ear, and talked more forcibly into his open palm. The waiter led the way delicately to a table in a far corner. The four were seated. “Order all you can eat, old fellow” Bill urged a bit nervously. “We’re all hungry ourselves.”
“Can I have a steak and lots of mashed potatoes?” asked Henry, childishly eager.
“Anything you want!” came a booming trio.
The three young men picked up menus in their nicely-manicured fingers, and looked interestedly at the items. Henry looked on pathetically, but in his heart of hearts he was jubilant. He liked to eat in good company. There was a clatter and a jangle of tableware around him, the exquisite incense of medium-well-done steak was in the air, tailor-made men were moving and talking around him, and he was at a table with three trout. 0 joy of joys! What more could a man want, mused “Hungry Henry,” and he chanted a little tune to the inner man.
His ecstasy increased as the meal progressed. Steak and more steak; great mounds of fluffy mashed potatoes; cup after cup of thickly-creamed coffee; and three trout who looked at him and marvelled. Henry ate as artistically as he had ever done, and all the time he sang to himself, and wondered whether it would be a five or a ten from the eldest, two or three from the younger, and one or two from the youngest.
(Continued on Page 23)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
ATHLETICS
NOTRE DAME FACES CARNEGIE TECH TEAM IN SEASON'S OPENER HERE TOMORROW
SKIBOS SEEM STRONG •
By Charles Callahan
It’s almost post time. To-mori'ow afternoon, in the stadium, collegiate football locally gets its opening whistle when the Notre Dame 1936 football team — forty-eighth in the line of Irish grid units, and third in the line of Layden - coached elevens — faces a veteran Carnegie Tech squad. By dusk to-morrow, all will have a pretty fair notion of the fate awaiting Notre Dame on the gridiron during the ensuing eight Saturdays. "
The game tomorrow will be the fourteenth meeting of the two teams. While the Scots have won only three of the previous thirteen contests, they have always furnished Notre Dame the stiffest opposition. Their victory in 1926 is the most memorable of the series. It was that year — with Rockne in Chicago scouting the Army-Navy game — that they spoiled a national championship as they triumphed 19-0. Last season the Ski-bos held a 3-0 lead as activities reopened in the third quarter. However, touchdown dashes by Bill Shakespeare and Bob Wilke brought home the well-known bacon for the locals.
Blue and Gold followers are hoping for a lot but they have their fingers crossed. The spirit is one of hope rather than confidence. There must be reasons.
. Here are a few: first, since it is also the opening fracas for the boys from the Smoky City, they will enter the game unscouted. Secondly, of the eleven men who started last year, Coach Steffen, can if he wishes, start (Continued on Page 22)
FALL TENNIS TOURNEY GETS UNDERWAY TOMORROW
A new champion is to be crowned in the fall tennis tournament. The number of entrants in this tourney, an annual feature in Notre Dame’s athletic program, totals 75. Of this number, 37 are upper classmen. According to present plans the first and second rounds are to be concluded by Sunday. The pairings have been made, and the following have been seeded in the order named: Joe McNulty, Bill Fallon, Jim Waldron and Ed Kilrain.
Joe McNulty, a veteran of two seasons, last year’s State Intercollegiate champion, looms as. the favorite, but will surely receive stiff opposition when, and if, he should encounter one of the other seeded entrants. Annexing the tournament cup would be nothing new to Bill Fallon, however, as he won that honor in the tournament held two years ago. There is also the possibility of some freshman unknown in the role of a dark horse stepping up and running off with top honors.
The purpose of the tournament besides determining a school champion is also to give Coach Pedro de Lan-dero a perspective on available material for the coming season. To phrase the whole situation in Coach de Lan-dero’s own words when asked his opinion of the prospects of the coming season, he said, “First the tournament. Then we shall know more of next year.”
RESERVES DEFEATED IN NIAGARA TILT BY 21-0 SCORE
•
Before a small, rain-soaked crowd of 3,000 fans last Sunday afternoon Niagara University’s football team administered a 21 to 0 beating to the Notre Dame “B” team and thereby gained their first home victory since 1934.
The Irish Juniors were slowed up considerably by the drenching rain and the muddy field, but these two factors didn’t seem to dull the claws of the Purple Eagles from Niagara. They repulsed three Irish scoring drives while countering three times themselves.
Niagara’s first touchdown was scored by Morgan Davies, star sophomore halfback, who plunged over from the two-yard line after having placed the ball in scoring position with a 60-yard run. The last two touchdowns were scored by Bob Freeman, smashing fullback, after sustained drives had brought the ball down the field. The Niagara team, coached by Ed Hunsinger, a former Notre Dame football player, presented too strong an offense for the inexperienced “B” players, who struggled valiantly but were unable to overcome the three touchdown handicap.
The starting lineup:
NOTRE DAME.“B”	NIAGARA
Nardone -----.-----LE___________ McArdle
Cusick -------------LT___________ Kossao
Smith --------------LG___________ Albano
Rogenski	C_____________ Tosi
Fox _________;_____RG___________ Beeningo
Horan ______________RT_____________ Reef
Dahar ______________RE___________ Pettit
McArdle ------------QB__________Leonard
McMahon ---------...LH___________ Davies
Morrison ___________RH............ Regan
Di Matteo ----------FB__________ Freeman
THE SCOTCHMENMAY BE COMING, BUT:
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.	15
MANY COACHES FOR IRISH GRID TEAMS OF THE PAST
The rise of Notre Dame to a position of preeminence in the football world has been the result of two factors : the caliber of her teams and the effectiveness and popularity of her coaches. Every school bay remembers stories of the Four Horsemen of 1924, the National Champs of 1929 and 1930, and the constellation of stars that Knute Rockne produced from 1918 to 1930. However, few if any, but the Old Timers feted at last year’s Southern California game, recall the days of “Tiger” Farley and “Cap” Edwards of 1900 and 1909. As the Notre Dame football season opens tomorrow, it is appropriate to recall the men who drilled the first groups of eleven “Fighting Irishmen” in the national sport.
Although Notre Dame has been playing football since 1887, the coaching was not official until 1894. In the early years of the game it was customary for the Captain to be held responsible for the success of the team. Coady, quarter-back of the 1892 team, acted in the triple capacity of coach, trainer, and captain; as coach he taught the rules of the comparatively new game to the Frosh, as trainer he advised a brisk trot around the lake every day, and as Captain he saw to it that the smoking prohibition was enforced.
James L. Morrison, former tackle at Michigan, was Notre Dame’s first coach. Achieving little success, he was succeeded by D. P. Murphy in 18996. Pat O’Dea started his coaching career at Notre Dame in 1900, and produced one of the great ends of all time—John Farley, now the Rev. John Farley, C.S.C., rector of Sorin. O’Dea was a sticker for fundamentals and so enthusiastic along this line was he, The Scholastic of 1900 reports, that O’Dea and his assistant, Henry MacGlew, “were the hardest
(Continued on Page 20)
CARNEGIE SCRIBE SEES A SKIBO VICTORY ON EVE OF NOTRE DAME CLASH
Fencing Season Starts; Practice Resumed
•
Although official fencing practice doesn’t begin until next week, the three men who are to be the nucleus of the team, have started already on the long siege of preparation and practice necessary to mold them into polished sword slingers by the time the season opens next January.
These three — Captain Telmo de Landero, Jack McAuliffe, and Bob Seco — are getting back into form early so that, besides improving themselves after practice starts next week, they can help to correct and smooth out the flaws that show up in their less - experienced team mates. They, in turn, will of course be taught by Coach Pedro de Landero, and also by Carlos de Landero, last year’s cocaptain, who spent the summer in Mexico and won the sabre championship of Mexico’s noted International Club by emerging victorious in twelve bouts out of twelve.
The gap created by the loss of the two sabre men, Carlos de Landero and his co-captain, Kevin Kehoe, yawns out enormously, but Coach de Landero hopes to round out his “big three” so that, when the season begins, they will be as effective in this event as they are in the foil and epee. Carlos is going to help by teaching them all he knows about the sabre, the event that was always his forte.
But more men than three are necessary for the success of the team. Of about twenty-five other candidates for the squad, these are the most likely to see action: Vic Mercado, Tom Doody (the only left-hander on the team), Charles Kolp, and Jack Zerbt, juniors; Sal Scarlata (last year’s freshman sabre champion), Gene Graham, Gene Kiefer (last year’s freshman foils champion), Joe L e i s i n g, Bud Maclnerney, and Charles Colgan, sophomores.
HAVE RESERVE POWER
By E. F. Mulligan
(Sports Editor, Carnegie Tartan)
Coach Wally Steffen’s avowed intentions this year are to make a scoring team out of Carnegie’s Ski-bos if it costs him every game. It looks as if he may accomplish the first without the second if the team continues to show the type of play exhibited on the practice field so far this fall. Coach Steffen has been sending his charges through some strenuous workouts during the past few days in an effort to round out the squad, even though the heat has been cutting the scrimmages shorter than usual.	(
Carnegie’s traditionally strong line should be as good or better than last year. Although Sutherland, who teams with Captain Henrion at tackle, will not be in the game because of injuries, Hudson, a veteran, can fill the gap. Patt and Keller, ends from last year, are due for the nod to start the game at their regular positions. Chyczewski and Kawchak will start at guards if their game is up to the standard of the past few days, and Kelly looks like the choice for center.
Caraegie’s new style of game depends on how well the sophomores in the backfield respond to the slight experience they have had in fall practice with the varsity. Carnelly, who has wrested the quarterback position from Kopscak, is a soph with possibilities as a good punter. The other starting sophomore is Lee, whose actions in the fullback spot are leading the Tartan followers to dreams of John Karcis, of the palmy days. Lee has behaved like a natural, and he has the weight to give the usually light Carnegie backfields that extra push. Matelan, with a year’s experience, seems to be set for a halfback post, and Lehman, on his (Continued on Page 21)
HERE WE HAVE THE IRISH
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
INTROD UCING Bv Gene Vaslett
Bucharest, Roumania has sent a halfback to the Irish. That in itself makes “news” of Vic Wojcihov-ski, our personality of this week. But Vic has claims to more “news” than .that; he is not only a half-back but a good one of the first dimension. Roumanians reputedly aren’t the world’s greatest football players, but as in every case there is an exception to the rule, and Roumanian Vic is the Irish’ glaring exception to it. When that boy gets through the line and starts taking the pigskin places opposing players don’t care about political boundaries; all they care about is to keep him within the
boundaries of the football field and not let him cross that goal line for a touchdown.
Born in Bucharest, Vic’s folks brought him over to America when he was two years old and promptly went to Marion, Indiana. The Hoosier state didn’t hold much charm for the Wojcihovski family, and they soon moved to Western, West Virginia, the home state of Captain John Lautar. It was here that Vic started playing football, from his freshman year in high school every fall has found Vic out on the gridiron. Western High’s football team was a good one, and in his senior year Vic was chosen to captain the fortunes of the Western team. While Vic was on the team it lost but one
game in twenty-three, which is a pretty fair average for any football team.
With the termination of the football season Vic -would don basketball garb and play guard for Western, and he didn’t bother to sit on the bench very long as he saw action in all the games. The basketball season served to fill in time foi* Vic until baseball started, then the diamond called him and he patrolled the outfield for a few years at Western.
The home town was convinced that Roumanians were good football players so like Alexander, another
Balkan, he looked for new worlds to conquer, and he chose Notre Dame, an Irish school. He gave up basketball and baseball to devote himself to football exclusively. It was hard going for the first year on the varsity since he had such fellows as George Melinkovich, Dan Hanley and others to understudy. But last year he came into his own and shared the starting assignment with Mike Layden, thereby winning his first varsity monogram. Vic is all set to go against Carnegie tomorrow and is determined to show the world at large that Roumanians can play football.
A member of Vic’s own family went before him to “show the world” and did right well at it, too. He was
RIGID RULES IN FORCE FOR HALL SQUADS THIS YEAR
The Brownson and St. Edward’s practice fields will be teaming with embryo ends, hopeful halfbacks, and lumbering linemen next week as the interhall pigskin season gets underway.
The schedule of play has not yet been arranged, but Oct. 11, will see the teams take the field for their first games. Mr. Elvin R. Handy of the physical education department, who is supervising interhall athletics this year, will issue the schedule as soon as the various halls announce their intention of playing.
A number of new regulations have been announceed. Speaking on these rules, Mr. John A Scannell, head of the department of physical education, said, “We had to make these rules in order to insure greater protection for the boys. We intend to enforce them so that there will be no unfortunate occurrences.”
To enter competition a team must have at least 22 men on the squad, and in order to play it must have 18 men on the field at the time of the game. Moreover, each player must have a physical examination before he will be considered eligible to play. Practice periods will be held every afternoon from Monday to Friday as in the past, and each player must report at least three times a week.
Mr. Scannell also stated that the teams will be closely watched and if any prospects are uncovered, they will be moved up to one of the regular squads. The medical examinations are being held at present, and some of the hall players are already cavorting on the pigskin pastures, limbering up for the coming season. Because of the large enrollment of freshmen, unusually large and exceptionally good freshmen squads are expected.
As an outgrowth of the teaching of soccer in the required freshmen gym classes, interhall soccer for the freshman halls will be added to the list of sports already on the interhall program. This league will probably be inaugurated immediately after the the football season closes.
Vic’s brother, Louis Wojcihovski, who played end on the Pittsburgh team of a few years back. So the Wojcihovski name, hard as it is to spell, is not unknown to football addicts, and many a radio announcer has probably had his troubles with (Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
17
DONOVAN WINS TITLE IN GOLF FINALS
•
By Al Bride
Bud Donovan annexed the University Individual Golf Championship, and in so doing ascended the throne vacated by the graduation of Win Day who occupied that regal seat for four consecutive years. The young golfer from Winnipeg, shooting superb golf, outplayed the field of 150 by a margin of eight strokes. Tom Sheehan captured the runner - up medal by turning in a card of 298, one stroke better than Gene Milbourne who finished third.
Donovan, it will be remembered, teamed with the brilliant Horton Smith in downing Lawson Little and Jimmy Thompson in the exhibition match played on the University course last year. On that afternoon the young Canadian gave evidence of becoming one of the most outstanding golfers to come under the wing of Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., Notre Dame golf coach.
The new champion displayed an iron nerve and a strong, consistent game in carding two 74’s for the first two rounds of 18 holes, and great staying power and finishing strength in stroking two par shattering 71’s in the final 36 holes. Not only did Donovan replace Win Day as champion, but he lowered the former captain’s best tournament score by six strokes in recording a 290 for the 72 holes. Donovan’s low score was made possible by his unerring work on the greens.
Al Mailhen, who held the lead at the end of the first 36 holes, fell down in the final round and dropped to fourth position in the standings. Gene Milbourne finished well up among the leaders in the opening round and in the first 18 holes of the second round carded and even 70 for the best score of the tournament, but lost his chance to push Donovan by taking a 79 on the final lap.
Captain-elect Fehlig finished well up on the list with a 313. Fehlig, a veteran monogram winner, is an excellent team worker and will be the steadying influence on next year’s team.
Father Holderith admits that this was the best tournament in the history of the school. More general interest and the greatest turnout ever coupled with the fact that lower scores were turned in all combined to make the tournament the most successful since the annual fall championships were inaugurated. On the basis of the tournament score Father Holderith looks forward to a successful team next spring.
Scores:
B. Donovan ......74-74-71-71, 290
T. Sheehan ......75-73-73-77, 298
IRISH STRESS PASSING AND DEFENSE IN PREPARATION FOR CARNEGIE TECH
NINETY MEN SCAMPER THROUGH FALL TRACK WORK
By Maric J. Mitchell
Despite the discontinuance of cross country as an official minor sport, the call for track practice last week saw about ninety candidates reporting to Coach John P. Nicholson. The program includes general conditioning on Cartiei’ Field and around the lakes until such time as bad weather forces the squad to disband for the rest of the fall. After Christmas practicing for the indoor season begins in earnest.
As in previous years Nick is following the policy of running all distance men including his quarter milers on the old cross country course around St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s lakes. His sprinters and others take their exercises on the Cartier Field track.
It is interesting to note the success with which Nick’s plan has met in previous years. Many coaches are reluctant to run middle distance men such as quarter and half milers over as long and gruelling a course as the harrier route. They are inclined to think that this will slow the men down too much for the shorter distance. However, it can be easily seen from the records of former years that while this theory may be true to a certain extent, the stamina gained by such men from fall conditioning helps greatly in maintaining their staying power during the long and bitter season from February to June. In other words, this stamina which comes from distance running prevents the men from “going stale” along the mid-season. Thus Notre Dame trackmen reach their peak sometime late in the season when the big meets make the going toughest and the stakes highest.
G. Milbourne 	 A. Mailhes 		...74-76-70-79, 299 ...74-71-77-79, 301
W. Castleman 			...76-76-74-78, 304
C. Bennett		...79-72-72-82, 305
H. Baldwin 		...78-81-77-74, 310
W. Shaller 		...75-78-86-78, 311
L. Fehlig (Capt.)	..74-77-79-83, 313
G. Nolan, Jr		...77-78-84-78, 317
C. Gallagher 		...85-80-77-77, 319
J. Marback 		...79-80-78-84, 321
J. Corcoran 		...79-82-80-80, 321
J. Stubb 		...80-81-83-78, 322
W. Hagen, Jr.		...80-80-81-82, 323
M. Leagh 		...81-81-89-91, 342
G. Ross 		...83-84-89-89, 345
Notre Dame’s varsity grid squad concluded their final drill today in preparation for the opening game tomorrow with the Skibos from Carnegie Tech. Head Coach Elmer Layden, and his assistants Joe Boland, Chet Grant and Johnny O’Brien, have had the team working all week on blocking, tackling and running.
Jake Kline’s freshman eleven has been using Tech plays in scrimmages with the varsity so that the latter may be well prepared for the Scotch offensive. Last Saturday’s contest with the yearlings presented Coach Layden with the major problem of naming a stalling line-up to face the Skibos, as several men not included on the first two teams wracked havoc with the frosh.
The Irish passing attack was bolstered up during the practice sessions with Joe Zwers, Sweeney, Skoglund and Joe O’Neil on the receiving end. Notre Dame has undergone intensive rehearsals on defensive formations in the hope of keeping their goal line from being crossed to-morrow afternoon.	'
Although as yet no potential Shakespeare has been uncovered to handle the punting assignments, nevertheless Puplis and O’Neil have both been doing remarkably well in this department. Puplis also has sent quite a few placements over the uprights during practice, which indicates that the Irish will possess a dependable man when and if extra points are needed.
The squad tapered off today with signal drills and dummy scrimmage, and should be in the “pink” of condition for the Tech invasion. Several of the linemen and backs have been suffering from minor injuries and the usual amount of bruises, but from all appearances everyone will be ready to go against the Skibos in the season’s opener to-morrow.
The sophomore faction of the squad has been thoroughly combed during the last few weeks in an effort to uncover material that may be developed during the season for use as replacements. Not the least of Layden’s troubles is the search for a second line of defense to throw into the game when his first two teams weaken. To date no superior material has turned up although there are several aggressive linesmen among the second year men.
The lack of weight and experience which handicaps the team has been an incentive for the coaches to develop trick plays for the squad to use in an effort to stop the tide of Pitt, Ohio State et al. Whether these plays will work in the first team of the season is a matter for conjecture.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
VARSITY TAME FROSH WITH FIVE SCORES IN PRE-VIEW
Well, it didn’t tell us much after all. The varsity-freshman game. A coach can hardly be expected to run off his best plays before the eyes of the scouters of every opponent on his schedule when the outcome of the game means so little. Neither can the players be expected to put forth their best efforts for the purpose of beating the freshman players of their own school. So, if the game last Saturday was not the most exciting ever seen, it was satisfactory to Notre Dame fans in that the regulars trimmed the freshmen without too much effort.
•
It was surprising, though, to see how quickly the march of the blue-shirts was stopped when a fifth or sixth team regulars was put in the game in place of the Freshmen. It leads one to wonder whether the Irish will not have difficulty in getting by the first teams of the coming opponents who, rather optimistically we are led to believe, are waiting for the arrival of the Irish in their respective camps.
•
Witness the article sent in by the Carnegie Sports Editor E. F. Mulligan. Our erstwhile contemporary predicts a victory for the Skibos and minces no words about the fact either. He supports his prediction with a pretty fair argument, that of superior reserve material which the Irish evidently haven’t got. Coach Wally Steffen is back in the driving box, too. He’s an old jinx to Irish football hopes; twice his teams have sent potentially great Notre Dame elevens crashing down into defeat; we hope he doesn’t repeat again. Carnegie students have been singing the praises of their football team to the high heavens for the past year with the cry, “Watch Tech in ’36.” We’ll be watching them to-morrow. Tech students, we hope you’ll disappoint us.
•
Most spectacular of the playing last Saturday was Andy Puplis’ demonstration of open field running. Andy demonstrated his ability along that line in the Wisconsin game last year, but since he was injured on the play was not able to continue during the season. The blocking of Wojcihovski and Danbom on Wilke’s runs around right end were also encouraging. Looking at it from every angle the propects for the backfield are not as bad as they seemed last Spring when Shakespeare, Fromhart, Pilney, Layden, and Carideo were walking up the platform to get their degrees. The line, as Joe Petritz would gladly say, is a horse of a different color. The ends are well covered with O’Neil, Zwers, and Skoglund. Quality guards we have a-plenty in Lautar, Martin, and Kuharick. Steinkemper, Kopczak, Emmanual, and the Shellog brothers form the tackle material, while Mundee, Winsouer and Fogel look like capable centers. Individually, the material for the line is good, but we know little of what they will do as a unit. That remains to be seen to-morrow against Carnegie.
•
Last week we told you of the amazing Mr. Fromhart and his clairvoyant powers in football. We promised you that Wally would positively make a personal appearance in this column to pick the winners in to-morrow’s football games. However, upon interviewing brother Fromhart we found him fast asleep and consequently you, dear readers all, will have to wait another week for the predictions of the sage of Sorin. So that you will not be too disappointed, however, we have decided to step into Wally’s shoes for the week and make some predictions of our own. After all, our guess is as good as anyone else’s. This week, then, we pick:
NOTRE DAME 20; CARNEGIE TECH 12
Washington State 12; Stanford 7
Nebraska 20; Iowa State 0
Southern Cal 19; Oregon 7
Illinois 21; Washington (Mo.) 6
Yale 14; Cornell 0
Chicago 14; Vanderbilt 0
Indiana 27; Centre 0
Northwestern 7; Iowa 6
Michigan 13; Michigan State 7
Ohio State 28; New York U. 0
Coach Elmer Layden trotted out his 1936 football machine last Saturday for the first public showoff of the current season. Five weakly organized freshman teams and one “B” squad did their best to provide some competition for the Varsity elevens, but the results were heavily in favor of the latter who trotted back in with a 33-0 victory in their pockets. While 5,000 spectators were losing a decision to a flock of galloping raindrops the varsity put together five teams to coast to their easy victory over the eager but yet untried greenhorns.
Of course the varsity used a minimum amount of fundamental plays and inexperienced observers winked at one another as they witnessed a traditional game which is notoriously devoid of trick or spectacular plays. Scouting at a game of this sort is always expected, and while the scouts are treated with every courtesy they are never shown much to write home about. Footballers call it “strategy.” So the question about the power of this year’s Irish eleven remains unanswered for the present, and the “downtown quarterbacks” have another week in which to heckle one another about whether the team will be a whiz or a fizz.
While the first team held forth for two brief periods four of the five scores were registered in the old “sudden death” fashion. Bob Wilke at left half ripped through the line and around end for two touchdowns, going 28 and 32 yards. On his second run he tossed off about four freshmen who had ideas as .to tackling him. Big Larry Danbom as starting fullback crashed through for an eleven-yard sweep to a touchdown in the first quarter. Later in the third quarter Vic W ojcihovski sneaked through a gaping hole in left tackle and ran 50 yards for a score and the longest run of the game. Jake Kovalchik was the junior right half who came through with the final varsity score on a slippery elevenyard jaunt to the uprights.
The freshmen did their best to fool their more illustrious brethren, and two of their number in the assault, Nickel and Archer, who tried some nifty quick kicks, one by Archer going over 60 yards and catching the varsity wide asleep. Outstanding varsity hacks who made some nice runs although they didn’t score were Puplis, Borowski, Steve Miller, and Burnell. “Bing” Binkowski gave a great account of himself at fullback serving notice to the other battering (Continued on Page 19)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
19
ON DOWN THE UNE
By Mike Crowe
Though JOE LOUIS nearly slaughtered the stocky AL ETTORE in their recent fight, champion JAMES J. “JIMMY” BRADDOCK before leaving his ringside seat said that he still knew that he could whip the “BLACK PANTHER” from the Auto City.
“POP” WARNER has a lot of respect for this year’s PITTSBURGH football team. The old timer says that PITT will present a better outfit than PRINCETON, another strong eastern representative. The TEMPLE coach also warns CARNEGIE TECH’S foes of the Scot’s manpower.
The contestants in this year’s world series, the GIANTS and YANKEES, also played each other for the world’s baseball championship in 1921, 1922 and 1923. From the teams of those years, BILL TERRY and TRAVIS JACKSON are still hobbling around in the GIANT inner defense.
HARRY McNAMARA, Chicago Herald-Examiner football expert has made himself known by his defiance of BERNIE BIERMAN, Minnesota’s football chief. McNAMARA sees MINNESOTA’S supremacy ending this fall.
PATRICK, (PACKEY) McFAR-LAND, who died a little over two weeks ago refereed the NOTRE DAME Bengal bouts in 1933. During his career, he whipped such men as MIKE GIBBONS and JACK BRITTON.
EDDIE JANKOWSKI is in gridiron togs once more. Eddie has always had trouble keeping in the graces of the WISCONSIN faculty members. A grade of “C” in a correspondence course assures JANKOWSKI of earning his “W” this fall. He is HARRY STUHLDRE-HER’S greatest back.
FRANK THOMAS bows to no one when it comes to picking winners on the gridiron throughout the fall afternoons. He was one of the few who was sure that DUKE would defeat COLGATE.
After an absence of three years, JUDGE WALLY STEFFEN is back in active coaching harness at CARNEGIE TECH. None of the present players ever played for him before he retired three years ago. One of COACH STEFFEN’S outstanding men is JOCK SUTHERLAND, a guard. We don’t know if he is related to the famous PITTSBURGH coach or not.
ALFRED H. “DUTCH” BERGMAN can be considered in a class all by himself. He has the honor of winning more monograms than any other NOTRE DAME athlete.
In the last seventeen years only two backfield men have been captain of a NOTRE DAME football team. In 1926, RED EDWARDS and TOM HEARNDON were co-captains.
JOHNNY McCarthy hopes that he can get the start next year that he made this year in his first two appearances with the GIANTS. Out of his first eight appearances against national league pitching, McCARTHY connected for six safeties. He is due to replace TERRY and LESLIE at the initial sack next year.
WARREN BROWN picked a quartet of national league players who he considers the slowest moving in the circuit. Included in the list were GABBIE HARTNETT, ERNIE LOMBARDI, GUS MANCUSO and CHARLEY GRIMM.
MATT PATENELLI, a Hoosier from Elkhart, will lead HARRY KIPKE’S WOLVERINES this fall. An all-state man in high school, the big end is apparently headed for All-American honors this year.
BILL VERGANE, Purdue’s end, is one of the largest collegiate gridmen in the country. The MICHIGAN CITY product stands at six feet and five inches. He tips the scales at 233 pounds. VERGANE scored a touchdown in the BOILERMAKER opener against OHIO UNIVERSITY last Saturday. He is a talented long distance punter.
JIMMY FOXX, who plays first base and left field for the gold-plated RED SOX, has hit a home run in every American league park during the 1936 season. LOU GEHRIG, however, has cracked out more circuit clouts than any other major performer this year.
RAY CARNELLY will probably be the only sophomore in CARNEGIE TECH’S starting lineup tomorrow. He has an important position too, quarterback. He is built on the lines of HOWARD HARPSTER, CARNEGIE’S greatest signal caller, who is now a CARNEGIE coach.
Send Home a Nice
N. D. Picture
Any 6 or 8 exposure film developed and printed for 25c; Reprints 3c each; No order less than 15c; 5x7 enlargement 25c; 8 x 10 enlargement 40c; Send stamps or money.
v
The Photex Co.
P. O. Box 725
South Bend, Indiana
Frosh-Varsity
(Continued from Page 18)
rams that he is liable to cause plenty of trouble before the season is far gone.
On the line, the varsity distinguished themselves by holding the freshies to two first downs, one by rushing and one on a penalty. Linemen who did the best work were numerous, but a few were Captain Lautar, Joe Zwers, the Shellog brothers, Pepper Martin, and Elmer Zenner. Some of the finest tackling was handled by Bill Steinkemper and Jerry Clifford ■who set the freshmen back more than once. Steinkemper in particular, hit one freshman with such abandon and with such sureness that the smack resounded about the stadium. Another thing not to be forgotten was that the kicking was not half as bad as most of the onlookers had expected. While another star with the toe magic of Bill Shakespeare was not uncovered three or four boys showed excellent prospects.
Have you read these "best selling" Catholic biographies?
GREATEST OF THE BORGIAS
Margaret Yeo
“There is no other real life of Francis Borgia like this in English. The superlative in Mrs. Yeo’s title is beyond dispute, for its truth dispels the odium proverbially hinged to comparisons. The author’s vivid style fits the fervor of her material without any excesses. . . . The reconstruction of Francis Borgia’s life as a Jesuit. . . is done with superb choice of revealing details. . ?’—Netv York Herald Tribune Books.	$2.50
IGNATIUS LOYOLA
Robert Harvey
“It is indicative of how far the world has traveled in tolerance and in understanding divergent points of view that so impartial and laudatory a book as this on Ignatius Loyola, the founder of the Society of Jesus, should come from the pen of a Protestant clergyman and carry an enthusiastic introduction by a nationally known Jesuit editor.”—New York Times.
$2.25 them at
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan St., South Bend
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
Many Coaches
(Continued from Page 15)
players in daily practice, and this materially aided in finding the best man for each position.”
James Farragher was the mentor responsible for Notre Dame’s retaining of the State Championship in 1902. So few were the aspirants for the Varsity that the loss of a single player through injury threatened the disorganization of the team. The Irish had no official coach in 1903, but were
Economical
TRAVEL BY SAFE, FAST ELECTRIC TRAINS
Everyone appreciates economy . . and when it is combined with speed and safety, as it is on the South Shore Line, then it’s doubly welcome. South Shore Line one way ' fares are now reduced to 2c per mile. Take advantage of this bargain. Be safe and save.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
WHS
ALSO OBTAINABLE IN FLAT FIFTIES-
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co., Inc.
WE CERTIFY that we have inspected the Turkish and Domestic Tobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing as much as 50% more.
(Signed) Seii, Putt & Rusby Inc. (In collaboration with tobacco expert) *
tutored by McWeeney and Captain Louis Salmon, one of the best fullbacks ever to buck a line. The next fall Salmon took over the coaching, but he too was troubled by insufficient material. It was not unusual for 45 men to report for Interhall ball and only 12 or 13 for the Varsity. Salmon’s 1905 team went undefeated, swamping the Medics and Surgeons of fChicago 142-0 in 33 minutes.
Tom Barry, an All-American halfback at Brown in 1902, succeeded Louis Salmon. He formerly had played baseball with Montreal of the Eastern League. Capt. Bob Brachen of the 1906 eleven was appointed as an assistant to Barry. As far as results were concerned, and that seems to be the only criterion of coaching ability, Barry was the most successful at Notre Dame thus far. In 1908 Barry accepted the appointment as football coach at Wisconsin, and was followed at Notre Dame by Victor Place, a former Dartmouth star. Place was assisted by Joe Lantry of Ohio State.
From 1909-1910 Frank Longman, a Michigan grad and coach at Arkansas University, handled the teams. “Cap” Edwards, “Red” Miller, and Pete Dwyer are a few of the great football men developed by Longman. Making use of the inside kick and the forward pass, Longman’s 1909 aggrega
“Imagine, Imogene, she only pays 10#for those divine cigarettes) “Get wise, Gloriana, Twenty Grand’s crashed the 400!”
tion beat the highly praised Michigan team, thus gaining nationwide recognition. According to the press reports of the Michigan game, before and after, it was somewhat comparable to the 1935 Notre Dame - Ohio State thriller. The 1909 team scored 236 points against 14 by its opponents, who included the best in the West.
The 1911 season found the indomitable Dorais-to-Rockne play very much in action, under the tutelage of Jack Marks, another Dartmouth grad. In 1912 his team went through the season unscathed, rolling up 3 8 9 points in its wake.
With the advent of Jesse Harper as the Varsity coach many innovations were introduced in athletics at Notre Dame. There was to be but one coach to handle all four major sports, and he was Jesse Harper. He was all-around coach, trainer, and manager of football, track, basketball, and baseball. Harper was one coach who delighted in tough schedules. Captained by Knute Rockne his 1913 team met Army for the first time. Thus was initiated the greatest of intersectional football games.
What were termed by many as suicide schedules turned out to be homicides, as the Irish traveled and defeated and traveled aagin. From 1913 to 1917 Jesse Harper was hailed as the country’s greatest coach, not (Continued on Page 21)

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
21
Skibo Scribe Hopeful
(Continued from Page 15) blocking and defensive play, looks like his running mate. Rosenthal will work in at the halfback posts on relief duty. Coach Steffen is fortunate in having more reserves this year- than last. Rosenthal is dangerous any time he is in the game; he scored the touchdown against Purdue in that upset last year, and Napotnik is a fullback of no little ability. The replacements for the line are nearly all seasoned men.
In view of the fact that Wally Steffen is back at the helm with Howard Harpster as an assistant and that the squad is in good shape now, it is the opinion of the writer that the game will be very close, with the Tartans shooting the work to bring down the Ramblers. If Carnelly recovers from his leg infection and no further injuries waylaw the revamped Skibos, the nod goes to the Pittsburgh team in an old-fashioned, knockdown, all-around scoring, wide open game. Just by an eyelash.
Introducing
(Continued from Page 16) the name before Vic’s coming to Notre Dame. Vic plans to give them more trouble with it than ever before, starting to-morrow.
In the summer Vic works for a chemical plant, although he is a Physical Ed major. Admittedly he doesn’t spend much time at the chemical plant being content to spend his summers at rest with the world.
Vic isn’t the first Irish gridder to travel from Western, West Virginia. In 1926 a fellow townsman, Gene Edwards, was appointed co-captain of the team. Edwards was one of the two backfield men to ever captain a Notre Dame football team, and it was he who influenced Vic to try his fortunes on the Notre Dame varsity.
To-morrow he starts his last season with the Irish. He’ll be at right halfback, paving the way for Bob Wilke and carrying the ball himself. He’s easily distinguishable as he is the only member of the varsity not wearing white socks over his blue stockings, and when you see those sockless legs start to go you can be sure that they’ll end up a good deal nearer the Carnegie goal than they were before.
Many Coaches
(Continued from Page 20) only from the point of view of his record, but also because he put out championship teams averaging but 165 pounds per man. In 1917 Notre Dame defeated the Army. After Joe Brandy had led. his mates to a 7-2 victory, the traditional upheaval of students in South Bend began. One of the signs toted through the streets
M'X ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner^
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
with ARROW!
Stock up now with Arrow Shirts—they'll keep you in style for years—and give you more collar and shirt satisfaction than you've ever known before.
Try HUNT or CARLTON, with the popular wide-spread collar models. Mitoga fit. . . . Sanforized Shrunk, hi white or fancy — $2.00 — $2.50
union
22	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 2, 1936.
You can’t lose if you back the Douglas line! Parlay AllLeather Construction, economy and style — and you’ll find it a winning combination.
Notre Dame men and men everywhere have found that there is no substitute for leather in shoe making. That is why Douglas has been a winner for sixty years. Here are the shoes that won’t be beaten and can’t be beaten!
Wing-tips or straight tips ... in buck, calf, reverse calf. An authentic style for every-occasion. A style to please everybody. Follow Douglas for consistent victories!
£.oo $5.00 $g.
DOUGLAS
ALL LEATHER CONSTRUCTION
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE
(IN SOUTH BEND)
210 South Michigan Street (Open Saturday Evening)
Douglas Men's Shoes $4, $5, $5.85 Men's *Normal Treds . . • . $7
^Patented, Corrective, Scientific Features
VICTOR C. ASTONE, N. D. Representative
read, “Army had too much Brandy!” The immortal Knute K. Rockne became head coach in 1918 upon Harper’s retirement. Rockne turned out teams unprecedented in football; and their power and deception have yet to be surpassed by the modern gridiron warriors. Following Rockne’s death in 1931 “Hunk” Anderson, line coach and one of “Rock’s” erstwhile pupils, succeeded to the position of head coach.
N. D. Faces Carnegie
(Continued from Page lb)
eight again this year. Furthermore, he wouldn’t have to travel any farther than the second team to fill the three gaps. Then to top this off comes the news from the Carnegie campus that at least three of these starters of a year ago are no longer first string, so good has been the new material. The third reason is the fact that Judge Wally Steffen has returned to his Alma Mater to once again take over the coaching reins. It was he who was the Skibos’ mentor when they put over their smashing 19-0 and 27-7 triumphs in 1926 and 1928 respectively. Tech elevens of the past few seasons have been notably strong defensively. The return of Steffen means a greatly bolstered offensive.
Notre Dame, on the other hand, in the annual freshman game last Saturday, did not show herself to be in top-top shape to face big time opposition. Time the first team looked very good, and scored with comparative ease while in there, yet it must be
GET YOUR COLLEGE RING
Bearing Official Seal
Certified $2.00 Value only
25c with the purchase of a bottle of
Rirlcer QllZ/Z^
at 15c—Total 40c... YOU SAVE $1.75
The Parker Pen Co. makes this amazing offer solely to induce you to try Parker Qufufc—Ure remarkable new ink that cleans your pen as it writes—that dries ON PAPER 31% faster, yet does NOT dry in a pen.
Get Qaink today from any store selling ink. Tear off the box-top. and on the back write the FULL NAME of your school or college, ring SIZE, and style wanted (man's or woman’s) and your name and address. Then mail box-top with 25 cents in coin to The Parker Pen Co., Dept. 738, Janesville, Wis.
Don't delay. This offer ends Dec. 31,1936, if supply lasts.
remembered that capable reserves are of the greatest importance in modern college football. Coach Elmer Layden, who himself, accounted for a touchdown in both the 1923 and 1924 Tech defeats, said that he expects Carnegie Tech to come up with a fast, tricky team. He believed that lack of experience resulting from an insufficient number of practice sessions kept out the teamwork, so vital if the Notre Dame system is to click, in the Freshman encounter last Saturday. He went on to say that the chances of a Notre Dame win hangs on the ability of his boys to properly and in sufficient time adjust themselves to meet unexpected situations.
Leading the Skibos will be Captain Nester Henrion, and he will attempt to see to it that no Irish back picks up any yardage off left tackle. Coach Steffen has gone on record as declaring that Henrion will be the outstanding tackle in the country. To-morrow, however, he will have to look mighty good if he wishes to outshine the N. D. leader, Captain Johnny Lautar.
Coach Layden has stated that the probable starting Notre Dame lineup will be much the same as last week. On that basis we may expect to see Joe Zwers and Joe O’Neil or Len Skoglund taking care of the flanking berths. At left tackle will be giant Bill Steinkemper, who will be opening his own private campaign in quest of his third football monogram. Paired with “Stein,” on the other side of the line will be either Frank Kopczak or Art Cronin. Captain Johnny Lautar will hold down left guard, while drawing out of line on the other side will be South Bend’s own Joe Kuharich. The snapper-back is to be blonde Fred Mundee. Instilling pep and chirping signals, when not running back punts will be Andy Puplis. Bob Wilke and Vic Wojcihovski will care for the running and blocking halfback posts, and at fullback “Larrupping” Larry Dan-bom will show the Pittsburgh pigskinners that they grow ’em tough up in Calumet, Michigan.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. -South Bend, Ind.
(Continued from Page 13)
But at length the stomach of “Hungry Henry” refused to hold more. He had done. Now was the time for the final touch. The three young men were talking about a water-polo game. They would be staying then, and he would have to leave. Their voices fell: he saw them passing something green to the eldest. Was that a five? It must have been! The younger two were pushing back their chairs, wishing him well. He mumbled his synthetic gratitude. The eldest pushed back his chair. Henry started to do likewise. “No, stay there a minute!” commanded Bill embarrassedly.
“I’m going out to the cigar desk. Be back with you in a minute.” The trimly clad shoulders swung down the grill and to the door. The neatly-manicured right fingers held green somethings. “Oh ho!” chuckled “Hungry Henry,” “going to make one bill of it, is he. And then some cigars too.” He allowed himself a healthy smile.
The waiter came up, small silver tray in hand. Henry glanced, amused, at the check, and put on his old, broken-down-and-ready-for-the- junk-heap voice. “He’ll be right back. Went for cigars.” The waiter smiled understandingly, and slid back.
It was half an hour later, and “Hungry Henry” was still trying to explain to the house detective that he had not conned a meal. “I thought they was honest!” he wailed. But McCann did not believe him any more than Sweeney did an hour later at the station.
And “Hungry Henry” dreamed of trout that night, but they were not fat and of the most luscious variety. They were neat, well-manicured, exquisite trout, but they carried Colts, and shot cigars at him with great accuracy.
Established 30 Years
L@NT@B
OPTOMETRISTS
2221£ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
WHEN the class of 1917 was at college, a long distance telephone call took (on the average) more than ten minutes to be put through.
This time has been whittled down gradually, so that now the connection is made in an average of 1.4 minutes—nine out of ten of them while you hold the line.
But this is only one phase of the relentless effort to improve. Your service is better today because voice transmission is clearer—interruptions and
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
errors less frequent than ever before.
America demands fast but sure telephone service—and gets it.
College men and women find after 7 P. M. a convenient time for long distance calling.
Moreover, most rates are lowest then.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
mestenidd
... for tobacco cut right to smoke right
There’s a right way to carve a chicken or slice a ham. And there’s a right way to cut tobacco.
When the tobacco in your cigarette is cut the way it is in Chesterfield... right width and right length... it burns even and smooth ... it smokes better.
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.