Discs quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 2, 1SS2.
A Mountain. G-rave.
“ Ay—we but hear	-
Of the survivors’ toil in their new lands, Their numbers and success; but who can number The hearts which broke in silence at that parting. Or after their departure? ”
—Byron's Eoscari.
Bright in the golden morning of the year The dim, gray mountains lifted up their brows. Touched with immortal sunshine; down the vales Sang the swift waters, and they passed a grave, Washed by the red, wild rose’s fragrant tears. It held one, married among southern flowers. Who went forth bravely to a land untried— I ler own the spirit of a high-souled race. -But Fate was harsh, and swept her husband down . Beneath the mountain snows; the world was strange, The skies unkind; the old familiar ways She met no more, yet faced her life alone.
And dried her tears to sing his child asleep. Eternal Mother, thou canst only know Her grief when death laid hands upon her boy. Were God all mercy, woman’s heart were made A harder substance than, alas, it is! ’ Child of her first, last love, she laid him down, But her own reason darkened with his eyes. The rose she planted hid its thorns in flowers When her last sigh was breathed across his grave. Love! what is love but sorrow to the heart
. That gives it shelter; yet a thousand times Better such sorrow than the laugh that rings O’er gilded tombs, where women’s hearts lie cold, And mocks the falsehood of their weary lives.
Mariox Muir.
—S'. Pueblo Evening N'otjs.
Bryant Vindicated.
The renewed energy infused into the provinces of decorative art during the past ten or twelve years has stimulated research into the beauties of nature. Scarcely a magazine comes to us nowadays without an. article on flowers, trees, birds or insects, considered from the aesthetic point of view. And it is well. We have at length an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the flora and fauna of our native land. We need no longer draw our comparisons from objects known to us—if known
at all—through the medium of English literature. The epithet “daisy,” so freely applied bv those who nevei* saw a daisy, and wouldn’t know it if they did, may be exchanged for the name of some indigenous blossom. The violet will no longer be our chosen symbol of fragrance; for American violets are almost scentless, and such as have a smell, like viola blanda, would never have found their way into poetry on the strength of it. Instead, we shall find a more grateful perfume from the blossoms of our own wild grapevine or the rich wreaths of the May-flower.
Among the poets who have sung American flowers, those faithful lovers of nature, Bayard Taylor and William Cullen Bryant, stand preeminent. Bayard is not the only one to whom the Castilleia coccinca has suggested the painted face of the aboriginal inhabitant: o
“ Scarce darkened by the shadow of these hours, The Manitou of Flowers.
Crowned with the Painted-cup, that shakes Its gleam of war-paint on his dusky cheek.
Goes by, but cannot speak;
Yet tear or dew-drop ’neath his coronal breaks.
And in his drooping hand
The azure eyelids of the gentian die
That loves the yellow autumn land: The wind-flower, golden-rod. With phlox and orchis, nod; .
And every blossom frail and shy No careless loiterer sees, But poet, sun and breeze,
And the bright countenance of our western sky.’* •
The great difficulty of bringing American flowers into poetry is the fact that many of them have none but scientific names. Phlox, in the above extract, is bad enough, but what can be done with Gerardia ? And when the poet must choose between Tradescantia and sfiderzvort, which is worst? Moreover, when flowers are said, by writers on Botany, to have English or “ common ” . names, these are by no means the names by which they are popularly known. Who knows the dainty little ^polygala by the name of milkwort? or, indeed, by-any other name? We have heard boys call the wild lupine “ old women’s bonnets,” and the cardinal flower “ nose-bleedin’s: ” but if such are the popular names our indigenous plants are likely to get, ’twere vain to think of bringingthem into verse. The early purple orchis is common in England, and is as beautiful as any of the springblossoms, if not more so, but was it ever celebrated in poetry? We think not; and why? Its only English name is “ ram’s-horns I ”
194	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Let Shakspeare say what he will, if the rose had shared a fate similar to that of some of her compeers, and had received the name, say of McFad-denia outragiosa. she could never have held the place in literature that she now does.
But we are astray from the purpose of our article. Among other results of the research into nature to which we have alluded, has been a criticism of Bryant’s claims for the fringed gentian, -as the last of the flowers:
“ Thou waitest late and com’st alone, When woods are bare and birds are flown. And frosts and shortening days portend The aged year is near its end.”
“ This,” says one of the magazine critics, “ is mere poetical license.” He then proceeds to give a list of flowers found later in bloom. For some time we believed this criticism to be correct. We found the fringed .gentian on October 19th of the present year, in a locality about two miles rather to the east of south of the College. In this locality it was then evidently going out of flower. But one or two perfect blossoms remained, and no buds; the rest were withered and gone to seed. At that time another gentian—the gentiana Andreiv-sii of botanists—was in full bloom: poly gala sau-guinea. still showed a crimson tassel or two: the violets, viola pedata. and v. cucullata produced an abundant autumn bloom; while a whole host of plants, which the text-book marked “Adv. from' Europe,”—the yarrow, May-weed, toad-flax, white and red clover, dandelion and potentilla, continued to flower for weeks after. In our gardens we had, besides the regular November chrysanthemum, the pansy, petunias, white and purple, marigolds, zinnia, phlox, dahlia and alyssum, such has been the mildness of the present autumn. As it seemed, imported plants had taken the place of natives, just as the white race has supplanted the red, and the English sparrows are driving our song-birds away, so that I was beginning to philosophize on the fatalities of the American Continent, which welcomes the foreigner to the prejudice of her own oflspring. Who ever heard of American plants, or American races established, or running wild, upon the Eastern hemisphere?
But a pleasant surprise was in store for me. The frosts of the 13th and 14th had reduced the late flowers to capitulate at the discretion of their foe. On the 16th of November, a soft, rainy day, while roaming through the leafless woods and withered grass of the regions adjacent to Grapevine creek, about eleven miles southwest of here, I found the marsh all besprent with. the blossom of the gentian; looking
O	I	o
“----Through its fringes to the skv,	.
Blue, blue, as if that sky let fall * A flower from its cerulean wall.”
Yes! there it was! vindicating the truth of its poet, and the honor of its native soil. - Not a single specimen, but thousands. The woods indeed were bare. The hamamelis was beginning to lose the clear lemon yellow of its threads, and to assume a dirty straw color. Other blossoms were there none.	'
The gentiana crinita^ it seems, like other parties conspicuous for their fringes, mentioned in St. Matthew’s Gospel (c. xxiii, v. 5.), is somewhat delusive in its character. It may go out of bloom in one locality and subsequently come into bloom in another not many miles off. Hence, we are of opinion, has arisen the discrepancy between Bryant and his critics.
A. J. S.
Flying- Machines.
.	H.
I have now given the historv of the flying machine as well as possible with the present resources, and feel pretty certain that I have mentioned all the important facts in its history, if they may be called important. Indeed, all the attempts made before the invention of proper power were positively useless, and nothing remains, except the theoretical part. Even the theory of flight is only fairly started as yet.
It has been frequently said that great discoveries and inventions are inevitably made in their own befitting age; and it seems that we are just enter- 1 ing upon the age that is to introduce the flying , machine. The work is very great; but after the j proper experiments and calculations have been made, the- practical part can in a few years be wonderfully advanced by a mail of the ability and energy possessed by some of our modern inventors. There is time enough yet to make it an achievement of the 19th century.
The history of the flying machine may be summed up as follows: (1) Many vain and useless attempts made before the proper time; (2) A great deal of theoretical works unaided by experiment; (3) Theory and experiment combined.
The period of dreaming and vain theorizing has just drawn to a close; the period of experiment and calculation is present; the period of application and success now rapidly draws near. I repeat once more that no experiments yet made should discourage us; for the air is as heavy as ever; material is not becoming worse; effective motive power is just within reach.
Before going on to speak of the flying machine proper, I must call your attention once more to that peculiar apparatus with which it is possible to sail from the loftiest heights. Perfected, it would enable man: to move as far horizontally as the buzzard, eagle, or any other of those enviable creatures; for it works on the same principle. More- ', over, it is my firm belief that this same apparatus would enable man to compete with the buzzard in that other astonishing feat of rising without effort from the earth to the-clouds. It is a well-known fact that sailing birds lievef need to flap their wings when there is a strong enough wind; nay, they can go directly against the wind by the power previously acquired from it; put intelligence into a kite or into a sheet of foolscap,-and it can do the same. This is hot a mere conjecture, but a conclusion'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
195

drawn from daily occurrences. We have often seen pieces of paper taken up by the wind, and by accident so inclined and regulated as to rise rapidly, and perform many strange antics. But it may be objected that the paper will be supported only till it begins to drift with the wind. Well, then, when, as wicked boys, we scattered about the house that infernal “stuff” known as milkweed, cat-tail, etc., we noticed that the seeds, if in good condition, would rise in the wind to an immense height, but in the calm they were disposed to settle; moreover, they would often descend pretty fast, then rise again, showing that they were not buoyed up. But more striking still is the fact that there are cer-tain leaves which, in a moderate breeze, rise upwards of 100 feet, and shift about for a long time. They are seemingly so constructed as to regulate them-selves; at onetime inclining to the wind so as to be raised by it, and again dropping so as to move against it. Probably a little apparatus might be made to act in the same manner. What an assistance the wind is to the buzzard ? It scatters the odor of his food through a wide tract, and enables him to sweep without effort far and wide in search of it; for this reason he never travels much in still air, but seeks a current. Mr. M. S. Peal, after many observations with a telescope, thinks it highly probable that birds sleep while floating. This theory has all the appearance of a paradox; but let us consider the action of the atmosphere upon our plane parachute.
Suppose it to measure 1,000 square feet, and to incline 150 to a wind moving 21 miles an hour; the wind would exert against it a pressure of 900 lbs. upwards, and 240 lbs. horizontally. Also suppose the apparatus to weigh 120 lbs., and the man 140 lbs., making in all 260 lbs.; 260 lbs. wt. from 900 lbs. lifting power, leaves 640 lbs. lifting power; and, since 240 lbs.' lifting power can overcome 240 lbs. horizontal resistance, we have 640—240=400 lbs. surplus lifting power. But the secret is just this: how can we employ our power to overcome the horizontal tendency of the machine? For an answer to this we mav again consult the good old buzzard that has been our teacher thus far. We may, however, perceive how it is possible from the following considerations: a ball rolling down an inclined plane may acquire a velocity of 8 feet per second, horizontally; this is sufficient to overcome a similar ball moving with the same velocity, and it would require the same power to restore each to its former state. In like manner, our parachute could gain any desirable speed, in a direction opposite the wind, by descending sufficiently; in this case the air serves as the inclined plane. This method of moving against the wind is mostly employed when the bird wishes to move for a long distance in the same direction.
But there is another way, far more worthy the skill of sailing birds. You may have noticed them sailing around in a spiral path, rising higher and higher at each revolution, till the eye could no longer follow them. Many persons will tell you that they are partly buoyed by theiT air cells, and that they have a motion in their wings which we
cannot perceive. Yes: they are partly buoyed up, and they have a peculiar motion in their wings; but this buoyancy is as good as infinitesimal, and. the peculiai* motion of their wings is only the change of their inclination. This last is the secret of that wonderful and mysterious performance—-■ sailino' flight.
I Conceive, again, our parachute to be standing | in mid-air, slightly inclined to a wind coming I from" the west. The wind, striking it, raises it j rapidly, and startsit towards the east; if left alone, j it would soon acquire the velocity of the wind, and I would have nothing to support it; but, before it j moves rapidly with the current, raise the southern I side a little, thus making it slide towards the north; I in a few seconds it will be travelling with a. j fearful velocity northward—as rapidly, indeed, as j a ball rolling down a similar-inclined plane. When it has acquired suitable velocity northward, elevate the northern side, preserving the same angle to the west, and the parachute will dart rapidly upwards, and continue to move eastward; without further attention it will slide southward, again describing the buzzard’s path exactly. When it comes towards the southern part of the spiral, it will have a great velocity southward, and a good start towards the east; hence it must be inclined so as to meet a resistance from both the east and south, .thus throwing it westward on its spiral path.
This is where we started from. The whole course is like that of one skating about a pretty eccentric ellipse, and the same methods must be employed to overcome the centrifugal force when turning; the same thing may be continued, if the wind lasts, till the machine gets up to rare atmosphere ; or it may preserve the same height, and continue to go faster and faster till it has an astonishing velocity. All this is in our power; and, if there were sufficient “ money in it,” people would study the matter more earnestly. What could, be more amusing and interesting than to see a: number of our students-sailing to and fro above the College grounds, or elsewhere, in beautiful, well-formed, controllable machines of this kind? What a relief to the weary traveller in the desert, where the winds are constant and furious? And so long as the manager keep his wits, and the machine its strength, there is no danger at all. How would you light? Plunge directly for the earth, and present a great resistance shortly before lighting. But supposing you were caught in a whirlwind, what then? Simply make an act of resignation, and prepare to give up the ghost. But if the whirlwind were considerate enough to give you a warning when a mile or so off, as it certainly would, • you could flee away with the speed of a falling body.
We will next consider the form and dimensions of such a machine to utilize the energy of the March winds. I would suggest the following method of construction. Fasten together the large ends of four fish poles at right angles, such as form the “ sticks” of a kite. The whole, could. be strengthened by cording and bracing. Now, to the centre attach a handle perpendicularly, like ah
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
umbrella handle; also from the centre suspend four strong cords, to which can be fastened, a platform for the manager to stand upon, just beneath the handle. This done, the machine is ready for use. The essential facts , to be observed are about the following: (i) The surface should be large enough to enable one to descend slowly; (2) The machine should always move rapidly never drifting with the wind; (3) It cannot be used in still air. .	. z
(to be continued.)
Art, Music, and Literature.	’
—Tennyson, the English Poet Laureate, is. one of the Vice-Presidents of the English Spelling Reform Association.
—Shakespeare’s “Pericles” has just been produced at Munich, for the first time in Germany, and proved a success.
—Lubben, Librarian of the Library of Oldenburg, has discovered sixteen German translations of the Scriptures, anterior to Luther’s translation.
—The current number of The “Ave Maria? has an admirable sketch of Dr. Orestes A. Brownson, from the pen of Mr. John MacCarthy. It is full of interest and much of what it contains will be new to most readers.
—The Rev. Dr. Murray, Professor of Theology at Maynooth College, who died recently, was a man of high literary attainments. He wrote several theological works, and was author of several charming poems, chief among which are “ Glandore,” “ The Rock of • Cashel,” Cordis “ Suspira.”
—At the Sunderland Library sale, on Tuesday, twenty guineas was paid for one of the lots, catalogued as follows:—“The works of Sir Thomas Moore, Knight, sometyme Lord Chancellour of England, written by him in the Englysh tonge, and published by AV. Rastell, 1557; this copy, in oaken binding, covered with black morocco, belonged to Sir AVilliam Roper, Moore’s son-in-law,' and bears his name on the cover.”. It is a relic which we should have wished to see in Catholic hands.—London' Weekly Register.	'
—A Munich inventor has brought forward an improvement in the construction of pianofortes which, it is claimed, meets the problem of equalizing the strength and. fulness of the different octaves. A series of tuning forks are. freely suspended over the three highest octaves of the piano, . each fork having the exact pitch of the string over, which it is suspended. . The, vibrations^ of the string are communicated to the fork, which in turn reacts, on the string, and thus a full and sustained -tone is secured in str ong contrast .to. the usual . short and diy tones of this.. instrument. - The .changed quality .of Ahe.higher notes which is thus produced, also impfovesrthe character of the lower ones.	'.CT?'
—-Madame Augustus ; Craven’s, latest . story, “ Eliane,” .which’was put into English by Lady
Georgiana Fullerton, is the most popular story of	;
the hour. It first appeared in this country in	!
The “Ave Maria” from advance sheets sent by Lady Fullerton. No sooner had the book appeared	j
in England than our American pirates seized it,	/
and it-was issued simultaneously by three publishers in this country even before the concluding chap-	/
ters appeared in The “ Ave Maria? ' Speaking of	f
“Eliane,” the New York Home Journal says:	•
“ This story is daintily sweet, and so absolutely	,
clean that a reader of it asks himself why it is that France produces so rank a growth of the immaculate and of the unholy, with so little that is a ‘ be-twenity,’ which is only another expression for naturalness. ‘ Eliane ’ may have been written with an excess of honey in order to take the ill flavor of some other and equally recent French writings out of all recollection. It is a fascinating story.”	-
—In connection with the announcement that the writings of the late Dr. Orestes A. Brownson are to be collected and published by his son, it is stated that a portrait is to be given of that truly remarkable thinker. I wish that it could present him as I saw him; not long before his death, at his quiet little home, in Elizabeth, N. J. I had long desired to meet him; but he was almost a hermit, rarely crossing the threshold.of his door, and he would not be interrupted in his work simply to
’ talk with strangers. One evening his intimate friend, Mr. W. J. Tenney, the scholarly “reader” of the Appletons, knowing my desire, kindly took ' me with him to the house. The Doctor himself admitted us, and as he stood in the doorway, lamp in hand, I thought I had never seen so picturesque and venerable a’figure. At least six feet, two inches in height, with a grand leonine head, framed in flowing, unkempt hair and beard, and wearing a dark-brown dressing-gown, reaching to his ankles, which made him seem even taller than he	.
was, he looked the picture of one of those noble old sires of the Church, whose simple, blameless lives shed such poetic glamor over the early centuries of Christianity.' We passed a delightful hour in his dingy, dimly-lighted study. • As he sat conversing there, surrounded by musty folios and literary debris, his. eye was full of fire, and he looked more than ever the sage. Indeed, it was impossible to listen to his philosophical, scholarly discourse without feeling oneself in the presence of a man who was intellectually and physically a veritable giant.—The-Ari Amateur.
.	o . -	-	-	- -	-
—A writer in the Tribune says of Raphael’s Madonna, now oh-exhibition in New York: “Remembering pictures by Raphael seen abroad, one	|
twho has :not pieviously seen the ‘Madonna dei Gandelabri’ would naturally expect to see in it a work of exquisite finish and marvellous richness	1
in.colorand tone. After having seen beforehand	<
an engraving of .the picture, and knowing that in size it exactly^ coincides with the ‘Madonna della Sedia,’in Florence; one, is apt . to imagine .some- \\ thing very like the ,latter picture in general effect, as he holds it in ;his memory; But when , he sees	J
the/ Madonna ;dei:Candelabri’ he will experience
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. . .	w
that rare and delicious sensation which one feels upon finding the real surpassing his generously-colored ideal. The ‘Madonna dei Candelabri,’ in the first place, is in a much better state of preservation than the ‘ Madonna della Sedia,’ or, indeed, than most of the works of the master to be seen in the great foreign galleries. The coloring, with all the richness of the others, is much more brilliant. The Virgin, painted half-length in a standing position, holds with her left hand the Infant Christ, who is seated on a white cushion, which may be supposed to rest on a table not secn.in the picture. Two angels in the background—supposed to be in a kneeling posture, although only - the head and hand of each is visible—stand one on each side of the Mother and Child, holding up flaming candelabra. The Virgin’s head is seen nearly full face; her eyes are downcast and nearly closed. In her face is expressed all the sublime sweetness and spiritual beauty, that seem to bring Raphael’s Madonnas above even the most refined types of human nature to be seen in the everyday world. The Child, slightly on the left of the Virgin, is an exquisite expression of infant innocence and beauty. His head is seen nearly full face and His.eyes, wide open, are looking out of the picture, being turned considerably to the left of the spectator. His right hand rests upon the Virgin’s mantle, while His left is partly hidden beneath it, resting on the under garment which covers her bosom. The Virgin is clad in a blue mantle with an under vestment of red, the latter seen only near the neck and at the cuff of the sleeve. A veil of greenish-brown, with gold stripes, covers her head and falls gracefully over her left shoulder. Each of the heads is surrounded by a circular vertical nimbus-of parallel gold lines. The picture is painted on a circular panel of wood, about two feet two and three-quarter inches in diameter.”
Books and Periodicals.
•Vr-;
Geological Sketches By Archibald Geikie.
Price 15 cents. J. Fitzgerald & Co., Publishers. 30 Lafayette Place, New York.
This work forms No. 38 of the Humboldt Library of Popular Science Literature, and is one of the most instructive volumes in that valuable senes. Its author is Director-General of the Government Survey of Great Britain, and the charming essays here published contain the results of his vacation rambles in both hemispheres, from the Rocky Mountains to the Rhine, wherever any field of special interest presents itself to the 'geologist. The work is a practical demonstration of how scientific knowledge, when mated with literary - tact, can invest the. dry facts of natural science with the highest degree of interest for the general reader.	•.
—Donahoe's jMap'azine tov December is, as usual, interesting and instructive. In The leading article, “ Give God His Place,” which is - the secpud of a series, there is presented a. forcible plea
for a higher standard of literature than that which generally obtains at the present day. Against the evil effects of this prevalent vice, it is shown the only remedy is to be found in the Church. “Against corrupt writing and corrupt reading we have three forces at work in our holy .Church: one literary, one authoritative, and one sacramental. The lit- . erary force is composed of Catholic journals, magazines and books; the authoritative force is found * in the strict laws of the Church, and in the pulpit; the sacramental force is found, in the Confessional.” This idea is well developed and in vigorous style.. There is a long and beautiful poem, “In Honor of the .Seraphic Virgin, Teresa of Jesus.” The other articles are also entertaining-, and comprise stories, essays and selections, humorous and otherwise. The magazine deserves an extensive circulation.	’ .
Sadlier’s Elementary Geography. With _
Maps and Illustrations Prepared Expressly for this Work. New York: D. and J. Sadlier & Co. 1880. 72 pages. Price, 35 cents.	-
Sadlier’s School Geography. With Maps and Illustrations Prepared Expressly for this Work. Same Publishers. 152 pages. Price 88 cents.
These works have been prepared by a practical . teacher and are well adapted to convey instruction . to pupils of the grades for which they are., intended. The maps and. letter-press are in the best style of the art. In the illustrations there is room for improvement, but we presume the prices of . the books preclude illustrations of a high order of excellence. One of the illustrations in the Elementary, the Entrance to the Bay of . Rio Janeiro, gives not the remotest idea of the picturesque surroundings of the place, and should be replaced by a better one, or left out. The larger Geography is printed on super-calendered paper, and both it and the Elementary are- substantially bound.	.	.	~
In the illustrations of the. larger Geography we ” notice that a special niche has been given.to Yale . College, while Harvard, the University of Michigan, Georgetown University, and the, University of Notre Dame are not even mentioned. We fail: to see cause for such discrimination. .	.
—The North American Review for December,, commands attention no less by the eminence of its contributors than by the value and timeliness .of its table of contents. First, there is a symposium on “The. Health of American Women,” regarded from three distinct points of view: by Dr. Dio Lewis, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Dr. James Read Chadwick. Gov. Buren R. Sherman, of Iowa, writes of the “ Constitutional Prohibition ” of ■ the liquor traffic in that- State, and. maintains	,
that the measure is in entire accord with the traditions of the original settlers, and approved by men of all political parties and all nationalities. General Grant, in an article ^entitled “An Undeserved Stigma,” states the facts of Gen. Fitz John Porter’s case, and argues that the sentence of the court martial that cashiered him was based on a miscon- -ception of the essential circumstances. Richard A. Proctor writes of “The Influence of Food on ty-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	-
---:-------------------.-:------------------ ।
Civilization,” discussing with much learning and force some of the most interesting sociological problems of the present day and of the near future. Finally, there is a symposium upon the conditions of “ Success on the Stage,” the contributors being six of our most prominent actors—John McCullough, Joseph Jefferson, Madam Modjeska, Lawrence Barrett, Maggie Mitchell, and William Warren.
—The Catholic World for December contains, among many other readable articles, two, the per- 5 usal of which we would recommend. The one, “A Crisis in Congregational Theology,” by Father Hunt, deals with the profession of faith of Rev. Dr. Smith, who, it may be remembered, was selected a year ago by the Facuity and the Board of Trustees of Andover Seminary to fill the chair of Theology in that institution, but was rejected by the Board of Visitors as being unsound in doctrine. The Doctor’s profession of faith shows that he has, unconsciously perhaps, made some progress Romezvards, to use his own expression. Great men passed that way; Newman, Faber, Brownson, and many others, found there all that their great hearts could have desired. Between the Board of Visitors and the Professor, the faith of the Andover students must have a loose, a‘ sandy foundation. Up there, in New Haven, they need an authority to decide. Surely, in a Theological Sem-mary they must know that there exists such an authority; an infallible authority, divinely appointed to direct us, lest we be “ tossed about by every wind of doctrine.” Rev. Father Hecker, in “A New but False Plea for Public Schools,” takes to task the writer of an essay published in the Journal of Education. Dr. Harris, for man}’ years Superintendent of public schools in the city of St. Louis, is somewhat enthusiastic over the public schools; yet he admits that “if the leading articles of our ablest newspapers and magazines, touching the school question, are to be taken as a serious indication of popular opinion, there is no doubt that there is a widespread defection from the cause of free, popular education. It certainly indicates the prevalence of a profound distrust among the more intelligent classes.” Of course there is. Let Dr. Harris read this article, and he will see the cause. He does not like caste systems; Father Hecker is of the same opinion, at least in their pagan sense, and adds : “ In our legitimate dislike of caste and inequality. . . . let us not be driven into the support of a system of schools which is training up a generation of infidels. and breeding a dead-level vulgarity; let us beware of being frightened into the support of free, public schools of which it can be said by their admitted friends that their positively, immoral tendencies make them dangerous to the family, the State and the nation.” “Mari,” Dr. Harris says, “is immortal, and has an infinite destiny; this is the. burden of Christian teaching. In consequence of this, Christian civilization "strives towards the. heavens.’’ But how far the. public schools contribute towards leading man to, this end,, is. hard to be. seen. “ Out of the West” is the beginning of an entertaining story.
“ The Comedy of Conference,” part HI; “ A Scrap of Unwritten History,” and “ A Brave Life,” are as entertaining as one may read during a winter	>i
evening. “ The Tomb of Dante, and His Portrait
at Ravenna,” and “ Guido Monaco,” are sketches	;
full of interest; the tomb of the author of Divina Cominedia was for a long time neglected, and almost unknown until it came under the notice of two
Roman Cardinals. “ The Great Comet ” is an
account of the comet of 1882. The poem, “The	*
Seven Dead,” is a legend of Venice. 7	o
Exchanges.
—We fear the exchange editor of the Vanderbilt Observer had entertained serious thoughts of making a butt of us. The Observer man in the course of his observations observes, however, that he is “ constrained to observe that he [Scholastic Ex.’-editorj is quite heavy in the upper story.” After carefullv reconnoitering, the outcome of his observations seems to leave some doubt as to the result of the butt. “ A man with a forty-ton-rifle-bored head,” he says, “ would be quite a sensational curiosity, and such an anomaly as of itself to put the public on its guard, and lead one reasonably to suppose that there was either something in that head other than brains, or that the leather on it was above the average thickness.”
—Roug e et Noir, from Trinity College, Toronto, is again with iis. From a hasty glance through its pages we feel justified in saying that it is little, if in anything, inferior to last vear. Like its sisterpaper, the King's College Record, the Trinity College paper is high-toned in its literary department, though not so severely scholastic as the other, and with none of the loose badinage, verging almost upon obscenity, found so frequently in many of our college papers in the United States. _ Some of ' the poetry in Rozigc et Noir is of a superior order, and notably so R. T. Nichol’s poem on “ Columbus.” “A. L.” must have felt the need of bracing himself up before tackling such a word as “ Montretout ” in his “ Last Sortie.” “ College Days Among Ourselves,” by a Graduate, must prove. interesting reading to the old-timers from Trinity, as well as to the students who now act a part in the local places and college festivals mentioned. T. B. Angell writes a plea for “Laziness” ■—or rather an excuse for so-called lazy people— that cannot fail of securing some portion of sympathy., Citing the example of Watt, who acquired a reputation for general idleness while musing over the possible utilization*, of the power of steam,—of Charles Lamb, to whose lazy tem-peramentwe owe the Essays of Elia, with all their tender, pathos and sympathy,—of Fra Angelico, of world-wide renown for the purity of his conceptions and the magic power of his brush, but. who in this age would be called “lazy,” because he spent days in meditation and prayer:before commencing upon a picture,—as well as, on a lower plan, Izaak Walton, whose idle thoiights: and. imaginations have charmed thousands,--the writer
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
199
asserts that many of the wonderful works of past ages have been accomplished by men who allowed no external cares to worry them, and who, in meditation and study, elaborated their grand ideas. The exchange department. of Rouge ct Noir is edited with signal ability.	.
—The Fordham College Monthly is the title of a neat, eight-page paper, just started at Fordham. College, New York. The articles are well written, the paper is neatly printed, and—all together— the new paper impresses one favorably. We give the Monthly a cordial welcome to the field of college journalism, and have not the least doubt that it will prosper and do a great deal of good for the college it represents, ■ and for the students, by the esprit de corps it will create or strengthen, and the practice in writing which it will give. Difficulties, even as a monthly, it will probably encounter, and must overcome; disappointments, not a few, will be met, but what of that! perseverance and pluck will surmount everything. The editors, in their prospectus, say of the Monthly: “ It is to be, as far as in us lies, a genuine College paper. The articles, furnished chiefly by college boys, will be sent out with many of the imperfections of immaturity. Subjects of college interest are to be treated, and items of college life judiciously selected.” Further on they say: “The assistance of the Alumni may also be relied on. The contributions of this body of gentlemen will always be. gladly received.” In this latter respect we hope the Monthly will have better success than the Scholastic. It is reasonable to suppose the old scribes would send in an occasional contribution, but they do not; and as to contributions from any of the college Professors, they are almost as scarce as hens’ teeth. Everyone likes to see the Scholastic, but few care to work for it, to add interest to its pages, or to raise its status. The brunt of the work has to be borne by the students. We therefore advise our new contemporary to depend on.no one but themselves, or they will be disappointed. At least that. is our experience. What pleases us very much is the announcement that a Roll of Honor is to be printed in the Monthly. Our non-Catholic college friends are constantly poking fun at us about our Roll of Honor, and although it is too popular here to be affected in the least by.their gibes, yet we think that when a few of the college papers publish a Roll, this constant harping- on the one string will cease.
—We think the contents of The Vassar Miscellany for October equal in merit, with very few exceptions, those of any of last year’s numbers. The opening article speaks of “ The Classical Element in American Fiction,” and mentions Cooper, Irving and Hawthorne, W. D. Howells, Henry James, Jr., T. B. Aldrich, G. W. Cable, Mrs. Burnett, and others; but our Miss Tincker, one of the most charming- and classic of novelists, Dr. Joshua Huntington, and the veteran Washington writer, Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, seem to be strangers to - the -fair critic of the Miscellany. And, yet, some things that these writers-have penned are not excelled in our language. The* characters of Ada
Moore and Daisy Garnett, in Mrs. Dorsey’s last novel, as yet published only in serial form in The “Hve Maria™ are masterpieces. Daisy’s, full of chic, contrasts charmingly with Ada’s, whom Daisy believed was “ going to be a saint in one of the niches in the old Cathedral, some day.” “John Depew Millet,” in this number of the Miscellany, is a decidedly original sketch, but what we enjoyed most, perhaps, is “ Looking for Herbert Spencer,” in De Temporibus et Moribus. The notice of a “ Rev. Idol” is by no means lacking in vivacity or critical acumen. The Exchange editress seems to be a jolly, good-natured girl, with much of what may be called jeu d'esprit, or, if you prefer it in plain English, dash, in her stvle of writing. She says: “As a rule, we don’t languish to write exchange notes [we should like to know who does?]; we like to skim the college papers for our own dilectation, but this dairy-maid business of seiwing them up in majolica sentences and Queen Ann diction to our readers, makes them a fearful bore. Moreover, it puts one out of “temper Avhen one finds in Lampy a good parody of F. D. S.’s charming little verses, and one wants to cut it out on the sly and keep it for memorabilia, and behold ‘something has went’ with the scissors. Wc feel like killing ourselves, so o	7
begin to read Yale Lit., but the dav is too fine for suicide,” etc., etc. If that girl isn’t the “Daisy Garnett” whom Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, in her story of “Drifting,” has happily married off to that rich, romancing voting fellow from New York, then she’s a very good counterpart to her —that is all—perhaps a “ Daisy ” Junior. We are glad to learn that'She does not consider the Scholastic “a fearful bore.” We feel sure the Scholastic scribes will appreciate the following well-turned compliments:.
“The Notre Dame Scholastic professedly adopts a high moral tone, and, what is more noteworthy, has nothing in its pages to provoke a criticism of its profession. Although a Catholic sheet, and frankly upholding the principles of its college, the paper is not offensively partisan; indeed we think its decided religious tendencies give the paper a unique and positive interest that the usual college magazine lacks. Even its gossip is avowedly scientific; but we notice some spicy criticisms in the exchange department, and a page or so is sufficiently light and bright to save the Notre Dame from the charge of heaviness.”
The Kin As Collesre Record also seems to like the Scientific Notes. We find.in the last issue of that paper the following criticism:
“ We notice with pleasure that the Notre Dame Scholastic regularly devotes a considerable space to very in-, teresting '’Scientific Notes.' This custom cannot be too highly commended, and should be adopted by every.college paper.”	'
Sucli testimonials are a real encouragement in the drfldgery consequent upon the compilation by editors of a weekly paper of no mean dimensions, not to speak of that which is given the writers who, week after week, fill its pages, notwithstanding the number of classes to which they have to attend, in most, cases numbering from five to seven classes daily. When do they find time to write so much? may be asked. We don’t know. One that we know of said he arranged the matter for most of . his essays after he had retired at night
200
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WE WE SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, December 2, 1882. -
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE MOTPE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should-take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jo fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address . EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have' missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume, by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—It is gratifying to note the interest which some of_ the friends of Notre Dame take in the cause of education, and the efforts which they make to aid the College authorities in their lifework—the development of the youthful mind. It is well known that one of the great motives of human action is the hope of reward; a motive which certainly exercises a marked influence upon the young. In all colleges and schools, rewards of merit are held out as inducements to study, and thereby a healthy emulation is created, and the student brought to use and perfect his mental powers by which he may profit in after-life. Evidently, then, whoever increases such rewards, both in number and value, assists in the work of education, and co-operates most effectually with those in charge of the training of the young, inasmuch as they furnish additional means for fostering this spirit of emulation and, encouraging a love and desire for study;
From the prospectus of Notre Dame Jt may be seen that-the College, authorities have, at their own expense, provided-many of these revvards, such as
the premiums annually given, and especially the gold medals in-the different chesses; and also that a few friends have heretofore established special prizes for special branches. This year, again, other friends have come forward and generously established gold medals for special studies. We have already referred to the donations made by Mr. Geo. Mason, of Chicago, and Mr. John English, of Columbus, Ohio, and now it is our pleasure to announce that a new prize has been founded by one who, for the present, wishes to remain unknown, in the shape of a gold medal, to be annually awarded to the best student in the Class of Philosophy. Weare-sure that the members of the Class, who know full well the utility of the study in . which they are engaged, will be still further cn-courao-ed bv this additional incentive held out to o *
them.
—As a proof of the superficial nature of the criticism sometimes given in college papers, wc find Mr. Elmer A. Otis’s article on “ Glass ” (published in the Scholastic a few weeks ago, and criticized by one of our contemporaries) reproduced in semi-phonotipy in The Phonetic Journal for October. The Phonetic Journal is edited by Mr. Isaac Pitman, of Bath, England, the inventor of Phonic Stenography, and of a phonetic alphabet of the English language which has been o	o o
warmly encouraged by such eminent philologists as Prof. Max Muller of Oxford University, Prof. Whitney of Yale, and many others. The phono-typic articles in the Journal arc always selected on account of some special merit which they em-. body, generally that of instruction, and a higher compliment could not be paid Mr. Otis- and the Notre Dame Scientific Association, of which he is. a member, than the selection of the article in question by Mr. Pitman, for the phonotypic department of the Phonetic Journal. This of itself should be a sufficient stimulus to the students of the University to commit their thoughts to writing' for publication in the; Scholastic. It is not the first, nor the twentieth time, that such a favor has been shown to the contributions' of our students. On the other hand, the fact that more than once the articles of our students .were attributed to members of the Facuity, who had probably never seen them, nor touched them with their pen,-should, far from discouraging, encourage students still more to practise writing for the paper. Gentlemen, be up and doing, and raise the status of your college paper even higher than what it now is. It can be done. We possess talent enough; all it needs is to be applied. We doubt if in any college in the United States better talent, or talent more judiciously directed, can be found. Yale and Harvard undoubtedly hav;e a much larger roll! of advanced students; but better material in proportion to numbers we doubt that they have.
- :—Last week, we stated that Mr. E. Versterate, of the Vanderpoel Electric Light Co., Chicago, had replaced the. old electric light plant by a new and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
zor
larger one, and this week we are happy to announce that the apparatus—dynamo and lamps—. give entire satisfaction. The lamps give a powerful and steady light, -and beautifully illuminate the grounds and Campus in every direction. By this means the students can enjoy their recreation after supper as well as if they had the light of the noon-day sun.
The amount of light given by one of these lamps is something remarkable, and must be seen to be appreciated. According to Father Zahm, under whose direction the machines and lamps were pdt in place, the Vanderpool patent affords the most powerful and brilliant electric'light now in use; instead of giving a small point of whitish or bluish light, each one gives, as we heard it well exorcsscd, “a large bunch of genuine sunlight.” The conductors arc so arranged that the lamps can . be used to light up, either separately or simultane-' ously, the main building, Music Hall or Campus, according as the Jight is required in one or more places. The power used in driving the dynamo is a 15 H. P. Noteman Rotary Engine, made by the Noteman Rotary Engine Co., of Toledo. Ohio. This form of engine, belted directly to the dynamo, gives a perfectly uniform motion; something of the utmost importance in securing a steady light. Engineers, who have seen this motor in operation, say that it is the engine for electric light generators.	.
Besides the large electric light machine, used in illuminating the College buildings and grounds, there is a smaller one, used by Father Zahm for lighting up the laboratory, Science Hall, and for supplying a current, when needed, for experimental purposes. This little dynamo is found to be so convenient that the large and troublesome batteries hitherto used have been almost entirely discarded.
The next thing in order is the introduction of the Faure Accumulator and the Edison lamp. Father Zahm says he intends to give an exhibition of this system of illumination soon, and then we may expect to see the incandescent carbon filament replacing the gas jet and the kerosene lamp. Judging from what has been done within the last | few months, we shall not have to wait long for this luxury, as the authorities seem determined to avail themselves of everything that will in any way conduce to the comfort and welfare of the students.
—The Minims’ study-hall (St. Edward’s Hall), on Wednesday morning presented a scene of unwonted bustle and activity. In response to our query, “What is it all about?” yve were informed that preparations were being- made for a grand celebration in the afternoon in honor of the “ Fortieth Anniversary of Father General’s First Mass at Notre Dame ”; and we learned further that we should be on hand at two o’clock, when we would witness something that would astonish us. We . then took our departure and made our preparations to be “ astonished.” At two o’clock we repaired once more to.the.scenc of our morning adventure; and-we
did, indeed, witness a singular transformation. The study-hall. had assumed the appearance of a large auditorium, with a stage occupying the place bf the teacher’s desk; the already beautifully-decorated hall 'was still further beautified bv the hangings, -	->	O 7
trimmings, festoons,, flowers, etc., etc., not to speak of the rich drop-curtain which adorned and covered the stage. These observations were made while taking our place amongst the select audience which assembled to greet the youthful actors and do honor to the occasion. Occupying the principal place was the venerable Father to whom the entertainment was dedicated; on either side.of him were seated Rev. President Walsh, and Very Rev. Father Granger,' Very Rev. Father Reze, Ass’t. Superior-General, and others of the Rev. clergy; while the auditorium was filled with the Faculty, members of the various College organizations, and numerous visitors from abroad.
When all had taken their places, the exercises were opened with music, “ Martha,” by the String Quartette of the University, who played with their accustomed vim and brilliancy. Then Master B. Lindsev, assisted bv Masters Roberts and Wright, delivered a beautiful poetic address ‘to Father General, congratulating him upon the recurrence of this anniversary, and referring, in glowing terms, to the bright future of Notre Daifie. The String Quartette again played some choice selections, and then came the feature of the entertainment, .
The New Arts.
This play has already been described in these columns, and it will suffice to sav here that its design is to inculcate true lessons of politeness and gentlemanly deportment. The Prologue was delivered by Master R. V. Papin, while the characters in
the Drama were taken as follows:
Master William (a smart and lively	,
youth)...............B. Lindsey
Mr. John Smyth (a Student of the	’
Graduating Class).......G- Costigan
Mr. Wright (Prof, of Philosophy, an accom-
plished scholar, and a gentleman).;......J. J.McGrath Mr. Fairbanks (a rich banker of the East).R. Morrison Capt. Jones (a friend of Prof. Wright’s)..G. Stamm Master Richard (a boy full of fun).........W. Devine
Master Julius (a very polite boy)........R_ V... Papin
Master James, )	(W. Devine
“ Charles, j	1 W. McPhee
“ Louis, j	I Francis Otis
“ Otto, y None too poiite. -{A. Roberts - “ Pierre,	'	J. Devereux
“• Ames,	A. Winsor
“ Walter,	J.	Wright
Mr. Wright’s Colored Servants,	.
Sam and Joe...F.\	J. Hopkins, C. Metz .	J ...J. Chaves
-	.	'	[ ■............F. Nester
Country'Boys, honest, biit al —.......—’. .".A.’Kelly
little rough." ( ..............	. .E. Walsh.
■ I ......     7	W. • Stange
J ............:W. Walsh
This play has several times been produced by the Sorin Literary and Dramatic;Association, and always in a manner to meet the approval of their audience. But on this occasion they surpassed themselves. The parts were all well sustained, and; each performer, acted with the case isnckhcmcha- ■ lance of mature age. We may mention, inparticii-
202	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lar, Masters J. J. McGrath, B. Lindsey, G. Costigan, R. Morrison, R. V. Papin, G. Stamm, W. Devine and W. McPhee, each of whom spoke with the distinct articulation and clear, ringing tones for which the Sorins are noted. Their proficiency in elocution shows the careful and conscientious drill to which thev are subject, as it gives evidence of their own innate talent. The exercises concluded with a beautiful Tableau: “St. Louis receiving the Crown of Thorns from the Emperor Baldwin,” which received great applause.
At the conclusion, Father General arose, and in a few words complimented the performers, and thanked them for the pleasure afforded and the honor paid him. President Walsh then spoke at some length, calling attention to the benefits which all could not fail to derive from the Drama they had witnessed, and concluded by saying that the thanks of all were due in a special manner to the Very Rev. author. He was followed by Rev. Father Shortis, of St. Mary’s, who made a few happy remarks. All then retired, well pleased. Indeed, after the exhibition, nothing but expressions of praise, delight and surprise could be heard on all sides. We congratulate the Sorins upon the pronounced success of their efforts, and hope that their exhibitions will be more numerous in the future and be as successful and praiseworthy as was this. Vivent les Minims I
Official Announcement.
Bureau of Astronomy, Notre Dame University, Dec. i, 1882.
At Notre Dame, Lat. 410 42' i2."y, Long. W. from Greenwich 86° 14' ip."3, the transit of Venus across the solar disc will appear as follows:
dec. 6th, civil time:
First contact at 19 minutes past 8 a. m.
Internal contact at ingress at 20 minutes to 9 a. m.
Internal contact at egress at 253 min. past 2 p. m.
Last contact at 233/3 minutes past 2 p. m.
Venus will first touch the sun’s disc at a point 33^° from the South point towards the East, and, passing over it in a northwesterly direction, will leave it at a point 57°^ from the South point towards the W est.
By order of the Board, '	*	J. P. O’Neill, ~
Secretary.
Personal.
—Harry Shepherd, of ’75, resides at Jerseyville, Ill. ■
—Carl Otto, ’77, is one. of the leading lawyers of St. Louis, Mo.
—M. C. Cummings, of ’70, is in business with his father, in Chicago. .	.
. — M. J. Burns (Com’l), of ’79, is book-keeper with W; J. Quan, of Chicago.
—James Cunnea (A. B. and B. S.), ’70, is a very .successful banker, at Morris, Ill.
•—Joseph Campbell (Com’l), ’76, is chief book" keeper for a wholesale grocery firm in Sioux City? Iowa.
—Mr., Mrs. and Miss Gay, of Albion, Mich.; Mr. Berthelet, of Milwaukee; and Mr. Sullivan, of Lafayette, Ind., were among the visitors to the College, lasf week.
—Frank C. Ewing, of ’80, is one of the proprietors of a large boot and shoe establishment at Lancaster, Ohio. The firm name is Rutter & Ewing, and they are doing great business.
—Rev. P. J. Moran, C. S. C., our esteemed Professor of Latin, was ordained Priest by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, at Fort Wayne, Ind., on last Thursday morning. He will celebrate his first Mass to-morrow (Sunday). We extend our congratulations to Father Moran, and beg leave to assure him of the best wishes of all at Notre Dame, for his continued success in the sacred career upon which he is just entering
—R. C. Mortimore, of ’75, writes from Jerseyville, HL, where he is doing well in connection with the Pacific Express Company. He has not forgotten his Alma Mater and hopes to be able soon to visit her. He will be welcome. Fie has our thanks for “ Personals ” sent. We commend the example of Mr. Mortimore to the old students: amid the busy cares of life let them sometimes think of Notre Dame and the Scholastic.
—The following, concerning one of Notre O'	o
Dame’s bright sons, of the class of ’77, we take from the Fort Wayne Daily Sentinel: ..
“Wm. P. Breen, Esq., will continue to do the business of the firm of Withers & Breen, dissolved by the death of the senior partner. Mr. Breen is a young man of rare ability, being a graduate of the law and university departments of Notre Dame College. He is a close student and will yet rise to a position of eminence in the profession.”
—Among the distinguished guests present at the banquet, given in honor of the fortieth anniversary of the arrival of Father General at Notre Dame, were the following from South Bend: Ex-Mayor William Miller and wife, Mr. and Mrs. H. Barth, Prof. T. E. Howard and wife, Mr. and Mrs. P. O’Brien, Judge Stanfield, Mr. James Oliver, Hon. John Brownfield, Judge Turner, Hon. A. Anderson, Mr. T. M. Bissell Major E. S. Reynolds, Mr. R. L. Koehler, Mr. Aaron Jones, Dr. Cassidy, Mr. E. D. Meagher, Dr. Dunning, Dr. Kilmer, Dr. Kettring, Mr. H. S. Stanfield, Mr. Ed. M. Irvin, Dr. Hitchcock, Dr. Moore, Mr. George Wyman, representatives of the press, and others.
..	Local Items.
—Thanksgiving! o o	-
—He says it’s black-mail!
—Old “Charley” has departed.
—Our friend John has the “ blues.”
—There was sleighing, last Monday.
—“ Say, fellows, .I’m a popular boy.”
—-What has become of the Philodemics? ’

THE NOTRE- DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—War has been declared against Turkey. .
—The boats have gone into winter’quarters.
—That was a false alarm, last Sunday night.
—Prof. Lyons was absent, in ill ton, on Tiiesday.
—Competitions, next week, in the Preparatory Course.
—The solar microscope is now in good working order.
o
—A pair of overshoes is being constructed for those boots. .
—The Cecilians are busy preparing for their entertainment.
—The Seniors expect to have the finest readingroom at Notre Dame.
—The Shades and Shadow Class will come out strong on the 6th inst.
—The Columbian Literary Association hold interesting debates every week.
—The closing exercises (3d series) of the Eu-• glossian Association will be held Dec. 5th.
—Persons are requested not to take papers from the reading-room, or clip items from them.
—The Chicago boys say the Vanderpoel Electric Light is the “boss light.” So sav we.
—We are authorized to contradict the statement that “ he has to go out on the porch to turn around.” '	.
—The President of the Scientific Association has the thanks of the editors for favors received.
—Elegant sofas, lounges and rocking-chairs have been placed in the Juniors’ Reading rooms.
—The Scholastic Annual will be issued Dec.
12th. It will be far superior to any of its predecessors.	-
—We had a pleasant visit this week from Rev. T. L. Vagnier, C. S. C., the amiable pastor of Leo, Ind.	..
—At the last meeting of the St. Cecilians, held Nov. 26th, B. Anselm was elected Director of the Orpheonic Branch.	• .
—Several new appliances, such as rowing ma-, chines, lifting machines, etc., have been ordered
■ for the Gymnasium.
—The Orpheonic Club has been reorganized; the members propose, in a few weeks, to give a grand musical entertainment.
—The subscription list in the Senior department, as a first installment towards the erection of the Dome, amounts to $53.50.
' —W e are informed that the play to be produced on the 12th inst. is “The Pearl of Savoy,” remodelled expressly for the occasion.
—The members of the Junior Reading-room Association are thankful for favors received from Masters Seegers, Hibbeler arid Sells.
____Our friend John miscalculated about that snow; on last Monday morning. ’ The sleighing was “gone up” before he knew it.
—“ A Brave Life,” is the title of a very inter'est-ing story in the November number of the Catholic World. It is founded on fact. Read it.
—The Senior Reading Room Association return thanks to President Walsh, B. Paul and Prof, J. F." Edwards, for many acts of attention and kindness.
—W. Bacon, F. Lund and G. Schaeffer, who have charge of the Junior- reading-room, deserve ‘ great credit for the neat and tidy manner in which they keep the same.
—The Crescent Club Orchestra is composed of the following members: Frank Wheatly, Leader; J. Marlett, G. Craig, F. Gunner, J. Keller, A. Schott, and H. Foote. *
—To-morrow, the 1 st Sunday of Advent, Missa Parvulorum will be sung. There is no Gloria in Excels is in the Sundays of Advent. Vespers, of a Confessor Bishop, p. 48.
I	—The Prof, of Physics is indebted to Messrs.
Anderson, Kuhn, Donahue, Fleming and Zahm foi’ valuable assistance in arranging the electric light apparatus last week.
—The Gymnasium is now in complete running order. Among- the most distinguished of our gymnasts, we may mention Frank Gallagher, Wm. Bailey and Wm. Bolton.
—The Prof, of Physics is so well pleased with the Vanderpoel electric light that he has already made arrangements with the inventor for a focussing lamp for his lectures and art entertainments.
—B. Francis Xavier has, in stock, religious articles of every description. His store is opposite the Post-Office, and those who require anything in his line can be supplied with the best and the cheapest.	■
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges a donation of specimens by Messrs. J. and W. Coleman of Ruby City, Col. In the collection are some particularly beautiful specimens of ruby silver and crystallized quartz.
—Through some oversight, the name of Mr. W. S. Cleary was omitted from the programme given in our report of the entertainment of last week. Mr. Cleary’s selection was “Alonzo the Brave”: and it was delivered in a masterly manner..
—Mr. E. Versterate, the intelligent electrician of the Vanderpoel Electric Light Co., Chicago, returned home at the beginning of the week, after having done good work for his company here. Our - young electricians, with whom he became a gen-.'O'	o
eral favorite, will always be glad to see him at Notre Dame.
—Master J. F. Kahman, of the Juniors, con- . tributes an interesting and well-translated little article to the Youth’s Department of. The. ^Ave Maria” this week. Master W. J. Schott had a very creditable piece in a former issue of the same periodical. Weare glad to see • our Junior friends appearing in print.	.
—The fourth regular meeting of the Thespian Association was held Nov. 19th. Selections were
204
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
read from English and American authors. Speeches were delivered bv Messrs. W. H. Arnold, T. F. Clarke, T. W. Coakley, W. J. McCarthy, J. P. O’Neill, Jas. Solon, and C. *A. Tinley. J. R. Peters was elected to membership.
_____The 7th regular meeting of the Columbian Dramatic Club was held on Nov. 20th. Messrs. A. P. Coll, D. Claftey, A. Jones, and W. B. Eaton were elected- members. Readings and speeches were given by Messrs. Jas. Browne, J. Conway, Geo. Castanedo, J. Grover, M. H. Johnston, D. Saviers. J. Marlett, H. Morse, J. Farrell.
—Under the energetic management of our master-tailor, B. Augustus, the tailoring establishment is now in a flourishing condition. The attention of the students is called to the fact that perfect satisfaction is guaranteed in all suits made. The latest styles are followed, and goods arc at hand to suit every taste. Give B. Augustus a call.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Junior Confraternity was held Sunday evening, Nov. 26th. The ten-minutes’ instruction was given by Rev. Father Fitte. ’ Master Rahman gave a sketch of the Life of St. Stanislaus; Master McDonnell explained the Devotion of the Scapular, and Master Dillon the Devotion of the Sacred Heart.
—The third regular meeting of the N. D. Scientific Association was held Nov. 26th. Mr. Zahm continued the reading of his paper on “Flying Machines,” which appears in the columns of the Scholastic. Mr. Anderson read an interesting paper on “ Charles Watterton, the Naturalist,” which, as a biographical sketch, was an excellent production.
—Father Zahm has just received a part of his large collection of specimens from the Rocky Mountains. He expects the rest shortly, when we will give them a more extended notice. For the present, suffice it to say that the petrifactions and crystallized specimens that we have gotten a glimpse of, are among the finest we have ever seen anywhere.
—The seventh regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on the 20th. Master E. Schmauss read a very fair composition on “Rockford;” R/V. Papin one on St Edward’s Day;” C. Lindsey, “ The Minims of Notre Dame; ” J. Wright, “ The Indians.” Declamations were delivered by Masters Pick,'Morrison and Kraus.
1/^—The new library rooms will be thrown open for inspection and use during the coming week. On the day of the opening, the members of the Library Association will be given a reception by the Directors. This Association is now exactly ten years old, and was established by the lamented Father Lemonnier who, during his official career, inaugurated several other such -undertakings which have -proved of benefit and interest to the students.	~ •. .	■	-	’
—The yth regular meeting of the St.- Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held oh Nov.
12th. Master W. Henry was elected to membership. Readings were given by Masters W. H. Hanavin, J. V. O’Donnell, H. Hibbeler and F. Kenglc. Declamations were’ delivered by Masters W. Berthclet, E. Wile, J. Henry, H. Metz, T. McGrath; 0.. Cavaroc, T. Schillo, F. Fishel, P. Warren, A. Warner, A. Brewster, B. Roth-child, F. Farrelly.. J. R. Devereux., closed the exercises with a spirited selection. There will be a debate and a trial by jury at the next meeting.
—The sociable, given by the Crescent Club, for the benefit of the Seniors’ Reading Rooms, was a decided success, financially and socially. Nearly two hundred persons were present, and each and all pronounced the entertainment one of the most enjoyable of the season. Prof. Edwards showed the Seniors every kindness, and to him, as also to B. Paul, the whole department return their heartfelt thanks. The Crescent Club Orchestra discoursed the music and Mr. Russ, of South Bend,superintended the refreshment tables: all the expenses of the sociable were paid by the Crescent Club, so that each ticket sold was a clear profit for the purchase of furniture and other articles necessary for the reading rooms. Another sociable will be given by the Crescents at an early date, for the benefit of the Juniors’ Reading-Rooms.
—The 9th, 10th and 1 ith regular meetings of the St.’ Cecilia Philomathean Association were held Nov. nth, 18th and 26th. Masters Browne and Jeannot read well-written criticisms on the previous meetings. The 3d session of the Moot Court then began. The trial A. C. P. A., versus Masters J. Fendee, F. Osceous; H. Pouday. The lawyers for the prosecution were M. Dolan, M. Foote and G. Schaeffei: those for defense were D. Taylor, C. Porter, Jas. Courtney. Master Joseph Courtney was clerk of the court, and Masters W. Jeannot and Ackhoff acted as sheriffs. W. Mug was foreman of the jury. The trial lasted two weeks, and was very exciting. The jury acquitted H. Pouday, and disagreed in the case of Osceous and Fendee. Public readers are Masters W. Schott, E. Dillon, H. Dunne,J. Smith, Jas. M. O’Connor, A. Browne, D. Taylor, M. Foote, M. Dolan, J. Fendrich, W. Jeannot, H. Ackhoff, S. Johnson, G. De Haven Macdonald and Brice.
Roll of Honor.
, [The following list includes the names of. those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Anderson, Arnold, E. Bailey, Brady, Browne, Burns, Bolton, Becerra, Comerford, Caste-nado, Cavanagh, Coll, T. Carroll, Cleary, T. Clarke, G. Clarke, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, Conway, Celia, Campbell, Clements, Claffey, Cole, M: Donohue, Delgado, Jas. Delaney^ Jno. Delaney, Dickerson, Eisenhauer, Eaton, Fulton, T. Flynn, J. Flynn, E. Fen Ion, T. Fenlon, Flem
TlHi NOTItL DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing, Fitzgerald, Fitzgerrell,- Farrell, Fenton, Grever, Go- , lonski, Grange, J. Gallagher, Godfrey, Harris, Heffernan, Hausberg, Kane, Kolars, Kimmell, Kuhn, Kavanaugh, j Larkin, Murphy, Molloy, W. J. McCarthy, McEniry, Me- ’ Erlaine, S. Murdock, C. Murdock, McIntyre, Morse, Magof- • fin, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, McManus, Morris, Nelson, Neeson, Noonan, O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, O’Brien, H. Porter, Paquette, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Peery, Peaslee, Peters, Ratterman, Rogers, Ruger, W. Ryan, Sturla, Seitz, Stull, Spencer, Stover, C. Smith, Solon, Saviers, H. G. Smith, Tinley, Walsh, Whitman, Warner, Yrisairi, Zahm,-Zaehnle, Kleiber.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackhoff, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Brewster, Braunsdorf, Curtis, Cassily, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, Caveroc, Chirhart, Cain, Droste, Danielson, Dolan, Doren-berg, Dillon, De Haven, Dunn, Dean, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, II. Foote, Fehr, Ferguson, Fendrich, Fishel, Goldsmith, Gibert, Grothaus, Gerlach, Hagerty, Hornaday, Hibbeler, Hess, Halligan, Hannavin, Holbrook, Hagen, J. Hetz, Hagenbarth, Johnson, Jeannot, Kahman, Kerndt, Keegan, M. Kelly, J. Kelly, Livingston. Leffingwcll, McCawley. Morton, Mug, T. McGrath, Muller, Metz, McGordon, McDonald, B. McCartney, Mulkern, D. O’Connor, J. O’Donnell J. V. O’Donnell, Robb, Rhodus, Rothschild, Ryan, Reach, Peery, Pick, C. Porter, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Schaeffer, Sanford, Seegers, Sells, Shannon, Talbot, Taggart, Taylor, Terrazas, Warren, Worcester, Wilkinson, W. Wright, Whitman, Walsh, Yrisarri, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bannantine, Burlingame, Bunker, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Chirhart, Chaves, Cummings, Coad, Cain, Colwell, Devereux, Dirksmeyer, W. Dyer, J. Dyer, AV. Devine, A. Devine, Harris, Hynes, Hopkins, Huestis, Johnson, Keeffe, Kellner, J. A. Kelly, Kraus, Luther, Landenwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lare, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McNaughton, Morrison, Masi. McPhee, McGuire, Metz, Moss, McGordon, Nester, F. Otis, A. Otis, Pick, Papin. W. Prindi-ville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rebori, Roberts, Rea, Roper, Studebakea, Stange, Spencer, Schmitz, Smith, Sommer, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss, Shicker, Stewart, T. -Thomas, Unger, Welch, W. Walsh, E. Walsh, Whitney, Warner, Winsor, Wright. Wallace, L. Young, C. Young.
For the Dome.
A. P. Coll....................................$11.00
R. Anderson........................'........... 5.00
J. Eisenhauer................................. 12.50
Geo. Rhodius.................................   5.00
Geo. Clarke................................     5.00
A Child of Mary.............................   S0.00
Mr. Gordon, Burnside, Ill..................... 10.00
Mrs. 2k. Flynn, Dayville, Conn................ 10.50
Little Children of Lowell, Ind................  5.00
Some Children of Mary.......................... 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. McSweeney, Detroit, Mich.......... 5.00
Sacred Heart Academy, Fort Wayne, Ind.......... 15 00
Rev. F. Saulnier.............................. 15.00
Parish School, Lafayette,-Ind................. 10.00
John Francis Coad, Cheyenne, Wyoming Ter....... 5.00 Parish School, Springfield, Ill................;. 13.60
Patrick Prendergast........................... 25.00
Michael Hastings............................... 10.00
Michael Kirby......... A?:. A.	a......10.00
John Cummings..........................  ?....  5.00
John Freney.................................... 5.00
Michael Freney................................. 5.00
Martin Roach................................... 5.00
Joseph Nelson.................................. 5.00
G.	Schwanz...........................-	-:....  5-9°
J. Wilson.....................................  5-°°
H.	Fenner....................................   5.00
B. Stitt.....................................   5.00
Donations from Various Sources..........       35.00
Saint fftary's Acabemy.
One Mile JKest of Notre Dame University.
—At the regular academic reunion, Rosa Mys-tica, Vol. IX, No. II, was read—edited by the Misses Estelle Todd, Elizabeth Shickey, Mary A. Ryan, Caroline Sullivan and Isabel Johnson, of the First Senior Class. •
—The patronal Feast of the Prefect of Studies, Mother M. of St. Lucretia, gave occasion to the’ pupils of the Academy to show their appreciation and gratitude. At the early Mass, many prayers and Communions were offered for her welfare. Letters, congratulations and floral gifts, in elegant devices, were presented; among these were a large pillow of white flowers, bearing the greeting letters “ Happy Feast”! in purple violets, from Miss Grace Taylor; a lovelv floral cross, from Miss Wiley; an anchor—pure white flowers—from the Misses Hawkins, and an elegant basket from Miss Fox.
—On the festival of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary, in the Chapel of Loretto, Miss Emma Slattery was received to full membership in the Society of the Children of Marv. The following young ladies were received as aspirants: Misses L. Black, C. Lancaster, M. Chirhart, A. Adams, T. Slattery, A. Murphv, E. O’Connell, S. Semmes, F. Schmauss, C. Harrigan, E. Don-nersberger, A. McCarten, M. Comerford, A. Mooney, M. McGinn. Very Rev. Father General presided. After the ceremony of reception, he addressed a few words to the sodalists on the mystery of the day, exhorting them to practise, while ■young, the virtues of their Blessed Mother.
—The Art Department at St. Mary’s is. in receipt of two paintings from the Arundel Society of London. The Prophet Ezechiel, from the fresco of Michael Angelo, in the Sistine Chapel at Rome; and St. Catharine, Finding the Body of St. Agnes, from the fresco of Pachiecollo, in the Oratory of St. Catharine of Sienna. All connoisseurs acknowledge the skill with which the works of the great masters are reproduced for the patrons and subscribers of the Arundel Association, and the two just received are up to the high standard of excellence required by the Director of the Society. The “Prophet Ezechiel” is a great type of the inspired writers. To understand “Sri Catharine, Finding the Body of St. Agnes,” we give the following condensed extract from her life:
“ It was revealed to St. Catharine that in the kingdom of heaven she would enjoy the same rank as the blessed Sister Agnes of Montepulciano ; hence, she ardently desired to visit her relics. At the birth of this St. Agnes, a great supernatural light filled her mother’s room and remained some time: every successive year of her existence adorned her with virtues always greater and more beautiful. She founded two convents of nuns, and in the one in which her body reposes she performed, during her
206
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lifetime, many striking miracles which she multiplied and surpassed after her death. Among these is one now existing; her virginal body has never been interred, and is miraculously and entirely preserved. It was intended her body should be embalmed, but from the extremities of her hands and feet, a precious liquor issued drop by drop; the inmates of the convent collected it in a crystal vase and still preserve it. God seemed thereby to show that her pure flesh distilled the balm of grace, and, hence, had no need of earthly embalmment. At the moment of her death—which took place at midnight—little infants awoke from their sleep and cried out to their parents: “ Sister Agnes is going to heaven!” God manifested her sanctity* by a multitude of other prodigies, so that all the inhabitants of the town and country around honored her memory and annually* went in pilgrimage to her shrine.
The painting in the Church of St. Catharine, copied by the Arundel Society, represents the two miracles that took place when St. Catharine visited the relics; her biographer says: “When St. Catharine had entered the cloister and approached the body7 of St. Agnes, with the nuns of the Convent and the Sisters of St. Dominic, who had accompanied her, she knelt at her feet and prostrated to embrace them; but the holy7 body7 that she intended honoring, unwilling that she should stoop to kiss it, raised its foot, in presence of the whole assembly7. At this sight, Catharine, much troubled, prostrated profoundly7, and gradually7 restored the foot of St. Agnes to its usual position. Afterwards she turned sweetly7 to Lysa, her sister, and inquired, smiling: ‘ What, do you not observe the present that Heaven sends us ? Do not be ungrateful!’ At these words Lysa and the others lifted their eyes and saw a very7 fine and white, manna falling like a heavenly7 dew, and covering, not only Agnes and Catharine, but all present, and in such abundance that Lvsa filled her hand with it.”	'
This is the subject of one of the finest copies of the Italian School of painting, now presented by the Arundel Societv. The figure of St. Agnes lies extended on a couch, as if in sleep; St. Catharine kneels at the feet, one of which is raised, as described above. The faces of the two saints, one in profile and the other in full, are exquisite in their expression of angelic purity7 and loveliness; to the right and left are the companions of St. Catharine, the Sisters of the Community, Blessed Raymond, who wrote the life of St. Catharine, and others; in the foreground, the two nieces of St. Catharine whom she had .brought with her to consecrate to God. The expression of love, veneration and devotion on the faces of the assembly7 is most striking with the exception of two who exhibited their incredulity7 ; how they were afterwards confused, would take too long to tell in this sketch of the painting. In the background is seen the altar of the sanctuary7, and from the Dome’s roof above, the flakelike manna descends in snow-white particles. The coloring is very fine, and the light and shades simply7 charming.	-	'
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Adderly, Anderson, Adams. Barlow, Beal, Black, Babcock, Clarke, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Call, Crawford, Clifford, Cox, Chirhart, A. Castanedo, Comerford, A. Dillon, C. Donnelly7, J. Duffield, Dunn, Danforth, Daily, Dickson, Durphy, Donahue. Donnersberger, Drover, Dolan, L. English, B. English, Eldridge, Fox, Feehan, Fendrich, Fenion. Foster, Gove, Gavin, Gallagher, Hoag, M. Heneberry, Heckard, Hunt, Harrigan, M. Hawkins,. H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Hunter, Harris, Hughes, Hagan, L. Heneberry, L. Hawkins, Hinz, Johnson, Keenan, Knott, B. King, J. King, Kolb, Kirkham, Laffer, C. Lancaster, Leydon, Legnard, Mohl, Madole, Munger, McCoy, McCauley7, McCarten, Myers, Moonev, McGinn, Murphy, C. McKenny, W. McKenny, Newton, Owens, O’Connor, O’Connell. O’Neill, O’Brien, Pick, Pampell, R. Quinian, A. Ry'an, M. A. Ryan, V. Reilly, J. Reilly7, Richardson, Ramsey, Rulison, M. H. Ryan, Rettig, Sullivan, Shickey, Semmes, E. Slattery, T. Slattery7, Sawyer, Stackerl, Shull, Schmauss, Spotwood, Todd, Taylor, Unger, Van Patten, Wiley, Wright, Walsh, Wood, Wallace, Williams.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Alexander, Best, Brown, Coogan, Chaves, Considine, Coyne, Castanedo, M. Ducey, K. Ducey, Dignan, Dillon, Duffield, Donnelly, Ewing, English, Fehr, Fisk, Gale, Grist, Howlett, Hibben, Halsey, Hetz, B. Haney, T. Haney, Johnston, Keifer, Luna, Morrison, Morgan, Malboeuf, McGrath, Moshier, Nevins, Otero, Otis, Richmond, Robinson, Rodgers, Spangler. J. Spencer. Schmidt, Sullivan, Snowhook, Shephard, Van Horn, E. Wallace.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Barry, Burtis, Campau, Chapin Ducey, English, Lindsey, McKennon, McGrath, Otis, Paul Prescott, Schmauss, Sawyer, Wallace, Westfall.
SCHOOL OF DRAWING AND PAINTING.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED. .
ist Class—Misses M. English, Fox, Lancaster, L. Fendrich.
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Rulison, Beal, H. Hicks, Richardson.
2D Div.—Misses Harrigan, Ewing, Owens, Pease, M. A. Ryan, Barlow, M. H. Ry’an, Williams, Gavin, M. Dillon.
3d Class—Misses E. Costigan, Daily, Knott, Shickey, Anderson, E. Slattery, Pick, A. English, Richmond, Unger, Walsh, Shephard, Madole, A. Duffield, J. Duffield,-Johnson, E. Hawkins, M. Hawkins, Hoag, Durphy, T. Slattery, Otis, Fehr, Coyne, Grist, Stackerl, Dolan, Dickson.
OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class—Misses M. English, Fox, Lancaster, L. Fendrich.
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Rulison, Beal, H. Hicks. Donnelly.	*
2d Div.—Misses Harrigan, Ewing, Owens, Richardson.
3d Class—Misses Heneberry, M. A. Ryan, Barlow, M. H. Ryan, Clarke, Pease, Williams, Gavin, Wood.
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. *
Misses Johnson, Black, Danforth, Donahue, Hunter, Hunt, Gallagher, Drover, Rettig, Adams, Mooney, Kolb, McCarten, O’Connell, Donnersberger, Munger, C. Sawyer, McCoy, Heckard.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Nevins, Schmidt, Howlett, Morgan, Moshier, Rodgers. Brown, Mary Otis, Fehr, Dignan. Gale, Sullivan; Coj'he’, Chaves, Van Horn. Morrison. ’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
The Minim Department.
NEW YORK, 1883.
More people have read The Sun during the year just now passing than ever before since it was first printed. No other newspaper published on this side of the earth has been bought and read in any year by so many men and women.
We are credibly informed that people buy, read, and like The Sun for the following reasons, among others:
Because its news columns present, in attractive form and with the greatest possible accuracy, whatever has interest for humankind; the events, the deeds, and misdeeds, the wisdom, the philosophy, the notable folly, the solid sense, the improving nonsense—all the news of, the busiest world at present revolving in space.
Because people have learned that in its remarks concerning persons and affairs The Sun makes a practice of telling them the exact truth to the best of its ability three hundred and sixty-five days in the year, before election as well as after, about the whales as well as about the small fish, in the face of dissent as plainly and fearlessly as when supported by general approval. The Sun has absolutely no purposes to serve, save the information of its readers and the furtherance of the common good.
Because it is everybody’s newspaper. No man is so humble that The Sun is indifferent to his welfare and his rights. No man is so rich that it can allow injustice to be done him. No man, no association of men, is powerful enough to be exempt from the strict application of its principles of right and wrong.
Because in politics it has fought for a dozen years without intermission and sometimes almost alone among newspapers, the fight that has resulted in the recent overwhelming popular verdict against Robesonism and for honest government. No matter what party is in power, The Sun stands and will continue to stand like a rock for the interests of the people against the ambition of bosses, the encroachments of monopolists and the dishonest schemes of public robbers.
All this is what we are told almost daily by our friends. One man holds that The Sun is the best religious newspaper ever published, because its Christianity is undiluted with cant. Another holds that it is the best Republican newspaper printed, because it has already whipped half of the rascals out of that party, and is proceeding against the other half with undiminished vigor. A third believes it to be the best magazine of general literature in existence, because its readers miss nothing worthy of notice that is current in the world of thought. So every friend of The Sun discovers one of its many sides that appeals with particular force to his individual liking.
If you already know The Sun, you will observe that in 1S83 it is a little better than ever before. If you do not already know The Sun, you will find it to be a mirror of all human activity, a storehouse of the choicest products of common sense and imagination, a mainstay for the cause of honest government, a sentinel, for genuine Jeffersonian Democracy, a scourge for wickedness of every species, and an uncommonly good investment for the coming year.
Terms to Mail Subscribers.
The several editions of The Sun are sent by mail postpaid, as follows:	"
DAILY—55 cents a month, $6.50 a year; with Sunday edition, $7.70.
SUNDAY—Eight pages, $| ,20 a year.
WEEKLY—$ | a year. Eight pages of the best matter of the daily issues; an Agricultural Department of unequalled merit, market reports, and literary, scientific, and domestic intelligence make The Weekly Sun the newspaper for the farmer^ household. To clubs of ten with $10, an extra copy free.
Address	I. W. ENGLAND, Publisher,
The Sun, N. Y. City.^j
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this “ Department.
- For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre IJame P. O., Ind.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN
TRY Wlt-LSEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP THAT THE
CHICA60, ROCK ISLAND APACIFICR'I Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atehison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, -Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars. Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and n-anka-kee.has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Au-f usta, Nashville. Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, ndianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha. Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices tn the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At'y.our nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE,	E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pro,. A Gen'l M’g'r,	Gen'l Tkt. * Pan. Agt.
CHICAGO.
2o8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE D^ME, IND.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE. MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C-,
.	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
St., Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
.	AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice-
Esthetics and Composition —A large Musical Library in French German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Siuging and Hatmony
THE SCHOOL OF-
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Aits in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Ait De-
partment.	,	.
Simplicity nf dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address	___
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Maby’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
L S & M. 8 Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2 32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8 05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m ; Clevebind, 10.10 p.m ; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p m , Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives st Toh do, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 am.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
1238 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a m.
6 35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Ch-veland, 145 a.m.; Buffalo, 7 25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
448 a.m Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte,.5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte,8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
117 pm, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 500 p.m.
426 p.m. Special Ch'cago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m ; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P; JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT. Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l Manager, Cleveland.