~..... --....., ~ _, ....
-..............._...;:.:: ,_ 
R. K. l\JUELLER.,' INC:. 

Dovvnto\vn 233-4200 218 S. l\1ichigan St. 

. ,,,­
·--:. : 
~. :: -..; 

·.--•• • 'v., ~ • ­
•• --, • : l ;--~ i :: ,·. ,_ ·:~ -:_ ., : · ·,•••-. • 
' 

OCTOBER 13, 1972 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

scholastic 


MONTAGE 4 the passing of activism ANALYSES 5 gazing down the smc byways 7 the mystery of the disappearing bust 8 week in distortion 
• 
9 meanderings of the notre dame woman part 

part ii 


• 
14 perspectives on women's education PERSPECTIVES 19 the hidden faculty: women at n.d. 


KULCHUR 24 barside chats with norman mailer 26 maidstone images 
28 friday night at the movies-cinema '73 29 the coming of dance & drama 30 the devil's exorcist 31 the lion in winter at washington hall 
32 the crooked rook 33 coming distractions 34 the last word 
paul colgan 
. 
pat mccracken & terri lustic greg stidham 
. t. j. clinton 
kerry mcnamara, j. f. pauer & joe runde tom gora & al depman ann therese darin 
mary lynn broe 
dan o'donnell, joe runde & jack-wenke jack wenke christopher ceraso roche schulfer mike melody James gresser 
paul bolduc 
james gresser & al depman 
greg stidham 
VOLUME 114, NO. 3 

The opinions expre~~cd in the SCHOLASTIC arc those of the authors and editors of the ScHOL;\STIC and do not ncceSl>arily represent the opinions of the University of Notre. Dame., its admini~tration, faculty or the. student body. 
Second-class postage paid at l'iotre Drune, Ii1d. 46556. The magazine is represented for 
national advcrfoing by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Le..xington Avenue, New York, N.Y. lOOli. Published fortnightly 
during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC i~ printed at Ave .Maria Press, Notre Dame; Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers arc available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please addr~s all manuscripts to the ScuouSTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material bccomes..thc property of the ScuousTic. 
editor: greg stidham / art director: michael lonier / managing editor: jim munsch / assistant editors: george block, jim fanto, pat mccracken, dan o'donnell, jim pauer, joe runde / business manager: joe meyer / circulation: roger burrell / ficulty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: pat ahasic, ann arbour, jay berry, paul bolduc, brian burke, t. j. clinton, paul colgan, buz craven, . jim delong, al deprnan, chris fahey, torn gora, jirn gresser, bruce hooper, don jaspers, mike king, tirn kocherns, dennis mcintyre, kerry mcnarnara, leo j. mul­cahey, mare nishan,, peggy perkinson, terri phillips, casey pocius, jim reagan, john ring, pat roach, neil rosini, mary siegel, tim standring, sally stanton, theresa stewart, katy sullivan, bubby vespole, pete weber, mark wenig, jack wenke, bob wielgos / business: gus brown, jim hoban / art & photography: earl hawkey, terri lustic, don nollet, nan smith. 
illustrations: cover photograph, a negative line conversion, photographs 
on' 12,-13, photographs with ·sabbatier effect on 25, 27 by michael lonier / -photographs on·6, JO, 11, 23 by earl hawkey / drawings on 7, 8, 14 by don 
nollet / line conversion on 29-from "playbill." 
cold glass of beer in your hand. Yet, the mere thought of a female pre­
med is devastating.­The epidemic of drugs never really
montage 

Beer and Loafing at Notre Dame 
The fall election i_s now only four weeks away, yet here-at Notre Dame we see little if any campaign excite­

-ment. Sen.· Kennedy and Rep. Brade-mas.have drawn sizeable crowds (at the time of thi_s writing Sargent Shriver )s still only a futur:e event 
-funds. One hears. little of concrete strategy and exciting tactics. Meanwhile,-back at -the ca~pus, 
we --hear -seasoned _~ppe_rclassmen :. 

crying out in despair about student, .apathy while debating-who· will go-buy" the ,next case of. beer. : The 
with a Jarge crowd -expected), but _ freshmen_actually believe what they_ have they_ .generated -any ·enthllsi-hear and decide -"Who am:I to break asm? ._Enthusiasm that would -send·_ tradition?" The women-:of· -Notre hordes of students descending upon --_ Dame, having the greatest potentiaf 
South Bend· to work:for the cahdi­-date of their choice. No. such ur-·­-gency-exists. 
-Young -·voters .for the President meetings -are shams to the prestige ._and so-called competence of the Nixon campaign._ Their leaders in­dicate little knowledge of the cam­pus and. have difficulty in deciding which quad Fischer belongs to. Mc­Govern meetings are livelier with half-hour discussions over wheth­er they should ask Shirley MacLaine for her silver slippers to be used in an auction to raise badly needed 
landed -at Notre Dame. Until re­cently students -were always high above the_ .rabble -and drugs were never -a_ large part of the chemical makeup of the student body. Re­cently, however, dope has-_reached a level of tolerance in the social atmo­sphere._ ­
While most scho_ols face the prob­

-_ lem of -filling their rooms, crowded dorms at ND have made off-campus lifestyles a·unique pleasure if not a necessity. 
Our romantic quests have taken a different turn with farces such as establishing a -monarchy. (And we all know that Ted and Ara delegated the powers of infallibility to Fr. Burtchaell. They make one hell of 
_an: unbeatable trinity.) Who really notices the .passing of student gov­ernment? _Maybe now the students ­will realize it exists only as a service and not as a steppingstone to law school. __The vacuum .of leadership needs _to be filled, but few manage­
-ment 'students can find time in their busy_ social-calendars. 
. tt is time we get off our disinter­ested high horses and become active -in politics both here on campus and 
_ powers-that-be would have to -re­spond rather than table everything 
_out in the real world. Go downtown and-volunteer to canvass the South ­Bend neighborhoods. You would be amazed' at what you would learn 
-about South Bend. You might even find yourself liking it. Lay aside _·-your-·early· misconceptions and ra­tionally consider the prospect ~f Four More Years, H-Man, and other demagogues. What we need are wild-eyed freshmen and sophomores -who will take on these chores and stick around a while. -That way the 
-of -any -group on ·campus;_ si~ by-_ until ~ext year. _calmly as they are left out of Com--Oh, well. I'm afraid the-activist 
-·11).ittee _on · University -Priorities. -J\7hy; the women should have wailed in the streets -and gnashed their -teeth over -the unappointment of a 
woman_ to the committee. What is the mood at Notre Dame 

-today? Coeducation is said to have changed the lives of the Notre Dame men, yet loneliness, despair and self-abuse seem as prevalent as ever. Perhaps women were never the real problem after all. In any event, it sure hasn't changed the feel of a movement has passed us by. We are very much a part of the _comfortable middle class. Normari Mailer ex­pressed his pleasure in coming to Notre Dame because he liked to look back to what was happening four ­and five years ago. One student, sensing a tremendous burden of de:­spair, pushed himself to ask, "What can we do?". Norman quickly re-·_ plied "I don't know, what can you do?"­
-paul colgan 
_THE SCHOLASTIC 

analyses 

The. identity of the St. Mary's woman has been an all too concept­ualized topic in· recent· months. Be­cause of the nature of this issue, therefore, we have sought to move out of the realm of overabundant cliches and categorizing double talk. Racking our brains over the past week for a new approach to a some­what worn problem, we accidently stumbled upon a woman whose mean­ingful insights have been neglected in our .community-Zelda C. Awl. 
Zelda is a sorceress of discretion, as well as distinction in her field. By day she hovers over St. Mary's cam­pus, by night she meditates in the basement of O'Laughlin Auditorium. It was in the coffeehouse that we discovered her, and presented her with our dilemma. 
QUESTION: Zelda, there's been so much discussion · lately about the identity of the St. · Mary's woman, 
· especially concerning ·her direction, where she's headed. Do you see any­thing that:would be of benefit to our readers in the coming years?-. 
ZELDA: Unfortunately, my crystal ball is out for repairs.. I .never de­pended solely upon it, however, for it always ·seems that problems are more deeply rooted in_ the present than in the future. In.the preoccupa:. tion with tomorrow, the value of today is too often overlooked. 
Since many administrative efforts are being directed toward the future, I recommend that the girls make the most of today. Of course, it's neces­sary to have an awareness of the past and an eye to the future to Keep 

. 

things in perspective, but the present is what deserves the greatest atten­tion. 
QUESTION: Do you see any fac­tors ·of potential benefit in the SMC community today? 
ZELDA: . I need no crystal ball for that answer-all one has to do is look around. There's Student Gov­ernment, Hot Line and Logan Cen­ter. And what. about tutoring or volunteer work at delinquent homes, hospitals and other institutions in · the South Bend area? And .·then there's the Day Care Center. Have you ever seen those little imps troop­ing out from lunch with peanut but­ter fingers and chocolate mouths? And I'm sure you're aware of the lecture series course that offers cre­dit for going to a film, lecture ·or play each week-credit for· getting cultured, imagine that! · 
There's a ._Big Sister. program where SMC girls take ·an under­privileged South Bend youngster as a· "little sister" and do things with her throughout the year-things like ice skating, playing sandlot football, going for ice cream and watching "Soul Train" on T. V. 
Plus, .Notre Dame is still-across 

. the road. The unmerger. can't stop women from getting . orito Student Union· Commissions, writing for the SCHOLASTIC, Juggler or Observer, or 
· getting a position with WSND. Leaping liverworts, there are so many "potential benefits"-the prob­lem is to go out and get involved, and_ that's up to the individual. not the college. 

QUESTION: One last thing, Zelda. 

Do you sense any qualities unique · to the "liberated" St. Mary's wo­
man? 
ZELDA: Well, contrary to popular 
opinion, there's no "look" that char­
acterizes an SMC woman. Her "uni­
queness" is something that grows 
from the people and experiences 
that touch her. I don't think you 
can help but see the personal bonds 
of friendship among the girls, ex­
pressed in the often insane antics of 
dorm life, the specialness of birthday 
celebrations and Christmas, the con­
fidences shared. As she begins to 
know others, she encounters the 
questions that will help her to know 
and define herself. 
It is at this stage, unfortunately, 

girls, that much of the questing 
ends, and students become. bogged 
down in "college life." Oh, if only I 
had the powers of my youth! Then I 
could zap them all with the realiza­
tion that it is the continual search 
for the answers to the unanswerable 
questions that holds the key to a 
woman's fulfillment. The intellect, 
with its awareness, is a woman's 
saving quality .if complemented by 
her femininity. Letting it become 
stifled or channeled into trivial 
abatements only continues to sup­
press the vital essence of woman. To 
blend a critical, intelligent mind 
with the qualities of womanhood is 
to add a needed creative force to our 
society. Woman's mind must search 
for that ineffable truth which will 
set her "free." 
.--:--1)at mccracken · and·terri tusiic 

OCTOBER 13, 1972 . 
The Statue-esque 
Sojourns of 




Edward Sorin 
Tracking down one of the many films about reincarnated corpses and statue was carried triumphantly to legends of du Lac can be like track-resurrected fossils were at a ·peak of Sorin Hall amid the cheers of the ing down the Gipper's · ghost. Elu-popularity, speculation ran wild. massive crowd, and finally restored sive, mysterious-every time you VVhy not a living statue of ·Notre to his vacated pedestal in the main feel your fingers touching something Dame's legendary figure?_ After aµ, corridor. substantive, that something vapor-miracles of similar magnitude took · The statue remained undisturbed izes·. before your grasp~ Myth be-place at Fatima and Lourdes,-and for a period of time. Apparently, 
. comes confused with · history . and les~ _spectacular ones elsewhere: though, the good priest had acquired memories _become_ clouded by the -The mystery continued_ for sevei;-al an irresistible urge to travel, for it fondness of personal recollections. months, with many professional:and ·was not_ long before ·he began his Such were the problems encount_ered self-appointed investigators un<;1ble second sojourn. Again leaving no by the SCHOLASTIC as we tried _to to turn up a single lead, until· a _clues whatsoever, the statue disap­learn the story of. the Disappearing series of secretive telegrams . bega!!. pea.red, . this time .for only a few Father Sorin. VVhat we have come to arrive at young Father Hes"'. -weeks. it was recovered after being up with at last is an incredible burgh's office. "Having a great time spotted in. the· stern of a rowboat· story. The chronology is_ hazy, but in _Barcelona. The weather.is great. -on· St. ·Mary's Lake;· a fishing line the facts are true. Hope things go well .at Our Lady's dangling _from its folded hands.. Prior· to the· 19~0's, _there were campus.... Father Sorin:" "V~sited Father Thomas _McDonagh, .then three originals .of· the famous /in:. the· Louvre today. Paris •-swings. at rector ·of· Sorin Hall, had finally famous bust of . Father. Edward . night .·_. ·. Fr. S.'' Fro~ the tele~ reache<f.the-limits: o{his endurance. Sorin: the statue that still stands grams which followed, Father Hes-_He decided that the only way to re­facing Notre Dame Avenue from th<: · burgh's ·investigators were ·able. to· strict the. capricious nature of his Main Quad, a half-size bust:that has piece together the-' itin'erary-of the university's founder was to lock remained confined· in th~ offices of · priest'~ European travels, but they --· p.im, in· hi~ ·o:wn locker. This he did, the President-and now. of the Pro-_._were still unabl_e to pi~_ the elusive. and there~the statue remained for a vost, and tlle-third' and most valu-.. ch~ra_cter ~own. After·-R·month of . : year. ' able, the original bronze statue·from such?nessages, a final.telegram w.as . -1-.ieedless to say, the residents of which the. otheis were_cast. This oiie .del~yere~: "Wi_ll ~ arrive at Circle,:at .the:hall mis·sed the pres_ence_ of their stood for· years _in a. corridor· in: 8:00 a:m. Friday."_ l_ege:ndary hero~ and when .the time 
Sorin Hall. . By_ this. ti~e the story·h-ad_leaked came" fpr .the 'yearbook photograph 
The inc_redible story begins here, _out to. the students and to local to be taken, they made a mournful in the early years of the Hesburgh -press; in fact, the leak quickly be-appeal to their rector to allow their dynasty. _ One. morning, not an ex-··carii«f_a veritable gusher, as no fewer hall picture to be taken with the traordinary ·morning by any stan-· than· 2,000. fans, thrill-seekers, and statue. Father McDonagh thought dards, the residents of Sorin Hall hopeful lepers and invalids gathered the idea not unreasonable, and rose in horror to find an empty ped-to welcome the University's founder agreed, in fact inviting. both himself estal in ~eir._ corridor. Father Sorin and their-patriarch. At 8:00 sharp, a and Vice-President of Student Af­had vanished. Several months Yellow Cab drove up to the Circle. fairs, Father Charles McCarragher, elapsed without a single clue as .to Perched in the back seat sat the to take ·part in the photographing. the whereabouts of the four-foot now.:.famous statue· of the Univer-The crowd of people assembled on statue-being. At a time when horror sity's founder, Father Sorin. The the front steps of the hall, Father 
Sorin eminently standing to the fore. 
· The first picture went without in­cident, ·as did the second. After the third picture, the· group of residents moved en. masse to thank their rec­tor· for his generosity: Father Mc­Donagh.-was overwhelmed by the expression of gratitude-until he realized that the statue had again vanished. 
The good Reverend Sorin decided again to make his reappearance on St. Mary's Lake. News of his re­turn was spread via the grapevine, and on the appointed afternoon, a rowboat rounded the island on the west end of the lake-there was Father Sorin, returning to the gath­ering on the shore, accompanied by echoes of the fight song played by the Fighting Irish Band. 
The_ second hiding of the statue became the charge of a Brother Boniface, at that time sacristan of Sacred Heart Church. Father Mc­Donagh gave the brother explicit instructions to hide the statue well, somewhere in the church, to the knowledge of no one but himself. This he did, and did well. Years elapsed,· and Brother Boniface was transferred by his provincial to Austin, Texas;_ unfortunately, Broth­er neglected to tell anyone the hiding place of the statue: A thor­ough search of the church and· the crypt failed to turn it up. The search dragged on,· was repeated 
-again and again-for years, in fact. By 1963, it was finally concluded that Father Sorin had .again disap­peared. This time there were no telegrams, and the mystery remains to this day unsolved, the statue and its history mostly forgotten. 
The story may not be ended, how­ever. Last Saturday, the SCHOLASTIC 
O

received , a phone call from the Provost's office. The excited voice atthe other end of the line hurriedly ·related that rumors ·were· rampant in the Administration .Building that Father Sorin has decided at. last to return horn~. The voice 'claimed that nothing further was known about the : source of the: typically elusive rumors but.assured ·that new devel­opments will, be. disciosed to campus. ·media .·as. soon as they. take place. . And so the mystery has again been . resurrected, .and .the question.·re­
.mains -unanswered: · Will Father Sorin return to_ his home? 
-greg stidham­

OCT0BER 13, 1972 
Accommodating Atalanta 
In ancient Greece, the Olympic Games were reserved exclusively for men. Women were forbidden by law to attend the games or even to view them from distant hills. The penalty was death. If a woman was discov­ered, she was executed by being thrown off a cliff. 
But everi in this Greek world, the need for women's athletics was not denied. The ladies had their own games (called· the Heraea, in honor of Hera) every four years, sand­wiched between Olympiads. The Heraean program was limited to footraces of shorter distances. And statues of Heraean runners with short tunics, exposed high shoulders, and unbound hair streaming behind them still commemorate the events. 
Notre Dame has been much more inclined toward throwing women off cliffs than commem'orating them in sculpture. In the past, any woman who would violate the sanctity of the Rock, blaspheme the edifice of the Convo, or tread the sacred ground of the golf course, was hurled mercilessly off the cliffs. It is only recently, since the Athens of the midwest has fallen into degrada­tion at the hands of the Romans, by admitting women, that the strictures have been loosened. Women are now allowed to walk freely into the Rock, wander confusedly through the Convo, and fight their way into a foursome. _But although the women are now allowed to participate from the hillsides, there is still no Heraea. 
The athletic department is faced with a problem. With women as Notre Dame undergraduates for the first time, and coeducation supposed­ly a firm priority for the future, what is to be done with the girls· who· showed up with the freshman swimming team, or with the girls who, foil in hand, report to the fencing team? What is to be said to the large numbers of talented women who arrived swinging a tennis racket, or even worse, a put­ter? The problem is both one of philosophy and of pragmatic solu­tions. 

-A small number of girls are ex­pected to be at the Rockne pool at 
7:00 p.m., October 11 to try out for the Varsity s,vimming program. If these girls desire to stay with the program and swim competitively during the year, what should the school do? 
The NCAA sponsors women's in­tercollegiate swimming (and other sports) for both dual meets ~d a national championship during every academic year. In the midwest, the Big 10, the Mid-American, and the Central Collegiate conferences (to name a few that Notre Dame often. schedules) all sponsor intercollegiate swimming (this, of course, applies to other sports also) between confer­ence and nonconference schools. This would seem a reasonable pattern for Notre Dame to follow. But the crea­tion of teams for women, and the corresponding commitment to wo­men's athletics, raises questions now being considered by the Notre Dame athletic board. 
If there is going to be a team, who is going to coach? With the present overflow in varsity and intramural facilities, when and where would a team organize and practice? Having only 325 undergraduate women on campus, is there enough interest to warrant teams, coaches, and fa­cilities? 
The girls seem to think so. There is enough interest to start swim­ming, fencing, and tennis right now, but-notif they have to compete with their male counterparts for a spot on a team on which they would sel­dom -be able to compete (schools with teams for women naturally won't allow women to compete in 
' men's competition) . 
The present policy of the athletic department is to sit and wait. Wait and see how many girls go out for the men's teams, then just wait to azine Civil Defense emergency warn­ing system. Had this. been an actual
week in distortion 
emergency you would have been di-


RECORD HOLDER'S RETURN 
A couple of-weeks ago a tradition el).ded quietly and without any fan.:. fare. Ed "Butch" Jerome,_ Cav­------~---:...__..,:____, 
see how many quit on ·their own· 
then, if any_ girls are actually com~ 
petitive, the coaches and the athletic· 
department will see what to do.· · 
This policy of "avoidance ·and re­
action" as opposed to initiative 
action seems grossly unfair to both 
the men and the women involved. ·If 
the women are told to join the men's 
teams, knowing .that to .make the 
team they would. have to compete 
against a totally unfair and artificial 
standard, and that if they did make 
the team, they would not be able to 
participate to any reasonable degree, 
they would be fools to join. 
In the same sense, if the men are 

told to accept a few "token girls," who would not be able to compete in the vast majority of the meets, onto the team, they would be understand­a~ly displeased. As things are now, · mmor. sports have vastly over-· crowded practice sessions, severe­ly limited practice times, and greatly 
insufficient training facilities. 
Unfortunately, the policy of medi­
ocrity and "shut your eyes and it 
will disappear" will probably work. 
All too often "other" varsity sports 
and intramural sports suffer at the 
hands of the football, basketball, 
hockey attitude. Women's sports­
since they don't exist-seem· to stand 
even less a chance. 
. . . executed by· being thrown off 
a cliff ... or maybe pushed back­

wards while blindfolded. 

-7.eo -j. mulcahey 

Those of you who made it through the second or third semester of _physics will recall the implications of the Second Law of Thermodynain­. ics. It implies ·all sorts of nifty · things; . you can't absorb heat and convert it completely into. work, you anaugh R.A. and triple domer, left can't completely convert random for Washington, D.C. . motion into ordered motion, and ..Ed first set foot oh the Notre .. things. tend towards a state of dis-
Dame _campus _as a student o~ Sep-order. This last can_ be used to ex­tember 14, 1961. Since then, he has . plain student government politics at received two B.S. degrees, an M.S., ·Notre Dame. 
and<is presently working on his doc-· Please bear with me a little longer torate in En.gineering Science.· He · before you jump either to conclu­has lived in Breen-Phillips,· Stan-sions or on my back. What that last ford,__ St. Ed's, _Fisher, and Cav-. •statement. really ·means is . · that 
anaugh Halls. . E_d is also a record holder in an: 

.other fashion. Last June 16 and 17 he and a student ·from Bowling Gree~ broke the two-man 24-hour relay world record. They. ran 181 miles 632 yards in 24 hours of con­tinuous running, with each running alternate miles around a 440-yard track. The old world record was 101 miles. The new mark, Ed reports will be in the Guiness Book of Rec~ 
ords next year. In the fashion of General Mac­Arthur, Ed noted "I shall return." 




SOUTH AFRICAN BULLETIN· . 
Here's still more news from the little land in Africa: A 52-year-old man was fined $133 for stealing a knife, a fork, and a spoon from a Johannesburg department store. 
Apparently that's just as bad as taking pictures of yourself .in the nude. 


SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT· 
We interrupt this· column to bring you the follqwing: · -· · . This is a test of the national mag­

·. rected .to another ,sheet of paper. However, it's not, so read· on. This concludes. this test of the national maga_zine Civil Defense emergency warning system. 

LA\V OF ENTROPY 
PROMULGATED 

things . .tend towards low energy ·states;·e.g.,-to get a student body to . do something you have to motivate 
· it strongly. OtheDVise the ·student body won't do it. · · The INPIRG people realized .this last year when they made their attempt to have the INPIRG fee placed on the tuition bill. Few people would have gone out of·their way to_ make contributions other­
· wise. 
The Observer people also under­stand this. Because the two-dollar fee is on the tuition bill, few people 

_ask for their money back. More recently, we have the failure of the bicycle registration drive. Maybe "bicycle registration" punch­cards in the packet of registration goodies would have required less work, and have resulted in more bike registrations. Last case in point: the little cou­pons which appeared in the Ob-· serve and the SCHOLASTIC a while . back which asked for opinions on "open" dining hall lines. Most like­ly, few of them have been turned in 
. . , 
although-student sentiment is no · 
. ' 

·• doubt, in favor. of open lines. . So, help_ repeal the Second Law of Thermodynamics. Turn in your. coupons today. . 
'-THE -SCHOLASTIC 






The heleniad 

I UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
.i No.15291 
BOOKSTORE REQUISITION 
DEPARTMENT____________________ DATE Fall~ 1972 REQUESTED BY University of Notre :Dame 
APPROVED BY____________________ RECEIVED BY____________ 
. ITEM  .. ..  QUANTITY .  UNIT PRICE  TOTAL  BOOKSTORE USE ONLY  
. WOMEN  . . STUDENTS;  .for: the purpose  . 350  .  .  '  INVTY_CODE;  
of humanization of the· UniversitJ  .  :  
.  .•  .  ·AMOUNT:  
.  '.  -.  .  
.  
,• .  ,,  
.  ..  :  - .  
- :  

· ACCOUNT NUMBER . ' ·•" 18 -22)  '·c". 23  . C 24­~  .· ;  . " AMOUNT (25 -34)  ,. :  ·.  '' .. DESCRIPTION .(42-71~ . ' .  
. , . I I  ,.I  ,:... . I I I I  .• I I I I ·I  0  1.  '·.  ' ' .. I •.  ·• BOOKSTORE CHG • 1-5291  



heleniad: book I
The 

HELEN of Troy is alive a~d well and living in Badin Hall. The semester has advanced fully a month, and Apollo, down at the Rock, is doing well in circuit train­ing. Most stereotypes have been given adequate oppor­tunity for exploitation. News releases, editorial com­ment, the band, football fans have all taken notice of the fact that coeducation has been implemented at the University of Notre Dame. There seems to be a strange dichotomy between the University's view of coeduca­tion and personal experiences of the majority of the students. 
A few interesting observations: 
Notre Dame has made a great step forward-this is t}:le start of a new era. But the dorms are still full of the disenchanted and frustrated guys entrapped in the weekend syndrome which we all deplore. 
Many coeds think that Notre Dame men are shy. Among the 6200 males are a good number who appar­ently are not capable of coping socially with the 340 Notre Dame females. 
A recent issue of Notre Dame Magazine observed that the new Notre Dame women are hopeful in their career aspirations and eager to partake of the good reputation that characterizes Notre Dame throughout the country. No mention is made of the very basic fact that men and women really do belong together in the learning experience. 
With the demise of the cdex program, fewer female students are enrolled in University courses, with the notable exception of courses in the Theology Depart­ment.· 

Professor Thomas Werge's early morning American Writers Survey class, for instance, last semester, com­prised fairly equal numbers of men and women. This semester the enrollment is all male. 
Coeducation is seen by many administrators as a means of making Notre Dame more attractive to pro­spective male students. We wonder what is making Notre Dame more attractive to women. 
St. Mary's students, following the patterns of their institution, have seemingly declared their independence from Notre Dame men. 
Neither do the dining halls seem to be stimulating social awareness. The girls fill up their new round tables and the guys stay in their hall's favorite corner. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

COEDUCATION carries more weight in connotation than in definition. Even the most gracefully implemented official transitions-hardly graceful in Notre Dame's case-must be followed by real adjustment. So where do we go from here? There are all the easy answers, of course. The ratio of men to women could be lowered. The dorms could become coed. (Thus, each dorm could have one girl to twenty males.) Parietals and locked dorms could be abolished. These would be grand solu­tions, but they still would not overcome that basic shy­ness, that subconscious segregation in the dining halls, that gap between men and women on the Notre Dame campus which has been one hundred twenty-five years in the making. 
c-

The implementation of real coeducation must begin with the students. The important thing that happened at Notre Dame this fall was not that Badin and Walsh were renovated, not that the bookstore brought in new essential products, not that Notre Dame's competitive standing in the "University Market" was enhanced. The important thing was that 340 very different and very new human beings arrived on campus, the promise of a whole new way of life at Notre Dame. This fact seems to be being overlooked by those who are setting pri­orities. 
So Helen and Cleopatra and Salome. can primp them­selves before their mirrors, and Apollo can build a better body. The non-Olympians, however, must build a better community here at Notre Dame, and they must do it alone. 
OCTOBER 13, 1972 
heleniad: book II
The 
The neatly printed sign read: "PARTY-TIME! ZAHM'S 3RD FLOOR INVITES YOU GIRLS TO PARTAKE IN THE BEST TIME OF 1972! 
8:00 P.M. FRIDAY" 

So six freshmen took them up on it, an act of daring in itself. They arrived at 9:00 in order to allow the party to gather steam, and followed the blaring Sly Stone to someone's lounge room. The ten guys looked amazed as the girls poked their heads in the door. One of the fellows boisterously welcomed them, nearly spilling his Bud on their shoes. The girls apprehensive­ly surrendered their jackets, and uneasily stood grouped together. Meanwhile, with the arrival of females, the guys on the floor began collecting outside the door of the party. They hadn't paid, but that never stopped them before. 
The male dorm, as compared to the new Badin and Walsh, was drab. The freshmen were absorbed into the hall complacency as soon as they adjusted. This was spawned by the stay-system, where a guy became inured to the same atmosphere year after year, result­ing in an apathy towards hall workings, an interest in sports as an outlet, maybe, and a magnetic attraction to his immediate environment and friends. The individual room became the psychological showcase and major point of reference. The girls' dorms were, for this year at least, in dynamic flow and change in their outgoing life style. The result was a major clash: the spirited women and the apathetic men. 
The party progressed with the usual awkwardness, eventually mellowing into the evening. A group of about three guys moved with her to a corner of the room, away from the stereo. The discussion touched various subjects, finally turning to what . interested and bothered them most, coeducation .. But they didn't speak of the theory involved, they spoke of their coun­terparts in the move. 

They very quickly cut away to the heart of the 

problem: ratios. They complained mostly about the 
subtraction of girls from the campus. Sure, two dorms 
of girls had been added, but classes were more male 
than ever due to the massive cut back in the SMC co-ex 
program. A major source of meeting girls had disap­
peared. The alternatives-parties, the library, off­
campus bars and lounges, the dining hall-all fell short 
for many reasons. The guys complained that, for ex­
ample, in the north dining hall, they rarely even saw 
a girl. 
Here, she knew they were right. Every time she entered the dining halls, especially on the north quad, it seemed as if a hundred imprisoned eyes were watching her every move. She had tried, once or twice, to eat in the north dining hall, hopeful of becoming a part of the friendly exchange which develops in a place where all eventually meet. But the north hall seemed to have remained a male sanctuary despite all, and more often than not, she ate her meal in silence, trying to make her feminine presence less strange and obvious. She knew this was approaching the heart of the problem; when could students meet leisurely and naturally if not over a meal? She came to understand the depth of their com­ments; this wasn't idle chatter, but an overt plea for help. 
She sudd~nly came under a verbal attack, blunted by sad-eyed, futile stares. Though it was difficult, she tried to explain how she wanted to befriend guys, not fall in any one-to-one dating pattern. Her room was constantly getting calls asking for dates, and her room­mates were starting to feel nnot only harassed but bad about having to say "no" so often. Yet, this was neces­sary, for in order to meet a girl, a fellow was forced to play the dating game. This was the "weekend syn­drome," the only way a student could assure himself of meeting a girl. Unfortunately, the implication usually went further than mere friendship; jealousy was an emotion all too prevalent among those casual suitors. 
A girl became a commodity, a goal to be fought for and heroically conquered in the form of the "date." After all, a guy laid his ego on the line whenever he picked up the telephone to ask a girl for a date. What results is that the guys are very ill at ease with women. The woman is left with the power to destroy a man with a few words, a power she does not want, but is forced to accept. 
She turned these things over in her mind all the way home from the party. She decided that she would at least try to learn from what they had said, but she knew she couldn't do everything alone. 
She understood the problem, but she was powerless unless the men, too, realized their responsibility. She vaguely remembered Sister Miriam's speech: "Educa­tion must be total to be true. In the minds of the stu­dents, the lopsided ratio made for male dominance, making the young women shoulder the burden of ad­justment to a male environment." 
She felt pressured. She didn't know how or by what. She only felt the pressure. Something, someone could give her the means of escape. But that would be loving under,.pressure. She didn't like that. After all, she was her own consideration. 
. . 
~ ' --. 
':.,.-_ ,. '. ~ .. . 

OCTOBER 13, 1972 
Will "The Cloisters 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


Come Tumbling Down?" 
CAN a  spinster be happier than  a  newly married  
bride?  Spokesmen  for  St.  Mary's  of  Notre  Dame,  
Sweet Briar, Wellesley,  Smith  and  Barnard  colleges  

eagerly agree. Contrary to the growing trend toward coeducation, these schools have opted to remain ori­ented solely to women's education. While Yale, Dart­mouth, Princeton, and Notre Dame have begun to admit women, women's colleges are not eager to recip­rocate the invitation. 
"Mostly through my contacts with the students, I have come to realize that students definitely want a woman's college," acknowledged Mrs. Ann Sentillas, assistant public-relations director for Barnard College in New York City. "They want a place where a woman's education comes first. They want a place where a women's center is supported over a football field with no questions asked." There is a belief among educators in coed institutions that women don't come first," she continued. "More men are encouraged to go places. Men come first in academics and extracurriculars." 
At Barnard, "a secure woman's college at the moment," according to Mrs. Sentillas, women may choose to live in the college's dormitories or with one­quarter of Barnard's women students in coed residences maintained by neighboring Columbia University. Bar­nard's coed dorms also devote one-quarter of their facilities to house Columbia men. Barnard students may also elect any number of courses scheduled at Columbia with no extra fee required. But, they still receive Bar­nard degrees. 
Despite the close affiliation with Columbia Univer­sity, Barnard, with new President Martha Peterson, is the national leader in coursework specially designed for women. "There was a consciousness here," claimed Mrs. Sentillas, "before the women's liberation move­ment. Because of our groundwork in 1962, we now offer eleven courses for women's studies open to both male and female students. Included in the interdisciplinary women's studies seminar are "The Role of Woman in Modern Economic Life," "Feminism," "History of Women in America," "Images of Women in Literature," and "Women in the Roman and Greek Empires." 
IN addition to interdisciplinary studies on women, Barnard also maintains a Women's Center. Headed by Ms. Jane Gould, placement-office director, it is described by Mrs. Sentillas as "an amorphous being in its second year ... it's an office like student affairs with an _execu­tive board of administrators, faculty, and students who have-established a women's lawyers committee, helping mature women return to school, investigated job op­portunities for women and acted as a center of informa­tion for more radical women's press and women's liberation activities." Several articles in October's Ms. magazine are authored by Barnard and Columbia women professors. 
While New York City-based Barnard was one of the first colleges two years ago to reject mer~er wooing from male-dominated universities, several other prom­inent women's colleges have followed suit. . 
St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind., broke off a long courtship with the University of Notre Dame last winter because the dowry simply wasn't big enough. Administrators from both schools disagreed over payment for SMC buildings and rules of conduct to be adopted for women students. But Edward L. Henry, the college's first lay, male president who took office in July, is not worried over Notre Dame admittance of 300 women on its own. 
According to the Rocky .Mountain News (Denver, Colo.) which published a report on a seminar for new college presidents attended by Henry last summer, the new St. Mary's president is counting on a change in the mood of students, Women's Lib and active re­cruitment to keep St. Mary's off the growing list of small, private colleges closing at a rate of one per week. 
"The role and nature of women's colleges is chang­ing . . . women in the formative period of their lives should be able to control the major thrust of their own 
you can only date with a chaperone along 
education and aim it at the particular needs they have in developing a sense of their own sexual identity and outlook," he ·opined. "... as a small Catholic liberal arts college for women, we can offer the much needed personalism, community and ·maneuverability." 
ALTHOUGH the Rocky Mountain News article notes a drop in St. Mary's. enrollm~nt of some 300 students . -down 50 in this year's freshman class-and a loss of anticipated revenue of about $650,000 this year, St. Mary's as a women college has bounced back. It has inaugurated a Bachelor of Business Administration to accommodate the large numbers of women· demanded by business firms since Women's Lib; it has. incor­porated its Board of Regents; and it has promised more student/faculty exchange with local· South_ Bend, Ind., colleges, including Notre Dame. 
Henry believes that women's colleges also have an important asset with extracurricular activities and with their role as developer of women's creativity and potential.· In an interview with The Indianapolis News, Henry commented, . "Most coeducational universities are geared for men. At Notre Da.me, for instarice, what is one of the mairi campus actvities-football. It is much the same for most schools. At St. Mary's, students can find major activities geared especially for them­drama, dance, writing. Notre Dame has a long history of being a school for red-blooded American men. Are women going to get equal opportunities, for instance, on the campus newspaper? You can't change atradition by administration fiat." 
He also feels that women's colleges can give women· 

. added protection since "they are more vulnerable. I don't believe that strict rules necessarily cut down the number of -students. One school which has no trouble recruiting, Bob Jones University (started by the evan­gelist for which it was named), is surrounded by a high wall and you can only date in the presence of a chaperone," he argued. Despite the college's rejuvena­tion plan, he must cope with a problem facing most colleges remaining for women-competition for coed~ from nationally prominent universities. St. Mary's students, he reports, have an image of the University of Notre Dame as "the great white father across the street." 
AT Sweet Briar College, Sweet Briar, Va., Mrs. Martha von Brisson,· public-relations director, agreed with Henry on the value of maintaining small colleges. "Our students feel they have more opportunity to ad­vance on their own, make more lasting relationships with no competition from men," she said.· "Ithink that students have more opportunities to develop their own interests." 
While maintaining its distinctive feminine charac­ter, Sweet Briar, a .small southern college with a 720­student enrollment, . also maintains an exchange with seven.other southern schools including Washington-Lee, Hampden-Sidney, Davidson, and Randolph-Macon uni­versities.· Men from these exchange institutions live near_ the Sweet Briar campus in small apartments. They came out to the campus, according to Mrs. von Brisson; to study in . departments for which Sweet Briar is noted: creative writing, government, and English lite­. rature. But this exchange has not affected the number of Sweet Briar's graduates who attend graduate sch?ol; a number considerably higher than the number at co­
educational universities. 
At Massachusetts' Smith College, where well over 

half of.the students receive postgraduate degrees, the 
administration also dec,ided against coeducation. A com­
mittee to study coeducation worked for several years 
before issuing its negative verdict in the spring of 
1970. ·"The decision was really based on the student at­
titude," explained Ms. McDougall. "When we first polled 
our student body four years ago, they favored co­
education 2: 1. When we conducted a similar poll a few 
years later, we found the reverse--students were 
against coeducation 2:1." 
Questioned on the abrupt about-face, Ms. McDougall 

replied, "It's a little hard to tell. I would guess it is at­
tributed to the direct surge of heightened female con­
sciousness." However, since Smith participates in a 
consortium with Amherst, Connecticut College, Dart­
mouth, Mount Holyoke, Vassar, Wesleyan, Wheaton and 
Williams college, it can offer students "the best of both 
worlds-both coeducation and women's college experi­
ences. Smith as. an isolated women's college does not 
exist," she asserted. 
. · · THE SCHOLASTIC 
UNLIKE Barnard, Smith does not emphasize women's studies. "Our education is not substantially different from a university. The offerings aren't radically differ­ent," she said. "But here women have every possible opportunity. Smith has a tradition and founding based on women and we will maintain a college for women at a time when women are of cardinal importance." 
Like its neighbors, Mount Holyoke and Wellesley, Barnard has also opposed coeducation. Basing its nega­tive response to coeducation on a faculty report, Mount Holyoke spokesmen have asserted, "we run the risk of surrendering our relatively strong position as a superior college for women in order to become a run-of-the-mill and possibly mediocre coeducational institution." Unlike some of its sister colleges whose number of applica­tions have decreased recently, Mount Holyoke's applica­tions has decreased recently, Mount Holyoke's applica­Director Clara Ludwig is apprehensive about the col­lege's future. In a September interview with William Tremblay of the Los Angeles Times syndicate, she won­dered, "The question is how the bright, able young people who can pay _their own way are going to dis­tribute themselves among the selective colleges." 
FOR the present, Mount Holyoke is resting her case on tradition. "Coeducation might make a severe difference in the science departments, where this college is quite strong. In a very subtle but pervasive way, male stu­dents convince females that science is not proper for women," asserted Ms. Anna Jane Harrison, only woman nominee to the National Science Board. "The image that women have of themselves is a real problem. So­ciety has so consistently imposed an image of girls growing up that it has become difficult for girls to see what they could become." 
Another member of the Eastern consortium, Wel­lesley College, does not lack for male attentions. In fact, it only requires its students to take four semesters of credit at Wellesley. -The rest of the semester may be taken within their twelve-college, Boston-area exchange. "There is no exchange of money," explained Ms. Alice Gordon, Wellesley's public-relations director. "Students have to select Wellesley majors, though. They cannot elect one that the college does not offer." Wellesley is one of the new breed of women's colleges. Defending the college's decision to grant degrees only to women, Ms. Gordon emphasized, "women's colleges give women an opportunity for role models of other competent women. They can always test themselves where they are re­spected as individuals and have a chance to succeed, not in larger men's universities, where they are excluded . and outnumbered in the classroom." Ms. Gordon also saw women's colleges providing students with neces­sary experience in extracurricular activities. 
All women's c9lleges, however, are not· content to retain their for-women-only images. In the past two years, both Vassar and Manhattanville colleges, upstate New York neighbors, have admitted men. 
"We felt it was an idea whose time had come," explained Mr. Robert Hevanor, Vassar. news director. "With the decrease in applications and the possibility of 


OCTOBER 13, 1972 

more colleges opt for small-college identity than for corporate merger 
our merging with Yale collapsing, we searched for new directions." One-third of the 2100-student enrollment at Vassar is men, but Hevanor is 11ot worried about males dominating campus activities. "Through thousands of meetings, we have reached a general consensus of the problem," he said. "There is an increasing concern for the preservation of Vassar's traditional concern for women and to make sure that what happens at most coeducation institutions-for men to dominate in class­rooms and extracurriculars-will not happen here." 
So jar, ·the ~dmittance of men has not diminished Vassar's unusually high. percentage of postgraduate degree holders~ It has also not hampered, despite men directing press relations at both Vassar and Manhattan­ville, the even balance between men and women admin­istrators and fac_ulty members on the campuses. "The cloisters have come tumbling down here," Hevanor emphasized. "At Vassar we are no longer a suitcase college. We're a far happier, far more normal insti­tution." 
The male Vassar students transferred from Wil­liams, Hogate, and Trinity colleges primarily into art history and music departments. With the admittance of men, however, coeducational dorms have also followed. Students at Vassar, Manhattanville as well as Barnard, can choose to live in coed or single-sex housing. "Since women's dorms are fairly quiet," Hevanor said, "the women resented the noisier coed dorms. But the prob­lem isn't anything we can't handle." 
A neighboring Catholic women's college, Manhattan­ville in Purchase, New York, also decided to· go coed and secular in February, 1971. ''We did it," stated Mr. Stanley Saplin, public-relations director, "because of the more popular belief that for a more meaningful campus, there had to be more men on campus." Men had studied at Manhattanville's, Purchase, New York, campus prior to coeducation in the college's Master of Arts and Bachelor of Music programs. 
Now Manhattanville includes 250 men among its 

1500 students.· "Women undergrads love it. I have seen 
little evidence of the women's dislike. In fact, I'd go so 
far as to say that there's no remote suggestions of ap­
prehension. It has created a more significant atmo­
sphere in the classroom and on campus. The coeduca­
tional atmosphere here relates more to life for matur­
ing the individual rather than in isolation." 
Significantly, neither Manhattanville nor Vassar . offer Women's Studies. "We offer educational courses, 
not women's courses," said Saplin. "I can't personally 
conceive of a course solely for women." 
MORE colleges ~uch as Amherst in Massachusetts are planning to opt for this coed ·route and maintain a small-college idenUty rather ·than los.e their entire self in a corporate merger with a larger university. However, until finances or rapidly declining piles of applications kill the ·American college, it continues to make a significant contribution in today's society. 
When the Chicago Sun-Times nationally polled women's colleges (Sept. 10, 1972) who had decided to remain solely for women, it found: 
* 
the goals of women's colleges are as valid today 

as they were when these colleges were founded in · the 1800s; 

* 
women perform better academically, especially in natural sciences, in classes without men; 

* 
going coed reduces the number of spaces available for qualified women; 

* 
most women's colleges have more than enough 

men on ·campus through exchange programs and -consortiums; 

* 
a. move to coeducation could financially damage these schools, dependent. on al~mnae gifts for existence. 



The trend setters: Yale, Princeton, Dartmouth and Notre Danie have so far admitted more than 2,000 women undergraduates to bigger . libraries, larger faculty guidance,. more varied. class offerings, and better endowed campuses. Reportedly they are planning to enroll another 8,000 more coeds in ·the next few years. 
Can women's colleges compete against the Yales, Princetons, . Dartmouths and Notre · Dames . for the academically-top female students? Only time will tell. As for the present, they've come a long way, baby, to get where they've got to today! 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



perspectives 

FOR two ye~rs I have awaited the opportunity to share the ironies of a young, single woman in the Notre Dame environment. There were times, strangely, when I believed myself to be the only woman privy to that curious ritual of "performing" so characteristic of Notre Dame men in search of women; I actually gloried in my monumental bravery of stepping over that invisible line to the sanctum sanctorum-the ACC-only to find that I required a male "sponsor" to make my way on the premises; joining the "men's faculty" golf league, I accustomed myself to mail addressed "Mr." but still was surprised to be asked if it was Ladies Day when I arrived at the course; foolishly, I once thought that I was alone in being refused entrance to campus because "children of faculty were not allowed on with their father's cars" (my auto is seasoned with two very visible faculty stickers); I thought that I was the only woman who, after introducing herself with rank and affiliation, was told by the secretary that the Dean was not seeing students today; so, when bereft of an office this summer, I discovered that the University "likes to keep the boys with the boys and the girls with the girls," I merely wondered whether the good admin­istrators were being wary or protective of me. 
Now my stories near epic proportions. Such _in­
cidents, ranging from the tolerably funny to the 
consciously discriminating, are no longer singular -to 
me. After talking to several of the faculty and 
professional women for long hours this suII_1mer, I 
discovered that a substantial part of my personal 
history was not simply my monopoly. Instead, my 
anecdotes had many reverberations in their lives. 
Though they were different in specifics, many of our 
personal experiences were generically identical. Now 
I am convinced that one of the most significant changes 
on campus is occurring in the women and their growing 
network of relationships. 
Nevertheless, it is risky to talk about women faculty 
at Notre Dame. One must learn to maneuver that 
dangerous area between the Scylla of an anecdotal 
approach and the Carybdis of statistical data. Veering 
too much in either direction brings inevitable destruc­
tion-or at least easy dismissal by male colleagues. 
On the affective side, one risks those dismissals of 
"pleading" or "dramatic." On the other hand, any 
indulging in the microempirics of statistics merits 
the tag of "unnatural." Either way, woman risks "un­
seemliness." Bolstered by the formation of a Woman's 
Caucus (soon to be announced) and the activation of 
AAUP's Committee W, I am finding that route between ·personal insights and empirical data far less ominous. 
OCTOBER 13, 1972 


Seats of Wisdom 
Mary Lynn Broe 

NOTRE Dame's current policy toward its academic women is best seen in an examination of the Coed 
Report (May, 1972) Appendix C:  
Associate Prof.  1  
Asst. Prof.  8  
Lecturer  2  
Instructor  9  
Total Regular  20  
Visiting Assoc. Prof.  2  
Visiting Asst. Prof.  2  
Total Visiting  4  
Total Teaching and Research  

Faculty: 24 (women) Total Faculty: 748 (men and women) 

Not included in these statistics is the breakdown betwe.en full and part-time Regular Faculty. Also, only one (1) member of the Teaching and Research Faculty is tenured. To a cursory glance, the number of incoming faculty women for 1972-73 listed in the Notre Dame Report #2 looks promising, but a closer look at rank and tenure presents a different picture. Only 6 of the 9 incoming women have full-time status: 3 of them are not of the Teaching and Research Faculty; 1 has Visiting status. That leaves only 2 women engaged in full-time teaching and both are at Instructor rank.1 It is most important to note that roughly 7% of the student body this year is female (both graduate and undergraduate) and less than 3% of the Teaching and Research Faculty is female (this includes both Visiting and part-time status). With the very small percentage of women undergraduates, the Woman Teaching and Research Faculty still comprise less than half of this figure. 
The singularly alarming fact about this distribution . of women at Notre Dame is that they are increasingly 
1. Most of these figures are not final, and were gathered unofficially in the absence of any lists at this time. 
Perspectives is a regular column space open to any member of the University community. Manuscripts submitted for consideration should be mailed to the SCHOLASTIC, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is basically sex segregated 
concentrated in the "fringe benefit" status. This term suggests a status on the outskirts of the profession with no qualification for resources or tenure. It also describes a person in a position of great benefit to the institution where the work is done, such as an Instructor teaching nine hours_ (three preparations) of elementary material. w·omen, as Jessie Bernard claims, "carry a large share of the backbreaking load of introductory work." They are usually the ones who "constitute an elastic labor pool hired and furloughed as needed.":! 
Discrimination· of this kind is systematic and carries with it a negative effect on women's career motivations, role conceptions, reference groups and aspiration levels, all of which are naturally lowered or threatened by such a low recognized level of achieve­ment. Further ambivalence arises when a woman's low­ranging status would seem to distinguish her from professional status, yet her own serious committment to her work enables her to see her role not simply as one of a teacher. Quite often, too, there is no relief from the responsibilities of regular faculty for those in "fringe benefit" status: they do committee work, student advising, and often carry a numbei,-of teaching hours equal to or surpassing full-time.3 
NATIONALLY~ women cluster about the lowest ranks 
.of the university. Alice Rossi reports that while 30% of the PhD's are awarded to women in sociology, only 1 % of the full professors in sociology in graduate schools are women, 5 % associate profs, and 39% are "subprofessional appointees."4 Less than 2% of the full professors are women at Stanford and Columbia; in contrast, between 15 and 20% _of the graduate students at each of these institutions are women. The tradition of women in Academe presents another case: full _ professors who are women comprise 2% at University of Chicago in 1970, compared to 8% at the turn of the century. Patricia Graham reports som_e alarming statistics: 
"By 1920 women constituted '47% of undergraduates 
-in the country and were receiving :roughly 15 % of _the PhD's. In 1930 the proportion remained about the same. Today women constitute only 40% of the undergraduate student body and receive about 10% -of the doctorates.5 
-Looking at these faculty worn.en, Jessie Bernard _emphasizes that beginning·about the 1930's the propor­-_,tion:and the rate of increase of faculty women fell off 
2; Jessie Bernard, Academic Women, '(Penn State University Press, 1964), p. 100. _ : -3. To my knowledge, the Advisory Committee on Coeducation -which met last spring included only one Notr~ Dame woman --­who qualified for tenure-tract. --. . -:.. · : ·. ' -4_ Alice Rossi, Science, Vol. 166; 356-(1969)'-~­' -5. Patricia Albjerg Graham; Science,-Vol. 169, 1284 (1970)
-. ' ~ --,,. ~ ,--::-... -. 
sharply, "precipitously," she claims. And since that 
time the figure has steadily declined: 32.5 % of_ the 
women staff in 1930 has shrunk to 19.6% in 1961-62. 
("Staff" is considered to be those involved in resident 
instruction in degree credit courses). 
MOR~ recently, Committee w of the Federation 
of.Indiana Chapters of AAUP issued a survey on "Sex 
Discrimination in Indiana's Colleges and Universities." 
In December; 1971, a letter was sent to all Indiana 
colleges and universities requesting such data as the 
number of men and :women faculty in each rank, 
department and school; the average salaries paid to 
males and to fem ales holding_ the same rank; the 
average time in rank before recommendation for and 
actual promotion for men and women;-the number 
of men and women holding joint faculty-administra­
tive positions (which make and implement university 
policy) ; _ the number of men and women applying for 
undergraduate and graduate admission and the number 
who are eventually accepted._ H is highly significant 
to note that Notre Dame, on the eve of coeducation, 
failed to respond_to the Committee's letter requests. 
Instead, Notre Dame claimed that the statistics for its 
constitution would be "meaningless" because Notre _Dame was basically sex segregated . 
IN reading the many reports on the status of women, one becomes familiar-with a pattern of discrepancy between a woman's professorial rank and her academic ability. Despite research, !IO one factor has provided an adequate explanation: -we know of the high attrition rate; the internal ambivalences-regarding career and marriage, the "mottve to avoid-success," problems of aspiration and e~pectation. We even know that women PhD's in the US spend on the average 28 hours per week ·on household tasks. 
Recent data directly counters this underutilization 
of women's talents as represented in the above statistics. -
Helem Astin dispels the myth that women don't use 
their doctorates. In her study she shows that 91% of 
women who received their PhD's in 1957-58 ·were 
professionally employed in 1964; 79 % of this number 
had NOT interrupted their careers. The reason that 
women do not publish cannot be given to explain their 
lowly academic positions because various studies have 
proven that married women PhDs publish more than 
married PhD men or unmarried women.6 
Bernard claims: 
-"Academic position is a far better 'pr_edictor' of --productivity than sex."• , 
-She sees academic rank or position inextricably related 
-' -'
. _,_ . ~ ~ ' . 
--6. --Hele'ri Astin,· Th~ wom~n. Do~torat.e in A~eri~a:-Orzgins -7. -Bernaid, p. 154. ---. -· 
-. THE SCHOLASTI_C 

to productivity. For example, women in a university setting are more productive than men in college. But "Discrimination, because it implies motivation, is an extraordinarily difficult process to delineate, let alone assess.118 One has to look at a total system of allocation. Such factors as competition, for example, may be autonomous or judgmental, which is to say the process itself selects a winner or the person does. In the case of awarding faculty positions, however, what is really important is not only that standard functional pre­requisites such as intelligence, education and apprentice­ship are part of the judgmental criteria, but that other criteria are demanded. These criteria may be equivocal, non-functional and based on prejudice and custom. Oftentimes, these criteria exist uncritically in depart­ment procedures for hiring, promotion and tenure. In regard to women they often take the form of role­related concerns ("Looking the part" for the job, or fear that a woman's work might flourish at the expense of her husband and children). Another criteria of this sort might be concern for vocal disabilities of a woman who must lecture in an acoustically bad, large lecture hall; or the drawing power of the candidate for other good colleagues. Peculiarly, most of these non­functional criteria are related to age and sex. 
THE most devastating kind of faculty criteria is the non-functional and judgmental one, for it is elusive and difficult to investigate. In the case of a woman, it perpetuates and thrives on the ambivalences deep in a woman's psycho-cultural life. This sort of criteria might share much of the responsibility for the high attrition rate of women in most graduate schools, despite no significant discrimination in admissions policies or financial aid: one woman in every ten men with bachelor's degrees actually completes the doctorate. 
Distressing in its form, non-functional discrimina­tion takes many guises. It may be that, regardless of · first rate teaching and scholarly expertise, a young woman is tagged with certain personality traits ("friendly" or "enthusiastic") that exclude recognition of her solid intellectual basis: to many male faculty a dynamic marriage of the two realms is not possible. Thus the woman colleague is "not taken seriously." Such subtle judgments against a woman are particularly insidious because they work to undermine her profes­sional confidence on a level where interchange with and acceptance by one's peer group is very important. Academic women in lower ranks are often polarized 
· around certain non-academic contacts for any inter­changes, in everyday situations as well as professional gatherings. Many of us have been lumped into such "kitchen klatch" talk while the male colleagues discuss professional matters in another room. 
Young single faculty women are in the anomalous positions of defying (unconsciously) male colleagues .and at the same time increasing the uncertainty of 
· their own situations. A talented, unmarried faculty · woman might severely discomfort her average male colleague by assuming an instrumental rather than an emotional-expressive role in a situation. (Naturally, the 
· 8. Bernard, p.44. 
.OCTOBER 13, 1972 
emotional-expressive one is culturally acceptable for a woman.) Such an "average man" thinks and operates in sharp, familiar boundaries, such as those of the marital/non-marital status. To defy these boundaries is to force him to scrabble for convenient categories in which to place the woman. Lacking the usual female formulations, he finds ready tags that undermine her true complexity. 
There is certainly some truth to the idea that women are given greater freedom· to fail. Discrimination against a woman can be a justifiable alibi particularly when femininity with its most obvious characteristics­seen as an achievement in men's terms-becomes the excuse for meager achievement in a professional capacity. This is true of highly visible women, on Notre Dame's campus. The woman is praised, even gilded, with her "womanly" academic role of responsive concern for students. In contrast, the "manly" business of responding to the structure of discipline, is an abstract and conceptual business that does not belong to her. 
·. Iri such a dynamic, the real discrimination-where it does exist-goes unnoticed as the academic woman forges onward toward her designated "female'' role of accomplishment. In this process, of course, she bypasses the male cognitive accomplishment of public, scholarly work leading to rank and tenure. Instead, she accepts the male-defined limitation of self with all of its risks of personal distortion. 
CERTAINLY a great deal of tenacity and resourceful­ness is needed to grasp and deal with this built-in threat· to a woman's serious professional career. Such under­minings occur on an everyday level. Countless small postures of cl].ivalry and respect for woman's "intuitive wisdom" can be recognized for their good if unen­lightened intent. But such postures become more frustrating to women who perceive their operation in· a larger framework that ignores the real respect due to a woman's thinking, creating and acting on the same terms as men. 
There is an analogy between the woman's historical 
place in Academe and more recent statistics and · description of woman's status. Irony undercuts both. It must be remembered that for two centuries until Oberlin College opened its doors in 1837, women were not allowed on the sacrosanct ~ampus. By the second half of the nineteenth century, after war and economic depressions had taken toll of the male enrollment, women were admitted to colleges. But their admission was more from economic necessity than from any lofty ideological commitment. Yet, it was during these same years, when women were sources of tuition, that great educators such as Maria Sanford and Ellen Swallow Richards flourished. Although these women came to think of themselves as innovators, as cynosures of academic life, they embodied in their lives the same pattern of internal ambivalence that plague acaqemic women today. One recalls Ellen Swallow Richards, the first woman professor at M.I.T. who surrounded herself with pins, needles and ointments, flaunting her feminine "Privilege" of mending suspenders for profs and ministering unto them. Today's university structure may be influenced by far-reaching psychological dis­

the university must become· aware of its women 
positions of still another major development of women in Academe. During the home economics movement of the early 1900's women become great improvisational leaders and heads of home economics departments at land-grant colleges. At the same time they exercised this leadership, they still provided the service-oriented function of bringing science to the dinner table. And they did this in the face of loftier social reform being carried on by the aristocratic women's colleges. 
In many·ways one could continue underscoring the fact that women are under-represented on the faculty in number, rarik and distribution. One could continue offering patterns of discriminatory treatment that reinforce ambivalences in women. It seems more important, though, to suggest some kind of immediate adjustment in the status of women, particularly to provide those often discussed "role models" for men as well as for women students. Perhaps the force of one recommendation made by the Advisory Committee on Coeducation should be taken to heart: 
"In all fairness these undergraduates should see close at hand many women functioning in positions and utilizing competencies to which they legitimately may aspire. More, fC>r the sake of Notre Dame men as well, the University should provide an educational experience which allows them to appreciate and benefit from the talents of women competent in academic fields and administrative skills. In short ... the committee recommends that Notre Dame significantly increase the number of qualified women on the faculty and include them in all administrative ranks."9 
Certain undesirable effects would seem. to follow any failure to review·this pattern of underutilization of faculty women. First of all, such a.systematic display of unequal rewards would surely affect the women themselves, causing them·to withdraw from or be disillusioned with genuine professfo_nal committment. Faced with statistics, an atmosphere of unwelcome discrimination greets women. As they appear, academic positions for women are not attractive and the motivational interest of young women in academic · careers might be called into question in face of the status of women at Notre Dame. It would seem in Notre Dame's best interest in this much lauded and publicized "Year of the Woman" NOT to be indifferent to the situation of her women faculty, her. small core of dedicated people. With goodwill and in the spirit of benefiting the entire University community, I would like to offer some suggestions pertaining to the stafus of faculty and professional women at Notre Dame. I think it is time we put pious statements of equality aside and asked_:what equality really is. I doubt that . it is a matter o! simply applying the same rules in 
9 .. Notre Dame Report No. 18., May 31, 1972. ·. 
every situation. Perhaps equality comes by recognizing that rules themselves may favor one group over another.· This is. the lesson we learned in giving standardized IQ tests that took no account of "cultural bias": 
"Although they met the standard of abstract equality, they failed _to meet the comparably important one of actual equality. So it is with many of the policies in the university, which apply to men."10 · 
With the recent appointment of a woman as assistant provost and with the formation of AAUP's Committee 
.Wand a Women's Caucus, there is certainly no scarcity of women consultants who are familiar with rec_ent legislation and university research data on the status of women. Many of these women have worked closely with national equity organizations and are familiar with existing affirmative action programs. Such consultants could act as a fact-finding committee in the following suggested actions. 
THE status of women in th~ University ~an be improved by formulation of an affirmatiye action plan that concerns the STATUS OF WOMEN at Notre Dame, with a public commitment to· dates, percentages and numbers. It is ironic that this time, with knowledge of rank, number and distribution of women faculty, our Provost has spoken solely of "recruitment of colleagues from ethnic minorities" and of the "special need for Holy Cross religious" in his sermon at Mass, Sept. 10, 1972. ·The Equal Employment Opportunity Policy (January 1, 1970) and its further clarifications seem to be directed almost solely to the ethnic minor­
. ities. The policy's concern seems to be exclusively with tested positions, On the Job Training commitments, worksponsors or "one to one" programs geared specifically to new ethnic minorities. In the words of Ruth Bleier o! the University of Wisconsin: 
"I think we have all seen too many official pro­nouncements and pious statements from our ad-. ~inistrations and government concerning equality of opportunity to be deceived by a. startegy calculated to·ensure the APPEARANCE without the FACT 
_of change."11 _ 
Furthermore, there seems to be a great number of faculty women, myself among them, who were not . aware of the HEW investigation in 1970. Interviews of women were held, we have been assured, but I know.of no public notice given to the circumstances of this _.· investigation or fo its specific findings. I do ·know,· 
10. 
Graham, p. 1287. 

11. 
Ruth Bleier, "Wisconsin Experience" (CCT CE NCTE) 


: THE SCHOLASTIC 


however, of a great many concerned faculty women 
who were NOT interviewed at the time.rn 
The status of women in the University can also be improved by the formation of a Grievance Committee instead of the existing complaint procedure involving two individuals designated as EEOC officers. This committee could be composed of concerned women in proportion to their representation on the faculty, not excluding those part-time, lower ranking positions. · Also, since the appointed annual review committee (composed of two EEOC officers, the Director of Personnel the Dean of a College and Director of an Institute) excludes women, representa­tion could be included here as well.1 :i 
IN 
the University's Affirmative Action Program, under "Controls, Reviews and Progress," Section C-8 · states: 
"The University .will continue to seek out and implement as part of its affirmative action program activities either on a trial or continuing basis which will assure equal treatment and opportunities for all persons and which will help the economically and socially disadvantaged." 

It is in the best interest of the University that it recognize, for the first time with acute awareness that women are present on campus. Bearing in mind the above statement for equal employment opportunity, it would seem advisable for the University to review all departments, institutes, centers and programs for inequities and patterns of discrimination. The Uni­versity might focus particularly on hiring, salaries, promotion and tenure, job classifications and benefits. A study of female representation on various committees might be undertaken. Another irony of recent days­partly because it follows so closely the suggestions of the Coed Report of last spring-has been the ap­pointment of a Committee on Priorities with the notable absence of a women member. 
Other areas that might receive particular. attention in this university-wide review made in conjunction with representative women of the University are: 
1. An extended study could be made of the criterion of availability of qualified women: a percentage of women faculty could be compared with the per­centage. of women granted PhD's nationally, and also compared with a percentage of 
12. It might be noted here that the Chicago Civil Rights Director was the only person assigned by·HEW to' all campuses in a nine ·state area when an investigation of University of Wisconsin took place. U of Wisc. found it helpful tc· the over­taxed HEW investigator to have women submit descriptions of discriminatory tr~atmei1t thereby directing the .investigator to · 
· the -ineviously unnoticed vulnerable areas of the University. · .: ~-13. The Wisconsin Report (cf. Bleier) points up the in­accessibility of the existing appeal procedure: 
' . "We think it is probably generally true that nowhere do there exist adequate procedures for women. \.Villi , grievances, especially if they i!lvolve sex discrimination, 
, since at every level of appeal.the.woman, -whether· · . faculty, civil service, or student, must confront a power . structure which is all-male." 

· OCTOBER 13, 1972 
woman PhD's from selected universities repre­sentative of the University hiring pool.13 This would be an adequate check for discrimination. To my knowledge, no effort has been made to determine the sex ratio of PhD's from various departments graduated in the past 5-10 years at Notre Dame. Nor has such a ratio been compiled of current graduate students. This figure would be one of the best prescribed guidelines for testing the effectiveness of an affirmative action plan for the hiring of women. Also, if the percentage of fe­male graduate students exceeds the female faculty, it would seem likely that departments make more effort to train than hire women. 
2. A thorough examination of the existing ( question­able) nepotism policy could be undertaken. Such an examination might entail a look into the existing rationale for the current policy, a familiarity with AAUP suggested guidelines that urge.discontinuing discrimination against husband and wife in the same department, and a sense of recent pertinent legislation.14 
3. An examination of the use of the status "part­time" or "half-time" might be undertaken_ Perhaps some point-system could be devised whereby partial credit toward tenure could be received for each 
year of teaching.¦ 
14. In 1969-70 there was a ruling against Arizona Board of Regents for their unconstitutional anti-nepotism Jaw that made marriage, in effect, a civil disability. 
Mary Lynn Broe is an instructor in the freshman Collegiate Seminar Program. She received her bach­elor's degree in English and Latin from St. Louis University, her masters from the University of Con­necticut in Medieval Literature. Since arriving at Notre Dame in 1910, she has taught in the ·Non­Violence Program, ha sserved on the Advisory Com­mittee on Coeducation, and is a Zahm Hall Fellow. 


kulchur 

An Interview with Norman Mailer 


(in one act) or Interview as Fiction; 
Fiction as Interview 


or Why Are We in the Morris Inn? 
Cast: Michael Lanier, Norman Mailer, Daniel O'Donnell, Patrick Roach, Jose'[)h Runde, and John Wenke. Cameos: A. T. Darin and Suzanne, the girl in purple. Setting: The Morris Inn. More particularly, the bar of the Morris Inn. 
October 3, 1972. 
11 p:m. 
The bar of the Morris Inn. 
The room was nearly empty when we got there. Five of those little round tables were pushed together in the back corner. Mailer and Ann Therese were already seated with their backs to. the walls and their drinks in front of them. Just as we sat down, a European-looking waiter came to take our order. A. T.'s in­terview was nearly over. Mailer concluded with her by saying, "Ba­sically Woman's Lib is a bullshit movement." 
It was our turn. We. had our drinks and got out our notebooks.. Mailer had refused to submit to a tape recorder saying that he never used one. He maintained that al­though the dialogue was perfectly recorded,.the taping spoils the mood. 
The next day's beard was starting to show on his jowls. His hair was a tangle of gray curls, and his eyes showed the tiredness of a man who had just poured out his soul. He sipped a Beefeater's Gin and tonic. 

"How seriously do you take the devil?" 
"Very seriously! (Pause.) It makes sense. You have to explain it some way. (He spoke staccato. Street-fight, pug-faced talk.) Evil forces. You can't _explain evil in terms of disparate phenomena. You have to look at it as a coherent force which we embody as the Devil." 
"The way you're talking it sounds like you're a Puritan." 
"No, No. The Puritans were dif­ferent. They had a sense of what they were up against. I don't know what it is. They had their evil con­ceptualized. I'm descended more from Kierkegaard's Either/Or." 
"How seriously do you take God then?" 
"You can't talk about it. It's es­sentially comic to even speak of it" 
Right about here the note-taking stopped. We were more interested in enjoying the company of Norman Mailer than writing his story. The drinks were dwindling as the topic moved from the apocalyptic to the literary. 
Mailer said that he never could finish V.; and he didn't see much in Don Barthelme. 
"How about Brautigan?" 
"I haven't read much, but what I have I've liked.'' 
"In Of a Fire on the Moon, you talk about Ernest Hemingway as the last great Romantic. Then you speak of yourself as, perhaps, his heir.'' 
"I don't much like to talk about Hemingway. He was braver than I am. It got bad towards the end of his life. I always envisioned him as a kind of giant standing above ev­erybody with everything just pour­
. ing out of his wounds." (We finished our drinks over that one.) Mailer cleared his throat and said, "But, I can tell you a story about his son, Greg. Greg Hemingway · was up in Provincetown for a day of fishing one summer and caught an 850-lb.. tuna. He fought ·him aU afternoon. I remember Greg was eating dinner and he was so tired that he couldn't even lift his fork 

to his mouth. He was in town for 
one day and he caught the best fish 
of the season. Hemingway's son! 
I could just hear Papa saying, 'You 
bastard, Mailer. You may be tough, 
but even up here I'm tougher.'" 
(That called for another drink.) 
Mailer grinned, "How about an­
other round? I'm buying." 
Someone motioned the waiter over, and we ordered. Mailer held up his glass and asked, "Can you do some­thing about this drink?" He ordered another Beefeater's Gin and tonic, "Make it a little stronger. You can · fix it up on the bill then, can't you?" The European-looking waiter nodded 
and smiled. Mailer smiled back. 
"What do you think youth can do now?" 
"Study! Sharpen your ax! Youth expended its potential in the sixties by accelerating too fast on drugs and stuff. They tried to accelerate their consciousness and there are only a very few times when you can do that. When history is accelerating, or when there is absolutely nothing else to do. The sixties were neither." 
(The next round of drinks ar­rived. There was a pause to imbibe.) 
"Who do you read?" 
"A lot of people. But I can't read a good writer when I'm writing. I come too much under his influence and my style gets to be too much of him and not really me." 
(Suzanne, a young woman travel­ing with Mailer, came into the bar and sat at a nearby table. She was wearing a purple outfit and made us all wish to be writers.} 
"Who do you read when you're writing?" 
"The newspapers." 
(We· took another long drink.) 
Midnight. It is October 4_, 1912. 
The ba1· of the Morris Inn. 
The room ,vas empty except for our group when someone came to tell Mailer he was due at a party. As the group got up to leave, Mailer turned to Photographer and asked, "Can you give me one word for 'phenomenology?' I've been writing this existential stuff for years and I still don't know what it means." 
-joe runde_, 
dan o'donnell., 
and jack wenke 

Who's Afraid of Norman T . Kingsley? 
Reviewing Norman Mailer's Maid­stone is no way to launch a career as a _movie critic. The usual .. dis­
. 
section and burial process that a .filrri in review normally, undergoes would somehow be insufficient. .The · com­plexity of Maidstone results, both frol!l its experimental· nature and because it is, _at the same time, a very_ . bad and an extremely good movie. 
The film· is a series of cinema­graphic, imagistic vignettes which revolve around a loosely constructed story-line._ "In the same league as . Fellini," Norman-T. (Mailer) Kings­ley is a movie-maker who, along with mysteriously running for president; also happens to be: casting a movie.. Kingsley. is surrounded by a group of associates called "The Ca:shbox." They are described ~ at one _point as "a strange lot for a·man who may or· may not· be running for. president." . Another organization ' is. co~stantly pitted . ·against, ."The ·cashbox." 

. They are known as P AX,C (Preven-:-Given the Mailer persona, the view­tion Assassination Experimental,· er,has a:tendency to' respond to Nor­Control).. · P AX,C is investigating · _man_·rather than to the effect which Kingsley with designs on him which ~ ·the. scene itself projects.-Also, be­include assassinatiori. In a sequence : · cause of the highly improvizational 
entitled "A· Meeting of· High Offi-· cials," Kingsley is descrJbed ·by _a member of P AX,C as· "indigent, ori­ginal and a bit bizarre." 
Inde·ed, the collage of rapidly changing scenes that attend the plot. are fragmented and quite ~'bizarre." 
. _nature of the ·film,· the action at : times becomes incoherent and lacks any.·apparent unity or· ~irection. 
It is .!!ot _until one encounters "A _Course· in• Orientation" that the movie as a whole begiris to achieve 
-intelligibility and become especially 

The scenes range ·from . efforts at ··powerful. By this· time, ·the movie . communication· that are. character-:. that Kingsley has -been·. making is ized by_ incomprehensible grunting completed· and M:ailer is addressing · with a background ·of bleachy,-dis-tlie cast; _According to Norman, what sonant music· to the . burning-. of .. has transpired is .that .they have moriey at _the. "Grand Assassination .··efi!-barked _ori 'a "military operation." . 
.Ball" to-numerous instances of!'sex-::The movie. is an ·effective attack 
. ploitation." . ._:: o~:-the--hafure of.reality. _Maidstone · Although many of the images_ ·are · · explores· t_he possibility of obtaining not without tremendous· effect, it is many differen~ realities in a single evident that Mailer is. IIla.king ··a .instant:. The. attempt is to create movie about· Mailer. This blurs~the ·-· mome~ts where an entire field of focus of many of the--images,-~~pe-: . emotioD,al. responses. are· unfolded_ ·cfally those of . a .. sexuai·. nature...·,vithout restricting the experience of 
~ -----. ' ' -, , 
--~' :-:.;-~ -, , 
~ , 
~. 

C THE . SCHOLASTIC .. 
'  -. . -. ',--..  _," '· ~ ,. ~ :­-~ -. _.-­-~-· ' ...  ,__ . ' -': -~f-:\ :~ .:: .. ,,: ~ ..': ..... . ' "' . -' -.. . ~-----. ":,\· : . -:~~-~•.,... ! /'-~ ...  
'  
. ': .... . . .. ­.  .  
. . . ,· .._,• . -.:-~­': ..... -"... ; ,.,.._ -y 'i... .' ·_ -,:· \,_:\J; ...,t.· . _.,-... ,::·t~ ----­:t' :;-::: < ~ ••••r -•~•/ ,~',.:•\,;~~;  ..__ ....--.._ -• •  i ......•:_. . '  
. .\~ili{i&t\::·. ·  
, . .  . ,,.·~-­ •.~·  .-',,  .  

the viewer to· a defined enclosure. fight transpires in front of Mailer's The many imagistic vignettes pre­children. Mailer is bleeding and the sent numerous realities . and many· children are crying. It seems highly perspectives at a given moment. The suspect that a man wo,uld subjecthis manner in which these instants are small children to the sight of their. perceived -vary so ·that ·one individ­_father being attacked :with a ham­ual's conception of reality may com­mer for _the sake_ of. art: -Rip Torn pletely contradict another's ·inter:. shouts that the movie · doesn't pretation ·of -the Saf!1e ,reality. In make sense without _this." . Mailer essence, ·Mailer ·says. thc1t · to get violently ·replies, .. "Not ·. in • front the maximum . out of ·an artis:­of my_ kids!(' ·,what ·Mailer-. has ·tic endeavor, one must· not exh_aust achieved, whether he intende_d ·to or or -try to limit ·the experience. A .not;._ is-to force the viewer into con­
· , full reality is therefore unknowable. fronting ;the. disparitycbetween illu­,: ;.The next scene illustrates the blur­sion ·and reality... Was ·the. fight a red coalescence·of the real and·illu-· ·sham 'or 'was the attack .real? ·, Be­so:ry. Rip Torn, Kingsley's "brother," ·cause of· the viewe:f's awarene·ss of attacks Mailer with a hammer. The the spontaneity of much of the movie . 
OCTOBER 13, 1972 
and the probable filming of almost 
everything during the days of shoot­
ing, credence is lent to the latter 
alternative. However, one cannot 
be completely sure. 
As I previously mentioned, ·the 
movie is both bad and good. While it 
tends at times to be rather esoteric, 
it nonetheless, is also very powerful 
when considered in thecontextofthe 
final few scenes. With all ofits flaws, 
Maidstone is worth seeing and, I be­
lieve, should actually be seen-twice. 
An appropriate conclusion to the 
review has been unwittingly supplied 
by Mr. Mailer himself. During the 
question_and answer session in Flan­
ner Pit· after his lecture, .someone 
asked him about his movies. He -said: "I made three movies. I tapped •out.: I might just as well as bought a yacht and sunk it." 
"Mr... Mailer," . someone s_aid, 
"Would you pay a _dollar to see 
Maidstone?" · 
"I'd Pcl.:Y· fifty dollars to see it, but I'm ·the-_only__one in America who would.". 
· _-jack wenke 
The ideas of Astruc proved to be _.fundamental in the origin of the con­-cept of auteurism in the cinema. : The_ auteur theory holds that it is 
possible for -one man -_ to maintain _control over -the very complex pro­' cess-ot' film -production, instilling in -, each film -credited to his direction --his own artistic personality. Hence, :_each film by the same auteur) regard­_less of its subject matter and cha:rac­----ters, -will _emanate most of the same -properties of style and tem­prament. The-auteur instills in his --characters time and again the same 
attitudes, and passes similar moral . judgments according to the situa­-tions at _hand. 

I and techniques of his medium mas-__ Yet this does not mean the work terfully to fulfill his creative genius. -of an auteur cannot shift and -de­There seems to have arisen a need Alfred Hitchcock, on the ot~er hand,. -velop, -for the artistic personality of in the seriou-s film vie,,ing public to _ is less intellectual in his film making the -filmmaker himself may undergo elevate the cinema to a "respectable" than Bergman; yet he is by_no means _ changes. In keeping with the theory, art form-one that is capable of a lesser filmmaker. On the contrary, ---this ~hifting personality will appear "holding its O\\'n" in a discussion of Hitchcock is most often co-nsidered-_in the artist's body of work. Serious 
arts, such as literature-or painting. 



Mood Flicks 
among the greatest filmmakers in the -_studies -of -several of -the greatest Unfortunately, in the course of this history of the art. His creative auteurs (John Ford, for example) effo_rt, certain very basic properties_ genius merely moves in a different have revealed a steady, consistent, of the cinema have been lost, or at line than does Bergman's. · ·. .and logical development of attitudes 
least forgotten. 
and styles: 

The attempt to justify the film as II a valid means of e.'\.-pression has come It is ultimately the fact_ that ·cer-A__ great. deal of counter-criticism
dmvn too often to the vie,ving _of certain films as (in the words -of tain individual filmmakers have tlle has arisen against the auteur theory, ability to bring to each of their-films the. primary argument of which is
critic Robin '\Vood) "bald intellectual -postulates." Hence, what· is often a -unique .. and disti~ctive _-creati_ve . the fact ·that· the theory tends to · ignore -cer_~ain: directors. who -have
considered "valid" as far as the genius that gives evidence to a great cinema-as-art goes, is .the. -film~ -depth in a vie,v ofthe cinema as an:: -prove~_ the~selves time and again maker's ability to deal with ideas, -·art -form: For in studying an art, -·.-to be very ~om~etent filmmakers, yet his ability to e.'\.1)ress himself intel­.one-must'study'its artists.· _ _-who.have=_fruled to ?eve~op a~y lectually. This type of_ justification Filmmaker and critic :Alexandre .. -_i5tr<?!1g -and . personal ~ lm~ m their -tends to point the cinema up as a Astruc wrote fo ~ri· ·essay: . enti fled_-: ~lms_~_: ~il-1:1 theoretician A~dre Ba~i? . "The Birth Of a New Ava·nt-Garde:: _·: wrote 11~-_h1s-famous essay .La Pollt1­
bastard art, specifically, one which . :t.a_ Camera Stylo": . . . -._:_. -.-···_ ··::__que.des Auteurs":
borrows its integrity from literature. The. cinema, however, is not a literary ,: .:_ . ~ -~ -} -. . medium; it is a visual one. The true The cinema is quite -simply becorri.:-.--. ro-b~nefit: from-. the politique des "respectability" of ·the ciriema as art . ing ~ means-of ~pression> s~me-'__-_ -auteurs _one first has to be worthy ~omes not from its kinship or sembl­thirig that all other arts-have be_eri ._ ·of.it, =and.-asit happens, this school ance -with properties of other ac-__ befo-re it ..·.. it is-becoming,_iiftl~-· . _:--.or.'cri_ti_cis_ril, claims to distinguish 
cepted:art forms, but from its inte­• bb ,-­
bv little a laneuaae. A~laneuao-e:-_ . betw,een_the.auteitrs and directors, 
, _ l:)l:)J ­
grity as an_-indhidual, autonomous -·:that is to· say,: aform -{n: which -. :::-·-~veri falented ones:_: .. ~ So this -.means -.of e.'\.-pression. Rather tha~f -and .through ,vhich.an-· artist ·can.·'.:'·: ·:coi;iception~·of the author is :pot idea~ -the ·fundamental property of . e..xpress·his thought-.. -.</->:.<;.~ _·.,c~mpatible with the author/sub­the-film is theju:x"taposition of image -. .. . --. --. --. ' -. · :·,: ;.. ,ject:·distinction, because it is_ of 
against image. .... ·. this -implies,. naturally;-that :'. gri,c1t~r-i~portan~e. to_ find out if. ·.tlie' -screenwriter ·make--his.·o,vn -: , a-director is worthy of·entering the 
This is,not'to say that the proper-. -filins.' ·Better still, ·that· ther~: no·: _.. ~elect group au,teu.rs_ than it is t,o . ties of-intellectualism cannor be pre-c-·longer, be such things as screen-· · :: judge h<fa,-wen· he used his -ma­serit in -good film, it is simpljT-to ·,writers; :.for in _this cinema the -:,_terial. _: -..':-­
-say that it is not intellectualism that -~ distinction:between author and di.:. . justifies the film's e.xistence :as ·an --. rectorno longer makes 'any-.serise; --;--Yefi4es~_~rgtiments do, not nµllify. artistic work. Ingmar Bergman, for -_ -: .Film--direction is· no~longer _a'\vay. 1:--uie positive side' o'f the theory-that e..xample, is intensely intellectual, yet . _oi· ~illtistt?ting or--presenting, _a··.·::-~is'~;that·there do .eiist'in-the world 
----• -----' j • • -. ' --;;•---•• -. -• 
he -is also a very great fil.mniaker~ -scene; b.ut:really a-way of writing-~~· of, the: cirierrfa-those-men· who have: He is' capable of using the materials it ~·-._ '. . -_, _-, ,-;-::_...' ·-._. ( ·._ -;been .~apable of consistent!)' over~ 
coming the concept that film must be a collective art, and who have, with equal consistency, instilled their own distinctive personalities into each successive film. 
ill 

-Possibly the most basic difference in the study of film as an art form as opposed-to the study of the var­ious other arts is the fact that the cinema is still a "young" art. Its origins are still so clearly in view that it becomes at times absurd to speak of the "old" films -and the "new." Very often statements are made concerning ways in which the cinema is breaking its own conven­tions when,· in reality, cinematic convention has had very little chance to become firmly established. A pro­per perspective may be gained by considering the fact that several of those men who actually invented the "art" of the cinema are still alive today, some of -them still making films. The cinema has not had a chance to lose touch with itself so 
-
' 

to, speak. It remains -in immediate 
contact with its origins. Its techni­
-ques have not yet had the chance to 
become· antiquated 
Thus far, the cinema has been es­tablishing -a unique -and distinctive vocabulary. Certainly those elements -of the vocabulary established by 
D. ·W. Griffith remain as valid as any. There is no reason, for example, that techniques such as the iris or various types of "masking" cannot be made to work effectively when used intel­ligently in the hands of a· competent contemporary filmmaker. This_ is proven time and again in the modern cinema. At times the filmmaker. is consciously aware of it, at _other times it is simply a result of a system whi~h has developed c_ertain com­
monly adopted standards. 
-Finally, it should be noted that, -due to the youth of the art, it be­
comes very possible, and sometimes 
necessary, to view the cinema as an 
_ever-increasing body. Each film made has some bearing on the de­velopment of that body, some films having much greater bearing than others: This is, of course, the case with any established art. The major difference in a contemporary view of the cinema is that the foundation of the art is at all times in direct view of the so-called "avant-garde." 
OCTOBER 13, 1972 
The films of this year's Cinema '73 February_ 10-11 (Olmi) festival have been chosen iJJith the The Sound of Trumpets ideas -professed in the-preceeding February 18-22 Five Films by Orson essay in mind. _The following is a Welles listing of the festival events: 18-Citizen Kane 
19-The Magnificent Ambersons 20-Lady from Shanghai 

October 22-26 Five Silent Classics 21-Macbeth 22-The Gold Rush · 22-A Touch of Evil 23-Orphans of the Storm March 3-4 (Peckinpah) 24.:.Ten Days That Shook the Ride the High Country 
World March 24-25 (Donen/Kelly) 25-Sunrise Singin' in the Rain 26-The Passion of Joan of Arc April 8-12 (Truffuat) 
November 12-13 (R_enoir) 8-Stolen Kisses Rules of the Game (Malle) November 14-15 (Hitchcock)' 9-Zazie Dans le Metro Shadow of a Doubt Five Contemporary (Chabrol) December 2.:.3 -(Mizoguchi) -10-La Femme Infidele Ugetsu French Classics (Demy) December 9-10 (Truffuat) lt-The Umbrellas of Cherbourg The Wild Child (Godard) January 20-21 (Hawks) -12-Breathless To Have and Have Not April 28-29 ( deSica) January 27-28 (Ford) The Bicycle Thief The Searchers --christopher ceraso 
-and Other Muse·s 
Marcel Marceau_hi?hli~tt~~~~;~~~~lan Arkin, will ~e sho~ng tural Arts CommissiJ>,!l~~-;!.:Q~ce.t~J!~f}:lJ~e;~~~st of Second City" which 
,.,.,., .•-..r ~,. l,.,••y.{••.t,....,..-...,._.,. ~-\~ ~-...y .. :~J>,...C:, ·::-.rt·•,'";,.;~
• 

Drama Series this;r:f@:it~sg~9~tlii~;:(;:ifidµges:/skits from "No, No, Wil­
~.J:---~: .."":::-::..~, •• ., , ::;,:-,') ,";.,~-·-.~ ':.-A~--~:~. !' ';.__ ~ ...... , .... ~-....... ~.---~ ""'Y'-~.)..~:i...­
season's bill ar~f --,.l'fatj9nal/~!ay~i·i::iµ~ftetit~J,'r;tje,1\43rd Parallel," and ers, Second ~i -''i~&s;~t£sifeiccrti~Etonu§e'sf}Pf6mises." . 
"'t ~.f'<;. ;,-.,._, ."'..,,,:'J,----••..:;:,·_~:/;--'3'-~.:-,_.."'°':,i--~~.:-'='~~J:"..;'•){<tj.•"•~ ~!:~...{"-'."\~~'t':...;_,."-':::.~A
Ichinohe a h unarinotinc"ed~-;fat-""" . ··-·Miu:ceE·Marceari;;:~aid by many_ to traction. {ti-/tJ;;>-:· ...,. be the worl<f~j'~~~!~§t mime, will 
• ::v f""...<..c,r ·t,~""#t,~~·i,;.;:.. .;~w., ~~:,~:_-~-~-;.~~-2"';:::-;"'::,,.,,/,J~ ­
· Aristo:Q _ _Mes:s~!1zTJ{e Birds" will be present the "~Ijmfu!ag~\of the heart" 
~-;,:,-,~.fy;.•;Jt ....~.-:r,~-; .......... 'I)::.-t,-'•-.:'....f'!~ 
presented~on~Dctober 17~._by the Na-on February 16:f;~Marceau has been 
~~.-.~~~;......f"" .;:: ::,t\.-:.;~~~ ,,,t~~~l~•~~~ ~...~.:.';:::...;-t';;'"_~; .,,,...;...., 
tional J!lay~s: Thist~WJilt_~ Kerr res:QQiisiole in larg~~miq: for the re­
~4?¥~ ~~-.'%,,~ Ji!"'t~-~~ !'.~ ~~-_-#,.l ".· .. i·~---.. --•<"•~~" 
adaptatioii~oased on".fan "acting ver-birth of the.eart ofipahtomime in the 
~,.)~~:.~...-:::c-:ti ..,,!. ~..: _..._~~~~.;;--:0
sion" by~Mf-~":Kerr, entails an altered last twenty-five,';yearstf:,.The art of 
~fr:.!<",,_;,-~.!..,.."-.f • ,. ) .~..-,.,:/:,-~•;,•.J.~~!"' 
form of;the'.foriginal to accommodate mime, according{to~Ma.rceau, "shuns 
.;~:~"~IS~~"' • t.... ~ '.l;.'"(t.~-;_•<t_.;:-"'..,~i:.!.."f~. 
modern audiences. Obscur~~assages ,,,theEa.eceitful wor$}fthattraise bar­
~-'l:.~t2;::--~~r ~~':2-~~,;.,,.--• ,g;,~_Q.,, -;.f:.,.-~}~4.,~i~~~'" t;':.-1f!"°f ,;~.-~~'¥4­
have beem.cut away: "otlfer ideas i:1;ir1ers·agamst.,comprelienSion between 
r't:.,,,_"E.:i.;--4-~A"::.;. ~-(-r~~~-t•~;l~ "<"';.~?,,,:~~:...~-~~ ~i':i:8• ~ 
have beerut,extended. ~National ~mei:f:"•.r:1,i;~ t.,"{i, . 
~~~~\'~si" ~ .... ~:;1 ·. -~ 1'J7. ',.::.--; 
Pla!ers 1iw~\hese changes as elabo-\{i~ The Ja~anese Q,~~ company of rations whlcli%have a strong found-~Saeko Ichinohe ap~ars·on February ation in iliJ,2'.:1,iginal. The National '27ton its first jrii(~ States tour. Players haVi. ttablished themselves -,lawing on J~if.:'"@}W tradition for 
~,-. ;,~ ,•-I~--,_,,,,;::! 
as one of theftj.ition's leading reper-_-~i: inspiration,'Saeko Inchinohe has tory companies·turning out such act-incorporated her experiences to ing personalities as John Vojght create something totally original. Alan Schneider and Robert M6br"e:. ,·e final event on the calendar 
will be announced at a later date.. 

November 4 will see the arrival of Advance set.son passes are avail­
'-0 

the Second City from Chicago. This able at th~.furice of $7. These passes company, famous for improvisational entitle ~~liblder to admission to all _ humor and such illustrious "gradu­fiv ates" as Mike Nichols, Elaine7 a roche schulfer. .--· 
"I . consumed: The Exorcist as if it ras feels guilt both for leaving his 
mother and living :what could be

were a bottomless bag of popcorn~ It's a page. turner par "excellence." termed ·the soft life of Jesuit "pov­., erty." He left the slum for the novi­
Life Magazine 
tiate and to study psychiatry at Harvard, while his mother survived from one endless day to the next, month after month,· year after year. Karras is also a man of little faith;

If one should beware of best sel-, 
he is· overwhelmed by the ugliness of 

lei's, the popular taste being what it 
_the world.. He -can no longer cele­

is, then one should be doubly .cau­
brate creation;· he can no longer re­

. tious concerning reviews in Life 
joice in. Genesis: To him, the, world 

Magazine. The reviewer's metaphor 
seems God-less (good-less). Stand­

does not seem apt. It conjures up in_.· 
ing on the Key Bridge-next to the· 

my mind an image of a ten-year-old 
9eorgetown · campus, Demian· does

with sticky fingers plunging his hand 
not see the fingers of sunset gently

again and again into a bag· of .pop­
·· playing with the Potomac; he sees 

corn trying vainly to· appease his 
only the nauseous air and water pol­

ravenous appetite. I would doubt 
lution. Demian, like many contem­

that such a ten-year-old would re­
porary· priests,. is in the process of

flect on his actions. If he did think 
loosing..his faith. It is this man,

about· it, he would probably stop 
fr~il Demian,C who confronts the

eating since his actions are only go­
devil.

ing to lead to · a stomach-ache. Wil-· liain Blattey's, The Exorcist seems: without a doubt, to have delighted • -The major issue of the novel which the Life reviewer, but I must ques~ the Life reviewer fails to emphasize, tion if he really understood the book. probably due to a ·stomach-ache, is Yet, in a sense, he is correct. The the ·problem. of evil. What is the book is a novel of suspense dealing · stance of the virtuous-manly-man Vvith · a theological subject matter. in the face of evil? Karras, both a The core issue is whether or not mod~· man and a priest,· seems to 
·Regan, .a little girl, is possessed by react like ·many of us. He attempts 
· .the devil. The novel is structured in to tightly define the problem so that such a way ·that the reader is not : he can apply the appropriate techni­certai:ri until almost the climax itself. que .. Like many , of us, he tends to · This, in itself, accounts for much of .seek a_this-wordly salvation in terms the popularity of· the work.. The of method/ technique. If Karras can occult, as Bosernary's Bab'y ~bly_de-: ··only define _the particular disorder, monstrated, sells. · As the plot of the then he can begin to solve the prob­nover unfolds, the reader_ is:tr~ated lem. The Harvard-trained psychiat­
. to an almost endless display of· ob.: -rist tries._and · fails. Ironically, the scenities, abominations and profana-:: ··realization· slowly-comes_ that he is 
0

tions: ,Perhaps the _high point is: _dealing-with:the devil incarnate in reached when ·little Regap, ','Rags,".:· ·the·, tortured, ..·mangled body of masturbates with a· crucifix~iri .fronf .'.'Rags.!' His scientific training, for all -of her mother, delighting-i_n ~ewill-:. its~ claims, :somehow. fails.. Karras, ful destruction of _her cieli~aje/tender·. the.Jesuit,-.the rria:n who c_an only see 
0 

hymen'.;Is "Rags" ·suffedrig·frpni an · the 'God-lessness-of the· world now 
ex!!e111e type of psychic. disord~f,: or_~-_co~fronts . the: principle_· of absolute 
C • ., 

is.·s~e p_ossessed _by, a_~devil?' :Her:, :_eyil/)pe ~otaf:lack of gooif An older 
,a·~ mi11'0r '..() rdef_' ­mother, Chr1s MacNeil,'is an_'actress.:;•':Jesµit/witlj,Karras assisting, begins' . _To. say _the least,' her:.-own :inerital:' ~rui-:'exorcism~ .· (Anyone who has .-: , , . -,· balance ·deteriorates Jhrough-ouf-the·-' 'studied with Jesuits kno~s ,that it is _·.··::_.; :noyei;',in.clily._ c~e,_<she :I'eri:u1_in~->a·:_,_an\meven mat~h.) ·..· . . . ·
-y •.:, ·_ -minor. character. --.· .-: : -.,_ -. . . ~--~:: :_ ,:The · climax · is quickly·_, reached. ,,":·___ "· .. '·· ,, ,. ' ,__ ": ·:··,_ . "Rags's" health deteriorates dramat­' ' :: ~ : ~-: .-.<· :--.;_ <":-., ', ~: /I'he,-_otlier--major.;, ;~~~e,{:·b~si~es. > ically; she is close to death'.' The 
. . . . . -·-.:_ >-· ". · "R~gs"_:arid. the Devil, is Pemian Kar-. :.devil takes delight in the approach , · _:,-~-,.. '.: ', -:_ :_/ " . : ', ,,' ._: ~ .. ,"r~,: RJ~---~s acl_til,d;:he was, ~hat:_we· ~ of doom to the. "little piglet." The 
,_;· -__ :_;· -·>-";::--> :t-",;_ -~y-_·,, :_ :._-:_,-, >._:.'. n~,.fcall:p.i~advaiitaged;~_hej~r:e\V,_to · devil is not a benign parasite. The ,. ;· -, -_ i-:-t-. ,,> ·: ·, .-manp::iJy·,_~ }~-.-_slum '.iri )'few York_ Jesuits pray; they. ·literally ·struggle . •:. ,. . . ~-: ::~ ·:_;City.;::,-~~,-niother·.ofte1i'-h~~ ·to-beg'_: for '.'Rags's"_ life and soul: They pray . ,_ ,.:::1,::· :;>:_-; -t~-~-~uppor~ both _of the_m.,.. N~w; Kar.:·:: as ·the _deviLvornits on them and hurls 
thundering obscenities. Merrin the 
' ' 

older Jesuit, suffering from a heart condition, · dies. Karras is finally moved. He challenges the devil to "take on someone his own size." Karras and ,the devil both go through a window. The man of little faith lies dying.on the ground but· with a 
. look of joy in his eyes-·a look which' had been absent for many years. 
For a generation which has been scarred .by Vietnam and is accus­tomed to the peculiarities of double think, the novel should be relevant. What should a man do in the face of, evil, manifest Godlessness? What is the· condition of the man who can. only recognize creation as a mam­moth stench? Perhaps, as Blatty suggests, the · problem revolves· around the fact that there are no longer any real men to confront evil, to take it on. Modern man being small-souled and spirited, essen­tially a lover of self does not have or even understand the God-like love that is necessary for such a redemp­tive act. All of us who can only discuss friendship and love in terms , of utility reveal just this about our­selves.. Technological man literally seems too small for the task. Tech­nique ultimately fails. ·What is called for is a man who can wrestle with. evil, take it on and perform a Christ~ 
_like redemptive act-a man, such as Merrin is or Karras becomes, who. can fill the void of evil with an over­. abundance of love. It is only in.'such acts that one.can discover or· perhaps rediscover the joy· of creation, ·the good; that . is with us of_ Genesis. Ironically, such an act might be the ultimate ·celebration:" of life. From the perspective of technological man, s·uch ~cts are foolish; technique will 
. ultimately save us.' ·But it has long been known that to be. a· Christian is .in some w~y to be a fool. . 
In_ .·a .way,. th_e .Life reviewer w~s correct. The novel is one ofsuspense. But it,is also much-more than this. 
' --~ 
.This review· only· hints at ,the· com-: · plexity of the novel. -For" example; Merrin is The Exorcist and the per-:. son · who•. ·teaches Karras to: loye again..He. is· a· pivotal: 'character. ; . The Exorcist,.unlike. ~ariy_·theoiogy . ~lasses, · raises : serious . theological _problems in a; way_ that should _be 
. : · very real for all of us.· It· is. a· book .._.-that Dan Berrigan,:s.J., would prob.:. . ~bly enjoy.·._ .. 
· -~mike-melody . 

OCTOBER 13, 1972 

Creditable Plantagenet 
A splendid performance by Susan 
Sendelbach. as Elinore of Aquitaine 
highlighted the ND /SMC Theatre 
production of James Goldman's·The 
Lion in Winter, directed by Charles 
Ballinger. In spite of occasional 
comic overkill by many ·of the actors, 
the Goldman script carried·the per­
formance extremely well. 
Miss _Sendelbach ·played Elinore, ­
the wife of King Henry II of Eng­
land, who was played by Mark Swi~ 
ney. · The role of Elinore demands a 
synthesis of biting wit, warmth, de­
ceit, and sincerity and Sendelbach 
combines them all masterfully. Eli­
nore and Henry are constantly bat­
tling to get their particular "favorite 
son" named as Henry's successor. 
Elinore wants to see the oldest .son 
. ' 
Richard-Lionheart, on the.throne but 
Henry·wants hi_s youngest son; John, 
to_be king. The middle son, Geoffrey, 
is never considered a viable candi­
date but he is in·on all th~ plotting 
nonetheless. 

Mark Swiney's portrayal of King 
Henry is quite well done. There are 
times, how:ever, when he _overplays 
the comedy in his .role and tends to 
delete from the credibility·_ of the 
character.·-By trying.too hard to be . 
funny, he loses the potentially tragic 
dimensions_ in'. the comedy, tends to­
ward . slapstick, misses · good , lines, 
and is simpiy not funny.-Henry also 
needs . to be avery· convincing liar 
and sometimes Swiney· tiungles this 
facet of .the . role. His bad. moments, 
however~ :are few.and·. very far be­
tween.. There are many moments, in 
fact, .w_hen ~ Swiiiey's _sensitivity ·to 
the role is incomparable.: : -. 
Susan ·¥"alj.e~-·is _Alaj.s; Henry's young mistress and_.sister.. of King Philip of . ·France: . Miss. Maher, throughout: the plai lacks,the. ten­. derness,' _emotion;;and ~y~ufu of ·Alais. ·and comes across·,·as a?crusty; .cold, ­second~effort Elino~e: : ,.': . . · 
Cliff Fetters gives a tremendously 
funny portrayal of John, the young­
est son. -He plays the comedy in his 
role fully but without becoming 
slapstick. 
The two other sons are played by 
Al Fierro and Mark Genero. Fierro 
plays Richard, often to e.-xcess. 
Genero handles the very difficult role 
of Geoffrey unusually well, and only 
once or twice leans toward an over:­
done, bug-eyed comedy. King Philip 
is well played by Christopher Ceraso. 
Richard Bergman's set was, as 
usual, extremely well done, simple 
but striking. Christopher Egan was 
highly creative with the lights, and · 
the costumes by Faith Adams were 
excellent as well. 
The combination of script and an artful performance by the ND-SMC Players make this production of The ·Lion in Winter a tremendously funny 
and tremendously moving play. 
-jarnes a. gresser 

the crooked rook 


EUGENE B. COOK 
Illustrated London News .Janumy 6, 1855 
White mates m three moves 
SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE 


NOTICE 
Jobs Are Available... ! For FREE information on student assistance and placement program send · self-addressed ST AMPED envelope to the National Placement Registry, 1001 East Idaho St., Kalispell, 
MT 59901 · 
-NO GIMMICKS ­

0
D 
I 

s'f-\\efS l~V\afte8• 
S1'\J.115 

Imagine 16 days of Tyrolean Skiing in Kitzbuhel, Innsbruck, Mayrhofen, and all of it at no cost to you! All you need do is sell four of your ski buddies on this exciting snow-venture, and you go free (or, should you prefer, you can receive a generous cash commis­sion). But you must act now as space is limited. The 
. first trip leaves at Christmas. . For further details write: 
P.O. Box 8398, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108. 
ROAD BOOGIE HONDA CB-CL 350 only $749 Midlothian Sports & Cycle 14723 ·Crawford 
. Midlothian, Ill. 312-371-2200 

FREE! 
ri--cosTs S3.23 A YEAR•--1 Each incredible Bi-monthly issue of FREE is aI gold mine of exciting and unique FREE OFFERS I and where to send for them. You can receiveI FREE things like FREE books, FREE magazine I I.subscriptions, FREE samples, FREE education-I al items Even a FREE medical library, plus I priceless FREE information on hundreds of I subjects. Subscribe now. Monev Back Guar­1antee. Send $3.23 today, to: I FREEI P.O. Box 3434, Seminole, Fla. 33542 I t------------------------:--11 DearFREE: ­
[C. 2,1111 
I Enclosed find my check for $3.23. II Please enter my one-year subscription. I 
I Name____________________ I 
I !~~~~ss ----~--------------I
·1 . . I
I City ______ . --------------I 
-7• -I
I.:_a:;--;;;-;;;-_-_-_-;;_;-~-;;;-;;;-.. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

coming distractions 
FILMS 
Two new hangings are scheduled to appear in the Museum Without Walls on October 16. "The Cubist Epoch" and "Germany-Dada" will be shown in the Engineering Aud­itorium at 8 and 10 p.m. Admission is $1.50. 
Genesis V will be "Stampeding across the screen" with new short films. This is on October 20-21 in the Engineering Auditorium. The · price is one dollar. 
Cinema '73 will present a series of films entitled "Five Silent Classics" from October 22 through October 26. There will be one film a night shown at the quiet hours of 8 and 10 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Pa­trons free; illiterate rabble, a buck. The films are as follows; 
October 22-The Gold Rush 
October 23-Orphans of the Storm 
October 24-Ten Days that Shook 
the World 

October 25-Sunrise 
October 26-The Passion of Joan of 
Arc 

Go back to nature when Zagran's Zinema West presents "Splendor in the Grass" on October 20 and 21. The next Zagran spectacular will be an aproPoe series including "The Raven," "The Pit and the Pendu­lum," and the "Fall of the House of Usher." All Zagran's films are shown in the "America" section of Flanner.Hall basement, at 8 and 10 
p.m. Admission price is orie dollar. 
EXHIBITIONS 
Six Photographers will show their recent works from now through Nov. 6 in the Architecture Gallery. The photographers include Lida Pet­runiak, Ron Brander, E. J. Sauter, Faye Serio, Michael Lanier, and Ri­chard Stevens. 
LECTURES 

Black Studies will present John 
0. Killens, noted author, on October 26 at 8:00 in the Memorial Library Auditorium ... for free. 
"Meatheads and a Way of Life" is a lecture by Patrick Gallagher from the Indiana Criminal Justice Agency which is being presented at 7 :30 
p.m. in Carroll Hall at SMC. Sounds relevant, doesn't it. 
SPORTS 

. Yes, folks, here's the one you've all been waiting for. Goose eggs are happening! There will be a big one against Pittsburgh for the Fighting Irish on the 14 of October, followed by the Missouri game on the 21st. Two big home games. Get one for the Gipper, Fellas! (oh, brother...) 
SPECIALS 

The Birds, Aristophanes's hit of B.C., not Hitchcocks's, will be pre­sented on October 17 in O'Laughlin Auditorium by the National Players. 
Don Quixote will stab a few wind­mills at Washington Hall on October 19, at 8 :15 p.m., incarnated by the Little Theater of Sicilian Puppets. 
As You Like It will be up for pub­lic consumption on October 20, 21, 22 at 8 :15 p.m. in the IUSB Audi­torium in Northside Hall. A William Shakespeare production. 
Two by Two will be presented twice more on Oct. 13 and 14 in Morris Civic Auditorium at 8 :30 p.m. 
They've resurrected Jesus Christ, Superstar which will appear at the Morris Civic Auditorium on Oct. 25 at 7 :00 and 9 :30 p.m. Prices range from $4.50 to $6.50 for this concert version. 
Musically we can hear American Woman as done by the Guess \Vho, as well as all their other solid gold biggies. \Vhite Trash to boot. The fun starts at 8 :30 p.m. and tickets are $5.50 and $3. 
Henry Mancini is back with his orchestra to entertain the romantic on Oct. 20. Tix are $6.50, 5.50 and 3.00. 
Steve Stills and :Manassas play to the student body this Oct. 27 for $5.50 and $3.00. See what a member of an ex-super group does on his own. 
The Cologne Chamber Orchestra with Justus Frantz, piano soloist, appears at 8 :00 on Oct. 18 at O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Rajko is a Sol Hurok presentation 
of Hungarian Gypsy singers and .dancers in the Morris Civic Audi­torium at 8 :30 on Oct. 28. Prices 
are $6.50, $6.00, or $5.00. 
The · Grass Roots and Sailcat 
motorcycle into the Morris Civic 
Auditorium for two shows on Oct. 
J5 at 2 :30 p.m. and 4 :00 p.m. They 
charge $4.50 in advance and $5:50 at 
the door: Boppish but good. 
The South Bend Symphony Orche­
stra, with guest artist Mary Costa, 
soprano, will present the Vienna 
Waltzes at 8 :00 on Oct. 22. 
IUSB Orchestra, conducted by Dr. Michael J. Esselstrom, will be in concert at 8:15 p.m., Oct. 27 and 28 IUSB Auditorium, Northside Hall.. 


...., 
en 
ca
-
Q) 
.c
...., 


Today I wonder how I ever disparaged South Bend weather. I know that, if I try, I can recall the feet-deep snow-and the spring monsoons, but today I was happy to forget all that. Today I discovered I am in love with Autumn in South Bend. 
I rose early this morning, ·Sunday morning, and stepped early into the cold air and the sun. The gusting ,vind awakened me_ quickly, and for the first time in weeks I felt the warm, vital pulsing of my blood signal the resurrection of a life deadened by papers, tests and "catch-up" ·reading. 
There are two places I have found to go, to be alone with the autumn. : As you walk the road toward St. Mary's, nearing Holy Cross Hall, a small white building emerges from the trees on your left. This is -the St. Mary's Clubhouse.· A path past the west wall of the clubhouse leads to the trees topping the bank of the St. Joe River. The bank is precipitous and the dirt is loose; I like t~ think it chall~nging, ·intriguing-a little danger­ous. To walk on the hill you must turn your feet side­ways, outward-herring-bone style-and grip the loose clods with your arches. And you must always have a tree trunk or branch nearby to support you in case the loose dirt gives way beneath your invading weight. 
At this _time of the year,. the bank is covered with bright leaves, a "leaf:meal" several inches deep. And the leaves are always wet. -If, sometimes, I don't feel like going all the way to the water, I will lie back in them, feeling their wetness, with my -feet propped on a tree­trunk in front of me. 
If the autumn nights are not too cold, a short walk around the lake will bring me to a second rendezvous 

--spot. A gentle and grassy hill slopes down to the path in front of J\foreau Seminary, and through a gap in the trees }~Ou can see the lights from' the Dome and the main quad, playing on the wind-tossed waters. 
I can remember one night, an October night two years ago, lying there, the wetness of the grass seeping through my jacket. I -simply lay, for along while, and gazed at the clear, black Indiana sky which amazes me every year, brilliant stars piercing through \vith mes­merizing clarity. As I gazed, I heard the ,vhispers of a young man and girl coming down the path hand in hand. Suddenly, as they approached a point ten or so feet from where I was prostrate, they -stopped. Then . . . even more hushed whispers as_, they _-q-ied to determine whether this body was alive, or dead. Finally, sum­moning their courage and raising their voices for sup­port, they paced quickly past: And I continued my stargazing beneath the Indiana sky. 
Once, not-long' ago, Joseph Duffy-observed that "our spirits soar :with the weather~." It -is true that South Bend "inters are brutal, and that.the week-long mar­athons of clouds and spring ra.ins · are depressing. But the real tragedy is that we, students, are-·so busy study­ing, \\a.tching football games, and complaining about the 

-lousy weather. that we often ·are blind to the beautiful · autumn days: brisk ~breezes and-cloudless skies, -trees e..-x--ploding in brilliant reds aiid yellows. Today T discovered I am in love ,,>ith -Autumn in . South Bend. _I think I will spend some time with her t:J:ij~ week. 
_-_greg stidlzam.· 
*~ 
WHEN 
YOU 
KNOW 
ITS FOR 
KEEPS. 
Love. captured forever 1n the beautiful brilliance of a perfect diamond Keepsake ... the perfect symbol of your special love. 
Rings from S iOO to Si0.000 Tracie Mark Reg A H. Pond Co 
•••••••••• ••••••••••e 
TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 
Send new 20 pg. booklet. "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" plus full' color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25,;. F-72 Name ________________ 
Address--------------­
City--------Co------­State ____________Zip ___ 

KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS. BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13201 



BELLE PLAZA STYLING 
SHOP 

Latest in shag cut and styling for men Specialists in long hair Styling by appointment 
1908 US 31 North Niles, Mich. 49120 
684-4750 


juggler 
notre dame's journal of literature 
1s very much alive, providing a vital forCe 
in the cultural 
community of the university 
;••••a••••~••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••;
. ' 
j Subscription: 3 issues only $1.00 i : mailed off campus and out of town : iI delivered on campus. iI 
•I •I 
•• •J 
j Make check payable to: i 
I I' I I 
: I Juggler-· I : 
I · I
: Box· 583 . ·.·. ! 
'I --, . -I
·1: -Notre Daµie,·I_nd_. ·__:j.
: -:~ 
f . , -I ­
• = ---j. 
!Name .• • :•.'.>· ;> ..' j
, Addres~ . ______ ._______ ..--". __ ...___________._________ , 
I : -~,:;.,-_:;-•~ -.. --~:-.. •__-·. __ -, •. I 
,J .,: --_, ~ ::.}<'--!-;., -~, ,---'--~--: ~: 
I ----~--~.. -~•:-·•-.:.,,__~~~-. .,._:~:,··, .:. -~ -., ___ --. ~-----------• l' 
L-.:,.••__________;._.;__;.;~:-~:~~.:---,~=~::.:,:-:~~,;-:.:~.:::_.:~•.:~~-;.:_.:.:.;~~----i 
.:.. • -< ~ -; ~. 














