*
NEW
EVERYTHING
AT THE CAMPUS SHOP
EXCEPT THE PERSONNEL!
You’ll find your old friends at the Campus Shop, but that’s about all. Because all of the clothing left over from the 1962-63 season is disposed of in Gilbert’s downtown store’s semiannual sale in August, all the clothing and haberdashery at the Campus Shop arc brand new. So, welcome to the Campus Shop . . . we’re ready with new styles, the famous makes, a complete selection of the finest clothing obtainable for you.
DROP IN SOON TO SAY. "HELLO!"
^GILBERT'S

& JANUARY
IT
4
NO CARRYING CHARGE
MARCH
YOUR CHARGE ACCOUNT
IS OPEN AT THE CAMPUS SHOP
If you’re new at Notre Dame, you’ll soon find that you always have a friend at the Campus Shop. Your charge account is open . . . and you can purchase what you need, when you need it, and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in January, one-third in February, and one-third in March. Of course, there is never a service or a carrying charge. Welcome to the Campus Shop . . . one of America’s finest university clothing stores.
ONE
OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS
^GILBERT'S


* M *
On Campos
MKfihutan
(Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys and Barefoot Boy With Cheek)
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 105 September 27, 1963 No. 1
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH, DEAR FRIENDS
Today I begin my tenth year of writing this column in your campus newspaper. Ten years is a long time; it is. in fact, what some scholarly people like to call a decade—from the Latin word deccum, meaning the floor of a ship. It is, to my mind, remarkable that the Romans had such a word as deccum when you consider that ships did not exist until 1620 when John Alden invented the Mayflower. Alden, a prodigiously ingenious man, also invented the ear lobe and Pocahontas
Ships were a very popular mode of travel—especially over water—until 1912 when the Swede, Ivar Krueger, invented the iceberg. Krueger also invented the match, which is a good thing, because without the match, how ■would you light your Marlboro Cigarettes? I cannot overstress the importance of lighting your Marlboro Cigarettes, for Marlboro Cigarettes, unlighted, provide, at best, only limited smoking pleasure.
I mention Marlboros because this column is an advertisement, brought to you throughout the school year by the makers of Marlboros. Marlboros come in soft pack or Flip-Top box. The makers of Marlboros come in dark suits with thin lapels —except on weekends when they come in yoke-neck jerseys and white duck trousers. White ducks come in flocks. They are primarily fresh water dwellers, although they have been successfully raised in salt water too. Another salt water denizen I’m sure you will find enjoyable is plankton—a mess of tiny organisms like diatoms and algae and like that which float sluggishly near the surface of the sea. It is ironic that these creatures, microscopic in size, should supply the principal source of food for the earth’s largest animal, the whale. Whales, I must say, are not at all pleased with this arrangement, because it bikes the average whale, eating steadily, 48 hours to gather a day’s meal. This leaves them almost no time for water sports or reading Melville. It is a lucky thing for all of us that whales are unaware they
are mammals, not fish, and could, if they tried, live just as well on land as in water. I mean, you add ten or twelve million w’hales to our Sunday traffic and you would have congestion that makes the mind boggle.
But I digress. Today, I w’as saying, I begi*1 my tenth year of waiting this column for Marlboro Cigarettes in your campus newspaper. I will, in each column, say a few kind words about Marlboros—just as you will, once you try that fine tobacco flavor, that pristine white filter, that supple soft pack, that infrangible Flip-Top box. These references to Marlboro will be brief and unobtrusive, for I do not believe in the hard sell. What I favor is the soft sell—you might even call it the limp or spongy sell.
I hasten to state that the makers of Marlboro in ten full years have not once complained about my desultorj’ sales approach. Neither have they paid me.
But that is of small consequence. Aside from fleeting mentions of Marlboro, this column has another, and more urgent, mission: to cast the hot white light of free inquiry upon the vexing questions that trouble college America—questions like “Should the Student Council have the power to levy tariffs?” and “Are roommates sanitary?” and “Should housemothers be compelled to retire upon reaching the age of 26?”
Perhaps, reasoning together, we can find the answers. Perhaps not. But if we fail, let it never be said that it was for want of trying.
I thank you.	© i9G3 iIax ShuIman
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor
Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor. Erian Barnes
. . . business manager James Devlin
. . . features editor Mel Noel
. . . news editor John Pesta
. . . layout editor Larry Sicking
. . . art editor Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy Tom Keane
. . . circulation
Tom Nahm
. . . advertising Brian Beck, Pat Ford
. . . photography
John Anton, David Barrett,
Jim Callero, Brian Jorgensen,
Frank McConnell,
Bill Smith, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors
Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
STAFF: Al Basso. Tom Bettag, Jeff Blackwell, Ray Burke, Jim Boland, Al Dudash, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Rick McQuaid. Carl Magcl, Bill O’Grady, Bruce Palka, John Phillips, Jack Quine, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte. Frank Smith, John Twohey, John Whelan.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 1/, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC. is printed at the Ave Mana Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The makers of Marlboro are happy to bring you another year of Max Shulman’s unpredictable and uncensored column—and also happy to bring you fine filtered Marlboros, available in pack or box, wherever cigarettes are sold in all 50 states.
OFFICE OPEN:
Sunday, 1:30-5:30,7:30-12:00; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:30-5:30; Saturday, not open.
4
The Scholastic
EDITORIALS
Promise for the Future
Nothing could bring home more strongly the fact that the University is in a period of flux than the sight of the new library, the apparent embodiment of what Father Hesburgh has called “our commitment to academic excellence.” The students here at this time have a unique opportunity to influence the future course of the University, simply because their actions, thoughts and opinions are given more weight in an atmosphere of rapid change.
With this opportunity facing all of us, we ought to consider more fully how best to act for the future good of the University. The editors of the Scholastic intend to present the opinions of the students in the coming year in a way that will reflect our concern for the good of present and future students. Officials of the University administration have our guarantee that what is printed will be considered in the light of what it can do for the University as a whole. But concern over the possibility that national notice may be taken of student thought will not prevent the publication and discussion of matters vital to the University community. If Notre Dame is to be truly the national Catholic university, then we would expect that student thought, if it be truly representative, is in fact worthy of national notice.
We recognize that the content of the Scholastic may inevitably reflect the feelings of the editors of this publication on campus and national issues, and
that the editors’ personal views will not always be shared by all members of the student body. The issues may be of political agreement or disagreement, of news coverage, of quality (or lack of it), or various other points of taste or opinion. The important consideration is that if the publication is not conforming to the wishes of the readers, they may voice their differences freely and without fear in the pages of the Scholastic.
That the officials of the University themselves intend the Scholastic to be a free forum of student opinion is encouragingly indicated by the appointment of Mr. Frank O’Malley as the moderator of the Scholastic. Mr. O’Malley’s faith in the integrity and ability of the students, and his devotion to the ideals of Notre Dame are too well known for us to reassert them. His appointment as our moderator is as hopeful a sign as we could wish that the administration intends to respect the students’ right to freedom of expression.
This, then is our intention for the coming year: to serve as the expression of the students’ needs, hopes, accomplishments, and opinions; toward this end, to be aware of our heightened responsibility to Notre Dame, present and future; to defend above all that which ought to be one of the ideals of any great university — freedom of the intellect.
T.H., D.S.
September 27, 1963

Letters...
FEMINOPHOBIA Editor:
In regard to an opinion I believe was held by a few throughout the past school year I would like to ask a question and also express my opinion.
This opinion I speak of was brought forth in several articles of the Scholastic and even, and this was truly irritating to me, in the Dome. It seems that a number of persons, at least writers, on this campus were in favor of Notre Dame as a coeducational institution. My question then arises. Is this the opinion that you the new editors hold; but more so, is this the desire of the majority of Notre Dame men?
I don’t believe the Scholastic came right out and expressed this desire but the Dome certainly did. I will not criticize the Dome except on this one point because over all I enjoyed it very much. I do feel, however, that an annual is no place for editorials, and I believe the article on page 13 about the “Twain shall meet” was in very bad taste. To me an annual is a book designed to bring back memories and to record the major events of the
school year. I feel it shouldn’t discuss anything controversial because it is not its purpose to do so.
I enjoyed last year’s Dome as much as any I have ever seen but that one page will always be a source of irritation to me. This sort of feeling should never be generated by an annual. I hope that future Notre Dame editors will not use a book that is meant to be a keepsake to voice theii’ personal opinions.
Aside from the Dome and what it should and shouldn’t do, my primary reason for writing is to learn your opinion on the subject of coeducation and, if possible, that of the majority of students on campus.
It is hard for me to believe that any Notre Dame man would ever want his school to be other than an all-men’s university. I know I am not alone in this opinion, but I will not say I am either in the majority or the minority because I know only the opinions of my friends who happen to have feelings about this matter in accordance with mine.
When it comes to Notre Dame I suppose I can be considered a little sentimental. I have often been ribbed by my open approval of this place, but Notre Dame has done much for me and I love it more than any place
in the world. I can never be embarrassed by showing my devotion to this school. The reasons Notre Dame has been good for me are many, but one of the main factors is that it has an atmosphere that is conducive to study and at the same time invigorating in that it propels a person to accept and excel in the many challenges that are presented here. This atmosphere is a result of not one thing but of most importance are the facts that the University is Catholic and all male.
Study never has been the easiest thing for me and I am easily distracted and the biggest distraction to me is a sharp girl. Some may consider this an admission of immaturity but I think most healthy young men are distracted to some degree by the opposite sex. I feel then that women here would only be detrimental to the outstanding educational character this University has today.
As was evidenced by the Dome some men must feel that a better education can be obtained by association with the “fascinating, intuitive feminine mind.” I of course do not agree but respect the- opinion of others. But if there are individuals who feel the need of a coeducational institution why did they come to (Continued on page 32)
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS
WE ARE OPENING OUR FALL SEASON WITH A TREMENDOUS VALUE—ALL NEW MERCHANDISE—All 1st QUALITY —NO SECONDS—All YOUR FAVORITE ARTISTS. WE GUARANTEE All OUR PRODUCTS TO BE OF FIRST QUALITY.
HANK THOMPSON
ANY L.P. ALBUM FROM OUR HUGE STOCK 99c
WITH THE PURCHASE OF ONE IN SAME PRICE RANGE AT MANUFACTURER’S SUGGESTED LIST PRICE
MAKE WAY (S)T-1474
SOMETHING SPECIAL (S)T-1747
TENNESSEE ERNIE FORD NO GIMMICKS —NO TRICKS
Every L.P. in the store on sale for 99c with the purchase of one in same price range at manufacturer’s suggested list price
•	FOLKWAYS
•	RIVERSIDE
•	VOX
•	VANGUARD
•	BLUE NOTE
•	TRADITION
•	DEUTSCHE GRAMOPHONE
•	PACIFIC JAZZ
•	COLUMBIA
•	CAPITOL
•	VICTOR
•	DECCA
•	WARNER BROS.
•	M.G.M.
•	HOOTENANNY
•	POPULAR
•	JAZZ
•	CLASSICS
•	ROCK & ROLL
•	COMEDY
•	COUNTRY & WESTERN
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOP
214 S. MICHIGAN ST.	CE 3-4585
Weekday Store Hours:
Mon., Thurs., Fri. 9:30 to 8:30
Tues., Wed., Sat. 9:30 to 5:30
6
The Scholastic
THOSE CLEAN WHITE ADLERS
Now you’re catching on. Just be “clean white sock” in Adlers. Suddenly everyone sees you as the man who always knows the right thing to do, even if he decides not to do it. So now's the time to grab a motor scooter and a girl, not necessarily in that order. But first,grab the AdlerSCshrink controlled wool sock. In white and acoveyof colors. $1.00
THE AOLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO* IN CANADA: WINDSOR HOSIERY MILLS, MONTREAL
Featured in Fine Stores
September 27, 1963

Q.
Why buy a pen this good when you might just lose it?
A.
Parker won't let you lose it. If you do, it will be replaced*
♦SPECIAL REPLACEMENT OFFER
If you buy a Parker 45 for $5 between now and October 31, 1963, it will be protected against loss for one full year at no extra cost. Just register its purchase by mailing one-half of the Parker 45 Registration Certificate to the insurance company listed on the certificate. Then if the pen is lost, the insurance company will replace it at no charge. All you have to do is mail the other half of the certificate, properly notarized, and describe how the pen was lost.
Here's why this is such a good pen for a college student:
It's "convertible". You can load it with a cartridge	or you can replace the
cartridge with this ingenious little "converter" and fill it from an ink bottle.
Hard to run out of ink during an exam.
Solid 14K gold point. You get a choice of seven widths from extra fine to extra broad. And if you damage a point, your dealer can replace it instantly.
For only $5 you get: The pen, a "converter," a cartridge, and free exchange of any undamaged point within 30 days of purchase. PLUS Parker's special replacement offer. This guarantee against loss will be offered until October 31st only, so better see your Parker dealer right away.
PARKER—At /5 years—Maker of the world's most wanted pens
w	$5
1. load it with a cartridge
2.... or fill it from an ink bottle
8	The Scholastic
•	Notre Dame's 122nd academic year formally opened last Sunday with a Solemn Mass celebrated by Father Joyce. The keynote sermon for the new year was preached by Father Soleta, vice-president for academic affairs. The sermon, appropriately, was on the virtues and vices particular to the intellectual life.
The use of the mind is among man’s highest powers; and the more accomplished he becomes in this power, the more susceptible he becomes to intellectual pride. This pride is manifested in contempt for those more ignorant than oneself, intolerance of other opinions, and in the cool assurance that one has reached the pinnacle of knowledge.
Countering these attitudes is the much maligned virtue of humility — “. . . to know and accept our talents from God, whether they are strong or modest, with grateful and willing resignation to make the most of them.”
The greatest scholars have humility in this sense, an honest recognition of their abilities and accomplishments. Such a man can recognize and accept the fact that his work is better than another’s, while retaining his ability to accept help, advice and correction from anyone with a genuine insight into truth.
Humility is activated by magnanimity — a virtue that is ill understood by most men today. “Humility recognizes our talents honestly and magnanimity puts them to highest use.” It is magnanimity that prevents the true scholar from being satisfied with mediocre work. It makes him drive himself to the utmost development of his abilities, realizing that God’s will in giving him these gifts was that they be used to bring the greatest glory to Him and the greatest benefit to men.
Both these virtues are applications of the moral virtue of charity; and as such, call for the same dispositions — openness and purity of heart.
“This simply means that we need freedom from all rigid fondness for personal opinion, from bias and prejudice, from selfishness and egoism, all in all, from a kind of avarice of the soul.”
The student who cultivates these virtues of humility and magnanimity can raise his intellectual life to a high level of natural perfection and supernatural merit.
•	Paul Freddolino and Patrick Kennedy, two members of the freshman class, have been awarded Alfred P. Sloan National Scholarships. The Sloan Foundation awards over one million dollars in grants to approximately 500 students in 35 colleges and universities throughout the country. Freddolino and Kennedy were selected for the grants on the basis of their academic excellence, personal integrity and potential for leadership.
•	The Faraday Society met early in September for the first time in the United States at the University of Notre Dame. This world-wide organization of radiation research experts arrived September first at the invitation of Professor Milton Burton to participate in the dedication of the $2.2 million Radiation Research Building.
The group was under the direction of Professors A. R. Ubbelohde and F. C. Tompkins, the president and secretary respectively of the organization. They listened to and discussed twenty-two papers whose general subject was “Fundamental Processes in Radiation Chemistry.”
The Radiation Laboratory’s radiation chemistry research is the most extensive under way on any college campus. Its personnel consists of both members of the faculty and postgraduate research associates.
•	This year’s Juggler, with a new editorial policy intended to make the magazine more relevant and valuable
to the student body, will launch a subscription drive September 29. Juggler's highly commendable purpose in recent years has been to provide an outlet for the artistic efforts of Notre Dame students in poetry and prose fiction. The new editorial board feels, however, that creativity manifests itself also in philosophy, political science, history, theoretical science, and analytical literary criticism. In accordance with its changed policy, the revamped Juggler hopes to print several articles about these subjects, and the editors invite all students of the University to submit works in their special fields. Manuscripts will be read anonymously and published solely on their merits, in the tradition of Notre Dame student publications. If the editors return manuscripts as unsuitable for. publication, they will give the reasons for rejection upon the author’s request. Already being prepared for publication by the magazine, which will publish three issues this year, are several new-type essays.
• The Political Science Department at Notre Dame has been reorganized and renamed the Department of Government and International Studies. Acting head of the department is Dr. Stephen Kertesz, a Notre Dame professor since 1950. Prof. Kertesz, a native of Hungary, culminated a distinguished diplomatic career with service as Hungarian minister to Italy. Resigning from the diplomatic corps when the Communists seized power in Budapest, he joined the faculty of the Yale Law School in 1948. Two years later he came to Notre Dame and in 1954 became director of the Soviet and East European Program. The following year he was named to head the Committee on International Relations. At Notre Dame’s 118th annual commencement on June 9, 1963, Prof. Kertesz received the annual Lay Faculty Award for notable serv-
September 27, 1963
9
Solemn High Mass Opens Notre Dame’s 122nd Year
ice to the University. In addition to his work at the University, he has authored several works on diplomacy and foreign policy and is a frequent contributor to professional journals.
According to Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president for academic affairs, the change in name and administration was prompted largely by the growth of international studies programs at Notre Dame, particularly within the last ten years.
Nevertheless, Dr. Kertesz feels that the new organization does not imply a de-emphasis of courses dealing with political theory or government. Rather, he sees the change as necessary for the administration of area studies programs which were formerly controlled by no single department. Under the new academic regulation, the undergraduate will be able to major in one of the regular disciplines and use his junior and senior electives for an interdepartmental sequence in one of the area programs. Moreover, he will be able to substitute for the Collegiate Seminar advanced course work in an appropriate language.
Need for this reorganization became particularly evident in light of plans for the establishment of new-area programs. Dr. Kertesz envisions a course sequence in Latin-American Studies and in Western European Studies, “in the near future” and in African Studies within two to three years.
Dr. Kertesz was recently honored by being named to hold the professorship which the University has established with a grant from Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, Indiana. The new faculty chair has been named the Franklin Miles Professorship of Political Science in memory of the founder of the pharmaceutical firm.
The endowment by Miles is particularly important, according to Dr.
10
Kertesz, as an indication of a new attitude on the part of industry toward education in the social sciences. Since the contributions of industry toward education are generally in the field with which that industry is concerned, the Miles chair might well have been designated for a professorship in, for example, medicine or chemistry. Instead, the endowment is a symbol of recognition that the existing gap between technology and political science must be closed. In the words of Miles President Edward H. Beardsley, “the scientist must be educated to appreciate the nature of imponderable political forces, and the student of international relations must study constantly the impact of physical science on his work.”
•	Colonel Roland J. Spritzen, USMC, has been appointed commanding officer of the NROTC unit at Notre Dame, succeeding Capt. James E. Hackett, USN, who has been assigned to sea duty in the Pacific.
Colonel Spritzen brings to Notre Dame experience dating from 1941, when he was graduated from the Naval Academy. During World War H, he served with the Marines on Guadalcanal, Saipan, Tinian, Iwo Jima and Roi Namur. He has since been assigned tours of duty in Europe and Asia, and has been graduated from the Marine Field Artillery School and Senior Officer School at Quantico, Virginia, the US Army Senior Artillery School at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and the US Navy Nuclear Weapons School at Coronado, California. The veteran officer has been awarded the Bronze Star, the China Service Medal, the Presidential Unit Citation and the Navy Unit Citation.
Colonel Spritzen’s assignment was the first of a Marine officer as commander of the Notre Dame unit. Since the NROTC produces Marine as well as Navy officers, the Marine Corps furnishes one-fourth of the command
ing officers for the 52 units in colleges throughout the country, and assigns them to schools in rotation with Navy commanders.
Colonel Spritzen has been appointed with the title of Professor of Naval Science, and although not assigned to any class as an instructor, will on occasion teach courses in which his knowledge and experience will be particularly valuable.
•	The ’63-’64 school year has brought to Notre Dame five new departmental heads in the B.A. and A.L. fields. In B.A. Dr. Bernard J. Kilbride, a specialist in business finance and capital theory, assumes the reins in the finance and business economics department. A certified public accountant, Dr. Kilbride has been teaching at the University of Illinois and will hold the rank of associate professor at Notre Dame.
Dr. John J. Kennedy, a specialist in quantitative methods in marketing, will head the department of marketing management. He received his master’s degree and doctorate from Ohio State University, where he has also been teaching recently. Dr. Kennedy has been named to the rank of associate professor at Notre Dame.
In Arts and Letters Dr. Julian Samora, a specialist in anthropology, medical sociology and race relations, will head the sociology department. On the Notre Dame faculty since 1959, he has done extensive field work among Spanish-speaking people. Dr. Samora holds a doctorate from Washington University of St. Louis.
In the department of modern languages Dr. Robert Nuner has assumed leadership. A native of South Bend, he began teaching at Notre Dame in 1946. A specialist in Romance and Celtic languages, Dr. Nuner holds three degrees from Harvard.
Finally, Rev. Leonard N. Banas,
The Scholastic
Col. Roland Spritzen
Cardinal Montini and President Hesburgh
CSC, has been appointed head of the Department of Classics. After graduating from Notre Dame in 1949, he took theological and advanced studies at Rome. Fr. Banas, who has a master’s degree from Princeton University, has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1960.
•	The Lettermen, a popular vocal trio, will be at Notre Dame tonight. So as not to conflict with the pep rally, the concert isn’t scheduled until after that sweat-stained event.
Tony Butala, Jim Pike, and Bob Engemann, the Lettermen, had sung individually and in various groups for some time before they went together. Songs that are now standards, such as “When I Fall In Love,” brought them almost instantaneous success.
In case you haven’t bought tickets yet, they’ll be on sale tonight at the doors of the Stepan Center.
•	Final ticket sales for the Junior Class Purdue trip will be held Tuesday night from 5:15 to 6:45 in the dining halls. Only four hundred spaces are available, $9.00 covering both stadium and bus tickets. Busses leave at 8:30, 9:30, and 10:30 Saturday morning, returning around 9:00 that night.
•	In June of 1960, Giovanni Battista Cardinal Montini, Archbishop of Milan, visited Notre Dame to celebrate Solemn Pontifical Mass, address the graduating class, and receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. His address, based on the theme “Pentecost: The Day of Thinking Souls, the Day of the University,” appealed for recognition by Catholics of their vocation to understand truth in its divine design.
This June, as Pope Paul VI, the former Archbishop of Milan telegrammed Fr. Hesburgh to thank the University for its warm reception and to extend his papal apostolic blessing
September 27, 1963
to the faculty and the student body. In his reply, Fr. Hesburgh pledged a hundred Masses, to by offered at Notre Dame for the pontiff’s intention.
• Four new department heads were appointed in the Colleges of Science and Engineering over the summer. Dr. Edward W. Jerger became head of the department of mechanical engineering. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1955, and presently serves as a consultant to several firms on the general subject of thermodynamics and combustion. His research on free convection heat transfer in subnormal gravity is supported by the National Science Foundation. Dr. Basil R. Myers, new head of the electrical engineering department, came from the faculty of Iowa State University. Myers studied at Oxford University and the University of Birmingham in his native England, and has been associated with the Bell Telephone Laboratories.
In the College of Science, Prof. Charles Mullin has been appointed head of the department of physics, and Dr. Robert Anthony was named assistant department head. Both men are fellows of the American Physical Society.
Senate .. •
• The first part of last Monday’s Senate meeting consisted of reports dealing with such matters as Easter vacation, which will not be changed this year as the Senate has recommended, and will begin with the Saturday before Palm Sunday. A different conversion system designed to “relieve some of the inequities of the present system” has been formulated, and according to President Dave Ellis is receiving some administration consideration. The Blue Circle announced a new advisor program, through which one of a group of seniors will
be appointed to aid each freshman in adjusting to life at ND.
In its final meeting last spring, the Senate set a record by dealing with 17 motions smoothly in 4 hours. Last Monday a new record was approached, as five main motions were presented (3 of which passed) during a rather grueling 4^ hours. Superfluous debate and unreasonable questions on the part of members was at times quite evident.
A loan of $300 to the Chess Club was rapidly approved, but a bill to change procedures for making motions passed only after much unnecessary but characteristic haggling. Another bill provides for bi-weekly meetings of the Senate as a unit, with all the Senators meeting on alternate Mondays as members of a Policy, Finance or Welfare Committee. This is to facilitate more productive and hopefully more orderly general meetings.
The final result of Monday’s meeting, however, was the calling of a special meeting (by the 10 Senators still present at the end) to reconsider the provision for a Freshman Class President, which had already been approved. Discussion of the reorganization of the Freshman Class Council (made necessary by the institution of a Freshman President) caused Senators to decide that they did not want such an officer after all. The Class Council bill was thus tabled, and the provision calling for a Freshman President was reconsidered at the special meeting Tuesday night.
It was impossible to repeal the establishment of a Freshman President at that time, since this requires a constitutional amendment, which must be read at least one week before it is acted upon. Thus, while present rules provide for a Freshman President, that provision, just approved at last Monday’s Senate meeting, appears headed for repeal next Monday.
—Al Dudash
11
on other eampnses
• Sheri Smith, female resident in a Michigan State men’s dorm, got a good bit of attention from the men there during her stay this summer. Daughter of the dorm’s resident advisor, Sheri was the sweetheart of all the guys. So charming was Sheri that she was branded a distraction to the men and an impediment to their study. Her parents tried to keep her out of the study lounge because of the attention she got, but Sheri knew what she wanted. She would enter the lounge and seek out her man. And she always got him. Someone always dropped his books and read to her. Two years old, Sheri was just discovering her feminine charm. Come September, the fellows were sad to see her go, but many found her the only love of their lives, and promised to wait for her to grow up.
• The problem of football game traffic in a college football town has been magnified in East Lansing, Michigan, by a cutback in state police forces. East Lansing is the home of Michigan State University, and it sees a large number of cars on football weekends. The announcement by the state police that officers would no longer be available has resulted in what the director of safety at MSU terms “a definite problem in getting cars on and off the campus.” The cutback will also affect Ann Arbor, home of the University of Michigan.
feiffer
• A controversial ruling by the Japanese Court has declared that academic freedom and university autonomy are permitted only for purely academic reasons. The decision ensued as a result of a case in which a controversial play was presented by a drama club at Chuo University more than ten years ago. Students, discovering that police agents were in the audience, took away their police notebooks and tried them in a kangaroo court. One of the students was accused of violent acts against the policemen and was subsequently acquitted. The Supreme Court has ordered the case retried.
•	Michigan State quarterback Dick Proebstle had 25 players, two assistant coaches, a sportscaster, a campus policeman, and head coach Duffy Daugherty looking for 25 minutes for his lost contact lens. Duffy, on his hands and knees, offered the finder an extra steak at the training table. Proebstle himself was the winner — the lens was in his eye all the time.
•	After 20 years of studying his own left thumbnail, a professor at the State University of Iowa has determined that fingernail growth slows with age. Dr. William B. Bean, head of the department of internal medicine at SUI, undertook his monu
mental study of thumbnails in 1942 at the age of 32. At that time it took his nail 133 days to grow from the cuticle to clipping length. By 1959 the nail took 136 days to grow and by 1960 it took 138 days.
•	In a move which gained momentum after weeks of haggling the Tobacco Institute has decided to stop advertising in college newspapers, magazines and during football games.
George V. Allen, president of the Institute, said that “the industry’s position has always been that smoking is an adult custom,” and “to avoid any confusion in the public mind as to this position, a number of member companies of the Tobacco Institute have decided to discontinue college advertising and promotional activities.”
Another motive for the action was shown in a statement by John Devlin, president of Rothman’s of Pall Mall. He said that the action was meant to “keep youngsters from getting the idea that smoking is grownup and the thing to do.” Smoking is, therefore, an adult custom not to be emulated by youngsters.
Contrary to the seemingly shady thinking of the Tobacco Institute, college students are able to judge for themselves on the matter of smoking. Perhaps, they are better qualified than any other group in North America. Perhaps, too, the Tobacco Institute is capitalizing on this knowledge and is eliminating unnecessary advertising.
I ALWAYS USED TO &RLS 00
THS Bife IF
THW MERE W A
NOTEBOOK”.
IV FlOORE THE4 WERE
WRITERS AMP IV WAMT TO 60 OVER
AMP 5TART A 65MVER5ATIO0 A60UT W I USED TO WRITE-AWT IM am-
AMP I WAS TO DO IT AGAIN GOMEPAM. AMP THETD EE ABLE TO TELL FROM IHEhJM I TALKED AMP MH PERSONAL CHARM \\ \ AMP EVERMTHW6 THAT IF I EllER WANTED f J I COULD EE A VERM Good writer.
amp just to show W that i wasmt A LOT OF HOT AIR IP 5AM NAMES To THEM - LIKE ‘UPDIKC
W6AUH6EK AMP 'ALBEE'-MOP KUou), 50 THEHP 8E6IM 70 TRUST ME AMP LET ME LOOK AT WHAT W HAP WRITTEU.
amp it Wool p
8E GREAT’
REALIM GREAT' z, । MOTQDI1EA5 S\ • GREAT AG
JwhatI could RITE IF I
EU6R 60TAF&.W/ TO IT. LESS GREAT BUT GIzAT USKRTFLESS.
AMT7 IP MAKE A Fad CRITICI5M5-WJKtJoAABouT sentence struc-
THAT WOULD / 5®it) I KNEW N WHAT I WAS \| W05AW- u
AMP WHEN W £&T OFF THE 0US JHETV
86 SURPRISED BECAUSE IW5TEAP OF getting off with THEM IP SAM:
"&00W16:
AMP THEM THEMP KNOW THAT I WA5MT JOST A PHONEY 1RMI06 FOR. A PICKUP AMP THEM 86 VERM IMPRESSED WITH ME.
12
The Scholastic
A Year at Innsbruck
by Frank Smith
T nnsbruck is a beautiful, uneventful town located in the Austrian province of Tirol. The townspeople, many of whom have families which have inhabited Innsbruck for generations, are quick to point with pride to their Franciscan church built in the Italian Renaissance style about the middle of the 16th century. Most of the citizens are merchants who lead a quiet and happy life. The University of Innsbruck has long been a center of intellectual life in Austria. The school dates back to 1677, a time when Notre Dame was just a part of the Indiana wilderness. It is in these surroundings that approximately fifty Notre Dame students will pursue their sophomore year of studies.
With an eye cocked to the future, Notre Dame is now embarking on its first foreign-study program. In this contracting world, a program of foreign study is becoming more and more valuable. As Rev. Chester A. Soleta, vice president for academic affairs, puts it, “To spend one of the four college years in another country, speaking another language and associating with the people, will bring to the qualified student enduring benefits that can be found in no other way.” In the past, students of Notre Dame would have to pursue study abroad on their own and in many cases return only to find that they didn’t have enough transferable credits to give them credit at Notre Dame for their foreign work. The Sophomore Year of Studies at Innsbruck will erase such problems and enable a student to pursue foreign study without interrupting or delaying his education.
The University of Innsbruck was carefully selected by Father Soleta and Father Hesburgh to begin a foreign-study program. Besides meeting
September 27, 1963
academic standards as many other schools in Europe also do, Innsbruck offered three other strong qualifications for being chosen. First of all, the University is not saturated with Americans (they comprise about 4% of the total enrollment) and therefore there is little danger of an isolated American colony being formed in the middle of Austria. “The purpose of the program is to have the students meet the native people and exchange conversation and thoughts with them and not to clump together with other Americans,” says Father Soleta. Secondly, Innsbruck was chosen because it is located in central Europe and thus lends itself as a base from which much interesting and beneficial travel can be conducted. Thirdly, Innsbruck is a relatively small school (enrollment of approximately 6,000) and is therefore an ideal place to begin the experiment in Notre Dame-sponsored, foreign-study programs.
Dr. Louis Hasley and Fr. Thomas Engleton have been selected as the first directors of the program. These men will stay in Innsbruck for two
years, and in their second year will be joined by another layman and priest who will assume the role of directors in the third year. Once the progrom becomes established all directors of the program will spend two years at Innsbruck, one year in a type of apprenticeship and one as a director of the program. The two directors of the program and three members of the faculty of the University of Innsbruck will be the instructors in the courses. The curriculum will follow closely the one taught in the sophomore year at Notre Dame.
Unfortunately the program is limited to sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Business Administration with the exception of accounting majors. All candidates for the program have en- 1 rolled in intensive German courses for their freshman year. Originally there were about 270 such candidates but after the intensive German course got under way a few students have decided that they really didn’t want to go to Innsbruck anyway. Somewhere near the end of this year the selection will be made. While the exact means of selection has not yet been determined, there are certain standards on which every student will be judged. The predominant idea which guides these standards is the fact that these young men will represent Notre Dame to the people of Austria. To be chosen, a candidate must do well academically and must be proficient in the German language. Also he must be somewhat sociable and of course very adaptable.
With these standards, the better than 250 candidates will be narrowed ; down to approximately fifty fortunate	j
students who will leave for Innsbruck ; next summer and step into a new	i
world.	1
13
I
The New, Simplified, Ingenious, Odorless and Fair Marking System
by David Barrett
i
i
i
I
[
I !
i
Notre Dame students returned this year to find a basic change in a fact of their existence that is to many a more pressing issue than cars, girls in dorms, phones in rooms, and the Scholastic combined. Running second only to Roman Catholicism in importance to the majority is the cumulative average.
In one of the most unexpected changes since the rediscovery of electricity, the University has made an across-the-board adjustment to all cumulative averages, basing all grades on the four-point system instead of the six.
The decision to try the four system came from a board made up of Leo Corbaci, Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, Dr. Richard J. Thompson, Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dr. Raymond J. Schub-mehl, Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, and Dr. William M. Burke.
It may not be immediately apparent why the four system is desirable. The main difficulty is that the six system is unique and more often than not it has been misunderstood by other educational institutions, resulting in improper evaluation of transcripts. The matter becomes increasingly important as more students seek graduate education.
The only advantage of the four system is that it is ubiquitous. The administration found that 80 of 106 schools polled were using the four system. The decision to change crystallized when a poll of our faculty, conducted during finals last spring, revealed that 80% favored the four system.
After deciding to make the change on a trial basis, the Academic Council then had to find a fair method of converting all existing averages to the
new system. Proposals were made, then reduced to the present conversion method — (.6) X (old grade) + (.4) = new grade. The only other proposal to receive lengthy consideration was a process of simply carrying 2/3 of the old grades. It should be obvious that the present system is better than this “next best” alternative.
Student reaction to the idea has been mixed, as the four system is generally regarded as a very good idea in itself but the conversion procedure is meeting disfavor.
On the matter of converting averages we have found a general tendency to oversimplify the situation. It is in essence a complex matter involving not only mathematical methods but also more important philosophical considerations.
We will make no attempt here to develop a general philosophy of grading, but we will have to discuss one of the basic properties of the six system. We argue at the outset that the six system is nonlinear} that is, for a given jump in the numerical grade there is not an equal jump in the literal grade. This would seem obvious to anyone who has seen a grade report or bulletin from Notre Dame. We have the same numerical jump between D and C as between C+ and B. On face value this is a nonlinear correspondence, but Dean Schubmehl has shown this conclusion to be a consequence of fallacious reasoning. We agree with Dr. Schubmehl that the above reasoning is in part fallacious — we’ll show why later — but we are not ready to admit that the conclusion is therefore invalid.
For the present discussion let us assume that the six system is nonlinear. We will also accept the four
system as linear — nobody argues about this. If these hypotheses are true we can show that the University conversion method is inequitable; we simply present the fact that one cannot take a nonlinear system, operate on it with a linear conversion factor, and expect to end up with a linear system. In order to get from a nonlinear system to a linear system we must use a compensating nonlinear conversion routine.
It is sometimes easier to call someone else’s system inadequate than to propose a better system. We present two. The results (of all three) are shown here in graphical form. We admit that the scaling between points on the “six axis” is an approximation.
The University conversion preserves only one letter grade (D) and the rank of the student. All other letter grades, drop points, probation points, Dean’s List, and honors graduation points change their literal value after conversion. We begin to wonder when an A student must be content •with an B+, B with B—, etc. How does one explain that last year one needed a C to graduate and this year a C— will be adequate? Would the University have lowered its standards had there not been a change in the grading system?
Alternative I preserves rank, drop points, probation points, graduation requirements, Dean’s List, and all literal grades. The conversion consists of a set of separate linear operations, each over a prescribed range. The entire set of them comprises a compensating nonlinear conversion routine.
To find your new average in this system, find the range scale in figure
FIGURE 1
RANGE	FORMULA
0-2	Old	Average	=	New Average
2-4	Old	Average	+	1 = New Average
—j
4-5	Old	Average	—	1 = New Average
5-6	Old	Average	+	3 = New Average
2
FIGURE 2
RANGE	formula
0-2	Old Average = New Average
2-6	Old Average + 1 = New Average
2
I i I i s
14
The Scholastic
one which covers your old average and perform the indicated operation.
Of course, if we are to preserve an A+, we must have a maximum possible grade of 4.5 after conversion. Alternative I converts a 6 average to a 4.5 or A+. We see nothing wrong with carrying an average of better than 4.0 as long as the transcript explains the extra half-point. This objection would disappear in at most four years.
Alternative H is presented for those who feel that the new average should not go above 4.0. To find your new average under this second system, consult figure two; find your range and, again, perform the indicated operation.
This system preserves the drop and probation points, rank, graduation requirement, and literal averages up to B inclusive. Above B a progressive compression takes place. (This compression is less than the University compression at every point except 6.0.)
For either Alternative to be valid we must show that the six system is indeed nonlinear. Dr. Schubmehl cogently argues that it is a linear system because 90% of the teachers grade on a linear basis. He contends that most teachers give no thought to any literal aspect of grades they give, but rather merely divide the range between 70 and 100 into equal sections and equate them with numbers from 1 to 6. Dr. Schubmehl concludes that this policy constitutes a linear system.
We contend that the above argument proves only that there is a linear correspondence between one numerical system (70-100) and another (1-6). It says nothing about any correspondence between literal and numerical grades.
We feel that literal import has been subsequently attached to the linear numerical grades in a realistic and nonlinear manner. It has been done this way so that a normal curve of literal grades given here will approximate that of another good school, i.e., the center point is C+, Dean’s List A—, etc. If the cumulative averages of each student at Notre Dame all happened to lie between 5.0 and 5.6 we would then have defined 5.2 to be the probation point, 5.3 to be C+, 5.45 to be Dean’s List, and so forth. From the above argument we conclude that the correspondence between literal and numerical grades is not a linear one.
Thomas G. O’Brien, Student Body Vice-President, has worked out an equitable conversion procedure that is similar to Alternative IL The two procedures yield identical results if
your average is below 5.0. Above that his conversion formula is dependent upon the levels chosen for honors graduation. Alternative H demands that honors graduation levels be set after the conversion routine is set. Although this would appear to resemble the “chicken-or-egg?” dispute, his system is really more flexible in that the University can choose honors levels compatible with other schools of our caliber. (The University would benefit if a full study were made of the requirements and average distributions of other universities.)
There is a human factor involved in the evaluation of transfer credits, of graduate applications, and of job
(4)
(3)
(2)
(1)
(O)
+ ►5	Deviation from
Literal Grade in 4 System
O
applications. There exist certain images of “the A student,” “the B student,” that permeate our educational culture to such an extent that explanations of possible inequities of conversion will never offset the impression of a literal grade taken at face value.
Since requirements for Dean’s List have not been voted on as yet, we take this opportunity to offer a suggestion. We feel that if Dean’s List were decided on a percentile-within-college basis, much ill-feeling and inequity among the various colleges would be eliminated. Further we see no reason to have to compute this on a time basis other than per semester.
COMPRESSION
Grade in
September 27, 1963
Lawrence of Arabia
‘'FANTASIES these will seem, to such as are able to call my beginning an ordinary effort.”
—T. E. LAWRENCE
The “spectacular” has probably never been used as a medium for conveying an intense study of a single man, fictitious or otherwise, until now, the grand gesture, Lawrence of Arabia. It is a portrait which hovers above the true story of the First World War in the Middle East, the legend of T. E. Lawrence. From the outset, as a biographical pretension, the movie is quite a failure: it does not render history as such, not even the legend as a legend. In fact the story is very much left to its own, to be read in the Seven Pillars of Wisdom and other books on the Middle Eastern Campaign. The movie is concerned with how the man must have been, and it forgets the background of real experience against which and because of which the man was as he was. It tries to be objective and realistic without considering the grounds of proper objectivity and realism, and it does not describe the man, rather it explains him; that is, there is a system into which elements of his life discretely fit, that system is contrived, and it is a substitute for biography which nonetheless possesses biographical intent.
The movie is well-directed, and the acting of Alec Guiness (Feisal), Anthony Quinn (Auda Abu Tayi),
Jack Hawkins (General Allenby), and Jose Ferrer (Bey Turk) is practically unquestionable insofar as they become characters who occupy a certain posture within a set and determinate structure. The weight of everything the movie could do falls on Peter O’Toole, who plays Lawrence. The structure of the movie is polar. Ali Ibn El Kharish (played by Omar Sharif), Feisal, and Auda Abu Tayi are the central figures of the Arab world; General Allenby, Dryden (Claude Rains), and Colonel Brighton (Anthony Quayle) are the central figures of the English world. From the Arab viewpoint Lawrence is a prophet and a savior, a man who is at least almost perfect, and who, white-skinned, possesses a sensibility more; truly Arabic and within the tradition of the country whose city Cordua had two miles of public lighting when London was a village than the members of Arab tribes themselves. And during his most vital moments he is this to himself too, one who possesses an Arabic viewpoint and learns that he cannot entirely possess the Arabic culture and manner of being a part of the greater world. But to the English he is a pretentious self-ingratiating and selfdeluding show-off who possesses an incomprehensible charm with the “dirty wogs” of the desert, a man with some vague and silly notion that he could give freedom to the Arabs. The movie takes no viewpoint struc
turedly; both ideas of Lawrence are patently obvious in his character. From both standpoints Lawrence personifies a kind of passionate force, humanistic and ultimately good, and it is directly at this point of agreement that the Lawrence played by Peter O’Toole emerges and against all the weight of system and structure rises out of interpretation and opinion, beyond it, to a place held by few men to whom we can look. He comes to represent a kind of available hero. He is gently though very obviously arrogant, but he does not intrude; he is almost obsessed with self-denial or the enjoyment of pain, that sort of masochism which characterizes the lyric mentality so often, and which is inevitably the manifestation of a violence almost beyond the comprehension of the mind. He is merciful, passionately, almost as a reaction to the yearning to destroy which he feels in himself. He lives through exerting force on people — himself and others — and recognizes in himself his truest vitality only when he is rejoicing in death or change, or enjoying the poignancy of guilt. He is a fairly intolerant man, and is embarrassed in the company of others, where his demands can be only out of place. He assumes a pose, a grand pose, that of a great man, and believes in himself as that pose he erected, intentionally forgetting that he ever posed at all. And in this perhaps is his greatest charm, for he describes himself through word and especially gesture in a way that testifies to the ability of an act of the will to form the personality . . . that a pose is simply active will creating a self from the stuff of imagination, and that the person can become that self.
Not that he was posing but why is Lawrence’s secret in the movie. Although the movie as a whole presents
16
The Scholastic
itself as a system of ironies and an explanation, Lawrence himself is descriptive, expressive, he postures himself in his radical ambiguity against a background, a background where opinions about him and created by him are pleached with a special political situation through which he moves. And what is more inherent in his expression is that it is necessarily incomplete and indeterminate, incomplete because it does not reveal the secret which would betray him to himself and the world, indeterminate because his idea of himself is always changing as he passes through experience and reflects upon that experience — the experience of murder, of torture at the hands of the Bey Turk, of friendship and glory, of deception, or quasi-deception, by his commanding officer, the experience of the thrust and recoil of his own pride in himself, experiences through which his amazing intensity came to climax as personal tragedy. One statement of T. E. Lawrence, from the epilogue of his book, is epitomized by the movie and its structural climax, the needless slaying of thousands of Turks by Lawrence and his troops:
Damascus had not seemed a sheath for my sword, when I landed in Arabia: but its capture disclosed the exhaustion of my main springs of action. The strongest motive throughout had been a personal one, not mentioned here, but present to me, I think, every hour of these two years. Active pains and joys might fling up, like towers, among my days: but refluent as air, this hidden urge reformed, to be the persisting element of life, till near the end. It was dead, before we reached Damascus.
Lawrence is the only uncontrivedly human character in the movie, but
September 27, 1963
this is not to say that the others are without vitality. Insofar as they become implicated in Lawrence, his motivations and his ideals, each of them achieves a life-giving ambiguity, and their life supports his in turn for his having created theirs.
General Allenby both deceives and believes in Lawrence. Feisal owes to him everything (“What I owe to you is beyond evaluation”) but is somewhat eager fo have him gone, to reduce the state of affairs once more to the iniquity and dishonesty of peacetime caution. At the end, in sudden realization, Colonel Brighton rushes away from the politicians to make a forthright appeal to Lawrence; but he is gone, and it is too late. In a wonderful paradigm of the relation of true friends looking outward to a goal, Ali is given enormous life because of his sympathy and love for the character who must transcend the horizons of the movie. Lawrence perhaps makes everyone uneasy, but that is because he is an interesting man, and because he can, at least for a time, bear success, and remain quiet in his failure.
Hans Urs Von Balthasar, in Science, Religion and Christianity, speaks somewhat to the point for he speaks of Lawrence as a man noble because he is alone — alone with the secret through which he attains dignity:
The desert man is the modern "noble man”; he has the qualities of the soldier but without militarism, he is a Stoic but with heroism, hard but without the passion of hardness that Nietzsche ascribed to the "blond beast.” His solitude is uncramped and not exalte, it is meant to prove that even in the machine age the perfect gentleman still exists, educated precisely by his handling of material to a justice
combined with justness, such as had become unknown in the decaying bourgeoisie. Laxcrence is the contemplative in politics. . . .
From some sides, serious criticism of the movie has called into question the device of the “flash forward” — the device of portraying the death of the hero before demonstrating the movements of his life. But perhaps the art of the motion picture itself is incapable of providing the demanded sort of realistic tone that the initial death sets up, giving to the reader a viewpoint for the rest of the picture. In a novel there would be no question, and nothing would be sacrificed to melodrama; but here, except as a system, there is no man between the viewer and the characters. Perhaps the device for realism is necessary because the person, Lawrence, is so noble-appearing, and so unquestionably sympathetic that he would carry the audience entirely out of his own meaning to the glory that simply does not exist, the silly glory of men made gods, of, for example, El Cid. His life must be eminently available, so perhaps his death must come first, for it keeps him above all human, and it lays the ground for the irony that later involves Lawrence, the irony a god could not be implicated in, and would be only irrelevant. To substitute form for biography, opinion for description, and to allow the miracle of Lawrence’s pose to bring him his proper grandeur, perhaps the story needed the preface that would cast a pall over any thoughts of immortality and halt the erstwhile viewer from rising too far to the occasion. It is a fine structural device, for it makes a circle, an ending meaning, out of the movie. The finish of the movie leads directly and in-
(Continued on page 31)
17
Football season's only a day aicay note. but the girls got a jump on the guys last week when St. Mary’s gridettes took on the damsels from Barat. . . . Barat won. 19-5. Scholastic photographer Pat Ford had his camera handy and snapped these pictures . . .
18
The Scholastic
September 27, 1963
19

X K *
Two Children of the Industrial Revolution
npHE Industrial Revolution began 1 some two hundred years ago in England. Since that time man has made greater material progress than in all his previous life on earth. This material progress has produced and is producing vast economic, social and political changes in human society.
Man’s material progress is measurable by his ability to extend and amplify his control of energies by the use of tools. His primitive progress was exceedingly slow because his knowledge of energies was so limited. He first discovered the energy he himself was able to generate in his own body. He extended this energy by the invention of such tools as the club, the hammer, the knife, slings, bows, levers, the wheel, the saw, axe, file and eventually the boat, the oar and the sail. To enlarge and expand the world of his energy control, man enslaved his fellow man and domesticated a variety of wild animals: horses, oxen, mules, donkeys, camels, elephants and dogs. Having observed the force in the wind and invented the sail, he likewise beheld the latent power in falling water and eventually invented ways to control this energy for grinding grains and weaving cloth.
These were man’s primitive sources of energy: himself, his fellow man, domesticated animals, the surging winds and the falling waters. To utilize and control these obvious energies he had invented simple tools and a few machines such as the plow, the carriage and the loom. These represented the extent of his discoveries and inventions throughout his history prior to the Industrial Revolution. Thus man’s mastery of living techniques had made but slow and limited progress even during the five or six thousand years of recorded history. Methods of manufacture (production), transportation (distribution) and communication had improved but little from the time of Solomon to the reign of Louis XIV. This was so because, during all those centuries, man had discovered no new sources of nature’s latent energies.
James Watt of England changed the life of Western man. He contemplated the latent power in steam and,
by David Frederick Smith in 1769, invented the steam engine, the magic new tool of man. The steam engine, modified and improved by subsequent inventors, became the new and revolutionary source of power in factories (production), steamboats and railways (transportation).
In amazing and rapid succession other sources of energy were discovered and tools for their control invented. As early as 1795 William Murdoch of London was experimenting with gas as a public utility, and in 1832 James Sharp of Northampton, England, demonstrated the practicality of gas for cooking. In August of 1859 petroleum was discovered at the Drake well on Oil Creek, Titusville, Pennsylvania, and the gasoline extracted from this new source of energy later became the astonishing source of power for automobiles and airplanes. Within less than a hundred years after Watt’s invention of the steam engine the mind of man was working with another new and mysterious source of power, electricity. And in our own times man has discovered, and put to use, the incredible power imprisoned within the atom.
The discovery of electricity and its possibilities for conveying sound on wires revolutionized all previous methods of communication. In 1844 Robert Morse coded his famous first telegraph message: “What hath God wrought!” and in 1876 Alexander Graham Bell spoke into his new invention, the telephone, these words to his assistant in the adjoining room: “Mr. Watson, come here. I want you.”
In 1888 Hertz, a German physicist at the University of Bonn, discovered that he could make electric waves jump a given distance through space without wire. Out of this discovery Marconi, an Italian, invented wireless telegraphy; and in 1906 Lee DeForest, an American, invented an electric tube that would cause the wireless signal to flow in a constant stream, thus creating the communication tool known as radio. And this led directly to the invention of television. These electrically impelled methods of communication over wires and through the ether increased the rate of speed from a little less than a quarter of a mile per second to
186,000 miles per second!
Thus within the historically short span of 200 years, man’s inventions have created for him tools with which to produce and distribute goods, and to communicate his ideas at enormously increased rates. These increased rates have produced a way of life abounding with convenience and luxuries for all classes unknown in formei' times even to kings and potentates. But it was not the intelligence of the inventor only which has created these benefits: His genius has been supplemented by the intelligence of industrialists, financiers, and the men who manipulated the tools, the workers.
The mind of man is itself a magnificent machine. Its manipulating energy is probably electrical. Its awareness responds to impulses stimulated by instincts, emotions and sensations. One of its most useful attributes is imagination, the faculty by means of which man can cause to pass before his mind’s eye, his consciousness, images of material things. This is the process by means of which man beholds possibilities and creates ideas which are the conclusions arrived at.
Man can create two kinds of practical ideas: (1) those that can be transformed into physical replicas, inventions such as the steam engine; (2) those that can be utilized as laws governing and regulating the behavior of human beings, such as the Constitution of the United States.
Back of all these evidences of life there is the mysterious urge of the life force, igniting the mind of man with strong ambitions. Schopenhauer called this urge the will to live. Nietzsche called it the will to power. I perceive it as an insatiable human appetite and call it power-hunger.
XX7e can therefore reduce human life to this formula: Man has managed to live on this planet by applying his energy (muscular and mental) to natural resources, with the aid of tools which he has increased and multiplied by ideas (inventions) and energized by the drive of his power-hunger.
This power-hunger in man expresses itself in various ways: (1)
20
The Scholastic
David Frederick Smith, a native of Indiana, is an accountant executive with a Cincinnati brokerage firm. He is author of a novel, numerous short stories, and many articles on 'political and philosophical subjects.
Power over self, mind and body; (2) Power over members of the family or tribe; (3) Power over slaves or domesticated beasts; (4) Power over employees, or colleagues, or political adherents, or soldiers; (5) Power of position or offices; (6) Power of fame; (7) Power of wealth.
The will to power is good and healthy as long as it drives men to act for the benefit of those from whom the power flows. But in politics and the government of peoples and nations, those who are in control of the power often become intoxicated with its flow through them. This intoxication induces them to forget the real source of their power, and to believe that it originates with themselves.
Thus Louis XTV of France, who believed himself to be absolute in his power, boasted quite frankly: “I am the State.” Yet in less than a hundred years the French masses, the positive source of the king’s power, exploded in the Revolution and guillotined his grandson, Louis XVI.
The absolutism of the French monarchy was typical of most governments throughout the history of man — rulers given power from and by the masses, and then exercising that power one?’ the people instead of for the people. This had been true of Oriental Sultans, Roman Emperors and Dictators, the Romanoffs of Russia and the Hapsburgs of Austria. The ancient Greeks had experimented with various forms of Democracy, but always the power-hunger, the appetite for power, had obsessed and cor
rupted leaders, turning them into dictators. After the dissolution of the Roman Empire in the West, Europe found herself fragmented into nations, with kings at the central control of national power. This powerhunger of royalty was explained and defended in the theory of the Divine Right of Kings. According to this theory the king could do no wrong. Whatever he did was right because his authority flowed directly to him from God in heaven.
Throughcut the history of man, until the coming of the Industrial Revolution only 200 years ago, the rulers of men (centers of power) had surrounded themselves with favored adherents who assisted in the management of power — Princes, Lords, Dukes, Counts. Their titles (and estates) became hereditary. They, with their families, formed the nobility, the aristocracy. Since there were no modern tools known to royalty and nobility prior to the advent of the Industrial Revolution, the production and distribution of goods and services was very slow and expensive. None but the aristocrats commanded the wealth with which to hire, or own, the energy of human labor. They could live in comfort and luxury. But the poor, the laborers, the masses, lived wretchedly.
With the coming of the Industrial Revolution convulsive social changes rapidly demolished the ancient order of living. The new wealth of nations, increasing amazingly, was distributed, not among the aristocrats, but among
men who aggressively pushed themselves into positions of power — bankers, manufacturers, financiers and merchants — and some of it filtered down to the factory workers. During the first one hundred years of the Industrial Revolution the new rich, called the bourgeoisie, or capitalists, discovered, and felt, and exercised with all too human pleasure this new power. The workers, or proletariat, felt the flow of power but were unable to capture any of it. They were unorganized.
The enormous increase in production and distribution created a surplus of wealth that could be translated into money, or capital, which had accrued from profits on investments in enterprises. Governments might tax these enterprises but the system prospered because the enterprises were granted freedom. The Capitalist System, first child of the Industrial Revolution, generated a new power in the social and political orders of the Western World.
The first requisite of the Capitalist System was freedom. This requisite found a happy protection in the United States of America, a nation that had come into being at the very moment the Industrial Revolution was beginning in Europe, a nation that had cast off all the ancient chains and power-privileges of monarchs and aristocracies. America became the natural exponent of Capitalism, the natural habitat of free enterprise, the great example of the profit system, the successful magnet of freedom at-
September 27, 1963
21
Industrial Revolution continued
tracting the repressed and the oppressed from nations all over the world where citizens were still shackled to governmental power controls that had not liberated themselves from ancient tyrannies.	'
Meanwhile, during that first century of the Industrial Revolution in Europe, many philosophers, most of them overflowing with compassion for the proletariat, had proclaimed ideas describing how industry could and should be governed by the State, ideas which took on the general name of Socialism. None, however, had so clearly outlined the manner in which the social and political transformation could be accomplished as Karl Marx (1818-1883), first in the Communist Manifesto (1848) and later (1860s) in his master work Das Kapital.
The Socialists believed the transition of power from private capitalists to the State could be accomplished gradually and peaceably. Marx preached an abrupt and violent change, a destruction of the prevailing social and political structures and a setting up of entirely new controls (of power) under the dictatorship of the proletariat. The necessity, he believed, was impelled by the historic inevitability of the proletariat’s rise to supremacy: In primitive states of civilization (he argued) the laborers had been slaves to men of power; later, under Feudalism, the laborers had been slaves to the soil, serfs; now, under the factory system of the Industrial Revolution they were slaves to wages, wage slaves. The final step in the evolution of the laborer, the proletariat, would be the seizure of
power from the Capitalist System.
In no moment or period in human history prior to the Industrial Revolution would it have been possible to organize the common workingman. But the Industrial Revolution had brought laborers from the farms into cities where they might work in factories so that they were no longer isolated individuals or tiny groups of individuals, but large groups that could be organised. In previous states of society the laborer’s horizons had been limited by the will of a master, or the extent of an estate, a region, a nation. But now the wage-slave of France had goals in common with the wage-slaves of Germany and England.
Marx perceived in this social transformation the proletariat as a new source of power. To harness this potential, it would be necessary to collect the national groups into one international body thinking and acting as a unified political party — the International Communist Party. This became the lifework of Karl Marx.
He declared a class war between the (capitalist) bourgeoisie and the (wage-slave) proletariat. He knew war is only possible where there is hatred, so he fueled the flame of hatred with such portrayals as: “in a society based on capital and wage, he, who before was owner, now strides in front as capitalist; the possessor of labour-power follows as his labourer. The one with an air of importance, smirking, intent on business; the other, timid and holding back, like one who is bringing his own hide to market and has nothing to expect but — a hiding” (page 196, Das Kapital).
Fueling the Communist fanaticism with such slogans as class war and dictatorship of the proletariat, Marx succeeded in organizing the First International, with headquarters in London and himself at its head. However, within a few years this organization fell apart and was dissolved. Later, some years after the death of Marx, the idea was revived, and a Second International was organized in Paris in 1889. Eventually this second attempt also disintegrated.
The impatient leaders of world Communism were planning a third effort at international organization in Vienna when the First World War erupted, making such a meeting unthinkable. But this same conflict, destined as it was to destroy the previous monarchical powers of both Germany and Russia, blasted an opening for power seizure by militant Communism: early in the war Germany crushed Russia, the Czar abdicated, Russia declared for democracy under Kerensky. Here was Communism’s magnificent opportunity: The rest of the world was concentrated on the war and therefore none of the capitalist nations might interfere. In 1917 Lenin and Trotsky, with a well-organized Red Army, stamped out the Kerensky government and proclaimed unto Communism the control and the power of government over all Russia. In 1919 the Third International was founded in Moscow by delegates from 12 countries as a call to Communists everywhere to support the Russian Revolution and to inaugurate similar movements elsewhere.
So at last the idea born and nurtured in the mind of Karl Marx had become reality, even though it had been modified by filtration through the mind of Lenin. Communism, the second child of the Industrial Revolution, had been born, though strangely enough, not in a capitalist country. There were indeed few factory workers (proletariat) in Russia! After World War I Communism made a desperate and bloody effort to attain power control in Hungary but was defeated by the forces of democracy, as it was in Germany by Hitler’s fanatical forces. And out of the European wreckage created by World War H, none of the highly industrialized nations fell into the power-hungry maw of Communism.
Obviously Communism is not a way of life constructed on principles of individual freedom. It is an escape from mankind’s recent attempts to attain freedom for the individual through a government by, of and for the people; it is an escape and a return to abso-
( Continued on page 33)
22
The Scholastic
The Art of Folk Music
by Brian Jorgensen
To me, a good folk song seems something like a poem that’s always being written. Some of the authors may be in Eternity, and at least one is thumping and picking and strumming out his own measure of time with his feet and fingers. And making love to the song with his voice, losing a little of himself in it, hoping to bring forth something with a face and limbs unspoiled by the drugs of fear or laziness that it’s always too easy to get, too hard to detect. Love is needed, and by love I mean, among other things, genuine respect and tenderness. Just use a song, without love, and it soon is a harlot, or a schizophrenic at the least. Songs aren’t helpless, however. They’ve been known to change people. A long look into the big brown eyes of Shady Grove or Little Maggie, or the shifty green ones of Darlin’ Corey, and many a Scruggs user has switched to the less flashy but better fitting style of frailing.
What a folk singer may as well exploit, it seems to me, is the current craze for what might as well be called folk music. That is to say, let the crows draw a crowd, and the eagles soar with the hope that a few will risk a wrinkled collar in trying to follow.
But what is all this talk about love and soaring anyway? A fellow learns three chords, finds two friends, and, though in my own opinion it was a rather feeble fire which produced the original of this Phoenix, let’s say the Kingston Trio rises reborn in all its original verve and enthusiasm. The listeners clap their hands, or just relax. The singers find relaxation.
September 27, 1963
I agree and disagree. “Damn braces, bless relaxes,” {The Marriage of Heaven & Hell by William Blake), a devil was heard to mumble, and even Milton would have agreed there was something in it, if it had not been so puritanical. But the poor devil was probably at a hootenanny when he said it. Personally, I do not consider Dr. T. J. Eckleberg, staring out over his ash heap relaxed, and the same goes for the clapping, chewing, blank-eyed faces that often sway into view on ABC’s Hootenanny, or file in and out of one night spot or another. The eagle has simply submitted to the crow. To relax means to become freer, to break or at least loosen bonds, and though our hands may be freer than those of many of the people who gave us folk songs, our singing proceeds from a posture as rigid as if we were sitting for a tintype. It is in part this way of using “our” in relation to folk music that has caused me to mix metaphor and contradict myself above. “The purpose of folk-singing is for folks to sing and hear what they want to,” said a friend of mine. For me this doesn’t go far enough.
In a way I wish I hadn’t brought in purpose, because it’s going to make me pontificate even more than I have up until now. (I have a feeling that the only beings who ought to pontificate and expect to be tolerated are the Pope and such devils as William Blake was familiar with; the former because it is his right and duty, the latter because they do it with so much fire though too often we seem to stare at the ashes and not the shaping flame). But a sort of gen
eral purpose of folk music seems to me to be to cause us to live more fully in time. As for defining time, Woody Guthrie said what I wish I had: “I don’t know what this stuff called time is made out of. Don’t even know where it boils up and steams up from, don’t even know where time rolls back to. I don’t know what I, my own self am made out of, because just about every day I find out that I’m made of something new, like time its own self is.” {California to New York Island by Woodie Guthrie.) Definable or not then, we’re stuck here for now, and the only way to look at where we’re going is to see where we are, eyes open and focused. “Seek and you shall find,/ Knock and the door shall be opened,/ Ask, and it shall be given,/ When the love come a’ tumblin’ down.” If here and now I can sing to you about a lover or the man in the moon (whose name is Akin Drum), about the streets of Laredo or Birmingham or Heaven, then out of the waste of yesterday a bird might be lifting; life may be growing, breaking bonds and manacles; eternal life even, life out of love. “Eternity is in love with the productions of Time” (Blake, Mar. of Heav. and Hell). Or, as a folk song puts it:	•
“Two white horses
Side by side Me and my Jesus Gonna take a ride
Gonna argue with the Father Chatter with the Son Talk about this old world Where I come from.”
23
Fall Open House
a wiggle forward
by Joe Wilson
//All the boys around here seem to “ be snobs,” she said. Sheila’s her name, and she’s a sophomore at Rosary. She told me that the boys were “more friendly this year,” compared to last year’s open house. So I pursued this, hopefully, and found that “more friendly” meant that a couple of boys had said hello to her during the afternoon. Other girls told me that we were successfully guarding our rating as one of the country’s top snob schools — the girls say that only Harvard and Yale are ahead of us.
Walking past Sorin, where everyone was sitting on the porch, to the tennis courts, where the girls were standing around while the guys (1) played basketball or (2) stood in small safe groups listening to the music, and to the fieldhouse, where there were seven couples dancing, I asked some of the guys to criticize the afternoon’s activities. The comment most heard, as usual, was that there simply weren’t enough girls. (Since some of the busses left early in the evening, this complaint was probably more reasonable during the “activities” at the Stepan Center.) This was usually said as a group of six or seven lovelies came past in a convoy (for protection?). When I pointed this out, however, I was informed by underclassmen that the girls just weren’t good-looking enough. Upperclassmen told me that they weren’t interested in trying.
Speaking of fantastic — what about those Isley Brothers! The people in
the Dept, of Primitive Studies were overjoyed at their appearance. (I’m not saying they were bad — ridiculous understatement bores me.) Reportedly a former musician, their rather terrific drummer held all the screaming and shouting together enough so that some really fine entertainment (not to be confused with music) could loosen up that vile Notre Dame snobbishness. The Stepan Center storm troopers were admirable as they managed to hold the stage against all comers — almost.
Jim Walsh, Social Commissioner; Joe King, Fall Open House Chairman; and Joe Sotak, Business Manager, arranged for the day’s activities and no doubt had quite a time putting this whole affair together in the short time since we’ve been back. The only general criticism of their efforts was that nobody knew quite what was going on; it seems that a good number of the residence halls were missed by the publicity chairman. The girls almost unanimously voted for some sort of bleacher arrangement for next year’s St. Mary’s-Barat football game — they had quite a bit of trouble seeing what was going on when they moved out of the first row, they said.
So, with ND getting a reputation for good weekends, “a more friendly” atmosphere, and a hard-working Social Commission to spend lots of money, we should eventually find ourselves in the unusual position of having “enough” girls to go around. Maybe next spring?
The Scholastic
24
Run Run and Run Some More
Seldom, if ever, has any Notre ’ Dame athletic team owed as much to any one high school as the 1963 cross-country team owes Philadelphia’s Cardinal Dougherty High School. This fall’s team, potentially the best in the school’s history, will depend heavily on three Dougherty graduates—all “C” men: Captain Frank Carver, junior Bill Clark, and sophomore Mike Coffey.
Carver, who was the outstanding runner of the 1961 team, is compact, short-legged, and runs very much like a machine — he is simply inexhaustible.
In 1962, Clark joined Carver and, if anything, overshadowed him. At least one of the two had a good day in any meet; if it was not Carver’s day it was Clark’s; if Clark ran a poor race, Carver ran a strong one. And on one dreary afternoon in Bloomington, they even finished in a deliberate tie for first — with no one near them.
Now, in 1963, Notre Dame has yet a third of Dougherty Coach Jack St. Clair’s proteges, and he may be even better than Carver and Clark. “Mike Coffey,” says Coach Alex Wilson, “is potentially our best runner.”
Wilson, unusually expansive this fall, continued: “This year’s team should be one of the best, if not the best, in our history. It has tremendous potential. We’re very well balanced and lost only one letterman.
Most of our runners are experienced juniors, but we have a few good sophomores to press them.
“We have five or six outstanding distance men. Carver and Clark were the nucleus of last year’s team, and they’re both back, along with Bill Welch, Pat Conroy, and Rich Fennelly. Welch has improved considerably since last season, when he missed a couple of weeks because of heat prostration.
“Our top sophomores are Coffey, Ed Dean (from Chaminade high school on Long Island, where he was a teammate of Bill Boyle), and Larry Dirnberger.
“A cross-country team must be well balanced to be successful. In scoring, the places of a team’s first five finishers are totaled (2, 4, 5, 8,11 = 30) and the team with the lower score wins. It’s better for a team to have many good runners than one or two outstanding ones. Getting second, third, and fourth is much more important than just getting a first place.
Wilson has been conducting two workouts a day — the first at 7:00 a.m. — since September 15. At that time, six men ran under ten minutes in the annual Alex Wilson Two-Mile Spectacular, causing him to remark, “When six boys run like that on the first day of practice, I know we’re going to have a good season. The better shape they’re in initially, the
harder we can push them in preparation for the first meet.”
The 1963 harriers also have depth in Al Wittine, George Carroll, Jim Lynch, Jack Mulligan, John Salzman, and Kevin Walsh.
That the season ahead holds great promise is evident; indeed, if the “Old Master” is getting out of bed at six in the morning to supervise practice, he is certain he has a winner.
But even the more distant future — 1966, for example — seems bright because of freshman Harold Spiro. Spiro, naturally, is a graduate of Cardinal Dougherty High School.
The Schedule —
Oct. 11—Indiana at Notre Dame
Oct. 18—Notre Dame Invitational Meet at Notre Dame
Oct. 25—Michigan State at Notre Dame
Nov. 1—Indiana State Championships in Bloomington
Nov. 8—Chicago Track Club at Chicago
Nov. 15—Central Collegiate Conference Championships at Chicago
Nov. 18—IC4A Meet in New York
Nov. 25—NCAA Meet in East Lansing
— Rex Lardner
September 27, 1963
25
'T' raditions have always played a significant role in Notre Dame football, and tomorrow afternoon Wisconsin’s Badgers must buck one of the oldest: the Irish simply don’t lose opening games.
Only twice in the twentieth century has Notre Dame lost an openingday football game, both times to teams of the Southwest Conference. Texas edged the Irish 7-6 in 1934, and Southern Methodist dealt Notre Dame a 19-13 defeat in 1956; Wisconsin, incidentally, tied Notre Dame in the 1942 opener.
This year’s Wisconsin team, however, is the most formidable openinggame opponent the Irish have met in recent years. The Badgers have 25 lettermen returning from a 1962 team which beat Notre Dame 17-8, won the Big Ten championship, and gave Southern Cal a scare in the Rose Bowl.
All eleven starters are veterans, with six seniors and a junior manning the line spots. Quarterback Harold
Brandt, halfback Lou Holland, and fullback Ralph Kurek provided most of the offensive punch as Wisconsin dismantled Western Michigan, 41-0, last weekend.
Brandt has played extensively in only two games, and has been erratic. Last season he passed well, pitching to Pat Richter for two touchdowns in Wisconsin’s 69-13 rout of New Mexico State; he finished the season with 18 completions in 36 attempts for 228 yards.
Against Western Michigan, however, Brandt’s passing was far off form (Badger quarterbacks completed only eight of 25 passes for 87 yards) ; he ran well instead, scoring twice.
Holland is a senior halfback who scored eleven touchdowns last season, set a Big Ten scoring record, and averaged 5.5 yards per carry. Kurek, a junior, is a bull-strong line crasher.
Opposing Wisconsin’s veteran eleven, veteran coach, and proven offense will be a Notre Dame team with untried players, a new coach, and an as yet
untested offense.
Sophomore fullback Pete “Diesel” Duranko heads the list of players either untried or untried at new positions. However, the massive 220-pounder whose broad shoulders carry many of Notre Dame’s hopes for 1963, seems destined to fulfill his promise. The outstanding player of the Old-Timers’ game, he scored twice and averaged 7.2 yards for 13 carries.
Jack Snow, a junior who saw limited (11 minutes) action last season, will be a new starter at a new position — flanker back. At this position, Snow should be able to use his speed and pass-catching ability to keep the Wisconsin secondary from double-teaming Jim Kelly; if the Badgers persist in playing two men on Kelly, Snow could very well become the surprise player of tomorrow’s game.
Junior Joe Farrell is also playing at a new position. With Duranko established at fullback, Coach Hugh Devore moved Farrell to left half, where he will both bolster the running
Something Old ... Something New
Notre Dame, with untried players, a new coach, and a still-unproved offense, tomorrow meets a veteran Wisconsin team.
by John Whelan
26
attack and add stability to a young backfield. Farrell tied for the team scoring lead last season with 24 points, and rushed for 278 yards in 70 carries.
The battle for the quarterback job still rages, with Denny Szot and John Huarte contesting the starting position. Neither has had much game experience: Szot played 45 minutes last season, and completed 18 of 45 passes for 245 yards. Huarte played only five minutes and hit on half of his eight pass attempts.
Szot (see cut) will probably start because of his slight edge in experience and because of his outstanding performance in the fall intrasquad game. In the Partners in Progress exhibition, he moved the first team 80 yards in two minutes, completing all eight of his passes, and scoring himself on an option play.
In the line, the loss of tackles Dave Humenik and Gene Penman to that most tragic of all diseases — Notre Dame of the knee — hurt the Irish
where they were thinnest. But rookies Dick Arrington (230) and John Meyer (210) have performed well and Devore hopes that they’ll be able to fill the gap.
Giving the Irish tremendous strength up the middle are Captain Bob Lehmann and George Bednar at guard, and Jim Carroll at center. Lehmann led the team in tackles last season with 61, Carroll leads all 1963 squad members with 379 minutes of playing time in 1962, and Bednar was credited with 45 tackles.
Much has been rumored and written about Jim Kelly and the magic words All-American. The magazine whose “sports” pictures adorn the walls of many campus rooms named him to its pre-season team, as did a host of others.
But Kelly will be under tremendous pressure against Wisconsin and in the games to follow. He will face double-and triple-teaming; he will be expected to perform spectacularly on each play of each game; a merely ade
quate performance will be subject to considerable criticism. Kelly will certainly need all the poise he can muster for he is a marked man for fans and foes alike.
Much has also been rumored and written about the NCAA’s new substitution rule, but it still remains a mystery to most. It boils down to unlimited substitution on second and third downs, and only two substitutes on first and fourth downs. The rule permits a coach to put in a punter or a pair of runback specialists, but keeps him from substituting an entire team on first or fourth down — thus discouraging the use of specialized offensive and defensive teams, such as those used by Paul Dietzel during his tenure at Louisiana State.
Another, less known, rule also makes its debut tomorrow: the quarterback is now an eligible pass receiver.
When Notre Dame takes the field against Wisconsin, a new era of Notre Dame football will begin, with a new coach, a new offense, and new hope.

Battle at Charles
River
Notre Dame made a bold run for the North American Dinghy Championship, but the Easterners from Princeton had too much savvy of the tricky Charles River.
Eastern supremacy in intercollegiate yacht racing was asserted once more this past summer at Boston, but only after Notre Dame — the Midwest’s best — threatened to break tradition and end Eastern monopoly of the North American Dinghy Championship.
In a showdown of the continent’s best college sailing crews from five districts (from the Midwest: district champion Notre Dame and runner-up Wisconsin), the Irish faced such sectional standouts as British Columbia, Stanford, Harvard, and Princeton. Surprisingly, the Irish had enough wind in their sails to place sixth in the ten-team field. But the East, as expected, won the championship as Princeton and Harvard finished first and second respectively.
Although 1963 marked the twentyseventh consecutive year an Eastern school has snared the title, it appeared from the outset that this could be an outsider’s year. Undeniably, the Irish made a good run foi' the cup, but unfortunately, they couldn’t sustain their momentum. After leading the field through the first four races, Notre Dame was slowed as both the Charles River and some smooth sailing by the Ivy schools began to take effect.
Accustomed to lake racing, the Irish encountered shifty tidal and cross-current problems inherent in river racing. Though this was an immediate disadvantage for Notre Dame, it was not for Princeton and Harvard, who had sailed on the Charles River before. Experience with familiar waters and its trouble spots proved a significant factor—the decisive factor—for Princeton.
If there is dejection in the Irish camp over the sailing club’s summer performance, then it is certainly unwarranted. A sixth-place finish in the nationals is a laudable feat, considering the stature of the competing teams. The four-man team that represented Notre Dame in the nationals — Tom Fox, Bob Singewald, Art Lange and Skip Kaiser — can boast a very enviable truth: sailing in 1963 enjoyed the greatest success of any sport — club, minor or varsity — at Notre Dame.
— Gary Sabatte
28
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
SOCCER: All-Midwest star Hernon Puentes, Mariano Gonzales, Herman Friedman, Captain John Poelker, and twenty more returnees from last year’s highly successful (6-2-1) soccer team should combine to make this season the best in the brief history of Notre Dame soccer.
Coach S. R. Ried is also pleased by the freshman turnout, and is hopeful of gaining an NCAA at-large berth. The team will play back-to-back home games this weekend: Saturday at 10:30 against Calvin and Sunday at 2:00 against Purdue.
RUGBY: Divided this year into two equal squads — Blue and Gold — the rugby club begins its third season. Despite a difficult schedule, CaptainCoach Rob Meir is optimistic that the Irish will improve on their 1963 record of 6-3-1, since the club is composed mostly of seniors who have played together for two seasons.
Fall action will be limited to matches against Michigan, Indiana, and Wisconsin.
GOLF: Fall golf began last weekend with the first 18 holes of the Burke Open. Leaders with 73’s are Jim TenBroeck, Jim Hiniker, and Jack Balinsky. Mike O’Connell, tournament favorite and captain of the 1963 golf team, carded a 76. The final 36 holes of the 72-hole tournament will be played Sunday, October 6.
Though O’Connell and Hiniker are the only monogram winners returning from last year’s varsity, competition for the six spots on next spring’s team is already fierce. As many as four sophomores could be among the six.
TENNIS: Even before the USLTA championship seemingly ushered in a bright new era in Latin-American tennis, Notre Dame had Raull Kat-thain, a blond-haired Mexican citizen of German descent.
Now the Irish also have Pedro Ros-sello, a promising sophomore from Puerto Rico — and five other returning lettermen. Raull and Pedro should do much to further the emergence of Latin-American tennis, and with their five compatriots should insure an excellent season for Tom Fallon’s Irish netmen.
BOB LEHMAXX
Maglicic will be the
Voice in the Crowd
To six thousand Notre Dame students, and to millions of fans and alumni around the world, each football season in turn is crucial for the Irish, each season a dismal failure if they lose or a heartening success if they win.
This 1963 season, however, is crucial in a larger sense, for 1963 may well determine the destiny of Notre Dame football. Under new coach Hugh Devore, Notre Dame must either break the growing tradition of mediocrity, or continue on the downward spiral. The precedent set by this year’s team—the first of a new era—and the administration’s choice of a coach for next season—be it Devore or someone else—will either make or break big time football at Notre Dame.
It is too early to even consider a possible coach for 1964, but Devore seems to have the material to reestablish the winning tradition at Notre Dame in 1963.
Knee injuries to tackles Dave Humenik and Gene Penman and to guard Wayne Allen hurt the Irish badly, for it is in the interior line where Devore’s team is thinnest. Some shuffling of personnel may have solved the problem. John Meyer and Dick Arrington—who have at times been an end and a guard—will start at tackle, and are light but fast. They will be backed up by Nick Etten and Mike Webster and by Paul Costa and Jim Snowden —a pair of erstwhile backs.
Captain Bob Lehmann, a possible AllAmerican and an excellent leader, and giant George Bednar will start at guards, and with center Jim Carroll—a converted guard—will give the Irish excellent strength up the middle. On defense, the guards may play outside the tackles, and thus Lehmann and Bednar could play over Wisconsin tackles Roger Pil-lath and Andy Wojdula. Mike DiCarlo and Ken )nd-team guards, and Norm Nicola -will play
behind Carroll.
Perhaps Notre Dame’s greatest strength will be at end. Behind Jim Kelly at the weak-side or single end are Clay Stephens, another excellent receiver, and Bob Papa; behind starter Tom Goberville at the tight end are Dave Pivec, a good blocker and better-than-average receiver, and sophomore Phil Sheridan, an excellent defensive player. Tom Talaga may replace any of the single ends on defense.
Though they lack a real breakaway threat, the Irish have more good running backs than at any time in recent years. Joe Farrell and Pete Duranko average almost 220 pounds and have tremendous leg drive, and there is almost no performance drop-off to second-stringers Bill Wolski and Joe Kantor. Kantor is strong and has a quick start, and Wolski could turn out to be the team’s best runner: he has great strength, size (205), a whole bagful of moves, and enough speed. Behind these four are such excellent reserves as Tom Mittelhauser, Chuck O’Hara, Jim Rakers, and Ron Bliey.
Flankers Jack Snow and John Simon are converted ends, and have all the tools to do the job; backs Denny Phillips, Bill Pfeiffer, and Tommy MacDonald are experienced defenders, and can play offense as well.
Though none of the three leading quarterback candidates played offense extensively last season, all three seem capable of doing the job. Frank Budka, potentially the best of the three, is still recovering from a broken leg, and Denny Szot appears the best choice to start tomorrow.
In addition, a new coach, new offense, and even new uniforms have resulted in a new spirit. I believe the Irish are capable of beating Wisconsin tomorrow, and of finishing with Notre Dame’s first winning season since 1958.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
September 27, 1963
TYLER JR.’S
PICKS OF THE WEEK
PURDUE AT MIAMI: The SeminoIes got George Mira’s scalp; the Boilermakers may go to his head, but we doubt it.
CALIFORNIA AT ILLINOIS: This is Big Ten country, and Marv Levy’s Phi Beta Kappa key won’t open any holes in the lllini line.
OKLAHOMA AT SOUTHERN CAL: Oklahoma poses the first serious threat to USC in the Game of the Week, but with Beathard and Bedsole the Trojans have it in the bag.
INDIANA AT NORTHWESTERN: The Hoosiers have had hard times, but they made it close last year, and on the running of Marv Woodson should beat Northwestern in the Upset of the Week.
SYRACUSE AT KANSAS: Gale Sayers is too good, and Syracuse was unimpressive against Boston College. Kansas should squeeze by the Orangemen.
NORTH CAROLINA AT MICHIGAN STATE: George Saimes is gone. But eleven mere mortals should be good enough to beat the Tar out of North Carolina.
OTHER GAMES:
Stanford over Oregon Oregon State over Colorado Alabama over Tulane Mississippi over Kentucky Georgia Tech over Clemson Rice over Louisiana State
when I most ■ dollar i i pens j •
are P
Welcome Notre Dame Men
out H
of ink jr the Scripto Wordmaster®refill has ■ enough left for a term paper
DIAMONDS
Keepsake * Artcarved * Orange Blossom
WATCHES
Omega * Rolex * Longines * Wittnauer Patek Phillipe
14K GOLD JEWELRY
Charms * Bracelets * Pendants * Crosses Pins * Cultured Pearls
...and a couple of lab reports
FASHION JEWELRY
Sterling and Gold Filled Charms Trifari * Monet * Eisenberg * Siamese
Just about the time you figure your Wordmaster should be running out of ink, unscrew the cap. The new see-thru refill says in no uncertain terms that you've got enough ink left to go on writing for quite a while. You shouldn't be surprised. For even though Wordmaster is slim and streamlined, it has a much larger ink capacity than ordinary dollar pens. And that makes it just about the most inexpensive dollar pen around.
By the way... you can get a handsome matching pencil to go along with your Wordmaster. And that's only a dollar, too.
REPAIR DEPARTMENT
Fine Watch & Jewelry Repair Fully Guaranteed
CREDIT AND LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 P.M.
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311
30
The Scholastic
Movies
(Continued from page 17) evitably to the final end, his death, which was presented in the first scene, and to rhe specific kind of death that his decisions and acceptance of fate dictate as necessary. The last scene of the movie shows a motorcycle overtaking Lawrence and his chauffeur and riding ahead of them, in the humming of wheels on dust. And Lawrence had died on a motorcycle; he is that anonymous figure riding ahead speedily through the dust, obscure except that we know him now so well. It is just at this moment in the final scene that Lawrence awakens to his situation, to the finality of his acts, for him, whose life was in flux and constant change only when he possessed determined fire. He looks at the passing procession of Arabs on camels, looking for his friends, his friends who have gone, or from whom he has departed. He decided to leave the desert; he desired never to return, and he did not. The entire movie is a grand moment of courage, except for that passing feeling we are left with when the music and the rhythm of vitality come to an end: there is then stark fear in quiet repose on the face of Lawrence, contemplating, perr haps realizing he has already chosen what is and must be his.
No one who has seen the movie fails to comment on the magnificent photography, expansive deserts rolling forever into a burning sun that fills the sky, color and grandeur of ever-changing form, of broad plains and clean, jagged cliffs. The Nefud Desert is itself enough to inspire, and it is there that the personal drama of Lawrence is enacted. There he is successful, and there he achieves a tragedy. And there is the music that sweeps beneath like simply some attitude, like the story of a man rhythmic in the desert, fused with that story. Above all is the nearly flawless, always exciting writing of the renowned playwright, Robert Bolt, known especially for his award-winning A Man for AU Seasons. He conveys the sense, but not too much of the sense, not too much merely one viewpoint, so that the real heart, and the secret, falls to Peter O’Toole, an “unknown” who proves himself one of the great by assuming the pose of one who poses, and doing it with exacting, ironic, human expertise. The movie is in important ways unsuccessful, but what it does it does well, and with a fullness that challenges the viewer to go away with far more than he came with.

MENNEN SPEEDSTKK' i 7 '• •• ;*
One wide, dry stroke ' stops perspiration odor
Speed Stick, the deodorant for men! Really helps stop odor. One neat dry stroke lasts all day, goes on so wide it protects almost 3 times the area of a narrow roll-on track. No drip, never tacky! /ejjj Fast! Neat! Man-size! Mennen Speed Stick! IS/ All it takes is one clean stroke daily!
JUGGLER SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscriptions to the Juggler, Notre Dame’s student literary magazine, will be available Wednesday evening during the dinner hour in the South Dining Hall. A year’s subscription to the Juggler costs $1.50. Subscriptions can also be purchased through Jerry Young in Room 8, Lyons Hall.
September 27, 1963
31
Letters
(Continued from page 6)
Notre Dame? There are many outstanding coeducational universities all over the United States that they could have attended. Instead they seem to want to change a way of learning that has been tried and proven over many years and that I know is de
sired by many here now and by countless hundreds who have graduated.
Notre Dame is a university of men, run by men, and dedicated to the most wonderful woman ever created. This is a very unique and inspiring facet and I hope that this most important part of Notre Dame is never changed. The University can only go down in stature if women are admitted to our campus academically.
I shall hope and pray it never happens.
I hope that this letter was superfluous and that the opinion I felt was harbored by some last year is strongly rejected by you and a vast majority of Notre Dame men.
Michael E. Sexton 202 Fisher
Our reply next iveek.—Ed.
When Godiva, that famed lady fair, Told her husband, “I've nothing to wear," With his Swingline in hand, He stapled a band And said, “Wear this, my dear, in your hair!”
SWINGLINE STAPLER
; No bigger than a pack of gum
:: • Unconditionally guaranteed!
i •Refills available anywhere!
: • Get it at any stationery,
, variety, or book store!	:
*	• Send tn your Own Swtnghne Fable
Prizes 1or those used	”
:	INC. LONG ISLAND CITY 2. N. Y. ;
PaperbMate
FREE FILL '
The biggest pen bargains going are at the big fall Paper Mate Free Fill. Come in —choose the color and style Paper Mate pen you like best—get an extra refill free!
available at THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
1963:
YEAR OF THE COLLEGE
QUARTERBACK!
This season, college football fans will see fast-moving action by the best quarterbacks in ten years! And no two are alike: some have quick arms, others quick minds —all have unusual talent! In the November issue of SPORT magazine, you’ll get an exciting preview of the college quarterbacks who figure to star this year. In the same issue, don’t miss one of the most controversial sport stories of the year: “Latin American Ball Players Need A Bill Of Rights,” a hard-hitting feature by Giant Star Felipe Alou, detailing shocking grievances that have been kept secret up to now. SPORT Magazine keeps you apace of all events on the sports scene. You get authoritative coverage of college and professional sports with sharp analysis, informative profiles and action-packed photos... Get
November
SPORT
Favorite magazine of the sport: stars and the sports minded! NOW ON SALE!
LOUIE’S RESTAURANT
Located at SOUTH BEND AVE. & CORBY
•
Free Deliveries to Campus
CE 3-0324
Homemade Italian Cooking
Off-Street Parking 937 SOUTH BEND AVE.
ATTENTION ALL SWIMMERS
Anyone interested in joining the Notre Dame swimming team is urged to attend a meeting on Tuesday, October 1, in the Rockne Memorial, Room 3. Freshmen: 4:^5 p.m. Upperclassmen: 5:30 p.m.
32
The Scholastic
Two Children
(Continued from page 22) lute power within the central government.
'T'he Industrial Revolution has A changed man’s way of life, but it has not changed human nature. It has increased his power potential and it has intensified his power-hunger. It has given birth to two children — the Free Enterprise, Capitalist System; and the Communist System — which now stand and struggle as the two major rivals in the war for control of world power. In this conflict the tools may be modern but the motives, and the purposes, and the ambitions are as primitive as the jungle conflicts of prehistoric savages.
The Free Enterpise system represents the idea of individual freedom and individual responsibility. The Communist System, the idea of all human thought and behavior controlled by a central government, the State. We of the former believe that the strongest motivation for human progress is individualism and self-development together with the profit motive, the personal compensation for personal effort. They of the latter believe that all human effort should be guided and motivated by a desire to benefit all society, a classless society. We believe that he who makes strong himself strengthens all mankind. They believe (or pretend to believe for the sake of pulling power to the dictators) that he who abnegates self for the State is the admirable citizen. We believe that a Divine Power guides and shapes the destiny of man. They believe that religion is an opiate for the masses, that God does not exist, that man’s destiny is the product of his intelligence.
The Capitalist System was born out of events, a natural child of social and economic circumstances. Like all natural phenomena, it happened first and has been explained and defended later. The Communist System was born out of observation, and created by imagination as an idea before it could become an actuality.
The survival of either, or both, of these systems will depend upon how nearly they have guessed or defined the nature of man, how well they have understood the laws that govern human behavior, how correctly they have comprehended the fundamental drives within and behind man’s life on this planet. Survival of either or both will also depend on future discoveries of new sources of power and the tools man invents with which to control these new sources of power.
September 27, 1963
MEN !
Here’s deodorant protection
YOU CAN TRUST
Old Spice Stick Deodorant.,.fastest, neatest way to allday, every day protection! It’s the man’s deodorant preferred by men...absolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily... dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant — most convenient, most economical deodorant money can buy. 1.00 plus tax.
STICK
DEODORANT
S H U UT o N
TONIGHT’S RALLY TIMES — Frosh rally — 6:30 in the Fieldhouse; Band arrives 6:15; Regular rally—7:00 in the Fieldhouse; Band marches 6:45. Speakers: 1. Fr. Joyce; 2. Hugh Devore; 3. Bob Lehman. MC: Nick Sordi, B.C. Rally Chairman. 33
Tom Hoobler . ..
The Last Word
The obvious topic to begin the year on is the new library, since its presence is so apparent. One hears talk that the building is a little too apparent, to the point of its being unpleasantly monolithic. We’d rather not make a hasty judgment on its beauty, since the building isn’t yet finished, outside or in. The starkness of the 210-foot south wall will certainly be changed when the mural is completed (present plans are to begin work on April 1, 1964 — no significance to the date — and to finish in time for graduation), and the final multicolored fagade may eventually become as famous a landmark as the Dome.
The interior of the building (with the exception of the 5th, Sth, and 11th floors, which will be left unfurnished for future expansion) will be completed by November, but the college library (first two floors) is already serving the purpose intended for it — to be a study area for the undergraduates. There are seats for 2,411 persons in the college library; considering the superiority of the study atmosphere to any other hall or building on the campus, the capacity might be attained some evening. Apparently, no expense was spared to make the surroundings as appealing as possible, and not too surprisingly, the students are making every use of the facilities. As an area congenial to study, the library may provide an unprecedented (at Notre Dame) impetus toward our lovable shibboleth, academic excellence.
The intriguing puzzle — some thought it was a sly bit of humor — of what was meant by the explicit labeling of a door as “The Door” (see southeast corner of main floor) was solved, in a sense, by Warren Mossman, an employee of Ellerbe & Co., architects of the building. Mr. Mossman, who designed all of the gold-line drawings in the marble around the first floor, explained to us that the suggestion for the design of the drawings came from a book, Symbols of Christ, by Damasus Winzen, given to him by Victor Schaeffer, Director of the library. Mr. Mossman told us that when he placed the line drawing labeled “The Door,” he wasn’t aware that it was near an actual door, and when this proximity was discovered, the drawing was revised to fit the dimensions of the real door, which, disappointingly, is only a fire door.
For statistics majors: The book capacity of the library is 2,000,000 volumes, although there are now only 475,000 volumes in the library. There
are four elevators which travel at a rate of 500 feet per minute. There are 65,000 square feet of marble on the floors, walls, and ceilings, and 98,000 pieces of brick were used in the construction. There are 163 miles of wiring and 1,400 light switches for 12,000 lights in the building. We also learned that there are 12,300 fluorescent tubes, a fact which poses the question: When is a fluorescent tube not a light? Ten thousand cubic yards of concrete were used in the construction. There are 700 windows and 1,000 doors. (But only one Door.)
Since the library is open till 11:45 p.m. (20 hours a week longer than last year), more students will hopefully be studying longer than ever before. Whether they will be learning more is the question for posterity, which will decide whether the money spent to build the library could have been used in any better way. After seeing the nearly finished library and its initial effect on the students, we think it was cheap at the price ($9,000,000).
It seems unnecessary to point out to upperclassmen who have been through it before that this year’s registration was the best-planned ever. A C.S.C. friend of ours explained the lack of confusion: “They finally did what they always said they would do — keep anybody from registering early.” Let’s hope that exceptions won’t be made for future registrations, lest the chaos of previous registrations returns.
A telephone in the room seems to be the most sought-after status symbol for aspiring BMOC’s this year. Drastically fewer permissions for phones have been given, not out of simple caprice as some who were refused have claimed, but because fire and building inspectors found that excessive drilling in walls by the phone company was weakening the structure of many halls. Our own number is CE- 4-1297.
Watering the grass at night with strategically placed sprinklers has resulted in a few innocent strollers being caught in an unexpected shower. One of our correspondents suggests that small signs be attached to the back of the sprinklers: “Patronize your Notre Dame dry cleaning service.” Perhaps, at least at night, the sprinklers could be moved out of range of the sidewalks to give wearers of non-wash-and-wear clothes a sporting chance.
The Scholastic
34
WASHINGTON SHOE REPAIR
•	Soles
•	Heels • Shines
116 W. Washington Avenue CE 3-0958
212 S. Michigan
featured now in South Bend
your Notre Dame I.D.
118 South Michigan Street next door to Office Engineers
opens a charge account
MM
15,000 POCKET BOOKS
GREETING CARDS
MONARCH REVIEW BOOKS keyed to your texts
THE BOOK SHOP
Downfown
130 N. Michigan
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL BEPAIHS GLASSES FITTED
CE 4-4874
Michaels & Mann
- — i n c.	—=
SHOES BY JARMAN
STANDING ON OUR OWN THREE FEET
Research, Manufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which 6T&E has built its strength. Today, QT&E is the largest of the many Independent telephone companies that supply a substantial share of America’s ever-growing communications needs. By conducting our own research, manufacturing our own communications products and operating our own telephone system, 6T&E contributes to the communications progress of the whole nation.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE. NEW YORK 10017
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: General Telephone Operating Companies in 32 states ■ General Telephone <f Electronics Laboratories ■ General Telephone £ Electronics International • General Telephone Directory Co. • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric • Sylvania Electric Products