Every Thursday Night.
Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Join Scholastic as we celebrate our 125th anniversary and keep up with everything that happens on campus throughput the school year!
Please send years of Schdlastic to:	■
Name:	____EX--—;
Address: ___^_L_——
City:	State: ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x  years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
9
n
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
o o
m P
w
ENTERTAINMENT
5
“Henry V”
“Nobody Loves An Albatross”
NEWS
9
11
Dealing with the Silent Crime One Woman’s Story Coping with the Trauma
CAMPUSLIFE
12	Her Viewpoint... His Viewpoint
14	Daring Destinations
SPORTS
20	Movin’On Up
22	It’s Time to Play Our Style DEPARTMENTS
2
3
4
16
25
26
27
28
30
Editor’s Notes Editorial CampusWatch Coming Distractions On Other Campuses Behavior Modification Week In Distortion Glancing Back Final Word
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
1
R
SCHOLASTIC
:N0WE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol; 133, No:19. <
Disce. Quasi Semper. Victurus 7; Vive QuaslCr^
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF lari. Mitchell 7	:
MANAGING EDITOR
Man\Qkuda •/.:</.
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
•patripia Doyie:: 7;;; '
NEWS'! \ W .77: 77' Editor: ^rgaret Ken^ ,f ^Assistant: Deniss^
*;‘ 7:' ■ Edit0F<Bi2abeife':B^yy6n '. T' • •Assistant: .MaricbH
;SPORT^?4^^^ ;Edtor:^Jon; Paul-Potts Assistant; Jirn.Kuser .
ENTERTAINMENT kM Editor: Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS, . .. Edton^dHaalCSyen
PHOTOGRAPHY^^ >:< ^Editor: Paul
;' >■
'SENIORSTAFFWRITERS
ChrisBlanford, ?Awahde^ feBrad^^
;Toj^	■ 7: f •;' 7 '	-.
■7;;3eanhe;N^ylor^^
'fd	Z "<T' '■' •
J^feyiKHafarr^
' / 7' ‘7',' ' Y T " '	' 7 7 7"' y' ■ "7 7' ' < <■ » ; (
|^|VEfOTsiNG7^

■Manager:^
^DISJR®^ MANAGER
7'77 7
EDITOR'S NOTES
On the Cover
At a panel discussion held during the Scholastic reunion a few weeks ago, one Scholastic alum asked why we hadn’t offered more coverage of rape and sexual assault at Notre Dame. Since editors from The Observer were also present, the magazine’s staff had to supress a cringe. The truth is, Managing Editor Mari Okuda had been planning for an issue dealing with date and acquantance rape since last November. This week’s package of four stories is due almost entirely to her efforts.
Senior Staff Writer Jenny Tate looks at the different procedures followed by the St. Joseph County prosecutor’s office and the university in dealing with rape charges. Her story also examines the university’s policy on publicizing occurences of date rape, and reports on the efforts of student government and the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination to increase public awareness of rape at Notre Dame.
Managing Editor Mari Okuda speaks with a victim of acquaintance rape, who discusses how the university’s system for dealing with sexual offenses operated in her own case. Senior Staff Writer Jeff Jotz lists local support agencies that offer support and counseling for rape victims, and Campus Life Editor Elizabeth Baytion and writer John Regruth speak with students to offer an unscientific survey of campus attitudes towards acquaintance and date rape.
We’ve devoted four stories totalling seven pages to the problem of date rape at Notre Dame. That’s one of the most comprehensive packages of stories on a single issue that we’ve ever offered, but we’re aware that the problem of rape, both stranger and acquaintance can’t be dealt with in any single issue of the magazine. The more information Mari would gather about rape issues, the more questions she found she had. We hope to cover different aspects of this very sensitive, and very important, subject in the weeks to come.
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods al the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed al The Papers, Inc,, Milford, IN 46542. The subscription raleis$25.00fyearandbackissuesare available al $125 /copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials sifted Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Also in This Issue
This week’s issue of Scholastic has 32 pages, more than any regular issue this year. We think we’ve put those extra pages to good use.
In Campus Life, Chris Crossen offers a selection of alternative spring breaks. If you’re tired of visiting the beaches, check out some of his suggestions for a vacation in the Southwest.
Over in Sports, senior staff writers take a look at two “stick.sports”: J. Bradley Keck looks at Notre Dame’s hockey team, while Amanda Clinton reports on the Lacrosse team’s hopes for the future.
Of course, the usual columns reappear. Also be sure to check out our pull-out centerspread, the “Coming Distractions” calendar of events. We think our weekly listing of things to do is the most complete source of information on campus activities. Lastly, beginning this week (and, we hope, in weeks to come), we’re also running two pages of comics. We’re introducing the work of a new student cartoonist, Justin Jackovac, as well as usual artwork of Steve Duenes and some syndicated comics carried by the national College Press Service. Scott Liebertz’s work will return next week.
Ian Mitchell Editor in Chief
K / 7
7777 i-
David Certo and Matt -Bombergcr whichappearedin the Heb;f6 issue^ the andiintmoney saidi toTiave becn raisedbyisales of “TheShi7’w^ corxecti owing to a typogrSphidailerror. Bomberger actually said that sales of “The Shirt” raised “aboutS^ ye^. sScAotodc regrets the efrpr. : j
Leiters to S cholastic must be typed and include the writ er *s name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school mid college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit far capyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all Idlers received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaForlune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
2
EDITORIAL
The Reality of Rape
Rape.
■ It’s an ugly word with ugly connotations. Rape is not just a sexual offense. It’s the most personal and most intimate violation that attacks the integrity of an individual.
But it’s also an ugly reality.
It’s a reality on this campus.
Date/acquaintancerape is an issue that deserves serious attention, not by just the administration and security, but by the whole community. It’s not just a “female” issue. It’s an issue for all.
Rape, especially in cases where the victim knows the perpetrator, is the most underreported crime. And it is a crime. Rape victims are stigmatized by society and thus many do not report or take any type of action against their attacker due to fear of being blamed, of not being believed and out of embarrassment. And lack of corroboration makes rape less likely to result in conviction in a state criminal action, even if the case is taken that far.
Yet understanding why many victims do not report is not an indication that the crime did not occur. Surviving rape is an emotional experience. Taking action, from reporting the attack to undergoing university procedure, is an added trauma. Due to the sensitivity of the crime, rape victims are given the choice of which actions to pursue; but not taking the case to the state level of prosecution should not imply that the crime did not take place.
Director of Security Rex Rakow stated at a forum last December that although date/acquaintance rape is a serious crime, “It is not something that is going to threaten the safety level of the campus community” (The Observer). Yet not publicizing the crime to the community sends the hidden message that the issue is being ignored and therefore is not worthy of serious consideration.
When reports of date or acquaintance rape are made at our university they must be publicized. We should demand that the university demonstrate its concern, recognize that date rape does occur and label it as such. Reports can be printed in the media without disclosing the name, year, dorm or even quad of the victim or accused.
But simply publicizing occurrences of date rape is not enough. More must be done to prevent those occurrences. Presentations, forums and workshops should be given at every dorm, both male and
female; but not just to dorm leaders and not just by those in authority. From reading the opinions of various women and men on campus, one can see that there are many differing attitudes and ambiguities ’ about what “exactly” constitutes rape. Thus, for the students, open com munication must be encouraged for dialogue between the sexes. Take responsibility for your own actions. But also realize that “circumstances” are neither the cause of acquaintance rape nor the fault of the victim. Lack of reasonable judgement in consuming too
poylesCtoenjas
Editor in Chief for
IBittOOill
Patricia Doyle, a junior from Oak Brook, Ill., has beeh':ri::: Scholastic editor in chief for the IgB school year by majority vote of the editorial board. She will assume, her duties following: spring break. : J > Doyle, a math? major; is currently Scholastic’sex-ecutive editor, a

& t

position she has held since May of last year. S he has beep at the j; . magazine since fail:. 1989, serving as systems manages during ?
spring 1990; and; the working ras both: layout and ^systems' manager throughout, the 1990-‘9i school year.: :
y“I apt eager to load Scholastic into its JI26th year of publica-. tiori and wish to continue Scholastic's, tradition as a publication: j • for ffie.stod^ts providing ;cpv^ge.^
Doyle;:	■'
r'Thavesome ideas for improving themagazine.Iwouldlike;
to make the dur news and campus life sections more global^ Also; jam looking to improve andupdate our styleandlayouts”’: ::DoylerepiacesgraduatingseniorIanMitchell, anAm erican: Studies, major from Tucsbn,. Arizona.-
j standing job at the magazine, and it will be hard to"ftake;:his: ;piare,”aaid;Pqyie.' *‘ttisyear I to
^progress; that Ian has made at the magazinerivV^
) graduating staffers will be missed; I am excited to work with: ■jtextyparis-staff/^^
much alcohol or inviting your date to your dorm room may be “idiotic” but it is NO excuse. Women should not have to assume the
risk of being violated sexually simply by going out on a date or inviting a date inside for a drink. Sex without a person’s consent is rape, always.
Rape is a serious crime which deserves serious attention by women, men and the university. Attitudes must be changed. Increased awareness is the first step.
-Scholastic
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
3
CampusWafc/z
" BY THE G I P P E R
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
i	Safewalk
and Common Cents
From last week's Scholastic: “The Safewalkers work a combined total of 29 hours each night. Starmann said that since its inception, Safewalk teams have completed over 3000 safewaiks, receiving an average of eight calls a night”
Now, the Gipp’s no whiz at arithmetic, but he has figured out how to work the buttons on his calculator. If you take the university standard wage (currently $5.10/hr) and multiply it by the number of hours (29) you get the salary cost of one night’s safewalking: $147.90. Divide that by the average number of calls per night (eight) and you get theaverage cost of each call: $ 18.49. (Y ou math majors can try this at home, if you •	like.)
j The Gipper knows that a feeling of per-'	sonal security is indeed priceless, and he
isn’t for a second proposing the elimination of the safewalk service. Safewalk is a good idea, and its chief problem is simply that people don’t use it.
The Gipper would like to encourage everyone to call 283-BLUE (or 283-2583, if you’re letter-phobic) whenever they’d like some company on their nighttime strolls, i	But the Gipper would also like to encourage
i a change in the safewalk program making J	safcwalking volunteer work. There seem to
t be plenty of groups on campus (ROTC groups, martial arts clubs, Flying Eagles, :	and others) whose members might be will-
ing to spend a few hours once a week walking around campus. Priceless safety might come at a lesser cost.
More For the Sophomores
The Gipper has read a lot about the 1968 Sophomore Literary Festival, which set the standard for a proud tradition. The all-star list from that year read’s like a who’s who list, even 25 years later: Notre Dame hosted Norman Mailer, Joseph Heller, William F. Buckley Jr. and Kurt Vonnegut, to name just a few of the literary luminaries. No offense to this year’s authors nor to the SLF committee, but the Gipp has to wonder if this year’s field will stand the test of time. To be blunt, the Gipper has never heard of any of them.
Now, the Gipper is well aware that fame is no indicator of quality, and this year’s field may well turn out to be the finest ever selected. But if the point of the festival is to get students involved and interested in poetry and prose, a “big name” or two is a good draw. Recent festivals have been considerably less “star-studded” than that famous one of ‘68, and authors now stay just overnight, rather than for the entire week.
The reason why is pretty basic: money. The South Bend Tribune reports that this year’s SLF committee had a total budget of $14,200 to cover the costs of the entire event, while an author like John Updike asks for a speaking fee of $8,000 and Margaret Atwood wants between $12,000 and $14,000. The SLF can’t afford to pay those prices.
The Gipper’s solution to all this is pretty basic: Give the Sophomore Literary Festival more money to play with. Maybe donations from the sophomore class, student government or even HPC could augment the fund. Maybe the SLF committee could hold more fund raising events and activities (SLF T-shirts?). Or maybe (gasp) the administration could simply give them more money. It’s a wild idea, but you never know — it just might work.
Graduation Speaker Speculation
As the Gipper typed these words, the name of the sesquicentennial year graduation speaker had not yet been revealed, and speculation was running rampant, so a high-ranking staff CampusWatcher was dispatched to contact Dennis Moore, head of ND public relations. In response to an inquiry, Moore said that there is no rule prohibiting the university from inviting a speaker who is also a candidate campaigning for office. (Hmm...) Moore said that the invitations (for speaker and honorary degree recipients) have been sent out, and the university is waiting until it’s gotten acceptances before making the announcement Moore wouldn’t say who has been asked, of course. The Gipper himself has heard frequent and credible rumors that George Bush has been asked to speak, but has to caution CampusWatchers everywhere that those rumors have yet to be confirmed.
Two Days and Counting
The Gipper is still compiling his “29 ways to get through February” list, and asks for your ideas and input. See “Tell One to the Gipper,” below to contact the Gipp.
Tell One to the Gipper
For the record, the Gipp would like it noted that he hasn’t picked on student government this entire column. He makes no promises aboutnext week, however. There’s plenty to talk about, but the Gipper would always like to hear more. Write him with your questions, story ideas and hot tips at 303 LaFortune, call 239-7569 or drop off a note at the Scholastic office (between 2 and 5 p.m.). The walls have ears—andtheyreport to the Gipper!	□
SCHOLASTIC
4
Senior Tim Deenihan brings Shakespeare's magic to the Architecture Building
by Moira Muldoon
VX7 ar, violence, betrayal, greed and W wrath can all be found in the Architecture Building this weekend. No, it’s not the second year archies racing to finish that huge project due at midnight, but rather senior Theatre major Tim Deenihan’s production of “Henry V.”
Deenihan both directs and stars in Shakespeare’s story of the young king and his attempt to take over part of France. His role is that of the title character. Junior Program of Liberal Studies major Stan Sawicki plays Henry’s uncle, Exeter, and the other seven players take on the remaining 33 roles. In terms of the difficulty of both acting and directing, Deenihan says thatithasn’tbeen too much of aproblem — he would often ask assistant stage manager, Mike Whitman, to stand in for him so that he could remove himself from the scene and observe its flow and visual effect. Deenihan was also very open to any and all suggestions offered by the other members of the cast, most of whom are people Deenihan has known well and has worked with before. “Everyone is assistant directing,” he said. “I cast the people I did because I knew I could trust their opinions.”
In contrast to most student-directed plays, “Henry V” is not a senior directing project for Deenihan. This endeavor is not being done for a class or for credit Originally, it was intended to be so, but timing and other complications prevented it from being performed as a directing final. The play is instead a task Deenihan has undertaken because he simply really wanted to do it.
I FEBRUARY 27, 1992
i
Tim Deenihan's Production of "Henry V" is playing now through Saturday at the Architecture Building.
The play is performed in the round, meaning that the audience will be surrounding the stage as the action occurs. This brings about several challenges, of which a central one is communication in general. The language Shakespeare uses in in his works is often difficult to understand, and if a character were to have his back turned to a portion of the audience—as must happen in theatre in the round, then his words could easily be lost This seems not to be as problem, however, in this production; the actors ennunciate and project themselves well, so that all of the lines are intelligible. The blocking is done well, with at least one character open to each sideof the audience at any given point
As the show is done in the round, the set must be neccesarily simple, and it is. A big black chest, a couple ofchairs and swords are nearly all of the props used. From scene to scene, the chest and the chairs are moved around, indicating whether they are in the English Court or at a local tavern. The biggest indication of a scene change obviously comes from the actors themsleves,
who, for instance, could throw on a rag or a hat to transform from a page to the wife of a man departing for war.
The performances are all-around wonderful. Deenihan is majestic as Henry V; he commands the stage with the ease and grace of a ruler long used to commanding. Sawicki also turns in a strong performance as Exeter. The two in addition to the other actors in the production: Pat Brennan, Chris Leavy, Jay Barry, Katie Gretter and Bridie O’Shaughnessy, are convincing and right for their roles. From the moment Deenihan says, “lights up,” the magic of Shakespeare comes alive.
“Henry V” is being performed tonight, tomorrow and Saturday at 8:10 p.m. There is also a matinee on Saturday at 3:10 p.m. It is being put on by the Notre Dame Student Players and the American Institute of Architecture Students. Tickets are available for$5.	□
Moira Muldoon is a Freshman Entertainment writer for Scholastic.
THEATRE_______________
i
The Cavanaugh Hall Players Present
^Nobody Loves An Albatross^
by Pete McGillicuddy
]	t X7 hat d°you get w^en y°u cross
W character of Rob Petry from The Dick Van Dyke Show with that of i Cassanova? Icouldn’thonestlytellyou,but t I’m sure that the result would be someone with a personality not too different from k	famed Hollywood writer/producer Nat
?i	Bentley. Bentley is the smooth-talking,
.'	woman-chasing hedonist who is the central
figure of the Cavanaugh Players’ upcoming . theatrical production, “Nobody Loves an Albatross.”
j Bentley, played by Dave Richardson, is a middle-aged Hollywood comedy screen-;■ play writer who has managed to stay on top of Tinseltown by conning Hollywood new-i comers who are desperate for money into i	writing for peanuts under his name. Bentley
j stops at nothing to attain success in all as-£	pectsofhislife. He even resorts to using the
| innocent charm of his twelve year old ’ daughter Diane (Michelle Bresnahan), in an j attempt to guide his newly hired secretary i (Stephanie Clameyn) right into his arms.
' While Nat is an expert at manipulating ; people and is never at a loss for a witticism j when under pressure, he has suddenly lost i whatever touch he formerly had at writing 5	screenplays and producing innovative ideas
j for television. When Hollywood heavyweight Hildy Jones (Moira Muldoon) threatens to put Nat under if he can’t come through on her newest idea for a television i	sitcom, he begins to feel the pressure. Nat is
;	so unsure about his own judgement when it
comes to writing and reviewing scripts that
i	6
he makes major decisions based on the opinions of his daughter and his maid, played by Sarah Washington. Now it looks as though his cover may be blown wide open, and the once carefree Nat Bentley is now showing signs of fatigue.
As usual, Nat tries to lessen his burden by depending on those under him to come up with ideas. He brings in the talents of his
and it looks as though he has finally learned to act responsibly. Can Nat Bentley win the laughs of millions single-handedly while manipulating Nielsen as well as he does those that are close to him ? Is he really a genius writer who is ready to bare the true colors, or is his Hollywood life just an accident waiting to happen ?
This play presents a not-so-glamorous but very humorous portrayal of life behind the scenes in Hollywood, and is replete with
number one writer Phil Matthews (Mike Bartish) and the husband and wife team of Marge Weber (Kim Tracy) and Bert Howell (Tyler Moore) with the hope that they will once again bail him out. However, when they, along with nouveau New York writer Sean O’Loughlin (Tom Sweder), O’Loughlin’s crafty agent Mike Harper (Tim Mooney) and Hildy’s rogue-ish right hand man L.T. Whitman (MarkPoisella) fail to produce, Nat is stuck between a rock and a hard place.
When his comrades fail miserably, Nat takes the entire load onto his own shoulders,
colorful characters, such as the master of the laugh-box, Victor Talsey, played by John “Babe” Ruskusky. Nat Bentley is as darkly comic as he is shallow, and along with rest of this motley crew, he will undoubtedly entertain you with elements of the comic and the dramatic. “Nobody Loves an Albatross” is not only a brilliantly funny play that deserves your attention, but it is expertly directed by Chad Kerlin and John Brislin and superbly acted by the Players. So this weekend, take some time out of your busy schedule to get a glimpse of Southern California right here in South Bend.	□
Senior Staff Writer Pete McGillicuddy is a Morrissey junior and a regular contributor to Scholastic.
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
Dealing with the Silent Crime
An examination of the channels available to women at Notre Dame
victimized by date rape
i i
By Jenny Tate
When most people think of rape, they picture a woman attacked by someone she doesn’t know. But experts believe that date or acquaintance rape is far more common.
“The false stereotype of rape is some drooling idiot jumping out of the bushes,” said Notre Dame director of residence life, Elizabeth A. Pawlicki. However, both Pawlicki and John Mamocha, an attorney at St. Joseph’s County prosecutor’s office, stress that any sort of rape constitutes a serious criminal offense. “Rape is rape,” said Mamocha.
Oftentimes, confusion persists concerning what actually constitutes a rape. Mamocha said that rape is legally defined as a person forcefully compelling another to have sexual intercourse with him, or by having sexual intercourse with another who is unaware of the act, or by having intercourse with someone who is intellectually unable to to discern the act.
Under Indiana state law, rape legally falls into two categories: Class B rape and Class A rape. A Class B conviction carries a six to 20 year prison sentence with 10 years being the standard sentence. A Class B rape is elevated to Class A if a deadly weapon is used, the victim sustains serious injury or the victim’s life is threatened. A Class A Conviction carries a non-
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
suspendable 20 to 50 year sentence with 30 years being the standard sentence.
Having been victimized once, acquaintance rape victims often say they feel reluctant to put themselves at the mercy of a judicial system. Trauma of an incident such as date rape may preclude the victim from taking formal action against her assailant.
Rape victims at Notre Dame face several
options in dealing with the crime. Victims of any crime are not legally obligated to report the incident. However, internalizing such a traumatic event may inhibit the healing process. Victims arc usually encouraged to seek some sort of professional counseling. Seeking support through one of many channels available, including the Notre Dame
counseling center and student affairs, allows a victim to receive advice while maintaining strict confidentiality.
A victim can consult support centers without being required to give any information. However, victims will be informed of the possible judiciary measures they are entitled to pursue. A victim, if she chooses to take judiciary action, can pursue action either through Notre Dame or through the criminal court system.
A victim of rape has the option to avoid university involvement in the issue by taking her complaint to a criminal court of law. Mamocha outlined the procedures followed for handling a rape case through the criminal court of law. The first step occurs once the crime is reported. “Every case originates by reporting it to whatever law office is appropriate,” said Mamocha. Once a case has been referred to his office, the next step involves a personal interview with the victim to obtain details of the crime. “After that, we make the decision whether to charge and what to charge,” said Mamocha.
Mamocha emphasized that, al though rape cases serve to be traumatic for the victim, the system attempts to work with the victim throughout the entire process. “We don’t want to victimize the person twice,” said
7

Mamocha.
After charging the alleged perpetrator, the “court reviews the documents and finds probable cause to believe that a crime has been committed,” Subsequent steps include the arrest of the suspect, the setting of bond, the presenting of the accused with copies of the charges and the final court appearance. The entire process could endure from “eight to nine months.”
Mamocha said he has never handled a Notre Dame student date rape allegation. “Personally, I haven’t seen or reviewed any reports with one Notre Dame student as a victim and one Notre Dame student as a suspect,” said Mamocha.
But date rape does occur on campus even though incidents involving Notre Dame students are not often made public. For
Director of Notre Dame security Rex Rakow feels the two acquaintance rapes reported last year are not indicative of the actual number of cases which occurred.
example, during the spring semester | of 1990, Gary Leonard, a Zahm hall g senior resident assistant, was ex- £ pelled from Notre Dame “for alleged | violations of rules of sexual conduct” 2 (South Bend Tribune, 5-21-91). The | expulsion resulted from three female « student reports alleging sexual as- I saults made by Leonard. Leonard went through the normal procedure concerning the handling of rape through the university and his sentence was later upheld by Rev. Edward Malloy. Although this would appear to be a major issue of student concern, most students remain unaware that the incident even occurred. Leonard, who proclaims his innocence, has subsequently filed
charges against the university on the grounds of being wrongfully dismissed.
Both Pawlicki and Rex Rakow, Notre Dame director of security, stress that every victim who confronts either office is informed of her option to bring the incident to public attention by pressing criminal charges.
“If the victim so chose, we would forward our case to St. Joseph’s County for criminal charges. ... We work our case in such a way that if our victim chooses to do that, wemakesure that the case in intact,” said Rakow.
A rape reported to security, although investigated by security, will eventually be turned over to S tudent Affairs for handling, unless the victim chooses to press criminal charges.
Last year, only two acquaintance rapes were reported directly to security, with one complaint eventually being withdrawn.
Director of Residence Life Elizabeth A. Pawlicki feels that, "Everywhere, rape is underreported. ...And I think that that is especially true here."
But Rakow contends that this figure is not indicative of actual campus date rape occurrences. Pawlicki agrees: “I don’t think that the number of people that I hear about directly or come here directly,... I think that I would be fooling myself and the university would be fooling itself if we thought that that was indicative of the prevalence of the problem. I think it’s greater. Everywhere rape is underreported. And I think that that is especially true here.”
Rakow attributes the lack of criminally-prosecuted cases to one of two factors. “Either people are satisfied with what happens [here on campus] or are not willing to go through the courts,” he said.
What does happen if a rape victim pursues justice through Notre Dame student affairs? The victim must first participate in an intake/ informational session. During this initial encounter with a member of student affairs, the student holds no obligation to give information or commit to any future actions. “They don’t have to tell me anything about the situation. ... People can come in for information and it doesn’t commit them to any course of action,” said Pawlicki, who also encourages a time period following the initial encounter for the victim to decide upon her future course of action without
This story continues on to page 10.
8
SCHOLASTIC

NEWS
One Woman's Story
A victim of acquaintance rape speaks out
____________By Mari Okuda______________ 15 eth is a Notre Dame undergraduate.
“I just came home and I just wanted to try and forget about it, and I thought maybe I could. But something like that you just can’t forget”
What Beth can’t forget is that she was raped. Not by some stranger lurking in the bushes, but by someone she knew and trusted.
“For a while ! denied it, and that’s clearly normal behavior ... to try and get it out of your mind, and deny it and pretend that you’re all strong, and that it’s not going to bother you. But that just didn’t work.”
(“Beth” is not her real name. She agreed to speak to Scholastic about her experience on the condition that she be granted anonymity.)
Beth, like most victims, was wary of reporting the incident. But she could not forget It wasn’t until nearly a year later, after being encouraged to take action by a sympathetic RA, that she decided to report the rape to the university in order to regain control over her life.
“For almost a year, he ... had control of me,” she said. “He had just taken a huge part of myself away from me and I needed to get it back. And the only way I could do that was to press charges."
Beth went through the usual university procedure by filing a written report with Residence Life. After the accused man was notified, she sat through the hearing. She faced the accused man with three residence life staff members mediating during the questioning. But Beth still had some apprehension. “I had a lot of questions about it. The procedure was very vague to me. I was very nervous about it. I wasn’t sure exactly what was going to happen.”
Because of the uncertainty about university procedure Beth feels she was not properly prepared to relate her story. “The whole discussion centered on not the fact that he raped me but that I acted strange after it
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
happened; that I tried to act like everything was normal after it happened.”
Beth said she felt as if she was the defendant on trial proving her own innocence, “It turned into a complete investigation of my character and I was [seen as] lying.... I couldn’t even believe it was real. I was so out of it, so unready for what happened, that I was just dumbfounded.
“I just couldn’t even assert myself to stop them and play prosecutor or play lawyer for myself, when it was really my story that was being twisted like that”
Yet the feeling of not being believed was not the worst for Beth: “The worst thing that happened was that I got left in the room alone with him.” The accused and the accuser were inadvertently left in the hearing room together during a break in testimony.
“I felt so violated. It felt like I had been raped again. It was awful. If was the worst day of my life. And I basically knew that I had no chance of getting any kind of action taken.”
The decision by residence life came five to six days later, Beth said. When it was confirmed that no action would be taken against the accused man, Beth said she couldn’t stop sobbing. “It was just, to me, like someone had said we don’t believe this happened to you. When you bring a story of yourself up like that and you’re asking these three people who are completely unequipped to handle a judicial procedure... it just made it seem like no one believed my story.”
After going through the university procedure, Beth said she would like to be an advocate if a friend was violated and chose the university option. “I would want to be there for her so that I could speak for her. This craziness with the victim not having a person able to speak for her... there’s no way that you could expect a person to sit there.
“You know in a criminal trial you have lawyers ... because you’re so uncomposed and you’re so not ready for what’s going to happen in front of you. And it seems to happen in every rape trial... they always try
to turn it around on the victim.”
Most victims of date/acquaintance rape confront substantial skepticism. Beth states, “there’s just got to be a way that the victim, in this university policy, can kind of get their odds more in her favor. People will say ... it’s oneperson’s view against another’s. But what people don’t realize is that women don’t make stuff up like this.”
While Beth feels it is important for victims to report their cases to security, she is very concerned about confidentiality. “It’s so important to a victim to keep her anonymity because... the way a rape victim is treated and looked upon in society.
“I wish that I could come out and say, “My name is ...” and talk to people about it. I would love to be able to do that but the ramifications are just too great. I couldn’tdo it.”
Though anonymity and confidentiality are important for the victims, Beth feels that awareness of date rape is vital for the community. “There are rumors about rape all over this campus. I never wanted to believe, about this, at the university that I went to that I loved so much, that they would try to'cover up stuff like this. I thought that it was honest and open dealings here. It’s not.”
Beth believes the university is afraid of publicizing controversial issues such as date and acquaintancerape because those reports would harm the school’s reputation. Beth said that the image did not square with reality.
“It happens here and maybe it’s even a worse problem here because it’s ignored and not addressed properly. They just don’t want to talk about it They just don’t want it in the paper.”
By speaking out, Beth said she wants to send a very clear message. “Rape is an ugly, ugly thing. ... People need to know, guys need to know, that it’s not going to be tolerated. They can’t do that. They have to be aware of what they’re doing, that what they’re doing is considered rape and they’re not going to get away with it because women are not going to stand for it.”	□
9

This story continued from page 8.
receiving any sort of pressure. “We honor the victim’s right to choose,” said Pawlicki.
If a victim chooses to follow up the preliminary session, victims are encouraged to seek not only medical attention, but emotional support. Students are made aware of both on and off campus centers to receive the treatment that the trauma of rape mandates. The student remains free to choose her own courseofaction.
The victim then receives in
formation concerning her legal options. Although students are made aware of the possibility of pursuing charges through the criminal system, Pawlicki states that most victims who do pursue charges against their attackers, do so through student affairs. “Reporting to the police does not mean that you have to cooperate to the nth degree. However, my sense is that they are scared to talk to the police,” said Pawlicki.
If a victim decides to further pursue judicial action through student affairs, the victim submits, in writing, her account of what happened, which is formulated by amember of student affairs. This letter will eventually

f’TW [the resolution amessagetoeveryohe
rx-sag^rightrthere:^-;/


be sent to the accused, who receives at “least two day’s notice” of the impending trial," according to Pawlicki.
A hearing ensues featuring a panel of two or three members of residence life. Both the victim and the accused, who can be accompanied by a support, and any witnesses
to educate.
“This sends a
present their cases. “We are not willing to message to everyone on this campus that it play‘Let’sMakeaDeal.’ The hearing panel [rape] does happen here. That’s the message
has tobefree tomakeadecisionbasedon the information,” said Pawlicki.
If the panel determines that the accused
student committed rape, then the panel vagueness of the specifics concerning how members decide on his punishment. • the rape would be reported. “If I was con-
Pawlicki said that students found to have committed rape arepunished in the strongest way available to the university. * “Those folks have been permanently dismissed, or expelled, from the University,” said Pawlicki. “This kind of violence is considered a serious violation of this University’s code of conduct,” said Pawlicki. A determination of guiltby the university does notappear on the perpetrator’s criminal record.
Although “considered a serious violation,” it was not until this year that DuLac outlined a comprehensive policy concerning the handling of a rape case.
To help increase awareness of date and acquaintance rape, student government and the hall president’s council recently passed a resolution which would call for all rapes involving Notre Dame students to be reported through a form of campus media.
The resolution, sponsored by the crime task force and proposed by Greg Butrus, Maureen Connolly, and R. G. Starmann, does not specify the particular form of the news release, but Butrus feels that that particular issue “wouldn’t be very difficult to work out.” Several ideas have been pre
sented including mentioning the idea in “Security Beat” or running a separate article reporting the incident. “That will be to the discretion of the media. We have to cross that bridge once we get to it,” said Butrus.
The one element that the resolution does specifically address is the insurance of the victim’s anonymity. “The specifics of the report have to be worked out but there will be anonymity,” said Butrus. Butrus insisted that the purpose of the report is not to point fingers but rather
right there — awareness,” said Butrus.
BothRakow andPawlicki were hesitant to voice support for the resolution due to the
vinced that it would really help, I would be all for it,” said Pawlicki. Pawlicki stressed the victim’s need for privacy and she was unsure as to whether the “small community” of Notre Dame could ensure such privacy.
Security immediately sends out a press release in the event of an attackrape to aware students of any danger, Rakow said. However he said he feels that the reporting of acquaintance rape would have to be handled very delicately to protect the victim. “The problem that I foresee is that it would be hard to protect the confidentiality of the victim. It would have to be a really nebulous press release,” he said.
Rakow feels that reporting an acquaintance rape in “Security Beat” could give students the impression the crime lacks the seriousness he feels the issue warrants. “I don’t want to give the impression of trivializing any report we get,” said Rakow.
Although the resolution still must be accepted by the Campus Life Council and Patricia O’Hara, sponsoring members of student government and HPC hope the resolution will help free some of the restraints of the subject of rape at Notre Dame.	□
| 10
SCHOLASTIC
Coping with the Trauma
S.O.S. and CA.R.E. strive to counsel victims of rape as well as to increase students' awareness
i i
। !
i
I
By Jeff Jotz
Self-doubt.
Powerlessness.
Fear.
These are the feelings that are inflicted upon victims of rape and sexual assault. Very often, the victim tends to blame herself, and it seems like there is nowhere to turn for help.
There are a number of services offered to Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students to increase awareness and to provide rape counseling. Working together to help victims are Sex Offense Services (S.O.S., a division of Madison Center in South Bend,) university counseling and C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination), a ND/ SMC-based awareness group.
At Madison Center, located at 408 East Madison, South Bend, Sex Offense Services provides several counseling programs for rape survivors, both in groups and in private. Laurel Eslinger, a counselor for S.O.S., boasts that her program works in conjunction with university counseling at Notre Dame and the counseling and career developmentcenter at Saint Mary’s. Eslinger also stressed that S.O.S. acts as a “choice ... where students can feel most comfortable. Many times, students feel-more anonymous off campus. We see a lot of people reporting it [rape and sexual assault] to us rather than the university or the police.”
S.O.S. also offers a phone hotline (289-HELP) to assist victims of rape and sexual assault. It is staffed by a counselor on-call 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Katie Steele, a first-year counselor at university counseling (located in the infirmary
on campus), emphasizes how her organization works with S.O.S. to refer clients and to provide joint counseling. “Working through S.O.S. has been very successful,” said Steele. Both university counseling and S.O.S. coordinate a free support group for rape survivors each week. These sessions are open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students, who may join atany time during the
WHERE TO GO . J FOR
Sex Offense Services289-HELP
University Counseling Center... 239-7336
Counsdine.......................^
Date Rape: How Men,Can Prevent It
Date Rape: Awareness'for Women* .
SeCUn ty......................................283-4444
St. Joseph County Prosecuting Attorney’s
^Office ***»«*« **i**im *•******•»»»■♦»•.284-9544|
semester. Steele said she felt that the group approach, along with individual assistance by counselors has met with the most success, because it helps victims “regain a feeling of control and mastery over their lives.” Like S.O.S., university counseling also offers a therapist on-call who is able to take phone calls and visits by students at any time.
Missy Sherman, a Notre Dame senior, is the head of C. A.R.E., a campus-based group dedicated to rape awareness and education. “Our purpose,” said Sherman, “is to increase
awareness of sexual violence atNotre Dame and Saint Mary’s. We’re here to get people to talk about it.” According to Sherman, C.A.R.E. functions more as a educational tool rather than an alternative to counseling. However, C.A.R.E. (with the resources of S.O.S. and University Counseling) has been instrumental in creating a rape support group on campus, “the first time in the history of Notre Dame,” said Sherman. C.A.R.E. also acts as a training ground for counselors to assist rape victims and to facilitate presentations and discussions on campus. So far, C.AR.E. has held student discussions with campus security and the office of residence life on rape and sexual assault After spring break, C.A.R.E. will be sponsoring a Rape Awareness Week that will culminate with a “Take Back the Night” march on March 22.
However, all three groups give the most credit to the students who offer helping hands to assist victims of rape and sexual assault Both S.O.S. and C.A.R.E. train students to counsel rape victims on and off campus. “Many students are involved in our program, and we really appreciate it,” said Eslinger. Sherman also is pleased with the enthusiasm and compassion of students who are willing to get involved.
It is no secret that rape and sexual assault exists within the Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s community. Many times, knowing where to turn is often a painful and confusing task. Several counselors stated that the atmosphere at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s makes it difficult for any discussion on sexuality and sexual violence. The counseling services offered to students have led to a heightened concern and alertness to the trauma of rape.	□
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
11
Her Viewpoint
Men and women give their opinions on date rape
compiled by Elizabeth Baytion and John Regruth
Do males and females have different perspectives on date rape? To find the answer, Scholastic conducted a random unscientific survey of approximately 20 undergraduates. Men and women were given the same questions. The opinions expressed here are limited, but representative of those of Notre Dame students.
If an accusation of date rape is reported to the administration, do you think it should be automatically reported to the police?
Lisa: Yes, because it’s a crime.
Julie: I think it should be reported to the police only if the woman wants it to be.
Pam: No—I think it’s a nature of personal privacy.
Whitney: Yes, because it’s a criminal offense.
Catherine: No, notunless the person wants to report it to the police.
12
How would you define date rape?
Laney: When you’re with someone you know and they force you to have sex agianst your will.
Lisa: I would think that ...even if they [a male and a female] have had previous sexual history, and any time she says no and he forces her to have sexual intercourse.
Katherine: When you’re forced to have sex with a friend and you
don’t want to.
Pam: Any time clothes were forced off, and [there is] any sort of genital contact
Whitney: Date rape would be being forced to have intercourse by an acquaintance.
Juli: Date rape is when either party doesn’t consent to having sex and is physically forced into it, and the people intended to spend time together.
Suppose a couple gets drunk and has sex. The next morning either party says, “I didn’t know what I was doing, and I didn’t want to have sex.” Is that acquaintance rape?
Laney: No. If [a person is] drunk and at that time... consented, you can’t say the next day that [the person] didn’t really want to.
Pam: No, because at the time both parties were willing and the fact that they were drunk doesn’t excuse it That’s the responsibility that comes with drinking.
Juli: No, because the impairment of your
judgement is nbt a valid excuse.
If a woman puts herself into certain situations — kissing a man, drinking too much at a party, dressing provocatively, etc. — is she responsible if she is then sexually assaulted?
Julie: Notatall. Only if she agrees...towhat happens.
Cynthia: Probably both. I think that if she takes off her clothes then it’s her fault. If she doesn’t then it’s his fault
Molly: Absolutely not A sexual relationship should be a matter of consent and putting yourself into that situation doesn’t necessarily imply consent.
think h’s ariymoreher fault if shewaswalking two f
Catherine: No. I don’t think it’s ever the woman’s fault if she’s sexually assaulted, because sexual assault is based on the fact that she didn’t consent, and that the other party committed an act of violence agianst her... I don’t think it’s any more her fault if she was walking in Times Square at two in the morning and got mugged. Getting into a dangerous situation doesn’t make her more blameworthy, but it doesn’t eliminate the need for caution.
SCHOLASTIC
His Viewpoint
If an accusation of date rape is reported to the administration, do you think it should be automatically reported to the police?
John: Right now, the administration seems to define date rape as assault in order to hide the problem. They should report it to expose the problem. Denying it won’t make it go away.
Don: It’s up to the accuser. If he or she wishes to go further with the charges then they should report it to the police.
Bob: The individual should decide. It shouldn’t be forced on that person by the administration.
John: Yes, if it’s in the best interests of the woman. Also, [reporting date rape] would show the university takes the issue seriously. The university shouldn’tbein the way of justice, or cover up something as serious as date rape.
Rich: No, not automatically. The accused must also be protected from false accusation. If the university investigates the charge and finds the person guilty, then they should report it as date rape. They shouldn’t jeopardize someone’s reputation by immediately reporting the accusation to the police.
How would you define date rape?
Don: Any sexual advance that is unwelcome. If she says “no” then the man has to stop.
Bob: Date rape is any unwelcome advances.
John: Date rape is sexual assault on a
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
p Rich: No one wants toq be raped or assaulted,
[^■■jwoman^
| dangerous situations. I [ While I don’t think she J | should bear all of the
; blgj^
it is hers.
‘.A. ■	. * : \ ' -* * <■ * • ’ • k
member of the opposite sex without their consent by someone known to the victim.
Rich:	Date rape is anything that happens
after the word “no.”
Suppose a couple gets drunk and has sex. The next morning either party says, “I didn’t know what I was doing, and I didn’t want to have sex.” Is that acquaintance rape?
Michael: No, because I think at the time that it happens both people were consenting. To try to change your mind afterwards is trying toputadifferentnameon something it’s not
Bob: No. Both sides agreed at the time.
John: No. You can’t say “yes,” then “no” afterward.
John: That question is tough because alcohol is involved. People tend to lose some control when they drink alcohol. Alcohol is
notanexcusefordaterape. A friend of mine goes to college in California, and the rule at their school is that sex cannot be consensual if one party was drinking.
If a woman puts herself into certain situations — kissing a man, drinking too much at a party, wearing provocative	■
clothing, etc.—is she responsible if she is	’
sexually assaulted?	>
Eric: No. The whole idea that a woman was “asking for it” upsets me. A person’s body is his or her own. No one has the right to invadeanotherperson’sbody. Ifawomanis ■ leading someone on, that’s unfortunate, but [it] doesn’ t give a guy the right to assault her.
Don: No. Absolutely not. A woman has the right to do whatever she wants. It’s unfair to say she’s asking for it
John: No means no. You have to go by what she says, not what she does. She’s not right for her actions, but assault isn’t right. The bottom line is that a man doesn’t have free license.
John: No, unless she explicitly invites such attention. Once she says no, that means no. It’s unfair to put the burden on her.
Rich: No one wants to be raped or assaulted, but sometimes a woman does stupid things which put her in dangerous situations. While I don ’ t think she should bear all of the blame, I think some of it is hers. She has to take steps to protect herself—that’s just the way it is.
Michael: No, because I think that a person has a right to wear what they want to wear, and to act the way they want to, without being sexually assaulted.	□
13
CAMPUS LIFE
Daring Destinations
Tired of battling for beach space in Daytona, South Padre Island and • Cancun? The four corners region in the Southwest offers an incredible experience in camping, backpacking, skiing and climbing for a lot less money, a lot more adventure
by Chris Crossen
Ask yourself where you’re headed this March. Get out the Randy-McNally
Road Atlas and look at your options. I say go Southwest, where Arizona, Utah, New Mexico and Colorado meet to form the four comers region. This is the land of hard blue sky, desert sun, sagebrush and cactus, places that most people don’t know about but should: red sandstone monoliths, arches and canyons, waist deep powder and towns happening in their own ways. No condos, no beaches or kegs — don’t need ’em. The drive is long, but well worth whatever it takes to escape from these dreary Midwestern skies.
The Southwest — when you arrive, you realize. you should have discovered it sooner. Check out one of the surreally
beautiful canyons and national parks. Get your backpack, tent, sleeping bag, boots and skis, a few friends; head on out and enjoy the ride. Fill your senses to the brim. Exactly what you may find out there or even on the way I can’t say, but if anything it won’t be ordinary. Nothing to do but jump on Route 80 and go.
This isn’t about luxury — accommodations aren’t guaranteed. It’s about the road and wilderness and small town bars. Go to Alta, Utah with a tent. Camp in the parking lot for four days. Meet some new friends and share a floor with eight other people in a motel room. Live on Cheerios and Ritz crackers for a week. Drive down to Moab
The outskirts of a grassy oasis, on a plateau ringed by canyons, in Chesler Park, the Needles District,
Utah
and get lost in the slickrock. Camp in the local KOA or surrounding parks. Most of the land in the four comers area is public — National Park, Bureau of Land Management, National Monument, National Forest, or state owned — all
open to tents.
It won’t necessarily be an easy trip. It will be memorable. This I guarantee.
CAMPING AND BACKPACKING
Canyonlands National Park, Utah
I felt as if I’d been sucked up into the head of a canyon as I hiked onward in the noon heat. I stopped, scanned my topographic map for reference poin ts, and explored some of the large side canyons branching from the brown contour lines — washes twisting down from higher ground.
The map showed I was at the point where the main wash of Lost Canyon forks into two
Chris Crossen
large branches. Which way to go? It was hard to say, not because one path would be easier than the other, but becausefor me. I didn’t want to miss a thing. I wanted to hike up every side canyon and arroyo, follow both forks, even if after five miles of brash and cactus they ended in eight-hundredfoot-high walls.
I spent six weeks living in the Needles District, exploring the maze of canyons and searching for rock art, getting lost in a landscape whose grandeur stupefies. The choices are extremely difficult because there is so much to immerse yourself in. You could spend a few lifetimes hiking a single canyon, and the park has thousands. The
14
SCHOLASTIC
southeastern Utah, the park is divided into three districts: the Needles, the Maze, and the Island in the Sky. The area was a stronghold for the Anasazi Indians, a culture that thrived in the Southwest for thousands of years until itmysteriously vanished sometime around A.D. 1300. Throughout the canyon systems Anasazi ruins remain — thousands of archaeological sites to find and explore. An extensive trail system runs through most of the park, making an amazing backcountry area acces-
(left) A 15-foot-high ladder provides passage from Upper Squaw Canyon to (below) Elephant Canyon in Chesler Park, Utah
landscape is as surreal as you’ll find anywhere: 250-million-year-old sandstone, mushroom rocks, spires, arches, pinnacles, prehistorical cliff dwellings and pictographs. Located on the Colorado Plateau in
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
Chris Crossen (2) sible to those who are willing to hike. There is also exceptional mountain biking in each district for those who prefer the two wheel mode (801-259-7164).
Arches National Park, Utah
Edward Abbey ’ s world, memorialized in his book Desert Sky — hoodoo rocks and. the most amazing arches in the world. Over five hundred within the park’s boundaries. For the most part, Arches is known as a “front-country” park. You can drive to the more famous formations on paved roads, but there is also great, seldom-used backcountry where you can lose youself for weeks, in places like the Fiery Furnace, the Windows Section, Devils Garden and the Eye of the Whale. Theparkisrightuptheroadfromthe town of Moab, famous for its white water outfitters and mountain biking (801-259-8161).
More destinations:
Capitol Reef National Park, Utah
High desert and canyon region in the slickrock country west of the Colorado River (801-425-3871).
Dark Canyon Wilderness Area
45,000 acres of wilderness in manti-La Sal National Forest just south of the Canyonlands about Cataract Canyon on the Colorado River (801-587-2041).
Grand Gulch Primitive Area, Utah BLM land just north of the San Juan River and Monument Valley (801-5876-2141).
Hovenweep National Monument, Utah and Colorado
A great number of beautiful Anasazi adobi dwellings and pictograph sites (303-529-4465).
Escalante Wilderness Utah
A steep, high-walled canyon system formed by the Escalante River and its tributaries, smooth sandstonecliffs, and very little backcountry use (801-826-4291).
Monument Valley, Utah
The land of towering buttes, spires, and expansive vistas where John Ford shot many of his classic westerns. Located in the Navajo Reservation near the Arizona border. Take Route 163 from Bluff, Utah to Kayenta, Arizona. Camping isn’t permitted within the reservation, but the drive through
15
Coming Distractions
Send information for your event to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Colin Clary at 239-7569.
Thursday 27
Movie: "The Naked Gun," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.
Lecture: Postmodernism and Contemporary European Culture," M (Picasso) TV," 7:30 p.m., Snite.
Basketball: Notre Dame Men vs.
Loyola, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
Musical: "Stepping Out," Little Thatre, SMC, 8:00 pm.
Sophomore Literary Festival: Shelby Hearon, 8:00 pm., Library Aud.
Performance: "Acoustic Cafe" in the basement of LaFortune Student Center, 9:00 pm.-l:00 am. Open mike.
Music: "Zahm Acoustical Jam," Theodore's, 7:30-10:30 pm., $2.
Play: "Nobody Loves An Albatross," Washington Hall, 8:10 pm.
Play: "Henry V," Architecture Auditorium, 8:10 pm., $5.
Music: Cliff Erickson, Alumni-Senior Club.
Mardi Gras at St Mary's: Haggar Center, 7:30-10 p.m.
Friday 28
Movie: "The Fisher King," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "An Angel at My Table," 6:30 & 9:30p.m., Snite, $2.
Morrissey Film Fest: Stepan Center, 9:00 p.m.
Musical: "Stepping Out," Little Theatre, SMC, 8:00 pm. Performance: "Nobody Loves An Albatross," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival: Toby Olson, 8:00 p.m., Library Aud.
Play: "Henry V," Architecture Auditorium, 8:10 pm., $5.
Comedy Showcase: Featuring Buzz Sutherland and David Naster, 8 p.m., Theodore's, $3.
Music: Cliff Erickson, Alumni-Senior . Club.
Saturday
29 S
Movie: "The Fisher King" 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "An Angel at My Table," 6:30 & 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2.
Basketball: Notre Dame Men vs. St John's, 2:00 p.m., JACC.
Musical: "Stepping Out," Little Theatre, SMC, 8:00 p.m.
Play: "Nobody Loves An Albatross," Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m.
Medieval Banquet: Gala event — all welcome, Faculty Dining Room, SDH, 6:00 p.m., students $ 10, non-students $22.
Play: "Henry V," Architecture Auditorium, 3:10 & 8:10 p.m., $5.
Music: Cliff Erickson, Alumni-Senior Club.
Mi Th< Pei Cai Wi Sn Co Cei
K
Co spe Th Fili 9:1

" LaFortune Information Desk
Senior Class:' 239-M36	;
Student UnionB^
Junior-Classi
SniteFilmSeriesHotLine:
S39-7361
Sophomore Class:: 239-5225 i T
JACCTieketlnformation:
b^D^:^
WeekendWheelsSch 3^x5
Touch Four
x 2101 formovieinfo.
x 2114 for the music line
x 2112 for concert info.
x 2117: for theatre info..
(x 2525 for college events /
Sunday
isical: “Stepping Out," Little . Mitre, SMC, 2:30 p.m.
•formance: Faculty Recital, ■olyn Plummer, violinist and Iliam Cemy, pianist, ite, 2:00 p.m.
medy: Howie Mandel, Stepan iter, 8:00 p.m.
Monday
2
ncert: “toad the wet sprocket," with cial guest Marvin Etzioni at sodore's. Tickets $7 at the door, m: Avant GardeFilms at the Snite, 5 p.m.
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
\ x 1903 for movie reviews t -x 1300 for localsportsinfo.
x 1301 for TV .sports events
x 1303 for national sports report
x 1213 for world hews
Tuesday
Howie Mandel... now that's comedy!I!
Film: “The Texas Chainsaw Massacre," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: “Red Psalm,'* 9:00 pm., Snite, $2.
Wednesday 4
Film: "Measure for Measure," Cushing, 7:00 p.m.
Ballet: Moscow Dramatic Ballet, O'Laughlin Aud., 7:30 p.m. Tickets $8-$16., call 284-4626 for info.
COMING SOON...
Spring Break
March 7th-15th! !! The Nazz
March 21st!!!

Photo courtesy of Sony Mjsic toad the wet sprocket plays Theodore's at 8:00 p.m. on Monday.
100 Center Cinema I&II: ®1'259-0414 v 8
ScottsdaleTheatre:
J8Oi®^3.8:y
Town&CountryTheatre
‘UmyersityP

<|8’1®SK®
the huge valley is well worth your while.
Canyon de Chelly National Monument,
Arizona
A canyon system that was home to the
Anasazi a thousand years ago, with numer
ous ruins and pictograph sites located in the sheer cliff walls. The monument is located within the Navajo Reservation (602-674-
5436).
Chaco Culture Natural Historic Park, New Mexico
Some of the largest and best preserved Anasazi village ruin sites in existence: Pueblo Bonito, Chetro Ketl, and Casa Rinconada (505-786-5384).
Great Sand Dunes National Monument, Colorado
Immense sand dunes and drifts walled in by the Sangre de Christo Mountains and San Luis Hills, with Crestone Peak just to the north (303-529-4465).
For maps of the regions in Utah call the Canyonlands National History Association in Moab at 801-259-6003, or contact the individual park or resource management for more information.
SKIING
Crested Butte, Colorado
While traversing a ridgeline with my brother this past January, he remarked to me, “They didn’t send the insurance agent over here before they opened it up.” Ismiled, then went over the edge. We dropped into a place called Phoenix Bowl and hit bottomless powder, drifted in dream-like free-fall down through cliffs and glades on the North Face of the mountain, not another person in sight
This is as extreme as it gets. I’ve almost drowned in powder here. Crested Butte has some of the best steep and deep out-of-bounds-type skiing in the country; ungroomed mountain sides with lift access. Free North Face tours with expert guides given twice a day. For those who enjoy slopes a little more on the mellow side, Crested Butte of
fers varied terrain for many levels of ability. Located in Gunnison National Forest, the mountain receives over 300 inches of snow
a season.
Unlike some of the other resorts in Colo-
rado, the town of Creste Butte (pop. 960), Others not to miss:
has not yet become a victim of the rampant “Aspenization” effect. Quite a laid back scene. For those who migaht want to start
break a little earlier, the U.S. Extreme Championships are scheduled for March 1-5. Some of the craziest skiers in the world, with filmmakers from ESPN and MTV (800-544-8448).
Loveland Pass, Colorado
I once skied this pass on New Year’s Eve
beneath a full moon. The snow was deep, the light bright enough for sunglasses. Backcountry skiing in deep woods right off Route 70, on the way to Summit County — Breckenridge, Copper Mountain, Keystone. Get off of Route 70 at exit 216, just before the Eisenhower Tunnel, and drive up the
pass toward Arapahoe Basin. The road
Chris Crosson
winds up a steep mountainside; get out at the top and ski the trees all the way to the bottom. Have a driver shuttle back, or hitch
up to the top — no lift ticket; no lifts.
Alta, Utah
Some of the lightest powder in the world,
varied terrain, from steep, steep cliffs to cruisers, and inexpensive lift tickets that are good at Snowbird, right up the road (801-742-3333). ■
Wolfs Hole, Colorado
Over five hundred inches of snow a year, the most of any ski area in Colorado. A
difficult place to reach, which makes the powder that much better: fresh tracks for days after it dumps (303-731-5605).
A word to those who may go: There is a spirit in the four comers region that does not convey well on the page. The canyons and
red rock have a mystical way of drawing you
up out of yourself. These are a few of the remaining outposts, some of the last unspoiled backcountry left. Remember that it is the landscape first, and as Edward Abbey said, you can’t see anything from the car. You’vegot to get out of the goddamned contraption and walk— better, crawl — on hands and knees, over the sandstone and through the thombrush and cactus.
If you have any questions don’t hesitate to give me a call. I’ll help draw up aroute if you’re unsure. If not, you can find me in Upper Lost Canyon, the Needles District.
□
Chris Crossen is earning his Master'sin Creative Writing in the Graduate School of English. He has spent summers guiding tours through the areas he loves to -write about the most.
October break spent skiing In Crested Butte, Colorado, where the sport is possible year round.
18
SCHOLASTIC
S'
CALLIIWW^
^'fScholastjcJAlo^^
'<;s:^;?campus-l if e^ departmental Apo-|^
1f;ypu areinterested,^^
■SarcastipAl^
:■•"• ■ ■' A- ■■■:;•; ■;• ;A‘ /. ‘ •' ?■ ‘ \: „	A'A; A </ A	j:
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
19
SPORTS

Irish skaters, despite a disappointing season, prepare to
join the rough and tumble ranks of the CCHA
Notre Dame hockey will join the prestigious CCHA in the 1992-92
By J. Bradley Keck
A thletics at the University of Notre Dame have undergone a lx metamorphosis in recent years. No longer are the Irish only known for their football history and basketball upsets; other sports are now entering the spotlight. Due to a magnified concentration on
the non-revenue sports by the athletic department, the tennis, baseball and women’s basketball programs have landed big recruits in the past few years and have become solid national contenders. David DiLucia, Chuck Coleman, Tracy Barton and Melissa Harris are all highly ranked players for the Irish tennis teams. The baseball team is the strongest it has ever been and is beginning to battle for national recognition and a trip to the NCAA tournament. Women’s basketball landed the number one player coming out of high school last year, Michelle Marciniak, and is hoping to win the Midwest Collegiate Conference.
The Notre Dame hockey team is also heightening its level of play as it prepares to move into an incredibly competitive conference. Next year the Irish skaters will join the ranks of the Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA). The CCHA is arguably the toughest and most respected collegiate hockey league. Irish hockey fans, who make hockey the third highest revenue-raising sport at Notre Dame, have been expecting a move into the CCHA for the past few years.
“We found the CCHA to be attractive for a variety of reasons,” said athletic director Dick Rosenthal. “The visibility of the league in college hockey circles is tremendous.”
Just as the visibility of the league is tremendous, so is the level of competition. Bowling Green, Michigan State and Lake Superior State have all come out of the league to win NCAA championships since 1984. These strong teams are joined by Michigan, Ferris State, Illinois atChicago, Ohio State, Miami of Ohio and Western Michigan. Every team in the league is nationally touted and plays at the top level. Michigan and Western Michigan have both been ranked in the top 20 for most of this season.
In preparation for initiation into the CCHA, the Irish have played five home-and-home matches against current CCHA members. Along with those teams, Notre Dame was bold enough to play two games against top
20
SCHOLASTIC
ranked Maine and to travel to play in a tournament in Switzerland. On March 6-7, the Irish will close out their year at the Independent Invitational held in Fairbanks, Alaska, against independent rival Alaska-Anchorage, a team that also is in the top 20 this season.
“Playing all of these good teams has brought the team up to a higher level,” said sophomore goalie Greg Louder. “It’s really fun to play teams on that level, and I’m looking forward to playing a great team every week next year.”
The transition will not be
Robert Benedetto
an easy one. This season the The Irish have struggled this year to 9-17-1 mark thus far. But with a new conference and more scholar-Irish have gone 9-17-1 to	ships, the future looks brighter for Notre Dame hockey than it has in many years.
date, and have lost most of
their games to future CCHA opponents. The team lost close contests to Michigan, falling short 4-3 and 8-5. It also suffered disappointingly large losses to Ferris S tate and 12th-ranked Western Michigan. Notre Dame lost to the Bulldogs 4-0 and 5-3, while dropping two games to the Broncos 10-4 and 7-5.
David Bankoske, assistant captain for the Irish who has been injured all season, still feels thatNotre Dame is going to be ready for the challenges that his team is going to face next season. He will get a chance to return to Notre Dame for a fifth year at the center position and feels the Irish are moving in the right direction.
“I sat in the stands all year, but it gave me a great opportunity to see the team play,” said Bankoske. “I’m really ready to getout there and help. It’s going to be exciting to play in the CCHA. We will be a better team just because we will consistently be playing better teams.”
Over this season, the Irish have had some impressive play to back up this optimistic talk. The entire team has been improving in spite of the difficult schedule and numerous injuries. Lou Zadra, Curtis Janicke and S terling Black have all been big scorers for Notre Dame. Zadra, a senior left wing from West Roxbury, Massachusetts, is looking to lead the Irish for the second consecutive year in goals scored. Last year he put 24 shots between the pipes, and this year he is on a similar pace.
A trio of underclassmen have also been significantly contributing to the Irish promise. Louder has been the Irish number one goalie for the past two years. As a freshman, the fifth-round draft pick of the Edmonton Oilers out of high school, totaled 935 saves and posted a save percentage of 87.4. This impressive performance earned Louder team MVP honors last season. This season, Louder has continued his fine work in the crease after battling a fractured hand and numerous games where he has had to face more than thirty shots.
Troy Cusey and John Rushin, both talented freshmen, have also given Irish fans high hopes for the future. Either Cusey or Rushin has
scored in almost every game. Rushin will be a big asset over the next three seasons, not only for his ability to score but for his tremendous size (6’5” and 200 lbs.).
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, it has had trouble keeping all of its talent on the ice because of injuries. Along with Bankoske, team captain Kevin Patrick was injured and unable to play up until two weeks ago.
“We had a good start, but injuries really inhibited us and we came up short in a lot of games,” said Bankoske. "The team at times has been very frustrated. At one point, seven of our players were injured at once.”
Mike Curry, another assistant captain, has been healthy for the entire year and has been a key part of the Irish team. He has been scoring consistently for Notre Dame, and he netted the winning goals against Army and Lake Forest. Curry, Zadra, Patrick, Pat Arendt and Rob Copeland will all graduate in May, but Notre Dame’s program is beginning to develop some depth. Not only have Bankoske and defenseman Scott Vickman been granted a fifth year of eligibility, but Notre Dame has increased its hockey scholarship money. This year, the Irish had to divide nine scholarships between 34 players. Next year, Notre Dame will have 12-and-a-half scholarships to divide. This will be a big help for Irish recruiting.
“The new scholarships will allow us to sign better players,” said Curry. “With the new schedule and more scholarships, we will have a shot at the top recruits and possibly some Canadian players.”
The quality of the returning players and the opportunity to sign some impressive freshmen will lead to a better hockey program at Notre Dame. Introduction into the CCHA will give the Irish more national exposure and will bring high quality hockey to the fieldhouse for every home game.
“We will be forced to play well,” said Louder. “Expectations and goals are going to be a lot higher. Next year will be exciting. We will do our best to make Notre Dame proud.”	□
’ FEBRUARY 27, 1992
21
SPORTS
It’s
Time To Play Ow Style The Notre Dame lacrosse team looks to overcome growing pains by playing within itself
Galvin Kenny
Hard hitting, as shown here against Lake Forest, is included In what the Irish laxmen call "their style."
By Amanda Clinton
T t was a blowout! When the Notre Dame JL men’s lacrosse team stepped out onto the field to scrimmage Lake Forest a few weeks ago, it had no idea what it was in for. By the i!	time the last minutes had ticked off the
i	clock, the Irish had all but lost track of the
|	score as 19 goals had hit the back of the
Foresters’ net.
I	Despite the relative youth of the team and
one of the toughest schedules the team has ever had to face, this year’s season looks promising for the Irish men’s lacrosse team.
The team was not only encouraged by the score of the Lake Forest game, but also by the fact that itplaycd its own style, a problem
22
the team has been plagued by in past seasons.
“Lake Forest was not at the same level of competition that we were,” said sophomore midfielder Bill Ahmuty. “Last year we had a tendency to play down and not play our style. But this year hopefully will be different. This certainly was the case against Lake Forest.”
One of the assets of having a young team is that there is an increase in depth. Another benefit that goes hand in hand with this depth is more competition in practice. The freshmen and sophomores push the upper-classmen to keep working hard and not to slack off.
“At practice we compete with each other
for spots,” remarked Ahmuty. “With this competition in practice, the team keeps getting better.”
One of the freshmen is the blue chip recruit Mike Iorio. Iorio’s high school record included being named an All-American lacrosse player and being selected to the Junior All-World Lacrosse Team. His potential is unlimited and his expectations are high. Despite pressure in the beginning, Iorio is fulfilling his role on the team.
“He has really stepped up and should really help the team,” commented Ahmuty. “He is a great individual athlete and is eager to learn. As he begins to adjust to collegiate play, he will undoubtedly be an asset to the team.”
SCHOLASTIC
! Another positive additon to the team is sophmore Randy Colley. Last year Colley i	was unable to play due to a knee injury. An
All-American attackman in high school, it was a big loss and a bigger disappointment not to have him out on the field last year. The team is expecting him to spark the offense, and it hopes that he will continue to stay healthy.
The offense will be lead by senior Mike Sullivan. Saidjunior midfielder Ed Lamb, “He has a lot of f experience and should play a key role on running the offense. Heis recognized for his excellent moves, scoring potential and ability to play anywhere on the attack.”
Sullivan, with these scoring abilities, is on track to challenge for the Notre Dame scoring record of 161 points held by Joe Franklin, a 1986 ■graduate.
The midfield will be looking to junior Brian Mayglothling. He is known for his speed and athleticism. His freshman year he played both soccer and lacrosse,
but last year he decided to commit himself solely to lacrosse. With his focus only on lacrosse,'Mayglothling has turned into a leader of the midfield.
“He can do anything he wants out there,” remarked Lamb. “Perhaps one of his greatest talents is his ability to create opportunites for everyone else on the team. And even more importantly, when he takes the field, the players play better individually and as a team.”
Senior Doug Murray is expected to lead the defense with his experience. He has had the experience of being on the squad for four
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
Galvin Kenny
The Irish midfield is one position that boasts a bit of experience. Junior midfielders Brian Mayglothling and Ed Lamb will be expected to bear much of the burden at this position.
years. His excellent stick work, strength and aggressiveness will make him the key to a successful defense. The defense is young this year so the players will be looking to him to keep everyone in line. With his extensive collegiate experience and impressive talents he will command the defense.
At the end of his freshman season, goalie Chris Parent, now a junior, had the performance of his life. The game was against Michigan State, who pounded the goal with
persuade these top notch athletes that the Irish lacrosse program is up and coming. In the past few years, Notre Dame recruiters have done exactly that.
The Irish men’s lacrosse team is working on improving its level of consistencey. The team is aiming to play every game hard, to play every practice hard and to keep improving day by day. In the past, there have been some weeks when the team will practice intensely and competitively for a few days and then have a bad day of practice that proved to set it back significantly.
“We want to go out every day working with the same intensity,” said Lamb.
Despite the fact that the 1992 men’s lacrosse team is young and less experienced in collegiate play, this has become its incentive to work hard.
“We are all working harder this year,” admited Lamb. “Everyone is pushing each other.”
Another incentive to work hard is the loss to
Michigan State at the end of last year’s season.
. “Lots of the guys were disappointed about last year’s loss to Michigan State,” recalled Lamb. “We plan to use it throughout the season as motivation.”
Even though this year’s schedule is difficult and the team is relatively young, the players still believe their hard work will pay off.
“We have a chance to win alomost every game this season,” stated Lamb. “We have a chance if we stick to our style and play with intensity.”	□
23
34 shots. Parent was able to hold the Spartans to only 6 goals. As a result of starting half of the games during his freshman year and all of the games last year, Parent has quickly gained poise, confidence and a couple of years of experience that will be a neccessity given this season’s challenging schedule.
Critical to the continuous, steady improvement of the Notre Dame men’s lacrosse program is the heavy recruiting throughout the East Coast The key to successful recruiting has been to seek out the All-American high school players and to

SPORTS
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Elmer Bennett: Bennett, a senior guard from Houston, TX, has had a tremendous impact on the outcomes of every game for the Fighting Irish men's basketball team during its current four game winning streak. On Saturday, Bennett played exceptional offense and defense as the Irish upset the second-ranked Bruins of UCLA, 84-71. Bennett, performing most of the ballhandling duties, recorded 18 points, eight assists and three steals.
Margaret Nowlin: Nowlin, a senior from St Paul, MN, turned in a tremendous game against Butler on Saturday as the Irish defeated their MCC rival 79-70 in their last home game. Nowlin hit 8-of-15 from the field, had seven rebounds and shadowed Bulldog star Julie VonDielingen throughout the game without getting into foul trouble. The win sustained Irish hopes for a share of the MCC regular season title.
artdtd
ENJOY OUR BANQUET FACILITIES, FARE & SERVICE!
Graduation, prom nights, wedding rehearsals, end of term parties, innovative'get togethers, athletic (from bowling league to college halls) and for whatever other eclectic reasons!
"The Italian Ristorante"
1412 South Bend Avenue South Bend, Indiana 46617
232-4244
Reserve our banquet room with all of its amenities for 25 to 80, our ’court’ for up to 40, the whole place for 200+, our dual patios for 70 (weather permitting) plus free use of our bocci ball court, or rent a tent on our lawn for 300+1
24
SCHOLASTIC
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
Get a Real Haircut!
A Look at College Coiffes
Nice Coiffure
In a place where long hair is often considered evidence of subversive activity, it’s good to have some information on what other college students are doing with their hair. It seems there are some pretty wild do’s out there, according to a list from Supercuts, Inc. submitted to the College Press Service. Among the favorites (and some you might recognize) are the Delta Delta Delta standard ‘Sorority Bob’ - a do worn shoulder length and straight. ‘High and Tight* is today’s version of the crew cut. Of course, everyone’s favorite, ‘Mall Hair/Big Hair’’,* made the list. This cut requires little explanation as it has been with us from our first days of high school and is thought to be a major contributor to the ozone hole over the Antarctic. Other ND looks included are the ‘Frat Do* — the GQ look, short and combed, the ever popular ‘Zipper Head/Butt Cut’— hair parted down the exact middle, and the old stand-by’s ‘Bed Head’ and‘HatHead/LidDo.’ On thecruelersideisthe‘NiceDo,’ an insult to really ugly haircuts usually followed by exclaiming “NOT!”
Wielding the budget ax
A student at the University of Minnesota has come up with a plan to save the university millions of dollars by shutting down a few simple operations, according to the National On-Campus Report. Martin Kuz, a columnist for the Minnesota Daily, has a plan to save the school over $60 million in the near future. First, the school must sell the university president’s mansion. After that, the school should demolish the residence halls, shut down the Minnesota Student Association (what? no An Tostal?), and the Coffman Union Food Service to “save $500,000 and countless lives.” Finally, the university could save a bundle by closing down all of the campus libraries due to the simple fact that “literacy is overrated.”
Graduation — Green Mountain Style
Students graduating during the winter term do not have to miss out on all the fun of the usual May graduation, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. Instead of having a small ceremony and handing out diplomas, officials at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont continued a tradition to have an alpine graduation on one of Vermont’s popular skiing mountains. Over 60 winter-term graduates skiied the slopes in full graduation caps and gowns and received their diplomas from administrators waiting at the bottom of the hill. The students are, however, required to return to the campus in May for the tradtional graduation ceremony. In hopes of matching Vermont’s exciting winter graduation, Notre Dame officials tossed around the idea of a beer bowl-off, but it just didn’t seem to be as much fun.
Chronicle of Higher Education
Doogie Wannabbee
In case you weren’t sure Californians were nuts, check this out. According to the College Press Service, the University of California at Irvine plans to admit a 10-year-old boy to obtain a degree in biological sciences this fall. The boy is presently enrolled at Orange Coast College, a junior college, where he has attained a 4.0 grade point average. He plans to enter medical school to become a brain surgeon and cure Alzheimer’s disease. Gosh, don’t you feel like an underachiever?	□
Edited by Mike Owen
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
25
BEHAVIORMODIFICA TION
® © w © era g © ©S to© Tf©] Us
■
In case this week’s column seems a little out of kilter, I have this strange song running through my head as I type. I went to a dance this weekend and they played "I Want Candy” -Bow Wow Wow's greatest hit. This threw me back to the age ofl 1 when I idolized their 16 year-old mohawk-hair, motorcycle riding female lead singer. I haven’t been able to concentrate since. Does anyone remember her? Have her write me. So anyway...
Dear Mr. Manners:
There was something in your last column which we must complain about. One of your witty statements concluded, “... it’s your fault for being tides and not sending anything good in” (Scholastic, Feb. 20). Certainly someone as proficient in etiquette as yourself should know that ending a sentence in a preposition is frowned upon. Where was your brain at?
The Trolls Grace Hall (We’re back.)
Well, I guess you got me. For once, the mighty Mr. Manners slips up and who else catches it but a bunch of guys named The Trolls. Don’t tell me you have nothing better to do than sit around and read my column with a fine-toothed comb waiting to write in whenever ' you desire more publicity. Normally I would have caught such poor
sentence structure quicker than a PLS major turns crunchy, but I also have a life outside of LaFortune. A veteran of Humanities Seminar should never stoop so low, but stuff happens, don't ax me why.
Yeti detect an even more serious problem here and that is that you are entirely missing the point of the column. If you haven’t figured it out, Mr. Manners has no manners; I make fun of people a lot, I use crude language and am often quite graphic. I’m dating Mother Theresa (well, shedoesn’tknow ityet). Anyway, the point is to have fun, not correct manners. I still consider you to be tiiles since you failed to send in anything good (proper sentence structure). Your letter is anal-retentive and annoying. This isn't the mail bag on 60 Minutes. Go back to your chemical-free section and get a life.
Dear Mr. Manners:
We, the committee who select the big-wigs to speak at graduation, are interested in having you give a keynote speech bn manners, etiquette and proper business behavior for our graduating seniors on Commencement Weekend. We can think of no one else, save Regis and Kathy Lee, who could offer more worthwhile advice. What do you say?
Sincerely,
The Committee Who Select the Big-Wigs
Dear Committee,
Many thanks for your kind invitation yet, as you know, excess publicity precludes me from giving public appearences. Yet I am saddened that I will not have the opportunity to tell the Official Notre Dame Joke involving Father Sorin, the weather, and why we're not in San Diego. I don't want to give it away for those who haven't heard it, but it won't be long until you're on your third time hearing it. If you work for catering, make that thirty.	□
For a free booklet send in $1.50 for postage and a self-addressed, nah, just send me a letter at 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
The Joy of Filth
Tim Rogers relates the invaluable opportunity to be as messsy as you want in your off campus abode
By Tim Rogers
Imo ved off campus because I wanted my last year at Notre Dame to serve as a transition. Leaving the security of dorm life, along with itsR.A.’s andrectors, I wanted to grapple with some of life’s challenges that I knew would greet me after graduation. Paying rent and learning to cook would foster self-sufficiency and help me to grow both mentally and spiritually. Atleast that’s what I told my mom.
The real reason I moved off campus is filth. I found that for my taste the dorm just didn’t have enough filth. And dirt. It lacked the overall uncleanliness that I need to feel truly at ease.
For instance, when I lived on campus, it seemed as if maids were constantly emptying my trash can. I used to spend an entire weekend accumulating empty Meister Braii cans. I would intentionally leave the last few sips so each beer could have time to mature, giving my room that playful aroma I so enjoy. Then, sure as Monk’s ears are big, I would wake up Monday morning to discover that my weekend’s work had been hauled off by some well-meaning maid.
I don’t have that problem now. My garbage has free reign over an entire comer of niy kitchen. Without pesky maids, it’s able to go on accumulating over the course of many weeks. When the heap finally becomes tiresome and I decide it’s time for a change of scene, it takes me four, sometimes five trips to the dumpster before I’m rid of it all.
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
The same is true with the bathroom. In the dorm, maids were always cleaning the toilets and disinfecting the place. Now that I have executive control of the bathroom, mold and mildew have established thriving colonies across my shower curtain. In the dorm, morning showers were too safe. I’m a real daredevil. Two or three inches of slippery muck in the tub turns an otherwise ordinary shower into an action-packed adventure.
Another problem I had with living on campus was that I had to eat in the dining hall, and when I ate in the dining hall, I had to use their flatware. 1 could just walk up and choose a fork from hundreds of other clean, shiny forks. Same thing
with spoons and knives. Due to strict health codes, the dining hall must wash its silverware with harsh chemicals and hot water.
At my apartment, jio such codes exist. So my flatware, along with, the rest of the dishes, sits in the sink without fear of ever coming near harsh chemicals. Even the forks or cups in the cupboard that are supposed to be clean really aren’t. Sure, they’re
For the true feeling of filth, one must escape the daily cleanings associated with dorm life.
cleaner than the ones festering in the sink, but “clean” is a relative term. Vessels in the cupboard may or may not have been properly washed. Most likely, they were dipped in murky, lukewarm water, then stacked in a moist, dark comer to dry.
This uncertainty brings an excitement to mealtime that I missed on campus. Before I use anything from my kitchen, I get to play supersleuth. Rather than blindly grab the first cup I see on the shelf, I instead smell each cup until I either find one that’s clean or at least smells like what I plan to drink— whichever comes first
So I’m glad that I moved off campus. As graduation nears, I know that I’ve grown by leaps and bounds. I’m confident that when I head out into the
real world, I’ll be prepared to handle any challenge. Of course, when May rolls around and my mom comes to make sure I get my diploma, I’ll have to clean the place up.	□
Tim Rogers is an off campus senior who thinks people would be happier if they spent at least three hours of every day naked
27
Over 100 years old, the Dome has been an integral part of Notre Dame’s history
By Patricia Doyle
Fire! Around 11 a.m. on April 23,1879, a fire started on the roof of the main building. Four hours later, with the help of the students and the South Bend community, the fire in the building and other surrounding buildings was extinguished. With total
damages estimated at $250,000, the following day seniors were given their diplomas and all the students were sent home. Although many people have speculated about it, the cause of the fire was never
determined.
At this time, Rev. William Corby was
president of the university, serving his second term in this position. He handled the
situtation expertly and promised the community that “a new building better suited to its purposes and equally substantial, elegant and commodious” would be constructed.
Ground was broken for the new building by May 17,1879. Four months later, in time for the start of classes in the fall, the present building was constructed. Over four million bricks made of marl taken from St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s lakes were used in the construction of the new building. Students resided in this building until the construction of Sorin Hall in 1888.
In this same year, the students of Saint Mary’s College (then Saint Mary’s Academy) donated the sculpture of the Virgin Mary which sits atop the Dome. This sculpture, created by Giovanni Meli, was a copy s of a sculpture in the Piazza di Spanga in I Rome. Alone, it stands 19 feet tall and e
weighs 4,000 pounds. The sculpture actually arrived at the university in 1880, but remained on the portico at the front entrance until enough funds were raised to build a supporting dome.
According to the anonymous author of The History of the University of Notre Dame, here is a description of the main building around 1892:
“On the right-hand side, on entering the hall... is the suite of apartments occupied by President Walsh.... On the left-hand side of the hall is the public parlor, often literally crowded, spacious as it is, with visitors on
exhibition nights and especially during commencement week The room is deco
rated with portraits, chiefly those of former presidents of the university. Opposite to the
end of the hall, across the rotunda, is the students’ office, where they procure their stationery and books, and may communicate by telephone or telegraph with distant friends. During business hours, this room is seldom without throng. From the rotunda to the east and west extend the halls to the study-rooms, with recitation rooms on either side ... In the story above are more
recitation rooms, private rooms occupied by teachers and others, two large dormitories over the study-rooms, and two finely decorated aoartments in wnich the Columbian and Cecilian societies respectively hold
their meetings.... On this floor there is also a museum of Indian relics and other curiosi-
ties. In the third story, the greater part of the front extension is occupied by a spacious
28
SCHOLASTIC
iiio
hall, devoted to the purpose of a college library. ... On this floor and the next above are also numerous private rooms and dormitories, a distinguishing feature of the upper floor being the school of drawing.”
Most of these offices and classrooms now serve new purposes. Gone is the bookstore from the second floor and the one-room residence of the director of athletics. The fifth floor has also now been closed to public access. The public parlor is now the Provost’s office and no one resides in the building.
Another tradition that has since left the Golden Dome is holding commencement in front ofthe Main Building. Until the 1930’s, graduates marched down the front steps of the building for the first time to Sacred Heart Church for a Class Visit and later to the ceremonies in front of the building.
The Dome, the symbol of the main building, has been regildcd nine times since its original construction. The original dome had an iron outer shell. In 1961, this dome was replaced with an alloy of nickel and copper which was both heavier and less corrosive.
When the Dome was last regilded in 1988, over 1000 gold strips, each only one millimeter thick, were used to cover the dome. Each strip was applied using and adhesive and buffed by hand. The cost of this project was $300,000.
For those interested in reaching the top of the dome, here is what the anonymous author of The History of Notre Dame saw as he made what is now a forbidden journey:
“We may now ascend to the roof, if you have any desire to obtain an extensive view. If your nerves are steady, we may even scale the dome itself, and the prospect is worth the climb. Northward lie the green hills of Michigan, with the St. Joseph river winding in the deep valley among them. The position of the city of Niles may be made out by the white houses of its suburbs gleaming through the surrounding shade trees.... Eastward, stretch extensive woods, above which the smoke of the foundries of Elkhart may be seen rising. Southward, the view is more limited, a high range of bluffs beyond the
Ala Photo
In 1988, the Dome was regilded at a cost of $300,000.
river cutting it off, and causing the river itself to make that remarkable deflection from which South Bend takes its name.”
Although the main building has remained untouched by any other disasters since the fire of 1879, its history has not been without a few close calls. In 1947, while facing fire code violations, hardly anyone protested the possible demolition of the building. In 1962, many proposals regarding the future of the building were also made. Some suggested constructing a new library and administration building in its place while oth
ers wanted to demolish everything except the Dome so that it could remain a “monument to the Old Notre Dame.”
Currently, the main building stands 158 feet tall. The administrative offices lurk within. Gone are the dining halls and classrooms, but the symbolism still remains. Through logos on shirts and the sesquicen-tennial logo and this year a postal card, the Dome remains a symbol of the education and religion that has been a part of the University of Notre Dame for as long as the main building itself.	□
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
29
_______________FINAL WORD
Abortion and a Consistent
Ethic of Life I by Michael J. Tembrina
Michael J. Tembrina is a senior govern-ment/pre-med major and ND/ SMC Right to Life member.
The following is the ND/SMC Right to Life 1991 Abortion Survey conducted last semester. 221 undergraduates were randomly and anonymously asked the following seven questions (percentages are rounded):
1)	Are you
a) pro-life 50%	b) pro-choice 42% c) don’t know 8%
2)	Does the following statement describe you: I am personally morally opposed to abortion yet would support another’s right to choose an abortion?
Yes 56%	No 44% •
3)	Do you believe abortion is acceptable in:
a)	rape or incest 74%	b) life of the mother is at risk 90%
c)	physical deformity or handicapped child 19%
d)	emotional or economic difficulty 18%
4)	When do you believe life begins?
a) conception 63%	b) first trimester 14%
c) second trimester 8% d) third trimester 5%
5)	Up to what point should abortion be legal?
a) never 40%	b) first trimester 41%
c) second trimester 10% d) third trimester 3% e) until birth 3%
6)	Do you view Notre Dame’s student body as being predominately: a) pro-life 66% b) pro-choice 1% c) neutral 23%
7)	Do you view Notre Dame’s administration as being predominately: a) pro-life 87% b) pro-choice 1% c) neutral 12%
Z^ur first campus wide survey of undergraduates yielded very surprising results. Joe Scheidler, executive president of the Pro-Life Action League in Chicago, commented that our results were very close to national averages. Like most Americans, Notre Dame students are evenly divided between the pro-lifers and pro-choicers. Nevertheless, they generally believe in some restrictions of abortion depending on the circumstances of the pregnancy and at what point during pregnancy. The great majority do not appove of abortion especially after the first trimester and when performed for non-medical reasons and disapprove of abortion as a method of birth control. About half of the students surveyed believed that the debate on abortion is about the “right to choose.” Also, there were widespread opinions about the question of when life begins. It seems that the attitudes on abortion at Notre Dame are reflective of national opinion polls.
Perhaps our survey suggests the lack of debate concerning abortion among college students or more likely the lack of willingness of students to educate themselves about the stark reality of abortion. Is it about women’s
rights? What exactly is being aborted? Is abortion simply a medical procedure? Is it murder? Is it the killing of innocent life? What is the “abortion industry” and how does it operate in your community? How does the abortion debate reflect on sexual irresponsibility and secular individualism in our society? Are class, race, and poverty involved? As students we must answer these questions for ourselves and further reflect upon the political, social, economic, and the moral implications of abortion.
Perhaps our survey suggests Notre Dame students, being predominately Catholic, are ignorant of Catholic social thought concerning the sanctity of life and the facts of academia. Perhaps our results more accurately reflect the success of standard media propaganda and the failure of our Catholic schools (i.e. national research universites) in educating students of a “consistent ethic of life.” Concerning abortion, the media tends to stress the violent, radical fringes of the Right to Life movement, especially Operation Rescue. The media rarely informs the public of the “service” wing of the Right to Life movement. There is widespead ignorance of the thousands of pro-life volunteers pledged to help women in over 3,000 national emergency pregnancy centers. Also, several Catholic dioceses have publicly subsidized the costs of medical care of pregnant women who without such aid are forced to abort.
This consistent ethic of life comes from academia, specifically the disciplines of philosophy, sociology, biology, history and is rooted in Judeo-Christian ideals. It is respecting human life from beginning to end. The Right to Life or anti-abortion element of the pro-life movement is part of a larger struggle against poverty, racism, euthanasia, the death penalty, and nuclear proliferation. Even though the Right to Life movement does not always communicate this consistent ethic of life well, it remains the driving force behind pro-lifers. “As with all social movements, the primary aspirations of the pro-life movement... of creating a world that welcomes and finds a place for all of us simply because we and the unborn share a common humanity. The pro-life movement will know that it is finally being understood when its critics can no longer describe it as ‘anti-abortion’ or claim that it opposes the equality of women, but will simply shrug and say that pro-lifers are ‘idealists.’ Or, even better, ‘visionaries.’ ”(JamesR.Kelly,professorof sociology at Fordham University)	□
The opinions expressed in this column do not necessarily reflect those of Scholastic.
30
SCHOLASTIC
Wolfbane
SO,40V (MAT-ro AVMi4stou uto our.
woUWe?
COMICS
wild Kingdom
StuffWeThinkWhenTheAlarm GoesOff
By Anthony Rubino, Jr.
"Sleeping is no mean art: for its sake one must stay awake all day."—Nietzsche
Where am
There must
REEP
-3EEP
I just went to bed.
WHAT'S THAT NOISE?!
WHAT'S THAT NOISE?!
HAT'S THAT NOISE?!
O.K
O.K
O.K..
Who
am ?
think we're
seeing a film today
anyway.
If I don't eat
No wait.
weentsie minute.
Only 16 more hours till bed-time
breakfast, or take
a shower, and if I run as fast as I can
when I get outside, then I can sleep an extra 15 seconds
Well, I'm already late, and I hate
walking in after class has started.
So... Nitey-nite!
be some mistake,
Alright I hav class in about 33 seconds (and this clock is fast so thats probably more like 37 seconds). So, 111 hit the snooz button, and if I don't take a shower or brush my teeth or put on shoes... or sox.
No wait.. .L
I'm juuust gonna ut mv head down
you see. Because
for one eentsie-

professor Ffclass 7
1."A distant relative died, and I had to go to the funeral."—GOOD (But, be sure you make up the relative, because if you use a real person and that person dies than you’ll feel really bad.)
2. “I was very very ill."—GOOD
3. "While off campus visiting my sick grandmother, I got a flat tire."—GOOD
OM.
What NOr to tell your professor when you blow off: class 1?'
1. "I died."—BAD (Not only will this create immediate suspicion, but it is very difficult to prove.)
2. "I was very very ill because I washed down a bottle of tequila with a bottle of vodka, and spent most of the night projectile vomiting."—BAD (Too much detail.)
3. "Your lectures are so boring they .make me want to run from your classroom, screaming, and slit my wrists."—BAD (Honest, but bad.)
'-AVTePeO
WM..
JA'St
SHIP—
Distributed by Tribune Media Services
^AlW PARTICULAR dm-tfeuJJWe weweHT itWotVinn A GErtefic
IlfcASW/cMoF i

5
Siu Dies	At Minneapolis have shown a correlation
Pehween IRISH Hoop^ success and CdaoH MacLeod's po. (SHowN HeRE AT pfipJECTeP FiNAU FouR GffcWIH)
JAOA FftosU
SUB MOVIES
THURSDAY-FEB. 27 THE NAKED GUN FRIDAY & SATURDAY FEB. 28 & 29 THE FISHER KING
Shown in Cushing Auditorium
8:00 & 10:30 PM Admission is $2
SUB MOVIES
THURSDAY-FEB. 27 THE NAKED GUN FRIDAY & SATURDAY FEB. 28 & 29 THE FISHER KING
Shown in Cushing Auditorium 8:00 & 10:30 PM Admission is $2
SUB MOVIES
THURSDAY-FEB. 27 THE NAKED GUN FRIDAY & SATURDAY FEB. 28 & 29 THE FISHER KING
Shown in Cushing Auditorium
8:00 & 10:30 PM Admission is $2
Sponsored by
STUDENT UNION BOARD