The Notre Dame Scholastic
{Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918J
Volume LXVIII
May 10, 1935
No. 25
PUBLICATIONS BANQUET SCHEDULED FOR HAY 13
BISHOP SPELLMAN, SHANE LESLIE TO SPEAK AT COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES
Approximately one hundred members of the different University publications will gather in the Faculty Dining Hall, Monday evening at 7:00, for the annual Publications Banquet which climaxes the work of the campus journalists.
Shane Leslie will be the guest of honor as the staffs of the various Notre Dame publications gather for their only joint meeting of the scholastic year. It is fitting that Professor Leslie should address the gathering as he was for ten years editor of the Dublin Review, and, in addition, has been one of the chief literary critics in the London press. He is one of the leaders of the Irish Renaissance Movement which seeks to restore Gaelic letters to the Erin Isle. Mr. Leslie has also contributed, at various times, to the Ave Maria, and to Scrip, both of which are published on the campus.
A partial list of his published works includes “The End of A Chapter,” “Life of Cardinal Manning,” “An Anthology of Catholic Poets,” “Doomsland,” and “The Skull of Swift.”
At the banquet, in addition to the staffs of the three major campus publications, will be the editors of the various scientific and legal magazines edited at the University.
Bookmen Elect Cozad
At the last meeting of the Bookmen, held in the Commerce Building, business centered around the election of next year’s officers. Harry Cozad, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and English major was chosen for the presidency.
Cozad is the present secretarytreasurer and has been a member of the organization for two years. He recently delivered an address on “The Unintelligibles in Modern Literature” at a joint meeting of the Bookmen and St. Mary’s Blue Pencil Club.
Other officers elected were: Thomas Cassidy, secretary-treasurer, and Robert Burke, librarian. Three new members were selected to fill the vacancies created by graduating seniors. The new men are: Eugene Malloy, junior, Joseph Foley, junior, and William Robinson, freshman.
Chicago Club Elects Tiernan President In Heated Session
After attempts to have the S.A.C. conduct their annual elections of officers had ended in a draw*, the Chicago Club took over the job itself and voted Luke Tiernan, a junior in the College of Commerce, into the presidency. The elections were held last Tuesday evening in the Library.
Pat Donovan defeated James O’Keefe for the vice-presidency, Charles “Chick” Maloney was made secretary, and Justin O’Toole was given the treasurer’s position.
The election climaxed a week of discussion and wragling over the method of choosing a successor to Johnny Jordan. The S.A.C. was drawn into the affair when two of the candidates approached Phil Purcell, chairman of the campus clubs committee, in an effort to have him conduct the balloting. When this year’s officials objected strenuously to the introduction of the S.A.C., Purcell and his committee retaliated with an official announcement that the charter of the Chicago Club had been withdrawn, and that elections for next year would be held under S.A.C. auspices. Thomas LaLonde, chairman of the S.A.C., was away at the time of the decision.
Before the actual balloting took place, however, the S.A.C. had apparently reached an agreement with the club officials and the organization was allowed to conduct its own election. Two S.A.C. men, Phil Purcell and Tom Murphy, acted as unofficial tabulators.
With the elections over, the Chicago Club is still in doubt as to its status with the S.A.C. The official bulletin revoking their charter has not been cancelled, and the campus clubs committee, under Phil Purcell’s guidance, although accepting a draw decision in the election issue is still withholding recognition from the Chicago organization.
HOLAHAN IS HONORED
By Robert Grogan ■
Addresses by the Hon. Shane Leslie, noted author and lecturer, and the Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, auxiliary bishop of Boston, will feature the 91st Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame on June 2.
Mr. Leslie, regarded as one of the great living authorities on Shakes-
Professor Shane Leslie To speak to graduates.
peare, came to this country from England last January for a course of lectures at the University. He will deliver the Commencement Address and Bishop Spellman the Baccalaureate sermon.
John Francis Holohan of Galesburg, Ill., has been chosen Valedictorian for the Class of 1935; Joseph Francis Becek of Ambridge,. Pa., will be Class Orator; and Mr. George Carlos Hager, C.S.C., of Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame will compose the Class Poem.
The Baccalaureate sermon to be given at the Commencement Day Mass, June 5, will be delivered by the Most Reverend Francis J. Spellman, (Continued on Page 17)
3\Aay 10, 1935
One
Final Issue of N. D. “Scrip” to Be Distributed Next Friday
HONORS FR. CAVANAUGH
By Andrew Hufnagel
The final issue of Scrip which will appear on Friday, May 17, is to be dedicated to the late Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Included in it will be two essays about Father Cavanaugh; one by Arthur Korzeneski is titled “The First Wrangler” which deals with the great priest’s association with Notre Dame’s debating so-
Steis and Byrne
They are regular contributors.
ciety; the name of the author of the other has not been disclosed. The magazine will quite appropriately be decorated with a picture of Father Cavanaugh, the work of Gene Ling.
Among the other essays appearing in this issue is “Hey Nonny Non!”, a bit dealing with Elizabethan and Medieval aspects of English literature, in which the emphasis is placed on its Humanistic qualities. It is written by Joseph Cullen, C.S.C. Others are “An Appreciation of the Novels of John Galsworthy” by J. Ben Beyrer and “Literary Engineers” by James E. Kumler.
William Kennedy and T. Bowyer Campbell once again contribute fine short stories to Scrip. Their efforts in this issue will be titled “It Isn’t Just Hamburgers” and “The Marriage of Dina” respectively. A satirical story, “Champagne Bubbles” by Ray Brett, will also accompany them.
Contributions of poetry will not be lacking. Joseph O’Brien, C.S.C., has written two poems, “Memorial of Good Friday” and “Meditations for a Spring Morning.” “Introduction of Spring” and “The Errant Unforgiven” by Matthew J. Bruccoli make two other fine additions to the group of poems which will be seen in this final issue of the school year.
Jamies Byrne, editor - in - chief of Scrip, is at present busy editing several other contributions which may appear in the magazine.
Congratulations
The Scholastic congratulates Mr. and Mrs. Emmett M. Early on the birth of a daughter, born May 3. Mr. Early is the linotyper who worries over the box scores, etc., every week for The Scholastic.
T vo
South Bend “Tribune’s” Files Reveal Disciplinary
Rules of Fifty Years Ago
The South Bend Tribune of Tuesday, May 7, flipped back the yellowing pages of history briefly and brought to light an interesting picture of the old Notre Dame. The article is a reproduction of a story that appeared on Thursday, May 7, 1885.
50 YEARS AGO TODAY THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1885.
“Rev. Father Walsh, president of Notre Dame university, is a gentleman who has the moral courage to enforce his convictions as some of our saloon keepers are finding out. He keeps a standing notice in The Tribune that he will prosecute to the full extent of the law any persons who sell or in any way furnish liquor to Notre Dame students. Over a year ago two of our saloon men had a heavy bill of fines and costs to pay for selling liquor to students and a few months ago a Mishawaka saloon keeper was heavily mulcted. Last week the prefect of discipline found a small flask of liquor in the pocket of one of the students while on the way to the university from this city. The matter was reported to Father Walsh and the young man had the alternative of telling where he bought the liquor or being expelled from school. Father Walsh sent word to the young man’s father in Chicago that he intended to prosecute the case. Because of business the father could not come but he sent his wife. The saloon keeper’s lawyer thought that something might be gained to have the case postponed but upon realizing Father Walsh’s determination to fight the case through if it took all summer and the rest of the season besides the man pleaded guilty and was mulcted to the sum of $35.”
EXHIBIT OF TREASURES f IN SACRISTY OF CHURCH
Coincident with the renovation of the Sacred Heart Church there have been placed in the sacristy three exhibition cases containing souvenirs and treasures accumulated since the foundation.
The exhibit, which will be perman-	;
ent, consists of precious hand em-
Pittsburgh Club Elections
The Pittsburgh Club, at a meeting held in Brownson Recreation room Tuesday, May 7, chose Lawrence O’Toole, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, to head the organization for next year.
Harry Rich was elected vice-president, Charles Mohan, secretary, and Samuel Reed was named treasurer.
The election of officers was followed by a short talk given by James McCraley who introduced the new president. Plans for a summer dance were discussed and the next meeting of the organization was called for Monday, May 13.
The Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C.S.C. After his priesthood, his citizenship.
broidered and painted vestments, chalices, croziers, ciboria, monstrances and other objects pertaining to divine worship. Some noteworthy pieces are	'
a silver chalice used by Pope Pius IX,	i
who was a close personal friend of Father Sorin’s, vestments of cloth of gold from the major college of the. Congregation of Holy Cross at Neuilly, near Paris, which was closed on the expulsion of the religious from France in 1910. A gold ciborium with cloisonne ornamentation marks the foundation date of the Priests’ Eucharistic League in the United States, and another, less ornate, presented on	|
the occasion of the Silver Jubilee of the same league.
Of considerable interest in the exhibit is a gothic crucifix of solid bronze presented by Napoleon III of France, and a monstrance, given in the name of the Prince Imperial. The Empress Eugenie gave a gold crown studded with precious stones, which * unfortunately, has disappeared.
These gifts came through the personal solicitation of Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C.S.C. He was one of the seven army chaplains from Notre Dame who served in the Civil War. He was a stately, statuesque figure, a Frenchman born, whose proudest boast, after his priesthood, was his American citizenship. He often told with rare relish that it was this claim which awed the guards when he pre-
(Continued on Page 22)
The Scholastir
FR. O’HARA TO SPEAK AT POLISH CONVENTION
Seniors Will Dance Tonight to Music of “Little Jack” Little
D
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will address the district convention of the Polish Students’ Association of America to be held in the Oliver Hotel, Saturday and Sunday, May 11 and 12. The Charles Phillips Cracow club will be host to the convention. Arthur L. Korzeneski, president of the club, will officiate as chief host.
One session of the convention at 4:30 o’clock Saturday afternoon will be held in the Law Building, following a tour of the campus by attendants at the convention. The Rev. E. V. Mooney, C.S.C., director of the Youth Bureau, N.C.C.M. in Washington, will preside at this session.
During the convention Jack Robinson, All-American center, will be presented with the Polish medal, “The Swords of General Haller.” This is to be given to him by-a representative of the Polish nation in honor’ of the work done by his father, the late Mr. John J. Robinson, of Huntington, Long Island, who did much work for the Polish American citizens and for Polish veterans of Huntington.
Registrations for the convention will begin at 9 o’clock Saturday morning. The convention will open formally with a session at 11 o’clock. This will be followed by a luncheon at 12:30 o’clock for the pastors of the South Bend Polish parishes. Among the speakers at the luncheon will be Mr. James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce. Monsignor Osadnick will give the invocation. At 2 o’clock members of the convention will make a tour of the campus. After this, at 4:30 o’clock, the second session of the convention will be held here, in the Law Building, where Father Mooney will speak on “General Youth Movements in the United States.”
In the evening, at 8:30, an informal dance, open to all students of the University, will be held in the main dining room of the Oliver Hotel. Myron Waltz’s orchestra will supply the music. The bids are $1.10.
The third session of the convention will start at 10 o’clock Sunday morning and will be followed at 12:30 o’clock by a luncheon for Mr. George W. Freyermuth, mayor of South Bend,Father Mooney, Father Witucki, and the Rev. Julian P. Sigmar, S.T.D. Consul General Gawron-ski and Father O’Hara will speak at the luncheon. The Rev. X. Luzny, C.S.C., will give the invocation. The final session of the convention will begin at 2:30 o’clock. Then the Rev.
(Continued on Page 4)
Way 10, 1935
Second Aeronautical Conference Convenes
Here next Wednesday
Notre Dame’s second Aeronautical Conference will be held next Wednesday, May 15. A group of men prominent in the field of aviation have already accepted invitations.
These include Eddie Rickenbacker, Lieut Al Williams, famous Navy flier, Col. William A. Bishop of Montreal, author of “The Flying Squad,” Vincent Bendix and Herbert Sharlock.
The conference "will be opened at 1:30 by a public discussion of aviation problems in Washington Hall. Demonstrations of stunt and group flying will follow at three o’clock. A round table discussion in Washington Hall at 4:30 will conclude the session.
Others who have been invited for the conference include Commander H. B. Grow of Detroit who served as aviation adviser to President Leguia of Peru for seven years after his retirement from the United States Navy. Commandei- Grow held the student body spellbound with his stories of adventure at the first conference in January.
The University’s interest in aviation has been considerably stimulated since the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. became president last year. A flying enthusiast, Father O’Hara, himself, often travels by air.
Cashin to Head Central
New York Club for 1935-36
John Cashin, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected to the presidency of the Central New York club in the yearly balloting carried on in the Carroll Hall Recreation room, Wednesday evening, May 8.
Cashin, who comes from Fayetteville, New York, succeeds Paul Halbert, of Weedsport, New York. Other officers who will work with Cashin during the year 1935-36 will be Robert Halbert, brother of the retiring president, who was elected vice-president. Robert Rumpf will serve as secretary while John Beer will be treasurer.
Sympathy
The Scholastic extends its sympathy to Joseph Guentert and his family on the death of Mrs. Guentert who died Wednesday evening. Mr. Guentert is a compositor at the Ave Maria Press.
NATION-WIDE BROADCAST
By Paul Foley
Tonight in.the traditional setting of the Palais Royale, to the smooth rhythms of “Little Jack” Little’s famed Columbia Broadcasting orchestra, the Seniors will dance through the climaxing event of their four year social calendar.
Thomas G. Proctor He will forget his troubles.
From 10 o’clock until 10:30 the color and brilliance of the Notre Dame Senior Ball will entertain the nation’s radio listeners through the facilities of a coast-to-coast hook-up of the Columbia Broadcasting Co.
Arrangements for the affair, the most important of the year, were handled by an 11-man committee for whom Joseph Argus acted as spokesman. The actual plans for the dance were formulated by the officers of the Senior class, with the committee working out the many details.
The Ball proper ushers in a weekend of activity which includes a Saturday afternoon Tea Dance to be held at Chain-o-Lakes Country Club. The Club may be reached by driving two miles past the city limits on Western Avenue, turning right until a new gravel road is reached. The club drive leads directly into this road and a left turn leads to the club grounds. The dancing on Saturday will be to the music of Myron Waltz’s orchestra, and will continue from 3 o’clock in the afternoon until 6 in the evening.
Naval Officers Visit Campus
Capt. R. C. Giffen, U.S.N., director of athletics at the United States Naval Academy, and Lieut. J. H. Brown, U.S.N., graduate manager of athletics, were guests of Elmer F. Layden Sunday and attended the varsity and • old timers’ game at the stadium in the afternoon.
The naval officers, who had attended the Kentucky Derby Saturday and returned to the academy Monday.
Three
Preview of 1935 "Dome” Reveals Outstanding Features In Yearbook
THOMPSON IS TOPIC OF LESLIE LECTURE
PHOTOGRAPHY IS GOOD
By Mitchell C. Tackley
Rarely does a yearbook succeed in presenting to its readers the unique combination of brevity and completeness. Such a combination is the outstanding merit of the 1935 Dome as previewed this week by The Scho-lastic. John W. Walker, tireless worker, thorough editor, has produced
John Walker A thorough editor.
an annual well planned and cleverly-executed.
One of the secrets of the yearbook’s success is the continuation and improvement of several policies attempted by former editors and found to be successful. Editor Walker realized the impossibility of an altogether new or original Dome and for this reason his efforts were concentrated on improvement. To quote the foreword : “Let you who scan these pages reflect that with the passing of the years you may herein relive this year at Notre Dame.” The 1935 Dome does exactly this.
The edition is fittingly dedicated to the beloved Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., late president. The opening pages carry a beautiful lakecampus scene in colors followed by pictures of the University officials.
Photography, the most integral part of the Dome excels this year in the new and unusual angles in which familiar- scenes are presented. The campus buildings and halls have been reproduced in deep, rich tones — a tribute to the art of photography. Vittorio Arcadi, veteran Dome photographer deserves many plaudits for his artistic work.
Fingering through the book, it can he noticed that there is an absence of that “black” appearance that is so common in other yearbooks. This absence is not accidental. It is caused hy the deliberate omission of the trite, hackneyed write-ups that have been previously considered necessary. Editor Walker this year realized that
(Continued on Page 21)
Junior S.A.C. Members Return From Student
Federation Convention
Robert Cavanaugh and Thomas Murphy, junior members of the S. A. C., represented Notre Dame at the annual convention of the National Student Federation of America held at Purdue University May 4 and 5. Among the universities and colleges who sent representatives were Ohio State, Purdue, Indiana, Illinois, De-pauw, Cincinnati, and Western Reserve.
Each delegate explained the structure of the student control at his school, its authority, powers, connections with the faculty, and the subsequent aid to the student. Antioch College presented a unique form of student government. The students have practically unlimited powers, and under this system the book-store, athletic department and the administration of discipline are left entirely to the control of the student governing body.
At Ohio State University where students are allowed the use of automobiles, a special student controlled traffic court has been established. All cases of violations of automobile privileges are heard before the court and punishments are meted out. Redress to the president of the university is available but in the three years of the court’s existence, the president has never revoked a decision.
The delegates discussed the exorbitant fees of initiation charged by the various honorary professional fraternities. These fraternities have very little overhead and fixed costs. The supposition that possible malfeasance of these fees was taking place was argued, and an investigation into this matter was decided upon.
POLISH CONVENTION
(Continued from Page 3)
Peter Rosewicz, C.S.C., pastor of St. Casimir’s Church, will speak on “The Future of the Polish Language in American Universities.”
The convention will be run on Daylight Saving Time, that used in the above schedule, and all sessions, except the second, will be held in the Oliver Hotel.
The convention committees for the convention hall and for decorations are as follows:
Convention Hall: Joseph Skoczylas, Franics Zintak, and Anthony Koczen.
Decorations: Richard Kowaczek, Joseph Stolarski, Dan Kalczynski, and Joseph Pawlowski.
Before a large audience in Washington Hall on Tuesday evening, May 7, Shane Leslie delivered an interesting lecture on Thompson. “To most people, he is just a name attached to a poem. To some of us he is a great deal more. His life is a poem,” Mr. Leslie stated. Thompson thought that “every great poem entailed a human sacrifice.”
“It is,” said Mr. Leslie, “a poet's delight, when words can be little jewels, and a sentence can turn into a miracle.”
Mr. Leslie presented a most interesting account of the poet’s life, stressing particularly his religious ode and his connection with the great masters of English letters, especially De Quincey, Coleridge, and Shelley, who influenced him greatly.
Francis Thompson was wiser than most young men; he fell in love only twice—once with a doll, and once with a statue. The most significant statement Mr. Leslie made, was that Thompson was influenced by Thomas De Quincey, through the latter’s Confessions of an English Opium Eeater. Each poet brought a Latinized English into his work. De Quincey put his thoughts into paragraphs of orchestral prose, while Thompson inserted his into the great religious odes. Both were alike in that they subsisted for a time on drugs. With De Quincey, Thompson entered Under the Ivory Gate of Dreams.
Catholics were slow in recognizing this great poet, but Browning foretold success if Thompson would extricate himself from his passion for drugs. Even Coventry Patmore—the greatest poet “thrown off by the Oxford Movement” congratulated him on his prose.
In conclusion, Mr. Leslie mentioned that Notre Dame is now housing the famous collection of Thompsonia. Among the manuscripts, one can see Thompson’s famous Copy Book, his Proof Sheet, with actual lines famous in English literature. The choicest thing perhaps, is the letter written to Mrs. Patmore on the death of her husband in which Thompson called Coventry “the greatest genius of the century.”
Law Club Elections
Al Stewart, of Cortland, New York, was elected this week to succeed Paul O’Neil as president of the Law Club. Stewart defeated John Logan for the post by a vote of 59 to 45.
Bob Lewis was named vice-president, Fran Dunn, secretary, and Guy McMichaels, treasurer.
*Tbe 5choltftie
, PATRICIANS HOLD ANNUAL BANQUET
Work of Professor Emil Jacques
Is Hailed by American Critics
Under the chairmanship of Andrew Hellmuth the Patrician society’s informal banquet on Tuesday, May 7, attracted fourteen members to the annual festivities which took place at the Coquillard club in South Bend.
Professors Rufus Rauch and John Turley, the latter moderator' of the * Patricians, represented the classical department at the banquet. Also present was Professor T. Bowyer Campbell of the history department. During the course of the evening Vincent Gorman, president of the society, addressed the group and acknowledged the graduating seniors present: Louis Grosso, John Gainer, Ray Brett, Paul Hart, and Francis Schlueter.
After an evening of numerous informal discussions, attention was directed to the club elections that will take place at the last regular meeting of the school year, May 14.
In a recent meeting of the club, Andrew Hellmuth gave a well organized talk on the “Athenian Constitution and Law.” He traced the development of the national document through the twelve interesting periods of Athenian government, beginning with the absolute monarchy and ending with the restored and extreme democracy which was an improvement upon the corrupt and despotic Council of Thirty that preceded it.
Unknown perhaps to many on the campus, another figure at Notre Dame has attained national prominence in his particular field. He is Professor Emil Jacques, head of the University art department. His paintings, which were acclaimed at the National Gallery of Art of the Smithsonian Institution, have again won notable success, this time at the 46th Annual Exhibit of the Argent Galleries, held in New York City from April 15 to 27. The critical reviews of this exhibit to date carry nothing but praise for the work of Professor Jacques.
“Thoroughly trained in the tradi-
May 12 Is The Last Day To Buy Your Invitations
Frank J. Holahan, chairman of the . Commencement Invitations Committee, announced that the closing date for orders has been set forward from May 10 to May 12. Since the May 10 date interfered with the Senior Ball, the committee thought it advisable to make the change.
It was also announced that the invitations are furnished with two en-। velopes, an outer envelope and an inner envelope. The outer envelope can be used for mailing purposes.
Prospective purchasers are reminded that all orders must be in by the closing date in order to permit delivery in time for mailing.
Frank Holahan and Phil Jacobs are handling the sale of the invitations. They can be reached at 213 Corby Hall. The committee also has a large selection of attractive personal calling cards. These can be obtained in * engraved and off-set engravement.
By Paul Biagioni
This ambitious theme, however, was so successfully handled by Professor Jacques, that it became the most engaging painting in the whole show, and led to his being hailed by the New York Times as a “clever impressionist.” Some of his other notable genre subjects were: “The Mussell Pickers,” and “Beach Life in Sheven-ingen.”
The wide range of themes depicted in his paintings centers around Flanders, religion, and our own West Coast. Through his connection with the university Mr. Jacques has been definitely associated with the West for many years.
Professor Jacques at work
on one of his many pictures.
tion that has come down from the Flemish and Dutch masters,” states the Nezo York Sun, “he is an accomplished craftsman, as his present exhibition in the Argent Galleries reveals.”
The bulk of his recent display shows him at home in many fields— landscape, genre, and purely fanciful subjects. Among his successes in the landscape line one would list “Morning Haze,” “Otter Rock,” and “Autumn Mirror.” “In The Tobacco Field” has elicited the most favorable criticism of his genre subjects. This canvas was particularly praised because such painting, combining figures with landscape is apt to be a perilous thing for the painter to attempt, and is rarely done successfully.
The Flemish atmosphere in Mr. Jacques work is perhaps accounted for by the fact that the artist was bom in the country not far from Ypres, Belgium, which later became known as “No Man’s Land.” Visiting the Pacific Coast, which he soon came to admire, Mr. Jacques remained for six years. It was here that he found the third outlet for his genius, the religious theme. He was commissioned to paint nine murals for St. Mary’s Cathedral of Portland, Oregon. Five of the murals, averaging 20 feet by six inches, are now completed, the working having taken five years.
According to authorities of fine arts, they are considered to be the finest religious murals in the West.
(Continued on Paste 18)
Way 10, 1935
F ire
NEW JERSEY NEWSPAPER PRAISES NOTRE DANE
In the Perth Amboy Evening News of April 30, 1935, there appeared an article relating to the University of Notre Dame and its work. The story was written by a non-Catholic Notre Dame alumnus and appeared on the evening following the celebration of Universal Notre Dame night. The article follows:
“To the average person, Notre Dame is synonymous with football. To the 14,000 students and alumni and thousands of others, Notre Dame has a far greater significance.
“To those who know Notre Dame or have visited her campus it is a tradition dating to the founding of the university by a small but intrepid group of godly men under the guidance of Father Sorin, her first president.
“Last night students, alumni, and friends of Notre Dame celebrated, or rather, observed Universal Notre Dame night and Notre Dame’s traditions, not in a boisterous football manner, but with a solemnity born with an understanding of the principals for which the University of Our Lady was founded.
“Notre Dame means a finei- understanding of human principles and inspires the better and more wholesome viewpoint on life. In this age when we are too prone to follow the crowd and get in line with the numerous trends of thought which are the outcome of various causes, Catholics, Protestants, Jews and Orientals who are graduates of Notre Dame, have the inspiration of the teachings of their alma mater to guide them to their best efforts.
“A Notre Dame man, no matter what his belief, has faith; faith in human nature, faith in the future, faith to carry on. A Notre Dame man doesn’t get into the dumps. A friend or associate may betray him, but he has something more than a betrayal can overcome. The spirit to carry on and not give up is a part of him.
“Universal Notre Dame night is just another outlet or method by which an attempt is made to further these ideas and traditions so that others, no matter what their religion or creed may be, if they desire, are welcome to join themselves with an inspiration and a more wholesome outlook.”
Father Ward
The Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Ph. D., who has been studying at Oxford University during the past year, has been granted a leave of absence for another year to study Philosophy at Louvain University in Belgium.
5 ix
On a crispy fall afternoon 11 years ago, a lad of ten sat hunched before a glowing fireplace in a home on Chicago’s West Side avidly reading the saga of the immortal Four Horsemen, of his idol, Knute Rockne, and the haven of his dreams, Notre Dame.
Today you can find that same lad hunched, not before a fireplace, but
an Economics text in 411 Walsh, his cherished dream of being a Notre Dame man fully realized. For Frank Leonard graduates in June, a bit reluctantly perhaps, but nevertheless happy to have accomplished his one desire.
At St. Mel’s High in Chicago, Len put in two years of football and basketball, general chairmaned a dance that never took place, and served as vice-president and salutatorian of his graduating class just to show the boys that his middle name, Neville, isn’t exactly sissified.
As a campus figure, Frank Leonard is known for his pleasing personality, everlasting good nature, and his ability to work hard and get things done. As a campus politician, he is second to none. This energetic Irishman had charge of decorations at last year’s Prom and is considered Johnny Jordan’s right hand man in Chicago Club activities. The Tea Dancers at the Chain-O-Lakes Country club tomorrow afternoon will also view evidences of Chairman Leonard’s handiwork. Although nosed out in the primaries for Senior Class president, Len swung Howard Hall’s bloc of votes to cinch “Gravy” Gravelle’s Big Train in that memorable election of last year.
An Economics major, Frank will graduate with a cum laude. . . .
SPRING AT NOTRE DANE NEANS CLEAN WINDOWS
Spring is here! The advent of this long-awaited event is now admitted even by the cynics who daily surveyed flocks of robins with frank scorn. Notre Dame’s windows have been treated to their annual washing.
In every hall, determined janitors have detached screens whose fastenings have withstood the best efforts of skivers for over seven months. After the screens were removed the student was given several days, presumably to accustom his eyes to the increased amount of light, before the actual washing took place.
The professional window-washers who did the work said that never have their efforts been accorded such awesome appreciation as here. However, they added, the Notre Dame contract was an especially difficult one. It seems, the washer first had to find his window. In some of the older halls the blue-prints were consulted to determine the location of particularly opaque windows.
The reaction of the students to the yearly event was expressed by the wearing of dark glasses indoors, and by the constant surveyal of the newly-revealed vistas. One Badinite who fondly believed his room overlooked the golf course, found that it commands an excellent view of the rear of Walsh.
The Sorinites, who wondered what the green rolls of cloth that hang on their walls are for, now can report a solution. Windows were discovered beneath them.
Students, whose rooms were mistaken for linen closets, and so missed in the general washing, secured the attentions of the washers by reporting to the building superintendent in the old post-office.
4
worked five summers in a secretarial capacity for Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis, baseball’s czar. . . was curtailed in his social activities as a sophomore when he broke his collar bone in interhall football, a week before the Cotillion. . . Hobbies: kidding Ad Wackerman, his blond roomie of three years standing, about a cute little stenog in Philly named Mary... and finding solace in Chekhov, Conrad Aiken arid Galsworthy. . . . restricts his feminine interests solely to the Chicago area. . . was voted the quietest man of Walsh’s demonaic fourth floor. . . . Brownson, St. Edward’s, Howard, Walsh. . . . and there you have the saga of a regular guy. . . Frank Leonard.
The Scholastic

CONTEST FOR JEANNE D’ARC MEDAL NAY IS
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
MONOGRAM FORMAL 10
BE HELD ON MAY 16
r
The French department of the University announces that the annual contest for the Jeanne d’Arc Medal will be held on Wednesday, May 15, in Room 112 of the Main Building, at 4:15 o’clock. This medal is awarded by “Le Lyceum,” Societe des Femmes de France a’ New York, through their Presidente Fondatrice,
* >

Prof. Earl F. Langwell His students will compete.
Madame Carlo Polifeme, to the best senior student of French language, literature and composition. Any senior who has had two years of college French is eligible to participate in the contest.
This marks the third year that the medal has been awarded. The winners of the award for the past two years were: 1933 David W. Dalrymple, now a graduate student in the Institute of Mediaeval Research here at the University; 1934 George C. Martinet, of Charleroi, Pennsylvania.
The department also wishes to extend its heartiest thanks to those who gave assistance last Saturday in making a success of the convention of the Indiana chapter of the American Association of French Teachers which was held at the University. All of the visiting teachers unanimously agreed the convention was the finest of the 14 meetings that the chapter has held.
Creel And Lee Receive Architectural Awards
fi «>
The Department of Architecture announced that the finest record of the year in archeology was made on the last project, “An English Wrought Iron Gate Lodge.” E. R. Creel and J. M. Lee received first mentions, and G. A. Beltamacchi, J. W. Hackner, and C. C. Palmer received other mentions. Only five drawings were submitted.
On a sketch problem, E. R. Creel received a mention for his design of “A Civic Forum,” with buildings conceived in the manner of the modern concrete structure being erected in Mexico today.
HONORS
When all the questions lad been answered, the opinions set down and the survey of Boston College seniors tabulated for the yearbook it was found that none other than our Notre Dame won the honor: “most popular men’s college.” It seems we must still share honors with Fordham, since it was selected as the best-liked football opponent. Thanks, from all here, Boston. Oh yes, we forgot to mention that the New Rochelle freshman cast their vote, recently, for Holy Cross as their favorite men’s college.
ooOoo
It took a Harvard prof to make the harmless observation that by laughing at puns you class yourself as one of low intelligence. He reached . his conclusions by noting that students with high grades refused to laugh at the puns of the professor, while those of lower standing guffawed boisterously. Has he never heard of diplomacy?
ooOoo
POLITICS
More and more the agitation against campus politics is gaining ground. No matter how many groups vote for abolition there are still some who can’t be convinced. An excerpt from a Missouri Student editorial describes a typical scene: “Missouri University suffered the loss of an entire day. All day voters representing two factions in campus politics swarmed to the polls. . . . The day ended just as it had started. . . No one gained a thing. . . Many students cut classes the entire day, a few had spent the preceding week in concentrated effort to produce victory for their respective parties. Everyone wasted time and nothing was gained.” ooOoo
An appropriate item for the Seniors in their last ‘splurge’ is this composite preference taken from the answers of Yale undergrads. She should be: “A brunette, medium in height, and on the slim side. She likes to dance, smoke and she takes one or two cocktails—no more.” Is this the ideal or the average?
CHOICES
As a partial list of those college weeklies and dailies we’ve admired this is submitted:
Editorials: Villanovan, Michigan Daily, Tatler.
Columns: Fordham Ram, Setonian, California Daily.
Society: Daily Northwestern, Fagots (The Woods), Campus Record (Mt. St. Vincent).
Humor '.Boston U. Nezus, Depaulia, Purdue Exponent.
Sarcasm: The Static.
President Rocco Schiralli set Thursday, May 16, as the date, and the Palais Royale as the place of the annual Monogram Club dance, the social event of the schoolyear for the honorary letter men. No definite orchestra has been chosen as yet. It is understood that three well known
Dominic Vairo From captain to chairman.
bands are under tentative consideration. Either Johnny Davis, Frankie Masters, or Clyde McCoy will bring their popular music to the Palais.
Only a limited amount of tickets will be sold. They are on sale at present in 213 and 115 Sorin Hall, and the price Jias been set at §1.50. Dominic Vairo and Rocco Schiralli are in charge of the ticket sale.
Elmer Layden, director of athletics at the University, will be one of the many celebrities who will be guests of the Monogram club. Dean James E. McCarthy, the entire coaching staff, and many others will be present.
Capacity crowds thronged Washington Hall Wednesday and Thursday, May 8 and 9, to cheer the hero, to jeer the villain, to clap and to smile at the Monogram club production of the 1935 edition of the “Absurdities.” An interesting, fast moving show, dexterously whisked along by Master of Ceremonies Frank “Chris” Matthews, full of songs, jammed with comedy, and with a sparkling bevy of athletic chorines, the “Absurdities” was very well received.
Hank Pojman, the burly center, stole the show with his characterization of “Little Nell” in a melodrama of the “nineties.” Paul Schrenker, George Wentworth, and Ken Stilley assisted Hank in this amusing skit.
Tenor Johnny Ryan, a specialist on laundries and St. Mary’s, was greeted with a great ovation for his singing in the information booth scene. Johnny Lauter, the information boy, directed John Hopkins, Joe Beach, and Joe Underkoffler around the campus.
The show took a solemn tone in the simple memorial to Joe Sullivan. To the song “Joe Sullivan,” the Mon-
(Continued on Page 9)
Way 10, 1935
S even
NET CLUB LAYS PLANS FOR REORGANIZATION
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
COMMERCE FORUM PLANS
BANQUET NEXT WEEK
By Paul Foley
Climaxing months of worried efforts, weeks of frantic figuring, and many talkative meetings, the Metropolitan Club this week made a long and definite stride toward wiping out the huge deficit accrued by the organization.
When the members of the club displayed a startling lack of ambition in doing anything except arguing with the officers, the officials of the club, led by President Andrew Maffei, decided the time had arrived for definite action in an effort to bring some semblance of order out of the chaos.
The arbitrary figure of S3.15 which the members voted to assess themselves, has been tempered slightly and the officers are asking that members of the club do all in their power to assist in some way to relieve the debt before the end of th e school year.
"We want each member to write home personally” Maffei announced this week, “The officers will supplement these letters with an explanation to the parents of the reason for the request. We sincerely hope that the members will co-operate to this extent.”
President Maffei announced also that arrangements have been made for the payment of part of the deficit. The club officers have already been able to reach a solution on some of the larger accounts and plans are pending to liquidate the remaining red figure.
In addition to the active work of liquidating the debt, the Met Club officials announced the adoption of a new form of organization to go into effect next year. While complete details are not ready as yet, the skeleton plan calls for the abolition of the present Board of Trustees. This is to be scrapped in favor of an InterBorough Board. This board is to be made up of six members, two from each of the following geographical combination: Manhattan and Bronx; Brooklyn and Long Island; Westchester County and the outlying rural districts.
This new Inter-Borough system will provide representation to each section of the club’s membership. In their hands will be the power of appointment dance chairmen, chairmen of committees, and in mapping out all active work of the club.
A new system of elections was also planned: under this set-up the secretary of the organization will be a sophomore, the treasurer, a junior and the other two officers seniors.
Eight
It’s a boy!
Members of the third floor Sorin Audubon society this week celebrated the blessed event of the Mama Robin who earlier this spring chose the cultured milieu of Prof. Fenion’s private fire escape for her maternity ward.
The little blue egg was fondly and completely nursed through the recent cold spell by the good professor and Iris small circle of bird lovers/ The exact date of the wee one’s debut is not on record, as it occurred some time over the weekend, and even the bird lovers in Sorin are engaged in other tilings over the weekend.
The blatant banners boasting the bombastic qualities of the politically conscious and carefully compromised candidates for the senior class elections blared booming broadsides to all members of the class of ’36 as the annual Notre Dame Blotter Week was celebrated on the campus these past few days.
The heavily imprinted posters added a grotesque embellishment to the Indianaesque fronts of Alumni and Howard halls as spacious doubles were utilized by the men behind the throne to prematurely distribute future action ball chairmanships. Left wings and white wings gathered in small knots three times daily in the caf, and furtive glances scrutinized the known factors in the Badin, or third party.
At the time of writing the grand climax is still two days off, but already the S.A.C. is deciding how many five year men can exercise their franchise for another round.
PHARMACY CLUB VISITS DETROIT
Thirty students and three members of the faculty went to Detroit recently on the Pharmacy Club trip to visit Parke, Davis Company.
Plans for the annual Commerce Forum Banquet are gradually nearing completion, with the announcement by President Frank Shay that the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend has been definitely selected as the scene of the banquet. Some difficulty has been encountered concerning the date but Forum officers stated that the banquet will be held on either the 14th or the 16th of May.
Two prominent local business men have been considered as guest speakers. Dean James E. McCarthy has assured both President Shay and Chairman William Loritsch that members of the faculty of the College of Commerce will be present.
Tentative arrangements for 50 people have been secured. All commerce students are eligible, and reservations may be secured from any of the present officers.
The newly elected officers of the Forum will be formally inducted at the dinner. In previous years the results of the election were not announced until the banquet but owing to the unanimous selection of the new officials this custom has been discarded.
The co-ed Little Theater movement was successfully launched last Sunday night as the local first nighters peered past basketball nets and flying trapezes in the nearby recreation hall and saw Glee Clubber Tom Flynn rescued from the brazen wiles of a South Bend lass and rewarded with the more lasting love of a college bred young lady.
The S choldftic
Calendar
Friday, May 10
Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, May 11
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Western State. Track, Varsity vs. Michigan State. Golf, Varsity vs. Northwestern. Tennis, Varsity vs. Michigan State. Movie, Washington Hall, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., “Gift of Gab.”
Sunday, May 12
Masses, Sacred Heart Church: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m. Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, May 13
Publications banquet, Lay Faculty Dining hall, 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, May 14
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin. Symphony orchestra practice, Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m. Lecture by Shane Leslie, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. St. Vincent de Paul meeting, K. of C. roms, 6:45 p.m. Economics Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday, May 15
Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern. Tennis, Varsity vs. Ohio State.
MONOGRAM CLUB
(Continued from Page 7)
ogram club paid a fitting tribute to their lost leader and to the other deceased Monogram men.
Mrs. Marty Peters, played by Little Don Elser, rocked the audience with laughter. Don’s boy, Ray Keating, was the obstacle to a successful house hunting expedition with Mr. Peters.
The dancing chorus of Wally From-hart, Andy Pilney, Steve Banas, Fred Carideo, Wayne Millner, Lou Dunn, Dominic Vairo,. and Steve Miller swirled through their intricate steps in true “Absurdities” style.
Numerous skits, songs and jokes made the 1935 Monogram “Absurdities” a show which takes its niche in the long history of Monogram presentations.
Alumnus Weds
The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., officiated at the marriage of his nephew, Charles H. Miltner, ’31, to Miss Mary Calvin of the Dominican republic, West Indies, on Monday morning, May 6, in the Sacred Heart Church. Wedding breakfast for fifteen people was served in the faculty dining room, after which the couple left for theii' honeymoon. The bridegroom is practicing law in Cadillac, Michigan.
SWay 10, 1935
THE HUI
By William A. Kennedy
Senior Ball
Little by little they’ve straightened the thing out, until now you can feel pretty safe to invite someone up for the Ball. The bids are out, the orchestra’s in town, the shirts are back from the laundry, the guests are sleeping, and the fish this noon exhibited no perceptible decrease in age from the fish of last Friday noon. In short, everything seems to be regular and orderly.
So the dance should be a success. Whatever it turns out to be, it’ll be that in a large degree, after all the worry the boys have gone through. But they have the Chain-o-Lakes for the tea dance, they’ve removed the danger of the same orchestra playing Saturday night for seventy-five cents, and they have a coast-to-coast broadcast. They should be happy. And the dear guests, who never have anything to lose anyway, should be happy. We hope everyone by this time is just brimming over, if you know what we mean. And Joan, we hope your boy friend has found his thirty-three length trousers. You do, too, don’t you?
•
Coast-to-coast
Yessir, coast to coast. Every big big station in the doggone country. Did you know that this is only the third time this year that South Bend has initiated a network feature, and that each time it was a Notre Dame feature? Did you know that? Yessir, guess we have just about the most interesting stuff in this ol’ town of ours, all right.
Beauty
What seems to us an indication of the way things are swinging in some quarters of the campus occurred recently in the tonsorial operating room in Badin rear.
A lady came in, dripping with sunshine and the music of birds, and looked around the room.
“Can I,” she asked, “get a manicure here?”
“No,” replied Bill, in the way that Bill reserves for women who ask for manicures in his shop. And then, after a bit of dialogue—the first dialogue of the season in which Bill has taken part—the woman went out, still certain that they served manicures there.
There was a girl downtown who' wanted to come out and set up her kit on the campus, says Bill. Said it would save a lot of fellows the trip. Bill, of course, refused her offer. It’s
enough, he thinks, to have students keeping their hair flat at night with the tops of silk stockings.
•
Monogram Stuff
.The Monogram men transferred their absurd actions from the turf (Sunday) to the boards (Wed. & Thurs.) and will, next week, go downtown and dance. They’re drunk with power or money or something, and you’ll just have to let them run until they drop from exhaustion. Well, Layden went good Sunday, and Elser played as he might have against Pitt. The show in Washington Hall was okay. You were there. What do you expect us to do, criticize a show that’s folded already?
Dimes
For the sake of the record, rather than to inform or instruct, we make mention of the increase in mail. These chain letters, which started in the west, reached the campus ten days, ago. The economists, having learned that nothing comes from nothing, the economic order is essentially stable, and all that, promptly went into the game, and now the mails are gradually becoming flooded. Everybody who sends a dime, and everybody who doesn’t send a dime, gets §1,562.50. For ten cents, we’ll tell you how.
•
Era
The telephone poles are down. A new era in external Notre Dame. No more poles. And it’s going to be one tough job tacking signs on underground pipes.
9
Top of the Week
Shane Leslie and Josh D’Amora in earnest conversation and mutual appreciation.
Louise, the guinea pig roommate of Bill Watters in Walsh, died of acute indigestion brought on by the center of a napkin.
St. Mary’s College and Notre Dame played together in public for the first time. Fan mail was exchanged as usual.
Father Marr, pleased with a great early morning turn-out, drank coffee at a student; table. We’ll eat with them, if they’ll let us sleep.
Leb Cifrese, with nothing to lose, abdicated from his fourth floor throne.
In an account of the life of Mickey Glanzner, written by himself in the Trenton (Ill., 1271) News, this institution is referred to as Notre Dame Academy, Gary.
ne
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE............................Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING.............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors JOSEPH A. BUCCI---------------------Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN---------------------LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY 0. SCHOLZ
exceptionally clear statement of economics’ most intricate problems.
Desmond Fitzgerald was for ten years a member of the Irish ministry. His views on government have attracted considerable attention in political and philosophical circles. Mr. Fitzgerald’s series of lectures will bring out the close connection between Catholic truths and the principles of sound government.
Jacques Maritain and Etienne Gilson are unquestionably two of the greatest living philosophers. It is not necessary to remark on the abilities of Mr. Chesterton. Notre Dame may well be proud of such additions to her already illustrious faculty.
Departmental Editors WILLIAM A. KENNEDY._________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY_______________________________Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr_________________________CoUege Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY.........—..—.—------———Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN--------------------------------News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN-------------------Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL------------------Assistant N^ws Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN------------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY--------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI---------------------FREDERICK SHANLEY
ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE-------------FRANKLYN HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH.___________________________LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS---------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
'	JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST__________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER-----------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER_______________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN._________________JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT______________________JOHN CACKLEY
james mcmullen
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY--------------------Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated (foUesiate $ress
-31934	1935 &-
•“■SO"	Wisconsin
May 10, 1935
SUCH VISITORS ARE WELCOME
It has, for some time, been one of the educational policies of Notre Dame to bring to the campus each year several European professors. This plan was originated soon after the turn of the century and, after being interrupted by the war, is now approaching its full brilliance. Chesterton, Maritain, Gilson and Leslie are but a few of the more prominent of the visiting professors who have always been men of high character and wide repute. In next year’s exceptionally large group, there cannot be found one single exception to this general statement.
Christopher Hollis, although yet a comparatively young man, has gained wide fame as one of Europe’s most brilliant economists. The successive publication of his various books have brought him increasing fame, repute and prestige. His most recent work The Breakdown of Money, has been universally acclaimed as an
CAMPUS CLUBS, IL
In the editorial in last week’s Scholastic, we listed several clubs as typical examples of organizations which have a very definite and well deserved place at Notre Dame. The cited clubs were intended to present a typical j', —but not all inclusive—list of the worthwhile groups on campus. Because there are so few commendable clubs, and because we named most of these as typical examples of what could be done, readers drew the inference that these clubs, were, in the opinion of The Scholastic, the only worthwhile ones. That such was not the case should be obvious because three of the most laudable organizations on campus, the St. Vincent de Paul Society, the Servers Club and the Villagers were not mentioned.
It is no exaggeration to say that the local chapter of the St. Vincent de Paul Society was as active in promoting welfare work in and around South Bend as were the • various other chapters famed, the world over, for their charity. Led by their director, the Rev. John Kelly, C.S.C., and by their presidents, August Petrillo and Vincent McAloon, they worked diligently and persistently in their efforts to bring some degree of material happiness to needy families of South Bend. No detail was too small, nor no task too great for these workers if success meant comfort to the needy. The worth and merit of the Servers Club are perspicuously commendable. These men have been banded together for the purpose of assisting priests in the services of the Church. These organizations exemplify Catholic Action and all that it stands for. To say that they have no place at Notre Dame is tantamount to saying that Catholic university men should not be trained to participate in Catholic charities.
The Villagers Club was the most active of the city groups. This club sponsored the Annual Civic Testimonial Banquet for the basketball team which was one of the most successful ventures of the year. Eight regular monthly meetings were held in addition to a joint meeting with the Alumni Association. For those who insist that city clubs must run dances to justify their existence, the Villagers sponsored a Thanksgiving dance, a Christ- . mas dance, a post-examination dance and an Easter dance. The ability of the officers is evidenced by the absence of financial troubles after all of these activities. .	5
I
The Scholastic t
7 i
♦ SPORTS ♦
NTEDS
FROM THE
kPRESS BOX
NOTRE DAME NINE MEETS FOUR STRONG FOES; WESTERN STATE HERE TOMORROW
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
WHAT’S THIS?
When the University Bulletin concerning intercollegiate athletics was published during the winter we did a couple of handsprings to show approval of the following article included within the Bulletin:

"The dimensions of the ND of the minor insignia are to be the same for all sports, with the small letters, CC (for cross country), T (for tennis), or G (for golf), woven into the ND to indicate the particular sport in which the monogram has been awarded. The letters of the ND are to be five inches high and six inches wide. ...”
This was a radical and welcome departure from the previous custom of awarding one and one-half inch monograms to the minor sports men. With the publishing of the revised Bulletin came the previously mentioned shouts of glee and acrobatics. The acrobatics continued until the cross country squad was given its award. Despite the promise of five inch awards, Nicholson’s men received the same near invisible monograms. It brings up the question, when isn’t a spade a spade, or something. Will the tennis and golf teams suffer a similar fate? Is the new Bulletin “just a scrap of paper?” Reports have been conflicting. It comes from some sources that the spring sports squads will not receive the new insignia, while others claim they will. We’re hoping the latter is correct and that the men who receive them will be allowed to wear them on the campus.
If the injustice continues, however, it will place the minor sports men below the reserve football men, the managers, and the head cheerleader, all of whom receive the five inch jobs with the small block letters in the corner, denoting the reason for their being granted.
AVERAGES
The Michigan State, Toledo, and Ohio State baseball games showed Coach Jake Kline a few things about his ball club and here are a few more (Continued on Page 15)
Olin Dutra
An honored guest
NAT. OPEN GOLF CHAMP., OLIN DUTRA, TO PLAY HERE TUESDAY
Olin Dutra, National Open golf champion, will play here on the William J. Burke Memorial golf course next Tuesday afternoon at 2:30 p.m. school time. Dutra will have as his partner Jimmy Thomson, Australian Open champion, reputed to be the longest hitter in the golfing world today. Neither of these golfing stars are at present connected with any club.
The two visitors will play their best ball against four members of the Notre Dame golf team, namely Johnny Banks, Bill Cole, Win Day and either Pat Malloy or Harry Baldwin. Thomson is credited with once having carried a 350-yard green with a drive. He is in this country on a tour which will include playing in the Western Open in South Bend and the National Open at Oakmont, Pa.
The purpose of the match is to give the Irish golfers some first hand information on the leading players’ type of game and not for the competition against these professionals in its strictest sense.
(Continued on Page 14)
PURDUE VS. N.D. ON 18TH
On May 11 the Notre Dame baseball team swings into a week that will see them in action four times. Preseason dope had Jake Kline’s pitching staff as questionable, but in meeting four teams within eight days the flingers have the opportunity of answering the question themselves.
Saturday finds the Western State Teachers coming to Cartier field to avenge the 6-5 defeat suffered at the hands of the Irish. In that game Joe Beach slow-balled the teachers from Kalamazoo to the tune of five runs on eleven hits. The return game will probably find Tourney or Rydell on the mound.
On May 14 the Irish travel to Madison to meet the Wisconsin nine. It is the first encounter between the two teams and a fast close game is expected. To date the Wisconsin ball hawks have dropped three Big Ten games while winning only one, but jn the last few games Badger sluggers have had no regard for pitchers and will be all set for the offerings of the Notre Dame flingers.
The following day brings the charges of Jake Kline to Evanston where the Northwestern team will be encountered. The Wildcats, after dropping three out of five Big Ten contests, are anxious to start a winning streak at the expense of the Irish, and it will take heads-up ball playing on the part of Dunn and Co. to prevent this.
The following Saturday the busy athletes arrive back on Cartier field to take on Purdue. The Boilermakers are at the bottom of the Big Ten, but if their pitchers come through they will be a hard team to hold as they have been hitting the ball steadily.
The Boilermakers hold one decision over the Irish at the present reading. Earlier in the season they handed Notre Dame a 9 to 5 setback at Lafayette. That was the second game Kline’s team played. The improvement shown by the ball club gives them a splendid chance to even matters.
^fay 10, 1935
Eleven
Northwestern Golfers to Clash With Notre Dame Tomorrow
NAT. INTERSCHOLASTIC
TRACK MEET ON JUNE 1
MICHIGAN STATE IS NEXT
Saturday the Notre Dame golf team will leave its own fairways, traps, and greens and journey to Evanston where the par breaking aggregation from Northwestern will be met. The Irish team, led by Johnny Banks, expects to continue along winning ways,
Win Day
He holds the course record.
but they realize it will take a strong steady game to defeat the Wildcats who recently overcame the strong Illinois team.
On the following Thursday, however, the lovers of long smashing drives, low driving brassie shots, and deadly rolling putts will have a chance to see the Irish golfers in action. Father Holderith’s charges are to meet the representatives from Michigan State in what ought to be’ a closely contested match. The boys from up north are experienced golfers and, if in form, are capable of giving the brassie wielders of the campus a stiff match. -
Doubles Tournament
The recent outburst of Jupiter Plu-vius has hampered the opening of the doubles tournament, but with the rapid drying out of the courts, play should begin shortly with a record number of entries. Joyce and Kil-rain, finalists in the singles tourney, are seeded first in the doubles competition, but the caliber of the other duos is such that their victory will not be an overwhelming one.
T if elv e
Four Matches Remain on Schedule for Coach de Landero’s Netsters
Four matches within the next ten days is the schedule for Coach de Landero’s Irish racquet wielders. Tomorrow they are to meet Michigan State on the Notre Dame courts. Michigan State is not too good this year, having lost the majority of the players who won the Michigan State Intercollegiate Championship for the team last year. For the last three years they have had excellent teams and it will not be surprising to see them play at their best against the Irish. Beaten twice last year by the Staters, the Gold and Blue are anxious to avenge these losses.
May 15 the tennis team starts on a two day trip during which time they meet Ohio State and Illinois. The first match will be played next Wednesday at Columbus. This squad is of unknown quantity as it is the first time that they have been scheduled by the Notre Dame netters.
From Columbus they journey to Champaign where they will try to conquer the undefeated Illinois outfit. The only blot on the Ulini record is a tie with Northwestern. They have a very good team and should give Chicago a race for the Big Ten championship this season. Mclnish, their sophomore number one man, has been undefeated so far in championship play and will try to extend his string at the expense of the Irish.
The next match on the card is another encounter with the representatives of Western State. The boys from Kalamazoo have been noted for their fine play on the courts and it seems as if they have another great team to uphold their winning ways.
In the match between these two outfits last season, the Statemen had all the better of the argument and whitewashed the Irish netmen, 7 to 0. This season the Western State tennis team has been continuing along its successful path and has to date only one defeat on its record as against eight wins.
The Irish have four hard matches, two of them on strange courts which makes it seem that they will have their hands full for the next two weeks.
The second annual National Catholic Interscholastic track and field championships will again be part of the commencement exercises, being held on June 1. It was just a year ago that the first of these championships was held here under the auspices of the Notre Dame Athletic association, for the purpose of bringing together athletes from the leading Catholic schools of the country. Since the meet proved to be a success it has been decided to hold it every year as part of the sports program in connection with the commencement exercises.
The meet is to be held on Saturday, June 1, with preliminaries on the preceding Friday. The entire meet will consist of 14 events including two races in the quarter mile, half mile, and mile runs. The hurdle races this year will conform with the new rules, which are: 120 yard intermediate hurdles, which will be three feet, three inches high; and the 200 yard lows, which will remain at the same height, but will be placed 18 yards apart. Each school will be limited to two entries in each of the track events, except the relays. No individual will be permitted to enter more than one event at a distance greater than 220 yards.
Medals will be awarded to winners of the first four places in every event, a trophy to the winning relay team, and also a large team trophy to the winner of the meet. These prizes will - be awarded at the Victory banquet which will be held on Saturday night in the Notre Dame Dining Halls.
Participants and coaches will be lodged in the residence halls and- furnished meals in the University Dining halls during their stay on the Campus, with the compliments of the University. The purpose of this is. to allow the visitors to get an inside view of boarding school life, for which Notre Dame is widely known, by living in the same manner as do the regular students.
Application blanks have just been sent out by the Athletic department to the leading Catholic High schools of the country and the number of schools in this year’s meet is expected to exceed that of last.
Last year’s meet was the first of national scope involving all Catholic High Schools throughout the country that has ever been attempted. The meet itself, last June, was most successful both from the spectators’ and participants’ viewpoint and this June’s carnival is out to outdo last year’s success’. -
’ The Scholastic
SPARTANS NEXT TEAM TO COMBAT NICKMEN
Notre Dame Tennis Team Shows Winning Form In Recent Matches
If Coach Nicholson is as accurate in his predictions for the next two track meets as he was for the Ohio State event, the Notre Dame thinlies are due for a couple of victories when they meet Michigan State at East Lansing Saturday and Pittsburgh here on the 18th. For just as he predicted defeat at Columbus, he now claims that the Irish stand a good chance of winning both of these coming meets.
There is little doubt about the out-
Jiai Sheils
He danced with Ellis.

come of the Michigan State contest in spite of the threat of Tom Ottey. In the C. I. C. meet held here during the indoor track season, Michigan State scored but 8% points against Notre Dame’s 20 and placed first in only one event. The Michigan team’s outstanding performers are Ottey in the two mile, Hurd in the mile, Uckele in the pole vault, and Cuff in the high jump. The team is almost totally lacking in sprint and middle distance strength.
Pitt, is of course the more difficult team to beat, although they captured the C.I.C. meet by a scant three points, Nick feels sure that his men can break the alleged jinx that has prevented any Notre Dame team from defeating a Pitt outfit for two years.
The strongest part of the Pitt outfit is the relay team, and Nick has despaired of organizing a group to win in that event. In the quarter and half the Irish decidedly have the advantage, but the outcome of the sprints is questionable. Link and Layden should come through in the hurdles while Elser and Murphy hold a decided advantage in the shot put, discus, and high jump.
Edwards will compete with Pelucha in the pole vault for what seems to be a close contest. Levicki’s prowess at the javelin is still a matter of conjecture, but if he performs as well against the Panthers as he does in practice, it should add several points to the Irish score.
Wisconsin Succumbs To Notre Dame’s Golf Team in Hard Match
Bill Cole’s chip shot from the trap at the edge of the 18th green which dropped for a birdie four gave the Irish linksters a 10)2-7)2 victory over Wisconsin last Saturday on the Burke Memorial course. The niblick shot gave Cole the hole and the match from Holt of the Badgers, 3-0. Had the ball failed to drop, the Badgermen would have broken the string of 22 victories that the Irish have gathered since 1933.
Notre Dame led at the end of the morning rounds after Cole and Capt. Johnny Banks had teamed up to best Davis and Connors of Wisconsin, 3-0. Meanwhile Win Day and Harry Baldwin were finding that the accurate Holt and Truax carried too many shots, and dropped a 2-1 decision to the team from Madison.
In the afternoon the usually dependable Day had lost, and Pat Malloy was trailing Truax of the invaders by a wide margin when Cole approached the 18th. But Bill niblicked through with a birdie to chalk up current victory “7” for the Irish.
Bill Cole rounded out a fine day by turning in low medal score of 74, 75 —149. Johnny Banks who took Connors of Wisconsin, 2%in the afternoon, followed with a 151 for the 36 hole test. Cole and Banks scored 8)2 of the winners’ points.
Drawings Are Listed In Faculty Golf Tourney
Following are the pairings for the first round of the Notre Dame Faculty club tennis tournament, best two out of three sets to be played before Saturday night, May 11.: (Prof. Louis Hasley in charge of arrangements foi' the tournament.)
Walter Langford bye
James Armstrong vs. Rufus Rauch George Collins bye
Donald Plunkett bye
Stanley Price vs. John Scannell Jose Corona xs. Henry Hinton Cletus Chizek vs. Joe Petritz Ronald Cox vs. Pedro de Landero
Benjamin South vs. Elmer Layden Leo Kuntz vs. Devere Plunkett Chet Grant bys
Andrew Smithberger bye
Dominick Napolitano bye
Lawrence Baldinger bye
■ William Dooley bye
' Lou Hasley vs. Steve Bocskei
LOSE TO NORTHWESTERN
By John Glanzner
The victorious march of the Notre Dame tennis aggregation came to an abrupt end last Saturday at Evanston, when the Wildcats of Northwestern pummeled the Irish into submission, 7-0. It was the Ball brothers, Russell and George, who accounted
Capt. Frank Weldon He was Balled up.
for three of the victories, while the eyes of the galleries looked upon them.
The matches were much closer than the sound thumping indicates. Captain Frank Weldon almost stole a march on the elder Ball but weakened in the final games to lose 7-5, 3-6,1-6. Joe Waldron slow-balled Russell Ball into three sets only to be downed 6-4, 5-7, 7-5. Most of the games were deuced and only by breaking Waldron's service in the eleventh game did Ball forge ahead to eke out a win.
In the doubles play the Irish fared little better, for the Balls collaborated to outstroke Notre Dame’s number one combine of Weldon and Fallon. Buchart and McNulty also bowed in defeat. Captain Rasmussen, Dort, and Rugg accounted for the other Northwestern victories in the singles. / Saturday the Irish returned home to show a reversal of form and blast Bradley from the courts 6-3. Only Davis, towering Bradleyite, could brave the cold to score a singles victory for the men from Peoria. His smashing service and tremendous power overwhelmed Joe Waldron 6-1, 6-1. Paired with Coke he accounted (Continued on Page 24)
JWay 10, 1935
Thirteen
RAIN HALTS INTERHALL LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAY
INTRODUCING
Rain-flooded diamonds called a halt to most of the activity in the intei’hall hardball league last week. A few hardy teams braved the mud and cold on Saturday, and three wild battles resulted. The Dillonites were more than ambitious, playing a doubleheader, and dropping both games after five hours of walks and misplays.
In their first encounter the lads next to the Dining Hall ran into a barrage of Carroll base hits, and before the seventh inning stopped the merry-go-’round, the Dormers had run up 18 counters. Walks and errors were plentiful on both sides of the score sheet, and Dillon managed to muster ten tallies in the battle of substitutes that took place. Pitchers offered the most difficulty; both teams averaged about one an inning.
Dillon fared little better in their second effort. They met up with an organized bunch of tossers from Howard, and the juniors plus Tom Dunn’s pitching had little trouble in squelching the frosh. The count at the end of the fray read 9-1 against the weary aristocrats.
Brownson was not as fortunate as her brothers from under' the Dome and they dropped a free-for-all to Freshman, 11-7. The contest re--solved itself into a track meet from the first inning when the determined freshmen pushed across six runs.
The games arranged for Sunday were rained out, and the hall coaches are only waiting for clear weather to finish out the schedule. The finals are to be played on May 19 in Car-tier Field, when the champions of the “walk and error” league will be crowned.
Meanwhile plans foi' the interhall softball tournament are being completed. The pairings will be posted on the hall bulletin boards in a few days.
Interhall Notice
Notice for Interhall Equipment
All interhall equipment must be returned by May 15. All equipment not returned after that date will be charged against the holder’s account.
OLIN DUTRA
(Continued from Page 11)
The match will be preceded by lectures given by Mr. Dutra and Mr. Thomson on “The Use of All Clubs.” The lecture will be delivered at 1:30 p.m. and the match -will get under way at 2:15.
The admission for students will be 40 cents and AA books and for the general public $1.10.
By Joe Prendergast
In the Purdue golf match played on the local course last spring fine golf was commonplace, sensational shots abundant, sizzling eagles, which even - made the grassy well-kept greens raise their" short blades in astonishment, were scored. James S. Kearns commenting on individual performances in “Splinters” of The Scholastic issue of May 5, 1934 had this to say about one of Notre Dame’s golfing golfers:—
“The sixteenth hole in the morning and the ninth in the afternoon were the high spots of Banks’ performance. On the former green he waited for the South Bend fire department to scream its way through the neighborhood and then knocked in a twenty foot putt for a birdie four.
“In the afternoon round he saw his slim one-hole lead waver at the ninth green when Purdue’s man Craig holed a recovery chip from behind the green for an eagle three. The irrepressible John grinned and banged in a long downhill putt from the edge of the green for an eagle of his own, maintaining the status quo.”
La Grange, Illinois, may not be the most widely known community in this
country but it is sure to become more widely heralded than it has been through the divot efforts of one of its native sons, John Lawrence Banks. Johnny was born and raised in La Grange. He attended La Grange High School for four years and won a letter in every form of athletic endeavor which the high school sponsored. For two years he was second baseman on the ball team, forward on the court five, and end
in football. During his freshman and sophomore years he played quite a game of tennis for the racquet-weild-ers. In his senior year he made the golf team and was elected captain previous to the opening match.
John at 13 years of age was caddying and at 14 was playing a fine game himself. After spending 16 quiet summers in La Grange, John ventured forth to his first tournament, the Chicago District Caddy Championship, and returned home two days later with the winning cup strapped tightly to his golfing bag. He was graduated from high school in 1930 and was uncommital in so far as college and his choice of
(Continued on Page 15)
Fourteen
The S choles tic
OLD TIMERS DEFEATED BY 1935 VARSITY TEAM
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11)
KLINE’S HOPEFULS WIN ONE GAME ON ROAD TRIP
By Joe Prendergast
Notre Dame’s football heroes of last fall and seasons back donned pigskin uniforms last Sunday, rubbed creaking joints and muscles with liniment and went out to fight for the eastern sector of the stadium, for Chet Grant and Father Farley. All was to no avail, for the strongest
Mike Layden lie’s a producer too.
weapon the “ole-timers” had was the smelly liniment with the result that Coach Layden’s 1935 varsity squad romped and cavorted to a 37 to 0 victory. The official score was 25 to 0; the other two tallies coming in an extra period played between halves while the number one teams for both crews rested.
Wayne Millner went over for the initial score in the first quarter when he caught a 45-yard heave from Bill Shakespeare. Joe Hoctor, a lad all Irish opponents will keep an eagle eye on next fall, broke away on a 60-yard one-man-parade that registered for the Laydenmen a short time later. Mike Layden who played at full and right half during the Old-Timers’ “revival of learning,” raced off left tackle for 40 yards and another score in the third period.
In the extra period scrimmage, Crotty and DiMatteo made additional six-pointers for the varsity. Three after touchdown points were good, and the other scores were made by virtue of two safeties when Steve Banas was set back of his own goal line on two occasions.
things he can learn about the squad: George “Wibby” Wentworth, by virtue of his three-game batting rampage, has replaced Andy Pilney as the team’s leading hitter. The Irish shortstop hit eleven for six to put him up in front with the fat figure of .459.
Frankie Gaul banged out five straight hits in the Buckeye game and then continued that night to hit safely the first two times he faced Toledo’s hurlers. The result of his small riot is the second place berth at .429. Andy Pilney dropped from .433 to .386 in three games and finds himself swinging third. Danny Cunha is the only other Irisher above the .300 mark. He swings at .319. The following averages include all games played before May 5:
	AB	R	H	Pct.
Wentworth, ss 		... 37	9	17	.459
Gaul, c 			7	15	.429
Pilney. rf		... 44	7	17	.386
Cunha. 2b 		... 47	8	15	.319
Dunn, lb 		... 31	6	9	.290
Sepe. If		... 14	2	4	.286
Van Wagner, p 		... 4	1	1	.250
Mettler, cf 		... 49	7	10	.204
Tourney, p 	_..	... 10	0	2	.200
Costello, lb. 3b 		... 17	0	3	.176
Velcheck. If		... 24	3	4	.167
Fromhart. 3b 		... 30	7	4	.133
Themes, p 		... 12	0	1	.083
Beach, p 		... S	2	0	.000
Regan, ss 			... 8	0	0	.000
Rydell, p 			... 3	1	0	.000
Underkofler. c			... 3	0	0	.000
Palkovie. ph 		... 1	0	0	.000
Totals 		...377	60	102	.271
INTRODUCING (Continued from Page 14)
schools went. Johnny’s mother always leaned towards Notre Dame so in the fall of 1930 another powerful driving golfer was added to Notre Dame’s already lengthy list.
John won his numerals as a fresh-mon on the golf squad. He failed to return to school in 1931 but in 1932 he again enrolled at Notre Dame. Johnny had added another title to his name in the fall of 1932 when he won the Western Junior Championship at the Medinah Country Club in Chicago. In the qualifying round, he was medalist and continued his magnificent play to take first place rather handily.
John has been a member of the Irish golfing team for three years and in that time he has never played with a losing Notre Dame golf team. The last time the Irish lost a match was back in the spring of 1932 and Johnny was not then a student at Notre (Continued on Page 17)
The Irish, encountering numerous tough breaks, fared none too well on their recent week-end jaunt losing two out of three contests. Michigan State chalked up its fifth consecutive one-run victory at the expense of Kline’s combine, 5-4. Captain Lefty Dunn’s triple, which scored two mates, featured Notre Dame’s determined eighth inning rally. Bill Tourney started on the mound, only to be re-
Captain Lefty Dunn He won the game.
tired after six frames in favor of Joe Beach, who in turn was succeeded by Matt Themes.
Journeying to Columbus the Irish were defeated by Ohio State 10-9, before 5,000 frenzied fans. The Bucks overcame a nine run lead to stage a sensational four point spree in the eighth, while an additional six runs were tallied in the ninth. Notre Dame crossed the plate seven times in the sixth chucker, apparently “putting the game on ice.” Kline used three twirlers in all, Beach, Tourney, and Themes.
Returning to play a postponed fracas with Toledo, the Irish came into their own by virtue of a 5-3 triumph. Matt Themes held the victims to seven hits, while Norm Lippincott was touched for a total of nine. The arc lights evidently agreed with Wentworth, as he clubbed out a trio of bingles to lead the Notre Dame batting array.
The box scores:
Notre Dame (4)	Mich. State (5)
ABRHPAl	AB R H PA
Cunha.2b 5 0 13 1) Welch.rf 5 13 0 0 Went’th.ss 2 0 0 2.2|Fager,2b 4 0 13 2 Regan.ss	2	0 0	2	2|Parker,lf	3	0	0	4	0
Mettler.cf	5	1 1	2	01 Lehn’t.cf	3	0	0	3	1
Pilney.rf	4	12	0	OlSebo.e	4	0	2	2	0
Fromh’t.3b	2	111	l|Rouse.3b	4	0	0	3	5
DannAb 4 12T0| Bart’g.lb 42104 Velcheck.If	4	0	1 2 0 F’dler.ss	3	2	2	2	4
Gaul, c	4	^0 -I- 3: .‘l | Kr’b’ch.p	3. 0	- 0—A-A
Underk’r.c	0	0	0 2 11 zM’Grain	1	0	0	0	0
Toumey.p	2	0	112) Hill.p	0	0	0	0	0
Beach.p	0	0	0	0	0|
Rydell.p	0	0	0	0	01
xSepe	1	0	1	0	01
Thernes;p	0	0	0	0	0)
xxCostello	1	0	0	0	01
35 4 11 24 121	34 5 9 17 13
(Continued on Page 16)
Way 10, 1935
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
“Hitting him is like slapping at the hull of a battleship,” said ARTHUR (THE GREAT) SHIRES of GEORGE TRAFTON, Chicago gymnasium proprietor . . . And why not? . . . the half famous GEORGE is just another Notre Dame man . . . Concussion of the brain, torn groin, broken toe, broken finger, charley horses, and scores of spike wounds, have all been the fare of LOU GEHRIG as he has been piling up that consecutive game streak . . . LOU recently received a bat signed by 1504 New York sandlot players, one for each of the lar-ruper’s consecutive games . . . MRS. JOHN J. McGRAW has a collection of baseballs representing the last to be used in each contest of the Giant’s 26-game winning streak in 1916 . . . The mighty BABE in his declining days should welcome the change of leagues ... In the national, he has five right field fences of 300 feet or less to aim at compared to only two in the Junior league . . . Reports from the New York Giant’s treasury place the cost of spring training at $35,000. . . . HAL SCHUMACHER, of the Gotham club, hasn’t been beaten by the Cincinnati Reds since he broke into the majors . . . HAL has faced the boys from the land of the walking stein eleven times. . . .
Omaha’s the King . . . but watch those flirtacious ladies, Nellie Flag, and Black Helen in the Preakness (tomorrow by the way) . . . We have it that CHARLIE REYNOLDS, twenty one year old New Yorker, who has six horses under his charge, is probably the youngest trainer on the American turf . . . MAXIE BAER is averaging 400 fan letters a day . . . and the gals seem to be the chief cause of it . . . JACK DEMPSEY is reported listening to a call from Hollywood . . . WALTER HAGAN and BILLY BURKE, veteran Professional golfers, share the record low score of 62 for 18 holes of tournament play . . . The wealthiest fairway walker in the game today is reputed to be JOE KIRKWOOD, thirty eight year old trick shot artist . . . Speaking of the lucre, CHING JOHNSON admits he made more money as an amateur hockey player in Canada than he has since joining the New York Rangers . . . Two British golf-. ers competed in an 18 hole match recently, one using only a No. 2 iron and the other a No. 3 exclusively. Each finished with a score of 77 . . . JOHNNY REISER, Pratt Institute basketball star, throws the ball with one hand, his other arm being paralyzed . . . Only four perfect “300” games have been scored in the thirty-five year history of American Bowling Congress competitions . . . BEN
JOHNSON, Columbus University sprinter, starts off with his left foot back, which is contrary to the almost universal custom . . . Slats, The Bayou Bearcat, Louisiana Greyhound, and the Greenwood Gazelle, are a few of the monicars tacked on to GLEN HARDIN, Louisiana State hurdler ...
Occasionally ideas for a new grid iron surface pop up . . . POTSY CLARK, pro football coach is suggesting a mixture of tanbark and cotton seed . . . for speed, and better’ drainage . . . JOE GREENBERG, brother of HANK, is cavorting as the New York University shortstop this spring . . . Four theatrical productions in New York city have baseball teams composed of members of the casts . . . One of the most noted trainers of the English turf opens the stall doors and lets the thoroughbreds listen to musical programs on the radio by the hours . . . Susquehanna and Moravian colleges meet next year on the gridiron . . . and coaching them will be the STAGG brothers, ALONZO Jr., and PAUL... A painting found in the palace of the King of Oudh and dated 600 B. C. by experts shows five young Indian aristocrats playing polo . . . JIMMY M’LARNIN’S training schedule is a slam at golf as a preparation for fighting condition . . . POP FOSTER, manager of the Belting Boy from Belfast, says the two sports don’t mix . . SERGEANT WILLIAM H. H. GRAY has been the bugle man summoning horses to the post at Jamaica for thirty years.
NOTRE DANE LOSES ITS FIRST DUAL TRACK MEET
BASEBALL GAMES
(Continued from Page 15)
z—Batted for Krombach in 9th. x—Batted for Rydell in 8th. xx—Batted for Regan in 9th.
Errors—Wentworth 2, Fromhart, Dunn. Two base hits—Welch, Pilney. Three base hits— Dunn. Stolen bases—Welch, Sebo, Fromhart. Double plays—Tourney to Wentworth, Fromhart to Cunha. Hits—off Tourney, 8 in 6; Rydell, 1 in 1Krombach, 11 in 8; Hill, 0 in 1.
Notre Dame (9) AB R H P A
Ohio State (10)
Cunha,2b 4
Went’th.ss 4
Mettler.p.cf 5
Pilney,If Fromh’t,3b
Dunn.lb
Sepe.rf Gaul.c Beach,p i
Tourney,p Thernes.p
5
5 3
4 5
5 0
0 0
1 2
1 0
1 1
1
1 0
0
0 1
1 0 0
1 1
4 0
0 0
3 2
2 0
2 5
3 8 0 0
0
3 3
0 0
1 0
1 0
0
AB Pr’jak.rf 6 W’kel,3b 4 Cl’sen,2b 3 MAfee.lb 5
R H P A|
Ham’n.lf Kl’sky.lf Blue.cf Moser, c Dye.ss
01 Peters ,p 0 j Ulrich,p
3 1
3 5
4 1
1
0 1 0
1 0
2 2
1 1
0 2
2 1 2 1
0 2 111
0 0
0
2 0 0
2 0
2 5
3 0
0
0 0
3 1
0 0 0
1 1
3 2
40 9 9 26 71	3610 8 2711
Errors—Wentworth, Dunn (2), Prosenjak, Wickel, (2), Dye (2). Two base hit—Wentworth. Three base hit—Prosenjak. Stolen base —Mettler. Hits—off Peters, 6 in 5 2-3 innings; off Beach, 7 in 8 1-3 innings; off Tourney, 1 in 1-3 inning; off Thernes 0.
Notre Dame (5)	Toledo (3)
ABRHPA	ABRHPAI
Cunha, 2b 4 1 1 4 2
Went’th.ss 5 13 10
Mettler, cf 5 0 0 1 0
Pilney.rf 5 1110
Fromh’t,3b	3	0	12	0
Dunn.lb	3	1	010	0
Sepe.rf	4	0	0 1	1
Gaul.c	4	12 7	2
Thernes.p	4	0	10	6
Con’ll,cf 4 2 12 0 Sp’nk,2b 5 0 2 0 2
Cupp.rf 3 1 1' 2 0 Hayes,ss 3 0 111
M’D”t,lb 4 0 012 0
R’p’lie.rf 5 0 10 0
S’th’d,3b 3 0 0 0 0
Beebe,c 2 0 010 1
Lip’cot.p 4 0 10 5
37 5 9 27 11
34 3 7 27 9
With its colored speed merchant, Jesse Owens, capturing three victories the Ohio State track team defeated Notre Dame, 71-60, at Columbus last Saturday night. The ebony flash of the Buckeyes set three new meet records in tvinning the 100, 220 .yard dashes and the broad jump. Without Owens to contend with the Irish would have preserved their undefeated record in dual track meets.
Outside of the failure of Jack Edwards to place in the pole vault, Notre Dame scored heavily in the field events. Don Elser took firsts in the discus and shot put while Capt. Vince Murphy and John Levicki won their favorite high jump and javelin events, respectively.
Summary:
ONE MILE RUN—Renda, (OS) first; McKenna, (ND) second; Blickle, (OS) third. Time, 4:25.7.
DISCUS—Elser, (ND) first; Heekin, (OS) second; Levicki, (ND) third. Distance, 130 feet, 1% inches.
440-YARD DASH —Bernard, (ND) first; Parsons, (ND) second; Rubly, (ND) third. Time, 0:49.8 seconds. (New meet record)
100-YARD DASH—Owens, (OS) first; Jordan, (ND) second; Frawley, (ND) third. Time, 0:09.6 seconds. (New meet record)
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Seitz, (OS) first; Layden, (ND) second; Link, (ND) third. Time 0:15.4 seconds.
880-YARD RUN—Beetham, (OS) first; Du-cassa, (ND) second; Smith, (OS) third. Time, 1:57.6 (New meet record)
22-YARD DASH—Owens, (OS) first; Frawley, (ND) second; Boyle, (ND), third. Time 0:21 seconds. (New meet record (
TWO MILE RUN—Price, (OS) first; Gott (ND) second; McFarlane, (ND) third. Time, 10:00
SHOT PUT—Elser, Notre Dame, first; Neal (OS) second; Michuta, (ND) third. Distance 49 ft. % inch.
POLE VAULT — Monsowitz, (OS) first; Henderson and Williams, (OS) tied for second. Height—13 ft. 6 inches. (New meet record)
BROAD JUMP—Owens, (OS) first: Meagher, (ND) second; Hurones, (OS) third. Distance, 24 ft. 6% inches. (New meet record)
HIGH JUMP—Murphy, (ND) first; Walker (OS) second; Boucher, (OS) third. Height, 6 ft. 5 inches.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Spitz, (OS) first; Layden,' (ND) second; Walker, (OS) third. Time, 0:24.8 (New meet record)
JAVELIN THROW—Levicki, (ND) first; Smith, (OS) second: Larrezza, (OS) third. Distance, 184 ft. 9 inches.
MILE RELAY—Won by Ohio State. Time, 3:22.6.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
> “TAKE YOUR MEDICINE”
IS VERY SUCCESSFUL
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER
(Continued from Page 1)
A very large and appreciative audience delighted in “Take Your* Medicine,” a musical comedy romance presented by the combined glee clubs of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame, on Saturday and Sunday evenings, May 4 and 5 in St. Angela’s hall.
Jane Moore as Lynette Russell and Thomas Flynn as Gerald Stuart had ™ the leading roles. Much credit, however, is to be given Carolyn O’Connor for her excellent performance as the sophisticated South Bend girl with whom Jerry became infatuated while at Notre Dame.
The musical presentation was written by Richard Kinney of St. Thomas’ college in St. Paul. He was present to witness the St. Mary’s-Notre Dame version. With the exception of “Doctors and Nurses” by Professor Casa-santa, the music was penned by Mr. £ Kinney. Miss Nellie Corcoran, also of St. Paul, wrote the libretto.
The high light of the evening was the featured tap dance by Tom Byrne and Frank McCarthy. John Dasso and Miss Betty Ward are also commended for their Waltz-Ballet specialty. Mr. Dasso, a Junior, at Notre Dame, directed the dancing chorus.
The production was supervised by Sister Judith, C.S.C., Professor of Music at St. Mary’s, and Professor Joseph Casasanta, head of the Music department at Notre Dame. Many thanks go to the Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., for his interest and cooperation which made possible the co-recreational program.
’	INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 15)
Dame. As a sophomore he was medalist in the National Intercollegiates at Buffalo only to drop out in the first round because of Walter Emory’s great shot-making, who, inci-dently, swept on to the title. Last spring in the Intercollegiates at Cleveland, Johnny went to the quarterfinals, and on the 37th hole of his match with Ed White of Texas he • was defeated.
John was elected captain of this year’s team, following his capturing of the Indiana State title last spring. He is 22 years old, five feet 11% inches tall, a senior in the Fine Arts School and rooms in 19 Morrissey Hall, being flanked by two of his niblick teammates, Win Day and Billy Cole. On the morrow the team faces their toughest match and John says: “Tomorrow against Northwestern we face our hardest match, if we beat them wie ought to go through the season undefeated.”
auxiliary bishop of the Boston archdiocese. Bishop Spellman is widely known for the many outstanding accomplishments of his clerical career extending over a period of 20 years.
Bishop Spellman, bom in 1898, received his education at Fordham University from which he received the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1911, and at the North American College and Propaganda University in Rome from which he received the degree of Doctor of Sacred Theology in 1916. In the same year, he was ordained and was placed as curate in the Holy Cross Cathedral in Boston. While there, he was made assistant chancellor of the archdiocese of Boston, and director of Catholic Literature.
During the ensuing four years, Bishop Spellman served on the editorial staff of the Boston Pilot, a news weekly, after having been circulation manager for some time. He was then honored by being appointed attache to the Papal Secretariat of State in Washington, D.C., he being the first American priest that ever held that position.
The next step in his rapid rise was his appointment as titular Bishop of Sila, and then the crowning glory— his appointment as auxiliary bishop of the Boston diocese. Several times during his career he was called upon to prepare and read the English translations of the discourses of Pope Pius XI, which had been broadcast over the Vatican City radio station HVJ.
Bishop Spellman has published several books during his career, among them being The Word of God, which was published in 1921, and In the Footsteps of the Master, which was published in 1923.
Degrees will be conferred on a class of 512 candidates who have completed either the four year course in the College of Arts, Science or Commerce, or the six years of study preliminary to a law degree.
The three day graduation exercises will begin at noon on Friday, May 31, with a private talk to the senior class by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and be climaxed on Sunday by the Baccalaureate Mass in the morning and the conferring of degrees in the late afternoon.
In the interim class reunions will be held and the senior class admitted to the alumni association at the annual dinner on Saturday evening. Special arrangements are being made this year for the silver anniversary of the Class of 1910 and the ten year reunion of the Class of 1925.
ELK’S HEAD PRESENTED TO UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
The University Library was the recipient last week of a huge stag’s head with fourteen points and an antler spread of four feet.
Having been shot in the woods of Wisconsin in 1888 the head was on exhibition at the World’s Fair in Chicago in 1893. At the Fair it received second prize, the first award being given to a head whose fourteenth point was six inches in length. The fourteenth point on the elk head now owned by the library is but two inches long.
“Bill,” the barber, presented it to Mr. Paul Byrne, University librarian. The head was owned by Peter Mc-Pai-tland, a resident of South Bend. Recently he gave it to “Bill” who in turn donated it to the University. The piece is valued very highly, and for many years hung in the club rooms of a local fraternal organization.
E. H. Sniffen Addresses
Notre Dame Engineers
Government has no place in operating the light and power industry of America, according to E. H. Sniffen, assistant to the vice-president of the Westinghouse Electric Company.
Speaking before a meeting of the Notre Dame club of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers on May 2, Mr. Sniffen said:
“The original purpose of government was that of a purely political structure. Business is too complicated to be successfully run by a bureaucratic form of government.”
He pointed out that though 60 per cent of the power companies in Eng-land are government-owned, the conditions in England are suited for it. Yet, he continued, electricity is not as widely used in England as it is in America with the result that the cost is higher.
“The most important thing in schooling, if it were possible,” he continued, “is to consider a student objectively and fit him to his proper vocation.”
Ability to think and enthusiasm are the qualities which he seeks in a man.
Academy of Science
The E. R. Squibb & Company of Brooklyn, New York, will present a sound picture “Behind the Doors” at a meeting of the Academy of Science of the University of Notre Dame, Monday evening May 13 at 7:45 pan. in Room 108 of Science Hall.
£May 10, 1935
Seventeen
JACQUES EXHIBIT
(Continued from Page 5)
The original studies of these, or sketches as they are called, were shown at the Argent Galleries. Of these, the New York Sun said: “They
are carried out with an insistence on the decorative, a care for detail, a pleasing harmony of color and an apparent reverence of feeling that make understandable the widely voiced claim that they are the finest murals in the West.”
Mr. Jacques is a member of the American Artists Professional League of the Chicago Galleries association and of the Hoosier Salon. He was once a professor at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Mechlin and inspector of the Belgian Art Schools.
It’s the tobacco that counts, and there are no
Eighteen
The Scholastic
A.B. Faculty Members To Meet Next Wednesday
The regular meeting of the Faculty of the College of Arts & Letters will be held Wednesday, May 15, at the usual time and place. The names of all prospective candidates foi' Graduation in June, will be submitted for faculty approval. Several other items of importance will also be presented for discussion.

Running time SPEEDED UP Effective April 28
• South Shore trains will speed along at a faster clip than ever . . . starting April 28. Trains will leave South Bend at the same times as always, but on daylight saving time schedule. The running time to Chicago is cut 10 minutes . . . and the return trip is cut 8 minutes ... effective April 28.

DAYLIGHT SAVING TIME
APRIL 28
3 things effective
APRIL 28
I.	All trains on daylight saving time
2.	No change in departure time Srom South Bend or Chicago.
3.	Faster running time between South Bend and Chicago.
ASK FOR NEW TIME TABLE
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE AND
SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

CLUB NEWS
In the recent elections held by the New Jersey Club, Julius P. Rocca defeated Tobias Kramer tor the presidency by a comfortable margin. Other officers elected included John Hopkins, vice-president, Joseph Quinn, treasurer, and William Bruno, secretary.
At the regular meeting of the club on Tuesday, May 7, plans for the summer dance to be held June 14 at the Meadowbrook Country Club, Cedar Grove, N. J., were discussed. The club will sponsor a banquet in honor of the graduating members on Wednesday evening, May 15, at the Club Pierre.
Irish Club
The last meeting of the Irish Club of Notre Dame was given over solely to the election of that organization’s officers for next year. The students chosen to fill the executive positions are Joseph T. Dorgan, of Chicago, president; Robert J. Cronin, of Chicago, vice-president; and Anthony F. O’Boyle, of Philadelphia, secretarytreasurer.	'
Tentative plans for the revision of the club’s constitution are being considered. President James McDevitt, under whose supervision the proposed changes are being studied, expects to be able to offer the organization a full report on the matter at the next regular meeting.
Servers’ Club
Edward F. Owens of Denver, Colorado, was elected president of the Server's’ Club for the next scholastic year. He succeeds James Hamilton, who is graduating. William A. Walsh, Jr., of Yonkers, New York, and George E. Keenen of Bayonne, New Jersey, were re-elected vicepresident and chairman of the Executive Committee, and secretary, respectively.
Wranglers
To determine its officers for next year the Wranglers, the University forensic society, held elections at their meeting Tuesday evening, May 7, the results of which showed Eugene Malloy, junior in Commerce, holding the most votes for the presidential chair, and Robert Schmelzle, junior in A.B., having a majority for the office of secretary.
The proposed speaker, John Kavanaugh, a senior who returned from the three months government interneship scholarship at Washington, was unable to address his fellow members. Because of his absence the club adjourned after a brief session.
POLE-VAULT-
but you still use up a lot of energy — rushing to classes, plugging at the books. A large howl of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, in milk or cream, will set you up in the morning. These crisp, golden flakes are packed with energy, easy to digest.
You’ll find, too, that Kellogg’s will satisfy that hungry feeling at bedtime. At hotels, restaurants and grocers everywhere.
CORN FLAKES
OVEN FRESH FLAVOR PERFECT
-May 10, 1935
Nineteen
Powell To Speak At
Electrical Display
Notre Dame, on next Tuesday evening, May 14 in the Engineering auditorium at 8:00 o’clock, will again witness the spectacular demonstration of modern forms of electric lighting. The College of Engineering, following its practice of the past several years, has obtained the noted speaker
Alvin L. Powell, president of the Illuminating Engineering Society, to deliver the talk that accompanies the electrical show.
Mr. Powell, graduated from the School of Electrical Engineering, Columbia University, in 1910 and entered the employ of the Edison Lamp Works that same year. It was here
that his first work on illuminating engineering problems was accomplished. At the present time he is one of the most interesting of technical writers, and is author of many articles on the varied phases of lighting. His ability to express the technical features of lighting in non-technical language has made him popular as a lecturer.
“Aunty sleeps more soundly since you got a FORD V98"
Twenty	T h e S c h o las tic
>	“DOME”
(Continued from Page 4)
such ballyhoo is superfluous as well as unbecoming to page make-up. Terse, well chosen words supplant the ballyhoo. Type, similar to that used by many of the better magazines, gives the Dome a new complexion of brilliance and style.
Action pictures are substituted for group stills in many of the departments. “Let the action tell the story” could well be Walker’s slogan. The * action shots from the football games are the clearest to ever appear in a Dome. The winning touchdown in the U. S. C. game with Mike Layden over the goal line is a masterpiece. Athletics, dramatics, concerts, and other events are depicted by this method.
Snapshots of campus life are interspersed throughout the book. The supply is somewhat limited, but fresh. Contrary to custom, the students photographed are not all of the same “clique” — another commendable im-provement. The faculty section, the most complete ever presented in a Notre Dame yearbook, contains 170 portraits.
Excellent art work planned and executed by Hugo Melchione gives to the 1935 Dome, the finished touch. The book is arranged in chronological order and the seasonal page divisions are his product as are the pages separating the various activities.
In appearance, the Dome is a yearbook that is not striking to the eye, but certainly very pleasing. The cover is of an extremely dark brown leather with vertical lines running the length of the book. Along these “streamlines,” the gold letters, “The Dome—1935” appear. In the lower right hand corner the University in-signia is reproduced in gold, while the lining inside the covers is of a regimental blue. The remainder of the annual is devoid of color with the exception of the frontispiece.
Editor Walker together with Managing-Editor William Walsh and Graduate-Manager John F. Stoeckley are to be congratulated in giving the Notre Dame students a Dome wherein lies a brilliant, wholly representative, and accurate history of Notre Dame’s 1934-35. The Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the ' Board of Publications, was responsible for many of the innovations in this year’s Dome. His personal direction of the policies is reflected throughout the pages.
GOLD WANTED
Highest cash prices paid for your old jewelry, dental work, etc. by licensed gold buyers. Pays up to $35 an ounce. Mail gold to O. E. Eiling, 409 Lumber Exchange Bldg., Minneapolis, Minnesota. Will mail check and hold gold for ten days for your approval. We also buy silver.
“When will mid be done ?
This young lady records the meaningless syllables spoken by the man.
AND, "How does kib like that?” Such questions sound LX. senseless — yet they play an important part in making articulation tests on new types of telephone apparatus at Bell Telephone Laboratories.
In making these tests, 6336 meaningless syllables are spoken —while observers record what they hear. Comparison of sounds actually spoken with those heard, shows how well the new apparatus reproduces the many sounds of which speech is composed.
Such thoroughness is typical of Bell System methods. Years of inventing, improving and testing have led to the apparatus which transmits your words so clearly.
Why not say "Hello” to Mother and Dad tonight? Bargain rates on sta-tion-to-station calls after 8:30 P. M.
BELL TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
ZMay 10, 1935
*T venty-on;
CHURCH EXHIBIT
(Continued from Page 2)
sented himself at the Imperial Court.
In 1866 he was a member of the administration council of Father Corby who was then president. Father Corby commissioned him to go to Europe to solicit gifts for the struggling university. France was ever a missionary country. She not only sent missionaries to far off lands but also helped support them and their works. After seven months Father Carrier was able to send to Notre Dame more than 20 crates of contributions for the library, the science and natural history departments, beside those destined for the church.
At the same time he supervised the making of a crown for which he furnished the design. This crown which, now forms part of the collection, is of wrought metal, fitted with semiprecious stones. It was originally intended to surmount the statue on the dome but the plan did not prove practical. It was the gift of a number of ladies whose names were enclosed in the 15 medallions which represent the mysteries of the rosary. In 1886 thieves broke into the church and stole the crown, as well as the Empress Eugenie crown already mentioned. Both were recovered but badly battered. The newer pieces represent attempts at repair.
Father Carrier notably fulfilled many duties in various houses of the Congregation. He died at Montreal after a long and fruitful life.
Senior Invitations
Ten invitations for the 1935 Commencement will be given to each member of the Class of 1935 by the University. These invitations can be secured, in person only, from the Alumni Office in the Main Building any day next week, May 13-18. Office hours are 8 to 4, campus time. There is no charge for these invitations.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4*8251
Your favorite Arrow Shirt
at ARROW HEADQUARTERS


Always a Popular Favorite NOTRE DAME
Undergraduates’ popular acclaim and priority of preference for Arrow is indicative of Arrow’s warranted good faith and conscientious effort to infuse style, good quality, and fine workmanship into every garment that bears the Arrow lahel
ARROW SHIRTS,
SANFORIZED SHRUNK
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC., TROY, N. Y.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
> JUDGES ANNOUNCED AS CONTEST NEARS CLOSE
Officials who will determine the ten winners of the ten official Notre Dame rings to be given away in the Old Gold cigarette contest were announced today by the contest management. They are Edward J. Murray, Jr., and William F. Armin, both of the Comptroller’s Office, and John F. Stoeckley, Graduate Manager of Publications. These judges will tabulate all Old Gold package fronts that have been deposited in the Contest Ballot Box in the Candy Store by the night of May 15th.
Announcement of the ten students to receive the awards will be made by letter to the fortunate ten, while a complete listing of all contestants will be given in the next issue of The Scholastic, May 24.
With so many different individuals entered in the contest, it is pointed out that even a small number of 0. G. package fronts may merit one of the 10 awards. It is not inconceivable that some of the 10 winners have not as yet even entered the contest. The Old Gold company suggests that by laying in a few weeks’ supply any contestant adds that much to his margin of victory.
LAST FIVE DAYS!
And they're still Everybody's 10 Rings
Don’t fail to deposit your Old Gold cigarette package fronts in the Ballot Box iri the Candy Store by May 15th.
Only a few more O. G. package fronts may entitle you to one of the 10 Official Notre Dame Rings.
Why not buy a carton of Old Golds today? You’ll have a supply ahead and a better chance to win your ring.
‘‘NEW GOLD FOR OLD GOLD’’
light an Old Gold for young ideas
G P Lorillard Co . Inc.
May 10, 1935	twenty-three
COLLEGE PROM
KtJTK ETTIMi anti her melody
RED NICHOLS and his rhythm
Join the happy party next Friday night. Ruth Etting will be there, singing her stirring songs. Red Nichols will play the music for dancing. Enjoy all the thrills of real college atmosphere. Tingling excitement from the world of sports. Don’t miss “Prom” night — Tune in!
EVERY F RIRAY NIGHT 8:30 Eastern Daylight Time
W'JZ Network—
When you come
These special school and college rail tickets, with their liberal extended return limits, are immensely popularwith and a great saving to students and teachers. When you're ready to come back next Fall, buy one and save a third of the regular two-way fare.
When Christmas Holidays come, you can use the return coupon to travel home again.
The ticket agent in your own town, or any railroad passenger representative can give you full details regarding return limits, stop-over privileges, prices, etc.
TENNIS RESULTS
(Continued from Page 13)
for another Bradley tally in overcoming Weldon and Fallon in straight sets 6-2, 6-1.
Notre Dame came into her own in the singles competition winning five out of six. Frank Weldon, Bill Fallon, Ed Buchard, George Cannon and McNulty stroked out victories, and in the doubles, Fredericks and Cannon came from behind to crush Finney and Mothdrust 2-6, 6-1, 8-6.
The Notre Dame tennis team has a record of three wins and one loss in the four matches played to date. In the first match against Wabash on April 24, the Irish netsters sent the visitors down on the short end of a 5 to 2 score. Captain Frank Weldon, Bill Fallon, Joe Waldron and Joe McNulty all won their single matches. Ed Buchart playing the oppositions number two man was defeated. In the doubles play Fredericks and Ver-vaet came through with a win but Cannon and Rengras of Notre Dame netmen lost the other doubles contest.
After decisively overcoming Wabash the preceding week, The Notre Dame tennis team continued its victory march with a 6 to 3 win over the Crimson of Indiana on April 30 on the losers’ courts.
Captain Frank Weldon displayed the best form of the day in beating Indiana’s outstanding player, Tieman, in straight sets 6-4, 6-3. Weldon built up leads in both sets and coasted to an easy victory.
McNulty stamped himself as one of the Irish stars of this season by coming from behind to drop Wissman in straight sets. Ed Buchart could not cope with the speed and stamina of Oliver and lost in a drawn-out battle 6-3, 3-6, 12-10.
For More Information About Study And Travel Abroad See 3. ^ittermaptv
904 W. INDIANA AVE.
Representing all trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific Steamship Lines.
Free Assistance in Free Service on all Securing Passports Travel Planning
NOW!
America treats you to new luxuries in
TOURIST CLASS TO
• The magnificent swimming pool pictured above is only one of the amazing Tourist Class luxuries offered by America’s new sensations of the sea! The ington and Manhattan, America’s fastest liners, are completely modern, providing every modern feature known to sea travel, including the supreme luxury: air-conditioned dining salons (an exclusive feature in the service)!
Because they were built to suit the smart American taste—because they do suit it—these liners have set enviable popularity records! This summer, sail on them and see for yourself what unprecedented value, what delightful good times they offer! The Tourist Class fare is only §204 round trip!
If you wish to travel in the best class on the ship and yet at a modest fare, then the very popular Pres. Harding and Pres. Roosevelt merit your consideration. Cabin Class—highest on the ship—features ease, comfort and geniality—finest cabins, topdecks and the fare is only §23-1 round trip!
These four fine liners sail weekly to Cobh, Plymouth, Havre and Hamburg. Fares slightly higher between June 10 and July 8. Apply to your travel agent. Hi services are free.


Associated with American Merchant and Ba't:-more Mail Lines to Europe; Panama Pacific Line to California; Panama Pacific and U.S. Lines Ciuises. No. 1 Broadway, New York
Company’s Office, 216 NO. MICHIGAN AVENUE, CHICAGO
★ | STVIFS JfES
e
ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADS
T Tventy-four
The Scholastic