NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 6, 1889.
Vol. XXII.
No. 31.
When Violets Bloom.
[Kandean.J
When violets bloom, their sweet breath brings
The happy May. The lilac swings
And showers down a perfumed spray,
The lilies in the soft breeze sway, The woodbine to the old wall clings;
The sunbeams play on crystal springs,
The bird his May-day carol sings,
In jasmine boughs of lovely May, When violets bloom.
All nature speaks of happier things,
And merry childish laughter rings, Alike at. work and harmless play; The buds of Eden,—"stars of day,”—
On springtime fly with fairy wings
When violets bloom.
J. E. Berry.
Hawthorne and Poe.
BY JOHN BATTELLE MEAGHER, ‘89.
Hawthorne and Poe are distinguished in American literature as two prosaists whose works glow with the fire of American spirit. They are the last of the Romancers, and the field of romance in which the fancy of Hawthorne and Poe culled many a fair flower has borne since their death only the idle weeds of a • degenerate imagination.
Romance in our day is a word that is much abused, and a mantle that is sought to cover a multitude of literary sins. Many stories written with the mind of the popular reader in view, and labelled romances bear no .more relation to the label than does a peach to a milestone. It will perhaps, then, be best before proceeding further to give the literary meaning of this word
as understood by an eminent critic of our day. “Romance,” says Andrew Lang in a recent critique on Zola, “appears to be in literature, that element which gives a sudden sense of the strangeness and the beauty of life; that power which has the gift of dreams, and admits us into the region where men are more intense than in • ordinary existence.” These qualities the reader may find in the works of both Hawthorne and Poe, but cast in moulds that are alike only in a mortuary form.	.	.
The “power” predominates in .Hawthorne;, but we also find the “element,” entwined like creeping ivy around the sturdy.oak, enhancing the beauty of his thought. In Poe it is the radiance of the consuming fire of the “element” • that diffuses the lurid and weird beauty- of the fantastic which captivates the mind of. the- ' sympathetic reader. Only in a few tales—as in “The Cask of the Amontiliado”—does he display, the “power.”	•
It would be an act of inj'ustice, as well as an arduous undertaking, to compare these two artists by reviewing all the works each has produced; therefore, in our essay, we will not consider Poe as a poet, nor Hawthorne as a novelist, but regard them only as the authors of tales in prose.
In their equipment of genius Hawthorne was ■ endowed with a contemplative mind and a yearning affection for old and musty parchments, antiquated files of newspapers,;and attic ' storehouses of archaic treasures. A genius who idly dreamt on the sombre shores of the " dark tarn of Puritan experience, with a mind ' of the creative order, capable of taking some -common aspect of humanity and discovering ^ its hidden and spiritual meaning, the beauty of-' which stole over his deep thought as the golden rays of sunset break through fleecy clouds at . even-tide and creep over the silent blue of the
502
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
firmament. In the solitude of that darkened room, whose walls never echoed other than his footsteps, he would while away delightful hours in meditating on mysteries of moral anomalies, or in musing over the lore and legends of witches and Walpurgis nights in the trying days of ordeal by fire. “Grudge me not,” he says, “the day that has been spent in seclusion which yet was not solitude, since the great sea has been my companion, and the little sea birds my friends, and the wind has told me his secrets, and airy shapes have flitted around my hermitage.”
Poe, on the contrary, was an inventive genius . with whom poetry was a passion, and the belief in the existence of beauty alone in the strange and grotesque an unshaken credo, and a doctrine to which he firmly adhered in all his writings. He wielded the wand of a wizard, and enticed from his suffering soul a motley array of thoughts. The imagination of Poe would at times flash like a meteor; but it being unsustained, and he uncertain of its trustworthiness, seldom attained the zenith of Hawthorne. May we not think of him as gladly seeking the underground tomb of an imaginary witch’s kitchen, and lying on the cold and clammy stones of death, lulled to sleep by the sighs of lost souls, there to have dreamt his horrible tales?
In the selection of materials for his tales, Hawthorne enveloped himself in an ideal atmosphere of romance and ruin; or his fancy, as a winged messenger, soared to the heights where the domain of the natural skirts the realm of the supernatural, seeking “the meaning of words gasped with intermingled sobs and broken sentences, half audibly spoken between earth and the judgment seat.” The occult and the mys-* terious possessed a grim fascination for him, and his tales are suggestive of the unseen and inscrutable.	.	’
Poe,.like a pendulum subject to-changes of temperament, vibrated between the environed shores of the realistic and the infinite sea of the mystic. He esteemed more an Oriental splendor in external decoration and a harmonious setting for dramatic tableaux than a clearer depth of thought. He is continually'dealing with something ethereal, and with the lamp of his genius he would fain explore the invisible world. The incantations of Poe, a conjurer would say, were the results of mechanical magic, . . . being the work of an artist who resorts to spells . . , and devices to give the effect of phantom ap-. : -_ paritions from Plutonian shores. It was the . - L general supposition, while these two writers . ; lived, that the tales of Hawthorne were but the
-... reflections of his own mood, while those of Poe
ensued from the flight of pure imagination. Time has upset this theory and shown the converse to be true. Gautier said of Byron that he posed all the years of his life. The same is true of Poe. In every tale of his we see the pedestal for the ego of the artist; but the sight is not wearisome nor offensive as is the long procession of egos that limp through the poetry of Byron. If it were admissable one might call Poe a prose lyrist. His lyre was attuned to the fascinating song of his soul, and its weird roundelays of jingling music has ushered him into the midst of immortals.
Poe’s best work is seen in the tales “Ligeia” and “The Fall of the House of Usher.” In his poem “Al Aaraaf ” out of the weary soughing of the mournful night winds and the celestial music of the heavenly spheres he wove with the woof of fancy a maiden fairer to him than any eastern houri:—“Ligeia, Ligeia, my beautiful one.” In qualities, in yearnings, in desires and in all she was a spirit; the star of the astrologer in whom he believed; the mistress whose every mandate he obeyed. Taking as his text for the tale of Ligeia the sentence of Glanvill—“man doth not yield himself to the angels, nor unto death utterly save through the weakness of his feeble will”—he endeavors to vesture the immortal with the form of mortal. To gain this end all details are but means regulated to assure the startling effect of the end.
This was a favorite and fertile theme with Poe, and upon this tale he bestowed all that was best of his poetic, inventive, and literary skill. He harmonizes the material surroundings of the story with the air of supernatural visions until all dissembles in a gossamer myth of chimera. By delicate and deft manipulation the mind of the reader is seized and unconsciously he is led into a momentary belief of the incredible. In a brilliant coup de grace Ligeia the immortal, standing beneath the many-colored tongues of flame of the censer seemingly mocked by the grim figures on the arabesque hangings of gold, lets fall to the night wind her long raven black hair and breathes the spirit of mortal. The mind of the reader is clouded by a mist, and he gropes about for the congenial boundaries of reality.	■
The “Fall of the House of Usher” is a chef d*oeuvre in artistic construction and critical condensation. Again we observe his rule of regulating all the.means to the production of one wondrous end. The intricate details are as definite and precise as inlaid mosaic, and are calculated, from a mathematical point of view, to assure their intended end with as much precision
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5°3
as a theorem in geometry. All the externals the sombre landscape,' the relation between mansion and race, tend to draw us on with the subtle promise of permitting our partaking in the revelation of some unknown mystery. We learn the mystery, and irrevocable doom of the race; the end has been gained; a master-stroke, and house and race crumble and fall into that chaos of ruin where memory, wandering through eternity, seeks the visions that have faded from the imagination of genius. His tales—the “Murders in Rue Morgue,” the “Purloined Letter” and others of a kindred type—are the ingenious contrivances of his clever intellect, and are of an inferior rank when compared with the two just made mention of.
Leslie Stephen forgot that the duties of a critic were to be just and impartial (perhaps it was in a moment of passion) when he styled the tales of Poe “Hawthorne and delirium tremens.” There is as much justice in such criticism as would be shown by a paragraphmonger who would style Hawthorne’s tales the morbid moods of a madman. This is the substitution of the broad sword of prejudice for the pruning knife of criticism. Hawthorne in utilizing his materials depicted the “power” rather than portrayed the “ element.” Man, the phases of his character, the detailed workings of his heart, were in his hands the plastic material he loved to shape into models to be followed, or examples to be avoided. In his allegorical work he would borrow some law of intercourse between man and man, and with the brush of genius and the palette of fact and fancy he would encircle it with colors of light and shade until he had given it a setting with as vivid an effect as “ a picture of Giorgione on a dark oaken panel.” • Sin and the tendencies in man to err are the subjects which most interested him. Alone under the eaves of that house where the inhabitants “ did not even live ” Hawthorne would sit like a father confessor who, knowing the soul of friend and foe, moralizes on the hypocrisy and duplicity of mankind. Tarrying in the old dilapidated inns along the seaside, he would warm his heart in the current of thought of humble men. Then as an eagle, carrying in the talons of his heart his willing prey, he would return to his eyrie of solitude where “ mingling reveries of heaven with remembrances of earth, the whole procession of mortal travellers, all the dusty pilgrimages which he had witnessed, seemed like a flitting show of phantoms for hiS thoughtful soul to muse upon.” It is not necessary to select any particular tales of Hawthorne for an analysis of his technique
as they all distinctly reflect some of the observations made above. Excellent tales are all of Hawthorne’s; some maybe better than others —all are good. Unlike poor Poe, the misfortune of being a literary hack never befell him. In his work there were four precepts to guide him, and the first was never to do’anything against his genius. By faithful adherence to this rule his tales were always born of a labor of love, and these never suffered the intrusions of the vicious offsprings of want.
In rank Hawthorne must be placed on the higher pinnacle, because the ideal of beauty displayed on his canvas of word-painting is a higher ideal than Poe’s ideal of beauty in the grotesque. The same is true of artists and painting. Art connoisseurs would never dare to place the blazes of the infernal regions above the spiritual beauty of the human face and form. It is only the presumptuous art'critic who would place Dore above Raphael. In style Hawthorne also surpasses Poe. In all of English prose we cannot find simpler, clearer, more elegant English than that of Hawthorne. His words, jewel like and aptly chosen, fall like drops of sparkling dew from the puristic clouds in the azure sky of genius and crystallize upon a‘delicate and enchanting field of thought and fancy. It is only in Poe’s best work that we find a style exquisite and elegant enough to compare with that of Hawthorne. He exhibits a serious defect in his great use of letters in italics and its paramour, the dash; and it is a frank confession that he was uncertain of his- skill with the 'ordinary methods of giving strength to thoughts. Poe, though he had the taste of a scholar, was not a learned man, and his liberal use of French and Latin words is an affectation. ■
Poe, thou art tosme the wandering jew in the .palaces of thought—“a genius tethered to the hack work of the press; a gentleman among canaille, a poet among poetasters,” a critic too; aye, there is thy curse, and for all lime—for you were a genius—will your character and works be jostled among those who would praise and those who, after thy manner, would censure!
Dreamy old spirit of sleepy old Salem, thy tales are to me the tender-effusions of a tranquil soul! Dreamily wooed by my mind, they diffuse soothing thought and give sweet gratification. Though thou didst drift on the stream of life where turmoil of action was deepest, thy style is always suffused with the. flavor of pastoral simplicity and the scent of “ violet air'and hills growing brown.”	~
Farewell,’ you two sombre spirit's! " May the future bring that refinement of fasfe'that will
, t	•»
$04	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
carry your tales on the crest of the waves in the ever-changing sea of public opinion, and may the pollen of your thought wafted in breezes of love fertilize in the literary world your veneration of the beautiful and good!
Music.
BY P. S.
Music is ranked in that branch of art called callitechnics, or the fine arts. It requires great patience and practice on the part of the one who wishes to become a skilful musician. Music has, like other great sciences, brought to light many most remarkable men, such as Beethoven, Mozart, Mendelssohn, Haydn, Boil-dieu, Rossini, and a host of others too numerous to be detailed here. There are a thousand and one ways in which music may be performed, but the most pleasing and at the same time the most difficult is that of the human voice. Instrumental music has the prestige of antiquity. In the fourth chapter of the Book of Genesis we read of Jubal, a descendant of Cain, that “he was the father of them that play upon the harp and the organs.” Josephus, the Jewish historian, who flourished in the time of Vespasian, tells us in his “Antiquities of the Jews” that Jubal exercised himself in music and -was the inventor of the harp and the psaltery. Furthermore it is stated that not improbably from this Jubal came the Job el or Jubilee, the loud musical instrument used by the Hebrews in proclaiming their liberty in the Year of Jubilee.
The song of Moses at the Red Sea (Exod. xv, i—21), “Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this canticle to the Lord,” etc., was composed in hexameter verse. So is likewise the song in Deuteronomy, xxxiii, 1-43, “Hear, O ye heavens,” etc., in hexameter. After King David rested from his wars and troubles in the state, he spent the remainder of his life in composing songs and hymns in honor of the Lord, in various kinds of metre: hexameter, pentam. eter and trimeter, which he taught the Levites to sing on the Sabbath and other festival days.
David invented several musical instruments: the . viol, the psaltery, the cymbal, denominated by the Hebrews, respectively, the cyn-ara, naola and cymbahan. David is usually represented with a harp in his hands. The cynara or viol was a ten-stringed instrument, operated upon with a bow; it must have borne a similarity-to our violin. The naola or psaltery was
an instrument of twelve musical notes, manipulated with the fingers; "our harp, guitar, banjo or some such instrument, must be akin to it. The cymbalums were none other than what we call cymbals. The author of the Book of Ecclesiasticiis states that in his time the singers in the Temple raised their voices in sacred song, and that the melody produced was in great and beautiful variety.
The Greeks and Romans were not at all backward in the art of music. Their songs go generally by the name of poems. The Greeks were first in this respect; the Romans second. Their poets composed and sang of their manifold gods, heroes, great men and deeds. It would weary the reader to give a detailed description here of Grecian and Roman poets and poetry.
Music has a great influence over man. Many an aching heart has found relief, many a weary mind has been refreshed, many a hard, stony heart has been softened, nay, even on the battlefield, when all around is overcast with the hue of death, or when reason, duty or patriotism are departing from the heart of the soldier, then by the mediation of music, be it only the sound of the bugle, trumpet or drum, he is, so to say, roused to a new life.
The moderate use of this art tends to strengthen the bond of social loye, and cheers the industrious in the bosom of domestic life. The laborer, depending mainly on the labor of his hands, forgets his toil when he unburthens his heart in song, or soothes his weariness by the sweet sounds of some musical instrument. Shakspeare. beautifully says:
“ When gripping grief the heart doth wound. And doleful dumps the mind oppress.
Then music, with her silver sound, With speedy help doth lend redress.”
The influence exerted over animals by music will be our next’point to illustrate. Observe how horses manoeuvre and prance about at the sound of martial music; how cows and sheep follow their shepherd at the sound of a bell, or a trumpet; how spor,ting-dogs run at the call or whistle of their master’s bugle; how dromedaries and camels in a caravan crossing the Sahara follow more readily and in step if the guide plays on a fife or flute; how dogs howl at the sound of the violin and other instruments; how the bear dances to the sound of the drum, and the monkey to the hand-organ. Such are the common cases; but now let us speak of some not so well known. Locatelli, a celebrated virtuoso, owned a canary bird which would pay the greatest attention to certain passages which its master was wont to play for it on the piano; The
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
505
little thing would rock to and fro, backward' and forward; it seemed to take such great delight in the harmonious sounds coming from the instrument that, after spreading out its tail, wings and feathers, it would drop to the bottom of the cage intoxicated, as it were, with music. Dupont of Nemours made various experiments with music on divers animals, and he was in every case convinced that music could, and did, influence them. Nay, even the jackass cocks up his ears at certain melodies, and shows his pleasure by working his head up and down; whilst at other melodies he will heavily shake his ears and utter loud, piercing shrieks. So also, the dog shows great sensitiveness to music. On hearing a certain kind of music he will become very despondent and melancholy. If it be prolonged too far, the nervous system (especially of poodle and spitz dogs) is so greatly affected that if they cannot get out of the hearing of the music they will become wild and furious, and in some such cases there have been dogs that stretched out all fours and expired.
Richard Mead relates the following as a fact: A friend of his, who was a celebrated violinist, had a dog that paid great attention when its master practised on the^violin. At certain passages the dog was as still as a mouse, while at others it seemed to suffer much, and uttered lamentable moans. In order to see what his dog would do, he once resolved to play the same passages over and over for half an hour. He put his resolve into execution, and the result was the animal’s death. At first it moved about impatiently, uttering deep moans, trembling in all its limbs, and then, falling at its master’s feet, expired. Another case: A certain gentleman had a pointer which made itself known far . and near by its prudence. Music always made it very uneasy, which feeling it expressed by moaning. One day a party of musicians stopped before the house and played. At the sound of the great bass viol the dog grew so uneasy as to jump at the fiddle and bite all the strings in two.
The flute seems to be the horse’s favorite. Aristotle relates that the Crotonians made use of this to the best advantage.in their wars against the Sybarites. At the moment the battle, was 1 about to commence, the flutists played the most enchanting melodies, upon which the horses of the Sybarites immediately broke the lines and crossed over to the more musical warriors, refusing to follow the tunes of their former masters, in consequence of which they were easily captured. Music has a marked effect on hounds and horses. Dogswill often stare at their masters
when they sing, showing the influence of the song upon their feelings by rolling their eyes, barking and howling. A celebrated singer of France,7 Laine, possessed a remarkably strong, effective voice. When, in the opera of Spontini, he sang the triumph of Trajan, he had four horses trained to draw the triumphal chariot. At the triumphal song, the horses first shivered and trembled, then threw themselves back on their haunches, spat foam all over the harness, and endeavored to break loose, now to the right and then to the left, so that several times great confusion and disorder arose on the stage. That such an effect should be produced on horses trained especially for the theatre, can only be ascribed to the sensation of fright, pleasure or corporeal pains experienced by the auditory nerves. From this it is evident that the horse may be influenced very powerfully by the human voice, and also by certain musical instruments, especially the flute.
That music has an influence over animals in general may be inferred from the following quotation from Shakspeare:
“ Do but note a wild and wanton herd, Or race of youthful and unhandled colts, Fetching mad bounds,‘bellowing and neighing loud, Which is the hot condition of their blood;	-
If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound, Or any air of music touch their ears, You shall perceive them make a mutual stand, Their savage eyes turned to a’modest gaze, By the sweet power of music; therefore the poet .. Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones and floods; Since naught so stokish, hard and full of rage, " ■ But music for the time doth change its nature. .. . The man that hath no music in himself,. . Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds. Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils;
The motions of his spirit are dull as night, .
And his affections-dark as Erebus;
Let no such man be trusted.”
The Clandestine Marriage.
A MORAL TALE.
A clandestine marriage is when a young lady is destined by her injudicious parents to become the wife of the chief of some particular clan, irrespective of her own matrimonial views and intentions; all which is, of course, quite wrong.
Malvina Cleolinda Duffer was an example of this. Her pa had been kidnapped, while grouse-shooting in the Highlands, by the clan, McQueechy, and Vich Ian Vohr McQueechy had demanded his daughter in marriage with two hundred thousand (200,000) gold se'quins as her dowry. “ Refuse this,” said he to the trembling Duffer, “ and you shall immediately be strung up
506	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to yon blawsted oak, without benefit of clergy.” “Anything—anything at all,” said the quailing wretch, (quailing and grouse-shooting are kindred occupations) “but spare, oh, spare my life! ”
But when Malvina Cleolinda took an unprejudiced .view of Vich Ian Vohr McQueechy, she said she would be essentially gumchewed before she would link her fate with such an ’orrible hobject.
In moments of agony such as this, who can be expected to give attention to such trifles as the letter hl I am sure we all think the better of Malvina Cleolinda for rising superior to a mere conventionality.	.
For Vich Ian Vohr McQueechy was not only as homely originally as the Jack of .Clubs, but he had. also lost the greater part of his nose by a sabre cut, and his ears were frozen lopsided by the severity of Northern winters.
It is but just to say that Malvina Cleolinda’s pa was no longer in imminent danger. On receiving his unqualified consent the chieftain had accompanied him home to his domestic circle to demand the promised victim. Two or three detectives, disguised in dress coats and gold spectacles, were lurking about the Duffer mansion, ready for action on the least intimation that hostilities were likely to be renewed.
“And where,” said Mr. Duffer’s aunt Jane, “do you suppose the two hundred thousand gold sequins are to come from? And what’s a sequin, anyhow?”
“Can it b;e,” said Vich Ian Vohr, “that the McQueechy has been trifled with thus?” And he laid his hand on his good claymore.
The detectives immediately sprang upon him and held him tight, while Malvina Cleolinda calmly proceeded to open his jugular vein with the carving knife.
Was she justified in doing thus? Let us not stop to ask. In great emergencies we act impulsively, not from reflection. Reflection might have caused her to hesitate for fear of spoiling the carpet. '	-	-
“After all,” said the chieftain, “ ’tis sweet to die by.the hand of beauty.”
The feminine heart is melted by flattery when other, solvents have failed. Malvina Cleolinda dropped the. carving knife. “ Release him,” said . she to the detectives, “ for beneath that repulsive exterior there beats a heart of gold.”
“Nay, complete the assassination,” said the chieftain. “ I desire not to live since she disapproves, of me!”	.
“Hold, I’ll marry thee!’’ said Malvina Cleolinda.	.
* “Not much,” said the chieftain. “I was only
fooling with your pa, anyhow. Let me out’ of .this!”
And he departed for his Highland home.
Such, my young friends, is a clandestine .marriage, when it does not actually take place. When it does, the consequences are more fatal, as you may find by reading Sir Walter Scott’s “Bride of Lammermoor.” In the present instance the senior Duffer never heard the last of it, which was unpleasant enough for him. Malvina Cleolinda died an old maid, and never could see a carving knife without an involuntary shudder. “Had it not been for my hasty temper,” .she would say, “I might have secured him. Better a lop-eared husband with half a nose than none at all.”
“Yes,” aunt Jane would answer, “half a loaf is better than no bread, and Vich Ian Vohr was more—more than half a loafer.”
The End. .
Boyle Dowell;
Should the Presidential Term he Extended to Six Years?
A FIFTEEN-MINUTE SYMPOSIUM.
Whether the presidential term should be extended to six .years or not is of late causing a great many dissensions in the political world. I think such an extension is uncalled for, because what better progress could the people of the United States have made than such as has marked the administration of all the presidents since George Washington. It is certainly better for the people to choose, every four years, from among the great men of our glorious nation than it is to suffer one man to occupy the chair for six or twelve years. Besides, six years might not be considered long enough for a President to occupy the chair; but a second term would involve a period of twelve years which would be altogether too long. In 1876, when it was proposed to nominate Grant for a third term, what a protest came from all parts of the nation! The voice of the people in this regard could not have been more effectively expressed.
-	E. C. Hughes.
* * *
The President should not be elected for a longer term than four years. If he were elected for more than four years—as, for instance, six years—it would give him too much power; and if he were re-elected it might lead to appointment of a dictator, and thus' our great Republic might gradually be overthrown. And again, if the government of the party in power were weak " and corrupt, six years would be too long to wait for an election.	A.. E, Leonard.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	507
I am no politician—I hope I never shall be; but to my mind the extension of the presidential term from four to six years seems a useless and even a dangerous proceeding. Although the power of the President is, to a certain degree, limited, yet when we consider what the result would be if this power were not properly directed, well might we tremble. Why, then, need we take needless risks for the sake of a change? If the President give satisfaction during his term of four years, let him be reelected. It seems to me that if this Republic has been prospering for the past hundred years under the present rule, we might afford to continue for some time without change. ’	,
.	C. Paquette.
* ~ * *
Perhaps, President Harrison and his cabinet would gladly favor such a project; but whether the benefits derived from this act would promote the interests of the people or not, is the main point of discussion. The advocates of this change base their claims upon the ground that most of the reigning sovereigns of to-day have a much longer time for performing their official duties than the President of the United States. For my part I would prefer to see this change, as the time allotted for the President to execute his designs and projects for the nation’s welfare is so short that it seems hardly worth while for any man to take upon his shoulders the onerous duties of the presidential office.
John J. Reinhard.
* * *
We must first ask the question: Whether a man is looked upon as being great by working for his own interest, or by working for the interest of others? I think these questions stand prominent among all others that present themselves in reference to this subject. I believe that the general opinion now existing is, that a man who is elected to the presidency for a term of four years is during that time working to gain the suffrages of the people rather than looking to their interest. But on the other hand, when he is elected for a term of six years with the knowledge that he is not eligible for a second term, he is free to act disinterestedly, and consequently he does not try to please the people who have the most influence, but does as he thinks best, and conducts the affairs of the government to the best possible advantage of the people.	M. Howard.
* * *
It is more than probable that in the course of a few years the citizens of the United States will be called upon to express their approval or disapproval of a constitutional amendment, lengthening the term of the chief executive to six years, and making the incumbent in office ineligible to a re-election. It seems to me that this is a measure that will appeal to the mass of our voters. Though we all sadly deplore the degeneration, we must confess that politics
of to-day mean simply a scramble for the spoils of office. The incumbent in the presidential chair invariably makes his appointments to office with a view of strengthening and forwarding his own interests. .Under the present regime we see men advanced to positions of honor and trust whose only recommendation is a servile devotion to the party in power. Once the chance of a re-election is cut off, the chief executive can give his time and attention to the advancement of pure, honest and conscientious legislation. Then, and not till then, will a public office be a public trust.	J. B. Sullivan.
* * *
We are a nation ruled by the people and for the people. For a century we have upheld the present manner and time of electing our presidents, and no harm has as yet resulted. Some of our political economists insist that if the term were extended to six instead of four years, we would have less business depression; but the fact is that had we elections every six years we should still have that depression of business and in a more complicated form. Then our economist would want it extended for eight years, and so on till we have an empire. Besides, when a man is called to the office of President he may or may not please the people. If not, four years is long enough for him to remain in office; but if he proves a capable President let the people re-elect him, for no man will say it is better for an incapable man to hold the office six years than an acceptable one to preside over us for eight years.
R. O’Hara.
* ■ * *
In a quiet way a good deal of discussion is going on as to whether the presidential term of office shall be extended to six years or not, and like every problem affecting the public welfare, both sides of the question have partisans who warmly advocate the cause they have espoused. In my opinion four years are amply sufficient for any man to hold the office of President of the United States; if he has fulfilled his duties faithfully his services will be rewarded; otherwise,the sooner he returns to private life, the better.
E. Hoover.
* * *
The presidential term should be prolonged from four years to six or even eight years. Either of these would benefit the country greatly. The campaign is a death blow to business matters in general. Business men are afraid to act for a year before the election, and do not get settled for six months after. Then, again, it would give the President more time to carry out his plans. As the term is at the present time he is no more seated in the chair and gets his intentions into working order than some other person comes into office and throws his plans aside,	.
„	‘ H. Jewett,
{Continued on page 510}
.508
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WWW ow. yubltsfjrb r&crg Saturhaj tiun'ns Etrm iEimt at N. S. iHnibcrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, April 6, 1889.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has entered upon the twenty-second year of its existence, and presents itself anew as.a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fail to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early applica- ’ tion should be made at the office of publication,as,usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—The authorities of the University request us to announce that there is positively no vacation at Easter. Now, that we are in the very heart of the second session an interruption of studies would prove not only a great inconvenience, but also a serious loss of time to the students. Parents and guardians are, therefore, requested not to ask for leave of absence for any student during those days.
—Elsewhere in this paper we call attention to the recently published “Life” of the late Dr. McMullen, first Bishop of Davenport, lowa^ How precious would be the lives of many a modern apostle in our country; who has gone to his grave unhonored and unsung, had we a Dr. McGovern, a Bishop Spalding or a Bishop Maes to chronicle their careers. True, we have the “Lives of. the Deceased Bishops of the United States” in three large volumes, by Dr.
Richard H. Clarke who deserves well of the Catholic public through his able and well-prepared sketches of the prelates of the Church in the United States, who have passed to their reward. Still we.meed complete biographies of the great prelates and missionary priests who made such gigantic efforts and with such splendid success to plant and foster the Faith in our midst. Gladly, then, do we welcome Dr. McGovern to the ranks which include Dr. Shea— our historian par excellence—Bishops Spalding, Maes, De Goesbriand, Father Gleeson, Dr. Clarke, Dr. Lambing, Dr. Webb and others who have enriched our libraries with works bearing upon the history of Catholicity in America.
—A recent number of the N. Y. Sun states with a great deal of truth that “ the main religious objection to public schools can be overcome by bringing .them back to their true and original purpose of giving nothing more than the simplest elementary instruction, extending over a very fewyears of a child’s life. The whole trouble has come from the ambition to go further and complete education under State supervision, and in schools and colleges supported by general taxation.... Yet the great mass of the public demand no more of the schools than merely rudimentary training. They do not want, they cannot afford, the education that goes beyond; and private institutions are ready to give it to the comparatively small number who desire the luxury.”
In regard to the High School, for instance, is it true that the child of a poor man can attend? Theoretically every one can do so; practically, only the rich, for it is a matter of fact that a young boy or girl in threadbare coat or calico gown is not often seen in attendance. There are few young people who can stand sneers and ridicule, and that is what shabbily-dressed children receive if they attempt to cross the threshold of the rich children’s school. Then, again, the children of the laboring man, as a rule, are not free to attend school after a certain age, since through the necessity of learning a trade or of helping in the support of the family they must leave school young. Besides this, there is a question whether it is well for the children of working men generally to be educated in a manner that only places them above their normal position in life without giving them the means of supporting themselves in a higher one. . The ill effects of such procedure are witnessed every day, with only an occasional redeeming exception put of thousands. As a consequence, these
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5°9
High Schools, erected at great public expense, paid for as well by the taxes of the laboring man as by the taxes of the rich, are filled with the children of rich people, people who are well enough able to pay for the education of their offspring and who should have too much honor and nobility to ask that the money of their neighbors should be used to educate those of their flesh and blood. It is a crying injustice to the man of moderate means that while his children must at an early age leave school and enter the shops to earn the small pittance of wages now paid, he must pay taxes on his small lot to help to educate the children of those who are the possessors of thousands of dollars, and we cannot see why the injustice is not righted.
We believe, then, that these High Schools are a burden and an injustice to a large class of the community. We believe them to be the result of class-legislation, instituted for the rich alone. If the State must take upon itself the education of children, all that it ought to do is to establish and maintain primary schools. In doing this it would not, at least, discriminate between the rich and the poor. For higher education, the State can and ought to leave that to the parents of the children, and if the rich man wants for his children an education higher than that received in the primary school let him pay for it; he is able. Let the Government no longer tax all the people for the benefit of the few rich families.
Floral Beauties.
Flowers are the most beautiful of all the many beauties of nature. There are those, without a doubt, who have never thought of flowers as beautiful. This is because thev have never studied them. Look at a pretty flower, and if you have any appreciation of the beauties of nature it will bring to your mind many happy memories of the past.
Do not flowers bring to the mind memories of friends now far away, parted with perhaps for ever? Do they not endow memory with even greater charms than she before possessed ? Does not the memory of bygone pleasures seem brighter and more charming when connected -with those beautiful symbols of past happiness -and pleasure, the lovely flowers with which God has adorned our earthly homes?
Are you cheerful? flowers are cheerful; and, if you are morose,-admire,-and study them. To the repentant sinner they say: “Go on your -way rejoicing.” To-the sorrowing.- “Cheer up;
although it rains to-day, the sun will shine to-morrow.”
Flowers teach -us to be cheerful and happy, but not to be coarse. On the contrary they teach us that no coarse pleasure can compare with those which are pure. Men who live coarse lives and satiate their unwholesome appetites with coarse pleasures can never enjoy either this world or the world to come. Let them learn a lesson from the flowers and be pure, and their now disgusting countenances will become like the flowers, pure, cheerful and happy. ’
God loves flowers. Fie has strewn them in profusion all over the earth for the admiration and edification of man. Many a man, wise in the knowledge of books and men, could learn a grand lesson from the little flowers. They are teachers, and if we will only heed their admonitions we shall reap a harvest therefrom which will be a lasting benefit to us.	'
All men rightly educated love flowers. So have they in all ages. The ancients gave to the victor <in their contests a simple wreath of flowers. That wreath was cherished and handed down from father to son for generations, a most precious heirloom. The path of the conquering hero was strewn with flowers. This was the greatest compliment the masses could pay him.
To-day the Church adorns her altars with flowers, a most touching emblem of her love and affection for the Creator of all that is good and beautiful. Are not, then, flowers connected with all our pleasant, all-our noble thoughts?
Flowers teach us a greater and more solemn lesson. In the spring they come to cheer and please us, after the long, dreary'- months of winter. For a few months they make the world look cheerful and happy, then they die. Let us then learn this lesson from the flowers: To-day we are here, to-morrow we vanish. Why not, since like the flowers our stay is so short, like them make those around us cheerful and happy? Our stay is to be short: then let it be cheerful. Let us laugh, and not cry.	-
Flowers teach us that our lives are short. • When we realize that our sojourn in this world, like that of the flowers, is but for a day, then come the solemn thoughts of the hereafter and eternity. With those thoughts comes the knowledge of God. A true knowledge of God, His love and mercy, leads to a better and purer life. Flowers are emblems of a better life.
Let us cultivate a love for these precious gems. With a love for flowers will come refinement. As we cannot be refined without being pure, we will become pure. Purity naturally inculcates nobility, and we cannot possess a noble charac
5IG
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ter without its companion virtue—the great and final end of earthly ambition—a love for God. Thus we see that a little flower can teach us the noblest lesson in the power of man to comprehend. That time spent in the study of flowers is not time thrown away. A little flower, considered rightly, will teach us lessons which will be to us an eternal blessing. Hereafter let us study these flowers, of all God’s creations one of the most beautiful. We should cultivate and acquire a taste and love for these earthly beauties. They will awake many a noble thought, and give birth to many a noble sentiment. May we learn from flowers to be good, cheerful and pure; to strive to please and accommodate our companions; to love and serve God; to “do unto others as we would that .others should do unto us”; to consider that, like the flower, we live to-day and die to-morrow, and therefore should prepare ourselves for the hereafter!
Having learned and observed these teachings of the flower during life, we may rest assured that our pathway in the next world will he strewn with flowers more beautiful and more lasting than any ever servilely thrown beneath the disdainful feet of the worldly conqueror; that in eternity we shall be even more cheerful, more lovely, and more pure than the most beautiful flower which God ever placed in this world for our enjoyment and education. '
Lovely flower, teach us to be ever true to ourselves and bur God!
Beautiful flower, thy smiling face tells me to ever cherish bright and glowing memories of the pleasant past, and quiet confidence for the unrevealed future!	M.
Should the Presidential Term be Extended to Six Years?
(Continued from -page 507.)
The Republicans would, no doubt, now at the beginning of Mr. Harrison’s career as President of the United States, be anxious that the term of the presidency be prolonged to six years; but the Democrats, on the other hand, are of opinion that four years are too long just now. However, laying aside all party prejudice, I am of the opinion that should the term of office be prolonged to six years it would afford a better opportunity to the public at large for judging the merits of the President, and it would, no doubt, be the means in the future of affording more time for rationally considering and giving our vote to the President of that party which has clone the more for the common good. ,
G. F, O’Brien.
I think the presidential term should be extended to six years. Of course, there can be a great many objections brought up against this. For instance, one may say that if we extend the term to six years the party in power will have governed the country so long according to their idea's that when a new President is elected he will find it very difficult to rule the people according to his own ideas, and particularly if he differs in his political views from the out-going President. To a certain degree this may be true. However, everyone knows that for months, both before and after the presidential election, business is dull all over the country. Failures are more numerous than at any other time. In- . deed, it may be said that the country hardly . becomes settled, and the people resume their former occupations before they are called upon to elect a new President. For these and other reasons, which I have not time to mention, I think the term should be extended to six years.
F. W. Carney.
My opinion is that it should not be prolonged. I think it would be an injustice to those who fought for our independence if we should extend the term. When the immortal framers of -our Constitution were in council, different periods of . time must have been mentioned for the term; but those who proposed the four year term must have been the deepest thinkers, and consequently won. Again, look and you will see how this country is ruled; it could not be better: on the other hand, consider the condition of Italy, Spain or Germany, what a contrast is presented! If the term were prolonged the ruler would naturally become tired of his irksome position, and in consequence pay little attention to his duty. So, in conclusion, let me repeat that it would be wrong to extend the term.
H. Bronson.
. * # *
One of the evils incident to an elective gov,-ernment is that the excitement and abnormal activity of a political campaign tends to create a feeling of uncertainty that seriously affects the business interests of the country. Capital is timid, and enterprises of all kinds stagnate. An extension of the presidential term would do much toward remedying the difficulty, as it would place a longer interval between the feverish contests of campaign years. Another advantage of such an amendment would be that it would afford the President an opportunity to use the experience of office for the benefit of the nation, and it would also give him a chance to carry to greater completeness and perfection any economic plan advocated by himself or his party.
H. P. Brelsford.
* * *
Every four years the country is agitated and harrassed by the unceasing turmoil of political campaign. Campaigns, in themselves, are not
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
injurious to public harmony if carried on in the proper way and in the proper spirit; but of this I shall not speak. Experience teaches that they produce quarrels and dissensions among the people, and the peace and harmony of the nation is thrown to the winds. Now, as the “Six Year Term” would prolong these dissensions and allow the President more time to carry out his plans, I am of the opinion that six years would be more beneficial to the country at large.
G. J. Cooke.
* # $
I claim to be no politician, and therefore my opinion in this matter is more liable to be wrong than right. To me it seems that four years are long enough for the presidential term. Should we now add two more years it is more than probable that in a few years hence the question of adding two more to that already increased term will be agitating the people as it is to-day. There is no surer sign of changing from a republic to a monarchy than this way of making a president’s term longer by adding on a few more years. No; if we wish to uphold the government of our forefathers let us keep it as they made and upheld it, and died for it.
H. Cauthorn.
Many arguments both for and against this proposition maybe advanced. A Republican perhaps would now wish the term of office prolonged to six years; the upholder of Democracy on the other hand, it seems, would like to try to elect their favorite in 1892. No advantage would be gained, I think, in lengthening the presidential term. Of course there would be fewer changes in the government, but a term of four years will test a man’s ability. If he fills the chair to their satisfaction the people may re-elect him; if not then another can be named who is better able to steer the ship of State.	T. A.Crumley.
The United States stands to-day the greatest of nations, stretching as it does over a vast area, offering freedom to the sons of every clime. The office of its chief executive must necessarily be of far greater importance than any other in existence. It involves a trust that has been bought with the sufferings of our forefathers, its freedom sealed with the blood of our fathers, and therefore it is indeed most dear to us, and must command the watchful eye of every American citizen. If the term’ of this office be extended, excluding, however, a reelection of any President to a second term, I have no doubt that it would be of much benefit to the people; if it be extended, allowing a reelection, nothing in my mind could be more detrimental to our prosperity. In the former case less clamor for office, more industry, less idleness, and more true spirit infused into our commercial institutions, must be the result. On the pther hand, this “six years’” policy, raising no
barrier to a second administration by the same person, must tend, and will to some extent, to invite tyranny. The statement, however rash, that with the present policy, elections are too frequent, the number of persons who seek for offices is so great, that business is stagnated, even society corrupted, has some foundation. How thankful we should be, that the chimings of that bell that echoed from the tower of Independence Hall still sweetly sounds in our ears. And now in the midst of our peace, in the height of our glory, in the full tide of our might, let us not permit that this government should at one breath of the office-seeker fall into ruins,— ruins which in after years will mark what was once the glory of the American Republic.
D. C. Brewer.
Books and Periodicals.
Told by the Firelight. A Collection of Stories for Boys and Girls. Reprinted from the Ave Maria. Boston: Thomas B. Noonan & Co.
One of the many excellent and attractive features which have made that sterling periodical, the Ave Maria, so popular, is found in its “Youth’s Department.” This is a part of the magazine specially devoted to the instruction and entertainment of youthful readers and contains each week a number of stories and light articles that provide useful and interesting food for the minds of the young. The beautiful little book, “Told by the Firelight,” contains.a selection from among the short stories that have appeared in this department during the .past year. It is just the kind of a book that will be welcomed and read with delight by boys and girls everywhere. The-publishers have issued it in such style as to make it an ornament to the centre table, and a most acceptable gift to the little ones.
The Life and Writings of Right Rev. John McMullen, D. D., First Bisho? of Davenport, Iowa. By Rev. James J. McGovern, D. D., With an Introduction by Rt. Rev. John Lancaster Spalding, D. D., Bishop of Peoria: Hoffmann Brothers, Chicago and Milwaukee. iSSS.
Dr. McGovern deserves the gratitude of all lovers of history for this valuable and interesting contribution to the records of the Catholic Church in the Great West. The biography he has given the public is a truthful and life-like portrait of one who devoted himself with untiring zeal to the building up of God’s Church in the dioceses of Chicago and Davenport. Dr. McGovern, like the true artist he is, was not satisfied to give us a sketch of his life long friend, he has given us a finished portrait. He delineates with, a master’s hand the intellectual and moral features of the untiring missionary priest of Illinois, and the self-sacrificing efforts of the zealous Prelate, Father of a new diocese. He brings into bold relief the natural gifts of Bishop McMullen, the difficulties he had to encounter, his virtues and his methods of work, Would that we had more
512	', THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
such writers to chronicle the rulers of the Church in this country. We hope that this work will meet with the extended circulation it deserves.
“The Great Divide,” Vol. I, No. i. Published Monthly at 1624 Larimer St., Denver, Col. Stanley Wood, Editor.
If the Editor of “The Great Divide ” can continue on the lines on which he has started out, and from what we know of him personally we believe him to be fully equal to the task, he will have one of the most original, most interesting-and most instructive papers published anywhere in the land. . The number before us is replete with the most delightful articles on a large variety of subjects. For one who wishes to become familiar with the history and traditions and legends of the Great West, or who desires accurate information about the resources and attractions of the great Rocky Mountain region, we know of nothing, to judge from the specimen before us, that will answer his purpose as well as “The Great Divide.” In spite of all that has been said and written of this wonderful, midcontinental region, it is still to most of our people, especially to those who live east of the Mississippi, a terra incognita. No one who has not visited it can form any conception of its marvellous resources, of its magnificent scenery, . of its rich and varied Flora and Fauna.. There may be other portions of the world that may equal it in some of these respects, but, according to the verdict of all travellers, there are no others that can surpass it. We congratulate Mr. Wood on the signal success of his undertaking, as evidenced by what we have already seen, and trust that “The Great Divide” will meet with the appreciation it so richly deserves.
—The Art Amateur for April has for one of its colored supplements a superb study of red apples on a bough. Full directions are given for copying this plate. The other colored supplement is for china painting—a fern design for cup and saucer. Professor Ernest Knaufft gives the second of his series of profusely illustrated papers on “Pen Drawing for Photo-Engraving,” invaluable for the student who aspires to be an illustrator of books and magazines. Directions are given as usual for painting the wild flowers of the month. “ Letters to a young lady who asks if she can learn china-painting” are continued, and there is much practical information concerning various branches of the every-day work of the amateur artist. Some • artistic interiors are illustrated, and Bruce Price, the decorator, gives some useful hints about the use of gilding, and the lighting of rooms. Benn Pitman has a fully illustrated and very practical article on decorated hinges for doors and cabinets, and gives such simple directions for “etching on metals” as anyone can follow. Another large design for a Church Banner is given (St. Mark); it is suitable for needlework or painting. The excellent series of monograms is resumed, and china painting and other de signs are given with the usual.profusion..	.
Local Items.
—Navigation has opened.
—To-morrow is Passion Sunday.
—Hon. J. Meagher, Maukato, Minnesota, was a welcome visitor to the College during the week.
—Instead of the usual sermon to-morrow the devotions of the Way of the Cross will take place after Mass.
—President Walsh and the Director of Studies are visiting the classes. It is probable that all will be visited before Easter.
—P. J. Cavanaugh and J. M. Cudahy, of Chicago, ever welcome visitors, paid a flying visit to the College on Sunday last.
—Ye genial “local” has been somewhat under the weather during the week, but we are glad O'	o
to say he is rapidly convalescing.
—We invite special attention to our leading editorial in regard to Easter vacation. Take it well to heart boys. It means what it says.
—With the return of spring our landscape gardener has resumed active operations, and everything begins to assume a gay and festive appearance.
—George F. Sugg, ’86, was elected City Attorney of Chicago on Tuesday last. Mr. Sugg has the hearty congratulations of his numerous friends and admirers at Notre Dame.
—A new and artistic statue of the Madonna and Child has been placed in a niche in the small tower back of the Minims’ chapel in the church. Very beautiful effects are produced by the variegated colors of the windows surrounding the statue.
—Notre Dame was honored on Wednesday last by the visit of Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Ft. Wayne. The visit of- our beloved Bishop was a most welcome one, and the source of joy and pleasure to all. We hope it will be soon and often repeated.
—Among the welcome visitors on Thursday last was Mr. William P. Breen, ’77, of Ft. Wayne, Ind. Mr. Breen will deliver the Alumni Oration at the annual Commencement this year, and, as all his friends well know, a treat is in • store for all who attend.
—We learn from a letter dated Sta. Brigitta, Rome, and addressed to Very Rev. Provincial Corby that Rev. Mr. Linnerborn, C.S.C., will be ordained priest at Easter. The Rev. Mr. Linnerborn is making good progress, and we hope to see him return to Notre Dame a D. D. ere long.
—On next Wednesday,Father Mathew’s birthday, the Rev. J. Cleary of Kenosha, Wis., will lecture in Washington Hall on the great Apostle of Temperance. Father Cleary’s abilities as a pleasing, convincing and eloquent speaker are well known, and no one should fail to hear his address. . .
—Workmen are busily engaged in tearing down.the old seminary building and preparing
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	513.
the ground for the large structure which will be erected during the spring and summer. The beautiful little seminary chapel, so familiar to many an old-time student of Notre Dame has disappeared, and with it is gone another of those old landmarks around which memory loved to hover as it recalled the happy scenes of youthful days. So doth Time, in its onward march, carry off the old as it brings on the new. But “progress” is the word.
—The last weekly meeting of the Philodemics was held on Saturday, March 30. Mr. Vincent Morrison presided in the absence of the Rev. President. A criticism of the previous meeting was read by T. Goebel. The gentlemen, who debated that evening, discussed the question of “ Woman Suffrage.” The negative was supported by D. Barrett and W. Morrison, the affirmative by H. Brelsford and M. Dore. The debate was sharply and spiritedly contested; but the superior arguments of the latter won for their side the decision of the judges.	'
—The 13th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held March 27. The exercises of the evening were opened by G. O’Brien who read a well-prepared criticism on the previous meeting. The debate then followed: “Resolved that an extensive study of Literature should be made obligatory in all courses of a university.” Affirmative,H.Pecheux, E. Du Brul and R. Boyd. Negative, J. Wright, E. Hughes and J. Mooney. The decision of the judges was reserved and will be given at the next meeting. After a few remarks by the Rev. President the meeting adjourned.
—Rev. F. J. A. Boerres, C. S. C., one of the missionaries who started a few months ago from Notre Dame to Bengal, India, writes, under date of Feb. 22, to Very Rev. Provincial Corby. His letter arrived last Sunday. He reports all well and very busy. He himself has established a school in Dacca and teaches all day. Besides he has also a number of orphans on his hands. Both Catholics and Protestants are constantly asking when the other missionaries are coming. The heat in summer never goes higher than ioo.° This winter there has been delightful. Trees are in full leaf, and vegetation of every kind, even in February, is as advanced as we have it in June.
—To the delight of his many friends at Notre Dame, Mr. C. McPhee, of Denver, Col., visited the College last week. He expressed his great surprise at the marked progress made since his last visit here, and declared that he knew of nothing to compare with it unless it be the phenomenal growth of the “Queen City of the Plains,” Denver. Mr. McPhee, like all true Coloradeans, is a strong believer in the future greatness of his adopted city, and predicts that in another decade it will be not only one of the great—it is that now—but one of the greatest business centres in the United States. We thank Mr. McPhee for his compliment, and trust that
when he calls’again, which we hope will be soon, he will find many other equally important improvements to admire.
—Professor A. J. Stace left Notre Dame on ■ Wednesday morning for New York, and will sail next Saturday for Paris where he will enter upon his duties as United States Commissioner to the Paris Exposition. It is with the greatest. joy that the numerous friends of the genial Professor have witnessed his marked improvement in health after his late severe and prolonged ill- • ness, and it is the sincere hope of all that the voyage and change of clime will bring about a complete restoration to his old-time health and strength. We are glad to state that Professor Stace has kindly promised to remember the Scholastic and its readers while in la belle France, and will enliven its pages with sketches of the Exposition. Bon voyage, Professor, and a safe and happy return!
—On the evening of the 31st ult. the. students of the Seminary produced the following programme as a “Lietare ” celebration complimen-. tary to Very Rev. Father Corby, Provincial. “ Welcome ”............................Quartette
J. Hyland, J. Cavanaugh, G. Mayerhceffer, T. Crumley. Address....................../.....M.J. O’Connell
Violin Duet..................J. Clark, J. Cavanaugh
“ The Transfiguration ”—Recitation...R. Marciniac
“Robin Ruff”—Duet............H. Santen, G. O’Brien
“What I Have Felt”—Recitation........M. Donahue
“Cup of Woe”—Duet........J. Hyland, G. Mayerhceffer,
“The Old Clock”—Recitation.............J. Maguire.
“ The Tapestry Weavers ”—Recitation....T. Crumley
A Medley (Chorus)..................Seminary Choir
At the conclusion Very Rev. Father Corby congratulated, in very high terms, the young men on their noticeable progress in speaking and singing. Prof. Liscombe, the instructor of the Seminary choir, accompanied the songs. .
—A meeting of the Temperance Society was held Sunday evening, March 24, with President E. Chacon in the chair. Owing to the absence of the Rev. Director Father Walsh from Notre Dame, his genial face was missed. Several creditable essays were read, notably those of Messrs. Goebel and Sullivan. Selections were read by O. Rothert and A. E. O’Flaherty. Mr. W. Morrison read a paper on the discovery of alcohol. T. Goebel deserves special praise for his paper which was full of sound temperance doctrine, even as, was Mr. O. A. Rothert’s. A short debate was indulged in by several members of the society, probably the two foremost being J. B. Sullivan and M. Gallagher. These last-named gentlemen are fast pushing themselves to the front as public speakers and debaters; although the temperance society is not essentially a literary nor debating one, still it affords numerous chances of improvement in the oratorical art. The great temperance lecturer, Father Cleary, whose name is heard in every quarter of the Union, is expected to be at Notre Dame on the 10th of this month. He will deliver a lecture to all the students in Washington Hall, which we may well promise to be entertaining.’
$i4	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Law Department.—The case of State vs. Latimer is over, and Latimer is discharged. Too much credit cannot be given the gentlemen who appeared both for the prosecution and for the defense. The arguments of Mr. Dwyer for the prosecution, and Mr. Smith for the defense were particularly strong, and carried no small amount of conviction to the jury. The evidence being all in Wednesday evening at 8.30, the jury retired to consider their verdict. After several ballots they returned, and to the clerk’s call for their verdict, answered “not guilty.” Messrs. Dwyer and Tiernan prosecuted, while H. Smith and F. Albright appeared for Latimer. —The report concerning the debate on Wednesday, March 27, should read “ decided in favor of the negative.”—On Wednesday, April 3, the regular meeting of the Debating Society was held. After a charming criticism on the last meeting, by Mr. Dougherty, the debate for the evening was called. The question for discussion was, “ Resolved that the term of the President’s office should be extended from four to six years.” Mr. Burns with a neat, well-worded speech opened for the affirmative. Mr. Herman followed, mapping out the line to be considered, in an able manner. Mr. Hummer, continuing in the line of Mr. Herman, held the attention of the society with some well-polished, logical remarks. Mr. Brewer closed for the affirmative, summing up the arguments for both sides, and finishing with .an able paper. The decision was given in favor of the negative. The question for debate next week will be, “ Resolved that interests of the people and the stability and welfare of the Government would be promoted by civil service reform.” Messrs. Dwyer and Blessington will affirm, while Messrs. Dougherty and Lane will deny the resolution: A subject for public debate will be given out next week.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
. Messrs. Ahlrichs, Adams, Alvarez, Bretz, Burns, E. Brookfield,' Burger, Blessington, Barnes, Brewer, H. P. Brannick, Barrett, Burke, C. Brown, Blackman, C. Brook- field, Cassidy, Crooker, E. Chacon, Cusack, P. Coady, Chute, W. Campbell, L. Chacon, Dacy, Dore, Delaney, Dougherty, Davis, Dinkel, Dungan, Foster, Finckh, Fehr, Ford, Fitzgerald, Grange, Goebel, Giblin, Gallardo, Gallagher, Goben, Hepburn, Houlihan, Hayes, Hacket, Hughes, L. Herman, M. Howard, Hummer, E. Howard, Heard, Inks, Jennings, F. Jewett, H. Jewett, Karasynski, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, Kenny, Kohlmann, Louisell, Lane, Lahey, Lesner, Lozana, F. Long, L. Long, H. McAlister, Mackey, McAuliff, McGinnity, J. Meagher, W. Meagher, H. C. Murphy, K. Newton, Larkin; A. O’Flaherty,'O’Shea, W. O’Brien, O’Donnell, O’Hara, L. Paquette, Prichard, Prudhomme, Pim, C. Paquette, Powers, Reynolds, W. C. Roberts, Rothert, Roper, C. S. Roberts, Steiger, J. B. Sullivan, Stephenson, H. Smith, G. Soden, C. Soden, Spencer, Toner, F. Vurpillat, Woods, Zeitler, Zeller.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters W. Allen,- Aarons, Adler, Brady, Blumenthal, Boyd, Baltes, Bronson, Bryan, Bradley, T. Cleary, F. Connors, J._Connors, E. Connors; Case, Connelly, Collins,
Cauthorn, Chute, Crotty, Covert, L. N. Davis, Devine, Dempsey, Daniels, Duffield, Darroch, Doherty, Ernest, Erwin, Elder, Flannigan, Falvey, C. Fleming, P. Fleming, Frei, J. Fitzgerald, Green, Galland, Gappinger, R. Healy, P. Healy, J. Healy, Heller, Hesse, Halthusen, Hoerr, Hughes, Hanrahan, Hague, Hartman, Hammond, Hahn, Jackson, Jewett, Joslyn, Krembs, W. Kutsche, King, Kelly, Lenhoff, Moncado, Mahon, Maher, Maurus, Monarch, Malone, Morrison, J. Mooney, Mackey, Merz, McGrath, McMahon, McIvers, J. McIntosh, L. McIntosh, McPhee, McDonnell, McLeod, McNulty, F. Neef, A. Neef, Noe, Neal, O’Neill, G. O’Brien,* W. O’Brien, O’Donnell, O’Rourke, Populorum, Pecheux, Prichard, M. Quinlan, Reinhard, S. Rose, I. Rose, E. Roth, Rowsey, Ramsey, F. Schillo C. Schillo, Sheehan, Schultze, C. Sullivan, Spalding, Sutter, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Shear, Smith, Sloan, Staples, Tetard, Towne, Thorn, Wright, Welch, Weitzel, B. Wile, Williams, Wood, Wilbanks.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bates, Blake, Barbour, Bruel, T. Bums, J. Burns, Brown, Blease, Boyle, Connelly, Cornell, Creedon, Cohn, C. Connor, W. Connor, Crandall, Cudahy, A. Crawford, W. Crawford, Carter, Downing, Durand, Doherty,'J. Dungan, Jas. Dungan, Dorsey, J. Dempsey, Crane, F. Dempsey, Dench, Dodson, E. Elkin, F. Evers, G. Evers, Eckler, Finnerty, Falvey, Foster, Fanning, Grant, Greene, Goodwillie, Gregg, Goodman, Gerber, Girardin, Gray, Hendry, Hagus, Hamilton, Hill, Henneberry, Hedenberg, Johns, Kane, Kroolman, Kirk, Keeler, Kaye, Koester, Kehoe, Levi, Livingston, Londoner, Lonergan, Lee, J. Marre, A. Marre, Matemes, Marx, McPhee, Mattas, McDonnell, McDaneld, McGuire, Mooney, Mayer, Montague, C. McCarthy, Miller, Marr, Morrison, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, Neenan, O’Neill, . Oppenheimer, Plautz, Parker, L. Paul, C. Paul, Powell, Quill, Seerey, Seidensticker, Steineman, Stephens, Staff-lin, Stange, Thornton, Taylor, Trujillo, Witkowsky, F. Webb, R. Webb, Wever, Washburne, Wilcox, L. Wilson, T. Wilson, Watson, Waterman.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Glass Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. McNally, Powers, Houlihan, Freeman, Karasynski, Zinn, Foster, Ahlrichs, Cassidy, Healy, Burns, Louisell, E. O’Brien, Blessington, F. Youngermann, Lane, O’Shea, Wade, Zeller, Lesner, Goke, McAuliff, Toner, W. Roberts, Giblin, Lappin, Patterson, F. Kelly, Forbes, Dougherty, C. Youngermann, W. Campbell, Kohlman, L. Pim, T. McKeon, Blackman, Inks, Ohlwine, O’Hara, R. Fitzgerald, F. Vurpillat, P. O’Flaherty, C. Schillo, Cunningham, Hahn, Quinlan, Mahon, Heller, A. Neef, Schultze, Goodson, Weitzel, A. Sullivan, Aarons, King, Welch, C. Sullivan, I. Rose, Devine, Blumenthal, Sutter, Falvey, Covert, O’Mara, J. Peck, Halthusen, Lenhoff, C. Fleming, Connelly, Jackson, L. Dempsey, F. Connors, Baltes, Duffield, Johns, Nester, Elder, A. Campbell, F. Chute, Palmer, Wood, Hennessy, Merz, Tetard, Darroch, Towne, J. Fitzgerald, A. Mackey, O’Rourke, Joslyn, Anson.
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Arithmetic—Messrs. Fack, Morton, Bryan, W. Kutsche; Grammar— Messrs. Zeller, Heard, T. Smith, J. Fleming, J. Allen, Merz, Young; United States History— Messrs. Stewart, Anson, Hahn, O’Rourke, C. Sullivan; Geography—Messrs. Robinson, C. Sullivan; Reading— Messrs. Bates, Schultze, Erwin, Lamon; Orthography— Messrs. Blumenthal, Bates, Erwin, Lamon; Latin— Messrs. Quinlan, F. Wile, O’Hara, H. C. Murphy, Louisell, Welch; Greek—Messrs.. O’Shea, Giblin; Algebra— Messrs. J. Fitzgerald, Spalding; Christian Doctrine— Messrs. Bryan, O’Rourke. :	; i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 515
St. Mail’s Academy.
Transformations.
. One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The names of Misses N. Morse, N. Linneen and M. Hutchinson were omitted by mistake from last week’s art report.
—The Misses Currier, Hurff, K. Hurley, N. Morse, T. Balch and C. Hurley excelled in a competition lately held by the Second Senior algebra class, o
—The Third Seniors are now studying the phenomena of light; and though they boast not of a “Science Hall,” their experiments are both useful and interesting.
—The certificates in studies and conduct for the month of March were given last week. The quarterly bulletins will be sent to the parents of the pupils next week.
—Rev. Father Hudson was the celebrant of the High Mass on Sunday last, and preached a deeply instructive sermon on mortification, particularly of the tongue.
—The members of the Graduating class are working diligently on their class criticisms. The great writers of England and America will have to look to their laurels.
—Very Rev. Father General, as usual, presided the regular Sunday evening meeting. After the points were distributed Miss Blanche Arnold recited “The Rising of ’76,” and Miss Lotta Ernest read a selection entitled “ How Girls Study.” Both young ladies gave much pleasure by their manner of delivery.
—It is scarcely necessary to say anything in praise of Prof. M. F. Egan’s last lecture, for to simply state that it was delivered on Thursday last tells that those present enjoyed a literary treat. It will, no doubt, appear in the Scholastic, when it will speak for itself. Each month his. lectures are looked ^forward to with new interest.	"
Approbation of the Community of Sisters of Holy Cross.
Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger paid a visit to St. Mary’s on Tuesday last, bearing tidings joyful indeed to the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, namely, the approbation of their rules by the Holy See.	•
The decree of. the Propaganda sent from Rome was read by the Rt. Rev. Bishop to the Community in the presence of Very Rev. Father General and Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau and Saulnier. The unbounded gratitude felt by all found expression best in the sublime words of the Te Deum which was sung in thanksgiving at the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
The word “transformation” has reference to the change which bodies undergo, causing them to assume new and often beautiful appearances. The term in question covers a wide field, since under this head may be classed physical, chemical and moral changes. Perhaps nowhere do we find transformations more striking or wonderful than those furnished by the planet of which we are inhabitants.
Scientific research has proved, to the satisfaction of every reasonable mind, that this our earth was once a molten mass on which no animal or vegetable life existed, and that during the lapse of ages it gradually became fitted as a dwelling place for man. To the multiplied changes it has undergone since the beginning of time, the rocks themselves, when questioned by the geologist, bear willing testimony. But however interesting may be the lesson engraved upon earth’s flinty bosom, we are invited to contemplate other transformations equally absorbing. As we emerge from earth’s rocky caverns an object meets our glance from which we instinctively turn aside—for rarely is the caterpillar other than an object of loathing; yet we know that this same lowly creature, following the law of its nature, will, in process of time, change its unsightly appearance for that of the brilliant-hued form of the airy butterfly.
How few of the many who daily clothe themselves in the shining folds of silken garments reflect that they owe the existence of this beautiful fabric to an insignificant insect! On examining the cocoon in which the silk-worm lies entombed, vivid indeed must be the imagination to foresee the change which it is destined to undergo in its conversion into silk; but the hand of industry unwinds from the insect’s body the delicate thread and gives it to us later as the fabric we so much admire.
So, too, during winter’s icy reign, we wrap ourselves in woollen clothing which perhaps not so long ago covered the back of the lazy sheep of the hillside; or again when winter gives place to spring and we don the lighter cotton garments we know it is the transformed coma of the cotton seed that furnishes their material.
The beautiful laces of exquisite fineness and design that so delight us, are the result of another transformation, and wherever the blue . flower of the flax plant lifts its petals to the sun, there lies the material for the linen thread from which the dexterous fingers of the lace-maker weave her delicate patterns.
The various changes wrought by chemical means seem even more wonderful. What substance in nature is more familiar than water, whether we view it in the ocean’s mighty expanse or admire it in the sparkling brook that winds its way through the green meadow; yet we know that through the transforming power of electricity the elements of which it is com
5‘6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
posed are, if we may so speak, divorced, and that which so late might have quenched the thirst of the weary has disappeared in “thin air” or, more correctly speaking, assumed the form of hydrogen and oxygen. The chemist’s magic wand indeed works wonders, and daily reveals to the lover of science facts as interesting as they are valuable.
The transformations which time effects are perhaps as noteworthy as the examples already referred to. Those of the present generation cannot realize the vast changes brought about by the flight of time. Could our forefathers rise from their graves and behold the works of their successors they would be inclined to doubt the evidence of their senses. The power and pride of past ages have studded Europe with noble structures, which when first erected were stately and majestic; but the ruins which time has wrought is well calculated to impress the beholder. The flight of years has left us ivy-covered, picturesque buildings with, the birds building nests in their crevices; while the brave and the gay, once the happy dwellers therein have forever passed from the scene.
Another transformation is there even more striking than those enumerated. In the family circle dwells a loving and lovely child. His childish laughter rings on parental ears as sweet music. Truth looks forth from his bright eyes, and he charms all; but the death angel touches the bright form, and the members of the family can scarcely recognize the little one of the past so tenderly loved by parents and friends. The cheeks that were so rosy now wear a pallid hue; the eyes have lost their brightness, and the child once the joy of the household lies rigid in death. Thus on all sides do transformations meet our gaze; well for us if through their influence our hearts and characters are so wrought upon as to become transformed into all that is noble and upright.
Etta Flannery,
First Senior Class.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Misses Ansbach, Anson, Ash, Bub, Bates, Burton, Beschameng, Bogner, Butler, Brewer, Barron, Bush, M. Beck, C. Beck, Barber, Clifford, Currier, Caren, Connell, Donnelly, Ducey, M. Davis, Dempsey, Dorsey, M. De Montcourt, N. Dunkin, M. Dunkin, English, Flannery, L. Fox, Gavan, Guise, Geer, M. Gibson, N. Gibson, Harriman, Hertzog, Hammond, Harlen.'M. Horner, I. Horner, Hurff, Healy, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hepburn, Hannes, Hutchinson, Haight, Haney, Hubbard, Henke, Irwin, Kingsbury, C. Keeney, A. Keeney, Koopmann, Linneen, Ledwith, Meehan, McNamara, Moran, N. Morse, Moore, Marley, McCarthy, McCune, L. Nester, Prudhomme, Papin, Piper, Parker, Quealey, Quinn, Reidinger, Robinson, Roberts, Rentfrow, Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schiltze, Sauter, Taylor, Tress, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Violette, Wright, Webb, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. '
Misses Barry, E. Burns, M. Burns, Campbell, Cooper, M. Davis, B. Davis, Daly, Dempsey, Dreyer, Erpeldmg, M- Fosdick, G. Fosdick, Griffith, Goke, Kloth, Kelso,
Lauth, Levy, M. McHugh, M. McPhee, Miller, O’Mara, Patrick,Patier, Reeves, Regan, Rose, M. Smyth, J. Smyth, M. Schoellkopf, I. Schoellkopf, I. Stapleton, Sweeney, Thirds, A. Wurzburg, N. Wurzburg, Yerbury.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ayer, E. Burns, Crandall, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, Moore, Papin, Scherrer, S. Smyth.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
. HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss H. Guise.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Rend, L. Van Horn. ist Class—Miss A. Reidinger.
2D Div.—Misses J. Dority, E. Flannery, O. O’Brien.
2D Class—Misses M. Barry, K. Gavan, M. Horner,
3D Class—Misses H. Coll, L. Ducey, M. Davis, A. Donnelly, C. Moran, M. Smith.
2D Div.—Misses J. Currier, C. Hurley, M. Piper.
4TH Class—Misses M. Ansbach, L. Dolan, J. English, M. Gibson, E. Healy, N. Morse, E. Quealey, I. Stapleton.
2D Div.—Misses I. Bub, M. Clifford, F. Hertzog, M. Hull, M. Yungblut, E. Linneen, M. McPhee, L. Meehan, A. Regan, E. Wright.
5TH Class—Misses E. Balch, M. Bates, M. Beck, A. Caren, E. Dempsey, M. Fitzpatrick, N. Gibson, L. Henke, E. Lewis, L. Nelson, G. Wehr, N. Wurzburg.
2D Div.—Misses T. Balch, M. Flitner, A. Koopman, M. McHugh, F. Marley, H. Nester, E. Nester, M. Papin, A. Penburthy, C. Prudhomme, M. Schoellkopf, M. Smyth, R. Van Mourick, B. Wagner.
6th Class—Misses E. Burns, M. Burton, Bush, M. Coll, L. Dreyer, M. Dunkin, N. Dunkin, E. Ernest, M. Fasdick, M. Geer, A. Hammond, L. Hubbard, F. Kahn, C. Keeney, A. Keeney, M. McCune, M. Northam, A. O’Mara, H. Pugsley, B. Quinn, G. Rentfrow, L. Reeves, G. Roberts, L. Sauter, I. Schoellkopf, K. Sweeney, L. Taylor, B. Webb, J. Zahm.
2D Div.—Misses E. Barber, C. Beck, S. Brewer, M. Burns, S. Campeau, J. Connell, I. Cooke C.'Daly, E. Davis, M. De Montcourt, G. Fasdick, C. Haight, S. Hamilton, M. Harmes, B. Hepburn, M. Harriman, M. Kelso, B. Kingsbury, J. Ledwith, L. Levy, K. McCarthy, M. Miller, E. Nicholas, L. Parker. M. Patier, D. Spurgeon, B. Smith, A. Thirds.
7TH Class—Misses M. Ash, F. Burdick, R. Canepa, A. Cooper, C. Dorsey, V. Erpelding, A. Graves, S. Goke, M. Hagus, M. Hoyt, L. Johns, E. Kaspar, C. Kloth, J. Patrick, C. Quealey, A. Schrock, F. Soper, M. Thayer.
2D Div.—Misses K. Barry, M. Davis, L. McHugh, F. Palmer, E. Regan, E. Yerbury.
8th Class—Misses B. Davis, V. Kelly, M. McHugh, M. Rose, N. Smith, J. Smith, M. Watson.
9TH Class—Misses P. Griffith, ,K. Moore, M. Scherrer.
ioth Class—Miss E. Burns. ' ’	•
HARP.
+th Class—Miss E. Nester.
•	GUITAR.
3D Class—Miss M. Burton.
5TH Class—Misses L. Griffith, F. Marley.
6th Class—Miss C. Haight.	"
VIOLIN.
Misses H. Studebaker,L. Johns, H. Nester,M. Northam.
mandoline.
Miss S. Smith.	•	•
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise, C. Moran.
2D Class—Misses C. Dempsey, M. Barry, B. Hellmann.
2D Div—Miss L. Meehan.
3D Class—Misses E. Balch, F. Marley.
2D Div.—Misses O. O’Brien, I. Homer, M. Homer, M. Fitzpatrick, M. Linneen, T. Balch, L. Dolan, I. Bub.
4TH Class—Misses F. Hertzog, U. Bush, G. Rentfrow. E. Hamilton, J. English, M. Schiltz, M. Piper, C. Beck, C. Prudhomme, E. Healy, A. Keeney.
5TH Class—Misses G. Wehr. M. Anson, C. Haight, H, Nester, I.Webb,M. Dunkin, M.Thayer, M. De Montcourt.