■)<0TltEiW^0igsn<:
•PIS^E-QX^SI	• Vivt-Qv^si -Q^AS/yO^Tk/^/S-
Vol. XXX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 29, 1897.
No. 33
A Cipher and its Key.
WILLIAM A. FAGAN, ’97.
H2 O lapped softly
© The banks of Si 02;
In an Al2 03 like glow
Afar in the west the sun sank low.
Si O2 tinted clouds all arow
Bade the gentle day adieu.
He * * The listless waves lapped softly
The shores of the yellow sand ;
Blazing aloft in a ruby glow Afar in the west the sun sank low. Amethyst cloudlets all arow
Said adieu to the sorrowing land.
A Study of the Mosses.
JACOB ROSENTHAL, ’97.
HE study of this great group of plants is both interesting and instructive. They bear an honorable part in the economy of nature. For instance, the Sphagnum, or common bogmosses, play an important part
in the formation of peat; the mosses which cover the ground in the forests act as sponges in absorbing the water and keeping the earth continually moist; Again the beds of moss which cover rocky ledges protect them from the. action of the weather. So I might cite many more instances in which the mosses hold an important office in the perfect symmetry of nature’s work.
The Bryophyta (mosses) immediately follow the first division of the vegetable kingdom, the Thallophyta, and are similar in many of their characteristics. Some have a plant body consisting only of a thallus. They are not divided
into stem and leaves, neither have they true roots. They are also similar, in some degree, to the next division, the Pteridophyta or ferns,
As to their structure, they are rather simple, usually one layer or more of cells around the outside, of uniform shape. Inside of this there are elongated cells, very like the fibrous tissue of the higher plants. These cells, for example, make up the midrib of the leaves. There is no real vascular tissue, no woody fibres as in higher plants, but there is cellular tissue pure and simple (Fig. 2, B-C).
As to their reproduction, they furnish us the key to the vegetable world in this regard; for it is in this division of plants that we find that peculiar alternation of generation which is now traced to be observed in every form of plant. Reproduction is brought about by means of antheridia and archegonia. The antheridia (Fig. 3, C) are club-shaped, oval or globular bodies, having a single layer of cells on the outside and a tissue inside formed of numerous small cells, in each of which one sperm cell takes its origin. These sperm cells are spirally coiled filaments, thickened at the posterior end, and tapering to a fine point at. the anterior end which bears two fine, hair-like cilia by which they are enabled to move about in water (Fig. 3, D).	.
The archegonia are flask-shaped bodies, swollen at the base,which contains the oosphere, and being somewhat elongated and smaller at the top, forming what is called the neck (Fig. T, A-B-C). The neck is a sdrt of tube having its lumen filled with a row of cells, called the canal-cells, and these, when the archegonium is ripe, become a jelly-mass which, when moist, swells and oozes out of the mouth of the neck. This is very important in the subsequent fertilization, as it is by means of this jelly canal that’ free access is obtained to the oosphere.
3§
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
FiG. I.
A, young; B, mature, but unfertilized, archegonium. C, fertilized archegonium with dividing oos-
It has also been sho w n that by means of a peculiar substance or substances, of which this jelly is composed, the sperm cells are attracted to the m o u t h of the archegonium. .
We will no.w. trace the life of a moss beginning with the asexual spore. A spore falls on the ground and gero	o
pore. K,’ neck-canal-cells; K,” ventral - canal - cells; o, oosphere; pr, perigynium (After Strasburger).
m inates, i. c., it begins to grow. T h e c e 11 wall
breaks, and the protosplasmic contents elongates and divides, producing a long branched filament consisting of cells. This growth [is called the protonema (Fig. 4). Some of the branches are formed into buds which grow into the leafy part of the plant above ground, and form what is commonly called moss, but which the botanist calls gametophyte or gamete plant.
This leafy part of a moss plant grows to a certain height—usually from one to three inches—or, as in the Hcpatica it is a simple thallus. In either case the growth is terminated by the reproductive organs, which we may call the flower. It is here the antheridia and archegonia develop, and produce the first cell of the sporophyte, the oospore.
The oospore does not, as in the lower plants, drop off and germinate, but begins to grow in the venter of the archegonium. It divides first into two cells .by a transverse wall—the basal wall—at right angles or obliquely to the long axis of the archegonium; the upper cell, or the one next toThe neck, is called, the epibasal, the other, the hypobasal cell. In some Hepatica: this is followed by'the formation of two walls which are at right angles to the basal wall and to themselves. . These, cells are called the quadrant and octant; while in other Hepatica and in tlie‘mosses, the division into octants is confined to the epibasal cell. The epibasal cell gives rise to the sporogonium, and the hypobasal gives rise to the foot, or that part of the bristle-like stem which penetrates into the tissue of the gametophyte and derives nourishment from it. (Fig. 2, A).
The cells continue to grow and divide, pushing their way upward and downward until they entirely fill the old archegonium (Fig. 2, B-C). This finally ruptures, either at the top, as' in most Hepatica’ and some mosses, where the whole calyptra—the old archegonium—remains as a sheath (the vaginula), or it ruptures transversely into.an upper and lower half; the latter remains as the'vaginula. whereas the former is carried up as a cap on the capsule, the so-called calyptra (Fig. 3, A-a).
As I said before, the capsule originates from the epibasal cell, and as it progresses in growth, the tissue becomes differentiated into an
external layer, or layers, of cells, called the amphithecium, which, in nearly all cases, becomes the wall of the capsule; and an internal mass of cells, called the endothecium. The
spores are developed from a layer or mass of cells called the archesporium. In almost all Hepatica this includes the whole of the endothecium, while in some Hcpatictz and the mosses it is a layer of cells, either the outer layer of the endothecium, or the innermost layer of the
amphithecium. All of these cells do not neces
sarily become spores. They may be either sporogenous or sterile; in the latter case they become spirally thickened and elongated into elaters. In those forms where the archesporium
is a layer of cells, the internal mass of sterile tissue becomes the columella on which the spores are arranged.
Thus we find there are three kinds of reproduction in the mosses. The first, vegetative by budding; the second, sexual by antherozoids and oospheres; and the third by cells breaking up and forming a sexual spores. And it is in this group that we find the alternation of generation equally balanced: that is, the gametophyte is as much a part of the visible plant as the sporophyte. While in the Pteridophyta. the gametophyte becomes small and in the Phanerogdmia it becomes even micro
Fig.2.
A, Development of the sporogonium (ff) in the ventral portion (b b) of the archegonium. B-C, different further stages of the development of the sporogonium (f) and of the calyptra (c); h, neck of the archegonia. This also shows cellular structure. (After Vines.) ‘
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
scopic—in these the sporophyte being the visible plant—in the Bryophyta they are equally developed, and can easily be distinguished: the gametophyte as a leafy growth, and the sporophyte as a bristle growing on the latter and terminating by a capsule enclosing the spores.
The. group Bryophyta is divided into two classes—the Hepaticce (Liverworts) and the Musci (riiosses proper),which are closely related, but in external characters are separated by
rather
A
sharp boundary lines.
— a
----b
mu mt
Fig. 3. are lower in
"nil

A, PolytrichiiUH formosuui in fruit covered with a calyptra. B, capsule somewhat magnified and with calyptra removed, showing operculm (a). C, paraphyses (b ) and antheridi a, one of which is emitting anther-pzoids (a). D, antheroz o i d s highly magnified. (After Bastin.)
the classification
The
Hepaticce
of plants than
the Musci, both in regard to
number of species and individuals. They are found, as a rule, closely adhering to rocks and damp soil, being fastened by clasping roots called rhizoids. Their structure is very simple and also their growth. A spore germinates into a protonema, either filamentous, like the Musci, or, as. is usually the case, a flat growth of cells. The adult shoot springs from the protonema, and is either dorsiventral or erect and leafy, when its symmetry is radial. It is usually a flat expansion with an upper (dorsal) surface, on which are found the reproductive organs, and a lower (ventral) surface on which are the rhizoids; But when it has leaves they are generally borne in two lateral rows on each side of the stem, with a row of rudimentary leaves on the ventral surface.
The organs of reproduction are borne on the dorsal side, and may be either scattered or in groups,’or on a special modified branch called the receptacle. The fertilization goes on here; the oospore germinates, and. the asexual spores are formed in a sporangium.
The sporangium remains enclosed in the calyptra until the spores are ripe. If a bristle be present it suddenly elongates, and ruptures the calyptra, which remains below.as a vaginula.
The capsule opens either by the decay of'its . walls, or, as is more often the case, by the . splitting of the walls, from the apex downward, ,: into valves; in some the capsule opens by a lid which falls off from the top.
As a type of the Hepaticce I will take Mar-chantiapolymorpha (Fig. 5, A—B), the most com- . , mon, and also very characteristic of the entire class. It may be found almost anywhere, lying . flat bn stones, moist ground, and decaying logs. If is a very small plant, scarcely more than two or three inches long, or more than, one-half inch wide, while the sporophyte never rises higher than one inch, and more often less. The spore, on germination, gives rise to a short, unBranched filament which develops at its apex a flattened cellular expansion, from the margin of which springs the adult shoot as a lateral branch.
The adult shoot is undifferentiated into stem and leaves, and is dorsiventral in symmetry: that is, it has an upper and lower side. On ’ the lower side are found numerous small roothairs, and also scales which are arranged in. two rows. The upper surface bears the reproductive organs which are on short stalked receptacles. This plant is always dicecious: that is, the antheridia and archegonia are found on different plants. The involucres are . alternate with the rays of the archegoniophores, are membranous, and irregularly cleft, as if torn, cnc’osing from three to six, one fruited,
a
Germinating spores and protonema of mosses, a a, spores in dif- . ferent stages o f development; b,. filaments of the protonema; c, bud on protonema, destined to de-velpp. into leafy: . plant. (After Bastin.)	.
Fig. 4.
cleft, sac-like involucres of the archegonia’ ’	•	-r	■	-
After the oosphere has been fertilized the sporophyte develops. The calyptra does: not rupture, and contains a globose capsule which, opens by several segments rolling back from the apex.. The elaters are long and the spores smooth.	•
In the Musci, the protonema is more con-: spicuous; it sometimes persists until the sporangium is ripe, and in some cases it remains from year' to year. It is usually filamentous’; but sometimes it is a: flat growth,’ The' adult'



A
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
54°
shoot arises from a lateral bud of the protonema, and is always differentiated into the stem and leaves.- In most cases the adult shoot presents no differentiation into the vegetative and reproductive portions, but in some genera this is to be found. In all cases the reproductive organs terminate the growth, and are usually found in a cluster of leaves like a flower, technically called perithietium.
The antheridia and archegonia are usually on different shoots, and sometimes grow on 7	o
plants far removed from each other. Intermingled among the reproductive organs may be found numerous hairs, called paraphyses (Fig. 3, C b). The function of these appears to be that of secreting water in order to assist the process of fertilization.
The sporangium usually has a central axis, called the columella, and the spores are therefore developed from the external portion of the endothecium, or the inner portion of the amphithecium. They open by forcing off the lid at the top or by splitting, and even by decay of the walls. A very remarkable characteristic of this group, is its capacity of vegetative propagation, both as to the gametophyte
Fig. 5.
Marchantia Polymorpha. A, portion of the thallus bearing stalked receptacle (a) producing antheridia. B,-portion of the thallus bearing stalked receptacle (b) with sporangia on under surface of rays; g, one of the receptacles with gemmae. (After Bastin.)
and the sporophyte. It has been ascertained by experiments that if a portion of the capsule, or of the bristle—while the cells are still living—be kept under favorable conditions; the superficial cells will grow out into protonemal filaments; and thus we may obtain a gametophyte from a sporophyte without spores. When this occurs it is a case of Apospory.
For an example of the Musci I will take the Polytrichium formosum. (Fig..3, A), a very common plant which, may be found almost anywhere in a comparatively moist soil.- It grows from two to four inches high, its lower half

Fig. 6.
Capsule of one of the Bry-ophyta, with ca-lyptra and operculum removed, showing the double peristome; a, inner, b, outer, peristome (After Bastin).
being the gametophyte, and the upper bristlelike stem, with the capsule at the top, is the sporophyte. Much of the growth of this plant has already ,been described, as it is very characteristic of the class. The spor into a branched filament, the protonema, and buds develop, from which the leafy gametophyte grows. At the apex of this, and terminating its growth, are found the antheridia and archegonia, but on different shoots: that is, the plant is dimcious. The antheridia are club-shap e d, intermingled with hair (paraphyses). The archegonia are flask-shaped, and are also intermingled with paraphyses. After fertilization, the oospore germinates and grows into the bristle-like stem with the capsule. The calyptra ruptures transversely, part remaining below as the vaginula. In the
capsule, the tissues are differentiated into the outer coat, the spores and elaters, and the columella. It is covered by a lid, the operculum, and when this is taken off numerous cilia-like bodies of a red color project outward and form the mouth of the theca; these are in two rows, the outer and inner peristome (Fig. 6).
Comparing generally the Musci with the Hepatica, we see that, however great the variety of the forms are, they still form two connected series. In several of the subdivisions of the leaf-bearing mosses, conditions occur which remind us of Xh^Hepaticce. The simplest Hepaticce make a near approach to the Algcc; the different classes, genera, and species bear a close relationship to each other; and while there is quite a chasm separating the mosses from the ferns, yet there is some resemblance which can be traced through their peculiar life history.
MELANCHOLY PLEASURES. \
ET others sing, ’tis mine to wqep.
I do not envy them their joy, . I will not sicken at their joy;— Be’t theirs to live, in pleasures deep.
Let others thrive with blood and nerve.
I do. not covet place or power,
I will not rail against their power:— Be’t theirs to rule,’tis mine to serve.
. : < , . - < ' <	G, W, E,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Our Bacteriological Laboratory.
W. BURNETT WEAVER, ’97.
Only a few years ago the study of bacteriology was unknown even in the best of educational institutions, for that science is of very recent origin; however, no school of science, worthy of the name, can be today without a well-equipped laboratory of bacteriology.
The bacteriological laboratory at Notre Dame is ample, and contains all the necessary apparatus for an extended course in this study. The space allotted to the study of this science is a room about sixteen feet by thirty, and is on the ground floor on the south side of Science Hall. The apparatus used is of the best and latest design and has been furnished by the Bausch & Lomb Optical Company of Rochester, New York.
For the benefit of the readers of the Scholastic, who are not initiated in the secrets of bacteriology, it may be of interest to learn something of the apparatus used and the methods employed in acquiring a thorough and practical knowledge of those minute forms of life that play such an important part in modern medicine.
In the laboratory it is essential that all culture media and glassware should be sterilized: that is, free from all living bacteria. To do this, two methods are employed—sterilization by dry heat and sterilization by moist heat, that is, by steam. The former is effected in an oven where the temperature can be raised to a high degree, and the latter is carried on in a steam sterilizer of peculiar construction, and the temperature is only ioo° C. or a little above. The application of the dry heat is limited to glassware which is exposed to the temperature of i6o°-i8o° C. for one hour. This destroys all living organisms which may adhere to it. With the use of steam the case is different, for the objects to be sterilized are usually of an organic origin, and by an excessive application of heat, such as 1600 C., they would be materially damaged.
The method of sterilization depends upon the differences of resistance towards heat which the organisms that are to be destroyed possess. There is a time in the life of many bacteria in which the organisms resist the action of both chemical and thermal agents. This is during the spore or resting stage, but in the growing or vegetative stage they are easily killed. These
541
conditions are taken advantage of in steam sterilization by the intermittent method: that is, they are subjected to the temperature of ico° C. for one hour a day for three or four successive days. To do this it is necessary that the conditions of temperature, nutrition and moisture, ■ which favor the bacteria while in the vegetative form, and also favor the germination of the spores that are present, should exist. By the first application of steam the mature vegetative forms are destroyed. Those which resisted the heat by possessing spores by discontinued heating and under proper conditions will favor the germination of the spores in about twenty-four hours, to the less resistant vegetative cells. A second exposure will kill those in turn, and by so repeating the operation all will have been killed. In substances where the conditions for the growth are not favorable the intermittent method is used, but at a lower temperature and more exposure. Chemical sterilization is used only in rendering infected waste materials free from causing further infections. After the cleaning and sterilization of all the glassware, etc., the student prepares the culture media, of which the essential part is beef-tea or bouillon.
Agar-agar and gelatine are two forms of gelatine used as media. The former is of a • vegetable origin, the latter of an animal. The greatest difference as to their application consists in their behavior towards heat. The agaragar is used where the temperature must be' raised above that at which gelatine remains solid; another difference lies in the relation the’ two gelatines bear to bacteria. Many forms liquify the gelatine; but no known bacteria effect such a change in agar-agar. Gelatine shows, also, more characterized colony formation. 1
Potato, milk and blood serum are other forms of media, of which blood serum is the most useful; for it is indispensable to the growth of some forms. All these media are used to recognize the different species from the characteristic growth produced.	•
After the media have been prepared they are placed in test-tubes and plugged with cotton-. The amount of fluid media used must not exceed io c. c. Potatoes are cut in cylinders, and, . the cylinders are cut to afford them a slanting surface. While still liquid they are left to harden. This is for the so-called slant culture.
The plate method may be called the fouhda- ; tion for all others. Both agar-agar and gelatine are used. The plates which are known as Petri dishes are flat, double dishes' of glass,* m’easur-
'	. * > • J	.
-	’	1	i n -t;	"	*
542
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ing 8 cm. in diameter and about - 1.5 to 2 cm. in height. They consist of a flat dish with a cover. We first take “ a set,” which consists of three dishes, each being known as plate 1, 2 and 3. Three tubes of agar-agar or gelatine are placed in warm water to liquify. If a gelatine tube be used the water must not exceed the temperature of 35°-4O° C. For agar-agar 4i°-42° C., otherwise when bacteria are subsequently inoculated they would be killed by the heat.
We now leave the medium liquified. A very small portion of the organism to be examined is taken up with a sterilized, looped platinum wire, which consists of a piece of platinum wire fused into a glass rod. The organism which we have on the platinum loop is transferred into tube No. 1, where it is carefully mixed so as to diffuse through the whole of the medium. The loop is then sterilized and three loopfuls of No. 1 are passed into tube
No. 2, where they are again mixed. Again the loop is sterilized and again the three dips are made into No. 2, and then transferred to No. 3. It must never be forgotten that the loop should be sterilized once more before laying it aside. If agar-agar is used the work o o
must be done quickly.
The medium from tube
LABORATORY OF
BACTERIOLOGY.
1 is poured- into dish r, tube 2 into dish 2, and so
on, care being taken that the fluid is spread evenly. These are allowed to stand in a temperature between 180 C. to 37-5° C., if saprophytic; but in the case of the pathogenic, or disease-producing organism, there must be a place provided for them so as to develop their growth more readily. This can be done only by a constant temperature. This temperature, which is that of the body (37.50 C.), is arrived;at by means of the incubator. This brooding oven consists of a copper chamber with double walls.--Between the walls the space is filled with water which keeps all the parts of the apparatus at an equable
temperature. The outside wall is covered . others will be seen to lie bn. the surface. But to usually with asbestos so as to retain the heat, examine these colonies, as they are called, under In the top is an opening through which a low power of the microscope they seem quite a thermometer is projected into the large different. Some appear finely granular, others chamber in the interior. There are other coarse. Here we may find one having a
openings for the reception of another thermometer and a thermo-regulator which lead into the water chamber, and a water-gauge at the side to show the amount of water between the walls. A small gas flame burner is used with the thermo-regulator. This consists of a glass cylinder with a communicating tube running from the side just below the top opening. The gas is supplied through this tube at the top. This the tube projects nearly to the mercury at the bottom of the cylinder, and is ground to a slanting point at the extremity. At a little distance above this slanting opening is a small hole or capillary opening. The gas passing through the tube at the top streams into the cylinder and out the side tube to the burner. As the temperature rises the expansion of the mercury at the bottom of the cylinder gradually closes the slanting opening; the gas supply becomes diminished, and the temperature again is lowered. The supply
of gas wi.ll now pass through the capillary opening, so as not to shut off the gas entirely. At the side of the cylinder there may be a screw to regulate the mercury. Considerable care is necessary in order to have all this adjusted so as to maintain a constant temperatureXn the' incubator, which must not
, ,vary one degree of heat. The agar-agar plates
which have been prepared are placed in the incubator, and those which are left to grow •	o
at the temperature of the room are ready for examination in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Taking up the plate to be examined we find it to be dotted here and there with
small points. Roughly examining them with the naked eye, we find some to be dense or opaque, while others will be so transparent that the naked eye can see them only with difficulty. Some are irregular in outline and some are sharply circumscribed. Some will be of one color and some again of another. In gelatine some will form deep pits and contain fluid;
1
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

concentrated margin or centre. Some of the margin will become dentated,. another is homogeneous throughout. All these differences must be remembered when we take up a certain colony to be examined.
With the pointed platinum needle sterilized, a bit of the colony is taken up and introduced into a sterilized agar-agar or gelatine tube. Care should be taken that the platinum needle and handle be properly sterilized, and we should guard against touching the sides of the test-tube in passing it into the tube and out again. Such an inoculation results finally in a “ pure culture.”
In the stab or smear culture a tube with a sterile medium of gelatine, agar or potato is taken up, and held in the palm of the hand horizontally with the mouth pointed towards the worker and between the thumb .and index finger; with the other hand holding the needle,, the cotton plug is removed by a twisting -
motion with usually thejndex and second'finger . water. These are left to develop and are then . in such a way That the part of the plug which examined the one containing from 200 to 300;. fits the mouth is pointed away from the worker
when the palm of the hand is|towards ,him. making the-’..plate is used. If the; original -"	.............*	‘	‘	water contained too many, as in the- case, of
The needle containing the bit of colony is now introduced . into" the tube without-touching the
sides. If , a. smear culture is to be made the	.
needle must be gently drawn over, the surface and therefore should be accurate. After the colonies, ’ have ..grown they are counted by
of the media; if a stab, thrust the.needle into the media. The tube .is labelled and set aside for examination. In this..form they can be
kept for a long: time. By their characteristic
growth many bacteria are recognized. If gela- to form a background for the^glate placed on tine is used, liquefaction occurs in all The upper it. The gelatine plate is now'Tn pbsi^ a surface and' sometimes continues graduallyglass plate, consisting of ruled, square^centi-
downward to form’in a funnel shape. In agar metres and subdivisions, is held, in posi-the case is different. Liquefaction does not tion by blocks.. This is brought over, the
take place. The growth'is all along the needle gelatine plate, which .is now moved to the track or at the beginning. The growth along centre. The number of colonies in each square .
are then counted and the sum total in? the areas gives the numbers of colonies on the;plate. If the colonies are too small a small hand; lens may be .used. .	.
In . preparing bacteria for; microscopical : observation the first thing to do is to properly. .
the needle track presents variations, such as gas bubbles, which also mark the , character of the bacteria.	.	- _	'
In making a qualitative test of water .‘many precautions are to be observed. The sample, when taken, should be collected so as to exclude
all organisms from, any other source. The stain them. The list of. stains used are too>many
water from a spring should not be taken from the surface but at a certain depth below. If taken from a hydrant, the water should be collected after if is let run for a half hour or
so.
The vessels in which it is collected should
be thoroughly cleansed and sterilized, and the same. In a few words it may be summed up: ,to 3 atain the bacteria which you have in question,
plates made as soon as possible after the collection. From one to five drops are sufficient for the qualitative analysis, but in quan
titative a definite volume must be employed so as to know the number in a specified amount of water. After they are developed the plates -are examined and compared. Those kept at a higher temperature are compared with’those at a lower temperature so ’as to determine which have the greater nuriiber of colonies. We find, as a rule, that the greater number appear on the plates kept at i8° to 20° C. . The pathogenic forms grow better in a higher temperature. •	‘	‘
To distinguish these forms, each colony should be isolated. This process is very much the same as a quantitative analysis excepting that a definite amount of water is taken so" as to ascertain the number in the volume of water used. We should have a fixed volume of water so as not to have the colonies too numerous to be accurately counted. This is usually done by making a -preliminary^ plate with one drop, two- drops, I c.c., 5 c.c., 25 c.c., of
the same amount of water that was used in
one drbp, this is diluted with sterilized dis- 1 tilled water. This dilution must be-reckoned,
means of a" Wolfhugel’s counting . apparatus. This<apparatus consists of 4a flat;board in which is placed a white or black-;.^^ as
and can only be known by referring to atext-book. Watery solution of basic aniline dyes^
. fuchsine, gentian violet and methylene blue are commonly employed. Not all bacteria stain alike, nor do all. bacteria retain the color, the >
.3


and to decolorize those which you do not wish to stain	.	.	;

NOTRE, DAME
Photo-Micrography.
W ILLI AM A. FAG A N, ’9 7.
One of the greatest achievements in modern photography was accomplished when the first highly sensitive dry plate was sent out on its mission. Its use enables us to obtain an exact image of the lightning flash, the swiftly trotting horse, the surging waves, and numerous other swiftly moving objects. In fact, there is no phenomenon in nature that may not be reproduced in a photographic image, and we cannot foresee what manifold applications this new method of photography will find in the future.
SCHOLASTIC.
from the images thus secured most of the maps and charts of the heavens are made. At the same time he obtains views of the stars and planets in their various positions during the different seasons of the year. Finally, the biologist finds it, in all its applications, one of the most powerful auxiliaries in making his observations not only peimancnt, but more especially accurate. Of late years one of its applications—the reproduction of the minute structure of nature by a photographic image,— has received marked attention.
The necessary apparatus for such work consists essentially of a miscroscope, a camera and a suitable source of light. By the proper combination of these three elements any one
No wonder, therefore, that all branches of education press this art into their service. Chemistry and Physics use it mainly in connection with the spectroscope and polariscope.
The anthropologist finds it a most valuable aid in reproducing and retaining the types and peculiarities of different races and individuals. The ornithologist recognizes it as an advantageous method of studying birds, reproducing them as to foim, habit, manner and mode of living. The astronomer attaches the photographic camera to this telescope, and
may produce an image of the most minute structure of both plant and animal. It is true that good’twork'has-been', done by using an ordinary miscroscope, capable of being inclined to a horizontal position,^and connecting with it a camera with suitable light; hut to secu’ie the best results, and especially with critical objects an apparatus constructed solely for this puipcse must he piccuicd.
The Biological Department has gone through all the stages of development in this line. The first apparatus was the simplest one possible.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
545
—i—
PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY.
(Dark Room).
The second stage was reached when the Walmsley Photo-Micrograph!ng camera was devised. But in these two instruments the mechanical arrangements were at fault, and the Walmsley also proved unsatisfactory. German cameras were studied; but they, too, were not constructed properly in regard to the mechanism. The Bausch and Lomb Company, of Rochester, introduced an apparatus which was constructed solely for the purpose of PhotoMicrography. It was set up in the Laboratory of Photography, and was used for four years; but after trying all manner of appliances it was found to be lacking in its mechanical appointments. The principle was the correct one, and an entirely new apparatus was designed which should be perfect in every detail. This is the one now in use in the laboratory. It has been in use during the past two months, and perfectly satisfactory results have been obtained from every exposure. This instrument is called the “ Complete Photo-Micrographing camera with Rafter Attachment.”
The space set aside in Science Hall for work in photo-micrography includes three rooms.
yHOTO-jnCROGRAPHY-QKOSS SECTION OF HUJIAN HONE.
Illustrations are given of the operating and dark rooms. The operating room is arranged, as' shown by the cut, to contain only the apparatus. It will be noticed that it is mounted on a specially constructed stand; the room being in the basement, the apparatus is entirely isolated. The floor has been cut out, and piers have been constructed for the two pyramidal bases to rest on. This secures the apparatus from any tremor caused by movements in the Hall or even in the room. Extending from one pyramid to the other is a box about ten feet long into which slide the drawers containing the accessory apparatus.
Looking at the illustration the reader may see arranged from left to right the following parts of the apparatus: First, the illuminant— a Wellsbach gas-burner with dark chimney and bulls-eye condenser. Next in order is the bi-convex condensing lens, then the light filters and iris diaphragm shutter; this con-
PHOTO-MICROGRAPHY LONGITUDINAL SECTION OF HUMAN BONE.
stitutes what is known as the optical bench. Next comes the microscope stage with substage attachment. They are mounted separately, both work by rack and pinion, and have centring arrangements, and are of the most useful and absolutely necessary mechanical devices.
The “Rafter Attachment,” immediately after the microscope stage, is the most convenient apparatus for doing work with both high and low objectives. A detailed description would take up too much space; suffice it to say that nothing can take its place for convenience and satisfaction in the most difficult problem of Photo-Micrography. The “ Rafter Attachment” enables the operator to useatwill either an ordinary eye-piece or a specially constructed projective eye-piece, or the objective alone, or, what is possibly the best arrangement—an amplifier, Finally comes the Complete Photo-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Micrographic camera. This camera is complete, for it is so constructed that it may be used also for copying, enlarging, reducing and lantern-slide work. Moreover, the mechanism of the whole apparatus is so complete that
everything can be kept under perfect control with very little difficulty. In a practical dem
onstration this is shown to great advantage.
To render the apparatus useful in other lines there are various accessories, that may be used to produce- different effects, such as the polariscope, colored glass slips and neutral tinted discs to be inserted into the Abbe condenser. With the polariscope there were made, only a few days ago, a series of negatives of crystals of chlorate, of potash, using in their production various selenites and different positions of the polarizer. As a bit of color-study there ate few negatives of this kind that can excel them. '*
It is intended to have a spectroscope manufactured which may be inserted into the substage, thus enabling/ the operator to use any ;of the seven
.	r - i PHOTO-MICROGRAPHY. TIP OF THE TONGUE
colors of the	OF house fly.
spectrum for projecting the image of the object on the ground glass. From all this it may be seen to what a multiplicity of uses the apparatus may be adapted,	,
The dark room, about the same size as the operating room, is admirably well arranged. One half of it is shown in the illustration, and it may be noticed that there is a complete outfit for developing, washing and drying the negatives. The different chemicals used are within easy reach, and, since most of the work is performed in almost total darkness, their positions must necessarily be in systematic order. A third room is used for lantern-slide making and the arrangements are rather unique. There is, for example, a stand by which the camera may be placed vertically, thus enabling one to copy drawings or illustrations from books and dissections from life.
In conclusion, we may say that photography in all its branches and applications forms a part of the biological course. The student learns practically all that is required from the first lesson in putting up a camera in position to making skiographs by means of X-rays.
Botany.
Few studies are of greater value in a system of education than botany, and more so in a course which has for its end the training of those powers of observation and experiment that are, so to speak, the foundation of science. No wonder, therefore, that a great portion of time in a course of biology is devoted to the acquisition of a thorough and practical knowledge of botany.
The course occupies two years; and consists, first, of a thorough study of elementary botany. This is divided into four branches, comprising the morphology of plants, the minute anatomy of histology, plant life or physiology, arid the general classification. O	-
The morphology of plants, as the word implies, gives us the form of the different organs which go to make up the plant. It begins with the root, and, after teaching us their uses, modifications and classifications, it passes on and does .likewise with the stem and leaves. Since the flowers are the .most important in the classification of higher plants, it dwells upon this subject more extensively, and takes up the different parts of which it is composed. After this it passes on and defines and explains poli-nization and fertilization, giving the various kinds in different plants. Finally, it gives us a knowledge of the fruits and seeds, and shows us the peculiar ways nature has provided for their dispersion,

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
547
The minute anatomy, or histology, begins with the simplest form in which life occurs— the cell—since, in order to understand the various complex structures of the tissues, we must have a complete knowledge of w.hat they are composed. It treats of the,cell-wall, protoplasm, nucleus, nucleoplasm,chlorophyl. bodies, and the various other constituents of a cell. After obtaining a sound foundation, we gradually work onward, taking next the combination of cells, so as to form tissues, and the various series of tissues, named according to their structure and function. By this time we have a practical knowledge—for most of this work is done in the laboratory—of, the different tissues found in a plant; and we then study the tissues according to the organs in which they are found, beginning, as in morphology, with the root, and studying successively the stem, leaves and flowers. But in order to study histology we must have a microscope and know how to use it. Therefore we also learn here
the parts of a microscope, their use and the accessory agents used in a, microscopical analysis of plants. ;
Whereas morphology and histology treat of the gross and microscopical forms of the organs of plants, vegetable physiology treats of these organs with regard to their function. As in histology, the cell is the foundation, upon Which all future study is based, so in. physiology it is the starting-point, since it is the simplest form in which life is found; therefore, the study of vegetable physiology naturally begins with the study of the properties and attributes of protoplasm. After this we learn the functions of the various organs, and finally of the plant itself, as a whole, in regard to its constituents, food and how it assimilates it, the influence of temperature and light
on its life, its movements and its reproduction.
The fourth and last subject which we consider is the classification of plants. There are two modes of classifying plants as well as animals: according to some characteristics which they possess, either in their structure, form, or number of parts, which is called artificial, or according to their genetic relation. The latter is very difficult, since the species, and even the genera, vary so much and appear so widely separated. It is endeavored in this part of elementary botany, to give the student, as far as possible, a practical knowledge of the classification, partly natural and partly artificial, now used by the best authors.
In the second year is taken up a course of advanced botany. This goes more into detail of structure and dwells more on the principles which govern plant life. There are many ex-. periments performed in the laboratory illustrating the evaporation of water from plants, effect of light and heat, various food of plants and their effects, irritability, structure, tissues,, and so forth. The classification is also more thorough, and dwells principally on the flowerless plants. It is here that a complete study is made of the extensive herbarium in our museum, which includes almost every species of plant found»in the United States, and some from foreign countries.
Such is a brief outline of the science which treats of what is most beautiful in nature. The starry lights set-in the heavens, the feathered songsters of the air, all have their place in nature; but none are so sublime as the sombre forests, the groves which were “God’s first tem-
STUDENTS AT WORK IN THE BACTERIOLOGICAL LABORATORY.
pies,” and the flowers which perfume the breezes of spring. And thus, while the botanist is a utilitarian, he is also an artist, and realizes to the full the words of the poet,
“To him who in the love of nature holds Communion with her visible forms, she speaks A various language.”
He learns to study and love nature, and obtain from her the secrets of the past when the now stunted fern was the queen of the forest; and we learn to appreciate the vari-colored flowers and the beautiful grasses, not only because they constitute the glory of the summer landscape, but because of their indispensable utility to animals and man,	J. R.
54s
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Comparative Anatomy.
WILLIAM W. FITZPATRICK, ’98.
Before attempting to master the mysterious and more complex form of the human body, the student of medicine should endeavor to acquaint himself with the structure and morphology of the various animals found in nature. Perhaps, by one not specially acquainted with this subject, it would readily be imagined that every species of animal now in existence has a special structure to itself and not shared by any other. This, however, is far from being true, no matter how great the apparent amount of diversity among animals may be. All animals may be arranged under no more than six primary morphological plans of structure; differing-, it is true, some one from another in their scale of organization, yet all agreeing in being formed upon one and the same definite plan.
To compare -the structure of one animal with that of another, noting ^the modifications of the various organs, explaining and confirming some of the theories of evolution, is none other than the study of comparative anatomy—the foundation of human anat-.
omy, which is the corner-stone of medicine.
By such knowledge the student’s idea of life is broadened, his conception of the once unexplainable forms that inhabit the earth is widened as, by degrees, he sees the change in all animals, from the perfect to the more perfect, each striving to attain that degree of perfection which will enable it to compete -more successfully with its fellow companion in the great race of life.
The first step as a preparation for this great study is a course in Elementary Zoology. Here the beginner gets a faint glimpse of animal life; and, like a ray of sunshine first penetrating the dense foliage of a Southern forest, sees for the first time the beauties of nature hidden therein. Here he gets a general
CLASS OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY DISSECTING A HORSE.
survey of the animal kingdom, from the lowest form of life—the simple mass of protoplasm— to the higher and more complex vertebrate. But a step farther, and he arrives at the threshold of Advanced Zoology. This study leads deeper and more extensively into animal nature, the children of the forest and the deep; it treats of their habits, structure, name and classification. It is here that one begins to realize the necessity of a natural classification, and that the task of arranging a proper one, extremely easy as it was at first supposed to be, is in reality one of the most difficult problems yet encountered by the scientist.
Zoology, then, is, indeed, to a student of medicine a science of the highest importance. Not only does it assist him in his material welfare, but it also secures for its faithful followers a spirit of earnest research and inquiry; trains the mind to vigorous and logical thoughts, and, dealing, as it does, with the highest expressions of matter, gives us an insight to the thoughts of the Creator through His creatures.
Comparative Anatomy and Zoology are so interwoven that the mere mention of one necessarily implies the other. But to know and pursue the study of Comparative Anatomy properly, the knowledge of- zoology is indispensable. The
latter deals with the habits, structure, external form, and the value or injurious effects of animals to man. The former, taking these structures, compares that of one animal with that of another, explaining the analogies and homologies existing between the various organs, and the cause of the modification as best suited to their possessor.
In the space of time, animals, being possessed of an internal tendency to vary, and influenced by external circumstances, in their structure and organs have undergone and are still undergoing great variations. On comparing the feet of the prehistoric horse with those of our present horse, a decided change may be noticed. The horse of the geological period possessed five tQSS instead
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
549
of one; but, through the long ages of time one of these toes being used more than the others, it naturally obtained by constant use an abnormal size, while at the same time the other toes, being less frequently used, began to. diminish, and so nearly have they become obliterated, that all that remains on the foot of the present horse are the two small
THE CLASS OF COMPARATIVE OSTEOLOGY.
splint bones of the
remaining toe on which it now walks. But perhaps a more striking comparison, and one better . suited, is that of the relation existing between
the Ornithorhynchus of Australia, and the birds of the present. This extraordinary animal has the appearance of a small otter; its body is covered with hair, unlike a bird in this respect, yet it has a bill, rears its young from eggs, and is at the same time a mammal.
How are these things to be explained? . It evidently shows that there must be some relation existing between birds and mammals, and that this one single species is the only living demonstration that such relation does exist.
These problems are exceedingly difficult to explain, even with the help of Comparative Anatomy; yet they clearly show that in all animals there is a tendency to vary, either to a. more perfect state, as in the feet of the horse, or, like the Rhizocephala, become so degenerated as to lose all animal characteristics whatever.
Since the time of Richard Owen, Comparative Anatomy has been given a high place in the natural sciences. . It is this study that has forever made him famous in the scientific world. So thoroughly was he versed in this subject, it is said of him, that by simply taking the tooth of "some animal he could readily describe its owner.
In Comparative Anatomy, evolution finds its greatest friend, for it was these two combined that have offered the only reasonable explanation concerning the derivation of the various species of animals existing on the earth today. It is Comparative Anatomy that assists Paleontology in classifying and arrang
ing into proper groups the animals long unknown to man; and it is Comparative Anatomy that helps to stamp without a doubt the fact that-the natural laws established by the Creator to control the animal kingdom are the same today as they were ages ago. ■
It is not enough that a medical student should] know thoroughly only the struc
ture and life of the human subject; for this is, in reality, covering a very narrow scope. * His knowledge should extend to all life in general; for then, and only then, will he be able to comprehend and understand the many phenomena his profession must necessarily bring him in contact with.	„
Our Museum.
EDWARD B. FALVEY, gS.
It has often been stated here at Notre Dame that never again would there be a Biological collection like the one destroyed by the fire of 1879; but I feel safe in saying that, with the late costly collections secured by the University, the Museum of today, not only excels the former one, but is equal to that of any college collection. The greater part of the collection has been secured from Ward’s Natural Museum and Scientific Establishment of Rochester, New, York, which is undoubtedly the most famous, as well as the largest company of its . kind in America, and a place .where any form of animal, mineral and fossil specimens can be obtained. In the building of Science Hall, the plan made for the Museum could scarcely be excelled, and the sight presented to a visitor on entering is one to be proud of. The .huge walnut cases, the broad stairway, the large fossil specimens—all tend to make the visitor wonder at the beauty of it all.
On the main floor, where are also the chemical and physical laboratories, is the Geological .and Mineral Museum, where the various speci=
55° ,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mens of inorganic nature are represented, along with some of the rarest fossil remains of animal and plant life. Twelve huge cases, where shelf upon shelf of specimens; are, displayed, were insufficient to hold all the collection, and a circle of cases around the:, rotunda of the second floor was necessary; in order to make a full display.of the-minerals. Underneath these cases, in the archway of the rotunda, are several fine specimens of deerantlers and also a valuable stuffed head of that beautiful animal, the American bison.'
Ascending the broad stairway to? the sec-
ond floor we find ourselves in the Biological Department. One • can scarcely realize the importance of its exhibits unless he is an" initiated biologist; for, what the model is to lilies.
the artist, that the specimen or skeleton is The collection of shells is typical. The aim
to the biologist in the study of the various forms of life. The museum is the biologist’s library, wherein he can study the grand and complex volumes written i n characters only legible to one that is well versed in the science of nature. Without the material, no matter how competent the student or learned the teacher, confused ideas will always reign; for the old adage, “seeing is believing,
MUSEUM (WEST VIEW).
is one to be
followed by the student of nature.
Another necessity, and one equally as valuable as the specimen, is a good library; and in this line -ample provision is made by a careful selection of such works as will prove most
beneficial' to the student. On this same floor order from the lamprey to man. Finally, as a
are located the different recitation rooms, also the large biological laboratory, with thirty fine microscopes, and all the necessaries for a well-equipped institutute of biology. The Botanical Department, though not large, is very complete, contains two Herbaria, one of the United States, and one of Canada, along with an almost complete collection of the wood and fruits found within the limits of the United States^
' The large zoological collection excites the
wonder and admiration of everyone, for all the orders of animals, vertebrates and invertebrates, are represented by typical forms, from
; the unmoulded, constantly changing mass of protoplasm to the'highest form of life. .The numerous invisible forms are studied by means . of The’microscopeT but still many are represented by cases. ?Next in order , comes the sponges, which are very' important to the zbologist; and here the various forms are found oil. shelves. Then comes the Hydroids and Corals, the wonders of the sea. The corals
■ ' 4 r . , are very interesting on account of their forming the well-known Coral Islands. Passing to the next case we1find the-, Echinoderms, or starfishes- and sea-urchins with the beautiful sea

has been to have every genus represented by a number of its best species. Half a dozen Tri-dacne, each weighing about 150 pounds, are always looked upon with wonder.
The collection of crustaceans is fairly complete in its representation of orders and genera, and th e principal types o f ascidians are also included in this well-arranged and typical collec
tion of marine invertebrate life. The verte-brated animals are not numerously represented, yet enough is found for the student in zoology.
The student of Comparative Osteology will* find a number of skeletons representing every
special feature of the plan of Science Hall, we may mention”that all the class-rooms as well as laboratories open into the museum, and there are no restrictions to students to wander about and study for themselves the various forms of life that are explained to them in the lecture room. They may thus put in practice the knowledge they have acquired from the pages of bulky tomes, and by research learn for themselves what They could never learn from books.
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
551
Why Did Not Men Remain Barbarians?
Do not be surprised at this question and do not look for a scientific answer to it. For. two. reasons. In the first place, the question has often struck me as reasonable, and secondly,. it is, to speak paradoxically, not an inquiry concerning the reasons affecting man’s change of conditions, but rather a wish that barbarism might again become the proper thing.
Let us see what civilization is here around us, and contrast our present life with what it would be under barbaric conditions. Today we are forced to cover ourselves oyer with . layer upon layer of “Gents’ Furnishing Goods,” —refractory collarj high or otherwise; necktie to suit the prevailing fashion and to make your temper uneven; hat, if you are a society ■ man or a turfman, with flats to rent, but if you’re , a mere presidential candidate or even a would-be congressman, with a plenty of room and to spare; waistcoat and coat for no other purpose seemingly than to supply places for your watch and letters; trousers to cramp your knees and to hold your silver dollars, that is, if you are fortunate enough to have any; shoes of any color and of any style—Gothic, Old Roman ofTeu-tonic—for the sole purpose of growing corns; and many other useless . arid awkward articles . to try the patience and make teem the pocket-
book of civilized man. What a blessing not to contract tailor-bills and. bad colds by the'wear-ing and change of apparel! Score one for bar- . . barism!	-	- - .
We are responsible in most things to our > superiors. We must do this- and -that and act •
so and so for Mr. Such-a-one. Society is our great bugbear, always there to frighten us into becoming behavior and to make us stand erect with head thrown back and heels held at the angle of 45.° We must get up and go to bed within a fraction of the hour set by conventionality. We must eat three meals a day, each at a particular hour and these meals we must call by their given names. We must restrain our feelings when an enemy or a friend is present, lest we. be called impetuous or enthu siastic. And all these things—duties or tasks, or whatever they have been named—we must do, or face the frowns of conventionality and the sneers, or worse, the pity of Society. .
Here is an instance in point: I must write an essay. It is hard to get a subject and almost as hard to treat it. I get my subject at last ^nd thoughts come rushing upon me, till I am
forced to cry, “Down!” I drag myself out of the scrimmage and retire behind . the lines, from which I watch the game as it still continues. Now I can observe, with nicety and precision, each thought as he comes rushing on the one in front of him, and I make notes upon . his actions. By and by the rushing is over* and I collate and editv my notes. I. am tired and much time* is spent. :	:	■ • -
What would my’barbarian do all this time? Perhaps the season is deep winter. He covers ' himself with his bearskiri, ’ straps on his snow- ’ ‘


shoes, dons his-beaver; shoulders his quiver.y and clasps his bow, and far over the white - . plains arid the forest and the * mountains and ‘ the valleys he roams. The grisly falls' by his v steady hand; the deer is at length brought to, bay, or the boar tumbles lifeless in his last' charge. The freedom of the waste is the hunt' er’s; the bracing air, the cloudless sky (it never rains in the place I mention); the mellow sun- .

shine,—all are his. He struts
home loaded
with his game, and kicks his dog or his wife; . whichever comes within his path. This is life, .where you are never dissatisfied with yourself and where-instead of having to • write, essays . you are at liberty to go out hunting. And this
reminds me—but that -is another story, arid Kipling is still writing.
. A. W. F.;

Varsity -Verse.
5
i »

.	. ; a tale and a moral. ,
A wayward youth of' inquisitive?hature, * *
(The former niuch'dess'than* the latter, alasi) 7
Quite unskilled in the strange nomenclature: . ’ Of bacteriology, suffered mflature" .
Of cerebral matter, alas!	.
He picked up a flask to show he was tougher Than most boys who had any gumption, alack, 1 Took out the cotton and poked in his^snuffer, -y
i And now he is dead, the poor little duffer, ‘ Consumed with consumption alack! ■*.*“ '.
This story shows us ‘ J 7 To keep our long noses"*	, ,
Away from Bacillus Tub 'ercftlosis^: j ' ;
. .	• ■	■ I- : '-.B.
y

w
exactly! 7 *;
When, sulphuretted, hydrogen Develops in an egg, , ,	. ,
We know that the bacillus,.
. That looks just like a keg, • " And his cousins, micrococci, ■ ' = -Who are so shy and foxy, Are trying like the d. - 1 To change the chemic- level— Of the egg. .
.	-	-	•	.P-.J

❖

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Study of General Biology.
FRANK J. POWERS B. S.
Biology is a science which deals with the phenomena manifested by living matter. The study of the forms of living things, of their actions, nutrition, surroundings, of their relations to one another and to the lifeless world, as well as many other topics lies within the scope of biology. The science embraces the two divisions of the living world called, respectively, botany, the study of plant life, and zoology, the study of animal life. The study of general biology, not the study of any particular branch of biological science, is the object. Such a'course of study has been established to give a broad and general knowledge of the properties of living matter as they are revealed in the
structures and actions of living things, and it is a foundation for a more extended study and research in this branch of science. The object of a course in biology is not, as is too frequently supposed, to serve as an introduction to the study of m e d i c i ne. True, it is of great advantage to one intending to become a physician, because the study of life in all its forms is almost
IN THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORY.
indispensable to the study of human life itself. The real object, then, of this course is that the mind be trained to observe the different kinds of living organisms, to compare them with one another, both animal and vegetable; and to apply the knowledge thus acquired to the properties of human life.
The course, as pursued at Notre Dame, embraces, besides certain preliminary work, which occupies one year, three years’ work: that is, it is begun in the Sophomore year and is continued till graduation. There are, of course, other studies, such as Chemistry, Physics, Geology, Logic, etc., which the student has to take up; and besides he is supposed to have a good primary education. In the Sophomore year the student, who has already in the Fresh-
man year become familiar with the use of the microscope, examines some unicellular forms of animal and plant life and compares them with one another. This is the first step in the study of general biology. The student is then led to disprove for himself that ancient theory, so long held even by men eminent in the science, namely, the theory of spontaneous generation.
After he has acquired a fair knowledge of the relations existing between these lowest forms of life, he next proceeds to investigate the properties of multicellular plants and animals, and in turn compares these one with another, always advancing logically from the lower to the higher forms. As the student proceeds along these lines of study his attention is called to the fact that evolution—that is, the gradual' development of species from preexisting forms of animals and plants—must

ferns of the vegetable
■ exist, as is shown, for example, in the relations existing b e-tween various species of Zoothamnium—a genus of unicellular organisms. V a r ious other theories also are discussed, such as the Biogenesis, Heterogenesis, etc. In studying the more complex forms of animal and vegetable life, such as Vermes and Mollusca of the animal kingdom, and mosses and world, the student is
enabled to obtain a more correct knowledge of the laws of reproduction—how the sperm, cells and the germ cells are developed. To give the student a more practical knowledge, he must be brought into direct contact with the growth, actions, nutrition, surroundings and relation of one form to another, and thus special trips of research are arranged at certain seasons of the year, by which the student’s memory is refreshed. To supplement this knowledge and to obviate the difficulty arising from the location,’ the inclemency of the weather and the natural inability of certain forms to be produced at certain seasons, the Laboratory of Biology- is well and copiously supplied with specimens, bpth anjinal and vegetable,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
553
Histology.
CHARLES JOHN PIQUETTE, ’98.
No study excites more the admiration and astonishment of the student than histology, or the study of the minute structure of both animals and plants. We see the cells.forming and arranging themselves into groups so as to constitute the great trees of our forests, or shape themselves into the complex body of man. Each cell takes its respective position and performs its special function, though so very small and invisible to man’s naked eye.. How could the simple masses of protoplasm become the heart, blood and brain of man, or the petals of the beautiful roses, if it were not by the hand of the Omnipotent Being? The more one studies this subject the more, one sees how wonderful are the works of God. .
Histology is a great science, and among the many branches of the Biological Course it holds a paramount position. The instrument par excellence for this study is evidently the microscope; but there are so many other forms of apparatus required that it seems almost impossible to give to the uninitiated even a vague idea about the instruments and chemicals necessary for a well-equipped Histological Laboratory. First of all, one must have a good microscope. Our laboratory was. supplied with one dozen microscopes by Zeiss of Zena, Germany; but most of the instruments and other apparatus were procured from the Bausch and Lomb Optical Company of Rochester, New York. Besides the microscope, one has to become familiar with the other- utensils and processes used, namely, the appliance of cover glasses and slides, the handling of dissecting needles, the cutting of sections by means of the microtome,'the employment of the turntables, the manipulation of surgical kniv.es and scissors, mounting media, stains, cleaning and fixing agents, cements,'imbedding substances, and sundry articles used in preparing and mounting objects.
In our elementary course in histology, the student becomes acquainted with the microscope and many of the apparatus used; though most of the sections,required are prepared by the professor. In the advanced course everything in the laboratory is at the student’s disposal, and when he has finished the first year in elementary, and two years in advanced, his
tology, he should be able to make a section of ' any part of a plant or aniiiialbody.
The process of making mounts is not very difficult, and is very interesting to the biclogi- ' cal student. The object, if it be animal tissue, is placed in alcohol until it becomes perfectly saturated, then it is removed to a solution of alcohol and chloroform to prepare for the imbedding in paraffin. The paraffin is heated in a water bath until it becomes a clear liquid. The object is then placed in it. The paraffin and object are now removed to a mould and allowed to harden. It is then made into the . required shape and is finally ready -for cutting. About five thousand sections can bemadefrom every inch of the object. The sections are first placed in turpentine to remove the paraffin, and then in alcohol to get rid of the turpentine. Now they are washed with water, or they may not be, according to the stains, whether alcoholic or aqueous. Some stains color certain tissues, and others will not^ therefore, it is necessary to use two or more stains. The section is again washed with water and placed in alcohol, and finally in oil of cloves or some other cleaning agent. Now the section is ready for * mounting. It is spread out on a glass slide as near the centre as possible. A drop of balsam . is placed on this, and then the cover glass is applied. The mount, with.a little care, will now remain permanent for years. A good collection of sections, taken from the various parts of the human body, will be very useful to the1 biological student, if he intends to study medicine. Histology is the foundation of anatomy, and by its means one is able to distinguish a normal or healthy tissue from a pathological form.	'
Signs of Spring. .
The bluebird flits where boughs are bare, A winged sapphire of the air. ‘
A bobolink—the wanton wight—	.
One flash of fluting black and white,
Above the meadow skims along, Filling all the world with song.
Upon the dew-starred, springy sod • The tender, half-oped violets nod.
Across the blue of heaven o’erhead ■
The flecks of fleecy cloud are spread.
An organ-grinder’s ’neath.a tree, , And “Annie Rooney” comes to me. ••
And when I hear his grinding drear,
I know that spring is really here.	.
F. W. O’M.
554	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
SCHOLASTIC. Fkst
Notre Dame, May 29, 1897.
JBubltsIjcto c&ctS Saturtoan touring (Eton (Eime at ID. Hni&crsttn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Staff.
JOSEPH A. MARM0N;e	ARTHUR W. STACE, ’96;
JAMES BARRY, ’97;
ELMER J. MURPHY, ’97,‘	SHERMAN STEELE, ’97;
. JESSE W. LANTRY, ’97;
JOS. V, SULLIVAN, ’97; PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97;
CHARLES M. B. BRYAN, 97;
THOMAS B. REILLY, ’97; JOHN A. MCNAMARA, ’97;
WILLIAM C. HENGEN, ’97.
FRANK W. O’MALLEY, 1
FRANCIS J. F. CONFER p Rcfiortcr§_ LOUIS C. M. REED, JOHN F. FENNESSEY, J
, —The Scholastic is pleased to announce that the Reverend Maurice J. Dorney, LL. D., ’96, the distinguished priest and Scholar of Chicago, will .deliver the Baccalaureate'sermon on Sun-day,-June 13. 1 The selection'of Father Dorriey for,such;an occasion meets with, approval on all, .sides. ’■	* 1
------------------ ’ ' '
1'' ' ‘ ' '' ’ '' ’ . : •
- —.We, the regular editors, have taken a short respite from our weekly labors and turned over, for the present issue, to the young men of the Biological course the Scholastic and all its appointments. They are scientists, as you may see from their articles; they are also poets and jesters and good fellows to boot. With this introduction we will leave you with our friends the “Biologs.” o
—For judges of the Oratorical Contest, which is to be held next Wednesday evening in Washington Hall,,the Faculty have selected three very prominent Chicago men, that are themselves orators of note. They are: the Reverend Daniel J. Riordan, of St. Elizabeth’s Church, the Rev. Hugh O’Gara. McShane, LL. D.,’95, arid the. Hon. Judge John Gibbons, LL. D. With these. gentlemen as judges our young orators will feel confident of receiving careful attention and just appreciation.
Thursday, the Feast of the Ascension, was a day to be remembered at Notre Dame. Bishop Rademacher, the devoted pastor of the diocese of Ft. Wayne, was again among us. His presence brings new light, and each visit he pays us is a pleasure that too soon fades at his quick departure. He was here to administer • the Sacrament of the Holy Eucharist to the First Communion class and to confirm them. It was an occasion of great display. Before eight o’clock the ministers of the Mass and the attendants assembled in the college parlor to meet the Bishop. There a procession was formed which advanced along the wide corridor, down the steps of the entrance, wound around the campus to the statue of the Sacred Heart and thence to the Church. It was a beautiful sight, and the sun shone in all his brightness upon the golden vestments of the ministers, while the Band played its choicest -marches and the Cadets, in gorgeous full dress, went through their evolutions. The following was the order of the procession: Cross-bearer and acolytes, students ' of St. Edward’s. Hall, students of Carroll Hall, students of Brownson Hall, students of' Sorin Hall in collegiate dress, the University Band, acolytes,* First Communicants bearing candles, subdeacon,, assistant priest and deacon of the Mass, the Bishop and Deacons of Honor in golden vestments, master of' ceremonies,' crozier-bearer, can dle-bearers and bdbk-bearer; Cohipanies A. and B., of the Cadets in full-dress uniform. .They entered the immense‘ church, and to the grand music of Leonard’s Mass tlie organ sounded and the choif intoned the ' Kyrie .Eleison, after the Bishop and the attendant priests had advanced to tlie foot of the altar. It was an impressive ceremony—this Pontifical. High Mass,—and as the- watcher !sat- ‘in the pew he was made to think of the glory of the Church and the sub-limity of the Holy Sacrifice. Here at Notre Dame there is every opportunity of celebrating the feasts with almost all the pomp and splendor of Rome herself. Every detail is carried out, and all with an impressiveness that is wonderful.
The first Coihmunion class were kneeling at the front pews, and after the first Gospel Rev. James French; C. S. C., addressed them. with words that they will never forget.. He told them many things that were good to hear and in a manner sb touching that more than one
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
555
in the rear was seen to wipe away a tear. At the Consecration the altar, decorated with flowers, shone in the glow of a thousand candles and as the Sacred Host was lifted a hush fell
upon the people as they bowed before their God.
The Deacon of the Mass had chanted the Confiteor, and the little boys advanced quietly and solemnly within the rails of the sanctuary to receive their first Holy Communion. As they filed slowly up, big boys and men and women, whose years had not yet destroyed and shall never destroy, the memory of a certain beautiful day of their youth, thought again of their first Communion, and for the second time that day, as the Bishop uttered the “ Ecce Agnus Dei! ” the tears welled up into the eyes of many. The young b o y s r e t u r n ed to their seats and there, with bowed - heads, they entered into communion with their Redeemer.
In the afternoon the Bishop was again escorted to
RIGHT REV. JOSEPH RADEMACHER,
D. D., BISHOP OF -FORT WAYNE.
the church. Here he was
again dressed in the robes of his sacred office, o	»
and before administering the Sacrament of Confirmation he addressed the young boys before him with words of affection, telling them of
the great act of the morning and exhorting on last Thursday in the Church of the Sacred them to remain ever good and pure. Of all the Heart, and brought back to memory scenes students at Notre Dame, the Minims, from that are dearest in life.	-
whom the majority of the First Communion and Confirmation classes was drawn, love our Bishop most, and it is no wonder that his words were listened to with unusual attention. The
ceremonies were then begun, and the Bishop exercised one of his functions, confirming the young boys in the faith that was purified and sanctified that morning by Holy Communion.
It was a great day, not only for those that received the Sacraments, but for their parents, their friends and the students in general. It was an inspir-i n g occasion, for the thought of chi Idhood innocence oc-curred to many, when the youthful c ommunicants with souls as pure as angels, stepped forward to receive for the first time the Bread of Life. It is easy for u s, who are Catholics, to understand the;feel-i ngs 'e ngen-de red ^byf a First Communion; but to those outside the pale our actions seem m eari frigless and empty. There is, however, a breath o f something indefinable that stirs the
hearts of all. at the thought of
young and innocent boys going up to the altar with so much devotion and reverence, and
returning with faces beaming in the Divine Presence. Such a thought struck many a looker-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Lost in th© Ninth.
’ Notre Dame filled the bases in the sixth by . means of two safe hits and an error on the part
Well bunched hits on the part of the visitors in the ninth inning tells the cause of our defeat. At the beginning of the ninth the score was eight to five in Notre Dame’s favor, but in the last half of the fatal ninth the visitors made five hits and won the game. Although we were . defeated, the home team played the best game it has played this year. Illinois did not put up such a strong game as the Varsity did, but all
of Johnson. Brown was hit by a pitched ball and McNichols scored. Fleming struck out after Hindel had made first on a play which retired MacDonald. Wernham knocked a swift grounder to McNichols who threw the ball to first base. The ball struck the ground in front of MacDonald, who was unable to hold it. Wernham went to second on a wild pitch by Gibson and came home on Hindel’s failure to hold a ball which was thrown to cut off Had-
their hits counted for something. The local men sall at second. Score, 4-3. hit the ball well, but their hits were scattered and often counted for nothing. Although our infield has been considerably shaken up, yet it
In the seventh Powers made a two bagger. Daly made three strikes, but McGill dropped the ball, and was so long in deciding what to . _ do with it that Daly reached first in safety, made a couple of neat stops and captured. Powers.came home on a passed ball by Mc-the batting honors. He made three hits in ; Gill. .Folfen reached first through Shuler’s five times at bat. Follen and Fleming made a error, and Daly came home. McNichols fouled couple of fine catches in the outfield. Follow- OUf. MacDonald and Gibson singled, a nd Follen ing is a desciiption of the game. . ,	. came home. MacDonald scored through Wern-
Notre Dame came first to bat. Brown was ham’s error. The next two men to bat were put given-his base on balls, and was . advanced to Out. base on balls, a base, on being hit by a second-on Hindel s.. sacrifice. Fleming and pitched ball, and two hits brought in two runs Powers were put out;on infield-hits.. Fulton for Illinois. Neither side scored in the eighth, and Thornton were given their bases on balls. Notre Dame made one hit.in the ninth, but it but the next three /.men were easily put out.. did no good: Illinois made three hits in their In-the second inning Notre Dame did not half and two runs. An error2 tied the score, score. Pollen made an infield hit which was too and another hit put two men on bases. When slow to handle. TheWarsity was retired by .two ‘ two men were put out, McGill made a hit and strike outs and an infield hit, and Illinois went , the game was iost to Notre Dame. Score, 9-8. out in the same manner. Brown made^a hit in	'
stronger now than ever before. McNichols
the third inning, but the three men next to bat Notre Dame
THE SCORE:
struck out. Illinois’; was retired by two long flies to Fleming and a neat play by McNichols. Neither side scored- in the: fourth, although Notre Dame made .a couple of hits..	.
In the fifth inning,■ after two. men were out, .
Brown, s. s.
Hindel, 2d bi ; Fleming, I. f.
Powers (C.), c.
Daly, c. f.
. Follen, r;f. : •
McNichols,’3 b.;
Hindel was given his base on ,balls. Fleming	McDonald, 1 st b.
made a hit which would have been a -two. ’ ' Gibson, p.
Gibson, p.
■ A.B.
3; 3
5 .
: 5Z . 5 ' ' -5 ■■
•' 5 -
R.
o .1
I
H.
I O
S.H. P.O.
o .
.1 . o
o
A. E'
3 O ;
1 a. ''i
i
3
5-i ■ .5- o’
•o ,0'
o o o o
8
■,,1
o 1 o o
1
9 . o
O‘ O o o
11.
o
4
o
bagger if the bat had not broken. Powers ^ Totals
made ;a single which brought in? Hindel and .	* Winning run made after .two men went out.
Fleming. Daly made <a three bagger which Illinois
brought in PowersRRFollen came to bat, but Fulton, 2d b.(Capt).
, .	,	, , s'-.-. .	, . ■	,	•	■ Thornton, r. f.
before he could /make a hit Daly ventured . Johnson, 3d b. off third and was put out.-Hadsall, of Illinois,-’ Shuler, s. s. -‘	-	Wernham, 1. f.
- Hadsall, c.'fR ■ McGill, c. .
•.Carpenter, p; . ' Hazlit, 1st b.
Totals Summary Earned
. 41; 8:
13 26*
4
was given his base on balls. McGill knocked^ afoul near to third base and was put outby McNichols. Hadsair tried tosteal to. second but was thrown out by Gibson. Carpenter, -Hazlit and Fulton, who were next to bat, made three hits which brought in two earned runs for Illinois. Thornton went to first on balls, but Follen’s catch of Johnson’s fly retired
-a
A.B.
3
3 ,
' 5'
5.
3
5 ■
. 4-
4
R.
j:
*1
I o o .1
3. .
H. . S.H. P.O.
1
1
o o
1 1
2
o * . o
I o o o o o. o
O
o I o 13 o 9
A.
3 0
1
0 1
0
E.
O O
I
I
I
I
36 9 10
the side. Score, 3-2.
3 0
o. o
11 6
.. _______ runs, Notre Dame, 2; University,
of Illinois 3. Two Base Hits, Powers, Thornton. Three base hits, Daly. Baseson balls, off Gibson, 6; off Carpenter, 3: struck out by Gibson, 7; by. Carpenter, 13. Passed ball, Carpenter; wild pitches, Gibson, 2. Time of game
; 2:00. Umpire, Cross./■	\	•. ,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
' 55Z

After Fifty Years.
Personals.
?■*
The old student’s heart throbbed with joy as the carriage slowly rumbled up the avenue toward the University. He was coming back to the home of his boyhood for the first time in fifty years. In vain he looked for some old, familiar landmark, and his heart began to sink. The carriage passed the graveyard. When he left there was no cemetery in that place. It could not be the old Indian burying-ground, for that was nearer the river. There must have been a pestilence to have filled so many graves in so short a time. He felt like Rip Van Winkle as he stopped at the entrance to the main building. A stranger opened the door, a stranger welcomed him, and strange faces were all about. In the reception room was a picture of Father Sorin, but the face was so aged that he scarcely recognized it. Then he introduced himself and the dull pain caused by the absence of the old faces, was banished by the heartiness of his welcome. He was made to feel that a son of Notre Dame is always welcome at his Alma Mater, and that every inmate of the University is a brother to whomsoever has been an inmate of Notre Dame, though years may intervene between them.
The old student went into the office, and was shown the old yellow ledger- in which his purchases of years gone by were recorded. His careless, lively boyhood was recalled by the sight of charges for mending materials. Further on, charges for ptisan and mail made him feel his youthful appetite. He heard the click of a type-writer and at the same time he saw an item in which he was charged for quills. What changes fifty years bring forth! There on the ledger was the name of Father Gillespie, who had been his table and “ranks” companion fifty years before. He was told that Father Gillespie had been sleeping for years in the college . graveyard, and the ledger was closed. He saw the baseball team on the campus, preparing for a match game, and he told those around him of the games of shinny that were played here in the days when baseball and match games were unheard of at Notre Dame. The old shinny games resulted in many a disagreement, which were settled on Wednesday afternoons when the boys took their trips to the banks of the St. Joe.* In those days there was not a railroad in Indiana, and Bertrand, the stage station, was leading South Bend and Niles in the race for first place, but the glory of the past is faded and gone.	.
Mr. Thomas S. Wallin, ’45-’46-’47-48, was our most welcome visitor on last Saturday and Sunday. It was the first time rhe had visited Notre Dame since he left it in ’48.. The many friends he made during, his stay will always be glad to,welcome him back to his Alma Mater.'
—With deep grief we chronicle the death* of George H. Cochrane, who was a student at; Notre Dame in the ’70’s. Mr. Cochrane arid his . -brothers were students at Notre Dame for a number of years, and his sister, Mrs. M. W. Ryan, was a pupil of St. Mary’s Academy. The Scholastic extends its sympathy to the. bereaved friends and relatives. <	.
—Another distinguished graduate'of Notre , Dame was recently honored by Governor Mount, . of Indiana. Dr. J. M. Dinnen; who is well known in medical and social, circles iri Fort Wayne, was selected as one of the members of the State Medical Board of Examiners and. Registration. All the doctor’s friends will, be delighted to hear of his success.	/
—It is with sorrow that we announce the death of Mr. John Saul, who died at. his home in . Washington, D. C., on Tuesday, May 18- Mr. -Saul was long a friend to Notre Dame. It--is to him that we owe much- of the beauty of Notre Dame, for it was he who furnished-the; _ shrubbery and gave valuable suggestions as. to its arrangement. He leaves many sorrowing, friends to mourn his death.	;;
—Rev. Dr. Conaty, Rector of the Catholic; University, accompanied by Father McGuire, of St. James’ Church, Chicago, was the welcome guest of Rev. President Morrissey and other members of the Faculty Monday afterr ternoon. The student body was disappointed ' in not being able to receive an address from Dr. Conaty during his stay, but they trust that • he will visit us again in the near- future,.and that he will be able to stay long enough with us next time to favor us with a talk. .	::	?
—We clip from the Lafayette Sunday Times a; bit of news which should be of interest to the numerous friends of Father L’Etourneau. It is; 5 an extract from a reminiscent sketch. ".. .
.... I remember that at the University of Notre Dame, ' in the spring of 1^62, one Sunday, Rev. Father L’Etour- ; neau officiated at High Mass. He was then Director of< the Brothers’ Novitiate—quite tall, very spare and, seem- . ingly, in most delicate health. I do not'believe he- . : weighed 130 pounds—and in stature he was over six feet. - . I recollect that after the services his frail. appearance ■ ; was a subject of conversation in a group .where; were' • < present several of the college professors, and one of the . latter—one I thought well gifted to express an intelligent .. opinion in the premises—remarked of Father L’Etour-neau:—“ Poor man, he won’t live to see another'snow.” And, believe me, good old Father L’Etourneau has since then seen the snows ot thirty-six winters—and, moreover,. all of the then twelve priests at.Notre Dame' are dead. . Father L’Etourneau has really attended the funeral of every priest; connected with Notre Dame at the time the . above prediction concerning his probable demise was ' . made.	..	..	.
Father L’Etourneau is still enjoying the bestf '. of good health and attending, regularly tohis duties as Director of the Professed . Brother ff at Notre Dame.-;	. . yfATff
3?
£


a®



558	NOTRE DAME
Local Items.
—Lost—A razor. Return it to E. F. Hessel.
—Cypher says he wishes he had a wheel that he would not have to propel himself.
—St. Edward’s Park has taken on its usual brilliancy and is now the delight of visitors.
—Chester Atherton, of Sorin Hall, had the great pleasure of entertaining his mother and sister recently.
-—George Hanhauser, Brownson Hall, left for his home in St. Marys, Pa., yesterday on account of illness.
—Miss Frances Meyers, of Pekin, Ill., and Miss Anna Trefzger, of Peoria, Ill., were recently the very welcome guests of John Meyers.
—Accounts at the Students’ office will be closed on the afternoon of June 3, next Thursday. After that date no credit accounts will be made.
—“Say,” said Sambo, as the chief “rooter” gave.one of his blood-disturbing yells, “why don’t you go pawn that voice and lose the ticket?”
' —The ex-juniors defeated the Carroll AntiSpecials Thursday by a score of 7 to 1. The Carrolls did not secure a single hit off Taylor’s • delivery.
—The last of the drills for the medal in Company B was held last Thursday. Charles J. Shillington, of Chicago, was the winner, with Shea a close second.
—Father Robert, who conducted the; student’s retreat last fall, was the welcome guest of the University last week. He was accompanied by Father Bonaventure.	’
—Some members of the Faculty were much alarmed last Thursday as they beheld a grand rush around the college. It was only the Car-rollites sprinting to the lake for a swim.
—The Carrolls and High Moguls played a dull, uninteresting game of baseball on the 23d, the only feature of which was a catch by Walsh. The H. M.’s won by a score of 15—10.
—The Mass on Decoration Day was sung by Very Rev. Chaplain Corby of the Irish Brigade, a.nd honorary Chaplain of the Loyal Legion of Indiana. He made a few remarks apropos of the occasion.
—Very Rev. Father Provincial received from some friends a very nice present which he could not use for himself; but he knew where such a delicacy could be appreciated and he sent .it to the Minims, where it was very welcome.
—Rev. Dean Keating, of Ottawa, Ill., Rev. Father Shaw, of LaSalle, Ill., and Rev. Timothy O’Sullivan, of Chicago, accompanied Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding on his visit here ;last week. They Were most welcome guests of the University.	. ;	.
SCHOLASTIC.
—Mr. Stephen Fleming, well remembered as a student here some years back, was among the ball players last Thursday and donned the uni- j form of the Varsity. He plays an unusually ! strong game at short, considering the fact that i he is much out of practice.	;
—The Carroll and Brownson Tennis clubs
met in contest on the Carroll grounds Thurs- ; day’ afternoon. Three sets were played, the Brownsons securing two out of the three. Reuss and Foley represented the Carrolls, while Pim and F. O’Shaughnessy, Fadely, Miller, O’Hara and M. O’Shaughnessy were the opposing teams. ■
—Duffy has been put on the retired list of punsters, but in his place has stepped forth—	'
as sweet as the month of May—Captain Napoleon Franey, who gives promise of outrivaling Golden. “Bob” now springs real live puns and relates clever stories with noticeable ease. He also dodges missiles with greater facility than did Duffv. .
—Those who wish to bear away with them a souvenir of Notre Dame could not do better than get a copy of Professor Preston’s latest piece of music, the “N. D. U. March,” now on sale at the Students’ Office. It is in the professor’s usual happy vein, and has the double interest of being local in reference and sprightly in movement.
—St. Edward’s Park has been undergoing o o remarkable changes during the past week. The geraniums have been removed from their winter quarters, and now grace the beautiful plot of ground north of the Academy of Music, and “ Mike ” diligently trains and prunes and digs and hoes until he has turned the place । into a paradise.
—The following is the programme and order ] in the Oratorical Contest to be held in Wash- \ ington Hall next Wednesday evening:	|
Our Need of Naval Preparation—T.Tyrone Cavanagh,’97	f
American Naval Heroes....:. .Edward E. Brennan,’97	|
Christian Unity...............M.	James Ney, ’97 t
Orestes A. Brownson..........C.	M. B. Bryan, ’97	|
Alexander Hamilton....... Sherman Steele, ’97	I
—Mrs, Ludwig, of Chicago, was a most wel-	|
comejvisitor, last	week. Mrs. Ludwig is the	?
wife of -Mr..Otto	Ludwig, who was recently	[
mentioned in the Scholastic, and she is a sister | to Thomas Hooley, another old student of | Notre Dame. She visited the friends and spots I dear to her brother and husband, and at the i same time made, many firm friends who will. i always welcome her to Notre Dame.	I
—We have just released one of our repoiters . for neglecting to cover his territory thoroughly. . j The day the Varsity played Chicag;o University I he failed to report a joke that was sprung fear-	1
lessly in broad daylight. During the progress	;
of the game a telegram was received, which ap- * peared somewhat exaggerated. “I’ll bet that’s one of Father M’s exaggerated reports,” said Wilson; as he viewed it closely. “No, it isn’t,” 4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
559
said Franey reassuringly, “it doesn’t look a bit like his writing.”
—On the morning of the 23d wild yells on Carroll campus seemed to point to a tragedy. On arriving at the scene, however, it was discovered to be much worse. The “Tens” of Sorin Hall were contending for the mastery on the diamond under the generalship of “Goldie” Walters and “Hancock” Bill. Features of the game were the pitching of Tomas,o, Coxey’s coaching, Hindel’s umpiring and Sanders’ fielding. The score keeper resigned in the second inning under the excuse that he was incapable of dealing with infinite numbers.
—The invitations for Commencement are out. They are beautiful in all that the word implies. They are the best product of the well-known firm of E. A. Wright, of Philadelphia. No invitation of previous years, not even that of the Golden Jubilee, equals the one for 1897. On the front are steel engravings of Sorin hall, the home of the graduates, of the main building and the avenue leading thereto, and of the college buildings as viewed across St. Joseph’s Lake. At the top is a raised fac-simile of the Gold and Blue pennant with the letters N. D. U.
—The following were among the parents and friends of those that were confirmed last
Mr. and Mrs. Monahan, Mrs. Kilgailen, Mr. and Mrs; Ebbert, Mrs. James Purnell, Mr. and Mrs. Dessauer, Mrs. J. St. Clair Ward, Mrs. Abercrombie and daughter, Mrs. McMahon, Mrs. H. H. Mund, Mrs. Doughtery and daughters, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Trentman, 'Mrs. Fleming and Mr. Stephen Fleming, Miss Summers, Ft. Wayne; Mr. and Mrs. Krug, Mrs. Stengel and daughter, Dayton, 0.; Mrs. Ervin, Muncie, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Butler, Columbus, O.; Mrs. Hirschberg, St. Louis; Mr. Morgan, Neola, Iowa.
—The following students were received into the Church last Wednesday by .Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C.:—Charles H. Dench, Joseph Pyle and Arthur Phillips. The following made their First Holy Communion last Thursday and were Confirmed by Bishop Rademacher in the afternoon:—	.
A. Schmitt, A. Krug, J. Berger, F. Mooney, C. Dench, J. Pyle, H. Ward, T. Kilgailen, A. Phillips, J. Lawton, H. Rees, J. Abercrombie, J. McMahon (Illinois), S. Trentman, R. Ryan, W. Dessauer, J. G. McCarthy, F. Ebbert, J. Ervin, R. Clark, W. Lovell, T. Butler, W. Frost, S. Monahan, E. Monahan, P. Dougherty.
The following were also confirmed: C. Gray, W. Desmond, A. Darron, J. Fenton, A. van der Vennett, J. Lahey, W. Malone, F. Phillips, T. Nolan, A. McDonnell, R. Stengel, O. Peterson, J. Morgan.	.
—The Minims are again indebted to Father Morrissey for a magnificent gift. This time they have been presented with an Everett Grand Piano, which is the delight of the little fellows and their teachers. The Minims are certainly very deserving of the gift and appreciate to the fullest extent the kindness of Father Morrissey. There are among them many clever musicians for their age, and there can be.no doubt that they will make good use of the beautiful instrument. The piano, which is to be used
principally at entertainments, is a splendid.ad- , dition to the richness and grace of St. Edward’s hall, where beautiful Parisian statuary and paintings from no less a brusjh that that of the late lamented Gregori adorn the niches' and corridors all around.	\
—Last Saturday afternoon, after, a day of very hard, work, the members of the Junior and Senior classes of the Biological- course gathered in one of the basement laboratories of Science Hall and had a “spread.” It was to . celebrate nothing in particular, unless the fact that they had worked hard, that day, but nevertheless it was one of the most enjoyable dinners of the session. Barnetti. and Piquette, the celebrated chefs of the “Laboratorium,” . Chicago, prepared the following excellent
menu:	.	.
Blue Points on Half Shell,
■	Soup, Olives,
Cutlets a la cheval, Celery, French Peas, ■
Eggs a la Embryo,	- -
Cranberry, Solanum Tubersum a la Saratoga, . Puree of Lvcopersicum Esculentum,
.	Arachis Hypogma, Ice Cream,
Cake,	.
’	:	Thea Niridis, Mac'aroonsl
After the embryo Doctors had dissected, masticated and digested the above samples of the botanical and animal kingdoms, the following toasts were responded to: “The Effect of Overeating upon a Modern Galvanized Stomach,” Mr. Wyllyum Ossa-Fagyn; “Adipose Tissue,” Mr. Jacob I. Rosenthal; “Outlook of the Hop CrOp,” Mr. Chawles Chappe-Piquette; “The Phonograph in the Study of The Sciences,” Mr. Burnyette Weaver; “Gay Life in Giddy Paris (Tex.),” Mr. Willie Wando Fitzpatrick.
the wonderful park system of his native town when the supper bell rang, and Mr. Fagyn moved that the classes adjourn to the refectory, • “just to top off with something substantial,” as • Ossa put it.	.	.	,
—The students of the Biological course had one patient this season, and the patient is now in the happy hunting ground. He, or it, was a .. poor old decrepit horse, knee sprung, spavined) with symptoms of glanders and'blind staggers, a regular “Bonyparte” of the vintage of ’62. There is a legend over at the stables that this ’ was the original horse that in his boyhood won . ... , a neck-and-neck race down in Kentucky by sticking out his tongue just as he went under . the wire. And the Doctors slew him, with the aid of Doctor Rosenthal, Doctor Fitzpatrick, two dollars worth of chloroform and a Texas . , bowie knife. Mr. Stewart MacDonald led the “Old. Battle-Ax” (they have christened him ; “Old Battle-Ax” after the favorite brand of chewing gum of that name). down to the banks , 1 of St. Mary’s Lake one bright spring afternoon, ; . and then Wiseacre landed on the horse’s necktie with his powerful right arm, and “Old Battle-Ax” went down like a log. Doctor Rosen-
560
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thal applied the two dollars’ worth of chloroform, Doctor Fitzpatrick applied the bowie-knife; the blood spurted four feet high and the lake rose three inches. The “late lamented” was afterwards removed to a near-by shed; the skin and flesh were removed and the bones were then taken to Science Hall. After the bones have all been cleaned they will be bleached and then mounted. “Old Battle-Ax” will be the most interesting skeleton of the many in the museum, for all the work connected with the cleaning, bleaching and mounting of the bones will have been done ' by the students alone.
—On the morning of May 23 was begun one of the most wonderful games of baseball ever played on our campus or on any other campus, for that matter. We say “was begun,” for the players have been trying to finish the game ever since, stopping only to eat, sleep and to go to classes. One of the teams was supposed to be made up of the Biological students of Sorin Hall, but as most of them were out looking for stray dogs on that particular morning the Doctors were compelled to fill in their team with other Sorinites. The opposing club was composed of Sorinites from the Classical and English courses. Mr. Hindel, of the Varsity, was chosen umpire, and he has been having a hard time of it ever since. The players want to have the game called and Mr. Hindel has refused to do so until at least five innings have been played: hence the brick bats, fence posts and other knick-knacks that have gone in his direction. The only hope that remains of ending the game before commencement is o	o
to play five innings and then As we go to press this is		to	pray for rain
’	THE	SCORE		
Doctors	A.B.	R.	H. P.O. A. E.
Fagan 3 b., c. f.	42	42	42 4 2 92
Rosenthal ss., 2 b.	42	42	42 0 7 81
Fitzpatrick, 1 b.	42	42	42 0 0 17
Piquette, c. f.	42	42	42 0 0 15
Costello, c., 1. f.	42	42	42	0 0 31
Sheehan, p., c., ss.	42	42	42	2	0 101
Delaney, r. f.	42	42	42	0	1 93
Brennan, c. L, p., 3 b.	41	41	41	0 0 26
Bryan, everywhere.	•	.. 41	41	41	0 0 78
Totals	(	376:	376 376 6 10’444	
Heiney’s	A.B.	R.	H. P.O. A. E.
F. O’Malley, c., 1 b., ss., 2	b- 43	43	43 6 0 0
Golden, ib., bench,	1	0	0 0. 0 67
Mingey, c. f., p.	43	40	6	0	0 99
McDonough, c., 2 b,	43	4i	43 0 0 38
Sanders, c. f., r. f.	43	43	32	0	0 102
Cavanagh, ss., 3d b.	43	43	43	0	0 49
Barry, 1. f.	43	4i	43 0 0 32
Geoghegan, 2 b , c. f.	43	3	42	0 0 21
Medley, p., 1 b.	42	42	42 0 0 88
Totals	344 296 294 6 o 496
Summary:—Earned runs, Heiney’s, 40; Doctors, o.
Home runs, O’Malley, 40. Bases stolen, Rosenthal, 6;
-Cavanagh' 7. Hit by pitcher, Rosenthal, Cavanagh.
-Time, indefinite. Umpire, Hindel,
Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Arce, Barry,. Bryan, Byrne, Crilly, Delaney, Murphy, Miller, Marmon, Mingey, Medley, McNamara, McDonough, F. O’Malley, O’Hara, Pulskamp, Rosenthal, Reilly, Sullivan, Sheehan, Steiner, Spalding, Weaver.
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Armijo, Arizpe, W. Berry, J. Berry, R. Brown, E. Brown, Brucker Barry, Bouwens, Baloun, Bom-mersbach, Crawford, T. Cavanaugh, Corby, Campbell, Cuneo, Crowley, Cullinane, Conway, J. Cavanaugh, J. Casey, Dreher, Dowd, M. Daly, Donovan, J. Daly, Dooley, Desmond, Dixon, Ellison, Fetherstone, Foster, Fox, C. Flannigan, Follen, Fehr, Farrell, Franey, M. Flannigan, Falvey, Fischer, Fleming, Grady, R. Garza, . Gilbert, Guilfoyle, Guerra, C. Gray, Hoban, Hengen, F. Hesse, Howard, E. Hake, L. Hake, Haley, J. Hesse, Howell, Hay, Hartung, Hindel, Hurst, Jelonak, Johnson, Kidder, F. Kaul, I. Kaul,. Kraus, Kearney, Koehler, Lyons, Landers, Lowery, Lutz, J. Mulhall, Meagher, Mullen, Morris, Mulcrone, W. Monahan, Meyers, Monarch, Moorhead, Maurus, Massey, Martin, Miller, T. Monahan, McCarrick, McCormack, McNichols, McGinnis, C. Murphy, McConn, McDonald, McKenzie, Niezer, Nye, F. O’Shaughnessey, M. O’Shaughnessey, O’Hara, Pickett, Putnam, Pendleton, Paras, Pim, Quinn, Quandt, Reinhard, Reed, Rahe, Stearns, Speake, Smoger, Stuhl-fauth, Summers, Schermerhorn, San Roman, Schulte, Spalding, Scheubert Thiele, Thams, H. Taylor, Tong, Tomlinson, J. Tuohy, Vogt, Ward, Welker, Wieczorek, Wade, H. Wimberg, Williams, Wynne, Wilson, H, Gray.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Abrahams, R. Armijo, P. Armijo, Alexander, Beardslee, Becker, Berger, Breslin, Burke, Burns,Brand, Cornell, M Condon, T. Condon, Corby, Coquillard Cowie, Curry, Curtis, Conklin, Darst, Davidson, Devine, , innen, Druiding, Drejer, Delaney, Elliott, Ellwanger, Ernst, Fox, L. Fish, A. Fish, Friedman, Fleming, Girsch, Garrity, Hoban, Houck, Heffelfinger, Hinze, Herbert, A.
. Kasper, F. Kasper, Keiffer, Kelly, Kiley, Kirkland Klein, Kilgallen, Krug, J. Kuntz, Land, Leach, Lovett Lyle, Maher, Meagher, Mohn, Mooney, Morgan, Morrissey, T. Mulcare, J. Mulcare, T. Murray, R. Murray, J. Murray, Moxley, Mueller, Merz, Michels, McCallen, McDonnell, McIntyre, J. McMahon, O. McMahon, McMaster, McNichols, McManus, McDonald, T. Naughton, D. Naughton, J. Naughton, Nolan, Noonan, Newell, Nast, F. O’Brien, O’Malley, O’Neill, Ordetx, Padden, Peterson, Powers, Pulford, Putnam, Pyle, Page, Quinlan, Reuss, Richon, Sample, Sanford, J. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Schmitt, E. Sheeky, J. Sheeky, Shiels, Shillington, Shea, Slevin, Stengel, Sullivan, Swan, Szybowicz, Swiney, Schwabe, Taylor, Tong, Wagenmann, J. Ward, Wolcott, H. St. Clair Ward, F. Ward, Waite, Walsh, Watterson, Wells, Wilson, Weadock, P. Kuntz, McCarthy.
■'	ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Master's Abercombie, Abrahams, Allyn Arnold, Beardslee, C. Bode, F. Bode, Bosworth, Butler, Burton, Brooks, Blan’chfield, Casparis, Clarke, Cotter, Cowie, Coquillard, Cressy, Cunnea, Craig,- Davis, Dorian, Dugas, Dougherty, Dessauer, Ebbert, Engelmann, Ervin, Edgarton,'Ellis, Fetter, Frost, Freeman, Frain, Fleischer,'Griffith, Garrity, Hall, Hart, Hubbard, Hinsey, Jonquet, Kasper. Kelly, F. Keogh, R. Keogh, Lawton, Lovell, Leisander, Le-clerque, E. Manion, P. Manion, Moore, P. McBride, L. McBride, J. McBride, Willie McBride, E. McCarthy, G. McCarthy, McConnell, M. McMahon, J. McMahon, W. McMahon, E. -Monahan, S. Monahan, R. McMaster, B. ■McMaster, C. -McMaster, J. McGeeney, E. McGeeney, Mathesius, Paul, F. Phillip, A. Phillips, G. Quertinmont, E. Quertinmont, Reimolds, Rees, Ryan, Redpath, Robbins, Spillard, Steele, Shields, Strauss, Strong, Seymour, Tillotson, Trentman, L. Van Sant, J. Van Dyke, R. Van Sant,,F. Van Dyke, Veneziani, Welch, G. Weidfnann, F. Weidmann, Wilde, Weber, Wigg.