Most likely to succeed— in more ways than one
He rates a hand from his prof, not only for sinking the most buckets, but also for knowing how to pick his clothes. This Arrow University button-down shirt is beautifully tailored gingham in an authentic tartan, $5.95—also available in oxford cloth (choice of nine colors), $5.00.
When worn together with Arrow chino slacks, (pleatless front and back strap) they mark the influential guy on campus. Slacks, $5.95.

-ylMCW-
—first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES « SLACKS

ARROW'S short cut to success
From the front or back, our Arrow University shirt says— “college man.” The full box pleat, center back button, and soft roll button-down collar are “custom” features you’ll find in these fine shirts. Drop in and see our extensive selection today. Shirt, $5.95.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
February 17, 1956
USE YOUR GILBERTS JUNIOR EXECUTIVE CHARGE ACCOUNT
NO CARRYING CHARGE
GOOD APPEARANCE OPENS ANY DOOR...
. . . and in Gilbert clothing you are assured of that good appearance. The years of experience of our buyers assures you of clothing that is comfortable, has individuality, and is in good taste. Today’s Natural Look in suits, with the soft front construction, narrower lapels, moderate fullness of the coat, tapered sleeves and trousers, have details you’ll like . . . because they have these qualities. See the Natural Look in Suits ... at the Campus Shop, from $55.00.
Home of SKIPPER SPORTSWEAR
4
The Scholastic
THE CAMPUS SHOP IS HERE TO CARRY ON A GILBERT TRADITION OF NEARLY A HALF CENTURY
At the Campus Shop we offer more than just fine clothing . . . for behind each purchase you make is the Gilbert tradition of quality, individuality and good taste. . . . a tradition built day-by-day . . . year-by-year . . . for nearly a half century. Every Brand Name you find here is backed by Gilbert's reputation for complete satisfaction.
Hickey-Freeman . . . Society Brand . . . Botany “500,” tailored by Daroff . . . GGG . . . Alpagora . . . Eagle . . . British-R . . . Burberry . . . Arrow . . . Countess Mara . . . Wilson Brothers . . . Bronzini . . . Dobbs . . . Florsheim . . . McGregor Phoenix . .. Hickok . . . Paris
February 17, 1956
6
The Scholastic



by William M. Malloy
the
dinner party:
a tragedie
Dramatis personae: Mr. Signor Fish-lou; a sports writer. Mrs. S. Fishlou; his wife. Rev. Walden Pond, S.J.; logic teacher. Dr. Louis Wallet; physics teacher. Dr. Setembrini Clevefeet; philosophy teacher.
SCENE I. (home of Mr. Signor Fishlou, in North Trombone, Ohio.)
(Enter all. They take their places at a dinner table, Fr. Pond says grace and the meal begins, and the conversation, as you will see, deal" reader, is aguish.)
Fr. Pond: Some “S” is “P”.
Mr. Fishlou: Pardon me?
Dr. Wallet: (tucking his napkin under his generous chin and manfully controlling the confusion before him with exacting execution of knife and fork) Ah, yes; what this country needs is a really ^/ood zipper.
™ Mr. Fishlou: I beg your pardon?
Mrs. Fishlou: (prophesying) the pudding will be excellent.
Mr. Fishlou: Yes, the pudding will be excellent.	.
Dr. Clevefeet: Yes, the pudding will be excellent.
Mr. Fishlou: Excellent.
Fr. Pond: And that should finish the Manichean heresy! (Slams fist on table.)
Mr. Fishlou: Pardon me?
Dr. Clevefeet: (disturbed) He’s merely *> reparing a test foi- his students, aren’t you, Father?
Dr. Wallet: Of course a really good zipper would finish the button industry (grinning about his business on the platter) .
SCENE II, (Same place; the meal is over, and the pipes and cigarettes are lit. Liquers are being served.)
Mr. Fishlou: The pudding was excellent.
A Mrs. Fishlou: Yes, it was, wasn’t it?
Dr. Clevefeet: I wonder if I might make a suggestion for this evening’s entertainment?
February 17, 1956
Fr. Pond: Grave penalty, (see p. 15) Dr. Clevefeet: I think we might go to the opera; there are several playing tonight.
Mrs. Fishlou: That would be excellent!
Mr. Fishlou: Yes, it was, wasn’t it?
Dr. Clevefeet: (picks up paper) De Mistrodrinkers is at the Colfax. Let’s see what the story is about. (Reads) Ragotta is a powerful prince that lives on a high hill near Rome. He has favor with the Emperor and so he is to wed the royal sister. Ragotta, however, loves the fair Latishka, whose brother Latask-ka is the noble count to Ratabernic and married to Cornia’s sister, the empress of Akron, and nephew of Ragatta’s lover. In a powerful laganza with full chorus and orchestra they all die in the reign of Marcus Aurelius, whose book Meditations is enough to kill anyone.
Dr. Wallet: That’s nice.
Mrs. Fishlou: What’s at the Granada?
Dr. Clevefeet: A modern opera called Indian Apolas. Here are the lines of the opening solo: (reads) Many moons ago, when the buffalo were like the corn, and the loon laughed all the night long in his rain-worn cove, there was a great nation of my people and they dwelt between the great father peaks in the sun-basked valley of the beaver.
Dr. Wallet: That’s nice.
Dr. Clevefeet: And here is the story. (Reads) Uncus and Chincagood are both in love with Margie Morningstar, princess of a great tribe to the south of Huron country. Uncus manages to trick Chincagood into going to the forbidden mountain to hunt for the golden fleece. He then puts on his best loin-cloth and rides to the south singing the beautiful Indian Love Call. Finding Morningstar’s father, aged chieftain of the tribe, he tells him of his great love in a beautiful labrato. The chief likes Uncus, but says that the law of his tribe prohibits a princess to marry into another tribe unless all the local braves are dead.
“Then I will kill them,” sings Uncus and while the orchestra plays the famous Sparrow Tooth March Uncus sings and beats time on his chest. All the braves assemble and Uncus begins to fight. He fights for a year and a day and just after he has killed the last brave he sings a high “C” and dies of diabetes.
SCENE III, (the guests have decided not to go to the opera. Mr. Fishlou is conversing with aplomb.)
Mr. Fishlou: In the sports world one has to keep on one’s toes.
Dr. Wallet: (earnestly) Do you really think so?
Fr. Pond: Barbara, Celarent, Dani, Ferio.
Dr. Clevefeet: I don’t care for sports.
Mr. Fishlou: Nor I. Prefer algebra.
Dr. Clevefeet: Yes, algebra is nice, but in philosophy . . .
Mr. Fishlou: In the sports world one has to keep on one’s toes.
Dr. Wallet: (earnestly) You really think so?
Dr. Clevefeet: What do you think of the passive policies of the Republican administration ?
Fr. Pond: Quadragesimo Anno. .
Dr. Wallet: Socialism is wrong.
CLIMAX
Mrs. Fishlou: Yes, when I think of all the socialized medicine, socialized education where our children are being taught how the government should take over and there is no God . . . (complete silence; all eyes are fixed relentlessly upon Mrs. Fishlou) ...?... well I just don’t think anything can be done, (cough, cough.)
(These observations and others having been decided, the party retired to the television room where dramatic experiences are tempered with discriminating advertisements.)
Finis
‘	7
Apologia Pro ‘Back Page’
Editor:
The recent criticism of Curt Matthews’ article on engineering gives rise to several interesting thoughts to a person who is neither a liberal arts nor an engineering student. These are: 1) that Curt’s comments on the defects of a purely technical education are verified by the inaccuracy of interpretation displayed by his critics; 2) that your magazine is, and rightly so—the liberal arts publication it is indignantly accused of being.
Concerning the first point, Mr. Matthews’ statements are only open to one intelligent interpretation apparently not seen by some of the readers’ minds, unnurtured as they prove themselves to be in the art of communication. Carefully read, the article states that industry should not force engineers, nor should engineers permit themselves to have so narrow a scope as to be unaware of the social and economic impact of their brainstorms.
At no point does the article call all engineers “skilled barbarians.” It rather says that circumstances in industry— “the specialized training period” — and in college— the inattention to liberal subjects—will produce a “skilled barbarian” unless the individual takes it upon himself to leani these things.
Though the example fails in some respects, Reader Swift’s reference to the atomic bomb strikes me as one instance of engineering having, as Curt calls it, “social repercussions.”
Not to be concerned with what occurs after the product of their technical genius is created, is for them to be “pure engineers.” Congratulations to the great majority of engineers who understand English well enough to see that the article was a defense of their need for, and right to, a broader education than some would give them.
Concerning the second point, briefly, (Continued on page 34)
What Is
Wrong With
This Ad?
The ability to type is worth more (in dollars and cents) than the cost of a typewriter.
IF YOU BUY A typewriter on our Divided Payment Plan you will learn to type before payments have been completed.
So, actually the typewriter will cost you nothing but your time.
N. B. We also rent and repair typewriters.
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. Feb. 17, 1956 No. 14
. ----------.------------*
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame,
Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of
postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized
June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS $
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ....News Editor ED JOYCE....................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN_________Production Manager DAVE KUBAL _________Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON..........Assistant	New$'
JAMES McDONALD ..........Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN ............_Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON .........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator JOE NORTON ...........Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN............Assistant	Sport,
RAY LESCHER .............Assistant	Sport^.
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe Heimoski, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, Frederick Lavin, Raymond Lescher, James Merz, Brian Moran, Robert Parnell, James Reiher, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff, Richard Sofranko.	4
BUSINESS STAFF: Loran Sheffer.	’
INVENTORY
Page
Entree ......................     7
Repercussion ___________________  8
View ..........................   9
Campus Scene ................... 11
Folio ______________________     16
Showcase ....................    18
At a Glance ___________________  22
Irish Scene ...............      25
Time Out .......—............    29
Back Page --------------------   38
The Notre Dame Bookstore
Member of Catholic School Press Association,. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER the traditional figure of Christ’s head on Veronica's veil i? seen in a different light by Dick Navin as Lent begins solemnly.
8
The Scholastic

religion
poll
! T ast week in the Scholastic we ran an article on a poll I taken to get some idea of what the students like in the way of entertainment. I think most of our readers were amazed at some of the results that showed up. The students claim, for example, that they spend $25,000 a week on entertainment and very nearly fifty per cent of them said they would go to see an opera. Ninety-six percent of the -1 student body said they would go to see at least one of five j popular entertainers if they came to Notre Dame on a OPersona^ aPPearance tour.
Other percentages in favor of high-grade entertainment were similarly impressive—students who have been long-suffering, entertainment-wise, while here at Notre Dame | began to feel that perhaps those who set up the entertain-H ment here on campus don’t realize just how hungry the stull dents are for good entertainment.
I Well, how hungry are they? As a member of the ConI cert and Lecture Board, which schedules most of the campus I entertainment outside of the University.Theater, I can safely J say that the administration has a sincere desire to bring the i ^very finest entertainers to Notre Dame. At every meeting, ; ^Outstanding names are suggested in every area of the enterri tainment world; it is agreed that we would like to have | them appear at Notre Dame, but the inevitable question । always pops up: “Do we stand even a 50-50 chance of
I
!
s


i
coming out of this venture with a minimum loss?” In too many of the instances the answer has to be, “No.” When you figure that a top-flight entertainer will ask approximately $2,500 a night for an appearance and then you take a look at Notre Dame’s limited Concert and Lecture budget, you have to be rather sure the students will show up in a pretty fair block.
The poll seems to indicate that they would, but ex-^perience has proven otherwise. Last year the Student Senate ^sponsored two band concerts, one by Ralph Marterie and the other by Sauter-Finegan—the Senate took a $600 loss. This year it brought back Marterie, chalking off last-year's loss to bad dates. The Senate lost $400 on the concert. Yet eighty-two percent of the student body indicated on the poll that they would support a concert by a leading band. Another eighty-two percent said that they would attend a legitimate theater production here on campus, yet Father Harvey says he sold only 750 season tickets to the University ' Theatre productions this year (out of a possible 3,300) and many of these were not students.
So what do the students want? Why the disparity be-Otween the poll and the real thing? Frankly I don’t know, but until someone does come up with an answer Notre Dame will hardly become the “entertainment center of the Midwest” one exuberant reader of the poll pictured it as.—J.A.
February 17, 1956
The university of North Carolina’s Daily Tarheel, in a well-written editorial, recently commented on the views of the Vatican concerning American Protestantism. The Vatican’s remarks were gleaned from the Sunday magazine of Rome, Osservatore Della Domenica.
The Tarheel takes special issue with the Vatican’s charge that “Protestantism is more and more losing its religious character. . .” It states:
. . . (this charge) which might have at times been a legitimate charge, is becoming steadfastly less legitimate. American Protestantism has always willingly accepted the dilution which can come to a church when it puts individual and individual church autonomy ahead of central authority which claims absolute and infallible status. In other words, American Protestants know by inheritance and observation that the individual soul—their major concern—will benefit more over the long haul by liberty and diversity as opposed to authority and centralization.
Amazing to us is the fact that the writer states that Protestants know the soul benefits more by religious diversity and liberty. We grant that they may believe this, but we don’t see how they can possibly know it “by inheritance and observation.”
Pondering the question of the possibility of eventual Protestant union among its various sects, the Tarheel has this to say:	,
While union may, if it comes, lend militance to the Protestant movement—and we would approve of that—we hope Protestants will recognize both good and bad features of the ecumenical movement. On the good side: the elimination of doctrinal differences that are purely petty; and the gain of momentum. On the bad side: A retreat from religious diversity— the religious diversity supported by the First Amendment to the Constitution—and a diversity absolutely essential to an open society.	,
We would like to ask the writer whether the “differences” between unitarianism and trinitarianism, denial and belief in the Virgin Birth, denial and belief in the divinity of Christ can be honestly termed “purely petty.”
With regard to the Tarheel’s final statement, it must be pointed out that the First Amendment to the Constitution does not support religious diversity; it merely permits it.
Furthermore, we believe that religious diversity is not “absolutely essential” to any society—“open” or otherwise. If one accepts the fact, and we do, that God (as Christ) intervened in the matter of religion and set forth basic doctrines for man to believe and observe in his worship of God, then religious diversity is unnecessary, even in the “open” society of which the Tarheel speaks.
We respect the views of the writer, but feel that his thinking errs in the instances cited.—P.L.
o	*
.9
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERS AND METALLURGISTS
Hamilton Standard Division
INTERVIEWS
United Aircraft Corporation
Designers and Manufacturers of
JET AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT
AND PROPELLERS
JET FUEL CONTROLS
(Electronic & Hydro-Mechanical)
JET TURBINE STARTERS
(Pneumatic & Combustion)
HYDRAULIC PUMPS
(Variable Displacement)
AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEMS
(Air Cycle & Vapor)
PROPELLERS
(for Turbine &
Piston Engines)
CONTROLS & ACCESSORIES FOR NUCLEAR ENGINES
Engineering Staff Continuously Expanded for the Past 30 Years—and Still Growing.
Largest New Jet Aircraft Equipment Development Program In Our History.
Local Graduate Study Program with R.P.I. Available — Tuition Assistance.
Modern Plant with Extensive Research Facilities.
For appointment and additional information see your placement officer.
The Date:
The Time:
The Place:
Thurs., Feb. 23—Fri.r Feb. 24
Check your placement officer Rev. A. F. Mendez
HAMILTON STANDARD DIVISION UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Windsor Locks, Connecticut
io
The Scholastic
Camfuti Scutt
.POLITICAL TENSION SWELLS AS CONVENTION APPROACHES
Stevenson Backers Name Campaign Head Tonight; Delegates, Alternates Scheduled for Election Sunday
Adlai Stevenson’s backers will meet tonight at 8 o’clock in the Engineering Auditorium for the fourth candidate rally in preparation for the Mock Democratic National Convention to be held
Seniors Set to Honor ^Patriot* Wednesday
Gen. Curtis LeMay, head of the Strategic Air Command, will accept the annual Patriotism Award of the Senior Class and will give the principal address Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Drill Hall. The presentation and address are part of the University’s 107th annual Washington Day exercises.
Accompanying Gen. LeMay to Notre Dame wil be Col. Reade Tilley, chief of ^Information at Offult Air Force Base, Omaha, Neb., and LeMay’s aide, Lt. Col. David C. Jones. All will arrive Wednesday afternoon and stay at the Morris Inn.
Philip Agee, chairman of the event from Tampa, Fla., will open the program with an address and a short background talk before the assembled seniors. William K. Warren of Tulsa, Okla., Senior Class president will present the award to General LeMay.
a Following the principal address, the ^Notre Dame Concert Band, under the direction of Robert F. O’Brien, will play two selections. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s executive vice-president, will accept an American flag for the University from Joseph Bill, Garden City, N.Y., vice-president of the Senior Class.
After the playing of The Star Spangled Banner, the Senior Class will file out of the Drill Hall in procession to conclude the program.
A Others on the committee for the event are James Brennan from Aberdeen, Wash.; James Moran from Portland, Ore.; and Earl Ware from Tampa, Fla.
in the Drill Hall, April 16 through 18.
The election of delegates to the 1956 mock Democratic political convention will be held this Sunday in the basement of the Dining Hall.
More than 2,000 delegates and alternates from each of the states and territories must be elected, according to Cas Taylor, chairman of the convention’s executive committee.
Thousands of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students were nominated in cam-pus-wide ballotting that ended Monday. The delegates and alternates will be elected from this number according to the number of delegates allotted to each state and territory.
The Stevenson rally, expected to draw the largest crowd, is being closely observed by Harriman, Lausche and Ke-fauver backers who held theii- rallies earlier this month and by supporters of candidates still gathering momentum, namely, Richard Russell, Senator from Georgia and G. Mennen Williams, governor of Michigan. At least three factions have formed to back men for the Stevenson campaign chairmanship.
The Harriman rally, Feb. 7, was heated, noisy, and emphatic as the team of Dave Davin and Jim Cummings won out over John Kennedy and John Reilly. Davin, a senior and president of the Rochester Club, and Cummings, secretary of the Metropolitan New York Club, edged an eight vote victory over Kennedy. Reilly remained in the race but swung his support in favor of Kennedy.
The meeting drew charges of “well oiled machine” and developed into a New York state versus outside New York state battle. President Walt Arnold of the Met Club denied charges that his organization was trying to control the Harriman campaign.
Davin and Cummings outlined their reasons for supporting Harriman and announced their intention of an all out publicity campaign including an Averill Harriman dance.
BOSS AND HIS TRUMPS Let me at those delegates.
Law School to Sponsor Political Meet Tuesday
Four young lawyers, including the lieutenant governor of Michigan and Ohio’s attorney general, will participate in a Politics Institute sponsored by the Law School here next Tuesday. The theme of the Institute, according to Dean Joseph O’Meara, will be the “role and opportunity of the young man, and particularly the young lawyer, in political life.”
The speakers will be Lt. Governor Philip A. Hart of Michigan; C. William O’Neill, attorney general of Ohio; Richard J. Nelson, assistant industrial relations manager, Inland Steel Co., Chicago; and Ronald Webster, Jr., a Phoenix, Arizona, attorney. Hart and Nelson are Democrats while O’Neill and Webster are Republicans.
Sessions of the Politics Institute will be held in the Law Auditorium at 2 and 7:30 p.m. The evening sessions will be followed by an informal reception sponsored by the Student Law Association in the Students’ Lounge.
WASHINGTON DAY EXERCISES
Tickets for the Washington Day Exercises will be mailed to Seniors only. Washington Hall, however, will be opened to the whole University community—students, faculty, and employees.
Distribution of tickets will be Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 20-21, from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., and from 3:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
February 17, 1956
11
Library Sets Ceiling on Overdue Text Fines; Cooperation Urged in Use of Reserve Books
by JOE HEIMOSKI
Recently the case of a student who had accumulated a huge fine for an overdue book from the library was brought to the attention of the Student Senate. After reviewing the case of the individual, it appeared to the Senate that an injustice had been done.
Immediately the Senate formed a Library Committee to discuss the matter, and to further better relations between the library and the students. This committee consisted of John Cusack, Bob O’Malley, and Jerry Brady.
After* talking with Victor A. Schaefer, director of the library, the committee suggested that the rate of fines for reserve books remain at the present $.50 an hour, but suggested that a $25 ceiling be set on these fines. The committee felt that if a ceiling were put on the fines, students would be more willing to return books long overdue, since they would not have to pay such a large sum.
If such a ceiling were inaugurated, the committee agreed to assist the library in recovering any overdue books whose fines reached this ceiling. But if after this change, the number of overdue books reaching this ceiling did not decline, then the committee and the Student Senate would support the former
JERRY POTTEBAUM (L.) HANDS OVER the reins of the local YCS to Paul Krapp (center) for the second semester. Congratulating Krapp is Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., moderator. Others pictured are Ron Babcock, treasurer, and Frank Feigl, secretary. Among the activities planned by the federation is a Catholic Action Conference.
unlimited ceiling. On these conditions, Mr. Schaefer agreed to set a $25 ceiling on overdue reserve books for the second semester. This innovation would be on a trial basis, and would not be retroactive. If the situation improves, an experiment of lower fines may even be tried.
Mr. Schaefer summed up the situation by saying, “The library is not interested in taking the money of the students, since the real problem is a regulatory one involving the justice of the students to one another, and the equitable use of the books.”
He then stated how unfair it was for some students to keep certain books out for long periods of time; in so doing, they hindered fellow students in their studies. Because of the seriousness of the situation, stringent methods in the form of high fines have been employed, especially since smaller fines did not help. Schaefer suggested common cooperation on the part of the students as a means of bettering this condition.
These few such cases of high fines are not indicative of the entire student body. This is quickly brought out by the fact that slightly less than one per cent of the total enrollment is involved.
Miss Ida Bonicelli, head of the circulation department, added that, “The
library has had very good cooperation’ from the majority of the student body.”
Schaefer pointed out that it was impossible to get enough books to supply each member of a class with reserve books. Also, there is always the chance that a department may change its subject matter for required reading as new and better books come out. Such an expenditure would therefore be veryj uneconomical.
Committee Discusses Engineering Program
Leaders in industry and education met here this past week with members of the self-study committee of Notre Dame’s College of Engineering to discuss engin£ eering curricula and other problems related to engineering education.
Among the consultants present for the conference were Henry Armsby, chief for engineering education U. S. Office of Education, Washington, D. C.; Dr. Joseph A Becker, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, N. J.; C. Joseph Freund, dean of engineering at the University of Detroit; George A. Gullette, North Carolina State College; and DrA Sidney D. Kirkpatrick, editorial director^ of Chemical Engineering and Chemical Week.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C. S. C., president of the University, welcomed the consultants to the campus at the opening session Monday morning.
At the morning conference the consultants spoke on the types of engineering curricula and what should be stressed in a college of engineering.
Other topics dealt with problems reg^ lated to scientific, technological, humanistic, and social aspects of engineering education.
R. J. Schubmehl, assistant dean of engineering, led a panel discussion for all members of the faculty at the closing session Monday evening.
The self-study committee of the university was appointed by Fr. Hesburgh to define the objectives of the engineering education program at Notre Dame, to evaluate the current curriculum and t£ make recommendations for its improvement. The project is being financed by a $35,000 grant from the Carnegie Corp, of New York.
Dr. E. J. Wilhelm, of the Engineering School is chairman of the committee. Other members include Professors L. D. Graves, H. A. Ellithorn, H. A. Foecke, C. J. Mullin, N. B. Hasser, J. P. Danehy, and Rev. J. C. Haley, C.S.C.
Rev. Phillip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president of academic affairs, and Dea^ Karl Schoenherr of the college of engineering serve as ex-officio committee members.
12
The Scholastic
I
JOSEPH D. KEENAN
Union-Management . . .
Moot Court Resumes ^Procedures in March
The second round of the Law School’s Moot Court will begin during the month of March with 16 juniors competing for the chance to reach the final competition to be held early in the next school year.
The Moot Court is, in form, much similai- to the U. S. Appellate Court. It has no jury, the cases being argued before three judges, an attorney from , South Bend, a professor from the Law ^School, and a senior law student.
The main issue for this round will be “Constitutional Law.” As in the first round, the competitors will be paired off with each team arguing a case. Although the briefs will be scored together, the oral arguments will be scored individually so that both partners in a brief do not necessarily win.
Out of the 16 men starting the second round, eight will be eliminated. Then these eight will again be paired and ^scored as before. These competitors then ^will be reduced to four.
The four finalists of the second round will be the men who will enter the final round in their senior year. This round will be held in the Engineering Auditorium and the presiding judges are usually noted figures in the field of law.
The 16 juniors who 'will participate in the second round are John D. Naughtin, Jack Economou, Larry Kane, Bob Gorman, Tom Caromody, Jim Booth, Ed to Fox, Bill Downing, John Rogers, Bill "Schierberl, Pat Berrigan, Ken W. Kent, Ed. Marz, Tom Ryder, John Chmiel, and Richard Bennet.
Union-Management Conference to Discuss Industry, Labor Roles in Bargaining Issues
Current issues in collective bargaining will be the theme of the fourth annual Union-Management Conference at the University Feb. 24, according to a recent announcement by Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., conference chairman.
Principal speakers at the conference, Father Fitzgerald said, will be Joseph D. Keenan, international secretary of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Washington, D. C-, and John H. Lind, manager of industrial relations, Standard Oil Company of Indiana, Chicago, Ill. They will speak on the roles of union and management respectively in industrial relations.
More than 500 midwest union officials and industrial executives are expected
JOSEPH E. MOODY
. . . Speakers here . . .
Debaters Cop Honors In Spring Hill Meet
Notre Dame debaters captured all honors at the Azalea Debate Tournament, held at Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala., Feb. 9-11.
Winning all 12 debates, the team of Dick Schiller, Rick Ninneman, Pat Curran, and Frank Draine took the top four places in the individual rankings. Debating the “Guaranteed Annual Wage,” the team established two records by winning all their encounters and placing the entire team in the top individual rankings.
Schiller, Ninneman, Curran, Draine, Paul Coffey, Jack Martzell, John Hirschfeld and Jerry Brady were led by Coach Leonard Sommer to Wisconsin State College, Eau Claire, Wis., yesterday.
to attend the sessions in Washington Hall. Luncheon will be served to those registered for the conference at the Morris Inn and at the Indiana Club in South Bend.
The annual Union-Management Conference is sponsored by the department of economics in conjunction with the University law school. It was founded in 1953 by Father Fitzgerald who is director of the industrial relations section of the economics department.
After Keenan’s talk, the conference will reconvene with a panel discussion on “New Trends in Negotiations.” The panel will discuss the three problems of welfare funds, supplementary wage plans, and unemployment compensation revisions in connection with negotiations. In this session, representatives of unions and management will present alternately their views on these issues. After discussion among panel members, questions will be answered from the audience.
The afternoon panel will discuss the subjects of how much information a company should give its union, incentive rates, day-rate wage plans, and layoff and re-employment procedures.
Joseph E. Moody, president of the Southern Coal Producers Association, who negotiated one of the first welfare funds with John L. Lewis’ United Mine Workers, will give his views on “UnionManagement Administration of Trust Funds” at the conference. ’
Charles C. Killingsworth, head of the department of economics at Michigan State University, will serve as moderator for the panel discussions.
JOHN H. UNO . . . next weekend.
February 17, 1956
13
CHURCH PIPES GET YEAR-LONG OVERHAUL
German student swaps work for tuition.
Church Organ Undergoes Complete Overhaul: ND Student Takes Task for Year's Education
The great pipe organ whose music has added beauty and majesty to solemn events in Sacred Heart Church for more than 80 years will be silent during most of 1956. The instrument’s 2,000 pipes, manuals or keyboards, pedals and inner mechanism are undergoing a complete overhauling and cleaning.
The mammoth project has been undertaken by Ludwig Hellriegel, a 23-year-old Notre Dame student from Benshein, Germany. Almost every afternoon he can be found in the choir loft perched on a ladder dismantling a bank of organ pipes or probing the interior of the instrument.
Although a young man, Hellriegel has considerable experience in building and repairing organs. He received his training at the Lutz Organ Company in Frankfurt, Germany. In 1953 he came to the United States at the invitation of the Kilgen Co., one of the nation’s best known organ manufacturers, in St. Louis.
Last summer the German youth came to Notre Dame to visit his uncle, Monsignor Martin B. Hellriegel, also of St. Louis, who teaches in the University’s summer liturgy program. Impressed by the campus and the student spirit, young ’ Hellriegel arranged to enter Notre Dame in September. He agreed to repair and clean the organ in return for
14
a year of study at the University. Because he is considering studying for the priesthood, Hellriegel lives in the Old College with about 20 other young men.
Cleaning an organ more than three-quarters of a century old is not an easy task, Hellriegel admits. The job is complicated by the fact that the Notre Dame organ, before the days of electricity, was operated by water power. Parts of this obsolete hydraulic system, out of use for decades, are still housed within the organ and must be dismantled.
Hellriegel’s equipment for renovating the organ, which rises 60 feet from the church floor, consists of a cone-shaped vacuum cleaner, tuning and voicing instruments and the usual carpenter’s tools. The pipes of the Notre Dame organ range from nearly 20 feet in length to five-eighths of an inch. While the organ console has been considered obsolete in many ways, the pipes and tone of the organ are of unusually good quality.
Built in 1875 at a cost of about $6,000, the organ in Sacred Heart Church could not be replaced for less than $40,000 today, Hellriegel says. It is enclosed in a rosewood casement and measures 40 feet high, 20 feet wide, and 12 feet deep. It is surmounted by a cross.
The organ was dedicated in 1875
with a recital by a Professor Folk or Chicago, a graduate of the Leipzig Conservatory. Since that time generations of Notre Dame students, faculty members and priests have played the organ for a great variety of religious services and events. Its music has heralded the entrance of cardinals and other visiting prelates. It has provided a musical setting for countless weddings in the cam/ pus church. Most often it is heard ar* the Sunday High Mass and at Benediction when it accompanies more than a thousand young men’s voices praising Our Lord and Oui- Lady.
'Tech Review' Editor Reveals New Plans for March Issue
Editor Dick Carroll recently an^^x nounced the plans and structure for the^ March issue of the Technical Revieiv.
New developments in various fields of engineering will be presented in a lineup of articles.
Steel will be featured in the popular centerfold “Wealth of a Nation.” “Wealth of a Nation” has been presenting different products and resources of our country in each issue for the past several years.	_
Another attraction of the issue is a^l contest that has been instituted among the architects for covers to be used in next year’s issue. Prize money amounting to $75 is to be offered in the contest.
Other articles to be featured in the March publication are: “Research As a Tool in Industry,” “The Area Rule,” “Powder Metallurgy,” “Engineering for Sales,” and “Progressive Dies.”
Manuscripts for publication are still being accepted. Anyone interested should/^ contact Bill Reeve in 204 Pangborn Hall/^
Fr. Lauck to Head Art Jury
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of Notre Dame’s Art Department, has been selected to head an art juiy for a national exhibition of sacred art, to be held in the spring in Cincinnati, Ohio.
The art exhibition, sponsored jointly by Xavier University and the Apostleship of Prayer, will bring together „ drawings of the Sacred Heart by artists^ 1 from every part of the country in order to encourage more interest in sacred themes, and to improve the quality of art work on the theme of the Sacred Heart in particular.
Father Lauck is to act as chairman of a jury of three. The other members are Louis Bouche and Alfred D. Crimi, both of New York City. The work of the jury will be to select the best examples ' of American drawing, and award cash I prizes. After the original showing in^ || । Cincinnati, the exhibition will be sent * 3 across the country to various museums I and institutions of art.	I
The Scholastic
*Dr. Leone to Give Fourth Marriage Lecture; Medical Point of View Slated for Discussion
Dr. Lewis Leone will give the fourth in the series of Marriage Institute Lectures at 8 p.m. Wednesday in Washington Hall. The subject of the lecture will e “The Doctor’s Point of View.”
This is the second straight year that
Dr. Leone has taken part in the lecture series. He is a member of the Pre-Cana speakers, a group of men and women who devote much of their spare time to helping young adults in preparation for marriage.
Dr. Leone attended the University of Illinois where he received both his premed and medical school training. He served his internship and part of his residency at St. Francis Hospital, Evanston, Ill.
After his marriage in 1946, he served for two years as a captain in the Army Medical Corps. At the present, Dr. Leone holds the positions of Associate Attending Obstetrician and Gynecologist at St. Francis; Adjunct Obstetrician, Chicago Maternity Center; and Prenatal Physician, Chicago Board of £ Health.
. He is also active in the Holy Name Society, Christian Family Movement, and the Knights of Columbus. Besides these activities, Dr. Leone has a family
Newcomers Capture Points In Monthly Bridge Tourney
The Monthly Master Point game in duplicate bridge at the Student Center last 'Sunday produced foui- new names in the winners’ column. Will Joncas and Charles Armbruster won the NorthSouth with .536, followed by Steve Barrett and Pete Volante with .524.
John Slevin and Tom Walsh easily captured honors in the East-West with a score of .628. Jack Steinthal and Lou Solomon were second with .568.
Future issues of the Scholastic will feature bridge articles by James Jacoby, who recently returned to Notre Dame to complete his work for a degree after completing service in the Army.
He is the son of the famous bridge expert Oswald Jacoby, and took up bridge while an undergraduate here. While in the Army, Jacoby found time to achieve the bridge player’s goal of becoming a Life Master. He won many tournaments, his most recent the Open Team-of-Four championship at the Winter Nationals in Miami, Fla., last December. He is one of the youngest players ever to win a national championship and, together with his father, became the first father-and-son combination ever to do so.
of four children, ranging in age from four to nine.
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, opened the Marriage Institute on Feb. 2, before more than 800 members of the Senior Class. His topic was “Courtship.”
On Feb. 9, Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd spoke on “Male and Female Psychology.” The third lecture was given by Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Stnibbe last Wednesday evening. Their subject was “Love and Marriage.”
Scheduled to speak at the final two Institute sessions on March 15 and 22 are Rev. Francis Nealy, O.P., and Dr. and Mrs. Linus Maino. Father Nealy’s topic ■will be “Morality and Marriage” while the last lecture topic will be concerned with “Success in Marriage and Happiness with Children.”
All of the sessions are followed by a question and answer period and a coffee hour in the Student Center.
KEYNOTE SPEAKER TRYOUTS
Tryouts for the student keynote address of the Democratic Mock Convention will be held on March 1, at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. For the tryout the contestants must write their own five minute keynote speeches and enter their name with Frank Cappellino in 207 Walsh Hall before Feb. 27.
Political science and speech department representatives will judge the tryouts. The actual keynote speech will run for 30 minutes and must be written by the selected speaker.
When shall we three meet again ...in thunder, lightning, or in rain?”—W. Shakespeare
IS95!
ATTENTION CLASS OF ’57
Graduation pictures for next year’s Dome will be taken beginning Feb. 27. Appointments for pictures can be made between the hours of 1:30 . to 5:30 on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday, Feb. 20, 21, and 23, in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Pictures will not be taken next fall.
O'Connor, ND Grad, Writes Prize Novel
Edwin O’Connor, a 1939. graduate, is the author of The Last Hurrah, a prize winning novel about American politics in a predominantly Irish city, published recently by Little, Brown Co. O’Connor’s book has received the top $5,000 award in The Atlantic Monthly novel contest and is the February selection of the Book-of-the-Month Club.
The Last Hurrah is, in Clifton Fadi-man’s view, “one of the shrewdest, certainly one of the most delightful novels ever written about American politics.” It is the story of Frank Skeffington, a 72-year-old political boss, and his last campaign for mayor of the city which he had ruled.
Since his graduation from Notre Dame, where he majored in English and was a frequent contributor to the student literary quarterly, O’Connor has worked in radio and television as a writer, announcer, and producer. He also was a television columnist for the Boston Post. His radio and TV career provided the background for his first book, The Oracle, a satire on a radio commentator, published in 1951.
A native of Woonsocket, R. I., O’Connor is a bachelor and lives in Boston.
February 17, 1956
15
^alia
cest la vie! Ie Mar di Gras
$
Down in anticipation.
photos by Ed Mertz
Lent is coming,” cries the crowd, “so let’s have one last blast.” And the music begins, beautiful decorations bloom, and wine flows. So it is in Europe and New Orleans where the ancient custom of the Mardi Gras still prevails.
It all began in the Middle Ages. As the pentitential season of Lent approached, the peoples of Christian countries viewed Shrove Tuesday as their last chance for a wild time before the great fast. The way Lent was observed in those days, you can not blame them for blowing their tops. Entire towns danced in the streets dressed in gay costumes. Into the night they played amid riotous folly.
Then, at midnight, the fires were quenched and the dancing ceased. In silence, the people returned to their homes to begin the holy season.
Here at Notre Dame, the celebrating is more subdued, but the flavor remains. Nick Mavigliano, dance chairman, and Bob Morsches, decorations chairman, joined their talents along with many other committee chairmen and workers in g order to bring the taste of the Mardi" Gras to the campus. Couples attending Le Bal danced in a Parisian atmosphere to the delightful melodies of Chuck Foster, le Maestro grande d’ musique.
The high point of the evening was reached when hundreds of colorful bal-
Deluge!
16
The Scholastic
I hold your hand in mine, dear.
A joy to the beholder.
; loons were released from the ceiling and floated gracefully down into the upreach-ing arms of the laughing crowd. At one o’clock, with the sound of bursting balloons still in their ears, weary cele-
:	brators trudged to the exits.
| Fun for all was found at the Mardi f Gras Carnival which lasted from Saturday night to Tuesday night. Spurred on by the popular dream that riches are
within the reach of all, hundreds of hopeful people jammed into the hallowed, gun-slung halls of the United States Navy. Precious money flowed freely and plentifully across the counters of booths erected by many campus halls and organizations.
The Mardi Gras committee showed rare insight in placing an old and worn automobile among the money-making booths. This psychological gem of an idea brought in added revenue and afforded welcome relief to those would-be gamblers who might have dropped their wad at the Over and Under table. For only one dime a person could step up to the car and with a twelve pound sledge try to hammer it into a new shape. The urge to release energy is prevalent among those people who have just lightened their wallets to the sum of five or ten dollars.
The Mardi Gras Carnival served a double purpose for most people. Besides garnering vast sums for the needy Bengal missions, it also provided a good basis for Lenten resolutions. By absorbing all excess loot, it relieved many temptations which might have assailed a weak soul during the long weeks of Lent.
Perhaps the celebrator from the Middle Ages might be quite surprised with the goings on at Notre Dame; but to coin an old prase: “We’ve had it.”.
Late and weary.
February 17, 1956
17

by Jack McDermott
Jack McDermott, a Junior majoring in English, was born in Buffalo, lived in California long enough to accumulate background material for this sketch, and now lives in Baltimore. Aiming at teaching or law, Jack supplements his writing with a news show on WSND.
After considering the selection Jim decided on the dark green one on the top shelf. Of course the kite he bought wouldn’t he that same one, because it was put together for display. From the way the string forming the edge hung limp and the wooden braces were inaccurately crossed he guessed one of the salesgirls had put it together. Maybe it was the girl who stood before him now, gazing at the notions counter while she impatiently tapped her pencil against one of the glass shelves. “I’d like a green one please, like that one up there,” he said. Without a word she drew out a long narrow tissue-wrapped package from beneath the counter and stuffed it in a bag designed for a smaller, •widei* package. “Twenty-nine cents,” she said while noticing a young man passing
the place
her display. Jim paid, then bought two rolls of stout twine at another counter, and left the store.
Checking his preparations as he headed for the busstop, he patted the pocket of his windbreaker. Yes, the boldly lettered face towel from the hotel was still there, ready to be torn into strips for the tail. Of course there weren’t any rags that he could have used in their suite. He didn’t even have a disposable tee shirt, since his mother had packed the ones with holes with the rest of his old clothes, before they had left Detroit, in a big cardboard box furnished by the moving company. Whenever they stayed at hotels they brought only their best clothes.
One of the guys at the grimy school he’d been going to since Monday had told him the number 18 bus went out to the U. of C., but it seemed like a long wait till one came. It was still early, not yet ten o’clock, and the shoppers walked fast. Finally a green and yellow bus with CALIFORNIA 18 printed in the box over its reverse-slanted windshield pulled up. The bus fare was a dime. It only cost a nickel in Detroit, but his father said everything in California cost too much. He liked the modern look of the bus, but he could tell it needed repairs because of the sickening exhaust
fumes it gave off. It must have been^ built just before the war began. He guessed there’d be new busses when reconversion was finished. At least his father said the new cars would be coming off the assembly line soon, and he ought to know because he was out here to help reconvert the Chevy plant.
He opened the window by his seat, then closed it when he noticed more^ fumes than air came in. It was a long ride, but he amused himself thinking of his unexpected luck in having a holiday in March. Sister Rosatta’s silver jubilee had come at a good time. He still wasn’t sure which of the nuns was Sister Rosatta. Maybe it was the old one who talked to his folks last Sunday at the dim convent. He didn’t really care. The sooner he got out of that school, the better. The kids made him nervous the© way they had looked at him when he said he was living at the Leamington. As soon as his father could find a house in the suburbs he’d probably transfer to a different school, one where kids didn’t think you were rich because your folks had a car.
He was jarred from his reverie. The bus was at the end of the line. As he stepped off he could see the white stone _ campus bell tower just through the O fancy iron gate leading to the campus. Far off to the right the huge cement C glistened from the face of the foothills. That was his destination, and despite the maze of buildings and people it was easy to keep sight of the shining yellow concrete letter. He spotted some kind of coffee shop and darted in to buy a ham sandwich and an apple. It was a low dank building. Crowds of co-eds in pastel cashmere sweaters sat smoking and drinking cokes at the dark oak booths, and talking to tall fellows in suntans and white shirts who lounged against the ends of the booths. One of the fellows pointed at his kite and said something to a couple of the girls. Their nervous laughter followed him out of the store.
Jim began to feel excited as the ground started upward. He climbed past the Greek theatre. The wind was fresh and a little chilly now that there was no protection from the buildings. He zipped up the front of his windbreaker and paused to look behind him. He was about half way up the hill, and already the buildings and people looked small. He watched the trail of a black convertible full of students making its way across the sprawling campus. He listened for the sound of the engine, but could hear nothing but the .lulling of the wind.
At last he turned and continued upward. He was getting short of breath, now, but still he climbed. He had to bend his neck back to see the sky over the top of the hill. Its shimmering blue had a touch of whiteness from the brilliance of
18
The Scholastic
A the sunshine. Small scattered clouds scurried across the top of the ground above him. His throat felt dry but the wind tasted so good he kept gulping great mouthfuls of it. The sun was warm on his back and his head felt light. He ran the last yards to the giant C and turned.
He choked as the magnificence of the scene struck him. Oakland and San Francisco lay beneath him, their bridges A well proportioned little steel toys strung across the bay. Ahead of him, through the Golden Gate, he could see the Pacific, dazzling in the sunlight.
His eyes glued to the scene, Jim sat on the cement letter and began eating the sandwich. He wondered, as he ate, how many people below him were noticing the giant C, just as he had so often looked at it this past week. He wondered if they could see him, a dot on the • bottom bar of the figure. The apple was cold and hard. Its sour juice tasted good on his raw throat.
When he had finished he lay back. The rise of the letter propped him up so he could see the cities and yet rest. He felt big, so big he could pull the sky down if he reached for it.
At last he opened the package and fixed the kite, putting a taut bow in its crosspieces so that it seemed to stick out its chest. He had forgotten to fix the tail first and now he had to hold " the kite down with his knee to keep it from blowing away. Then with his hands he deftly shredded the towel, tied the strips together and fastened the cloth ballast with twine to the bottom of the kite. Next he fixed a halter of string to the face of the kite end, reaching his finger into the center of a roll of twine, he found the loose end and joined it to the lead of the second roll. Now he was ready.
The wind rippled the taut tissue paper as he carried the kite toward the very peak of the hill. He held it before him against the sky and liked the way its
dark green clashed with the blue above him as he approached the top. Having finally reached the crest, he released the kite and felt it pull and strain on the string in his hand as he started to move back, slowly at first as the wind held it up, then faster as he began releasing the string. It rose too swiftly, then swooped toward the ground. Skillfully he played with the string, coaxing the kite back up, steadily this time.
Now he began to run, looking back over his shoulder at the kite rising higher and higher, challenging the sky with each stride he took. Faster and faster he ran, the wind bringing tears to his eyes as the string burned through his hand. Never had he inn so fast. The sloping ground gave him speed and power like he had never felt. Now he was just skimming downward, his feet touching lightly, his eyes on the green
mapping done: ready to roll
The Notre Dame concert band director, Robert F. O’Brien, has more to do than just wave a baton when the band goes on its annual spring tour during Easter vacation.
Since the end of the marching band season, Mr. O’Brien has been working on this spring’s southwestern trip.
His first step was to choose a probable route for the 1956 tour. For this problem he had the assistance of the Band President, George Murray. The last time the band visited the South was in 1953 when the tour penetrated as far as Orlando, Fla.
Murray next procured maps and soon the tour was completely planned. As a result, the 12-day tour will travel the farthest it has ever been from the campus—to Corpus Christi, Tex.—over 1,000 miles from Notre Dame.
The Band receives $800 for every per
diamond demanding its setting in the sky. He stumbled slightly on a rock, and turned his head around.
Racing up at him was the yellow C. His stomach drew cold as he tried to slacken his flight. It seemed to mock him, gathering momentum as he neared it. He tried to veer to one side, and felt a slamming blow on his shin as the concrete ripped his flesh. Now he was not soaring, he was falling, and he could not stop. The end of the yellow flashed by him, the cities grew bigger as he watched them. The bay seemed like a hole, waiting to engulf him, and still he fell, each foot touching a moment in its turn as he plummeted.
Finally, giving a cry, he heaved himself straight at the bay, arms out, reaching for the earth below him. His face skidded along the brittle winter grass; his body bumped against hard mounds of dirt and clumps of small stones, while his mind still hurtled toward the bay.
Gradually the banging in his head made him open his eyes. Heaving, his chest felt chilled from the ground. Feeling began to return to his leg and he noticed how his pant leg looked wet from the blood wanning the sharp throbbing of his broken skin.
Suddenly remembering, he turned on his side and searched the sky. Far above him, now barely visible, a glittering point of green still moved upward. As he rolled on his back, his shoulders began to shake. From deep in his stomach cannonades of laughter welled up to his lips and he triumphantly shot them down at the cities beneath him.
formance and $1200 for a double appearance. This fee covers expenses of travel, meals, and accommodations- and is paid by the local sponsor. The sponsor, usually a K. of C. or Notre Dame alumni group, keeps all profits and usually invests them in either building funds or charity. Jack Gueguen, band vice president, boasts that “every sponsor clears a very substantial profit from our performances provided they are really interested in promoting the concert.”
. The first and primary goal of the organization is to provide the best entertainment possible for every one of its listeners. To satisfy this end Mr. O!Brien has arranged a musical program which varies from the classics to Dixieland.
The Band will be accompanied by Ev-
(Continued on page 23)
February 17, 1956
WORTHWHILE?
“I think they stink . . .
Work, the drinkh
“There goes a real bird”
20
The Scholastic
“I’m in love again’
“I can’t read it either”
February 17, 1956
Ai a Qlance
AVON
The Trouble With Harry (now through next Wednesday); B. He won’t stay buried; that’s his trouble. In this typical Alfred Hitchcock production set in New England, Edmund Gwenn plays a retired sea captain. Out hunting imaginary rabbits he comes across the body of Harry. Thinking he has accidentally shot him, he buries the body. Through a series of comical events, Harry is buried and dug up four times. Other stars include John Forsythe, Shirley MacLaine, and Mildred Nat-wick. With more laughs and less terror than most Hitchcock pictures, his latest will nevertheless be welcomed by Hitchcock fans.
The Prisoner (begins next Wednesday). A British film, with Alec Guiness, this transplanted stage drama is a change of pace for the talented Guiness. It is a rather tragic story of a Roman Catholic Cardinal imprisoned behind the Iron Curtain. Set on a higher intellectual plane than most Guiness fans will anticipate, it is a battle of wills and intellects involving more dialogue than action. With Jack Hawkins and Raymond Huntley.
COLFAX
The Rose Tattoo, B. An emotional love story by Tennessee Williams and starring Italy’s famed Anna Magnani; whose performance in this one has been called the best since Shirley Booth’s in Come Back, Little Sheba. Burt Lancaster plays a sentimental oaf surprisingly well, proving his versatility. It is the story of a woman’s love for her dead husband, which finally fades when she learns she was not his one and only. Lancaster who doesn’t appear ’til almost half way through the picture, has a rose tattooed on his chest, because her dead husband had one. A subplot involves Miss Magnani’s concern over her teen-age daughter’s virtue. The daughter is played by Marisa Pavan, and her boy friend by Ben Cooper.
GRANADA
Forever Darling (now through next Wednesday). A little different from the usual Lucille Ball-Desi Arnez comedy, this one contains a little more peace and marital bliss than most of their TV shows. There is plenty of comedy, however, with James Mason playing Miss Ball’s guardian angel.	-
Picnic (begins next Thursday). This prize-winning Broadway play features William Holden as a stranger who comes to town and wins the town 'belle, played by Kim Novak. Miss Novak’s younger sister is played very capably by Susan Stasburg of Broadway fame. Rosalind Russell is the local spinster who finally gets her man.
PALACE
The Littlest Outlaw (now through next Wednesday). A Walt Disney production filmed in Mexico, this little gem is the story of a small Mexican boy who saves an old horse destined for the glue factory by hiding him. Also: Johnny Appleseed, another Disney feature, the cartoon short tells the story of a legendary figure. Also: Fort Yuma, a typical western.
The Last Hunt (begins next Thursday). A western with Robert Taylor, Stewart Granger, and Russ Tamblyn, who plays a young boy raised by Indians. Also: Night Freight, with Forrest Tucker and Keith Larson as partners in a small railroad and brothers. Barbara Britton supplies the love interest in a triangle involving the two brothers, and Thomas Gomez plays the villain.
RIVER PARK
Long John Silver (tonight and Saturday), which plot needs no explanation, with the talented British actor, Robert Newton. Also Killers From Space.
Artists and Models (Sunday through Tuesday). Another Martin and Lewis wacky comedy in which Dean plays a struggling(?) young artist, while Jerry has ambitions to write animal stories for children, i.e., Freddy Fieldmouse and Goosey Goose. Many of the laughs in this one are stolen by Shirley MacLaine, who plays the Batlady
22
model. Dorothy Malone supplies the gi^ for Martin, while Miss MacLaine chases) Lewis; with Anita Ekberg, strictly for-decoration.	\ '
Angelo (Wednesday only). An Italian story about the son of a Negro American soldier in Italy, with English subtitles.	-• (
Tight Spot (next Thursday and Friday) . Edgar G. Robinson and Gingrap' Rogers; a show with the usual Robinson-' flavor. Also: Randolph Scott in Ten Wanted Men. * Xr'
STATE	(f
Musicland (tonight and tomorrow). Excerpts from two of Walt Disney’s best, Make Mine Music, and Melody -Time. Well worth seeing, even if for ■ the second time. Also: Sky chasers. z
The Day the World Ended (begins with midnight show Saturday, runs through next Thursday). Somewhat reminiscent of Five only this time there are seven people left on the earth after an atomic disaster. Richard Denning arid -Lori Nelson play the leads in this Su-' perscope production. Also: The Phan-,, tom from 10,000 Leagues, makes this:, bill a science fiction double header. With .. Kent Taylor and Cathy Downs.
I '
WASHINGTON HALL I
5
The Private War of Major Benson (‘Saturday, the 18th) ; A-2. This picture ' has been touted as a dark horse for an; Academy Award. It is the story of al tough Army major who seems to be just/ a little too tough. He is‘sent to a milil'. tary grade school to soften up. Between^ Julie Adams, who plays an unlikely fe-L male doctor, and William Demarest, kindly old caretaker, he’s plenty soft by . the end of the -film.	3 ■
—Reviews by Harry Blanton
MUSIC
Grant Johannesen, pianist, will ap-'; pear in the Navy Drill Hall tonight at< 7:30 in conjunction with the Notre J Dame Concert and Lecture Series. 5
WNDU
Daily, Disney’s Magic Kingdom, 10 a.m. Martin Block Show, 2 p.m. Monday: Voice of Firestone, 7:30 p.m. Saturday: Metropolitan Opera, 1 p.m.;
Old New Orleans, dixieland, 7:05 Sunday: Sacred Heart program, p.m.; Music You Want, 10:30.
WNDU-TV
p.m.^ 8:151

Tonight: Celebrity Playhouse at 8:301^ Lamplight Theatre at 10:30. Saturday^ Perry Como Show at 7 p.m. Sunday?; Comedy Hour, 7 p.m. Weekly: 10:051 Sports Final.	] 4
The Scholastic^
if
Ik
by Jim O’Brien
| here have been quite a few com-1 ments of late with regal’d to the movie reviews which appear on the opposite page, not only from our loving readers, but also from some of the local theatre managers, who claim that they have come out on the wrong end of the criticism more than somewhat, as Damon Runyon might say, and “what are we trying to do to them, anyway?”
It is a fair question, at that. And if W1’6 are going to make any kind of an answer here, we had better take a look first, at the mechanics of the reviewing process; the way we get the facts.
“You mean you review a movie without even seeing it?” A question asked a thousand times, in an anguished tone of voice by one of our fans who liked the show, or didn’t like it and disagrees with our viewpoint. Or maybe just someone who thinks that we call our ^trikes from a position deep, deep in left field.
No, we don’t see it, save in the very rare cases in which a movie is around for more than a week and we get a chance to do two reviews on it. Even more rarely, the reviewer has seen the show, or at least, has heard first hand comment on it from a person whose judgment he trusts. Two cases in point. Last week, the reviewer had seen Guys and ^Dolls, both on the stage and on the Screen, and was familiar with its original source in the writings of Runyon himself. This provided a proper background for a serious critical review. However, it is obvious that this situation is very rare.
Ordinarily, the reviewer is the slave of the mechanical process by which he gets his information. He can’t see the show to review it, because his copy has gone to press four days to a week before the show has hit town. To get his infor-^hiation, he must rely on second hand opinions.
On Monday evening, the reviewer calls the managers of all the local theaters and requests the bookings for the week following that Friday; the date of issue. He is supplied with the title and the time for which the show will run. Armed with this information, he turns to a large collection of orange magazines; four years’ back issues of “The Motion Picture Herald” (usually in sad disorder, Apvhich does not add to his high opinion ^of the movies in question). The “Herald” provides him with a list of the personnel, issue date, Legion of Decency rating and
criticism criticised
a review of length from 200 to 1000 words, depending on the significance of the show. Keep in mind that this is a trade magazine, circulating among movie house managers. The reviews are based upon an estimate of general audience response and the possibilities for the show to draw and appeal to a general audience.
Considering the fact that the Notre Dame student is somewhat different from a general audience in taste and sensitivity, keeping these particular tastes in
mind,- and influenced by what he has heard and his own tastes, the reviewer sits down to write a review.
It is only right that he should consider his own tastes, otherwise the review will be meaningless for him and possibly for his readers. Also to be kept in mind is the all-important fact that the reviews are printed material to be read, and must therefore be interesting for the sake of the reader. This interest may be achieved in any number of ways, the basic two of which are originality and what we might call “extremizing.” Originality is obvious; clever phrasing, new and striking comparisons, concrete and explicit adjectives add to the zip of a review.
Extremizing is possibly less easy to justify from a standpoint of journalistic ethics. It consists in pushing a movie to the extreme of the critical judgment. Thus a bad movie is terrible, lousy, etc. A good movie is great, fine, inspiring, emotion-packed. A run-of-the-mill show is mediocre, trite, dull, etc. The same process applies to the performers. A good actor who turns in a fair performance is bad.
The tendency to counteract the movie advertising is almost impossible to resist. A run-of-mill show which has been built up in a tremendous advertising
campaign, assumes the character of a flop when it doesn’t live up to its expectations, and the reviewer is moved to say so accordingly.
Last but definitely not least, is the problem of the Legion of Decency. First of all, the reviewer does not, in the smallest way, accept the moral responsibility for anyone reading the reviews. The L of D rating is given whenever possible, and the reader must act according to his own conscience. However, a Catholic reviewer in a Catholic publication can hardly be expected to rave without reserve about objectionable shows, particularly ones about which some controversy has arisen. Nor ought he to pan a show which has received critical acclaim merely because it has received a poor rating.
This is a matter for careful judgment, for which no formula ■will apply in every case, and this may be the most difficult single job for the reviewer.
In conclusion, we must admit that there seems to be quite a bit of ado about not so much. Most students go to a show because they want to, and not because the Scholastic heaped upon it glory. They will probably go, even if-the Scholastic pans it to the ground. But at least, we may be able to say, as they return, that most satisfying of statements: “I told you so!”
ND Band
(Continued from page 19)'
erett Warren, director of the audio-visual department, who will tape each concert.
The second aim is the promotion of a spirit of good will toward Catholicism in general and Notre Dame in particular.
The religious necessities of the fifty-five members will not be neglected on the 3,000-mile trip. Rev. Roland G. Simon-itsch, C.S.C., .head of the religion department and band chaplain, will offer Mass in every stopping place.
To fulfill the third aim, O’Brien encourages these trips because they help Catholic organizations raise funds and also benefit the student members themselves by enabling them to see the country.
The band will hit the road for Paducah, Ky., and the start of the'tour on Mar. 31. Easter Sunday will put the band in Wynne, Ark., just outside Memphis. Following in order will be Monroe, La., Opelousas, La., Houston, and Corpus Christi, Tex.
The busses will then roll on to Tyler, Tex., Tulsa, Okla., through the Ozarks to Lexington, Mo., St. Louis, Mo., Danville, Ill., and back on Apr. 12 for the spring concert at the Drill Hall.
February 17, 1956
23
•JUNE GRADUATES
A General Motors Representative will be on hand to answer your questions about job opportunities with GM
Feb. 23 & Feb. 24
Our College Representatives speak for all of our many decentralized divisions throughout the country.
They are familiar with career opportunities throughout the entire organization, including staff and divisional operations,
and can answer your questions fully. We cordially invite June graduates, and those graduating this summer, to arrange an appointment through your College Placement Office on one of the above listed dates.
GM Positions Now Available in:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING • CHEMICAL' ENGINEERING AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING • INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY • PHYSICS
MATHEMATICS AND ACCOUNTING
Undergraduates:
The General Motors Representative will be back in the Spring to interview Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors, who plan to take graduate work, for summer positions with GM. Watch for his arrival at your campus, and make arrangements to see him through your Placement Office.
GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
Salaried Personnel Placement, Personnel Staff, Detroit 2, Michigan
24
The Scholastic •
!)>uik
IRISH CAGERS WIND UP HOME SCHEDULE
rannon & Co. Clash With Purdue, Marquette; Seniors to Make Final Fieldhouse Appearance
by JIM MERZ
The topsy-turvey Irish basketball huintet started their long jaunt up the TSast Coast on a high note last Saturday afternoon, stopping Navy, 70-63.
But the joy was short-lived as Holy Cross rallied to dump the Irish 84-72 Monday night. The University of Providence rubbed it in Tuesday night as they edged Notre Dame 85-83 in overtime.
A tough session lays ahead of Notre Dame in the next few days as they face strong clubs from Purdue and (Marquette.
" These two games will mark the final home appearance of seniors Lloyd Aubrey, Captain John Fannon and Bill Weiman. As of the Holy Cross game, Aubrey had tallied 420 points, just 86 points shy of the single season scoring record set by Dick Rosenthal. Aubrey’s 23 plus average may also top the previous high of 20.2 set last year by Jack Stephens.
Coach Ray Eddy will send a well-knit pquad into the Notre Dame fieldhouse tomorrow night. The Boilermakers feature a unified brand of ball, with an
JOE SEXSON
High scoringBoilermaker.
accent on their tight defensive play. Six returning lettermen furnish the needed experience for Purdue.
Veteran Joe Sexson paces the club in scoring with a 17 plus average for the season. The 6-4 playmaker has already broken the Purdue all-time three year individual scoring record of 916 points,
DAN THORNBURG
Jump shot artist.
set by Dennis Blind from 1953-55. With five games left on the Purdue slate, Sexson may also smash’ the career record of 1,011 points, also launched by Blind. Joe sets up the plays for the Boilermakers, and leaps well under the boards.
A knee injury has sidelined Sexson’s partner up front, Ron Jecha, who led the Boilermakers earlier in the season. Filling his slot will probably be Bob Bonhomme, a snappy clutch performer.
Switching from the gridiron to the hardwood, 6-6 Lamar Lundy represents the height and rebounding power for Purdue at the center slot. Lundy also ranks third in scoring.
An all-around ballplayer for Purdue is Dan Thornburg. The scrappy guard
LAMAR LUNDY
Perpetual troublemaker.
has a 14 point average and rebounds well. Little Joe Campbell, a deft ballhawk, will tangle with Bobby Devine at guard. Maurice Lorenz’s jump shot should also see action.
The Warriors from Milwaukee invade the Notre Dame fieldhouse Monday night. Marquette opened the season with plenty of experience, but hasn’t lived up to promise. However, only Louisville has trounced Coach Nagle’s quintet soundly. Last week, Marquette accepted a bid to the National Invitation Tournament in Madison Square Garden. The Irish split with Marquette last year, snapping a long skein of Warrior wins in their second tussle at Milwaukee. Irish center Lloyd Aubrey will be jumping against the Warrior ace, 6-9 Terry Rand, who leads Marquette in scoring and rebounding.	.
Last Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame tripped a speedy Navy squad at Annapolis, 70-63. With a definite height advantage, the Irish jumped off to an early 4-2 lead, and Navy never saw daylight. At half-time Notre Dame commanded a comfortable 38-26 edge, but the Middies began to threaten in the second half, shaving the lead to seven tallies. But Lloyd Aubrey settled down to keep • the Irish in front. Aubrey led the contest with 25 markers, while John Smyth followed with 24. Although only 5-7, little Andy Dulik dunked a high of 18
f j February 17, 1956
25
MARQUETTE’S TERRY RAND
Familiar foe looking for revenge.
points for the Middies, seconded by Capt. Dave Smalley with 17 points. The Irish stifled Navy’s big gun, Frank Petinos, who was held to 8 tallies. Notre Dame’s captain, John Fannon, returned to action to score 8 points on push shots from the outside.
Gymnasts Face Chicago After Badger, 'Cat Losses
The Notre Dame gymnastic team will be looking for their first victory of the season wlien they meet the University of Chicago tomorrow at Chicago. Last week the gymnasts lost their second and third consecutive matches to Wisconsin, 78-34, and Northwestern, 68-42. '
Top man for the Irish was Senior Ev Hatch who captured first place on the high bar against both Wisconsin and Northwestern, and a first on the rings against Northwestern. Hatch also placed second in two events, one on the rings against Wisconsin and the other in tumbling against Northwestern. Other standouts for the Irish were Jim Brunot and Paul Leitzinger. Brunot took third on the parallel bars and free exercise against both opponents, and also a third in tumbling against Northwestern. Leitzinger placed third on the high bars against Northwestern.
Lack of experience seems to be the biggest factor in the club’s losing season. Most of the boys have had no high school experience at all and weren’t introduced to gymnastics until coming to Notre Dame. However, the team should be very strong in future seasons due to the large number of Sophomores on this year’s squad. Top prospects include Milo Solomito, Bill Anderson, and Roy Williams.
26
Allard, Lewis, Squires In National A.A.U. Meet
The Notre Dame track team, back from the 33rd Michigan State Relays, with the best Irish showing in the Relays’ history, will send miler Bill Squires, high jumper Bernie Allard, and sprinter Aubrey Lewis to New York tomorrow for the National AAU Championship meet to be held in Madison Square Garden. Coach Alex Wilson had originally intended to enter the mile relay team as well, but when star- sophomore quartermiler Frank Hemphill suffered a fractured femur in a freak fieldhouse accident Feb. 8, Wilson changed his mind. The freak accident occurred when Hemphill broke stride after accidentally stepping on the heel of a teammate and fell to the ground.	•
Rank High At Michigan State
The Irish along with Kansas and Michigan dominated the Relays last Saturday in which six East Lansing fieldhouse and meet records were broken and three more tied. Michigan and Kansas each won four events and Notre Dame three.
The three Notre Dame firsts came in the two mile relay, the high jump, and the 75-yard intermediate hurdles. Bill Newell, Dick Dicamillo, Ed. Monnelly, and Squires combined to run the two miles in 7:54. The best ND high jump recordholder Allard could do was six feet six and three-quarter inches, but this was almost four inches better than the efforts of Sam Mylin, Wisconsin, and Tom Sanfacon, Notre Dame, who tied for second place at six feet three inches. In the finals of the 75-yard intermediate hurdles, Lewis equalled the new meet record set earlier in the afternoon trials by Tirrel Burton, Miami, (O), who finished second in the finals. Aubrey’s time was :08.3.
Finmen Face Weekend Tests; Farley Captures Relay Meet
The Notre Dame Swimming Club will travel to Muncie, Ind. tomorrow for a swim meet with Ball State. On Sunday the Club will meet the University of Illinois of Chicago in the Rockne Memorial at 3 p.m.
Next Wednesday, Feb. 22, the University of Chicago will come to Notre Dame for a swim meet scheduled for 4:30 p.m. The Irish have also tentatively scheduled a swim meet with North Central on Feb. 24, at Notre Dame.
The Interhall Relay Meet, directed by Swimming Club coach Gil Burdick, was held Wednesday, Feb. 8. Farley captured first place with 66 points. Lyons, Zahm, and Badin were next in order with 68, 62, and 56 points respectively.
J
Brennan Names Zilly | As Druze Replacement! !
Notre Dame football coach Terry Bren-j nan moved another step closer to pre-g| paring his grid charges for next fall’sj rugged schedule with the announcement^ that Jack Zilly will take over as endW coach.	9
Zilly, 34, will be mainly concerned with! tutoring the Irish ends. He replaces! John Druze who has assumed the head I coaching duties at Marquette University. It was under Druze that he played his | college ball at Notre Dame.	I
He played on the National Champion- | ship teams of 1943 and 1946. His college g career was interrupted momentarily dur- | ing World War II as he saw action in th(^ Pacific theatre during 1944 and 1945.
Zilly was drafted by the Los Angeles .
Rams and following his graduation in 1947 entered the play for pay ranks. He : , played five years with the Rams and then J played a year with the Philadelphia । „ Eagles.	t
Last fall, he returned to football, this I time as a coach. He served as an. assist- f ant at Montana State University, Miss- L oula, Montana.
Zilly is married to the former Eulalia^ O’Toole, of Niles, Michigan. They have | three boys and two girls.
Brennan expects Zilly to report about
March 1. Spring practice will begin after Easter vacation with the tentative starting date set for April 9. The spring session will conclude with the annual Old Timers game sometime in May.
This completes Brennan’s staff except for a quarterback coach. Brennan himself served in this capacity last fall but^ will probably name another assistant in the near- future to handle the task.
JACK ZILLY Succeeds the Old Pro.
The Scholastic
□even Former Champs, Hopeful Challengers Step Up Drills for 25th Annual Bengal Bouts
by ED ROHRBACH AND BOB EARLY
On the night of March 24, 18 battle-tested boxers will vie for coveted divi-Fsion titles, ranging from 127 lbs. to Heavyweight, in Notre Dame’s 25th annual Bengal Bouts. As in previous years, the boxing ring will be set up on the basketball floor in the Fieldhouse
The elimination matches will run through March 19 to 22, until two boxers are left in each of the nine weight divisions.
Presently sponsored by the Knights of kColumbus to raise money for the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, Pakistan, the Bouts have risen a long way since Knute Rockne first initiated a boxing program at Notre Dame in 1923. However, the actual history of the Bengals began in 1931 when the Scholastic took over the promotion of the event and showed a profit of $500. Admission was charged for the first time and the proceeds were sent to the Bengal missions. The Scho-Jastic continued to sponsor the event until 1946 when the Knights of Columbus, Council 1477, took over. Last year the Knights raised $1500 on the event.
Award Highlights Bouts
The highlight of the bouts is the Bengal Bout Award, given annually to the man who has done the most for boxing during the past year. Last year’s recipient was Budd Schulberg, author of “On the Waterfront.” As boxing editor of Sports Illustrated, Schulberg, earned the award for his articles which led to an investigation of underworld influence
SARS BRENNAN
Champion with a right hand lead.
in boxing. The winner of the 1956 award will join such other boxing notables as Tony Zale, Rocky Marciano, Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago, and the 1954 winner, Kid Gavilan.
Father Thomas Brennan will again serve as the general chairman of the bouts and this year’s promoter- is Tony Silva.
Nearly three weeks ago about 70 men began to skip rope and pound the bags around in the boxing room of the fieldhouse in preparation for the Bouts. Each man 'will be in top condition by fight night besides getting the best in boxing instruction.
Most of the fighters train the whole year round with running and light workouts, and many work with the fighters training for the Novice Bouts held before Christmas.
Organized training takes place five times a week usually, but if there is no varsity competition in the fieldhouse, they work out on Saturdays, too.
A typical training session begins with two miles of road work before the fighters go to the boxing rooms in the fieldhouse. After the running each boxei-does about a half hour of calisthenics followed by another half hour of instruction. Then the hitting and defensive drills start. After 30 minutes of drilling the fighters put into practice what they have learned with a brief period of controlled boxing.
As the fighters progress they begin sparring three times a week. This sparring consists of three two minute rounds, giving each man an opportunity to study his opponent.
Seven Champions Defending
“This is the best start we’ve had in years in numbers, and we’re further ahead this year than in the last three or four years,” was the comment of Dominic (Nappy) Napolitano, the man who is training the fighters. He attributes this early progress to the number-of “old timers,” men who have fought in the Bengals in previous years, that are fighting this year. Nappy estimates that about 30 or 40 percent of the fighters come back for a second try.
To date there are seven past Bengal champs signed up to fight in this year’s bouts. However, there is still time for anyone else who is interested to sign up, so there may be more past champs fighting. Past champs include Dick Shul-sen, 175 pound champ last year but a
DOMINIC NAPOLITANO
“Boxing’s a contest . . .”
heavyweight this year, Charles Connor, heavyweight, Dick Plum, 142, Jim McDermott, 135, Bob Williams, 155, Pete Noznesky, 165, and Sarsfield Brennan, 150.
The Bengal Bouts are fought under intercollegiate rules which differ somewhat from amateur rules. In amateur bouts ten ounce gloves are used, whereas 14 ouncers are used in the Bengals. Fighters in the Bengals also wear protective head gear and only box two minute rounds instead of the amateur three minute rounds. The ring pad is also thicker here.
Another major difference is that in the Bengals the fights are stopped immediately if the fight is one-sided. They do not wait for the TKO. “Boxing’s a contest; we try to keep it that way,” was the comment by Nappy.
TOM HUGUELET AND ERNIE MURATA
“. . . and watch out for the left hook.”
February 17,1956
Irish Fencers Near New Undefeated Mark; Host Ohio State, Michigan State Tomorrow by JIM LANGFORD
Tomorrow afternoon Notre Dame’s unbeaten fencing team will play host to Ohio State and Michigan State at 1:30 on the basketball court of the Fieldhouse. Irish Coach Walter Langford rates the triangular meet as “tough competition” for his lancers and added, “if we are going to have a chance against Illinois and Wisconsin next week, we will have to come through with two convincing wins tomorrow.”
By winning both matches tomorrow the Irish could tie the all-time Notre Dame record of 17 consecutive victories, established in the 1935-1936 seasons under Coach Pedro DeLandero and equaled under Coach Langford in the 1952 and 1953 seasons. Ironically, it was Illinois, who the Blue and Gold face next week, who snapped the Irish streak in 1953 with a thrilling 14-13 win, scored on the last touch of the last bout. Coach Langford has called the meet next Saturday “the sternest test we will face all season.”
Last Saturday the Irish swept past two more foes, defeating the University of Chicago 15-12 and Wayne University, 19-8, to remain undefeated in nine matches this season. The double win also extended the Irish winning streak to 15 straight triumphs. Their last defeat came at the hands of Wisconsin on Feb. 19, 1955.
Coach Langford substituted freely in the double win, using 20 fencers against Chicago and 21 against Wayne. Irish Captain Don Tadrowski led the
PEDRO DE LANDERO
Shades of the old master.
way with five victones in as many bouts. His season mark now stands at (21-1). In addition to Tadrowski, Dennis Hemmerle (4-0), John Brogan (3-1), and Dick Colman (2-0) also starred for the Epee team which won 14 of 18 bouts. Ray Eyerman and Terry Laughlin also saw action foi* the Epee team.
In Foil, Julio Vizcarrondo suffered his first setback in 15 bouts this season as he was defeated by Jim LeVine of Chicago. But Pierre DuVair won three bouts to run his season’s mark to (9-0) and thus remain the only undefeated man on the squad. Joe Blazina, Bill Fox, Jack Friel, Jim Burlage, Jack Ryan, Mike Todd and Jerry Jones also fenced foil for the Irish.
The 'Sabre team was again led by Frank Dwan (3-1) who extended his season’s mark to (14-3), Bob Eichelman (2-1), and Dave Friske (2-1). Ed Koester, Art Price, Jerry Meyer, Joe Klein and Dick Fagan also saw action in the sabre during the day’s festivities.
Interhall Basketball Play Continues in Full Swing
Basketball play in the Interhall and Campus Club Leagues swung into full action last week. Each league is made up of six brackets with four teams in each.
Last week Walsh forfeited to Pang-born while Cavanaugh upset Dillon 35-32. Farley fell to Morrissey 36-25 and Sorin smothered Pangborn 51-36. In a tight contest St. Ed’s beat Lyons 46-45.
Fisher Hall also bit the dust as Alumni edged them 32-29. A second Alumni team dropped Farley 48-18 and St. Ed’s lost a tough one to Walsh, 35-34.
Alumni’s third team was victimized by Badin 40-31. Breen-Phillips jarred one of Morrissey’s two quintets 39-36, while Sorin beat the other Morrissey squad 35-24.
In the club circuit, Buffalo stampeded Kansas City 25-19 and the Syrian-Lebanese Club beat Central New York 31-21. Indiana defeated Oklahoma 26-22 while the Monogram Club nosed out the Chicago Club 22-21.
The Physical Education Majors had a tough time in racking up a 25-24 win over the Pacific Northwest. West Virginia ran over Detroit 35-21 and Rock River Valley thumped Pittsburgh 33-27. Buffalo romped again, this time over Toledo Gold and Toledo’s Blue team socked the Syrian-Lebanese Club to wrap up the week’s activities.
Matmen Face Ill.Statef After Loss toWestern 1
The Notre Dame Mat Team suffered^ its second loss of the season, 17-11, at® the hands of a surprisingly strong® Western Illinois crew last Saturday ini a dual meet held at Macomb, Ill. Captain; Terry Crowley, Jack Armstrong, amk Bob Salvino were the only wrestlers able to help the Irish cause in the meet.
Tomorrow at 2 p.m. in the Drill Hall, the wrestling squad will seek victory number six against Illinois State Teachers College in a dual meet.
The Irish squad, seriously hampered by the loss of their regular 123-pounder Buddy Day, slipped behind in the early | matches of the meeting and trailed § thereafter. Nevertheless, substitute Joe^ Schaefer put up a good scrap before being pinned midway in the second round I by Harry Lester of the "Western team. )
In the closely contested 130-pound , match, Chuck Brooks edged Bob Cala- ' brese of Notre Dame, 2-1, on riding | > time. Highly touted Bob Lopez of East- | ern, who up until the match had pinned g J every previous opponent by the second | round, was forced to struggle back from | a near pin to decision Bob Pivonka in^ the 135-pound scrap. Following this, Captain Terry Crowley boosted Notre f Dame into the scoring column by easily | pinning Bill Loftus in 1:13 of the second f stanza.	f
Chuck DeTaege and Frank Campbell of Western copped the 157 and 167-pound matches with decisions over Mike Gleason and Chuck Henzy, 4-2 and 6-1 respectively. In the light-heavyweight class Jack Armstrong retained his unde-• feated status by beating Jack McBethW 6-3. Heavyweight Bob Salvino beat Walt , Whitson 2-1 in the finale.
1956 BASKETBALL BANQUET
The Notre Dame Villagers will hold their annual testimonial Basketball Banquet on March 8 in the new Knights of Columbus hall in South Bend.
The Villagers, Notre Dame stu-dents who live in South Bend, spon- V sor the banquet annually to honor the Notre Dame basketball team. Co-chairmen of this year’s event are: Tom Haley and Dick Easley. '
The master of ceremonies for this year’s banquet will be Bill Fox, sports editor of the Indianapolis' i. News. The Villagers also expect to, j ‘ have a prominent sports personality • J : for the main speaker.	1 L 1
Tickets for the banquet will be ! priced at $5.00 but this year, for; MV* the first time, student tickets priced I -at $3.50 have been made available. •
28
The Scholastic
i
*Torda Leads Individuals in Kampus Kegler Action
Kampus Keglers are back in full swing once again and after last week’s action we see Chicago, Detroit, the Irish “A”, and Toledo still leading their respective divisions.
Dick Torda remains the individual Reader, leading the late Wednesday division with a 169 average and the late Thursday group with a 179 average.
In the Wednesday night league Chicago picked up four points to give them a record of 39-13 and futher increase their lead. California moved ahead of the Industrial Engineers to tie the Accountants for second place, both teams sporting a 28-24 record Bill Sebastian of ^Detroit, although he has bowled only wsix games, leads the league with a 171. Jim Trino’s 161 accumulated over 30 games merits second position. Nick Ranieri of Chicago has the high single of 214 while Trino’s 574 is the league’s high for three games.
Toledo leads the late Wednesday division with a 33-9 record and the Chern. Engineers have moved ahead of the Delaware Valley Club to tie Cleveland for ^second place with a 29-13.1 McLaughlin -has upped his average three points to 168 to stay close to Torda who leads the loop with a 169. John Zeller’s marks of 270 for single and 632 for three games, lead the league in these departments.
In the late Thursday league there is a battle raging for the leader’s position, with only 59 percentage points separating the top four teams. Detroit is trying to hold on to a slim one point margin over the Irish Air Society while the Met f^Club and the knights of Columbus follow in that order. Torda’s average has dropped four points to 179 but he still leads the league in that department as well as holding the high set mark of 614. Pete Loda holds the high single 240.
Wisconsin Club has moved ahead of LaRaza to tie with the Irish “A” for first place in the early Thursday groupings. Both.teams have records of 23-13. The LaRaza Club has dropped into third place with a 20-16. Bill DeBot still con-^tinues to pace the loop with a 160 aver-"age for 33 games. The 221 single high of Bill Fanning and Don Calcognini’s 547 for a set are also high for the league.
The trip out Holy Cross way wasn’t a total loss after all. Moose Krause got a free meal out of it even though Johnny Jordan received less hospitable treatment. The occasion of Moose’s free meal was a testimonial in his honor held Sunday night at the Harvard Club (imagine that) by the Notre Dame Club of Boston. I don’t think much of the Ivy influence will rub off on Moose.
MOOSE
KRAUSE
There were enough of his old Holy Cross and Notre Dame friends there to protect him from that. Which goes to show that our athletic director is a popular man.
Moose, his real name is George Edward, coached football and basketball out at Holy Cross for a few years before he returned to South Bend. Which also accounts for his friends around the Harvard Club.
But to make a point of possible interest, there is a significance attached to Mr. Krause’s nickname other than his oversize frame. The tradition is that certain of the most capable performers on the teams around here were given the name of “Moose”. (It is only incidental that they were all usually that big.) And without a doubt, Krause was one of the biggest and
CASTING CLUB MEETS
The Casting Club will meet at 2 ‘ p.m. this coming Sunday in the Field House. The program will include I demonstrations of the various fishing techniques and coaching by Barney < Van Lue. Fishing tackle will be provided by the South Bend Tackle Company; everyone interested in fishing is invited to attend.
the most capable. On the football field he won All-American recognition in 1931, 1932, and 1933. In 1933 he played 521 out of 540 minutes. He equalled the All-American feat on the basketball court. To top it off, the student body voted him a trophy, making him Moose of all the Mooses. You don’t hardly find any like that anymore.
Anyhow that was back in the days when Notre Dame people were proud of their athletes and Moose’s efforts meant something to the students. The picture has changed quite a bit as we see it now. No, there isn’t a Moose Krause around either. But what about student pride?
Pride seems to be a scarce commodity this winter. No one denies that our basketball team is a loser. It may even be a loser again next year. But Notre Dame has had losing ball clubs before.
Yet this season things are different with the student body. Instead of giving the ball club a little encouragement, the boys have leaped at the chance to stone them. The campus oracles have come out with startling announcements about causes and effects and attitudes and intentions. The boys and the coach play out the rest of the schedule doing the best they can.
But the student body seems to have quit on them.
Yeah, why don’t they quit like everybody else.
It is a known fact that opposing ball clubs have been afraid to play in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The intense roar from the supporting student body has always done something to unnerve visiting players. It’s not too fantastic even to suggest that Notre Dame has won some ball games she wasn’t supposed to because of the roar. But the Fieldhouse has been conspicuously quiet this year. Some of the people who have been around a few years say there was more noise in the Fieldhouse when there were only 3000 students at Notre Dame. Evidently they didn’t like to kick a man when he was down in the old days. The students must have had enough personal pride in Notre Dame to support and encourage the teams when they were having a bad season.
Tomorrow night we play Purdue and the home season ends Monday against Marquette. Maybe some of the boys could find their way to the Fieldhouse for these two final home games . . . just to prove that there’s a little bit of pride left at Notre Dame.
February 17, 1956
29
CHEMISTRY: Radioactive tracers determine effectiveness of solvent extraction in purification of germanium tetrachloride...later processed into metal.
PHYSICS: X-rays of metals show specific pattern for each material. They are used to identify impurities. Here a sample is positioned for careful analysis.
METALLURGY: Rolling uranium strip for fabrication into fuel elements. Strip will be cut to length and further processed before going to reactive coolant.
Sylvania also has attractive openings with similar opportunities for:
What do
CHEMISTS PHYSICISTS and METALLURGISTS do at SYLVANIA?
Sylvania is one of the important names in electronics, America’s dynamic $10 billion-plus industry. Where do physicists, chemists and metallurgists fit in? Let’s look at the record: Working as a team, these Sylvania scientists pool their individual contributions to create new products. For example:
IN CHEMISTRY: Development of phosphors, semi-conductors, kinetics of gaseous reactions, ultra-pure materials;
IN PHYSICS: Physical optics, electroluminescence, mass spectroscopy, electron emission phenomena;
IN METALLURGY: Powder metallurgy and the investigation of pure metals and semi-conductors.
From research such as this have come Sylvania’s stacked ceramic tube, the pill-sized germanium transistor, traveling wave tubes, panelescent lighting, atomic reactor fuel elements, advanced weapons systems, and others.
Many Sylvania developments are still unreleased.
The public hears of them tomorrow... the Sylvania team developed them yesterday.
Upon graduation, you can take part in these exciting discoveries at Sylvania.. .working and exchanging ideas with top men in your chosen field ... as a valued team member, learning by doing.
Assignments are as varied as your choice of 40 geographic locations. And advancement comes naturally at Sylvania... ask the men who work there.
Electrical Engineers	Ceramic Engineers
Mechanical Engineers	Glass Technologists
Chemical Engineers	Industrial Engineers
Why not make an appointment now through your College Placement Office... to discuss your career with the Sylvania representative when he visits your campus.
Find out about your opportunity as a Chemist, Metallurgist or Physicist at Sylvania... today.
If SYLVANIA T
SYLVANIA ELECTRIC PRODUCTS INC.
1740 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.
LISHTINO . »*OIO * ILtCT>ONie> ■ TELEVISION ■ ATOMIC ENENOV
30
The Scholastic
MARDI GRAS COMMITTEEMEN AND THEIR HANDICRAFT The house looks over the night’s take.
Al Smith
ANNOUNCES THE OPENING OF HIS NEW CLASSICAL RECORD DEPARTMENT
*NSA Accepts Entries For Regional Meeting
Applications are now being accepted by the Student Senate from all students interested in attending the Regional International Student Relations Seminar to be held March 2, 3, ad 4 at Western College for Women, Oxford, Ohio. The Seminar is being sponsored by the Na-Mhtional Students Association.
Anyone interested in international affairs and student government is eligible to apply for the seminar. Application blanks can be obtained in the Student Senate office in the Student Center daily from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. All applications must be completed and turned in to the Senate Office by Feb. 24.
The seminar is intended to better acquaint member-schools with NSA’s international program, train competent pleaders in the field of international stu-W dent relations, and provide for more adequate campus programming in the foreign student and international programming.
NS A carries on an important foreign relations program with the national student associations of approximately 50 countries throughout the world.
Representatives of the association represent American students yearly at the International Student Conference and at the meetings of other foreign student £ groups.
Expenses for the seminar are being met from a grant from the Foundation for Youth and Student Affairs.
Propeller Club Announces Undergrad Writing Contest
An essay contest open to all undergraduate students has been announced by the Propeller Club. The theme of the contest is “The American Merchant Marine—Key to Trade and Defense.”
The student submitting the best essay among all colleges competing will be awarded a 60-day cruise to Hawaii via the Panama Canal.
Essays must be typewritten and consist of 1,000 words or less. The full name of the author must appear in the upper left hand corner of the first page, together with home address, name of institution, age of contestant, and number of words.
Further rules and information may be obtained from Notre Dame Propeller Club President John Manion at 207 Fisher. The contest closes March 31.
Specializing in all classical long play Record Labels
•	Westminister	•	Audiophile
•	Vox	•	Concert Hall
•	Cook	•	Urania
•	Replia	•	Vanguard
—and all other Major Labels.
We specialize in the finest high fidelity equipment by such Nationally famous manufacturers as • Electrovoice • University • Bell • Fisher • National • and many others.
All systems and components sold at Audiophile net prices.
AL SMITH’S HI FI SOUND STUDIO
412 South Michigan Street At 2-6540
for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE’S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
Commerce Forum Selects Second Semester Officers
The Commerce Forum opened their scheduled series of talks for the second semester with an address on “The Role of the Specialist in the Stock Market” by Tom Coleman on Feb. 6.
The Forum’s newly elected officers include Ray Kraemer, president; John Kennedy, vice-president; Walt Peeney, program chairman, and Bob Berachinski, publicity chairman. The moderator of the Forum is Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith of the College of Commerce.
Sunny Italy Cafe .
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the
Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
Diamonds Jewelry Walches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJA.S. Bldg.
February 17, 1956
Detroit Edison Co.
Electrical Power
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Research and Development Plant and System Design Equipment Engineering
Planning for Growth
Purchasing Sales
Electrical - Mechanical
Engineers
Reserve your appointment time at Placement Office to see our representative.
FRIDAY, MARCH 2
Will Also Interview Sophomores and Juniors Interested in Summer Employment
Glee Club Leaves March 25 | For Ten Eastern Concerts j
Thirty-six members of the Not res Dame Glee Club will make an extended® tour of the East from Mar. 27 to Apr.l 11 to give a total of ten concerts. Mr.S Daniel H. Pedtke, club director, will® accompany the club on its tour.
'The Glee Club’s first concert will btR at Patchogue, Long Island, N. Y., onl Easter Sunday. Presenting one concert I a night for the next nine days, the club g will appear in Perth Amboy, N. J.; J Pittsfield, Mass.; Uxbridge, Mass.; | Worcester, Mass.; and Holyoke, Mass. I Leaving the Boston area, the club will I make further appearances at New Ro- | chelle, N. Y.; Wilmington, Del.; Pitts-J . burgh, Pa.; and Youngstown, Ohio. A
Preceding the tour will be the M-G-M -J
release of the album of Glee Club presentations which was recorded on campus last May.
This tour, as others made by the Glee Club, was arranged by its student offi-

cers. Business Manager Bill Jackman, | a senior in journalism, worked out the | details for the tour. Publicity is being | handled by John Goedecke, a senior in | pre-med.	A
FLORIDA CLUB DANCE
Friday night. .	. delicious
spaghetti, pizza and fish— yours at .. .
CE S-OW
IQIHtS LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
The Florida Club's Easter dance will be held at the Hollywood Beach Hotel on April 2 from 9 to 1.
Hollywood Beach is five miles south of Fort Lauderdale. Besides dancing, complete swimming facilities will be provided in the pool of the Hollywood Beach Hotel.
Tickets will be $4 on campus and $5 at the door.
DRRWTURB0W
\0PT0METRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS ------
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
— EYES EXAMINED ----------
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 2’/2x3'/2 in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
4c „
Cdi
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Law School Students Attend County Bar Assn. Banquet
The faculty and students of the Law . 1 School were the guests of the St. Joseph J County Bar Association at their monthly dinner meeting held in the Knights of . Columbus Hall in South Bend on Feb. 8.M
The meeting was the first of what is^ hoped to be an annual event for the Law School and the Bar Association. It was applauded by Assistant Dean John J. Broderick, who thanked the members for ' their efforts in working with the Law < . School.	[
Guest speaker for the evening was I; ’ Thomas M. Scanlon, of Indianapolis, r ' president of the Indiana State Bai* As- I. i sociation, who spoke on “John Marshall |? and the Professional Spirit.” The talk kept with the national celebration of theD^ 200th anniversary of the birth of John |? Marshall, chief justice of the Supreme L; Court from 1801 to 1835.	I ■
The Scholastic t
32
| *More Social Activities Planned for Lent
Boilermaker Followup' to Start Program
I
Pat Logan, Student Senate social chairman, reported this week that more Lenten activities are planned this year than ever before.
a First of the Lenten activities will be Whe “Boilermaker Followup” on Feb. 18, in the Student Center. Girls from St. Mary’s College, St. Mary’s Academy, St. Joseph’s Nurses Home, and the Junior Daughters of Isabella have been invited. On Saturday night, Feb. 25, a Dixieland “Music to Relax” party is planned in the Student Center. Couples are invited.
The weekend of March 10 will be closed to social activities because of the ^senior Class retreat and campus-wide hall retreats. The one exception will be the appearance of the Harlem Globetrotters in the Field House on March 10. Proceeds from this game will go to the Olympic Fund. On March 24, a date party will be held in the Student Center following the Bengal Bouts.
On Saturday nights when no special events are planned, open house will be held in the Student Center. Records will ^)e played and refreshments served.
The Senate has scheduled a full program of entertainment for Sundays during Lent. In the afternoon there will be
mixed parties in the Rathskeller of the Student Center. Each of these afternoons will be dedicated to one particular musician and only his music will be played. It has been decided that two of the artists to be honored will be Mozart and Glenn Miller. Skits will be enacted to illustrate the music. On Sunday evenings the Senate has planned a series of jam sessions in the Rathskeller.
Local K. of C. Schedules First Degree Initiation
The Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council 1477 have begun their winter drive for membership. Applications for the K. of C. may be obtained from Don Timm at the Knights’ office in the basement of Walsh Hall any afternoon between 4 and 5:30 p.m.
A first degree initiation will be held Monday, Feb. 27. Another first degree initiation will be held March 12. Applications should be turned in a week before initiation.
The ND Council is not just a local organization, but part of the national Knights of Columbus, sharing in its benefits and works of Catholic Action.
The dues are put to use in such works as the Gibault Home for Boys in Terre Haute, Ind., Catholic advertising, and microfilming the Vatican Library.
Something of particular' interest to the college student is the Knights of Columbus graduate study fellowships to Catholic University in Washington, D.C.
A student is eligible for a graduate fellowship if he or his father is a member of the Knights of Columbus. The fellowships pay room, board, and tuition. Anyone interested is invited to visit the K. of C. office for full’information.
Finance Club Elects Officers; Spring Activities Announced
The Finance Club recently announced that new officers have been elected for the Spring semester. They are: Ray Kraemer, president; Joseph Mulflur, vice-president; Dave Morris, secretarytreasurer.
On Feb. 23, Mr. Frank H. O’Donnell, managing partner of Thomson and McKinnon, will lead off the semester with a talk on “The Role of the Stock Market in the Country’s Economic Development.” ’
Papers will be delivered at the club’s several other meetings by Tom Coleman, Don Doyle, and Bill Copeland. A dinner, field trip, and picnic are also being planned by the officers.
Employment Opportunities in Venezuela
with
Creole Petroleum Corporation
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N. J.)
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus on
Monday, February 20
to interview unmarried graduates with majors in ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules
February 17, 1956
33
Young Engineers
YOU AND CROSLEY - A PARTNERSHIP IN OPPORTUNITY
HERE IS THE “ELECTRONICS CENTER OF THE MIDWEST"... THE EVENDALE PLANT, "HEADQUARTERS" OF THE CROSLEY GOVERNMENT PRODUCTS DIVISION. LOCATED IN A NORTHERN SUBURB OF CINCINNATI, THIS PLANT HAS EVERY FACILITY FOR LONG RANGE RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.
The Crosley Government Products Division is a member of the AVCO Manufacturing Corporation —■ a family of famous names including Crosley Broadcasting, Crosley Radio, Television and Appliances, Bendix Home Laundry Equipment, Lycoming Engines, American Kitchens, New Idea Farm Equipment along with Horn Farm Equipment and Moffats Appliances in Canada.
Young Engineers get individual attention and unequalled growth opportunities. Radar, Guided Missiles, Transistors are just a few of the fields in which Crosley is now working.
Get all the facts. Write for a brochure describing our past, present and future. Find out how you may help write additional achievement chapters of the Crosley "story”.
DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING GOVERNMENT PRODUCTS
CORPORATION Evendale, Cincinnati 15, Ohio
-A
Repercussion	h
(Continued from page 8)	|
news items and editorials are irreduci-8 ble to the state of mathematical formu-| lae and hence—“Alas! Alack! Woe isj me!”—must be presented in sentences! which are the tools of the liberally edu-® cated men. Therefore, your magazine! is correctly called an AB publication^ which you may consider an unwitting’ accolade.
Pity the poor engineers—and these are the minority—who blindly decry the Scholastic for being one of the very » complements to their technical educa- ] tion for which 'Mr. Matthews pointed I out the need.	Tom Mullen j
405 Walsh | P.S. If you print this, some engineer -will probably misinterpret it too. C’esQ la vie!	'■
ENGINEER REQUIREMENTS (IN PERCENT)
* 227^A
1955	1960
Engineer in High Gear'
Editor:	i
It doesn’t seem to me that it'would f have been necessary for Curt Matthews, r in the “Back Page” of the January 20 issue of the Scholastic, to go all the j way to the East Coast to find an engi- 1 neering school offering a five-year pro- ’ gram which gives the student an extras year of liberal arts. Had he investigateo^ the bulletins of either the College of ‘ Arts and Letters or the College of Engineering, he would have found that the five-yeai- program is available here at Notre Dame. This program was set up J by Dean Schoenherr of the College of Engineering in 1951, and is making fine J progress.
Mr. Matthews may be interested in knowing that the added year is devoted entirely to the study of liberal arts. A7^ present there are 70 students enrolled in this five-year plan. Of these 70, 30 entered the program at the beginning of this school year and seven switched into it at the start of the second semester. It is expected that the enrollment in this program will exceed 100 students in September. . . .
. . . I’m sure that Mr. Matthews is acquainted with the accomplishments of ■ men like Herbert Hoover and Raymond Tucker, mayor of St. Louis. They were^ engineers. Would he class these men as^ skilled barbarians or skilled humans?
To cite examples of problems in or- • ganization that have been solved by engi- ’ neering students here at Notre Dame, I \ 1 would like to remind Mr. Matthews that f the report on the 1955 Engineer’s Ball ( has been accepted as the Student Senate I ,j model for future dance reports and 1 that the Notre Dame Technical Re- | ( view is recognized as one of the top col- | lege magazines in the country.	| .
Perhaps, if Mr. Matthews were to in (~ vestigate some of the other implications that he made in his column in the Jan. 20 issue of the Scholastic he would be
The Scholastic >



bulling to admit that engineers, as well as journalists, are human.
James A. Mason, Jr.
307 Alumni
Poll's Goals
Editor:
I never thought I’d be writing to the editor of the Scholastic of all publications, frankly because I never thought it worth the bother. It has always seemed to me like so much talk. A recent article, however, has livened my interest even to the extent that I am using some of my fancy stationery.
The article I am referring to is the one on the poll which was taken last fall. To tell you the truth, I thought this poll was nothing more than just a nlot to show student apathy toward the 9Sign, and the Catholic Digest. Because of this I neglected to answer it.
It was very encouraging to see that I was very wrong in interpreting the poll’s intentions, and I certainly hope that I am just as wrong in thinking that nothing worth while will ever be done to
liven this place up.
It strikes me as rather odd that the primary source of cultural entertainment in the area comes of an annual series of movies sponsored by Indiana University. It seems to me that ND could show a little more interest in pushing worthwhile shows. It’s pretty hard getting out to the River Park, and there’s no reason why good movies can’t be brought to the campus as well as first runs and professional plays.
If there’s $25,000 a week being spent by the student body there’s certainly enough to support good theater. I would like to point out that the poll only included the students. No mention was made of the grads and the faculty which could probably double the response you might expect from the undergrads alone. There are also many interested people from South Bend, as can be seen by the series which is presented at John Adams. Surely we can do better than South Bend.
Bob Simons 253 Badin
NS A Travelers Meet In Center Next Friday
Miss Peg Robertson, assistant director of the National Student Association-sponsored Educational Travel, Inc., will conduct a meeting for all those interested in summer travel to Europe in the Student Center Amphitheater Friday, Feb. 24 at 4:30 p.m.
The meeting will include a travel film, discussion of NSA’s travel program, and individual advice to those planning to travel to Europe in the near future.
The meeting is part of the travel program sponsored by the Student Senate. The Senate is now maintaining a travel office in the basement of the Student Center to give Notre Dame students the opportunity to take advantage of low-cost summer travel programs of NS A and the National Federation of Catholic College Students. The office is open from 3:30 to 5:20 p.m. Tuesday through Thursday.
February 17, 1956
35
J. Paul Sheedy* Was An Udder Failure Till Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
The boys were having a bull session in Sheedy’s room. "It’s no yoke,” beefed Sheedy. "Heifer-y girl I ask for a date turns me down flat.” Then Sheedy’s roommate spoke up: "There’s good moos tonight J. Paul. Try
some of my Wildroot Cream-Oil on those cowlicks.” Sheedy did and now he’s the cream of the campus. .Wildroot keeps his hair handsome and healthy looking the way Nature intended.. .neat but not greasy. Contains the heart of Lanolin, the very best part of Nature’s finest hair and scalp conditioner. Get Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s largest selling hair tonic. In bottles or unbreakable tubes. Gives you confidence...you look your best. There’s no udder hair tonic like it.
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
Inaugurate Math Fundi For Talent Developing!
A Cleveland steel executive has made! the first grant to a unique Imagination| Fund in the department of mathematics,^ the University announced today. M
The initial contributor is Earle C|| Smith, chief metallurgist of the Repute . lie Steel Corporation and a member oR the Advisory Council for Science and! Engineering. Conceived by Dr. Arnold! Ross, head of the University’s mathe-| matics department, the fund will be used | primarily to discover and develop stu-| dents with mathematical imagination and | creative ability both for teaching and re- | search in industry.	|
“Mathematics performs a very vital/ . function in support of science and tech^
WILD ROOT M
CREAMOIL ■
nology,” Smith stressed in discussing details of the fund’s operation with Notre Dame officials. Smith underscored the 1 > importance of developing mathematical / ’i talent “on all levels.” Able young people, f 1 he said, must be recruited to study and I / later teach mathematics.	I i
i I
“The newly established fund,” he said, f 1 “is meant to emphasize the need of im- I agination in the vital role of education J and to encourage others to support im-^ aginative and original effort.”	i
LANOLIN
CtOOM TMf Mill »(UM$ OITklSS
iOOSt CANMWf
According to Dr. Ross, a mathematics ' competition will be conducted among the i • freshmen this Spring. The campus com-^|< petition is expected to arouse student^^';; interest in the creative side of mathe-. ’ ;
matics and uncover students with latent
mathematical originality and creative
ability.
Employment Interviews
Leading container manufacturer has opportunities for scientists with B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. degrees
A Canco representative will be on campus on February 21 to interview
CHEMISTS	CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
for positions in the Research and Technical Department
You may sign for an interview at the Office of the Placement Bureau, Administration Building
American Can Company
36
AB Group in YCS Sets • I Dates for Leo XIII Talks
This semester the Aits and Letters group in the YCS are scheduling a series , of talks, called the Leo XIII Lecture । Series.
The talks will be held in the amphitheatre of the Student Center at 8 p.m., followed by a short discussion period. The schedule is as follows: Tuesday, Feb. 28, Rev. Edward D. O’Connor, will talk on “You and the Trinity.” The’^ ( following Tuesday, (March 6, Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., is to talk on the subject of “Creative Freedom Within the -Church.”	’ .
Rev. Donald Draine, C.S.C., is scheduled to speak on “The Soul, Lights, and Shadows—Supernatural Psychology” on Tuesday, March 13. On March 20 the ; ; subject will be “Suffering.” The speaker - i has not been engaged for this evening as of yet. The concluding talk of the series will be • given by Rev. Michael .1 Mathis, C.S.C., on Monday, March 26 on “Paschal Mystery—the New Holy -Week Liturgy.”
The Scholastic

Dave McGinnis asks:
Does Du Pont
Have Summer Jobs for College Students?
C. David McGinnis will receive his B.S. degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Texas in June 1957. Currently, he’s senior manager of men’s intramural sports and a member of the Delta Upsilon and Phi Eta Sigma fraternities at Texas.
Ivar Lundgaard answers:
Ivar A. Lundgaard obtained two degrees, B.S. in Ch.E. and A.B. in economics, from the University of Rochester, and joined Du Pont’s Photo Products plant at Parlin, N. J., in 1942. Later that year he became a shift supervisor and was promoted steadily thereafter. By 1951 he was Production Superintendent at Du Pont’s Rochester plant. Today Ivar is Polyester Department Superintendent at Parlin, well able to speak about Du Pont employment policies out of his own experience and observation.
NOW AVAILABLE for free loan to student A.S.M.E. chapters and other college groups, a 16-mm. sound-color movie, “Mechanical Engineering at Du Pont” For further information about obtaining this film, write to E. I.du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH “DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV
Yes, Dave, the Dti Pont Company regularly employs students of science and engineering in its Summer Technical Training Program. The chief purpose is to provide good technical training under industrial conditions. And we learn about the students while they learn about us.
Students selected for the program after campus interviews include candidates for the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees. Assignments are related to their academic interests. Last summer 270 students from 93 institutions participated in the program. In this way, ties are often established which can lead to permanent employment after graduation.
In addition, many other students are hired directly by individual Company units to help out during vacation periods of our regular employees. For this “vacation relief work,” assignments are likely to be varied; but these students also gain valuable insights into industrial practice, and many acquire experience related to their fields of study.
Altogether, about 750 college students, from both technical and nontechnical fields and at all levels of training, obtained experience with us during the summer of 1955. So you can readily see, Dave, that the Du Pont Company attaches a lot of importance to summer jobs for college students.
37
February 17, 1956
S'
Rack Pa^
life in the
by Curt Matthews
ivory tower*
There was a time when certain men were permitted, because of social position, economic security, and natural inclinations, to devote their lives solely to what we now call selfdevelopment.
Such men had the privilege of educating themselves and gearing their lives without any more ultimate motive than their own personal satisfaction. These men were aristocrats.
More than anything else an aristocrat was a man of liberal education. It was his most profound distinguishing mark. He was free to pursue any interest and seek any knowledge solely for the pleasure he derived. If he became dissatisfied with the outcome of any venture he could direct his energies elsewhere —or nowhere. His aim was not to specialize in order to make a living but rather to generalize in order to enjoy living.
Then came the industrial revolution, two world wars, a few depressions, the tremendous impetus of modern science and the great leveler called democracy, making it almost impossible for any ma-n today to be unconcerned with making a living. The age of the aristocrat is gone.
Regardless of a man’s position or wealth today there is always some economic, social or scientific development arising which compels him to live within his culture.
Most men today can no longer* retreat to the Ivory Tower the way an aristocrat could. We can’t live without the pressures of our times anymore. Unfortunately we’ve inherited our culture and developed our habit of eating.
And so liberal education as the aristocrat once lived it, is gone—because he is gone.
But that does not mean his Ivory Tower is not still around. Liberally educated people continue to show a proneness for life in the Ivory Tower.
' Harold W. Dodds, president of Princeton University, echoed the sentiments of a good many liberal educators when he said in a recent address:
. the valuable aspect of the ivory tower which allowed for imaginative research and the pursuit of knowledge for its own end must be preserved.”.
However, I think, as crude or materialistic as it may sound to some, the great majority of those who seek a liberal education should realize that the “professional student” is largely a thing of the past.
There seems to be a tendency for people in the process of liberal education to develop a sort of scorn for the commercial and the technical. To them such things may often seem coarse, hard, trivial and an appeal to order for the sake of order.
Thus, they sometimes withdraw up the staircase of the Ivory Tower where they may seek knowledge which is uncontaminated by the dollar and the dynamo.
What they may fail to realize is that even they too must adjust to the new world of atom bombs and bull markets. Liberal education can no longer make intellectual aristocrats out of average students. If it does it creates anachronisms. Our society has very limited need for the pale aesthetic, the romantic egoist or the complete stoic.
That this is so is not sad or unfortunate or dull (though the voice from the Ivory Tower may often claim it is). For, there’s the danger that the pure aesthetic or the aloof romantic may cut himself off too completely from reality, so that no one understands him and he doesn’t try to understand anyone alse. Culture is molded by those who face life, and live it and share it—certainly not by those who retreat from it because it has in some way grown distasteful to them.
Today lx’s especially necessary for the liberally educated person to establish a place in the age of science—not to go around scoffing at it. It remains for him to strike the medium between the artistic and the pragmatic.
It’s not hard to understand why those seeking a liberal education often retreat to the sanctity of the Ivory Tower. For, they deal seriously — professionally — with the things most men seek recreation in.
Literature, art, music, speech, and language are the pastimes men turn to in search of self-development. The danger of involving yourself with these studies as a vocation is that, because of their universal and natural interest, it
is easy to become fascinated with them | alone and to ignore any further motive ! ’ than simply a knowledge of the subject matter itself.
Then too, with a professional insight : into such material it’s easy to overevaluate one’s own knowledge and feeW superior to those who pursue similar"., interests with only an “amateur” enthu- •. siasm.
It sometimes becomes hard for an English major, for example, to believe in the sincerity of an accounting major who claims he honestly enjoys classical literature. It seems somewhat incongruous to certain liberally educated persons that someone can have an appreciation for the practical and the artistic.
Actually it’s exactly the sort of ap-™ preciation the people in our Towers should be developing in order to better understand life outside the Tower.
It seems to be an occupational hazard of liberally educated persons to want to insist there’s something exclusive about their special type of knowledge, sensitivity or appreciation.
Then too, because the subject matter of liberal education is so basic, that is, art instead of advertising, economics^ rather than accounting, the liberally '' educated person has a tendency to look down on any of the pragmatic and commercial offshoots of his curriculum.
Yet, doing so is certainly naive. A close examination of any liberal education curriculum will reveal that it, too, of necessities imposed by modern society, has many basic, but nonetheless, “practical” courses.
To say that liberal education has in r some way been “contaminated” by mod-^ ern culture does not mean to imply that™ > there is no longer any education or learning free of ulterior motives, or that all education should in some way be coordinated to techniques. Knowledge for i the sake of knowledge will be around as long as men seek diversion, maintain personal tastes and possess curiosity.
But the point is simply this: To live exclusively in an Ivory Tower was once ; a privilege reserved for a few with wealth—today, it’s still reserved for a few, but the requirement for entrance is^ * rare gray matter. And even those who ' f meet this requirement must descend the steps now and then.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS *
MISSILE AND CONTROL EQUIPMENT DEPARTMENTS • NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION • DOWNEY, CALIFORNIA
engineers, scientists, physicists, mathematicians...
important
ON-CAMPUS
North American Missile and Control Departments Representative Will Be Here (date)
You’ll learn first hand about the advantages and opportunities in choosing a career with a
fixture at North American. Here engineers and scientists are now discovering new frontiers in four exciting new fields:
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL
Missile Guidance Systems Fire and Flight Control Systems Computers, Recorders
ROCKET PROPULSION
High Thrust Engines
Propellants
Pumps
SUPERSONIC AIRFRAMES
Structures
Thermal Barriers Vibrations and Flutter
NUCLEAR ENGINEERING
Research Reactors Medical Reactors Power Generation Reactors
Contact your placement office today. Make an appointment to see North American representative. Mr Edward Keane on Feb. 17 Interviewing hours 9 A.M.—5 PM.
Or write, Engineering Personnel, Missile and Control Equipment Depts. 91-20COL, North American Aviation, Downey, California
ENGINEERING AHEAD FOR A BETTER TOMORROW
North American Aviation, inc.
PACKS MORE PLEASURE
because it’s More Perfectly Packed!
CHESTERFIELD
(p Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Firm and pleasing to the lips... mild yet deeply satisfying to the taste — Chesterfield alone is pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray.
The more perfectly packed your cigarette, the more pleasure it gives... and Accu-Ray packs Chesterfield far more perfectly.
To the touch ... to the taste, an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satisfies the most... burns more evenly, smokes much smoother.
Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray

'“"‘’’'“^OBACCOCO
MILD, YET THEY

X-.