
. 
HEAL TH SERVICES: Why the Wait? 
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: Name _______________________ 
Address ______________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic l\fagazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.oox -·._years=.$___ 

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 

Arthur Leach 


COVER 
10 

University Health Services 
Long lines deter students : 


ENTERTAINMENT 
6 

Music 
Billy Bragg 

8 

Movies 
Postcards from the Edge 


NEWS 
9 
Newsbriefs 


CAMPUS LIFE 
12 
H.T.H.'s 
Home town relationships 


SPORTS 
14 
Women's soccer 
16 

Stanford Preview 


WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS 
2 
Letters 
3 
On Other Campuses 
4 

Week In Distortion 
5 

Unexamined Life 
20 


Final Word 
Multicultural Fall Festival 

OCTOBER 4, 1990 



SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Vol. 132, No.4 October 4, 1990 

EDITOR IN CHIEF Michael C. Wieber 
MANAGING EDITOR Derik T. Weldon
I: 
NEWS EDITOR Traci Taghon 
SPORTS EDITOR Brian McMahon 
SPORTS ASSISTANT Jon Paul Potts 
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR Kristine DeGange 
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR Tim Rogers 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR 
Dave Holsinger 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR Mari Okuda 
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT Paul Webb 
COPY EDITOR 
Dave Raedy 
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER Patricia Doyle 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Tony Porcelli 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jim Fitzgerald 
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER 
Jeanne Naylor 
ScJw/JlStic is publish,d wa/dy throughout th, sduiol y,ar acepl during a,zminRJion mu!. txlallion periods a! th, Univasity ofNotmDam,,Notr, Dam,,IN,46556 ll1JdprinltdtzJ 'lkPapas,Inc.,Milfo,d,IN46542. 1k subscriptionrtz!,is$25.00/y,ar ,md l>zckissl=ar,imllilab/,tz! $1.25 /copy. Tkopinions apr=dinScJw!Jlslicar, thos,,oflkwthorsmu!.tdilors,md do not nat!SSllrily r,pr=nl In, opinions of1k "'1ir, tdilorial board of Scho/"51ic or ofthe Univasity ofNair, Dam,, its adrninislrtz!ion, faculty or sludmls. EditorWs signtd ScJwlastic r,pr,sait th, opinion of th, ffllljorityoflku,cut/rl<tdilorial bo,,rd, Mimll$Crlpls ar, w,/com,, All unsolicititd mlllaisds bwnn, th, prop,rty ofScho!Jlslic. 
Copyright 1990 Scho/"5tic Magazint. All rights rtSaTJtd. &production in who!, or in parl without wrill,n pmnissi,,n is prolribiud. 
2 
Sobering Words 
C lose to campus and dead drunk on the morning of the Michigan game, a driver smashed into the car ofDonald David, an assistant principal and counselor at Adams High School here in town. Mr. David had recently retired and was looking forward to his new state of life when the drunk murderously cut short David's current life. His family is left to speculate on what their current and future lives together might have been. Walking home from the stadium after the Purdue game several weeks later, I,. experienced these images : looming, oversized Bud and Miller bottles atop RVs-belonging to apparent adults, supposedly mature, actually oblivious; memories of too many drunk students at the· Michigan game; snatches of current conversations between people bragging · about getting drunk, glorifying beer, claiming-or pretending-that drinking is a test of adulthood, a badge of honor, a wonderful experience, a virtue. · That part of our culture wasted by alcohol attests that getting drunk is neither honorable nor wonderful nor virtuous. Those others wasted by alcoholics-by abuse, neglect, indifference, carelessness, or lethal driving-bear further witness. As a test, drinking evalu~tes only our physical ability to swallow-hardly a moral virtue, and a biological necessity hardly limited to human beings. To me and my colleagues and your parents, you students are valuable and precious and irreplaceable. You are souls. Value yourselves. In so doing, resist the propaganda that alcohol is indispensable to life and realize · that it is often central to death-literal and psychological. Abandon_ed families, abused spouses and · children, and massive self­. destruction, riot prudishness, gave birth to the moral outrage triggering Prohibition. Some countries still feel such outrage. In them, to drive drunk is to lose one's driving privileges for life after sobering up for a long time in prison. 
Our capacity for outrage is dulled. Mr. David is one more digit in a statistical count. Yet he was a good man. He gave of himself, of his time and energy and compassion, to others, and especially to young people. 
Like yourselves. 

He did not deserve to be killed as he was. The cruelty of his death, a death fueled by a lethally romantic escapist illusion, is stark. 
Remember that my children and I, to whom Mr. David had been a real friend, will remember his death. Value yourselves. Recognize the immense cans of Bud and Miller, the beer ads, the glorification of booze,, . the bragging about the ability to swallow for what they are : the pathetic, immature languages and images of the weak and insecure. 
Don'ttake your cue from this language and imagery, or bet on its real1ty, or risk killing others by riding on its phony promises. 
Value' yourselves. You are souls.· It is fantasy. Now and after graduation and in old age, value yourselves. A guarantee : Alcohol and its peddlers to the young never will. 
·Prof. Thomas Werge DepCof English . 
.· :-· 1..,11,,.toScho!Jlslicmustb,typtdmul.inclwktkwrita's 114ffl<!, add,,ss mu!. phtm, mnnl>,,,, Uni...,sity sludmts should includ, thdr -y,ar, in. sdiool mu!. col!,g,. Faculty m,ml,,rs should includ, lhdr dq,,,rtm,n1. All kllas must Irr: signtd. Nam,s will b, withkld upon ""!"'5l in ,main inslima:s. SchoUISlic ,..,,,,.. In, rigid lo r,fecl ldtas thtz! ar, lib,­lausoro~byth,lmusoftM U'""4 Sttz!ts, Scho!Jlslicalso wiU,dit for iDpyfilling, g,,,mma.lical or spdling errms mu!. Scl,oUISlie styk. &a,us, ofsp,ia, SchoUISlic c,mnot prinl ,•1 _/,U,rs r,cm,,.d. 
Add~ all corrtspondenc, lo : , ·> , . 
TkEdilor 
Scl,o/"5tic 
lJIForlim,,Cmtt, 
Nair, Dam,,IN46556 
SCHOLASTIC 


l,ike
.....,,,_ _ _. ··...,..;-;.'JI? 

(let's take his class) 
· .-No Double Standards Here 
Clarkson University, an institution bent on using computers to make our lives better, now claims to be the first to use high-tech computer graphics to identify students. According to theCollege Press Service, the university is compiling a list of ·computerized. visages so that professors can learn the students' names faster. When some wiseacre suggested that the university also do the same with the professors' faces, they said "Hold up." Faculty Senate Secretary Jan Wojcik said that professors were worried students might counter with their own high-te;ch tomfoolery and alter professors' looks-aHitlermustache here, a .bald heaci there. Apparently vanity and a Ph.D. can go hand in hand. 


Literary Giants 

Has Nietzsche got .your brain befuddled? Want to read something a little less taxing? Theri the folks at Delta Psi have the answer to your problems. According to The Brown Daily Herald, the fraternity is holding a literary festival featuring the likes ofDr. Seuss. How come kids get all the best stuff? · 

Worlds Away 
Once again, the good folks at Reed College printed another Quest chock-full o' stuff that we can't print in Scholastic. And we're jealous. 

And It Tastes Good, Too 
What does a guy named Yu-Yan Yeh, breast cancer, and garlic have in coIJJmon? Penn State's Collegian tells us that one is an associate professor of nutrition who studies the affects of consumption of the other on the last. Clear? Yeh represented the university last month at the First International Garlic Conference in Washington. Yeh has shown that rats given a diet of20 percent garlic extract for four weeks showed a 30 percent drop in their plasma triglycerides. Never mind that they were unable to reproduce because prospective mates found their breath offensive. 

Bananas Practice Safe Sex 
The College Press Service reports several crafty ways that universities across the nation are promoting condom awareness. A guy in a gorilla suit, calling himself"King Condom" has toured the University of Texas at Austin showing students how to put a condom on a banana. The State University of New York at Albany held a "Sexuality Week" wherein students participated in a condom dance. At Miami of Ohio, Professor Fennell's students handed out 1,000 coupons for novelty "Kiss of Mint" and "Gold Coin" condoms designed by a Columbus grandmother, Fennell, who teaches a health class at Miami University, has also held contests to see who can put a condom on a banana the fastest Reports were unclear as to whether contestants used the new Trojan™ Magnum size. 
edited by Tim Rogers 

OCTOBER 4, 1990 Lately, with all the talk about Notre Dame's policies concerning sexuality, I am reminded of my year in seventh grade. Seventh grade is a tough time to be alive. Everywhere you tum someone tells you about the mysterious new feelings and urges that are surfacing from deep within your psyche. Your gym teacher shows movies about the "birds and the bees" and lectures on the dynamics of body hair. People tell you 


· that you are "blossoming" into adulthood through the natural process of puberty, and they try their best to prepare you for the upcoming years of sexual discovery. That is unless you go to a parochial school. In essence, Catholic schools just deny that puberty ever occurs and hand out rosaries for any mention of the ,subject 
I went to a Catholic grade school, and during seventh grade I had the privilege of being instructed by Sister Mary Medusa, a thin, middle aged, ghostly white woman with dark deep set eyes that were always wide open and afew black hairs sprouting from her chin. She dressed in the traditional nun's black habit and taught class from on top a bar stool, though she often_ lamented that she could not bring a boulder into the classroom because "Jesus always sat on a rock when he taught" Despite her twenty sorrie odd years served in the convent, Sr. Medusa told us seventh graders that she had a firm grasp on the intric;acies ofearly adulthood. She placed a coffee can by the pencil sharpener to allow her students· to ask her "those kinds of questions that one does not ask, or-even ponder, in front of a group" by writing the questions down on a piece of paper and then· putting the paper in the can. Usually "those kinds of questions..." turned outto be "How old are you?" or "How long is your hair?" But, every so often a serious question on the subject of sexuality would find its way into the can, to which Sr. Medusa would give the standard answer, "No, that'sagainsttherules Then she looked at us again. "Yes, some of and you will go to Hell if you ever do that." these reports were real~-" 
One afternoon, we seventh graders sat Perhaps around the nunnery, "boner" is quietly at ourdesks awaiting the beginning of the correct term for a misguided science science class. This was a special afternoon report, but in front of a group of seventh 
. because Sr. Medusa was going to return our graders it takes on an entirely different monthly science reports. What suspense. I meaning.Sr.Medusahadessentiallytoldthe couldbarelykeepmyclip-ontiefromleaping seventh grade that the folder in her harid from my collar with excitement when I saw contained some commendable science Sister trudge intoclass with amanilafolderin reports and a few excited male sex organs. I her hand. She led us in our after-lunch prayer had never really laughed so harcHn my life. and then mounted her bar stool. "Children," · The entire class was in tears. All around me she began in her divinely snarling voice, · kids pounded their heads on their desks and "children, over all I must say that I am shook violently in the chairs. And there sat pleased with your written scientific efforts Sr. Medusa with a look.ofcomplete shock on this month. You show some· remarkable her face and her arms waving in the air progress compared to last month. . asking, "What did I say? W,hat's a.boner?" Congratulations." She paused to bestow a;· Everytimesheopenedhermouth,Ilaughed smile upon us. "However, I cannot say that · harder. Periodicaliy the class would calm for everybody. Some of these reports were down, and then Sr. Medusa would say with a real...real..." Shegazed'upwardatthatspotin ··,severe look on her face and in a stern, the heavens where everyone looks for. • annoyed.tone ofvoice, "Allrightfolksknock lingering words to fill a blank in a sentence.. . it off. And once and for all, what's a boner?" 

Then the hysterics would start up again. We went through this several times until finally Sister just left the room. 
Imagine what would have happened if someone had dropped that little question into Sr; Medusa's-coffee can. ~ister would have 
· read the, question to the. clas!! and then answered; ''Why that's just another way of saying.·-~lolisy science report."' All the seventhgraders would•havecomeawaymore confused: than they already were, the reason being that Sr. Medusa did riot have such a firm grasp on what she:was preaching. Now imag4te,that some folksj:u~t like Sr. Medusa, were in charge bf ,a: ..major American university· and instead• of a coffee can, they ·had.alittle booklet in which they wrote down all · the rules · goveming male-female relationshipsoncamplis.;wherewould webe ­then?. ., .:-. ·,,,.,.'., · . 
. · ,:by:Patrick Cummings 
·:H·X SCHOLASTIC 



Dear Dr. Head: I have an interest in body hair that goes way beyond a healthy curiousity. I have spent many a blissful hour sculpting my armpithairwith the help of non.allergenic mousse. While I enjoy my hair sculpting and look forward to a rewarding career in cosmology, I have one question. Why do we have pubic hair and armpit hair? I mean, it doesn't really serve any purpose, right? Steve Kil bey, freshman, Zahm .·. 
First, beware of hair dryers while sculpting. Steve, excess heat can damage hair, causing split ends and leaving it dry and listless. Second, wrong. Armpit hair does too serve a purpose. Pubic hair, however, is completely useless. It's just another developmental thing that worries kids senseless during that grief-ridden time of puberty. Armpit hair is different, though. Without it, life as we know it today would be impossible. Shortly after Chuck Darwin's famous journey to the Galapagos Archipelagos, he wrote a treatise on the role of armpit hair in evolutionary development. He called it On Pit Hair. Only he wrote it in a dead language to show off how much stuff he knew, so you'11 have to take my word for what it says. Darwin argued that armpit hair plays a key role in natural selection. Back when humans had protruding foreheads· and names like "Lucy," competition was fierce and every'-little evolutionary advantage helped. The man who could get to the keg the fastest in a crowded party had the upper hand. He could spread more of his seed, thereby ensuring the survival of his genes. Back then, there were guys who had armpit hair and there were guys who didn't. Now the ones with hair had the advantage. When their roll-on deodorant ran out, their armpit hairs would get caught in the applicator and get yanked out. This made them squint and say "Man, that smarts." Then they'd realize they had run out and go get soine more. Of course, the guys without armpit hair didn't have this natural warning system so they 
·would use a deodorant for weeks before realizing it was empty. During those weeks; .they lost all chance of spreading their seed. Hence, their "hairless" genes died out. Obviously, this explanation doesn'taccountforfe¢ale armpit hair. Darwin was a sexist pig. But 
OCTOBER 4, 1990 he also had a wife. In a perfunctory appendix, Darwin added, "Oh, ya. Women have armpit hair so we can tell them peace lovin' hippies apart from normal ladies who shave." Only he wrote it in Latin. 

C'monpeople. /fit's true that the unexamined life isn' tworth living, then judging by the lack of mail Dr. Head gets, your lives are worthless. Wake up. Look around. Askyourself"why?" Then write itdown(ortypeitifyourpeninanshipislousy) andsendittoDr.Head care ofScholastic, 303 LaFortune. Also, don't be a bonehead and. omit either your name, year or place ofresidence. Okay? 
Dr. Head reserves the rightto reject questions-that are libelous or obscene ( even though he couldn't define "obscene" when we asked him). Scholastic also will edit for copyfi.tting, grammatical or spelling errors, and Scholastic style (he couldn't define "Scholastic style," either). . 



For Freedom ff~ Ju~t 

"The international ideal Unites the human race: Against racism... Against Naziism... Against Facism and all its manifeststions ... Keep the Faith!" 
-Billy Bragg, September 20, 1990 

Billy Bragg. In Chicago. Free. What more could I possibly want from a Thurs­day? Thinking that I saved myself $40 on overpriced tickets because I have a neat job title at WVFI, I left on my quest for the Cabaret Metro, only to be nailed by some over-friendly Chicago cop for doing 66 
m.p.h. on Lake Shore Drive. Undaunted, I entered Chicago's hottest spot for alternative music. 
Bragg-'s opening act, O-Positive, is a quin­tet that hails from Boston. Their Iatestrelease and major label debut, Toy Boat, Toy Boat, Toy Boat , consists of jangly guitar rock reminiscent ofa bunch ofsocially conscious dudes from Athens, Georgia. Keeping that trademark "Jotz open mind," I gave the band's live performance a fair shot. Vocalist Dave Herliehy's snarling and acid-tinged vocals were too much like Michael Stipe's to be his own, though. The band pounded through their set, with only one song really standing out. The song ''Toy Boat, Toy Boat," which was oddly left off their new album, proved to be.the most memorable of the set. Weaving intricate harmonies with the driving force ofthe drums and accordion, the song made me hope for its release as a 
6 
BTLLYBRAGG 
O-POSITIVE ~=•=
~ 


THURSDAY, SEPT. 20 
CABARET METRO 
SHOWT1t1E7•JOPM OOORSOPEN6•30PH ALLAGES J730NORTHCLARK 
BIiiy Bragg brought his unique blend of music and politics to Chicago's Cabaret Metro 
non-LP b-side. Other than that one high point, however, O-Positive served no pur­pose other than to make me wait longer for Billy Bragg to come on. 
The following review ofBilly Bragg repre­sents everything that we proud and patriotic Domers stand for: economic and racial jus­tice for all, the abolition ofmilitary force, the respect for sovereign nations, and the end of exploitation of weaker nations by stronger ones. Yes, folks, Billy Bragg is one of those dreaded S-Words: yup, he's a socialist His songs about the Evil Empires of Godless Communism should cause all of you to rush to the Grotto to keep praying for the conver­



#eft to 

sion of Russia. 
Seriously, Billy Bragg's performance was 

a clever.and fun-filled night of political sat­
ire, love songs, great electric guitar, and a 
crowd filled with so many subversives that it 
would give William Webster fits. Armed 
only with an electric guitar and joined on oc­
casion by just one other guitar, Bragg utilizes 
simplicity like it has never been utilized 
before. Roughly half of the show was a 
spoken~word mix that consisted of poking 
fun at Western and Eastern Bloc govern­
ments, tales of folk singers, and even com­
mentary on such Domer-orientated topics 
like sports, fast food, and beer. Added Bragg, 
"you have to have a sense of huinor, folks, 
particularly if you're on the left." 
The show began with ''The-Milkman of 

Human Kindness," the lead track from 
1987's Talking with the Taxman About 
Poetry . Bragg concentrated the first third of 
his show on his tunes about love and relation­
ships, jangling through such classics as "St ·Swithin's Day" and ''Levi Stubbs Tears." 
Bragg, however, is more known for his 

political songs and pro-union anthems than 
for his love songs. Drawing much of his set 
from these themes, Bragg shined in such 
songs as "There is Power in A Union," "The 
World Turned Upside Down," "I Dreamed l 
Saw Phil Ochs Last Night", and a fantastic 
version of "Help Save· the Youth of Amer­
ica," slightly altered to fit the current crisis in 
the Persian Gulf. He concluded his show 
with a majestic and very moving a capella 
version of''The_ Internationale,"· a modem­
:_1.,:: SCHOLASTIC 

another word for nothing 


Onstage, Bragg makes the most out . of just a guitar and his voice 
izedanthem of theFrench Socialist Workers' 
Party. This is also the song that the Bejing 
protesters sang in Tiananmen Square · last 
spring. By the end of the song, Bragg had 
many members of the the audience singing 
along with him, several with their fists raised 
as a sign of unity. 
As mentioned above, one of the strong 
points of Bragg's show was the friendly 
conversations he had with audience hecklers. · 
Most of his talks between songs grew out of shouts by members of the crowd, but unlike other performers (Mr. Stipe, are you listen­.ing?), Billy Bragg {eplied congenially and welcomed comments shouted at him. One of 
the most enjoyable parts of his set directly involved the audience in singing a pseudo­national anthem off The Internationale. Bragg relied on the crowd to sing the chorus in drinking song fashion while providing the biting anti-imperialistic verses himself. 
Although this was a tour in support of his new EP, The Intarnationale, Bragg also mixed several new songs from his upcoming and unfinished album into the show. Most memorable were the three songs, "Tank Park Salute," "Trust," and "Everywhere." "Tank Park Salute" was a beautiful and tender tale of a child's wondering why his father hasn't returned home from the war. ''Trust" dealt with a homosexual's questioning of himself and was dedicated to the Act-Up protesters present at the show. "Everywhere" was probably the most well-crafted song of the new three, written by Greg Trooper and Long Ryders legend Sid Griffin. It dealt with two kids growing up in pre-WWII California, one white and one Japanese-American. The two become separated when the Japanese­American kid is shipped off to · relocation camps after Pearl Harbor, and the white kid goes off to the Pacific to fight. 
Bragg is definitely known for his stinging · one-liners, both in the spoken word and in song. In the altered versionof"Help Save the Youth of America," Bragg sang in his trade­mark Cockney accent, "They 'II soon be ship­ping the body bags/home from desert sand/ but you can fightfor democracy at home/and not in some foreign land." In his version of "The Internationale,'' Bragg stated, "Free­dom is merely privelege extended/ unless enjoyed by one and all." In the jolly and rousing "American National Anthem," Bragg provides one of the best one-liners ever in the history of politics or song: "Here we come with our our candy and our guns/ and our corporate muscle-marchers in be­hind us/for freedom is just another word for nothing left to sell..." Tie that one on, all you "Just Cause" apologists. 
Now just because Billy Bragg writes so­cially conscious material does not mean that the boy can't rock and roll. Along with fellow gutarist ''Wiggy," Bragg dug a mas­terful melody in "Accident Waiting to Hap­pen," a dark, moody Euro-piece along the lines of the Velvet Underground's "All Tomorrow'sParties." BraggandWiggy also blasted through a grating and frantic jam of "Route 66," slightly modified to fit British towns and highways. 
In conclusion, Billy Bragg is an unabashed Socialist, dedicated in his ideals, but always sporting a smile on his face. His establish­ment ofa warm rapport with the crowd and an education through humorand song makes for a unique and entertaining show. Besides, has anybody ever heard of any capitalist folk singers around? . 
by JeffJotz 

Jeff Jotz is the music director at WVFI and a regular music colu_mnistfor Scholastic. 
OCTOBER 4, 1990 

This time it's not the Empire that's striking back, it is Carrie "Princess Leia" Fisher. The movie Postcards From the Edge, based on her novel of the same name, was recently released at a theater near you, but don't bother to go see it. P ostcardsis the story ofan actress who, in the first scene ofthe movie, is discovered in bed unconscious from a drug overdose and subsequently dumped at the hospital by the man with whom she had spent the night (who refuses to leave his name.) 
was seventeen and her mother upstaged her at her own birthday party (her skirt flies up and she happens to be pantieless), untilthepresent,whenhermothertriesto charmallofherfriends("Whywon'tyou letmehavemyownfriends?""Ijustwant them to like me, darling,") and still tries to run her life. Suzanne's mother is an alcoholic, pouring a half bottle of vodka into her breakfast shake, while claiming that she only drinks socially. I can see Meryl Streep and Shirley Maclalne star that· She is a faded movie star, married to 
The remainder of the movie chronicles ._____..;..in"'-'-F-'-o-'-s.c..:tc'-'-a..:...rd-'-s'--'-'-fr,_o_m_t_h_e_E_d___e______. a rich couch potato, and she spends her 

herrisebacktostardomandself-respectfrom a drug-induced downward spiral (If that sounds like a mouthful to you, you are not alone). Although Fisher claims that the story is fiction, friends and relatives assert that certain scenes bear a pretty strong resem­blance to actual occurrences in her life. Examples are her turbulent relationship with her mother, and her stay in a drug rehab center, amongst other aired dirty laundry. 
Meryl Streep, in an interesting casting choice, competently plays the Fisher charac­ter, Suzanne Vale. She was only "dropping acid for fun," but after her overdose is forced to go through rehab by her doctor and her mother (a ditzy Shirley MacLaine). Arriving at the center after completing detox, Suzanne is greeted by a huge bouquet of flowers, and soon gushes, "They're from the man who pumped my stomach!" (I wonderifthis is his standard pickup procedure?) Her stay there is entirely glossed over, and we next see Suzanne in her agent's office, accompanied for some unknown reason by her mother. Her agent gives her the implausible news that no insurance company will insure her for future movies (because of her overdose and prob­able instability), unless she moves back in with her mother for the duration of the film. Yeah, right. So, the prodigal (middle-aged) daughter is back home again, unwilling and 
8 
unthankful (andit'samysterytomewhyshe was allowed back home after the fights be­tween her and her mother.) While working on her new movie, that mysterious stranger whomshewaswithwhensheOD'dhappens to drop by the set, and Suzanne obviously feels a bit uneasy. She's feeling alone and confused, and he tells her he loves her, so they jump into the sack. Later, when she discovers that he had made love to another woman earlier that day, she throws those words back at him, and his callous response is, "llied." Harsh. Corny. 
Verbal mud-slinging between MacLaine and Streep comprises much of this movie. MacLaine plays the Debbie Reynolds role, and the physical resemblance is startling, as well as the similarity in acting ability. Both MacLaine's character and Reynolds were divorced with small children, and their ex­husbands played no role whatever in their children's lives. The. movie concentrates on the relationship between mother and daugh­ter, unlike the book, and the two go from flinging insults at each other to flinging their· · arms around each other. Streep'.s character blames her addiction problems· on 'her mother, for always pushing her to succeed in show business, without exceeding her in popularity. Suzanne has feltinferior to her mother all her life, from the time when she days meddling in her daughter's affairs, drinking, and remembering the good old days, disappointed that she cannot relive them except through her only child. 
The trite plot ( or lack thereof) is somewhat relievedby the appealing cameo appearances of Richard Dreyfus, Gene Hackman, Rob Reiner, Dennis Quaid, et al. The amusing appearances ofthese actors manages to break up the monotony of the verbal sparring be­tween mother and daughter. Quaid in par­ticular shines as the sleazy pick-up artist who seduces Suzanne, and almost seduces her mother. The movie ends on as sappy a note as possible, with Suzanne shooting a country music video (!) decked out in fringe and big hair and her mother beaming from the side­lines with an "I told you so" look on her face. I told you so, as well_.:.__don'tsee this movie. Suzanne, in an extremely lucid moment, babbles, "I seem to take the right things in the wrong way;" it seems to me that though the potential ofPostcards was great as a story of relationships and personal triumphs, it falls short of this potential and "takes the right things the wrong way.'' 
by Erin Mullen Erin Mullen is a freshman who lives in Siegfried Hall. 
,1,i,~ SCHOLASTIC 




Massage School 
Begins Soon 
Ifyou didn't geta chance to take advantage 
·of Memorial Hospital's back school 
yesterday, never fear: now you can attend a 
massage clinic. 
"Touch of Massage ... an Introduction to 
Massage Therapy" will be offered from 7:00 
to 9:00 p.m. on Monday, October 24. The 
program will be held at the Health Resource 
Center. · 
Certified massage therapists Patty 
Longnecker and Patsi Gately will 
demonstrate mini-massage and show 
participants how to increase their ability to 
relax and cope with everyday tension. 
Massage is more than just a way to pamper 
yourself. It is recognized as an effective way 
to relieve sore or tense muscles, and has 
become part of the wellness movement in 
which people are taking. responsibility for 
physical fitness, nutrition, weight control, 
and stress management. Not to mention a 
great way to get an SYR date. 
The fee is $IO per person, or bring a friend 
and pay only $15 for two. Call 874-8621 to 
register. 

Career Fair Offers ··Info to A&L Students 
The annual Liberal Arts Career Fair, 
sponsored by Career and Placement 
Services, will take place at the CCE from 
noon to 4 p.m. on Thursday, October 11. 
Representatives from about 30 career areas 
will attend to answer students' questions and 
to provide literature. Get out and meet with 
your future employers -believe it or not, 
Career and Placement can help non-business 
majors get jobs too. 
ROTC/Pasquerilla 

Center Dedicated 
The new ROTC center, deceptively named Pasquerilla Center, will be dedicated 
OCTOBER 4, 1990 
tomorrow and Saturday. 
Lt General Thomas Q. Kelly, director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will be the ranking representive of the armed services at the dedication ceremonies, which will include a 5: 15 Mass in Sacred Heart Church October 5, followed by a reception and dinner. The blessing ofnew building and tours will be at 9 a.m. October 6. 
The building is so named because ofthe $5 million gift of Mr. Frank Pasquerilla which made its construction possible. Pasquerilla is a trustee ofthe University in addition to his duties as chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Crown American Corporation, one of the country's largest mall developers. Two women's dorms, P .E. and P.W. obviously, have also been underwritten by Pasquerilla. Or should that be Mr. Pasquerilla? 

Fuller Presents Rheology Lecture 
Anyone interested in optical rheometry should be sure to attend a lecture on that very topic given by Gerald G. Fuller on Tuesday, October 9. 
Rheology, for the uninitiated, is the study of the deformation and flow of matter. And Gerald G. Fuller's research concentrates on modeling the rheology of polymer liquids, liquid crystals and colloidal suspensions and on the measurements of their rheological properties. Whew. 
Fuller has an impressive list of accomplishments and credentials. In 1985 he won the National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator Award, was an invited lecturer in the tenth International Congress on Rheology in 1988, and sits on the editorial board of Rheologica Acta. He· joined the faculty at Stanford in 1980 after spending half a year at the Centre de Recherches sur les Macromolecules in Strasbourg, France, and spent another six months as a visiting scientist at AT&T Bell Laboratories at Murray Hill. 
compiled by Traci Taghon 


Feeling Bad? Come on down to U'niversity Health Services and spend some 
: . 
Mondays are slow days for barber shops, theaters, and restaurants, but at the University Health Center, it is standing room only. Students cram the waiting room and line the hallway, sotnetimes waiting several hours before they can see a doctor. Conversely, on Friday afternoon, the place is virtually empty. "I had to wait two hours once because the specialist-nurse I needed was out at lunch," said junior, Kara Duncan. "I only met with her for five minutes while she gave me my pills." University Health Center officials are not oblivious to the long waits that students encounter , they said. However, they have tried various methods to alleviate the problem which they said don't always work. "I think people figure that we don't see the long waits, but we do," said Carol Seager, DirectorofHealthServices. "One nurse said to me: 'Do they realize we are dancing as fast as as we can?"' The Health Center · serves as both an emergency room and a general practice. Seager cites this as a reason that aii appointment system is diffic"ult to implement. It is hard to make appointments that would anticipate the patients' needs, she 
said. . "We tried it [an appointment system] in several ways for awhile," said Seager. "We found a very high no-show rate for students with appointments." Students who need allergy injections are able to make appointments. Because they are 
on a regular schedule ofrecieving their shots, Seager said they have more motivation to keep their appointments. 
"One thing you have to accept with an appointment system is you lose the immediacy," said Seager. "Maybe a student 
10 

TIME 
calls for an appointment on Sunday for an appointment on Wednesday, but by then he feels better." 
Researching the policies of other university health centers is one effort Seager has made to find a solution to the problem. Western Michigan has a system of both appointments and walk-ins, she said. However, they still experience long waits, as the walk-in clinic is used more by the students. 
"At any doctors office there is a wait," said junior Michelle Cano. "I had an appointment with a doctor in town and I still had to wait two hours." 
Fifty-percent of the students at Notre Dame are seen only by nurses. At schools 
· that have appointment systems, 100% of the 
students see a doctor. Seager said that this is 
another difficulty with the appointment 
system. 
"Not every student who calls in with a 

sore throat needs to see a doctor," she said. 
Students, however, often complain about not 
being able to see a doctor. 
"I'd hurt my knee and was really in pain. 

I could see that it was swollen and the nurse 
couldn't tell me anything I didn't already 
know," sophomore Jen Kadlec said. "She 
gave me an Ace bandage and I felt like she 
just gave me something so.that she would feel 
like she had done something. She told me to 
come back Monday when the doctor was in." 
Doctors are not in the clinic on weekends, 


although they are on call. Seager said that she tried having a doctor available at the clinic on weekends for two years, but that students did not use the service. 
"We publicized it in the dorms and all over campus," she said. "I don't know if students want to sleep late or what.." 
Nurses are given "standing orders" by the physicians. That is, they can give some ofthe same type ofcare that the doctor can give. If they have questions, or feel that a doctor is needed personally, there is always one on call, Seager said. 
This doesn't reassure all students. "I haven't been back since," said Kadlec. "I feel that my over the counter medicine will do the same job, and I wouldn't have the wait." 
Although some students complain about the care _they received from the nurses, others applaud it. 
"I lived in the infirmary for four weeks last year with the chicken pox," said junior Kristin Mole. ''The nurses were awesome!" 
Other students find the fact that they must see a nurse before they can see a doctor a 
·-waste oftime. Seager said that this is actually a time-saver, as the nurses can often give the student whatever help he needs. · This is especially true in the case of follow-up examinations, she said, when students are oftentimes well enough to not need to see the doctor again. 
Nurses have standing orders from the doctors so that they know what to do with common ailments, said Seager. "If you see A,B,C, the nurses have written instructions to do X,Y:Z." _ 
There is no pharmacy in the Health Center. They are authorized only as a "Medication Room, w'hich means that they can only fill the _orders of their own physicians. · 
"Ifa student needs a specialist and needs to get into town, we offer non-emergency transportation," Seager said. "Ofcourse, ifit is an emergency, and security feels we cannot 
·,r-handle the situation here, they will take you wherever you need to go, or call and ambulance." The Health Center is equipped with an x~ ray facility on campus. They can also handle twenty-five inpatients. "In the past, communication between the students and the H~th Center was better," Seager said. "We _used to have representatives from each dorm who brought questions and suggestions from the 
OCTOBER 4, 1990 
students." 
Any suggestions from students on programs at the Health Center are welcomed, Seager said. The problem oflong waits is not one she has been able to completely solve. 
"Nothing is cast in concrete," said Seager. "Perhaps someone can think of something I haven't been able to come up with." 0 
by Cathy Flynn 
Long_ empty hallways stretch down both sides of the health center. 
For students, however, the waits are often long and crowded. 
Arthur leach 













Home 
Town 

Honies 
H@me t@WlDl reliBJ.tn@lDlshJi.JP)S JP)X°@vncdl.e ©@mJP)BJ.nn@nshJi.JP) BJ.lDlcdl. se©'l\Jl.rnty~ lb'l\Jl.t BJ.re they reBJ.liliy w«»rth. the liJi.mJi.:fGBJ.tn@ns 
A11 of you· who read ,the Welcome to Notre Dame book that you received in the mail the summer before your freshman year knew upon arrival that the loved one you just left was to be called called your HomeTownHoney-yourH.T.H. Justwho thought of this disease-like acronym is a mystery, but it has certainly affected (or infected) the students of Notre Dame. ·· Even during life B.C. (before college) it was notanunfamiliar concept In high school there were those few people who had boy­friends or girlfriends in college. I could not understand how my close friend could con­tinue a relationship with her Yalie boyfriend while living in Virginia. My mystification increased when his family was transferred to Hawaii; and they continued the relationship. The two of them have almost reached their 
12 

they Ji.mp@se? 
) 
two-year mark. The rest of my friends and I have already begun to look for bridesmaid dresses for their as-yet-unannounced wed­ding. . 

Then I migrated to the Midwest In the self-contained world of the Golden Dome, there are definitely many (we're talking in the thousands) new and appealing possibili-· ties on the scoping scene. Yet thesepossibili­ties are not as limitless as they first appear: any of these innocent-looking perspectives have the H.T.H. syndrome. 
Obviously the freshmen, only a month or so away from their loved ones, have re­mained (reasonably) faithful. Since most freshmen have not returned to re-evaluate their home town dating status, it is not un­common to encounter several with H.T.H.'s. Still growing into the college mind frame, 
these freshmen hang on to that special some­
one from their high school years. 
Maintaining such a relationship in­
volves running up that dreaded CTI bill, 
since phone conversations allow us to "reach 
out and touch someone," which is always 
preferable to just seeing their handwriting. 
During the first two weeks CTI Was in opera­

,,
tion, Colin (I'm using an alias here to insure 
the safety of iny informants), a freshman 
froin Massachusetts, ran up·a $116 tab talk­
ing to his H.T.H., a junior in high school. 
Colin's mother begged his roommate to keep 
.him off the phone. Whatever methods his 
roommate employed apparently worked: the 
next two weeks' bill was a mere $25. 

The biggest phone addict was Kerry, a sophomore, who •talked $226 worth the . . month she and her H.1\H. broke up (it took 
'.'l(:J SCHOLASTIC 

her two months to pay it oft). There is a definite trend toward higher phone bills dur­ing the final stages of these long-distance re­lationships, though most do not reach such an extreme as Kerry. (Those suffering from phone dependency should call 1-900­2HANG-UP. The call is $100 for the first minute and $50 for each minute thereafter. This hotline has proven to be 100% effective; once billed you'll never call again). 
r 
But really. If the only communication you have with your H.T.H. is through the phone and correspondence, your relationship is bound to experience withdrawal and it will require adaptation. "At school all you have is personality -letters, phone conversations years, both sophomores at different colleges, date other people yet they are closer than ever. "You learn a lot about yourself from relationships. Why not see other people? That way you knpw there is no one you like as well as that person at home. I've know her four years, and I seriousiy doubt that I would get to know anyone here as well as that. I'd have to know them the whole time I'm here." Greg and his H.T.H. have the one relation­ship that I found that is still working and looks like it could endure the stresses of separation. 
I still had some naive ideal that there had to· be some relationship that had already lasted through several years of college. 
that his girlfriend couldn' taccept his absence "She had no identity except when she was with me. She would hang out with my friends. When I was gone...I pushed her to see other guys, and when she did she clung to them in the same way she clung to me. She told me, 'IfI didn't have him (her new boy­friend) around I wouldn't be going out on weekends.' I told her that she has to be secure in herselfbefore she can have a good relation­ship with a guy." 
Greg, whose relationship is such a suc­cess, promoted the idea that almost any girl would love to hear: "The key to a successful relationship is to be total equals in every sense-equally independent." In reaction to 
-there's nothing 
Ed's experience, Greg physical. You find out a continued, "You have to lot more about [your have an identity outside of H.T.H.] People really the relationship and an open up in letters," so­identity when you're to­phomore Erin com­gether. One person can't mented. _Her quad-mate dominate for it to work." Tera agreed, "There has O.K., all you fresh­to be something more men who left your H.T.H. than the physical if it's declaring your eternal going to last" love for one another, don't 
Still clueless as to let me discourage you how a relationship could through this article, but let persevere over miles and me encourage you to be months of separation, I open with your H.T.H. went to the upperclass­This year will make or men to see how many of break you. The biggest these relationships had obstacle to overcome is survived past freshman wanz the distance between 
year: Not many had. The most common ex­
perience had something to do with agreeing 
not to see people at school, then going ahead 
anddatinbgaroundanyway. "Youcan'tlock 
yourself up in a room on Friday nights," 
Greg, a sophomore, pointed out. 
Those who tried to keep their scopes at school concealed from their H.T.H. ran into problems. One sophomore, Amanda, would get in fights with her boyfriend on the phone whenever she liked a boy at school so she wouldn't feel as guilty. Anytime Kerry would like a guy here, she would mention her · H.T.H. Eventually, she realized that her deceitful relationship would never succeed, and started seeing a boy Notre Dame. Kerry finished saying, "Ifyou eventually go back to that guy at home, fine. But you have to try 
new things, too." 
Greg once again had the realistic and 

workable view on dating at school, "You 
can't play gam~. You have to be open_with 
each other. " He and his girlfriend of two 
OCTOBER 4, 1990 Some of my friends gave me a hot tip about a junior down the hall who has had an H.T.H. all three years of her ND life. 
· "Hi, I'm Michelle, and I'm doirtg an article for Scholastic about boyfriends and girlfriends at home, and I was sent to you." Jenell laughed from the central room of the quad. "I'll take that as my cue to leave," I heard a guy's voice say from one of the bedrooms. SomuchfortheH.T.H. Realizing that I might have just killed her chances here, I said, "Did I come.at a bad time?" "Yeah" she said. "I'm in 328 if you can come by later. Sorry!" I ran out of there and down the hall. Journalistic mishap #1. 
· So apparently this H.T.H. stuff does not .work too well in most cases. Iasked ifanyone knew someone, however remotely, who still had an H.T.H. beyond sophomore year. No one did. "I think most people got smart and cut it off after freshman year," said Ed, a sophomore who had an H.T.H. his freshman year. The problem in Ed's relationship was 
loved ones who stay at home for college or who are still in high school. ".You change so much. It's a different world here, one thatmy boyfriend never knew," Kerry remarked. "We continued having a high school relation­ship even though we were in college." 
There is still hope. Ifthe relationship is right it will work, but it also requires honesty and effort. Colin expressed his devotion to his H.T.H. through his fall break plans. "I'm missing the Miami game to spend three extra days with my girlfriend. I wouldn't have been able to go home from the game until Monday. And how could I pass up $150 for my ticket?" (Now do you understand why I'm inventing names here? A guy -guys supposedly live for sports-missing a Notre Dame football game, THE football game, for a girl. Would he ever hear the end of it? Would he be ostracized by his peers? Most certainly. It must be love.) . 
by Michelle Seiler 


Junior soccer star Susie Zilvitis is the.. 

.l ,i 


SHOOTIST
¦ 


BYAMANDA CUNTON 

W bile most eight year-olds were climbing trees and riding bikes, Susie Zilvitis was playing soccer. A jun­ior forward on the Notre Dame women's varsity soccer team, she began her soccer career on a boys' team where she was one of two girls. She and her family moved seven times while she was growing up, and at 
ri 
14 
I 
I.· 
j:'
,I 
,.Ii 
1i 
every stop Susie continued to improve her soccer skills. A major reason for her im­provement throughout her high school years had to do with .the fact that she attended three different high schools. "Each coach taught me something new," Zilvitis recollects. 
Playing with her older sister, who went on to play four years at Dartmouth, also helped her to mature as a player. "My sister is two years older.and influenced me the most as a player. She plays defense so we wouid play one on one against each other for practice," recalls Zilvitis. 
.Her athletic accomplishments are not limited to soccer. In. order to stay in shape in the off-season during high school, Suzie played both lacro#~;andran track. In 


high school, she was a member ofthe 1988 
Massachusetts high school state champion­
ship soccer team, she earned all-state hon­
ors in cross country her junior year, and was 
a member of the championship two-mile 
relay team in the 1985 Junior Olympics. 
Cleariy, Zilvitis' varied background in ath­
letics has made a significant impact on the 
soccer player that she is today. 
Though she is most often noted 

for her large contribution in scoring goals, 
she brings more to the field than just of­
fense. "The team gives her the ball and 
rallies around her," says Head Coach Chris 
Petrucelli. "Most of the goals scored, she is 
involved with, whether actually scoring or 
assisting or creating space. When she gets 
the ball, the opposing team knows they 
have to deal with her." 
Incredible speed makes her a con­

stant threat to the opposition. The records 
she holds at Notre Dame reflect her talent. 
Shesetanumberofrecordsin 1988,includ­
ing: most goals in a season (14), most 
attmepted shots (70), and most points (35). 
She also holds the record for consecutive 
games scored in (6) in 1989. 
As for career statistics (1988­

1989), she holds the records for most goals 
(26), most attempted shots (135), and most 
points (65). Beyond these amazing num­
bers, however, remains her willingness to 
improve, the encouragment she provides, 
and the effect her positive attitude has on 
her teammates. 
She also possesses a strong desire 

for success and achievement. Petrucelli 
recognizes this when he makes suggestions 
for improvement. "She has a willingness to 
learn and listen and react," he says. "Any­
thingIask her to do, she does itwell. Others 
see that it works and do it She leads by 
example." She thereby not only improves 
her own performance, but also helps her 
teammates to improve with the leadership ·of a good example. 
Zilvitis is a team player. She pro­

vides leadership for the team and tries to 
encourage everyone to work together. She 
finds one of the benefits of playing on the 
team to be the opportunity to meet people. 
"Soccer gives me the opportunity to be­
come close with my teammates both on and 
off the field," expresses Zilvitis. Adds 
Petrucelli, "Her teammates look up to her 
OCTOBER 4, 1990 

and respect her. They see her ability on the field and the way she deals with people off the field." 
The Irish women's soccer team is unique in that it has a large number of freshmen. One of Suzie's goals is to at­tempt to make the freshmen feel more comfortable with the team. Freshman and teammate Michelle Hurst says, "Suzie is the most genuinely nice person I know. She does her best to make the freshmen feel especial} y comfortable with the team. And she also helps us by telling us, in a nice way, how to improve." 
Suzie Zilvitis has a number of goals in mind for the 1990 season. On the team level, she hopes that she and her team­mates will pull to­gether and win the rest of their games. And on a per­sonal level, she hopes both to build her confidence and to be­come a smarter player. 
While striving to achieve these goals, Suzie keeps a specific philosophy in mind to keep her going, "The harder I work, the better the results." 
Suzie Zilvitis be­gan to dedi­cate her life to soccer at 
a young age and soccer has provided her 
with a stable base throughout her child­
hood. Although she may have a little less 
time on her hands than the average college 
student because of the time she spends 
striving to do her best, the benefits, for 
Suzie, outweigh the drawbacks. Petrucelli sees benefits, too. "I would hate to think of the team not having Suzie on it," he says. "We would be a lot less dangerous and a lot less mature." D 
This is Amanda Clinton's first story for Scholastic. 


Volpe was First Team All-PAC 10 in 1988. 
BY JIM KUSER 
Before last year's Stanford-Notre Dame game, the question was, could the Cardinal, a perennial cellar-dweller of the competitive PAC 10, give theFighting Irish a run for their moriey? After all, Stanford was unranked with a record of 1­3, while Notre Dame was unbeaten and rankednumberone. Theanswerwasyes. After nearly short-changing themselves, the Irish quietly left Stanford Stadium with a 27-17 win. An easy vic­tory on paper turned out to be a hard victory on the field, and although some Irish fans complained that they had to change their pace maker batteries during the game, others realized the brilliance of the Cardinal game plan. 
Stanford Head Coach Dennis Green employed an efficient aerial attack against a highly touted Irish defense that made the Irish linebackers fall backin their coverage, thereby easing the Irish rush on the Cardinal quarterback. Green's game plan was tight and controlled, featuring 

The· 

Cardinal Has· Landed 
Last year, Stanford nearly upset the Irish. Is an upset in the Cards? 

quick dump passes to Cardinal running backs, screen passes to the·Cardinal tight end, and occasional deep passes to Cardinal receivers to keep the Irish secondary hon­est. 
. The evidence ·of the success of Green's game p1an lies.in the formidable numbers accumulated byCardinal quarter~ back Steve Smith. He completed 39 of 68 passirigattempts for282 yards. The68 pass attempts were a PAC. i6 record. 
. With a little _luck, . the. Cardinal 
16 



Palumbls looks to light-up a young 
Irish secondary. 
CO!!ld have pulled off a major upset. Re­member, the game was tied 14-14 late in the third quarter when Notre Dame game­breaker Raghib ''Rocket" Ismail returned a kickoff 66 yards to set up the go-ahead touchdown for the Irish. 
This year's Cardinal team is bet­ter than last year's. Much better. Playing the country's third most difficult schedule, Stanford collides with five pre-season As­sociated Press Top Twenty teams on the gridiron this year (Colorado, Notre Dame, and traditional PAC 10 foes Arizona, Southern Calfornia, and Washington). 
The Cardinal's 1-3 startis deceiv­ing. Stanford opened the year with a heart­breaking 21-17 loss to then fourth-ranked Colorado at Buffalo Stadium-a game many feel the Cardinal should have won. The following Saturday, the Cardinal droppeda32-31 decisionatUCLA:A37­3 home win over Oregon State was fol~ lowed by a 29-23 loss to San Jose State. 
Although Irish fans tend to disregard coach Lou Holtz' s concerns with his oppo­nents as mere posturing, his concerns with Stanford are valid.· Stanford put a scare in the Irish a year ago and they hope to do it one better this year. 'The Cardinal does not have Notre Dame''s' traditional status as a college football powerhouse, but it is becom­ing a team to be reckoned with. 
Holtz's primary concern rests V{ith the ability of an inexperienced Irish secon­dary to negate an experienced Cardinal pass­ing attack. After all, last year's aerial attack exploited four returning Irish defensive backs-three who now play in the National Football League and one, consensus All­American Todd Lyght, who is sidelined with an injury. The Irish secondary will include no returning starters in a game in which the ability to defend against the pass will be of the highest importance. 
Despite what he did against the Irish last season, Smith has been benched in favor of 1988seven-gamestarterJasonPalumbis.·Ed McCaffrey, the 6' 5", 215 lb. pre-season All­American receiver, will be Palumbis' pri­mary target. McCaffrey pulled in five passes against the Irish for 82 yards. 
The Irish will try to snuff Stanford's aerial attack by relentlessly pressuring Palumbis to flush him out of the pocket and force him to throw on the run. Notre Dame's fearsome front seven have shown an ability to apply the necessary pressure (ask last 


Stanford Sports lnformallon 
Green has put Stanford football back 
on the map. 

week's victim, quarterback Eric Hunter of Purdue), butPalumbis will be receiving pass protection from 6-7, 300 pound pre-season All-American offensive tackle Bob Whit­field and 6-4, 275 lb. offensive guard Chuck Gillingham. 
In addition to its capable passing attack, the Cardinal can run the ball. Stanford features a two-back attack that could prove fatal to its opponents. Running and blocking services will be rendered from by the devas­tating duo of 5-7, 195 pound Jon Volpe, a 1000-yardrusher,and First Team All-Pac 10 in 1988 who missed most of last year with a variety of injuries, and 5-9, 175 pound Glyn Milburn, Oklahoma's projected starting tail­back in 1989 until he transfered to Stanford. Miami transfer Ellery Roberts also adds depth to the Cardinal running game. 
The Cardinal defense is not as tough. Having lost three defensive players to the NFL, the Cardinal defense is inexperi­enced and features no marquee players with pre-season accolades. 
Last year's Stanford squad(3-8 overall; 3-5 and tied for seventh in the PAC 10), can be deceiving at first glance. The Cardinal played the country's third toughest schedule and lost a couple of nail-biters that went unnoticed. Look for the Irish to win, but it may not easy. If Notre Dame sends the Cardinal flying, look at it not as an Irish victory over a fledgling Stanford team, but as a victory over a team that is arriving on the scene. D 
17

OCTOBER 4, 1990 
_i 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
I.· 


Mike O'Connor: O'Connor, a senior from 
Alison Lester: Lester, a freshman from 
Brightwater, NY, led the tenth-ranked Irish to 
Schaumburg, IL, led a six-goal attack as the 
victory at the National Catholic Invitational with a 
women's socccer team demolished IUSB, 6-0. 
winning time of24:59. 7. The captain has led Notre 
Lester assisted on Notre Dame's first goal, and 
Dame in it's last eight races, dating to Sept. 16, 
added another assist and a goal for the eighth­
1990. 
ranked Irish. 

foDcBt'lLL ~ SEASON SCl)EDULE ~ 




WEDNESDAY FRIDAY 
Grab your passport THURSDAY 
SATURDAY and cross 
fhe border Your Ailumni \Ie open 1/2 hour ·fo11i9hf I Senior Cilub ,.· afier ihe enJ of ihe · Cup-­
game unill 2:0 0 a.m. uon 't Ileave 
Evening games ve1re · home mi t hon t 
open 3 hours before

it tonightl 
ihe game, loo! 

,:i: SCHOLASTIC
18 

Coming 



'Distractions 

MOVIES 

AIRPLANE: If you need to see it again for the ten thousandth time, it'll be in the Montgomery Theater ofLaFortune on Thursday, October 4. 
-S.U.B. MOVIE OFTHE WEEK: Biack · Rain will be showing at Cushing Audito­. rium on Friday,Oct. 5 and Saturday, Oct: 6. 
HENRY V: Kenneth Branagh's directing debut, the Shakespearean classic originally put on film by Sir Laurence Olivier, will be showing Friday, Oct. 5 and Saturday, Oct 6 at 7:15 and 9:45 p.m. 
AT THE SNITE: On Tuesday, October 9 will be Henry V, the original Laurence Olivier version, at 7 p.m. and Notorious, an Alfred Hitchcock flick, at 9:30 p.m. On Wednesday, October IO will be Writ(en on the Wind at 7 p.m'. and October at}> p.m. · 
THEATRE 

THE TROJAN WOMEN: The play by Euripides will be presented from Thursday, October4 until Sunday, October 14 in the Laboratory Theater in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk ($4 for students, $5 for the general public.) Sponsored by the Department of Communication and Theatre. 
DO BLACK PATENT LEATHER SHOES REALLY REFLECT UP?: The Broadway musical will be presented by the Notre Dame Student Players in Washington Hall from October 11 -13. Tickets are $3 for students, $5 for the general public, avail­able at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
SPORTS 

FOOTBALL vs. STANFORD: The home stand continues this Saturday as the Irish take on Stanford at 12:10 p.m. Be sure to· catch the Stanford Tree, one of the goofiest ­mascots you'll see anywhere. 
SOCCER: The men will take on Ohio State at 8 p.m. on Friday, October 5, and Creighton at 3 p.m. on Sunday, October 7. The women face Lewis at 5:30 p.m. on Friday, Oct 5, Creighton at 8 p.m. on Saturday, October 6, adn Wisconsin­Milwaukee at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, October 10. 
VOLLEYBALL: The Golden Dome Classic, featuring matches against LSU, Oklahoma, and Hofstra, will take place Friday, Oct 5 and Saturday, Oct 6 in the J.A.C.C. 
TENNIS: The men's and women's teams will take on Lewis University at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, beginning at 6 p.m. on Friday, October 5. 
BASEBALL: The Irish will play Wichita State at Covalevski Stadium at 8:30 p.m. on Friday, October 5. 

OCTOBER 4, 1990 




j, 
I'
·I 

As this week of the Multicultural Fall Festival comes to a close, one begins to wonder what exactly Fall Festival and multiculturalism mean to the Notre Dame community. Is it just a week of lectures and music? Just a bunch of colored flyers in dorms and free food on a Saturday night at Stepan? The answer is that Fall Festival carries with it a message and a passion that is much greater than it may at first appear. Notre Dame prides itself in the fact that it is a university which has students not only from all over this country, but from all over the world. How many times do you find people from Maine living with people from Hawaii or American students studying with I, people from Panama, Puerto Rico, and H Kuwait? Notre Dame does in fact have an 
ii 
11 element of diversity-the question is do we 
' 
really take advantage of it. 
Multiculturalism is the key to becoming a true "family " and a true community. Itis the realization that we all have differences. It is the curiosity to go out and meet different people, find out about· their culture, experience their culture, and accept those differences. Itis a passion to become a better person-to open up your eyes and ears to others, while atthe same time learning a great deal about yourself. · In . short, 


20 
Multi­
cultur­
alisJJD.: 
More Than Just!, A

multiculturalism is a call to 
reachoutandseeallthecolors 

M_·_·:outhfu· I 
of God's rainbow. 

Saturday night is the .. ,,, . officialconcludingeventoftheMulticultural :the year; Come to a discussion on what it is Fall Festival-the Taste ofNations at Stepan ... :like to be from the Middle East and get the Center. I , on behalf of the Multicultural Middle Eastern perspective on the Gulf Executive Council, encourage you to attend;_: •Crisis. Attend a fireside chat on African There willbe food, music, and a lot of fun'., . philosophy. ·Go to a Pow Wow. Reaching ButbeyondSaturdaynight,Iencourageallof. out and learning is not only.,why we are at you to attend multicultural events throughout: Notre Dame, but why we truly are people.O 
by Nicole Farmer 





Saturday October 6, 1990 
9:00 P.M. -1:00 A.M. Stepan Center 
Food and desserts from every imaginable geographic location waiting to tantalize and satisfy the appetites of thousands. 
FREE FOOD AND ADMISSION!! 
Bring a friend or bring a date to share this special atmosphere. Dress is casual elegance so everyone will fit in. 
Don't miss the culmination of the fifth annual Multicultural Fall Festival. It promises to be a fantastic extravaganza of epic proportions. 
'-------­

sponsored by THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 
l f \/(JCl /(J\/f:'(l10 JOHN BELUSHI 
.l 

i11 Animal House ... 

If you loved BILL MURRAY /11 Ghostbusters ...




Cl national touring company ) 
the comedy troup where these two stars got their start ! 









