CITY
STATE
ZONE
THE CATHOLIC BOY Notre Dame, Indiana PLEASE SEND THE CATHOLIC BOY TO	□ 1 yr.—$2.50 □ 2 yrs.—$4.50 □ 3 yrs.—$6.50	
BOY’S NAME		
ADDRESS		
CITY □ SEND GIFT CARD	ZONE	STATE
2
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
Week scribes, as you may have heard, have a remarkable facility for performing this feat (pun).
Fie, Fie
And we hope that the fat little man with a belly like a bowl full of jelly is most ungenerous to those Scrouges who didn’t buy tickets for Vetville
Top of the Week
. . . For the next seven days you will be hearing all those pretty Christmas songs . . .
“M” is for Money Business
The sweet, soft caroling of the Victory March came floating through the cold winter air. The vocalist, who occasionally travels incognito as a famous Notre Dame athlete, stood trembling between two gentlemen who were wearing letter sweaters. Heavy strips of adhesive tape were wrapped around his pant legs and a bright red ribbon was tied jauntily about his neck. On the ground before him lay his laundry bag with all his manly unmentionables tumbling from its mouth. On his back was a sizeable poster listing his many and dubious high school achievements; he was the cutest boy in his class, the best shot on the basketball squad, had the most girl friends, and almost always won at Charades. He seemed to share these wonderful distinctions with almost everyone else who was going through the excruciation of being initiated into the Monogram Club.
Seeing our heroic athletes perform thusly was almost as interesting as watching one of those sorority initiations. Nevertheless you could get a definite aesthetic experience (journalism majors, please note) from listening to the fine crooning of mezzosoprano John Lattner, tenor Neil Worden, or contralto Tom Murphy.
The Stuff That Makes
Milwaukee Famous
Every year when the Notre Dame quintet encounters the Marquette Hilltoppers there is a sort of unofficial student trip to Milwaukee. Although it attracts nowhere near the multitudes of the authentic student trip, this annual trek to the land of malts and hops seems to lack nothing in the way of enthusiasm.
Spectators at Milwaukee’s new Arena thrilled to the ultra smooth performance of Johnny Jordan’s ball players— and stared curiously at the small but colorful knot of people in the bargain price seats who screamed, “Gootch,
Gootch, Gootch,” every time Notre Dame’s captain did something exceptional. And believe this humble scribe, the exhilaration of these people did not wane after the conclusion of the contest.
What, you may ask, is the big attraction that draws great hordes of ND men as much as 200 miles to see a ball club the calibre of Marquette’s team? The answer- may lie in the city itself. Milwaukee, as far as we know, is the only sizeable midwestem city where you can still make a phone call for a nickel, and buy a bottle of beer (providing you’ve got eight kinds of I.D.) for a measley quarter. It sort of makes you feel like you’re back in those good old days.
Inflation
But at Notre Dame, Indiana, unlike Milwaukee, the cost of living took another frantic hop upwards. The student directories went on sale last week for 50 cents, exactly twice what we paid for them last year. Perhaps the increased quality of the “binding” sanctions the jump in price. Now if you’ll notice, the price down on the lower-right hand corner of the cover says plainly one buck . . . not 50 cents. We’re sure this means something very significant, although we’d like to consult a philosophy major about this before we go sticking our foot in our mouth.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRF DAME TRAD/T/ON
cakes. To the rest a Merry Christmas, and we’ll see you around the quad.
Bottom of the Week
. . . like, I Saiv Mommy Kissin’ Santa Claus.
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
•	BETTER SERVICE
•	BETTER WORK • LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.
Nationally Advertised WATCHES
DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING ___________ GUARANTEED
(tri //,
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Dec. 19, 1952
3
Vol. 94 December 19, 1952 No. 12
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23; 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors
DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO .................News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ................Features
JOHN F.	SAND ..................Sports
WILLIAM	F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports
THOMAS	C. MURPHY .........Advertising
WILLIAM	KERWIN ............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse, Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine. Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh. Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski, Bob Ettlebrick. Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly.
FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavick.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier.
Member ol Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented lor national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published veekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University ol Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Nbtre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Going home is always quite an undertaking, but especially at Christmas, when it involves shopping, beating the ticket rush, and buying an ND jacket. You can follow one student’s problems on pages nine, ten, and eleven.—Photo by Bob Huddleston
Look! Another man switched to Kentucky Club— the thoroughbred of pipe tobaccos
DO IT TODAY! SWITCH TO
KENTUCKY CLUB
Notice how much better your pipe tastes—how much fresher your mouth feels when you switch to Kentucky Club. Send for free catalog showing fine pipes and how to get them at big savings. Mail Pouch Tobacco Co., Wheeling, West Va. Dept. 39
the. ChMtmaA £eaA(M
Annual Notre Dame Night at Frank Dailey’s Meadowbrook
Route 23, Cedar Grove, New Jersey
Easily accessible from New York City and New Jersey
featuring Ralph Flanagan and Orchestra
on Saturday, December 27th
DANCING, ENTERTAINMENT, REFRESHMENTS, 7:30 to 2:30
For Reservations Contact: JACK GELSON 414 Walsh TOM O’CONNELL 275 Dillon
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
I THE SCHOLASTIC WISHES EACH I I	OF YOU THE MERRIEST	|
| CHRISTMAS AND THE j I	HAPPIEST NEW YEAR	|
f	- I
Sr»?SW?Sra?3i^
January 5 Deadline For NSF Fellowships
Fellowship programs, sponsored by the National Science Foundation, are now being offered for the 1953-54 academic year.
Applications for the National Science Foundation postdoctoral awards must be received in the Fellowship Office on or before January 5, 1953.
Applications for fellowships are evaluated by boards appointed by the' National Research Council. Fellowships are offered in the agricultural, biological, engineering, mathematical, medical and physical sciences at both the pre-doctoral and postdoctoral levels.
No fellowships covered in these announcements are awarded to individuals who wish to prepare themselves for the clinical practice' of medicine or dentistry. However, applicants will be accepted from medical or dental students or holders of the M.D. or D.D.S. degrees who wish to prepare themselves for careers in research.
Fellowships in all the natural sciences and inter-allied fields are open and study may be pursued in any institution of advanced training in the United States or abroad approved by the Fellowship Boards. Appointments are for one year with basic stipends from $3,000 to $3,400 with additional allowance for dependents and travel.
Because the' postdoctoral fellowships are available in a large range of subjects and programs, potential applicants are encouraged to •write to the National Research Council stating their field of specialization, age and study plans so that appropriate' informative material may be sent.
Information and application blanks may be secured for any of the programs by writing to the Fellowship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington 25, D. C.
Blue Barron Chosen to Lend Musical Talents For 500 ROTC Students at Military Ball Jan. 9
The first gala event to set off the 1953 social season at Notre Dame will be the annual Military Ball on Friday evening, Jan. 9, in the Palais Royale Ballroom.
Approximately 500 ROTC students, representing the Army, Air Force and Navy, and their dates, are expected to attend the colorful festivities and dance to the melodic melodies of Blue Barron and his orchestra from 9 to 1.
The dancers will find themselves in a ballroom decorated with an array of military symbols. The symbols will be placed on huge pylons which will be placed around the dance floor and set off by colored spotlights.
One of the special features of the decorations will be a large star, shaped by red, white and blue balloons which will hang from the large chandelier over the dance floor.
Three charming young ladies, who will represent the three services, have been chosen as queens to reign over the Military Ball. They are: Miss Joyce Skaggs of Russell, Ky.; Miss Mickey McGill of Chicago, and Miss Nancy Quinn of Stevens Point, Wis.
RAYMOND, MARSHALL, LAPASSO, BRAUNLICH
Blue Barron and Balloons for the Ball
Miss Skaggs is a senior at Saint Mary’s College where she is majoring in Art. She will be escorted by Cadet Tony LaPasso, who is serving as one of the Co-chairmen of the Ball. Miss McGill, who will represent the Air Force, will be accompanied by Cadet Vincent J. Raymond, who is also one of the Co-Chairmen. Miss McGill is presently enrolled at Barat College where she is a senior English major. Representing the Midshipmen will be Miss Quinn, a graduate of Saint Mary’s College and now teaching at Niles High School. Midshipman Roger O. Zoellner will be her escort.
Special guests of the evening will be the Commanders of the ROTC units at Notre Dame and their wives. They are Colonel George M. Cookson, U.S.A.; Colonel Melie J. Coutlee, and Lt. Colonel Elmer L. Keith, U.S.A.F.; Captain F. J. Luongo, Jr., and Lieutenant T. K. Fitzgerald, U.S.N.
Highlight of the ball will be the coronation of the queens, who will be crowned by the Commanders of the units they represent. Following the (Continued on page 16)
Dec. 19, 1952
5
Air Force Cadet Officers Get Added Training Through Responsibilities in ROTC Program
A primary source of officers for the Air Force is the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Program which is conducted at many colleges and universities throughout the country. The mission of the AFROTC units, which are called Detachments, is to train students enrolled in the program to meet the requirements of a newly commissioned officer.
The training given is to be the maximum amount that the Detachment is capable of offering. That amount has increased steadily with the growth of the unit here at Notre Dame. The cadet officers adapted themselves to their duties well enough to indicate they were ready for additional command and staff responsibilities, so this year they have been given the responsibility of conducting their own program.
Four-Man Cadet Wing Staff
The Cadet Wing Staff, which is composed of senior Air Science students, was assigned a definite mission—to develop the Cadet Corps into a highly trained and well disciplined organization. The Cadet Wing Commander, William N. Jackomis, is responsible to the Professor of Air Science and Tactics, Colonel Melie J. Coutlee, for the accomplishment of this mission.
Commander Jackomis is assisted by a staff composed of an Executive Officer and Adjutant, Henry G. Prosack,
AFROTC MASTER-PLANNERS AT WORK For the Future Officers, Command Responsibilities
a Training and Operations Officer, Ronald L. Clough, and a Material Officer, Patrick J. Riley. The functions of this staff are supervised and guided by the Commandant of Cadets, Lt. Colonel Elmer L. Keith. Plans and procedures are checked to see that they conform to the policies and directives of the PAST and higher headquarters.
Specifically, the Wing Commander is responsible for planning, organizing, directing and supervising the administration, training, and supplying of the Cadet Corps as directed, and for the development of “esprit-de-corps” and the maintenance of discipline and morale within the Corps. The Wing Executive Officer-Adjutant is responsible to the Wing Commander for relieving him of the Administrative burden by supervising and coordinating staff activities, for distributing, collecting and forwarding communications and publications, and for acting as the Commander in his absence.
Divided Into Departments
The Wing Training and Operations Officer is responsible to the Wing Commander for planning and supervising training programs, parades and ceremonies. The Wing Material Officer is responsible to the Wing Commander for procuring, issuing, maintaining and accounting for such items of clothing and equipment as directed by the Wing Commander.
A major project being conducted by the Wing Staff at this time is the writing of a booklet containing a set of cadet regulations and other pertinent information.
The Cadet Officers in each subordinate headquarters have comparable responsibilities for their organizations. The Group Commanders are the “field” commanders and are key men in the program. They meet with and actually command the 200 or more cadets in their Group.
Group Responsible to Wing
Group I is commanded by Richard A. Cotter, Group II by Richard F. Murphy, Group III by James A. McIntyre, and Group IV by Harrison G. Travis.
Each of the Group Commanders is responsible to the Wing Commander for the administration, training, supply, discipline and morale of his Group. Each is assisted by a group of staff officers comparable with those at Wing level. Each has organized his Group into squadrons and flights to facilitate training, administration and control. He works directly with his squadron commanders and the Wing Commander. His staff officers work with him and with officers having comparable assignments at squadron and wing level. Each is functioning as he would in an Air Force organization.
Command Functions New
Since the procedure of actually having a command with command responsibilities and functions was new to the cadet officers, they required close supervision and guidance at the beginning of the school year. This supervision and guidance was given by two Tactical Officers and three Tactical Non-commissioned Officers assigned to each Group. The Group Commanders and their subordinates quickly adapted themselves to the new situation and have now taken over complete control of their units. The function of the Tactical Officers and non-commissioned officers has been relegated to observation, reporting and evaluation.
The effectiveness of the Cadet Officers in accomplishing their additional responsibility has shown itself in many ways. There is increased interest and enthusiasm in the Corps. The numbers of discrepancies at drill have been decreasing. The time to complete supply transactions between cadets and the Detachment Supply has been reduced. The observance of military courtesies has increased.
It is believed that graduating Seniors will be better qualified as Second Lieutenants because of this additional experience of “running their own show.”
6
The Scholastic
Met Club Prepares To Waltz at Waldorf
Under the chairmanship of Ed White and Jack Riva, the Metropolitan Club of Notre Dame will hold its annual Christmas Formal on the night of Sunday, Dec. 28, at the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf Astoria in New York. Harry Arnold’s orchestra, with a featured vocalist, will provide the music for this strictly formal affair.
Met Club president Don Mulvihill has announced that tickets, priced at $6 for members and $7.50 for nonmembers, are available from all club hall representatives or from chairmen Ron Mealey in 338 Dillon and Ed White in 212 Sorin. Reservations for the dance can also be made with a $3 deposit, or by contacting one of those listed below during the holidays.
A queen, to be chosen by pictures submitted before the dance, will be crowned at the dance. The queen will be picked by a national modeling agency. Chairman of the queen contest is Mike Begley, 15 Sorin.
Chairmen White and Riva have also announced that the Palm Room of the Waldorf will be available to dance-goers on the night of the affair in order to provide extra room. Cocktail tables will be set up in this extra room.
Heading the program committee is Jack Kelley, while Bob Phillips is handling publicity.
Tickets for the formal dance can be obtained in the Metropolitan area during the vacation by contacting one of the following: Ed White, White Plains 6-9052; Jack Riva, Sacramento 2-7205; Ron Mealey, Ridgewood 6-7144; Don Mulvihill, Dongan Hills 6-2345; John Bundschu, New Rochelle 6-6214.
Fr. Wilson's New Brochure Depicts Priest's Role in Life
The Holy Cross Fathers have recently published a pamphlet which tells simply and graphically what a priest is and what a priest does. The attractive 36-page brochure reviews the priest’s role as mediator, pastor, preacher, and teacher. It also depicts the priest’s work as a missionary both at home and abroad.
Prepared by the Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., director of vocations at Holy Cross Seminary on the Notre Dame campus, the pamphlet is designed to guide young men who are considering studying for the prieshood. It outlines the requirements of a candidate for the priesthood and describes the life and work of priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
MET CLUBBERS MEALEY, MULVIHILL, WHITE, RIVA For New Yorkers, The Waldorf’s Starlight Roof
'Old Sodders' Constitute Large Group at ND; Murphys, Kellys Top List of Irish Contingent
Don’t let that football lineup fool you. Notre Dame is still the home of the Irish — all rumors to the contrary.
There are three full platoons of Murphys enrolled on the campus, according to the new Student Directory for 195253 just off the press. In addition to the thirty-three Murphys who constitute the largest group of students with the same name, one of the University’s vice-presidents, its public information director, and three faculty members also belong to the Murphy clan.
The Kellys have the second largest contingent on the Notre Dame campus with a total of 23. Reading like the roster of McNamara’s Band, the Student Directory also includes 20 Sullivans, 18 Ryans, 17 O’Connors, 17 Burkes, and an even dozen Gallaghers.
Irish names have been prominent at
Printed in three colors and filled with photographs, the pamphlet traces the life of a young man from his seminary days to his ordination. It shows Holy Cross priests in action-------teaching at Notre Dame, working in the missions of Pakistan, serving as chaplains in the armed forces, engaged in parish work, and giving retreats and missions from coast-to-coast.
Free copies may be had by writing Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame ever since the University was founded in 1842. Four of the seven Brothers of Holy Cross who accompanied Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., to the Northern Indiana wilderness were natives of Ireland. Thirteen of the 15 presidents of Notre Dame during the past 110 years have been of Irish descent.
The Joneses, who usually hold their own in any large group, can hardly muster a corporal’s guard on the Irish campus. There are only three Joneses, believe it or not, among Notre Dame’s 5,100 students.
There’s an Eisenhauer at Notre Dame and a Richard Nixon, too. At least one Angel is studying for a degree and a Moses and a St. John can also be found on the campus.
Among Notre Dame’s 130 foreign students are two who share the distinction of having the shortest names in the Student Directory. They are Henry T. Oh, a native of Indonesia, and Bernardo Li, of. Manila. Honors for the longest name on the list go to John James Dilenschneider, of Columbus, Ohio, whose 14-letter name barely fits into his weekly 'column in the Scholastic.
Heading the list of seminarians studying at Notre Dame is . Norris E. Amen.
Dec. 19, 1952
Monogram Club 'Hell Week' Initiates 42 New Members; 'Sound Off' Brings Claim to Fame
“Modesty punishable by demerits.”
With this motto well-remembered, 42 new monogram winners went through a “Hell Week” initiation at the hands of campus Monogram Club members. What punishments demerits would bring was hinted at in a sinister way.
The queerly garbed initiates fulfilled every behest of their “superiors” last Tuesday and Wednesday — from spouting off about their high school exploits to serving breakfast in bed and performing other valet services when commanded.
Wearing signs proclaiming their reasons for fame, the candidates strode around campus during the two-day period. At the words “Sound Off!” an initiate would pull out a carefully prepared 100-word essay and shout for the campus at large to hear, the tale of his claim to fame; sing the “Victory March”; or perform any stunt demanded.
One of the most fabulous of the claims was Neil Worden’s statement that he was his “high school home-coming queen.”
Probably one of the most tortuous ordeals was the early morning group shaving period down at St. Mary’s Lake. Lined up in a ro\y, all 42 students would, at a command, lather up and shave with the frigid lake water.
After supper on both days the “Hell Week” gang lined up in front of the Dining Hall and entertained any interested spectators.
Welcome respite was granted until Sunday afternoon, when, behind the closed doors of the Fieldhouse, a final, secret initiation ceremony was held.
The ordeal lasted for two hours; it was followed by a banquet at the Knights of Columbus rooms downtown. Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, C.S.C., club chaplain; Bill Earley, varsity backfield coach; and Alec Wilson, track coach and moderator of the club, were speakers. Mike Koken, president of the National Monogram Club, was unable to attend.
With the end of Sunday’s ceremonies, the 42 students became full-fledged Monogram Club members. They represented the football, track, baseball, fencing, tennis, and golf teams.
Jack Lee, member of the Varsity Football squad, headed a committee which made most of the “Hell Week” preparations and plans.
Since the “Hell Week,” the Athletic Board has announced that all monogram winners on campus who have not been initiated are not allowed to wear their monograms on campus. The Board once again stressed the prohibition of high school or college monograms other than those won here being worn on campus.
Bill Gaudreau, president of the campus club revealed that from now on athletes who have won one letter will, for successive awards, be allowed a choice between the traditional letter sweater, and a blue sportcoat with a patented gold monogram on the pocket.
He also said that the National Monogram Club will not recognize monogram winners who have not complied with all the group stipulations. Unrecognized members will not be eligible for the 50-yard line seats.
One new winner has already been deprived of his monogram sweater; Rod Duff, a member of the fencing team, lost his to some unknown person. Duff requests that the culprit return the sweater to his room in Dillon Hall.
Art Gallery Receives Sculptured Crucifix
An impressive sculpture of the crucified Christ by the world-renowned sculptor, Ivan Mestrovic, has been presented to the University of Notre Dame’s Wightman Art Gallery by a former student who prefers to remain anonymous.
Li announcing the gift, the Rev. Theodore M. • Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, expressed appreciation to the donor “for enriching the University’s art collection with its first major work of contemporary sculpture. Thousands who will be privileged to see this work of art in the years to come will share our gratitude,” Father Hesburgh said.
The mahogany crucifix stands six feet tall. The corpus of Our Lord is cast in gilt bronze. A plaster version of the crucifix was shown in the recent Liturgical Arts Exhibition in New York City.
Mestrovic, who is artist-in-residence at Syracuse University, has emphasized the tension of the transfixion in this slender figure of the Crucified, according to the Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.'S.C., instructor in sculpture at Notre Dame. “Taut, angular lines and planes give the work a marked vitality and movement,” Father Lauck commented, “yet the serene and noble character of Christ remains.”
MONOGRAMMERS FILL REQUIREMENTS FOR 50-YARD UNE SEATS
Ray Smith Reads High School Accomplishments
Lake-water Shaving at 7 a.m.
8
The Scholastic
You really don't think much about Chrhtmas until you get that letter—from your mother. RIGHT: As a matter of fact, there is a cute one around home and the dance is a must, you know. A friend? Yeah, but you know the situation around home!
j^pree to <Cct Ticabp
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
i
।
i
I.
|
ir
i.-
I
I hadn’t really thought of Christmas until I got that letter — from my mother. It contained the usual. Do your Christmas shopping in South Bend and get it out of the way, she told me. Have you got your reservation? What about your dirty clothes? Did you exchange the electric train I bought your brother the last time we were in South Bend? And what about your father’s robe?
With two days until vacation, a letter of that sort poses a problem. Of course, I had no real excuse for putting off this Christmas shopping. After all, South Bend has been decked out with trimmings ever since Nov. 15. So I shoved off for the city — Michiana’s greatest shopping center.
I decided to exchange the train first. Mother had gotten him a standard model, but I was informed that what he really wanted was an American Standard and Allied Auto Composite with skydome cars — No. C613304. They didn’t have one.
I tried desperately to return the train to the lady in the train section. She blanched and ran for some department head who proceeded to put me through a list of forms that would have given Hemingway enough material for a new book. Finally, after a bitter struggle, they took the train and gave me my $10.95 — muttering
something about the commission system.
The stores around South Bend were full of gifts — toys, clothing, perfumes, radios, jewelry and briefcases. In one, I looked over the merchandise and asked a lady to help me pick out a sweater. She did. I bought something pure this or that and retreated to the first floor. There I was accosted by a fast-talking smoothie who tried to convince me that a robe which looked like an advertisement for a Ballet Busse version of Scheherezade was “just the thing” for my father.
Not convincing me of this, he attempted to sell me cuff links, a yellow umbrella, chlorophyll socks and a “guaranteed” raincoat with an orange ND on it. I slipped away as he was pulling a blue suede homburg from a rack — my Christmas shopping completed.
The rest was simple — there were no reservations or laundry available. I finally managed to shag a white shirt from atop a stack of bundles waiting to be processed. I consoled myself by buying an ND jacket for my Christmas.
After a final briefing with the troops
This reservation business is always a-struggle. I wonder what the Better Business Bureau could do about it?
concerning the holiday dance, some packing, dressing and waiting at the station, I boarded the train withstanding room only — for home. Hang the C613304 and the robe! I’ll tell them. I’ll give them the money and they can buy them!
Dec. 19, 1952
9
I
ST
Music, Decorations Aid Christmas Spirit
By JOHN F. MANION
The Student Senate has led the way in getting Christmas spirit to mix with Notre Dame spirit during the past few weeks. The beautifully lighted Yule tree in the dining hall has been made possible through its endeavors.
The Senate has also encouraged the hall presidents to erect trees in the hall lobbies or parlors. Money appropriated by the Senate has been okayed for this purpose.
Dinner’ music in the dining halls has also been arranged through the efforts of the governing body with the help of WNDU.
On Dec. 11, the St. Mary’s College Glee Club entertained a full house in Washington Hall with their Christmas Concert. The selections were well received by the ND students.
Last Sunday, the Notre Dame Glee Club, directed by Mr. Daniel Pedtke, performed before a standing room crowd in Washington Hall in the first of a two-night stand. From the first selection, Ave Maria, to the finale, Adeste Fideles, the audience showed its utmost approval. Soloists on the program were Tenor John Noland, Jesu Bambino; Baritone Dan Coleman, Two
ERNIE BARTELL’s picture was inadvertently left out of last week’s presentation of the Who’s Who selections. With apologies to Mr. Bartell, we hope this will rectify the error somewhat. Bartell was chosen because of his activities as Student Senate Commerce senator and publicity chairman of this year’s Commerce Ball.—Editor
12
Grenadiers; Baritone Gene Gorski, Vision Fugitive; Pianist Richard Casper, Rakoesy March; and Joe Conwell, solo part in De Glory Road.
Students who are remaining on campus for the holidays and who registered soon enough will be treated to a home cooked meal after all. The hostesses are the Ladies of Notre Dame, a group of faculty members’ wives.
The man behind the console playing the carillons from the Sacred Heart Church tower each evening for the past week is junior Tom Murphy. Tom, who has been the student organist this year, has been climbing into the belfry ^ach night to sound the 23 newly re-activated bells. The results have been some very pleasing Christmas songs. Tom, who is a Liberal Arts Pre-law major, manipulates the 23 peg-handles and eight-foot pedals of 110-year-old bells with amazing prowess.
Dances Liven Holidays; Seniors and Scientists Shop
Breese-y Music for Chi Clubbers
The Chicago Club of Notre Dame will hold its annual Christmas Dance on Sunday, Dec. 28, at the combined Louis XVI and Crystal Ballrooms in the Sherman Hotel.
Music will be provided by Lou Breese and his orchestra, and Wyoma Winters is slated as guest vocalist.
Tickets are priced at $3.50 on the campus and $4.50 at the door. Ducats may be obtained from any of the hall representatives, and will also be on sale at the Chicago Club meeting tonight in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30.
Dress will be semi-formal, and corsages are not permitted.
■
South Jerseymen Hold Party Dance
The Notre Dame club of South New Jersey will hold its annual Christmas party-dance on Friday, Dec. 26, at 9 p.m. in the “Barn” at the Silver Lake Inn, Clementon, New Jersey.
Admission, to be paid at the door, is $6. Dance Chairman is John Murphy.
■
Holiday Hop in Fort Wayne
Notre Dame men spending Christmas vacation in the Fort Wayne area have been invited to attend a college homecoming dance Dec. 26 at the Prom Terrace Ballroom. The informal dance is sponsored by the University Club of Fort Wayne, an organization of young single college graduates.
Tickets for the dance, which will last from 9:30 p.m. to 12:30 a.m., are $2.40 per couple, tax included.
Santa Plans Visit to Vetville Small Fry Party Saturday
Santa Claus has accepted an invitation to attend the annual Vetville Christmas party to be held in the Vet Rec Hall this Saturday. He will bring nis bag of gifts to be distributed among the children of Vetville. Wives of the Vetville council are serving as a committee for party arrangements.
Mayor T. J. Bergan has announced that definite plans will be made for a New Year’s Eve party, if enough interest is shown on the part of the families of Vetville.
The ladies of Vetville are presently recovering from their task of baking all the cakes which were awarded at the drawing Sunday night. This week will witness renewed interest in preparing the 10 cakes weekly for the permanent winners of the contest.
Tony Papa to Play for Scientists
The third annual Science Ball, the product of men in the College of Science, will be held on Feb. 6, 1953, at the Palais Royale. Heading the dance committee are Co-Chairmen Charles Wolf and Phil Hurd, who have announced that the orchestra of Tony Papa has been obtained to provide the music for the occasion.
Sporting the theme “The Far Side of the Moon,” the dance has been set as an early introduction to festivities of the Mardi Gras week. Ticket Chairman John Sheedy has announced that ticket sales open Jan. 12.
Other members of the dance committee include Bob Straley, in charge of publicity and Jerry Nies, who will handle special arrangements. Bill Erman will supervise decorations, while the blind date bureau will be managed by Mike Hussey of 288 Dillon.
■
Date-Shopping Time For Seniors
For the benefit of those who like to do their Easter shopping early, Senior Bal] Co-Chairmen Jim Pfohl and George Higgins have announced that the big social weekend for the Class of ’53 will begin with the formal dance in the 'Drill Hall Friday evening, May 8.
Over 550 couples are expected to attend the 1953 Senior Ball. Plans for the remainder of the weekend are still incomplete.
Bids for the dance will go on sale early in the Spring. The committee will reveal the name of the orchestra for the Ball as soon as final confirmation is obtained.
The Scholastic
Tough Holiday Slate Greets ND Cagers
Boxing Talent Shines In NoviceTournament
One TKO and seven decisions summed up the action at the finals of the second annual Novice Boxing Tourney Saturday night. The TKO came in the 175-pound class when Tom Murray of Toledo, Ohio, and Cavanaugh, stopped Tom Meglen, another Ohioan from Cleveland and Howard Hall.
One step up from the 175-pound class, in the heavyweight division, tricky Gideon Jarvis, a Badinite from the South, was decisioned by Ed Cook from Howard. Jarvis, though not the biggest man in the heavyweight competition, surprised everyone with his deceptive footwork.
The first fight of the night saw Spider McVeigh, who hails from Fairbanks, Alaska, take the 132-pound crown by beating little Fernando Nunez of Durango, Mexico. A freshman, Floyd Boerbon, from St. Paul, beat Joe Sassano from Walsh in the 140-pound bout and then it was two men from Dillon vying for the 145-pound trophy, as Andy Corrao of Milwaukee, Wis., outclassed Chuck Wilson of Chicago in one of the better bouts of the night.
Jack Flynn of Howard Hall and River Forest, Ill., beat sophomore Dick Haefele from Morrissey Hall and Colorado Springs for the 150-pound championship. Two of the best novices in the tourney met in the 156-pound match, with Boris Mehoff gaining the nod over Jack Mooney. The 164-pound crown went to sophomore Frank Catalano when he decisioned Ron Lynch of Dillon.
The bouts showed a surprising improvement in the class of the boxers in all divisions over last year in the first Novice Bouts. From the first day of competition, the fighters showed great talent. All of the winners were Bengal Bout material, but even some of the losers this year may put in good showings in the final rounds of next Spring’s annual charity clashes.
K-State, Uclans ND Foes in Spartan Classic; Road Game Grind Features Eastern Swing
By TOM WELLY
The Christmas holidays will provide a real test for the 1952-53 Irish basketball team as they battle six of the top quintets in the country. Starting with the Spartan Classic this weekend and ending at Madison Square Garden on Jan. 6, Coach Jordan’s five will have challenged Kansas State, U.C.L.A., Butler, Northwestern, Holy Cross and New York University.
Michigan State’s annual Christmas Carnival will give the basketeers a chance to improve their national rating. Kansas State was ranked third nationally, with U.C.L.A. just behind in sixth position in last week’s balloting for the mythical national championship.
Wildcats Among Nation's Best
Kansas State, whom the Irish will tackle tomorrow night in the first game
JACK STEPHENS
Junior Coming into His Own
JOE BERTRAND
Irish “Cat” on the Loose
of the two-day affair, promises to be the toughest five on the Irish 21-game slate. Coach Jack Gardner’s Kansas State hotshots feature a balanced attack with numerous set plays, fast break and heavy emphasis on pivot play. The latter attack enables the K-State team to capitalize on the scoring powers of All-American Dick Knostman from the keyhole area.
Knostman, perhaps the number one center in the collegiate game this season, is regarded as one of the best defensive rebounders in the country and should provide the Irish rebounders with an interesting evening’s work. Thus far this season Kansas State has dumped Drake and Indiana. Knostman tallied 27 points in the Hoosier thriller.
In the second phase of the Spartan Classic Notre Dame will take on U.C.L.A.’s mighty Uclans. Coach John
Dec. 19, 1952
13
ny Wooden's five are the toast of the coast this season as their “race horse” attack is being counted on to place the national limelight on the Western Seaboard. Dick Ridgeway, high scoring forward, is the main cog of the Uclan machine which ranks near the top of the country’s offensive leaders. Oregon State has been the U.C.L.A. victim twice this season in Pacific Coast League competition.
Improved Butler Awaits Irish
The Irish then rest up for a week before testing Butler’s Bulldogs Dec. 27 at Indianapolis and the Northwestern Wildcats in Evanston. Butler’s hopes for bettering last season’s 12-12 record hinge on four returning starters from last year’s team which lost twice to Notre Dame, 55-49 and 52-48. Coach Tony Hinkle can call on forward Keith Greve, center Ray Stewert, and guards Don Holloway and Jim Crosley from the starting five which tangled last year with Notre Dame. The battle for the fifth slot is still raging between speedy Harry Porter, lanky Bob Reed and footballer Norm Ellenberger. Two of the three Big Ten teams which have challenged Butler this year have gone down to defeat. The Bulldogs turned back both Purdue, 67 to 61, and Ohio State, 63 to 60, while bowing to Iowa, 62 to 52.
NU Boasts Veteran Quintet
Northwestern features an all-veteran team which could cause the Irish much consternation. Frank Petrancek, 6-8 center who led his team in scoring last year returns with Capt. Larry Deliefield, Frank Ehmann, John Biever and Don Blaha to plague the Irish. This is the entire starting line-up from last year’s ND-NU battles. Although the team has only one game under its belt, due to quarterly exams, the youthful Wildcats are definite threats for Western Conference honors. In their initial game of the season the Wildcats dropped a high scoring 95 to 79 decision to Western Michigan’s MidAmerican Conference champions. The exam layoff has given Coach Waldo Fisher time to straighten out his defensive weaknesses in time for the invading Irish.
In the final leg of their longest road trip of the year, the Jordanmen will swing East to Boston and New York where they will tangle with Holy Cross and N.Y.U. on the fifth and sixth of January. As usual these two eastern cage powers rate among the top teams of that section of the country.
The Crusaders of Holy Cross have one of the most enviable records in
HOLIDAY CAGE SCHEDULE
Dec. 19	Kansas State at East Lansing
Dec. 20	U.C.L.A. at East Lansing.
Dec. 27	Butler at Indianapolis
Dec. 31	Northwestern at Evanston
Jan. 5	Holy Cross at Boston
Jan. 6	N.Y.U. at New York
Jan. 14	Purdue at Lafayette
basketball. Within the last six years they have been declared New England’s top team five times. This year’s squad is no exception to the fine Crusader teams of the past. Captain Earle Markey, All-American selection, heads an imposing list of veterans whom Coach “Bus” Sheory is counting on to drop the visiting Irish. “Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside” of the Crusaders, Togo Palazzi and Ronnie Perry along with Bud Kielley, the tallest man ever to win a Holy Cross basketball letter and Captain Markey form the nucleus of this year’s Holy Cross team. The University of Massachusetts and Boston U. already have felt the pierce of the Crusader sword this year.
N.Y.U., the perennial Irish foe in Madison Square Garden, will act as host for the final game in the “make or break” trip for “Gootch” Lewinski and Company. The Violets are always rough and should provide a thriller comparable to the 75-74 Irish victory of last year in which Johnny Lattner came off the bench to drop in a one-hander in the dying moments of play.
GIDEON JARVIS (1.) MISSES LONG RIGHT TO THE HEAD OF ED COOK
Soph Cook Wins Close Split-Decision over Jarvis in Heavyweight Final
Irish Trounce Marquette, 84-64
Up at Milwaukee last Saturday night, Junior Stephens paced the Irish to a convincing 84-64 triumph over Marquette’s Hilltoppers.
Led by Russ Wittberger, their 6’6” sophomore pivot man, Marquette jumped to an early advantage that saw them lead 23-20 at the first quarter mark. In the second period, however, the Hilltoppers could only muster seven points while ND turned on the steam for 25 and a 45-30 halftime bulge.
From then on it was easy as the Jordanmen coasted home to their third straight victory. The reserves of both squads played most of the final period.
Stephens, the hero of the Indiana game, hit his stride in the Wisconsin metropolis just as he did last year. He scored 20 points and was all over the court. Besides hitting consistently from both the floor and the foul line, the Chicago sophomore threw some beautiful set-up passes. He and Joe Bertrand worked two consecutive fast break plays in the third period that stunned the crowd. On both occasions, Stephens tossed nifty passes to Bertrand who tallied sensational lay-ups.
Bertrand followed Stephens in scoring with 18 points while Dick Rosenthal, who played a great game off the boards, had 16. Marquette’s Wittberger, however, swished 22 markers through the hoop to lead all scorers. He also played good defensive ball, rebounding well and holding Gootch Lewinski to seven points.
14
The Scholastic
Vet ND Indoor Team Opens Season Feb. 7
The indoor version of the 1953 Notre Dame track squad will open Feb. 7 when the ND thinclads will entertain the Purdue Boilermakers in the field house.
The Irish speedsters face an eightmeet indoor schedule before braving the elements in mid-April. The schedule includes foui- Big Ten powerhouses, Purdue, Michigan, and Michigan State at home, and Indiana at Bloomington.
Head coach Alex Wilson called the indoor prospects “fair” with the outcome of only two meets being apparent. He stated that the Irish had a better than even chance to win the opening meet against Purdue, but that chances against Michigan were dark.
Wilson has a veteran squad on hand with Jim Harrington and Joe Springer, a pair of pole vaulters who constantly clear 13’6”, ready to handle the field events. Harvey Newquist, a hurdler who sprints over 120 highs in 14.3 and was fast enough to finish third in last year’s NCAA meet, will captain the Irish on the track.
Other experienced men ready to bolster Wilson’s squad are: Dave Foy, Bob Hanrahan, and Joe Puccinelli, sprints; Norm Feltes and Justin McDonough, 440-yard dash; Al Schoenig, Jim Hernon, Dick O’Keefe, and Bob (Continued on page 16)
“sucker” shift to help
JOHN JORDAN
Cage Mentor
Actual Interhall Cage Play To Begin After New Year
Notre Dame’s Rockne Memorial hardwoods are echoing under the footbeats of the Interhall basketball players, who have recently begun action in both the afternoon and evening leagues.
The actual run for the money is due to start after the resumption of second semester classes. By that time the better teams will have been weeded out from the also-rans while others will replace those which have been eliminated from action because they have two forfeits.
In the 12-team evening circuit, Dillon’s experienced five seems to be the class of the league. Close behind them rank Walsh and Badin, while a surprising Zahm crew is also giving everybody trouble. Over in the tougher and larger afternoon division, where many teams are strengthened by the addition of varsity footballers, four of these are running well ahead of the pack. These are the West Virginia, Cincinnati, New Jersey, and Pittsburgh clubs.
By Jack Sand
Christmas Shopping in the Realm of Sportdom
Leaving the upsets, surprises and understatements of the 1952 sports year behind us, we think it only customary to join the millions of Christmas shoppers of America and do a little of our own. So in behalf of the entire Scholastic sports staff we wish to first present to
. . . ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE, Athletic Director of Notre Dame, a brand new television station including a personal 98-inch TV set with a built-in antenna.
. . . FRANK LEAHY, head coach of the Irish footballers, another confuse our 1953 opponents, and spread tears among the rival coaches who didn’t think of it first.
. . . JOHNNY JORDAN, basketball mentor, a continuation of his club’s present winning streak until the beginning of March, and five sets of hands with arms to match, modelled after those worn by the fabulous “Goose” Tatum.
. . . DON PENZA, captain of next season’s Fighting Irish eleven, an undefeated, untied national championship team without upsets, referees, penalties, fumbles, and Michigan State.
. . . JOHNNY LATTNER, All-American halfback, the Heisman Trophy.
. . . CHARLIE CALLAHAN, sports Publicity Director, a brand new dark brown fedora, to take the place of the age-old hat
he’s worn to every Notre Dame sporting event in the past five years.
. . . Don McAULIFFE, captain of Michigan State’s football squad, 16 grid tickets, not refundable if stolen, to the 1954 Notre DameSpartan game.
. . . MICHIGAN STATE, a new set of referees for each Notre Dame game, and the best of luck in the Big Ten next season, for they’ll need all they can get.
. . . LIFE MAGAZINE, and its photography department, a long-playing 33-rpm recording of All I Want for. Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth.
. . . JORDAN OLIVAR, Head Coach of Yale, who- denounced the ND shift as illegal, a gold medal for sportsmanship, above and beyond the call of duty, and another water boy to take the place of the one who scored the extra-point in this season’s 41-14 trouncing of Harvard.
. . . MARTY O’CONNOR, assistant basketball coach, a great big get well cheer from every one of us, and a very Merry Christmas.
Winner Could Take All in Spartan Classic
With the roughest part of the basketball schedule staring them straight in the face, Notre Dame’s unbeaten hoopsters can hardly expect an easy vacation. It’s a little early to start talking about a national championship, but as the latest press release from Michigan State declared, “the Spartan Classic may have the National Champs.” The release referred to Kansas State, U.C.L.A. and Notre Dame as rating consistently high in the early season polls which could be jumbled considerably between now and the first of the year. What greater Christmas present could Johnny Jordan’s fast-breaking quintet wish for than a clean sweep of the Classic. • Notre Dame has always been noted for its football . . . but what about basketball?
Dec. 19, 1952
15
The Juggler
This past week, The Juggler appeared on campus with a number of features worthy of one of the top undergraduate literary magazines in the nation. It also contains some work not quite up to this standard.
By far, the most outstanding contributions were turned in by John Hellman, Milton Fisk, John Nelson, and editor John Elson. Hellman’s work is a science-fiction story called “The Air Is Green,” which deals with happenings in the year 2035. The fine style is smooth and this will undoubtedly be the piece with the most universal appeal. John Elson’s essay, “Search for the Still Point,” is concerned with one of the major themes to be found in T. S. Eliot’s poetry and Elson seems to have as much insight into Eliot’s meaning as any contemporary critic, and perhaps more than some.
Milton Fisk’s essay is one of two in the Juggler dealing with the problem of physical coercion and freedom in the modern world. Titled, “Nature and Freedom,” Fisk’s work covers quite comprehensively both Kantian and Freudian conceptions of freedom although the reader will find the latter half of this essay a bit more lucid than the first part chiefly because in his opening Fisk throws Kantian terms, unfamiliar to most of us, around with wild abandon. To sum up, it is an erudite essay which is very rewarding if the reader is willing to dig a bit.
The second essay on physical coercion and freedom was done by Dave Burrell and is titled “Democracy and Freedom.” Undoubtedly a serious effort, it suffers from the lack of a concrete definition of freedom and an overabundance of bureaucratic prose. Its biggest fault seems to be an apparent contradiction between the first paragraph and the rest of the essay concerning the manifestation of freedom in history.
The book reviews, especially those contributed by John Nelson, Al DeCrane, Hugh Schadle, and Frank Jackman were excellent with Nelson’s review a standout in this section.
A sensitive sketch, “L’Envoi,” by John Noland will undoubtedly find a responsive audience in the sentimentalists around campus. The description is the main factor which seems to put this sensitive bit of piecework across. In contrast to this, it is outstanding dialogue which puts across Jack Dilen-schneider’s story appearing under the atrocious title of “Reach for Today.” James Mitchell, a freshman' architectural engineer, has-a very moody sketch entitled “Shadow.” The sketch shows flashes of brilliance combined with deep
insight, and we predict that after a little more seasoning Mr. Mitchell may turn in something exceptional.
The poetry was adequately handled by John Burns, Pete Stavis and William Clark, C.S.C. The feeling ranges from tender humanism to the joys of harsh nature.—Walt Werner and Gerry Voit.
Mercury Sedan ts Big Prize Offered for Festival Finale
Tickets for the annual Mardi Gras contest, which will be held on the final night of the festivities on Tuesday, Feb. 14, are now available. The grand prize is a 1953 Special Custom 4-door Mercury “Monterey” sedan.
The Mardi Gras proceeds will be turned over to the University for use in revamping the old Science Hall into a Student Activities Center.
Students selling complete books will receive a commission of $2.50 per book.
The student who distributes the first-prize ticket will be rewarded with a 1953 Chevrolet convertible, and that of second prize with a Zenith radio. The student distributor’s name must be written on each book cover. Cash premiums will also be given to the sales persons who have the highest totals on campus, at St. Mary’s, Vetville, and off-campus.
National Essay Contest Offers Seniors $5,000
College seniors have the chance to capture a first place prize of $2,500 in a newly announced essay contest sponsored by the National Council of Jewish Women, that office has announced. Nation-wide competition, on essays of at least 2500 words on “The Meaning of Academic Freedom” for all college seniors of this year’s graduating classes, offers a $1000 second prize, and third, fourth and fifth prizes of $500 each.
Any topic relevant to present day academic freedom is acceptable, whether it concerns requirements, responsibilities, history or any importance.
Deadline foi’ all entries is Dec. 31 and contest rules and entry certificates may be obtained at the office of Mr. Edward J. Quinn of the Guidance Office, located in the Main Building.
Military Ball
(Continued from page 5) coronation there will be a special dance dedicated to the Senior ROTC men and their dates.
Other members of the ROTC units who have been working toward the success of the Ball are Cadet Paul E.
Braunlich and Midshipman Gerry E. Marshall who are serving as assistant chairmen; Cadets Carl Eck, Tom Stahl and Midshipman Bob Straley, decorations; Cadet Ray Korzan, and Midshipman Bill Conroy, tickets; Cadets Bill Gaudreau, Jack Mooney and Midshipman Jim Butler, publicity; Cadets Jim McIntyre, Dick Harvey, and Midshipman Dick Six, date bureau; Cadets Pat Riley, John Bryan and Midshipman Pat Gunning, transportation; and Cadets Andy Walsh, Mark McCabe and Midshipman Jim Hutchinson are handling the financial problems.
Cars and 2 o’clock resident permissions have been granted for the occasion.
Indoor Track
Continued from page 15)
English, 880-yard dash; Jack Alexander, Joe Host, and Bob O’Connor, mile run; Harry Snyder and Bill Lenihan, two-mile run; Tom Hassenger and Al Kohanowich, high jump; Kohanowich, Joe Heap, and Tony Genovese, broad jump; Jack Cunningham and Bill Killburg, shot put; and other hurdlers Ed Powell, John Campagone, and Jim Baker.
The indoor track schedule:
Feb. 7—Purdue at Notre Dame
Feb. 14—Mich. State Relays, E. Lansing Feb. 24—Mich. State at Notre Dame Feb. 27—Indiana at Indiana Mar. 7—CCC (closed meet) at ND Mar. 14—Milwaukee Relays Mar. 20—Cleveland K of C Relays Mar. 28—Chicago Relays
—Warren Ashbaugh
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT
All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates
3 Months for $8.75—
One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana's Largest Dealer
SUPER SALES CO.
Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
16
The Scholastic
University Pollsters Say—
Editor:
A great deal of dissatisfaction seemed to prevail around the campus following the publishing of the nationwide AP, UP, and INS football polls. As a post mortem to the football season, 33 students of the University pooled then- questionable but respected ideas on the subject, and came up with the following ratings, which we feel are more in keeping with the true football picture in the nation. First place votes are in parentheses.
1.	Oklahoma (22)	......305	points
2.	Notre Dame (4) .......293
3.	Georgia Tech (2) .....257
4.	Michigan State	(5) .. 220
5.	USC ..................220
6.	UCLA .................185
7.	'Texas ............... 78
8.	Mississippi .......... 61
9.	Wisconsin ............ 55
10.	Alabama ............. 42
^3^
We admit that polls mean little, and that prejudice is invariably present. Nevertheless, it serves to show what students think . . .
Hank McGann
Roger Kohin
240 Alumni
■ .
A Friend in the Trojan Camp
Editor:
I have just sent the following letter to Vincent X. Flaherty of the Los Angeles Examiner. In case you do not know, he is the leading sportswriter* and a strong partisan for you boys. I think he is an old ND man . . .
Dear Vince:
I am so riled up by this talk of the ND shift that as a Southern California fan I would like to suggest some further changes in the rules:
1.	The intercepted pass is a pretty cheap way to make a touchdown. Out.
2.	Fumbles should be dead. Goodness gracious—this could lead to anything!
3.	The Statue of Liberty. To take advantage of this beacon-light of Amer-
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
ica smacks of the subversive.
4.	Boys’ teams should only play girls’ teams. This would promote a healthy camaraderie between the sexes, but it should be made adamant that kissing and love-making should not be allowed between plays. (Between halves,
we invite you to see our DISTINCTIVE *346* CLOTHING during the Christmas Holidays We have an unusually attractive selection of "346” suits, sport jackets and evening wear for undergraduates...all reflecting Brooks Brothers quality, styling and good taste...at generally lower prices.
Our "346” Suits, $80 and $85 "346” Sport Jackets, $55 to $65 "346” Dinner Jackets, $ 100
KSTABUSHDUM
C®@XgJ®oSC> Mtns Jhmishings, Mats 3r$bors
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO
well, that is something different.)
H.	R. Van der Vort
Los Angeles, Calif.
P.S.: We here all admit yours was the better team and decry this silly beef — but we are still Southern Cal fans.
Dec. 19, 1952
By Paul Zalecki
Probably the most practical thing to do on this final class day would be to wish everyone a safe journey home, a good vacation, and an enjoyable holiday season, and let it go at that. But that is not easy to do in a page.
Seriously though, now that the year is almost over and we can get away for the moment from the monotony of class-after-class, it might be worthwhile to look over Notre Dame’s plans for Notre Dame.
Long-Range Program
In 1948 the University undertook an ambitious long-range program. A good outline of it can be found in the Notre Dame magazine. Its primary aim was to increase building facilities, teacher and student aid programs, various special funds, and the general unrestricted endowment.
When this program was first announced Notre Dame ranked 93rd among the colleges and universities of this country in the size of its general unrestricted endowment. By this fall the school was 64th, which is a good rise, but it still is fairly far down the list. Its endowment nowhere compares in size to the largest endowed universities.
Probably the most noticeable achievements have been made in the building program. In 1948, the University had plans fol- the following buildings:
1.	Residence halls.
2.	A Student Union Building.
3.	College of Arts and Letters Building.
4.	Fine Arts Building.
5.	Chemistry Building.
6.	Memorial Library.
7.	Bacteriology Laboratories.
8.	Physics Building.
9.	Field House.
10.	Memorial Chapel.
Some of these we now have. Since 1948 Notre Dame has made the following additions:
1.	The Fisher Residence Hall.
2.	The Science Building, with provisions for Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics.
3.	The I. A. O’Shaughnessy Building of Liberal and Fine Arts.
4.	The Lobund Laboratory for large-scale colonies of germ-free . life.
5.	The Morris Inn.
6.	The recently announced Student Union in the old Science Hall.
This last list makes impressive reading. It is interesting to compare the two and see how much has 'been accomplished and what changes in plans have been made. For one thing, the Morris Inn has been an unexpected addition to the campus.
New Science Building
Perhaps the most alterations have been made as a result of the addition of the new Science Building. Since the building provides facilities for Chemistry and Physics, the University no longer lists separate buildings for these two among its current plans.
Indirectly, the Science Building brought about another switch. Inasmuch as the old Science Building has been vacated, it is to be put to a new use. As we all know, the Student Senate is sponsoring a drive for funds to change it into a Student Center.
With these additions and alterations, the list of buildings which the University is planning has been revised so that, according to Notre Dame, it now reads:
1.	A graduate hall, some residence halls, an auxiliary dining hall, and a priests’ residence.
2.	A Library.
3.	Supplementary laboratories for bacteriology.
4.	A Field House.
-5. Maintenance Building.
There is no doubt that the school could use all of these. From the student’s point of view a few in particular probably stand out. Another dining hall certainly would be a welcome addition, especially to the residents of the Freshman Quadrangle. And the school undoubtedly needs a new Field House. After all, the capacity of the present one, which is over 50 years old, is less than the size of the student body.
Noticeable Achievements
But buildings are not the only thing for which the University has been planning. On the contrary, other noticeable achievements have been made since 1948. Some of the more prominent are the Rockefeller Grant for the
Committee on International Relations, the Damon Runyon Fund for Lobund, grants for the Natural Law Institute, the elevation of Lobund to Institute status, and the General Program of Liberal Education.
All of these have gone far in adding to the intellectual, and educational standards of the University. Much has been done since the long-range program first was announced, but, as we well know, the University would like to see more improvements made. More faculty and student aid is needed to maintain scholarship and fellowship funds, visiting lecturer funds, advanced study, and other educational programs.
As time goes on, the needs of the University unquestionably will vary, and additional changes will be made in its plans. Just to see how plans do change, compare the list of buildings which the University still needs ■with the one that was announced in the beginning.
It is interesting to note that the Student Union no longer appears on the list of buildings which Notre Dame still must have. Apparently the Administration feels that with the addition of a Student Activities Center a modern Student Union is no longer a pressing need.
One final comment on building plans. In agreement with Mort Luby’s plea of last week, I would like to see that proposed bus shelter erected. Pogo looked pretty cold standing in the snow. I wouldn’t like to see him freezing out there next year.
Continuous Quality
Continuous Price
Borneo ummb Autnotmr oti coca-cou commmv bv
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of South Bend
18
The Scholastic
/^EUROPE
STUDENT TOVES:
Bicycle, Motor, Study and M-VgT venture Tours for as little as $475 (50 days INCL Steamer) „ „ „ ODYSSEY TOVES: All-year 14-65 Day Tours for those interested in more than the conventional travel program. Save as much as 20% by going off-season . . . from $575.
^LATIN AMERICA*
Whether it’s MEXICO or AU.
Latin America, investigate SlTA’s unique “off-the-beaten-track” programs — as little as $89 for an 8-Day Tour in Mexico. $995-$1975 for 30-70 Day Tour of ALL South America,
zg ADICMV AEOVND ==?
vKIBni the WORLD Steamer, combination steamer-air trips to the Far East and Around See More	th® World at prices com-
Parable to shorter trips. spend Vess 67 days from $1750.
Your Travel Agent er
Stedsnls laternatiaml
Mw-m- Travel Astecietien S45 FIFTH AVE.,'NEW YORK 17 • MO 7-0204
You Don’t Find Dates on a Christinas Tree
OR
What Are You Doing New Year’s?
Home for Christmas
by GREYHOUND
Once there was a Girl who was the Prettiest Pigeon in Town. She stood out like a well-constructed Swan amid a Gaggle of Geese. So, during the Christmas holidays, Our Girl had a hatful of Invitations. Eighteen just for the big New- Year’s Eve dance. Her Problem wa-
One Way Round Trip
Chicago, III. ...........................$2.10	$ 3.80
St. Louis, Mo___________________________    6.50	11.70
Detroit, Mich............................. 4.45	8.05
Milwaukee, Wis. ........................     3.30	5.95
Muskegon, Mich............................ 3.40	6.15
Cleveland, Ohio ........................     5.95	10.75
(Add U-S.'fax to Al Fares)
There’s a similar low Greyhound fare to YOUR hometown. Ask us for it!
which Swain to accept.
She summoned her small sister, aged 10.
“Chick,” she said, “here is a lesson in Practical Psychology. See these eighteen invitations? Only one is from a man of Poise. Personality and Perception. Masterful . . . considerate . . . enterprising . . . subtle . . . sophisticated ... a Man of Promise. Do you know which one it is?”
Buy Round Trip Tickets ... SAVE 10% EXTRA The extra money you save by Greyhound will pay for a family Christmas gift, and let you make the most of your college budget.
“Jeepers no,” said the wee Sister, “I don’t.” From the heap Onr Heroine selected One Invitation—on a yellow Blank. “Always,” she said, “pick one that comes by Telegram.” The Small Fry gulped, “Colly, can you tell all that from a Telegram?”
Big Sister closed one lustrous Eye. “Never forget it,” she said. “You can’t miss.”
For Greyhound schedule and fare information, call
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
117 Western Ave.
3-8283
GREYHOUND
The point to remember: when you’re Lining Something Up for Yule or anytime send a Telegram. It flatters the Sendee; gives your approach a Man-of-the-World touch that makes it Something Special. IFhenerer you want to Do Better ... on anything from a Date to a Job Interview ... stake your claim via Western Union. •
105 N. Main St.
Telephone
3-6101
Dec. 19, 1952
19
FIRST PREMIUM QUALITY CIGARETTE TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE