I
I
i ^he SHotre ^ame Scholastic i	•
VOL. 86, No. 11	FEBRUARY 8, 1946	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
F
THE SCHOLASTIC COVER GIRLS - < Queen of the Cotillion’. Ida May Gagnet (top), St. Mary's - ■ senior from New Orleans, and - guest of honor Vera Ann Ba* rany, South Bend, St. Mary's sophomore. They are ’ the .--.dates of General Chairman John Def ant and Co-Chairman . Art Coughlan.	.
"X/'EAR after year of progressive service has made the name Gilbert’s a symbol of quality in South Bend. The individual as well as the garment he wears are ably sustained by the Gilbert’s reputation for quality and good taste. Here are featured the names of leading clothing makers, the basis for developing the types of clothes which have remained in high favor and retained their fame for decades.
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as seoond-dasa matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for maUias at speeial rate of poetage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorised Jone 13. IMS.
VOL. 86. NO. 11
FEBRUARY. 8. 1946
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
Student BX Prepares
For Spring Semester
In answer to the many inquiries of the-new students in regard to a central clearing house for used books, the Student Book Exchange, wishes to announce that it is fully prepared for the seasonal rush and will be able to accomodate the increased number of texts.
A study made by the Catholic Action Club and the B. X. officials showed that a large number of the students’ were being underpaid by the professional book buyers that invade the campus regularly. Many men were buying out-of-date texts at extravagant prices from upper-classmen. When the B. X. opened in October, 1943, it stopped a great deal of this absurd exchange, but many students were still falling prey to the old time system. The B. X., with the school officials, hopes this semester to stop all the scalping and save the students a great deal of time and money by directing the flow of used books through the B. X.
The system used by the B. X. is simple: the owner brings in his books, and in turn is given a receipt. When the used book is sold, the owner, upon presentation of his receipt, may collect his money or apply it to the purchase of another book. Those who will not be back next semester need only mention this, and the money will be forwarded to them at B. X. expense. The B. X. takes out 10% of the price as an operating cost. This is applied to the mailing cost, upkeep, and all the other necessary expenses encountered in the operation of the store. The B. X. saved the students approximately $200.00 during the first semester it was opened, and has steadily increased in service with the growing population.
The non-profit B. X., located in room 10 of the Administration Building, is open now on Mondays from 1:15 to 2:15, but will be open from 1:00—4:00 starting February 20 and ending the last day of exams. Also it will be open again at the beginning of the spring semester for those who wish to purchase their used books then.
With the cooperation of the faculty,
Fr. O'Donnell Speaks at Galvin Banquet
A world pattern is forming that is completely opposed to the principles of a just and lasting peace, the Bev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, warned in a speech last week at a testimonial dinner for Timothy P. Galvin of Hammond, Ind., distinguished attorney and Deputy Supreme Knight for the Knights of Columbus.
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
Father O’Donnell observed that although the world is “well rid” of Nazi-ism and Fascism, “it is still threatened by another vicious ideology that has the same depraved disregard for the sacredness and dignity of the human personality that is the bedrock of American life and government.”
“Although Communists in the United States are relatively few in numbers,
lists of all texts to be used next semester have been drawn up, and only these texts will be accepted, but most books now in use will be included on the list.
—Peter Ahrens
they are well organized,” Father O’Donnell said. “They have a power and an influence far greater than their numerical strength would indicate. They have already outlined their postwar program for America. They are determined to take advantage of economic disturbances, and to revive their penetration into important positions in the American labor movement, as well as their agitation among the negroes and the unemployed. Above all, they will intensify their efforts to establish Russia in the American mind as the modern economic and political Utopia.
“Communism is the negation of everything we stand for as Americans and Christians, and we would be incredibly stupid to believe that there can be any compromise with it. Communism is a philosophy of Anti-God. We must fight it as vigorously as it fights us. We must be as consistent, as zealous in spreading American and Christian principles as Communism is in trying to destroy them. We must root out a philosophy that threatens a civilization based upon the fact of God’s creation of the individual human soul.”
The Knights of Columbus can spearhead the attack by all Americans who believe in the Christian way of life, against Communism and neo-paganism which threatens world peace, Father O’Donnell declared. No other organization is so representative of the American laity, and none should be more keen-, ly aware of the duty of actively opposing an atheistic philosophy so repugnant to American and Christian tradition.
Mr. Galvin, who was graduated from Notre Dame with Father O’Donnell in 1916, is a former National President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. He was lauded by Father O’Donnell as a “veritable lay apostle if one ever lived, a devoted Catholic and sterling American who is completely forgetful of seif as he gives generously of his time and great talent to movements that add to the happiness and well-being of his fellowmen.”
3
^he SVotre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
iamiitiiiiimiutittiiitiHimmtiMiiniatiMiiaiiuimBititiiimitiiiHiiiaamiM'imiiiaiiimuiiiniiimiaMin
			
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS -	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor
COLUM N ISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI -	-	-	-	- The Crow’s Nest
ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN - - - The Shillelagh JACK STEWART ----- The Green Banner ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO ’ PAUL RAGAN ROGER CAHANEY JACK HUMMEL RALPH HAYMAN JOE LANG FRANK TYCHSEN DAVE OLSON MICHAEL GREENE
JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER JOHN GUNTHER BILL BRAUN
RUDY SCHREITMUELLER WALTER S. BUNKER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY JACK SULLIVAN JOHN WALKER LAWRENCE METCALF ARNOLD ANDERJASKA CLARENCE ZIMMER FRANK FINN
JAMES FERSTEL -	-	-	- Photography
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-	- Circulation Manager
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
M. E. VARGA _	-	-	_ Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Recalling good Brother Canute...
The death of few people at Notre Dame has caused more genuine sorrow than the passing of Brother Canute. Although having no present connection with the University, he was as much a part of it as the Sorin Hall porch or the church clock. His is a tale of devotion, with as many replicas —it might be added—as there are humble workers at Notre Dame.
Away back in 1891 when the University was very small and very poor, a young fellow by the name of Jerry Lardner made application one day to become a member of Holy Cross community. He did not have enough of an educational background to make a teacher, nor did he have any particular skills to recommend him; but he did have a provocative smile, a love of people, and, what his community found out later, a willingness to work at whatever job he was put, no matter how menial that job happened to be.
Now qualities of that nature are sometimes more rare than Ph.D.’s, so Brother Canute, as the young man was now called, found plenty to do. He swept floors, peeled potatoes, washed dishes, tended chickens, looked after cows, acted as tailor’s helper, even doubled as night nurse when some one was needed to look after a particularly difficult patient. Always however, no matter how long the hours noi' how unpleasant the assignment, Brother Canute brought to his work a sort of gentle tolerance and a quaint good humoi-which inevitably left a trail of smiles in its wake.
Perhaps it was those qualities which made him so popular as a substitute nurse; anyway, it wasn’t very long until he was proving to his superiors that sometimes there is as much therapeutic value in a smile and a funny story as there is in a doctor’s prescription. At any rate, in the process of time Brother Canute was graduated into the position of Number One nurse so far as night duties were concerned. From that time on it was his step, and his smile, and his quaint sense of humor which brightened the lonely night hours of priest and Brother and student patients at Notre Dame. In fact, it wasn’t very long until Brother Canute began to be looked upon as a sort of sick-room angel; even though, perhaps, he did not have exactly the ways nor the appearance of an orthodox angel.
Because services like that however are not easily forgotten, Brother Canute has always been given a friendly welcome by old students and friends of the University everywhere. Nor did he have any intention of allowing the memory of his personality to pass. All of his spare time—every single minute of it—was devoted to keeping alive the hundreds of contacts which he had made during his fifty-five years at Notre Dame—in addition to others which he kept gathering along the way. Indeed, there was never a game, nor a movie, nor a gathering of any sort but what Brother Canute was somewhere in the offing with his gentle tolerance, his quaint humor, and occasional little requests of a personal nature which were always acceded to with a hearty laugh and a fervent “God bless good Brother Canute!”
Now that he is gone, he has found many an old friend “up there” we are sure; just as there is many a good friend “down here”—priest and Brother and Sister and layman— sending prayers after him to. the eternal throne. May God have mercy upon his generous soul! He spent his life in the service of others. They will not forget, anymore than God will forget, to whose final honor all those services were dedicated.—Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C.
4
Sophomore Cotillion-Tonights the Night
By BILL LEAVEY
With Jerry Wald and his orchestra setting the musical tempo tonight in the Rockne Memorial, a gay and carefree throng of dancers will usher* in Notre Dame’s first peace-time formal dance— the Sophomore Cotillion.
Climaxing many weeks of preparation and waiting for the big event, sophomores and upperclassmen will hold full sway as the first Cotillion since 1942 gets under way tonight at nine o’clock.
Reigning as queen of the Cotillion will be Ida Mae Gagnet, St. Mary’s senior from New Orleans, La., who will be the date of general chairman John Def ant. Guest of honor will be Vera Ann Barany, of South Bend, a sophomore at St. Mary’s, who will be squired by co-chairman Art Coughlan.
As the witching hour of midnight approaches, the traditional grand march, led by the committee chairmen and then-guests, will get under way.
At 12:05 the Cotillion goes on the
air, and until 12:30 the lilting melodies of Jerry Wald, with vocals by lovely Kay Allen, will be wafted over Radio Station WSBT.
The Cotillion theme song, “A Pretty Girl Is Like a Melody,” dedicated to all the femininity present, will be featured by the orchestra during the evening. Jerry Wald will provide even further impetus to the vicarious meanderings of those who are getting away from it all. He promises to play sweet and low, and to make the intermissions as few and far between as possible.
Roger White and his Program committee have worked up a unique dance program which will be presented to each couple as a souvenir of the Cotillion.
Jim Ferstel, roving Scholastic photographer, will be in attendance to record the evening’s highlights for the campus news magazine, while another photographer will be on hand to take pictures of students and their dates.
The lights will be low and the music sweet when the “Victory March” rings down the curtain on the first act of the big weekend at one o’clock. The festivities, however, will continue tomorrow afternoon after a few brief hours for sleep and Saturday morning classes. The dancing begins again in the Palais Roy-ale at tjyo p.m. with Jack Davies wielding the baton.
The scheduled activities come to an end at six p.m. tomorrow when the final bars of music will be played at the tea dance. The Cotillion - goers, however, will continue to celebrate Saturday night and Sunday as they entertain their best girls from Kalamazoo and Kokomo.
’Twill be a sad day Sunday when the last goodbye is said to Mabel and Mary as they depart for the home-towns, but the celebrants will be able to look back on the festive weekend and derive some consolation from it as they burrow into their books in preparation for the finals now only two weeks away.
Not Modeled by Sophs
5
Prof. Writes Book on Prussian Militarism
The latest publication from the pen of a member of the University staff is by Lt. William O. Shanahan—The Prussian Military Reforms, 1786-1813. The volume has just been issued by the Columbia University Press.
Before America’s entry into World War II there was little serious study of military history in American colleges. Only a few colleges offered courses in the subject. Because of the general hatred for war there prevailed an ostrichlike willingness to slight the subject. The resulting ignorance, of course, neither helped the cause of American peace nor the later war effort. But the grimness of the war and the demands it made have stimulated interest in the study of war and military history, an interest which should contribute to a greater understanding of war, its causes and effects. Only men with this understanding and right moral principles can do much in the fight for peace.
Before his enti-y into the Navy, Professor, now Lieutenant Shanahan, was a serious student of war and offered courses in military history. One of the results of his studies is this volume on Prussian Military Reforms, 1786-1813. This work considers the history of the Prussian Army during a very critical period of its history, the period when France went through a revolution against the clumsy and unjust institutions of the Old Regime.
In the course of this revolution the French people became conscious of themselves as a nation and attempted to establish a democratic state. This democratic and nationalist state called upon all its citizens to fight its defense. This army based on conscription and using new tactics enjoyed a long series of victories over the Old Order states, whose armies had not developed new methods of fighting and whose officers were drawn only from the nobility. When Napoleon got control of France he used its power with great effect and in 1806 crushed the Prussian armies and subjected Prussia. There was a great national revival in Prussia, and many reforms were made in the army in preparation for a war of national liberation.
ATTENTION QUAKEBITES!
As the SCHOLASTIC went to press it was announced that the Philadelphia Club would hold its informal dinner party Thursday, February 14, at the Sunny Italy Cafe.
Further information can be obtained from Chairman Ed Nestlerode at 139 Cavanaughs—William Penn.
Professor Shanahan treats this subject first by consideration of the organization and administration of the Prussian army in the eighteenth century. Then he deals with the activities of various Prussian officer groups who sought unsuccessfully to bring the army into a state in which it could stand up against the Napoleonic armies. He gives a good account of the difficulties of the reformers. The Prussian state had laws on the books which asserted the state’s rights to conscript men. But the expense of maintaining a large conscript army was too great for the state. In addition, universal military service would have disrupted trade and agriculture. To other reforms the lethargic monarchs of Prussia were indifferent. The conservatives could always say that what was good enough for Frederick the Great was good enough for them.
Professor Shanahan’s account is particularly good in his description of the administration under the Old Order. The story of the unsuccessful reformist attempts of the officers before the defeat at Jena in 1806 is original and interesting. Their ideas had considerable influence in reforming the army which fell upon the forces of Napoleon at Waterloo. There the Prussians utterly routed a French army already defeated by an allied force under Wellington. The leader in the regeneration of the Prussian army was Scharnhorst, who had been foremost among the pre-Jena reformists. Shanahan’s final judgment is that the reforms of the Prussian army were not so extensive as the general histories usually suggest.
Meehan Scholarship Winners Announced
Winners of the Augustus F. Meehan scholarships of the University from Tennessee, Texas and Alabama have been announced by the committee on scholarships at the University. The winners from these three states are Robert Joseph Hostetter, Nashville, Tenn.; John Theodore Vincent, Amarillo, Texas; and Herman H. Hamilton, Montgomery, Ala.
The Meehan scholarships were established in 1936 under the will of the late Augustus F. Meehan, of Chattanooga, Tenn., class of 1894. One student from each of the following states is selected for the scholarship after competitive examination: Alabama, Tennessee, Virginia, Texas, Kentucky, and Georgia. Competition for the scholarships from applicants from Kentucky, Virginia, and Georgia will be held this year.
Announce Senior Ball
To Be Held Next Week
The senior class announces its gala ball to be held in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel on Saturday night, February 16th. All Navy and Civilian students in the February and June graduating class are eligible to attend the formal dinner-dance, with tails, tux’s and dress blues in order.
Jack Davies, well known gentleman of swing, and his 12 piece orchestra will supply the music. Vocal renditions will be ably supplied by his very talented vocalist.
A wonderful dinner, in keeping with the fine tradition of the Oliver Hotel, by candlelight will begin at 6:30 to be followed by dancing at nine o’clock and extending on until 1 a.m.
Of paramount importance is the fact that Father Kehoe has consented to grant two a.m. permissions to all those who attend the dance, and car permissions also have been granted.
A full evening of intensive entertainment to be had for $8.50 is promised by Robert E. Rock and Brenden Biggert, civilian co-chairmen and Dean Cullison and Kenneth Merten, V-12 co-chairmen representing the navy units on the campus.
The sale of bids is handled by Bill Schmid and his committee who have contacted most of those who are included in the graduating classes. If you have not as yet been contacted and wish to attend you may see Bill in Walsh Hall or one of the chairmen.
This dinner dance promises to be the affair of the year for the seniors because the various committee’s under the direction of the chairmen have spent many weeks hard at work on this last event of their Notre Dame careers and promise a memorable evening for all the seniors and their guests.
The committee wishes to announce at this time that preferred seating arrangements for the dinner’ must be given to Chairman Robert Rock, 305 Alumni Hall before Tuesday noon, February 12, otherwise the Committee will arrange the tables.
A. S. M. Meet
Dr. R. H. Harrington will address the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals at their monthly meeting at the engineering auditorium on Feb. 12. Dr. Harrington is from the General Electric research laboratories at Schenectady, New York. He will speak on precipitation hardening, strain aging, and new developments in nonferrous alloys.
e
All Residence Halls "Double Up" Next Term
The ranks of veterans attending the University will be swelled by approximately 500 members when the new semester opens March 14, according to Miss Anne Stroyna, Acting Director of Students’ Accounts. Miss Stroyna said rooms have been assigned to 500 new students for the spring term, with the greater number of them returning veterans.
It will be spring, 1942, all over again for the University and many students. Due to the heavy enrollment, all halls on the campus, with the exception of Breen-. Phillips and St. Edward’s, will undergo a doubling-up process similar to that which the school experienced when the Navy first came in 1942 and took over, three halls.
The experience may be the same, but there will be variations this time. The Navy will vacate Lyons Hall and civilians will use it again for the first time in four years. Miss Stroyna said 246 students will be housed in Lyons on a double-up basis.
Between 650 and 700 students elected to remain in the rooms they now occupy under a new regulation which permits students 20 years of age or over to reside in Alumni, Badin, Walsh, Dillon or Sorin halls and enjoy senior privileges.
While the pre - registration period brought plenty of headaches and trying moments—student as well as official— there was a lighter side. Miss Stroyna
Bob Hope Is Judge In Novy Beauty Contest
The next issue of the Irish Pennant, the magazine published on the Notre Dame campus by the NROTC unit, is being awaited with anxious eyes by the bell-bottom boys. This will be the issue announcing the winner of the much-publicized beauty contest held by the combined navy units, in which men stationed here have submitted their favorite pin-up to be unmercifully scrutinized by the beauty experts of the Pennant.
Bob Hope accepted the Pennant’s invitation to be the final judge in picking the “one” of the “one and only” competition.
Eight lovelies were selected from the overflow of entrants by officers of the local unit who based their judgment on poise, charm, beauty and picture personality. Pictures of these winners have appeared in the two issues of the Pennant published this semester, and Editor Stan Dean is making elaborate preparations for the presentation of Hope’s choice in the final issue.
“The Navy will vacate ..
said the Students’ Account considered the following incident one of the funniest (and ND men may consider it the most unusual): One student, a South Bend resident, asked for a room on campus, and said he would be glad to have his room at home assigned to a student who wished to live off-campus. Reason given: social obligations were taking too much of his time from study.
—J. Tinkle
Co-Hop to Present
Valentine Dance
The Co-Hop girls of South Bend and the Notre Dame Catholic Action Club will present their final informal dance of the winter semester tomorrow night at the Progress club, 600 West Colfax in downtown South Bend.
Bud Simpson’s orchestra will make the music and a Valentine theme will be executed in the decorations of the club. Dancing will be from eight until eleven, and the admission is sixty cents.
Dr. Powers Returns
To the University
Dr. E. Lawrence Powers, Jr., Assistant Professor of Biology, returned to Notre Dame January 11 and immediately resumed teaching. During his absence, Dr. Powers served as General Technical Aide to the Board for Coordination of Malarial Studies, National Research Council, Washington, D. C. The Board was organized to integrate all research activities pertaining to malaria, sponsored during the war by the Government through the Committee on Medical Research and the Services, and to assemble all biological, chemical and medical information and distribute it to the proper agencies in the United States and abroad.
Since his return, Dr. Powers is continuing his research program dealing with the physiology and genetics of protozoa.
Student Architects Score Near Miss
Bernard J. Slater, senior Architect student, and Patrick Gallagher, N.R.O.-T.C. Architect student, collaborated on an entry in the Chicagoland Prize Home Competition, sponsored by the Chicago Tribune, and they have been notified that their entry has been favorably received by the Jury of Awards. It was one of 144 held for consideration of award from approximately 1,000 entries, and is now on exhibition in the Chicago Art Museum, along with those of the prizewinners.
This Friday they will be entertained by the Chicago Tribune at a private showing of the commended entries and afterwards at a reception for placing contestants at the Palmer House.
Pat Nolan Addresses
Economic Roundtable
Patrick Nolan, Detroit A.B. Sophomore, addressed the Economic Round-table at its weekly meeting on Thursday, Jan. 31. “Spiritual Resources for Peace” was the subject of the speaker. It was pointed out that “the moral and the natural law should be adhered to and that it was the duty of Christian men to spread and propagate the principles and inculcate them into a Christian world. It seems that there is a lack of realization that nations are a family.” The speaker presented a basic plan for International Relations and touched upon the activities of the United Nations Organization.
7
Fr. O'Brien Receives
Large Convert Class
On Sunday, Dec. 23, a group of 24 converts were received into the Church by Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., professor of the Philosophy of Religion at the University. The converts made their profession of faith at Mass in St. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka, Ind., thus marking the termination of a series of public lectures conducted by Father O’Brien. The program for converts had been initiated by the pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, Rev. Curt A. Suelzer, and by his assistant, Rev. Vernon J. Rosenthal.
At the Mass, which was attended in large numbers, Father O’Brien spoke these -words: “America is ripe for the harvest, with about 65 million of its citizens unbaptized and waiting only for priests and laymen to bring them the saving teachings of the Catholic faith. They know from experience the emptiness of life without God and without religion.”
Dillon Hall Holds
Recitative Mass
In observance of the day of prayer set aside by Pope Pius XII for the starving children of Europe, the students in Dillon Hall attended a Recitative Mass on the First Friday of the month, February 1. Rev. Joseph A. Muckenthaler, C.S.C., was the celebrant.
The students used specially-marked missals which had been prepared by the hall Catholic Action group for this occasion. The service was so well attended that the Recitative Mass will be held at regular intervals in Dillon Hall chapel.
ACTORS RADIO ENGINEERS ANNOUNCERS SCRIPT-WRITERS
are wanted by the Notre Dame Radio Club to fill "star spots" on a radio program now in production.
The Radio Club wants more actors, script-writers, radio engineers and announcers for forthcoming radio shows. All those interested are urged to come to the Washington Hall studios (below the music department) for an audition between 12:15 and 1=00, Monday and Tuesday, February 11 and 12.
Previous experience in radio is NOT necessary.
NJ.: Because of a recent article in the SCHOLASTIC, the Radio Club has been completely reorganized.
PRESENTING... Ed, the Telegram Man
Edward Hansen, age 79, residence, Oliver Theatre Bldg. Immediately you ask, “Well who the heck is Ed Hansen?” Hold on to your shirt and I’ll try to increase your knowledge. What’s that? No, to be sure he is not the new Prefect of Discipline. Listen Bub, have you ever sent home for money? You have? Well, remember the friendly old fella that delivered that lovely green stuff? That, my lads, was Genial Ed of The Western Union.
Notre Dome's “Telegram Boy" is started on another campus mission.
Ed came to Notre Dame in November. Though here only a few short months he has become as much a part of Notre Dame as pink slips. He was employed by the Studebaker Corp, as head of the blueprint department for a great part of his life. He retired from this position about ten years ago, but being a man of great ambition Ed took over the position of messenger, which also keeps him in ready cash.
His spare time is spent in the reading of historical literature. Ed is the proud bearer of the title, “A Son of Minnesota.” He probably knows more about the state of Minnesota from a sportsman’s point of view than any other man living. Often he speaks of buying a tent, fishing equipment, guns and shells, and living out in the woods for the remainder of his happy and carefree life.
While at work as well as at rest Ed is one of the most pleasant and sociable men alive. He often is seen near the Biology Building, and then in less time than it takes to get a milk shake he is seen coming out of a building that is a mile or so away. His pet peeve is Old Man Bad Weather. He gets the biggest kick out of misspelled names, “At times,” says Ed, “I am ready to call on the Pinkerton Detective Agency for help.” He makes a daily stop at the Huddle and stacks up on dextrose in the
form of candy bars. “I’m still a boy at heart,” states Ed.
Long may Ed stay a boy and long may he be with us, for his is a job that few men could stand!
—Ray Chamberland
Econ Prof in Europe
Currently on leave of absence from Notre Dame, Louis Buckley of the Economics Department is now stationed at Biarritz, France, headquarters of the U. S. Air Forces, where he is instructing Army personnel in economics.
Mr. Buckley was recently among a group of noted U. S. university instructors who made a ten-day tour of Air Force installations foi" the purpose of holding discussion groups and conferring with interested personnel on educational problems.
Dr. Franklin Dunham of NBC Gives Address Here
Dr. Franklin Dunham, prominent radio executive and authority, discussed “Freedom of Communications” at an informal gathering of students and faculty at the Engineering Auditorium, Sunday evening, Jan. 27.
Dr. Dunham is the educational director of the National Broadcasting Company, at present on leave from NBC to assist John W. Studebaker, United States commissioner of education. Mr. Dunham is also an executive director of the National Catholic Community Service.
The talk traced the various aspects of the present world question of freedom of communication, and went into the early history of broadcasting and publishing. Dr. Dunham interspersed his talk with personal recollections of incidents relating to “freedom of the air” in the first few years of radio.
Dr. Dunham was presented by the University Press Club, and the talk was arranged by Col. John Hinkel, publicity director.
• jVbu,,
Twenty-Six to Receive
K. of C. Degrees Sunday
Sunday afternoon at two o’clock, 26 members of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will receive the second and third degrees of that order in ceremonies to be conducted at Mishawaka. Officers of the local council have announced that a bus for the candidates will leave the campus at 12:45 and will be followed by one for members who desire to attend the initiation. The last bus will get under way at 1:15. Immediately following the conferring of degrees, a buffet lunch will be served to all members present.
Of interest to all knights will be the final meeting of the current semester1 which will take place next Tuesday evening in the council chambers. The meeting will open at 4:00 p.m. in order that nominations may be made for the positions of chancellor, warden, advocate, treasurer and recording secretary. Immediately following the nominations, a recess will take place until 7:30 in the evening at which time, the ballots will be counted and the regular business meeting will begin. All members are urged to take active participation in the election proceedings.
With the advent of a new semester, numerous file changes will be required in order to properly conduct the business of the council. In anticipation of this work, Bill McShay, financial secretary, has asked all knights, new as well as old, to contact the office and to give notification of their campus addresses for the new school term. Brother knights are reminded that the council offices in Walsh Hall are open daily between the hours of three and five in the afternoon Monday through Friday.
■	—James Sullivan
RO Grads to Take
Four-Month Cruise
The members of the February NRO-TC graduating class will be required to go on a four month cruise on a vessel of the Navy before being assigned to a definite berth. The men will be commissioned in June as previously planned, but while on the cruise will serve as temporary petty officers.
During the war the trainees went on one-day cruises on Lake Michigan in patrol craft vessels. Now that peace is here once again, the men will serve as enlisted men and “get the feel of a ship” before they assume their, duties as officers.
ARCHITECTURE IN LATIN AMERICA
Cathedral of Mexico City
The countries south of the border were discovered long before the Puritans landed on the New England shore, but have progressed slowly because of the Indian population. Mexico City had been an Aztec city for two hundred years before Cortes razed and rebuilt it, and Cortez came a century before the Puritan pilgrims. The city has been urban almost twice as long as Boston or New York. Too much has been written in tourist guides and steamship circulars about Mexico and Spanish customs, a picturesque land of Fiestas, colorful native costumes, and guitar music. All this is true in its place, but it has been so much publicized from the point of view of the tourist and in the interest of amateur curio hunters that an entirely false impression has been created —the impression that Mexico, like the other- Latin American countries, is picturesquely primitive and backward — that it is the land of tomorrow where the Fiesta is of more importance than getting something done.
Nothing could be farther from the truth than this highly profitable myth. Mexico is a country of growth and movement, of social change and progress, to an extent which the North Americans are only beginning to be aware. In fact, Mexico has an architectural movement of probably far sounder and more extensive development than anything the Yanks can boast of in the United States.
About all the untraveled U. S. layman knows of Mexican architecture is a style called “mission,” of which the United States itself has monuments in California and the Southwest. But the frontier simplicity of the Spanish missions stands in almost the same relation to the glories of Latin-American architecture as the stockade fort to the refined
colonial of New England and the South.
For example, the great cathedral in Mexico City, contains the whole stratified history of Latin-American architecture. On and within its four walls it has Aztec foundations, a 16th Century Gothic ceiling, baroque and churrigueresque chapels, Moorish tile-work, East Indian decorative motifs, and yet it is one of the most harmoniously beautiful structures in the Western Hemisphere.
■Talbot Hamlin, an American architect, who has built houses, banks and colleges from Nanking to Manhattan, settled down eight years ago to view architecture from the sidelines and to write the finest popular book in English on its history, Architecture Through the Ages. Though he views the past greatness of Mexican architecture with a historian’s enthusiasm, he believes that the best contemporary Latin-American architecture is being done by the Argentines and Brazilians, who today are rivaling the finest modern architects of the United States and Europe. .
—Sebastian Company
Commerce Forum
Ted Radamaker, in a speech delivered to the Commerce Forum last Wednesday, advocated the reduction of tariff rates to a reasonable level so as eventually to raise the standard of living of all nations.
He cautioned, however, that this objective could be reached only by the combined efforts of all countries working in harmony. He declared that the present reciprocal treaties should be more vigorously enforced since at present their success depends more upon presidential prerogative than upon actual law.
9
Glee Club to Give Campus Concert Soon
The Notre Dame Glee Club, one of the largest and best-known student organizations on the campus, will appear in Washington Hall very shortly in a special campus concert.
Director of the Glee Club is Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music. Mr. Pedtke has a very rich background of choral work, which helps to explain his great success with the Glee Club. Prior to his coming to Notre Dame, he headed the Department of Music at the College of St. Teresa in Winona, Minn. Each year he staged a Gilbert and Sullivan opera there and directed a Gregorian choir and a choral club. Before his work at St. Teresa’s, Mr. Pedtke was organist and choir director of seven outstanding churches in Chicago and at the cathedral in Grand Rapids, Mich.
President of the Glee Club this semester is John W. Owen, N.R.O.T.C. student from Ferguson, Mo. Serving as vice-president is Bernard J. Slater of Sharon, Pa. Robert Schneider, New York City, is the secretary and accompanist of the Glee Club. The post of librarian is filled by John R. Boyes of Long Beach, Calif., while James Greene, St. John’s, Newfoundland, is the publicity manager.
The main reason for the success of the Glee Club since its beginning is the hard work of director and members. Long hours of practice are needed to mould
Notre Dame To Train Aeronautical Engineers
Under Richard Bong Memorial Foundation
Notre Dame has been selected to train future aeronautical engineers under the Richard Ira Bong Memorial Foundation, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced recently.
Fully accredited in its aeronautical engineering course by the Engineers’ Council for Professional Development, Notre Dame, together with 50 other colleges throughout the nation, will assist in the program of annually educating 50 of the nation’s best-qualified high school graduates. There will be chosen annually one student from each of the 48 states, the District of Columbia, and Alaska.
Each high school will select one student, who will appeal- before various higher committees, until ultimately a state committee will determine the winner of the scholarship. The state committees will award the scholarships to whomever they find best qualified. The winner may then receive his education at any of the 51 accredited colleges
10
the many voices of the club into a full, rounded whole. To attain this objective, a half-hour practice is held each noon after lunch and special practices are held when the need is felt.
The present group lacks neither numbers nor talent. Over 40 new members were admitted at the beginning of the semester, so that the full strength of the Glee Club now stands at nearly 80.
War-time restrictions cut down the activities of the Club, for traditional trips had to be called off because of transportation difficulties. Travelling in chartered busses, it was the Glee Club’s custom to tour mid-Western cities on weekend trips. The annual long tour included concerts in the principal cities of Ohio, Massachusetts and New York, climaxed by a concert at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York City. The Glee Club has also sung over all the major networks, featured with Kate Smith, Bill Stern and others.
The reviews of the trips and concerts were very favorable, helping to build the prestige of the club and Mr. Pedtke.
Soon again the Glee Club will reestablish the old customs and we can look forward to a continuation of their great success.
Watch the next issue of the Scholastic for an announcement of the date of the Notre Dame Glee Club campus concert.
listed.
In making the announcement, Father O’Donnell said, “The University is pleased to aid in this worthy undertaking to assist 50 of the nation’s most qualified students in realizing an education in this important field.”
The Richard Ira Bong Memorial Foundation was conceived and organized in Poplar, Wis., by friends and neighbors of the late American Ace of Aces-of World War II. The Foundation is a non-profit corporation to commemorate the name of Major Bong and other allied airmen who gave their lives in winning the war recently ended.
Captain Eddie Rickenbacker, America’s Number I Ace in World War I, is honorary chairman of the Foundation. Serving with him as honorary vicechairmen are General H. H. Arnold, Commanding General of the Army Air Corps, and Colonel James Stewart, motion picture actor recently discharged from the air corps.
VARSITY DEBATE NEWS
The first affirmative and negative debate teams of Notre Dame journeyed to Charleston, Ill., last Saturday for the Ninth Annual Debate Tournament held by Eastern Illinois State Teachers College. The tournament, held in the main building on the campus of the college, drew 26 negative and affirmative debate teams from universities and colleges of Illinois and Indiana. The teams clashed on the topic debated by all college and university teams this year, reading: “The foreign policy of the United States should be directed toward the establishment of Free Trade among the nations of the World.” The negative team of Notre Dame received second place honors among the teams, and Notre Dame took fourth place among the schools competing. On the affirmative team of Notre Dame are Sam Hazo, first affirmative speaker, and James Reedy, second affirmative speaker. On the negative team are Frank Finn, first negative speaker, and Jim Buras, second negative speaker. Mr. Leonard Sommer of the Speech Department, coach of the Notre Dame teams, accompanied the four speakers and served as judge in the debates of the other schools.
And so once again the Varsity Debate Team, sponsored by the Speech Department, has, in this, the first of the season’s debate tournaments, sharpened its claws for the bigger debates to come. Among those bigger debates is the National Debate Tournament to be held sometime in the next semester. In the meantime, on February 18, the Notre Dame teams will meet an all-Jewish team from New York University to discuss the Jewish problem of Palestine. This is slated to be one of the most hotly contested and interesting debates of the season, and it is hoped that no one -will miss it. Return debates between Loyola University and Mundelein College and Notre Dame are scheduled for the middle of February. Although the Wranglers had to postpone their debate with the varsity team, it is hoped that this debate will also take place during February.
Dr. Caton Returns
To N.D. Infirmary
Dr. Joseph R. Caton of South Bend, just discharged from the Army where he held the rank of Captain, has returned to the Notre Dame Student Infirmary as part-time assistant to James E. McMeel, University physician.
A citation for- meritorious service was given Dr. Caton by the Army. He spent 44 months in the service.
NFCCS on the Notre Dome Campus
The National Federation of Catholic College Students
Are you a member of the NFCCS? The average student would probably quickly assume a “not guilty” expression if confronted with this question. This in spite of the fact that the student body of Notre Dame is officially affiliated with the Federation.
Student leaders and faculty advisors in many Catholic colleges and universities during the past five years have become quite aware of the importance, nature and functions of NFCCS. But to the average student it has a vague connection with some group or individual on the campus, or is just a set of initials which he can never repeat in the proper order.
Yet the NFCCS has as its specific objective the unification of the whole of the student bodies of our Catholic institutions of higher learning. To accomplish fully its objective it must be properly understood by everyone connected with the student body—the average student as well as the student leader.
Its Distinctive Nature
Perhaps the most significant single factor contributing to the confusion of the average student is the fact that the NFCCS cannot be compared with any other campus organization.
this region are: St. Mary’s in Holy Cross, Ind., Nazareth in Kalamazoo, Mich., Aquinas in Grand Rapids, Mich., St. Joseph’s in Collegeville, Ind., and St. Francis in Fort Wayne, Ind. The course traveled by the Fort Wayne Region during the past four years has paralleled that of the national organ. After a lively start, the war became a tremendous braking factor when the enrollment figures began to drop and activities pertinent to the NFCCS started lagging. The functions of NFCCS became virtually nil, although some interest was maintained and the organization clung together. Since the end of the war some notable steps have been taken to revive the elaborate program of NFCCS.
At Notre Dame the “special interest groups of NFCCS” are indeed plentiful. Of primary concern are the groups interested directly with Catholic Action. A story in the January 18 issue of the Scholastic carried the full story of the Catholic Action Club on the Notre Dame campus and its relation with similar groups on other campuses. This group embodies a perfect example of a “special interest group.” Also typifying NFCCS activity at Notre Dame are the InterAmerican Affairs group and the Mass
Club, which devotes its interests to a study of the liturgy. All student activity in charity organizations and the missionary field fall directly into the realm of NFCCS.
The Ultimate Aims
When the students on the campus, individually and collectively, fully grasp the importance and the potential power for good of the NFCCS the Federation will become a vital force in American student life and a real asset to both Church and State. They will facilitate the accomplishment of its objectives.
“To assist both the colleges and the various student groups, to give energetic and practical application to the teachings of the Holy Father and the Church’s leaders regarding the formation of a Christian-minded apostolate among the Catholic laity; to contribute to the spreading and deepening of a highly-trained Catholic opinion by:
a)	acting as a medium for the exchange of ideas and experiences on the part of the affiliated units;
b)	providing the membership with suggestions and practical material in the field of authentic Catholic Action;
c)	representing the Catholic student body in national and international life.”
The NFCCS is the first agency ever to be officially approved by the American Hierarchy as the “over-all” organization in the Catholic college student field. Its structure provides national unity without insisting upon uniformity.
The first point to remember then is that all campus groups and organizations should be affiliated with the NFCCS.
There is no special group designated as the local “NFCCS unit” for membership in NFCCS applies equally to all students regardless of whether or not they are members of some special interest group on the campus. The NFCCS represents the aggregate Catholic college and university students on a national plane.
Some liaison must be established between the schools, of course, and the student council at Notre Dame—as is the case in most other institutions—is the local council of the NFCCS through which contact is made with the national organ.
The Role of Notre Dame
Notre Dame has been affiliated with
Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Grand Knight Robert Sullivan and Chaplain. Father Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., view the Council Honor RolL largest in the U. S.
NFCCS since the inception of the Fort Wayne Region in 1941. Other- schools in
11
National Basketball Attention Directed to ND-NYU Game in Garden Tomorrow Night
By DAVE WARNER
INTER HALL
Coach Elmer Ripley and a travelling troupe of 12 of his pressure-playing “Squeeze Kids” entrained Wednesday for New York where tomorrow night the “Rip” and his boys put on their fanappealing, believe - it - or - not basketball show against a once-beaten New York University team. This show comes off in Madison Square Garden, just a block off the refulgent Great White Way, and it will be viewed by 18,000 spectators. It is regrettable that this game cannot be played in the Yankee Stadium (if that were possible), for it seems that that many people want to see N.Y.U. vs. Notre Dame. A week ago 8,000 New Yorkers stormed the gates of the Eighth Avenue Arena as early as 4:30 a.m. in an effort to buy the remaining 3,800 tickets which went on sale at 9:00 a.m.
That gives some kind of a picture of the fervor attached to this game— a game which basketball’s national rankers will be watching closely. Notre Dame, beaten only once in 14 starts up to Canisius whom it played last night at Buffalo, is high on the list of the country’s best quintet. N.Y.U. is conceded to be the best in the mythical metropolitan league and is also the proud possessor of a high national rating. The record of the hardwood athletes from University Heights reads 12 victories and one defeat: the lone defeat was dealt out by the North Carolina Tarheels, 43-41. The Violets seem to have an obsession for the 60’s. Seven times this season they have beaten the ■ opponent with scores within the 60 decade. Some of those victims are Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut (overtime), Fordham, Cornell, and Boston College.
The Irish and the Violets, who have come to be known as basketball’s version of the Army-Notre Dame football classic, were first brought together as the result of some smart promotion on the part of Ned Irish, the Mr. Basketball of Gotham who put the hoop game in the Garden to stay. First meeting in 1934 Notre Dame and N.Y.U. have played every year and always before sellout crowds. So far the Irish have had all the better of the rivalry winning 10 out of a total of 12 meetings. In the 1942-43 season the late George Keogan’s last Notre Dame team led by Bobby Faught inflicted the worst modern defeat upon N.Y.U. when they swamped the Violets, 74-43. Last year after Notre Dame built up a comfortable half time lead the Bronx basketballers came back
like Gang Busters with an attack which almost blew the South Benders right out of the Garden and into Jack Dempsey’s bistro across the street. But in the waning minutes of the game the Irish found the range and protected their lead to win 66-60.
The Violets with a record of 16 and ■ 8 last season later went on to win the Eastern Division N.C.A.A. Championship. In the East’s champs vs. West’s champs N.Y.U. bowed to the rangy Oklahoma Aggies. One notable fact on the New York schedule this season is that since January 19 until it plays Notre Dame tomorrow the Violets have played only Boston College (January 31). Whether this lull in the schedule is due to-mid-year exams or just concentrated preparation for the Irish is not known.
Coach of the Violets for the past 22 years has been popular Howard G. Cann, himself a former all-around athlete at N.Y.U. In his 22 year coaching reign Cann has developed some great teams, some great players. This year’s edition is another symbol of Cann’s able coaching although he is considerably helped by the fact that his starting five are all lettermen. At one forward he has Don Forman, a deceptive 150 lb., smooth ball handler from Brooklyn’s. Boys High. Forman’s running mate is Marty Goldstein, formerly of George Washington H.S., an ex-serviceman, and now in his third year on the Violet 'varsity. The pivot man is Adolph Schayes, who at 6’5%" is the tallest man on the squad. Schayes was named to the second team All-Metropolitan last season. At the guards is where the New Yorkers really shine. One defense man is Capt. Frank Mangiapane, also from George Washington H.S. and a 1945 selectee on both the Associated Press All-Tournament team and Honorable Mention All-American. Other guard is high scoring Sid Tanen-baum of Brooklyn. In 24 games last season Sid scored 302 points. He received many post-season honors some of which were first team All-City, honorable men-tio All-American, and named to College All-Stars line-up for the November classic in Chicago.,
For Coach Ripley and three members of the Irish court squad the N.Y.U. game will be a homecoming affair. Ripley and guard Ray Corley both make their home in Staten Island. Capt. Billy Hassett from the Bronx is a familiar figure to Garden goers, having appeared there with Georgetown and Notre Dame.
BASKETBALL PLAYOFFS
Although tied at the end of the first ; half, Lyons Hall, western division title- J holder, poured on the pressure in the ’ second half to defeat the eastern division champions, St. Edward’s Hall, 51 to 30, i in the first game of the round-robin ser- | ies to decide the campus championship. The Navy five rallied in the third period to outscore St. Ed’s by eight points and completely dominated the play in the last canto.
Lyons will now play Walsh Hall, the champion of the Overflow League, in the second game of the series. This game will be played in the fieldhouse, as was the Lyons-St. Ed’s game. A win for ! Lyons will give it the campus championship since it will be the only one of the three teams to finish the series undefeat- J ed. A victory for Walsh would mean that Walsh must play St. Ed’s to complete \ the series. If Walsh wins this game, the title goes to Walsh, but a win by St. Ed’s would create a tie necessitating more games. Summary:
01 S TV L< K L A: Di Ki
Ti
A R K Di Gi M N K
Ti
tl G si ii
P r<
Lyons Hall
Sargel ------------------------- 2	0
Pogue -------------------------- 4	2
Peck --------------------------- 5	1
Obie ___________________________ 5	2
Schneider --------------------   3	0
Owen  0	0
Totals __________________________21
St. Ed’s	B.
Schneider ---------------------   0
Sweetor _________________________ 0
Garafolo ________________________ 3
O’Connell  0
Constantini  1
Salvati ------------------------- 0
Presler ------------------------- 2
Petrozelka _______________________6
Kenney  0
Totals 12
9
F. 2 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 0
6
OVERFLOW BASKETBALL j
Bounding back from a defeat the I night before, Walsh Blue defeated Alum- j ni, 35 to 23, Tuesday in the finals of j the Overflow League, thereby gaining | n the right to enter the round-robin series 1 a to determine the campus championship. bi
Walsh Hall had entered the final w h round undefeated but Alumni had al- ! r: ready received one defeat in the double- ; si elimination tournament. In a rough and • n wild game Monday, Alumni came through with a 34 to 23 victory which a necessitated another game Tuesday. This time it was Walsh which came through s
12
_L SPORTS
on top by an almost identical score. Summary:
;	Walsh	B.	F.	P.
!	Long -------------------------  2	5	9
Kennedy ----------------------- 3	0	6
Lammers _______________________ 7	0	14
Albert 10	2
1	Desmond ---------------------------- 10	2
Rainer  10	2
j	-	-	-
Totals ------------------------15	5	35
।	Alumni	B.	F.	P.
Rothine _______________:.______ 0	0	0
Kash ...............................   Oil
Ducato ----------------------   2	0	4
George .....—__________________ 0	0	0
j	McLafferty ____________________ 0	0	0
Nickson  6	2	14
Kasmarek 2	0	4
।	Totals 10	3	23
VOLLEYBALL
Walsh Hall remained undefeated in the volleyball league as it defeated Zahm Green last Thursday. Breen-Phillips stayed right on Walsh’s heels by downing Dillon the same evening. .Games played Wednesday and Thursday will be reported next issue.
, HANDBALL
Frank Parise and Lewis Polk were still the only two men who had advanced / as far as the semifinal round as the Scholastic went to press. The only , match during the week saw Tom Conley I defeat Jim Martin to complete the quar-terfinal bracket.
I	_____
j SWIMMING
i All students who are planning to enter 5 the open swimming meet to be held in ] the Rockne Memorial pool Tuesday night 1 are urged to hand in their names and j the events in which they will compete to / Gil Burdick, who is directing the meet, as soon as possible.
! Rifle Team Goes
J	To Northwestern
s The Notre Dame rifle team will jour-| ney to Northwestern University, Febru-? ary, 16, to compete in the nation-wide Naval ROTC rifle match. Northwestern w has also extended an invitation to the ! rifle team representing the Illinois Institute of Technology to fire in the match.
< The men comprising the rifle team are: D. Wooley, F. Normant, J. Foley, W. Trent, R. O’Connor, E. Soergel, H. Swanson and K. Carrol.
Notre Dame's Basketball Winning Streaks
When Northwestern defeated Notre Dame February 2 on the Chicago Stadium court, it marked the end of the longest basketball winning streak in modern Notre Dame history—13 straight victories. Only the 1908-1909 team holds a better record, that group having won 15 games before losing. The only modern era Irish five even to approach 13 straight wins was the 1933-34 quintet which won 11 in a row.
The 1908-1909 team played a schedule composed for the most part of “any and all comers.” Coached by Bertram G. Maris, the team swept their first 15 opponents before them before tackling the professional champions, the Buffalo Germans. They lost two successive to this outfit by scores of 34-22 and 31-18. The team ended the season with 24 victories and 5 defeats. Monogram winners on that basketball squad were Chester D. Freeze, James L. Fish, Frank L. Gibson, Justin J. Maloney, Captain Ray J. Scanlon, and Robert E. Vaughn. The latter is now director of athletics at Wabash College.
Clem Crowe, Notre Dame head basket
Northwestern's Max Morris gets a strangle-hold on the sphere—and Billy Hassett
ball coach on leave of absence, played on the 1925-26 team that won 19 out of 20 games, losing only to Franklin College’s “Wonder Five.” The 1926-27 team had an identical record, losing to the same foe. Both defeats came after winning seven in a row. Both seasons the Irish won 12 straight after their lone defeat. The late George Keogan coached during those years. Moose Krause, currently assistant basketball coach to Elmer Ripley, was a monogram winner on the 1933-34 quintet.
A glance also shows that six times prior to this year, Northwestern’s Wildcats had been the first team to defeat Notre Dame during the basketball season. The following is a list of the longest winning streaks by Irish basketball teams and the names of opponents who administered the initial loss:
1909 —15 (Buffalo Germans-professionals. 34-22)
1913 — 8 (Denison. 47-13)
1914 — S (Michigan Aggies, 44-22)
1915 — 8 (Michigan Aggies, 14-13)
1925-26— 7 (Franklin, 33-22)
1926-27— 7 (Franklin, 33-22)
1933-34—11 (Pittsburgh. 39-34)
1945-46—13 (Northwestern, 56-55)
13
Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH
STILL THE BEST
The gallant University of Notre Dame basketball team met the inevitable Saturday, Feb. 2, in the Chicago Stadium when they dropped their first game of the 1945-46 season to Northwestern, 5655, after being victorious in 13 successive games. The defeat was bound to come sooner or later—the mental and physical strain was playing havoc with the players. Defeat at this point in the sea-* son comes almost as a welcome event. The pressure is now off and the greatest college basketball team in the nation— the Fighting Irish—can roll on to conquer other foes. There are no alibis to make—no excuses to give. It was an excellent Northwestern team that won the game—a team that drove on in relentless fashion, never knowing when they were beaten.
Ironically enough, Notre Dame lost this game in much the same fashion they had won so many others. It was a close, hard-fought, give-and-take battle. Now the Irish have given as well as taken but the team should stick to the old proverb that it is better to give than to receive.
After trailing throughout the first half, the Irish rushed back to take the lead after about three minutes of play in the second half. From then on to the finish a scoring free for all was waged with each team holding as much as a six point advantage at various stages of the game. The familiar “Go-go-go” rang forth from the cheering section of Notre Dame students, seated high up on the north side of the mammoth stadium. The team came on but not quite far enough.
The season is not ruined. Seven games remain, including last night’s game with Canisius, and with any good fortune at all, Notre Dame should come through on top as the nation’s best. Defeat has not minimized the spirit of the players or students. . . . “Loyal sons are marching, onward to victory.”
SIDELIGHTS .
That Notre Dame was “off” in its basket shooting during the first half of the Northwestern game cannot be denied. The figures prove it. The Irish took 34 shots and scored nine times in the first half and then came back to score on 15 out of 32 in the second. Northwestern
14
hit 10 out of 45 in the first half and> countered with 12 of 31. Leo Klier tried seven times in the first half to score a bucket but failed. After the rest period, Leo came through with seven out of 10. Captain Billy Hassett had two for five in the first 20 minutes and ended up with four of seven in the last period. Max Morris, brilliant Wildcat forward who scored the game-winning basket, made only two out of nine shots in the first half and then hit seven out of nine in the second. Besides the brilliant play of Morns, Tom Worthington proved invaluable to the Northwestern cause. Worthington has been cited as the most improved player on the Wildcat squad, having been a lowly substitute only three weeks ago. He was good for 13 points. Center LeRoy King scored only eight points but was playing his best ball of the season, taking rebounds and doing a great job of watching Vince Boryla in the second half. King, according to Wilfred Smith of the Chicago Tribune, has just mastered the art of faking in the pivot position, adding much to his adeptness as a basketball player.
Vince Boryla had difficulty in snaring rebounds during the second half but it was due to a change in Northwestern tactics ordered by Coach Dutch Lon-borg. During the first half, Boryla was guarding King while Hassett was on Max Morris. This had King in the pivot position of a center with Morris working on the side. Then during the second half of the contest, Morris moved into the pivot area, taking Hassett with him, while King and Boryla played the side. This move no doubt had much to do with Morris’ scoring spree since his height advantage over Hassett helped him to get up to the basket.
The Chicago Stadium was packed with 19,624 rabid basketball fans. Before the game the starting five for each team was introduced individually under the glare of a spotlight while the rest of the stadium was darkened. The Irish had many rooters in the stands besides the student section. Al Melgard, famed organist at the Stadium, burst forth with the “Victory March” several times during the evening. Of course, he didn’t leave out the familiar- “Go U Northwestern.” When the game ended, the Wildcat team and cheering section broke loose in a victorious frenzy. Notre Dame
fans were rather silent while the team, disheartened no doubt, congratulated the Wildcat team before leaving the floor.
All in all, it was a great ball game that didn’t quite go the right way for Notre Dame. But the team played a superb game and left the floor with the same well-deserved pride with which they appeared earlier in the evening.
THIS 'N THAT. HERE 'N THERE
Hats off to the track team! Doc Handy’s boys got off to an excellent start by winning their dual meet with Western Michigan in the fieldhouse while the mile relay team of Fred Jones, Bill Tully, Ray Sabota, and Bob Purcell took first place at the Millrose Games in New York City. The relay team completed the mile in 3:29.3. Bill Leonard also did well in the Wanamaker mile, finishing fourth among a group of the nation’s outstanding milers. . . . Franny Curran, flashy cage star at Notre Dame during the 1942 season, is reported on his way back to Notre Dame. Frank is bringing his brother Wayne along with him at the start of the March semester. Franny should have some time left to prance on the court since he played only one year before entering the Navy. He was an ensign. . . . Northwestern has announced its 1946 football schedule which calls for a game here against the Irish on November 16. . . . It would be a good idea if someone in the athletic department made some arrangement whereby student veterans’ wives could secure tickets to games. At a recent basketball game in the fieldhouse, one veteran stated that he could not get a ticket for his wife and that many othei* married vets were having the same difficulty. . . . The Irish basketball game in Detroit March 2 will be played in the spacious Olympia instead of a high school gym with limited seated cap’acity. . . . Contrary to any ru--mors, Notre Dame will not play the University of Iowa on March 5. The Detroit game is the finale. . . . Scholastic requirements for Notre Dame athletes’ future will be raised at the beginning of the next semester. During the war period, competing athletes had only to maintain an average of 70 in all courses to remain eligible. However, the faculty board control of athletics has reverted to the pre-war standards of 77 in each course for an athlete to remain eligible. Such a move should readily quiet any of those who speak about Notre Dame as purely an institution of athletics. To the contrary, Notre Dame scholastic requirements for athletes are more rigid than a majority of the schools in the nation. . . . Dick Dunkel, bless his soul! raised Notre Dame to the number two spot among the nation’s top' basketball teams last week, leaving only the Oklahoma Aggies
IS
rated superior. However, since the Northwestern defeat, Dunkel will probably drop the team to the bottom. Wisconsin, which lost to Notre Dame, defeated Michigan. Michigan defeated Northwestern. Northwestern defeated Notre Dame. There you are, Mr. Dunkel, Wisconsin is your number one team for the week! And don’t forget the University of Chicago. They lost to the Big Ten champions by a “slim” margin of 32 points, which should give them a high ranking in your system.
Thirteenth In a Row—
N.D. 62, Michigan State 57
A fast-breaking Michigan State basketball team chased Notre Dame down to the wire in their fieldhouse encounter February 31 before allowing the Irish to win their 13th straight game, 62-57. Notre Dame took the lead at the outset and never lost it though the Spartans pressed them all the way, while a capacity crowd of 4,300 were breathless from the speed and excitement. Leo Klier had one of his best nights, hitting for 26 points to lead all scorers. His shooting was nothing short of sensational as he curled and twisted his way to the basket. George Ratterman also turned in an outstanding game, connecting for seven field goals and a free throw.
Notre Dame built up a 30-24 lead at halftime as Klier and Boryla scored 25 of the points in the first half. The Irish held a comfortable margin until the closing minutes of the half when State rushed in six points to narrow the gap. After two and one half minutes of second half play, State had pulled within two points of Notre Dame, 32-30. Notre Dame held on, leading at 47-43 and 5849.
Running true to form as in previous games, the Irish had the Spartans right at their heels as the final minutes of the game passed away. Fortino, Krall, and Roberts kept Michigan State in the game as they pulled up to a 58-55 count. Klier eased the situation with another of his hook shots with a minute and 50 seconds to go. Waldron of State scored on a long one to make it 60-57. Notre Dame opened a stalling game while State charged feverishly. A slip in the outdrawn State defense allowed sleek little Johnny Dee to go through for two more points to make the final score 6257.
r
Along with the scoring of Klier and Ratterman, Dee made 4, Corley 2, Boryla 14, and Hassett, while scoreless, was outstanding as always in his floor play. Fortino topped Michigan State with 15 points, Roberts had 9 as did Krall.
16
It’s Adler s for AR RO HAS
‘TMa/Ctidfel Ct.
ON THE CMNE&... MICHIGAN $ WASHINGTON
Hang your Arrow Ties on the wrong side of your bed!
When you wake up on the grouch side some A.M. . . . with a tough day of textbook-tussling ahead . . . don’t reach for your Luger. Relax. Put on a bright Arrow Tie!
Nothing like a splash of that tasteful-but-terrific Arrow pattern to cheer you up. And the ease with which you tie a perfect knot in it is soothing, sir, definitely soothing.
Your dealer has plenty of Arrow Ties, in colors and patterns that please.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
NORTHWESTERN STOPS VICTORY MARCH
IT HAPPENED
Notre Dame	FG	FT	PF	TP
Klier. f		.. 7	o	1	16
Dee, f		.. 2	0	3	4
Corley, f. 		.. 1	1	2	3
Boryla, c	—			.. 7	3	4	17
Hassett, g			.. 7	0		12
Gilhooley, g		.. 0	1	3	1
Ratterman, g		.. 1	0	3	. 2
	— ■		—	—
	25	7	19	55
Northwestern	FG	FT	PF	TP
Morris, f			.. 9	6	2	24
Lofgren, f	-	.. 1	0	1	2
King, c			.. 3	2	n u	8
Wheeler, g. 	—	.. 1	1	0	3
Tonrek, c.			.. 2	0	3	4
	.. 1	0	1	2
Worthington, g				3	2	13
	— .		—	—
	22	12	12	56
Score at halftime—Northwestern 26,		N.	D. 22.	
Officials—Enright and Haarlow.				
Northwestern University’s enraged Wildcats became the first team to administer a defeat to the Notre Dame basketball team, turning in a 56-55 victory after a heart-stopping struggle in the Chicago Stadium February 2. It was a last .minute crib shot by ace Max Morris that won the game for the Big Ten aggregation. The game was played as part of a doubleheader in which DePaul downed Indiana State in the opener, 5242.
Notre Dame played its usual game and it was good basketball, too. The Irish started slowly in the opening minutes and never could forge ahead in the first half except for an occasional temporary lead. Northwestern held a 26-22 lead at halftime. Both teams got into a scoring rut in the second half. Leo Klier, scoreless in the first part of the game, began hitting on his one-handed shots from the side while Billy Hassett was scoring consistently from near the midcourt. Notre Dame surged into the lead soon after the half got under way and went on to a 38-32 margin which they held for several minutes. Tourek, Wildcat guard, then broke the spell, scoring twice from long range to tie the score at 46-46. The lead changed hands as Hassett and Klier kept the Irish going. Boryla added some much needed points on tip-ins, also.
Northwestern never gave up and fought harder in the closing minutes as they seemed to sense victory. In the last moments, Billy Hassett drove in two long shots to put Notre Dame ahead at 55-54. A mere 30 seconds had passed when Max Morris, outstanding Northwestern forward, took a pass from guard Tom Worthington and scored his ninth field goal of the game to put N.U. back
in the lead, 56-55. Notre Dame charged downcourt once, lost the ball only to have George Ratterman break through with an interception. With 15 seconds to play, the Irish had the ball from out of . bounds at their own basket. When play
resumed after a Notre Dame timeout, the final chance of victory flickered away as the pass-in maneuver failed to work,
this year . .
a worth-while
gift for your valentine
lingerie - sweaters - blouses
HERBERT FRIEND'S	SOUTH BENO
125 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET
for YOUR Valentine
• PINS
the ball bounding crazily out of bounds. Northwestern had only to control the ball for a few seconds and that they did.
At no point in the game did Notre Dame appear defeated. The same held true for Northwestern, however, all of which resulted into a slam-bang affair. It was the first defeat for Notre Dame in 14 games. Northwestern had a winning streak intact until three weeks ago when Illinois defeated them. They have lost three games to date.
17
Du Pont Digest
Items of Interest in the Fields of Chemistry, Engineering, Physics, and Biology
Good News for Unsuspecting T. R Victims
Here is news that marks another step ahead in the fight against t. b.— news about free tests and new x-ray equipment.
As a means of locating possibly one and a half million undetected cases of tuberculosis, the U. S. Public Health Service plans to offer chest x-ray tests to nearly every American during the next five years. This survey is made possible through the use of new equipment which produces chest x-rays on small film, thus permitting mass examinations at reduced cost.
The development of the new film and the special fluoroscopic screen was not accomplished overnight. Organic chemists, physical chemists, physicists, and other technically trained men were required to make exhaustive studies before the problem was solved. Special sensitizers had to be found. Phosphors and activators had to be formulated for the screen. Both screen and film had to be of ultra-fine grain, and the spectral emission of the screen had to be adjusted to the spectral sensitivity of the film.
Men of Du Pont are proud of their part in the development of this new aid to medical science. The fact that their efforts helped to contribute a new benefit to society is a heart-warming inspiration.
•	• •
Chemical Pest Control for more and better food
"Eating”—somebody has remarked— "is a habit.” It certainly is! Men, women and children all have a firm, fixed habit of eating ... so enough food must be grown for them to eat.
Du Pont chemists, plant pathologists, entomologists and engineers have helped the farmer to increase the nation’s food supply through their never-ending search for better ways of protecting crops. The development of new fungicides is a typical example.
Du Pont men were faced with the problem of finding chemicals to be used in treating fungus diseases of plants,
Miniature X-Ray Pictures May Uncover 1,500,000 Hidden Cases
under conditions in which the use of copper and sulfur proved harmful. After long and intensive research they found the answer in the salts and organic derivatives of dithiocarbamic acid—such as the iron and zinc salts of dimethyldi-thiocarbamic acid, and tetramethylthiuramdisulfide.
Agriculturists now know Du Pont’s iron salt of dimethyldithiocarbamic acid as "Fermate,” and the zinc salt of the same acid as "Zerlate.” These fungicides are products of Du Pont research —research that is helping the farmer to bigger crops of better quality.
•	• •
Now—Faster Dry Cleaning
Two Du Pont products—"Perclene” perchlorethylene and "Triclene” trichlorethylene—have made dry cleaning quick and safe. These fluids clean clothes speedily, so that delicate garments need remain in the machine only a few minutes. They leave no telltale cleaning odor.
Questions College Men Ask about working irith Du Pont
“WILL I GET LOST IN A BIG COMPANY?”
At Du Pont, every effort is made to see that individual ability is recognized and rewarded. New chemists and engineers work in small groups under experienced supervisors. As aptitude is shown, they are given more responsibility. While offering the broad avenues of promotion that go with size, Du Pont’s group system assures college men of the sympathetic, friendly conditions of employment commonly associated with smaller organizations.
OUPOHp
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 8 P. M. EST, on NBC
THROUGH CHEMISTRY*
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS * CO. (INC.) WILMINGTON 9S, DELAWARE
18
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
Then he took my hand. Then he put his arms around me. Then he—”
Suddenly she stopped and a look of startled dismay came into her eyes as she clutched her throat and screamed:
“Holy Smoke—my pearls!”
Prof: “You did good work this semester, Frank. It gives me great pleasure to put a 90 on your bulletin.”
Frank: “That’s swell. Why not put a 100 on it and get a real thrill.”
OR—
A college man named Breeze
Weighed by B.A.’s and LL.D.’s
Collapsed from the strain
Alas, it was plain
He was killing himself by Degrees.
CAMPUS QUIPS
Pat Meenan dropped in and asked if we had read the book, The Lost Weekend by Mr. Morning Check.
❖
According to a recent poll 4 out of 5 freshmen shave. (How did that get in here?)
Who told first semester man, Carl
AFTER THE ■ FIRST PIPEFUL ! YOU’LL ALWAYS SMOKE m .
COOWE


7^^’ I I


Acx-njtf^
■st KUto
25*
Ik
* biend COOKIE jaR w>ih Tobm's IRISH MIXTURE a grand combmat’On. TRY IT!
2? generous
R. R. TOBIN TOBACCO CO.	* * *
406 WOODBRIDGE AVE., DETROIT 26, MICH.
Enclosed is 10c. Rush me a sample package of COOKIE JAR Pipe Mixture.
Nome_____ Address.
Gty.
.State.
Maag, that the football team had to drink tea before each game because they operate from the “T” formation?
Steve Oracko : “My father is a Pole.” Bill Miller: “Oh, really. North or South?”
Girl: “I went riding with a stranger. Did I do wrong?”
Wise Old N.D. Freshman: “If my years of experience count, the answer is probably.”
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Who Cares, 1946 Dearly Beloved:
This week, mes enfants, I am going to discuss not the South Bend Trib, not an afternoon at the dungeons of St. Mary’s and the inhabitants thereof, but rather, I would like to talk about an average Sunday afternoon spent by the average ND student. First, he gorges himself on a magnificent meal of humming bird tongue under glass, caviar, etc., served by the gentle lily white hands of a bevy of beautiful girls. Upon completion of this repast, our friend adds his bit to the dime-lined pockets of the bus company, and makes his way to the village. There he makes the astounding discovery that only 42 cents, one token and $200 in Confederate money separate him from starvation. So — Walgreens. Here he discovers that a coke, properly husbanded, can last the bettei’ part of an hour. His jaundiced eyes, meanwhile, have viewed assorted females which he groups under the general title, “South Bend girls.” These girls, he realizes, will stop at nothing. Their platform is “Men” —and our friend is no exception. But after clever maneuvering, he escapes with only three compound fractures, and returns to more caviar at his beloved Dachau—
So, on this misogynous note, 1 leave you,	ADF
❖
St. Mary’s Girls—Are you still with us?
The important announcement will be forthcoming soon!!! Have patience I!!
♦
A young lady oyster had just returned from her first date with a lobster and was telling her oyster friend about it.
“He was simply marvelous,” she said. “First, he looked deep into my eyes.
Valentine's Day Thursday, Feb. 14
Wired Anywhere — or Delivered.
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
114 S. Michigan Street
QJalerttine
GREETING CARDS
at the
Bookstore
SADIN HALL
19
Track Team Wins
127 W. Washington St.
“In the J. M. S. Building” South Bend. Ind.
Traditionally
The place where
Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt, courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
First Meet, 74-21
Coach “Doc” Handy and his Notre Dame track squad will entrain for East Lansing, Mich., tomorrow noon to compete in the Michigan Relays, starting at 7:00 that night. Coach Handy announced earlier this week that he would enter 24 men in the relays, which will provide the Irish with their first real test of the season. Michigan is expected to rack up its share of points on the strength of its outstanding performance in winning last week’s triangular meet from Ohio State, also a Relay entrant, and Purdue. Western Michigan, Michigan State, and Marquette have entered the large field.
In last Saturday’s opener, the Irish smothered the Western Michigan team to the tune of 74-21. The Kalamazoo school’s “one-man track team,” Ed Taylor, turned in three blue-ribbon performances for his day’s work, but this was not enough to keep the Notre Dame boys from gaining complete control of the situation before the festivities had ended. The Blue and Gold athletes, minus their coach and five capable teammates, who were in New York for the Millrose Games, found a willing substitute for the former in Head Manager Dick Gott-sacker and then proceeded to turn the fieldhouse oval into a proverbial merrygo-round. They swept four events and won the mile relay, led by Dale Torrence, freshman from Fanner City, Ill., and Lou Tracey, of Franklin, 0., with eight points each.
Taylor’s 15 points gave him individual honors for the day, but he had no support from his mates. The lanky Negro captured both the high and low hurdle races and the high jump. His time of 7.4 seconds in the high hurdles set a new fieldhouse record, the old mark being 7.5 seconds. He won the high jump with comparative ease, clearing six feet, four inches, and failed in three tries at six feet, six, while his nearest rival, Notre Dame’s Bill Fleming, could reach only six feet even. Because of Western Michigan’s failure to enter a man in the broad jump, this event was not held.
While the major part of his team was notching its first victory of the current season, Coach Handy’s ace miler, Billy Leonard, and his top-notch mile relay team of Fred Jones, Ray Sabota, Bill Tully, and Bob Purcell were making the day doubly successful in spacious Madison Square Garden. Leonard finished fourth in the Wanamaker mile, in which Leslie MacMitchell made his first start on the comeback trail a successful one, while the relay team captured their heat of the mile relay event easily, holding a substantial lead throughout.
For HER Valentine
Dan Cupid suggests
GIFTS OF FINE JEWELRY
Lapel Watches Sparkling Clips Musical Powder Boxes
(Wrapped for mailing)
BLOCK BROS
CORNER MICHIGAN ^WASHINGTON i
A FRIENDLY WORD TO GRADUATES ....
Have you considered
LIFE INSURANCE?
The Farmer's Life Insurance Co. of Des Moines. Iowa offers you a special plan wherein you are given a year or more to pay the first year premium.
For full information address
R. A. Mitchell
P. O. Box 1072 South Bend, Indiana
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
22B South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
20
To open this week, we’d like to extend a word of welcome to all those lovely pieces of femininity that are infesting our fair campus today. ND must really be BTO’s to persuade such lovely creatures to venture into the Wolf’s Lair of St. Joe County. To each and every one we broach our biggest “Hello.” (This particle of hospitality is certain to increase our circulation by at least 300, Art, especially as we’re being nice to the girls from ‘The Rock’ this week, too!)
Some enlightened “Boy From Syracuse” took a survey of Bill Orange’s sons to see how the average college student spends his spare time. 45 per cent spent their- time at the movies, 40 per cent wasted time over cokes and bull sessions, 10 per cent at bridge and 5 per cent reading the Women’s Home Companion, or Ladies Home Journal. ... A similar-poll taken by Montmorency McWhistle-stop, the finger on our campus pulse, reports that ND men spend their free time as follows: 45 per cent at George’s, 40 per cent looking for next year’s Army game, 10 per cent across the Dixie, and 5 per cent thumbing through old copies of the Scholastic or the South Bend phone book.
A fellow at Ohio State is in the running for Mr. America honors, according to their Lantern. That learned journal reports him as having these dimensions: a 52-inch chest, 20%-inch biceps and a 10~inch neck. . . . And here we thought that the shirt shortage was tough on us!
❖
The Daily North-western's Lost and Found column carries this gem:
“Lost:—Bag with half-knitted socks in Grill. . . . This is my first attempt. Please return.”
First attempt at knitting? — Or first attempt at the Grill?
❖
On registration day at Albion College, as we hear it, only three women showed intentions to marry according to their vocational interest cards. . . . Different from SMC chicks, of whom only three signify intentions to be still single by the time they leave school.
♦
Navy men aren’t so tough! The sissies from Annapolis are pleading with
several of our contemporary publications to send their Log pictures of their loveliest co-eds so that their magazine “need not be darkened by the absence of women.” . . . May the Scholastic never fall that low. (It says here in very fine print.)
♦
Aha! We detect a gleam of jealousy in the eyes of Jake Kline’s proteges when they hear that Ohio State’s baseball team hopes to fly South this March for
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE 4 SO. BEND R.R.
Spring training. .. . Well, ND’s diamond greats will be better off training with the Blue Sox.
Last week, we concluded with the doleful note of “a touching poem by Notre Dame’s own Joseph Zeiler.” This week’s column will end on a very cheerful note if someone will just tell us who Joe is. He gets more space in this column than we do. . . . Have to see the union about this.
21
AFTER THE BALL IS OVER...
The big affair is now a thing of the past but it wouldn’t be appropriate to move on without a few words of comment. Congratulations to the decorations committee for their ingenuity . . . who was it that said all those nice things about Teddy Phillips and his band? Now we can all appreciate Harlan Hogan a little more.
The unit was all prepared for trouble from the South Bend civilian tribe, who have a quaint custom of attacking Navy men whenever a dozen or so of the civvies happen to run into a lone Rotcee. The uniform for the week-end was dress blue and brass knuckles. Oscar Birdbrain, employing the forehandedness of a true naval officer, was caught trying to smuggle a .50 caliber from the Navy Drill Hall. Oscar was also complaining because his girl had to leave the dance so early. Her mother wanted the formal so she could put the curtains back up . . . the St. Mary’s girls had their large representation at the Ball . . . Thurman Coss finally broke down and attended his first dance Friday night. . . . Justin Cic-coneti was also there in the capacity of “official checker-offer.” . . . Since those favors we received were phosphorescent and glowed in the dark, why couldn’t we have had a “Favor Dance” with all the lights turned out?
♦
LOVE A LA MULLER...
Saturday night at one of the downtown restaurants Paul Doyle walked up to the check-room and asked the girl if a bottle of spirits had been turned into the Lost and Found Department. She answered, “No, but the fellow who found it was.” There stood George Muller in a corner of the check-room trying to make a date with a mink coat.
CHOW HALL CHATTER...
Evidently Ziggy of the chow hall has stopped his custom of attending every wedding in town—we haven’t had rice pudding on the menu for weeks. Mystery stew, on the other hand, has enjoyed a tremendous increase in popularity on the bill of fare.. . . Flash! Broke Garter reporting! Mishawaka junk dealer reports two horses stolen!

HE DID...
There once was a maiden of Siam Who said to her lover, young Kiam, “If you kiss me, of course
You will have to use force, But I know you’re stronger than I am.”
ODDS 'N ENDS...
Jim Aherne is recruiting members for a new organization, the C.B.N.D., Confirmed Bachelors of Notre Dame. Anyone wishing to join should see Jim or the occupants of 148 Morrissey. Former members of the “Have It In Ya” association will be greeted with open arms.
*
Roger Amstutz is quite the boy when it comes to receiving mail. Last week he broke a long-existing record by receiving three cards from the library for overdue books and a letter from the First Methodist church.
❖ .
Bob Shapiro is certainly a quaint character. He’s the kind of man that doesn’t care a bit what side his bread is buttered on. He says he eats both sides anyway.
WE SUSPECTED IT ALL ALONG
Prof: “Young man, are you the teacher in this class?”
Student: “No sir.”
Prof: “Then stop talking like an idiot.”
❖
ZOLTAN'S THESAURUS
Buccaneer: What you pay for corn after inflation sets in.
Meretricious: An expression used during the holly season, Meritricious and a Happy New Year.
Martyr: Latin for mother.
Average: A nest. Hens lay on the average.
Do Kou Have It?
Laura had it before, Paul had it behind.
• Professor Riley had it once.
Riley’s rabbits and birds never’ had it.
All girls have it once, but boys cannot have it.
Poor Mrs. Mulligan had it twice in a row.
Dr. Lowell had it once before and twice behind.
Campus Centenary Publications
"Notre Dame—100 Years"-$4.00
"Collected Poems of Charles "L. O'Donnell, C.S.C."_$2.50
THE SET —$5.00
•
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS TELEPHONE 4-5661 702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
• DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
• SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4260
ROSE DENTAL GROUP LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-620 SHERLAND BLDG. , SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-406 TOWER BUILDING PHONE S-2S74
22
Where the Rhombicosidodecahedron Dwells
A liberal definition of a museum is that it is a repository where the historical and cultural artifacts of man and nature may be studied and observed in repose. This is no oblique reflection on venerable Sorin Hall either. For Notre Dame has a very distinctive museum all of its own.
It is located in what amounts to a spacious front foyer in Science Hall. There in a dreamy haze of antiquity, row upon row, stand neanderthals in plaster of paris, the pterodactyllic prototype of today’s P-38, and other whatnots of hoary days gone by. It seems, though, that very few if any of Notre Dame’s 3200 academic hopefuls know that there is such a show place around. And all for free. Oh, what a pity.
In its day the Science building was one of the seven wonders of the world on a miniature scale. At any rate, it was reputed to be the largest structure in the United States devoted entirely to scientific studies. Its cornerstone was laid, and ’tis said next to a dead Indian’s skull, in 1883, much to the gratification of the Reverend John Zahm, C.S.C., then head of the infant Science department. Though now outmoded in structure and
apparatus, Science Hall retains a sort of serenity. It has one precious attribute which makes a museum a museum —age.
The first thing to strike the interest of the innocent who may stroll in is a huge glass case containing models of almost every conceivable polyhedron possible, all of them mathematically perfect. Several of the polyhedrons carry labels that would stump even omniscient Dr. I. Q. One of them answers to the simple call of Rhombicosidodecahedron. Try that with your mouth filled with crackers! Behind the cage hangs a plushy moose head that would make a midwestern Hereford steer look like a ten cent toy.
Upstairs, however, is where the bulk of the museum’s interest lies. Off in one corner, set up in life-size is the bleached skeleton of a horse. A ghastly companion-piece is the windy framework of an Australian kangaroo. Posed in life-like attitude are the stuffed carcasses of many North American animals. Here in various stages of put-on ferocity are the cousins, the sea-lion and the sea-otter; the minuscule pest of American fanners, the woodchuck; the plaintive west-
CHARM WILL PAY OFF
Like Fiction? Think you could write some? Under 35 years oi age? Then you are eligible to enter the CHARM Magazine literary prize contest.
Prizes of $1,000 and $750 are offered for fiction manuscripts 3000 to 5000 words in length. Address for details: Literary Department CHARM. 122 East 42nd St New York 17. N. Y.
ern prairie dog; racoons; sables; and a taxidennic wolf with fangs projected like a set of piano keys.
In another part of the museum, which strangely reminds one of a detached aviary, numerous extinct and more recent birds preen their feathers in immobile pride. Among them are the lyre bird, the famous bird of paradise of Capua, the wingless Kiwi, and the fan-tailed peacock.
In the Middle Ages people who couldn’t read letters came from far and wide to read stained glass windows like ■ a book. On a similar plane, the Museum of Science Hall is a handbook to the past. It’s worth reading through once.
—Richard Deitz
23
A—B CH ESTER Fl ELD
Copyright 1946, Liggett & Mnu Tobacco Co.