Vol. XXIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April ii, 1891.	No. 30.
“Ever Ancient, Ever New.”
BY R. J. M.
With majestic grace and queenly bearing the Church comes down from age to age with the same energy and vigor as when her Divine Founder bade her go forth and teach all nations. “Yesterday, to-day and the same forever,” she knows neither decay nor death, nor the “ashen hue of age.’ ’ The bloom of im mortal youth adorns her brow and happily blends with the majesty of age, forming a picture of such surpassing beauty that we know not which to admire most, the freshness of youthful charms or the sober dignity of advanced years. Change is characteristic of all things: human systems and governments; the creations of human genius rise, flourish, fall; “ the sun himself grows dim with age, and nature sinks in years”; but the Church, amid ceaseless mutation and surrounded by an ever-varying succession of changes, remains unaltered and unalterable’ Steadily she pursues the line of conduct marked out for. her in the beginning. She is taught of God and draws on the inexhaustible treasury of divine wisdom. The truth which she taught 2000 years ago she proclaims to-day, and will proclaim till her divine mission is accomplished, the human race has run its course, and Time is swallowed up in Eternity.
Though commissioned by God Himself to teach all nations, the Church has not enjoyed uninterrupted tranquillity. Hers has not been the flowery path of peace. Hardly had she stepped beyond the narrow confines of Judea; nay, even in her very cradle, in the very province where first she saw the light of day, she escaped not the searching glance of despotism; her life was sought, and the sword drawn to
drive her from the face of the earth. They persecuted her in every land; mowed down her ranks; lit up the scenes, of their festivities with the living bodies of the children of the cross; pourecl out their blood in torrents till the world seemed drunk with Christian blood, and the Church, like the mother of the Machabees, looked with mournful desolation upon the mangled and bleeding bodies of her children.
Heaven was moved to pity! The martyrs’ blood became the seed of Christianity; the prison gates of the catacombs were unbarred, and, issuing forth crowned with resplendent glory, the long persecuted Church took her seat in triumph upon the very reign of the Caesars.
Time sped on; the sixteenth century came, and with it a new era of trial, persecution and victory. There arose modern Caesars who sought to enslave the Church of God, or crush her out of existence. But again the sword of persecution was laid aside; for the Church is clothed with the armor of God, and every weapon of human malice falls harmless at her feet. Vain and fruitless has been every attempt to pull down those adamantine walls against which “ the gates of hell shall not prevail.” The Church has survived every persecution, weathered every storm, come forth from every contest with increased strength, and there she stands to-day— immortal.and triumphant;—“ever ancient, ever new.”
The world begins to recognize something above human power in an institution that has withstood the assaults of time, passed through so many vicissitudes and trials; and even .as Attila, seeing a divine radiance illumine the brow of the great Leo, knew that God was with him, so this age, perceiving the halo of divine protection encircle the brow of the Church, and recognizing in every phase of her marvellous
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
career the guiding hand of God, remembers the promise of the vision chamber: “Behold, I am with you all days even to the consummation of the world.”	-
The Church to-day embraces within her fold . a greater number of faithful sons than at-any other period of her glorious and eventful history. Never were, her children more united, more loyal, more fervent. Her discipline and organization are the wonder of our age; her priesthood rivals the early Fathers in zeal and devotedness; never was her episcopacy more learned and vigilant. Her writers have created a distinctively Catholic literature rich, varied and extensive; her divines fill the world with the fame of their learning and eloquence; her hierarchy fosters the aspirations of popular freedom, and her Supreme Head, Leo XIII., unites in his person the social and aesthetic taste of a Leo X., the vigor of a Gregory VII., the practical acumen of a Sixtus V., and the loving and winning ways of his immortal predecessor, Pius IX.
- No wonder, then, the Church is more powerful than ever; no wonder she enters the paths of peace and prosperity, and treads the ways of glory and success. Year by year she grows in power, glory and magnificence, filling the wonder of her achievements, reconstructing the disjointed framework of society, dispensing everywhere the untold blessings of Christian civilization, confirming herself in the love and affection of her . children, and with light and elastic step “sweeping on towards the revelation of her final glory.”
The Poet’s Dream.
- - '	. . BY F. E. NEEF, ’92. .
- '	- - -	I-	. -
The morn is fair as once was Eden’s morn;
And smiling Phoebus, clad in golden robes, Arises in his glory and beholds His image in the crystal of his throne
Of waters faintly shaded green and blue. .
Streaks of rosy red and orange yellow	,
Stain the milky haze of that vestibule
Which towers like an endless dome from Earth
Into Eternity. The vernal breeze,	•
Like nectar from the horn of Jupiter, •
. Enraptures all who take the magic draught:
• The blue:bells as they breathe the living balm
. They tremble with delight and raise their heads
To catch the falling incense on their lips. •
’ All far around is silent save the winds
That whisper to the leaves; and, too, the birds • j • That sing their matin hymns; and now, and then, •
The tinkling music of the waves that falls In rainbow-tinted gems upon the stones And broken shells of pearl that strew the shore.
11.	.
Hark! now the clarions of the human soul Resound, and pierce the stillness of the air Until their seventh echo dies away
In faint, sweet strains among the distant hills: Through yonder, vale dark-blue with violets, A youth is wandering. His hazel hair, His eyes of mazarine, his countenance Transform into a Seraph’s, while he sings Such songs that soothe the bleeding human heart.
..____ _ in.
Why is he silent now, and wrapt in thought? See from that field of countless flowerets He stooped to gather humble violets;
And in those little stars of lotos blue He sees perfections that a poet’s eye Alone can see." Then goes he on his path Toward the lake. By shady woodland pines And weeping willow trees his footsteps stop Upon the shore. A poet here must pause, For ’tis a scene that makes the artist dream Of forest nymphs, and of the tuneful choir Of Muses and of spirit Dryad forms .
That sport upon the billow-beaten-strand.
iv.	’
Into a boat he leaps; anon he ploughs Pressed by the zephyr slowly on and on Through water-lilies planted in the fields Of haughty naiads, who, aroused to scorn By man’s transgression, meditates revenge. The Sirens, at the ocean god’s command, Sing wild and dreary songs until the bard Bewildered by the sadness of the strain Is lulled to sleep. The ever-plotting sprites . Are quick at work to steer the little boat Far from the land into the open sea—
v. .
That sky that smiled upon the peaceful world— That sky now mourns in nightly mantle clad, Whose blackness melts the day-star’s brilliancy Into a pale and ghastly, death-like light. The winds of Occident to tempest heave, And bubbling ripples turn to steaming waves; The dreamer undisturbed is dreaming on Of things prophetic of his awful fate;
. Though on the verge of the abyss of death . A smile still lingers on his cherub lips.
. . _VI-
Now let us peer into that mystic sphere . Where silence has the sweetest harmony...
Lo! on the bosom" of the sea he treads •
. Encompassed by a thousand minarets
• Of rugged coral that at intervals . The hydra batters with his warty arms.
Beneath his feet lie scattered skulls of men;
And from those hollow dents where orbs of light Once sat forth crawls the slimy Proteus.
Above, the dusky firmament unfolds Her astral curtain. Mark yon timely star!
... See how anon it trembles, fades and falls.
Like flakes of snow the dying sparks descend; The caverns of the deep illuminate,
- As crystal halls, then all again is gloom.
vn.
In his mind’s" eye now does the dreamer see A cloudy vista of futurity. .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
467
There from the distance glare the lurid flames Of seven lamps that in the ebon shine Apollyon’s eyes!—and as he slowly nears That catacomb, where bluish vapors rise From yellow bones, where Neptune’s victims lie, The melancholy mermaids’ cries and calls .More sadly echo through the ocean halls. And as he stands before that dismal vault The chilling touch of Terror’s trembling hand . Stifles ev’ry spark of resolution
That glows within his breast. His vision dims, And the humid atmosphere moulds into form; Death’s ghastly image, like a phantom, stands Before him grinning, as in scorn he points His bony finger on the silent bard,	•
To whom it seems as though those toothless jaws Did move and whisper in his ear
That.awful sentence: “Thou art mine!” In horror then the helpless mortal starts— He shrieks, he faints bewildered, he awakes....
'	VIII.
Aurora’s chilling breath dispels his dreams
’ And she unveils to him her countenance O’er-shadowed by the rolling smoky clouds That angry Jove rends with his thunderbolts. The poet’s skiff is mercilessly tossed From wave to wave; at last a mighty surge Sweeps over boat and boatsmen. From the deep
' The victims’ cries, as smoke of sacrifice . Displeasing to the gods, ascend unheard To.Heaven, till the cruel waters hush
• The.voice that once, like that of Orpheus, Would make the flowers in the meadows blush, Or stop the course of sparkling mountain brooks, ’Or teach the lion of the wilderness	’
To pause and list delighted to the strain.
John Keats.
. There.flourished in the early part of this century a poet of great promise, who unfortunately died before he reached his maturity. That poet was John Keats, who .was, born at Moorsfield, London, in 1796.,, Born of humble parentage,— , his father and grandfather having kept a stable at Moorsfield—he received but a poor classical education. .He was.then, at. the age of fifteen, apprenticed to a surgeon, of Edmonton, but he soon abandoned medicine for literature. He made the acquaintance of Mr. Leigh Hunt, ... then Editor of the Examiner, and having been encouraged by him published a few of his poetical effusions in .that paper. In 1817, he brought.out,a volume of poems dedicated to Mr. Hunt.. .In 1818 appeared “Endymion,” a poetic romance, his first.cojisiderable production. This.poem has many.beauties and perhaps as many faults, but still it was a proof of his remarkable poetic .talents. As soon as this work appeared it . was unsparingly attacked by Mr. Grifford in the Quarterly Review. Many persons, misled by lines in Byron’s “Don Juan” and
Sheeley’s “Adonias,” have attributed Keats’ early death to the shock then given to his sensibil- ' ities. But this is not true, as he would have died early in any case, for he had but a frail constitution. In 1820, Keats gave to the world a second volume of poems, the principal ones being “Lamia,” “Isabella,” “The Eve of St. Agnes,” “Hyperion.”
This volume fully redeemed the promise of the great poetic -talent displayed in “Endymion.” In October, 1820, he visited Italy for the benefit of his health; but he derived no advantage from the change, and died at Rome of pulmonary consumption on the 21st. day of February, 1821, in the twenty-fifth year of his age.
When discussing Keats’ merit as an author, Mr. Grifford’s article on “Endymion” is always a prominent topic, and therefore I give a few extracts from it below. Speaking of “ Endymion,” he says: “With the fullest stretch of our perseverance we are forced to confess that we have not been able to struggle beyond the first of the four books of which this poetic romance consists. ... It is not that Mr. Keats—if that is -his real name, for we almost doubt whether any man in business would put his real name to such a rhapsody—it is not, we say, that the author has not powers of language, rays of fancy and gleams of genius; he has all these; but he is, unhappily, a disciple of the new school of what has been, somewhere, called Cockney poetry, which may be defined to consist of the most incongruous ideas in the most uncouth language.”	.
. Such language as this was rightly considered by Keats to be anything but complimentary; but that Mr. Grifford can be charged with his death on this account is absurd. But still many have charged Grifford with his death, arid Hazlitt said that “ Mr. Keats was hooted out of the world, and his fine talents and wounded sensibilities consigned to an early grave.” “Endymion ” is a poem recounting the loves of Endymion and Diana; it may be compared to the “Comus” and “Arcades” of Milton, as regards the subject and style, the chief distinction being that in those poems imagination is subject to reason and judgment, but in “Endymion” it is supreme. So with his imagination leading him everywhere, Keats soon lost all idea of reason, plan and consistency.
The greater part of this poem is written in the most fantastical style imaginable. He seems to have put down, at a venture, every glittering image and striking expression that presented itself; and so he wanders on, forgetful whence he comes, or whither he is going, un
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
til his pages have been filled with disconnected and incongruous figures, that “are harmonized Only by the brightness of their tints and the graces of their form.” As might be expected in such a headlong career he has made many lapses and failures. And in this poem, therefore, any malicious critic could find much to ridicule, and could also find many passages that are obscure, unnatural and absurd. But if anyone on this account would condemn the poem as worthless, either he has no notion of poetry, or no regard for truth. Moir, speaking of “ Endymion ” says: “ It would be difficult to point out, anywhere, a work more remarkable for its amount of beauties and blemishes inextricably intertwined.” Landor says that Keats, in “Endymion,” surpasses either Chaucer or Burns in imagery; and that in some parts of that poem no poet has attained the same excellence on the same ground. “Endymion” is a poem that one cannot appreciate without having a true, native relish for poetry; it has many faults, it is true, but these are more than compensated for by its beauties of language and imagery. “Lamia” and “Isabella,” his. next two productions, are highly praised by many competent critics. His “ Eve of St. Agnes ” and “ Hyperion ” are his best productions. The “ Eve of St. Agnes,” the sweetest of his poems, is remarkable for its sensuous beauty. “ Hyperion ” was Keats’ last production, and was left unfinished. Jeffrey believed that the subject was too far removed from human interests to be successfully treated by a modern author. Byron, Moir and De Quincey, on the other hand, speak highly of it, and consider it the best of Keats’ productions. Byron says: “It is a fine monument, and will keep his name alive.” “Hyperion” is a poem treating of the expulsion of Satan from heaven; it is noted for its austere beauty, simplicity and majesty. Of Keats’ minor poems, the best known and the most admired are the “ Lines Written on Chapman’s Homer,” the “ Ode to a Nightingale,” the “Ode to a Grecian Urn,” and the “Ode to Autumn.” All the poems of Keats are distinguished for their sensuous warmth and imagery. He had an exquisite ear for harmony, and great familiarity with the finest diction of English poetry. He was undoubtedly a poet of great promise and power, and his early death was a loss to English literature.	F.
' ----------------------------
A SPECIMEN.	.
“ Now Johnny,” asked the master, “ can you tell What is the Latin for ‘The boy did well? ’ ” Unhesitating did the answer come—
“ 'The boy did well*—Puerfecit puteumP
—Stony Jiurst Mag.
Looking- Backward.
“Looking Backward” is the title of a work by Edward Bellamy, treating of the labor question. The author of this little volume has endeavored to place this great topic clearly before the minds of the public, and make it less burdensome for those who desire to gain a more definite knowledge of the social question. And to do this, the writer opens his story in the year B. C. 2000, casting a retrospective glance over the history of the workingmen down to the beginning of the present century. This the author compares to a scheme of his own invention. The theory of his philosophy may be defined in one word—centralization. The question is very ably discussed pro and con, its demerits as well as its merits stated in a clear and concise manner. It is needless to say that the work evinces a clear and comprehensive grasp of the subject by its author.
In order to avoid weariness, he has sought to alleviate the instructive quality of the work, by casting it into the form of a romantic narrative. The characterization of this work is not exceedingly rich either in quality or quantity. Julian West seems to be the centre of action; around him the whole story twines; with him it opens and ends. He is in some respects a very interesting and attractive personage, being a man of high educational qualities, and possessed of sufficient money to enable him to live comfortably. Fortune seemed to favor him among the few, and clasp him in her tender embrace. To his hands toil was unknown; for generations his ancestors had lived so, and why should not he? Yet, like the majority of the rich he was at fault; forgetting that his wealth emanated from the labors of the poor, he joined with the mass in oppressing them. But we should riot be too hard on him for this, because he was born and raised in riches and did not know what poverty was. Julian appears to be a kind-hearted man, and, among his class, is of a large and liberal spirit, generous and munificent in disposition, and patient in trial. He is a man that would be out-spoken where he hates and free where he loves. But he had one failing which cannot be overlooked; he was forgetful of those he loved, and when he came out of his trance, he never spoke of those most dean to him, nor even sought their tombs. Surely this was not love, “ for love is love for evermore.” .
Of Edith Bartlett little can be said, because of her little is known. She was very handsome
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and of tender heart, and when others were abusing the workingmen, she stood by and said nothing. This much at least is to her favor; and when strikes were delaying her marriage she did not murmur against the strikers.
Dr. Leet is a very interesting person; he is so kind at heart; the very model of a gentleman. He has that within him which alone can make a man a gentleman, that is, a Christian spirit. One cannot help admiring him for the paternal care and kindness he showed Julian.
Edith Leet is an amiable, intelligent and accomplished lady. In her we find a model of virtue. She is what every young girl should be —a lady in the truest sense of the word. She shows those qualities, as much in the parlor at home with her parents as in the most public place; for this she is to be loved, if for nothing more. She is deeply affectionate; she loves her parents as only firm yet gentle natures can love.
Now in regard to the theory the author advances, the main idea is that everything should be centralized in the government: all men should be equal. Indeed, it is time that something should be done. Men should learn that money is not the sunshine of life, but a thin mist; shading a dark cloud which, sooner or later, must appear. Poverty is only the privation of riches, as darkness is but the privation of light. The. whole struggle of this world is for money; and while the palace abounds in it, the hovel is wholly without it. The poor are driven to starvation and many times sink down in the highways famished and ready to die.	'
But the great struggle goes on and many a workman falls in the strife. Famished children cry for bread, but there is none to be had. The father has been killed in a late strike, or, because he has refused to work for a paltry sum, he is dismissed. Nursing babies die on their mother’s breast because they can give them no nourishment; the cruel winter adds to their misfortune, and they die in misery. The author places such scenes as these very clearly before the reader.
Another point he ably advances is politics: “Men should act for the best interests of a nation, and lay party feelings aside.” While in some points his theory is carried to extremes, still it enables him to better illustrate the labor question of to-day as it is. It is time that the Government should look to the interests of the laboring man, for yearly the rich grow richer and the poor poorer. And can we blame them if they strive to maintain their.rights even by force? No; inasmuch as this is their last resort, and they are the fertilizing stream which alone makes earth habitable.	J. J. Burns, ’93.
Catholics in the Revolution.
Without any desire to assume the role of egotist, or claim for Catholics any more than what they proved themselves to be, and what Protestant patriots were, also, during “the time that tried men’s souls,” truth and justice demand a refutation of the falsehoods and slanders put forth by a set of men now combined to proscribe their fellow-citizens because of their religious belief. The attempt to hold up Catholics as “dangerous” to the country and “new-comers” without any claim to a share in the great work that has brought civilization, progress and liberty to the New World is worthy of a class of men now engaged in abusing the names of the dead and casting libels upon the living.
For the information of the gentleman from Iowa, and others of his class, who have heard so little of Catholics in connection with American history, I will volunteer the following information on the subject:
The discoverer, Christopher Columbus, was a Catholic.
His famous companion, John de la Cosa, was a Catholic.
Americus Vespucci, after whom the continent was named, was a Catholic.
The renowned Vasco de Balboa, discoverer of the Pacific Ocean, was a Catholic.
The discoverer of Florida, John Ponce de Leon, was a Catholic.
The discoverer of the Straits which bear his name, Ferdinand Magellan, was a Catholic.
The discoverer and explorer of the Atlantic States of this republic, John de Verrazani, was a Catholic.
The conqueror of Mexico and discoverer of California, Fernando Cortez, was a Catholic.
De Soto, the conqueror of Florida, and discoverer of the Lower Mississippi, was a Catholic.
The discoverer of Canada and explorer of the St. Lawrence River, James Cartier, was a Catholic.
The great discoverers and explorers, John and Sebastian Cabot, were Catholics.
The founder of Maryland, George Calvert, was a Catholic.
The founder of the oldest city in the United States, St. Augustine, Fla., Peter Melendez, was a Catholic	.
. The discoverer of Lake Huron, Joseph Le Caron, was a Catholic.
The discoverer of Lake Champlain, Samuel de Champlain, was a Catholic.
The discoverer of the Upper Mississippi and the apostle of the valley of that river, James Marquette, was a Catholic.
The discoverer and explorer of the Ohio River, De la Salle, was a Catholic.
The Governor of New York in 1682, Thomas Cogan, was a Catholic.
The founder of San Francisco and explorer of the Pacific coast, Junipero Serra, was a Catholic.
470	. NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC
So much for a few of the prominent Catholics prior to the Revolution who claim grateful recognition from all mankind.
And now as to the charge that “ no trace can be found of Irish Catholic Celts in the revolutionary war under Washington.” Space will not permit the mentioning of but a few of the prominent Irish Catholics who served under Washington.’ Maurice O’Brien from Cork and his six sons, who settled in Machias, Me., were Catholics. They were in their section the leaders of the “Sons of Liberty” in the days of the Revolution, not the spurious article that seeks to proscribe, but the genuine who proved their patriotism by fighting and shedding their blood in the cause of liberty. The six O’Brien brothers fought the English armed schooner,Margaretta, with a lumber slope and captured her. This was the first naval battle of the Revolution, and history callsit “The Lexington of the seas.” For the valor displayed these brave boys received the special congratulations of Washington.
John Barry, from Wexford, the first and eminently successful Commodore of the American navy, was a Catholic. He received his appointment from Washington. '
Stephen Moylan, brother of the bishop of Cork, was a Catholic, and the trusted cavalry commander of the revolutionary war.
John Sullivan, who “fired the first shot at the king’s power,” was of a Limerick family. •
John Fitzgerald, Washington’s favorite aid through all the vicissitudes of the long and bloody campaign, was an Irish Catholic.
James, Jasper and John Moylan, brothers of General Moylan, were among the prominent men of the Revolution.
Patrick Moore, John Leamy, Sharp DeLaney and Hugh Sheil, prominent business men of Philadelphia, contributed £25,000 each to the revolutionary cause at its darkest hour, when suffering and famine threatened the very existence of the patriotic army in the field.
Thomas Fitzsimmons, the noted financier, and George Meade, grandfather of General Meade, of the Union army at Gettysburg, were favorite allies of Washington. They were Catholics.
John Kelly, who so nobly covered Washington’s retreat from Princeton, was only a short time from Ireland.
Charles Carroll of Carrollton, signer of the Declaration of Independence, and reputed to be the wealthiest man in the colonies, was a Catholic of Irish descent. The “loyalists” and tories were composed largely of wealthy classes and their dependents. They were wont to stigmatize the revolutionists as men who had little or nothing to lose by embarking in the war. When Charles Carroll was about to sign the immortal document, the “loyalists” tried to taunt him by saying that there were so many Carrolls in Maryland, when the day of vengeance.arrived the “rich traitor” would skulk behind some similar name to save his property from confiscation by the king. Burning with indignation,
the great patriot added “of Carrollton” to his signature, thereby causing consternation in the ranks of the rich tories who were opposing the cause. On the 17th of June, 1780, when the clouds of war hung dark and heavy over the colonists, and when final success looked anything but hopeful, the “Friendly Sons of St. Patrick—an Irish society of Philadelphia—contributed $500,000 to still further carry on the war.” This was a large sum of money for those days.	.
On the 17th of March, 1776, General Washington himself gave orders to the army to “celebrate St. Patrick’s Day with all due respect and decorum,” and on the 17th of March, 1780, he gave orders to celebrate it as a mark of pleasure. On the 1st of January, 1782, Washington was elected honorary member of the Sons of St. Patrick at Philadelphia, and expressed in the following language his appreciation of that society:
“Sir:—I accept with singular pleasure the ensign of so worthy a fraternity as that of the Sons of St. Patrick in this city—a society distinguished for the firm adherence of its members to the glorious cause (of American independence) in which we are embarked.”
As in all other countries under the British Government, the. Catholic Church was practically suppressed in the colonies, except Maryland, prior to the Revolution.
Catholics were only too anxious to join the revolutionists which' they did to a man, as there is no record showing that a single Catholic joined the “loyalists,” as the opponents of the revolution called themselves. They saw from the character of the men who embraced the cause that the success of the Revolution would be the overthrow of bigotry, and they did not hesitate to cast their fortunes with Washington and his compatriots.
Washington’s own reply to the address of the Catholics, presented to him after the successfultermination of the war, is another proof of this fact, if additional proofs were needed. ,
That Irish Catholics formed a very large proportion of the revolutionary army there is ample proof, although full justice has never been done to the number engaged. That there were many patriotic Irish Protestants also:— men like Montgomery, Wayne, Thompson, Irvin, Nixon and others of more or less renown, we have ample proof. Of their glorious work in the cause of liberty, their Catholic brethren will ever feel proud. Any attempt to deprive Ireland—which those Protestant partiots loved so well and in which they and their ancestors suffered similar oppression to that from which the colonists revolted.—of their renown, because they were Protestants, is unworthy of the generous and progressive spirit of the age. Unlike . the noisy Orange faction, those Irish Protestants loved Ireland as they did their lives, and it was because they did so they proved such.sterling patriots in America. -	.	’
But that an overwhelming majority of th$

B
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Irish in Washington’s army were Catholics there can be no reasonable doubt. The very fact that St. Patrick’s Day was celebrated in the army is ample proof of this, as very few Protestants take an interest in the celebration of that day. Of the number of Irish in the army we can approximate a pretty fair idea from several sources. In the evidence taken in the English House of Commons on the “conduct of the American war,” it was stated in answer to a question of Edmund Burke and on the authority of General Lee, that “half the rebel continental army were Irish.” Evidence, to the same effect is supplied by the official register of the officers and men from New Jersey who took part in the war. We have, in addition and corroboration of this, the further testimony of Mr. Galloway, ex-Speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Assembly, who turned a traitor to Americans and became a Tory. In answer to a question as to the nativity of the troops in the service of Washington Mr. Galloway said: “The names and places of their nativity being taken I can answer the question with precision: About one-half are Irish.”
In a work lately published by Roberts & Co. on “The Irish in America,” Mr. P. H. Bagenal, the author, who, by the way, is an Englishman himself, adduces further proof of the large number of Irish in the revolutionary war. According to this author, “not only was the army largely composed of Irish, but many of the most distinguished generals and officers were Irish Celts.”
The New York Sun, commenting upon Mr. Bagenal’s work, says: “It is safe to say that if facts like these had been properly set forth in the school books of the last generation, there would have been no room for the outbursts of prejudice which gave rise to the native American movement. If the large share taken by the Irish in the foundation of our National Independence had been rightly appreciated, the foolish attempt to ostracize them would have been repelled with indignation.”
The attempt on the part of some people to brand the celebration of St. Patrick’s Day in America and the connection therewith of prominent public men a “political dodge, an innovation and a menace to our institutions,” is but a part of a general plan to deny Catholics, and Irish Catholics in particular, their just and well-earned share in the glory of . American liberty. The fact that Washington gave orders to celebrate that day and did heartily celebrate it himself counts for nothing with those who are bent upon denying facts and falsifying history.
No sooner was the war of the Revolution over than the “loyalists” professed unbounded patriotism and came to the front under the new order of things with as much and often more pretension than the men who carved their way to freedom. The patriots, feeling glory enough in their accomplishment of liberty,pursued their regular avocations of life in what they felt was
security and peace, leaving their former enemies the management of what they regarded minor • affairs. As a rule, the “loyalists” in this way got possession of the avenues of publication, and, being the foes of Catholics, did not hesitate to pervert facts and falsify history in so far as they related to the part taken by them in the revolutionary war. From that time to this the nefarious work has been going on, until we find it openly charged in our own day that Catholics were hostile to the Revolution. This conspiracy —for such it was—has played its part well and, to a certain extent, successfully.
Four generations of Americans have been born and educated since the Revolution without being able to find in our school books, or any other publications for that matter, anything like justice to the services rendered by Catholics, or anything that would enable them to refute the constant calumnies and falsehood with which they are assailed.
Even Bancroft, who, in the first edition of his history, did a modicum of justice to the Catholics of Maryland for the spirit of political, and religious liberty which they inculcated, brought forth his second edition a few years ago with very much less to say upon that subject. It is a sad commentary upon the history of the past hundred years to say that the very men who were unable to encompass the defeat of Washington, mainly because of the support given his cause by Catholics, should afterward be successful in not only depriving Catholics of their fair share of credit in the glory of their work, but in calumniating and libelling them . . right here in the very home of their friends.
Is it not about time this unfair treatment of Catholics should cease? Is it not time, too, that they should insist upon a fair hearing and proper representation in the history of the republic? They have patiently borne the abuse and calumny of bigots, and is it not time they ' should insist upon fair play from the manhood of America As so aptly stated by the New York Sun, in its review of Mr. Bagenal’s work on this subject, the waves of bigotry against Catholics that sweep over our country from time to time, and which are -a disgrace to it, would never exist if our school books and histories had done simple justice to the part played by Catholics in the war of the Revolution. ' -Inter-Ocean.	P. T. Barry, A. M., ’85.
The project of introducing the Benedictines into New York is well underway. Property on the west side, near Eightieth street, it is said, is being negotiated for. The introduction of the Benedictines would infuse a new element into the Catholic life of New York. Learned and studious, with the accumulations of thirteen centuries behind them, the Benedictines could not fail to contribute largely to the elevation of education and of literary taste among the ■ Catholics of the town.—Boston Republic.
472	NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
13ubltsi)rt 6trn Saturtag taring &trm SEimt at N. 13. Sni&trsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame April 11, 1891
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twenty-fourth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week, by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
—“Abolish the classics!” cry the daily papers. But in spite of the frantic commands of that engine of the nineteenth century progress, the Press, as long as there is a scholar in the land, the treasures of knowledge in Greek and Latin will be cherished and loved.
—The “paper preparations” for the World’s Fair in Chicago are nearly completed, and the real work will soon be well under way. The Catholics of the country should earnestly endeavor to make the Catholic educational exhibit as attractive and as representative as possible. No stronger rebuke could be given to the bigoted talk of the “know-nothing” element, who' are again gaining notoriety by means of their sensational exposes of their own ignorance.
—Though our present complications with the Italian Government and the unfortunate circumstances which called them forth are regrettable in the extreme, yet they afford a lesson to the American public, which it might be well to heed. There have been no serious fears that war would ensue between the great powers. Should such a contingency arise, however, it is
manifest that our coast is wellnigh defenceless. • The large cities upon the sea-shore would be at | the mercy of a hostile fleet. That America would be victorious in the end is beyond question; but the damage that might be effected during the earlier stages would be incalculable.
The proud spirit of the American people will never submit to the dictation of any upstart European monarchy. It is an old adage: “In S time of peace prepare for. war.” The stern les- ; son which present conditions serve but to em- L phasize should teach the nation that longer S delay in building and maintaining coast defences would be fraught with danger.	|
Another consideration, none the less impdr-	3
tant, is the laxity in our immigration laws.	|
While the majority of foreigners who seek our	|
shoresjare honest and industrious, there is a small	j
but dangerous element to which the Nation	S
would do well to deny admittance. Poverty is	J
no crime; but the American citizen fails in his	€
duty to self and country, who enters not his	|
earnest protest against this influx of vagabonds	£
and criminals from the states of Europe. Owing	|
to our indulgence, anarchists and. socialists | boldly preach their doctrines, and mafiaists ply § their murderous vocation.	|
It is time this should cease. Such characters I $ are dangerous—a menace to the peace and | safety of the land. America is a home for the	|
persecuted and oppressed; but an asylum for	|
•criminals—never! Our liberality must not be | construed into license.	"	<
J * * $
In connection with this subject, it may be i said that a portion of Mr. Blaine’s letter should 3 be kept prominently public before the world. £ It is to the effect that the treaty with Italy guarantees to Italian subjects the same protection as is afforded by our laws to American citizens.
Were this borne in mind, much ill-feeling here . and any international complication would be done away with. This is a free country, and immigrants from foreign lands—under certain i restrictions which the world at large recognizes | as essential to the well-being of any community | —may enter and establish themselves and con- | tribute to the prosperity of a great nation. But f all, implicitly at least, subject, themselves, to J the laws of the country; and any body of men ; —whether foreigners or natives—that defy all ’ law, or process of law, expose themselves here, as elsewhere, to the concerted action of honest and upright citizens’ who for their own safety > and the good of the community seek to enforce	|
the requirements .of law. a nd order,	.	p
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
473
Something About Reading.
If it be true—and it can scarcely be disputed— that the profit we derive from any book is exactly commensurate with the industry we bring to bear upon it, and that, too, the ethical character of any book depends upon the soundness of our own moral vision, it is evident that the only true warrant of a right education is the cultivation of intelligent reading. There are men whose vicious inclinations prompt them to ' read solely for purposes of evil, moral evil; others seldom pick up a book if its author be not an odd, insuppressible joker, and comparatively few ever attain the acquirement of thorough, comprehensive study.
It is mere idleness to read precipitately, for a thoughtful book requires thoughtful reading and, since thought is the motive of reading, a thoughtless book is a worthless book. The most pitiable ignoramus under the sun is the creature who has read much to no purpose: he is the pest of society; he lives on novels and, intellectually, dies young. His mind is a chaos of noble ladies, wicked lords, and secret marriages, together with a confused heap of indistinguishable “ revelations ” at the close. He has read Dante because it would be bad “form” not to have done so, but he is perversely ignorant of anything Dante ever wrote; he has gulped down all the plays of Shakspere, but quite forgets the principal character in “King Lear.” Such a man is a savage, as contemptible as he is troublesome. Earnest study is absolutely necessary to beneficial reading. When a student —a real student—reads a novel he does not read it for the story; he does not skip descriptions and moral conclusions, and, what is most commendable, he recognizes that the preface was written to be read.
.Next to the individual who never understands what he reads, the most despicable is the benighted being who is always looking for something which excites mere laughter. There are men so lamentably lost to respectability as to read “Bill Nye” and others of the same stamp with unqalified delight. Now verbal inanities and incorrect spelling are not very humorous things, and ignorance, whether assumed or otherwise, is pitiable. Of course, there is no puritanical law against good books, for that would" be condemning poetry, and poetry is man’s noblest teacher; but what is only ridiculous«is also stupid, and stupidity is intolerable. Humor is fascinating and wit is delicious; but only a blasphemer would say that a punster holds any legitimate place in God’s creation.
Corrupt art is no true art; and however perfect the technique of the work, if it be impure it is base. Milton is powerful because.he is chaste, but tainted books are worthless. It is far more difficult to be simple than to be complicated, and since purity is the chief attribute of simplicity, immorality is evidence of stunted mental growth. A favorite maxim of Dr. Egan’s is that a good book is a gift of God; and it is no less apparent that a bad book is a scourge of the devil. Nevertheless, it is the glory of our best English writers that they are seldom coarse, and it is the curse of English readers that French novels were ever translated. Nothing, indeed, is more absurd than to go to the French for novels; their fashions may be very good as conventionalities, but the representatives of their literature, as most Americans know them, are execrable.	■	•
Perhaps, too, the saddest evil of our day is the abuse of the newspapers. Love of the sensational is now so predominant that men will spend hours searching even the remotest columns for some bit of scandal. Now, newspapers were never meant to be read carefully, because all the news of the day—and it. is gratifying to note this marked improvement in modern journalism—may be gathered from the few glaring headlines which at once arrest attention. The man who spends beautiful Sunday mornings gorging himself with the rubbish of newspapers is another example of the bad consequences of indiscriminate reading.
It is not disgraceful to have read little; the evil consists in having read much and remembered little. The results of critical analysis show the utter villainy of carelessness, and give evidence of the fact that beneficial reading is more a task than an amusement. Ill-ordered reading is pernicious; a person should not read Shakspere and “Ouida” at one sitting. The family almanac should not be studiously perused while the Bible is left to be glanced over. To be able to read well is a superior accomplishment, and education will never assume its highest form of excellence until reading is a perfect acquirement.	■ T. A. Crumley.
Athletics.
It is a significant fact that the prejudices manifested in many quarters against college athletics are fast disappearing. The old opinion that all athletic contests tend to increase and foster an unruly or boisterous spirit among students is now scouted by discreet college directors.

474
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The father no longer hesitates to enter his son in a university which devotes a great deal of attention to its base-ball nines or boat crews; for he fully recognizes the truth of the old adage: Mens sana in corpore sano. Nor is it true, as some assert, that the moral tone of a college is lowered on account of its participation in athletics; on the contrary, some of the most successful ball teams are found in denominational schools, and not a few of our leading divines boast of their former prowess in athletics.
The collegian of to-day not only, desires to see his Alma Mater rank among the first educational centres in the country, but he also feels a kind of patriotism, as it were, on seeing his college colors waving in triumph over some hard-fought. contest on the base-ball diamond, or the Rugby field.	.
The athletic student often distances the brilliant “ medalists ” in the race of life, for he has developed, by proper exercise, a constitution which is proof against the cares of business. For this reason the athletic department of our leading universities is no longer regarded as a merely perfunctory institution, but as an indispensable branch of college work; competent instructors have the supervision of this department, and large, convenient gymnasia have been built to supply the demand for physical culture. Certainly, this desire for athletics should not -supersede the craving for intellectual pursuits; nor should any college be looked upon as a training school for athletics, but a happy mediocrity ought to be observed. This demand on the part of students for proper facilities for physical culture cannot afford to be slighted; and the college which is so impolitic as to ignore this legitimate branch of college work need have no reason for astonishment when its roll of stu-
• dents continually diminishes.
The students of Notre Dame are particularly fortunate in that they have numerous means . wherewith to gratify their desire for athletics. The four military companies are trained to a commendable point of perfection. The various base-ball associations always develop good material for a’varsity nine—the repeated victories of last year and. previous years bearing evidence to this fact. Our football eleven have long been recognized as champions. Those who find aquatics more congenial to their taste have the boat club at their disposal, and the June races never fail to attract considerable comment. And, to crown all, there are prospects that in the near future we shall ha ve a new gymnasium fitted out with all the latest improvements.
’ ' •	•	-	S.
.	Local Items.
—April showers!
—Navigation has opened.	.
—He is not in the Infirmary now.
—“Heighoho! You man in the ferry!”
—Now for the reorganization of the crews.
—Base-ball will be all the livelier after the recent election.
—Now that nothing is going on, let the springpoet paragraph get in its work again.
—Jim Slim and Schaack were mentioned as’ two possible choices for captains of the second nines.
—Schwartz has returned! The glad tidings brought joy to the heart of many a weary student last Thursday.
—Mr. and Mrs. L.Huffer, Paris, France, made a very pleasant visit of a few days to Notre Dame during the week. '
—“Doozie” intends entering the twenty mile bicycle race. He should rid himself of superfluous flesh before the race.
—Prof. A. F. Zahm has charge of the classes of Physics and Chemistry during the absence of Rev. Fathei' Zahm in Washington.
—J. Dempsey won the medal in the competitive drill of Company “B” last week, and M. Quinlan wears the badge this week.
—Rev. President Walsh has the thanks of the military companies for a very generous supply of cartridges for skirmish drills.
—The concert given by the Choral Union in Sorin Hall, April I, was a great success. F. A. McCabe was the life of the entertainment.
Corrigenda:—In the first paragraph of the article “Looking Backward” omit “B. C.” before “2000,” and for “down to” read “from.”
—We are pleased to announce that His Excellency, Governor Hovey, will deliver the Oration of the day at the Commencement in June.
—Among the welcome visitors during the week were: Rev. F. O’Brien, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Rev. J. O’Connell, Peoria, Ill.’, and Mr. P. Cavanagh, Chicago.
—Col. William Hoynes attended the jubilee exercises of Auten Post, G. A. R., South Bend, on Monday night and delivered an eloquent and patriotic address.
—The Rev. Prefect of Discipline has had his room handsomely, decorated and refurnished. The decorating was done under the artistic supervision of Bro. Frederick.
• —In the last five competition drills in company “A” the honors were carried in the first and fourth by A. Lancaster and the second, third and-fifth by G. Lancaster.
—Now doth the busy little landscape gardener begin to survey the scene which he will soon make to please the eye, delight the taste and gladden the aesthetic soul. Sa
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	475
—Last Thursday evening Rev. President Walsh lectured at Plymouth, Ind., under the auspices of the temperance societies of St. Michael’s Church—Rev. L. A. Mcench, Rector.
—As the time for reorganizing the nines approaches, base-ball politics in the Juniors waxes warm. J. McDonnell and C. Chassaingarespoken of as strong candidates for captains of the 1st nines.
—Rev. N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., our genial Professor of Greek and the zealous Rector of St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend, was very ill during the week, but, we'are happy to say, is now convalescent.
—Mr. Charles T. Cavanagh {^Classical} has been chosen Valedictorian of the Class of ’91.-The choice is an excellent one, and the class will be well and honorably represented at Commencement.
—Mr. J. F. Sullivan desires to state that he will not act as censor of the Congress, unless he is provided with a body guard of four soldiers. He is in constant danger of his life, and fears an assault at any time.
—Bro. Celestine, C. S.C., returned on Wednesday from his Southern trip on business connected with the University. He was welcomed by many friends, all of whom are pleased to see him so well and hearty.
—Messrs. H. P. Brelsford, J. S. Hummer and J. B. Sullivan, of the Class of ’91, have been selected to deliver the Commencement day orations. These gentlemen, it is needless to say, will do justice to their subjects, and reflect great credit upon themselves, their class and their Alma Mater.
—The students of the Seminary commemorated last Sunday evening the birthday anniversary of their worthy Director, the Rev. J.’ French, C. S. C. Music, addresses and speeches made the occasion a very enjoyable one and testified to the sentiments of esteem entertained by the seminarians towards their Director.
—The intense excitement which prevailed during the Morrison-Paquette trial has subsided, and now comes the calm. Although the accused were acquitted by the Congress, many still believe in their guilt, and fears are entertained that the outraged public will take the law into their own hands and deal harshly with the scientists.
—The Columbians held their sixth regular meeting Thursday, April 2, Vice-President Manly acting as chairman. The question “Resolved, that .electricity is more beneficial to man than steam ” was ably disputed by Messrs. -Lesner and Lorie, while Messrs. Ahlrichs and O’Shea defended the affirmative side cleverly. An essay was. read by Mr. J. King. The debate was decided in favor of the affirmative. •	'
—The “Reds” easily defeated the “Blues” by a score of 18 to 10 in a poorly played game last Tuesday. Krembs captained the “Reds,” while the “Blues” were led to the slaughter by
the heroic Fitzgibbon. The “Reds” played horse with that pony battery, of Fitz’s—Dacy andLindeke—and their eighteen runs were piled up in the first few innings. It is to be hoped that the coming championship games will be characterized by less talk and more ball playing than has been the custom in the games this spring.
—The Montreal True Witness, of last week,, published entire the magnificent discourse upon the “nature and meaning of the ceremonies of Holy Week” delivered in that city on the evening of Palm Sunday by the Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S. C., Professor of Natural Sciences in the College of St. Laurent. The discourse is one of the most learned and instructive treatises upon “The Great Week” it has been our good fortune to read, and we hope to have the pleasure of seeing it issued in pamphlet form and widely circulated.
—The Anneroonee string orchestra^ just over' from Paris, played before the Total Separation Society at their last meeting. Many of the members of the society were afraid that the Parisians were members of the Mafia, having designs upon the life of Captain Schaack, Jr., but being assured that such was not the case, they cheerfully dropped their nickels in the slot and listened to the music. “Our orator” from Kentucky had left his purse in his desk and he “silently stole away” without even casting a look of disdain upon the precocious youth who yelled “ He’s busted!”
—-An interesting game of base-ball was played on the Carrolls’ campus last Tuesday afternoon between the representatives of the Manual Labor School and the “specials” of Carroll Hall. Although the weather was a little unfavorable to the players, nevertheless, some sharp playing was done by both teams. Hannin’s three-bagger and Jewett’s timely hit in the last inning were the features of the game. .The following is the	-
Score by Innings:—1 2 3 456 7'8 9 Carrolls:—1 403 1 350 6= 23 •	M. L. S.:—o 2204018 o— 17
—Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Francis Egan’s dinner party to the University Quartette took place on Thursday evening at seven o’clock. The guests were Mr. Dwyer, of the Catholic University, Dr. Liscombe, Messrs. Francis J. Sullivan, J. E. Berry, E. Schaack, W. Hackett, H; Murphy, and N. J. Sinnott. Rev. Father Connor’s illness prevented him from attending. The extremely good taste shown by Mrs. Egan in her table decorations, which consisted of roses and azalias, interspersed with yellow-shaded candles, was much admired. The quartette’s singing was highly praised by the Washington guest, who declared that his University would be more than happy to claim such well-trained singers.
—Rev. Vice-President Zahm left on Wednesday evening for Washington where he will deliver a course of lectures in the Catholic
476
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
University. The Boston Republic of last Saturday had the following:
“ Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., who is to lecture on ‘ Sound’ before the students of the Catholic University at Washington, and who, to illustrate his lectures, brings thither the most costly apparatus that can be found in the country, is professor of physics at Notre Dame, In’d., and one of the ablest men of his profession. He has written many admirable papers for the Notre Dame publications on his favorite topics, and he possesses the rare faculty of making dry facts and figures interesting to his readers and hearers.”
—The regular spring meeting of the Notre Dame Athletic Association was held Thursday last, and officers for the ensuing season were elected. For the coming spring the affairs of the organization will be managed by the following gentlemen, who in every case were unanimously elected: Director, Rev. A. Morrissey,. C.S.C.; Honorary Directors, Rev. P. O’Connell and Bro. Paul, C. S. C.; President, Col. Wm. Hoynes; Vice-President, James R. Fitzgibbon; Recording Secretary, Charles Paquette; Corresponding Secretary, C. T. Cavanagh; Treasurer, W. P. Blackman; Field Reporter, Wm. O’Brien; Captain ’Varsity Team, C. J. Gillon; Captains for the two first nines will not be elected until next Thursday. These officers are the regular ticket of the old association. It was found that fair play was denied them by a clique of Brownson Hall men, so that it became necessary to hold a separate meeting at which the abovenamed gentlemen were elected. Their election will be endorsed by the better element of Brownson Hall and all of Sorin Hall. It is unfortunate that there was any unpleasantness connected with the election; but as it is, Captain Gillon will put as good a team on the field this spring as Notre Dame can produce, and everyone is confident that our representative nine will be as strong as ever. Play ball now, boys, play ball!
—The annual spring election of officers of the Notre Dame Athletic Association and captains of the base-ball nines took place.in the Seniors’ reading-room Thursday, April 9. Bro. Paul was elected chairman unanimously, and after the roll-call and the minutes of the previous meeting were read and adopted, the election of officers was held with the following result: Prof. B. M. Gallagher, President; J. Manly, Vice-President; Bro. Paul, Director; N. Sinnot, Recording Secretary; R. C. Langan, Corresponding Secretary; Thos. Coady, Treasurer; W. B. Hennessy, Field Reporter. The election of base-ball captains was next in order, and the result was most satisfactory to all concerned. Mr. J. C. Smith, Notre Dame’s star pitcher, was the unanimous choice for captain of the ’Varsity nine, and under his supervision the nine will, no doubt, reach a high position among the best amateur teams of the West.
The elections of the captains of the first nines was closely contested, three excellent men being in the race. After much time had been taken up in complimentary speeches, relative to the abilities of the candidates, L. Gillon and F. A. Krembs were elected. This choice was cer
tainly the best that could have been made, considering the fact that the men are both excellent ball players and evenly matched. With Smith, L. Gillon and Krembs at the head of the baseball teams, and knowing their abilities, both as players and captains, we may look forward to the coming season as the most successful that has been had for many a year.
—We give herewith the “roster” of Company “ B.”
Commissioned Officers:
F. B. Chute, Captain;
J. J. McGrath, 1st Lieutenant; .
J. F. Schillo, 2d Lieutenant;
Non-Commissioned Officers:
M. Hannin, Orderly Sergeant;
J. V. Ayer, 1st Sergeant; ~
W. Zinn, 2d C. Fleming, 3d E. Du Brul,4th
T. M. Brady, T. H. Boland, D. Casey, H. J. Chiney, W. A. Coleman, J. F. Coll, F. I. Cummings, D. R. Davidson, J. J. Dempsey, P. M. Dion, T. M. Du Bois, W. E. Ellwanger, F. J. Thome,
G. W. Anson, 1st Corporal;
C.W. Scherrer,-2d	“
N. B. Luther, 3d	“
L. B. Thome, 4th	“
Privates:
J. J. Fitzgerald, P. N. Foley, A. M. Funke, G. R. Gilbert, E. H. Jewett, H. A. Martin, W. S. McDonald, B. K. Morrison, W.A. O’Neill, R. L. Palmer, S. R. Payne, C. J. Pope, E. M. Wolff,
W. R. Pomeroy, M. A. Quinlan, W. Regan, J. E. Rend, H. L. Rice, J. C. Scallen, E. A. Scherrer, L. L. Sutter, J. L. Tong, H. C. Treff, G.A. Wyman, N. B. Yates.
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARROLL HALL.	i
[For some time of late it had been a question	]
among the older members of Carroll Hall, as	|
to what means would most effectually tend tow- I ards recalling to the mind of careless youth the | fact that he should avoid stooped shoulders | while yet in the prime of life. As a result it	\
was decided that anyone, discovered in such a	*
position without good reason should be subject I to one blow on the back; but if the victim of ’ such treatment could prove that he was not guilty he would be justified in treating his assailant to three whacks of equal weight as a recompense for the injury. So far it is a perfect success.]
“Come off the perch; you just leave me alone, I’ll fix you,—see; you’d best not be so fly,” With threatening glance the victim longs to cry But dares not, though a somewhat stifled groan Escapes his lips. His back was almost prone,
When first that smarting blow was dealt “oh, my! ” He breathes revenge; but watches with a sigh, His foe’s erectness, shoulders backward thrown. From this a lesson take unto your heart, '
And bear without complaint the lingering pain.
"Be friend to all; and strike the stooping boy
Who bends with age, ere boyhood days depart.
Strike hard,—so much theuonger will he gain That sore remembrance, foe to health’s decoy.” C. M. Grinnin.
—The regular meeting of the Law Debating Society was held Wednesday evening, April 1, • Col. Hoynes presiding. The meeting called to order, the roll called and the minutes of the last meeting read and adopted, the chairman then stated that the house was ready to act oh any

jVOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mt
important business that might be suggested. Mr. Hummer made a motion that the committees on arrangement and music for the recent public debate be discharged and receive a vote of thanks for their services; the motion was carried. Mr. Herman made a motion that a vote of thanks be tendered to Prof. Liscombe and the Glee Club for services rendered at the debates; the motion was approved, and he was appointed to perform the duty.
Next in order was the selection of subjects for discussion at the next two meetings. The first selected was: “Resolved, that arbitration is a better means for settling international difficulties than war.” The chair appointed Messrs. O’Neill, McConlogue, Blackman and Tivnen, disputants. The subject for the second meeting: “Was the mob at New Orleans justifiable in their act?” The disputants are Messrs. Hummer, Herman, Manly and Chute.
There being no other business before the house, the subject of “Free Coinage” was announced for a general discussion in which all were to participate. Each member gave his views on the subject as his name was called by the chair. It was held by the affirmative that free coinage was necessary to enliven the commercial industries of the country; that our currencycapita compared with that of other countries; that the currency should be increased according to the development of the country; that silver was the most useful and the most substantial, and that it was the coin the people most wanted. It was held, on the other hand, by the negative, that there was money lying in the national treasury sufficient to meet the demands of the country if put into the commercial channels where it ought to be; that free coinage would benefit only those in the mining districts; that the majority of the people would be in but a very little, if any, better condition than at present, and that silver, if coined to any great amount, would displace gold, which is a more standard coin, and therefore prove more of an injury than a benefit to the country. After a few remarks from the chair on the question the meeting adjourned.
Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Allen, Burger, J. Berry, Blackman, Brady, Cavanagh, Cartier, L. Chute, F. Chute, Daniels, Fitzgibbon, Gillon, Hackett, Hummer, Hoover, Murphy, McGrath, Neef, O’Neill, O’Brien, Paquette, Rothert, O. Sullivan, Schaack,' R. Sinnott, J. B. Sullivan, F. J. Sullivan, Tivnen, Vurpillat, Wright.	-
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Aarons, Ahlrichs, Blameuser, Brown, Cassidy, Correll, P. Coady, Corrigan, J. Crawley, P. Crawley, Chil-cote, Dechant,* Dacy, Davis, Devanny, Delany, Frizzelle, J. Flannigan, T. Flannigan, Franks, L. Gillon, Gruber, Green, Grothous, Gaffey, Gorman, Hawthorn, Heard, Hauskee, Houlihan, J. Johnson, Joslyn, Jacobs, Kearns, Karasynski, Kellner, M. Kelly, T. King, E. Kelly, Les-ner, Lancaster, Manly, JMaurus, Magnus, H. Murphy, McDonnell, J. McKee, F. McKee, McConlogue, Mc-
* Omitted by mistake last week.
Gonigle, J. Newman, Norton, Oide, O’Shea, G. O’Brien, Powers, Phillips, Richardson, Rebillott, Robinson, Ra-gan,'Stanton, Scholfield, J. F. Sullivan, Sanford, Spalding, Soran, Vurpillat, Vidal, Vital, Wood, Weakland, Whitehead, Yenn, Zeitler, Walsh.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Anson, Ayer, Bergland, Burns, Boland, Ball, . E. Bates, B. Bates, Brady, Bachrach, Boyd, Brown, Beaud, Bower, Casey, Chassaing, Cole, Coe, Connelly, Collins, Coll, Cummings, Corry, Clark, Du Bois, Dion, Drumm, Dorsey, Davidson, Dempsey, Dierkes, Dolan, Eagan, E11 wanger, Foley, Falk, Alfred Funke, Fleming, Falvey, Fales, Gibert, G. Gilbert, Gerlach, J. Greene, A. Greene, Grund, Garennes des, Hagus, Hahn, Hake, Hoerr, Jackson, Kearney, Kennedy, Keith, Kaumeyer, Langevin, Luther, La Moure, H. Mitchell, Mattox, Morrison, Monarch,! Miller, Murphy, Minor, McCartney, W. McDonnell, F. McDonnell, J. McPhillips, Neef, O’Neill, O’Mara, Orton, Palmer, Prichard, Pope, Quinlan, Russell, Roper, A. Regan, W. Regan, Rend, Rice, Shimp, Schillo, Slevin, Scallen, Smith, Sullivan, Treff, Thom, Tong, Teeter, Thornton, Todd, Wellington, Weinman, Wolff, Welch, Yingst, Zinn, Zoehrlaut.
ST- EDWARD’S hall—(Minims.)
Masters Allen, Ayers, F. Brown, O.- Brown, Bixby Blumenthal, Burns, Blake, A. Crawford, W. Crawford, Cornell, Coon, Curry, Crandall, Chapoton, Croke, Cross, O. Crepeau, E. Crepeau, Christ, Corry, A. Coquillard, J. Coquillard, Drant, L. Donnell, Si Donnell, Durand, Egan, Ezekiel, Everest, C. Furthmann, E. Fiirthmann, Fuller, Fischer, Fossick, Funke, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, W. Freeman, J. Freeman, Girardin, Girsch, Griesheimer, Gavin, Hoffman, Hathaway, Hamilton, Howell, Higginson, Jones, King, Krollman, Kinney, Kuehl, Kern, Keeler, Loughran, Londoner, B. Loomis, Lonergan, Lounsbery, Levi, T. Lowrey, Langevin, Lee, Langley, W. LaMoure,-E. LaMoure, Lawrence, McPhee, McCarthy, Matemes, McIntyre, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, Marre, MacLeod, McGinley, Nichols, Oatman, O’Neill, O'Connor, Otero, Pieser, Pellenz, Paul, Platts, Patterson, Ransome, Rose, Roesing, -Russell, Stephens, G. Scheerer, W. Scheerer, Stone, Steele, Trujillo, Trankle, Vorhang, Wolf, White, ' Wilcox, Washburne, Windmuller, Young, Zoehrlaut, Jon-quet, Warburton.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Cassidy, Kearns, Karasynski, McCallen, Phillips, J. McCabe, F. McCabe, M. McGrath, Norton, Walsh, Hauskee, C. Murphy, S. O’Brien, P. Coady. Lesner, Lancaster, Gaffey, E. Brown, T. King, Houlihan, Ragan, Dunlap, T. Flannigan, P. Gibert, J. Miller, Molitor, Bergland, Foley, Yingst, Dierkes, Scallen, Des Garennes,’ Coe, LaMoure, Gibson, V. Sullivan, A. McPhillips, W. Bachrach, Tod, Marr, J. McPhillips, G. Gilbert, Corry, Gifford, Teeters, Connell, Connolly, Jackson, F. Roberts, A. Martin, Luther, Chassaing, Anson, J. Murphy, Slevin, J. Browne, De Lormier, McGonigle.
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Latin—Messrs. Hannin, Manly, Weakland, Yenn, Fitzgibbon, Maurus; Greek—Messrs. T. Hennessy, Morris, Lauth, Miskiewitz, Leo, Dechant, Quinn, E. Ahlrichs; French—Messrs, Neef, Fitzgibbon, Blameuser, Joslyn, Houlihan, Rebillot, Weakland; German—Messrs. Sanford, Dacey, Powers, Casey, Ball, P. Lorie, Kearney, J. McDonnell; Spanish—F. O’Rourke; Algebra—Messrs. -Jackson, H. Mitchell, Weakland; Yenn, Murray; Arithmetic—Messrs. J. Brown, Dierkes, W. Miller, F. McCabe, Iwaszewski, Bachrach, Scallen; Grammar— Messrs. De Lormier, Tracey, Dunlap, Smoger; Reading— Messrs. Norton, S. O’Brien, Vidal; Orthography—Messrs. Mozier, . S. O’Brien, Vital; Christian Doctrine—Messrs. A. Ahlrichs, Scheiffer, Gibert, Collins.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Letters from the Archives of Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
IX.
[Extract from a letter written by Rev. John Timon, C. M., afterwards first Bishop of Buffalo, N. Y.J
“Natchitoches, La., Feb. 14,1841.
“After having travelled nearly one thousand miles through Texas, during the worst and coldest winter that has perhaps ever been in the country, I arrived here last Wednesday. I said many a Deo gratias, and, as I embraced our dear brethren, I repeated with equal gratitude: Ecce quam bonum et quam jucundum habitarc fratres in mum! Here I find all mouths full of the praise of Mr. Justiniani. The church which was in a wretched condition this time last year is now completely and elegantly restored. But I must rather give you some account of our trip through the young republic of Texas.
"At Galveston and Houston I preached several times, and appointed committees of gentlemen who engaged to get subscriptions to build a church in each place. Several persons also began to examine the proofs of our religion with a view of becoming Catholics. About seventy miles from Austin I met President Lamar who was travelling to recruit his health. I gave him the letter of Cardinal Fransonius and translated it for him. He expressed his great satisfaction, but remarked that he could do nothing as he had retired from public duties on account of poor health. I then requested him to send the Cardinal’s letter by me to Vice-President Burnet; he did so with a flattering letter of commendation for me. This I delivered to Mr. Burnet who had me again to translate the letter, and who wrote a polite letter to Cardinal Fransonius, which I forwarded to Rome. At Austin I had the pleasure of meeting M. Odin.
“ Having necessary information, we sent them M. Hehle thence to retrace his steps along the Colorado and Brozas and visit different Catholic families. We found afterwards as we passed down that his visits and sermons had been very useful. M. Odin had already rendered himself extremely popular, and had just presented a bill to Congress to obtain the churches and lots which formerly belonged to the Catholic Church. We both lodged at the French Ambassador’s, and at the frequent dinners he gave we came in close relation with the presidents, the heads of departments, members of Congress, etc. I preached in a room we hired, and M. Odin said Mass on Christmas day. Many were present; all seemed highly pleased. The Sunday after I preached in the Senate chamber. The room was crowded: President, members of Congress, etc., were present. In a lengthy sermon I explained our dogma of purgatory, of the sacraments and ’ the saints. All seemed much pleased. At a public dinner at the Ambassador’s several of the most influential members of Congress openly spoke of their conviction that the Catholic religion had been grossly calumniated, and that it had evidences of being the true religion. A lot at Austin was given for building a church and a subscription begun for it.
We stopped in descending, among some Germans west of the Colorado. Mr. Hehle had been there and was much esteemed; there will be. a post at that place. We celebrated Mass and preached there on the 1st of January. The same evening we came to Bastress: M. Hehle had said Mass and preached there. He had made ■ a very favorable impression; I preached on Saturday and twice on Sunday. Almighty God seemed to have given us His blessing. ' I think we will soon have a congregation there. Two or three adults of very reputable standing have begun to prepare themselves for baptism. With M. Odin I returned to Houston, preached before a large audience, accepted a lot for a church, and was assured the means for immediately building a church. Thence to Galveston, where I received into the Chur.ch Mrs. DeLacy, a very respectable and well-instructed lady,
whose heart God had touched as I went up. Others are preparing. Here, too, we had the contract made for building a church which, as at Houston, will be completed before six months. From this place we .went to near Lynchburgh, where we baptized several, heard confessions, etc. As Bayou Buffaloe was very high, we directed our horses and a pack mule of M. Odin’s to be sent for us from Houston to this place. But the weather from the 10th of January had been a continued storm until the 19th, rain till the 16th, when it settled down into the coldest weather that the oldest inhabitant could recollect. All the creeks had been impassible. The steam boats could only run a part of the way to Houston, interlacing tops of trees, and a current like that of a milltail prevented them.
“On the 21st, after breakfast, as an only chance for getting on, we started in a little leaking skiff. M. Odin was continually employed in bailing it out. After four hours’ hard rowing we had advanced only seven miles, and then the rapid current precluded all further advance. ' We hired a horse^the only one we could get—to pack our baggage, and at 2 p. m. we started on loot through prairies knee deep in mud and water. We arrived faint and exhausted at Houston at 8 30. p. m. Crossing a creek our horse had fallen in the water, so we had to open our ■ baggage and dry it by the fire. We took one day to refit, after which we started for Nacogdoches. Terrible was the travelling, swimming creeks, and stomach deep in mud until we got into the high country east of the San Jacintho. At different points on the road where we stopped at night we assembled as many as we could, and explained our doctrines.
“ Through a beating rain we arrived, at 8 p. m., on the 30th of January7, at Nacogdoches. Immediately after supper I went out to find a place in which to say Mass next day. I found one, and before bed time had it notified in different public places. A great many attended both morning ana evening, many who had never seen a priest, and most who had never heard our doctrine explained, or an English sermon from a Catholic. The poor Mexicans of this neighborhood had been forced off under most cruel oppression; they had unwisely been led into a snare, and most bitterly have they been made to repent of their folly. About thirty families of them now lurk about in this neighborhood; but few, however, of the present American population had partin the guilt. Never before have I seen a greater evidence of’G'od’s power in changing hearts than in this place. A fine lot has been given to us and four- hundred acres of land, and a church will be finished in six months; then too, and even now the poor Mexicans may begin to return and repossess at least that part of their lands that has not been sold.
“ Many letters, it seems, had preceded us to San Augustine. We were told that there were no Catholics there. On entering it I earnestly and humbly placed our efforts under the protection of St. Augustine, and I cannot but think this glorious saint deigned to grant my prayer. Several influential citizens met us at the hotel as we lit from our horses, and insisted on our staying at least one day. We consented, and indicated a sermon for the next evening (Friday) at candle light. I preached there for nearly two hours. We had thefTto stay until Monday. Twice on Sunday the large room we used—capable of containing 500 persons—was filled to overflowing. Many declared themselves Catholics; six different lots were offered for a church; money, too, was subscribed. We named three most respectable men as a committee for building a church. They say it will be finished in three or four months. We baptized twelve, aged from ten to one, and through a blessing of God, I hope that St. Augustine will soon have a respectable congregation. Here I had to separate from M. Odin. His duty called him to the West; mine forced me eastward. This parting cost me fully as much as when I started for the Barrens. I earnestly request you to recommend him and his companions of that mission to the Divine Protection. From San Augustine to Natchitoches—but one and a half day’s ride—it took me nearly three on my worn-out horse.”
The original of this letter is a gift to the Archives from Rev. Father Burns.
1I0TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
479-
' St Mapfs flGadeffiY.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—On last Monday Mr. T. A. Dwyer, Washington, D. C., was a welcome visitor at the Academy.
—Visiting St. Mary’s during the past week were: Mrs. Thomas Hutchinson, Chicago; Mrs; Johnson, St. Paul, Minn.; Mr. Wm. B. Davis, Key West, Florida; Dr. J. Fenton, Williamsport, Ind.; Miss Call, Algona, Iowa; Mr. P. Barry and daughter; Mr. and Mrs. Mills.
—The Second and Third Senior classes took part in the reception given on Tuesday evening, the first-named class being received by the Third Seniors, the hostesses—Misses Murison, Lewis and Bero. The pianists of the evening were the Misses S. Ludwig and D. Davis; a duet was sung by the Misses Howe and Hughes; while the recitations were furnished by R. Bero and B. Quinlan.
—The Botany classes have resumed their study of that science, and are anxiously awaiting the advent of the first wild flowers. However, as winter continues to “linger in the lap of spring,” it is no easy matter to predict when they will sally forth on their first botanical excursion. The crocus, hardy little plant, is beginning to lift above the ground its yellow, white or purple head—as the case maybe—which alas! is seized almost as soon as it appears by some fair but ruthless botanical student.
—Active preparations are now in progress for the erection of the much-needed Commence-• ment Hall, a preliminary step being the removal of the building known as the pupils’ Infirmary. The latter has been ordered to the right about, in a peremptory manner, and at present occupies a temporary position near the church. All interested in the success of our Commencement and other entertainments cannot but rejoice that at length a hall will be at their disposal whose acoustic properties, as well as other features, will render doubly attractive the programmes rendered therein.
—On Monday, April 6, the transferred Feast of the Annunciation, the following young ladies were received as full members of the Sodality of the Children of Mary: Misses Julia Naughton, E. Tipton, C. Sena, E. O’Leary, L. Young, F. Quinn, G. Kieffer, and M. Hughes. Admitted as aspirants to the society were: Misses E. Murphy,. S. Leahy, A. Hunt, E. Burns and A. Hanson. During the progress of the ceremony the Ave Maris Stella and Magnificat were sung with good effect by a full chorus of voices, and at its close the Rev. Chaplain addressed the Sodality in an appropriate discourse, replete with words of good counsel.
—The theoretical classes in music, always an important feature of St. Mary’s musical course, are well attended, and manifest praiseworthy interest in mastering the dry details—if there be any such—in connection with that delight
ful art. The knowledge thus acquired lays deep ’ and broad the foundation of a thorough musical education, and is of great aid in promoting the advancement of the pupil, when, at the piano, theory is reduced to practice. Unusual efforts are being made to render these meetings interesting, biographical sketches of certain of the great composers being occasionally read, by which much valuable information is gained.
—Work in St. Luke’s Studio goes on with its customary zeal and vigor. During Miss Starr’s recent sojourn at St. Mary’s the Art Department was visited by her, and the various specimens of work finished and those in progress carefully examined. It is a pleasure to be able to state that her criticisms were not only favorable but even complimentary to the pupils, her verdict being that the work done was in point of excellence wonderful. Special praise was given to the sketches from nature, the arm in crayon, and the water-color pieces. The young artists seem, indeed,, to be fired with an ambition not, perhaps, to rival the great masters, but at least to produce acceptable work for. the June exhibit.
—After the reading of the notes at the academic meeting, April 5, presided over by Very Rev. Father General, a humorous German dialogue was recited by the following Juniors: A. Augustine, Lottie Dreyer, Mattie G. Bachrach, Clara Kaspar. The humor of the selection was well brought out by the little Misses, the accent, very creditable indeed, promising well for the future. Miss E. Murphy then followed, reading a selected essay on “The Language.” The beau- • tiful sentences of the article were uttered in a very pleasing voice and with a distinct, clearcut articulation, establishing the fact that Miss Murphy has acquired that very desirable accomplishment— the ability to read well. The literary features of the meeting furnished a text upon which Rev. Father Zahm spoke at some length. Each pupil was earnestly recommended to begin the study of a foreign language, particular stress being laid upon the superior claims for consideration of the French and German. The linguistic feats of Cardinal Mezzofanti were referred to as an incentive to the acquisition of other tongues, and there can be no doubt that henceforth each pupil will apply herself with redoubled earnestness to her chosen language.
—Avery pleasing entertain ment was that given on the afternoon of April 6. The chief feature of the occasion was the presentation of a French play, entitled Le Moulin des 'Oiseaux. To say that it was a. decided success seems almost superfluous, in view of the fact that it was presented by the pupils of the French class. The painstaking and earnest, work: on the part of those concerned in the play was evidenced in the ease, with which all.acquitted themselves; their grace of movement and naturalness of manner meriting much favorable comment. To an attentive observer it would seem that each pupil bore in mind the injunction: “Act well
NOTRE bAML SCHOLASTIC.
1.
your part”; and with such vivacity did each personate her particular character as in truth to deserve honor—the proverbial attendant of good acting. The following was the
Programme:
Salutation March........................Schubert
Misses McFarland and C. Hurley.
Ave Maria...............................Marchetti
Vocal Class, accompanied by Miss Ludwig.
Tableau.—“The Annunciation.”
Festal Greetings....................Miss	N. Morse
“LE MOULIN DES OISEAUX.”
Opera Comique eu deux Actes. Prologue..................................Miss	Hurff
Personnages. Comtesse d’Hermontal..................Miss	K. Morse
Catherine Durand [Meuniere]..........
Rosette Durand J 5	- f U
Rose Durand	J
Petit Pierre \tambour du village']...
Madelon,
Jeannette, Camille, Marguerite, J Paysannes.
Laurette,	.
Annette, Louisette, Marie, _
.......T. Balch E. Dennison
] H. Pugsley ____K. Hamilton f C. Gibbons I R. Bero | M. Hurff - D. Davis
M. Fitzpatrick A. E. Dennison E. Lewis M. McCune
Act I.—“Le Village de Saint Pierre.” o
Vocal Quartette....................“Annie Laurie”
Misses Horner, Murphy, Johnson, Hughes.
Act II.—“La Ferine du Moulin des Oiseaux.”
Harp Solo—“The Harp that once through Tara’s
Halls”—(Wallace]..............Miss L. Nester.
Polonaise from “ Mignon”..................Thomas
Miss I. Horner, accompanied by Miss O’Brien. . Instrumental Duet.........................Gounod-
Misses O’Brien and Dority. -’Chorus—“Let the Celestial Concerts all Unite,”—Handel
Vocal Class.
Salut du Pesth..........................Kolwalice
' Misses N. Morse and J. Currier. ,
The musical portion pf the programme was up to the usual high standard. [The vocal solo, from “ Mignon,” elicited much praise, the trilling being especially commended. The quartette, “Annie Laurie,” sung without accompaniment, is a most pleasing arrangement of that old-fashioned but touching melody, the windings of the voice parts requiring no little skill to render with effect, which demand, however, was met by the singers. The last chorus was a bright and animated selection, to which the class did full justice; it was surpassed only by the “Ave Maria,’’.sung by the vocal class, which, was in truth a delight to all lovers of music. It is an arrangement abounding in rich harmonies soft, low and full, the under parts being particularly fine. The instrumental duets were, as usual, well executed; while the harp solo added a pleasing variety to the entertainment. At its close, Rev. Father Walsh spoke to the pupils in French, complimenting them upon their success, interpreting the evident pleasure taken in their respective parts as a proof of their gratitude and affection for their esteemed Directress. He
was followed by Rev. Father Fitte, who also addressed the audience in French, voicing the pleasure afforded the audience by the play, and commenting favorably upon the animation;
grace and skill of the young participants. Prominent among the audience were Very Rev. Father General, Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Zahm, French, Scherer, Mr. T. A. Dwyer, Mr. Wm. Davis, Mrs. M. F. Egan, Mrs. Johnson and Mrs. Atkinson.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT..
Misses E. Adelsperger, Balch, Buck, Bassett, Bunbury, E. Burns, M. Byrnes, Brady, Bogart, Currier, Coleman, Charles, Churchill, Clayton, Cohoon, Crilly, Cooper, Call, Calderwood, B. Du Bois, L. Du Bois, Mary Donehue, M. Donehue, Evoy, Fitzsimmons, Griffith, Gibbons, Galvin, Grauman, Hamilton, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, Hughes, Haitz, Howe, Maude Hess, Mollie Hess, Minnie Hess, Hutchinson, Hanson, Hunt, Hopkins, Haight, D. Johnson, Kirley, Kingsbaker, Kasper, Kinney, Kiernan, Lynch, Lauth, Ludwig, F. Moore, N. Morse, M. Moyna-han, A. Moynahan, M. Murphy, M. Moore, McCormack, Mullaney, S. McGuire, McPhillips, E. Murphy, Nickel, Norris, Niemann, O’Brien, O’Leary, Quinlan, Quinn, C. Ryan, G. Roberts, M. Roberts, Root, Rizer, Ryder, Robinson, Spurgeon, M. Smyth, Sanford, Sena, Seeley, Singler, Thirds, Tipton, Tod, M. Tormey, R. Van Mourick, H. Van Mourick, Witkowsky, G. Winstandley, B.Winstand-ley, Wolffe, Zahm.
'	' JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	..
Misses M. H. Bachrach, Boos, M. G. Bachrach, Clifford, M. Davis, Doble, B. Davis, Dreyer, Fossick, Gilmore, A. Girsch, B. Germain, Hickey, L. Holmes, Kellner, Kelly, Mills, O’Mara, Quealy, E. Shaffer, Scherrer, J. Smyth, L. Schaefer, A. Seeley, N. Smyth,/Van Liew, Wurzburg, White, Young.	' '
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Eldred, Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, Hamilton, McPhillips, McCarthy, McKenna, Otero, Windsor, Young.
Class Honors.	.
Graduating Class.—Misses Balch, Clarke, Currier, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, Moore, N. Morse, McFarland, O’Brien, Van Mourick, Horner.	_
ist Senior Class;—Misses L. Adelsperger, Dority, Fitzpatrick, Griffith, K. Morse, Nickel, Thirds, Wile, Nacey,‘Crane, Johnson, E. Murphy, Haight, Buck, Nester.
2D Senior Class.—Misses Bassett, Coleman, Dennison, Gibbons, Haitz, Howe, Hughes, Lynch, M. Murphy, A.Ryan, C. Ryan, Spurgeon, Allen, B. Du Bois, L. Du Bois.
3D Senior Class.—Misses Bero, Burns, Call, Charles, Churchill, Clayton, Cohoon; Davis, Dempsey, Margaret Donehue, M. Donehue, Green, Kimmell, Lauth, Lewis, Ludwig,. Kirley, Moore, Norris, Pugsley, Quinlan, Roberts,Sanford, M. Smith, B. Winstandley, G. Winstandley, r Zahm. '
ist Preparatory Class.—Misses M. Byrnes, Cooper, Carpenter, Farwell,Galvin, Good, Grauman, Mollie Hess/ Holmes, Kinney, Kiernan, McCormack, McCune, Moore, Mullaney,Roberts,E. Seeley,H. Van Mourick,Witkowski.
2D Preparatory Class.—Misses Butler, Bogart, A. Cowan, Dougherty, Evoy, Hanson, Hunt, Kasper, Kieffer, M. Fitzsimmons, S. McGuire, A. Moynahan, Neimann, Naughton, O’Leary, Quinn, Ripley, Rizer, Root, Tipton, Tod, Wolff, Young.
3D Preparatory Class.—Misses Daley, Kingsbaker, McPhillips, Ryder, Sena.
Book-keeping.
Misses M. Murphy, Green, Lauth, Good, M. Moynahan, Mollie Hess, Witkowski, Haitz, Kiernan, M. Tormey, Neimann, O’Leary, Nacy, Naughton, L. Holmes, Hanson, E. Burns, Crane, Leahy, Ripley.	.
Type-writing.
Misses Root, M. Donehue, A. Moynahan, Kirley, E. Grauman, Crane, Singler, D. Johnson, Kiernan.