LETTERS
THINK TWICE, FELLOWS
Dear Editor:
Finally, the University has (in effect) transferred a portion of its authority over student activities directly to the student body. The Student Council, so woefully lacking in authority over any* thing in the past, has been placed in direct control of campus club activities.
“ Their role is meant to be a purely supervisory one. The chief point in their regulations is a simple accounting system for club receipts and expenditures that is designed as a protection for the - club member, who is not a member of the chosen few money-handlers. It seems ' that no effort is being made to control activities or the expenditure of funds —the Council desires only to assure Club members that their treasuries are being disbursed fox- theix- good.	.
•« Unfortunately, several clubs, among them the larger ones who have suffered most from the rumor that leading figures have not kept good books, have protested against this program drawn up , by the Student Council. Theix- opposition to a simple accountancy may lead to even more pronounced rumors. Theix- continued opposition might result in direct
* University control, which, we may be assured, would be much more stringent. The Rebels certainly hope that all clubs will seriously considex- the impox-t of theix- protestation before they further oppose the Council program.
William H. Slavick, >	President, The Rebels
Lyons Hall
WORDS OF THANKS
Deax- Editor:
The Central New York dub wishes to > commend and thank Harry Monahan and Jim Butz.
’ Their capable handling of news concerning oux- recent trophy award to the outstanding fighter of the Bengal Bouts was edifying. Through theix- cooperation, fighter Mike Bush was properly bestowed the honor- due him.
Edward J. Dwyer,
'	President
ROUND FOUR
Dear- Editor:
Concerning the “judges” of the Ben-V gal Bouts—they stank.
Charles Scott
' Dillon Hall
P.S.: All that booing wasn’t for Henry Wallace.
CALLING ALL COVER BOYS
Dear Editor:	,
Can it be a coincidence, ox- is the photographic department of Notre Dame’s weekly at a loss to find talent fox- its cover? Since the beginning of the school year it seems that almost every other-issue has come out with a profile or character study of one or another Scholastic photographer emblazoned across its front.
Personally, I would be willing to cooperate with the technicians in charge, just to get a little variety into the art work on the cover. No doubt volunteers from among the thousands of talented students on campus could be solicited by inserting a brief line of type in the next issue.
Perhaps the editors could assist Mr. Ferstel in selecting the more worthy students.
Thomas E. Reilly Alumni Hall.
Reader Reilly no doubt looks with scorn on this week’s cover, too.—Editor-.
A 'WEEK' FAN LETTER
Dear- Editor:
Since 1942 the Scholastic has, in my opinion, been one of the best college magazines of the several that have come my way. This past fall the Scholastic reached the summit of perfection in all departments, but the last two issues have left me with a very bad taste in my mouth. I have reference to your alleged “humor” column, The Week, which is about as humorous as the death notices in a newspaper.
Not only was the column fox- this past week a poor attempt at humor but it lacked originality. The All-American idea lost its laugh-provoking qualities long ago. The harried student explaining low grades was funny at one time and should rest in peace.
These comments will probably be written off as the rantings of some wildeyed, disillusioned, embittered reformer but nevertheless they represent the opinion of one of your readers.
My suggestion? Either- hire a humorist or drop the column.
Charles W. Powers
Lyons Hall.
GLEE CLUB FIRES BACK
Dear- Editor:
As a formex- membex- of Notre Dame’s TERRIFIC Glee Club, I feel qualified to answex- “Name Withheld.”
From all indications, “Name Withheld” is a frustrated vocalist, who, instead of sticking around and seeing what he could do to improve the Club, decided that it was a lost cause.
Maybe oux- boys aren’t the best in the
world (I don’t think there are many better), but they are all giving a lot of free time to the Club. And Mr. Pedtke (Continued on Page 24)
The Vets Club ' of ST. JAMES PARISH HOUSE 117 N. Lafayette
DANCE APRIL 13 — 8 to II p. m.
75c PER PERSON
Purchase at door or Walgreen "s
WANTED:
Capable, aggressive young man to represent Chicago florist. Profits enormous. Contact . . . M. Ellis, 7450 Greenview, Chicago.
WORT FORGET POUR DR.GRABOW PRE-SMOKED PIPE. SIR*
spo. $2°® • ^S50 • ^5°®
Fashioned by Linkman kt fiiuiow Pipe Co. Inc. Chicago h III
3
A96
TOP OF THE WEEK
Most interesting news to hit Notre Dame after the Easter vacation was Fritz Crisler’s rumored resignation from the post of athletic director at Michigan. Ever since the 1943 debacle, Crisler has been about as eager to schedule ND’s football team as he is to fall in front of a beer truck. A new boss at Michigan might look with favor upon playing the Irish and thus add some important competition to future ND grid schedules, which from this distance do not look robust.
HOT TIME TONIGHT
The campus erupts in a burst of welcomed social activity tonight with the Junior Prom and the spring Law Ball. Such carryings-on have not been known around here since well before Lent. Carmen Cavallero, he of the frozen grin and the hepped-up piano, will play for the Prom at the Palais. Only juniors, seniors, graduate students, vets over 21, and freshmen and sophomores with heavy beards will be admitted. We trust no one will be killed in the crush.
The lawyers will have a comparatively private gathering of their own at the Indiana Club. Ted Gallagan, the South Bend Strong Toot, will provide the proper noises. Have a dandy time, boys, but don’t forget to get back to your cells by 2 a.m. or the usual unpleasantness will ensue.
—❖—
BOCK. GIPP AND BILL STERN
Impervious to the hostile remarks of cynical unbelievers, Bill Stern goes on and on distributing his own peculiar brand of melodramatic hokum. In the current issue of Sport magazine, he finally gets around to calling it fiction. He writes a story concerning a presentday football player in a plane over Kansas to -whom appears no less a personality than Knute Rockne.
Toward the end of the interview the ghostly Rockne talks about George Gipp, saying, “Even today the mention of Gipp’s name will turn a Notre Dame team into a pack of fighting bulldogs.” From this we’d say Coach Leahy need worry no longer about getting his

charges in the proper frame of mind for
important games. All he has to do is gather the team together before the kickoff, solemnly whisper “George Gipp,” and then leap out of the way. A thundering stampede of savage maniacs, barking like bulldogs, will surge across the field and tear the opposition into little pieces.
It would be better if Stern were to leave Rockne and Gipp to the honored memory in which they are held, instead of resurrecting them every so often for commercial purposes.
__♦♦♦—
PICTURE PICK-UP
Washington Hall came up with a fairly presentable movie last week for a
“Too good to miss—that’s the way 1 react to Dentyne Chewing Gum’s grand flavor! And let me point out another fine thing about Dentyne — it helps keep your teeth white.”
Dentyne Gum—Made Only By Adams
change. “Her Husband’s Affairs” was well-paced and funny. It was an example of the kind of picture which should appear more often in weird old Washington—the kind that takes the student’s mind off departmental exams, puts him in shape for the following week’s work, and makes him feel it’s worth while to go on. Campus movies this year have been a little better than usual, but we’re still getting Grade-Y slop like “Tarzan and the Huntress,” “The Mighty McGurk” and “Seven Keys to Baldpate.” The last-named was the most spectacularly terrible motion picture filmed since the day Edison made his fateful blunder.
MAGNIFICENT MAC
The Herald-American will undoubtedly print two or three dozen more photographs of MacArthur next Sunday. The one on the front page will probably be captioned “Picture of General Douglas MacArthur showing qualities of leadership, determination, perseverance and sound teeth.” The General will be staring intently at his left foot.
_<♦_
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Got fifty bucks to spare, pal?
•4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR, Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX Features
PETER BROWN Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK-----------------------Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL Photography
Editorial Associates
HARRY MONAHAN BUZZ WRIGHT KEN THOREN JOE HERRINGTON	VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian JOHN CLARK Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL Circulation
B. T. KYSER-------------------------------------------------Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN----------------------------------Faculty Moderator
iitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiititiiiiiinttiiiiiiiiiiiiitniiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiniiiiiitiiiiiiitinitiiiiiittiiHitiii
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
iiniiiatiiiniiiiitiiiiittiiiitiiitiiiiiniiiiiitinnmiimmaiiinaiiiiiitiiiaiiiitiaiiaiaiaaiiiitaaiaaiaiiaiaiiniHiai
Don’t Miss — In This Issue
NEWS	*	Page
STUDENT COUNCIL—More Phones on Way _____________________________ 9
POLITICAL CONVENTION—More Candidates Enter .... 9
NFCCS—Pan-American Day Tomorrow ________________________________ 9
JUNIOR PROM—575 Couples Dance to Cavallero _____________________ 11
FEATURES
MILITARY—Uncle Sam Wants You  12
CONCORD—Neophyte Mag Has Growing Pains _________________________ 14
SPORTS
FOOTBALL—Leahy Wants a Tackle __________________________________ 15
BOWLING—Keglers Lose First Match -._____________________________ 15
TENNIS—Three Top Men Return  18
COVER
Gene Reynolds, an Air ROTC cadet, calmly shines shoes while world tempest seethes. Photo by Jim Ferstel.
CALENDAR
APRIL 9
WASHINGTON HALL, Richard Pattee, Latin American authority, lectures at 8 p.m.
STATE, Gone With the Wind. Back again at popular prices. Gable reached his peak here, and Butterfly McQueen does a sensitive portrayal of an indolent, grating, dim-witted servant girl.
PALAIS RO YALE, Junior Prom, Carmen Cavallero at the keyboard and a lovely evening assured for all the beaming ND men and their lucky dates.
PALACE, Tycoon, with John Wayne and Laraine Day Durocher. Companion feature: Half Past Midnight. This latter is apparently a mystery. The producer’s motive isn’t.
INDIANA CLUB, Law Ball, that College’s social splash. Ted Gallagan will provide the glide music.
APRIL 10
PALAIS ROYALE, Tea Dance for Junior Prommers. Begins at 3 p. m., ends at 6. Ted Gallagan furnishes the music.
PAN-AMERICAN DAY on campus. Delegates from many colleges convene, with Richard Pattee principal speaker. Sponsored by the NFCCS.
APRIL 11
STATE, Dotcn to Earth, with Rita Hayworth. If you like Hayworth.
APRIL 12
DRILL HALL, Aquinas lecturer Max Jordan, noted journalist, speaks on “Germany, Touchstone of World Peace.”
WND, Concord roundtable discusses question of top-drawer importance to ND men—“What about a Student Credit Union at Notre Dame?” Panel is composed of experts Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Mr. James Corbett, Len Boykin and Curt Kiesling. Starts at 7:45 p.m.
APRIL 15
COLFAX, Cass Timberlane. Fans of Spencer Tracy will be happy to see him back in Sinclair Lewis’ story about moderns.
GRANADA, Albuquerque, a rip-roarin’ western. If Randolph Scott isn’t in it, then it’s the first one he’s missed. Companion feature: Chickens Come Home. Obviously the story of fascistic Army officers on furlough.
APRIL 16
PALACE, T-Men, with Dennis O’Keefe. Reviews say this is a sleeper—one that pleasingly surprises. Companion feature: Adventtires of Silverado. Now what in the name of blazes is that?
LAW AUDITORIUM—“Psychosomatic Medicine,” a lecture by Dr. John Mitchell, of Columbus, Ohio, and Rev. Charles Curran, of St. Charles College, Columbus, sponsored by the College of Science at 8 p.m.
CHEMISTRY HALL—“Essential Oils—Their Use from the Cradle to the Grave,” a talk by J. B. Magnus, vice-president of Magnus, Mabee and Reynard, Inc., New York City, in Room 213 at 4:14 p.m.
5
SCORNER'S SEAT
Propaganda Does Not An Army Make "Dugout Doug" Invokes A Question
By Joe Wilcox
INTO THE MOAT
It looks now as if some sort of draft, UMT, or, unhappily, both, would shortly become law. As an Army veteran, with
unpleasant m e m-ories not noticeably dimmed by time, I could hardly be expected to greet with great e x c 1 amations of joy a program which proposes to draw millions of other young men into the Army’s hungry maw. I did not like the
Army, the way it did things, or the odd state into which one’s rights fell under military law. Rather than a professional soldier, I would prefer to be an itinerant buttonhook peddler.
By this I do not mean to imply that we should not take 'steps to halt the present Russian imperialism, which parallels so closely Hitler’s absorption of Europe in the thirties. If a draft is the only way to stop this sort of international piracy, I suppose we shall have to put up with it. But before we consider a draft, which is so repugnant to American traditions, we might give just a small thought to bettering the organizations into which we are going to send people. To my knowledge, much talk about turning the army into a reasonable institution has been followed by a scarcity of action.
For the amount of propagandizing the armed services have done, it should have been easy for them to.have filled their quotas. But they failed. To me, the reason is clear: too many veterans have a bad taste in their mouths from the last time. No amount of unctious cooing on the radio, or suave newspaper ads will make veterans forget incidents like the Litchfield trials, the Coleman affair at Selfridge Field, or other unsavory incidents which gave the Army a black eye.
Perhaps if the Ai'my and Navy were made more attractive, if the insufferable caste system were at least modified, if enlisted men were assured of a fair-trial, if officers were duly punished for real offenses, more men might find the
armed services pleasant occupations. Apparently, however, the Army, at least, prefers to draft men forcibly, to serve against their wills, rather than alter some of the practices so dear to the military heart.
The Army is an exceedingly gauche organization when it comes to public relations. It has allowed situations like the treatment of the press in MacArthur’s Japan to continue apace. If the general expects a warm welcome from the majority of the press when, as the Pittsburgh Press put it, he “wades ashore at San Simeon,” he may receive a rather rough jolt. Whether he was personally responsible for the treatment of the press I do not know; I prefer to think that he was not. But he seems at least to have ignored it. On the whole, the Army deserves a booby prize forgetting itself bad publicity. Until it mends some of its ways, I am willing to see that it gets more of it.
WIND OUT OF ASIA
Speaking of MacArthur invokes the query, “Must we have a ‘strong man’?” Talk of strong men calls to mind Hitler, Mussolini, et al., to say nothing of the Mustachioed One who, at the moment, is a trifle too strong for comfort. If MacArthur has nothing more to contribute to the presidency than strength, which, to date, is all that has been displayed for him, I suggest that he sign with the nearest circus. Perhaps he can lift weights for the edification of the multitude.
COMPREHENSIVE EXAMS UPCOMING
The Comprehensive Written Examination for all senior majors in Economics, who are to be graduated this June, and combination Law and Economics majors, who are finishing their Arts and Letters work this semester, will be held at 1:30 p.m. on Thursday, April 15, 1948. The test is to be given in room 127, Social Science Building. All who are affected by this notification are urged to review general Economic Principles, Economic History, History of Economic Thought, Money and Banking, Distributive Justice, and Labor-Management Problems.
BOSTON SHOE STORE 124 S. MICHIGAN
...RUGGED CAMPUS COMFORT with STYLE PUNCH!
in suede —
your choice of Cinnamon Tan (with genuine Crepe Sole) or Chocolate Brown (with Red Rubber Sole).
Styled by Weyenberg
Our Campus Representative —
Mr. Thomas Kiley
352 Dillon Hall
BOSTON
SHOE STORE
124 S. MICHIGAN
6
Many Theoretical and Applied Studies Behind Development of “Cordura” Rayon
Stronger, lighter tires made possible by teamwork of
Du Pont chemists, engineers, and physicists
On the surface, the viscose process for rayon seems fairly simple. Cellulose from cotton or wood is steeped in NaOH to give alkali cellulose, which is treated with CS» to form cellulose xanthate. Adding NaOH gives molasseslike "viscose,” which is squirted through spinnerets into a coagulating bath of acid and salt to form from 500 to 1,000 filaments simultaneously:
R*-OH + NaOH —> R-ONa + H»0 (cellulose) (alkali cellulose)
S
II
R-ONa 4- CS2 —> R-O-C-SNa ■
(cellulose xanthate)
S II
R-O-C-SNa + H2SO4—> R-OH + CS3+ NaHS04 (cellulose)
R* = C6H;02(0H)2
Du Pont scientists were working to improve on the properties of rayon made by this process when, in 1928, a rubber company asked for a rayon yarn that would be stronger than cotton for tire cords. The problem was given to a team of organic, physical, and analyti
cal chemists, chemical and mechanical engineers, and physicists.
Theoretical and Applied Studies
In developing the new improved rayon, a number of theoretical studies were carried out: for example, (1) rates of diffusion of the coagulating bath into the viscose filaments, (2) the mechanism of coagulation of viscose, (3) the relationship between fiber structure and properties by x-rays, and (4) a phase study of spinning baths.
Concurrently, applied research was necessary. This proceeded along many lines, but the main problem was to perfect the spinning technique. It was known that a short delay in the bath between the spinneret and the stretching operation allowed greater tension on the filaments. Du Pont engineers,
therefore, designed a series of rollers, each revolving faster than the previous one, to increase the tension gradually.
In addition, a textile finish was developed that combined just the right amount of plasticizing action and lubricating power, allowing the filaments to twist evenly in forming the cord. A new adhesive was prepared to join the yarn with rubber. New twisting techniques for cord manufacture were found, since the usual methods caused loss in rayon strength.
Engineering Problems Solved
Chemical and mechanical engineers were faced with the design and operation of equipment for more than 15 different types of unit operations. Equipment had to operate every minute of the day, yet turn out perfectly uniform yam. It was necessary to filter the viscose so carefully that it would pass through spinning jet holes less than 4/1000th of an inch without plugging. Some of the most exacting temperature and humidity control applications in the chemical industry were required.
Out of this cooperation among scientists—ranging from studies of cellulose as a high polymer to design of enormous plants—came a new product, "Cordura” high-tenacity rayon, as strong as mild steel, yet able to stand up under repeated flexing. Today, this yam is almost 100 % stronger than 20 years ago. Tires made with it are less bulky and cooler running, yet give greater mileage under the most punishing operating
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Rayon spinning machine. The spinning solution is pumped through a spinneret immersed in a hardening bath. Filaments are guided over a rotating glass wheel and down into the whirling callectinr bucket. Inset shows close-up of spinneret; each hole forms a filament.
Determination of spinning tension by C. S. McCandlish, Chemical Engineer, Northwestern University ’44, and A. I. Whitten, Ph. D., Physical Chemistry, Duke University ’35.
conditions. In "Cordura,” men of Du Pont have made one of their most important contributions to the automotive industry.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
How are new men engaged?
Most college men make their first contact through Personnel Division representatives who visit many campuses periodically. Those interested may ask their college authorities when Du Pont men will next conduct interviews. Write for booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” 2518 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, DeL

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
7
fyuMH, the RddofA ^beih . . •
Let Jerry Do It
While crisp legions of American soldiers marched in Army Day displays of men-and-machine strength in this country and abroad, Notre Dame men, jittery and cool alike, listened to the war-drum crescendo and viewed the portentous spectacle as potential participators. The coffee-cup conversation, the classroom prophecies and counsels, the speeches of administrators all echo the same dread theme— an emergency exists and a danger threatens.
The questions of universal military training and reactivation of the war-time draft before Congress and the people right now cannot be weighed unless the root question is honestly answered, namely, does an emergency, a threat to our way of life, exist in trembling actuality? Most observers think so. The communist ideology, riding the crest of the Red Army wave as it rolls across Europe behind the seeping activity of party opportunists and power-crazed traitors, laps at democracy’s door, western Europe. Ever since the Soviet’s frontal attack on the plan for European recovery, the dynamic policy of American statesmen and military has been to work for recovery without the USSR, and more recently an open campaign to stop Russia.
Recently this campaign took on the aspects of preparations for war, sometimes called “any eventuality” or “national defense.”
This is where Notre Dame men come in, for like college men everywhere, they are the potential soldiers and sailors and marines, the parts that will go into the assemblage of a giant military machine where every bolt will be wrenched tight with authority and every nut screwed down with discipline. The average Notre Dame man doesn’t relish the idea of giving up his freedom, family and friends, his plans and dreams, to once again become an impersonal part of the machine. Like all Americans he’s a liberty-loving individual, and prefers to keep his country untainted from the smirch of the military caste system, that autocratic tapestry of artificial royalty and intrigue which has blanketed Europe for centuries and smothered the peace hopes of little people. Only when danger threatens, and then vigorously, does the average American forsake his civilian citadel and spring to the call for service.
Presuming that the situation is now honestly critical, and not the ballooned bogeyman of ambitious politicians or brass-happy militarists, there may be a solution in the proposed American Foreign Legion plan.
Granting that a huge army is needed in Germany, why not re-arm several divisions of Germans staffed with American officers? The same thing applies in the Far East where the now-democratic-minded Jap is a good soldier. This should take care of the emergency inflation of our troop strength. Volunteers from America-fed France, Italy and the Low Countries could swell the ranks.
In the meantime in the American colleges, let compulsory physical training for all classes, vets and non-vets, be the rule. As everyone knows the first several months of ordinary service training are a matter of whipping the recruits into shape, and this could be done on a civilian plane, in American schools.
This two-point program, the arming of a foreign legion made up of disciplined soldiers and technicians from countries cooperating with the US in the European Recovery
Program, and the physical training of American college men, should suffice for the present. Russia would be faced with armed strength. That armed strength would be made up largely of hungry Europeans who would be happy to be in warm uniforms and slugging down heavy spoonfuls of C-rations. That armed strength would be adequately manned by German technicians and staffed by American officers. Meanwhile American college men could continue with their studies and their lives of civilian freedom and at the same time be moving towards preparedness by hardening physical training.
Getting Europe back on its feet and aiding democracy everywhere are avowed American resolutions. The American Foreign Legion plan is another way in which the western European can help shoulder the Yankee Burden.
Here’s Mud in Your Eye
Floodlights and warning signals do little good unless automobile drivers observe regulations. Recently a 1941 Studebaker President, Indiana license No. 624815, sped through the stop sign at the Social Science Building at 35 m.p.h. Classes were just being dismissed and some thirty or forty students had to scurry to cover. The driver was considerate; he blew his horn.
This is but one instance of the heedlessness of the drivers who have been given permission to drive on the campus. In this particular case the driver was guilty of criminal negligence. Other times while students are walking along the lake road, drivers speed by splashing mud and water wherever it may go.
When a person receives the right to drive his car on campus, he also has the consequent duty to observe regulations that are meant for the benefit of all. He should at least show the common courtesy of slowing down while passing pedestrians. Too many times the privileged take advantage of the unfortunate.
The War Against Static
In the near future it might be well for the Student Council to turn its attention toward one of the most irritating menaces known to modern man which at present is running rampant in most halls on the campus. The menace: Electric razor owners who insist upon smoothing their downy chins during a good radio program.
Of course it is impossible for these entertainment wreckers to know when the best programs are in progress. Yet they consistently seem to feel the crying need of a whisker whisking just when something of relative merit beams across the airways. Persistent local stations in most instances are able to put up an even fight with the static, but Chicago outlets are mercilessly swamped under.
There are some halls where the use of these demagogic devices is prohibited except during certain hours; particularly during hours when radios are taboo. Such a system is not without merit. If it is possible for this system to be universally adopted, Council should waste no time accomplishing it. If not, may we suggest the invention of a special condensers to be attached as static filters to all electric razors and further, have their purchase be mandatory. If this doesn’t work, commandeer all static shavers and begin plugging for Shick or Gillette noiseless models.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89. NO. 21
APRIL 9. 1948
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
Council Rings Bell; Gets More Telephones
Talks, Films, Dance Slated for Congress
Not since the Army game have there been so many visitors on the campus as there will be this weekend, when a few hundred student delegates to the NFCCS Pan American Day Congress will be roaming the walks. Twenty-three colleges and universities are sending representatives to the event, making it the largest session to date of the Triregional Commission on Inter-American Action. The Inter-American Affairs and La Raza Clubs togethei’ with the Santa Teresa Club of St. Mary’s are hosts for the occasion, and have arranged a program with a good balance of intellectual and social events.
“Mexico, the Land of Contrasts” is the ‘ theme of the congress, and Mr. Richard Pattee, NCWC Inter-American Consultant, will be on the program with an address on that subject. On the other side of the intellectual aspect are the sectional meetings on various phases of social action in Mexico, being run on a forum basis to give everyone a chance to participate.	.	’
The fabled “Jack” won’t get much opportunity to become dull at this affair, for on the same agenda are technicolor movies of Mexico including Esther Williams in Fiesta, and a dance in the Vet-ville Recreation Hall. As most of the guests will be women and will prefer escorts, Notre Dame men are expected to alleviate the -manpower shortage by taking in either the whole congress or only the social aspects.
The two-day program, briefly, is as follows:
SATURDAY, APRIL 10
3:00 p.m.—Registration, Law Building
4:00 p.m.—Opening of Congress, Law Auditorium 4:15 p.m.—Address, Richard Pattee 4:45 p.m.—Questions and discussion 5:30 p.m.—Supper
6:45 p.m.—Movies, Washington Hall
8:30 p.m.—Dance, Vetville Recreation Hall Sunday, April 11
8:00 a.m.—Mass, Dillon Hall Chapel
8:50 a.m.—Breakfast'
9:45 a.m.—Sectional Meetings, Law Building 11:15 a.m.—Plenary Meeting, Law Auditorium
—Tom Murray
SEATED: NORANDER AND KEENAN Ike and Vandy joined the race
Campus GOP Battle Adds Two Candidates
With two mors hats tossed into the political ring, a seven-way race has developed on the campus for the nomination at the student organized mock convention of the Republican Party.
Before Easter, campaign managers started the ball rolling for five of the major potentialities—Dewey, Stassen, MacArthur, Warren, and Taft (Scholastic, March 19). Dan Norander of Cavanaugh has announced that he is organizing a campaign for Sen. Arthur Vandenburg. While apparently determined not to accept nomination for a political office, Gen. Dwight Eisenhower will be offered to the convention, according to Mike Hines of Lyons Hall who is supporting the general.
At the present time, delegates are being lined up through the various geographical clubs on the campus, and all interested in political activity have been requested to volunteer through their club officers. The delegations will be formed by students from the various states and territories, and will be as large as those at the actual convention.
(Continued on Page 24)
Added Pay Stations Also to be Installed
Continued efforts by Student Council for a better contact with the outer world were rewarded this week with a promise from the Indiana Bell Telephone Company that the installation of more phones would begin within sixty days.
After a conference with school officials, Bell officials sent a letter to the Council stating that telephones would be placed on every floor of every hall and the number of pay phones would be increased.
There will be no attempt made to have booths or seats in the Huddle. Such a proposal was voted down, Council members believing the local soft drink parlor to be too small. They said booths would only add to the confusion and congestion.
Another Council investigation brings bad news to the off-campus students. Vice-President Bob Uhl met with a bus company official concerning a possible special rate for ND students, but it seems that a city ordinance grants permission for such rates only to grade and high schools.
At the request of the Prefect of Discipline, the Council will begin preparations for the satisfactory storage of student equipment during the summer vacation. Father Kehoe also asked for some arrangement to be made for the prompt answering of hall telephones. This matter was turned over to the hall representatives.
Two weeks ago it was decided that the senior delegate to the NFCCS would be an ex-officio member of the Student Council and that the Council must approve all the expenses incurred in Notre Dame’s participation.
Hoping for permission to stage a few informal dances on campus, the social committee is working on tentative dates. The Council banquet will be held at the Ramble Inn, probably some time next week.
Council members reported numerous protests to hall representatives over the
(Continued on Page 24)
9
Fr. Cavanaugh Upholds Private Schools At Universal N. D. Night in Quaker City
Returning to the scene of its founding 25 years ago for its focal point, Universal Notre Dame night featured this year a speech from Philadelphia by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University. Speaking over a coast-to-coast, Mutual Network Wednesday night, Father Cavanaugh upheld private schools as the “greatest single force today for the preservation of a sound America” and decried present efforts to wipe out private education by “competitive state-sponsored forces.”
Father Cavanaugh’s defense of private schools was vigorous and lengthy. In part he said:
“It seems to me that the American private school, founded on the religious principles that are woven into the pattern of American democracy, and still teaching on the sound foundation of those principles, is our greatest single force today for the preservation of a sound America.
The Notre Dame president pointed out that if the government “continues increasingly to pour into the tax-supported public schools the money which will enable them to build classrooms, laboratories, libraries, residence facilities, conducive to the program of modern education, its largeness permits them to outbid all other schools for the best facilities in the fields of learning; and if, on top of that, they can offer these advantages to young men and women free of charge, the fate of the private school becomes largely a matter- of time rather than of speculation.”
“And remember, in those highly modern and thoroughly equipped buildings brilliantly staffed, and filled with all of the young leaders of tomorrow, God must not be mentioned. I am sure then that you will understand why we are concerned, not just for Notre Dame, but for all private education.”
Continuing, Father Cavanaugh stated: “We are convinced that at the moment there is a great good will in America toward all education. American people are convinced of the merits of education. The American government is on record as desiring to subsidize education to a degree unprecedented in our history, and we have long led the world. But we feel that the proponents of private education rooted in the principles of religion possess the deposit of faith of the great political experiment that is the hope of the world, American Democracy.”
Also speaking at the same program in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Dr. Clarence Manion, Dean of the Notre
Dame Law School, stressed education in the U. S. must return to the basic truths of the Declaration of Independence if the traditional American system of government is to survive. Director of Athletics Frank Leahy, told the audience that “Notre Dame has caught all of the glory with which history has enshrouded Philadelphia.”
FATHER CAVANAUGH For a sound America
Elsewhere in the United States other ND Alumni clubs met at dinners attended by various University administrative oJicials. In South Bend the Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c., University vice-president, and Studebaker Chairman of the Board, Harold S. Vance, spoke. In New York City the principal speaker was the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president. In Los Angeles Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, was head speaker, and in Detroit it was Rev. John J. Burke, c.s.c., business manager. In Washington, D. C., John V. Hinkel, University publicity chief spoke and in Chicago Rev. Eugene Burke, c.s.c., professor of religion, and Professor James A. Reyniers of the Biology department were guests of honor.
GRADUATE RECORD EXAMINATIONS
June graduates are reminded that the deadline for registration for the Graduation Record Examinations is noon. April 15. Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the Department of Education, is registering applicants for the examinations now at Room 125. Social Science Building.
Italian Club Pens Plea
For Defeat of Communism
Following up their cable to Premier DeGasperi of Italy, the Italian Club of Notre Dame last week addressed a plea for the defeat of Communism in the April 18 Italian elections to Drew Pearson, prominent radio commentator and noted news analyst.
The letter was signed by Henry DiGirolamo, a junior from West Orange, N. J., chairman of the Committee for Current Events of the club and asked Mr. Pearson to maintain his “valiant crusade” against Red aggression and deemed it necessary to “lend our voice to yours in a plea for the defeat of Communism in the pending elections in Italy.”
Lawyers Issue Writs To Attend Spring Ball
Tonight from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. the members of the Notre Dame Law Club will dance to the music of Ted Gallagan and his orchestra at the annual Law Club spring formal at the Indiana Club. The guest of honor will be Mrs. Lora Lashbrook of South Bend, a member of the faculty of the College of Law.
Co-chairmen of the Ball Anthony Girolami, of Chicago, and Donley Brady, of Venice, Cal., have issued bids in the form of writs of habeas corpus, with which the lawyers have summoned their guests to be present. The Queens of the Ball will be Miss Carole Ann Witous, of Chicago, and Miss Gloria Keegan, of Barat College, the guests of Girolami and Brady, respectively.
Favors at the ball will be dance programs shaped in the form of a gavel, a traditional representation of the bench and bar. Bids have been priced at $4.50, and the usual car privileges and 2 a.m. permissions Saturday morning have been granted.
Special guests in addition to the guest of honor will be Clarence Manion, Dean of the College of Law, Mrs. Manion, and all members of the law faculty and their wives and guests.
The committees and their chairmen are: Arrangements — John Beyerle, James Cassidy, Thomas O’Brien and Byron Hayes, chairman; Patrons—Otto Pozgay, Lancaster Smith and George Ratterman, chairman; Bids—James Harmon and Carl Ringhoff, chairman; Program—Clifton Bloom, and Frank Romano, chairman; Publicity—Joseph Con-erty; Tickets—Frank Casurella, Clarkson Fisher, Donald Fitzpatrick, James Godfrey, William Roemer, Philip Russo, and William Phelan and Daniel Reardon, co-chairmen.
10
Queens of Tonight’s Junior Prom
Gloria Shellander, left. Marquette freshman from Chicago, the date of Co-Chairman Ed Raymond, and Colleen Duffy, Chicago model, the date of Co-Chairman Jim Manning, will reign over tonight's festivities.
Holy Cross Brothers Offer Summer Program for Boys
The Notre Dame Boys Camp at Bank-son Lake, Lawton, Mich., conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross, will again offer an eight-week program of sports and recreational activities this summer from June 20 to August 14.
The camp, open to Catholic youth from 10 to 14 years, will accept campers only on the opening dates of the four periods: June 20, July 4, July 18 and August 1-All inquiries should be addressed to Camp Director, Brothers of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana, before June 10 and after that date, to the camp itself at Lawton, Mich.
Junior Prom Details
PLACE—Palais Royale Ballroom
DATE—Friday, April 9, 1948
TIME—9 to 1. 2:00 a.m. permissions MUSIC—Carmen Cavallero and Orchestra DRESS—Formal
TRANSPORTATION—Car privileges from noon Friday until 6 p.m. Sunday.
SATURDAY—Tea Dance, 3 to 6 p.m. Midnight permissions
SUNDAY—10:10 a.m. Mass
Beauteous Femmes Converge on South Bend As 'Musical Fantasy' Opens Prom Weekend
By KEN THOREN
Girls, girls, girls and more girls. They’re pouring in from north, east, south, west, and Texas, too. Their objective is tonight’s annual Junior Prom. Co-chairmen Ed Raymond and Jim Manning have announced that 570 bids have been sold which indicates that the Palais Royale will be really jumping from 9 to 1 a. m. Walgreen’s, downstairs, had better beware.
Carmen Cavallero, his ten tinkling fingers, and his rhythmic orchestra will be on the bandstand, ladling out the music to the dancing upperclassmen and their beauteous dates. The theme for the weekend’s main event is called a “Musical Fantasy” which is being carried out throughout the dance, and will be carried through on the bids, the favors and the decorations at the Palais.
The reigning queens for this evening’s festivities will be Colleen Duffy, a model from Chicago, and Gloria Shellander, a Marquette freshman and also from Chicago. The girls are the dates of Manning and Raymond, respectively, and will as
cend to their dubious thrones at 11:10 on the nose.
The weekend’s second blowout, a tea dance, will be held tomorrow afternoon from 3 to 6, also at the Palais. Ted Gal-lagan, local musical light, will do the baton waving at this event. Co-chairmen Manning and Raymond have announced that 2:00 permissions have been granted for tonight’s revelers, while midnight permissions stand for tomorrow night. Car permission has also been granted.
Campus station WND will broadcast from the Prom from 10:30 to 11. WSBT will beam their program to the lights-out campus from 11:30 to 12.
Assisting Manning and Raymond on the committees are: Frank Finn and William Kennedy, publicity; George Gir-agi and Joseph Rozier, arrangements; Robert Hurley, bids; and Charles Blom-field, decorations.
Mass, at 10 o’clock Sunday morning, will bring the weekend’s activities to an official close. Then the Juniors’ girls will start pouring out to the north, east, south, west, and Texas, too. .	.... -.
UNCLE SAM WANTS YOU!
Campus Troops Prepare as 111 Wind Blows in Congress
By Greg Halpin and Tom McNally
The guy was minding his own business. He was sitting in his room doing a little bit of nothing waiting for 5:30 and chow. The door opened and the voice of the guy next door boomed in: “Let’s go, it’s time.” And say the guy jumped out the window. He wasn’t crazy. He was just a Notre Dame veteran, an ex-paratrooper and these are hard times.
And so it has been all over campus these past weeks. A prof in a commerce class called his charges to attention and got the startling result of having every man leap to his feet in a rigid position; an off-campus student who drives a jeep to and from school reports he hasn’t had a rider for almost a month; students hustling across campus to classes aren’t just walking, they’re falling in step and from all the dorms come the sound of slamming windows—Notre Dame men chilling under a new draft.
For in the halls of Congress last week the legislative hierarchy was playing a harrowing game of catch with a neat little bundle labelled “conscription” which had been tossed in their laps by the world situation. The cold war was warming up and at Notre Dame the resultant hot-foot caused a great awakening.
The vets found the possibility of a second ride on the GI merry-go-round staring them in the face and most of them were determined that, were it to come, this time they’d grab the brass ring. This time things would be a little different. It was a new Army and Navy and if they had to be a part of it they’d make sure it wasn’t like the last time. They were looking for a deal. Could they get it?
From the Army came an old refrain in answer: “You can get it if you try.” The whole hitch here being that you have to try awfully hard. For instance: The Air Corps is offering wings and a second lieutenant’s commission to anyone who has had two years of college, meets physical requirements, can hold up under a 50-week training program and is willing to serve a three-year hitch when it’s all over. It’s an expanding program and the AC has hung up the SOS sign for manpower. Outside of playing cloud tag in the wild blue yon-
NROTC'S CAPT. DANIS Officers are still officers . . .
der, the Army hasn’t much to offer towards grabbing shoulder jewelry. Of course there’s always OCS and there’s no basic training prefacing it but the Army’s vague on just what qualifications will get you in.
Those in the ERC or ORC will, of course, go back in at their last rank and there is some speculation in Army circles that this will apply even to those who aren’t reservists
The Navy picture is a little rosier. Besides college ROTC courses, the Navy program right now offers chances for commissions to all college grads and to vets with just two years of college. In the event of war, even more barriers would very likely crumble. About a month ago the Navy offered a Supply Corps commission to college graduates who want to stay in. They are looking for commerce majors as the jobs will be chiefly administrative. And, according to Navy sources on campus, in case of another brawl soon V-12 would probably resume operations.
It might be noted that there has been no change on physical requirements for a commission in either Army or Navy. For a while the Navy talked of lowering the eye standards for Supply and Engi
neering Officers but no action has been taken.
The guy in the caf took a good, stiff swallow, put down the coffee cup and got philosophical. “Well,” he said “at least this time things will be changed. It ain’t the old Army or Navy.” To a certain degree he was right. In many respects it isn’t. But some veterans will be less than rapturous in their appraisal of the face-lifting.
As one Army officer put it in comparing the new post-war Army with the one the veteran knew: “We have men in the service now who want to be there. They don’t mind taking orders.” True the Army is more of a career, the individual soldier gets more training, more attention—but it’s still a peacetime Army. The civilians have gone home and things are being run the “old Army way.” You can figure that one out for yourself. And despite the recent investigations, and all, officers are still officers and the enlisted men still know it. The Army has yet to hold a “let’s be buddies week” between ranks. In case of war? It is the concensus of Army sources here on campus that things will be pretty much the same as last time.
And the Navy? Some say it’s different, some say it’s not. The odd part of this little duet being the singers. For it’s the officers who seem to think the status quo of O-EM relations has been maintained and the gentry of the ranks who insist it’s better. One RO veteran put it sweetly: “The officers smile on you more.” A chief was more hard boiled: “Things are a little different; the officers are a little closer to the men. But if there’s a change, it’s not a shaking one and you’ve only to join up to find out.”
So the vet contemplating a “new” Army or Navy would be better off drinking more of that coffee. It might wake him up to the fact that although some of the major abuses of both services have been cleaned up and the ranks are on speaking terms, when you throw that highball it still means pretty much the same thing.
There are, here at Notre Dame, some 156 worthies who are, however, not waiting for the dust from the first A-Bomb to clear away before climbing into monkey suits. They are the members of the Navy and Army ROTC programs going
12
AIR ROTC'S COL. PALMER AND AIDE . . . only they smile more
full steam here on campus. For their efforts on behalf of the government during the school years they will be rewarded with reserve commissions at graduation. Here’s how they get them:
Under the Air ROTC plan here there are two divisions. The first is for veterans with two years of college who enter the outfit as advanced cadets. They take approximately four- hours a week work here during the school year and six weeks at an Air Force base during one summer. They are compensated with uniforms, §20 cash per month (that’s over and above the GI Bill) and 2nd lieutenants commission at graduation. They may then apply for flight training and a three-year hitch after which time they are reclassified as regular Air Force officers. The second division is similar to this but consists of a four year program for freshmen. It leads to the same thing. At present, Lt. Col. Leonard W. Palmer heads an ACROTC unit of 44 members here. These are all advanced but applications foi- both classes are being accepted now.
The Navy program is composed of regular and contract students. The first group have their tuition, books and extras paid for by Uncle Sam plus $50 per month. In return, upon graduation and commission, they are required to serve at least 18 months duty. Anyone interested in the regular navy as a career should jump at this one as it offers officer ranking equal with the Annapolis grad. Con
tract students pay their own tuition the first two years and receive the same subsistence the last two. They too graduate as reserve ensigns but are not required to serve any time on active duty. Captain A. L. Danis and Commander B. F. McMahon lead a complement of 112 students in these categories. Major B. F. Hillman runs a Marine program here on campus that is the same as Navy except in choice of the Corps. In the sixth semester different courses are offered and, of course a different commission given.
And that’s the way the service situation stands right now. Up to this printing the vet can take it or leave it. If, later, he is forced to take it he may be bitter, and he’ll never be prepared. But, like the. guy in the caf he will be philosophical and say to himself (though it may not be true) “This time things will be changed.”
MUSIC ASSOCIATION
Students desiring membership in the South Bend Civic Music Association for the coming concert season have been requested to mail their dues so that the envelope is postmarked no later than tomorrow, April 10. Dues, which are $34)0 for students. should be addressed to Mrs. Wesley C. Bender. 2010 N. Juniper Road, South Bend 17, hid.
Students To Present New Musical in May
For the next few weeks a hubbub of emoting actors, warbling singers, and hammering stage craftsmen will echo throughout Washington Hall as the allstudent spring musical is whipped into its final shape. This year’s production. “It Ain’t Hay,” was written by Verne Kelley and Joe Herrington, with music and lyrics by Ed Cashman.
The last two student musicals, “Let’s Get Going” in 1943, and last year’s “Meet the Missus,” wera also the products of Cashman’s prolific pen. Coming from Peoria, Ill., he is a graduate student in the music department and is responsible for the Glee Club’s cantata “The Archangel Mike.” Cashman will serve as director for the show.
Verne Kelley, from Oak Park, Ill., and Joe Herrington, Indianapolis, Ind., are both A.B. sophomores and Scholastic staffers. They described the p*duction as a musical melodrama without a Notre Dame locale.
George Bariscillo, a senior law student from Bradley Beach, New Jersey, will produce the show. Don Birren, a post-grad in the art school, is designing the sets. Dates for the production have been tentatively set for May 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, and 17.—Ken Thoren
Moo la Waits at Langley Field For Experienced Engineers
Jobless engineers are being sought by the U. S. Civil Service Examiners, National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. The Committee is accepting applications for an Engineer examination for filling positions paying $3,397 to $5,905 a year at Langley Field, Virginia. The branches of engineering covered by the examination are Aeronautical, architectural, construction, electrical, mechanical, and structural.
Applicants must have had from one to four years of progressive professional enginering experience besides their regular standard professional engineering curriculum in a college or university. Graduate study in engineering may be substituted for as much as two years of experience. No written test is required; applications will be rated on the basis of their experience and education.
Full information and application forms may be secured at most first- and second-class post offices, from Civil Service regional offices, or from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
13
GROWING PAINS
Mazuma Worries Solved by Neophyte Mag
By JOE DUKERT
Broke?
How would you like to be able to borrow enough to last until that next G.L check slides under the door, or until Dad sends the cash you asked for?
Concord, an ambitious college news and feature magazine in its first year of publication, will take the first step toward making that sweet dream a reality next Monday evening when it sponsors a radio forum on the possibilities of starting a credit union at Notre Dame. Rev. Leo R. Ward, c.s.c., Mr. James A. Corbett, former treasurer of the N.D. faculty credit union, Len Boykin, president of the Student Council, and Curt Kiesling, of the Concord staff will be the speakers. The discussion will be beamed over WND at 7:45 p.m.
Still in swaddling clothes, as magazines go, seven-month-old Concord has already established itself as an organ of action. The campaign for a credit union, inaugurated by an article on a successfull prototype in the April issue, is only the latest in a long series of reforms and new ideas for student welfare proposed by the monthly publication.
According to its editor, ND junior, Bob Reynolds, Concord owes its two-fisted bid for improvement to the fact
ROBERTS, MELLETT AND RUSS HATCH A PROMOTION In swaddling clothes . . .
that it is, in every sense, a voice of the. students. “Of, by and for college students . . . that’s its editorial policy,” he declares. “There are no strings attached; our magazine is completely free of outside censorship. All responsibility is in the hands of the student editors.”
So far, this lack of hampering censorship seems to have paid dividends. In past issues, the spotlight has been turned or. cheating, athletics, departmentalization, exams, faculty duties and other “delicate” topics, strictly from a student’s standpoint. No issues are dodged and no punches are pulled. Several articles have been reprinted in Today, Catholic Mind, and the Sunday Visitor.
Up to now, a popular misconception has been that Concord was simply a YCS magazine. In fact, however, its scope is not limited to YCS, Notre Dame, or even to Catholic colleges. Already, its growing circulation is distributed among almost 40 college campuses; and its staff is made up of recruits from Loyola, Mary Manse College, Cleveland’s Case Tech, Chicago University and several other colleges.
Next month has been set aside for a concerted subscription drive in student communities all over the country. Re-
EDITOR REYNOLDS AND FRIEND . . . without a censor
prints of former articles are being sent to scores of colleges where the magazine is not sold at the present time; and posters will be employed for further publicity in those that are already members of the Concord “family.”
Plans for next year include a four-page picture story of student activities, a Reader’s Forum, increased coverage of current events, movie reviews and critical reviews of “best sellers.”
At the present time, Concord’s staff x includes, besides Editor Reynolds, Joe Wilcox, Bill Roberts, Marty McLaughlin, Vince Giese, Claude Julien, Curt Kiesling, Dick Mellett, Chuck Russ and Walt Zenner, of Notre Dame.
NCWCs Pattee to Discuss Christian Revival in Europe
“The Christian Revival in Western Europe” will be the topic tonight when Mr. Richard Pattee, NCWC international correspondent, addresses the student body at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall.
In his lecture Pattee will cover the M.R.P. in France, the Catholic social movement in Italy and the Low Countries, and what they offer as a reply to communism.
Pattee, who drew a full house last k year* when he spoke on Argentina, has just returned from Europe where he has been studying international relations during the past year. He served for five years in the State Department, and is considered the outstanding Catholic expert in his field.
He will give a second address tomorrow afternoon at 4 at the Pan American Congress in the Law Auditorium on “Mexico, the Land of Contrasts.” *
14
: SCHOLASTIC SPOLTJ
'My Kingdom for a Tackle/ Groans Leahy
By HARRY MONAHAN
While the so-called “reliable” sources report that the Purdue Band is already practicing its Rose Bowl maneuvers and the Southern California eleven is studying Alaskan shipping schedules for December 31, the Irish grid machine continued preparations to give both the Boilermakers and the Trojans a busy afternoon before next January 1. Reopening spring drills aftex- the Easter vacation, Head Coach Frank Leahy began the rebuilding of a graduation shattered Irish football squad.
With the non-appearance of 1946 AllAmerican center George Strohmeyer among the groaning grid candidates on Cartier Field, the happy solution of the critical tackle problem has been scuttled. Strohmeyer was to feature a Leahy “conversion” which would have moved George to guard and Captain Bill Fischex- to tackle, but the pessimistic master of Irish football will have to devise some other strategy to solve this one. The Boston Yanks are rumored to have signed Notre Dame’s rough-and-tumble line backer. Its anybody’s guess as to who will get the starting tackle berths when
LEAHY. MIKE GOLDEN AND NEWSREEL PHOTOGRAPHER
■Nobody said Fritz was coming
the campaign opens in the fall. From the sweating beef now collecting bruises on Cartier Field, the Irish must produce two linemen to fill the shoes of Zig Czarobski and “Moose” Connor, no small order even in the present football market.
The backfield situation looks a little brighter, but the annual search for a break-away runner is already underway. Mike Swistowicz is going to be pushing “Pep” Panelli for that starting fullback slot. Tacklers have been finding it hard to stop the piston-like drives of the Chicago back. One of the most promising halfback candidates to move up from the Frosh squad is Jack Landry, a product of Aquinas Institute in Rochester, N. Y. Formex- Notre Dame quarterback Harry Wright has been turning out Grade A football material since taking over the Aquinas reins and Landry’s perfox-mance during spring drills gives him a strong bid fox- a traveling squad ticket.
Coach Leahy’s staff is still short-handed as no replacement for the promoted Moose Krause has been secured. As yet no one has started the xaimor that Fx-itz Crisler will take the job when he resigns at Michigan. Buffalo’s “Mr. Football,” alias George Ratterman, is keeping in shape for next fall’s play-for-pay campaign and also passing on a few pointers to the Irish signal callers by putting in time on the Cartier turf.
Strike for Valparaiso: Irish Keglers Lose
Notre Dame’s intercollegiate pinsplitters met defeat in theix- initial match of a short and hazy season by dropping a 13-7 decision to Valparaiso last Saturday. Ernie Huffman, president of the Kampus Kegler Klub and promoter- of the Irish bowling squad, is not discouraged by the outcome of this first match. He is still enthusiastic about the minor spox-t possibilities in bowling and is working fox- University recognition.
The Irish representatives for the Valparaiso contest were chosen on the basis of individual averages as posted in the inter-club competition now in progress at the Bowl-Mor Bowling Alleys. Four five-man teams were entered in the Valparaiso match. The scoring system used was similar- to that used in the campus competition. A team received one point for each singles game victory and two points for winning the three-game totals. Handicaps were not computed for this contest and it was run on a “scratch” basis.
Chuck Derrico (Italian Club) led a successful Notre Dame Gold quintet to garner four of the Irish points. Aided by Jim Jennewein (St. Louis Club) and Tom McCullough (Chemist Club), the Gold squad took high single-game and high three-game scoring honors for the Irish. Derrico also turned in the high individual three-game scoring effort for Notre Dame.
Losing its opening game by two points, the Notre Dame Green team, captained by Fritz Shadley (Pittsburgh Club), dropped three successive tilts to the Valparaiso keglers. The Notre Dame Blue team tried to keep the local boys in the nxnning by edging two wins in its series. But Valparaiso was able to sneak off with the third game and three-game total honors to net Bob Bairley (Detroit Club) and his teammates only two points. John O’Brien’s (Jet Propulsion Club) 202. game for the Blues was top single game score for the Irish that day. Valparaiso’s number two team moved in on the Notre Dame Whites to add three points to the victox-’s tally by taking two games and the three-game scoring crown.
A return match has been scheduled for April 17 in South Bend. Meanwhile efforts are being made to schedule other interested schools with a view to putting bowling on the regular Notre Dame minor sports calendar.
15
Golfers Drill Daily, Face Nine Opponents
With two weeks of practice play already behind them, the eager candidates for the golf team are shaping into a squad that may provide its nine opponents with some anxious afternoons. The opening match with Kentucky is but a week away, and Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., Irish golf coach, is sending his men through 18-hole daily sessions.
Leading the returning monogram men is Captain Dick Seidel, St. Paul, Minn. Dick won monograms in 1944 and 1947, playing on the squad that captured the National Collegiate title. Another 1944 and 1947 monogram veteran is Jack Fitzpatrick, Akron, Ohio. Fitz had a fine summer of play last year, copping honors in the Akron District Amateur and advancing to the semi-finals of the Ohio State Amateur.
Lanky George Stuhr, Garden City, L. I., another monogram man returning this year, will be out to win his third consecutive sweater, and he should be one of the team’s regulars.
A number of outstanding candidates have shown enough of their wares to merit serious consideration for the starting berths left open. Art Arquilla, Maury White, Joe Flood, and Edgar Kleffman are newcomers who have caught the eye of Father Holderith. Holdovers from the 1947 squad that won five, lost four, and tied one are Tom Dore, a monogram man in 1945, Tom
ST. ED'S CAGERS —INTERHALL CHAMPS
Kneeling, left to right: Joe Yonto, Steve Pavela, John Sullivan. Standing: John Creevey. Ray Petrzelka, and John Hilbrich.
Conley, John Quinn, Bob Rolfs, and Paul Hudak.
THE SCHEDULE
April 17—Kentucky, here
April 24—Purdue, there
May 3—Wisconsin, there
May 6—Detroit, there
May 8—Minnesota, here
May 10—Northwestern, here
May 15—Louisville, here
May 17—Michigan, here
May 22—Indiana Intercollegiate, here
May 24—Michigan State, there
Kampus Keglers Set To Give 17 Awards
The Awards Committee of the Kampus Keglers’ Klubs today issued a formidable list of trophies and awards to be presented to the winning teams and contestants at the end of this year’s bowling season. There will be 17 awards in all honoring both teams and individual bowlers.
Gilbert’s of South Bend donated two 27-inch trophies for high individual honors. The first Gilbert award will go to the holder of the highest individual three-game series; the second will be awarded to the highest individual season average. The Indiana Engraving Co. donated the other individual honor trophy. It will go to the holder of the highest individual single game.
The team awards were donated by the Notre Dame Bookstore and the Chicago Club of Notre Dame. The Bookstore will give the seven high team single game awards. The Chicago Club will give the seven high team three-game awards.
All-Stars Named As
Campus Season Ends
By TOM McNALLY
STUDENT ALL-STAR TEAMS
Club League
McDADE—best shot in student leagues
PAVELA—all-state prep star and excellent set shot O’CONNOR—rebounder and tip-in artist . . big gun of Howard Gold
PETRZELKA—captain and standout of school champs
GAROFALO—beautiful ball-handler, dribbler, faker Honorable Mention: Muntz, Sullivan, Rockne
Hall League
WILLIAMS—mainstay with Hess of up-and-down Walsh team
LANE—fast, hard-driving forward on Lyons
HART—excellent pivot man and play-maker for Cavanaugh
FITZGERALD—fine ball-handler, long shot . . best under pressure
W’OLFE—high scorer and standout for Cavanaugh
Open League
DUFFY—small, fast-breaking, high-scoring forward MARSHALL—good shot and rebounder . . . played center during season
ZMIJEWSKI—best center in league
BRODEN—high scorer, captain, team player of Knights of Columbus
SHEEHAN—good under boards . . . fine passer for the Villagers
Climaxing a hectic season of interstudent basketball, the St. Edward Gold team of the open league defeated Cavanaugh Hall for the school championship, 43-41, in one of the wildest games of recent years.
St. Edward’s started out fast, scoring 17 points in the first quarter to Cavanaugh’s six. Then Cavanaugh rallied and when the first half ended the score was knotted 23-23. Going into the fourth period Cavanaugh led 33-29. Then St. Ed’s closed the gap and John Creevey scored a field goal to tie the score 41-41 in the final 30 seconds. A Frank Mer-riwell finish followed as St. Ed’s intercepted a pass, the ball was relayed to Sullivan and Sullivan swished a righthand push-shot from mid-court as the game ended. Final: 43-41.
Sharing the scoring honors for the night with 13 points each were Petrzelka and Creevey for St. Edward Gold and Don Wolfe of Cavanaugh. Pavela of St. Ed’s was next with 10, followed by Presley of Cavanaugh with nine.
In the consolation game deciding third place, Alumni Blue of the open league defeated a strong Howard Gold five of the same league, 32-25.
St. Edward’s Gold (43)				Cavanaugh Hall	(«)		P
	B	F P			B	F	
Pavela	5	0	2	D. Wolfe	5	3	2
Sullivan	2	2	2	Presley	4	1	i
Petrzelka	5	3	2	Wightkin	0	2	3
Hilbrich	0	1	1	Hart	2	3	2
Creevey	6	1	3	Wilke	3	2	2
Yonto	0	0	4	Rochford	0	0	0
				Friend	1	0	3
				Hudak	0	0	1
				Donovan	0	0	1
				Schmidt	0	0	0
16
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Bowlers Struggle to Widen Program; Huffman & Co. Get'E' for Effort
By Pete Brown
Irish Fencers Finish 12th in NCAA Meet
The thrust and parry men of Coach Herb Melton finished their season at Annapolis in the National Collegiates by finishing in a deadlock with Detroit and Michigan State for 12th spot. The Irish scored 21 points in the meet as compared to the 30 points winning CCNY tallied.
Every so often there is a faint ray of hope that Notre Dame athletics might escape the limited scope of football plus several satellites. Last fall some of the
LaRaza boys formed a soccer team, received University sanction and played several games. But aftei- the second
game the athletic situation went back into the lethargy that has possessed it for the past quarter century. Now onto the scene comes another attempt by student effort to broaden the athletic solar system. This new attempt is a bowling team.
Ernie Huffman, from Pittsburgh,
is responsible for the formation of Kam-pus Keglers. Out of this organization for Sunday afternoon student amusement grew a bowling team. Huffman and his disciples scheduled a match with Valparaiso University which was rolled last Saturday.
Regardless of your feeling towards bowling as a sport or *entertainment, you should take off your hat and make a slight bow towards Cavanaugh Hall, Huffman’s campus residence. Ernie, on his own initiative, formed the league and pushed bowling until the team is now recognized as an official representative of
GOLF TOURNEY!!
The SCHOLASTIC will sponsor the Annual Student Golf Tourney this spring. Flights will be established on the basis of qualifying scores and eliminations on the basis of match play. All students and faculty members not members of the golf squad are eligible. Entry fee will be $1.00 which will be used solely for awarding of prizes. Interested golfers should turn in 3 cards before April 26. Further information may be found on the Golf Shop Bulletin board.
the University. Because the team could not get recognition soon enough, they missed out on DePaul University’s annual intercollegiate bowling tournament. The gentleman in charge of the DePaul tournament, however, sent a letter to Huffman and apologized for not knowing of a Notre Dame bowling team. Therefore, he did not include them in this years’ tournament. To make up for it, DePaul has already invited the team to next year’s tournament.
Besides all these arrangements, Huffman is trying to arrange a four-way round robin tournament with Purdue, Valparaiso, and St. Joseph College. The plans are momentarily stalemated because of the lack of a promoter.
Every bit of the organization and planning has been done by Huffman and his disciples with little or no assistance from the University save the sanction of the activities. Any traveling the team does for dual matches or tournament play will ba done at their- own expense.
DIXON. COACH MELTON. AND SCHLOSSER BEFORE NCAA MEET CCNY had nine more pointe
Bob Schlosser fared best of the three Notre Dame representatives, copping eight and losing five of his saber matches. Mike DiCicco, foils hot-shot, was close behind with a seven-and-five record, and Ralph Dixon batted .500 in his twelve epee matches. Thirty teams were entered. The Irish showing was much better than a year ago when they ended up in 13th spot in a 15-team field.
Twelve men have been awarded monograms for their work in the most successful fencing season since 1936. They are: Bob Bosler, Lou Burns (captain), Michael DiCicco, Ralph Dixon, Jerome Dobyns, Peter Gross, Gerald Lubin, Colin MacDonald, Thomas Roney, Robert Schlosser, John Vincent, and Ralph Witucki. Major monograms will be awarded for 1948 and all future seasons.
In addition, eight freshmen were awarded numerals. They are: Joseph Eusterman, Thomas Leonard, Donald Mitchell, Dan Parisi, John Murray Powers, Nicholas Scalera, Richard Shipman, and Robert Westrick.—Jim Butz
17
Tennis Team Weaker But Still Near Top
At his desk in a book-lined office, sharp-eyed Walter Langford pushed aside a stack of Spanish papers and leaned back. His tennis team? Weaker than last year (the ’47 squad was undefeated), but capable of trouncing 6 of its 9 opponents this spring. Possibly strong enough to take an additional two matches which presently rate “doubtful.” The only foe with a definite edge is Northwestern, while Michigan and Michigan State should kick up quite a ruckus before their matches go, very likely 5-4 either way.
If Coach Langford isn’t giving to sobbing hysterically over this yawning hole in his net, the reason may be found in the record book. When the poplarstraight Spanish prof assumed charge of Notre Dame’s tennis fortunes in 1940 his predecessors had piled ten losing seasons atop one another. Since that day eight years ago the Irish have never had a losing schedule, averaging only slightly more than one loss a season. In 1942, ’44 and ’47, the netmen were undefeated.
Additional support for a tearless approach to the forthcoming season, is present in the form of three top-ranking performers. Captain Jerry Evert, his brother and last year’s, captain, Jimmy Evert and Bob David make up this peerless trio, no member of which has ever been defeated in collegiate team competition.
The Everts spent last summer and an occasional weekend this winter dividing tennis titles between themselves. The brothers graduate in June, Jerry from engineering and Jim with a degree in economics. Three other returning monogram men are Joe Brown, Phil Lyons and the previously mentioned Bob David. Also returning is Bart O’Brien a monogram winner in ’43. To aid in filling the vacancies created by such graduated stars as Charles Sampson, Bill Tully, Ed Caparo, and Jim Griffin, Coach Langford has last year’s interhall tennis champ Frank Nagel, Jim Rodgers, Gene Bittner, Jack Franz and fencer Ralph Witucki.	-
Practice began in the clay courts last Friday and a ladder of approximately twenty names will be revised as the sessions reveal candidates’ talent. With Northwestern not necessarily written-off but at least recognized as the best in the midwest, Coach Langford may be expected to concentrate on knocking over the foemen from Michigan. On his success in locating and polishing a second doubles combination will hang the outcome of two matches—possibly even a chance to 18	’
EVERT BROTHERS
The titles were divided
tame Northwestern’s smirking Wildcats. Such unbounded success would give both the Everts an undefeated captaincy, and Walter Langford could then quietly return to his office and finish correcting that stack of Spanish papers.
TENNIS SCHEDULE
April 24—Wisconsin, here
May 1—Michigan, here
May 5—Marquette
May 8—DePauw, here
May 12—Michigan State
May 15—Kentucky
May 18—Western Michigan
May 21—Northwestern
May 22—Purdue, here
June 3, 4, 5—CCC Tennis Championship, Detroit
—Bob Leander
Kline Shifts Diamond Drills to Cartier Field
Coach Jake Kline finally received permission from the erratic Indiana weather to move his horsehiders outside for full scale maneuvers before the Irish baseball season opens on April 17. Competing with the Irish grid candidates for elbow room on sprawling Cartier Field, the Notre Dame nine has been able to swing into practice and sharpen up their aim for that far distant left field fence. The Irish went into their first contest last year with only three days of outdoor drill, but this season they should be well accustomed to the open air by the time the opening tilt comes up.
The Cartier diamond is sporting the new look in dugouts as last year’s ramshackle shelters have been replaced by two new baseline huts. Also new to the Irish baseball park is the press box perched atop the home team dugout, replacing the Drill Hall windows as target for careening foul balls.
Three games have been added to the Irish diamond schedule as previously published in the Scholastic. The opening date has been moved up to April 17 with the Irish invading Cincinnati University. Xavier University will play host to the Notre Dame diamond dusters on the following day. April 22 -will see the Irish challenge Bradley University’s nine. The May 1 program with Indiana, which will open the home season, will be a double header.—Harry Monahan
Vetville Pinmen Hand Texans Twin Setback
By BOB CASURELLA
Jack Palmer paced the league leading Vetville bowling five to twin wins over Texas with a 521 series last Sunday at the Bowl-Mor Alleys. Toledo established a new high team series while dropping two games to Pittsburgh. Toledo’s amazing 2816 series gave them enough points, however, to stay within four points of the rampaging Vets.
The Italian Club, Gold League leaders, ran into trouble in the form of Jim Jennewein and the red hot St. Louis Club. Jennewein splintered the pins for a 580 series and eased his club to three wins over the Romans. The three losses put the Italians in a first place tie with the Villagers who lost two games to Boston.
BLUE LEAGUE STANDINGS
W. L. Pts.
Vetville ................-..... 29	10	39
Toledo ........................ 25	14	35
Fox River Valley -------------- 22	17	30
Chemists --------------------- 21	18	28
Pittsburgh ____________________ 20	19	25
Monogram ______________________ 18	21	24
Met Club .....................  19	20	24
Texas ......................... 17	22	23
Aero  18	21	22
Svrian-Lebanese ______________  17	22	22
Milwaukee ____________________  15	24	22
Columbus  13	26	18
SCHEDULE FOR APRIL 11
Aeros vs. Vetville
Svrian-Lebanese vs. Pittsburgh
Fox River Valiev vs. Texas
Milwaukee vs. Met Club
Columbus vs. Monogram Club
Chemists vs. Toledo
GOLD LEAGUE STANDINGS
W. L. Pts.
Villagers .......................    25	14	34
Italian Club _______________________ 24	15	34
Inter-American Affairs  23	16	31
Rochester  22	17	30
Detroit  21	18	29
Boston  21	18	28
Buffalo  21	18	27
St. Louis  18	21	24
Jet Propulsion  18	21	23
Rockford  17	22	23
ASME ------------------------------- 13	26	16
Youngstown  11	28	15
SCHEDULE FOR APRIL 11
Rockford vs. Youngstown Rochester vs. ASME Buffalo vs. Detroit Villagers vs. St. Louis Italian vs. Inter-American Affairs ' Boston vs. Jet Propulsion
Improving Track Squad Looms As Outdoor Powerhouse Despite Murphy's Fractured Ankle
By JIM HOWARD
» Notre Dame spikesters, running better each week, hit full stride in the Purdue Relays and finished the indoor track season in a manner which suggests great outdoor success.
After early season losses to the powerful Missouri and Penn State aggrega-'	tions, the Irish cindermen began hitting
t,	their stride in the Central Collegiates,
picked up the pace in the Illinois Tech relays, and concluded the tortuous indoor circuit with outstanding performances at the Cleveland Knights of Columbus games, the Chicago Relays, and the Pur-' due Relays.
At the K. of C. contest, Bill Leonard flashed through the 1000-yard run and won the event from a determined group of stars. The mile relay group of Capt. Ernie McCullough, Steve Provost, Pat , Kenny, and Ray Sobota captured third in their competitive group. Freshman Vai Muscato displayed the power which will make him an integral part of the varsity team next year when he took fifth in the difficult 600-yard race.
First place in their heat was taken by the Irish mile group when they ran in Chicago the night after the grueling ' Cleveland battle. Leonard recovered from his thrilling strength-sapping task in the K. of C. games sufficiently to take third in the Chicago 1000-yard run. John Smith, the steadily improving timber topper, qualified in the Windy City hurdle event, but did not place.
i
Easter weekend, while most of the Notre Dame athletes were home, the Irish ran through the Purdue Relays as though they were on their way home. Notre Dame fared so well in the Boilermaker affair that if there had been a , team title, the local speedsters would have taken at least a second place in the quest for it.
Disaster marred an almost perfect team performance in the Purdue fieldhouse when John Murphy fell as he started his portion of the sprint medley, t and broke his left ankle. Last year Murphy was unable to compete because of a ruptured blood vessel in his thigh, and the team suffered because of the loss of his power in the sprints. Murphy’s track career is now ended, at least as far as college competition is concerned. The dash man from St. Louis will be hard to replace for the coming outdoor schedule.
Notre Dame placed second in both the two-mile and the University distance
medley relays, and took third in the one-mile relay in the Purdue invitational run. The Irish thinclads were leading in the sprint medley when the accident to Murphy occurred.
Coach “Doc” Handy was well pleased with the results of the group at Lafayette, and expressed the hope that the squad would not lose its edge before the outdoor season opens on April 17 when the team competes in the Kansas Relays. The track mentor was particularly gratified with the fine showing of John Smith and Bill Fleming in the hurdle events at Purdue. Smith took third in both the high and low barrier contests against such stars as Harrison Dillard of Baldwin Wallace and Lloyd Duff of Ohio State. Fleming was fifth in the low stick event and sixth in the high hurdle race.
During the indoor season some of the trackmen turned in their usual fine performances every week, and others improved and progressed as the season developed. The distance runners such as Bill Leonard, Jim Murphy, Corny Styers, and Jim Kittell were the backbone of the team, and as the season progressed they were abetted by top times turned in by Steve Provost, Ernie McCullough, Ray Sobota, Bob Smith, Paul Schwetschenau and Pat Kenny. The field event performers, Jim Miller, Ray Espenan, George Sullivan, and John Helwig helped give the team the necessary balance and team depth. With most of the trackmen at their peak or near it, the outdoor record should be favorable to the Irish at the completion of the season.
The Irish cinder kickers will be aiming at the dual meet with Michigan State on May 15 for a true indication of their capabilities. The Spartan clash is the only home cinder spectacle of the season, and the Notre Dame squad will be after their first victory over the Lansing group in two years. Barring unforeseen accidents, the Handymen should regain the Indiana State title this year, and prove one of the foremost contenders for the Central Collegiate crown.
COMPLETE SCHEDULE
April 17—Kansas Relays
April 23 and 24—Drake Relays
May 1—Bradley Tech and Drake at Peoria May 8—Marquette at Milwaukee
May 15—Michigan State at Notre Danie
May 22—State Meet at Bloomington
May 29—Open
June 5—Open
June 12—Central Collegiate at Milwaukee
SENIOR BAU. BIDS ON SALE
In order to facilitate the granting of permissions, it has been requested that all students who will attend the Senior Ball buy their bid from the agent in their hall. Price of the bids are $12 (tax included), which will cover the Ball, a favor and a buffet supper on Saturday. A bid may be reserved by a down payment of $6.
Bids may be secured from the following: Bob Dalton, 239 Walsh; Frank Fitzpatrick, 247 Sorin: Bob Hennessey, 315 Badin: John McKinley, 126 Lyons; Paul Long, 104 Howard: Jack McLaughlin, 264 Morrissey; Neil Gillespie, 245 Alumni; Felix Suarez, 362 Dillon; Jack Murphy. 357 Cavanaugh (for the east campus); John Zanante, Vetville, and Jack Harrington, 239 Walsh, for off-campus students.
WND To Broadcast
Prom; Baseball Games
Notre Dame’s campus radio station moves into South Bend tonight at 10:30 for a half-hour broadcast from the Junior Prom at the Palais Royale Ballroom. WND will program Carmen Cavallero and his band, highlighted by the crowning of the Prom Queen, and emceed by George Murphy.
Saturday night, with its newly-in-stalled direct wire to the Palais Royale, WND will inaugurate a weekly series in which the nation’s top bands will be heard from 9:30 to 10. Initiating tomorrow night’s program will be Ted Gallagan, followed by Tony Papa, Claude Thornhill, Johnny Long, and Stan Kenton.
Program Director Frank Cronan has announced that WND will broadcast all home baseball games plus the Old Tim- . ers-Varsity football game from the stadium.
PROGRAM SCHEDULE WEEK BEGINNING APRIL 12
MONDAY
6:00 Jumptime
6:15 Travel Time
6:30 Moonlight Serenade
7:15 Summer Theater
THURSDAY
6:00 Sack Time
6:15 Travel Time
6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Scholastic Concert
7:45 Uninterrupted
8:00 Sign Off
Music 7:45 Uninterrupted Music 8:00 Sign Off
TUESDAY
6:00 Sack Time
6:15 Yesterday’s Hits
6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Summer Theater
8:00 Sign Off
FRIDAY
6:00 Jumptime 6:15 Travel Time 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Summer Theater
7:45 Uninterrupted Music 7:45 Uninterrupted Music
WEDNESDAY
6:00 Sack Time 6:15 Travel Time 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Sports Parade 7:30 Summer Theater 8:00 Sign Off
8:00 Sign Off 10:30 Junior Prom 11:00 Sign Off
SATURDAY
9:30 Ted Gallagan 10:00 Sign Off
19
Dancing with Dunham Tops Senior Splurge
Literary Groups Sponsor Contest, Conference C. U. Starts Boy Guidance Training Program
Smooth music by Sonny Dunham’s orchestra, reasonable prices, elaborate favors, and a full weekend of entertainment will highlight a Senior Ball that promises to be among the finest staged at Notre Dame. A number of committees are already at work, eager to make May 7, 8, 9 a memorable weekend.
The versatile Mr. Dunham, employing the same enjoyable brand of music he has been offering New Yorkers all winter long in the Century Room of the Hotel Commodore, will reign over two nights of dancing at the Palais Royale. He is considered the foremost trumpet and trombone stylist in the country—the only top-flight bandleader who doubles in brass.
Friday night’s ball will run from 10 p. m. until 2 a. m. with 3 a. m. permissions. A buffet supper dance from 5 p. m. until 9 p. m. on Saturday will enable the dance-goers to spend some of the evening displaying the merits of South Bend night-life to their dates.
An entire bid will cost $12.00. It includes the two dances, a football game on Saturday afternoon (probably.an intersquad game), and an eye-catching favor that will make the occasion a lasting one. This item is a jewel box, decorated with the Notre Dame shield and bound by a metal ribbon with the caption, “Notre Dame Senior- Ball 1948.”
Buckets of gold are waiting at the ends of several recently announced rainbows for all neophyte literary lights who might be interested in banging out some sort of masterpiece. Prizes totalling $6500 are waiting for all those who are literary bent in a contest sponsored by the Midwestern Writers’ Conference.
This contest is divided into the following categories: novel, $2000; book length non-fiction, $2000; special award for not more than 500 words on “The Book I Should Like to Write!,” $350; short stories, $750; mystery short stories, $250; non-fiction articles, $600; poetry, $200; juvenile fiction, $250; plays, $150. For contest rules, entry (blanks and gift book, send a stamped (6c) addressed No. 10 envelope to Midwestern Writers’ Conference, Dept. Z, 410 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago 5.
Indiana University is to sponsor a young writers’ conference during the week of July 11-17. The accepted group of 40 men and women under 30 years of age who show promise in writing will have an opportunity to live together for a week on the Indiana University campus, to hear a daily lecture by an outstanding writer, to participate in one of the daily round tables conducted by individual staff members, and to write. Acceptance as a member of the group
will depend upon submission of an acceptable manuscript or a letter of recommendation attesting to the applicant’s interest in writing. Application must be made by June 10 to Prof. Ralph L. Collins, director, Writers’ Conference, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind. Scholarship applicants must submit manuscripts—fiction, short story, essay, poetry, play, or radio script, not exceeding 5000 words—by May 15 to Prof. Collins.
Announcement has been made of a newly inaugurated boy counseling training program being conducted jointly by Boys Town and the Catholic University of America at Washington, D. C. The purpose of the program is to train men to act as counselors in boys’ homes and in other agencies dealing with adolescent boys. To this end the program gives the students a broad grounding in social principles, and secondly, practical training in individual guidance and recreational leadership.
The program calls for four semesters of graduate work. Of these, the first and fourth are spent at Catholic University, the second and third at Boys Town. Students interested in this boy counseling course may obtain further information by writing to the Registrar, the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.
>
1
All seniors, students in the graduate school, and members of the faculty are eligible to purchase bids. Those interested in going to the affair are urged to contact their hall ticket-sellers in the near future. It is expedient that the bulk of the tickets sold, or at least a downpayment be placed on them three weeks before the dance. The reason: the favor committee needs that much time to procure favors from the manufacturer.
The acquisition of hotel space also dedepends upon this early commitment concerning tickets. There are 200 rooms available, with more tentatively being held, but the hotel managers need an accurate estimate of the number who will use them.
Class officers recently named some of the committees. The remainder are to be chosen shortly. Those now at work are: favors, Dick Jacobs, Tom McGowan, and Robert Flannery; arrangements, Jim Carrol, Walter Fisher, and John Clark; publicity, Dick Byrne, Jim Heck, and Buster Hiller; supper dance, Stan Stone, Jack McKeon, and Bill Vangen; decorations, Pat Gallagher, John St. Germain, E. V. Carlson, and Tom Barber.
—Laurence Connor
IN THE SPOTLIGHT AT ST. MARY'S
Dorothy McFarland, senior from Elizabethtown, Ky., who as president of the sodality led the grand march at the recent St. Mary's spring formal with her date, Edward W. Kralovec, Notre Dame senior-
20
K. of C. Spring Formal Slated for April 30
And now conies the 20th Annual Knights of Columbus Spring Formal — different three ways.
This is the time of year when a Notre Dame student might become confused and think he’s attending Northwestern. First, there was the Junior Prom, an event which is usually ballyhooed as the “only” spring social event — the first and last, as the story goes. That may be, but now comes the K. of C. Spring Formal. And then there’s still the Naval Reserve, Law, Freshman, and Senior balls to run the gamut of student finances.
It’s easy to see that the Knights of Columbus Formal had to be a little different to pry some of the campus socialites away from competitors. According to intelligence from Bob Luther, one of this year’s two dance chairmen (the other is Grand Knight Tom Broden), the ticket price will be the most stimulating feature of the dance. For the sake of comfort and financial convenience, you can count the bid price on one hand without using your thumb. For four dollars (tax included—pay no more) you can dance from 9 ’til 1 at the Progress Club, with the usual special privileges.
Probably the most unusual thing about the dance will be the orchestra. Most organizations search the country from Maine to Los Angeles for a “name” band to play their ball. The K. of C. looked no farther than South Bend. They found Myron Walz—South Bend’s leading orchestra, so their advertising reads. They have played at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s dances before and nobody complained. Unlike Ray McKinley and Carmen Cavallaro, Myron says he’s never been stampeded for autographs.
There has been such a spate of dances at the Palais Royale that the local knights figured they had to be different and move their affair to the cozy Progress Club. Most dancers—especially those that frequent the Co-Hop dances —say that the Progress Club has got the Palais beat by a country barn. Another thing, too, the Progress Club is close enough to the Colfax theater to allow cinema-lovers to catch the early show.
April 30—that’s the date when all of this will come to a head. Right now you can get your bids at the council chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall (come around either in the afternoon or evening.) If you can’t find the place, see your hall representative (if he’s done as he was told, his name will be on your bulletin board).—Bob Vierhile
College Students Offered World-Wide Study Tours
College students with a yen for world travel may find all they desire in a program offered by World Studytours, a non-profit educational corporation of the Columbia University Travel Service.
The first agency to undertake student trips to Europe after the war, World Studytours has arranged more than 20 tours for college students in 1948. The study tours range in length from 21 to 97 days and vary in cost from $230 to $1960. These excursions will include trips to Eastern Europe, behind the so-called iron curtain, as well as to Western Europe, South America, Hawaii, Australia, New Zealand, and points of interest in the United States.
The cost includes transportation fees, rooms, meals, guides, admission fees and the leadership of an educator especially skilled in combining the recreational aspects of travel with opportunities to meet people and to observe life abroad in ways which most tourists miss.
Further information and illustrated booklets may be obtained by contacting World Studytours, Columbia University Service, New York 27, N. Y.
Jordan to Discuss Peace with Germany
Max Jordan, Central European reporter for the National Broadcasting Company and the National Catholic Welfare Conference, will appear in the Drill Hall Monday evening to give an address on “Germany—Touchstone of the Peace.” For the last 16 years, with time out for a few visits to the U. S., he has been reporting events from on-the-spot in every country in Europe.
The story of the conquest of Germany is also the story of the serious repercussions that have ensued because of the mistakes all the Allies have made in that country. In his lecture Monday evening Mr. Jordan will attempt to tell that story from the strength of his own experience in the field. He took part in the invasion of Germany, crossed the Rhine with General Patton’s armies, was with American combat troops when they swept across Central Europe, and then stayed on to see what was done after the Armistice.
In this lecture Jordan will show how we started from premises dictated by hatred and prejudice and how heavily now we have to pay for our errors of judgment. He will demonstrate, also, that the peace to come will depend on whether we have learned the lesson, for if we fail in Germany, the peace may well be lost.
Glee Club to Feature Cantata by Cashman
First performance of a new cantata, “The Archangel Mike,” by Ed Cashman, will be given by the Notre Dame Glee Club in Washington Hall on Tuesday, April 13, at 8:00 p. m. The cantata will be the feature of a joint concert with the St. Mary’s Glee Club.
Though this work is called a cantata, perhaps a more suitable description of it would be a “choral fantasy.” As a musical entity it is formless: it has none of the usual cut-and-dried patterns of choms, solo (recitative and aria), chorus, solo, chorus, etc., that have been associated with the cantata form, though these devices are used in a fashion which makes the work one continuous musical composition.
The story, briefly, is of a little boy who arrives in heaven with his toy trumpet and who encounters many difficulties there because of it. Eventually he gains recognition from the Queen of Heaven and is finally acclaimed an archangel by the saints. To tell this story in music the composer, Mr. Cashman, has made use of a narrator, soloists, and the chorus which represents the radiant company of angels and archangels.
The soloists for this performance will be Roy O’Neill, baritone, who will sing the role of the NaiTator; John Commer-ford, bass, the Old Man; Nolan Sheehan, tenor, Mike; Robert Ruetz, tenor, An Angel; and Ralph Thorson, baritone, St. Peter.
The St. Mary’s Glee Club will be under the direction of Miss Hazel Martin.
California Prof to Lecture
On Education in France
Mr. Lucien Wolfe, a native of France and a professor of English at the University of California, will address the student body in Washington Hall at 8 o’clock Thursday evening on “The French Post-War Educational System.”
Having spent last summer in France studying the situation, Mr. Wolfe will give a first-hand picture as the situation actually exists.
CLASS ELECTIONS
Candidates for class offices must file petitions with the Student Council prior to election which will be held next month. Each petition must be signed by at least 50 students of like class standing.
All petitions will be accepted by the election committee in Boom '345, Morrissey Hall.
21
NOTRE DflME NAMES MAKE NEWS
New Endeavors
Among the 400 contributors to the new Britannica Junior, the reference work for boys and girls published by the Encyclopaedia Britannica, is MATTHEW A. FITZSIMONS, associate professor of history, who wrote the articles on Eire and on Northern Ireland. His material appears on the new “M” printing of the popular reference work . . .
In a risit to the campus recently the Rev. Quentin B. Olwell, c.P., missionary priest to China voiced his opinion that “American youth of today, unlike its predecessors, has serious objectives and is working to gain them.” Father Olwell, who came to Notre Dame to visit his nephew, EVANS G. OLWELL, a junior from Brooklyn, N. Y., has been a missionary in China for 25 years and is now enjoying an eleven-month sojourn from his work in that country...
In the March 26 issue of Commonweal magazine, Dr. WILLIS D. NUTTING, associate professor of history, set forth his views that the educational procedures in the United States must be altered in order to preserve the fundamental traditions of a Christian society. In his article, “Extra-Curricular,” Dr. Nutting levels the finger of scorn at the teachers for exposing the students to the teachers attitude toward the subject
PROFESSOB NUTTING For Profs
in a way that may be harmful to them. While emphasizing that there is no such thing as pure teaching, the Notre Dame professor further urged that the present educational procedures might be channeled in such .a way so that this extracurricular teaching, no matter what the subject may be, may result in strengthening the Christian ideals rather than destroying them . . .
New Recognition
The first annual Notre Dame Faculty Award by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago was presented Monday night to Professor JAMES A. REYNIERS, Director of the Laboratories of Bacteriology at the University of Notre Dame (LOBUND). The award will be presented each year to a member of the university faculty in recognition of outstanding contributions to the field of learning . . .
ARTIST BIRREN For 'Kansas 1935*
On the sixtieth anniversary of his final profession in the Congregation of Holy Cross last month, Brother ANGELUS DOLAN’S celebration was highlighted by a congratulatory cablegram from His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, conveying his blessings. Brother Angelus, 86, is the oldest living brother in the American Province of the Brothers of Holy Cross and was the guestmaster of the university from 1932 until he retired in 1946. During that time he directed an estimated half-million visitors to places of interest on the Notre Dame campus . . .
The Truths Men Live By, Father JOHN A. O’BRIEN’s well-known book on basic morality, was hailed in a recent issue of the New York Times as a “complete philosophy of religion and life” by the distinguished Protestant clergyman, Dr. John Haynes Holmes. Dr. Holmes praised Father O’Brien’s book as one which “sweeps the whole gamut of spiritual thought from the evidences of God,
the meaning of origin and character of religion, the soul and its relationship to God, to freedom of will, immortality, the Bible and Jesus Christ as the Founder of Christianity” . . .
In the annual showing of the Northern Indiana Art Salon held at Hammond, Ind., recently, DONALD H. BIRREN, off-campus student from Chicago, Ill., was awarded a first prize in sculp-toring for his group of three figures entitled “Kansas, 1935.” Birren, who is also a familiar local publications artist, is only the second lay student to take a prize in the art exhibit while in attendance at Notre Dame. He is at present doing graduate work on the campus under the talented EUGENE KOR-MENDI, himself a noted sculptor . .
New Responsibilities
Miss Helen M. Staunton, formerly a reporter for the South Bend Tribune, recently resigned hei’ position as a feature writer for the Editor & Publisher, New York, to become managing editor of the New York Post Syndicate last week. She is the daughter of H. C. STAUNTON, professor of English at Notre Dame . . .
Married to JIM CARROLL, Farley freshman from Woodstock, Ill.—Miss Edna Putty, from the same town, on March 31 . . .
PROFESSOR FITZSIMONS Fox youngsters
Engaged to GERARD F. SARB, graduating senior from Detroit—Miss Patricia Hickey, ex-St. Mary’s student from South Bend.
Engaged to L. DAVID De TREMPE, ’47, of Peoria, Ill.—Miss Mary Amberg, ex-St. Mary’s, also from Peoria . . .
22
Part of the original manuscript of the Declaration of Independence, written by Thomas Jefferson. It is now on display aboard the “Freedom Train.” The revisions shown were included in the document finally presented to the Continental Congress.
Parker'51
Coer. lMh b> The Puher Pro C.mun,
BE PROUD OF WHAT YOU WRITE . . and the way you write it!
With a Parker “51”, you’re bound to take more pride in what you write. You write better—faster—with less effort. No push or coax. The “51” not only does you proud—it’s the pen that’s smart to own. Beautiful— made to the most precise standards. It’s the world’s most-wanted pen? See the “51” at your pen dealer’s. Choice of custom points.
Two sizes: regular and the new demi-size. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, U. S. A., and Toronto, Canada.
23
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3) is working hard to turn out a good outfit.
All I can say is that I hope the Glee Club goes on and on and on, for years and years, and I’m sure they will never be ashamed to sign their name to something they have done.
John J. Klocke, Jr.
823 S. Chester Ave., Park Ridge, Ill.
Dear Editor:
I have read many times the letter of “Name Withheld” appearing in the March 19 Scholastic, attempting to discover the author’s intention in writing it. I can only conclude that he was motivated by some desire of personal vengeance or an egotistical pleasure at seeing a bit of his clumsy satire in print.
I would like to state, in all fairness, that I do not disagree with the substance of his letter, for the Glee Glub was aware, long before “Name Withheld” made it known, that the concert in Chicago on March 7 was not one of the better ones that the organization has presented. Though the letter is not wholly unjust, his manner of writing it is.
Since when does “the first tenor section . . . (carry) the melody most of the time . . . ”?
Norbert Joseph Geier,
Secretary, Notre Dame Glee Club
2 Morrissey Hall
CHEERS FOR K. C.
Dear Editor:
I would like to thank, through you and the Scholastic, the Knights of Columbus on the campus. I know that their efforts, the interest that was manifested in the Bengal Bouts, the hundreds of “little things” that' were done to make the “fights” of ’48 the success they were, were the groundwork for the doing of the men of Notre Dame. Assure them that this “interest” in the mission work of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Bengal, India, makes us value all the more the full meaning of a Knight of Columbus.
Thomas M. Fitzpatrick, C.S.C., Provincial Procurator
Ramna, Dacca
Eastern Pakistan
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
Do you think the Marshall Plan for European Recovery can work without the participation of Franco Spain?
First Faculty Award Goes to Prof. Reyniers, Bacteriologist
Professor James A. Reyniers, Director of the Laboratories for Bacteriology at the University of Notre Dame (LO-BUND) was presented -with the first annual award of the ND Alumni Club of Chicago at their Universal Notre Dame night banquet Wednesday night.
The award will be given each year to a member of the faculty who has made outstanding contributions to the field of learning. Professor Reyniers has become nationally prominent through his work in the Notre Dame laboratories on germ-free life. He designed the special equipment now being used in the laboratories. Under his direction the important medical problems of tooth decay, nutrition and cancer are being studied here.
Professor Reyniers can include in his many achievements the design of a system of isolation cubicles which protect babies from bacteria and infection, and the development of germ-free apparatus for the Navy during the war.
Convention
(Continued from Page 9) According to the committee on delegations, it is expected that all the state delegations will be filled by April 15.
Among other activities of the National Committee, the agenda committee is studying the program of previous political conventions. As a result of this they will form an appropriate agenda which will follow the general outline of the actual conventions.
The convention, which will be held in the Drill Hall during the last week of April, is open to all students regardless of party affiliation or age. The reason for choosing the Republican party is the fact that the last convention, held in 1940, was Democratic. In addition it is believed that there is more interest in the Republican party due to the numerous candidates for the nomination.
Student Council
(Continued from Page 9) new regulations for room applications. Contending that the incentive for hall spirit is being destroyed and old friendships are being broken, there was carried unanimously a proposal to seek the aid of the Scholastic in making it known that the Council and the majority of students oppose the new method upon priority according to class and scholastic averages.
James Hai-t and Charles C. Carter were given the right to sell a $27.50 university blazer on campus. However, neither the administration nor the Council officially adopted the coat.
FRESHMAN ORATORY
The finals of the Freshman Oratorical Contest will be held Monday evening in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. The contestants are: Brother Walter Davenport, C.S.C., Mr. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C., Joseph Shelly, Louis Duerinck, Joseph Dukert, and Quintin Marlow. Mr. Fred Govern of the Speech Department is in charge of the contest.
SUGGESTIONS ? ? ?
Inserted in next week's SCHOLASTIC will be suggestion sheets for the ' use of all students who wish to offer suggestions for improvement of existing situations on campus. These I sheets will constitute a poll sponsored by the YCS, and approved by Rev. Joseph Barry, Director of Student Activities.
The poll will offer an opportunity to interested students to advocate changes, modifications, and innova- ' tions at Notre Dame. Boxes will be placed in each of the residence halls to facilitate the collection of these sheets.
THE UNIVERSITY MEN
Whom Other Men Copy
... By their clothes from shops or stores where unerring taste is used > to create style. Parker-Winterrowd suits, topcoats, sport coats or slacks either ready to wear, custom made or made-to-measure—all are given the most expert attention in the selection of every type of ma- ' trial and needled in the most expert way. All are priced to meet your budget.
Notre Dame men may use their credit at Parker-Winterrowd.
Parker-Winterrowd 115)4-117^ N. Main, upstairs (North of Oliver Hotel)
24
C. F. Williams Named To Lay Trustee Board
A prominent Ohio business man, Charles F. Williams of Cincinnati, has been named a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame, according to an announcement made last week by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University. He replaces John J. O’Brien of South Bend who died in 1946.
Mr. Williams, president of the Western and Southern Life Insurance Company, has reached such heights of prominence in business and financial affairs that he has been frequently brought to the White House for consultations during national emergencies and has served on numerous government boards and committees. Prior to assuming his present position, Williams was engaged in a highly successful law practice. At varied times he has been Deputy Attorney General for Ohio, Deputy United States Attorney General and special counsel to the Attorney General of the United States, besides holding many other special posts.
Williams is famed for his interest in charitable and philanthropical work. He has endowed the Chaswil Foundation formed for the purpose of the relief of suffering and education among the needy. As a graduate of the University of Cincinnati he has been president of the Cancer Research Foundation of the University and contributor to the Insti-tutum Divi Thomae which makes scientific investigations into special fields. For his efforts in these fields the Vatican has seen fit to twice honor Mr. Williams. In 1934 he was made a Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory by Pope Pius XI and in 1941 was appointed as Master Knight of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta.
FOR...
Luggage Leather Goods Pipes and ...
Gifts for Every Occasion it's
HansARintzsch Shop
138 N. Michigan St.
25
Students Tour Capital During Easter Recess
Following Mr. Deeds, nine ND men and eleven girls, seven from St. Mary’s and four from Mundelein, made a trek to Washington during the Easter vacation. The six-day tour was under the direction of Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, political science prof at the University.
The group took off on March 26 and arrived in the capital city on the next afternoon. Their first stop was the FBI offices. Easter Sunday they attended Mass at the well-known Franciscan Monastery. From then on, specially arranged tours provided the visitors with many opportunities to examine the myriad points of historic interest and parts of the government machinery in action. They attended debates in both houses of Congress and were present on decision day in the Supreme Court.
Before starting back, the gapingtour-ists saw Jefferson’s Monticello, Monroe’s Ash Lawn, and the University of Virginia’s campus. The tour ended on Wednesday, March 31. Dr. Bartholomew explained that the whole tour was a survey course in Washington, a city which every American should try to visit at least once. The purpose of such a trip is to bring the history and business of our nation’s capital closer to our lives with a real understanding.
This trip to the patriot’s Mecca was the first conducted by Dr. Bartholomew since the war and it is hoped that the tours will become an annual event.
—John Jankowski
VA Announces Rules On Leaves, Transfers
The Veterans Administration will place all student veterans on a 15 day leave at the end of the semester unless notified within 30 days previously that a student does not wish this leave.
A veteran placed on 15 day leave will receive the subsistence allowance for that period, and his length of eligibility will be reduced by 15 days. Veterans who do not want their entitlement so reduced should therefore notify the VA to that effect.
It has also been announced by the Veterans Administration that any student planning a transfer should give such notification at least 30 days previously in order to avoid any delay in subsistence payment.
To enroll at a new school, the veteran will need supplemental certificate of eligibility from the VA regional office. This requires both a notice to the VA and a statement from his present school showing satisfactory work.
yCS to Sponsor Discussion Series on the Old Testament
The Liberal Arts College section of the YCS movement will sponsor a talk by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., on “The History of the Old Testament” on Monday at 6:30 p. m. in Room 104 of the Law Building.
The first of seven meetings under the direction of Father Burke, the series will discuss various parts of the Old Testament. Purpose of the talks will be to revive interest in the Bible, the best seller of all ages.
Once-in-a-Lifetime Opportunity!
STUDY... TRAVEL...
In SPAIN
68-DAY Tour—$798 ALL Expenses
By Ship from New York JULY 2 Sponsored by the
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
For descriptive folder, write: DEPT. "C”
SPANISH STUDENT TOURS
500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
Spring!
...and the April issue of PIC features— BASEBALL AND BOXING
FICTION AND FUTURES
JOBS AND JAZZ
128 pages of the best reading and entertainment are in PIC’s re-styled April issue.
APRIL
PIC
Ie sere to read "luark, the rock thrower** by Ed tuonioghom ...the story of Fit’s yeowg mm of the Booth, lob luark, om of the Bost discussed celmoists io Aaerita today.
ON ALL NEWSSTANDS TODAY
The Magazine for Young Men
25'
EASIER—QUICKER—NEATER...when you use
EBERHARD FABER
HOLIDAY
The Most Talked About
Pipe Mixture injimerica
☆
Aromatic in -the pack... Aromatic in the pipe!
Holiday also comes in a 16 oz. Humi-Seal Glass Jar Larus & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Inc.)
126 N. Michigan St. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
26
“THE BEST IS YET TO BE”
The telephone will be seventy-two years old this year. Its development within a single lifetime has been a modern miracle. Yet it is only the beginning.
There are any number of men in the telephone business today—some just starting out—who will see greater progress than the past has ever known.
Year by year the next half century will be increasingly theirs. New leaders will appear from among them. Step by step, rung by rung, they will mount the ladder to the top. For telephone management is
employee management and comes up from the ranks.
There will be more good jobs for qualified men in the telephone business in 1958 and 1998 than now. It just can’t help being that way. For of all the businesses and professions, there are few more interesting and necessary.
So the future is bright for those who make telephony their life work. For them, "The best is yet to be.”
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
/
LIBRARY
WOTKE DAME LOCAL