The
Commonweal
A Weekly Journal of Opinion Edited by Catholic Laymen
’	Recent Contributors :
JOSEPH ALSOP • WILLIAM F. BUCKLEY, Jr.
ALEX COMFORT • DOROTHY DAY • WALDEMAR GURIAN EMMET LAVERY • CHARLES MALIK
JACQUES MARITAIN • FRANCOIS MAURIAC • EUGENE J. McCARTHY SEAN O'FAOLAIN • HENRY RAGO
H. A. REINHOLD • LEO J. TRESE • MARTIN J. TURNELL GERALD VANN • EVELYN WAUGH
Foreign Reports by: GUNNAR D. KUMLIEN • ROBERT BARRAT
Stage: WALTER KERR • Screen: PHILIP T. HARTUNG
Columns by: JOHN C CORT • FRANCIS DOWNING
$7 a Year
18 Weeks $2
SAMPLE COPY ON REQUEST
386 Fourth Ave., New York 16, N. Y.
Check one of the boxes, print your name and address below and return the lower part of this advertisement today.
smooth soiling at the dance
Freshmen Speak Again
Editor:
We as Freshmen, are ashamed of our fellow students, Mike Ducey, etc., for their juvenile attitude regarding Jack Hynes’ article in last week’s issue of the Scholastic. In our eyes he was just trying to be amusing in his remark about Benny Strong and we took it in fun. We heard the comment around campus, “Who is Benny Strong?” several times before the Scholastic went to press, and we can see no justification for this childish outburst of temper shown by several freshmen because they thought themselves laughed at.
Remember, gentlemen, there are 1500 of us, and we think you took quite a lot of responsibility in claiming to voice the opinion of the whole Freshman class. ■
In conclusion, gentlemen, we would like to add — you’re in college now, grow up!
Thank you,
Philip Charles Chinn, Donald H. Jizzutello, John H. Brink, Hugh F. Wilson, Thomas M. Cozad, John Casney, Jerry Burns, Michael J. Fox, John P. McDermott.
P.S.: By the way, who is Benny Strong?
A Big Bouquet
Editor:
Graduations come and senior classes and Scholastic staffs change—but ~ before this staff fades away, there are a few words of congratulations I’d like to offer to it—both as an individual and as a member of WND.
Your staff has been more than helpful in publicizing WND this year. You and they have gone out of your way to help the station get space in the news columns of the Scholastic and one of the most talked-about things at the station this year has been the fine help and cooperation we’ve received at every turn from the Scholastic.
We of WND thank you for this, and I, as WND publicity director, offer my especial thanks.
And over and above this thanks for favors received, I’d like to congratulate you and your staff for putting out the best year of Scholastics ever seen at Notre Dame. The news coverage, the quality of the writing, the make-up of the paper, and the efficiency of your “	• (Continued on Page 32)
in
Van Heusen
VAN DRESS
$5.95
Wait till she digs you in your new pleated Van Tux shirt (attached regular collar) — or your Van Dress (with neck band only). With that snowy white pique front . . . those gleaming ocean pearl buttons, you’ll be the only guy she sees for miles around! Doesn’t pay to borrow — or squeeze into Pop’s size — when you can get such perfect fit . . . smart looks and solid comfort all your own. And you get a new Van Heusen free if yours ever shrinks out of size.
VAN TUX and
—,—-yan ]|eilsen
REG. T. M.
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1. N. Y .
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
May 16, 1952
3

THE DV PONT
DIGEST
Engineering Unlimited
Training in many different engineering branches opens the door to opportunity at Du Pont
In recent issues of the Digest, we have discussed opportunities for mechanical and chemical engineers at Du Pont. However, this is only part of the picture. The special skills of more than a dozen different branches of engineering are needed on our scientific teams. For example:
Architectural, civil and structural engineers are attached to the central Engineering Department which handles most of the Company’s construction projects. In this work they make site investigations, lay out new plants, design buildings, determine construction methods and specify materials and equipment. They also assemble necessary labor forces at field locations and supervise the building and assembly of complex manufacturing facilities.
Electrical engineers aid in designing process equipment and facilities for power generation and distribution, air conditioning and refrigeration. Instrumentation is another important phase of their work. Continuous
Fred R. St/uder, B.Metal.E., Rensselaer P. I. ’50, examines a pressure strain recorder with Allen R. Furbeck, E.E., Princeton ’39.
automatic analyzers for cyanides, ultra-violet gas analyzers, multivariable recorders, and new photo-multiplier circuits are just a few of their developments.
Industrial engineers help develop methods and standards for new or improved manufacturing processes. This work often serves as training for production supervisors.
Metallurgical engineers play an essential part in the centralEngineering Department’s program of research. Their studies are aimed at improving equipment and construction materials, as well as methods of measurement and control.
Safety engineers strive constantly to improve the broad safety program initiated by the Company’s founder 150 years ago. Du Pont is understandably proud of its safety record, which in 1950 was eight times better than the chemical industry’s as a whole, and fourteen times better than the average for all industry.
Entertaining, Informative — Listen to "Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
This Du Pent plant, near Orange, Texas, manufactures nylon intermediates, plastics and heavy chemicals. Engineers attached to The Du Pont Company’s central Engineering Department designed the plant and supervised the installation of the manufacturing equipment.
Carl Gosline, B.S., Iowa'41, conducts meteorological engineering studies to help solve plant chimney problems involving smoke and acids.
This by no means completes the list. Every U. S. industry utilizes Du Pont products. Hence there is also a need for specialists in mining, petroleinn, textiles and many other branches of engineering.
Along with chemists, physicists and other technical personnel, almost every kind of engineer finds opportunity at Du Pont. Your engineering degree is only a door opener. Any man with ideas, imagination and the ability to handle people will find plenty of room for advancement in this company that has never stopped growing.
FOR HELP in choosing your career, send for free copy of "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” Describes futures for men and women with many types of training. Address: 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington, Delaware.
■CS.U.S.PA't.Oft
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
4
The Scholastic
By Jack Hynes
making mountains out of the proverbial mole hill, and who will read implications into a statement that means nothing more than what it says in print. These are the few who will always feel personally insulted and who will write you a “nasty letter” in which they will- prove nothing more than how well they do at cloudy* rhetoric and time-worn cliches.
Top of the Week
Who is Benny Strong? . . .
The Last Roundup
Well, chillun, the date is May 16th, and friend editor tells us that this will be the last time we will seat ourselves at the Smith-Corona to bat out The Week. There are, undoubtedly, many who are pretty glad of that; and I’m pretty relieved myself—one more issue and I’d have to buy a new £ typewriter ribbon, and after the Senior Ball last weekend, I’d have to go in hock to do it.
Dancing in the Clouds
The last social event of the season ended last weekend when some five-hundred Seniors packed up their respective dates, sent them home, and then paused to count the loose change in their pockets. Most of them found they didn’t have enough for a matinee at the Oliver; but with exams coming up who needs money?
“No, I don’t want to go downtown, and pass me the No-Doze and black coffee.”
No one had a better time at the Ball Friday night than Ray Anthony himself who got together over a couple of hot trumpets with Mr. Billy May whose outfit was holding forth at the Palace. Billy skipped up to the Drill Hall after his Palace show (no mean feat for a lad his size) and added an extra colorful touch for the shuffling Seniors and their dates.
The weather shaped up just about as history predicted it would with ra;n bogging things down all day Friday. Rain isn’t predicted for graduation day but I’m having my poncho dyed black just in case.
Pre-Season Scuffle
We’re kinda sorry we won’t be around to see it, but if the Irish varsity cut as many capers next season as they did around the Oldtimers last Saturday, Leahy’s Lads should be making a quick return to the championship days of ’48 and ’49.
We’ll be watching that TV screen (do they have TV at Quantico does anyone know?) come Saturday after-W noons next fall, and we’ll be wearing our ND sweatshirt, just in case there
are any Michigan State alumni in the group.
Finale
As we mentioned earlier in our opening paragraph, this is where we stop playing at Walter Winchell and give up in our quest for the Pulitzer Prize.
But before we close out, we’d sort of like to whisper a few words of advice to our successor- on The Week. whoever he may be.
We’d like to tell him that he’s going to derive a lot of enjoyment and satisfaction out of writing the column, just as we have. But he’s going to get knocked every once in a while, too, just as we have. And he’s going to learn, as we did, a lot about people, a lot about his fellow students.
A few months back, the creator of Li’l Abner, Al Capp, wrote a feature article for a national magazine in which he revealed the number- of letters he receives from readers criticizing his satirizations of various segments of American life.
“You can’t kid people anymore,” Capp said, “they can’t take it.” We’ve discovered that to be true, also. There are always a few who will insist on
SAFE STORAGE for Out-of-Season Clothes
Notre Dame men in the years past have learned the advantage of leaving their winter clothes in our insured storage vault. No need to ship them home and back to school again in the fall. Save that double expense and protect your clothes too. The cost is nominal and you don’t pay until you take them out.
RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. Jefferson	On the Bus Line
To our successor, then, we suggest that you disregard the thin-skinned critics—they’ll always yelp no matter what you say. Don’t walk on eggs for their sake. Besides, it’s always fun to get mail—you know that someone is reading your stuff anyway, and that always makes it worth the effort.
And to our readers over the past two semesters—both thin and thick-skinned—we’d like to say thanks for the use of the hall, and hold on to that sense of humor—you’ll always find a time when you’ll need it.
Peace, brother, peace.
Bottom of the Week
. . . Who cares?
1952 DOME READY NEXT WEEK
The 1952 DOME will be shipped to Notre Dame from the bindery in Chicago next Friday, May 23. Notices advising students when they can pick up their copies of the yearbook at the Publications Office, basement of Farley Hall, will be posted the latter part of next week.
May 16, 1952
5
MAY 16
WASHINGTON HALL — Notre Dame’s Chamber Orchestra makes its final appearance of the year. Concert begins at 8 p.m.
AVON (to May 20)—Tennessee Williams’ play, Streetcar Named Desire (B) boasts Academy Award winners Vivien Leigh and Kim Hunter, who have to contend with he-man Marlon Brando.
•PALACE (to May 22)—“Cicero” was a sly spy who sold secrets to the highest bidder during the last wax* in the Near East. The Hollywood version of his escapades, Five Fingers (A-l), casts James Mason as the smooth operator. Co-pic Whispering Smith vs. Scotland Yard (A-2) is an anticlimax.
*	MAY 17
WASHINGTON HALL—Appointment With Danger stars Alan Ladd, Phyllis Calvert, and a revolver—2, 6:40, and 8:35 p.m.
MAY 18
WASHINGTON HALL—A unique feature hereabouts, Notre Dame’s All-Girl Chorus debuts at 8:15. No charge to hear the 24 office and library workers sing both popular and classical numbers.
MAY 21
AVON—Pride of St. Louis (A-l), the Hollywood biography of Dizzy Dean, comes to town for a 16-day stand, complete with the Dean’s English, the Gashouse Gang, fastballs, and curves (Joanne Dru’s). Dan Daily tries hard to imitate the inimitable Diz.
COLFAX (to May 27)—Jimmy Stewart plays the title role in Carbine Williams, the story of the moonshiner who invented the famous carbine rifle while serving a 30-year prison term.
WASHINGTON HALL—Genius Clifton Webb returns in Belvedere Rings the Bell—6:40 and 8:35.
MAY 24
WASHINGTON HALL—Detective Story, for the few who missed it in South Bend—2, 6:40 and 8:50 p.m.
MAY 30
MAIN QUADRANGLE—The three-day commencement program begins at 7 p.m. with an open-air concert by the Notre Dame band.
MAY 31
SACRED HEART CHURCH—A full day for the graduates gets a good start with Mass at 9 a.m. Class Day exercises and ROTC commissioning follow. Afternoon receptions, another band concert at 6:30, and a Glee Club performance at 8 fill out the day.
JUNE 1
STADIUM—The day for 907 Notre Dame men begins at 8:40 a.m. with a procession to the Stadium for Solemn Pontifical Mass. Conferring of degrees at 1:40—then congratulations, farewells, and memories.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bld?.
FLY KLM TO EUROPE
NEW LOW AIR TOURIST RATES Effective May lit.
ROUND TRIP NEW FORK TO SHANNON Only $433.80 LONDON* Only 486.00
PARIS om> 522.00
FRANKFORT Only 563.60
‘Via Prestwick or Shannon IFar.i rubjeef to government approval. Good low-cod meali available on o/anej
| *72 Fifth Avenue. New York 19, N T ■ Please send full information on ne» ■ KLM dlr Tourist Rates to Europe
HOW MANY INDIANS MAKE A RESERVATION ?
OR
IV hose Aching Back, Did You Say?
Once there was a Sophomore who was planning a Whale of a Weekend in New York.
Being a Man of Some Foresight, he carefully packed his copy of “New York Confiden-
tial,” his compilation of Terrific Manhattan Numbers, and his list of Solvent Alumni in the Big City. Likewise 1 clean shirt, 1 toothbrush, 1 razor and 1 package of Sen-Sen. He was Ready.
Just then his roommate came up with a Tip for the Traveler. “Hey!” he said, “have you wired ahead for your Hotel Reservation?”
Our Hero guffawed. “Don’t be dull.” he answered. “I’ll make up my mind where I want to stay when I get there. New York is Full of hotels.”
He was right. New York is full of hotels. On this particular weekend, however, it was also full of people. Political convention.
Oh, he’s all right again now. Two nights on a bench in Central Park never killed anyone. Only thing that bothered him was the squirrels. He thought they were looking at him Oddly. •
If you’re Going Somewhere and want a Roof Over Your Head, it’s smart to Make Reservations by Telegram. No fuss, no friction, no Sleeping on a Pool-Table. Use Telegrams in any plans you’re making — Dates, Deals or Dream Talk. You get Results when your words arrive on the Yellow Blank.
0
The Scholastic
Vol. 93	# May 16, 1952 No. 27
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE .............News
PATRICK CARRICO ......Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY ......Features
JACK R. VARLEY ..............Sports
THOMAS FOOTE ........Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER ........Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER------------Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ------  Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT.—Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl, Vai Chun, Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger, Paul Fullmer, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suwalsky, Mike Ward, Irv Carrig, Frank Donlon, Jerry Burns.
FEATURES: Sal Asselta, Jay Conlon, Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes. Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.	’
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson, Bill DeCrick.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue,' New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, c.cept during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: In 1946 Rev. John J. Cavanaugh took over as President of the University of Notre Dame. Now, as his term of office ends, Scholastic presents a review of his term of office on pp. 24-25.
—Photo by Bill DeCrick
In Two Short Weeks . . .
. . . from Sunday, the Class of ’52 will receive their collective degrees and, for better or worse, join the ranks of Notre Dame’s far-flung alumni. It’s the usual thing in this last issue to mix the sentimental memories with a generous portion of newly-developed “school spirit” and as a result produce a wet-eyed eulogy on the past year. We’ll try not to.
The graduating class, though, certainly has a fine record and one that marked many changes here. The new buildings alone demonstrate the scope of that change. The great flood of veterans has abated and ’52 includes just about the rear guard of the G.I. Bill boys. The graduate school has been enlarged, the curricula in the different colleges modified, the Foundation built into a valuable and worth-while activity, And Notre Dame, in general, developed and expanded. The Class of ’52 kept pace with all of this.
Student activities improved to such a degree that they dropped many of the amateur touches that usually mark extra-curricular college activities.- Witness the amazing rise of WND, the development of the Technical Review, the organization and improvement of things like the Commerce Forum and the host of other things which make the campus such a bee hive of organized and pigeonholed activity. This last year marked creditable student projects like the mock convention and the blood drive. The Mardi Gras and dances were the biggest ever staged here.
We realize without prompting that sheer “bigness” and “activity” don’t necessarily make a class or a university great. But they do mark a change and they do record for the Class of ’52 an admirable and spirited collective career.
The tremendous question is, of course, what happens to the boys now? What will they do when they leave here? How will the things they have learned and done here effect their lives when they leave? That is one of the tests of a university like Notre Dame and the results will be interesting.-
One thing is pretty certain. This class won’t for the immediate future, at least, have any easy road. Uncle Sam has a priority on man power and most of the lads who depart in June will be heeding the call before the Summer is lone gone. The causes of all of this are somewhat nebulous and just a little bit irritating. Not that any of us lack patriotic feeling. It’s just that individual careers will be seriously dealt with in the next few years.
The outcome of it all, as far as June graduates are concerned, is that besides individual tests of merit, capability, and worth, ’52 witnesses and takes part in a tremendous test of the true worth and staying power of Western civilization. Those who depart will then, whether or not they like it, have their culture and Christianity tried in difficult times. -
And how they react to all this will, then, be a great test of what they have gotten at Notre Dame. If they hope to succeed and enhance their individual causes and the collective cause of Christianity, they must have faith and courage and capability.
So even though the lads will be as glad as all graduates are to “get going.” they are certainly leaving easier years and facing some trying ones. In the face of it all, they must remember what men are finally judged on when the final day comes and try to live for that day. In setting themselves this standard, “For God, Country and Notre Dame” must be more than a catch phrase.
With these awesome thoughts in mind, I, and the departing staff with me, can only wish to all the troops a sincere “Good Luck.”—J. J. P.
May 16, 1952
7
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME'S OWN HOTEL NOW OPEN
92 Rooms
92 Baths
Rates from $6.00 Single — $9.00 Double
Dining Room — Excellent Cuisine — Air-Conditioned Private Function Rooms — also Air-Conditioned
Room Service
Gift and Souvenir Shop
Cigar and Newsstand
Golf, locker and shower facilities for men guests
Putting Green
Radio and Circulating Ice Water in every room Parking Area, paved and lighted, adjoining
The Morris Inn, a gift to the University from the late E. M. Morris ’06 of South Bend, Indiana, is now open.
Reservations from many friends of Notre Dame, the alumni and parents of the Students are being received daily.
It is the hope of the University that the Morris Inn will help to introduce many new friends to the objectives and ideals of Notre Dame, as well as to serve the many old friends and supporters whom the University now enjoys and values so highly.
With this thought in mind we think it well to assure all of our readers that the facilities of The Morris Inn are completely at their disposal, not only for themselves, but for their friends and acquaintances as well.
Please feel free to call upon the management of The Inn for assistance in caring for your requirements, or those of persons you direct to us. It will be his pleasure to render prompt and efficient service at all times and nothing will be left undone in carrying out your wishes.
In the event your room requirements cannot be taken care of at The Inn because of previous booking the management will assist in securing reservations in one of South Bend's downtown hotels.
Please write, telegraph or telephone.
Edward H. Hunt, Manager
The Morris Inn
Notre Dame, Indiana
8
The Scholastic
June 1 Marks Commencement for 907
UN Official, Others To Receive Degrees
Climaxing the 107th annual Commencement Exercises at Notre Dame, £ June 1, honorary Doctor of Laws degrees will be conferred upon an archbishop, a noted official of the United Nations, one of the country’s top educators, and three prominent business executives, along with 907 graduates who will receive their respective degrees.
The University will confer honorary Doctor of Laws degrees on the Most Rev. Patrick A. O’Boyle, archbishop of Washington, D.C.; Dr. Charles Malik, chairman of the U.N. Commission on
Human Rights; Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, of the University of Chicago; Edward J. Doyle, of Chicago, and president of the Commonwealth Edison Co.; John P. Murphy, president of the Higby Co., Cleveland; and John C. Tully, of Salinas, Calif., organizer and former president of the LaGrange (Ill.) National Bank. Mr. Doyle, Mr. Murphy and Mr. Tully are members
DR. MALIK
Leaders: Temporal . .
of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame.
Archbishop O’Boyle, who will deliver the sermon at the Baccalaureate Mass to be celebrated in Notre Dame Stadium, has been archbishop of Washington since 1947. He previously had served as executive director of the NCWC War Relief Services and the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York.
Dr. Malik, who will deliver the Commencement address, serves as Lebanese Minister to the United States in addition to his U.N. duties. He has represented Lebanon in the U.N. since 1945.
Leader in Great Books Movement
Since 1945, Dr. Adler, a leader in the Great Books Movement, has served as associate editor of Great Books of the Western World. In 1930 he joined the faculty at the University of Chicago where he now is professor of the philosophy of law.
In addition to his position as president and director of Commonwealth Edison, Mr. Doyle is a member of the executive committee of the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies and has served as vice-president and director of the Community Fund of Chicago, and as a director of the Chicago Association of Commerce. ■
Mr. Murphy who received a Bachelor of Laws degree from Notre Dame in 1912, is a director of several Van
Richards, Walsh Head Juniors, Sophomores
Jim Richards (Independent) and Bill Walsh (Independent) are the newly elected presidents of next year’s junior and sophomore classes. Joe O’Neill received the majority in the off-campus race. Results on the college senators, senior* class officers, and the proposed amendment were not available because of an irregularity in the senior class balloting.
Elections were held last Monday and Tuesday in the Dining Hall and in
Sweringen companies, including the New York, Chicago, and St. Lours Railroad Co. In 1944 he was named president of the Higbee Company in Cleveland.
During his undergraduate days at Notre Dame, Mr. Tully, who received an electrical engineering degree in 1911, organized and was first grand knight of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus—the first college council. He formerly served as president of the Bremer-Tully Manufacturing Co. and the Thomas More Association.
ARCHBISHOP O’BOYLE
. . . And Spiritual
Washington hall. The Student Council executive committee and the Blue Circle elections committee threw out the senior ballots and a re-election was held yesterday at the Dining Hall. The referendum and college senator results were held pending the outcome of the new election.
The elections were held under the newly ratified Student Senate constitution. Out of the class officers, only
(Continued on Page 33)
May 16, 1952
9
Student Voice Wraps Up Year's Broadcasting With Final Program Tonight; Resumes Sept. 13
By MICKEY CARROLL
ment that WND has probably made its greatest strides. Under- program director Tom Knott, the schedule has been changed, added too, revamped) until a mixture of programs which is pleasing to virtually the entire campus audience has been reached.
“The student voice” will become vocal again next year on September-13, the first day of registration for the 1952-53 school year. Continuing a policy inaugurated this year, WND will begin broadcasting on the very day of registration — to continue throughout the entire school year.
The station leaves the air at 11 this evening to climax this year’s broadcasting activities.
Station manager Bill Ryan has announced two new appointments for the coming school year to the WND staif —made since other station appointments were announced at the station banquet two weeks ago.
Frank Corey, a junior engineeringstudent from Niles, Michigan, will serve as head program engineer next year. An engineer at the Station for the past two years, Corey will replace Bob Donoghue, who was forced to retire this year because of the press of other activities. -
Corey will be in charge of all recording at the station next year.
The other new appointment is that of Andy Hernon, an A.B. junior from New York City, as WND news director.
Hernon Takes Over News
Hernon will have charge of all radio news over WND—both local and national—and is at present working on several plans to improve the extent and quality of the station’s news programs.
Arrangements are tentatively being-made with the Department of Journalism which would give the Department partial charge of the station’s news writing—but, as yet, nothing definite has been concluded.
WND leaves the air tonight with a year of the greatest achievement in the station’s history behind it. During the past year, the St. Mary’s transmitter was put into operation, the United Press radio news wire was acquired, several additions were made to the technical and physical facilities, and personnel organization was made more systematic.
Under business manager Jim Murphy, the commercial end of the station’s operations enjoyed its most successful year, while head engineer Ted Byrne’s department produced besides the St. Mary’s transmitter, a remodeled “studio B” whose automatic operation caused a revolutionary simplification in station operations, and constructed a second floor for the Fieldhouse studios, besides the regular job of maintaining and rebuilding all station equipment.
Continuity, under John Kelsch for the past few months, has done a professional job in managing and arranging all commercials and scripted shows, and has greatly facilitated the broadcasting of public service commercials over WND, which has resulted in a number of public service campaigns by the station.
But it is in the programming depart-
Schaefer Named New Director of Libraries
Victor A. Schaefer, former War Department librarian and for the past four years assistant director of the General Library at the University of Michigan, has been appointed director of the libraries at Notre Dame.
Mr. Schaefer, who will assume his new duties on August 1st, succeeds
DIRECTOR AND CURATOR
Victor A. Schaefer and Paul R. Byrne
New Programs and Mainstays
New programs have been experimented with and many have been introduced into the station schedule promising to become mainstays for years to come. The “Story of Story-ville” and “New Sounds in Music” are two completely WND-originated programs which have attracted many listeners to the student voice.
Al Wood’s announcing department has had a highly successful year, attracting the most talented crew of announcers ever claimed by the student voice.
The sports department, under the direction of Dad Dougherty, has covered virtually every home Notre Dame athletic event, and made two trips to bring “away” basketball games to the campus audience.
Paul R. Byrne, head librarian since 1925, who will devote full time to his expanding duties as curator of the Wightman Memorial Art Galleries here.
One of Mr. Byrnes’ first duties in his new position will be the preparation of a history of the ND art collection and the transferring of the Wightman Memorial Art Galleries from their present location in the University Library to the new I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, scheduled for completion next Spring.
Before assuming his duties at the University of Michigan in 1948, Mr. Schaefer served for four years as chief of the Reference Section of the Acquisitions Division of the War Department Library. He previously had served for seven years as chief of the Preparations Department of the Library at the Catholic University of America.
Mr. Schaefer was the recipient in 1936 of the Elizabeth Rockwood Oberly Memorial Award from the American Library Association for the best bibliography in the field of agriculture. In 1935 he held the Rockefeller Foundation’s General Education Board Hu- _ manities Fellowship at the International Institute of Agriculture in Rome.
10
The Scholastic
JOHN ELSON	FRAN MEANEY	KEN STEAD
Named Editors of JUGGLER, DOME, and TECHNICAL REVIEW
• Dome, Juggler, Review Officers Appointed; Defant Names Meaney, Elson, Stead to Posts
At the annual Notre Dame Publications banquet Wednesday evening, Mr. John P. Defant, director of publications, announced the staffs for the 1952-53 editions of the Dome, Juggler, and Technical Review.
Next year’s Dome will be headed by Francis Meaney, a sophomore AB student from Braintree, Mass. He will fill the post vacated by Ray Earls. Associate and managing editor positions will be filled by Al Suwalsky, A.B. sophomore from Leavenworth, Kans., and Walter Wagner, a Commerce sophomore from Louisville, Ky.
Photographic co-ordinator will be Robert Adams, a second-year A.B. man from Cranston, R. I. Co-editors in charge of Hall news will be Bud Lalonde, freshman pre-med from Dearborn, Mich., and Gerald Memin, a second-year A.B. student from Gatlinburg, Tenn.
Head of the 1953 Dome Sports department will be Kenneth Murphy, a second-year Arts and Letters student from Utica, N. Y. Ed Trusela, from Weirton, W. Va., will cover next year’s activities and clubs for the Notre Dame annual. Ed is now an arts and letters sophomore.
Business manager will be Patrick O’Malley who is at present an A.B. sophomore, and hails from Ambia, Ind.
Succeeding John Minck at the helm of the Technical Review will be Kenneth Stead, a junior engineer from Chicago Heights. His managing editors will be two sophomore engineers who have made themselves known in an entirely different field, trackmen Harvey Newquist and Jim Harrington.
At the controls of the technicians’ art department will be Tom Stahl, junior engineer from Madison, S. D., who is retaining his present post. Roger O’Hara, engineering junior from South Bend, will be administration head. Business manager will be Bill Carson, a second-year engineering student from Haddonfield, N. J.
Editing the literary works of the Juggler will be John Elson, a junior A.B. from Manhasset, N. Y., who is following Jack Ward in the editor’s post. Business manager for the coming fall issue will be Leo Cahalan, another junior A.B. Cahalan’s home is in Wyandotte, Mich. Backing up Elson and Cahalan will be a board of about nine writers.
Chamber Concert Winds Up Successful Season Tonight
Washington Hall will be the scene of the Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra Concert tonight at 8. A three-feature program has been arranged, including two selections by Corelli and one by Mendelssohn. This is the group’s final appearance of the year.
The opening number, Corelli’s Christmas Concerto, will be played singly by the string section of the orchestra, and is one of the oldest existing concertos.
Second on the program is La Folia, another composition by Corelli, which dates back to the 17th century and remains as the oldest and most popular of its kind in existence.
A solo by Richard Casper, a junior music major in his second appearance
of the year, will highlight Mendels-sohn’s piano concerto, the closing number of the evening. Casper will perform the very difficult Mendelssohn G Minor Piano Concerto with the University chamber orchestra.
Buffalo Club Holds Elections; Plans June 13 Dance, Picnic
Members of the Buffalo Club recently held elections for next year’s officers. The administration of the club’s affairs next year will be carried on by junior Jerry McCabe, president; sophomore Jack Mullane, vice-president; junior Dick Wagner, treasurer: freshman John C. Casey, Secretary; and sophomore Neil Dempsey, sergeant-at-arms.
June 13 has been selected as the date for a proposed informal dance which will be held at the Buffalo Launch Club.
Another early summer activity being considered is a club picnic.
CALL FOR COMMERCE MEN
.The Young Christian Students, a Catholic Action group on campus, are in need of Commerce students to join their ranks. The commerce men in the YCS have been trying during the last year to develop within themselves their responsibilities to their college and to the national and international societies.
AH those interested in joining YCS or attending the YCS Study Week, June 7-14, contact John Houck, 232 Dillon; Ed Mariier, 384 Dillon; or Kerwin Fulton, 331 Dillon.
May 16, 1952
11
Benias Ball
Four-Year Finale
Photos by BILL DeCRICK and BOB HUDDLESTON
IT RAINED, drizzled and dripped outside, but in the Drill Hall-turned-castle in the sky there were the sweet strains of Ray Anthony and his orchestra and the soft swish of formals. The- only dripping came from the multicolored fountain in the center of the dance floor, a fountain touched with the magic of black light. They danced in the clouds under a starlit sky, were entertained by excerpts from “Addleman,” and listened to the Hullmen during intermission.
And when the evening was over the weekend had barely started. Saturday they cheered the Varsity on at
the Old Timers game or took advantage of a few hours’ sunlight io picnic at the Dunes. Then there was a reception and more dancing at the new Morris Inn, this time to the music of the Jerry Costello combo. And that night it was back to the Drill Hall for the music of Mike Leone.
Sunday morning there was Mass at Sacred Heart Church, a final review by the Sorinites, and a Communion breakfast at the Oliver. Then a long farewell and the biggest social event of four years was just another weekend to be remembered.
Band leader Ray Anthony and mellow trumpei give out with his popular version o.’ “Tenderly” during last Friday’s dancing.
$
It was music at its best at the senior finale in the cloud-ceilinged drill hall as the Class of’52 ended its social era.
May 16. 1952
Norma Hartung and Mike Falco sit one out.
TOP: Some registered ecstasy as they glided 'round the floor. CENTER: Mary Ann Stack listens attentively as Paul Corker explains the intricacies of fountain engineering. LEFT: Hanging clouds inside the Drill Hall were of the non-precipitant variety.
Rose Capozzi and Vic lallarida.
“Go Irish!’’ sounded in the stadium as Seniors and their dates cheered Varsity.
LEFT: A Communion breakfast at the Oliver topped ofr a full weekend for four-year men and their dates. If) RIGHT: Dancing, conversation and liquid refreshment followed the Old Timers game. BELOW: Ranks form for the march past Sorin.
Men of the Year
{Thi Editors <u the Scholastic present their filth annual selections Im Notre Dante Men of the Year honors. These men and the one organization hace been chosen on a basis of leadi rship and o; contributions to the I'nirersity of Notre Dame ami its student body according to their news raluc during the past gear. .Ik in the past, publication members and Dome award winners were not eligible for consideration.)
JOE CONWELL ... a junior history major from Green.— burg. Fa., has proved to lie that rare individual who is active in extra-curricular activities and yet maintains himself on a high scholastic plane.
Since becoming a student al Notre Dame, Joe has participated in a host of activities and ha.- distinguished himself as a student leader. He has done solo work with the University Glee Club, i- treasurer of the Pittsburgh Club. lepresentative on the local campus council of the NFCCS. and is chairman of the Fort Wayne Regional Forensic Commission.
Joe is probably best known for his work as president and organizer of the Speakers Bureau here on campus and for his work in oratory.
Last year he won both the Indiana and the National Intel-collegiate Peace Speech contests for oratory, and this year he took second place in the Indiana Inter-State Oratorical contest.
Conwell has done much through the medium of the Speakers Bureau to aid aspiring public speaker.- and to stimulate forensic activity here at Notre Dame.
In view of his outstanding contributions to numerous campus activities, the Scholastic congratulates Joe Conwell and confers on him the award of “a man of the yeai.”
BILL RYAN • . . "the man behind the voice" at WND . . . During the past three years Ryan has distinguished himself bj' promoting the interests and enlarging the facilities of the student radio station.
As a freshman, Ryan rapidly became known for his organizational talent. He started out by working in Mr. Fallon's workshop and at the station where he wrote programs. At the end of the year he was selected as program director and last Spring he became station manager, a post he has held ever since.
As station manager, Bill has made many new and constructive innovations at WND. Up-to-the-minute news and sports coverage and a variety of programs have been provided for WND listeners since Ryan succeeded in acquiring the United Press and RCA transcription services. Transmission to St. Mary’s, broadcasts of "away” sports tilts, and public service work have characterized WND since Ryan became station manager.
The studios have been remodeled and broadcasting time has been doubled. Bill has devoted much time and energy to keep the Notre Dame students satisfied and well informed. In recognition of this untiring work Mr. Ryan has been selected as a “man of the year” for a job well done.
16
The Scholastic
LEROY LESLIE . • • Climaxing a spectacular three-year career as a regular forward on Notre Dame’s varsity basketball team, Leroy Leslie more than earned his ‘‘man of the year" selection. When he receives his degree in Business Administration this June, the 21-year-old senior from Johnstown, Pa., will leave in his wake a lengthy string of Irish hoop records which he established during his tenure here. Included among these are the single sea .on and three-year individual scoring-marks of 3B7 and 973 points respectively.
And who can forget this year’s Notre Dame-DePaul game in which Leroy, playing his final contest for the Irish and handicapped with four personal fouls, came through with 23> points in the second half for an evening’s total of 32 markers —breaking three records in the process, leading his team to a well-deserved victory, and closing out his own career in brilliant fashion.
The left-handed push shot artist continued to prove his worth by going on to spark the College All-Stars in their annual series against the Harlem Globetrotters.
For his great basketball prowess and his wonderful display of sportsmanship in the true Notre Dame tradition, the ft	Scholastic salutes Leroy Leslie.
JERRY COSTELLO . - . Jerry's principal ambition is to be a great song-writer ami he has already accomplished much toward the realization of that ambition as any spectator of the recent Student Musical will testify. The lilting tunes and lively lyrics Jerry wrote for the production helped to make Stay Tuneil far A<hUemu» the smash hit that it was. But then Jerry is no novice in the realm of music.

A senior speech major from Hawthorne, N. J., he has been a member of the Notre Dame band for four years (playing the alto saxophone), and has acted as both arranger and instrumentalist for Gene Hull. He served WND for three years in the capacity of announcer and musical director, and has arranged for such famous name bands as Ralph Marterie and Tony Papa. Jerry plans to attend Fordham University and hopes to earn a degree in Fine Arts there after his graduation from Notre Dame next month.
The Scholastic is certain it will not be long before thi.-youthful Gershwin reaches the top and is proud to number Jerry Costello among its “men of the year.”
Activity of the Year
BLOOD DRIVE • - • Activities at Notre Dame are a dime a dozen, and in the past, when it came to honors for the year they were treated as such. However, necessity—not the generosity of Scholastic editors—called for a citation in that field this year. The recent Red Cross Blood Drive is the winner. Through the efforts of the “silent six” students who gave their time and energy when it looked as if the efforts of other campus organizations to get such a drive going had failed, Notre Dame students racked up four new unofficial Red Cross Blood records ranging from pledges to bleeding. The
job of soliciting pledges began late in February when the group erected a booth for such a purpose during the three-day Mardi Gras Carnival run, progressed rapidly when the "silent six” sent a telegram to national Red Cross President E. Roland Harriman in Washington, D. C., explaining the situation here wherein a lack of facilities for handling Notre Dame’s pledges prevailed, and reached its climax when enough blood had been extracted from Irish- veins to fill 1,899 pint jars and a certificate for a new collegiate donations record.
May 16, 1952
17
BADIN DECORATES FOR PURDUE
Added Attraction for Cotillion-Goers
It all started when your train, bus or car pulled into South Bend last September. There was the usual struggle with luggage and furniture . . . orientation, speeches and “Knute Rockne, All-American” for the Freshmen . . . handshaking, “howza summer?” and the mumbling of forgotten names for those who had been here before - . . line-standing in the Drill Hall and hysterical laughter when you saw your I-D photo . . . then classes and the first taste of the new profs
. . . and the eternal book lines stretching out into Badin Bog.
You were hardly settled when the crowds started arriving for the first football game . . . Friday night 5,000 men jammed the Field House to cheer and get a glimpse of the “secret weapon” . . . Saturday 56,000 filled the stadium to get a first look at Notre Dame football, 1951 version . . . and there was the first Victory dance at the Drill Hall.
“Dodgers!” “Yankees!” “Giants!”
“But We Were Not Too Young at AH”
18
The Scholastic
MOCK CONVENTION
The Majority Liked Ike
Roommate turned against roommate as the World’s Series neared its climax . . . radios blared all afternoon and you could follow the game by listening to the moans and cheers that sounded down the hall.
Seniors spent a lost weekend in Detroit . . . Jack Lambert wrote a letter
WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY The Next Time It Counts
to Scholastic about the failings of the girls from St. Mary’s . . . the resultant feud almost assumed the proportions of an interschool war and repercussions were felt for months.
The Sophomores went south for their cotillion theme . . . the year’s first dance queens were crowded in the
Palais-turned-Dixie . . . Babies, boilermakers, carnivals and witches appeared on campus as the halls were decorated for homecoming . . . then there was the bonfire pep rally . . . and N. D.’s eight-foot bagpipers competed with a giant bass drum from Purdue between the halves in the Stadium.
Fau-st appeared on the Washington Hall stage as the first University Theatre production of the year, and won the acclaim of critical N. D. playgoers . . . 450 men saw the historic and not-so-historic sights of Washington and Baltimore on the student trip . . . then a rush of posters covered the campus as the Freshmen elected officers in what turned out to be an unusually quiet campaign.
A handful of loyal followers met the team after the Michigan State debacle . - . and the team bounced back to smear the Tarheels the next week.
Then came the news that rocked the campus—no more tea dances at St. Mary’s! . . . informal Friday-night parties were to take their place . . . Columnists lamented the passing of the Sunday affairs that had provided so much material for comment and criticism . . . but the wave of unrest set off by the news was cut short by Thanksgiving . . . back home or into Chicago for turkey dinner and a dance . . . then back to the campus for a numb wait until Christmas.
Washington Hall came into its own during this period . . . larger-than-usual crowds of empty-pocketed Christmas shoppers gathered at the Saturday-night flickers to cheer Randy on as he annihilated hordes of savage redskins . . . and the University Theatre turned the ancient edifice into a German University for- the production, of Old Heidelberg.	,
Then it was home for two weeks of parties, midnight Mass and more parties . . . but it didn’t last long enough, and exhausted New Year’s celebrants dragged back to campus to start the weeks of cramming . . . Mid-Air Ball provided a break for the RO’s . . . then the “week of woe” . . . and a few days to head home, see Washington or just recuperate.
“Five eights! I have six!” “But I have two other classes that hour!” “Yeh, from Biology to the Rock!” it was registration time again . . . class cards replaced sheets, but still no one was satisfied with his schedule . . . book lines again, and this time the bog was a bog.
Then someone suggested an honorsystem -for Notre Dame and the great debate was bitter and prolonged . . . but nothing came of it.
19
May 16, 1952
The basketball season was nearly over, and you stopped in at the Field House one night to watch the DePaul game . . . you didn't expect too much and that’s what you got for the first quarter . . . but the Irish spirit and the student backing that night began to show in the score ... by the half the game had turned into a real fight . . . they were leading . . . then we were leading . . . they were leading again . . . then came three quick Irish baskets and the game was on ice . . . N. D. 76, De Paul 70.
Lent was almost here, and there was time for just one big celebration . . . the poor man’s Monte Carlo opened in the Drill Hall for a three-night stand . . - optimists converted their cash into scrip and tried to beat the croupier, concessionaire or dealer ... a few did . . . there were leis, banderillas and woven hats for the lucky ones . . . and the belles from across the Dixie provided an added attraction for one evening.
But there was more to the weekend . . . a ball at the Palais to the music of Ralph Marterie and his orchestra . . - and an afternoon of laughs as Mr. Interlocutor and Co. turned Washington Hall into a Mississippi showboat for a day.
Then came lent and a corresponding rise in the popularity of the Washington Hall oldies . . . reaction to a birds, bees and flowers cartoon brought a protest from a “nature lover” . . . and Thursday showings were added.
The long-awaited WND connection with St. .Mary’s was completed . . . despite fears that the feminine influence would be felt, the station's
FOOTBALL TRIP
Baltimore Bore the Brunt of Their Invasion
program remained unchanged, except for the addition of one female disc jockey . . . Dinosaurs, the ice age and the deluge came to Washington Hall for three nights with the University Theatre’s production of Skin of Our Teeth . . . Mr. Antrobus and friends bewildered some, pleased many more.
Indiana springtime hit the campus, the sap rose and N.D. men reflected the trend in an “unfortunate incident” . . . after the smoke had settled it seemed that the eight-ounce glass was here to stay.
And the troops filled Sacred Heart church one Friday night to inaugurate the Sorrowful Mother novena here on campus.
Basketball season was over, but the Field House was packed once again for the Bengal Bouts . . . Rocky Marciano was an added attraction at the annual fistic classic . . . and television brought it to the outside world.
The great room hunt began, possibly a little more intense than usual because of the lumping of Junior and Senior halls . . . jokes about broom
FRIDAY NIGHT AT ST. MARY’S
Their Informality Rocked the Campus but the ‘Flies’ Were Happy
20
The Scholastic
’52 BENGALS
This Year: Television
closets and forced singles filled the air . . . and you discovered that the fellow you thought was after your prize tie was really just making sure your locker hinges didn’t squeak.
Then another week at home—yours or your roommate’s—and the usual round of parties and dances before heading back for the post-Eastei-grind.
In a year of “great debates” the greatest was the student government controversy . . . out of a host of discussions, Washington Hall debates and poster campaigns three definite plans took shape . . - students went to the polls and voted fer a change.
Close on the heels of this local politicking- came the Mock Convention . . . for four nights in the traditional smoke-filled hall student delegates worked at choosing their candidates for the Republican nomination . . . speeches took up most of the first night . . . Paul Harvey called for a threat of atomic war . . . then by the third night four candidates — Eisenhower, Taft, Warren and Wayne Morse—had emerged . . . bands, parades, and demonstrations interrupted the balloting as electioneering became more intense . . . then came the break . . . a Taft leader called on his delegates to switch to Warren in order to stop the Ike forces ... a Warren landslide was in the making, but the convention was adjourned for the night and Warren men watched the nomination slip through their fingers . . . The Taft forces rallied on the fourth night . . . Warren men switched to Ike - . . and after the final ballot it was Eisenhower and Warren.
Then the Juniors changed the Rock’s normal athletic aroma into an atmosphere of sophistication for the Prom . . . and the Sorin Hall reviewing stand was reconditioned for the spring season ... A huge black and yellow rocket and a chariot race straight from Quo V/idis publicized the engineers’ open house . . . those hired inside were treated to the sight of a bewildering array of flashing- lights, whirring generators and complicated machinery.
Swimming pier, lake shores and Rock sun deck were littered with Skol bottles, towels, radios, unopened books and half-naked bodies as the Indiana springtime drew the sun worshippers
outdoors . . . The palatial Morris Inn opened . . . students gaped at the luxurious rooms, then returned to contemplate their forced doubles.
The armed forces needed blood, so a few anonymous organizers collected 2400 pledges and got a Red Cross unit to stop here . . . You went to the Children’s hospital, and as you sat in line you wondered what you’d let yourself in for . . . then, almost before you realized.it, it was over . . . and you went back to the hall and bragged, “Yeah, nothin’ to it. I didn’t even feel weak!” When the drive was over four-new collegiate records had been set.
On May Day you forgot about studies or movies for an hour as you joined a procession of 5,000 other men to the grotto, where you offered up a rosary and holy hour in honor of Our Lady.
Then came the long-awaited student musical, St ay Tuned for Addleman . - . solid story of an all-night disc jockey-in need of a sponsor, top tunes and a series of fine little touches made it a hit with the audience . . . critics agreed that “the musical is here to stay.”
One hot Saturday afternoon 1400 ROTC men sweated out a parade in honor of Father Cavanaugh . . . signal flags added color . . . Army, Navy and Air Force brass on the reviewing stand added dignity.
The Indiana weather (unusual type) that had helped make the Junior and Freshman weekends memorable turned on the Seniors . . . but despite the drizzle, the music of Ray Anthony and the celestial atmosphere of the transformed Drill Hall made “Dancing in (Continued on Page 32)
The Rock Attained an Atmosphere of Sophistication
May 16, 1952
21
The Notre Dame man wanders far afield for amusement, sometimes returning to his childhood for it. Occasionally, however, he can rise to adult recreation.
The Notre Dame Man: 9 Man of the Year
Photos by AL MUTH, DICK BENNETT, BOB HUDDLESTON,
and TOM FLECK
The problem of finding good reason to cite the Notre Dame man as a Man of the Year is like a beach covered with the shattered hulks of those who have tried it before. One may as well assert that he deserves some honor, and let it go at that. For the Notre Dame man pretty well defies description. He may be filthy rich or dirt cheap. He may be long on charm, low on brains, short on cash, tall in the saddle, or high on just a couple. And
then again he may not.
A better approach is the “what he has done” sort of thing, for here you have the weight of centuries of cliches on your side. “It’s the little things that count.” Or “Big things come in small packages.” Perhaps even “Big oaks from little acorns grow.” Or others. At any rate, what matters is that the day-to-day life of the Notre Dame man is to a large extent one small thing after another. It’s a slow,
He is more al home on a sidewalk than in a library, unless it’s raining. Occasionally he will show interest and more rarely approve, as with the convention.
And sometimes he II do something to make even his blase self sit back and
wonder how he did it, as when
regulated life, a life in which a or mock convention or football
approaches rather large proportions, a life in which the chummy little group of Rosie, Eddie, Alby, Frankie, Kewpie, and Smitty are counted among his more important friends.
And more to the point, even when he does something small, he often does it with a flair. Look at the blood drive which started off with six people and ended by setting new college records. Look at Bob Hickey night on the Bog. Look at the Dillon Hall incident. Look
at the milk demonstration. Even he’s merely existing he manages it differently than anyone else.
never just never just lunch.”
And it’s
when to do He’s He’s
broke, but in debt.
unlikeable, he’s “out to
for these little things, for
existing and wandering and sacking and demonstrating and griping and giving and doing and even for when he’s out to lunch, that we call him one of our Men of the Year.
Then, still surprised, he goes he finds himself entertaining shakes them off and returns
back to
serious thoughts about to the carefree life for
he gave
some blood that other people needed.
prom game
firesides and shopping tours. And now
the future, but manfully one last month.

1 V IS
respects in has grown students to from camp
sucn but and the
building—not only material things as class rooms and dormitories, building a spirit, a reputation, most important of all, building minds of men.
the past six years. She in enrollment—from 3,200 5,000. Peace had disgorged and ship and foxhole thou-
Reo. John J. Cavanaugh
The man who sits behind the president’s desk can make or break a university. He can build it into an institution of world renown and respect, or he can let it decay until it is merely a means of getting a diploma for the least possible effort.
Notre Dame has been ever blest. For 110 years her presidents have been
Now Notre Dame bids farewell to Father John J. Cavanaugh, who has served her as president for the six years Canon law allows. She does so with regret, for he has continued and extended the tradition of achievement by the 14 builders who preceded him. He has continued to build, and he has built well.
For Notre Dame has grown in many
sands of men who had learned the' importance of an education, and the wisdom of a Notre Dame one. But to have accepted more students might have broken the University. President Cavanaugh made his decision. There was no room, but room was made.
And room is still being made. Notre Dame has grown in facilities. There is a new student residence, a Science Hall, a Liberal and Fine Arts Building—and an Inn, which will help to insure the wherewithal for future building.
But new structures were not enough. There must be funds to help educate the added students. True, Notre Dame has grown in endowment, but not enough, never enough. To this, Father Cavanaugh dedicated his work. In 1947, the Notre Dame Foundation was established, to raise $25,000,000 in ten years. A testimonial fund in honor of the president has as its goal $3,000,000 of this by July.
Endowment, facilities, and enrollment, albeit necessary, are superficial factors of a university. Its essence is its ability to educate.	•
Notre Dame has grown in this too, in the past six years: the Graduate School, the Mediaeval Institute, LO-BUND, the ROTC programs, and in.^ portant research programs in many scientific fields.
When Father Cavanaugh began his administration, the Notre Dame Graduate School had very few students, and very few fellowships and teaching or research assistantships for them. Today, graduate enrollment has quadrupled, and the million-dollar mark may soon be reached in contracts, grants, and fellowships from foundations, government agencies, and industry.
The Graduate School now has four divisions—Arts and Letters, Science, Social Science, and Engineering—with 22 departments, 12 of which offer the doctorate degree.
Many of these graduate students, as well as several scientists, are at work ; on research projects on many things, I from germ-free life to plastics ’ atomic energy.	™
rrXU.Tin»lr,
the
of the Cavanaugh
admin-
Notre
Rockefeller
President, I946-52
ago for
achievement istration.
cation, the Ford Foundation, and Great Books Foundation.
Notre Dame men of a decade will remember Father Cavanaugh
With the financial assistance of the
Rockefeller Foundation, the
$


Best known among the research projects at Notre Dame is LOBUND— Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame—and its Germ-Free Life Laboratory. There scientists are seeking the causes and cures of tooth decay, cancer, and heart disease.
Meanwhile, the Department of Chemistry has made’ long strides in increasing man’s knowledge about malaria, cancer, tuberculosis, and the Rh factor.
Working with the Atomic Energy Commission, LOBUND has begun a Radiation Sickness Project, while a Radiation Biology Project seeks to determine the effect of radiation on vari-ous forms of life.
Two atom-smashers are in use: one for use in the study of radioactive decay, the other instrumental in the University’s nuclear physics research. Among other scientific projects are research on such divergent fields as rubber and plastics, electronics, and the sheep stomach worm.
Not forsaking’ the Liberal Arts, Father Cavanaugh’s tenure has seen the development of the Mediaeval Institute into a leading force in the work of transforming the principles of Christian culture of the Middle Ages into the civilization of present-day man.
Annually legal experts from all parts of the nation and all parts of the world gather at Notre Dame for the Natural Law Institute, another
Dame Committee on International Relations has added much to the study of the interrelated forces of religion, democracy, and international order in the world today.
Of more concern to the undergraduate student are the ROTC programs at Notre Dame. Since Father Cavanaugh assumed the presidency, Air Force and Army Engineering units have been formed, and a Marine Platoon Leaders Class had been added to the Naval ROTC program.
In all these aspects of the University’s progress, the efforts of Father Cavanaugh have played a leading part. Besides his service to Notre Dame the retiring president has devoted much time and energy to government projects and to educational organizations: a Citizens Committee on the Armed Forces, the American Council on Edu-
his aid and friendship as prefect of religion and later as vice-president. Today’s student has seen little of the president. For the president has been busy, busy winning many friends for Notre Dame. Countless people have come to see Notre Dame through him and in him. They have come to know her, to appreciate her, and to help her.
Notre Dame owes much to Father John J. Cavanaugh, and the effect of his efforts on her behalf will remain long after he has gone. For Father Cavanaugh was a builder during the past six years. And he has built well.
Secretary Choir Sets Concert for Sunday; Broadway Hit Tunes, Piano Solos Featured
The Notre Dame Girls’ Secretarial Choir will present a concert of light music Sunday evening at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
Consisting entirely of University employees, the 22-member group has been preparing for the forthcoming event ever since its organization in December, 1951. Mr. Cliff Caillouet, who has had experience' in directing-high school choirs in his home state of Louisiana, is leader of the organization.
Caillouet also has made an extensive study in this field under such outstanding choral men as 0. C. Christiansen, director of the world famous St. Olaf choir, Fred Waring, Noble Cain, and others. The accompanist and pianist for the program is Richard Casper, one of Notre Dame’s most gifted pianists. Casper, a native of New Jersey, will play Chopin’s “Waltz in A Flat” and Mendelssohn’s “Rondo Capricciaso.”
Although the majority of the choir is made up of girls with high school choral experience, there are a few with outstanding college training.
The choir will open the evening’s program by singing The Holy City of Adams, and following with a piece from Elijah by Mendelssohn. Barcar
SECRETARIAL CHOIR Music With Appeal
olle by Offenbach will complete the first part of the selections by the choirk Margaret Chung, a lyric soprano, will render two solos, including Morning by 0. Speaks and One Fine Day from the opera Madame Butterfly.
Two more selections by the choir will compose the third part of the program—including Elgar’s The Snow and Tales From . the Vienna Woods by Strauss.
JAZZ CONCERT
A jazz concert to be given by Gene Hull and his Lettermen is scheduled for Monday night ai- 8.-00 in Washington hall. The concert will feature all original arrangements by Jerry Costello, and Johnny Gordon, Chicago tune arranger and composer.
A selection of hit songs from the recent Student Musical, the featuring of a French horn, and the appearance of a guest artist will highlight the musical program, at which the 20-piece band will play.
There will be no charge for admission, and all are invited.
Featured also as a soloist on the agenda is Evelyne Major, singing One ™ Kiss by Romberg. Miss Major’s fine voice has been featured previously in a number of local presentations.
For the impressionists there will be a Girls’ Trio singing .an excellent arrangement of Debussy’s Clair de Lune.
The choir will conclude the night’s singing with four selections from Broadway hits, including I’ll Get By by Ahlert, and My Hero from Chocolate Soldier.
Poli Sci Academy Banquet Fetes 3 Outstanding Seniors
Three students in the Department of Political Science received awards at the Academy of Political Science’s spring banquet. The affair was held in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle.
Recipients of the annual awards were: Guy Emanuela, whose outstanding leadership as a student in the department earned him honor; Jim Garvin received his award for highly notable achievement in student government; Wililam Dempsey was presented with the last award for outstanding scholarship in the department.
New officials of the Academy of Political Science were installed in the course of the evening. Assuming the presidential office is junior Paul Braun-lich, Monroe, Mich.; junior Joseph Clancy of Washington, D.C., will assist him as vice-president. The secretary and treasurer, Don Griewe and Edward Murphy, will retain their positions until October, when new elections will be held to replace these men. Candidates for both positions will come from the present sophomore class.
Guests at the banquet were faculty members, their wives, social-political majors from St. Mary’s, and all present and future political science majors from Notre Dame.
Dancing in the Bronzewood Room concluded the evening’s activities.
Local KC Chapter Chooses Paul Rubb New Grand Knight
In recent elections members of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Chapter 1477 chose junior Paul Rupp as Grand Knight, and junior Bill Kil-minster as Deputy Grand Knight.
Other officers appointed were:
Chancellor, Jerry Smith; Recording Secretary, Lou Basso; Treasurer, Jerry Hames; Warden, Dick Miller; Advocate, Joe Shelly; Inside Guard, Bryan Coughlin; and Outside Guard, Walter Bernard.
Sunday has been chosen as the day ® for the Knights’ traditional picnic.
26
The Scholastic
Klinemen Wind Up Campaign at Home
ND Batters Face Tailend of Rough Schedule After Concluding Impressive Road Swing
By BOB FROLICHER
Irish Varsity Debuts, Rips Old Timers, 33-6
By JACK SAND
, x With the final weeks of the baseball season slowly drawing to a close, the Irish batsmen left Cartier Field for then- last long road trip of the year. The Klinemen won two and dropped one to up their season’s record to seven wins and ten losses.
Notre Dame’s first stop-off was at Kalamazoo for a meeting with Western Michigan. The Broncos jumped on starter Jim Gibbons for three runs in the first inning on a walk and two successive homers by right fielder Stan Malic and second baseman Dave Gottschalk, respectively.
The Irish were only able to garner three hits off Bronco pitcher Juane Emaar who made his first start of his college career for Western Michigan. Outfielder Joe Ridge was credited with two of the hits, while the other one was a single in the ninth inning by pinch-hitter Jim Mutscheller. The only Irish threat came in the fourth inning when Ridge belted out his first hit, but Emaar tightened up and retired the next two batters to end the uprising.
Western Michigan’s final tally came in the home half of the fourth. First Baseman Bill Hayes doubled and catcher Al Horn followed with a smashing single to send Hayes home with the fourth run.
The Irish then moved to East Lansing and again broke into the win column by outlasting the Michigan State Spartans 4-2. Tom Bujnowski undoubtedly pitched his best game of the season, whiffing 12 batters, chalking up three of the strikeouts in the ninth inning.
. Joe Ridge was again the big man with the stick, being the only Irish to collect more than one hit. The big inning for Notre Dame came in the £ fourth. Dave Costigan walked, and Ridge kept things alive with a single. Singles following by Jerry Ledwidge,
Bujnowski and Harry Durkin were enough to produce three runs. A bobble by first baseman Bob Ciolek allowed Dick Rosenthal to reach first, as the fourth Irish run crossed the plate.
Although each team collected six hits, the Spartans were only able to get to Bujnowski for a run in each of the fourth and fifth innings. Center fielder Joe Lane and Ciolek led the Michigan State attack with two hits apiece.
Some good relief pitching by Ron Mottl and George Moresco was enough to assure the Irish of their second straight victory by downing Great Lakes 3-1.
Jack Reynolds started for the Klinemen and was touched for a home run in the first inning by Centerfielder Bob Hoeft. This was enough to put Great Lakes ahead where they remained until the eighth inning. Reyn-
(Continued on Next Page)
ARMIE GALARDO INTERCEPTS OLD TIMER PASS Aerial defense thwarts Old Timer attack
What the Old Timers lacked in offensive power the 19-52 Irish made up for, as they combined a swift running attack with an effective aerial barrage to grind out five touchdowns in a 33-6 victory over the former Notre Dame veterans.
Playing before a rather over-expectant crowd of 18,000, the ’52 sneak preview of Coach Frank Leahy’s double feature saw the usually dormant -stadium alive with football fever, as the Irish pounded out two touchdowns in each of the first and second quarters and another tally in the last period to put the final touch on the spring football agenda.
Three Irish Quarterbacks Shine
For the Fighting Irish varsity there were many bright spots both among the backfield and in the line. Last Saturday’s spectacle unmistakably saw-three very capable quarterbacks in the
May 16, 1952
27
persons of Ralph Guglielmi, Tom Carey, and unheralded Bob Martin. Martin, an accurate left-handed tosser, • did most of the masterminding after he had replaced Johnny Mazur early in the game for the Old Timers. In fact it was he who fired a long 45-yard pass to John Petitbon for the Old Timers only score.
On the rugged defensive side of the picture there was a host of outstanding performers. Noteworthy among them was the alert little linebacker Annie Galardo who intercepted three vital passes for the Irish. Playing second to none in his new double duty roll was fullback Neil Worden, who aside from being one of the offensive stars of the contest, also displayed his ability on defense as another of the Irish’s key pass defenders.
Guglielmi Scores First TD
After the opening kickoff, Leahy’s lads, with Guglielmi doing the pitching and John Lattner the catching, wasted little time in scoring as Lattner grabbed two long passes to set up Guglielmi who snuck through the right side of the line for the varsity’s first score. Minnie Mavraides converted and the Irish led 7-0.
Exactly one minute later Captain Jack Alessandrini intercepted a Mazur pass on the first play and with 6:55 gone in the initial period the varsity scored again when Guglielmi threw 35 yards to the brilliant Lattner. Mavraides again booted the extra point as the contest was sewed up then and there.
HALFBACK PAUL REYNOLDS TACKLED BY JOHN YONAKER ’52 Irish prove too much for veterans
In the second quarter Carey took over the quarterback slot and quickly engineered two more varsity touchdowns, both being scored by Worden on identical off-tackle plays. The first of these came when the fleet fullback broke into the clear along the right sideline and scampered 46 yards for the TD.
Minutes later the varsity rolled to their fourth tally in the first half as Worden climaxed a 61-yard drive that was manipulated in two plays when he belted 24 yards for paydirt. End Art Hunter had previously grabbed a 37-yard pass from Carey to set up the score.
The only other marker registered by the varsity came early in the final period when Guglielmi concluded a 68-yard downfield march by skirting over from the three.
Baseball
(Continued from Page 27) olds was relieved by Ron Mottl in the fourth. Moresco then came in in the seventh and finished the game to be credited with his second win of the year against no defeats.
Two home runs produced all the Irish tallies. Dick Rosenthal cracked out his first one of the year to put the Irish into a 1-1 tie. Tom Bujnow-ski, pitcher-outfielder, hit the second Irish home run in the top of the ninth with a man on to put Notre Dame ahead 3-1. It was then up to Moresco and he displayed his brilliant style by retiring Great Lakes and giving the Irish their second straight win.
ND Cops Nine Firsis; 4 Buries Track Rivals
By KEN MURPHY
Despite a wet track and strong wind, the Notre Dame track squad copped its first outdoor meet of the season last weekend with a home victory over the visiting Michigan Normal and Bradley teams. The Irish picked up nine first places in piling up 84 points, more than doubling Michigan Normal’s 41% points and the 36% points of last-place Bradley.
Captain Bucky Ewing of the Irish proved to be the best mudder on the field as he swept to victory in both the 100 and 220 yard dashes. Ewing’s time was :10.2 in the 100 and :22.7 in the 220 as Reindel of Normal and teammate Justin McDonough trailed him across the finish line in their respective races.
Wilcox Double Winner
Mainstay Hughes Wilcox w a s another double winner for Coach Alex Wilson’s men as he beat McConner of Normal to the tape in :48.8 of the 449 yard dash and .tied for first with Richardson of Bradley at 6' 3" in the high jump. The four way tie for third was between Hassenger and Sullivan of Notre Dame, Heininger of Bradley and Strong of Normal.
Freshman Jack Alexander of the Irish got back into his winning form as he took a first for the Wilsonmen in the mile with a time of 4.28.5. Aylmer and Roland of Normal followed him across.	;
Two more firsts in the track events were registered by Ed Powell and John Mohar in the 120-yard high hurdles and 880-yard run respectively. Powell	<
was clocked at :15.6 and was followed	i
by Harvey Newquist, who was also | runnerup in the 220-yard low hurdles | to Philbee of Bradley. Con Tetrault of the Irish was runnerup to teammate I Mohar in the 880, who was timed in j 1:57.2.	1
Harrington Again Cops Pole Vault
In the field events the Irish didn’t fare quite as well, although Jim Harrington did cop a first again in the pole vault and Jack Soranno did likewise in the discus. Harrington cleared 13' in the vault and teammate Joe Springer tied for second with Erickson of Bradley. Soranno’s distance_ in the discus was 138' 2". Jack Shay of the Irish took a second ’ in this,1 event.
Aylmer of Michigan Normal gave his team a first in the two mile ran as he -finished in 9:54.4. Harry Sny-
28
The Scholastic
der and Ben Almaguer of the Irish placed behind the Normal speedster. The mile relay also went to the Michigan squad. The team of Jacobs, I)ais, Parks, and McConner took the event in 3.23.1. The Irish, who dropped the baton on the first exchange, had to settle for runnerup spot.
Indians Win Javelin and Broad Jump
Bradley picked up points as they took two of the remaining three field events, the javelin throw and broad
By Jack Varley
WILCOX SNAPS TAPE IN 440
Wilsonmen overwhelm two foes
jump. Hasenstein won the throw with a distance of 174' 7%". Dwyer of the Irish finished third, behind Hasenstein and Acre of Normal. Busse of Bradley took the broad jump with a leap of 22' 7%". Morris of Notre Dame and Porterfield of Normal finished second and third.
Koczman of Normal grabbed first in the shot put with a heave of 48'-11". Weeks of the Braves was second and Cunningham of the Irish third.
Irish Golf Team Wins
2 of 3 Away Matches
Last week the Irish golf team took two out of its three scheduled matches. The first one, against Wisconsin at the Maple Bluff C. C. in Madison, was held on Monday and proved to be the sole disaster for the Irish. The Badgers downed Notre Dame 14% to 12%. The match play which was held in the morning gave Wisconsin just enough margin to win, 5% to 3%, since the singles that afternoon came out deadlocked 9 all. Tom Matey was the low
This marks the last release from the Press Box for this year and after occupying it for the last nine months we have noticed things that are to be commended and a few things about which we would like to offer some suggestions.
First, the opening of Spring practice was a good move. The turnout of the students, especially for Saturday scrimmages, showed that there are a good many people who want to see their team practice. As far as we could see, the difficulties involved were easily overcome and so we suggest that this Fall practice be opened to the student body at least several days a week. The students would get to know their team better and would be more closely allied to it.
Kampus Keglers and Bengal Boaters
Probably the most active and widespread student-managed activity on campus is the Kampus Keglers. They have come a long way in the four years we have watched them. The leaders in this organization are to be congratulated for their fine job in providing some 300 bowlers a chance for keen competition for about six months of the school year.
Anther student organization that has done a lot this year is the Bengal Bouters club. With their smokers and two bouts with Purdue, they not only demonstrated the abundance of boxing talent here, but also showed there was quite a bit of interest in the sport. So much so that the formation of varsity boxing here to provide more of the sport would be a wise move.
When Athletic Director Ed Krause first came out with the idea of a golf clinic, he was a little worried as to just how successful it would be. Well, it was so successful that at least two more are planned for next year. The clinic was a good idea not only because it will improve a lot of the golfers, but also because it shows an interest of the Athletic Department in things other than varsity teams.
The Tulane Game of ’49
Going back over the four years in athletics at Notre Dame, we would tab the Tulane game of ’49 as the most memorable. LIFE magazine had a battery of photographers all over campus. Humor had it that they were here for a spread on the upset of the year. Tulane fans were pouring in from the deep South willing to spot Leahy’s team a touchdown and then when the game was about to start the Tulane team piled on to the field. The officials waited impatiently for the Irish to pour out. A few minutes elapsed and then co-captains Jim Martin and Leon Hart trotted in step out of the tunnel. A fan in the student section yelled, “There’s our team. Let’s go.” The rest of the team poured out and fifteen minutes later Tulane’s Green Wave was on the short end of a 27-0 score as halfback Larry Coutre scored three times in the first ten minutes. The whole thing was a great spectacle.
Right about now we have some people we would like to thank for the many courtesies they have extended in our direction . . . Charlie Callahan, Maura Mills, Bill Riley, Bill Londo and Bud Cloven. Thanks for everything.
May 16, 1952
29
man for the day, with a 36-hole total in medal play of 137.
Thursday, in a triangular match with Valparaiso and Loyola, the Irish fared much better. An all singles affair, Notre Dame won both; Valparaiso lost 8% to 3% and Loyola was defeated 12 to 0. Again it was Tom Matey who led the pack with the low score of the day of 73, which is just one over par at the Beechwood C. C. in Laporte, Indiana, the site of the match.
Playing on their home course for the first time that week, the Irish celebrated their return Saturday by defeating Bradley, 16% to 10%. In the morning matches. Bradley moved ahead of the Irish by a score of 5% to 3%. That afternoon though, Notre Dame piled it on and out of a possible 18 points, came away with 13 and the match.
This victory gave the Irish a record of five wins, two defeats and one tie with four matches remaining on the schedule.
Irish Netters Close With Michigan Teams
By ROGER FERNANDES
Tomorrow Coach Walter Langford’s Notre Dame tennis team meets the University of Michigan six in what will be the Irish netters, final home match of the season. Next Monday they will wind up their regular dualteam meetings with a match at Michigan State. The final meet in ’52 for the N.D. netters will be the Tennis NCAA at Northwestern from June 23 to 28. Coach Langford will take his top four racquet wielders to that affair.
To date the Notre Dame squad boasts a record of six wins and two defeats and a victory skein of two matches since their 4-5 defeat at the racquets of Western Michigan on May 5. The latest victory for the Irish occurred last Sunday here on the local courts when they tripped up a fine Iowa team 6-3. Only the day before, the Hawkeyes of Iowa dropped their first match to the all-conquering Indiana squad, 0-9.
Against Notre Dame the Hawkeyes’ Norman Barnes and Bruce Higley posted the only victories for their side in the singles matches. Barnes took Matt Tuite, 6-2, 3-6, and 6-3, while Higley topped Bay Smith, 3-6, 6-3, and 6-0.
The rest of the contests were decided quickly in two sets by the Irishmen. Ken Angyal stopped Bob Richards,
8-6 and 6-2; N.D. captain Tom Overholser bested Roger Kroth 6-4 and 6-3; Don Crowley won over Don Olmstead, 6-2 and 6-4; and Maurice Reidy won out against Dave Van Geukel, 6-0 and 6-3. Reidy then teamed up
SPORTS CALENDAR
May 17—TRACK—at Michigan
1 7—TENNIS—Michigan here
17—GOLF—Iowa here 17-18—SAILING—Midwest
Collegiate Sailing Assn. Finals, Michigan 19—TENNIS—at Michigan
State 20—BASEBALL—at Purdue 21—BASEBALL—Northwestern here
22—BASEBALL—Michigan here
24—BASEBALL—Great Lakes here
24—TRACK—Indiana State Meet at Bloomington
26—GOLF—at Michigan State
27—GOLF—at Detroit 28—BASEBALL—Michigan State here
29-31—TENNIS—CCC .	30—BASEBALL—Indiana
here
30—TRACK—Closed CCC at Michigan Normal
31—BASEBALL—Indiana here
June 7—TRACK—Open CCC at Michigan Normal 14—TRACK—NCAA 22-28—GOLF—NCAA at Purdue
23-28—TENNIS—NCAA at Northwestern
with Tuite to top the Iowa duo of Higley and Chapman 6-3 and 6-4 to clinch the match. In the other doubles affairs Iowa’s Richards and Barnes gained a 2-6, 6-4, and 8-6 victory over Angyal and Smith, while N.D.’s Overholser. and Crowley took care of Kroth and Van Geukel in extended sets 9-7 and 7-5.
The day before, the Notre Dame netters scored their first white-wash job of the season at Milwaukee with a 9-0 triumph over Marquette. Only two Irish singles players were forced to go to three sets in order to win their matches. In the doubles, however, it was a trifle closer as the Marquette duos forced the N.D. man to stay for a third set and extra games in two of the three encounters.
Interhall Champions * To Be Crowned Soon
By BILL NOONAN
This weekend should mark the end of activity in one division of interhall • sports and the beginning of the end in another. The baseball league’s playoff round has been in progress this week and if all goes well, the titleholder will be crowned by Monday. Mr. Maxwell’s softball loop had to make up several games in each of the four sections, but an undisputed champion should emerge before the start of exams on Wednesday.
Mr. Szekely’s plan is to have the top two teams in each of the three five team divisions take part in the playoffs. However deadlocks in two of the circuits have complicated the arrange- ™ ments. Cavanaugh Hall is almost sure of having two teams in playoff action. Both the Gold league and the Blue league representatives of that hall are unbeaten and leading their respective divisions. Cavanaugh’s Gold forces have already sewed up their league by virtue of 9-8, 3-1, 7-5, and 6-1 triumphs. The other playoff was still in contention with Morrissey and St. Ed’s vying for the privilege. The two teams played earlier in the week to decide.
In the Blue league, though the other Cavanaugh outfit leads the pack with a 3-0 mark, the La Raza Club, possessors of a 2-1 record, had a chance of making it a three way tie along with Morrissey Blue if they upset Cav earlier this week. If they didn’t, the Blue representatives will be the two sophomore halls, Morrissey and Cavanaugh. Zahm and Dillon, each with three victories, have definitely clinched the two playoff berths of the White league. Dillon has dropped one contest, that to the undefeated Zahm-ites.
The softball league is even more of a problem with the regular season just winding its way out. In the A league, the fight foi* first place seems to be between the Indianapolis and Pittsburgh clubs. Indianapolis holds a 5-1 record, their only loss being a humiliating 38-12 rout at the hands of second place Pittsburgh. The Smokey City club has won four and dropped one. Their lone defeat was a 20-18 upset by the Metropolitan Club. Kansas City and Milwaukee trail the two leaders with 3-2 records.
Unless the unforeseen occurs, the | Generation Club seems a cinch to cop ) B league honors. Possessing a 4-0 £ record they disposed of their closest ;
(Continued on Page 32)
30
The Scholastic
i Positions, Fellowships Open to ND Grads
Notification has been made of the availability of scholarships, fellowships, and appointments by three different sources. These are General Electric Company, the Institute of Gas Technology, and the Foreign Service. The monetary aid and payment amounts to quite a large sum for those who qualify for the awards and positions.
More than $370,000 in scholarships, fellowships, and grants will be offered by the General Electric Company for the 1952-53 school year under an expanded and revised educational assistance program.
Total amount of the educational awards will be $145,000—including approximately 285 awards.
The expanded program comprises assistance to students in undergraduate studies and in post-graduate research work, grants to colleges through direct payments or help in purchases of equipment for laboratory and instructional purposes, and summer courses for high school science and mathematics teachers.
According to Mr. Ralph G. Cordiner, General Electric president, new fellowships for post-graduate work in chemistry, physics, and metallurgy will be given for research at designated universities and institutes.
The value of each grant is $1,400 for an unmarried Fellowship holder and $2,100 for a married recipient. A grant of $1,200 will be awarded the school where the fellowship recipient studies.
Gas Institute Fellowships
The Institute of Gas Technology announces the availability of 15 two-year fellowships for the training of men who are interested in securing positions with Utility Gas. The Fellowship Program of the Institute is designed to train carefully selected young men at master’s and doctoral levels for positions of responsibility in the several phases of the manufactured and natural gas industries—production, distribution, utilization, administration, research and sales.
The war industry has created the educational and research facilities and assumed the financial burden foi* the fellow’s tuition and living expenses. To a student working for a master’s degree a fellowship is worth $4,000 plus his earnings at summer employment in the industry. A Doctorate is worth a proportionately higher- stipend. " Applications are invited from students in engineering and related fields
who are citizens, in good health, and under 28 years of age. Applications can be secured from the placement bureau or the Dean of Students, Institute of Gas Technology, Chicago 16, Ill.
Foreign Service Exams
The Foreign Service will again hold competitive examinations September 811 of this year for officer appointments, class 6. Between 200 and 300 young men and women will be selected from this year’s applicants under recently-liberalized entrance qualifications.
It is now possible to take examinations for entrance into the career corps of the service at the age of 20 and it is no longer a requirement that officers be proficient in a foreign language before entering the service. .
Candidates must pass written, oral, and physical examinations. Application forms are available on campus, or may be obtained by writing to the Board of Examiners, Department of State, Washington 25, D.C. Applications must be in by July 1.
Four Men Compete For Vetville Mayor
At the same time the elections for Vetville councilmen were held last weekend, the nominating ballots for the future mayor of that community were cast. The actual election of the
FLY UNITED
AND BA HOME IN A
FEW HOURS
Leave after your last class—
United Air Lines’ 300-mile-an-hour nights will get you
home for summer vacation faster than you ever thought
possible. For reservations, call 2-1401 or an authorized
travel agent.
nited air unis
mayor will take place next weekend, following the same voting procedure used for the council election.
Four men are potential successors to Mayor Art Lassuy. They are T. J. Bergan, Russell Barta, Maynard Bissonnette, and Joe DeLisi. Ballots containing their names will appear in the Vet Gazette of May 22. The new mayor will officially take office at the council meeting, May 25.
Final results in the balloting for councilmen last weekend placed men from Wards 1 to 6 respectively in office. Guiding the community through the summer months and the fall semester are Leon St. Pierre, Bill Daner, Bud Guiltinan, Elmer Farinella, Jim Ragan, and Bob Lally. Daner was also selected for the position of secretary-treasurer. The new council took immediate office at a joint council meeting last Saturday night.
One of the main items of business on the agenda for Sunday’s council meeting will be the selection of a senator for the campus government.
All married students receiving degrees in June are requested to submit their names and their wives’ names to Chuck Baier, project manager, in the Vet Rec Hall immediately so that their diplomas can be signed- and filled in for the Wives’ Graduation. This ceremony will take place May 31 at 8 P.M. in the Rec Hall.
It is also requested that all students graduating in August submit the same information, so that similar preparation may be made for a Wives’ Graduation in August.
May 16, 1952
31
Interhall
(Continued from Page 30) rival, the Minnesota Club, in a hotly contested 4-2 tussle. That was the only setback for the lads from the Gopher state in four starts. The Chemists Club holds down third place with three wins and two losses.
The C league boasts the tightest race of them all. Undefeated Howard Blue leads the circuit with five victories, followed closely by last year’s champion, the Knights of Columbus, and Off-Campus Blue, both having four wins in five outings. The K. of C.’s one loss was to league-leading Howard by a 3-1 count while they in turn toppled Off-Campus, 7-4. The rest of the loop is out of contention.
Ability to win the close ones has been the major factor in enabling the Electrical Engineers to ride the roost in the D league. The Engineers, who have copped six out of six, beat their two nearest competitors by two run margins. Runnerup Farley, with a 5-1 record, fell to the leaders, 10-8 while Sorin Gold, standing at four wins, two losses, dropped a 20-18 slugfest to the Electricians. Farley defeated Sorin in an early season game, 20-15 for the senior hall’s other mark in the loss column.
Review
(Continued from Page 21) the Clouds” a success . . . skits from Addleman and a flowing fountain on the dance floor were added attractions.
But there was still more to the weekend . . . students, dates and visitors filled the stadium to see the Varsity, ’52 version, drub the Old Timers . . . there were refreshments and dancing after the game at the Morris Inn ... an afternoon at the Dunes for lovers of the great outdoors . . . and the Monogram club dance for those who weren’t yet exhausted.
Then the social season was over . . . but class elections were in full swing . . . finally one party settled for “You name it, we’re for- it!” . . . posters covered bulletin boards, doors and walls . . . floods of mimeographed campaign literature threatened to inundate Freshman, Sophomore and Junior halls . . . then the students went to the polls . . . winners started making bigger and better plans for the coming year . . . losers sadly totalled their campaign costs.
Everybody made plans for the summer . . . RO’s had theirs made for them .... But things had changed, even for the civilians . . . the Gig • question wasn’t “what’re you going to do .this summer?” but rather “howr
d’you stand with your draft board?” Then finals . . . griping about schedules . . . study rooms packed with crammers . . . two hours under the cold eyes of a proctor . . . and finally they were over.
The period of finding that the trunk that was big enough last fall isn’t big enough anymore . . . then by train, bus or car to three months of relaxation, work or both. It was a great year.
Letters
(Continued from Page 3) organization are unquestionably finer than they have ever been.
Your staff has done a magnificent job, and you personally and the entire Scholastic staff deserve full congratulations for the superb work you’ve done all year.
Thanks again from WND—and, once more, our sincere congratulations on the superior job of this year’s Scholastic staff.
Sincerely,
Mickey Carroll, Publicity
More About Hynes
Editor:
I’ll admit that maybe Jack Hynes goes a little far afield in his column sometimes, but is he really such an ogre? I don’t know Mr. Hynes myself, but I don’t think that mothers scare their kids with him. Anyway, I think that Mr. Michael Henry Ducey is making too strong an attack on an essentially kindly old columnist.
I’m only a low-down engineer, and therefore don’t know much about the affairs of the world-at-large or about the outstanding personalities in it. I do think however (in my own limited way), that if Mr. Ducey wanted to write an intellectual and educated bit of prose, he should have taken a more important and worthwhile subject. I think that his talent is going to waste attacking innocent attempts at humor. Of course this is only another innocent attempt of opinion, and not meant to bring on another essay, but you never can tell. I still think that it’s a lot of unnecessary fuss. ■
Sincerely,
Paul Petrozzi
P.S.: I didn’t know who Mr. Stone was either, if that helps any. I guess not, though.
Editor:
I have just finished reading a letter vrhich was addressed to the Scholastic and published last week. This masterpiece was signed by a lad who signed with his full name Michael Henry Du
cey, and who seems to be highly disturbed about something, and it seems H that he has picked out Jack Hynes as the victim of his complaint. His major trouble seemed to be that we big bad upperclassmen are always picking on the poor little freshmen, and that this is America and we can’t do that. I would like to answer him as briefly as possible. . .
. . . In the first place, Michael Henry, Jack Hynes had no malicious intent when he made that remark about Benny Strong. He was making the remark in a kidding manner, and herein seems to lie your trouble. You are taking everything too seriously. Jack considers the freshmen no form of lower life as you suggest, but merely made the remark as he has made many others all year long, in a kidding way. Those remarks incidentally, are made about seniors as well as £ freshmen, or did you notice? . . .
... In the second place, when you picked on Jack Hynes as a target, you picked on the wrong boy. Jack’s column is read and enjoyed by most who read it as it should be taken, in a light way. If you don’t like it, don’t read it. But you are in the minority. When you say that all that separates you from Jack Hynes is time, I am forced to take exception to your statement. When you say that when this temporal barrier is breached that you and 1500 like you will be breathing down his neck in any field he chooses, again I must take exception. I don’t know you, Michael Henry, and you don’t know Jack Hynes, but take it from me that there is a lot more separating you than four years. I’ll take all 1500 of you, let you pick the field, throw in Jack Hynes and give you points. Don’t worry, Michael * Henry, they will never take up any collections for Jack Hynes. And when you say, and I quote, “Who is Jack Hynes,” may I say that Jack Hynes writes a column for the Scholastic, is on WND with his own program, wrote the student musical, was a Junior* Class officer, and is liked by all the men, and I emphasize men, that know him. We know who Jack Hynes is, Michael Henry, but the question is, who are you? . . .
... So get off your soap box, Michael Henry, you aren’t getting pushed around. We aren’t intrinsically better than you, but maybe we have picked up something in our four years that you haven’t found yet. I hope you do.	.
Lee	Steiden	|
349	Sorin	?
• - # $
We agree with Mr. Chinn & Co., Mr. ™ Petrozzi and with cartoonist Al Capp J
32
The Scholastic
eivho recently stated that the only person a humorist is allotved to make jokes about these days is himself. The Week is a humor column, first, last, and always, and we are sorry that Jack Hynes’ remarks were not received by all in the joking spirit in which they were zvritten.—Ed.
president: Springer 323; Heap 183; Landzert 109; Bertrand 89; McDonough 77. Secretary: Willard 145; Corrao 53; Mangialardi 111; Guilfoile 422; Reynolds 83. Treasurer: McInnis 291; Worden 55; Joseph 47; Chickey 256; Durkin 145.
SOPHOMORE CLASS — President:
Byrne 165; Cassidy 152; Barry 14 7 Coffey 124; Walsh 223. Vice president r Hanlon 174; Kennedy 275; McIntosh 211; Coury 190. Secretary: Shannon 359; Buckley 307. Treasurer: Hughes: 337; Rebora 325.
OFF-CAMPUS — Representative r Dosmann 10; O’Neill 35; Tarpex 8.
Marketers Choose Enders
Members of the Marketing Club elected John F. Enders as next year’s president for their organization at a recent meeting.	-
George I. McCourt and Donald R. Curtis were elected to the two vicepresident posts, while Len Dury and Phillip Nash won the secretary and treasurer posts, respectively.
£ Army RO Holds Open House
The Army Engineers ROTC will 1 hold an open house and a display of equipment in observation of Armed i Forces Day tomorrow from 9 a.m. until 12 noon, in the Social Science Building.
A film entitled “Power for Peace” will be shown beginning on each hour and half-hour throughout the display. All members of the faculty, students, and their friends are invited to attend.
Elections
(Continued from Page 9)
the presidents will sit on the Senate. The remaining class officers will form part of the executive cabinet. Elections of the 15 remaining senators will take place next semester. The law school grad school, and Vetville representatives have not been announced.
Tabulations of the sophomore, junior and off-campus elections follow. The winners are in italics:
JUNIOR CLASS—President: Richards 271; Eck 199; Moran 151; Welsh 91; Brey 53; Millbaugh 11. Vice-
Il-------------------------------
lien’s Furnishings, ^Shocs
ESTABLISHED 181S
BROOKS BROTHERS' SPORTWEAR an interesting new selection that's colorful and distinctive
We have long been noted for sportwear that has an air of casual correctness... is of fine quality... and in good taste. This season’s selection for college men features Odd Jackets of tweed, corduroy, flannel or denim...slacks and shoits...and unusually attractive sport shirts... all made to our exacting specifications.
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
May 16, 1952
-------------------------------------------------------By Bill Riley
An Apologia
This column could be called an “apologia/’ in miniature, for what has filled this space for the last year.
In it I am going to try to explain, and assert, some of the principles upon which it has been based, and some of the discoveries that I have made during the nine months I have been writing it. So it will also be a summary, in brief, of a set of “credos,” or, “I believe’s.”
First of all, I believe that the University of Notre Dame is the greatest university in America today. But lest this be taken as a signal for all to rise and sing the chorus of the Victory March, let me explain why. It is the greatest, I think, because of a peculiar combination of circumstances. First of all, it is a Christian university, vitalized by the spirit of a living and enlightening theology, and a philosophy that stands as a guide in a world which is teetering shakily in the West, and bound to an iron, dehumanizing rule in the East. By its very Christianity, its recognition and acceptance of the truths and traditions of Christian education, it is set above and outside most of the universities in America today.
tributing to the greatness of the University.
The University could, however, be much better. And it is part of the function of the student, the faculty, and the administration, to keep a watch on the University, to be always searching for ways to make it better. For it will not stand still.
It must be emphasized and reemphasized that buildings alone do not make a great university, that fastmoving, title-winning athletic teams do not make a university, that the number of learned articles published by the faculty, the size of trophies won by members of the student body in competition with students from other universities do not make a great university; that the greatness of a university cannot be measured quantitatively. It must be said and reiterated that the greatness of a university can only be measured by how well it fulfills its function: the development of the student into a Christian gentleman. By that much misused term I mean a man who is aware of his responsibilities towards his fellow men and towards
his God, a man who is not narrowed [1 down into a special groove, one who ;j before he is a doctor, a lawyer, or an j engineer, is a Christian. If the university can produce men such as this, it will see these other things for what they are: accidentals, sometimes symptomatic of the greatness of a univer- *. sity, sometimes entirely irrelevant.	|j
fl
Critically Means Discerningly	J;
It is then, a part of the function	jj
of the student to look critically at the	;
structure of his university. By critically, I mean discerningly. He should weigh his criticism carefully, discuss it with others, in each level of the university, but once decided upon it, he should courageously set it forth. He (| will often find disagreement; it is use- !, less to say that he should not become discouraged, for it is a certainty that he will. It is better to say that in spite of discouragement he should continue to fight for what he believes is right, being careful, all along the way, I to be ready to listen to all reasoned argument. He must toe the narrow line between fanaticism — continuing to s struggle when he is no longer con- | scious of the end which he is trying to achieve — and too easy resignation.
If he does this, and at the same time lends himself to intellectual, spir-	(
itual and social growth, he may call	;
his four years well spent. If he continues to do it, in the wider sphere of post-college life, he will be a Christian gentleman which is what seems to me should be the ultimate meaning of the “Notre Dame Man.”
Concern for a Tradition
It is a great university because, somewhere along the line, many of its students awake to a concern for the meanings of the Christian tradition in their lives. This awakening is achieved through the fullest utilization of the personal labor of the individual teacher, as teacher. To those among the faculty who have regarded the student as an individual, to those who have devoted their efforts, often in the face of overwhelming apathy, to awakening the student, an immeasurably large debt is owed, which the student can pay only by retaining and keeping alive his awareness.
The University of Notre Dame is also a great university because of its student body, who come, for the most part, from Christian homes and are better prepared to participate in this educative process. And so, the parents of the student also have a part in con-
24 KT. ST. CHRISTOPHER MEDAL embedded in thi
HANDSOME LEATHER WALLE
CARRY THIS Symbol of Protection with you wherever you go — on land, sea or in the air — and FEEL MORE SECURE! Beautiful 24 karat GOLD plated St. Christopher Medal with its cherished Symbol of Christ and His Blessed Mother Mary, (originally designed for our armed forces) is firmly embedded in this rich, alligator-finish, genuine leather Guardian Wallet. Has unique “Neva-Lose" money compartment and four transparent window card or photo cases. A fine, durable wallet that anyone will be proud to carry!
Sent postpaid for only $2.98 (check or money order); S2.98 plus postage if sent C.O.D. Orderdirect from:
366 Madison Avenue	MERIT CO. Dept. 050. New York 17, N. Y.
IDEAL GIFT FOR A LOVED ONE IN THE ARMY, NAVY, MARINES OR AIR FORCE!
34
The Scholastic
* Favorite subject of coeds—
vol
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
Shirts
Nothing gets admiring glances on the campus faster than a handsome guy in a handsome shirt. To look your handsomest, try on a Manhattan® Vericool or a Manhattan® Burt.
The Manhattan Vericool! Awarm-weatherwonderwith thousands of tiny windows inviting every breeze, keeping you cool and collected.
HEALTH SPOT I
FOR MEN WOMEN ANO CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
The Manhattan Burt!
Traditional college man’s favorite. Lustrous Oxford button-down with a natural "soft roll” to the collar.
Notre Dame STUDENTS
Welcome to
128 W. Washington St.
YOUR FAVORITE
SUBJECT in shirts will be the new MANHATTAN VERICOOL and BURT
When you see them at...
SPIRO'S
in South Bend
ft
Scientists from Leading Universities Make Sure that Chesterfield Contains Only Ingredients that Give You the Best Possible Smoke
• • '	Copyright 1952, Liggett & Writs Tobacco Co.