THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
^biamcwKl jubilee Tjeai — 1867-1942
Undefeated Irish Golfers Host to 45th National Collegiate Tourney
Left to right: Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., Coach, William Fisher, Capt. Bill Wilson, Thomas Nash, William Moorehead, Gene Fehlig, and John Harrigan.
Volume 76
JUNE 12. 1942
Number 2
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
Nick Lamberto, '38
Deep from the heart of Texas has come the anniversary issue of Form One, the Randolph Field cadet publication. Its editor at the time of publication was Roman N. “Nick” Lamberto, Notre Danie ’38. June 1, however, Nick was transferred from the “West Point of the Air” to Ellington Field at Houston where he is taking twin-engine training.
We would like to quote the last lines of Nick’s closing editorial, lines we know are in the hearts of us all.
“And now, we look ahead to the future. We’ve got a job to do and we’re going to do it.”
Heaven Can Wait
The girls of Georgian Court decided in a recent poll of the school that the man of their dreams must have a $3,500 per year income, plan a Mexican honeymoon, and carry his bride across the threshold of a dignified colonial home. They prefer Buicks, the Biltmore, * the New York Tinies, Walter Pidgeon, Tom’ my Dorsey, and Pepsi-Cola among other things. That’s only a sample of what can happen when a college girl starts to think.
—Holy Cross Tomahawk
Early to bed And early to rise And your girl goes out '	With other guys.	-
Max Get's The Axe
In the Minnesota Daily Max Shulman of the “Sauce for the Gander” column tells of the nncredited popularity a past column of his has gained throughout the . country. This certain draft, it seems, ran in the Daily of April l3, 1941 and concerned itself with a draftee’s dilemmas at camp, the original idea having come from a draftee’s letter to friend Max.	.	■
As time limped on the column in whole or in part appeared in many publications of other schools, most often without . credit' to Max’s artistry. The climax was reached, however, when the Chicago Daily Times awarded a prize to some soldier who submitted the colunm in a draftee humor contest, and .the New York. PM chose it as the best draftee writing of the year and gave somebody a prize.for it. .
2	- - .... . .	;
3-0548
“Hello. Yes, this is Dillon. Who in the hall do you want?”
I Lived In Badin
Two screwballs took a walk in the woods. By the time they decided to turn back, they knew it would be impossible to reach home before dark, so they had to sleep in the woods. Looking around, each found an iron pole on which to sleep. The next morning one screwball said, “I’m stiff as a board from sleeping on that pole.”	-
“Oh, I’m not,” replied the other, “I put straw in mine.”
—Exchange
You're In The Clover, Rover
The Broadway theatrical agent was awakened by a phone call at 4 a.m.
“I talk,” said the voice on the other end.
“What do you mean, you talk?”
“I want a job on the stage. I talk,” persisted the voice.
“What makes you think that you can get a job on the stage just because you talk?” asked the angry agent.
“I’m a dog,” the voice answered.
—Carroll Prospector
On The Other Hand
Princeton student Anthony Duke, of. the Duke tobacco family, has an allow? ance of $80 a day.... Harvard’s endowment would furnish every man, woman and child in the United States with a. one-dollar bill.... The Wayne University College of Medicine, Detroit, has received a grant of $10,000 from the W. K. Kei-logg foundation.... Dr. Janet Aiken, .English teacher in Brookljm College, refused to register .for sugar rationing holding that registration is regi-. . mentation. . . . At the University of . California a 21 -year-old American. born Japanese student is the scholastic leader of his graduating class of 4,800.... The University, of Michigan medical school has given 104 of its staff members to the armed forces.... Courses • in Russian are now offered at Harvard and Cornell, while Moroccan Arabic is taught at Pennsylvania.... Baron Ulrich ’ Frieherr von Gienanth, until, recently . called the head df. the Gestapo in this
the early ’30’s as an exchange student at Columbia University.... A rumor clinic has been set up at Indiana University as part of the school’s war information center.... Construction began last week on the Robinson. Laboratory at Ohio State where funds amounting to $167,000 have been authorized for research work related to the war effort.... The Boston College class of ’40 has recently presented the school with a statue of “Our Lady of the Heights” for the Library facade.;.. Students of St. Mary-of-the-Woods have on occasion broadcast to South America from WBOW in Terre Haute.'... The Universities of Rochester and Purdue produced the winning and second place glee clubs in the recent Fred Waring contest.... Students at Ball State Teachers College are giving up some of their rooms to the local hospital in cooperation with the war program training of additional student -nurses.
Spring Cleaning
Many times we have been warned about the evils of anything stronger than H90, milk, “coke,” or an occasional ginger-ale. This antiquated, “gone-the-rounds” confession merely forces the point home again:
I had 12 bottles of whiskey in my cellar and my wife told me to empty each and every bottle into the sink, or else! So I said I would and proceeded with the monstrous task.
I withdrew the cork thorn the first bottle, .and poured the liquor down the sink, with the exception of one glass which I drank. I extracted the cork from the second bottle and did likewise, with ’ the exception of one glass which I drank. Then I drew the cork from the third •bottle, and emptied the good old booze . down the sink with the exception of one bottle which. I drank. I pulled the cork from the fourth sink, and poured the bottle down the glass which I drank. I : pulled the sink out of the next glass and poured the bottle down the cork, which I drank. I pulled the next bottle from . the cork, and drank one sink of it, and poured, the rest down the bottle, and drank the glass. Then I corked the glass with the bottle, sinked the drink, and drank the pour.
When I had emptied everything out, I steadied the house with one hand and counted the bottles, corks and glasses^ with the other which were 29. To be sure, I counted again, when they came around and I had 74. And as the house went by, I counted them again, and finally I had all the houses, and the sinks, and the bottles, and the corks, and glasses counted, except one house and , sink, which I drank.	.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 76	JUNE 12, 1942	No. 2/
45th National Collegiate Golf Tournament June 21
Undefeated Notre Dame Golf Team Plays Host at the Classy South Bend Country Club Course
The greatest amateur golf show of 1942 will open next Sunday (June 21) on the Chain O’Lakes course of the South Bend Country Club and will continue for seven days. Notre Dame is host to this the 45th competition of the National Collegiate Association individual and team golf championships.
This well known tournament is the first nation-wide competition of its kind ever held at the University and is the first big event to be held in observance of Notre Dame’s centennial celebration. With the cancellation of the National Amateur and the Public Links, this year’s championship has become the only national amateur tournament of the year. Thus the tournament has even greater value as one of the big events of Notre Dame’s centenary.
The Chain O’Lakes course, scene of the meet, -will provide a real testing ground for the classy collegiate field. One of the finest courses in the country, the championship qualities of the layout are loudly proclaimed by the records of the Western Open, the Western Amateur, and Women’s Western meets which have been held over the course in recent years. x The velvety greens, rolling fairways, dif' ficult sand traps, well-spaced hazards, arid its beautiful location make it a real championship course.
Sunday to be Navy Day!
Officially .opening Monday, some of the features of the tournament will be held on Sunday which has been designated as Navy Day in tribute to the Notre Dame Naval Training Station. A picked team from the 1,031 officers here taking their indoctrination training will battle an allstar team from the South Bend Country Club. In the' afternoon picked teams representing the East and West renewal of the colorful East-West contest will play an 18-hole best ball match, as an
other preliminary feature. Following this match, the annual driving contest will conclude the pre - tournament events. Monday has been designated as Notre Dame-South' Bend Country Club day and Tuesday will be Intercollegiate day, honoring the undergraduate competitors in the tournament.
. The proceeds of the tournament will go. to the Navy Relief fund. The Navy will also have at least one representative in the tournament. Ensign Wade Knipp, former Purdue University star and champion, has received special permission from Captain H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., Commander of the Notre Dame Naval Station, to represent Purdue in the tournament.
Notre Dame’s undefeated golf team will be well represented in the meet. Thus far the Irish linksmen have' won eight dual meets and on basis of their season’s play against the best in the MidWest should certainly give a good ac-account of themselves in the tournament.. Last year’s Notre Dame team did not fare so well in. the-Nationals, finish-irig ninth in the team standings. Among the best Notre Dame showings in the tournament was the firstlrish participa
tion in 1931 in which the team finished third and Captain Larry Moller was medalist, continuing his hot pace until he was nosed out in the final round.
1941 Champion to Defend Title
Leading the field, which promises to be one of the most brilliant in tournament history, will be Earl (Red) Stewart, the 1941 champion. Stewart, last year, in leading Louisiana State University to second place in the team standings was the outstanding golfer of the tournament. He not only won the individual championship but also won the driving contest and the medal. His medal score of 142 set a new qualifying record for the meet. The L.S.U. star’s opponent in the final round, Ray Brownell of Stanford, will also be back hoping to avenge the 3 and 1 defeat handed him by Stewart last year. Brownell will lead Stanford’s defending team champions in the tournament.
The field is expected to approximate 175 contestants from soine 50 schools . from coast to coast. Besides the Stanford and Notre Dame teams other notable entries are Michigan, the Big Ten Cham-(Continued on page 15)
Radio Club Off To New
Start With Five Programs
Through the long hot afternoon 39 seniors, juniors, sophomores, and freshmen stepped to the microphone and auditioned for jobs as announcers, actors and commentators. At five o’clock Radio Club President Vail Pischke turned to the handful of audtioners left and commented: “The number and abilities of the trials makes one thing certain. All jobs are wide open and we’re going to use every one that has tried out.”
Five programs are already being aired over WSBT and this schedule will undoubtedly be added to during the summer. Two possibilities, each of which would bring about a greatly multiplied program load are being considered by University and club authorities. But to date the broadcasting schedule reads like this: (Specific dates will be announced later).
Sportscast with Lee Raymond and Pete Moritz.
Catholic Action announcements.
Newscast with Vail Pischke and Bob Johnson.
Question Parade with Bill Bodden and Dan Downey.
Notre Dame Forum of the Air with Vail Pischke.
Pischke’s optimism over the number of tryouts and returning members—14 upper - classmen are back — was tempered only slightly by the lack of writers and sound effects men. Under the club’s new policy, veterans will be forced to hold their spots in competition with all who may wish to try for the program.
- Besides actual broadcasting, the club has two more aims for the year in securing guest speakers each month and reconditioning the studio. Among the first of the guests will be Nelson Ahn-stead, Chicago writer now authoring the World’s Great Stories series over a major network.
Plans for the studio consist of redecoration of the third floor room, installing a back-drop reading WSBT, and use of a floating mike to pick up various parts of the studio room.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., is fa'culty moderator of the club. Pischke, a freshman lawyer who has been president of the Villagers and a member of the Glee Club, takes over the presidency from Bob LeJeune.—Ted Weber
4
Economic Round Table
Aims For Active Year
The Notre Dame Economic Round Table, established to foster open discussion among thoughtful students with varied viewpoints, met last Wednesday at the Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend. Meetings, to which faculty members are frequently invited as guests, consist of a supper, after which a paper on current affairs is issued. The members then hold a round table discussion on a topic of current interest. Plans for the year were discussed at this first meeting of the summer session.
Throughout the year the members frequently participate in round table discussions on student broadcasts aired over WSBT. In addition to these broadcasts, each year selected groups from the Round Table attend a conference sponsored by the Mid Western International Relations club at some nearby university.
The Economic Round Table urges interested students from all colleges to apply for entrance into the club during the several membership campaigns throughout the year. The present officers of the organization are Charles Kralovec, president, and William O’Neil, secretary. The present members, according to their colleges, are: Mark Leis, Charles Ur-ruela, Oren Stiens, all commerce men? Frank Haley, Vince Hogan, Charles Kralovec, Robert LeMense, Leo Sclafani, George Hegner, Charles Steltmann, Phil Steropoli, Dave Johnston, all in the College of Arts and Letters. From the College of Law come William O’Neil and Jack Ryan, and from Science, Robert Nenno and Jack Utz. The department of music contributes one member, Bartholomew Ramsour.—Shaun McDermott
Wranglers Will Argue
During Summer Semester
History was made this week when officers of the Wranglers announced the first meeting of the new school-year. It marked the first summer session meeting of the club.
Styled the “oldest and proudest club on the campus” by last year’s Dome, the Wranglers is an honorary forensic society with a strictly limited membership. The only requirement is participation in some campus speech activity. When this has been satisfied, interview and a speech before club members determine the four to seven new members selected each year. The total membership of the club is lim-. ited by constitution to 20 men.
Guided. this year by John Ryan, of (Continued on page 18)
Disco Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre 'Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr.....Managing Editor
Daniel Downey..........Campus Editor
Bill Reynolds..................Sports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker.....Admin. Editor
Robert Lonergan............Promotion
Ted Weber.......................Photo	Editor
George Thompson...................Art	Editor
James Chrisovergis....Staff photographer Gail Fitch, Jr.............Advertising
Howard Garrigan............Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for_ national advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the’ Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
ADMINISTRATION	PAGE
Ordination of Priests ..   9
Father O'Brien at Commencement 9
CAMPUS
New.Band Uniforms..............  5
Badinites Move ................  6
N. R. O. T..C. Awards .......... 8
SPORTS
N. C. A. A. Golf Meet.........i.. 3
Varsity and Hall Baseball........15
FEATURES
College Parade ............______ 2
The Navy at Notre Dame _______...12
The Week ________.1___________.......14
Pressbox Splinters ___________...19
Introducing "..._;_________:_____16
NEW BAND UNIFORMS FEATURE MILITARY STYLE;
VISITING CONDUCTORS MAKE COLORFUL YEAR
c. s. coco
At the first meeting of the year, held last week, 50 student musicians received the heartening news that the University Band will have uniforms next fall. When the band again takes the field with an Irish eleven, Notre Dame will be represented by one of the better dressed musical organizations in the country. The tunic is to be of a military style. A Sam Brown belt will be worn and, together with a gold braid cord around the left shoulder, it will add greatly to the smart appearance of the uniform. The overcoat has not yet been decided upon, but it seems likely that it will be of a military cut with an attached cape. In spite of these and other innovations, the traditional colors of gold and blue will be maintained.
Plans For Year
Besides this bit of good news, Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, appointed the Carroll Recreation room as the new practice location of the band. Expressing the desire to see as good a band here in the coming season as ever before, Father Burke outlined the basis for its goal: (1) this is. the centenary year of the University and many occasions will come up in which the Band will be called upon; (2) preparation is needed for the coming football
The last of the old uniforms.
season which will be outstanding for many reasons; (3) the December graduation. All of these occasions call for varied compositions which can be perfected only with time and practice.
New Directors
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, also present at the meeting, briefly sketched the activities of the Band for the summer semester. Due to the temporary departure of Mr. Joseph Casasanta, director of the band, guest directors will be brought in to work with the organization from three to six weeks at a time, during which period a concert will be prepared. After the presentation of this concert, a new conductor will be introduced who will proceed in like manner. The first of these conductors who opened his stay at Notre Dame last Wednesday is Mr. Franklyn Wiltse, Superintendent of Instrumental Music of schools in St. Joseph, Mich.
This plan offers an excellent opportunity to all students who are musically inclined to come into contact with varied conductors and composers. Last Monday and Tuesday mornings try-outs were held for all who desired to play in the band. But the way is still open to all who are interested and have not as yet joined the organization. For further in
formation, see Mr. Pedtke in the Music Hall or report to the Carroll Recreation room any evening from Monday through Thursday immediately after evening prayer. There are many vacancies to be . . filled in order that the best instrumentation may be attained.	-
Mysterious Messenger
Makes Forced Landing
Bob Dunne
Seeking shelter from stormy skies, MHC-1142 landed Tuesday, June 2, on the steps of the Music Hall. No runways nor powerful beams were required to guide this stranger to earth, for MHC-. 1142 is just a little, blue homing pigeon on a mysterious mission that was never fulfilled.
MHC-1142’s unheralded visit to Notre Dame has already been publicized somewhat, but contrary to opinion this winged messenger was discovered by Mr. James McAllister, local shoe repairer, and not Mr. J. W. (“Mac,” to the fellows) McAllister, of the Athletic Department.
After caring for his feathered guest overnight, Mr. McAllister released the stray pigeon Wednesday morning when weather reports proved favorable. MHC-1142, however, seemed not to agree with the weather bureau and refused to venture more than a few feet from the Huddle. So the finder relinquished his lingering friend to a pair of pleading kids who live nearby.	.
“Well,” thought Mr. McAllister, “I’ve . seen the last of MHC-1142, poor little. . thing.” ■	.
You can imagine the cobbler’s surprise when, on Thursday morning, June 4, he found MHC-1142 perched proudly on the shoeshop workbench. The prodigal pigeon had returned.
“And that,” said James, the shoe repairer, “is j’ust where he’s going to stay •—home with me!”
Senior Dome Portraits
Beginning Next Week
The portraits of the seniors for the December Dome will be taken beginning the week of June 15 in the Dome . studio in the Walsh Hall basement. Mr. John Morris is in charge of- the portraits. Notice will be sent to seniors . who are urged to appear promptly as the lack of time makes it urgent that this work be completed at an early date. Elimination of the cap and gown pictures is planned for this year.	.
5
BADIN1TES VACATE HALL IN FAVOR OF NAVY;
SAILORS TAKE OVER BOG WITHOUT RESISTANCE
MARK DE MOTS
- Throughout the present summer semester, another occasion gives the students encouragement to visit the Grotto. Evening prayer, a tradition at Notre Dame, is being held at this scenic outdoor shrine. Immediately following the
It has been almost three weeks now since we have seen two legs walking blindly and brusquely along with an easy chair perched on top of a head; since carts bristling with lamps and two-wheelers loaded with dressers have threatened the innocent pathwalker and con-templator of Indiana in the spring. But the authorities and the Navy are not the ones to let us settle into our sleepy, hot-weather complacence. They have seen it coming, and they have acted. In short, Badin Hall is on the move.
With a pending increase of Navy men during the summer, additional room will be required, and the men of Badin have cheerfully given up their “cracker boxes” in doing their part for our national effort. Add another gold star to the banner of the Badin “bog”!
For those sophs who have had enough of roughing it, the University has afforded the opportunity of finding a hovel on the sunny side of Dillon. And those who feel they still can take it have parked their paraphernalia in good old St. Edward’s Hall. We have heard a la rumor route that the mice in St. Ed’s are planning a big welcome party for the newcomers, at which the crawling creatures will relate their harrowing escapes from such notables as Jim Brutz, Lou Rymkus, Dippy Evans, and members of the St. Ed’s A.C. who were trying this kind of exercise to keep in condition in the off season. The old hall is really glad to have company again. It hasn’t heard Red Skelton for weeks!
Goodbye Badin!
But, of course, there is a sad angle to all of this. No Badin man, old or new, who hears of this strategic retreat will be able to force the lump from his throat wtihout at least one swallow of liquid. For Badin Hall stands for something at Notre Dame, and we don’t mean as lighthouse of the “bog.” It is the most “sophomoric” of all sophomore halls; where last year’s freshmen learn that they don’t quite know it all; where they learn that the rule book is really serious about the morning check. And then there are the Bengal Bouts. It would be nice to have them this summer, just so some other hall besides Badin might win them for a change. St. Edward’s, probably.
The Navy began its invasion of this revered domicile several days ago, and in the first attack succeeded in establishing a front in the “rec” room, from which, with a new-secret weapon, they added a foreign but pleasant atmosphere to the “bog” in the form of an orchestra. From the outside it sounds as if the sailors have something there. The Badin men thought so. Perhaps, that is why they left so sorrowfully.
Grotto Summer Center
For Evening Devotions
Symbol of Notre Dame’s devotion to Our Lady of Lourdes, inspiration of thousands of students in need of Her aid, source of countless favors: this is the Grotto.
Night Prayer at the Grotto.
evening meal, the students stroll to-this favorite spot, there to praise Our Blessed Lady with hymns and prayers.
Since the feast of Our Lady of the Snow in 1896, when the Grotto was erected, scores of students have been visiting it when in need of spiritual help. The annual May devotions held each evening there have always presented an inspiring sight as the assembled students sing the praises of Mary, Queen of May.
On June 5, 1897, the Scholastic recorded the first formal procession to the Grotto which concluded the May devotions directed ot Our Lady of Lourdes. These initial ceremonies were attended by the entire student body, brothers of the community, altar boys and priests.
—Phil Keen
Photographers
All student photographers who are interested in doing work for the Dome, whether experienced or not, interest and willingness to work being the prime requisites, should call some time this week to see Edward Drinkard, Dome Photo Editor, 250 Cavanaugh Hall.
If no one is there, leave a note under the door, giving your name and address. You will then be contacted later.
6
POPULARITY OF LAKE SKYROCKETS AS STUDENTS DISCOVER ONLY ESCAPE FROM INDIANA HEAT
more than 350 pounds, don’t jump off the high board as the water is shallow enough now.
Keep the rules and keep swimming!
Last winter when any calamity occurred, the popular way to dispense with the subject was the retreat “blame it on the war.” But now with summer setting in, the apex of alibis has- changed to “blame it on the heat.” To be sure, it is rather warm, and sitting in a stuffy classroom somehow reminds one of an unfortunate felon frying on the “hot seat” of Sing-Sing.
But there is one way of escaping Hector Heat, and from the looks of things it seems as if the entire student body has discovered that refuge. Yes, mate, the processions that pass your hall aren’t American Legion parades but a steady stream of sweltering students seeking St. Joseph’s lake, the haven of heatdodgers. If you haven’t added a delightful dip in this refreshing pond to your list of daily “musts,” then you probably are an engineer who spends his spare time slaving or one of the fortunate few to beat priorities and secure a fan. In either case you are missing a golden opportunity of seeing a midwestern Coney Island.
Yes, conditions are a little crowded around the lake vicinity—somewhat like the golf course on a sunny Sunday after-non. There is only one pier and one raft, both of which have lately become more densely populated than a ten-story tenement. To reach the end of the pier involves some practical difficulties, such as stepping on a few necks, arms, and midsections—an occupation totally unadvis-able unless you are a Bengal bouter of
Photo by Chrisovergis
Swimmers Kempf and Bridges come up for air.
some repute. If you are and happen to reach the end of the pier your troubles are just beginning. The next step is to swim to the raft, providng you can find a place to dive and can move your arms without elbowing a fellow water-flailer. Assuming you can, you are still stymied, for the raft is always two feet underwater and entirely swamped with dripping bathers. But don’t be discouraged. Maneuvering your way around the lake is as much fun as trying to hold your own on Fifth Avenue during the Christmas rush.
Before you definitely decide to tear yourself away from your studies and go for an invigorating splash, here are a fetv rules to be followed. First, swim only off the end of the pier. (The eel grass growing in the shallow water tends to tickle one’s feet and cause hysteria.) Second, stoim only between the hours of one and five in the afternoon (tinless you walk in your sleep, in which case you will be allowed a nocturnal dip providing you are accompanied by Neptune himself and can prove you signed out for midnight.) Third, don’t go down three times without coming zip three. Not only does it make it difficult for lifeguard Lana-1ian, who doesn’t like to get his hair wet, to find you, but according to medical science it’s entirely unhealthful. Fourth, if you, mtist resort to roughhouse, don’t hold your adversary tinder water for more than five minutes. (It’s black as night beneath the surface, and he might be allergic to the dark.) Fifth, and last, if you are over 7 feet tall and weigh
Latest Scoop—Dome on way!
Hold on to your seats! Don’t down that last Pepsi-Cola! Why? Because you need all the strength you can muster when you read the following sentence.
It is absolutely unfounded; no one can either confirm or deny it with any certainty; but ’tis rumored that that product of the ages, that often-heralded but never seen publication, the Dome, will be released for the criticism of the Student Body sometime before-the first of the month.
There is the not unlikely possibility that the ’42 Dome will ultimately be released a short time after all the students on campus at present have either graduated or been inducted into the armed forces. However, no doubt the Dome Editors will fiind. it possible to obtain deferments until they complete the addressing of the Domes to our new addresses in the vicinities of Tokio and Berlin.	:
So, should the Dome not appear around the first of next month and if any of you care to storm something to see what can be done about it, then we earnestly implore you to try either 353 or 310 Alumni wherein you will find, respectively, Editor in Chief Joe Hillenbrand and second in command, Jack Gilligan. However, go easy on 310 because there are a couple of bourgeoisie room-mates living there also.
Here’s hoping that the Dome does show up so that no one will have to go through the uncertainty of further watchful waiting.
Symphony Orchestra Has First Active Summer
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra began its first summer of activity at a meeting and initial rehearsal last Sunday, June 7. The program for summer group appearances that was discussed then is not definite, but Director Frederick Ingersoll plans for the orchestra to present its first summer concert as soon as it is ready. Later, outdoor concerts on the campus probably will be presented.
The response at the first meeting was very favorable, but Symphony President Bart Ramso.ur asks musicians who wish to become members of the symphony to drop into Professor Ingersoll’s office in the Music Hall as soon as possible. The group is expected to number at least 40 by the time of its first presentation.
-	7
NEW OFFICERS TAKE COMMAND OF R.O.T.C. UNIT;
MEDALS PRESENTED TO OUTSTANDING CADETS
Dressed for the first time in their summer uniforms, 144 white-clad cadets assembled in parade drill last Thursday for presentation of medals to men excelling in all-around military and scholastic excellence.
At the afternoon’s colorful ceremony, during which Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, presented medals, Cadet Lieut. Commander D. Coyne Callaghan, Chicago, assumed his duties as battalion commander, and Cadet Lieut. Charles M. Urruela, Miami Beach, Fla., became sub-commander.
For military merit, scholastic standing, character and aptitude for naval service, Charles E. Seghers, of Pittsburgh, Pa., received a gold medal; Frank J. Culhane, a silver medal; and Joseph A. Connerty, of Crystal Lake, Ill., a bronze medal. These men were chosen from the entire unit for their outstanding work.
The expert riflemen insignia went to Robert L. Bobbett and John H. Zwicker. The sharpshooter insignia were presented to the following: Peter M. Belmont, William B. Anderson, Otto B. McNaughton, Paul J. Rooney, Charles E. Seghers, Alan H. Guard, and Donald A. Finelli.
The new officers for the first company are: Cadet Lieut. Seghers, commander; Cadet Lieut. Culhane; Cadet Ensign T. T. Reyburn, Leavenworth, Kans.; Cadet
Medals presented by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
C.P.O. Charles F. Merrill, Hinsdale, Ill.; and Petty Officers Cadet Anthony F. Earley, Forest Hills, Long Island, N. Y.; Charles J. Montrie, Monroe, Mich.; William M. Anderson, Ebensburg, Pa.; John H. Zwicker, Appleton, Wis.; and Louis C. O’Brien, Camden, N. J.
Commanding the second company is Cadet Francis P. Crowley, Dallas, Texas, assisted by Cadet Lieut. James J. Phillips, Kane, Pa.; Cadet Ensign Roy J. Grumbine, Cincinnati, Ohio; C.P.O. Edward J. Singelyn, Romeo, Mich.; and Petty Officers Cadets Francis E. Moore, Pottsville, Pa.; William P. Webb, Bismarck, N. Dak.; John A. Jennings, Monessen, Pa.; John E. Barnett, Boscobel, Wis.; and Albert P. Stello, Franklin, Mass.
Other battalion officers include: Cadet Lieut. Joseph M. McNamara, Indianapolis, adjutant; Cadet Ensign Conerty, quartermaster, and Cadet C.P.O. Paul J. Rooney, Detroit, Mich.
Members of the drum and bugle corps and color guard are: Cadet Lieut. James T. Crowley, New York City; and Petty Officers Cadets John C. Leahy, Casper, Wyo.; Thomas R. Shellworth, Portland, Ore.; John D. Naber, Shawano, Wis.; Paul J. Cartwright, Elwood City, Pa.;
-and William J. Yeager, Wheeling, W. Va.
A third company will be formed when
the new cadets are accepted in September. No new men were taken in this semester. Present freshmen who join in the fall will stay in school for eight semesters after taking the oath, making a total of nine semesters of school. During the summer the unit will practice sailing and navigation on Notre Dame’s two lakes.
Tops In Entertainment Scheduled For June
For the first month of the summer semester, the Program Committee, under the supervision of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., has four entertaining presentations for the students, faculty and Navy. Although Notre Dame has never had difficulty in contacting noted entertainers, it has lately become more easy, due to the presence of the Naval Trainees. Prominent performers are eager to do their bit in preserving the morale of our armed forces.
The list of programs:
Monday, June 15: Phil Regan, tenor, Hollywood star, with other screen notables.
Friday, June 19: Harold Stokes and his orchestra. 8:00 p.m. in the University Gymnasium.	‘
Thursday, June 25: Variety Entertainment. 8:00 p.m. in the University Gym.
Sunday, June 28: Danny Ross and Donny McGreal, boy sopranos. 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall.
Phil Regan, who rose from the position of singing cop on the New York City police force to stardom, has offered to sing for the students and Navy men here. He may possibly bring other celebrities from Chicago, where they are appearing on the 14th at a Victory Drive.
Harold Stokes with his famous radio orchestra will present a program of semi-classical, and popular music, featuring community singing. In. addition to those done by Harold Stokes’ own soloists, the combined forces of students and Naval trainees will be urged to turn out a few solos themselves.	.
The Variety Entertainment is scheduled to present some outstanding amateur talent, including such things as an accordian ensemble, an 18 piece violin orchestra, ballet and tap dancers, and a ventriloquist. This program is under the direction of Miss Helen. Copp.
The brilliant boy sopranos, Danny Ross and Donny McGreal have received great acclaim for their many performances. They are coming to Notre Dame after singing at Father Flanagan’s Boystown and over two Chicago outlets.
8
- - - --- ............... .. —
AaHuni&Giioti Newi,	,	,	,	,	,	,	,	,
wag^—■ -■!■■ I'■- ■ II ■ -	- ■ _ ■	-	-'	—	■'	. -	"■'■■	- I	.	■	1 *a»
Bishop Noll To Ordain 17 Priests On June 24
Seventeen young men will be ordained priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross on Wednesday, June 24, in Sacred Heart Church by his Excellency, Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of the Fort Wayne diocese. The Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., will be master of ceremonies, assisted by the Rev. Leo AV. Gorman, C.S.C.
The young men to be ordained are the Rev. John A. Winiarski, C.S.C., Chicago,-Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., South Bend; Michael G. O’Brien, C.S.C., Mt. Morris, Mich.; Eugene-L. Dore, C.S.C., Chicago; Herman R. Reith, C.S.C., Fort Wayne, Ind.; Theodore F. Huard, C.S.C., Cloquet, Minn.; Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C., Portsmouth, 0.; William M. Schreiner, C.S.C., Cleveland, 0.; Cletus B. Bachofer, C.S.C., Salina, Kans.; A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Revere, Mass.; George S. De Prizio, C.S.C., Mansfield, Mass.; Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Pittsburgh, Pa.; Phillip C. Kelly, C.S.C., Roslindale, Mass.; Philip V. Lucitt, C.S.C., Providence, R.I.;
Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D.
Joseph F. Ciecka, C.S.C, Laporte, Ind.; Vincent B. Delavy, C.S.C.,' Roseville, Mich.; Peter F. Mueller, C.S.C., Ger-
many.	.
Many of the newly ordained priests will leave immediately after the ceremony for their homes, where they ■will say their first solemn high mass on the Sunday following the Wednesday of or
dination. Three of the group, the Rev. Philip V. Lucitt, the Rev. Joseph F. Ciecka, and the Rev. Vincent B. Delavy, have been trained for foreign mission work in Bengal, India. However, there is no opportunity to send them now. Some will do parish work. The greater number will be appointed as teachers or will go on to further studies.
In addition to the above candidates for the priesthood this year’s class includes the Rev. Richard J. Kennedy, C.S.C., and the Rev. Harry F. Stegman, C.S.C. Father Kennedy was recently ordained in Washington, D.C., and Father Stegman was ordained by Bishop O’Hara in Indianapolis on April 20. Father Kennedy will quite likely be assigned to parish work or to teaching. Father Stegman is now in the Office of the Military Ordin-ariate in New York City.
Paraguayan Professor
Addresses N. D. Students
In a speech to students of the Colleges of Commerce and Law on Saturday morning, June 6, Dr. Sigfrido V. GrossBrown, Professor of Law and Director of Internal Revenue from Asuncion, Paraguay, showed the characteristics of labor legislation in the Paraguayan republic. Dr. Brown has helped to formulate many of his country’s laws. He also explained the relation of employer and employee in Paraguay.
Friday Dr. Brown was guest at a luncheon given by Dean Clarence Manion, of the College of Law, and Dean James McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, in the dining halls. Other guests included Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of faculty, and James E. Armstrong, director of publicity.
Dr. Brown left for Chicago Sunday where he was scheduled to address students at the University of Chicago, and Northwestern University.
Rev. John A. O'Brien
■ Commencement Speaker
Rev. John A. O’Brien, professor of religion at the University, delivered the commencement address to the graduates of the Christian Brothers’ College in St. Louis, Mo., Wednesday night, June 3. The graduation exercises were held in the National Guard armory.
Father O’Brien declared that it is by religion and the philosophy of Christ
rather than by bullets and bombs that the evils of totalitarianism, which are the cause of strife in the world today, will be more effectively eradicated. He asserted that bullets and bombs are. impotent before ideas that can be over-
"Totalitarianism eradicated—not by bullets and bombs."
come only by contrary ideas endowed with the contagion of truth- Our first i line of defense against dictators is religion.
“It is shortsighted not to see that a-state’s war on God and religion ends by making slaves of its citizens,” he said. “For if God be removed, who stands between them and dictators? More potent than an army of brass-buttoned policemen in keeping law and order among citizens is the sensitive conscience which dwells in the individual and which prompts him to love mercy, to do justly, and to walk humbly with his God. The conscience which does not sink its roots into the subsoil of religious faith, nor shoot its antennae beyond the roof of the skies, misses alike the music of divine inspiration and the thunder of divine commands.”
Dr. McMahon Delivers Commencement Address
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, associate professor of philosophy here, delivered the commencement address Thursday night, June 4, at Mount Mercy College, Pittsburgh, Pa. He spoke on “Catholicity and Democracy.” Dr. McMahon is absent from the campus for the summer semester.	'
Busy Summer is in Store
For Popular Glee Club
From the tower of St. Mary’s main building, 30 members of the Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, gave a semi-concert for one of St. Mary’s commencement programs. While each graduate was presenting a junior with a cap and gown, strains of music floated from the tower and permeated the campus. This impressive ceremony marked the first appearance of the Glee Club for the summer semester.
One of the most active organizations on the campus, the Glee Club plans to have an eventful summer. Last night the men gave a concert for the patients of Healthwin Hospital, and with a repertoire of selections hard to equal, they spread much good cheer among the inmates. Sunday at St. Joseph’s Church they are to sing an ordination mass for a Franciscan priest.
Last week, try-outs were held and 12 new voices were added to the present 30. Usually, the Club boasts a membership of 75, but under the excellent guidance of Mr. Pedtke and President Ray Flynn, it will undoubtedly be as successful as it has been in the past.
Architects Win Places In Mid-West Competition
Three Notre Dame, architecture students have received honors for drawings entered in a competition sponsored by the Chicago Lighting Institute, Prof F. W. Kervick, head of the department here, announced recently.
Joseph J. Sherer, West Hartford, Conn., received honorable mention on his drawing, which was one of nine winners selected from a group of 51 competing entries. Mention was awarded William J. Sherer, West Hartford, and Edward L. Holland, Stirling, N. J. The Sherers are twin brothers, who will soon begin naval officer training as V-7 cadets.
The problem for the contest was based on “Lighting in Architecture,” and schools throughout the Middle-West participated.
Professor R. Sullivan
Has Stories Published
Mr. Richard Sullivan, assistant professor of English at the University of Notre Dame, has written two short stories that have been recently published in well known literary magazines.
A story entitled “Sharer” appeared in the June issue of the American Mercury, and another called “In'the Glass Darkly” is to be found in the spring issue of the Yale Review.
Two other stories written by Mr. Sullivan have been purchased by the Mademoiselle magazine and are expected to appear in the not too distant future.
Summer After Summer, a novel of which Mr. Sullivan is the author will be published Sept. 25, by the Doubleday Doran Publishing Co.—Francis Kearns
N. D. Mathematicians
At Purdue and Wabash
The Indiana State Board of. Education appointed a committee to revise the high school curriculum in science. The Board consists of university professors and high school teachers in the fields of mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology. Professor Karl Menger, a member of the committee, attended the first meeting at Purdue University on April 24.
Prof. Karl Menger
The Indiana section of the Mathematical Association of America, at its annual meeting at Wabash College, April 25, elected Professor Paul M. Pepper as vice-president for the coming year. The next annual meeting will be held at the University of Notre Dame. Dr. Pepper presented a paper on “Linear Sets and Almost-Linear Sets.”
At Purdue University, Prof. Menger talked before the American Association of Scientific Workers on “Some Trends of Modem Mathematics,” and before the Purdue Mathematics Department on “Some Aspects of Metric Geometry.” Professor Menger was introduced by Professor W. L. Ayres, the new head of the department of mathematics at Purdue. In 1928-29, Dr. Ayres worked under the direction of Prof. Menger at the University. of Vienna.
Clubs desiring publicity in the Scholastic are requested to hand in their information not later than 9 o’clock on the Sunday night preceding each issue of die magazine.
History Essay Topics
Announced By Committee
The Committee on History Essays of the Department of History has announced the topics for the history prizes to be awarded in December, 1942. First, beginning this year, the Father Charles O’Donnell Prize and the Charles Phillips prize will be combined to make the Father Charles O’Donnell - Charles Phillips prize of $50, to be awarded for the best essay on the following topic: “The Catholic Church as the Patron of the Renaissance in the Fifteenth Century.” Secondly, for the Monsignor Francis O’Brien History Prize for an essay dealing with some phase of the territory of the old Northwest, the topic for this year will be: “Early Catholic History of the St. Joseph Valley.”
The competition for both prizes is limited to students who have not yet completed eight semesters of work at the University of Notre Dame. Anyone wishing to inquire concerning the contest can consult Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department of history, or Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, who constitute the Committee on History Essays.
Memorial Going Full Swing;
Pool and Sun Deck Popular
That unique structure in memory of Notre Dame’s greatest, The Rockne Memorial, is continuing its popularity among the students as the place for the well known "work out.” Even in these days when the thermometer mounts to exorbitant heights, the number of students partaking in such sports as handball, squash, and basketball has not declined.
Mr. Mills says that it is unusual for so many students to be taking part in such activities during hot weather. However, he expects many more to participate in these sports as many of the Navy men are interested in the facilities offered at the Memorial. As is to be expected the popularity of swimming has greatly increased since the beginning of the new semester. The pool is quite crowded during the hot afternoon hours.
A swimming meet 'will be held in the near future for the aquatically inclined freshmen. The Memorial is wide open and all students are encouraged to take part in the wide variety of activities offered.
That ever increasing desire for a good coat of tan has made the sun deck on the roof a very popular spot. A large number of students spend the hottest portion of the afternoon basking in the sun hoping to acquire that bronzed masculine appearance.—George Blackmore.
10
CAPT. WOODWARD
Capt. R. Woodward, C.S.C.
Visits Campus on Leave
Capt. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., army chaplain and former professor of philosophy at the University, is on the campus for a ten days’ detached service. Father Woodward is now stationed at Fort Hancock, N.J., in the New York - Philadelphia sector, with the Coast Artillery. He has been there since March 5, 1942. Father Wood
ward is well remembered as a prefect in Walsh Hall and rector of pre-nautical Morrissey.
When asked how he liked being a chaplain in the Army, Father replied an enthusiastic “Fine” and said that under the present circumstances he would rather be in the service than anywhere else. He will remain with the armed forces for the duration and six months thereafter.
In the Medical Corps at Fort Hancock are two other Notre Dame men, Capt. Gannon and Lieut. McDonald.
Dr. Joseph R. Caton
Receives Commission
Dr. Joseph R. Caton, who has served for four years as the assistant physician at the University’s infirmary, has received his commission as a first lieutenant in the United States Army and is awaiting further word concerning his appointment and date of departure.
Dr. Caton took his pre-medical course here at Notre Dame during 1931 and 1932 and then went to the University of St. Louis Medical School where he received his M.D. Dr. Caton received the highest rating in biological chemistry that had been attained at the University in the 25 years preceding his entrance. He served his internship at the City Hospital of St. Louis after his graduation from the medical school in 1936. Upon the completion of his internship he set up practice in South Bend and was connected with the United States Public Health Clinic of St. Joseph’s County.
Dr. Caton leaves the University of Notre Dame to join other N. D. men serving in the nation’s armed forces with the best wishes of all for continued success in his chosen field.
—Elmer F. Gillespie
Father Lahey Speaks At Advertising Convention
Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., commerce professor at the University of Notre Dame, delivered one of the major
addresses at the 68th annual convention of the Michigan Outdoor Advertising Assn, combined with the second annual convention of Region 5 Outdoor Advertising Assn, of America, held in Detroit, Mich. June 9.
He spoke about the newly established foundation of the outdoor advertising association at Notre Dame, which provides for the special training of young men for work in the outdoor field.
Fr. Lahey emphasized the need of training men of scholarship and character as future leaders in the advertising profession, so that it may be recognized as a profession. He concluded, “The world has not yet given advertising the rating of a profession, and until it does, advertisers will never be allowed that important participation in the reconstruction of the world which the nature of their services justifies. This goal can be achieved by developing more young men of intellect and high personal qualities.” '
Rev. Leo R. Ward Warns
Seniors Against Apathy
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor
of philosophy at the University, warned the graduating class of Washington High
REV. LEO R. WARD
School, South Bend, at baccalaureate services in the school auditorium that our individual and family rights are attacked in many ways, and not -only by Hitler. “We attack them ourselves by our own apathy
and our own ignorance,” he said.
Father Ward pointed out that “it is largely our own fault that in so many cases we don’t own our own homes, that we have to depend on the state for security and doles and pensions.” He warned that the people of America should not be fooled into believing that freedom is something automatic or ever will become automatic; it must be earned.
Declaring that man aspires to be free because he is a being like God and a being made by God to exercise freedom in the running of his own life, Father Ward said, “The aspiration toward freedom is an aspiration toward a great and quite proper human good. Men always want freedom; they want it by nature."
Yet, he added, to work properly human freedom must work within limits. As an illustration, Father Ward said that Hitler is free to do as he pleases but has used his freedom and power to enslave others.
N. D. Professor Named On Conference Staff
Prof. John T. Frederick, instructor in English at the University and prominent radio book reviewer, has been named as a member of the staff chosen for the third annual writer’s con-^erence *° by Indiana University in Bloomington the week of June 21.
Prof. Ralph L. Collins, of the University of Indiana Department of English, will direct the conference staff. It will include Carl Carmer, novelist; David Daiches, English critic and instructor at the University of Chicago; Jeanette Covert Nolan, Indiana writer of biographies, stories for children and mystery stories; Katherine Anne Porter, writer of short stories and novelettes; and John Crow Ransom, teacher at Kenyon College.
Daily workshops in fiction, non-fiction and poetry will be held. Indiana writers will be guests of the conference on June 25.
Notre Dame Professors
In The Armed Forces
Ensign Thomas A. Stritch, former assistant professor in English at the University, is at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, Hl., with the U. S. Naval Intelligence in the office of Public Relations. Ensign Stritch left to take up his new duties the first week in May. He had been a member of the faculty since the September of 1935.
Mr. George M. Reichle, instructor in speech, is with the Army’s APO 85th Division at Camp Shelby, Miss. Mr. William W. Arbuckle, assistant instructor in music, is to leave this week to join the personnel division of the Air Corps. Mr. Arbuckle has been a member of the faculty since the September of 1940.
Mr. William J. Coyne, professor in the department of economics and coach of the debating team, is with the National Labor Relations Board in Detroit for the summer. Prof. Coyne will resume his teaching activities at the University in the fall.
Brother William, C.S.C., ’23, who recently took his Ph.D. at Chicago University, is becoming a regular contributor to our educational periodicals. Recently he has had articles in The Catholic School Journal, The Catholic Educational Review, Journal of Religion Instruction, The School Review, Zeta News, and The American Sociological Review.
11
--——■ I	■■■ Illi	— gI III 1^——— tHU
> > > > Hte Mauu at Nctte uba#te ,■	,
-'	—. .. ——■   . .!	_ —■ ~ —	^n.
Editor's Note: Material on these pages was written by the Public Relations Office of the Campus Naval Indoctrination Station. Any contributions by men aboard the Station will be greatly appreciated by the Public Relations Office. As stated before, the purpose of these pages is to promote and extend the alrcddy fine relationship between the cadet officers and trainees and men of Notre Dame.
NOTES TO YOU
Illinois leads all the states in the number of representatives at the Navy School with a total of 92; New York runs a close second with 90 and Pennsylvania is third with 83.
California is well represented having 70. Some of the other states with numerous officers are Texas, 75; Massachusetts, 63; Ohio, 64, and Indiana, 42.
One officer is from the Canal Zone and -another is from Hawaii.
Former Chief Specialist Frank Gaul, who left here for training .at the Naval Academy, dropped a line to Capt. H. P. Burnett, the commanding officer at the Navy School here, saying how much he likes it at Annapolis. Gaul sends his best wishes to his many friends here.
Speaking of chiefs brings to mind that one of them stationed here is a former Notre Dame man. Chief Specialist Frank P. Butorac went to school here from 1927 to 1931. He was on the basketball ■ team for- three years.
Before joining the Navy Butorac was the owner of a gasoline station.
The practice of tattooing is on the -wane in the Navy, according to Lieut. Commander Leland P. Lovette, U.S.N., -author of the interesting book, Naval Customs.	-
The author quotes an old chief boatswain’s mate as saying:	.	.	• .
“Yes, sir, we had bracelets tattooed on . our arms, but the 'rookies’ now wear wrist watches, and what hurts me. is where we tattooed our girl’s name and the ports we made is today, just a place these landsmen wear garters. No, sir she ain’t what she used to be.”	>
An old definition of a sailor in a book first published in 1707: He’s one that is the greatest prisoner, and the greatest rambler in Christendom; there is not a corner of the world but he visits.... but
when he does get ashore he pays it off with a vengeance; for knowing his time to be but short, he crowds much in a little room and lives as fast as possible.
Lieut. Commander William F. Bullis, executive' officer of'the Naval R.O.T.C. here, feels at home in an educational institution. He was administrative head of the famous Bullis Preparatory School for boys.
Charles H. Becker, 21, of Tulsa, Okla., former Notre Dame football player is one of the present group of cadet-officers at the Navy School. Becker, who was commissioned an ensign, won the .Cascia Hall Athletic Medal for football, basketball and baseball. He was in the class of 1942.
Budd Good Brown, 24, of Chicago, Ill., really lived up to his middle name when he was at DePauw. Brown, a cadetofficer at the Navy School, played varsity football, baseball and earned a Phi Beta Kappa key.	.
Another apparently hard working student in his college days is cadet-officer George Borrowman, Jr., of Evanston, Ill. He was captain of the 150 pound football team at Lafayette College; on the swimming team; class president-four years; president of the KRT senior honorary society; won the Pepper Prize in his senior year and was graduated cum laude.	'
Neil A. Connor, cadet-officer of Washington, D.C., won a reserve commission
Will not be tested in Memorial Pool.
in the 355th Field Artillery before he joined the Navy. He was a second lieu-, tenant from 1928 to 1933 and first lieutenant from 1933 to 1937.
Cadet - officer Robert H. Bunn, of Lorain, 0., is another member of the Navy School who was a star athlete in college. He played football and was on the track team at Duke University. He belonged to two honorary fraternities.
Anson J. Fowler, cadet officer of New York City, was captain of the 1934 Columbia University crew. He is a. lieutenant junior grade. Harold Eliasberg, cadet-officer, of New York City, is another crew man. He rowed for Cornell University and was also on the boxing team.
A red hot race has developed between the Second and Fourth Battalions for the honor of being awarded the best battalion. The Fourth was leading at the beginning of the week.
- . Only a few points separate the two groups and the men are striving mightily to win the coveted award which will allow them extra hours liberty this weekend. .
The battalions are graded on four
factors: room and personnel inspections; infantry drill and athletics.	.
Lieut. David Lloyd, who joined the officer staff on the station recently, has an interesting hobby. He collects rare, old buttons. He has several that date . back hundreds of years. Many of them are very valuable. .	.
? Lieut. Lloyd is considered an authority . on the subject and has collaborated on a book dealing with the collection of rare buttons. .	’	'
12
EDITORIAL
By Lieut. C. W. Myers
Discipline Officer, Naval Training School .
It’s going to be a long war. Our Commander in Chief has told us that, and every intelligent person is willing to - face that fact. “Blood, toil, tears and sweat,” is the way Mr. Churchill tells his people how the war will affect them. Too many people accept those statements as merely words.... “more propaganda” as one optimist put it. Now I don’t say we should ^all be pessimists. Not in the least. But we will not win this war by merely wanting to win it, any more than we could maintain peace by desiring it.
You commissioned officers in framing are selected leaders in the greatest Navy of all. You must be leaders wherever you go and in everything you do. If the top card crumbles, the ones underneath are not long in following. That is only logical. And if 'the men in command in the Navy show weakness in action or thought, the men in their command will reflect those weaknesses. For example, you will be asked often, “when do you think the war will end?” There is only one answer. When we win it! You can’t put a date on victory any more than you could measure a defeat to its exact amount. • . ’
As Lieut. Commander Shaw said Iasi week, ask your questioners when we could expect victory if we all worked ae well or as poorly as he did. Every mar. must do his part. And the sooner all do : the closer we come to the end of the war. Our friends at Notre Dame have shown us it takes an 11-man football team to be champions.	.
And it’s goiing to take over a hundred and twenty million Americans to make us champions of peace.
What position do you play? Are you ready to carry the ball?
DID you KNOW
That the expression “the devil to pay” originated among seafaring men... .“The devil to pay and only half a bucket of pitch” was the original expression. This is understood when it is known that the “devil” was- the longest and most difficult seam to pay. “Pay”, is from the French word poix, meaning pitch,- “to pay the seams” or “to pitch the seams.” ...; the saying “dutch courage” is another term derived from the sea.... it is related that when Cornelius Van Tromp and de Ruyter were in command/ Dutch sailors were given, before going into
battle, suitable libations of the well-known “square-faced gin.” The English who were their enemies at the time, called the effects of this practice “Dutch courage.”. . . the first American warship of iron using steam was the Michigan, built at Erie, Pa. . . . she was fabricated in Pittsburgh, Pa., and transported in parts to Erie where she was completed and launched in 1844.... no United States man-of-war has ever mutinied or been in the hands of mutineers, while in other navies whole squadrons ana fleets have mutinied__the United States Navy is the only Navy in the world that has in its possession a British royal standard taken by capture. This standard, now at the United States Naval Academy, was captured by Commodore Chauncey at York, Canada.... that a modem battleship is a block and a half long and towers five stories above the water.________________that the fire power of a battery of 16 inch guns on a modem battleship is greater than the fire power of the entire fleet Admiral Dewey commanded at Manila Bay.... that the expression “tar” in reference to sailors came from the old custom of a sailor tarring his trousers and other apparel to make them waterproof.... that a grain of powder used in a Navy big gun is the size of a man’s thumb.__________.
NAVY DICTIONARY
The English sea terms were derived from Greek,'. Latin, Italian, Spanish, French and Dutch sources, according to Naval Customs.
Following are a few selected at random:	.	.
Ahoy—This was once the war cry of the Vikings.
Anchor—Is derived from a Greek word for hook or crook.' Sailors say today “drop the hook,” or refer to the anchor as “the old mud hook.”	.
Bleeding a Buoy—To let the water out.
The Scholastic extends its sincere sympathies to Mrs. Victor E. Johnson on the sudden death of her husband, Lieutenant Victor E. Johnson last Tuesday. Lt. Johnson, a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1925, left a successful business career to aid his country in the present crisis. He headed the mathematics department of the Naval Indoctrination School at Notre Dame and was engaged in instructing the present class in Naval regu-. lations.
Bluejacket—The first uniform- that was ever officially sanctioned for sailors in the Royal Navy was a short blue jacket, open in the front.	-
Blue Peter—A. flag, blue pierced with white, was used in the British Navy from 1777 as a general recall flag. In a quarter of a century - the term “blue peter” was used by all to designate this -flag. ,
Boatswain—the Saxon word “swein” ~ meant a boy or servant, therefore, boatswain. The “boat” refers to the ship . and not to her boats. “Cockswain” has. a similar derivation. “Cock" is an old word for a type of small boat.
Captain—From “caput,” the head or chief, and “thane,” a Saxon title of honor . first conferred by King Athelstan. '
Cruiser—Derived from “Crusal” or , fast, light vessel used by pirates in the Mediterranean. They were not essentially fighting vessels, but were used for raiding and pillaging.
Dead Marine—An empty bottle. In the old days of hard drinking at sea, this . expression was , generally accepted as synonymous with an empty bottle. The' story is told that William IV when Duke . of Clarence and Lord High Admiral, at an official dinner said, pointing at some empty bottles, “Take away those ma--' rines.” ,	.
Fleet—From Anglo-Saxon floet, floetan; old Spanish flota, hence, flotilla.
- Gangway—From Anglo-Saxon gang, to go; make a passage in, or cut out, or through.	‘
Give Quarter—Came from a practice that originated in the wars between the Dutch and the Spaniards, when a cap- . tured officer was given life and liberty for a ransom fee estimated at one-quarter of his yearly pay.
Holystones—So named because fragments of broken monuments from St. Nicholas church, Great Yarmouth, England, were used at one time to scrub the
. decks of ships of the British Navy. The name is now used for bricks, sand stones, ' or medium-soft sand rock utilized for the scrubbing of wooden decks.
Jamoke—Used by bluejackets of the United States Navy to designate coffee.
• Keelhauling—A call down or reprimand; “getting on the carpet" is its general meaning as used by older sea- ' men. In the early days this term signified one of the most drastic and cruel forms of punishment. The victim was hoisted by a whip or light tackle to a fore yardarm, and thence dropped into the sea. A weight was attached to the unfortunate to insure that he would sink deep enough for a whip to drag him under the keel and up again to the opposite yardarm on the other side. . =
13
THE WEEK
DICK KILMER
Top Of The Week:
The Male Animal.
Things Have Been Happening:
Fountain pens have been filled, professors have dared to make assignments; already some freshmen, or people who look like freshmen anyway, have been thumbing the card index in the library attempting to find volumes on the endocrine glands or treatises on the state of democracy in the Swiss Cantons. As early as last Tuesday a sophomore is said to have tried, “Either it is raining or it is not raining, but if . . .” on his . table-mates, under- the watchful eyes of the good fathers in the dining hall; other talk is of quizzes on mythological footnotes in Bacon’s essays — ah, sir, we too have had Mr. Smithberger; typewriters click, paper is crushed, books are underlined; freshmen, sophomores, even juniors are busy making first impressions, and the seniors, yes, the seniors . . . well, the Sorin porch is mighty nice in warm weather.
4*
What's On?
The herding instinct readies a climax on Saturday evenings.
There are two possible ways of reaching Washington Hall. One is by ordered paths and roadways; the other in a mad rush as if to escape a forest fire.
❖
For Mothers
A five-year man still roosting in Sorin was visited by his mother last week. She had never been here before, but her son takes the June award for dutiful and enlightening parental correspondence. The senior was willing and anxious to do what he could toward giving her a real introduction to campus lore firsthand, but she was ahead of him. She was able to differentiate infallibly between the two Father Wards, something that her son had not learned in five years; she knew why that heap of bricks connects the Church and Corby Hall; she did not need to ask who was standing in front of Corby with the well-known finger extended to the heavens; and best, and most miraculous of all, she came equipped with a durable fly swatter and a medium-sized rat trap, for use in combat with all of God’s little creatures that think that they, too,, have a right to Sorin and the inhabitants thereof.
Our Part
The Week has discovered a cheerleader for the football season, if, of course, there will be anything to cheer about. We don’t know his name, or where he’s from, or what hall he lives in, but he can make noises like dogs that would fool Sir Leoline’s mastiff. He was baying his way over to the dining hall when we heard him, and, we’re telling you, he’s good.
Two Cents
A lady from one of the offices was shaken at the turn of events in the Post Office the other day. The package simply had to go out, and she had brought only a quarter, whereas the postage ran to 27 cents. She fretted and fidgeted; the Postmaster looked compassionate, but not generous.
Our hero approached the lady and put on his noblest look. As though scattering princely largesse he clincked two pen- . nies down on the. ledge before her, plink, plink. They were the last bits of coin of the realm he possessed.
The lady drew herself up, “I don’t want your money,” she snapped.
She took it in the end though.
❖
Back to Fundamentals
Wednesday two sophomores hesitated about the doors of a bicycle shop on Washington Avenue. Yesterday the couple was seen gaily peddling a tandem. And on the subject of transportation — and don’t say we aren’t on the subject of transportation; we had to make up the story about the sophomores just to get there — we heard that Mr. Rauch is now commuting from Edwardsburg by pogo-stick.
❖
As Formerly
Eight o’clock in the morning. Eight o’clock. Eight. Eight.-Eight. How will I ever do it. How? How? Like sneaking up on education in the dark. We thought we were through with them forever. Through. But no, we’re up, checked, dressed, and running to class, minus shave and breakfast. The class is English 299; there’s nothing but a row of benches and the atom smasher sighing gustily and shaking with cheerful abandon most of the first floor rear of Science Hall. But English 299, why did we ever elect it? Everyone there looks happy —a series of nuns, cool and precise, a
priest or two, Brother- Dunstan, two acquaintances, one to argue with, the other to agree with. But still English 299. Why, it’s a graduate course and we’re only a senior. There’s dignity for you. Yes, a strange new dignity comes upon us, filling us with awful majesty. Fashion us a dais, hung with oriental silks. We shall spray our classmates with lavender; they will be tossed to the stars. But they do look awful waiting there submissively. If only classes were still at eight-thirty—at least at some Christian hour. Eight o’clock—bah!
❖
Oh, Yes, The Faculty
A few days ago two very distinguished European faculty members were downtown window shopping along the west side of Michigan Street. Suddenly they decided to cross Michigan at Jefferson just as the traffic on Michigan started to move with the green light. As soon as they left the curb they were brushed by a honking taxi and narrowly missed by a woman driver; halfway across they were almost trapped and crushed by two busses. In the middle of Michigan Street they stood helpless and frightened,, clutching each other’s hand. A smiling policeman and a kindly Boy Scout escorted the trembling pair to the sidewalk. The two distinguished faculty members bowed low to their deliverers, made a graceful entrance into Kresge’s and were soon lost in the teeming crowd surrounding the meat counter. And thus culture was preserved.
❖.
A Saucer of Cream, Please
First Girl: My soldier friend wears my photo over his heart and it stopped a bullet.
Second Girl: I’m not surprised, dearie. It would stop anything.
—Log, again ❖
Ode to the Dining Hall
(Respectfully dedicated to Mr. Connolly)
Given all of your meat,
I’ll take that corned beef.
I enjoy it for days, ’Cause it sticks to my teeth.
For the meat loaf divine,
So often I pine.
With this cry of “NO WASTE!”
I eat all of mine.
The rest of your vittles
I accept without quibbles.
But identification
Creates many riddles.
♦
Bottom Of The Week:
You can have two to. five that Mr. O’Malley will remove his tie or his coat, \ or both, by July 15th.
14
INTERHALL BASEBALL, SOFTBALL TO BE EMPHASIZED;
CHLEBECK, PHY ED SENIORS TO ASSIST COACH KLINE
BILL BOSS
One of the most elaborate inter-hall softball and baseball programs in Notre Dame history will be inaugurated next week. Two varsity teams, seven hall outfits, and an R.O.T.C. squad are - slated to match runs during the summer semester. An extensive daily card is being planned according to Jake Kline, varsity baseball mentor, who has been assigned to head both varsity and intramural baseball programs by John Scannell, physical education director, who is commanding all interhall sports compe-tion this summer.
Plans are still embryonic and tentative but in a short time an eight-team league schedule will probably be in full swing. A second diamond is being laid out on Cartier Field which will speed up the playing of scheduled contests. At present, plans call for inter-hall tussles on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. The Varsity will take over in practice games on Tuesday and Thursday, and play scheduled games on Saturday and Sunday. At such a pace 12 to 15 games, mostly twilight tussles, will be played weekly. Later there may be daily interhall battles.
The immediate response in the various halls shows that many of the fellows on campus are eager to get into organized diamond competition. It is the wish of the supervisors in this endeavor that every man interested sign up immediately with his hall director and start hustling to “keep ’em swinging.” A quick glance at your hall bulletin board will tell you who the director is in your hall. No one will be left out, and watchful eyes will be on the lookout for prospective varsity material.
Chlebeck to Assist Kline
To help direct play Coach Kline has selected Andy Chlebeck, former varsity captain, as an assistant. Seniors majoring in physical education will be assigned a hall in which to organize a team and supply the strategy during the hour of battle. They in turn will select capable assistants to act as coaches and scouts.
Baseball manager, Joe Callahan, will have managers on hand to see that equipment and incidentals are well taken care of. Students who wish to play both hard ball and softball. will find ample opportunity to do so. The arrangement of the schedules of these sports will allow competition in both.
Varsity competition for the summer term is unsettled. Eligibility rules invoked by midwest athletic councils will be adhered to by the Irish. At present Coach Kline proposes to have two varsity combines in action. The first aggregation will be composed of men who are now Seniors. Stars of last spring’s team that won seven games while losing foui-will compose this squad. Hard-hitting Jack Tallet, John Metzger, Bud Dudley, Bob Fischer, and many other lads will be on hand. The other varsity brigade will be built for the summer session Coach Kline feels that capable men will be easy to find. Football players will be eligible for summer competition whereas spring practice has aways quelled their diamond desires previously.
Competition for the varsity will not be । difficult to find, but Mr. Henderson’s curtailment may cancel transportation facilities and play would have to be limited to the South Bend locality. Detroit, Michigan, Purdue, Michigan State, and other midwestem colleges are currently in session and have written for games. Numerous service teams — Camp Grant, • Camp Custer, Great Lakes and others — want to play the Irish as well as many semi-pro outfits.
A new captain was not elected because of the uncertainty that curtained the diamond scene last month. Game captains will probably be appointed for each summei’ game with an early fall election of a captain to lead the team in ’43.
The list of 1942 lettermen, subject to approval of the faculty board in control of athletics, has been released and 13 monograms •will be issued shortly. The recipients include: Jim Carlin, Andy Chlebeck, Capt. Bernie Crimmins, Ambrose Dudley, Bob Fischer, Fred Gore, Bus Hiller, John Metzger, Frank San-fillipo, Hal Smullen, George Sobek, Jack Tallet, and Manager Mike Carr.
NATIONAL GOLF TOURNAMENT (Continued from page 3)
pions, Yale, the Eastern champs, ana Southern California, runners-up to Stanford on the West Coast. Also such Southern powers as Duke, North Carolina, Texas and Louisiana State are expected to enter teams.
Cokes and Smokes
The qualifying rounds of medal play will be run off on Monday and Tuesday (June 22 and 23), 18 holes being played each day. The medalist and the 64 qualifiers for match play will be determined. Scores of the four low men on each six man team will count on the team championship. The 64-man field will be reduced to 16 on Wednesday and on Thursday the field will be cut to the four semifinalists. On each of these days there will be two 18-hole matches.
After Friday’s 36-hole match play the field will have been pared to the • two finalists—the cream of collegiate golf-dom. These two men will square off on Saturday to decide the intercollegiate golf champion of 1942.
Immediately following the first qualifying round the annual banquet for tne contestants will be held at the University Dining Halls. On the night of the final qualifying round the South Bend Country Club will sponsor a dance for the contestants. Another feature of the meet •will be a special 18-hole medal play tournament to be held over Notre Dame’s William J. Burke Memorial course on Wednesday for all non-qualifiers. The four low men will receive awards.
N.D. Enters Eight-man Squad
The eight-man team representing Notre Dame, as announced by Rev. George Holderith, golf coach, is as follows: Captain Bill Wilson, Gene Fehlig, John Conry, Bill Fisher, Jack Harrigan, Bill (Continued on page 23)
15
INTRODUCING
F. “SLUSH” RICHARDS
Irish Sixth In Meet;
Hunter Beats I. U. Star
Notre Dame finished in sixth place in the annual outdoor Central Collegiate Conference track meet held at Milwaukee last Saturday with Capt. Jim Delaney,
The card on the door at 251 Alumni Hall read John Tallett, so in I walked and then and there started one of the most interesting interviews with one of the most likeable fellows that I have yet to “clasp fives” with.
It seems the memorable day for the Tallets of North Chicago, Ill., came on the 21st of January, 1922, when young John was born. The days passed quietly, says' Jack, and not until his grammar
school days at Holy Family did baseball ability start to come to the surface.
“I was a pitcher in my grammar school days and freshman year in high school,” stated Jack, “but certain elements changed me to a first baseman.” These “certain elements” turned out to be a degree of wildness and an ability to hit the ball at a very satisfying clip. Waukegan Township High claimed the academic and athletic prowess of “Long John” but surprisingly enough he did not make his letter until his senior year. Sickness, which has jinxed Jack every spring until the current season, hampered his services to the various teams whose rosters he has graced.
The local Junior Legion team of the Tallett neighborhood served to keep our tall friend in shape during the summer months, and a pretty fair team it was too, we are told. District championships became a regular dish while Mrs. Tallett’s son patrolled the initial sack.
The Bally Muck Team of Waukegan furnishes the backdrop for Jack’s greatest thrill. It seems that he had been invited for a tryout with tins team. We are happy to say that the tryout was very successful as Jack got two round trippers in succession to win the game. Did he make the team? Are you kidding?
In relation to his stay here on the campus, Jack is a member of that select group (so they-tell me) called the lawyers. In reply to the question of whether .
he would care to go into organized ball after graduation, Jack very candidly replied that he’d like to take one thing at a time.
Merely as a social gesture I inquired as to the draft status and also of a possible heartbeat, but I was surprised at the answers given to both inquiries. Naturally I was taken aback to learn that he will not be eligible for Uncle Sam’s team until next sign-up time. If that wasn’t enough to make a man eat creamed cauliflower, I was ready to sign up for duty at Pearl Harbor when I learned that Mr. Tallett has no outside
interests in the fair sex.
It is common knowledge that “Long John” was the hitter of Coach Jake Kline’s aggregation this spring, and with the culmination of' diamond doings he laid his favorite bat to rest with a .467 carved on it.
As to his favorite major, league team Jack whispered the White Sox and the New York Giants. Mel Ott of the latter team is his favorite star.
When asked of other curricula on campus, Jack was.quick to reply that he is a member, of the championship touch football team which he added modestly has not been beaten in three years of rough, tough, competition. How the pass combination of Tallett to Moritz, with occasional laterals to Bill
Frye has escaped the watchful eye of Mr. Leahy is beyond me after hearing of their exploits against such teams as the Engineers and Commerce men. .
Oliver Hunter
Ollie Hunter and Bob Vicars notching the bulk of the 19 points the Irish rolled up in the meet with individual titles in the shot, two mile and javelin.
Delaney, with a heave of 49 feet, 8% inches was four inches better than his closest rival, Bierle of Wisconsin, the team which captured the title without benefit of a single first place in the meet. Ollie Hunter added another scalp to his belt of Indiana greats as he gave Earl Mitchell one of the soundest beatings of his Hoosier career by over 75 yards in 9:17.1, thus avenging the narrow win by Mitchell in the State meet. Hunter also trimmed Virgil Alston, the Miami U. boy who edged Ollie out of the Drake championship, for the second straight time by 70 yards. Vicars, with a flip of . 185 feet,, 8% inches, made his best javelin throw to date.
It was the second meet under Dr. Al Handy, new coach for the Fighting Irish ; of the cinder paths, who has just succeeded Ensign William P. Mahoney, track captain of ’39 and head coach of track at Notre Dame during two of the most successful years of the sport in the history of the school. Mahoney is now in training at Annapolis. Coach Handy, an alumnus and former weight star at the University of Iowa, has been on the faculty since 1931. After finishing at Iowa he received his LL.B. degree in 1926, his Master’s in 1930, and his Th.D. in 1937. During the period from 1926 until he came to Notre Dame he was director of health and physical education at Iowa. In their first meet under Coach Handy the trackmen scored 70 points, the highest any Notre Dame team has ever run up in a state meet.—Frank Carver
16
BUY YOUR DEFENSE BONDS HERE
Holy Cross Brothers
Have Retreat Next Week
Starting next Sunday evening at 7:30 . a retreat will be conducted for the Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The retreat will be conducted by Rev. Fr. Andrew, O.F.M., and will open each morning with Meditation and Mass m the Sacred Heart Church; the other exercises will be conducted in the Basement Chapel. The retreat will close Saturday morning, June 20.
The Brothers engaged at Notre Dame and teachers from all parts of the country are present on the campus annually for this retreat. Brothers teaching in high schools and colleges throughout the country are now living in Zahm Hall. Silence is observed throughout the week of the retreat.

SPORTS RAMBLE
Bill Boss
Jimmy Wilson promised windy city fans that he would slip Ed Hanyzewski into the Cubs lineup when the opposition had bunched nine runs and were stamping ahead of the Bruins, 9-1. It seems the Mr. Wilson doesn’t have as much faith in the former Irish hurler as he .did during Citrus Circuit battles in the spring. But in mid-May Ed got his chance and was jammed into a contest, contrary to Wilson’s promises, with the Chicago boys leading the Braves, 4-3. Ed slaved and hammered for five innings finally winning the battle, 9-8.
Wilson was satisfied after the battle and attributed Hanyzewski’s ineffectiveness to the long lay-off and lack of work. Casey Stengel was bubbling with affection: “We never would have hit him if he hadn’t got a bit wild.” Wilson added: “I’ve been using him in batting practice regularly, but that’s not like pitching him in a game.”
We could hardly disagree with the soft-spoken Cub manager but we began to wonder during the two weeks in late May when the Cubs failed to capture one start where burly Ed was parked. A
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
8 TO 6 WEEK DAYS; 8 TO 8 SATURDAYS •
trip to Wrigley Field revealed he was still flipping the agate across during the pre-game sessions. Len Merullo peeked at Hanyzewski through the backstop netting and wailed, “That Hanyzewski is pitching a shut out against us.”
“Yeah,” opined Phil Cavaretta, “we get whitewashed even before the game starts. Every ball that guy throws does something—slides, hooks, sinks or just disappears entirely.”
Billy Sullivan, the wandering Irishman now stationed at Brooklyn, is a three-bat hitter. The Notre Dame alumnus has a first, second, and third preference when it comes to selecting his weapon for batting. One of his bats is so thin his teammates call it a sword. He marks the willows as a movie critic. The best bat is three-x, the two-x bat is just fair, and for a- pinch the one-x bludgeon is used.
Coach Frank Leahy was recently the . guest of Clark Shaughnessy at the University of Maryland. Leahy watched the initial performance of the T-formation at the Eastern institution as taught by the former Stanford mentor.
Jackie Hayes, quarterback on the ’40 varsity squad, who last year at 23, was the youngest college coach in America, recently left his post at Rockhurst College in Kansas City to enter naval training at Norfolk, Va.
Bill Wilson, current N. D. golf captain, has made one hole-in-one in his 13 years of niblick service. The ace came last summer in the Port Huron, Mich., Blue Water invitational meet.
Miami University’s Virgil Alston, who dethroned Ollie Hunter as Drake Relay two-mile king, often runs from his rural route home in Oxford, Ohio to the campus several dozen furlongs away to keep in trim. '
To Father Lynch
James E. Armstrong, director of publicity, wrote a page long poem to Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C., prefect of religion, cheering the latter during the illness which has confined him to bed. In part the poem read:
“Don’t worry about the campus and its million and one affairs,
What zue can’t solve we’ll put in the ‘Bidletin’ for prayers”
THE HUDDLE
N. D. "T" Shirts
Gym Pants Soft Drinks .
Cigarettes .
Candy Tobacco Pipes
17-
From Distant Climes Come
Notre Dame's Chimes
How often you have heard the chimes ringing out with, “Holy God We Praise Thy Name,” “0 Salutaris Hostia,” or “To Jesus Heart All Burning.” When you hear those simple melodies you feel, within you, the spirit behind Notre Dame.
There is an interesting story of those chimes, especially of the big bell. The mammoth bell which weighs six tons is a foot thick and eight feet eight inches in diameter. It is one of the largest in the U. S. It is decorated with a flowered design around the top part, and on its side are names of the 72 ladies and gentlemen who were sponsors for the chimes, of which this bell is the base.
It has twice crossed the Atlantic— over to France in 1855 in the form of copper from the mines of Michigan, and back again a year later as the Big Bell. Then it crossed the St. Joseph River in South Bend, not by the usual route, because the City authorities refused, and justifiably so, as they were afraid the comparatively fragile wooden bridge of that day would crack under the strain. Therefore, after much difficulty a raft was specially constructed, and the bell was pulled across by slow strong oxen.
In 1856 the bells of Notre Dame were hung in one of the" twin towers of the first brick Church which was dedicated in 1847. The big bell received its name, “Our Lady of the Sacred Heart" when it was blessed in 1867, by His Excellency Bishop Burke of Cheyenne, once a student at Notre Dame. In 1875, on completion of the present church the bells were removed to the new tower.
After long years of unfailing use, exposure to the elements finally resulted in the deterioration of the operating mechanism. The bells hung silent for several years; then in 1930 an old friend of the University generously undertook to defray the cost of restoring them.
The compass of the bells of Notre Dame is two and one half octaves. The limited range of the bells and the simple •mechanism that controls them permits the playing of music only in simple melodic form. Then again the limited capacity of the automatic player permits only a partial rendition of each celestial hymn.,
It was Father Sorin’s dream that someday the chimes in the lofty tower • of Sacred Heart Church would be doubled in number; as.yet that dream has not been realized. ■
18
Tennis Team to Nationals;
Interhall Rounds Underway
As a fitting tribute to a really great squad, the Notre Dame tennis team has been entered in two intercollegiate tournaments in which they will battle the pick of the nation.
Foremost is the National Intercollegiate meet at New Orleans, La. Tulane University will be host to schools belonging to the NCAA from June 22
to 27. On their way to New Orleans the courtmen will stop off at Houston, Texas for the sectional championships. At Houston they will meet the cream of the southern tennis crop, usually recognized as the nation’s tennis stronghold.
Making this trip will be the “Big Four” of the undefeated squad—Captain Dan Canale, Olen Parks, Bob Faught, and “Bud” Ford. These men can rest assured that the entire student body is solidly behind them and anxiously awaiting another Irish victory.	.
Interhall tennis shared the spotlight ■with the varsity this week as the first open tournament of the season began. The finals in both singles and doubles will be played Sunday on the courts behind Cartier Field. It has also been announced that an interhall tennis league will be formed next week. Competition -will be conttinued throughout the summer months and Coach Langford urges all tennis enthusiasts to sign up at once with their hall, coach.
At the present, plans call for another open tournament at the end of the summer semester and still another in the fall after the new semester is in full swing. Yes, sir—it’s going to be a busy season on the tennis front.—Phil Keen
Students!! Golf Fans!!
Here is your chance to see some of the nation’s finest amateur golfers in action. The National Col-, legiate meet this year is the largest amateur tourney in the nation. Students may obtain tickets at the. athletic offices at the reduced student rate. All proceeds are to go to the Navy Relief Fund. The South Shore trains will furnish transportation to and from the course in South Bend.—The Editors. -	,
WRANGLERS WILL ARGUE (Continued from page 4) Denver, Colo., the Wranglers will carry on their meetings in their established method, assembling each Thursday in the seminar room of the law building. At each meeting one member presents a paper on some research topic. Criticism and rebuttal are offered, and the speaker is given opportunity to finish his case by offering possible solutions.
Mr. Frank J. O’Malley, of the English department, begins his second year as faculty moderator of the club. He succeeded the retiring moderator, Rev. Norbert Hoff last September. Mark Lies, of Riverside, Ill., is secretary.
Big Blow
The senior class of the College of New Rochelle has adventurously chosen our own Notre Dame as their favorite men’s college. It must be that the charm of our New York students has reached beyond Brooklyn and the Bowery.
❖
N.D. Dining Hall Preview—■?
Co-op Coffee Shop
May Dole Out .
Sugar Cubes. '
—The Daily Californian
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
Ai. flewebuf
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
★
Toilet Articles ' Supplies
This Is What You Call Tough Luck
When graduation rolled around Notre Dame’s championship tennis team lost but two of the first six men on the team, however, only one of these men is returning. Captain Dan Canale and “Bud” Ford, who played No. 1 and No. 4 with the undefeated unit, were graduated. Olen Parks expects to be drafted before next season. Bob Faught, No. 3 man who was undefeated expects. to be back. George Bittner, No. 5, is enrolled for the summer session and will graduate in December. Joe Schaefer, No. 6 plans to transfer to M.I.T. Fred Doutel and Nick Pappas, who appeared in competition but are unranked, will also be graduated in December.
N. D. Navy Tilt Headed for Cleveland
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, went to Cleveland last week to meet with the U. S’ Naval academy and the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce officials regarding the arrangements for the Navy-Notre Dame game in Cleveland’s Municipal stadium on Oct. 31. Cleveland sport fans will witness several other top notch games that will be put on at their huge stadium, for due to tire rationing many of the nation’s finest games will be played in large cities instead of small university towns. This bringing Jhe game to the people is a war policy which will give the large cities of the midwest a sports show the likes of which they have never witnessed.
Golf Team Feted by Governor
Notre Dame’s undefeated golf team members were dinner guests of Governor Murray D. Van Wagoner of Michigan at the Walnut Hills Country club, where the Irish played Michigan State’s golf team. The governor is an old friend of Captain Billy Wilson’s father, who is also secretary-treasurer of the National Intercollegiate Golf association. The 45th annual National Intercollegiate tournament was awarded to Notre Dame this year as one of its centennial sport features, the proceeds of which go to Navy relief. Now in appreciation, all those true sportsmen should get out to the tourney to pick up a few pointers from big timers, and also to aid this grand cause. Here is a chance to prove something we know: that Notre Dame men are some of the country’s best. We can do this to an audience of representatives from some 50 colleges. Captain Paul Lillis and Bob Maddock have returned to
••RED” LONERGAN
the campus to complete their studies necessary for the Naval Reserve. Lillis has been commissioned an ensign in EV (p) division, and Maddock will be called to active duty in the Fall in the V-7 branch. It is strongly rumored that Captainelect Bill Delaney, of shot put fame, will be going out for the Frank Leahy Division next Fall; it will be guard, if anything. The intra-mural program being enacted on the campus this Summer is probably the most thorough in the history of the school, so there is no reason why we can’t find some sport to participate in. Especially with such a variety as: tennis, volleyball, hard ball, softball, track, golf, and swimming; a program such as this should interest Phy. Ed. and English majors alike. All those eligible draftees should be extremely active in this Summer’s program, as it will be so much easier for these men to get theii-bodies into trim when they do enter some branch of the service.
- Navy Muscle Men
While running through the Navy’s questionnaires we were amazed at the -large number of men who were monogram winners at college. Just to name a few, there is: Bob Ashum, of Dennison, in track and swimming; George Barber, of Worcester Tech., in tennis; Nils Boe, of Minnesota, in track; Boloch, of Ohio Northern, in football; Buckmaster, of N.U., in track; Harry Sieg, of Armour Tech., in golf and basketball; Chuck Thiebeault, of Grinnell, in track; Bud Brown, of DePauw, in football; Frank Bridges, of Butler, in basketball; Tom Boothe, of Stanford, in swimming; George Borrowman, of Lafayette, in swimming; Bob Craig, of Case, in track and baseball; and John Challinor, of Carnegie Tech., in football. Also Anson Fowler, of Columbia, in crew; Leo Fink, of Dartmouth, in track; Harold Elias-berg, of Cornell, in crew; Tom Shields, of Purdue in track; Art Stevens, of Case, in football; John Sullivan, of S.M.U., in football; ■ Dan Sullivan, of Washington, in football; Eugene Kron, of Purdue, in track; Wilbur Keith, of S.M.U., in baseball and basketball; Joe Huggins, of Pennsylvania, in track; Bill Hunt, of Brown, in hockey, track, and basketball; Charles Kamm, of Princeton, in track; and Bill Hicks, of Oklahoma; in swimming and track, are but a few of many fine athletes here at present with the Navy. Word has been received that Joe Campagna, hard hitting Notre Dame third baseman in 1941, is an
aviation cadet at the Enid, Okla., flying base. Joe received offers from the St. Louis Cardinals and Chicago Cubs, but decided to enlist in the flying corps instead, according to the official flying school release. He played for Morton high of Cicero, Ill., and for an American Legion nine that reached the finals of -the national tournament. He hopes to become a flight instructor.
Head Track Coach “Al” Handy will probably take only “Ollie” Hunter, Frank Conforti, and Captain-elect Jim Delaney to the N.C.A.A. track meet at Lincoln, Nebr., as the greater part of an outstanding track team has been lost to the service organizations. “Chick” Evans, Jr., is the chairman of the N.C.G.A.A., and the Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., our golf coach, will be the tournament chairman. This year’s tourney will have both the champion and the runner-up returning to attempt a repeat. They are “Red” Stewart of L.S.U., and Ray Brownell, Stanford’s runner-up, but there are about 50 others who are going to have something to say about their repeating.
Ach!
We were perusing a recent copy of the LaPorte (Indiana) Herald-Argus the other day when a picture of a certain German leader attracted our attention. Said leader was described in the caption as a veteran storm troop leader who had lately been advanced to the position of “protector” of Bohemia and Moravia. The picture editor, however, evidently thought little of the man and his promotion, for- above the picture was the epithet, “Big Drip.”
Spalding & Goldsmith
GOLF AND TENNIS EQUIPMENT
Notre Dame “T” Shirts
BATHING SUITS £1.95 - £2.95
Gym Equipment
SONNEBORN'S
121 West Colfax ■

Rev. J. L. Carrico
Edits 1942 Bulletin
The 1942 edition of the Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame, one of the most respected University catalogues in the United States, has just come off the press. With this issue the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., scholarly director of studies at Notre Dame, celebrates his tenth anniversary as editor of the publication.
This new edition, characteristic of Bulletins of the past, contains two very informative features appearing for the first time in the annual catalogue. The first of these, which is in keeping with Notre Dame’s contribution to our war effort, describes the organization and program of the newly established department of naval science and tactics. This department, which was established at the University in the summer of 1941, is in conjunction with the N.R.O.T.C. unit at Notre Dame and is designed to give a certain number of interested students a chance to obtain a commission of ensign in the United States Navy.
The second new feature of this year’s Bulletin is a section devoted to an explanation of the new three semester plan inaugurated at the University in January. This program was put into operation at Notre Dame in an effort to speed up the academic output and under the new set-up - a student may receive his degree in two and two-thirds years.
There will be no isue of the Scholastic next Friday, June 19. Scholastic will be issued again on June 26. .
Lost Glasses
Tom Quirk, dining hall headwaiter, advises that there are several pairs of glasses waiting to be claimed by their rightful owners. Glasses may be obtained upon identification from Mr. Quirk.
"Joe Alumni" Mourns as Sorin Secures Cat Books
Poor Joe! You see, in 1939, he had delayed in applying for admittance to Notre Dame and was placed in Brownson Hall for his Freshman year. He spent the term running up and down the stairs and hiking across the campus to the dining hall to such an extent that he lost ten pounds. Such trials and torments filled him with a firm resolve that he would always live in the most convenient hall for his next three years.
But Joe was an engineer, and as fate would have it, his room average was not high enough to give him much choice. So he continued to live his sophomore year under the Dome. However, his new residence was in Carroll rather than Brownson. All of this made Joe more determined to raise his average so that he could see the other side of the campus and enjoy the nightly excursions to the caf.
Months passed, and the room registration date found Joe plugging away at his physics and chemistry like a mad man. But we won’t speak of his average. He entered the portals of St. Edward’s , the following fall and took up residence in a room on the north side overlooking the infirmary. He appreciated the “hall of men” but still longed for the life of the gold coast which was.his idea of seventh heaven.
Finally, Joe hit upon an idea. His senior year was approaching so he chose for a roommate a pal with a good average, and they got a room in Alumni Hall. He thought he was set; no longer would he have to walk across a cold campus to eat in the dining hall. He was now living amid the luxuries of the gold coast, in Alumni, the hall that had everything. Yes, Joe was set! He had finally gotten what he wanted. But again he was foiled. Last week Sorin Hall got caf books.—John Anhut
Sad Student Lives Here
TENNIS RACQUETS RE ST RUNG
£2.00 to £7.50 Nylon, £4.00
TENNIS BALLS £1.50 per can of 3 with
New Racquet or . Restring Purchase
RECO
SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main Tel. 4-6731 "LOOK FOR THE LOG FRONT"
There was weeping and gnashing of teeth.
20
Three Irish Thinclads
In National Track Meet
Frank Carver
When the National Collegiate Invitation track meet opens in Lincoln, Nebr., this afternoon, Notre Dame will be represented by three men whose names are well known in the East, mid-West and out on the coast — Frankie Conforti,
Frank Conforti
powerful Gold and Blue miler from the Bronx, Ollie Hunter, Greg Rice’s capable successor from Erie, Pa., and Captainelect Jim Delaney shot-put artist from San Francisco, who, after his second year of collegiate competition holds almost as many titles as an adding machine will handle.
Frank Conforti, a 4:29 miler for Morris H. S. in the Bronx a couple years back, has an outstanding record for his two years of distance running at Notre Dame. He has broken 4:20 ten times, on the last two Saturdays in the Indiana State and Centrals running 4:15 and 4:17 though being passed in the stretch both times by Indiana’s great Campbell Kane after having set a half mile pace of 2:04. Individual titles include the Metropolitan and Bronx (which he prizes very highly), A.A.U, mile run, and the Michigan State meet record of 4:17 set early this spring. He was a member of the Notre Dame Drake Relay’s champion four-mile relay team. In the Nationals Frank will be continuing a rivalry which started back in high school with Les MacMitchell. Also entered in the mile are Earl Burnham, of Dartmouth, who has beaten both Kane and MacMitchell.
Captain Jim Delaney, who has just added- the Central Collegiate outdoor crown to his host of shot put titles, holds the- Notre Dame fieldhouse and Cartier Field records, is a repeating winner in the Butler Relays, C.C.C.’s indoors, In
diana State Meet and last, year triumphed in the Penn Relays. Captain Jim hails from San Francisco where three years ago at St. Francis High he gained recognition as the nation’s best high school shot putter.
Ollie Hunter’s best performance in the two mile was paced off in the Chicago Relays last winter when he beat his arch-rival Fred Wilt, while two Saturdays ago he ran 9:15 behind Wilt’s former stablemate from Indiana. He has swept the Centrals four times (indoor and out), the first time taking both the mile and two-mile in the same afternoon. Two years in a row he placed second in the National Collegiate Cross Country meet in his sophomore year finishing behind Gil Dodds of Boston while last New Year’s he ran fourth in the Sugar Bowl invitation two-mile. Last winter Ollie gained recognition by trimming six self-styled “dissipated dukes,” each of whom ran a half mile, while Hunter covered the three-mile distance to prove to the lads that it takes conscientious training to get into real physical condition.
All three men—Delaney, Hunter, Conforti—until this week were the kings, and sole ocupants of, St. Edward’s hall, with headquarters in the second floor wing and sleeping chambers on the fourth floor. All are signed up in the V-7 Naval Reserve—and all will be back for another track season!
St. Mary's Graduates 50
At 91st Commencement
Fifty young women were graduated at St. Mary’s 91st annual commencement Saturday morning, June 6. Professor Jerome G. Kerwin, Ph.D., LL.D., of the Department of Political Science of the University of Chicago, delivered the address.
“Yours is not only the task of winning victory in a great conflict; yours is also the much greater task of winning the peace which will follow,” Prof. Kerwin told the graduates. He admonished them to profit by the mistakes “of the job we did after the last war.” Mankind’s good will not be worked out quickly and easily. We must all sacrifice. The era of riches and comfort that we wanted after the last war is over.
Prof. Kerwin said that we have a choice either to organize the world for peace or for war; there is no in between ground. America shoulders this responsibility more than any other nation. “After this war if there is any festering sore anywhere on the face, of the earth where peoples are not enjoying their share of justice and the good things of earth, it
/It RadutA-
Visit the LARGEST RECORD DEPT. in INDIANA
VICTOR DECCA COLUMBIA O’KEH BLUEBIRD from
37c — 3 for $1.05
Eleven Listening Booths Well Informed Clerks Very large and complete stock of Radios and Phonographs.
R. C. A., EMERSON, STROMBERG - CARLSON, ZENITH and Many Others.
Complete service department with the finest laboratory test equipment.
NOTICE!
New Hours:
Monday—12 noon until 8:30
Balance of week—8 until 6
Saturday—8 until 6
Ilonins
/It At'-TTM
21
will be our problem to settle them,” he said. Vision of service to the downtrodden should become “as broad and wide as that of the Mystic Father.”
Jerome G. Kerwin, Ph.D., LL.D.
The commencement ceremonies took place in St. Angela’s Hall. They were opened with the processional played by the College ensemble. The Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., conferred the degrees.
Seated on the stage during the exercises were Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., of the University of Notre Dame, who read the list of graduates; Sister M. Frederick, C.S.C., Dean of the College; Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., President of the College, who placed the academic hoods about the shoulders of the graduates; Bishop Noll; Professor Kerwin; Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., chaplain of the College; Sister M. Francis Jerome, C.S.C., Vice-president of the College; and Sister M. Catherine Marie, C.S.C., Dean of Women.
P. G's. Advised to Audit
Modern Language Class
A recent University bulletin advises graduate students to obtain auditor cards for regular classes in French or German. The bulletin is of special importance to graduate students who need to review these languages in preparation for their foreign language examination. Because of the speed-up summer schedule, no special classes are being formed for their specific needs. Professor Earl F. Langwell, head of the department of modern language, advises that those who are not beginners enroll in French 2 which is taught at 10:00 (T T S) or in German 2 of which there are three sections.
22
Campus "Business" Hours
For the convenience of the student the Scholastic has prepared a schedule of the “open for business” hours of the most frequented service establishments on the campus.
Library—Monday through Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.; Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (except from September to the end of the football season when it closes at noon on Saturdays); Sunday: 10:00 a.m. to noon.
Offices of the Prefect of Discipline and Director of Studies—Monday through Friday: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.; 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.; Saturdays: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
Athletic Ticket Office—Monday through Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Saturday: 9:00 a.m. to noon.
Shoe and Watch Repair Shop—Monday through Friday.: 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Saturday: 7:00 a.m. to noon.
Western Union Office—Monday through Saturday regularly: 8:20 a.m. to noon, 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. During the football season: Monday through Friday: 8:20 a.m. to 8:0 p.m.; Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Barber Shop—Monday through Saturday: 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. During a home football game the Barber Shop closes at gariie time and opens immediately after the game.
The Laundry Office in Badin—Monday . through Friday: 6:45 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturday: 6:45 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Laundry picked up—Monday: Brownson and Carroll; Wednesday: Alumni, Dillon, Sorin, Walsh; Friday: Zahm, Cavanaugh; Saturday: Breen-Phillips, St. Edward’s.
Cafeteria—All week: 6:30 to 9:40 p.m. Closed each day from 2 to 3 p.m.
Huddle—Monday through Friday: 7:45 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Saturday: 7:45 a.m. until show time in the evening; Sunday: 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
Athletic Equipment Office — Monday through Friday: 9:30 a.m. to noon; 1:00 pan. to 5:00 p.m.
Athletic Training Room—Open Monday through Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 pan.
Rockne Memorial—Monday through Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (During Home football games the Memorial will be open on Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.). Sunday: 9:00 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Swimming pool—Monday .
through Saturday: 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 : pan. (except during the football season when it closes at 11:00 a.m. on Saturdays.) Sun lamp — Monday through
Saturday: 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Golf Course—All week: 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL dentistry Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544,
; DR ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination	609 J. M. S.- Building
Hours by Appointment South Bend, Indiana
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP !
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S.
Peter J. Rose,,D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Building South Bend, Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406r408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
NATIONAL GOLF TOURNAMENT (Continued from page 15)
Moorhead, Paul Malloy, and Tom Nash. Captain Wilson is secretary-treasurer of the National Intercollegiate Golf association. John Holstrom, Jr., captain of the Illinois team is president of the association	•
Father Holderith, who is chairman of the tournament, expects at least three or four members of his team to show up well in the-tournament and cause trouble among the leaders. One of the Irish golfers will compete on the Western forces in the East-West match. This is the rubber match of the series. The East won by a one point margin in 1940 and last year the West eked out a 6% to 5% victory.	.
Although the contestants do not receive the nation-wide publicity the professional golfers do, they are, nevertheless, among the best golfers in the nation. Many nationally known golf champions have risen from the ranks of the intercollegiate tournaments. Tom Sheehan, former Notre Dame star, set a national amateur qualifying record of 139 after he finished school.
Although final arrangements are not yet complete, publicity director Joe Pet-ritz has announced that the tournament committee is striving to get other added attractions for the tournament. Whatever these may be, they will add to one of the- summer’s finest sports events.
Tidbits of Irish Golfdom
Notre Dame’s first golf team originated in 1928 by student backers; the University took over control in 1930. Since that time Irish linksmen have won 87 matches while losing only 18; two tie matches have been played.... Father ■ Holderith became coach in 1933 and his teams of 1933, ’34 and ’35 compiled a record of 20 consecutive wins. -
9n the.
Dining Room
6^ the Jta^alle cttotel
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
★
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and-6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Until this year golf had been listed as a minor sport; this year for the first . time, the golfers will be awarded major monograms.... Blond Gene Fehlig, of. the St. Louis golfing Fehligs, has been chosen by his teammates as captain of the 1943 team.
If the team is successful in keeping its record clean against Northwestern on June 15, they will become the first golf team to go unbeaten since 1934.... The Wildcat meet scheduled for the Chain O’ Lakes course will be a tuneup for the Nationals for both teams over the championship course. .
Bill Moorhead sunk his final putt for a par three last week on the Walnut Hills Country Club course at East Lansing giving Notre Dame a hard earned 15 to 12 win over Michigan State College. Then on Sunday the Irish made it eight in a row by defeating a picked team from the Notre Dame Naval Training Station by a score of 18% to 8%. Captain-elect Gene Fehlig and sophomore Dave Sullivan shot sub-par 69’s to pace the Irish team. Ensign Francis Cox, former Indiana University star, paced the sailors with a 73, winning his singles match 3-0. On Monday Captain Bill Wilson will lead his teammates against a veteran Northwestern squad. The Irish ■will be out to avenge the 16-11 defeat they suffered at the hands of the Wildcats at Evanston last year.
N. D. Men Are Active
In Army Publicity Work
Notre Dame learned recently that one of its young alumni, Lieut. Phil R. North, a 1939 graduate of Fort Worth Texas, is a member of the press relations staff of General Douglas MacArthur in Australia.
. Lieut. North received his A.B. in 1939. His family is active in Texas journalistic circles, publishing the Fort Worth StarTelegram. He was* made a first lieutenant-in the 142nd Infantry at Fort Sam Houston, and served there as assistant to the public relations officer. Lieut. North is one of four* newspaper men working under General MacArthur's aide-de-camp, Col. Legrande Diller.
Roy A. Worden, a 1938 graduate of the department of architecture, served as associate architect on the U. S. war housing program unit at Beaumont, Texas, it is revealed in the current issue of The Architectural Forum, authoritative architect’s journal.
The housing unit is considered one of the most notable developments of the war housing program to date. Designed in part by Mr. Worden, these homes are frankly temporary, but provide plenty J of room, an abundance of light and air
and more than usual privacy, and with their demountable and flexible aspect represent an important development in .war housing.
Form One, the official publication of the aviation cadets at Randolph Field, Texas, this month issued its special anniversary edition, under editor Cadet Roman N. Lamberto, Chicago, Ill., a 1938 graduate of Notre Dame. With this special issue rolling from the presses Monday, Lamberto' was ordered to El
lington Field, Houston, Texas, to start advanced twin-engine training.
WHAT BRAINS WHAT A MEMORY!
And you, too, can easily be a - memory marvel when it comes to remembering the ' South Shore schedule to Chicago. Here's all you need to know:
Trains leave South Bend 30 minutes past the. hour from 7:30 A. M.to 9:30 P. M. Two early morning trains, at 6 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, at 11 P. M. and 12 Midnight.	/
For detailed information call
■ C. W. VEACH Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
50Uthnsh°RE
■ . 23
ADRIENNE AMES, supervisor of canteen supplies for Bundles for Bluejackets, a division of "Bundles for America” which is supplying comforts to the men of the armed forces of the United States. No bundle for a man in the service is complete without the cigarette that satisfies.
No other cigarette can give you the smoking pleasure you get from
Chesterfield’s can’t-be-copied blend. This right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos leads all others in the three things you like best in a cigarette. It is definitely Milder, far Cooler-Smoking and lots Better-Tasting. Get yourself a pack of Chesterfields today and try them. They’ll give you more smoking pleasure than you ever had before . . . THEY SATISFY.