

Ajust punishment must meet th<ee c,iteda: the aca,sed must be told exactly what rnle he has violated, the jurisdiction of those prosecuting must be clearly established and the punishment must be proportional to the severity of the crime. In two recent disciplinary actions: the Dillon Hall tail­gater affair and the Lyons Hall parietals violation case, the University has failed to meet these cri­teria. 
The residents of Dillon Hall have been punished without reasonable cause. The University regulation they have violated has never been stated by Mr. Goldrick, the man doing the punishing. All we know is that hundreds of Dillonites were punished for the undisclosed actions of a handful of students. The whole affair has been shrouded in secrecy. Such handling of this matter is unaccept­able. Even under a disciplinary system as arbitrary as Notre Dame's, those being punished have the right to know what they have done. 
Another relevant yet ignored question is just how far the long and righteous arm of Notre Dame reaches. Nowhere in DuLac is it established that Notre Dame's disciplinary power extends to all fifty states of the Union. It is unreasonable for· the University to command control of students actions when they are neither on campus nor acting as official University representatives. Are we to believe that possession of a t-shirt, bumpersticker or a flag makes one a legitimate representative of Notre Dame? 
Another example of unjust punishment by the Administration is the recent expulsion of. two students who violated parietals in Lyons Hall. Any judge should take into consideration special cir­cumstances within a case. Given the facts of the Lyons Hall case-a first-time offense of an innocent nature involving two exemplary students-the punishment was unduly harsh. 
Compassion and mercy are components of justice that will not be found in any law book, but which should be expected of a Christian university. Is Notre Dame so inflexible and hard of heart that it can find nothing but the most extreme punishment for a minor violation committed by members of our community? 
Administrators must realize that they are setting an example for students who will soon be in leadership positions. Both of these cases raise a deep philosophical question as to just what is the goal of the Administration's brand of justice: reform or retribution? Does the University's concern lie in the development of the student or merely in the retention of complete control? 
-SCHOLASTIC 


~ c-; I.I C) I , .-\ ~'I' I (; 
Editor-in-Chief  James F. Basile  
General Manager  Maher Mouashcr  
Design Editor_  Peter Wowkowych  
Managing Editor  Matthew H. Bradley  

Marketing 
Pete Cespedes/ Advertising Michael Setzer/Circulation . 

Editorial 
Barb Blanchette/Saint Mary's John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Donna Gavigan/Copy . Mary Hartney /Student Life Mike Hoffman/Nat. Affairs Jennifer Niederst/Art Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame 
. Design 
Phoebe Zolbrad/Art Tim Carl/Cartoonist Mark Lechner/Cartoonist Emil McCauley /Cartooni$t Susan Serrato/Layout Paul Kramer/Photography 
The opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of 
'the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC· is represented for national · advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. Published. bi-weekly during the s_chool year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The.subscription rate is $18.76 ·a year and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dam~, IN _46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC; Copy­right © 1985 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without 
_permission. 
contents Volume 127, -Number 4 November 13, 1985 . 

FEATURES 
2/The Rebirth of American Rock 
by John Delaney 

7/It Isn't Just A Game Anymore 
by Bill Krais 

12/Sexuality Education Center 
by Laura Speranza and Jane Harless 
_18/They Work Hard for the Money by Mary Hartney 

20/Nuremberg in the 80's 
by Santiago O'Donnell 

23/On'Location in Israel 
by Pat Manson 

26/Romping Through the Daisies 
·by Rebecca Goodall 

28/In Search of South Bend's Finest Hamburger 
by C Santana · 

30/Coming On Strong 
by Mary Friel 
I 
--I


DEPARTMENTS 
6/On Other Campuses 
by Paul Aiello 

11/The Aisle Seat 
by Theodore Mandell 

IS/Computer Corner 
by Louis Fuka 

16/Coming Distractions . 
Compiled by-Karen Dettling 

32/Final Word 
by Dan Knaus 



AFTER TEN YEARS, AMERICAN BANDS ARE ONCE AGAIN IN THE FOREFRONT OF·ROCK 

The American rock renais­sance is upon us! The hills are alive with the sound of "new music"! After undergoing a · long 
. spiritual crisis during the 1970's, American music has finally recovered from its malaise. 
Many, people view the last decade as a bleak period for rock . music in the United States. Cor­
, 

porate rock bands, commonly referred to as "dinosaur groups," dominated the American music scene. Bands. such. as Boston, Chi­cago, Kansas, Styx, and Journey, _supported by conservative record . companies and unadventurous radio. stations, maintained a stran­
. glehold·. on the music charts. These .. slick, uncreative bands were basically indistinguishable from one another. · Blitz which bills itself as the rock magazine for thinking people, categorizes the · entire· body of their · work into one of two categories: the · watered-down, heavy metal rock song or the painfully heartfelt love ballad. Sadly, the dinosaur bands under­mined America's rock heritage. 
Today, the times clearly are a'changing. R.E.M, Husker Du, The Minutemen, The Meat Pup­pets, and countless other bands are fighting back against cor­porate rock music. The revolu­tion began in the late l 970's when 
2 
a backlash against the dinosaur groups slowly took . · root. ·The Ramones. and Talking Heads developed a devout following in New York clubs by · playing minimalistic, stripped-down songs that rejected the excesses of Jour­ney, Boston, and· crew. ·Bruce Springsteen made the cover of both Time and Nelvsweek with albums. heavily influenced. by 
· music from the fifties and the six­ties. In England, the punk move­ment was in full swing; groups such as the Clash and the Sex Pis­tols rebelled against the slickness and · cold, technical proficiency which · characterized corporate rock. All ·these riew bands .desired to ·reestablish the directness and spontaneity which characterized · rock's glory days. 
Partly as a result · of ·these 
Many new bands are currently rising to fill the void left · by the demise of the old guard. A myriad of talented, uncompromis­ing . · musicians· have sprung up . 

· across the riation. Although major record companies and ·. radio stations are reluctant' to embrace these rebellious bands, critics and consumers · have wel-. corned their appearance. In Eng­land, music · magazines such as · · Melody· Maker·· ·arid New Music . Express· have recently done cover _stories on · the swell of good, 
. influential· bands in the U.S.; one foreign magazine . claimed · that 
· new groups · such as R.E.M and Husker Du constituted r America's first real contribution to rock music in "well over ten years." • 

new · bands, the dinosaur groups 
. faced. extinction. Their popularity faded away and profits dramati­cally decreased. Last year, Notre Dame students were shocked and insulted when Tommy Shaw, a member of the once-popular dinosaur band Styx, was chosen as a "prize" for winning a fund­raising contest. Although Tommy sported a fashionable haircut and had discarded his bellbottom jeans, students were nevertheless disappointed by this relic from a forgotten era. 
SCHOLASTIC 

American newspapers from the 
L.A. Times to: the Village Jioice have also raved about the. emer­gence ofthe new music move~ent 
in America.. · .. · --· · · 
The notori<;!tY .of America's rock renaissanc~: stems not only from the quality _of the · bands' music put fn;nn the· sheer'.number of barids ·and the variety of their --• -· sounds. Bariels · -such· • as The Violent Femmes;. The ·Replace­ments, Rairi ·Parade, Black Flag, Guadalcanal Diary, Let's Active, Del Fuegos, Dream Syndicate, Fishbone, Green . on ·_ Red, ._are some of the bette~ known bands, but there ·are· ·a:. host -of· otlier 
groups _as well. Four bands_, _how­ever, have clearly emerged as the leaders o_f this· explosion ·ot·talent: Husker -Du, th'e Minutemen, the Meat Puppets, and R.E.M • 
Eacl1 _Qf. these four bands 

possess .·,·_an . -_UI).iQU.e s_ouncl; nevertheless, -certain common ele­ments, : characteristic .· o{ .ali .the groups of_ the· rock renai_ssance, are shared b_e~.e~n Husker Du, the· MM~ ·the MP., and R.E.M The musicians all share an appre­ciation·. and_ ~nthusiasm f9r. the roots of rock . and rolJ.. They are aware . of . th~jr . heritage_ , and . attempt • tp bµil~. _upon _th_e_ tradi­tion . which . they -. have inherited from past,American bands. These new acts -fu~e -the· expei-ii;nentatfon 
and innovation of fifties arid six­ties groups . (from Chuck Berry to -Creedence to the Velvet Under~ 
-ground) with the energetic, unpol:-. ished delivery of the punk bands of the late seventies. · 
Three·· of the baI).ds; · Husker' Du, -The_ Minutemen, arid -the Meat Puppets are all currently on ­the SST iabel; . even though each group has been courted by major record companies. SST is a small, independent · company which ori­ginally formed during the begin­ning ofthis decade to record and 
. market .music l?Y American hard­core: punk bands· that were being ignored by the record industry.· -Husker Du, The Minutemen, and the Meat Puppets all began as hardcore groups who, inspired by· the English punk scene, played -_extremely fast and loud music ­while· --shrieking•_ emotionally_ charged . lyrics. . Husker's first album, for example, was,appropri­ately _ entitled · · -"Land Speed 
. Record" and. consisted-of brief· . songs. played at . an -incredibly frantic pace. Drums .pound out one hundred . beats per minute while the . guitar and bass race alongside each other in a breath­less outburst of.pure energy and 
_feedback. Entering ~his ungodly din are h.arsh, tuneless vocals . ·bluntly_ . protesting _. • conformity, corporate abuses, and_ government , ills. Music guarantee~ · to _send a 
One foreign magazjne 
claimed that new 
groups such as -R.E.M. 
and Husker Du con..: 
stituted America's first real contribution · t.9 rock in "well over 
ten years." _ 
·senator's wife into uncontrolled --fits of fury. 
_-Husker Du, as -well-as The · Minutemen and the Meat Pup­pets, _quickly moved away 'from hardcore punk and · its _stylistic limitations. Their music became 
· more sophisticated and accessible without sacrificing. the energy and vitality of their earlier efforts. Their lyrics, meanwhile~· contin­ued to avoid the cliclied "boy meets girl" scenarios so common · in songs by dinosaur bim.ds and English synthesizer bands. . 


. 1S NO:VEMBER 1985 s 
Husker, a trio from Minneap­olis, began experimenting with popular formats. their remarkable double LP, "Zen Arcade" (1984), 
. incorporates elements of pop, jazz, folk, psychedelic, as well as punk music. The album, hailed -as "a masterpiece" by the L.A. Times finished at the top of nearly every critic's "best of the year" list in 1984. Rolling Stone ranke.d the album in the company of such classics as the Beatles' "White" album, The Who's "Quadro­phenia", and The Doors first release. Subsequent releases show the band marching towards an even more commercial sound without comprormsmg their integrity or the "hydraulic drill" guitar sound which instantly iden­tifies their work. After the release of their most recent album, "Flip Your Wig", the L.A. Times once again praised Husker as " a great band ... playing the real rock .of the '80s." 
Husker's lyrics tend to· be reflective and personal, examining America's culture and interper~ sonal relationships with a critical eye. "Broken Home, Broken Heart" of the Zen album is one of the few songs in tock that deals with divorce: 
"I look at your house, I wonder what goes on inside/ when you have to cry yourself to sleep at night./ Your parents fight, you don't know who's wrong or righti Now you know how it fe.els to cry youi-self to sleep at night./ It's ti broken home, a broken heart/ When the two of them will have to part/ A broken home, a broken 
heart." · 
·r:.c ,v:::.:::mr.1.n1-:::11, ~_ri""· Sr.1"" :pe~tr!,1!,= c·t:1~lr...d]l:1#:: .·~.~~) ~ !.i; i:~ it:~ !C~f 
i:~

~::..d·c==---1t;~~.....,.~·~..:~~ ~~1;,:~ .. ~..... :;:i;w.i' ~r... ir~L~Y·;: 1}·:a .:.t::s__un.:s 'h • ar,;, r:,"~~::-n •i\:;··kv The':,, •.J:tiJn•L 6.r.,, .;::-';at-.cte:1 ".-,••tf h:· .~.~;~.!... : ::;:;:-~.e '.~::21$~""''.G.-~·5. ·tr~:~~~.t· fi.'f':ftll~1:.(~ '.?::gr~~:~:~!i-...~ ~D·a':'.''~ ~i:~1:.~ :.1:n:d :~..-•!,•r~~,r;;.~ ... :~t1g ·~uit~r JJ,µt~~--~i;.DWitd,le: ·N.iicf.:,1;;ls ·~~· the Diril~·i;-(1984), their JaAd­
mark · double album, consisted ·of over forty songs· and received nearly as much praise from .rock critics as · Zen Arcade did. " Pro­ject Mersh" (1985), their most recent release, was described by lead guitarist D~ Boo.n as "our attempt to play pop music." The jacket illustration portrays record executives discussing the group's disappointing sales and the need 
· for the band to have a hit single; the music within_ is commercial · yet too offbeat and warped to ensure the Minutemen an appear­ance on Solid Gold. They have written some of the most powerful political songs since John Fbgerty's work during Vietnam. 
.,•·. 

The Meat Puppets, despite their bizarre name; are a rather inoffensive, · pleasant band from · Arizona. They play strange tunes 
SCHOL~STIC 

with strong folk and country music overtones. Songs are characterized by gentle, intricate guitar work and acid-soaked lyr­ics revolving around exotk, inte-:­rior visions. 
"Time, time, it's so sublime/ Well, they say it's non-existent/ but it's playin' with my mind/ And phone calls don't cost a dime/ in tlte caverns of your feelings/ where the sun .will never shine." 
--Climbing 

Their recent works, "Meat Pup­pets III! and "Up on the Sun" (1985), are clearly influenced by such great American artists as Hank; Williams and the Grateful Dead. 
I 

R.E.M, based in A thens, Georgia, mixes haunting, atmos­pheric music with shimmering harmonies and cryptic lyrics delivered in a low murmur by 
leader Michael Stripe. The band is heavily influenced by folk music and critics often compare 
R.E.M to the Byrds, who virtu­ally invented the folk-rock genre · during the sixties. In concert, however, the band displays a punkish side · only occasionally 
· captured on their records. R.E.M is the best known band of the 
T11e Minutemen Hurley (drums), 

new movement; with videos that air on MTV and records that con­sistently enter the charts, the group is very accessible although they remain positively avant­garde compared to many other successful groups. 
Through extensive touring and airplay on college radio sta­tions, these bands are growfog in popularity. Mike Smith, a D.J. for WVFI, asserts,"The new music movement holds great promise for the future of American music. Artistic integrity is returning to the charts." Already, musicians such as Bruce Springsteen and John Fogerty have reestablished the popularity of uniquely Ameri­can music and themes. A new breed of young bands are impa­tiently awaiting their opportunity to be heard. • 

Adefense against cancer can be cooked upinyourkitchen. 
There is evidence that diet and 
cancer are related. Follow these 
modifications in rnur dailv diet to 
reduce chances ,;f getting ·cancer. 
1. 
Eat more high-tiber food~ such as fruiL~ and vegetables and whole­grain cereals. 

2. 
Include dark green and deep yellow fruits and vegetables rich in vitamins A and C. 

3. 
Include cabbage, .broccoli, brussels sprout~, kohlrabi and cauliflower. 

4. 
Be moderate in consumption ofsalt-cured, smoked and nitrite­cured foods. 

5. 
Cut down on total fat intake from animal sources and fats and oils. 

6. 
Avoid obesity. 

7. 
Be moderate in consumption 


of alcoholic beverages. No one faces cancer alone. 
¼AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~ 

CLARIFICATION 
Due to editing errors, the final paragraph of "College of Business Administration..." (October 16, 1985) implied that it was the opinion of the author that the College of Business may have to be elim­inated. Such an implication was not the intent of the 

(left to right): George Dennis Boon (guitar/ 
author or editors.

vocals) and Mike Watts (bass). 

I I I I 
SCHOLASTIC 


When discussing Notre Dame athletics and its intimate relation­ship with business, .one cannot help but feel that sports such as football and basketball are not just games anymore. A loss means much more than aggravated stu­dents, disappointed alumni, and dashed post-season hopes; it means a loss of revenue. At Notre Dame, as at many other schools, a losing record translates ultimately into financial trouble. 
From the outset, many Notre Dame students are under the impression that the athletic department is an economic cornerstone of the University. While, according to Athletic Director Gene Corrigan,the ath­letic department "has always been a profit center," the program nevertheless suffers from economic wounds which gro~ deeper with each fiscal year. Consequently, it has become necessary that the program, in order to assure its lofty status, take certain economic measures, ranging from the precautionary to the necessary. 

13 NOVEMBER 1985 

Primarily, the athletic depart­ment relies upon its sporting events for a constant income. However, the department is forced· to turn to financial sources independent of actual sporting events. For instance, the only fund-raising effort conducted solely by the athletic department helped to create the Athletic Endowment Fund. The fund, ori­ginated in 1982, currently stands at $4 million. Its purpose, as Associate Athletic Director Joe O'Brien pointed out, "is a hedge against inflation." In upcoming years, when Notre Dame sports will most likely fail to balance their budget, the fund will be used to alleviate increased economic pressure. One other source outside of the program is contributions. The athletic depart­ment, while not counting on such revenue, seems to be often the beneficiary of generous alumni. 
Faced with increasing costs and limited revenue, the athletic program is forced, like many of us, to tighten its belt. Without cut­ting individual programs, the ath-


ARE MEASURED IN DOLLARS 
letic department must make ends meet in a sportsworld which believes that inflation still hovers around 10%. Do not, however, shed a tear for our financially troubled athletic department just yet; essentially, it does not have to stand upon its own two feet. Each year, according to Mr. Cor­rigan, the University allocates around 5% of its entire annual budget to the athletic program. Mr. Corrigan further states that sometimes "we (the athletic pro­gram) have to carry them (the University), and sometimes they carry us. In the end, it all bal­ances out." The athletic depart­ment can count on the University's assistance, unlike programs elsewhere (e.g. Ala­bama, South Carolina, and Michi­gan, where the sports programs,as separate enterprises,are not under the auspices of the University. This condition of separateness creates, in Mr. Corrigan's opinion, many of the troubles and cheating scandals which plague college ath-, letics). Also, contributions from alumni and other sources alleviate some of the fiscal pressure .. As 


Joseph O'Brien 
Corrigan mentioned, "We have had some pretty good contribu­tions to the overall University for athletics in the last couple years." 
To fully understand the financial plight of the University's athletic program, one must under­stand the · processes, priorities, and idiosyncracies associated with Notre Dame athletics. 
It is from the well-furnished offices on the second floor of the Athletic and Convocation Center that the groundwork for the ath~ letic department is laid. There, in an ambience of .tradition and pride, the men · and women who comprise the athletic backbone at Notre Dame do their work. After spending just a few hours in their presence, one will come to appre­ciate the magnitude of their task. Between a phone call from Gerry Faust, a word with Digger Phelps, an unexpected visit from two old cronies interested in the new swimming pool,· and a secretary determined . to find a. visiting Arizona. State team hotel accom­modations during a home football weekend, Mr. Corrigan finds both the time and patience to answer, often for the . hundredth time, questions about Notre Dame's sport~ operations. Whether intended or not, the frankness of Mr. Corrigan leaves one with the 
impression that this guy and this program really have nothing to hide. 
Essentially, the Athletic Department acts like any .other University sector. Each fall the athletic department, just like, as Mr. O'Brien pointed out, "the English Department," submits a budget request to the University. By the following January, an esti­mate comes back to the depart­ment. The allocation from the University is a fraction of the ath­letic department's total revenue, but is a substantial amount nonetheless. 
It is no surprise that football and basketball are the only sports which generate a substantial income. These two sports present five major revenue sources. The first is gate receipts for home games, while the second is guarantees from road appear­ances. For football, gate receipts alone yield the program nearly $1 million for each home game. Revenues vary each year depend­ing upon the number of home football games. The fact that Notre Dame had only five home games last season troubled Corri­gan. The Athletic Director, how­ever, offers a remedy: "We are 
trying futurewise to make sure that we have at least six home games, sometimes even seven." 
Bowl game revenue originally went for the recruitment of minor­ity students. 
Notre Dame has ·· sent teams to bow 1 games . reaping little if any financial benefit. 
Despite the income generated from home games, Notre Dame is better off playing some specific games on the road, where the road guarantee is greater than the home game payoff. For instance, according to Mr. O'Brien, the "payday is larger on the road for certain games, namely Southern California and Naval Academy." Nearly 80,000 attend Notre Dame games in the Meadowlands in New Jersey (where recent Notre Dame-Navy games have been played) and over 90,000 attend the U.S.C.-Notre Dame games in Los . Angeles Coliseum. Greater attendance and larger guarantees make playing these games away from home a more profitable ven­ture for Notre Dame. This situa­tion compounds the economic trouble which Notre Dame faces this year: while playing six home games, two of them are indeed against U.S.C. and Navy. How­ever, not all road games are as profitable as those two. Usually, the guarantee for an away football game varies between $100,000 and $200,000 while for basketball the figure is closer to $15,000. 
Thirdly, Notre Dame sports benefit considerably from both television and radio coverage. While exact budget figures are not made available (Corrigan: "it is not University policy to talk about those things"), approxima-
SCHOLASTIC 

tions allow one to estimate where· Notre Dame stands. For all of the television coverage throughout the football season, Notre Dame yields $ I million. In basketball, television revenue amounts to approximately $500,000. Radio coverage for football also amounts to about $500,000. 
According to Mr. Corrigan, the recent court decision between the College Football Association (C.F.A.) and the National Collegi­ate Athletic. Association (N.C.A.A.) affects Notre Dame's: television revenue. Essentially, 
C.F.A. schools have the freedom· to nationally televise their games whenever they wish. The under­lying premise of the C.F.A. is that ­if advertisers· and stations arc wil­ling to broadcast a school's games, then the school should be able to enter the free market with its pro­duct (the football team). Accord­ing to past N.CA.A. restrictions, 
a school's football team could be televised, excluding bowl game appearances, five times over any two consecutive years. Under the 
C.F.A. agreement, a school can broadcast as many games · as it wishes. The C.F.A. won in court and reputable college football pro­grams thought that they would win in the free market. This explains why ·Michigan State, despite its record, has ·already been on C.B.S. telecasts several times this season, and why Notre Dame, with its 1-2 record, was broadcast nationwide by A.B.C. 
According to Mr. Corrigan, the C.F.A.'s victory "means...that we are now able to televise all of our games if we wish to." To those who believe that Notre Dame's reason for televising. ten of its eleven games (U.S.C. is prohibited from appearing on television) for money, Corrigan responds: "We've done it (chosen to televise each of our games)...not so much for money...but because it is our feeling that we have 75,000 alumni and only 59,000 

13 NOVEMBER 1985 
scats...(it is) a chance for all Notre Dame alumni to sec Notre Dame play live. every wcek...We are happy to have the opportunity to do that." While it seems that this increased television exposure · would lead to greater revenue from the various broadcasting sys'" terns, Corrigan believes that this is not the case. In the past, only one or two football games were telev­ised . each Saturday afternoon, leading to great benefits for those two or four teams. Now, accord­ing to Corrigan, "There are so many football games on the televi­sion," consequently decreasing 
the income each team will receive. It is a simple case of supply and demand. 
The results from increased television appearances are still out. Corrigan stated that it was too early to speculate on how the lawsuit would affect Notre Dame. "Whether it is good or bad," offers Corrigan, "will be deter­mined at the end of the year. We'll sit back and see_ how it 
worked out." 

According to Mr. O'Brien, the athletic program considers parking and programs as their fourth and fifth sources of income. It is important to note that post season:· play is never con­sidered when formulating the budget. Interestingly enough, while now the income from a. bowl game or an N.C.A.A. basketball tournament appearance goes·. back into the athletic department's budget, bowl game revenue initially went for .the recruitment of minority students during the early l 970's. Most recently, Notre Dame has sent football teams . to bowl games, reaping, however, little if ariy financial benefit from those games. 
The Notre Dame victory over Boston College in the 1983 · Liberty Bowl brought the Univer­sity, despite the payoff of over $700,000 to each participant, just over $100,000, according to Cor-/ rigan. ·Further, Mr. Corrigan con­sidered the 1984 Aloha Bowl a "write-off.',' According to figures provided by Mr. 'O'Brien, the ath­letic department took a financial loss of sorts by going to Honolulu. Specifically, O'Brien . said that transportation (a chartered 747 and bus rides from South Bend to Chicago and from Honolulu air­port to the Sheraton Waikiki), hotel accommodations, and food amounted to over $400,000. The bowl's payoff, incidentally, is only about $450,000. Such exorbitant costs ($268,000 for a chartered 7 4 7 and $115,000 for accommo­dations at the Sheraton Waikiki) seem, however, to be a bit steep for an "experience." One must wonder· whether it was economi­cally prudent for an athletic department suffering financially to set upon such_ a Christmas vacation. 
With · little prospect for a major bowl game in Notre Dame's immediate future, one speculates that the revenue generated from seasons past will be greater than this year's. As previously stated, increased costs hit the sports world with a vengeance. Corrigan claims that it "is not unlikely that our expenses . increase by 10%." He further states that while the national inflation rate is around 4%, "our costs do not escalate at that srriall rate." Corrigan points to increased insurance premiums 



a_s .9ne disproportionate expense · which sports programs must face. 
It ·is peculiar, however, to find subtle contradictions within 
·.· the same department. While Mr. · O'Brien elaborates on the expen­sive Hawaiian "experience" that Notre Dame's football team · .embarked upon last December Mr. Corrigan, on the other hand', · expresses his desire to cut some of the financial fat: "We have got to be very careful...we can't be extravagant." Is the Sheraton Waikiki considered extravagant by the athletic department's stan­dards? 
. When asked why the Univer­sity does not give scholarships in all sports, Corrigan replied, "We cannot afford it, we simply cannot afford it. If we did do that, we would become a drag on the rest of the University." Corrigan ack­nowledged that, "We have to give people raises as the cost of living increas.cs, but you don't have to give programs raises. We arc going to have to tell some people, 'Look, your travel budget is not going to increase...you are going to have to hold back.' Certain pro­grams are going to have to keep themselves under ~ontrol until we get ourselves under control." 
The economics of Notre D.ame sports is summed up nicely by John Heisler, assistant director 
of Sports • Information. Heisler said, "it is like keeping up with the Joncs's.'' It is clear enough that Notre Dame's athletic depart­ment, while not on the brink of economic collapse, is suffering financially; Corrigan confirmed that very thought, that the Notre Dame sports program is · going to have to do something in order to avert financial disaster. · "Down the road," Corrigan warns, "as we look at it, it is going to be harder and ·harder to make ends meet We are making ends meet now. · We'll make them meet this year, and we'll make them meet next year. The following year--it · is going to be tough." • 
SCHOLASTIC 

j :l by Theodore E. Mandelll 111e a1sic sen£ ¦..-----------..: 
\Vhy"Stop Making Sense"? 




:.STOP
·.· Why a movie? Whytour? Why do the musicians come out gradually? \\-11afwill the band do next? . . .. 
Where dothe odd movements comefrom? AreBve concerts better or worse thnn record~? Why no "special effects" in the movie? Why a big suit? Wltfwas a digital system used for the sound'? 

M KING SENSE 

T_HE: MOVIE WILL MAKE YOU LOVE THE MUSIC 
In this issue I· thought I'd · analyze the portrayal of rock in motion pictures. I will purposely ignore those little five minute advertisements for thC! recording.· industry known as music videos· and concentrate instead on feature films. Furthermore, I will weed· out movies which rely on rock to further the fictitious nar­rative.·• Thusi · films like "Purple Rain," "Flashdance," · "Foot~. dance," or was it "Flashloose" get the hatchet, . including · conceptual films o,f allJums :like Pink Floyd's :"The Wall" and the. Beatles' song· "Yellow, S.ubmarine". Let's interest . oursc.lves · solely in rock~ n-roll performed live on film, the pure rock concert movie. 

, Over the past two decades, non-fiction · rock performances have been captured visually either to convey a sense of intimacy between. performer and audience,·· or to reenact an event of social and/or musical importance. Films such as . Led Zeppelin's "The Song Remains The Same" and the• Rolling Stones' "Let's Spend The NightTogethcr" fall in the first category. In .the second; films such as "Woodstock," "The, MUSE Concert: No Nukes," and . "The Concert for Bangladesh" are appropriate. The concert film which combines the· best of both· categories is Martin · Scorsese's filming .of The Band's "The Last Waltz," which not only. brings us closer to the members of the 
group, but also reveals that 1976 concert as a musical "experi­ence". It is 'regarded by many to be the greatest concert film made 
. to date. 

On three nights in December of ·1983, director Jonathan Demme captured a concert on film which transcends what these previous . concert films have attempted. "Stop Making Sense," a concert. by the Talking Heads, creates intimacy between the per­former and. audience and at the same time consJructs a continuity • of stage concepts conceived by • 
· lead singer David Bymc. In other words, not only docs the concert allow the group to musically com­municate with th.c viewer, but the camera'~ lens constructs the · group's stage performance· to com­. municate on an additional level. . · 
The film achieves, through cinematography, its own' stage show. . Therefore the movie 

. becomes a concert rather than a concert experience. Instead of the film audience watching the con­cert audience respond to the con-• cert as it happens, the film audi­ence becomes the concert audi­ence watching the concert as it happcns.(Gct it?) Not an easy feat to accomplish on film. 
· Demme. arid Byrne have· taken a concept of. the Talking_ Heads' live performances and successfully' turned it into a ~lmcc! perfor.mance without losing . 
its "live" nature. In previous 
filmed concerts we see shots of 
crowds and musical performers 
edited in a way which portrays · 
the overall event of a rock con­cert. Demme solely concentrates on the upbeat Heads and the long takes retain the continuity and dynamism of the Heads' Jive per­formance. Thus his finished pro­. duct can be considered a concert 
in itself. · · 
And what. can be more visu­ally interesting than the unpredictable Byrne, a concert of sorts himself? His constant.· gyra­tions look more like what would happen to ·Fred Astaire if he was given one hundred volts of elec­tricity every three seconds while he was dancing· to "Top ·Hat." The man in the big suit is visually compelling, a rock and roll nerd. • 
' ' ' 
Y ct it must be rcmembe~·cd that this is not one concert, but rather three concerts · in one. Demme reconstructs the three Heads' . performances to reveal what Byrne strives for in the con­ceptual presentation of one con­cert. And he does it well. • 
"Stop Making Sense" shows at the. River Park Theater in Mishawaka, Nov. 15-21. Call for showtimcs 259-9090. 
Sexuality, discussed in 

hushed and fearful · terms in 
classes and dorm rooms for years.
SEXUALITY 


EDUCATION CENTER 
BREAKING THROUGH THE FEAR AND IGNORANCE 
by Laura Speranza and Jane Harless 
<A\NT MARY'S COLLEGE 

• ~ !TY EDUCATION SUR~EY ' I_ 
snu March 1985 single -Engaged -Married/ h~V~ 
--been marr1e 
Freshman

==\~B°it ______________________________ ---­
--------------------------. each section. 
-----------·-·-·--a~1n 

please~ . nd open attitude ~ d ts have a healthY a 
1. the Saint Mary's stu en 

a) I think di ussin9 rape .
toward5 5C --homosex.ua11tY health ~55ues interco~r~~sease . our bod, e5 --venere~ these pregnancy · --none a --birth control --to a5k medical --h correct language ;nformation or t e do not have enough reductive organs 
b) ~uestlons about d functions of the ~~~~l~e~~~ductive organs 
the names ~~d function5 o~ th:nstrual cycle 
--·the n~mes hases of t e m . . • r crab lice 
--the d1ffe~;~~ ~ethods t infections, pubic a . 
--birt~ c~n concerns like yeas . . t not feeling 
--. physic• body 1S JUS . . 
--or herpes h t' 5 wrong when my
how to know w a 
-· right . 
feminine hygiene . 

--logist and she/he I have been to a gyneco wel 1 ful 
c) red llrf question~ with respect that was not help --an5W~ed me and mY bo yr ans\'lers in a way . 
~~~~red mY ques~~i1ia~d mY body be~t~~ 1 was having helped me ~o ~\etter about feari my questionshelped me ee so· I could not as Intimidated me --not relevant. 


--l ist because 
to a gyneco og im ortant . 
d) I have not been thought It necess•;Y %sh~ were pregn~~;ct I have not oman would go o~ y ot know what to e I thoughtl~ ~o go because I o------n 
1 am afra 

-or what to sla~ease specify) ... other reason p . not relevant : 
Now it has become ah imporiant 
and critical issue on St. Mary's campus because of the recent for­mation of the sexuality education program. 
The idea to start the program was suggested at the C!nd of the 1983-84 school year by the office of Student Affairs. They decided that sexuality was a major con­cern that the St. Mary's commun-· ity needed to deal with. Therefore Student Affairs decided to plan programming around this . topic during tJ,.e following school year. Under· the direction of Campus. Ministry, the Sexuality Education Council Committee was organized in the beginning of the 1984-85, school year. The Council was comprised of students, student government members, resident advisors, · faculty members, and campus ministry personnel. They obtained permission from the Board of Regents to develop a survey to determine the students' attitudes and knowledge concern­ing sexuality. 
The formation of the survey was a difficult and time consum-" ing task, Comme.nted Mary Fee­ley, director of Campus Ministry, "the first draft was so long and so inclusive nothing would have been learned." The council even­tually went through five drafts before reaching the final survey. It was hoped that . the survey would be an educational experi­ence both for the council and the students. ·The survey addressed such topics as sexuality, women's health issues, · birth control, premarital sex, homosexuaHty, abortion, rape, and sexual harass­ment. 
The Resident Advisors were used as the pilot group for the survey. They took the survey and 
SCHOLASTIC 


then were instructed on how to 
administer the survey to students 
in their sections. The main con~ · 
ccrns of the Sexuality Council 
were that the tests be admin­
istered with sensitivity and confi-. 
dcntiality and that the questions .be answered .. seriously and 
honestly. 
At first the .idea of a sexual­ity survey amused some students.' Jokes were made at some of the section meetings about the ques­tions. Three sophomores inter­viewed admitted that they . dis­cussed the . survey with their friends joking about many of the . questions, but added that they. answered the questions seriously. Overall the survey seemed to be answered thoughtfully. One St. Mary's senior stated, "it was incredible the way everyone han­dled a survey · on the topic of sex. There were a few jokes but for the most part everyone was cooperative. Girls were locking themselves in their rooms to fill out the survey· so they would not be interrupted." 
The. results of the survey were very informative and revealed many .fears active within the St Mary's · community. The fears centered around openly dis­cussing sexual matters.. Students who are sexually active are· afraid 9f the judgment of their peers. This is not. to say that they are 
· personally ashamed of their sex­ual activities, only that they believe that judgment of their activities is inevitable. Those who arc not sexually active are also worried about judgment. This kind of fcar lies in being thought of as naive and inexperienced. 
But what many of these women fail to realize is that even those who are sexually active do not know all the answers to the questions. A senior · nursing stu­dent said that girls have come to her many times with questions on birth control and pregnancy. There is a definite need for this type of information to be made,· available. The survey also showed that the students are in need of information concerning personal values and decisions. Sexuality is directly linked to personal values, and decisions on sexuality must be · made with a clear view of those values. 



Now that the council has an idea of the students' feelings, their objective is to offer services and programs that address the concerns that ·the students expressed. Over the next few years the center will begin to offer informal talks as well as informative lectures. For instance, Dr. Ptessle'r of the Saint Mary's Sociology Department and a member of the Sexuality Council will be giving talks concerning the values in our society which con­fuse sex and love; He hopes to de~elop ways to help. the students r_calize that love does not neces­sarily imply sex and sex does not 
necessarily imply love. 
At this time the council is also looking for a room on campus in a strategic place for a · Woman's Center. The center would -offer films, lectures, read­ing materials, counseling and sup­port groups. Eventually the Sex­uality Education Council hopes to offer personal sexuality counsel­ing. The counseling will be on a one-to-one basis and the coun­selors will be trained staff and faculty volunteers._ In the near future the council will be setting up meetings to inform the ·stu-. dents about the survey results, and next semester they hope to have a sexuality awareness· week similar in format ·to the alcohol awareness week· already in existence. 
Ultimately the potential for this program to work lies with the students. Over_ and over students repeated that it sounds like _a great prog~am. There seems to b,e respect· for the idea and the peo­ple implementing it. But also, many of those same .. students 
honestly admitted that they would attend f cw . of ·the programs off cred. When asked, freshmen through seniors agreed that the · two main factors for not attending arc f car and. time. First, people · are afraid · of exposing -. their ignorance of sexual matters or of exposing the. fact that they are · sexually active. Secondly, many admitted to a . lack ·of time to · attend these p·rograms. Thi~ resis­tance among the students was not unexpected. Mary Feeley expressed confidence that the Council members understand that · it may to take two to three years for the program to to become an accep.tcd part of the· stud(:nt life .. 
Those peo"ple involved with 

. tlie Sex'uality Education Program have worked hard . to make the program a reality. The. ser.vic_cs will. soon be ciffercd to the stu-. dents and hopefully the students ·· will make the program a :success.• 

l 
SCHOLASTIC
by Lou Fuka 

computer corner 
.,,.

I EL.LING A. COl'.-11 >LJ I E-I 
VV.1-..., A..
.,,. I -I C) ·...., --->0 



PROGRAMMING AND ALGORITHMS 
This week, we turn from what a computer consists of to what a computer can do and how it docs it. At this point, rcactcr, I f car some frustration is setting in. You're not a math whiz, and it seems like the computer is more trouble than it is worth. You want something to make life easier, not more difficult! These sentiments arc natural, but be patient and all will be explained. Things arc literally much simpler than they 
seem.,. 
. In fact, the CPU, the central processing unit, which executes instructions, can only do very simple commands --such as store something in memory, fetch some­thing from memory, or add two binary numbers together. A lot of CPUs can't . even multiply two numbers together dire'ctly. So what good are they? Well, these . CPUs may ortly be able to exe­cute simple instructions, _but they · can execute them extremely quickly. Even· a slow .CPU can execute half a million of these simple instructions i11 a single second. 
Remember back m grade
I 

school when you learned that 
multiplication was just the same 
as a number of additions? Most 
procedures are just like that. 
They seem complex, but they can 
be broken down into a number of 
simple steps. This holds true, 
whether the procedure is one for 
word processing, for doing math, 
for running an industrial process, 
or for booking a reservation on an 
airline. Usually, it takes a lot of 
simple steps, often repeated, to 
cause a complicated procedure. This, however is where computers shine . 
So it is with CPUs. While the steps taken by different CPUs are similar, different CPUs have their own languages or machine codes, made up of "words" of ones and zeros. It would be difficult and time . consumin_g for you to translat~ your program from English· to machine code. For­turiatcly, through the use of algo­rithms, the computer does it for you. Your instructions are translated by a program in a spe­cial part of the memory, written by the group that designed the computer. This makes it much easier for you. 
The trick becomes telling the computer, to do something in terms of simple steps. This trick is known as programming . The list of instructions which tells the CPU how to do something com­plicated is known .as a program and the method for doing some­thing complicated by little simple steps is known as an algorithm. 
An example of programming is telling someone how to bake a cake. A good example of an algo­rithm is a recipe. So what is the diff crence between a program and an algorithm? The . difference is subtle, yet important. Let us sup­pose that you are a cook telling two people how to make a pie. The problem is that one of these people only speaks Spanish, and the other speaks French. While the procedure you want them to do is the same, and the steps they must do are the same, you must tell each person a different thing;· The algorithm is the recipe for the pie, the program consists of phrases, French or Spanish, used to communicate the recipe to each o( the pie-bakers.• 
......_ 
...._ 
...._ 
...._ 


13 NOVEMBER 1985 
~ 
0 ~22ZiZl22Zi~1llZllll.a?lll1'lll4,l[fl'lZZZl.i!~~~ 0 s· 5:1'·. ·16 . ·s~(j) ~.•. -...• ",, . . 0 . . . . .. 0 tues 
vWWW«@~lllWlau~ lA "J . ~ ~ 

FILM: "Love in the City"


·Coming~-­
FILM: "The Terminator" 
Snite 
Engineering Auditorium 7:30 pm
7, 9, 11 pm 

ART: Africa and the Americ
Otstracttons 

ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice· ART: French Master Drawir 

ART: French Master Drawings 


ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion 
ART·: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition 
ART: 100-Mile-Radius Stud 
PERFORMING ARTS: "Follies" 

SPORTS: NOTRE DAME ­
PERFORMING ARTS: BalletHispanica of New York
med 13 
.Volleyball-~
O'Laughlin Auditorium 

7:30 Pi
8pm

FILM: "Every Revolution Is A Roll of the Dice" ·· NVA: Turkey Shoot 
MUSIC: South Bend Symphony Orchestra
Loft ·. . · Stadium Ri~ 
Morris Civic Auditorium
7pm 4:30-6pm ­
FILM: "Cartoons" SPORTS: NOTRE DAME -Varsity Engineering Auditorium Football-at Penn State 7, 9, 11 pm TBA 
ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice . CroBB Country-at NCAA District IV -November 3 -January 19 
11 am (Bloomington, IN) The Snite Museum of Art Volleyball-Championships NV A: Natatorium Dedication (St.Louis, MO) Hockey-St. Thomas . 7:30pm 
FILM: "¾,ainst All Odds" FRESHMAN: Night at the Alumni-Senior Club 
Engineering ) NVA: Campus·All-Nighter 
7, 9:15, 11:30 FILM: "There WasA Father" ART: ·Africa and the Americi
Santa's Arrival at Mall University Park Mall

Loft ART: French Master Drawin1 7pm From the Pennam FILM: "Cartoons" 
ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion Engineering Auditorium 
ART: 100-Mile-Radius Stude 7, 9, 11 pm 
Lecture: P·opulist Narrative : ART: Africa and.the Americas : A Curator's Choice 
Art of Visual Rep ART: French Master Drawings Am~ement and Music Opera From the Permanent Collection • White VVater Series.· November 14 -January 19 Century Centi
ART: .Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice
The Snite Museum of Art. 
12 noon 
. ART: French Master Drawings
NVA: Turkey Shoot entry deadline 

ART: 100-Mile-Radius. Student Competition
O. ··.. . . .. . 0 
ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion· : 1985 Noveinber 17 -January 5 · The Snite Museum of Art

fr11s~·
MUSIC: Guest Baritone Recital : Udo Reinemann Annenberg Auditorium 
FILM: "Confidentially Yours" 4pm Snite . NVA: Football Championships 7:30, 9:30 pm 
FILfyl: "Sisters of the Gion"
FILM: "The Terminator" 
Loft,
Engineering Auditorium 
7pm

7, 9, 11 pm 0 0 
FILM: "Against Al: Od~s" J
ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice 
mon 18_~.. 
· Engmeermg
ART: French Master Drawings . . \.1/ ...,. 'A \\ . 
7, 9:15, 11:3t
ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition 

ART: Africa and the AMeric
November 15 -December 13 FILM: "Tokyo Story" A 
· . ART: French Master Drawi~
Saint Mary's College Galleries Snite 
ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion
Opening rec.eption and awards presentation 7 pm 
ART: 100-Mile-Radius Stud
7-9pm FILM: "Last Year at Marienbad" PERFORMING ARTS: "Follies" Snite Saint Mary's College 9:30 pm LECTURE: Victor Weiskopf ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice Memorial Library Auditorium ART: French Master Drawings 
7:30 pm ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 SPORTS: NOTRE DAME -Varsity ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition Volleyball-at North Star Conference NV A: Turkey Shoot 
TBA Stadium Rifle Range by Gate 14 Hockey-St. Thomas 4:30 -6 pm 
7:30 pm 





:as : A Curator's Choice 
igs 
:1985 ent Competition 
Varsity 
:astern Michigan 
n 
; Range by-.Gate 14 

luditorium 
pm 
is : A Curator's Choice 
mt Collection : 1985 
nt Competition· 
Thomas Hart Benton and the 
ortage 
tors Association Conference· 

Auditorium 
1pm 
:as :A Curator's Choice :· ,gs : 1985 ent-Competit!on 


Snite 

7:30, 9:30 pm ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: French Master· Drawings ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 ART: 10().;.Mile-Radius Student Competition . MUSIC: Notre Dame Chapel Choir Concert .. 
Sacred Heart Church 8pm SPORTS: NOTRE DAME -Varsity 
· Basketball-St. Joseph's (Ind) Hockey-Lake Forest 7:30pm 
SENIORS: Block Party 
mo 


7, 9pm ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice 
__ART: Frerich Master Drawings­ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 ART: 100:-Mile-Radius Student Competition SPORTS: NOTRE DAME-Varsity . 
Cross Country-At NCAA National Championships· 11 am SOPHOMORES: "Month Before Christmas Party" study break Festival of the Trees 
Snite 

7:30pm ART: Africa and the Americas : A Curator's Choice ART: French Master Drawings ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition SPORTS: NOTRE DAME -Varsity 
. Basketball-Valparaiso S~PHOMORES: Class Council Meeting ·Dillon · All Sophomore; welcome 

ART: Africa and the Americas : ACurator's Choice0 ART: French Master Drawings · · ART: Moira. Marti. Geoffrion : 1985 ..­ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition VVhite Water Series 
Century Center 12 noon NVA: One-on-One Basketball entry deadlirie 

ART: Africa and the Americas.: A Curator's Choice · ART: French Master Drawings ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 AR~: 100-Mile-Radius Student Competition SPORTS: NOTRE DAME -Varsity 
Football-LSU TBA 
Wrestling-at St. Louis Open TBA·'. Volleyball,.. Arizona State 7:30pm _ Hockey-at Lake Forest 7:30·pm DINING HALL: Fondue Extravaganza -°following game ­JUNIORS: Concess.ion Stand · .. In front of O'Shag Coin, Stamp &_-Baseball Card Show North Village Mall Festival of the Trees Century Center 
G ~--
SUfl 24° -< -' . _ ~. • -·_ -_
o 

. . . . . . 0 . . 
. . -. . . 
. . 
. 

ART: Africa And The America.ii : A. Curator's Choice 
ART: French Master Drawings·­.ART: Moira Marti Geoffrion : 1985 . ART: 100-Mile-Radius Student"Comp~tition -MUSIC: Notre Dame ·Chamber Orchestra Concert 
· Annenberg Atiditoritim 4pm SPORTS: NOTRE DAME -Varsity · Basketball-Robert -¥orris College Volleybail-.Arizona State •· 
. . 7:30 pm · '· · Coin, Stamp & Basebal!"Card'Show· -· Festival of the Trees 
13 NOVEMBER 1985 

/ 





oorooooo 

I • 
by Mary Hartney 

STUDENT JOBS VARY FROM THE FUN TO THE FRIGHTFUL 
[J[J Tr . 
LJ ·tke this job and shove it." How many times did the 3,692 · students employed by the Univer­sity last year yearn to say that? When you're working to pay your way through school, you don't say it at all. 
Tuition, room/board, books, fees, entertainment and other mis­cellaneous expenses amount to roughly $11,000 a year at N.D. Most students sacrifice their sum­mer earnings to pay back this educational debt and spend ·. the rest of the year working on stu-· dies. However, some students -~ whether out of financial need or the desire for spending money -­choose to work. 
The offices of Student · Employment and Financial Aid have hired 1,800 students already this year. We're all aware of our fellow students who slave away in the dining hall, ·but were you aware that the University employs students in positions as varied as live-in security guard at .the ACC to bellhop at the Morris Inn on football weekends? 
Financial aid counselor Sherry Veith explained the University's policy on student employment is to give "first con­sideration to students. with finan­cial need." According to Veith, the average student, for $4 to -$4.80 an hour, works 8-12 hours a week earning a yearly average of $700 to $750. 
The largest student employer on campus is Food Services which hires students not only for the dining halls but also for the Huddle, the Oak Room and for catering special events. Ranking a close second. is the Memorial Library and its branches. Other student employers are as diverse as the Fire Department, the Snite Museum, St. Michael laundry and Cedar Grove cemetery. (Sorry, grave digging is not a part of this · job.) In addition to on-campus jobs, many students obtain part­time jobs in the "real world" of South Bend. These·· jobs range from working at a furniture' store 
to bartending at a favorite Five Points bar. 
We know how the University views student employees: slave labor. But, kidding aside, how do students view what they do? 
Chad Berry, who works 15 hours a week in the shoe depart­ment of L.S. Ayres, says, ·"The best thing about working is get­
.. ting outside the N.D. community --getting away from classes, school --a few hours a week." On . a straight 9% commission, Chad likes his job because "women usually come in and know exactly . what they want, or they know it when they see it." Not so pleasant arc "fat women in polyester who lie about their shoe size." Ch~d also works 12 hours a week as an American · Studies studel).t assis­tant. Primarily, he researches subjects for professors and runs errands. He enjoys getting to know all the department's profes­sors. 
•~seeing my friends .and get­ting paid for it," is what Michele Nanni loves about her bartending job at The Commons. "It's a sight, a circus, to see everybody 
SCHOLASTIC 

from this side of the bar...When you're straight and they're drunk, it's a sight." The only aspect of her job Mich~le doesn't particu­larly like is, ''Every night I go home with dishpan hands and that's something I wasn't expect­ing." 
Tory Patterson works for the 

:,"University as a live-in security guard for Stepan Center. He makes . sure. that. the "people who arc schcciuled to get in Stepan get in --like,· the ROTC's and the people who come in· here to set up for the pep rallies and the bands." The quiet and the privacy arc two benefits of his work that Tory guards jealously. 
"What I love about tutoring is being able to explain something and seeing an immediate reaction. I can sec that· I'm re:i!ly helping these people," sh ..::s Stephanie. Lopina. Stephanie, a tutor who spends 12.hours weekly clarifying MATH 105;· MATH 1I7 and physics for 1O' athletes, is paying 50% of her colleg'e expenses. In addition to tutoring, Stephanie puts in• 6 hours each week as a checker in C-D line of North din­ing hall.. What she dislikes about her work _is "the lack of• time I hav_e to do anything else.'' 
The door of Chris Roderick's stop and say hello, "I'm able to office in the computer room of meet people in the hall I · ordi­the Hayes-Healy Center is embla-narilywouldn't." 
. zoned "Monitor/Consultant." For 10 hours a week he listens to peo-Bob O'Leary goes to The 
University Club after his 11:15 pie complain "The ·computer MWF --and washes dishes. He doesn't work" and then helps 
likes it. "It fits into my schedule. them figure out where they've If I didn't have the job, I'd prob-fouled up. He likes what he does ably blow off but since I have the · because "I probably end up learn-· · . job I do. sorhething<useful." The irig more than they do --and it · 
best part of Bob's job is "I don't
looks great on a resume." How-h-t •t • -r
1 1

ave o wa1 m ong mes 1or 
ever, he doesn't appreciate "peo­
lunch and I get to eat there. I get
. pie categorizing me as a computer 
anything I want, well, I've never
nerd." Paul Cottey, who works as 
ordered sirloin steak but they've 
a microlab computer monitor, . never said I couldn't.'' _ · ­echoes Chris' statement that he learns a lot, "I learn about the ROTC cadet Neil Keohane IBM PC, Apple IIE, and the works as a carcler at Chi-Chi's. MacIntosh." The only aspect of Neil finds that the money he his job that Paul doesn't relish is earns "gives me the freedom in "when I have to move someone my senior year to do what I want off a computer." Paul's working to do and not have to. worry ...l'm because "I love money."· paying for my entire way at N.D. --books, lab fees, rent, groceries
Matt Michel, Holy Cross hall 

--everything, and that's a really
steward, likes the fact that he can 
good feeling of independence."
do homework. while he's working. 
The only part of his job Neil
Matt does hall bookwork and 
doesn't enjoy is tur'ning people
checks tip on work order forms. 
away, "By nature, I'm a nice per­
"If · people have complaints or 
son but it's what the job entails."
things wrong with their rooms, or 
All these students mentioned,

1f they need the test file, they 
and the thousands of others who 
come to me." Matt enjoys his job 
are working their way through
: because his ground floor office is 
school, have one thing in com·mon
situated in such a way that people 
--they work hard for the money.• 

13 NOVEMBER 1986 ·19 



uremburg 
by Santiago O'Donnell 


Argentina has embarked on a moral crusade. The nine com­manding officers that ruled the country from 1976 to 1982 are being tried in the most significant human rights related trial since Nuremberg. Three former presidents de facto from the Army, three former Navy Com­manders in Chief, and three former Air Force Commanders arc accused of using illegal methods to fight leftist guerillas including clandestine homicide, systematic torture, and illegal arrests. 
When the military took over in 197 6 it imposed a state of siege under which the police and mili­tary could make indiscriminate arrests. People were picked up in the streets and sent to jail for no reason. During this period I was sent to jail several times. I would remain in a crowded cell without food or a bed for one or two full days, and then be released after a scary interrogation. -Under these extreme conditions many Argcn­. tinians like myself lived through those sad years at least partially 
unaware of what was going on 
and afraid to find out. The fact 
was, however, that during those 
six black years tens of thousands 
of people were kidnapped by 
paramilitary hit squads, taken to 
secret . concentration camps, 
severely tortured and executed -without trial. 
During those SIX 
black years, tens · of thousands of people were kidnapped by 
paramilitary hit 
squads, taken to 
secret concentration 

camps, severely tor­tured · and executed 
:without a trial. 

the 

At the time~ the military jus­tified its crimes by claiming that a "dirty war" against terrorism was taking place. Accusations from abroad of severe human rights violations were dismissed as a "campaign against Argentina," according to former President General Jorge Rafael Vidcla. The local media, controlled by state terrorism, supported the argu­ments of the military. Internal claims were dismissed in a much simpler manner. A la\.\'ycr that dared to present an habeas corpus recourse for a "disappeared" per­son would lose his life, his jol1 or, at best, his time. 
Following 1977, when the guerilla movement was completely dismantled, the Armed Forces used their repressive state apparatus against .. trade union leaders, dissenting intellectuals, journalists that refused to close their eyes and any person that challenged the pcilice state and monetarist economy that the mili­tary juntas were trying to impose. 
SCHOLASTIC 



s 
The Malvinas' war fiasco and the economy's failure to control galloping in{1ation precipitated the ran· of the dictatorship in December of 1983. Pressured by public opinion, the government was forced to promise elections. ;Raul Alfonsin was elected President with a platform of strict adherence . to the constitution, hu_man · rights and democratic principles. 
·-Upon his election,· Alfonsin had· to deal with the_ human rights issue. By .· putting the generals on trial, he reached a compromise between . the more radical solu­tions the human · rights groups proposed and the mediation that the military institutions were demanding. . Alfonsin was . very careful in pointing· out that it was 
not' the miHtaryinStitutions that were on trial, but only the indivi­. duals _that gave the criminal ord­
ers. 
.. _ Today, many members of the military believe that they are vic­tims of a subversive conspiracy which they are vague in defining, and that the generals on trial are 

13 NOVEMBER 1985 

THE MILITARY ON TRIAL 
Videla,  Massera,  Lambruschini,  Agostti,  
a11d  Viola:  the  ex-commandents  that  
could receive the  most  severe  sentences.  

patriots. ·"Th_c dirty war was a crusade to defend the country rrom its foreign enemies, and it was fought with heroism and gen­erosity," states general Hector Rios Ercnu, current Army Chief or Staff. · 
Fortunately, neither the recently elected · democratic 
_government, nor the judicial courts, nor the population at large arc wiiling to politicize the trials, much less · to forgive and forget. They want the trials to focus on huinan rights._ The ·book Never Again, a compilation of documented military atrocities, is the largest best seller in Argentine history. The" book was put together by a human rights com­mittee · specially . appointed by President Alfonsin. Also, a weekly newspaper dedicated exclusively to coverage of the tri­als, is the nation's best-selling newspaper --all of this despite Argentina's hard-hit economy. 
The public trials, . filled with devastating testimonies given by survivors of the concentration camps, have had a tremendous impact on Argentine public opin­ion. 
· IN ARGENTINA 
Neither the recently elected democratic 
government, nor the judicial courts~ nor 
the population at 
large are willing to politicize the trials, 
much less to forgive and forget. 
21 . 


government house to the crowd congregated at Plaza de Mayo. · ·. · ' ··' · · · ' 
Last September Prosecuting Attorney Julio Strassera began presenting his case by criticizing
\ both the military and the leftist terrorists for viewing the world through an ideological prism: "If their enemies murder somebody this is an atrocious crime, savage· and unforgivable. But if they · themselves murder, then it is jus-· tifiable, because _it· contributes to the achievement .of their goals; .· which are legitimate . by defini­tion." Once. the. political excuses arc taken away from the generals, they are left defenseless against . the great volume' of evidence that points -to their guilt. "We now wit­ness an almost universal· move­
ment towards 'depoliticization' comparable to the retreat ofreli­gious fanaticism a hundred years ago. In Europe, China.and Argen­tina the economy is being treated riot as an ·ide~logica~. or political problem;. but as a .practical one. _In a similar . fashion~ .. Jhe human rights probleTTi. has become everybody's pre>blem, not only one of pc:>liticahallies of occasional victims.. In: ..this sense the trials have>becoine. a high_ point of a sort/ of 'world . revolution with highly ·positive -: connotations,'; argues .Buenos Aires .H~rald jour­nalist)ames: Nielsen·: . , _· . " .·: The· . Prosecutfori has asked · for life sentences for •the three 
Commanders . of the · first .· jup.ta, and ·penalties that. range· from)O to· lO years in prison for. the o.th­crs. The final · ·sentences, which cannot _be appealed, will be given next December 13. -• 
. ·. 

. What ·_do· .Argentines:wa~t? Human rights Jeader· arid atttjrriey 
. Emilio . Mignone • summed. •:it _up during. a. recent. visi~ fo'.the· '.Notre Danie .. campus:_: "i>e:ople .._, art( not asking for 1~ . fifing ~quad~ nor revinge, · n·or ~u.reµiberg.·:·_t~~re have not been any acts of per-. sonal. revenge and, nobody is. ask­ing ·for the death sentence.>)Ve_ 
. are paticntlfawaiting th~. decision' of the· court.'? •:· ' . 
· SCHOLASTIC 

·, i:' ..·. 

A LOOK AT LIFE ON AN ARCHAEOLOGICAL DIG 
. . [. c~hap~· those five weeks in Israel . were just part of some weird psychological experiment; as· a fellow· excavator suggested one day during our fruit break underneath a eucalyptus tree. · Maybe . our · : group ·· of fifty' volunteers was being tested by a social research team for perfor­mance under stress. Actually, the members · of . our group did represent a good spatial distribu­tion for a social survey: students, faculty and community members. from five North American col­leges and universities;· .The guise of. the ·experiment was · an archaeological excavation in the 
land of Galilee. 
: T~c stress · included five to six .hours of hard labor in 90-100 dcgrec·dry heat, five days a week, for five weeks. _In addition, ran­dom members were subjected to dysentery due to the the foreign water . supply and . periods of nausea. brought on by the switch to Middle Eastern food. We were required toattend Tuesday night lectures. on the history of the. Holy Land. If it were not for the strong Turkish coffee served with dinner beforehand, we right have been able to · sleep di.Iring these lectures and thus enjoy the even­ings, but sadly, such was not the case. · Our bodies were in shock for tlie duration of the .dig. And as the ultimate test of endurance .under stress · we could hear . the Isi:acli· a:rmy practicing··mortar fire and tank maneuvers as we dug. 
<We were all members of th.e 
Capefnaum . Volunteer Program, which has. brought volunteers to Galilee for the past five years · under the auspices of the Israeli Department of Antiquities. We were excavating at a. site in Galilee which the ancients called Kefar Nahum. The site, which is credited as the community in which Jesus Christ began his min­istry, is located on the northern 
end of the Sea of Galilee. 
13 NOVEMBER 1985 
ON 

LOC~T10N 


____lN ___1SRE~l 
by Patrick A. Manson 

My first day was spent "doz­ing" in ·an attempt to raise the water level of the Yam 'Kinneret. Dozing consists of pushing wheel­barrows to the edge of the Sea and dumping the backdirt from the dig into the water. That first day was purely physical labor for me. It was only later I learned some of the "finer" techniques of archaeology. 

We were taught the differ­ence . between good and bad exca­vation techniques. Cary, a gradu-'· ate. student from Pepperdine was pointed out to us as an example of. bad technique. He broke three • pick-axes in one day due to his sheer uncontrolled enthusiasm for 
. . 

wall, abandoning forev ~r the remains of a friend we. had planned to call Ed. 
Another person I met on the dig was Erik. Erik was an exem­plary amateur archaeologist· from Vancouver. He always seemed to have ahand in the most exciting finds. An example of his best work was his excavation of a clay pot. He had come across the rim of a two-handled vessel and exposed the entire artifact in a few hours with his handy air-· blower_ and a small ice pick. A few of, the more persnickety ( or perhaps sun-stroked) workers would come by every five minutes or so to sketch--in 7-color detail-

the work. But in all fairness to Cary, · he was a great hand in removing large stones, and -actu­ally had a: flare for some of· the more ineticplous jobs in archaeol­ogy.. I remember one day he and I worked for a painstaking hour with penknives, · ice . picks and paintbrushes in an effort to expose a dromedary's skull and vertebrae. I was iri the process of 
exposing some large teeth and · a ten inch mandible when . Cary . tossed aside the . pieces of a 
dismembered pick-axe and joined me in my pursuit. But before we discovered the extent of the find, ·we were called to remove the 
stones of -an ancient Byzantine · -Erik's progress with the These people were ones working for credits--the ''throats" of volunteer archaeology. Once exhumed, 
·vessel was determined to the Roman Era, and was sent to the Department of Antiquities in Jerusalem for restoration. 
Erik, ho~ev~r •. had a petitor in his own square, or dig­ging domain. Howard, Toronto, · was finding Rom.an coins than Erik. the final. days of the dig, this com­
. petition ·.was intense enough 
them to break out the screens in . order to sift t~e dirt before I or . Jami, an institu.tiortalized dozer in our square, committed the ··1eft~ overs . to the Sea. The screening process offered better chances of finding those precious coins than the ci-uder method of "hoe-to­wheelbarrow" archaeology. Their precision . paid off handsomely and together the two found fif­teen ofI the two dozen coins unearthed during the dig. . 
• • I preferred the · precision work, as with the camel bones and. the· tip o_f a Turkish pipe which I'd plucked from the earth, ­but l was more often .. called to · employ that -"hoc-to-· wheelbarrow" method. My days · were spent bent over in the dirt ' with that Middle Eastern sun· on 
It is an archaeologist's 



trips to the Sea of Galilee. than anyone ·else. Archaeology itself was a bit of a puzzle to her --a stone wall was merely a "bunch of rocks" in her eyes. 
. One day an unexpected visi­tor appeared ·. on . the ·site. His naine was Clyde and his appear­ance ~as joyously welcomed . .He was thiri, quiet, sedentary and infinitely patient with us as .we photographed and sketched him · to no. end. Clyde was a skeleton. We deduced that he was probably ari official. .of some importance during the Roman Era, since he was found just underneath a pala-, tial floor. It was not· an uncom­mon practice ·ror higli officials to be buried tmder the_ floors of public buildings._ The ·diggers who still'.had ink in their multi-colored pens· were ., constantly underfoot. Eventually; Clyde was boxed and sent to Jerusalem to join Erik's pbt. 
Mornings wei-e-special at Caperriaum. W_e left the youth hostel in' Tiberias,. _also on the Sea, 
and arrived at Kefar Nahum as the sun rose over the hills to the east. We had a small breakfast until six o'clock, when we'd begin our daily work. The light was yellow and the shadows were still long. Sometimes we were greeted· by a small herd of goats who had overtaken our site. They didn't cause much damage, but it's an 
13 NOVEMBER 1985 
archaeologist's nightmare to walk onto the site in the morning only to find large, four-legged animals trampling on his carefully 
· unearthed 2000-year old wall. Shawn, the brave one of our group, approached one . of our visitors in an attempt to coax it off the site and . received a unorthodox "warm" reply __; he had to wash off his boots before returning to his square. 
The mornings wore, on, and the sun gradually created a. new species of negroid caucasians of us· all. We would apply all sorts of combinations of sunscreen. lotions 
in order to block out just the right amount of rays. Lee, a Bap;. tist minister from Virginia,.· had fair skin and needed about a "19" sun-block, so he mixed some "15" and "4". Jennifer, from N.I>., was already considered Arabic · by many Israelis and Israeli by many Arabs, so she was not in want of a deeper tan. After our fruit break one day I hurriedly slapped some lotion on my back in order to endure the rest of the day. In my rush I care~essly missed a sig­nificant portion· of the middle of my lower back _:.. that part that you just can not· scratch by your­self. For weeks after that day, I retained a stripe across my back, with fingerprints at the fringe. 
Work ceased at about one . o'clock, by which time the tern­perature was into the IO0's. We had a supper prepared --as all of our on-site meals --by a Greek Orthodox nun who lived in the monastery at Capernaum. After 
. supper we relaxed .and washed the dirt and · sweat· from our bodies by jumping into . the Sea. The water was warm, and we'd swim to the spot with the high, underwater rocks just to show the people on shore how Jesus pulled off that water-walking bit. Soon, the bus would come to take us back to Tiberias. 
During the afternoons . and evenings we were free to roam about the tourist town of Tiberias. We frequented the waterfront bars and restaurants, danced to American music at the discotheques and relaxed at . the hostel before the next day's work. The time . was well-used if we could change our dollars to shek­els on the black market, or catch up in our daily journals. · Bargain­ing in the city was an adventure. One night, Domers Josh and Ray were offered thirty camels for Michelle, a cute little blonde from A vcrett College. Responding to the situation as perfect gentlemen, Josh and Ray insisted · that they wouldn't think, of Jetting her go for less than thirty-five. 
At the end of five weeks, we went our separate ways--some to Europe, some to Egypt, some back home. We each carried a booty of pottery fragments which we'd collected as memeii.toes from the throw-away pile. The final test of composure was · to successfully convince the airport officials that we were not smug"­gling handguns to Arabia in our booty-bags. • 




"I was so awestrnck by the sight of the Atocha wreck that I 
forgot what I was doing and let go of the anchor rope. After plummet­ing sixty feet Ifound myself sitting on the sunken ship surrounded by huge piles of silver bars, treasure chests and National Geographic photographers everywhere. The whole thing was like a fairy tale." 
--Jim Bellis 

Last summer Notre Dame. professor of anthropology Jim Bellis spent eight days in Key West serving as a consulting anthropologist on, the location of the Antocha wreck. Bellis was working with Treasure Salvors Inc., the treasure hunting firm which discovered the famed wreck, a 300 year old Spanish ship valued at over $400 million. Although not a specialist in underwater archaeology,· Bellis helped devise a system to spatially map and record the distribution of objects as they were excavated from the sight. He explained that there is an ever-present conflict between treasure hunters seeking 
wealth and archaeologists seeking knowledge of the past from a ship's remains. Recent legislation now compels treasure companies to excavate their discoveries with the aid of state-of-the-art archaeo­logical technology. In the case of the Antocha wreck, Treasure Sal­vors had to hire archaeologists to excavate and record the site, but the firm itself will receive all financial benefits. 
The Antocha wreck contains mostly silver bars and coins and is scattered over a five mile span of ocean Door. This Spanish vessel was travelling enroute to 
26 

Romping Through The. 
DAIsIEs· 
---------· 

with Dr. Bellis 
Spain from Havana, Cuba when it was trapped in a series of hurri­canes about 35 miles · south of Key West, Florida and sank in 1622. Over the years many attempts have been made to locate the lost ship. All attempts were unsuccessful until Treasure Sal­vors discovered the wreck in the spring of 1985. 
Dr. Bellis humorously recalls his first words upon seeing the splendor of the ship --"Holy Shit!" He even recorded this reac­tion on a clipboard with underwa­ter paper and pen and retains the page as evidence for anyone hear­ing his story. According to Bellis, the whole thing was like a dream. Dr. Bellis recalls that he was espe­cially impressed by the splendor of the ocean --it was his first time scuba diving. "I just couldn't. keep my eyes off the fish. There were barracudas and . sting-rays everywhere. I just wanted to go and pick up shells instead of the silver bars. The incredible beauty was the nature not the treasure," he explains. "Beneath the sea, the silver has no value, only the nature." 
This unconventional way of viewing the world around him is also characteristic of Bellis as a teacher. Students in his Human 
by Rebecca. Goodall 

Evolution and Anthropoi'ogy. of Art classes find this anthropolo­gist both funny and challenging. Laughter and ·self-evaluation are cornerstones of his teaching style. One student recalls, '''H.e's · the only teacher. who compares baboons to tailgaters and teaches his daughters to . walk like· good dominant chimpanzees. And yet somehow it all makes· sense." Stu­dents walk out of Bellis' class·es exhilar~ted, refreshed and think­ing from his amusing stories and his unusual insights. It's not uncommon for Dr. Bellis to imi­tate a Neanderthal man or demonstrate a gorilla's posture or include highly · realistic sound effects in his lectures. 
Dr. Bellis is, however, . more than just entertaining. · ·. His impressive · array of degrees, · grants and field work attests to his scholarly accomplishment. Bellis graduated· from Indiana University in 1961 with a bachelors degree in history. He taught high school history before returning to I.U. in 1964 for a doctorate in archaeological anthropology. 
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1970, he spent two years doing excavational and ethnological field work in Gha~a 
SCHOLASTIC 


point of view "which they 
thought never existed before." 
Bellis has a unique personal ··. style; .Aside from his occasionally eccentric .. dress bow ties · 
' 

. suspenders, and a beret --he has a penchant for colorful language and· unusual · examples. For instance, in his human . evolution class, he describes the female . pelvis as a "compromise". It is a··· . compromise between. bipedalism and enlarged brain 'size. Bellis feels. an obligation toimpart a cer­tain amount of information to his , stud(!nts. However, of · greater v:alue to him· is the sheer excite­. ment of learning;· this . is what Bellis· calls "discovery excitement. the moment .when a student says · AHHA! . and stuff goes .off in. his head .'--like daisies sprouting out in. ~is head." Bellis feels that. a good teacher. takes a student "traipsing . through the daisies of h1s mind."· When · he prepares a lecture·. Bellis says he is outlining 
· the· daisies in his own head. He ·· · then in~ites student to come and explore his garden and to dis­
.. cover the daisies. 
During his lectures Dr. Bellis seeks to . think opeµly and honestly in front .of his classes. It is fairiy common for Dr. · Bellis to 
._reply in class to a question or 
·. Bellis beHeves. that the time he spend _in that very different cul­_ture has .affected his whole under­. stab,ding··· o( the world. "Living . abroad chimged.'rn.,y point ofview so radically that I coulci never go · back to the · views I once held. I could n9 longer see the world as a . neat . packag~ . ~f unperstanding, ·. but as a compli,cated place with many . u_n~erstandings,": . . he explained. t,The only way to cope with diversity ls tq in~orporate a . very relativjstic: yiew of the world~ I.have a point ofview that is con~ stantly evaluating the point of vie~'.. H's' HJ(e tI?,e guy who' said, . 'Cannibalism must be OK to ·can­,nibalists. or ·else they: wouidn't cio
it.'" . ' . '' . ; '': ' ' :.. 
This relat.i\istic' · ~ndersta~d­

· .ing of life is reflected in his:teach­ing as well.. Students are :often surprised : to · 1earn that· what Dr. Bellis· teaches about evolution of society is .·also what he personally · believes.:. "Mine is. a stnmge point ·of view and most ·students are uncomfortable with . _it: · .I'm strangely , comfortable :: with .·• my views and I teach .what I believe!" And · if . students should .. feel uncomfortable with his views Dr Bellis )s depghted! .He , e~joy~ shakip.g the students out of their . "coµif ortable. and well:-knit views of the ,world'' and· showing them a 
13 NOVEMBER 1985 
"He's the only teacher who can com­pare baboons ·to tail­. gaters and teach his daughters to walk like dominant chimpan­zees. And yet · .somehow it all makes 
sense." 
comment, "Hey, I never thought of that before. That's pretty good stuff." Bellis says he does his best thinking aloud in class. He adds, "It's the spontaneous thinking aloud. that I· find most exciting. I feel like I'm imparting my excite­ment on the students. The best . teacher opens up his head for the students --that's what I try to 
·do." . . 
If anyone wants to meet this outspoken and slightly eccentric man,· look for what Prof. Bellis describes as a "bald and bearded man of average overweight." He may be found · swimming laps every weekday afternoon at the Rock or riding his . bike to campus irr his tweeds and bow tie. And, if you can't find him from that description, just look• for the man with the daisies in his head; • 

Help Wanted 
TYPISTS-$500 weekly at home ! Write: PO Box 975, EHzabeth, NJ 07207 . 
If you are ready to boycott McDonald's, Wendy's and Burger King because of their merely average hamburgers, then this article is for you. In our search for the perfect alternative burger we explored the heights of sirloin satisfaction and descended to the depths of the cardboard burger. Take· a look at what we have discovered. 




IN SEARCHCJF 
The (Infamous) Huddleburger: 
The Oak Room: 
We are happy to say that Oak Room burgers seemed to huddle burger lived .up to all our us strikingly similar to dining hall expectations---and then some. The burgers only more expensive. m.eat was . thin, dry and slightly · They use the • same high . quality withered and looked as if it had beef and . cooking techniques as been under those heat lights for a those Ivy Award winning eating while.. The bun was much larger places: The . · Oak . Room does, than necessary to cover the small­though, have · a nice atmosphere ish burger and the "topping bar" and is quieter and cle'aner · than 
was slightly less than attractive both the·. dining halls and, the 
with many of the condiments Huddle. . · Again, the place 
looking a little as if they might be becomes better if you don't · want 
a little bit past retirement age to, or Can't, go off campus. 
(except for the pickles). The Hud­
dle, however, is located on 
campus . and can be a good place 

to go late at night if you· don't 
have a car. 
SCHOLASTIC 

SOUTH 
BENcss 
FINEST HAIVI­BURGER 
OR AT LEAST CLOSE 

by C. Santana 
Azar's Big Boy: 
Our hamburgers at Azar's were good and thick but slightly greasy. The · bun on one ·. :Was partly soaked in grease so it had to be removed. The· burgers are supposedly cooked to order .but this doesn't seem to make a difference to the chef. The top­pings seemed to be fresh and stayed dry since most of the grease was soaked up by the bot­tom bun. Overall, the burger was better than average. It is the opin­ion of the writers, however, that the all night ·breakfast bar is a much better deal for the money. 
13 NOVEMBER 1985 


Bill Knapp's: 
Our experience here was, to say the ._ least, pleasant. The burgers were· thick and juicy, but not greasy. They are truly cooked to your preference and appeared to be broiled rather than fried. The bun was fresh and the top­pings were cool and crispy (simi­lar to the near-famous McD.L.T.). We thought that the quality and taste were well worth the reason­able price. 
Note: C.Santana is a pseudonym for a group of carnivorous 
Flanner  sophomores  who  occa­ 
sionally get off-campus.  
29 ­ 

"N,,men today are seek;ng high-level positions in the busi­ness world. How are they reach­ing the top? Professor Jack Ruhe, chairman of the business depart­ment at Saint Mary's College, has conducted .-_ a. survey to find answers to this question. 
Ruhe surveyed 1400 top­level women executives nation­wide and found seventy-six per­cent of the women who responded to be vice-presidents 
· or above, while fourteen percent were presidents. of the board. Dr. Ruhe found the key to success was realizing that no one 

succeeds the first time. One must learn from mistakes in order to _ develop the self-confidence to reach the top. Establishing one­self in the business world \ takes time. 
"Women have not had the practice in risk-taking that men have had in the dating process, and women have not experienced the development of self­confidence through competitive 
team play to the extent that men have," said Ruhe. , Self­confidence . is the key trait required in reaching the top, and in his survey it was listed as the most important skill used in retaining one's corporate position. 
According · _ to · the survey values are also very important in helping women reach successful positions. Specific job skills and values rely on each other. One needs to be .assertive to get the job done, and needs to under­stand corporate priorities in order to make the right decisions; One 

,, must also remain self-confident in
'! 
order to achieve personal ambi­tions. It is a matter of under­standing who you are, your capa­bilities and what you want in order to reach success. Ruhe said, · "The application of liberal arts skills enables one to build the self-confidence deemed to be the 
. key skill for reaching the top." 
30 



COMNG__ ON__------,-----:-­
by Mary Friel 


STRONG. 
WOMEN MOVE FORWARD IN BUSINESS 
USA Today president Cathie Black is one woman who has util­ized all of these skills and values in order to reach the top. She joined USA Today as President in 1983, at which time she also became a member of the Gannett Management Committee, and in June of 1984 was promoted to publisher. USA Today has a defi­cit which may approach 350 mil­lion before it begins to break even and many forecasters agree that Cathie Black has the ability to pull the paper out of the red. 
.·_ Black's success comes from 
· qualities instilled in her early years. She grew up on Chicago's south side where her father managed the College Inn division of Consolidated Foods. Watching her father, who was blind, move up through the ranks of the cor­porate world, she developed a certain kind of determination ·and the desire necessary to her own success. She had a liberal arts education at Washington D.C.'s Trinity College, where her ambi­tions reached a larger scale. "I knew I didn't want the traditional suburban life as a wife," she says. "I wanted · variety and excite­ment." She didn't stop until she achieved this . 
She didn't start out on top, but first sold ads in the back of the Holiday Star magazine. She switched to. Ne.w .York .magazine and two years later was hired by Ms. publisher Patricia Carbine, who chose Cathie Black to be an, ad-director. Bla;k's dedication 
·and ·self-confidence · 'to succeed. Ms; helped ·her ·not 'o'nly in furth­ering women's' liberation but also ' her own personal. liberation._ After . · serving. as associate publisher of 
· ·Ms. ·she joined USA Today· from the eminent position as the · first .. ·woman. publisher . of a . weekly. consumer magazine, New -York, _ another : publication she had · helped turn around· to a highly 
•_,profitable position. 
Cathie-Black is only one ·­

_. example for women· seeking to · 
: :rise in the corporate world. With the right skills and values applied, anything is possible;.according to Jill Houghton Emery, director of the U.S. Small Business Adminis­-tration Office of Women's Busi­ness Ownership. In a lecture at Saint Mary's College, "Women in . the Entrepreneurial Future," she : revealed SBA studies showing that women-owned businesses numbering over three million are the fastest growing segment of the 
SCHOLASTIC 

small business population, and 
26.2 percent of sale proprietor­sh,ips are owned by women. 
Emery said being an entrepreneur takes courage and talent because you can't rely on the boss, you are, no longer guaranteed a steady income, and you are now taking a risk. Since one third of all businesses fail in the first year, careful management is very important. "The desire to use your talents and make som_e­thing that lasts-has run as deeply in women as in men. Being an 
· entrepreneur involves a hunger for personal achievement." 
The SBA encourages women to take risks. The new risk takers are the ones who create new jobs. New small 
, businesses create two-thirds of all new jobs helping our economy and are the fastest growing seg­ment of our economy. Emery said in one year they have grown from 
2.9 to 3.3 million. In Indiana alone between 1982-83 there was a 2000 percent increase in women­owned businesses. 
Emery said women have been excluded from the system in the past, but now they compete 
with as well as surpass men. She feels that women see the world differently. They need to enthusiastically affirm their beliefs and begin to , shape the world along with men. Emery , said, "Both voices are important and complement each other. Women need to shape the world to reflect · their image just as men have done." Emery's final state­ment involved an old· Chinese prove_rb. · "How many of us are 
here? Maybe 150? May 150 
flowers bloom!" • by Dan Knaus
"The desfre to use your talents .arid make. something that lasts has run ·in deeply in women as men. Being an entrepreneur involves -a ~unger for personal achieve­ment."  CATHIE BLACK. President of USA Today  

To ten skills which helped women reach upper management levels· I Building trust with superiors. · 2 Learning from experience.3 Bein_g self-confident. 4 Writmg persuasively. 5 Managing ,time well. 6 Und~rstanding corporate priorities. . 7 Sensmg what mfo 1s needed and how to get 1t. 8 Planning work. 9 Implementing what needs to be done. 10) Asserting authority when needed.  

f:1 llll cd ·~-yor1:] 


VARIOUS RAMBLINGS ON A FRIDAY NIGHT AFTER VERY LITTLE SLEEP 
1) Wood burns. Ice doesn't. 15) Remember the golden. rule; 29) . Aldf;lkjakfjlkjdjkljad whoever has the gold makes the fklj;ljadsf. jafjad · 
2) Wherever you go, there rules. 

you are. 30) ·Aardvarks are meant to be 
16) It is hard to be persuasive seen and not heard.
3) Smile. Tomorrow will be 

with a banana in your ear. 
worse. . 3l) How much longer can .I 
17) The peasants are revolting keep this up?
4) Why? 

(and they smell too). 
32) A bird in the hand is safer5) Why not? 

18) Ours is not to reason why, than one overhead. : · 
6) It is easier for a camel to ours is to do in triplicate. 
33) Happiness is a. clean pairgo through the eye of a needle if 19) Upon graduation, destroy of underwear..·.

it is lightly greased. 

·an ND clothing. The reason for 
34) Never eat leaves on Fri­7) If all else fails, drop back this is so you don't represent the day.

10 and punt. university when you're doing 
something fun and end up losing 35) You're never too drnnk if8) Beware of ducks with 
your diploma. you can lie on the ground withoutRussian accents. 
hanging on.
20) Wednesday is the weirdest
9) No matter how far nor 

day. . 36) You also can't fall off thehow fast you may run, when it ground.
hits the fan, everyone gets splat­21) To watch a spider spin a tered. web is really quite neat. 37) Ducksfly. 
10) Why am I doing this? 22) But how can they do it so 38) Unless, of course, their elaborately? feet are set in concrete.
11) For answer to above, see 

#5; 23) When all they have is feet? .. ' 39) That, or so I'm told, can· ruin a duck's day.
12) Is there any reason for our 24) Burma shave

existence besides to pay taxes? · 40) Flops are awesome. 
25) Why are you reading this? 

13) Unlucky, so no ramble · 41) Who is auditing the audi­here. 26) Why am i writing this? tors? •
.· 

14) Water freezes at both o· C . 27) See #5. and 32° F. 
28) Murphy was an optimist. 


· 

I 
.I 
SCHOLASTIC. 


next 
•
issue 



blacks at 

. . ,: 
·· ..,'· . il· 

'-~-· .: -~ 





