MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR!
THE STAFF
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
December 13, 1935
No. II
ROOSEVELT, ROMULO HONORED BY UNIVERSITY
Convocation Comments
By Louis Da Pra
STATE AND NATIONAL FIGURES ATTEND;
UNIVERSITY GYM JAMMED FOR CEREMONIES
The perfection with which, the arrangements were run off in every detail made it appear that a special convocation is an everyday affair at Notre Dame.
The audience quickly responded when Father O’Hara departed from his prepared speech to greet the Notre Dame Club of Manila who—at three o’clock in the morning—with President Quezon as their guest, were listening to the broadcast.
The Dining Halls staff, under the able direction of Mr. Connolly, multiplied itself all over the place. In addition to taking care of the regular eight thousand meals a day and the cafeteria patrons, they served a lunch in the presbytery to the Cardinal and other Church dignitaries, in the faculty room of the Administration Building to several hundred special guests, in the Phy. Ed. department to several hundred militiamen, police, firemen, etc., in the gymnasium to over a hundred newsmen, radio announcers, etc.
' Mark on your calendar that for one day “Indiana weather” was right.
The charity so loftily proclaimed by Doctor Romulo was fittingly exemplified in the presence of a group of special guests consisting of seventeen crippled children from the Childrens’ Dispensary, South Bend, Helen , Marie Lake, of St. Mary’s, a victim of infantile paralysis, and Van Wallace of Mt. Clemens, Michigan, who for twelve years of paralysis has looked out upon the world with a Rooseveltian smile.
The Moreau Choir sang the national anthem of the Philippines as though Spanish were their ordinary mode of speech.
Our own registrar, Robert B. Riordan, in a shining Reserve Officer’s uniform, led the cavalcade.
At his departure the President produced a pack of cigarettes. Immediately the keen-eyed crowd of student admirers who surrounded the party shouted “Camels”; thus indicating that the New Deal occasionally “gets a lift.”
’ (Continued on Page 16)
Cardinal Mundelein Presides
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
Amidst a brilliant assemblage of members of the Catholic hierarchy, distinguished statesmen, prominent political figures of nation and state, noted educators, and an enthusiastic audience that crammed every available seat in the gymnasium, the University of Notre Dame last Monday conferred upon Franklin Delano Roosevelt, President of the United States, and upon Carlos Pena Romulo,
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., awarding degree to President Roosevelt
Philippine publisher, the highest academic honor it can bestow, the Degree of Doctor of Laws.
The occasion for the event was the Special Faculty Convocation of the University commemorating the establishment of the infant republic of the Philippines which recently inaugurated its first president, and which simultaneous!}- celebrated four hundred years of Catholicism.
The ceremonies commenced at 2:30 p.m. when the University Faculty, distinguished guests, graduate students, and seniors marched into the
(Continued on Page 15)
December 13, 1935
Three
UNIVERSITY THEATRE INAUGURATES SEASON IN WASHINGTON HALL
Curtain Will Rise at 8:15
By John Hurley
At 8:15 tomorrow evening in Washington Hall the curtains will be raised to give Notre Dame first night-ers their opening look at the initial University Theatre production of the year, “The World Waits.” The play will be given again Sunday evening at the same hour.
After more than a month’s constant rehearsal, the actors have been molded into such a finished unit that an excellent rendition of the play is assured. Professor Albert Doyle, director of the University theatre, stated Monday that “the students who are in the cast have been faithful in attending rehearsals since they began. Because of this and of the ability they have shown, I believe that they should give the student body one of the finest productions witnessed here in several years.”
The actors who •will step in front of the footlights tomorrow and Sunday evenings are Joe Mansfield as Captain Heartly; Dick Baker as Kenneth Brice, chief aviator of the expedition; John LaDuca as Dr. McKinsey, and Jack Scott as Burroughs, the radio operator.
Others in the cast are Frank Carroll who will play the part of Collins, the newspaper man; Maurice Quinn as Hawkins; Francis McDonald as Chips Donoghue; John Gorman as Alex McGregor; Ralph Capone as Jenks, the ship’s cook; John Brassell
as Royce, and Bill Ellis as Kelley.
The story of the play is, in brief, that of an expedition lost at the South Pole. The ship, which is supposed to come to take them from their Antarctic headquarters, does not arrive. The expedition runs out of food, and drastic measures have to be taken to keep the men alive. During all this time, the lost men can hear, via radio, the encouraging voices of loved ones back home. They, in turn, are unable to get in touch with their wives, mothers, and sweethearts. Finally they are rescued but only after one of the party dies.
The backstage assistants for the play have been chosen by Professor Frank Kelley. They are Joe Alten, stage manager; Anthony Camperlan-go, property manager; his assistants, Dick Higby, Jim Gannon, Dave Miskill, and Robert Malloy; and John Wade, in charge of sound and electrical effects and his assistant, John Johannases
GERMAN CLUB
“Catholic Persecution in Germany” was the topic of a talk delivered by Father Hugo Hoever, O. Cist., on Friday evening before more than fifty members of Der Deutsche Verein. His presentation was based upon personal experience and knowledge of the situation and proved to be of genuine interest to everyone. A five piece German Band rendered several appropriate selections during the meeting which was concluded with the serving of refreshment and soft drinks.
Vincentian Bus Agency
Announces Holiday Rates
Vincent McAloon, Jr., executive secretary of the St. Vincent de Paul Society, announced on Monday, Dec. 9, that information regarding the hours of ticket sales for the Greyhound Bus Lines will be posted throughout halls and in the basement of the Dining Halls where the tickets are being sold. The organization is operationg a Travel Bureau for the Greyhound Lines previous to the Christmas holidays.
Because of the earlier date for vacation, arrangements have been made
Vincent McAloon Get your tickets here.
by the Society with the Greyhound Lines to advance the date when the Christmas rates will be in effect. The Christmas rates went into effect yesterday for the convenience of those students and others who are planning to leave the campus early for the holidays.
• AU commissions from this ticket sale wil be used for the welfare work which the organization is effecting in South Bend.
At this time, the Society is welcoming all kinds of discarded clothes. Signs in each hall will direct students to the rooms of Vincentian representatives to whom these articles may be given.
Scene From Former Theatre Presentation
CALENDAR
Opening night at last year's Production of “Turn to the Right."
Friday, December 13
Scholastic of the Air, over campus radio station through WSBT, 3:15 Saturday, December
' “The World Waits,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, December 15
Student Masses 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; Meeting of the officers of the Knights of Columbus, 10:30 a.m., Walsh Hall clubrooms. “The World Waits,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.
Monday, December 16
Basketball game, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, gymnasium, 8:00 p.m. “The Man Who Knows,” campus radio station, over WSBT 3:15 p.m. •
Tuesday, December 17
Broadcast from Campus Radio Station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.
Wednesday, December 18
Christmas vacation begins.
The Scholastic
Four
New Campus Radio Series To Present Prof. McMahon
DESMOND FITZGERALD CONCLUDES LECTURES AND SPECIAL COURSES
The second in a series of thirteen weekly broadcasts from the campus radio station over the combined facilities of Stations WSBT of South Bend and WIND of Gary, will be presented at 7:00 p.m., Monday, December 16. Professor Francis McMahon, of the University department of philosophy, is scheduled to speak.
The inaugural program over the enlarged hook-up was broadcast last Monday when Professor Henry Fron-ing, head of the department of chemistry, talked on “The Nature of Chemistry.” Professor Froning’s talk was not highly technical but was intended to clarify for the average man the various ways in which Chemistry changes his every day world.
The new feature was introduced by James E. Armstrong, Secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, who said:
“It is my privilege to extend a greeting to the great Middle West designated by the terms Michiana and Chicagoland, from the Notre Dame campus. May I add the hope that this broadening of our intellectual boundaries will meet with the approval of you whom we seek to serve.”
Station Manager Joseph Mansfield, who announces the programs, indicated this week that the new series of Notre Dame broadcasts is fast developing into the outstanding educational program in the Middle West.
“We hope to present,” Mansfield said, “speakers from the faculties of the various colleges in the University as well as members of the coaching staff. Our aim is to appeal to as large an audience as is possible in this type of program.”
CHICAGO CLUB
The Chicago club wil hold its annual Christmas dance, Dec. 27, in the Grand Ballroom of the Medinah Athletic club. Co-Chairmen James O’Keefe and Edward Dunn have secured Jack Russell and his orchestra, the musical unit which played for the Engineers’ Ball last spring.
The ticket sale will be limited to six days on the campus, starting this evening. Tickets may be procured in 103 Walsh or 125 Sorin Hall. President Luke Tiernan stated that it is advisable that reservations be made on the campus as the Alumni have already requested that a number of tables be put aside for them, and it . is the wish of the officers that the members be cared for first. However, reservations may be made in Chicago during the afternoons of Dec. 26 and 27 at the Notre Dame headquarters in the Medinah Athletic club, by calling in person or phoning.
LEAVES FACULTY
The Hon. Desmond Fitzgerald Returns to Europe.
BUFFALO CLUB
The Buffalo Club of Notre Dame strikes a new note in club activity during the holiday season by abandoning the traditional policy of holding only a Christmas dance. The Eastern organization will hold a civic luncheon in Buffalo on Thursday, Dec. 19.
The affair is to be held at the King Arthur Restaurant and it is expected that at least part of the program will be broadcast.
Guests of honor for the luncheon will be Wayne Millner, Fred Solari, Fred Carideo and Anthony Mazziotti, each of whom is scheduled to give a short talk.
Complete pictures of the Notre Dame versus Ohio State football game will be shown as the feature of the program, while the football players present at the affair will be interviewed by Roger Baker, famous sports announcer.
The Buffalo Chamber of Commerce, and Transportation club are co-operating in the affair which is expected to be one of the most important functions of the holiday season, according to President John M. Maloney.
To Leave for Ireland Shortly
The Honorable Desmond Fitzgerald, who has just completed a series of lectures at Notre Dame, left last Tuesday afternoon for the East where he will sail for Ireland, his native country. The noted politician and scholar has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty for the past semester, and through his interesting lectures in Washington Hall and his still more entertaining courses he has made himself well known and liked.
Although Mr. Fitzgerald, is leaving the mid-west in good health, it was his misfortune to be afflicted with mastoids shortly after his arrival here and to undergo a dangerous operation. His recovery was slow, and he suffered a relapse once just as he was almost ready to leave St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend.
Mr. Fitzgerald is a member of the Dail party- in the Irish Free State. He held the office of Minister of External Affairs in the Irish Free State from 1922 to 1927 and then served as Minister of Defense from 1927 to 1932. Between 1919 and 1922 he edited the Irish Bulletin and had the honor of seeing one of his works, “The Saint,” produced by the Abbey Theatre, Dublin, in 1919.
Among his six lectures delivered this semester were: Richard Crashaw —an Argument for Religious Poetry; “Unknown Eros” of Coventry Patmore; Joseph de Maistre; Ernest Hello; Leon Bloy; Gerald Manly Hopkins.
HITS AND BITS GLEANED FROM OTHER CAMPI
A recent poll of Barnard College freshmen shows that a Phi Bete key is a 17-to-l favorite ambition as against “siren of the stag line.”
Rensselaer Polytech is planning a course for student pilots. Instruction will be given on light sport planes.
Dr. Albert Bushnell Hart, widely known historian, has written or edited 164 volumes of history. Dr. Hart, professor emeritus at Harvard, is 80 years old.
Princeton students can now cut as much as they like, so long as their “standing remains unimpaired.”
American brides and bridegrooms are getting younger. Men are marrying at an average age of 24.8 and women at 21.7.
December 13, 1935
Five
MANY CAMPUS CLUB DANCES PLANNED DURING CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY SEASON
Dance Prices Vary Greatly
By Paul Foley
Campus clubs are busy this week appointing committees to see that their one big evening of the year is a success—the evening on which the club members from Chicago to Newark will dance to the strains of the Victory March at the annual Christmas dance.
The New Jersey club, under its new program of planned activities and alumni co - operation, leads the way in holiday activities. The Jersey Club dance will be held at the Essex House in Newark on Friday, December 27. Music will be furnished by Andy Kress and his orchestra, who have been entertaining at the Avon Inn at Avon, N. J. Subscription for the New Jersey affair has been set at four, dollars.
Joseph Wade is chairman of the dance in charge of the campus arrangements, while Philip Heinle, a graduate of last year, is handling plans for the alumni group.
Chairman Wade announced this week that the ticket price is payable at the door the evening of the dance.
While the Jersey Club is convening in the Essex House, the Chicago Club, under the leadership of President Luke Tiernan will be gathering in the Grand Ballroom of the Me-dinah Athletic Club. Co - chairmen James O’Keefe and Edward Dunn have announced that they have secured the services of Jack Russell’s orchestra for the occasion.
On Saturday, December 28 our dance scene shifts East again to Buffalo where members of the Buffalo Club will dance in the Ballroom of the Hotel Statler to the music of Vin Gary’s Casa Madrid orchestra, which in spite of its sunny name, is a New England organization.
The Quakers of the Philadelphia Club will hold their dance in the city of brotherly love on the evening of December 27 at the Hotel Ritz Carlton. Howard Lanin’s orchestra will provide the music. The Philadelphian’s affair will depart from usual tradition by being combined with a midnight dinner party. Dancing will start at 10 p.m., continue until 12:00 when dinner is served and then be resumed until 2:00 a.m. Tickets for the occasion are priced at five dollars a couple.
The Sinton Hotel will be the locale for the Cincinnati Club dance on December 27. The dancers will be entertained by the music of Bill Mc-Calley’s orchestra. The tickets are to be sold at two dollars a couple.
ON DEBATE SQUAD
Debater Robert Schmelzle
His name stumps the judges.
AERO CLUB
At a meeting of the members of the Aeronautics Club on Monday night, Dec. 9, election of officers for the coming year was held. The members successful in gaining the offices were: William J. O’Sullivan, president; Robert J. Rumpf, vice-president; Francis Meyer, secretary; Thomas A. Kelley, treasurer. A membership committee of three was also appointed.
Plans of the club for the year were also determined. At each meeting a speaker will be presented, a student paper will be delivered, a report on current events in aviation and a report on the progress of the projects being carried on by the members will be given.
RAILROAD RATES
Through the efforts of the Students’ Activities Council special rates for Eastbound trains during the Christmas vacation period will become effective Dec. 17, which is three days earlier than was originally arranged by traffic officials. The report was issued several days ago at a meeting of the Railroad Central Traffic Committee which granted the concession in response to a petition from the S.A.C.
The special rate for round trip ticket is a fare and a ninth and is good for Notre Dame students exclusively who are travelling eastward.
This special rate will not he applicable to those who reserve Pullmans.
NOTICE!
For the convenience of those leaving for Christmas vacation the barber shop will be open Saturday night; also Monday and Tuesday nights until 8:00 o’clock. We wish all a very Happy Christmas..
Varsity Debaters Engage ' Tn Trial Competition
For the second consecutive year, the varsity debating team held its first practice debate yesterday before the Kiwanis club of Elkhart, Indiana. The match was arranged by Thomas Proctor, a former member of the squad and president of the 1935 senior' class.
Coach William J. Coyne used an affirmative team composed of two newcomers, Robert Burke and David Flynn, and a negative team of two veterans, Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle. The Kiwanians gave an audience vote.
The question debated was: “Resolved, that Congress should have the power to override by a two-thirds vote, a decision of the Supreme Court holding an act of Congress to be unconstitutional.”
Professor Coyne announced that a tentative radio debate had been scheduled with St. Viator college of Kankakee, Illinois on the question: “Resolved, that the several states should adopt in principle the Nebraska plan of unicameral legislation.”
A dual debate has been scheduled with Michigan State. The forensic squad will debate at Lansing on March 17 with a return engagement here on March 19.
Sorin hall won its way to the finals in the interhall debating league as a result of its victory over Walsh hall, Tuesday evening, December 10. Professor William J. Coyne, of the department of Speech, was critic judge.
Sorin will meet the winner of the Dillon-Morrissey debate some time after the Christmas holidays at St. Mary’s college to decide the interhall championship and for possession of the Lemmer -Debate Trophy won last year by Walsh Hall negative. Sorin hall debating team is composed of William Pendergast, William Walsh, and Joseph Barber.
Dillon Hall negative defeated St. Edward’s affirmative in a debate Friday evening, December 6. Critic judge of the debate was Daniel C. O’Grady, associate professor of philosophy.
PSYCHIATRY TRIP
Thirteen students of the psychiatry class made the annual trip to the State Hospital for the Insane at Logansport, Ind., last Wednesday. .
The trip was in charge of Dr. Leo Kuntz, associate professor of educa. tion. Those who made the trip were: Francis Donlon, Brother Justin, Karl Fulnecky, John Herrick, John W. Hopkins, Thomas Kinnealey, Joseph Kovach, George Krisal, Joseph Maher, John Robinson, William Stapleton, Henry Staunton and J. Albert Torribio.	'
S i x
The Scholastic
Dr. Kinsman Concludes
Short Lecture Series
“The entire aim of my lectures is to illustrate how the different lines of religious divergence started in the 16th century seemed to pave the way toward the indifferent mood of modem Protestantism, which now is of no practical importance except for its influence on present conditions.”
With these words, Dr. Frederick Kinsman, Jr. opened his discussion of Anglicanism last Tuesday evening in ' Washington hall in the fifth of a series of six lectures on Catholic, Protestant, and Agnostic thought.
Dr. Kinsman traced the history of Anglicanism, which is that form of Protestantism inherent in the state church of England and in the Episcopal churches of the United States and of the British dominions, from its beginning as a potent force under Henry VIII to the present time.
Anglican Analogy
The former Episcopalian minister took pains to clearly demonstrate that the tone and temper of Anglican thought was distinctly analogous to the vacillating and ambiguous ecclesiastical policy of Queen Elizabeth— which found its solution in three different sets of prayer books, each intended to satisfy the various religious factions without actually doing so.
“Non-Catholic,” he stated, “does not so much mean today anti-Catholic, as more often than formerly it means non-Christian.”
Last Monday the speaker discussed the shifting aspects of Calvinism, beginning the lecture with a short resume of Calvin’s life, followed by a studied treatment of the doctrine of predestination, which has had a far greater influence on Protestant thought than the emotional character of Lutheranism.
“Influenced more by the Old Testament than the New,” said Dr. Kinsman, “Calvin formulated a legal code based on the principle that God is an almighty Power Who cannot be resisted, and Who is the creator of both good and evil—which, resulted in the doctrine of election, predestination, which tenet does not recognize the love of God.”
The lecturer outlined the paradoxical democratic autocracy form of government which Calvin set up at Geneva, from where emanated his skeptical teachings which reduced morals and faith to mere nebulous fancies.
Dr. Kinsman brought the highly successful lecture series to a close Wednesday evening with a broad discussion of Catholicism in all its phases, being particularly concerned with an evaluation of modern Catholic thought in comparison with Protestant and Agnostic thought.
IN 1881 STUDENTS CELEBRATED CHRISTMAS WITH ROUND OF OLD FASHIONED PARTIES
By Gregory Byrnes
“When’ya leavin’, Joe?”
“Wednesday at 4:50. Got a quiz at 3:15.”
“Coming back on time?”
“Heck yes, haven’t any cuts left.”
“Football?”	'
“Yea.”
“That’s tough. Goin’ to the Christmas dance?”
“What Christmas dance? We haven’t any club any more.”
“I thought the alumni were running one.”
“I haven’t heard anything about it. But whether we have a dance or not
“Not a creature was stirring. . .”
I intend to have me one sweet time this holiday.”
“Yea, same here. Call me up when you get home.”
Shades of St. Nicholas, how times have changed! It was in venerable Sorin Hall that this conversation took place. From the hallowed recesses of this noble pile the ghosts of former generations of Notre Dame men look on and shake their hoary heads. On these nights before Christmas when all through the hall an ail* of scholarly (?) quiet prevails many a student is disturbed in his dreams of the perfect holiday by faint, indistinct whispers that come floating down the gloomy reaches of the ceiling far above. Mice? No indeed, ’tis the ghost of the Christmas past. Shhhh, I thought I caught a word that time. Can it be “Sissies,” it certainly sounded like it. Phil Fumble swears he heard someone whisper
“It’s not like the good old days.” Just what were the good old days like? Let’s delve back into the past and see just what Christmas at Notre Dame was like in the so-called “good old days.”
The Scholastic of 1881 furnishes the following gems of . historical knowledge:
“Thursday morning several students, armed with a little hatchet, journeyed to the woods near St. Mary’s and returned with a beautiful Christmas tree. The tree in all its splendour may now be seen in the student’s playroom.
“On Friday night the students were entertained by Mrs. J. N. N------, of Chicago, who rendered several charming vocal and instrumental selections.
“The Seniors held their Christmas masquerade last eevning. The costumes varied from the grotesque to the sentimental. After the party they did ample justice to a bountiful oyster supper.
“On Chrismas day the gifts which had bedecked the tree so beautifully were distributed to the students. Among the preesnts were such well known books as The Life of Daniel Boone, Tasso, and Pictorial Beauties of Nature, an air-gun, six pairs of bedroom slippers, a beautiful silver paper weight, as well as all kinds of cakes and candies almost ad infinitum
Sleigh Ride to Mishawaka
“After dinner two large carry-alls drew up at the door of the refectory and soon the Seniors were off on a delightful ride to Mishawaka. Sleighing is becoming increasing popular on the campus.
“At odd moments during the week the students amused themselves by tripping the light fantastic in the rotunda. The music was furnished by Messrs Newman, Hoffman, and Maher” (What, no women!)
Even as late as 1916 we find the following:	.
“The special Notre Dame train for New York City and points East was patronized by a large group of students. On returning they expressed entire satisfaction with this new arrangement. The journey was made much more pleasant by the presence of the Mandolin club which rendered several delightful selections in the holiday spirit.
“Students are expected to return immediately after New Year’s.” (Then as a gentle reminder) “The penalty for failure to return promptly will be, for the first day, 5% off the bulletin mark, for the second 4%, for the third 3%, and 2% for each subsequent day.”
(Continued on Page 10)
December 13, 1935
Seven
Address Delivered by Mr. Carlos P. Romulo
At the Special Convocation Dec. 9, 1935, Commemorating the Establishment of the Republic of the Philippines
One would be dull of wit, indeed, and slow of heart who could be unresponsive to the fortunate coincidence of historic influences brought to this occasion at Notre Dame. I refer to the apt confluence of the Faith and freedom that have streamed through the history of the Philippines, nurturing our people to the maturity of independence. Today, both are given representative testimony in a joint gesture of remembrance and the concerned congratulation of amicable hope.
His Excellency, the President of the United States, bespeaks the freedom of a nation dedicated to the proposition that all men, and all groups of men, are created equal before the law; a nation which controls itself through democratic institutions so designed as to serve evenly the rights of all—their liberties and opportunities; that each may live without servitude and without envy; protected in domestic security and confirmed in the inalienable, proprietary powers of citizens.
Community -Creates the State
The sovereignty of this Republic is shared by all, possessed by none, that the authority of government may never be presumptive or arbitrary but only representative and revocable. A Democracy may vote away its powers—as it has in Germany and, recently, in Greece; but a republic cannot do likewise without ceasing to exist. In the United States, freedom is not limited to the franchise of suffrage but extended to all elements of political and social function. The State, then, can never become coequal with the community; as could be if processes of government were accepted as embracing the structure and form of society. The community is greater, as well as antecedent to, the State. It creates the State to control and order its multiple interests; interests which, citizens never relinquish whether to kings, princes, or parliaments. To mistake this relation, to misread the genealogy of government, is to induce the subservience of the popular to the governmental will. ‘Of the people, by the people, for the people,’ is, therefore, a prepositional summary of the concept of that freedom which the United States enjoys and which, with singular magnanimity, it has conveyed and bequeathed to the Filipino people.
Among a people so naturally dis
Eight
posed as the Filipinos to independence, this doctrine of freedom, taught with the conviction of discovery, found widespread and lively acceptance. Small wonder, that we should have desired for ourselves what the Americans taught was the preeminent blessing of national existence !
National Freedom Essential
There are some now, however, who would caution us (and not imprudent-, ly) that autonomy may prove precipitate; that we are unskilled in statecraft; lacking the consciousness of organic unity; infantile in the arbitrament of arms; that we are economically overweighted by the past preferment of export; in short, that freedom may mean famine, if it will not mean worse.
To such counsel of caution we reply that freedom is an essential condition of national, as of individual, expression. The Revolutionary Americans so believed and, risking all, died in the hallowed name of Liberty. Bunker Hill, Valley Forge, Saratoga are the immortal watch-words of an ideal and a lasting record of its price. The Filipinos, too, have their battlefields of Freedom and they shall bear, I trust, with equanimity the trials that independence imposes. Indeed, misfortune and dangers are but the transient, if inescapable circumstances of living; to strive to overcome them is to live valiantly. We desire no more!
Faith Old in Philippines
And in our freedom, we shall be fortified by that Faith which outlasts because it transcends Time. This greater heritage of the vast majority of our people is given witness today by Notre Dame and the prelates of the Catholic Church. Like freedom, Faith reached us through conquest. Centuries ago, with the crown of Spain came the cross of Christ; both borne on the vehement and masterful exuberance of those dauntless adventurers who foreshortened the earth. They sought silver for their king and subjects for their God. Among us they found both. But the crown was really buried with them; we have almost forgotten how or when. The cross remains throughout our islands, a symbol and an evidence of the radical culture of our minds.
For no one can believe human life foreshadows, through mysteries, a
more ample and intimate existence with God; no one can believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God Who saved us by His death and sanctifies us by His Sacrament; no one can believe himself a conscious soul under the commandment of Divine love; no one, I repeat, can believe these things without having altered profoundly the quality of his thought and the direction of his outlook. Such belief is a tradition among the Filipinos. It distinguishes us among the peoples of the Far East; and it will be a vital, creative agent in the formation of our new nation. By this, I do not wish to imply that Catholicism is the religion of the State. It is much more; it is the religion of the people. And the people, not the State, are sovereign. To constrain religion as an instrumentality of Government and to adopt the anomalous thing called ‘State Religion’ is to consider religion falsely and abandon it, as contempo- . rary events elsewhere prove, to the mercy of a Government which may not be representative of the people whom it rules. To permit the State to adopt a religion is to concede to the State its potential extension to all functions of Society; it is to conceive the State as the ultimate framework of the social organism. The contrary is, of course, true in the very nature of things. Government, unless it be tyranny, is but an instrument variously chosen by the community for its own social purposes.
So the Philippine constitution instructs its future government that there shall be freedom of worship, indicating thereby that its power shall be limited to control manifestations affecting public discipline; and indicating, too, that the practice of religion shall in no way be considered as dependent on legislative concession. The phrase ‘freedom of worship’ places religion outside the basic law rather than within it; and properly so, since a constitution is projected to restrict government, not Society.
Faith Sustains Freedom
The Catholic Faith will be, accordingly, free to inspire, develop and modify our institutions conformably to its supreme law of charity. Through charity we should achieve obedience without servility; authority without autocracy; justice without favoritism; equality of respect without the anarchy of no distinctions. , A legalistic mechanism never has been,
The Scholastic
nor will be, devised to attain per se the ends of social justice. Nor are these ends furthered substantially, as some maintain, by racial temperament, geographical position or contingent relationships. Only the assurance of Christian charity enables us to forecast the direction that the exercise of sovereignty will take, Faith, then, gives sustenance to our freedom.
Careful of Panaceas
Graced with this double gift of constructive forces, the Philippine Commonwealth initiates a new national effort for the realization of an ordered and equivalent Society. It would be presumptuous to say we shall achieve it; it would be supine not to try. We shall begin our task with an enthusiasm sobered by historical perspective. If we are a newborn nation, we are not, thereby newborn to the perception of realities. We can be careful not to be misled by ardent apostles of fatuous panaceas, infallible in appearance because tested only against the unanswering vacuity of their author’s minds. We can be docile before facts and mindful that systems, however finely sculptured, can be broken by inordinate hearts and tempestuous wills. We can put forth a modest, well-principled effort to approximate a solution of the harassing problem of economic balance and distribution.
Until lately the Philippines had a plantation economy such as once obtained in the South-eastern States of the Union. Now, we have moved, though in a limited degree, toward the complexities of agrarian and industrial capitalism. There is, in capitalism, much that is still immature and, therefore, maladjusted to the existing social order.
Communism Not a Philosophy
But there is nothing inherently vicious in capitalism. This pooling of wealth for production needs to be counter-balanced by pooling of resources of consumption; only so, can capitalism be wholesome and beneficial. We do not share the views of those who would prevent the acquirement of wealth by distributing it gratuitously. We believe such a process would either destroy wealth for all or concentrate it in the hands of some group who would call themselves, euphemistically, the State.
We do not accept the Marxian dialectic that classes are economically formed and that the road to security is through the liquidation of those classes in' favor of the proletariat. Every Oriental knows that there is scarcely any proletariat in the Far East; and knows, too, that classes are formed there by educational discrimination as in China, by social heredity as in Malaya, by religious modalities as in India where no amount of
December 13, 1935
acquired wealth would warrant infringement of class privileges. True, the Far East is mildly sensitive to Communism but not because the Far East is class conscious; rather because it is land conscious. Communism in the East is not a philosophy; it is an illegitimate hope for unearned increment. Economic class warfare is a myth of the Communists. But economic conflict, as a disorder of the whole social body, is no myth and we
Carlos P. Romulo, LL.D.
shall strive to eliminate it from our commonwealth by what I have referred to as a modest well-principled effort.
Natural Diversity in Society
The approach to this must be realistic; not patronizing and crusading. It is grandiose and anarchial nonsense to pretend that all elements of society must enjoy equality of identity. ‘Every man a king* is the motto of a fool’s paradise and the catchphrase of political trumpery. There is in society a natural diversity of gifts and function, and where there is distinction of ability, there will be distinction of reward. The coalescing of sundry groups composes the pattern of communal living; and communal living is not an artificial result produced by one class for its own advantage but the inevitable expression of man’s social character.
Accordingly, we believe economic factors possess social as well as individual significance. Men are not free to ignore these; nor have we the power by legislative fiat to1 abolish them. We shall maintain, then, that ownership is a right derived from nature, not from law, and its use or misuse cannot destroy, or cause to be
forfeited, the right itself. Wealth invested in capital should have a return but the return should be related to the economy of the nation current at the period of the deposition. ' Income should be as thermal as the discount rate. A fixed interest or a fixed wage for profit, determined over any but a short period is obviously unsocial since economic conditions will have altered before the loan or the contract has expired. Contracts for interest or labor once out-moded destroy the equilibrium of the economic field in which the incidence of their fulfillment occurs. The fixed element in economics should be the equation of justice; the variable element is price.
Obligations of Labor
Like ownership and its rewards labor, too, has its social obligations. Labor must attain its individual rights without infringement of the common good. It is false that the worth of labor’ is the worth of its net result; false that labor exercised on the property of another begets ownership; false even that all profits not needed for repair and replacement belong to the workingman. To assert the contrary is to lose sight of the social aspect of labor and the right of ownership. But labor does create a right to profit-sharing — a right that is again individual and social. It is the right of labor to share in profits on the basis of a living wage. If capital does not pay this, social justice demands that employment be prohibited. But if employers cannot pay this because of unfair competition or unethical imposition of taxes, then the controlling laws of the State should be abrogated.	-
Such considerations will.form the basis of our principled effort to obr tain the peace of economic security within our own country.
Nations Created Equal
But for the assurance of that larger peace which depends not on us but on the nations of the world, we must await a more enlightened internationalism. In international affairs, the Darwinian theory seems still to persist though long since dispossessed from its native habitat in Biology. The survival of the fittest appears to be the law of national existence and actions which, in the domestic ambient, would be corrected by police power, are glorified and given the support of armies in the international arena. When will we learn to apply to nations the same principles of morality we apply to individuals? When will we learn that nations, as well as men, are created equal before the law? Until we do, all nations, the . great as well as the small, are in jeopardy; the great may repeL inva-(Continued on Page 14)
Nine

From Files Of
The Scholastic
November 14, 1896—“If you want anything in the tonsorial line from a waxed moustache to a new head of hair, call on Stewart B. Wiseacre, Tonsorial Artist, No. 21, Rue Tatoot, Sorin Hall. Shampoos, warranted to remove dandruff, hair and scalp, a specialty. Hair extracted without pain.”
April 17, 1897 — “Last week for the first time the Carrollites gathered together their bicycle toys, greased their chains and sallied forth to the St. Joe Farm a-wheel. They returned from their ride in the afternoon well pleased that they arrived alive.”
September 18, 1897 — “Pulskamp and Stuhlfauth, the Irish comedians are with us again. They have a very clever new specialty, entitled “One Night With A Pretzel,” which they will present at the Roof Garden Theatre over the post office building.”
Mr. Romulo Delivering Stirring Address
CHRISTMAS FEATURE
(Continued from Page 7)
All of which serves to remind us that only four more days remain till the event of the general exodus. Already the Yuletide atmosphere pervades the campus. As I look about me I spy the harassed mail man vainly seeking to extricate himself from a crowd of would-be travellers each intent on securing the letter that must contain the vital check. Time tables emerge from beneath stacks of dogeared letters. In the next room Joe Blow from Michigan and his roommate from Florida engage in a heated debate regarding the relative merits of tobogganing and surf bathing as holiday sports.
Yes, indeed, the excitement that takes possession of the campus is everywhere apparent. Those who leave early are sent on their way with the usual “Merry Christmas.” Home and the holiday are the two subjects uppermost in the minds of all. Ghosts that whisper are forgotten. Christmas is in the air!
Robert William Cavanaugh, S.A.C. man, Commerce Forum; clubs and clubs . . . Claims he’s from Oil City, Pennsylvania, but really hails from Rouseville ... Is the campus representative of Pennzoil and will give
anyone an extensive sales talk on it at any time . . . Probably the only man in school who can run a centrifuge machine. . . .
Is the Jim Farley of the campus. . . . His political career dates back to his Brownson days . . . First man to serve on the S.A.C. three years . . . President of the Commerce Forum and Chairman of the Campus Clubs Committee . . . Always going to a meeting ... Was either backing or recommending every candidate for office last year. . . .
Keeps average around 88 despite activities . . . Active in interhall sports both as player and coach . . . His Badin Lightweights were interhall champs last year in basketball. . . . Took a fling at cross country but couldn’t come across ... A good soft-ball man, and a fair golfer . . . Formed Walsh’s third floor Bowling League ... His Tilden build aids him at ping pong, but is no Greenleaf with a cue. . . .
Rooms in 307 with Deely and disagrees with him on everything . . . His room is the center of activity and he passes his ‘Mailpouch’ around like a good host. . . Holds target practice in spare time . . . Has an address book with few male names ... A Mary at home heads the list . . . She
(Continued on Page 30)
Ten
The Scholastic
Professor Hollis Speaks Before Lay Faculty Group
“The League of Nations does little good, but on the other hand, still less harm,” declared Christopher Hollis, noted historian and economist from England, in an address before members of the University Lay Faculty club at the Oldenburg Inn on Monday evening, December 9.
Mr. Hollis based his talk on the present conditions in Europe in which
Professor Christopher Hollis
Traces war history.
the Press fosters a spirit of nationalism by leading people to believe that their country is a victim of conspiracy of other nations. The two major problems in Europe now, he said, are Italy and Germany.
Mr. Hollis said: “Italy’s war with Abyssinia is no recent development, but goes back to the Versailles treaty and to the World War. It was distinctly promised Italy by the Allies as a compensation for entering the war that certain territorial allotments needed by Italy as an outlet for her crowded population would be assigned to her directly after the war was won. Unfortunately, in 1918 Italy, when the war was won, was on - the verge of national anarchy and communism.
“No breach of agreements can be - charged against England and France for their decision under these conditions that more territory for Italy, -- when she could not govern what she already had would be against the interests of Italy, herself. The allotments were not made.”
Mr. Hollis declared that the main purpose of the Fascist regime since then has been to recover the respect of Europe in this war with Ethiopia and not to derive any concessions from the country.
HORNER AND KELLY GREETED
Governor Henry Horner of Illinois and Mayor Edward J. Kelly of Chicago were greeted with boisterous ovation from the strong Chicago dele-w gation in the north section.
December 13, 1935
RADIO ANNOUNCERS FIND STAFF MEMBERS "KNOW ALL THE ANSWERS"
The regular Thursday evening broadcast from the campus radio station on Dec. 5 provided an unusual angle to the “Inquiring Reporter” program regularly heard at that time. Announcers Joe Mansfield and Arem Jarrett, who ask the questions on this quarter hour program, found themselves shunted on the air at 8:45 instead of the usual 9:15.
“The Scholastic of the Air,” weekly broadcast of news events from the campus weekly, was to be rehearsed at 8:45, so Mansfield hurriedly dragged staff members Lindsay Phoebus, Tony O’Boyle, and Jim Waldron to the microphone.
O’Boyle, Phoebus and Waldron turned the tables on the announcers by the simple process of answering correctly most of the questions put to them.
Mansfield added to the confusion of the program by cornering his own announcer Arem Jarrett, to wind up the battle of questions.
South Bend Tribune Photo
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., awarding degree to Carlos P. Romulo
Belgian Envoy Pays
Visit To University
Count Robert Vander Straeten-Pontholtz, Belgian ambassador to the United States was the guest of the University when he arrived here last Sunday morning to pay his respects to Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., famous priest-chemist, inventor of synthetic rubber.
Count Straeten-Pontholz was welcomed by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., and was his luncheon guest during his brief stay on the campus. The veteran diplomat, who has been 32 years in the service of the Belgian government, made a brief address in the auditorium of the Law building before departing for Chicago.
The noted Belgian first caine to this country in an official capacity last January when he was appointed to the ambassadorial post. He had previously been in diplomatic service in Europe.
Eleven
Text of President Franklin Roosevelt’s Speech
The Address of the Chief Executive after Reception of Honorary Degree Conferred by the University of Notre Dame
In acknowledging the honor which through the granting of this degree the University of Notre Dame confers upon me, I wish first personally to thank your president, the very Reverend John F. O’Hara and all the members of your faculty. I deeply appreciate the honor and the accompanying citation.
One in public life learns that personally he can never be worthy of the honors that come to him as an official of the United States. But it is equally true that I am most happy to be so honored. The honor places upon me an additional obligation to try to live up to the citation—both for the sake of my country and as a new alumnus of the University of Notre Dame. I am glad to take part in this special convocation called to honor the new commonwealth of the Philippines.
Philippine Freedom Hailed
Almost 40 years ago the United States took over the sovereignty of the Philippine Islands. The acceptance of sovereignty was but an obligation to serve the people of the Philippines until the day they might themselves be independent and take their own place among the nations of the world.
We are here to welcome the commonwealth. I consider it one of the happiest events of my office as President of the United States to have signed in the name of the United States the instrument which will give national freedom to the Philippine people.
Islands Waited Patiently
The time is not given me to recite the history of those 40 years. That history reveals one of the most extraordinary examples of national cooperation, national adjustment and national independence the world has ever witnessed. It is a tribute to the genius of the Philippine people. Subject to the government of a country other than their own, they generously adjusted themselves to conditions often not to their liking; they patiently waited; they forfeited none of that freedom which is natively theirs as a people, and which they have so definitely expressed with due regard for fundamental human rights in their new constitution.
We have a clear right also to congratulate ourselves as a people because in the long run we have chosen •the right course with respect to the Philippine Islands. Through our power we have not sought our own.
Twelve
Through our power we have sought to benefit others.
That both nations kept to the policy leading to this most happy result is due to the fact that both nations
Copyright Harris and Ewing
President Franklin D. Roosevelt have the deepest respect for the inalienable rights of man. Those rights were specifically championed more than a century and a half ago in pur own Declaration of Independence. Those same rights are championed in the new constitution of the Philippine commonwealth.
Religious Freedom Supreme
There can be no true national life either within a nation itself or between that nation and other nations unless there be the specific acknowledgement of, and the support of organic law to, the rights of man. Supreme among these rights we, and now the Philippine commonwealth, hold to be the rights of freedom, of education and freedom of religious worship.
This university from which we send our welcome to the new commonwealth exemplifies the principles of which I speak. Through the history of this great middle west—its first explorers and first missionaries—Joliet, Marquette, De La Salle, Hennepin —its lone eagle, Father Badin, who is buried, here, its apostolic Father
Sorin, founder of Notre Dame university, its zealous missionaries of other faiths, its pioneers of varied nationalities, all have contributed to the upbuilding of our country because all have subscribed to those fundamental principles of freedom, freedom of education, freedom of worship.
Religion Directed by Reason
Long ago, George Mason in the Virginia Declaration of Rights voiced what has become one of the deepest convictions of the American people: “Religion, or the duty which we owe to our Creator, and the manner of discharging it, can be directed only by reason and conviction, not by force or violence, and therefore all men are equally entitled to the free exercise of religion according to the dictates of conscience.”
In the conflict of policies and of political systems which the world today witnesses, the United States has held for its own guidance and for the guidance of other nations if they will accept it, this great torch of liberty of human thought, liberty of human conscience. We will never lower it. We will never permit, if we can help it, the light to grow dim. Rather through every means legitimately within our power and our office, we will seek to increase that light, that its rays may extend farther; that its glory may be seen even from afar.
Appreciation to Notre Dame
Every indication of the sanctity of these rights at home; every prayer that other nations may accept them, is an indication of how virile, how living they are in the hearts of every true American.
Of their own initiative, by their own appreciation, the Philippine commonwealth has now also championed them before the world. Through the favor of divine providence may they be blessed as a people with prosperity. May they grow in grace through their own constitution to the peace and well being of the whole world.
And so let me say as I leave you that I am happy to be here today, that I am proud of the great distinction which you have conferred upon •me. And may I tell you that I was more touched than by anything else by that word of the President of Notre Dame when he said I will be in your prayers. I appreciate that and I trust that I may be in your prayers.
- The Scholastic
* Cardinal Mundelein’s Introductory Address
Characterizes President as a Man of Indomitable Courage, Overcoming Great
Handicaps to Bring Order out of Chaos
It is now nearly fifteen years since my last visit to Notre Dame. I used to come frequently in its days of struggle and poverty, but now that success and prosperity have come to the university, I feel it has an abundance of friends. But that I should ’ have come at this time and this season surely indicates that this must be an all-important occasion and a weighty reason for my coming. And so it is. I have come to join with Notre Dame in its welcome to the Chief Executive of our nation. And while I speak for myself, yet in a way r I act too as your spokesman, on behalf of the faculty and student-body on this occasion in our endeavor to make the President feel that he has really come into the home of his friends. We are not in politics, neither the Church nor I; no individual Cardinal, Bishop or priest, no organization of laymen or Catholic newspaper has the right to speak for the twenty million Catholics in this country in matters of politics; only the Bishops of the Country together, in conference or in council, and they have not done so, and so we do not wish our words to be interpreted in that sense. Nor have I any intention , of defending the Rooseveltian policies; the President is perfectly well able to do that himself and he needs no outside help.
Friendship With President
But—I have known the President quite intimately, better than many who meet him oftener and deal with him officially. My relations with him were of a personal character. I had no axe to grind, no favors to seek, and so he was always able to express himself freely without fear of misinterpretation or breach of confidence. It is at such times one is I able to better gauge a man’s character, to look down into his very soul, to read more clearly the purposes that motivate his actions. I have talked to men who were his real friends, men who would have laid down their lives for him, and unconsciously they painted for me a picture of the man that he is. And as a result I have learned to admire in him, more than ’ anything else, his indomitable fighting courage, the courage that enabled him to overcome a great physical handicap that .would have laid low < almost any other man; the courage that helped him fight his way and come to the very top with clean hands; the courage that enabled him
to bring order and renewed confidence out of chaos at the very beginning of his administration; the courage that caused him to set aside the traditions of his class, the friendships of his youth, the pressure of the
His Eminence Cardinal Mundelein
money-power, to come to the aid of the forgotten man in the more equal distribution of wealth. We who know how the poor must live, we whose duty it is to lighten their burdens and help solve their problems as much as we can, we have long since felt that the great swollen fortunes of yesterday and today must soon be a thing of the past, that the burden of taxation must soon be shifted to be more equally borne by those who have the inherited wealth and plentiful income to enable them to do so. I can only repeat again in public what I said to the President in private when he spoke of his purpose to levy a more equable tax on great wealth and large incomes, as he has, “it is something that should have been done long ago, but oh, it will take a lot of courage to do so, and to carry it
. through.”
I believe this visit today of our distinguished guest to Notre Dame is timely and propitious. Here are several thousand young men on the threshold of their great adventure. They are facing the coming struggle with hope high in their hearts and the future bright and promising to their eyes. They are impatient to reach the goal of success as quickly as they can. They already see themselves rich and famous in but a few years from now. And yet we, who are
about to lay down the burden they are preparing to take up, who have no other light to guide us than the lamp of experience of the past, we can see more clearly into the future than they; we know that the days of the get rich quick are over, that many of them must endure poverty and want unless they are prepared to meet many an obstacle, to overcome hardship with great perseverance, to hold their faith high, their courage fast and unshaken.
The old Latins had an adage “verba docent, exempla trahunt.” Students of Notre Dame, you are fortunate in having for your President at this time a man who has given us all an outstanding example in his life of indomitable persevering courage, who has striven to the best of his strength and ability to benefit his fellow man, who has been every bit as brave a soldier as any who fell on the battlefield.
As the highest ranking Roman Catholic ecclesiastic west of the Alleghany mountains, and westward past China, Japan and the Philippine Islands, as a native American of four generations and the grandson of one of the finest soldiers to shed his blood for the Union, but more than all, as a warm personal friend and admirer, I have the great pleasure of welcoming to this midwestem seat of Christian culture and education its most recent alumnus, the 31st President of these United States, Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
PRESIDENT QUEZON SENDS MESSAGE
Rev. Father O’Hara, December 10 Notre Dame University, South Bend, Indiana.
On behalf of my people and myself I want to thank you and Notre Dame University for your Philippine celebration. We are deeply grateful for this evidence of your interest in the success of the Commonwealth. With highest regards I am thankfully yours
Manuel Quezon,
Pres, of the Commonwealth of the Philippines.
His Excellency December 10 Manuel Quezon, Manila.
Deeply grateful for congratulatory message and sanctioning our action honoring Romulo through whom it was our great pleasure to honor you, your government, and your people.
John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
December 13, 1935
Thirteen
TEXT OF CARLOS P. ROMULO'S ADDRESS
(Continued from Page 9)
Voice of the Campus . . .
sion, they have yet to succeed in repelling War. The present competition for mathematical equality is a trepidating evidence of mutual distrust and a proof of reliance in strength for the enforcement of claims. We must inveigh against and deplore the conditions which warrant this cynicism of preparedness. And I venture to propose that, of these conditions, the most pernicious is the prevailing concept of the State as a political and economic, rather than a moral, entity. When Louis Quatorze said, “I am the State,” he at least made the State a responsible person. Today, State absolutism is impersonal and neuter. Unless this is corrected, the Congress of nations will continue to be regulated by a diplomatic, rather than a moral, code; governments will be recognized as great or small; the voice of power, instead of truth, will continue to be the decisive voice; and the freedom of little nations will depend on their ability to remain unnoticed or undesirable.
The Philippines Stand Alone
Against the aggression of arms, the Philippines will have no fortress on land or sea. . Competitive armament would be a tragic error. The only defense of the Philippines will be its spirit—its articulated cultural unity which will give it protection in the indestructible integration of character. If war comes, or fresh conquest from whatever source, we shall oppose it to the death; but we shall
oppose it alone. We shall not ask the shedding of another’s blood to spare our own. We shall not make the Philippines the Serajevo of another world Armageddon. Let no one fear it. To the Philippines, the United States has been a generous benefactor; a loyal and true friend; and if, Mr. President, we can honor that debt in no other way, we can pay with our lives, if need be, lest any act of ours should be a prelude to the weeping of American mothers for their dead. We are a poor nation but not, I hope, without valor and gratitude.
Thanks Notre Dame
We have requested independence; The American people, have granted it. So let it be; and may it prove a blessing for both and a pledge of friendship through the years that are to come. We shall go forward bulwarked with abiding faith in God; confident of the particular good-will of the United States and the amity of our-Far Eastern neighbors; and we shall take our place glorying in our freedom, with restrained courage, ambitious of peace, with malice toward none and with charity toward all.
We thank you, Mr. President, Prelates, the Faculty of Notre Dame, for the honor you have, this day, conferred upon us and we bring to each and all the expression of high regard and cordial esteem from the Honorable Manuel Quezon, President of the Philippine Commonwealth.
Voice of the Campus:
In my humble estimation, there are a few qualifications necessary for a good University regulation. These may be summed up briefly as follows: it must be an effective rule for securing an end necessary for the good of the whole, and, in general, meeting with the approval of those whom it affects.
In the light of this definition, let’s examine the University regulation concerning cuts in the infirmary. Is its purpose to keep fellows out of the infirmary? If so, it is eminently successful, since I have seen any number of fellows who should have medical attention doctoring themselves rather than wasting their cuts in the infirmary. Or is its purpose to keep fellows from taking cuts? If so, it has failed dismally, since fellows continue cutting to the limit, whether in the infirmary, or going home on vacations. Judge for yourselves whether it is for the common good. As regards approval, which is necessary to maintain good-will, if not to prevent flagrant abuse, let it be said that I know of no other University regulation meeting with more universal detestation than this one.
B. P. D.
COLLEGIANA
And Billy 'Sunday is dead. — A freshman at the University of Southern California filled out the church preference on his registration blank as “Bed Brick.”
MANX NOTABLES PRESENT AT CONVOCATION "Santa Maria" Will Be --—	Distributed Next Week
great hall in colorful academic procession. The thousands that were there to witness the ceremonies rose to their feet in a body to honor the many Catholic prelates that were in the procession.
At three o’clock the President’s party started to come on the stage and with the University band immediately signified the arrival of the nation’s Chief Executive with the playing of “Hail To The Chief.” Preceding the President.came His Eminence George Cardinal Mundelein, of Chicago, the presiding officer, and Gov-' : ernor Paul V. McNutt, of Indiana, who was civil host at the ceremonies. When President Roosevelt appeared on the platform he received a tremendous ovation and it was only by his own signal that the din finally subsided sufficiently to permit the program to continue.
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, officially welcomed Mr. Roosevelt to Notre Dame and in his address told of the ties that unite the University and the Philippines. .Recognizing the international aspect created by the presence of the President and members of the diplomatic corps, Father O’Hara said that the Convocation and gesture of friendliness on the part of the University was a “historic occasion.”
In conferring the degree of Doctor of Laws upon the President and Mr. Romulo the University gave its academic recognition of their individual achievements in strengthening the bonds of friendship between the two peoples they represent. The citation, conferring the degree upon the President lauded his splendid faith and magnificent courage in taking over the charge of our government during “a crisis which threatened with collapse and chaos the centuried civiliza-tion and institutions of our country and the rest of the word and who is
now by achievement even more than by official position the first citizen of our republic.”
The bestowal of the degree upon Mr. Romulo was read in these words: “On an eminent Catholic journalist, orator, educator and public servant, who has had a leading part in the establishment of the new nation, a man who by his convincing championship of Christian principles has won the confidence and suppoi-t of his people.”
Following the speech of Mr. Romulo, Cardinal Mundelein made the introductory address of President Roosevelt. In this the Cardinal commented upon his own personal relations with the University and his pleasure that today it had risen to the position of merit it holds in the educational world. He said he considered himself to be the representative of the University in welcoming the. Chief Executive to Notre Dame and it was his strongest hope that the President would feel that in coming here he was coming among friends.
When President Roosevelt took the speaker’s platform he was forced by the tremendous ovation and barrage of newspaper cameramen to wait for several minutes before he could begin his remarks. In decisive tones he told the gathering that this country regarded religious and educational freedom as “supreme among the rights of men” and that the/policy of this nation was freely offered'to other nations if they desired to. accept it. Exemplification of this ideal the President said can be found in the thought of George Mason in the Virginia declaration of rights.
He told his audience that this country would never lower the standard with' which it regards and cherishes these rights. The spirit that is traditional of Notre Dame, Mr. Roosevelt said, substantiates the principles of which he spoke. He referred to the
Santa Maria, official organ of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, will make its second appearance of the school year early next week according to announcement this week from Editor Robert L. Grogan.
The issue will contain two new features, one a colummof-anonymous council_ chatter under the title of “Casey’sTCapers,” the second a column of correspondence known as “Voice of the Council.”
The leading article of the issue is contributed by Lecturer Edward McNally, writing about religion courses as taught at Notre Dame-. The treatment is constructively critical and offers some suggestions for a new and stimulating approach to religious education. McNally calls attention to the fact that now, more than ever before, it is necessary to prepare the students for virile participation in Catholic Action.
Other contributors to the edition are: Eli Abraham, financial secretary of the council; Edmund Hammer, deputy grand knight; William Bowes, treasurer; August “Sunny” Church, advocate, and William J. Gomber, Jr.
The issue also contains plans for a Third Degree initiation to be conferred two or three weeks after the Chrismats holidays.
contributions of Father Badin and “apostolic Father Sorin, founder of Notre Dame University.” These men subscribed “to those fundamental principles of freedom — freedom of education, freedom of worship.”
Musical intermissions were provided by the University band under the direction of Professor Joseph Cas-asanta and the famed Moreau Seminary choir which rendered the “Ave Maria” and the national anthem of the Philippines, “No Mas Amor.”
Part of Huge Assembly Which Saw President Roosevelt Honored
December 13, 1935
Fifteen
Address by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C. S. C.
University President's Opening Speech for the Special Convocation Held in Observance of Philippine Day
Tills special convocation of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame has been called for the purpose of honoring the new Commonwealth of the Philippines. The presence of so many and such distinguished guests makes of this act of friendliness an historic occasion. And rightly so. If it be not unique, it is at least remarkable for a nation to take the final step to sovereignty without bloodshed; and it is indeed eminently fitting that when we mark this event and bless the spirit behind it, we have opportunity to thank personally the statesman most responsible for it, President Franklin D. Roosevelt. .We find deep gratification also in the gracious presence of His Eminence, the Cardinal of the Missions, who presides at these exercises, George Cardinal Mundelein, Archbishop of Chicago.
Alumni in Philippines
The ties that unite the University of Notre Dame to the Philippine Islands are several and close. A distinguished member of our religious community, the late Archbishop Peter J. Hurth, gave twenty years of devoted service to the Church there. Members of many of the most distinguished families in the Islands have been students here, and we learn with satisfaction that they are now taking a responsible part in the affairs of their country. They came to us to learn the Catholic principles of life and to nourish the seeds of sound character. It is only proper that we should recognize them as representative of the best traditions of Notre Dame.
Greets New Commonwealth
In the person of the scholarly and distinguished representative of the ■ Philippine Islands who is today our guest, Mr. Carlos P. Romulo, we extend the felicitations of the University to His Excellency, President Que- ' zon, and to his government. And in the exercise of our academic privilege to teach, we venture to add the friendly admonition that in the Catholic principles of philosophy the new government of the Philippines can find much wisdom which no nation can afford to ignore. Our own beloved President has found support in the Encyclicals of Pope Leo XIII and Pope Pius XI; it would ill behoove, the Catholic people of the Philippines to be less appreciative than he of the wisdom of the Vatican. Your people,
Sixteen
Mr. Romulo, have chosen democracy as the form of government under which they 'will live; Thomas Jefferson did not overlook the profound teachings of St. Robert Bellarmine on the subject of democracy. And in
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
the problems of internationalism which your geographical limits and location impose, do not overlook the teachings of St. Thomas Aquinas, whose brothers in Christ, the Dominican friars, have contributed so much and for so long to the intellectual life of your people.
Welcomes Cardinal Mundelein
To His Eminence, Cardinal Mundelein, the University owes a debt of gratitude, to which it gladly gives public expression on this occasion. The Archdiocese of Chicago and the University of Notre Dame have grown up together. In the Columbus murals that decorate the administration building on the campus, there is a portrait of Father Neyron, who, before taking Holy Orders, was a surgeon with Napoleon I, and who. with several other priests, lived at Notre Dame and did missionary work.
in Chicago. We believe that we see a parallel in the sacrifices which the Archdiocese and the University have made in their struggles to do the work God has entrusted to them. We treasure the blessing and the good will of His Eminence, and we' try to profit by his noble example of zeal for the glory of God.
Thanks President Roosevelt
To you, Mr. President, we cannot adequately express the gratitude we feel for your goodness in turning aside from weighty duties to be with us today. Notre Dame is a home as well as a school; and what is called the Notre Dame spirit emanates from this home that is a school and this school that is a home. We welcome you, Mr. President, to the family of Notre Dame. To the respectful esteem which is your due as our Chief Executive, we add the affection that is born of admiration for* the courage with which you took charge of this country in the darkest hour it has known since the Civil War. And we do not forget that you began your administration with prayer. You share in our prayers, our family prayers. In a democracy there is always room for honest difference of opinion as to the means that are employed to cure a specific ailment of the body politic; but on fundamental principles there is no room foi’ compromise if a man is to be true to his conscience. In the studied conviction that you have been a conscientious ruler we welcome you, Mr. President, into the ranks of the alumni of the University of Notre Dame.
COMMENT
(Continued from Page 3)
Popular opinion around the campus Monday night was unanimous that Mr. Romulo’s address was one of the best ever delivered at the University. Especially remembered was that tag, “Communism is merely an illegitimate hope for an unearned increment.”
At the end of the blessing given by Cardinal Mundelein, the President’s eyes were alight with deep reverence as he uttered a fervent “Amen” which was clearly audible to those in the front rows.
The formal ceremonies came to a close with the “Victory March.” One seldom hears it sung with such mean-ing and force.
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
Page Mrs. Hollis — Mrs. Christopher Hollis, in an address delivered to students and faculty of St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, several weeks ago, expressed the opinion that young ladies’ education should cease at the age of 18 years unless a career was anticipated by the particular individual.
An article in the Ohio State Lantern of Dec. 4 seems to bear Mrs. Hollis’ contention with the fact that girls in college are actually becoming rarer. Quoting from the Lantern, “Only 27.5 percent of the total enrollment of 11,417 students in the University (Ohio State) are co-eds. Recent statistics released by the office of the dean of women show a steady decrease in the percentage of women students and an equally steady increase in the number of male students. . .”
—o—
In The Scholastic a few weeks ago, there appeared a short poem the key-note of which was that ‘Women are funny.’ From the Skyscraper of Mundelein College, Chicago, comes the following snappy retort: ■
Don’t be deceived
Dear ‘Juggler Vein’ Women are funny Around Notre Dame . When you see them
They’re quite insane And out to help You win the game. Like Rockne’s men, The other side
Can’t understand them And their actions
Can’t be predicted.
That’s why they’re funny.
If they weren’t	"
Life would be terrible Because—
The rest of the game Would be a laugh Why YOU couldn’t depend On a BETTER HALF!
-	—o—
One more comment before the football season of 1935 is buried as far as. this column is concerned. The Purdue Exponent makes an observation that deserves attention and does not always get it because of the bloodthirsty attitude of the modern American galleries.
The Exponent says, “The ball is snapped — as the scrimmage untangles, we fully expect to see a dozen ‘laid out cold.’ It is inconceivable that a human body could go through such a melee without being seriously, damaged in some respect.”
December 13, 1935
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Notre Dame at last can brag of a “polar bear” of her very own. A “polar bear” in quotation marks, you know, is one of those fellows who enjoys nothing more than a swim in an icy lake when the bottom is about ready to drop out of the thermometer. Surprisingly enough, however, this “polar bear” does not care much for gamboling about in the chill waters
of the adjacent bodies of water but rather seems to prefer the confines of St. Mary’s little pond. Or maybe it was just by chance that Paul Rubly— there, we would have to let his name slip out—found himself standing up to his knees in the pond. Next time you take a dare, Paul, wear a bathing suit!
•
Well, so long, Mr. President—and we hope it is only “so long.” We really enjoyed having you with us and would like to see you return again soon. No matter what our political affiliations, all of us strained our necks to get a glimpse of you. You see, it’s not often that a President of the United States drops in on Notre Dame. We hope that you were as impressed with what you saw of Notre Dame men and campus as we were by what we saw and heard of you. So drop in again anytime you’re close by, Mr. President, and have a saucer of tea with us.
Thanks, to the expert advice of Fathers Hope and Doremus, we finally mastered the intricacies of donning the black robes of seniority last Monday and made the convention on time. Were we proud! Our poise was shaken a bit, though, when the President looked somewhat askance at the jaunty angle at which we sported our mortar board. “Some people have no sense of propriety whatever,” he must have been saying to himself. If he had known, he would no doubt have taken into consideration the fact that we columnists are of a different mold than ordinary mortals.
One has difficulty in recognizing the old gymnasium now that the landscape gardeners have planted a
very forest of shrubbery and trees about it. We wonder whom they were trying to fool — President Roosevelt or the Notre Dame student body. Looks as though in the future we’ll have to reach the handball courts by hacking our way through the underbrush with the aid of machete hatchets.	•
Now the University has been accursed by the organization of an AllAmerican hunting club. Her gridiron athletes have of late developed into veritable nimrods and, equipped with massive shotguns, have been chasing little bunnies all over Indiana. You should see Tony Mazziotti in his hunting outfit, so called. He’s a very fashion plate from that well-known “magazine for men” itself. After taking one look at Mazzo’s attire, we don’t wonder that he and the rest of his cronies and their cannon have been able to accomplish nothing more than the signal feat of sending to his ancestors none other than the University’s only rabbit.
Motivated by that fine spirit of giving which makes the Christmas season one of such warm cheer and good fellowship, Graduate Manager Dooley, at the last Scholastic staff meeting of the year, acted in accordance with tradition by supplying cigars to the staff members. And they were ten cent ropes, too. What class! Thanks so much, Bill, even though “Caf Smoke” Goldman got our share of the cigars.
Every time a guest sees the two little paper bells hanging on the walls of our Sorin suite, he wants to know if they’re symbolic of the approach of Christmastide; so it is frequently and with many gestures and much illustration that we have to explain that they are merely mementos of our roommate’s sister’s wedding reception in Chicago two weeks ago. But, we hasten to assure our inquisitive visitor, never let it be said that we have not made adequate preparations for the approaching Yuletide. Why, only the day before yesterday we visited Santa Claus in one of South Bend’s larger department stores. How many other* Notre Dame men can claim to have done as much? Before anyone gives us a suitably sarcastic answer,. we’re going to exit, but before doing so, we’d like to bid you all a hasty' MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
Seventeen
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
MERRY CHRISTMAS ... Joe “STATIC” Mansfield reecived a card addressed to radio director, Station CSC. . . . Tony Serge found a namesake in South Bend who is a bartender . . . Norm “FRONT PAGE” Johnson upon entering one of Professor Fenion’s classes slipped and fell to the floor' for the count of ten. . . .
DON’T FORGET TO DO SOME STUDYING DURING THE VACATION (especially RATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY) . . . And another true Scotch tale: Sandy McGallagher, of Badin, lost a nickel in a bout with an Illinois Bell Telephone operator. He berated the poor NUMBER-PLEASE-GIRL. no end and as a result the company forked over a five-cent piece via
’08: “Business is awful.”
’09: “Yeah, wish I was back in Sorin Hall.”
the mail . . . Several days ago Prof. Cooney invited Prof. Fitzgerald to lecture in one of the journalism courses. In his enthusiasm Mr. Fitzgerald over-lectured quite some time. To politely bring the lecture to a close Prof. Cooney invited his guest for a cup o’tea. The two sat themselves behind two cups of said liquid in the cafeteria. Hardly two minutes had elapsed when upon looking at his
Eighteen
watch Prof. Fitzgerald jumped, exclaimed he was late for hospital appointment, and dashed out of the caf leaving two full cups of tea to be consumed, and paid for by Prof. Cooney. . . .
WALSH’S FOURTH FLOOR is still chuckling over Cliff Brown’s chagrin, when, after furiously donning coat and necktie to meet some supposed visitor, he tore down the hall only to discover that Ins caller was . . . a dog, the mascot of one Butch Hansman. Tom Vicars and Bill Byrne, who thought up the joke, are still in hiding . . . Scholastic staff members were literally fired with ambition after sampling Graduate Manager Dooley’s" Christmas cigars during last Friday night’s meeting.
A list of the vacation DON’TS: DON’T talk too freely to the girl friend; DON’T hinder her talking too ' freely to you; DON’T go to bed earlier than 3 A.M.; DON’T come back on time; DON’T pay for your Christmas dance tickets (go through the kitchen); DON’T bring back TOO many bull stories . . . HAPPY NEW YEAR and DON’T forget to have a good time . . . —The Funny Fellows.
Freshmen who should be studying mathematics are probably trying to solve some of the numbers on the walls of the telephone booths.
No, Ravenscroft, the slogan “Youi-eyes may fool you, but your taste tells the truth” is not lipstick advertisement.
A diploma is something which you receive aftei' graduating and which you eagerly display to an employer and ask ‘yes’ but he just as eagerly gives it back and answers ‘no.’
Education.
A world conference on the subject of adult education will be held soon.
Meanwhile, the modern child is carrying on the good work.
A big shot on the campus is merely a B-B in the business world.
A blackjack is what may be aptly termed a stunning creation.
If I cam— Cow a cow Dog a dog Fox a fox Line a lion Catch a cat Can I—man a man?
Clothes make the man, man makes the woman, woman makes the world. J
Love '
Love is this
Love is that
Love	is	bliss
Love	is	flat
Love	is	blind
Love	is	‘it.’
Love is kind
Love is fit—	'
AIN’T LOVE GRAND?
Some men thirst after riches; some after affection; some after power; some after position; but all men thirst after—SALT HERRING.
Did you ever hear about the GREAT RADIO CRISIS? It is better known as THE A & P GYPSY WHO FAILED TO SHOW UP IN COSTUME.
A recent regulation has been passed by the Fuller Brush Company stating that all their salesmen must grow moustaches in order to increase sales by the suggestion method.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C...............Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN ......................... Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST .................. Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Wee}(
Irwin L. Goldman_________________________In the Juggler Pein
William V. Ellis________________________________Art Editor
Neros Staff
Paul Foley____________________________________Neros Editor
Robert L. Grogan_______________________Assistant Neros Editor
Clifford F. Brown________________________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus__________________________Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan________________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams John Hurley
Robert F. Ervin
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett___________________________Michael Crowe
Allen Bride_____________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley, '26 Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of CollerAate Digest
December 13, 1935
CHRISTMAS "WAR PRAYER"
ThE approach of the Yule season turns most of us, at least temporarily, into the mildest of pacifists. For nearly two thousand years now, the inhabitants of this weary, strife-wracked globe of ours have been self-consciously pausing in their bickering and quarreling as Christmas draws near. For nearly two thousand years men have wished each other “Peace on earth and good will to all,” as each old year drew to its close.
And so we come to another Christmas. In far off Ethiopia, the Italian soldier-worker, ordinarily a harmless, home-loving individual, but temporarily a hired killer, will lay down his rifle for the day. Similarly, the rest of the petty, warring forces, popping away at each other in various parts of the globe, will probably observe a period of suspended hostilities if the advent of Christmas means something more than just another calendar day to them. The recess will be short. The next day Christians will be shooting, murdering, looting again, as though the anniversary of Christ’s birth carried no lasting message of peace for them. By their very actions they will have stamped themselves as unbelievers in the true meaning of Christianity.
For this troubled old world of ours we desire nothing more than a wave of peace sentiment to dispel the war clouds rolling from country to country. Many years ago, Mark Twain, whose hundredth birthday we celebrated this year, felt the same way when he wrote his ironic “War Prayer.” We reprint it now as the world stands at the threshold of another year—a year which may yet find the
present college undergraduate tramping the mud of the battlefield instead of the sod of the campus. The thoughtful reader- will find much to think about in this excerpt from the pen of a dead writer.
“Lord our God, help us to tear their soldiers to bloody shreds with our shells; help us to cover their smiling fields with the pale forms of their patriotic dead; help us to drown the thunder of the guns with the cries of the wounded, writhing in pain; help us to lay waste their humble homes with hurricane of fire; help us to wring the hearts of the unoffending widows with unavailing grief; help us to turn them out roofless with their little children to wander unbefriended through wastes of their desolated land in rags and hunger and thirst, sport of the sun-flames of summer and the icy winds of winter, broken in spirit, worn with travail, imploring Thee for the refuge of the grave and denied it—tor our sakes, who adore Thee, Lord, blast their hopes, blight their lives, protract their bitter pilgrimage, make heavy their steps, water their way with their tears, stain the white snow with the blood of their wounded feet!
“We ask of One who is the Spirit of love and who is the ever-faithful refuge and friend of all that are sore beset, and seek His aid with humble and contrite hearts. Grant our prayer, 0 Lord, and Thine shall be the praise and honor and glory now and ever. Amen.”—J. S. M.
NOTRE DAME'S NEXT FOOTBALL CAPTAIN ^^^ILLIAM “BILL” SMITH, of Hackettstown, New Jersey, will lead the Notre Dame football team of 1936. Unable to play this year because of an operation, it is certainly a significant demonstration of the high esteem which his team-mates hold for him.
The name of “Smith” is not foreign to the gridiron greats of Notre Dame football history. Years ago the first stellar midget of the line was Maurice Francis Smith, the “Original Clipper” Smith, who played with the teams of ’18, ’19, ’20. Known as the “lightest big-time guard in the United States,” his grit and fight gained recognition in all the best selections of All-Westerns and won for himself a lasting place in Notre Dame’s hall of famous athletes. Now a well-known coach at Santa Clara University, Clipper Smith is still remembered as the great guard of the undefeated 1920 Irish, team which boasted George Gipp as its star performer.
In keeping with a growing tradition of the men who possess the namesake “Smith,” the Notre Dame squad of 1926 introduced Clipper Smith the second, in the person of its captain, Johnny Smith who also played a guard position. Like his predecessor, Clipper the first, the Irish Captain was a light, fast man with an abundant supply of the Notre Dame “fight.” Although his team finished the season with one of the worst records in Irish football history, the brilliance of the second “watch-charm” guard of the Smiths earned him an almost unanimous place on the All-America teams of that season.
Smith, captain and right guard of the Notre Dame varsity of 1936, second and third respectively, has a twofold burden on his shoulders. Bill will be forced to uphold the Smith tradition and be a shining light in the Irish line, and secondly, he is stepping into the shoes of the late Joe Sullivan who was the inspiration and invisible - leader of the “Fightingest of Fighting Irish” teams— seven victories, one tie and one defeat! The intimates of Bill Smith know him as a fine friend, a inspirational leader and a great football player.—J. A. W.
December 13, 1935
Nineteen
ATHLETICS
IRISH CAGERS RENEW RIVALRY WITH WILDCATS
STRONG NORTHWESTERN FIVE HOPES TO CHECK KEOGANITES VICTORY STREAK
Three Big Ten Teams To Face Notre Dame
Neither Quintet Defeated
The Notre Dame basketball team will receive its first real test of the season Monday night on the local court when it meets the Northwestern quintet in the first of a two game series. Always a thorn in the side of Irish court teams, the big Purple squad will be all the more imposing this year because of the large number of veterans on its roster.
No team has ever started out in a more promising way than has the present Irish aggregate. The scores of the games it has played so far are high enough to be imposing even in view of the weakness of the opposing teams. The trouncing administered to Millikan last Saturday has already started the prophets predicting an undefeated season. In addition to nine experienced men on the squad, Keogan boasts of as fine a bunch of sophomores as any coach could ask for.
Northwestern’s real strength has not been tried as yet this season but things are looking up for the Purple. Among the regular players who return this year are Vance, Mercer, Pendergast and Bender. Newcomers on the squad are Nagode, Smith and Heap. The comparative size of the Evanston team is another advantage which Northwestern will use against Notre Dame. The Irish shifty and fast though they are, will have a hard time stopping a team that has a two - inch average advantage in height.
George Ireland
Played in every game in three years.
Twenty
George Keogan
He smiles at his talent.
The games with Northwestern have always been close ones in the past and similar contests can be looked for this year. Last year Notre Dame broke even in the two game series winning and losing one game. The first game was won by a narrow margin of 26-25 when in the last second of play Peters fouled the Wildcat center and the resulting foul shot won the game for the visitors. In the return game played at Evanston Notre Dame turned the tide in the last few minutes of play to win the contest 28-26.
This year Coach Keogan hopes that things will be more in favor of the green. With co-captains Peters and Ford, Ireland, Wade, Hopkins et al., to carry the brunt of the Irish attack, Northwestern will be meeting a group that has seen a good deal of action in intercollegiate athletics. Then the new players who have appeared so spectacular in the opening games will be used as shock troops. Once given possession of the ball these upstarts make no bones about proceeding down the floor for a goal and if they can keep up the good work to-morrow night, spectators can look for a hard fought but decisive Irish victory.
By Jim Waldron
While the student body is enjoying a brief but welcome Yuletide respite, Notre Dame’s point - producing basketball team will meet three opponents during the holidays. Purdue, last year’s Big Ten co-champion, will be engaged on December 6th, at Lafayette, while on December 31st, a return engagement will be played against the Northwestern “Wildcats” at Evanston. Immediately after the resumption of classes, Minnesota will be met in Minneapolis.
The Irish basketeers will meet “Piggy” Lambert’s rebuilt Purdue squad. Facing the difficult task of replacing last year’s star trio of Ed Shaver, Bob White, and Cliff Baum-back, the mentor of the neighboring Indiana school is forced to depend on inexperienced .sophomores. Last season the Boilermakers dropped only three games and all those to conference foes. An interesting angle of this Indiana collegiate court classic, is that George Keogan of the Irish boasts an all-time coaching record of .750, while the Purdue coach shows a .748 rating . These are perhaps the best records compiled by any big-time coaches in the country. Captain Kessler, on last year’s All-American squad, will be the big offensive gun in the Boilermaker attack.
On New Year’s Eve Notre Dame will try to end the year of 1935 with a victory over Northwestern. The Wildcats still exulting over the sensational football win, will try to continue the job they started on the basketball court. Having many gridiron heroes on its squad, revenge will be in the hearts of the “Fighting Irish” as they attempt to tame the Evanston “Wildcats.”
On Saturday night following the resumption of classes, Minnesota will entertain Notre Dame in Minneapolis. Last year’s games ended in a victory for each team and the tilts this year should be just as thrilling. The Gophers will be paced by the brilliant George Roscoe at forward. This star halfback of the undefeated Minnesota football team, is one of the most colorful players in the colleges today. Roscoe shoots with one hand from all spots on the floor. The method may be unorthodox but opponents will testify as to his accuracy.
The Scholastic
BILL SMITH ELECTED TO LEAD GRIDDERS FOR 1936 FOOTBALL SEASON
St. Joseph And Milliken Routed By Irish Teams
Did Not Play This Season
Bill Smith confesses to receiving the biggest shock of his life when he was informed last week that he had been chosen to lead the Fighting Irish during the 1936 season. This unassuming young fellow considers the honor as a serious task and he is determined to carry his team along with the same spirit which was so characteristic of Notre Dame this year. Notre Dame men are proud of their captains and expect great things of them—Bill Smith will more than do his part.
Smith, because of his sterling play all during 1934, was slated to be first-string right guard for the past season but during the summer he contracted a kidney ailment which necessitated a serious operation and ruined his chances to play any football all year. Next season however will find Bill in there showing opposing linemen plenty of football.
Watchcharm guards come at a pre-(Continued on Page 31)
Irish Win . . .
Notre Dame’s basketball team won its sixth basketball victory of the current season when Washington University of St. Louis was victimized last Tuesday evening, 35 to 27.
The losers were away to an early lead but once the Keoganites caught up with them and forged ahead they never lost their lead. George Keogan, coach of the Notre Dame five, used every man of the twelve he took on the trip.
Martintoni for Washington was high scorer of the evening’s fray by hooping six buckets and a foul for 13 points. It was through his individual efforts that Washington U. remained in the ball game until the final gun.
Johnny Moir led the Irish basket-tossers with 9 points, followed closely by Nowak with 8, and Co-Captain John Ford with 7.
By Al Bride
The Notre Dame high scoring basketball units rang up their second double victory of the year with easy wins over James Milliken and St. Joseph. In winning their fourth and fifth victories of the season the Irish hoopsters continued looping in points at an average of over a point a minute.
Frank- Wade
An Indiana Sharpie
Co-captain Ford and the sophomore flash, Johnny Moir shared the scoring honors. Ford, playing in both games, ran up an impressive total of twentyseven points to top off the best individual general playing of the evening. Moir continued to display an amazing acurate eye for the basket by garnering twenty-one points in a little over twenty minutes of play.
James Milliken, while being the best quintet to test Keogan’s charges so far, were by no means a team to push the Irish. After the first half there was no doubt as to the outcome and the score soon became one-sided. St. Joseph too could not cope with the more experienced passers, the better conditioned squad, and the all around general ability of the Notre Dame players.	-
Flaws Detected
Although these practice games did not press the Keoganites, still it showed up some weaknesses in the Irish machine. The most glaring weakness was the inability to sink foul shots, Moir excelling in this department. At times the passing did not have that smooth, polished rythm that characterizes the Keogan style of attack. But to do the boys justice and to furnish an acceptable excuse we can say that the strange and smaller gym hampered their style.
For ten or* twelve minutes it appeared that Millikan would furnish the Irish with the same type of opposition they displayed against Iowa the previous week. After about ten (Continued on Page 30)
December 13, 1935
Twenty-one
INTRODUCING
M. I. T. Professor Sends Apology To Notre Dame
By Cy Stroker
It is a rare thing for any man to appear in this column twice, especially in one year. But then it is a rare thing for any Notre Dame athlete to distinguish himself in two different sports to the extent that Marty Peters has. For here, readers all, is a quick-change artist. A few weeks ago Marty was romping around the gridrion as right end on the Irish wait-till-the-second-hal f team, charging down under punts, snaring opposing ball carriers, and kicking points after touchdown with a famous field goal thrown in. Now we find him in a new uniform, a new sport, and a new position,—co-cap-tain of the basketball team.
As regular center on the team, Marty partially makes up for the lack of size which is the only drawback of Keogan’s 1935-36 quintet, and does more than his share of helping the Irish along to victory. He came • to Notre Dame with three years’ basketball experience from Spaulding Academy where he also played football and baseball. Although he was absent from the starting games, Marty will be in the major contests of the season, Northwestern, Purdue, Minnesota, Pitt, and Marquette.
The first game in which Marty played for the Irish was the Northwestern game of 1933 which Notre Dame won 18 to 24. In that tilt he played left forward and netted five valuable points for the locals. In the succeeding games of that year with Michigan State, Marquette, and Arizona Peters alternated at left and right forward with an occasional stab at Ed Krause’s center berth. But toward the latter part of the season it could be seen plainly that Marty was at his best in the pivot position, and there arose in the mind of Coach Keogan a great turmoil. Should he leave this promising young sophomore on the bench when he could be rolling up a badly needed score? But when Marty Peters went in AllAmerican Krause came out and there you were.
The whole business wound up with Marty playing at every position on the team including guard and it was not until last year that he had cinched his regular job at center for Notre Dame. And when we say cinched we mean just that. He played a bang up game from the start until the end of the season. Brilliant as his work was under his own basket, his chief claim to fame was the scoring spree that never failed to punctuate every game. One of the high scorers on the team, he frequently paced the “speed twins,” Ford and O’Kane, in
rolling up the tallies for the Irish. By far the most exciting game of the season last year was the Marquette game, and in addition to leading Notre Dame throughout the contest, Marty
he
tossed in the winning basket in
last minute men out of
of play to help Keogan’s a tight spot.


In this, his last year of play for Notre Dame, Marty finds conditions somewhat changed on the local floor. The speed twins are broken up,, the famous Krause, Crowe, Voegele combination is almost forgotten and in (Continued on Page 26)
Prof. George Owen, Sr., of Massachusetts Institute of Technology apologized to Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University, for his quoted charges that a large percentage of colleges were exploiting their athletes for their own financial gain with Notre Dame and Ohio State being the “greatest offenders.”
Father O’Hara wired a message to Owen asking him to either retract his charges or to submit proof to substantiate them.
The full text of Prof. George Owen’s apology as contained in a night letter received by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, is as follows:
“Replying to your wire of Dec. 10. I seem to have been badly misquoted concerning my address today. If any statement of mine is untrue I deeply apologize and regret any misunderstanding.”
George Owen.
Father O’Hara acknowledged receipt of the apology in a day letter to Prof. Owen Wednesday morning. He said:
“Deeply appreciate the spirit of your fine telegram this morning. These hasty quotations are usually misquotations and it was with the feeling that there was a misquotation that I brought the matter to your attention yesterday evening.”
John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
ATTENTION MR. WALSH
Over-zealous in its efforts to prove Rockne’s old axion: “A good offense is your best defense,” one of two grid teams uncovered a new trick play. When the pile was unscrambled, Don had a broken leg, Billy a broken ' foot, and Robert a sprained ankle.
At the doctor’s office one of the trio exclaimed:
“We’ll learn that Notre Dame shift yet!”
ATTENDANCE FIGURES
The tabulation of leading attendance figures for all sections of the
country follows: Notre Dame (9 games) .......483,018
Navy (9 games) ..............399,000
California (10. games) ......394,000
Yale (9 games) ..............362,000
Ohio State (8 games) ........359,219
Army (9 games) ..............354,000
Minnesota (8 games) .........346,500
Pennsylvania (8 games) ......340,000
Stanford (8 games) .........314,000
Princeton (9 games) ........306,000
*So California (8 games) ....283,000
*Pittsburgh (9 games) ......271,000
Michigan (8 games) .........255,000
* Season not’finished.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
SO THEY SAY
CROWE INSTITUTION OF LAFAYETTE. INDIANA HAS SENT SEVEN REPRESENTATIVES HERE
The goddess of football fortunes has ripped blood and thunder pages from dime-novel exploits to fashion fiction-like finishes to many a major game this fall.
A glimpse back over the season pictures a dozen or so clashes where the tide turned with only seconds to play, where history was written by a daring pass, a last-hope field goal or a run down the sidelines with an intercepted forward.
Topping them all, perhaps, was Notre Dame’s desperate and brilliant^ rush to overtake Ohio State’s Scarlet. Only seconds to go—the hero of the wild attack, Andy Pilney, carried away on a stretcher, yards short of his goal—and Bill Shakespeare slings the pass the Buckeyes knew was coming. Somehow, Wayne Millner manages to catch it and the storybook climax become gridiron legend.
The “Fighting Irish” rallied again against Army, coming from behind in the last minute to gain a 6 to 6 tie, through the medium of ruled interference by Army defenders on another Shakespeare-to-Millner pass that laid the ball on the Army two-yard line.— The Boston Post.	-
College football turnstiles, registering a steady upturn since the depression “low” of 1932, clicked off substantial increases in attendance for the 1935 season. The gains ranged as high as 40 per cent in some noteworthy instances, but the increase for the country as a whole probably, did not exceed 10 per cent.
Notre Dame, with its best team in five years, proved the country’s biggest drawing card by a big margin. The Irish helped attract 483,018 fans in nine games. This represented a big jump over their 1934 mark of 357,000 for eight contests.
For the first time on record Navy outdrew Army. The midshipmen played before 399,000 in nine games while the Cadets attracted 354,000 in the same number of engagements. Last year the figures were 325,000 for the Army and 309,000 for the Navy.
Ohio State and Minnesota were rivals for attendance honors in the Big 10, with the Bucks enjoying a slight margin, thanks to the capacity crowd of 81,018 that paid to see the Notre Dame thriller at Columbus.
This crowd was topped only by the attendance of 90,000 for the California-Stanford game. Army’s games with Notre Dame in New York and the Navy at Philadelphia each attracted 80,000.—The Boston Post.
By Arch Gott
People the world over- have heard of the Two Black Crows but Notre Dame men are much better acquainted with the Seven White Crowes. Indiana is generally reputed to be the
Clem Crowe
First Crowe to win monogram.
greatest basketball hotbed in the world and she certainly has lived up to her name in the person of the large Crowe family. From Lafayette came the brothers one by one until at present writing there have been seven who have crossed the Indiana prairies into the welcoming arms of Notre Dame. Covering a period of twelve years there has always been a Crowe brother" as a student at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame basketball fans have become accustomed to looking at the lineups in the opening games each year and trying to discover if there is yet another of the Lafayette boys on the roster. Upon seeing that there is, the happy fan settles back in his chair to contemplate an additional great season. From 1923 through 1934 some member of the family won a monogram each year—last year Mike was a freshman but he is out on the hardwood floor now, gunning for his chance to join the rank so perfectly formed by his brothers.
The first brother to be awarded a
monogram was Clem, who achieved the honor in 1923 as a member of the football team. Two years later he was selected to captain the Fighting Irish on the gridiron, proving himself to be an inspired leader in the very toughest of games. Even though winning three monograms in ’23, ’24, and ’25 in football, Clem also was one of the classiest basketball players ever to don a Notre Dame outfit. For three seasons he threw balls at the little round hoop, in the meanwhile performing plenty of airtight guarding. It might here be added that Clem is now married and answers gleefully to the name “Papa” when he is called by one of his young sons. Proudly Clem will admit that he is grooming his boys to toss baskets and catch footballs so that they might one day be as successful at Notre Dame as he once was.
Directly behind Clem was brother Francis and brother Ed, two more of the boys who will be remembered by opponents of Notre Dame in basketball after 1926. Ed never" saw quite enough service to win his sweater but Francis came along in great style and was picked as co-captain of the hoopsters in 1928-29 with Joe Jachym as his running mate. Francis played consistently for three seasons and is credited with monograms in ’27, ’28, and ’29. Many were the games that he pulled out of defeat with his eleventh hour rushes down the floor to sink the winning buckets.
Without any lapse of years, Norb Crowe unpacked his bag at Notre
Norb Crowe Basketball 1930, ’31, and ’32.
Dame and proceded to win basketball letters in ’30, ’31, and ’32. Emulating his preceding brother, Norb reached (Continued on Page 27)
December 13, 1935
T w e n t y-t h r e e
/Ufcn e-1 <
KANSAS REPLACED BY WASHINGTON U.
ON NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
1936 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
CAMPI SPORT WRITERS
IdNTEPS
FRO/A THE
kPRESS BOX
Oct. 3---Carnegie Tech, here
Oct. 10—Washington U., here
Oct. 17--Wisconsin, here
Oct. 24—Pittsburgh, there
Oct. 31—Ohio State, here
Nov. 7---Navy, Baltimore
Nov. 14—Army, New York
Nov. 21—Northwestern, here
Dec. 4---Southern Cal., Los Angeles
The official release of the 1936 football card again finds the Irish facing a crucial nine game schedule, in exhibiting their prowess before thousands of fans, from coast to coast.
Opening with Carnegie Tech, here, on the third of October, Notre Dame will go through the entire season minus a let-up, with the exception of a 13-day intervention between the Northwestern and Southern California battles.
There will be five contests instead of the usual four enacted in the local
COACH CLARENCE SPEARS Wisconsin
stadium next year. Washington University from St. Louis, having taken Kansas’ place, will be the new attraction on the Gold and Blue program.
Wisconsin and Iowa have been quoted by newspapers as saying that Notre Dame has cancelled the Wisconsin engagement on October 17, in order to allow the Badgers and Hawkeyes to meet each other, and therefore adhere to Big Ten requirements of playing four conference games. It is reported that Coach . Layden will let Wisconsin break the 1937 contract, but that the ’36 issue
(Continued on Page 27)
SELECT ALL-AMERICANS
The campi sports writers of the country, representing 49 institutions and 35 states, have selected their allAmerican teams. Wayne Millner, Irish end, made the first eleven, and
Bill Smith “I don’t believe it.”
Bill Shakespeare, Notre Dame backfield ace, was selected for the second team along with Andy Pilney.
Much to the surprise of Bill Smith and all concerned, the sixth team selected by these campi scribes had our next year’s captain at a guard position although Smith never even as much as donned the moleskins the past fall.
First Team	Pos.
Moscrip, Stanord _________________________End
Widseth, Minnesota --------------------Tackle
Wetsel, Southern Methodist _____________Guard
Lester, Texas Christian Center Tangora, Northwestern __________________Guard
Lutz, California ______________________Tackle
Millner, Notre Dame ______.______________.End
Berwanger, Chicago -----------------Backfield
Grayson, Stanford ------------------Backfield
Wilson, Southern Methodist _________Backfield
Simmons, Iowa ----------------------Backfield
Second Team	Pos.	Fifth Team
Kelley, Yale ________..E---------- Peters, N.D.
Smith, Minnesota ______T.__ Whatley, Alabama Weller, Princeton  G_______ Zabrieski, Navy Jones, Ohio State C________ Ray, Dartmouth Bale, Rice ________________G_ Handrahan, Dart.
Reynolds, Stanford ____T._____ Pfefferle, N.D. Shuler, Army__________________E....Longfellow, Northw.
Shakespeare, N.D.  B Constable Princeton Pilney, N.D...........-B______ Lam, Colorado
Beise, Minnesota  B___________ Jackson, N. C.
Meyer, Army __________B_______ Cardwell, Nebr.
NOTRE DAME'S ALL-AMERICANS
William Shakespeare
Wayne Millner
By Joe Prendergast
SPORT SCOOPS
In a special Thanksgiving issue of the Buffalo Bee of the University of Buffalo in Buffalo, New York, the following headlines appeared for the second most important story on page one: “University of Buffalo Team Ascends to New Heights in Downing Notre Dame.”
The first paragraph of the sensational story follows:
“Yesterday in one of the hardest fought games that we have ever witnessed on Rotary Field, the University of Buffalo team rose to new heights and beat a scrappy but outplayed Notre Dame team by a score of 35 to 0. This game was a postseason encounter which was played in order to determine the eastern champion in inter-collegiate football and probably the team which will receive the Rose Bowl invitation for this year.”
From the sports colum, The Bullpen, by Edwin Buchholtz in the same issue, are more interesting items:
"Also with the successful football season, which closed with our defeat of the Fighting Irish, at the new Rotary Field, before 90,000 people, we find that at last our dreams have come true with regard to the matters of subsidization. The fact that we could , get two halfbacks for $3,500 apiece and an ALL-American fullback for a mere $5,000 showed that anyone can get a good football team, if they are willing to put up the mazuma.”
“With the tennis team (of Buffalo University) going as a body to the Davis Cup matches, it looks as though the days of Tilden and Johnson are here again, and that the Davis Cup
Twenty-four
•The Scholastic
will remain in the United States for a good long while.” .
|‘The Hockey team (of Buffalo University) stands a good chance to win the Stanley Cup this year as they did last, although it is rumored that they will have to play the pick of the leagues, because in the last few years no one team has been able to hold them to less than twelve goals a game.”
The Bee scooped the nation on these stories. They are masterpieces of humor. The whole issue was devoted to the unprobable and you can imagine your correspondent’s surprise when he first glimpsed the story. I thought that maybe the Northwestern and Army games were dreams after all. Maybe a good cut line would read, Did the Bee sting us? HOCKEY?
Notre Dame is ideally situated for this famed winter sport. The lakes are very convenient and portions of them could be boarded easily to form a hockey rink. There seems to be much interest on the campus at the moment relative to forming a hockey league and maybe an all-star team to face outside sextets. There could be formed a five-team league if even only fifty boys were interested and it is a certainty
that if a general call was issued for candidates, fifty would just about be half the size of the turnout. These observations are based on the interest in hockey among the students during the past three years. On Saturday afternoons of last year, if the weather warranted, there were three games going on at the same time at different parts of St. Mary’s lake. This pillar believes that the Interhall Department could very easily swing a hockey program.
SLIVERS FROM THE BLEACHERS
Northwestern next Monday evening. Keogan’s men will be tested for the first time. Can’t see how they are going to stop the Irish. Fifteen points seems to be a safe margin for a win over the Wildcats. (Have no fear pretty ones—I do not intend to select basketball scores) . . . Congratulations to Bill Smith on his election as Captain of the 1936 football team . . . Captain Joe Sullivan was awarded a monogram the past football season. It was sent home to his mother. Joe played every minute in every ball game and all the grid men knew it . . . Reports have it that Ohio State and So. Cal. open a home and home football series in 1937 . . .
Iowa claims that they are playing Wisconsin on the same date which we are listed to play them next season. There is a discrepancy somewhere along the line ... The boys who work in the gym setting up scenery, etc., smashed one of George Keogan’s backboards during the renovation the past week. Incidentally they are made of glass except for a piece upon which the basket is attached . . . Jack Robinson says that Grantland Rice’s All-American football team appearing in Collier’s shortly will not include either Millner or Shakespeare on the first club. Tinsley and Moscrip are slated for the ends and VZilson, Berwanger, Smith and Grayson make up the backfield . . . From O. O. McIntyre’s column in the South Bend Tribune of Dec. 9------“Personal nomination for America’s newest feminine heart throb (judging from the letters)---------------the footballer, Bill Shakespeare” ... Bill Smith, next year’s captain, was picked on the AllAmerican sixth team by campi sports writers in the national intercollegiate poll of campus publications. Bill was out all season because of an operation. There is no telling what he’ll make next year when he actually plays . . . Merry Christmas and lots of luck New Year’s. ■
NORTHWESTERN 26, NOTRE DAME 25—ONE YEAR AGO
December 13, 1935
. Twenty-five
INTRODUCING
(Conitnued from Page 23)
FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
(Continued from Page 24)
ON DOWN THE LINE
their place there is a promising bunch of sophomores. To date they have been hitting new highs in scoring and seem to indicate that they need very little help from his giant fresh from the football wars. But when the tough games come around and the visiting scribes ask who made the winning score for Notre Dame, the answer will be Marty Peters, center.
DO YOU BELIEVE IN SANTA CLAUS?
• We do! We believe we are a Santa Claus ourself when it comes to giving transportation! We give you rides on the fast South Shore electric trains at a ■ cost of only 2c per mile round trip. That’s almost a gift when you consider that auto riding costs you from 4 to 8c a mile! And look at the speed and dependability that the South Shore Line assures.
MERRY CHRISTMAS, FOLKS!
SOUTHnSeHQRE
will be carried through as originally planned. Rumors have been circulated that the Irish will encounter the far-famed Southern Methodist “aerial circus” on October 17, in connection with the Texas Centennial Exposition at Dallas, but Coach Layden denies this assumption.
Pittsburgh having taken it “on the the chin” this fall from the Irish will be gunning for a revenge of that 9-6 defeat—thanks to Marty Peters’ educated toe. The Panthers, having lost only Captain Nick Kliskey and two of the secondary, will be primed for the Greens’ invasion to the Smoky City. This no doubt will be the toughest assignment given to Notre Dame in the 1936 campaign.
The feature opposition at home will be the Ohio State clash, on October 31. This setto has the ear-marks of being another pigskin thriller. Although the Buckeyes will suffer from graduation, they nevertheless will prove to be extremely dangerous. It is alleged that Coach Francis Schmidt intends to drill the “Scourged Scarlet” throughout the winter in preparation for Captain-elect Bill Smith and his mates.
The Gold and Blue resume relations with the two service academies on successive Saturdays. The Middies will attempt to' stem the Irish attack at Baltimore on November 7, while • the following week-end the Army’s big berthas will be focused on Notre Dame’s eleven in New York City.
Northwestern stacks up against the Layden proteges in the final home fracas on November 21. The Green will probably bear in mind that timeworn axiom “Lest we forget.” After a slight lay-off, Notre Dame journeys across the continent to renew hostilities with the mighty Trojans of U. S. C., at Los Angeles on the fourth of December.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
BILL “KAYO” LAM of COLORADO U. set some sort of a record for yards gained surpassing the record held by BEATTIE FEATHERS of the CHICAGO BEARS, formerly of TENNESSEE. FEATHERS gained 1,015 yards while LAM’S record was well over 1,900 yards; with an average of 8.5 yards a try . . . The student enrollment at MANHATTAN has increased from 600 to 1400’since the advent of CHICK MEEHAN as football coach . . . Whoever devises the nicknames for the football players of ST. MARY’S certainly possesses a vivid imagination . . . New Yorkers who remember ANGEL BROVELLI, ICE HOUSE WILSON and HARRY-THE-HORSE MATTOS were treated to a new array when FORDHAM met
the SAINTS. The smart press agent has brought forth HEADS-UP HERB SCHRIEBER, SLICER HALLMAN, SMACKSEM MAXHAM and ELECTRIC SHOCK. . . Marty Brill, Bucky , O’Connor, Banas and other ex-Notre Dame stars who defeated a team of . former collegians in a charity game at the Boston Madison Square, played on an indoor field, 70 by 40. . . Before the PRINCEON tiger made mincemeat out of the YALE bulldog, COL.
J. KILPATRICK, former All-America i end from YALE, was heard to remark ■ that he could never get excited about PRINCETON because YALE was going to beat them again . . . Guess the COLONEL should have gotten the famous minute man of the DARTMOUTH battle to make a twelfth in the ELI defense! . . . An Eastern f sport scribe described the last MAX MAREK fight in the following fashion: “He has extraordinary speed with his hands, feet, and body and had DUDAS dizzy trying to hit a veritable will-of-the-wisp that kept hammering with a rapier like left hand. He is not necessarily a knock- 1 er-outer but hands out a gruelling ' punishment. His punches are so fast and effortless that they seem to flow . toward their object” . . . BOBBY GRAYSON, All-America repeater from STANFORD, is a crack debater ... If the WOLVES ever run CARL , SNAVELY out of that coaching job \ at NORTH CAROLINA, he can take '
(Continued on Page 31)
T w e n t y-s i x
The Scholastic
NICHOLSON'S MEN RESUME PRACTICE
FOLLOWING A WEEK OF INACTIVITY
By Gene Vaslett
To all appearances Coach Nicholson’s trackmen, after nearly a week •of enforced idleness, will have to start all over again in their efforts to get into condition before the first dual meet of the season. The President’s visit put an end to all activities in the gymnasium for a full week and the thinlies weren’t able to resume practice until Wednesday.
The boys were just recovering from their customary stiffness and sore muscles when the gymnasium
Bob Bernard
One of Nick’s (not St.) Boys.
was closed and will probably have to go through more primary setting-up drills before they can get into actual running condition again. If the thinlies do get into condition before the Christmas vacation sets in they will in all probability lose their edge during the two week’s vacation and will come back little better off than when they started practice about three weeks ago. With these bright prospects in view Nick started to work the trackmen slowly Wednesday and held a short drill. The high jumpers and broad jump men lost little by the week’s lay-off and yesterday were going through their regular routine but that was not the case with the runners. They favored their legs heavily yesterday as the dreaded “shinsplints” were liable to affect them if they did any strenuous running.
No definite indoor schedule has been compiled for this year but the season is expected to start early in February. A dual meet with Chicago at the Midway is a certainty but otherwise thei’e are no certain plans. The Chicago meet will see Jay Ber-wanger, famous All-American football star, in action. Berwanger is himself a one man track team as he competes in the dashes, shot put and discus throw. This six footer approaches his great deeds on the gridiron while on the track and will surely cause the Irish a great deal of trouble when they encounter the Maroons.
CROWE BROTHERS (Continued from Page 23)
the point of basketball captain in his senior year, 1931-32 and that year his team was truly a great aggregation. It should be noticed that during the regime of the Seven White Crowes, Notre Dame has seen and is still seeing the finest basketball teams in the history of the school. Coach George Keogan may well be proud of the records compiled by these boys as they have always been a salient factor in the success of his teams. It might be remembered that Keogan began coaching at Notre Dame in 1923, the year the first Crowe brother won a monogram, so he has been coaching the members of the family, either as freshmen or varsity men, for the past twelve years.
Leo Crowe has been the last brother to carry home his monogram to Lafayette, coming along to cop honors in ’32, ’33, and ’34. Leo as well as Norb will be remembered by some of the present generation of students. Playing constantly, Leo was a past-master at the game of hoops. It has often been said about Leo that in shooting baskets, the ball never once touched the rim—just a lightning-like swish of the net and two more points for Notre Dame. Possessing this uncanny accuracy in his shots, Leo proved a perfect combination with “Moose” Krause and both of them rode on the crest of the wave that brought consecutive victories to the Irish in 1932’33-’34.
To complete this exposition of the Crowes we must go even further along. A sophomore this year is Mike Crowe, member of the sports staff of the Scholastic, and also a player on this year’s basketball squad. Joining him is his brother Emmett, a freshman who not only cavorts on the hardwood court but on the football field as well. At Notre Dame a Crowe will always be welcome.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Strong on the style-notes——easy on your bank-notes-----all-leather construction to stand the gaff of active wear. Three good reasons why Notre Dame men are beating a path to the Douglas shoe store in South Bend these days.
Wing-tips are finding new favor. Rich browns—dressy blacks—the new “reverse calf,” in brown or gray --- and every smart style on
the famous Douglas all-leather standard. Pay a visit, pay a little, and get a lot!	.
ALL-LEATHER* CCNSTLIJCTION
Douglas Men’s Shoes - S3.50 to $5.50 *Men's Normal-Treds - -	$7.00
* (Patented, scientific, corrective features')
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE in South Bend
210 South Michigan Street (Open Saturday evenings')
VICTOR C. ASTONE, N. D. Representative
December I 3, I935
Twenty-seven
• Meet Edgeworth Junior—the new double-duty tobacco by the makers of Edgeworth! All the quality and rich flavor of the world-famous Edge worth in an extremely mild, light, free-burning pipe and cigarette combination.
If you are now using a tobacco suitable for both pipe and cigarettes, here’s your chance to get Edgeworth quality in the form of tobacco you like best. Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice remain unchanged for regular Edgeworth fans.
We predict Edgeworth Junior will meet YOUR specifications for a perfect double-duty—pipe and cigarette—tobacco. Thousands of new pipe smokers will join the Edgeworth ranks with. Edgeworth Junior. Try it—today—and enjoy a new, delightfully mild smoke. Larus & Brother Co., Richmond, Va. Tobacconists since 1877.
Made by the makers of Edgeworth Plug Slice and Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed



Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, 3XT.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
It is our aim to give you everything that is expected in a good pair of glasses.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Get New Low Fares Other Information
From Greyhound , Lines
These big reductions effective nearly everywhere. Drop in, or telephone for specific details.
Notre Dame representative: St. Vincent de Paul Society Special Ticket Office in Dining Hall Basement Watch for announcements!
StfeAS 1
.
11
BILL SMITH, CAPTAIN (Continued from Page 21)
mium on Notre Dame teams but Smith answers the description perfectly. Weighing 165 and standing 5 feet, ten inches, he is stockily built and presents a rugged appearance. He first started to play football when he was a sophomore, atending Hackettstown High School in the New Jersey town of the same name. For his first two years he played end, changing over to the fullback post in his senior year; in this year he captained his team. For three years he was regular center fielder on the baseball team and in his last year he had the distinction of being named both All-State football and baseball. Bill recalls as his most exciting moment in high school football, the time when he snared a pass out of the arms of two opponents and ran 30 yards for a touchdown against Roxbury High. To this day he can’t figure how he ever escaped being tackled by the other lads as they were practically stepping all over him when he received the ball.
The year after his graduation from high school, Bill spent a couple of semesters at St. Benedict’s Prep school in. Newark, New Jersey. Here he continued to hold down the fullback position and was unanimously nominated on All-City and All-State teams after a spectacular and highly successful season.
From childhood Bill Smith had followed Notre Dame destinies on the gridiron, and tales of the great Rockne had fired his imagination and appealed so strongly to his spirit that
he decided that there was only one possible choice of a university for him. He entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1932 and immediately began to distinguish himself on the gridiron with the freshman team of that year. At first he played right halfaback but Hunk Anderson converted him into a guard which he has remained. Bill will never forget the first scrimmage he was ever in as a guard—it was against the varsity and he found himself pitted against the huge Harry Wunsch and the brilliant Dick Pfef-ferle. Needless to say Bill was highly relieved when the massacre was over for that night.
Smith holds his greatest thrill in college competition to be the Notre Dame Purdue game in 1934. He had a hunch that he was going to start in the game and laughingly admits that the night before while he was trying to sleep, that he played the game over in his mind three times and was fidgety as a nervous cat. Despite his anxiety he played a whale of a game that day and carried on to a swell season.
Bill inhabits room 234 in Walsh with “Pepper” Martin, a teammate, and between the two of them the second floor of Walsh has become a pretty lively place to live. “Smitty” is taking a course in Phy Ed and entertains the ambition to one day being a successful football coach. He has always loved football and thinks that he would always like to be associated with the game in some capacity. To further prove the versatility of this amazing young man it may be mentioned that he is an avaiation enthusiast and has only a few more hours of instruction to take before he is ready for his first solo flight. During the summers, Bill used to pitch hay on a » farm back home but lately he has spent the vacation months making cement blocks for silos at a company in New Jersey. Bill Smith of the ready smile and the lively nature is fully deserving of the popularity which is his. He should be a worthy leader of the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS (Continued from Page 10)
calls him ‘Bobby’ . . . Used to spend Sunday across the lake until a transfer let him out. . . .
Is the baby of the family . . . Sings in the choir at home . . . Hates to write letters but will read and criticize anyone’s ... A good tap dancer and a fair cross examiner as accountants will aver . . . Swears he’ll never go into politics, but just tell him somebody is running for office and he’s right in the thick of it. . . .
A personality that makes and holds friends . . . Oil business will get a good man in Cavanaugh, and although he prefers brunettes he’s a gentleman. ...
The Scholastic
Thirty
ST. JOSEPH AND MILLIKEN (Continued from Page 21)
minutes had elapsed the quintet from Illinois was leading by four points, hut Moir and Ireland soon tied the score. Wade then scored a two pointer to put the Irish in the fore and from that time on the breech was ever widening. At the half Notre Dame lead by 29-16 and when the final forth minutes were up, the fourth Irish victory was clinched by another big score, 58-30.
The Milliken lads exhibited a fast breaking style that had the Irish boys worried for awhile, but it was soon halted by close guarding. The Iowa upsetters would take the ball off the* backboard and rush for the Irish basket. However if their initial rush failed to materialize in a score they seemed to have no definite attack. The defence thrown up by the first team was too much and Milliken’s hurried passes often found their way into waiting Irish hands.
Moir was high point man in this contest getting twenty-one points with ten field goals and one foul shot. Ford came next with four buckets and one free shot. Moir again demonstrated his ability to pop them in from any position on the floor. Meyer, the other forward, played a fine defensive game and his unerring passes to Moir were largely responsible for Moir’s high total.
Wade played his usual steady defensive game, and was instrumental in breaking up opposing plays. Ireland received a cut over his eye and had to be removed from the game in favor of Allen.
St. Joseph Game
In the second game, St. Joseph were completely overwhelmed by the Irish attack and greater man power. The only department the boys coached by the former Keogan pupil could hold their own with the Irish was in fight. From the first basket until the last point in the final minute which ended the 71-22 massacre, the St. Joseph players were fighting every minute to beak up plays and to get their offensive clicking.
Ford, Hopkins, Wutkovits and Gaffney were the outstanding individuals in this contest. Ford never took his eye off the ball and several times intercepted passes and dribbed down the floor on a solo flight to ring up two points. He dropped in nine field goals to collect eighteen more points.
Hopkins as usual teamed perfectly with Ford and passed smoothly, dropped several shots in from outside the foul line, and dropped in a set up shot to make his total for the evening ten points. Wukovits dropped in five two points to top off a steady defensive game. Gaffney was high point man for St. Joseph with ten points, almost half of the teams’ total.
The lineup follows:
December 13, 1935
Notre Dame (58) B F P
Moir, f _____ 10	1 0
Meyer, f _____ 2	0 0
Ford, f ______ 4	11
Hopkins, f____2	0 1
Nowak,	c ______ 10	4
Peters, c_____ 0	10
Demots, c ____ 3	0 1
Ireland, g ___ 2	11
Allen, g _______ 10	0
27 4	8
Notre Dame (71) B F	P
Hopkins, f ... 4	2	2
Ford, f ______9	0	1
Crowe, f _____ 0	0	0
Carson, f ____ 10	0
Wentworth, f 1	0	0
Demots, c ____ 110
Peters, c .... 3 10
O’Connor, c .... 10 0
Jordan, g ____ 3 0 0
Wukovits, g —. 5 0 0
Gleason, g _____ 10	0
Borowski, g___0 1 0
Sweeney, g____ 12 1
32 7 4
Milliken (30) B F P Godlman, f.... 2 3 3 Daigh, f ____ 10 0
Glynn, f ____ 2 13
Coc, c ------ 2 3 1
Vanausdal, g 3 0 2 Taylor, g ___0 0 1 Halluahn, g 1 1 0
11 8 10
St. Joseph (22) 1	B F P
Badke, f-----10 0 Scharf, f .... 110 Gaffney, f---5	0	3
Hatton, c	....	3	11
Andres, g	—	0	0	0
Van Nevel, g	0	0	0
10 2 4
ON DOWN THE LINE (Continued from Page 26)
his pick of jobs as movie camera man, choir singer, baseball player, golf pro or school teacher.
THE OLD PRINCETON SPIRIT?
One of the season’s prizes for local pride goes to STEVE CULLINAN, the PRINCETON center. Time was out in the DARTMOUTH-PRINCETON game and CULLINAN was wiping off the ball with a towel borrowed from GEORGE LOWE, the umpire. CULLINAN seemed to think the occasion warranted conversation, so he addressed the official.
“Say, do you know what’s the best team in the country?” he asked.
“No,” answered George.
“It’s Texas Christian,” said CULLINAN. “I know because I come from down that way. Boy, they’re tough down there.”—I guess he never met the boys from Southern Methodist; they must be real tough!
These special school and college rail tickets, with their liberal extended return limits.areimmenselypopularwith and a great saving to students and teachers. When you’re ready to come back after Christmas, buy one and save a third of the regular two-way fare. When Spring Holidays come.
you can use the. return coupon to travel home again or use it at close of school.
The ticket agent in your own town, or any railroad passenger representative can give you full details regarding return limits, stop-over privileges, prices, etc.
The Safe Way is the Railway ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADS
ANNUALS BOOKLETS
PRINTED OR ENGRAVED
INVITATIONS DANCE PROGRAMS STATIONERY ANNOUNCEMENTS
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.
GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTSMEN 4-7361	435 E. LASALLE. SOUTH BEND
FLY HOME FOR
XMAS!
• Take a number! The number of days you have for Christmas vacation, for instance. Well, we’ll give you exactly that number of days AT HOME—by flying you there OVERNIGHT in a 200-mile-an-hour plane. Or leave in daytime and be home the same evening.
This means you, if you live in Cleveland, Chicago, Twin Cities, Omaha, Denver, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland, Seattle! Reservations: any United Air Lines Ticket Office, Telegraph Office, Hotel or Travel Bureau.
UNITED AIR LINES
Thirty-one
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMO.NIER LI3.RARY-
NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
Smokers—both men and women — want a cigarette to be mild — yet not flat or insipid. At the same time they want a cigarette that gives them taste — taste they can enjoy.
Chesterfields are outstanding for mildness—outstanding for better taste. You can find that ort by smoking them.
Chesterfields are what
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
they say they are