ANP
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
Camels
agree with more people
ft
!
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!
ANNE JEFFREYS dreamed of being an opera star, studied long and hard. BOB STERLING could have been a pro athlete, but chose the long, hard pull of acting. Both eventually won good parts on stage, radio. TV. They met on a TV show... became Mr. & Mrs. in real life . . . and "Mr. and Mrs. Kerby” in TV’s brilliant new "Topper” program!
tt«

f
/but£.: I CHANGED TO CAMELS YEARS AGO BECAUSE TO ME THEY TASTE BETTER ANO ARE SO MILD. YOU TRY THEM.TOO/,
C5Ob: SO MANY FRIENDS SMOKE CAMELS, 1 TRIED THEM AND FOUND 1 LIKE THEM BETTER THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE.
MILDNESS and FLAVOP.
TN AN ANY OTNEP. CfGAAETTB/
Powerful Rumblings from the Senate
Editor:
As members of the social committee of the Student Senate, we wish to protest the publication of such opinion columns as that of Mr. Gordon Bergquist in the Nov. 20 issue of the Scholastic.
In this particular issue, the writer, who writes a weekly column titled “The Back Page,” wrote a column which we feel as in bad taste. Written in an allegorical style, the article depicts St. Mary’s girls in anything but a favorable light. There is such a thing as carrying a joke too far. We feel that the Nov. 20 issue of “The Back Page” does just that.
In view of the continuing efforts of both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s to better social relations between the two schools through joint activities, such as the joint Christmas parties for the less fortunate men, women, and children of South Bend, the planned Christmas sing-, and the parties held in the Student Center on Sunday afternoons, we consider that Mr. Bergquist’s and similar articles can do little good, but much harm.
If Mr. Bergquist’s article is an attempt at humor, our sincere apologies to him. However, even if this be so, such an article is in poor taste.
In any event an apology is due to the girls at St. Mary’s. We hope if nothing else, this letter will serve that purpose.
Social Committee Student Senate
Phil Bolin, Tom McNeill, Bob Hanley, Ray Kramer, Jim Sherer, Jack Moynahan, Jim Deline
We’d never thought of it that way, but now that YOU mention it . . . Ed.
One Man’s Opinion
Editor:
I wish to congratulate Gordon Bergquist, who writes “The Back Page,” on his latest article dealing with the girls at S. M. C.
The attitude here at Notre Dame has been entirely too lenient toward them. All that these girls are interested in is playing the fellas for “suckers.”
Mr. Bergquist does an excellent job of exposing these parasites.
Thomas Nowak
Variety Keynotes New Crop Of Arrow Sports Shirts
Gabanaro, Checked and Plaid Sports Shirts Most Popular
Recent surveys on America’s campuses show that sports shirts are enjoying increased popularity for all-around campus wear. Reason: the widest variety of Arrow sports shirts ever, giving students a well-rounded casual wardrobe suitable for classroom and date wear, and for just plain comfortable lounging around. Available now at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW
-----
TRADE ® MARK
I—SHIRTS * TIES * UNDERWEAR * HANDKERCHIEFS • £?ORTS SHIR
See the new Arrow Shirts at
Michigan at Washington — On the Corner
December 4, 1953
Three’s a Crowd!
Scholastic
Vol. 95 December 4, 1953 No. 10
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
A very disheveled junior was brought before the dean for fighting.
“Why were you fighting?” asked the dean.
“Well, I was in a telephone booth talking to
my girl friend,” he explained. “I had just finished telling her about my handsome new Van Heusen Worsted Jersey Sport
Shirts. I told her how warm, comfortable and light they are. I
told her that thanks to the revolutionary new process, called
“Hellerized,” they are completely washable.”
“Yes,” said the Dean.
“Then I told her that the knit fabric felt like fine cash-mere,” continued the youngster. “I told her about all the handsome new colors I picked out, and that they cost only §0.00 apiece. And I was just about to tell her that I loved her, when a senior suddenly wanted to use the telephone. He opened the door, grabbed me by the neck, and threw me out of the booth!”
“Then you got angry?” asked the dean.
“Yes, but I really got mad when he grabbed my gal and threw her out too!”	' ,
Students!
SPECIAL RATES
RENT A BRAND NEW PORTABLE OR LATE MODEL STANDARD TYPEWRITER
Up to three months rental allowed on	Typewriters Rented,
purchase price if you decide to buy. Sold and Expertly Serviced.
SUPER SALES COMPANY
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
PHONE 6-6328	(Next to Sears) 315 W. MONROE ST.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ________________ News
FRED C. ECKART _____________ .Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ......Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK ...._____....Features ROBERT B. FROLICHER _____Sports JERRY D. BAIER .....Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL .._ Circulation
BOB FOWLER-------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE----Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT.____Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Paul Clemens, Dave Cohen, Dick Connelly, Mark Connelly, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Jack Flynn, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jim Healey, Jerrold Hilton, Ellis Joseph, Robert Kaufman, John Mannion, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Ronald Michaud, Roy Moxley, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Ken Woodward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Dave Kilkeary, John Phelan, and Bob Ruhl.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic. School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented lor national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Bux 185. Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: We held back the cover until the results of one of the most controversial polls for the mythical National Championship were disclosed. Congratulations to Maryland, the winners, though we’ll stand behind a great Notre Dame team that played like real champions all season.
Because of much controversy over the selection, we feel that this cover is quite appropriate.
—Cartoon by Bob Fowler
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
National Champs!!!
Just A Thought
Now that Maryland has been awarded the national championship, it’s too bad that the Irish won’t get a chance to crown them.
Shades of Orson
A few years back some character by name of Orson Welles got the idea of hopping on the airwaves and an-
nouncing to the listening public that the earth was being attacked by another planet.
Well, last Monday eve at approximately 5:35 o’clock one of WNDU’s junior Orsons named Flap or Flop or something figured the time was ripe to reenact a bit of his predecessor’s sensationalism. So, knowing full well that everybody was sitting on the edges of their seats waiting for the results of the football polls, Mr. Flip came out in the most dramatic tone he could muster with the fact that the local kilocycle keg had been blessed with advance dope on the final UP rating.
The only drawback was that he couldn’t give out with the info until 6 p.m. So, reassured that big news was on the way and that they shouldn’t even think about supper until after the tidings had been broadcast, the troops obediently hung onto their radios, alternately chain smoking fags and biting their nails, for 25 solid minutes. In the back of everyone’s mind was the speculation that the Irish must have regained the top poll position from the Terrible Terps.
But no. Mr. Fluff, playing his greatest moment to the hilt, grandiloquently gave out with a long spiel on the crowning of a new national champ before finally getting around to informing the. troops that it was Maryland. That sort of scorched everybody under the collar just a little bit. In fact, most of the guys were hotter about the announcer stringing them along than they were about the actual results of the poll.
If that’s the only way the local mike magistrates can get listeners, they should have their wires cut.
Quote of the Week
The Chicago Trib’s reference to the football poll as the “Tatum Poll.”
It Shall Ever Be
Recent developments on the national gridiron scene prompted us to pull an Edward R. Murrow and see if we could find some quotes appropriate for the occasion. We did.
“A crown and justice? Night and day shall first be yoked together.”
—Swinburne
“Uneasy lies, the head that wears a crown.”	—Shakespeare
“A crown! What is it?
It is to bear the miseries of a people!
To hear their murmurs (yaaaahhrrr) ; feel their discontents,
And sink beneath a load of splendid care!”	—More
“Be awful nice to ’em goin’ up, because you’re gonna meet ’em all cornin’ down.”	—Durante
“I weigh the man, not his title; ’tis not the king’s inscription can make the metal better or heavier.”—Wycherley
“Honour without profit is like a sixpenny rent to one that hath nothing else to live upon.”	—Cotgrave
South Bend: for reservations, call 2-1401 or an authorized travel agent.
FLY UNITED AIR LINES


You can travel aboard United’s luxurious 1st Qass Mainliners at fares comparable to traveling by rail with berth.
AND
You get full-course mealtime service for no extra cost. There’s no tipping and you enjoy many, many extra vacation hours at home.

“There is no sin except stupidity.”
—Wilde
“These things are men most likely to be cheated in, a horse, a wig, and a wife.” (How about a football poll?)
—Franklin
And to the team . . . the 1953 Fighting Irish . . .
“You’re still number one in our book.”	—Murphy
Bottom of the Week . . . Maryland???
DR. N. HZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to U-Hovr Sonieo
309 S. MICHIGAN Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
December 4, 1953
'5
DR RW TURBOW
^OPTOMETRIST
— OPTICAL REPAIRS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces” — EYES EXAMINED----
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
Who made it? Which section placed the most men? Who is the player of the year?
You’ll get the answers when you get the new issue of Collier’s and meet the finest of all the All-Americas — selected by the American Football Coaches Association.
Don’t miss this authoritative last word on a great gridiron season, in
The Big New
Cottier’s
DEC. 11 ISSUE ON NEWSSTANDS NOW
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant
Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
HOMI IS WHCKt THE SUCK IS
JUklGAy gmA Bock,
OR •.. Who did you say is a boy’s best friend?
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Once there was a sophomore whose father had a bad habit of saying “No”. Vehemently. Particularly about money. Ask him the Big Question and his jowls would turn a fetching shade of vermilion.
So Junior, his need needled by three days of living on liverwurst sandwiches, cast about for a New Approach. Found it, too. Right at the Western Union office. He just sat down and worked out a wire to Negative Polarity Pappy. A brisk little wheeze ... to wit: “Must have twenty dollars im
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
mediately. Urgent. Please flash by telegraphic money order.” Results? Our sophomore was caressing the cash within two hours.
What’s Junior’s major? Psychology, of course.
It’s darned good psychology to wire home at other times than just when you need help and comfort. For holiday greetings — Mother’s Day—good news about grades— things that would make Home Happier. Try it next time. Just head for your local Western Union office.
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH RB»AIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
6
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 10.	Notre Dame, Indiana	December 4, 1953
Count Basie and Don Gels Join Harmonies For Ball Honoring Irish Tomorrow Night
The Student Senate will honor the 1953 Irish football team with a Ball tomorrow night in the Drill Hall from 8:30 to 11:30.
The orchestras of Count Basie and Don Gels will alternate in providing music for the dance. In addition, the Count will give a 20-minute jazz exhibition which will include “Stompin’ at the Savoy.” Don McNeill of the Breakfast Club will act as master of ceremonies.
From 8:30 to 9:30 the football team, their dates, and three senior managers, the coaches and special guests will be entertained by the Senate at a private party in the Student Center. Here they will dance and have refreshments. Each girl will receive an orchid corsage.
At 9:30 the team and the guests will move on to the Drill Hall where the other dancegoers will welcome them. On the stage there will be- special ceremonies for the team. Jim Richards, president of the Student Senate, will pay tribute to the team on behalf of the students. Speeches will be given by the guests and Don Penza, captain of the team. Each member of the team and his date will receive a gift.
In a coronation ceremony Miss Joanne Braun, the date of Don Penza, will be crowned queen of the ball. A special dance for the team will follow this ceremony.
For the dance the Arts Guild has erected elaborate decorations in a football motif. In the center of the floor will be a four-foot high miniature replica of the Stadium. The stage will be transformed into a theater with green and silver decorations. A ceiling of twisted crepe paper will hang over one quarter of the floor.
The ball committee, appointed by the Senate, includes: Phil Bolin, chairman; Bob Fowler, decorations; Ray Kramer, favors and special gifts; Jack Moyna-han, refreshments; Bob Hanley, personnel; Jim Scherer, special arrangements; Tom McNeill, entertainment, and Jim Deline, publicity.
Bus transportation will be provided
for St. Mary’s students and their dates. Price of admission is $2 for those who have paid their Senate fee, and $4 for those who have not. The attire will be informal with no corsages.
JOANNE BRAUN
Captain's Queen — All-American Girl
Symposium Will Study Investigation Practices
A symposium on the safeguards which should be available to witnesses in legislative investigations will be sponsored by the College of Law next Wednesday at 10 a.m. in the Law Auditorium. The symposium will examine some of the abuses which have developed in the use of the investigative power and will explore legislative and judicial remedies, Dean O’Meara said.
William T. Gossett, vice-president and general counsel of the Ford Motor Co., will serve as moderator of the panel which will present five papers on various aspects of the problem. Participants will include Representative Kenneth B. Keating of New York; Telford Taylor, New York attorney and chief prosecutor of the Nurem
berg War Crimes Trials, 1946-49; Abe - Fortas, Washington, D. C. attorney and
Undersecretary of the Interior, 194246; George Morris Fay, former U. S. attorney for the District of Columbia, now engaged in private practice; and Marshall Smelser, associate professor of history at Notre Dame.
“How to assure due process of law for witnesses in legislative investigations without unduly hampering legislative functions is one of the greatest challenges facing the legal profession. today,” Dean O’Meara declared. “This is not a problem to be solved by denunciations, emotional appeals or catchwords. It demands hard thinking by all who love and serve the Law. The responsibility rests on the law schools no less than on the practicing bar. Wednesday’s symposium attests recognition here at Notre Dame of this joint responsibility.”
Faculty members and students are cordially invited to attend the symposium in the Law Auditorium.
Masterson Appointed NROTC Exec-Officer
Comm. James A. Masterson has replaced Comm. Raymond Payne as Executive Officer of the Notre Dame Navy ROTC unit.
Commander Masterson came to the University from the staff of the Cbm-mander of Naval Forces,- Far East Command in Japan, where he held .the position of Aviation Plans Officer from October, 1951, to April, 1953. During this time he was secretary to the armistice delegation in Korea and liaison officer with the Communists. He served in this capacity from June, 1952, to April, 1953.
He has been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Legion of Merit, and the Air Medal with two gold stars.
Commander Masterson also has merited the American Defense medal with a star, the Asiatic-Pacific medal with a star, the American Theater medal, the World War II Victory medal, the Korean medal with two stars, the United Nations medal, and the National Defense medal.
December 4, 1953
7
Proclamation of Marian Year by Pope Pius XII
Offers Many Plenary Indulgence Opportunities
His Holiness Pope Pius XII has proclaimed a Marian Year beginning the first Sunday of Advent this year, in preparation for the ICOth anniversary of the definition of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception
The Marian Year, similar in idea to a Holy Year, offers innumerable opportunities for plenary indulgences to be gained by the faithful throughout the year. These plenary indulgences may be gained by making the customary visit to Sacred Heart Church, recitation of prayers for the intentions of the Pope, and confession and Communion.
Here at Notre Dame, there will be a program of events in accordance with the Marian Year. In March, an art exhibit of University-owned paintings of the Madonna is planned for showing in the O’Shaughnessy Hall art gallery.
A musical program is scheduled this Spring, although no definite date has been set yet. .	.
A theological symposium will be held here this Summer. The symposium will be concerned with the defining of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception.
The Pope has decreed three distinct times when these plenary indulgences may be obtained during this Marian Year. Plenary indulgences may be ob
Footballers Give Out With "Eh Cumpari"
“Minnie” Mavraides, Jack Lee, Pat Bisceglia, and Frank Varrichione give out with a rendition of EH CUMPARI at one of the Vetville potluck suppers.
tained by visiting a Church built in Mary’s honor on the following days: the Immaculate Conception, next Tuesday, Christmas Dec. 25, the Purification, Feb. 2, 1954, the Annunciation, March 25, the Assumption, Aug. 15, the Seven Dolors of Mary, Sept. 15, and the Immaculate Conception of next year.	.
A second opportunity for the faithful will be offered every Saturday of the Marian Year when plenary indulgences may be obtained by taking part in a pilgrimage to a shrine in honor of Mary or by attending a function in her honor.
Thirdly, the faithful may obtain a plenary indulgence on any day of the Marian Year by visiting a sanctuary where the Blessed Virgin Mary is venerated with particular devotion and where the faithful customarily go in large numbers from considerable distances.
On Dec. 8, 1954, there will be a ceremony here climaxing the Marian Year as well as a pontifical ceremony at Rome.
Pope Pius XII officially proclaimed this year as Marian Year in his “Ful-gens Corona Gloria” encyclical, which translated means the “Radiant Crown of Glory.” Emphasizing “nothing
dearer than to worship, venerate, invoke, and praise with ardent affection the Mother of God conceived without stain of original sin,” His Holiness desired “that the faithful should throng thither in great numbers and should offer to Our Most Sweet Mother, not only private, but also public supplications with one voice and 'with one mind.”
A Marian Year committee has been organized on campus, headed by Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C. The committee will make all arrangements for local ceremonies throughout Marian Year.
'Kiss Me, Kate1 Makes Fourth Showing at8:15
The University Theater’s version of Cole Porter’s Broadway musical triumph, Kiss Me, Kate, will animate Washington Hall’s stage tonight for the fourth time this week at 8:15.
With three performances already under its belt, the cast of 45 should go through its paces before a near-capacity crowd on this eve of the SMU football game.
Eugene Gorski of Glee Club fame has the male lead in the production, playing opposite Dalis Ann Yoder. On stage, they will be known as Fred Graham and Lois Lane, respectively. Double-cast as Lilli Vanessi and Bill Calhoun are Billie Baum and Jinny Myler in the former role, and William Hamel and Ward Mercier in the latter.
Charles Spicka portrays Harry Trevor, an actor, while two gangsters are played by Pat Cannon and Russ Hemphill. Joe Juricic acts the part of a stage manager named Ralph. John Noland and Raymond Papay are cast in the roles of Hortensio and Gremio. Richard Six is a stage doorman, and Richard Robison plays Harrison Howell.
Minor parts go to Thomas Bloomer, James Ryan, Cliff Carlson, and Terry Crowley.
A chorus sings 14 of Porter’s best numbers, including So in Love, Wun-derbar, Always True to You Darling in My Fashion, and Brush Up Your Shakespeare.
Directed by Prof. John Tumpane of the Department of Speech, the production will also parade before the footlights in Saturday and Sunday evening performances, and a Sunday matinee. All seats are reserved with tickets priced at 75 cents for students, faculty, and University employees. Other general admission ducats are $1.50 apiece.
The Scholastic
’Ford Scholars of ND' Elect LaLonde Prexy
A new, unique, and somewhat ex-elusive campus club has been formed here. It’s the “Ford Scholars of Notre Dame,” a group of eleven students who chose Notre Dame for their higher education after receiving college scholarships from the Ford Motor Co.
Each year the Ford Motor Co. awards scholarships to approximately 70 high school graduates whose fathers are em-z ployed by the company. The scholarship winners may attend any college or university of their choice. Notre Dame is believed to have the largest representation of Ford scholars of any • institution outside the state of Michi. gan.
Bernard J. LaLonde, Dearborn, Mich., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, is president of the “Ford , . Scholars of Notre Dame.” LaLonde is . also associate editor of the Dome. Assisting LaLonde in planning club activities is Forest E. Brown, Springfield, / Ky., who was named secretary-treasurer of the organization. Brown, also a junior, has maintained a better than 95 per cent average in the pre-medical course in the College of Science.
The purposes of the new club, according to LaLonde, are to encourage new Ford Scholars to attend Notre Dame, to help orient them when they arrive on the campus, and to promote fellowship among the group. The club meets every two weeks on the campus . and occasionally holds a dinner-meeting.
Other members of the “Ford Scholars of Notre Dame” are Michael Far-rug, Robert Galla and Robert G. Nou-f han, Detroit, Mich.; James D. Purcell, Troy, N. Y.; Philip Chinn, Royal Oak, Mich.; Donald L. Morris, Memphis, Tenn.; James Cenname, Woodlyn, Pa.; Tatum Eason, River Rouge, Mich.; and William R. Matthews, Oklahoma City, Okla.
♦ ■---------------------------
Band Plans Carols, Classics . For Christmas Show Dec. 15
The concert band will present its annual Christmas concert in Washing-a ton Hall on Tuesday, Dec. 15, under the direction of Mr. Robert O’Brien.
Light and semi-classical presentations will comprise the evening concert with selections from Hansel and Gretel, Christmas carols, and several well-known marches included on the pro-k gram.
This year the Christmas concert will be the band’s only appearance in the area before the holidays. The Glee Club will not perform with the band at this concert.
FORD SCHOLARSHIP STUDENTS MEET WITH FATHER HESBURGH An Exclusive New Campus Club '
ND-St. Mary's Christmas Parlies Planned for County Home, Orphanage, Hospital, Nursery
The social committee of the Student Senate and the Student Council of St. Mary’s will jointly sponsor Christmas parties for various groups in South Bend on Saturday, Dec. 12, and on Sunday, Dec. 13.
The parties will be given for the old people at the St. Joseph County Home for the Aged, for the children at the Children’s Aid Society Orphanage in Mishawaka, at the Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital, and at the Circle of Mercy Day Nursery.
Co-chairmen of the project are Jim Scherer of Notre Dame and Mimi Doherty of St. Mary’s.
Student ‘Moms’ and ‘Dads’
On Sunday afternoon the 104 children at the orphanage will be entertained by Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students. Each boy will have a ND man as a “Student Dad”; each girl will have a St. Mary’s student as a “mom.” The 44 younger members of the orphanage will accompany their “moms” and “dads” to the movies in South Bend.
The remaining children will be entertained by their “parents” at the orphanage. Each child will receive a gift from his “parent.” Variety shows by the students and ND football and bas
ketball players will entertain the youngsters.
Also on Saturday from 1:30 pan. to 3:30 pjn. the recreation room of the Children’s Hospital will be the scene of a gay party. Each of the 40 children will similarly have a “mom” and “dad,” and each will receive a Christmas present. For refreshments there will be cakes and ice cream. A German band, clowns, a funny man, a magician,' and a singing group will furnish amusement. Football and basketball players will assist in supplying entertainment for the youngsters.
At the County Home, 177 old people will also attend a ND-St. Mary’s Christmas party on Saturday afternoon. Each of the men and women will receive a gift. The refreshments include ice cream, cakes, ginger ale, and lime sherbet punch. Piano, accordion, and quartet will provide the entertainment.
On Saturday afternoon the girls from St. Mary’s will give a party for the children at the nursery. Refreshments and gifts will be provided.
A total of 250 students will take part in giving the parties. The ND men’will be selected through the hall councils.' Busses will transport the students ttf and from the parties.	•

December 4, 1953
EVASHEVSKI.
Reprint of John Carmichael’s column which appeared in the Chicago Daily News, Nov. 23.
Sometimes all things are possible for Notre Dame. It even made time stand still long enough, Saturday, to twice tie Iowa . . .
Up in the press box Al Coupee, who used to play fullback at Iowa, was gulping hot coffee and saying: “I’ve never seen anything like it . . . you can’t beat those guys.”
Downstairs in the Irish dressing room, Frank Leahy was spent emotionally almost beyond the desire to talk. [‘It wasn’t our day to win,” he whispered, “but the team refused to lose . . .”
There was no time left at all when Notre Dame got its first touchdown. The moment the ball was snapped, the first half was over, but the play could be finished. It was, from Ralph Gugli-elmi to Dan Shannon for a touchdown . . . and the score was 7-7.
Only six seconds remained in the second half when again Guglielmi threw . . . and again Shannon caught the ball in the end zone'.
For the second time Don Schaefer, a sophomore quarterback, toed the mark to try for the extra point, with an undefeated season riding on the arc of liis swing.
Time. It meant more to Notre Dame, in its darkest hour of 1953, than all of the 21 first downs and the 358 yards ground out of Iowa’s bones by Lattner and Worden and Heap and the rise' and fall of Guglielmi’s arm. The hands of time were the hands of Esau, strangling Notre Dame.
One precious second left in the second quarter and the Irish 12 yards from a score.
A running play had just been stopped, which meant that the clock continued in motion. Then Frank Varri-chione, the' alert tackle, was seen to stagger as if in sudden pain.
The officials had no choice but to call time out. Varrichione was removed, but the clock had been stopped. There was time for one more play and everybody knew it would be a pass. In the words of their famous marching song . . . Notre Dame “shook down the thunder from the sky.”
Two minutes and six seconds remained when Iowa took its final lead. Time was now a phantom jet, whirling at breakneck speed above the ramparts of Notre Dame Stadium. How could any team hope to arrest its flight?
But Notre Dame did. It threw the
.. "GYPPED?”
football into the face of time, again and again, and caught it just six seconds from eternity.
That was when Shannon, going in now at right end, reached for the last lightning bolt and grounded it in the end zone.
It was a magnificent stand for Iowa, a once-in-a-lifetime' finish, even for Notre Dame. For the first time this season the Irish were forced to throw the ball with almost reckless necessity.
Had the Hawkeyes a passing game to compare with that of Notre Dame, they would have won. It was their only weakness, the lack of a thrower with Guglielmi’s pin-point arm.
Iowa was a superbly coached, high-spirited squad with fullback George Breeder playing the finest game of his career and Eddie Vincent and “Dusty” Rice shaking themselves loose ■ through man-made holes in the Irish line. Forest Evashevski, the Hawkeye coach, wasn’t afraid to substitute. Leahy was. All but five of the Notre Dame regulars played 60 minutes.
Notre Dame was rugged, forceful, irresistible at times, but not sharp. It lacked drive under pressure.
There was some wondering in the press box why Leahy didn’t give the first stringers a couple of rest periods during which they might have pulled themselves together.
But Iowa enhanced its stature by holding the nation’s No. 1 team to a breathless tie.
You can’t take anything away from the Hawkeyes. Not even the Irish could, although it always will be remembered that they made time and tide' wait for them . . . which usually wait for no man.
■
Reprint partion of Tom Duggan’s column which appeared in the Chicago Herald American, Nov. 25.
Notre Dame’s tie with Iowa last Saturday has given the vultures plenty to howl about ever since. And they have been howling with great joy and reckless abandon. Never’ have I seen so many character assassins at work at the same time on the same character.
At first I wasn’t too pleased with the time-saving fainting tactics myself, but now I am all for it as the greatest maneuver since Sherman marched to the seas and gave those smart-aleck Southerners an idea of who was boss. If Frank Leahy and Frank Varrichione want to run one-two on a presidential ticket I will vote for them in every polling place in the city.
I see no reason to penalize brains. If it was permissible under the rules' that was all that was necessary. Just because Leahy is a smart coach and Varrichione is a smart football player doesn’t mean that the anti-Notre Dame forces (and their number is legion) should go around throwing epileptic fits in childish protest.
Grantland Rice, who can’t pick winners for sour apples, let out quite a blast at the Irish. He says:
“Some people are calling it smart playing, but I think it was disgraceful playing. Especially after last year when the Notre Dame sucker shift had to be legislated against.”
He’s got a lot of gall making a crack
10
The Scholastic
catches tying touchdown pass against Iowa with six seconds to go while fans prepare to leave stadium.
like that. With all the dirt and muck and mire that there is in sports . . . with all the proselyting of athletes . . . with all the gambling that goes on . . . with colleges practically teaching courses in deceit and treachery ... he * -vents his elderly outrage on a smart football maneuver that snatched a team (from defeat that was only seconds away.
He’s got a h—1 of a lot to do, hasn’t he? On that sucker shift. ... It was rhe' suckers that were beefing. Beefing because of their own stupidity.
*■ That Forest Evashevski, the Iowa coach, ought to make up his mind which side he is on. One moment he is quoted as saying the maneuver was perfectly all right, and the next thing you
hear he is around writing lousy poems on how his poor little team was gypped. He says:
“Don’t celebrate a tie, celebrate a victory.”
Apparently the man can’t count . . . the score was 14-14. The only thing he can get out of that is a tie.
Iowa had the game won and couldn’t hang onto it. When Notre Dame needed the touchdowns, it got them. Some day I want to seq an Evashev-ski-coached team come from behind like that . . . then I will think he might know a little something about coaching, but not until.
And the muttonheads who dropped Notre Dame from top place in the
—‘Scholastic’ photo by Jim DuBois
weekly polls can’t chin themselves out of the intellectual gutter. Maryland’s schedule consists mostly of teams that Notre Dame could beat before breakfast.
In fact, I think that girls’ school next door, St. Mary’s, could go through a schedule like that undefeated.
Take a look at Maryland’s opponents. They left the Midwest, the Far West, and the Southwest completely alone. The three sections that feature football weren’t even on their list of calls. If Maryland meets Oklahoma on New Year’s Day it will be treated to a large taste of defeat. Oklahoma will chase the Jerks into the stands.
December 4, 1953
11

FOREST EVASHEVSKI Returns
Evashevski to Speak At 16th Irish Grid Fete
Forest Evashevski, head coach of the Iowa Hawkeyes who made life tough for Notre Dame this year, will be the featured speaker at the 16th annual testimonial football banquet Wednesday evening honoring the Fighting Irish.
The Iowa coach will have his own interesting comments on his team’s nearupset of the Irish and the storm aroused over the ethics of feigned injuries. The big banquet will be held in the University Dining Hall, capping a ten-game schedule ending with Southern Methodist tomorrow.
The banquet is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley through its president, Mr. Harry Koehler. The general chairman for the affair will be Mr. Daniel J. Youngerman.
Joe Boland, former Notre Dame coach and player, who now is the sports director of WSBT and WSBT-TV, will serve as the toastmaster of the banquet. The Notre Dame band will entertain the guests. The evening’s menu will feature steak.
The other speakers scheduled for the banquet include: Mayor John Scott of South Bend, Head Coach Frank Leahy, Arch Ward, the sports editor of the Chicago Tribune and either Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., or Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
The committee for the banquet is as follows: tickets and finance, Jim Hannan and Chet Grant, co-chairmen, Raymond Reutz, Gerald Hickey, Albert McGann and William Meehan; prebanquet—Bill Gibbons and Joe Lynch, co-chairmen, William Ryan, Wayne
Dec. 27 Set for Met Dance
The Met Club will stage its annual Christmas formal Sunday, Dec. 27, in the Grand Ballroom of the Biltmore Hotel. Couples will dance from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m., with Francis Walther and his orchestra providing the music.
Tickets may be obtained from hall representatives or from Tom Ryan, 374 Dillon.
Army Salutes N.D.
The famed Fifth Army Band of Fort Sheridan, Ill., will salute Notre Dame on its coast-to-coast broadcast over the Mutual network tomorrow at 11:30 p.m.
The 60-piece band, conducted by Chief Warrant Officer John P. Cochrane, will play the familiar Victory March and Notre Dame Our Mother.
Avery Addresses Metallurgists
Mr. Howard S. Avery, research metallurgist of the American Brake Shoe Co., will address the December meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals Wednesday. Dinner will be served at 6:30 p.m. at Nabicht Brothers; the technical session will follow at 8:15 p.m. in Room 5 of the Engineering Building.
Madonna On Display
The current exhibition of Italian primitive paintings at the galleries in O’Shaughnessy Hall marks the opening event of the program of Marian Year activities here.
Though the exhibition was sponsored by the Department of Art as part of its own program, the fact that it contains a number of ‘ paintings of the Blessed Mother enables it to serve as the first item on the Marian Year calendar.
The outstanding feature of the ex-
Wahl, Don Fisher and Elmer Horvath; program—Guy McMichael and Charles Callahan, co-chairmen, Robert Grant, J. J. Crowley, Jr. and William Sheehan.
Publicity—John Cackley and Robert Lehman co-chairmen, Frank Crosiar, Joe Doyle, Richard Cody and Vince Doyle; food and arrangements—James Beaud-way and Tim Waite, co-chairmen, Charles Sweeney, Jim Leahy, Joe Hickey, Jack Moulder, Rudy Goeptrick, Dick Kaczmarek and Rollie Poulin.
hibit is a-^grpup of Madonnas from the collections, sqf' John F. Cuneo and Richard E. Berlin. The paintings represent various 'schools of the Italian primitive 'period.
Jersey Christmas Dance on Dec. 21
The annual Christmas dance of the New Jersey Club will be held Dec. 21 in the Crystal Room of the Hotel Suburban, East Orange, according to publicity chairman, Bill Birmingham.
Dancing to the music of Vince Waldron will be from 9 to 1. Dress will be informal.
Hall representatives are selling tickets along with ducat chairman, Jack Hoblitzell, 147 Dillon. Tickets are priced at $3.00.
Naval Cadets here Tuesday
Members of the Naval Air Station, Glenview, Illinois Naval Aviation Cadet Information team will be here next Tuesday to meet and talk with those interested in Nav-Cad Training. They will be in the Dining Hall lobby from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
The Nav-Cad team will have further information and booklets concerning the training and benefits of a Naval aviation cadet.
Dr. Geisler Speaks to A.S.M.E.
The Department of Metallurgy and the American Society for Metals will sponsor two lectures by Dr. A. H. Geisler next Friday and Saturday in Room 5 of the Engineering Building.
Dr. Geisler will speak on “The Mechanism and Kinetics of Transformations” at 7:30 Friday.
He will talk on “Dependence of Properties of Alloys on Transformations” at 10:30 a.m. Saturday.
Civil Service Announces Exam
The United States Civil Service Commission has announced an examination for highway engineer trainee positions paying §3,175 and §3,410 a year with the Bureau of Public Roads in Washington, D. C., and throughout the United States.
Applications will be accepted by the Executive Secretary, Board of U. S. Civil Service Examiners, Bureau of Public Roads, Department of Commerce, Washington 25,. D. C., until Feb. 9.
12
The Scholastic
Irish Host SMU In Season’s Finale
Annual Novice Bouts Scheduled for Dec. 7
Mustang Eleven Provides Rough Competition As ND Seeks Ninth Win and Unbeaten Slate
On Monday, Dec. 7, some 85 contenders will square off in pursuit of the various championships in each division of the annual Novice boxing tournament. Preliminaries for this tourney will be held in the boxing room of the fieldhouse on Dec. 7, 8, and 10 starting at 4:15 p.m. Semifinal and final bouts will be held on Dec. 11 and 12 respectively, with the first bout each evening beginning at 7:30 o’clock.
Following the Novice tourney the next campus boxing attraction will be the annual Bengal Bouts, one of the biggest undertakings of the year. The Bengals are run on much the same principle as the Novice bouts, with the proceeds going to the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India. These bouts have been a Notre Dame tradition for 23 years, and besides the bouts, an annual Bengal Bout award is presented to an outstanding figure in the boxing world.
DUANE NUTT
Southwest’s Top Passer
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Notre Dame’s 1953 version of the Fighting Irish, fresh from their 48-14 rout of Southern California, will be seeking their ninth win and an undefeated season when they face the invading Mustangs of Southern Methodist tomorrow afternoon in the season’s finale for both squads.
Some 58,000 fans will see a new type
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
SO. METHODIST NOTRE DAME Nix .......... LE	_____ Matz
Gunlock ______ LT	„	Varrichione
Clem ........ LG	......  Lemek
Arnecke ..... C ------ Schrader
Lafitte ...... RG	....	Mavra ides
Goss ......... RT	... Hunter
Bernet ....... RE	..	Penza (C.)
Nutt ......... QB	.. Guglielmi
Mcllhenny .... LH	.......  Heap
O’Brien ...... RH	... Lattner
Miller ......  FB	... Worden
Kickoff time—1:00 p.m. C.S.T.
of SMU squad, employing their new head coach Chalmer (Woody) Woodward’s version of the T and split T, rather than the modified wing formations—symbolic of past Southern Methodist squads. Despite this change in coach and style of play, the Mustangs have compiled a 5-4 season’s mark.
Strengthening the left side of a forward wall that averages 204 pounds a man, are the Mustangs’ co-captains, Jack Gunlock and Jerry Clem, a pair of senior linemen who see duty at left tackle and left guard respectively. Gunlock, a 6-foot, 200-pound double monogram winner, was used on both offense and defense, playing guard on offense and end on defense. His teammate and fellow captain Clem saw action exclusively as a linebacker on defense.
He tips the scales at 206 pounds and stands GT.”.
Completing the left side of the Mustang line is Doyle Nix, a 6’1”, 185-. pound junior end, who saw considerable action on both offense and defense last year, although hampered by injuries. Nix’s teammate at the other end is Ed Bernet, a 6’2”, 191-pound junior, who was employed principally on offense in ’52. Anchoring the middle of the SMU line is Bill Fox, a converted fullback who has lettered twice at his latest position.
Don Goss, the heaviest member of the SMU squad at 6’4”, 260 pounds, was the team’s starting right tackle on defense last year, and sees action both ways at that post this season. The remaining member of the Mustangs’ line is 5’11”, 198-pound Darrell Lafitte, a senior right guard, who was a regular tackle on offense the past two years.
Calling the signals for SMU’s new
DON (TINY) GOSS
Outstanding Lineman of the Week
December 4, 1953
15
offensive attack is junior quarterback Duane Nutt, a 5’11”, 180-pound performer, who was one of the team’s leading passers, runners, and pass receivers in ’52 before an injury sidelined him.
Jerry Norton, a 5’11”, 180-pound senior, and Frank Eidom, a 5’11”, 181-pound junior, share the halfback duties for the Mustangs. Both ranked high in all offensive departments in 1052, with Norton leading his team in rushing in both ’51 and ’52. Rounding out the backfield is fullback Don Miller, who lettered as a defensive right half in ’51, and as an offensive halfback in ’52. He is a 6’2”, 191-pound senior.
Notre Dame made a strong bid for the mythical National Championship last Saturday in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, walloping an outclassed and outmanned Southern California team 48-14 for their eighth win of the year and 11th straight game without a defeat.
John Lattner had the greatest day of his college career, averaging 9.25 yards for 17 carries and scoring four touchdowns, while quarterback Ralph Gugli-elmi directed the Irish attack with a flawless selection of plays which continually crossed up the Trojan defense. The hard running of fullback Neil Worden and seatback Joe Heap added to the' fury of the Irish attack, and the Irish forward wall played its best game of the season, continually opening huge holes in the Trojan defense.
From the moment Joe Heap rocketed for a touchdown early in the first quarter the outcome was never in doubt for the Irish.
Sideline Run Starts Fireworks
The ball game got off to a firecracker start before ten minutes had elapsed when Joe Heap gathered in a punt on the six, raced to his left sideline, picked up three' blockers and wheeled 94 yards for a TD and the longest run of the year in the Coliseum.
Five minutes later Notre Dame scored on nine plays covering 61 yards. A Guglielmi pass to Penza on the Trojan 14 set up the score. Two plays later Lattner tallied, taking a pitchout from Guglielmi and skirting the left ■end for nine yards and his first score of the day.
Southern Cal’s first touchdown came when Trojan Koch took a pitchout and went wide around the Notre Dame left ■end to score, culminating a 30-yard march which took seven plays.
The Irish regulars returned and promptly widened the gap. Heap ran the kickoff out to the 33, and Lattner moved for a first down. Worden then took a handoff from Guglielmi, ham-
(Continued on Page 16)
JOE HEAP
Irish Speed Demon
In the scoring column he
by Bob Frolicher
All The Way Down The Field
One of the least publicized players in Notre Dame’s crack backfield is
Irish speedster and left halfback, Joe Heap. The seatback is a constant
threat to the opposition, particularly when he drops back to his familial-
position in Notre Dame’s double safety on kickoffs and punts. Heap’s
94-yard run on a punt return against the Trojans last Saturday was all the Irish needed to start them on the way to an eventual rout of Southern Cal, 48-14.
So far this season, Heap has been one of the mainstays of the “Four Horsemen.” His specialty is pass reception, capturing the lead last season and heading the Irish again this year. Last season he gathered in 29 tosses for 407 yards and two touchdowns. “The Heaper” has been quarterback Ralph Gugliehni’s favorite target again this season. In the first nine games he has snatched 21 passes, good for 325 yards and five TD’s. In ’52 Heap carried 89 times for 383 yards and a 4.3 average, and this year boasts of a 5.3 average, grinding out 310 yards in 59 carries.
tied with All-American Johnny Lattner at 30
points, last year, and is tied again with Lattner after the first nine games
with 42 points apiece.
Number ONE In Our Book
As collegiate football rolls into the final week, the big discussion has been on the last poll which named Maryland as National Champs. In such a case, a moral victory isn’t much consolation, but 5,000 students along with many other people throughout the country know that the best team still is the Fighting Irish. Just stop for a minute and compare the schedule the two teams faced this season. Not once in any poll this season did an opponent of the Terrapins place in the top ten, while Irish foes were constantly in the thick of the race. In the final standings, the only Maryland foe to gain a berth in the top twenty was Alabama (Grantland Rice’s pre-season choice for National Champs) which placed 13th (AP). Of the Irish opponents three were in the top ten, and one of the three in the first five. Nothing can be taken away from the Terrapins. They undoubtedly are the class of the . . . Southeast. As the Dodgers always say: “Wait ’til next year.” Although Notre Dame didn’t capture the mythical crown, the Fighting Irish are still OUR NATIONAL CHAMPS.
A Wide Open Game
The aerial show pulls into town tomorrow when the Southern Methodist Mustangs tangle with the Fighting Irish. Everyone well recalls the passing display the Mustangs put on in 1951 when they downed Notre Dame, 27-20. Statistics show that the Ponies rely more on passing this season. Halfback Frank Eidom is the leading ground gainer for the Mustangs in their first eight games, gaining 254 yards net in 53 attempts. Turning to passing, quarterback Duane Nutt has completed 32 of 60 passes for 458 yards and five TD’s.
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow 15 members of Notre Dame’s varsity will be wearing the colors of the Fighting Irish for the last time. They, will be out to prove the polls 100 percent wrong, finishing the season with a 27-13 victory.
14
The Scholastic
j Jordanmen Face NU, Titans, IU, and Loyola j In Initial Stretch of 22-Game Cage Schedule
With football still the main topic of conversation on campus, and one more grid game remaining, the basketball charges of Johnny Jordan are gradually moving into the spotlight opening a 22-game schedule. Their first game was played last night in the Notre Dame fieldhouse against Ball State.
On Dec. 7 the Wildcats of Northwestern invade the fieldhouse in an attempt to avenge two losses last season at the hands of the Irish eagers. Northwestern lost only one of their first five through graduation, forward and captain Larry Deliefield. Dellefield was a sparkplug in the Wildcat attack last season, but there are other capable veterans returning.
Larry Kurka, a guard, was a consistently high scorer all last season. John Biever, his running mate at the other guard slot, is also back again. Don Blaha, a starting forward last year returns along with 6’6” Hal Grant, who was a key man in his team’s attack. However, the key man is 6’8” Frank Petrancik, the hefty NU pivot-inan, who threw in 26 points against the Irish in their first meeting last year.	-
Detroit, a Missouri Valley conference squad, makes its first and only appearance of the season against the Irish on Dec. 10 at the fieldhouse. Detroit expects to be stronger despite the loss of three of its four top scorers. Coach Bob Calihan has lettermen back to move into the starting roles. Key man on the Titan squad is junior Guy Sparrow, a 6’5” forward. He proved to
JACK STEPHENS
Sharpshooting Guard
be a good scorer in his sophomore season, but his best weapon is his ability to block the ball of any opponent driving in for a shot.
On Dec. 14 the Irish travel to Bloomington, Ind., for one of the toughest games on their schedule. On that date they face defending NCAA tournament champions, the Hoosiers of Indiana. The same team—the one that Notre Dame defeated by a 71-70 margin at the fieldhouse last year, but lost to in the NCAA regionals at Chicago, 79-66, is back once again. Only reserve forward Jim Schooley was graduated.
Spearheading the Hoosier attack are senior Bob Leonard, a 6’3” guard who averaged 16.3 points per game last year, and junior Don Schlundt, a 6’10” center who averaged 25.4 points per game during the ’52-’53 campaign. Schlundt had his greatest scoring night in Chicago against the Irish when he scored 41 points to lead his teammates to a regional crown and on to the championship finals.
Loyola provides the last opposition before the Christmas holidays when
KC. Cleveland Retain Lead; MIBC Squad to Be Named
Notre Dame’s Kampus Keglers took theii* second break of the year last Sunday, due to the Thanksgiving holidays, but the newly-inaugurated position meet was held on Nov. 22. Since the teams played their closest competitors, most of the matches were closely contested, and there were only a few’ four-point sweeps.
The Cleveland club, however, increased its first-place lead in the Blue League by sweeping four points from the second-place AIEE club, while the Met club, which was tied for second place, took three points from the Philadelphia club. The K of C, meanwhile, held its first-place lead in the Gold League.
The AIEE club still holds the season’s high series, 2707, while the Met club still has the high single team game, a 991 effort.
Tryouts for the team to represent Notre Dame in the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Congress ended last Monday, and the final selection of the squad will be announced next week. Prospects for the eighth match season look good, according to Paul Pfohl, president of the MIBC, since it is expected that four members of last year's successful team will be returning.
JOE BERTRAND
Ball-Hawking Irish Forward
Coach George Ireland leads his Eamblers into the fieldhouse Dec. 17. Elwood Sigwards, forward and captain, who was the only experienced man on last year’s squad has been lost by graduation. However, Dick Clark, a 6’6” performer, w’ho played the pivot for the Ramblers last year, will again be at center. At the forwards will be Ed Stube and Palka, a pair of good scoring performers. Jerry Lyne a guard on the starting five, has experience as a reserve, while his running mate at guard, Art Schalk, is a converted forward from last year’s starting squad.
The Irish starting five will look something like this: 6’3” Joe Bertrand and 6’4” Bill Sullivan at the forwards, 6’5” Dick Eosenthal at the center post, and 6’1” Junior Stephens and 6’2” Bill Weiman at the guards. The 22-game schedule is as follows:
Dec 7—Northwestern (Notre Dame) 10—Detroit (Notre Dame) 14—Indiana (Bloomington) 17—Loyola (Notre Dame) 23—Bradley (Peoria)
31—Northwestern (Notre Dame)
Jan. 6—Louisville (Notre Dame)
9—NYU (Notre Dame)
15—Holy Cross (Boston) 16—Canisius (Buffalo) 19—Purdue (Notre Dame)
Feb 3—Butler (Notre Dame)
6—DePaul (Chicago)
9—Michigan State (Lansing)
15—DePaul (Notre Dame) -
17—Butler (Indianapolis)
20—Navy (Annapolis)
22—Pennsylvania (Philadelphia)
25—Marquette (Notre Dame)
27—Loyola (Chicago) ‘
Mar 6—Marquette (Milwaukee)
December 4, 1953
15
DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING EARLY Boy a Beautiful Boxer Pup to take home Fawns and flashy Brindles Sired By Champion Clinaud’s Don Juan II. $75 & $100 See: MRS. WOODWARD.
Cafeteria Manager.
HELP WANTED
MEN and WOMEN:
URGENT
We need representatives in your locale to help fill out an organization for business surveys, polls, and public opinions. . . . Ideal part time work. . . . Choose your own hours. . . . Your nearest telephone may be your place of business for surveys not requiring the signatures of those interviewed. . . . Send $1 for administrative guarantee fee, application blank, questionnaire, plan of operation, and all details on how you may manage a survey group for us. . . . GARDEN STATE and NATIONAL SURVEYS, P. O. Box 83, Cedar Grove, New Jersey.
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
JOB JABKHT’S Restaurant
“Chicken in the Rough"
213 N. Main Open Sunday ।
National Catholic Action Study Commission To Give Symposium on Apostolic Formation
A symposium on apostolic formation will be presented next Monday and Tuesday under the direction of the National Catholic Action Study Commission. Registration will be held at 5 p.m. Monday in Room 3 of the Law Building. The opening talk, “The Church in History—The Creative Response of the Layman” by Vincent J. Giese, is scheduled for 7:30.
Other papers planned for the symposium are: “Formation Through Action” by Rev. Joseph C. Haley, C.S.C.;
ND Routs CISC
Continued from Page 14) mered over the middle, cut sharply to the left, and raced 54 yards to the Southern California three. On a quick opener Worden bolted over the left side for the marker. The kick was true’ and the Irish pulled away, 20-7.
Shortly before the end of the half Irish guard Ray Lemek intercepted a Bozanic pass in the end zone, running out to the Trojan 43 before being hauled down.
Midway in the third quarter Hawthorne fumbled on his own 15 and Paul Matz fell on it for Notre Dame. Lattner moved to the 10. On a pitchout from Guglielmi, Lattner skirted the Trojan right side and scored standing, and Notre Dame had a 27-7 lead.
Southern Cal came right back to score on six plays after the kickoff, going 64 yards. Aramis Dandoy picked up the final 13 yards for the score. Notre Dame got this one back in short order, the bull-like running of Neil Worden and the deadly blocking of Art Hunter capping the 61-yard drive. Lattner bolted over right tackle for the score. Guglielmi made it 34-14 with his kick.
In the waning moments of the third quarter, Dandoy, attempting to lateral, was nailed and fumbled, and Pat Bis-ceglia fell on the ball in the end zone for the sixth Irish score’.
Southern California had a first down on the Notre Dame 24 early in the fourth quarter. Jim Controtto, trying to skirt the end was caught in his own backfield, hit hard and fumbled. Notre Dame recovered on their 35. Here Southern California’s distraught lads really fell apart as Guglielmi blasted up to the 50. On the next play Lattner thundered over the middle, cut and dodged four Southern Cal defenders and romped 50 yards for the final Irish marker.	•
“Apostolic Formation and Personal Spirituality” by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C.; and “Apostolic Formation and Intellectual Formation—The Problem of the Student Apostolate” by David Burrell.
The NCASC recently announced theii- objectives for this year. First, the Commission will study the Christian layman’s place in modem society and especially the Christian student’s role in student society. Secondly, it will continue its policy of providing information on the doctrinal, liturgical and theological foundations of the apostolate. Thirdly, the Commission will strive to develop a deeper understanding of the nature of secularism so that the student’s thinking may be directed away from that evil into more apostolic channels. Lastly, it will continue to provide news and information of the apostolate and the student world.
The NCASC is one of many Catholic groups in the United States and in the world which answered the pleas of prominent members of the clergy for Catholic Action by the layman. Pope Pius XII wished the “youth of Catholic Action to have a clear intelligence . . . which bases itself on reason and explains, for example, that the clear and conscious act of faith is a most reasonable act.” Bishop Baudoux on Feb. 10, 1952, stressed “that personal formation and action must go hand in hand. . . . Action itself is an element of formation of which one must avail himself in forming young people.”
BASKETBALL TICKETS
Students will be admitted to varsity basketball games upon presentation of Identification Cards at Gymnasium entrances.
Ail seats except those in the North Balcony and those immediately behind the visiting team bench will be held for students until 7:30 p.m.
A freshman intra-squad game will be held before all varsity contests at 6:40 p.m. The west entrance will be open at 6:30. Other doors will be open by 7 p.m.
To facilitate admission, please use the following entrances:
Farley, Breen-Phillips, Vetville —North Door.
' All other halls and off-campus —West Door.
16
- The Scholastic
Law School Adds New Tuitional Scholarships
Two new scholarships valued in excess of $1,800 each have been estab-; lished in the College of Law, according / to a recent announcement by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University. Father Hesburgh has designated that they be known as the John J. Cavanaugh Law Scholarships, in honor of his prede-, cessor, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who served as president of Notre Dame from 1946 to 1952.
The scholarships, which will provide ( tuition in the Law Schoo] for three years, will be awarded annually to a graduate' of the College of Arts and Letters and to a graduating Senior ' in the College of Commerce, Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr., explained. The Law school dean emphasized that the schol-ii ’ arships will be awarded only to students who have demonstrated exceptional scholarship ability.
Dean O’Meara listed four steps to be " ** taken by those' interested in the new scholarships. An applicant must submit the regular application form for admission to the Notre Dame College ' of Law. He must write a letter pro-viding additional pertinent information, , including a description of his extra-"• ' curricular activities and student employment at the University. The ap-■ plicant ■will be required to take the ; Law School Admission Test to be given here on Feb. 20, 1954. Finally, he must ;j)	\ submit a transcript of his undergradu-
ate grades.
f » ND, St. Mary's to Join Voices For Christmas Carols Dec. 12
Next Saturday evening, Dec. 12, the :	citizens of South Bend will be' enter-
tained with a Christmas sing by Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students.
।	’ The social committee of the Student
Senate and the Student Council of St. Mary’s are sponsoring the caroling in an effort to promote good will between the residents and the students. This sing will be the first staged by Notre Dame.
Busses will pick up the groups of students at 7:30 p.m. and will transport them to various residential sections of the city. Members of the Glee 1 Club will act as leaders for each group, and will direct the singing. After caroling for an hour the students will A return to the Student Center for a I house party.
'	Twelve groups of 50 students are
planned. Anyone is welcome to participate in the caroling, and all interested should see their hall president.
The gif* that will be welcomed joyously by ♦hat Notre Dame fan on your Christmas list
a subscription to the
Notre Dame
Scholastic
Weekly Student News Magaxine
, .lick sprightly magazine that wins top awards Each issue of this slick, P g 7	N<)tre new5,
every year in nationa JU gin	feaMres—a weekly roundup that
sports, social events, umor	£or Fighting Irish fan,
will be a continual source of p whether teen-ager or oldster.
• •	•« the annual Football Review, a
Included in each subscnption is die annual special edition that covers the entire Trish grid season.
t with the Christmas issue, and a Your gift subscriptions wl s	lvill be mailed to arrive
letter notifying the recipients of your gif	cards
before Christmas. We will enclose your otm Ctastmas the letters if you send them to us with your ord .
$4.00 for each one-year subscription^ Fill in the Order Form below and mail 4 today.
To: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send gift subscriptions to the following at $4.00 per subscription. I am enclosing $--------for..........
subscriptions.
□ I am also enclosing my own cards which I wish to have enclosed with your letter notifying the following of the gift subscriptions they will receive during the coining year.
My name .........-.................
Address ---------------------------
City ------------------------------
Please send gift subscription to
Address _____________________________
City —_______________________________
Please send gift subscription to
Address ____________________________
City _______________________________
December 4, 1953
17
by Gordon Bergquist
There are 5400 students at Notre Dame. Of these, approximately 500 never heard of a man named Dylan Thomas. Of these, approximately 250 were aware that this particular man died several weeks ago. Of these, approximately 50 were at all concerned or moved by this man’s death. Why? Dylan Thomas was a poet./
This article is not an apology for poetry. It needs none. Nor is it a eulogy on the particular modern poet. He needs none. Rather the above is merely an example of a particular state of affairs in the world as a whole and in colleges in America in particular.
The problem is this: the student, specializing in a particular field of study, is so impressed by that field and its offshoots that he cannot or will not see any other science or art. As an excellent example, take the English major. He is supposed to be the paragon of culture and the bedrock of intellectual life on the campus. At least, he was so-conceived by many until the appearance of the General Program. The English major, hidden in his books, is particularly adept at pointing out the faults of those who follow scientific courses. To the English major, such persons are completely barbarian, uncultured, and merely wasting their time here on earth.
This attitude is not the English major’s alone, however. It is largely the attitude of the school of Liberal Arts as a whole. But as certain politicians would say, let’s look at the facts. Whether we like it or not, the greatest achievement of our time is science. True, science has created problems, but problems which men of the liberal arts have made more confused and managed quite well not to solve.
A few examples of this should bolster the point. Men who have some claim to be governmental experts or political scientists have done little to achieve any kind of peace or world order. Again, the purveyors of what passes for literature these days have descended to a mere picturization of the depths to which man has pushed himself. They offer nothing beyond a very sharp picture of a cloudy mess. | Sociologists, whom one would judge (from sociology courses, at least) to be quite properly concerned with the problems connected with urban living, have in the practical realm, accomplished little. Big cities still have slums and conditions which the practicing sociologist is pledged, in theory at least, to correct. Instead, sociology seems to be largely concerned
with fine theories which can never be proved—or disproved./and with proving or disproving fellow'sociologists.
It is also true that there is much to be said for the dehumanization of the scientist in his all-powerful absorption in facts, numbers, and theories. But what is often passed over is the lack of knowledge on the part of the students and devotees of the liberal arts of the facts and accomplishments of science and other fields. How many Arts students on this campus can give a fairly clear definition of an atom? Very few—and yet the atom is a central point in our culture today and will be even more important in the future. How many political science majors can converse intelligently upon and realize the importance of great works of literature? Or how many English majors can speak with some degree of intelligence about world government?
Possibly the problem resolves itself down to a realization of the fact that few fields like to realize the importance or validity of the subject matter of other fields. Yet there are queer paradoxes in this. The student of the liberal arts is totally ‘unaware of developments in science and other fields which have created and will continue to create the problems which that same student claims to study and understand.
On the immediate and practical level there is a queer paradox, also. The student of the liberal arts, whether through tradition or self-consciousness, seems to be pledged to changing the world. The student of the sciences seems to be concerned with the world as it is now and has little, if any, concern for making things “better.” Yet it is an observable and demonstrable fact that the world itself is changing
and that it needs changing. Supposedly, then, the intelligent student of the liberal arts should be in some demand. But in seeking a position, the liberal arts student is often reduced to accepting anything with a little security, while the student of science can practically name his own price.
Placement Interviews Dwindle Due to Approaching Holidays
Employment interviews for January graduates will be held as usual in the Placement Bureau office on the ground floor of the Administration Building during the next two weeks. The only students that are eligible to sign up for the interviews are those who have' officially registered with the Placement Bureau. Due to the approaching holidays there are' only a few interviews scheduled for next week.
Next Friday, the Philco Corporation of Philadelphia, Pa., will interview B.S. and M.S. candidates in electrical and mechanical engineering. Also scheduled for Friday are interviews to be held by the Milwaukee, Wis., paint division of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Corporation. The interviews are open to B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. chemists and chemical engineers. The third and last interview on Friday will be Conducted by the Nitrogen Division of Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation. It will be opened to B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. chemists and chemical engineers.
On Monday, Dec. 14, only one interview is scheduled. The Ordnance Corporation, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md., will interview B.S. and M.S. chemical, electrical, mechanical engineers and candidates in mathematics and physics.
11
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
I. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
AwoeiatM
228 So. Michigan St.
18
The Scholastic
HUGHES Cooperative Fellowship Program for
Purpose
r The Hughes Cooperative Fellowship Program has been established to enable outstanding graduates to pursue work for the Master of Science decree while employed in industry and making significant contributions to important mil-itary projects.
< Eligible for consideration are students who will receive the B.S. degree during the coming year and members of the Armed Services being honorably separated and holding B.S. degrees. In either case die field of the B.S. degree must be:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
PHYSICS, OR
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
The awards will be made to applicants who have evidenced outstanding ability and some degree of creativeness. They must also possess traits enabling them to work well with others.
Recipients will earn five-eighths of a normal salary each year. This salary will be determined by the individual’s qualifications and experience, and will reflect current salary practices in the electronics industry. Salary growth will be on the same basis as for full-time members of the scientific-engineering staff. Recipients will also be eligible for health, accident and life insurance benefits, as well as other privileges accruing to full-time stafFmembers.
Tuition, admission fee, and required books at either the University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California, covering the number of units required to earn an M. S. degree, will be provided.
Salaries
Sponsorship
Citizenship
Universities
Program
Applicants must be United States citizens for whom appropriate security clearance can be obtained, as their work in the Hughes Laboratories may be related to National Defense projects.
< Applicants must be able to meet the requirements for admission to graduate standing at the University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California.
/• Participants will be employed at Hughes full time in the summer and 25 hours a week during the university year while pursuing half-time graduate work.
For those residing outside the Southern California area, actual travel and moving expenses to this area will be allowed up to 10 percent of the full starting annual salary.
If a sufficient number of qualified candi-dates present themselves, as many as 100 Fellowships will be awarded each year, j
Candidates will be selected by the Com-mittee for Graduate Study of Hughes ResearchandDevelopmentLaboratories.
Application forms should be obtained immediately. Completed applications must be accompanied by detailed college transcripts.
Address correspondence to COMMITTEE FOR GRADUA it, STUDY
Travel
Expenses
Number of Awards
Selection oj Candidates
Application Procedure
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
Cuher City, Los Angeles County, California