Vol. XX. ’	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, .OCTOBER 22, 1886.	No. 8/ v
*	7 <	-	v)7	>	-•
After the Battle.
The battle’s o’er, the din is past; Night’s mantle on the field is cast; _ The moon, with pale and saddened beam, Hangs sorrowing o’er the bloody stream; The Moslems’ yell is heard no more, And silence broods on Danube’s shore.
Of all the young and blooming train Who to the combat rushed amain, How few shall mix in fight again! Lend me, thou pensive queen of night, Lend me, awhile, thy waning light That I may see each well-known form That sank beneath the moving storm. Alas 1 where Danube’s waters glide, Where rolled the combat’s deadliest tide, Forgetful of the fearful fight, Brave, youthful warriors sleep to-night. Dim are their eyes, their visage pale, Their fair locks wanton in the gale. '
And thee, thou dread and solemn plain, I ne’er shall look on thee again.
Sweet spring, with her effacing showers Will come, and summer’s mantling flowers, And each succeeding winter throw On thy red breast white robes of snow; But I will wear thee in my heart, All dark and gory as thou art.
Eliot P. Ryder.
Classical Training-.
- The question is often asked: What advantage is to be gained by the study of the classics? We can answer the question by asking another: What benefit do you acquire by.the study of any other branch—for instance, the sciences? By the study of the sciences we acquire a knowledge of nature’s ’ laws, and they, tend to strengthen and enlarge the mind. So, too, the cultivation of ancient literature is. proportionately beneficial; to each and every
faculty, by enlivening the imagination, by refining, our taste, by giving strength to our power of judgment, and also by forming a means of communi- : cation between the different mental powers; it tends, to promote probity and favor virtue, as well as. to j drive off prejudice and dispel vice. The classics also afford knowledge of men who lived before us, who present examples to be followed, whose virtue and success should be emulated, and whose:, vices and failures should be our solemn warning. ; The classics are the standard of works of the Greeks and Romans, a people of entirely different character from modern nations. They were pupils of nature, possessing the keenest sensibility ford nature’s charms, and renowned for their, activity . and energy in contests for mental superiority. Na- ... ture and love of liberty guided them in every action, and their works seem to be flowers sprung from ., nature and freedom.	'	; .
Greece had its day, and once grandly rose above . every other nation on earth, supreme monarch of all, and ruled them by her power. Virtue was . her guiding star, and she thrived so long as. there:, was genius to use this virtue and instil it into the . hearts of others. Greece, so sublime and prolific in her literature, produced men who were destined ? ever after to serve as models in their ^respective spheres. . Homer was the morning star,the first that ! appeared in the horizon of her literary firmament;: and so grand and brilliant was his light that evennow he is acknowledged as the greatest poebthaL ever lived. His u Iliad ” and “ Odyssey’’ will be read and admired as long as the bright sun diffuses his light on civilized men.. ..	;
Where do we.find our model of eloquence? Do a we not acknowledge as such the noble patriot-a nd-statesman, Demosthenes, whose powerful outbursts , of eloquence held his auditors bound with admira-A tion and astonishment, and which even now flash to the people of this erudite age; across the bleak desert of twenty-four, centuries, with almost: un-^j diminished, brilliancy; and: grandeur., .Even": the language holds us spell-bound. How powerful and thrilling, must it have-been when rolling forth from'the' golden tongue of Demosthenes! ' . - v kl
.Greece‘has also produced;:her...historians,..the?
122
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mention of one of whom will suffice. Thucydides is noted for his most pleasing style and clear statement of facts. He attained perfection in the Attic dialect, and his history still serves as a model. What learned men must her philosophers have been who, contrary to the prejudices of the times, and unaided by revelation, reasoned out the immortality of their souls and the existence of one Supreme Ruler of the universe! Plato did this and promulgated doctrines which are even now accepted.
Perhaps the happiest people on whom the sun ever shone were the Athenians under Solon, who administered so justly, and established such equitable laws that the State was so perfectly settled as to give the people no care but for the cultivation of literature, art and science. Such law-givers are seldom found; but when they do appear are the greatest benefactors a country can ever have. Grand military achievements have ever been objects of the greatest admiration and of glorious heroes. Greece has produced a greater number than any other country. The mere mention of the name of one will be sufficient to show their glory and excellence. I mean Alexander the Great.
Rome was the next great nation that swayed the powerful and universal sceptre long after the glory of Greece, as a nation, had perished. In her situation in the luxurious southern climes of classic Italy, could she well help producing an abundance of beautiful and imaginative literati? Look at the Golden Age, when all was a paradise under Augustus; Virgil, Rome’s greatest poet flourished then. He, describing in rapturous and entrancing verse the adventures of his noble hero, JEneas, is a continual source of enjoyment to one acquainted with his language. Who does not admire Horace, who in his beautiful odes has immortalized himself and the subjects of his graceful theme? Roman historians are equal to any who ever recorded deeds for posterity. Livy, Sallust and Tacitus, all so pointed, emphatic, clear and precise, that we might consider their works as perfect. - Rome produced many orators, and one unequalled only by Demosthenes. Truly, in Cicero we have all virtues combined; and he cannot fail to be an object for our emulation and admiration. And now we come to the most wonderful of all— the renowned Julius Cassar, who was almost equally perfect in oratory, rhetoric, statesmanship and military power. By the strength of his single genius he placed the Roman Empire so firmly on her throne of grandeur, in the midst of her seven hills, that the storms of centuries swept against her and were dashed back without effect. What man, sang Chaudet, ever founded an empire so powerful and enduring?
The study of the writings of such men and of their exploits is what constitutes the study of the classics. Are not their accruing benefits clear enough ? We have in them languages retained in all their philosophic simplicity; and as all the greatest authors wrote when their nations were in the acme of their, glory, the beautiful tongues are devoid of all that begets coarseness and vulgarity. All the best words in modern languages are derived from the
Greek and Latin, and hence the student of the classics is enabled to see their full depth of meaning. From their study an immense amount of historical knowledge may be acquired; and we can but imperfectly learn the deeds of these noble men from modern historians who, owing to many circumstances and prejudices, are too often wholly unreliable. No; the best way to read the history of these noble people is in their own languages, which are so pure, simple and yet so grand that our own. language sinks into insignificance by comparison with them. Again, we all know that the greatest men of modern times take for their models the ancient authors, orators, statesmen and generals, so that our greatest writers always intersperse their productions with the sentiments of Grecian and Roman authors, which add greatly to the beauty of their works, but the depth and meaning of which can only be appreciated by one acquainted with these philosophic languages.
It is universally acknowledged that Cicero and Demosthenes are paragons in eloquence; but for a person of our day to take up one of their orations translated would be foi' him to pronounce it and its author unworthy of the great praise and honor they really and justly deserve. The greater part of their beauty is lost in translation; but what remains cannot but be appreciated and praised. It is the same with all ancient authors. But in their own language, what vehemence, fire, grandeur and pathos do they not possess! Another, and not the least advantage to be obtained is the political knowledge which, owing to the analogy of ancient and modern events, is very great and beneficial. We consider the empires, kingdoms and republics of modern times most wonderful institutions, but when we compare them with the grand old governments of Rome and Greece, the superiority of the latter too plainly appears.
From history we know that Europe has been long in forming; that she has suffered many and great changes, and that all the states in turn have wielded the most powerful sceptre, and each has borne the palm of superiority. So it was in Greece; Athens, the most polished and refined commonwealth of the world, was once supreme; but by her own tyrannical oppression she fell from her height of power and grandeur; so has France fallen by the misdeeds of her own people; but, thanks to the soothing influence of religion, which, alas! Athens possessed not, she may yet rise fair and beautiful as ever from the ruins of anarchy, and revolution. Lacedaemon was contemporary with Athens; but her greatness was tarnished by her many disgraceful acts. By violating a treaty with the Thebans, the latter were raised to a pitch of fury, and their brave generals, Pelopidas and Epaminon-das, led them to victory. In turn they ruled with the greatest power, until after the .death of their two liberators, when, plunging into excesses, they became an easy prey to the devouring ambition of Alexander the Great. All the different States of Greece were supreme at different times. Atone time Macedon was considered barbarous, excepting the royal house; but under Philip and Alex
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
123
ander she rose pre-eminent above all the states of Greece. Russia, until late years, was not counted as one of the European states, whereas she now stands proudly forth one of the first nations on the globe. Many of the events which Thucydides narrates in his Peloponnesian war offer a comparison with those of the French Revolution. The different factions and classes rose one against the other, and conspired’ to make the time a reign of terror. The Greeks had their commune, and Aristotle in his Political Treatise brings up terse and philosophical arguments against this socialism. As to Rome, one example, most strikingly analogous to an event of our own times, will suffice. Julius Ctesar, first taking the reins of power, found Rome turbulent, disquieted; but, forming admirable and just laws, he gradually assumed the whole power, and founded an extensive empire, on a scale of grandeur and magnificence which men now never attempt but simply imagine. After his assassination affairs relapsed into their old state, until his successor, Augustus, ascended the throne and restored peace and order. In our own time, Napoleon, the greatest general since Cassar, founded an empire in confused and dismayed France. After his banishment, she fell back into her old state of confusion until Napoleon III seized the sceptre and brought back a period of tranquillity.
We should be familiar with any of the changes that affected Greece or Rome, and are liable to occur in modern times, of which instances have been given. However, from the examples which those illustrious nations have left, we should profit; we should spurn and disparage vice of all kinds, and should protect the virtue which led them to their place of glory among the nations of the world. Hence we may acquire this political knowledge, and are besides enabled to fathom the theories and grasp the laws which govern these political tempests and revolutions, by the study of the classics, more quickly and firmly than in any other way. Add to this the fact that our civil laws are analogous to those of Greece and Rome, especially the latter, as we can see by reading Cicero or Livy.
From this we see that it is of advantage for all, who possibly can, to acquire a knowledge of the classics; and it is even actually necessary in a country like ours, where all are equal, and where knowledge and virtue are the greatest keys to power. Assuredly, by the study of the classics one has greater facilities for acquiring these two necessary qualities than in any other way; for the philosophy of the language strengthens, refines, and disciplines the mind; and he sees, on the one hand, virtue begetting success, grandeur and magnificence, and on the other hand vice drawing down upon itself degradation, infamy and failure in the greatest nations and among the most glorious peoples that ever lived. Fortunately; there is a providential connection between all the different branches of science and knowledge. Were not this the case, a man, to fit himself for any occupation, would be obliged to continually labor and endeavor to progress in the same unbroken and narrow path which
alone leads to success, without ever passing into other fields to rest his weary mind. But, thanks to this happy union, man is allowed to wander from his way into varied fields of knowledge, of which the most enchanting and productive of good is that of the classics, there to gather flowers with which to adorn, and fruits with which to refresh and strengthen his mind, and thus prepare it for greater exertions and, finally, more certain and gratifying success.	J.
To Very Rev. Father General Sorin, C. S. O.
Amid life’s fast receding years, Undimmed bv dust of Time, Bright days there are, like angels, charged With ministry sublime.
We greet them with a happy smile, With joy no hand can paint;
We number them ’mongst sacred things— They bear the name of saint.	-
And when October’s balmy days Our forests tinge with gold, With sceptre white St. Edward stands To hear a tale oft told—	-
Oft told, and yet as new as when	.
It first was uttered, where
Kind wishes, gifts, and all we hope . Are best expressed in prayer.
Bear Father, would that I could add One word, though poorly spoken, To the wondrous wealth of language which To-day of truth gives token.
All that is hoped for thee on earth, All that is asked of Heaven—
The blessing rich on every work—
I, too, pray may be given.
But words, as clouds before the sun, Fade swiftly from the mind,
And wishes, tho’ sincere and fond,	.
Scarce consummation find.
So shall I not e’en add the word, Nor breathe a wish, tho’ fair, But place them all where everything
Is best expressed in prayer.
***
Feast of St. Edward, 18S6.	-
The Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
BY REV. S. FITTE, C. S. C.	’
HI.—The Consequences.	,
“ The design of bringing back the Huguenots © © © ©
to the Catholic Faith,” says Madame De Caylus, “ was great, beautiful and even wise, if considered apart from the instruments employed in its execution.” These, in fact, became, soon after the Edict,, as bad and violent as they had been before it. Less scrupulous than the Marshal de Noailles in keeping, the solemn promise couched in the text of the decree, Louvois did not hesitate to answer the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Marshal’s letter by advising him not to mind the order' just received. He even went so far as to recommend its violation, saying:
“ I have no doubt that a few somewhat strong quarterings in the houses of the remaining Huguenots will open their eyes to the meaning of the Edict which has been published; for His Majesty desires that you deal harshly with those who have determined to be the last in professing a religion that displeases him, and the exercise of which has been forbidden throughout the kingdom.”
Accordingly, encouraged by the secret impulse given to the Intendants, who always showed a willingness to receive it, compulsory quarterings and dragonnades began anew.’
The toleration formally guaranteed by the Edict gave rise to fresh and more brutal acts of violence. As had been foreseen, the work of conversion, effected by force, previous to the issuance of the decree, was soon undone under the influence of liberty. On all sides, the Huguenots appealed to the text of the Edict in their protestations against the rude measures taken to convert them; or, if already converted, went back to their former heresy. Relying on the king’s word, they abused its privileges, thus giving a reason for repressive measures, and then a pretext to persecution. All the wildest passions were excited and commingled with the revival of a -struggle that seemed to have been ended. The most painful, the most disastrous excesses followed. Louvois certainly deserves the severest censures, and Louis XIV is rightly held responsible, because he did not control the situation by a sufficient vigilance and firmness of purpose.
Saint-Simon, otherwise prejudiced and passionate in his appreciations, makes in this matter a very sensible remark, and one that seems to express a fair judgment of the king’s conduct. Says he:
“ All that comes of the habit contracted by Louis XIV of keeping himself, in business, shut up from everybody, under the lock and key of two or three ministers. Thus it is that, led astray by the secret and interested views of a few confidants, rulers are often induced to commit irreparable faults. Whether it be laziness or desertion of their duty, they surrender to those who flatter their indolence or pride, and such monarchs place between themselves and their subjects an insurmountable barrier, which prevents the truth from reaching their ears.”
For a short time, the two influences which aimed at directing the enterprise, acted in contradiction to one another. On the one hand, Louvois secretly sent terrible orders in violation of the Edict, writing as follows:
“Let the dragoons act with the widest liberty. Make it known, even to the noblemen, that His Majesty wishes but one religion within his kingdom, and that, consequently, they must either be converted or expect to be most severely dealt with.”
On the other hand, organic declarations of the same Edict, signed by the king, stipulated the conditions to be fulfilled by the partisans of the reformed religion, who had fled to foreign countries and wished, by keeping their worship in private, to return to France and-recover their property. Furthermore, with the same pen with which Louvois had written, in his own name, “ Let the dragoons act with the widest liberty,” he wrote, by the express order of the king:	.

“ The intention of his Majesty is that you should carefully prevent the officers from taking anything whatever out of private houses and that the first to create any disturbance or disorder should be put in prison. With regard to the exactions committed by the officers and soldiers of the royal regiment, I send you a letter addressed to the Colonel, in which I inform him that if that disorder is not stopped, you have orders to place him under arrest. Moreover, His Majesty commands you ‘to hang the first dragoon who has exacted money from the inhabitants.’ If the king’were to hear that the troops of your department live in licentiousness, nothing could be more injurious to your reputation and promotion.”
A similar letter was at the same time forwarded to several other Intendants. While violence was thus checked, means of instruction were spread all over the country—missionaries appointed, seminaries founded, and, under Bossuet’s advice, the Government ordered fifty thousand copies of the New Testament in French to be printed, and an equal number of copies containing the liturgical prayers to be distributed, by order of the king, through all the provinces of Southern France. But the system of brute force at length prevailed, even in the councils of Louis XIV, who was irritated of an altogether unexpected resistance, and deceived as to the real causes of the apparent stubbornness of the Huguenots.
It, unfortunately, happened that Catholic influence was for a long time paralyzed, and found no other opportunity of exercise than private'charity. Here, however, it shone with an extraordinary lustre; embodied in the person and actions of all the Catholic clergymen, but more especially in Bos-suet and Fenelon, who endeavored by all means to shelter and protect the Huguenots in their respective dioceses. This benign action of Catholic charity was again felt after Louvois’ fall, and when, after the Peace of Riswick, the Huguenots had given up all hope of future assistance from Protestant powers, and Louis XIV consented once more to listen to the voice of charity and toleration.
Bossuet and his friend Cardinal de Noailles, recently appointed Archbishop of Paris, undertook to defend the cause of freedom of conscience. Hard, indeed, was the task, and formidable were the obstacles. How was it possible to persuade the great king to abandon and disavow the line of conduct followed by his government for twelve years? What difficulties, what dangers must not arise from | the immediate enjoyment of liberty granted to so | many wounded hearts, to so many souls embittered | by violence!	1
Provided with memoirs on the question signed | by the French episcopate, to which he had joined 1 a document written by himself, in which, a faith- I ful echo of Bossuet, he eloquently advocated the | cause of freedom of conscience, the Cardinal solic-	|
ited an audience from Louis XIV. Madame de	|
Maintenon, though secretly seconding this attempt, 1 was afraid of the difficulties to be overcome, as it I was nothing less than a. revolution. She wrote I to the Cardinal:	1
“ I know that you follow only the dictates of your con-	I
science; but be on your guard, as there are many causes	1
to prevent you from persuading the king. Although ap- 1 parently willing to listen to you, and even more to have ]
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
with you a long conversation, he feels, nevertheless, that your advice is a condemnation of all that has been done thus far against those poor people. Having gone so far, one does not like to retrace his steps, and it is the constant belief of all that they need a religion.”
Notwithstanding the apprehensions of Madame de Maintenon, the conference between the Cardinal and the king proved decisive. Louis XIV, having heard the truth, knew his duty. This settled the matter: justice and charity had met.
On August 29,1698, in consequence of an order given by the king himself, the Cardinal handed to Pontchartrain the memoirs of the bishops regarding the matter; and a note, written to them by the hand of the minister, reads that “ it was to the end of having an understanding with the Cardinal and Daguesseau, in order to prepare the project of an edict.” But these generous intentions, before reaching maturity, were to meet with the opposition of practical men,—men of positive minds, all of them partisans of meekness on general principles, but who, foreseeing many and grave difficulties, even great disorders resulting from a condemnation of all action in the past and a retrograde movement after going so far, had become advocates of rigor by situation and policy.
Minister Pontchartrain, of whom the Cardinal had made a defender of toleration, laid before the Council a memoir in which he defended freedom of conscience in upholding the Edict of Revocation, and said:
“What shall keep the subjects of the king within the kingdom is the hope and assurance of living therein in perfect peace and security; doing nothing exteriorly against public order, against the edicts and declarations, against the strict, exact observance of the last article contained in the Edict that recalls that of Nantes, and which mustbe obeyed as an inviolable law.”
Thus it was that Pontchartrain, with admirable address, reminded the Council of both the severity and the toleration embodied in the Edict of Revocation, and, without even alluding to the latter, brought it back under the cover of the former. All the attempts made upon freedom of conscience having taken place in violation of the Edict, it was as much as disavowing them, to put it in force again by subordinating to it the new Edict of toleration. Notwithstanding this precaution, Daguesseau, the father of the Chancellor, opposed the project. Perceiving how inexpedient it. was to come back to the Edict of Revocation after all that had been accomplished against the Huguenots, he said that “the state of affairs did not admit of such an indulgence; that means offensive to the Christian religion had indeed been used, but that it was necessary to start with the last measures employed; that if the new converts no longer felt authority heavy upon them, they would imagine the time of their deliverance at hand; that their stubbornness could by no means be conquered, and it was an imperious necessity to withhold from their view any leniency in the execution.” Consequently, he concluded that the strict course of action resorted to against the Huguenots should gradually and quietly be abandoned, without any ostensible measure or effective determination.
5?his kind of argumentation was substantially
that which the Intendants had unanimously adopted against the final clause contained in the Edict of Revocation, and which, in fact, prevailed and prevented it from being carried out. But this interpretation had been greatly strengthened in practice by the use of brute force; and after lasting twelve years almost without any interruption, it became a frightful obstacle to liberty of conscience, already considered impossible on the day following the publication of the Edict.
Still, the Catholic influence defeated these forcible considerations. In virtue of new instructions addressed to the Intendants, and by a declaration of December, 1698, the doors of France were reopened to the Huguenots, who should recover all their goods that has been confiscated, on the sole condition that they would consent to be instructed, without, however, appointing any time to give an account of the instruction received. The mildest of measures, and the wisest and most Christian means were prescribed for regulating the line of conduct to be followed by officials when dealing with the Huguenots.
_	o	_
This declaration of 1698, by enforcing the clause of toleration stipulated in the Edict, and weakening the system of violence which Louvois had inaugurated, shows the sincerity of Louis XIV, and gives his personal policy in the matter a certain unity and consistency, but which he, unfortunately, was neither firm nor persevering enough to make efficacious. The same declaration, after its triumph in the council, was to meet in its execution with a resistance similar to that which had assailed the.final clause of the Edict. This opposition, being no longer supported by Louvois, was less rigorous; but its leniency increased its strength the more, because it appeared more reasonable, iess odious, and more forcibly called for by the necessities of . the time. One last, and more difficult, battle for freedom of conscience was to be fought, and Bps-suet was its first and most glorious champion. This battle was brought about bv the “ Doubts proposed to the Bishop of Meaux by De Lamoig-non Basville ” concerning the new converts. The question at issue was, “ whether the new converts should be compelled to follow the exercises of the Catholic religion and to attend Mass?” In a first memorandum, Basville began to pose as a theologian ; then he contented himself with pressing only , one point pertaining to his profession, viz., that emperors and kings had always used compulsion towards heretics. This memoir was soon followed . by another, much more extensive; then by a third one, and finally by several documents coming from the bishops of Languedoc, tending to support ..the opinion of Basville. In proportion as arguments and evidences become more abundant, the claim grows smaller; so exceedingly small and imperceptible, in fact, that Basville interrupts himself, saying: “But,” the Bishop of Meaux perhaps will say, « what is the matter with those people of Languedoc? Let them speak plainly.” Do they want quarterings?—The question is oyer ; now. Violences or exactions?—These are reproved for- \ ever. What then? A ten sols fine—very often.
126	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
refunded—in order to induce the converts to go to Mass, or at least to send their children to be instructed. That was all. But even this Bossuet refused to admit, saying that “ the principle of freedom of conscience was not less endangered by a ten sols fine than by dragooning.”
Bossuet, indeed, would not be satisfied simply with a promise not to force the Huguenots to any religious act contrary to their convictions. He believed and required that even those who had made abjuration—the converts, and their children as well —should likewise be granted full liberty, exempted from constraint. The bishops of Languedoc coincided in this ooinion in regard to receiving the sacraments. But as to assistance at Mass, or rather that portion of Mass where instruction was given, they maintained that the new converts should be forced, if necessary, because such a means, conformable in itself to the faith which they professed, was best calculated to enlighten and strengthen their convictions. Moreover, this practice, having at all times been commanded by the Church for those who were not yet considered worthy to receive the holy sacraments, was so necessary and so solidly based on tradition that there could not be any scruple in requiring new converts to conform to it under the penalty of a light fine. Such a trifling penalty, in fact, by forcing them to act according to their personal convictions, was intended to free them from the more dangerous vio-lence employed by their ministers to make them apostatize. Among the bishops inclined to support this statement against Bossuet, the most illustrious, Fidchier, who exercised great authority over the Huguenots in the diocese of Nimes, of which he was Bishop, displayed on this occasion all the charming seductions of his brilliant genius. In his memoir we notice a remark which appears to suit the character of Bossuet himself:
“If it were possible to make the truths of religion as evident to the converts as the Bishop of Meaux wishes, and to command their docile attention to it, coercion would no longer be necessary. The simple force of truth would be sufficient if God were willing to make it clear and certain beyond doubt. But He seldom grants such extraordinary graces, and men, as a general rule, are through His mercy converted and saved by free obedience rather than by the clear and distinct knowledge of revealed truths.”
Another Bishop, explaining the very text of the last declaration, observed that, “ as this official document imposed upon all the subjects of His Majesty the obligation of conforming to the practices of the Catholic Church, the question was not whether the new converts should be obliged to go to Mass, but whether they might be dispensed from'this, positive obligation. Thus it is not for those who oppose the sentiment of the Bishop of Meaux, but really this great prelate’s duty, to prove that a particular distinction was made and the assistance at Mass excepted from the religious exercises in the. laws still extant.” .In fine, among the reasons brought frqm; all sides against Bossuet, there was one which should have imposed silence upon the Huguenots. This was'the manner in which they had dealt with the; Catholics, and : particularly the example of Joan de Navarre, who ,
with the consent and approbation of the states of Bearn had published ordinances so severe as to sentence to heavy fines, to imprisonment, nay to still greater penalties, all manner of persons who did not attend the Protestant preachings!
(conclusion next week.)
Art, Music and Literature.
—Archduke Joseph of Austria has written a grammar of the language of the gypsies. It bears the taking title of “ Romanocsibakerosziklaaibe,” and the manuscript consists of 239 folio pages, exclusive of the title.
—Princess Theresa, daughter of the Prince-Regent of Bavaria, has published a voluminous work about Russia and its people, and it is rumored that the princely authoress is about to write a similar work concerning England. .
<3	O
—Mgr. M. F. Howley, D.D., Vicar-Apostolic of the western district of Newfoundland, is engaged in a work of much interest—“The History of the Catholic Church in Newfoundland.” This work will be issued this month.
—One of the most cruel retorts ever heard in a play-house is reported from California. A vocalist was warbling, to her own great satisfaction, “ O, would I were a bird! ” A miner in the pit ■replied: “ O, would I were a gun!”
—A Leipzig- musical journal states that Liszt’s posthumous pianoforte method, to which all pianists have been looking forward so eagerly, is not complete in the manuscript. Last autumn Liszt had considerable correspondence on the subject with his biographer, L. Ramann.
. —Father Meehan’s celebrated work, “ The Fate and Fortunes of Tyrone and Tyrconnell,” has reached its fifth edition. Important annotations and illustrative documents have been added, increasing the great value of the book as a work of refer-ence, research, and sympathetic study of the Irish race.
—Near the Church of San Martino al Monto, in the Via dello Statute, Rome, an ancient sepulchre, formed of a tufa sarcophagus eight feet in length, with a tufa covering, has just been found. In the interior of the sarcophagus were two vases well preserved and several fragments of bronze, among which were a ring, a fibia, or buckle, and a necklace formed of tiny rings.
—The Jesuit Fathers at Shanghai have published four new works in Chinese which will constitute a very good acquisition to Catholic Chinese literature. The principal work is in four volumes, and. contains the explanations of the Old Testament with illustrations. This and the explanations of the Gospel for every Sunday and festival, give the principal parts of the Holy Scriptures in Chinese with excellent explanatory notes.
. . — The late Victor Scheffel’s “ Ekkehard” is one of the most popular books in modern German lit
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
127
erature. Felix Dahn relates in a recent publication how it happened that the world was deprived of another historical romance which probably would have even surpassed “ Ekkehard” in romantic interest and literary merit. The first chapters were already written, and Scheffel had spent several years in historic study to secure the right local color, when suddenly his sister, to whom he was greatly devoted, and who was equally esteemed for her talent and amiability, died. Scheffel immediately put away his manuscript, and nothing could ever induce him to resume work on it. He had chosen his sister as a model for its heroine.
—In the Gallery of the Candelabra in the Vatican, which the Pope has lately had renovated, there is a new fresco by the German artist, Seitz, which may be regarded as an expression of the predilection which Leo XIII has for the teaching of the great schoolman, St. Thomas Aquinas. The fresco shows the Angelic Doctor presenting his writings to the Church, depicted as a woman seated on a throne, holding in one hand the cross—the emblem of salvation—and in the other the olive branch of peace. Near St. Thomas is Aristotle giving his philosophical works to the great Christian teacher, whom the Pope, eight years ago, in his famous brief ^iterni Patris^ proposed to students as their guide. Around the Church are grouped various allegorical figures holding emblems of the Faith.
Scientific Notes.
—Astronomers are said to be a long-lived race, as the average life-period of 1741 astronomers is 64 years and 3 months..
—At Franklin, Pa., Wednesday, Sept. 8, Mr. Carl Meyers made a balloon ascension, using natural gas. The balloon rose just one mile and remained for one hour in the air.
—It is estimated that up to the present time not less than 14,000 horse-power, derived from River Falls, is in use in the United States and Canada, for driving dynamo-electric machines. This power is for the most part employed for electric lights.
—The deepest artesian well in the world is now being bored at Pesth, having already reached a depth of 3,120 feet. It flows 176,000 gallons of water daily ata temperature of 158° F. The well will be bored deeper in the hope of obtaining water at a temperature of 176° F.
—To such a degree of perfection and effectiveness has astronomical photography now reached that among its achievements is a photograph of the cluster in Perseus showing stars down to the thirteenth magnitude. In this particular case the. negative was obtained in fifty minutes with 6.3-inch object glass of 83-irich-focal length, the view being subsequently enlarged four times, and reproduced by helio engraving'.
—The statue of Liberty, on Bedloes Island, New York, when completed, will be illuminated at night
in a decidedly novel manner. The torch of the statue will contain eight electric lamps, of six thousand candle-power each, the light from which will ' be thrown directly upward, making a powerful beam and cloud illumination. Four or eight lamps : of six thousand candle-power each, will reflect their . light upon the statue, illuminating it and causing it : to shine forth in bright relief.	-
—Under the slow but continuous action of the sulphurous acid thrown in the air of cities by the combustion of coal and the influence of the frequent changes in the degree of atmospheric humidity, it : is found that the peroxide of red lead, used in. coloring certain placards, is destroyed and sulphated. At the same time the protoxide of lead thus liber-, ated is transformed into an insoluble sulphite, and. this salt, being easily analyzed, it is believed that a certain means is thus obtained for determining the condition of the atmosphere in large cities and its relations to the public health.	\
—F rom one ton of ordinary gas coal maybe produced 1,500 pounds of coke, 20 gallons of ammonia water, and 140 pounds of coal tar. Bydestruc- . tive distillation-the coal tar will yield 69.6 pounds of pitch, 17 pounds of creosote, 14 pounds heavy oils, 9.5 pounds of naphtha yellow, 6.3 pounds , : naphtaline, 4.75 pounds naphtol, 2.25 pounds ala-,zarin, 2.4 pounds solvent naphtha, 1.5 pounds phenol, 1.2 pounds aurine, 1.1 pounds benzine,.1.1 pounds aniline, 0.77 of a pound toluidine, 0.46 of a pound anthracine and 0.9 of a pound toluene. . From the latter is obtained the new substance . known as saccharine, which is 230 times as sweet
as the best cane-sugar, one part of it givinga very J sweet taste to a thousand parts of water.—Science.
—The opinion is expressed by an eminent Amer-	"
ican scientist that the North American continent t had the beginning of its formation in islands of ■ matter rising out of the immense ocean, which grew until they finally touched each other.' Many
. of these islands were volcanoes that threw up mat- ? ter that had formed below the surface of the water, and were largei* below the water than above it. ' The Hawaiian Islands have had many volcanoes, . ? and were much formed by them. Their whole	,
area above the sea is no more than that of the State	/'
of Massachusetts, but their combined bases must be equal to the whole of New England and New < York united. Thus the original islands of this . ? continent could easily have been made to enlarge 7 and join each other, and the granite rock, so abundant, was doubtless once erupted from volcanoes,< < like flowing lava. Among the first volcanic is- • 7 lands must have been Greenland, Canada,, east pf Winnipeg, the Atlantic district, the Rocky Mountains, and the Sierra Nevadas; but as the islands . rose and enlarged, great depressions would naturally commence and go on, and in this way the, depressions of Hudson’s Bay, the Mississippi Valley ,; . . and’the Salt Lake and Nevada basins were formed. ; These depressions would fill with massive sedi- ; nients, which'would eventually become rocks,‘and- 7 -the depressions would have a saucer or "platter; shape, " . ;	' • '	/PpN-
128
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, OctoBer 23, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth vear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
. All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.fo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Our Staff.
B. T. Becker, ’86,	D. A. Latshaw, ’87,
P. VD. Brownson, ’88.
—So great was the demand for the Scholastic of Oct. 9, containing a description of the crowns stolen from the church, that not a single copy is left in the office. In response to numerous requests, we shall, either next week or the week after, reprint the description, and at the same time present an engraving of the large crown as it appeared before its mutilation. Those desiring extra copies of this number should send their orders early.
—The custom is still in vogue with many of asserting, in season and out of season, that the Catholic Church is the persevering opponent of scientific progress. A more unfounded calumny is not current, and the time has come when it ought to be forever silenced. Educated men no longer make the assertion, there are so many eminent Catholic scientists; but the whole world ought to know that it is utterly at variance with truth. There never has been and there never can be any antagonism between true science and right religion, although scientific theories put forward as facts, and private opinions maintained as dogmatic teaching, may continue in conflict. There is no reason why Christians should not be scientists, and certainly no reason why they should not become distinguished in scientific pursuits as well as infidels. That they have attained such eminence the history of science affords abundant proof. And it is a significant fact that Catholic scientists are almost invariably experimenters instead of theorists; workers, instead of wranglers.
In proof of what we have said above, it will be sufficient to mention three illustrious men whose accomplishments none will deny, and whose names must ever be in honor as promoters of scientific progress. The venerable Abbe Moigno, who died two or three years ago in Paris, was one of the most prolific writers of the century in his chosen branches of learning, and the secretary of the French Academy of Sciences declared that he had marched at the head of the scientific movement of the age. M. Chevreul, the great French chemist whom the whole world has lately been honoring, in reply to a friend who had expressed himself as dissatisfied with the pagan character of the fetes held in the savant's honor, maintained that he was a firm Catholic, and wouldjhave had a different sort of celebration had it been his to arrange it. The late Prof. Barff, of the Royal Academy, another renowned chemist, and everywhere considered one of the first scientists of our time, was an undoubting believer in the divinity of the Christian religion, and died, as he had lived, a loyal son of holy Church. Wecould mention many otherjhonorcd names—men whose achievements are equally renowned, but let these suffice; their contributions to scientific knowledge ought to be enough, even if they stood alone, to prove to the world that in becoming a scientist one need not cease to be a Christian.
—Three prominent journals and valued exchanges have done us the honor to reprint two poems which recently appeared in, and were written for, the Scholastic—the one entitled “ Slander ” by Prof. A. J. Stace, and the other, “ Friendship,” by Miss Marion Muir. We appreciate the compliment, but we feel the neglect of our contemporaries to give due credit to this paper; in one instance, even the writer was ignored. It will be understood that every article which appears in the Scholastic is written especially for us, as we always take care to indicate the source whenever yve have occasion to borrow from our exchanges.
Field Day Reports.
[Continued from last <vceL]
Juniors.—The Mile-Race of the 1st grade created much excitement, owing to its being so closely contested by H. Jewett and L. Smith. Had Master Smith continued his run but fifty yards more, we are quite confident the prize would have been awarded ex cequo. As it was, Master Jewett is the champion. 2d Grade Mile-Race was won by Master Weadly. Third grade: ,F. Taliaferro;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
129
Fourth grade: D. Tewksbury; Fifth grade: F. Wilbanks.	■
1st Grade 100-Yard Dash:—L. Jewett, 1st; J. Hayes, 2d. 2d grade: L. West, 1st; J. Mul-burger, 2d. 3d grade: D. Tewksbury, 1st; J. Moncada, 2d. Fourth grade: E. Glenn, 1st; L. Monarch, 2d.
1st Grade Sack-Race:—Joyce, 1st; J. Hayes, 2d. 2d grade: H. Warner, 1st; F. Baca, 2d. 3d grade: A. Redlich, 1st; Cooney, 2d. 4th grade: W. McPhee, 1st; A. Hake, 2d.
1st Grade .Burden-Race:—H. Roper, 1st; S. Nussbaum, 2d. 2d grade: T. Mulburger, 1st: Bronson, 2d. 3d grade: D. Tewksbury, 1st; W. McPhee, 2d.
The 1st Grade Hurdle-Race deserves special mention, as the contestants, L. Smith, and H. Roper, were obliged to run the third time before the judges could make a decision. L. Smith was awarded the race. 2d grade: M. Smith, 1st; J. Cooney, 2d. 3d grade: R. Oxnard, 1st; Benner, 2d. 4th grade: A. Hake, 1st; the 2d position was given ex cequo to Masters E. Doss and Morgan.
1st Grade Obstacle-Race:—Henry, 1st; Rudd, 2d. 2d grade: H. Bronson, 1st; Carney, 2d. 3d grade: I. Bunker, 1st; M. Falter, 2d. 4th grade: D. Tewksbury, 1st; S. Nussbaum, 2d. 3thgrade: W. Bailey, 1 st; Julien, 2d.
1st Grade Running Jump:—E. Darragh, 1st; F. Long, 2d. 2d grade: L. Preston, 1st; C. V. Inderrieden, 2d. 3d grade: D. Cartier, 1st; J. Fisher, 2d. 4thgrade: Figge, 1st; E. Glenn, 2d.
I st Grade Hop, Skip, and Jump:—J. Hayes, 1st; L. Preston, 2d. 2d grade: L. Macatee, 1st; F. Konzen, 2d. 3d grade: J. Fisher, 1st; A. Hake,'2d.
1st Grade Throwing Baseball:—A. Rudd. 2d grade: M. Smith. 3d grade: D. Cartier. 4th grade: W. Bailey. Darkness intervening,'the remaining sports were postponed for some future time.	D.
Minims.—1st Running Race:—C.Dahler, 1st; E. Jewett, 2d. 2d race: T. Tompkins, 1st; F. Bloomhuff, 2d. 3d race: R. Boyd, 1st; J. D. O’Mara, 2d. 4th race: Cyril Franche, 1st; Artie Wickler, 2d.
1st Hurdle-Race:—F. Toolen, 1st; W. McDonald, 2d. 2d race: E. Foote, 1st; R. Munro, 2d; 3d race: H. Tillenburg, 1st; F. Rogers, and F. Smith, 2d. 4th race: G. Mayer, 1st; E. Fal-vey, 2d.
1st Three-Legged Race:—T. Falvey, A. Williamson, 1st; C. Mooney, J. Conners, 2d. 2d race: W. Williamson and W. Martin, 1st; B. Triplett and Lowenstein, 2d. 3d race: L. Doss and L. Black. 4th race: C. McPhee and C. Taft.
Fat Maris Race:—R. Graham, 1st; G. Franche, 2d.	.
1st Sack-Race:—F. Crotty, 1st; J. Riordan 2d. 2d race: G. Gale, 1st; C. Koester, 2d. 3d race: R. Blumenthal, 1st; A. Morgenweck, 2d. 4th race: S. Backrack, 1st; C. Grant, 2d.
One Mile Consolation Race:—Aug. Morgen^ yyeck, 1st; W. Rowsey, 2d.	"	'
\The Dubuque Telegraph^	.
Professor Gregori at Dubuque.
The celebrated painter, Luigi Gregori, of Notre Dame, has been diligent the past few weeks, and St. Raphael’s Cathedral now bears the impress of his admirable skill. To view the historic paintings he has wrought on the gallery wall and on the panels between the beautifully frescoed side arches, one must ascend the scaffolding which now obscures the view of the congregation in the pews. The paintings are all life-size and arranged in chronological order, the purpose being to produce in the mind of the beholder reflections on the history of the Church from the time of Isaiah, who foretold the coming-of Christ, to a comparatively recent period.
The first portrait seen on the gallery wall, on entering the church from the vestibule at the right hand side, is that of St. Vincent de Paul, founder of the noble benevolent society of modern times. He is instructing a youth who sits on his knee. In his left hand he holds a crucifix to which he is pointing with his right. The naturalness of expression is remarkable. The other portrait on the gallery surface is that of St. Ignatius Loyola, founder of the Jesuits. Pie wears the vestments of the Order, and the motto of the Order is traced across a book which he holds in his hands. The face is calm, and bears the impress of a pious soul.
The first picture on the main wall, seen by one proceeding towards the altar from the vestibule on the right hand side, is that of St. Thomas Aquinas, “The Angelic Doctor” and Italian scholastic teacher. There is a halo about the head, which is in fact true of all the pictures of saints, tie wears a habit and cowl and an ornament on the breast, and is in the act of applying his quill to a book which he is writing. The expression is the ideal one of a thoughtful writer. Next is St. Dominic, founder of the Dominican Order of monks. He is in the attitude of prayer, with eyes uplifted towards heaven and holds a lily in the left hand. The historical painting of St. Benedict occupies the next panel. As he suspected, efforts were being made to poison him. An adder was placed in the glass of water he was about to drink. With customary caution he made the Sign of the Cross over the. glass before placing it to his lips. It broke, and the adder leaped from it. In this picture he beholds the adder escaping from the glass. His right hand is elevated with the fingers in the position it is customary to place them in giving a blessing, and the representation is so suggestive that one need not be familiar with the history of of the painting to interpret it. St. Benedict wears a flowing white beard and full vestments.
o	e
Gregory the Great, known in history as Hildebrand, is portrayed in the next panel. Over his head is the representation of .the Holy Ghost in the form of a dove. He is in the attitude of hearken-;, ing to the inspiration borne by the representative of the Holy Ghost, his quill being held near the book in which he is about to write. He is vested in full pontificals, the papal triple crown and golden
*7
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
•cope. Apart from the historic interest, in which this subject is rich, the noble face inspires veneration, while the beauty of the work arouses enthusiastic admiration for the artist. St. Augustine is represented in the panel next in. succession towards the altar, as teaching from the Epistle. He wears cope and mitre, the vestments appertaining to .his exalted office, and pontifical gloves. Then appears St. Chrysostom, the “ Golden Mouthed,” so named because his eloquence united the people of Antioch in the faith in the fifth century. He is reading a manuscript in Greek, and is in a sitting posture, his face expressive of his thoughtful mind. The Greek Bishop, Athanasius, portrayed in the next panel, is vested in full pontificals, with crozier in left hand, and is in the attitude of delivering a blessing.
Returning to the vestibule and proceeding down the left (the south) side of the church, the first picture one sees is that of St. Francis of Assi-sium, founder of the Franciscan Order of monks. He has fallen on his knees in an ecstasy of prayer, and his face betokens fervor, simplicity and happiness. On his hands are shown the stigmata, made by the impress of the five nails, and being an especial mark of God’s -favor. He is vested in the habit of his Order. St. Bernard, the founder of his Order, is next shown. He wears a white habit and his countenance indicates tranquillity of mind and soul. St. Patrick is represented as addressing the multitude in reference to the Blessed Trinity, exemplifying the doctrine by the shamrock which he holds in his uplifted left hand, whilst pointing to it with his right. He is vested in full pontificals of. five colors, among which green predominates. Pope Leo the Great, forbidding King Attilla to enter Rome, is a most attractive subject. Determination, courage and strength are reflected in the intellectual countenance. He is robed in the pontificals and bears the cross in his left hand, whilst his right is extended warningly. St. Jerome wears a cardinal’s hat and gown, and is engaged in writing in a book. Str Ambrose, robed in pontificals, is in a kneeling posture, his head bowed and his mitre resting on his knees.
The last panel on the left hand side is adorned with the portrait of St. Cyprian, the martyr of the third century. He bears the martyr’s palm in his left hand and is giving a blessing. The descent of the Holy Ghost on the twelve apostles will be represented in the large middle panel over the high main altar. In the panels on the Gospel side (on the left hand side as you enter from the street), will be pictured the prophet Isaiah and John the Baptist, and on the two panels on the Epistle or right-hand side are St. Matthew and St.John the Evangelist. Thus will be shown, in the order of time, the great doctors of the Church from Isaiah, who prophesied Christ’s coming, to the narrators of the Gospel, who wrote under the influence of the Holy Ghost; the defenders and propagators of the faith in. later periods and the most recently canonized of the illustrious saints.
Oil-paintings become black in the course of time, and therefore, as he desires his work to be viewed
by future generations, Artist Gregori has used only paint and turpentine. His portraits may be washed without being at all impaired, and will grow brighter with age. ' The work will be finished in about two weeks. The scaffolding will o ______________________________________ then be removed, and a new floor will be laid. The Moline Pipe Organ Company is now erecting the organ in the church. The other improvements, to which reference has heretofore been made, will be more elaborately described when all are completed. And this will be a time in which the Catholics of this city and of the remainder of the diocese of Dubuque will have occasion to felicitate each other and congratulate the indefatigable and fervent pastor of St. Raphael’s—Rev. Father Burke. He promised them a church whose interior architecture and decoration would be unsurpassed in the West, and the progress thus far made demonstrates that he will amply fulfill his pledge. The grand temple will be a fitting scene for the observance of the most imposing pontifical ceremony. The classical paintings will interest, among visitors from abroad, not the students of art alone, for all can comprehend their sublime yet simple beauty. “ A thing of beauty is .i joy forever;” and so long as these portraits remain to please the mind, heart and soul, the worshippers at St. Raphael’s will retain grateful remembrances of the pastor whose unselfish ambition they represent.
Personal.
—Among the welcome visitors during the week were Mr. and Mrs. A. Cummings, of Chicago.
—Rev. Hugh Maguire, Rector of St. James’ Church, Chicago, made an agreeable visit to the College last Wednesdav.
O	j
—Mrs. Chas. Boettcher, of Leadville, Colo., was among the welcome visitors this week, visiting her son Claude among the Minims.
o
—Mr. A. Myer, of Saguache, Colo., spent a few days at the College during the week, visiting his son Adolph of the Minim department.
—Col. W. P. Rend and Judge Scully, of Chicago, passed last Sunday at the College and made a most agreeable and welcome visit. We hope to have the pleasure of seeing them again soon.
—We received a most pleasant visit one day last week from- Mr. and Mrs. K. G. Cooper, of Denver, Colo. Mr. Cooper is the managing editor of the Denver Tribune Republican. They expressed themselves as more than delighted with all they saw at Notre Dame.	’
—We regret to learn of the death of Mr. Patrick Connors, of Janesville, Wis., which sad event occurred on the i ith inst. The deceased was a good, Christian gentleman, beloved and respected by a wide circle of friends. His'two children, in the Minim department, have the sympathy of all at Notre Dame. May he rest in peace!
—Prof. Hoynes was in Chicago for several days last week, as well as Monday of this week, having
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
been called there in connection with the trial of an action against the Union Stock Yard and Transit Company. The Professor and Hon. John Gibbons appeared for the plaintiff, while Hon. Irus Coy, Joseph R. Custer and Col. Dan Munn represented the defendant. The case was given to the jury Monday evening, and in less than two hours they agreed upon a verdict, assessing the damages of Peter Wagner, the plaintiff, at $6,000.
—The Rt. Rev. Dr. McIntyre, Bishop of Charlottetown, Prince Edwards Island, accompanied by the Rev. D. J. Gillis and the Rev. James McDonald, of the same place, arrived at Notre Dame last Saturday night, and remained the guests of the University, until Monday morning. The distinguished visitors made a most agreeable and welcome visit, and expressed in the highest terms their admiration of the superior advantages presented by Notre Dame as an educational institution. On Sunday evening an informal reception was given his Lordship and his reverend companions, by the students in the College parlors. Music and recitations filled an agreeable hour, with which the Bishop was pleased to express his delight and spoke a few words of good advice.
.—At the recent examination of applicants for admission to the Bar in Ohio, John H. Conlon and Wm. F. Koudelka, of the Law Class of ’86, acquitted themselves with marked credit, and both of the young men were duly admitted and licensed to practise. Mr. Conlon writes as follows to Prof. Hoynes in reference to the examination:
“The examination took place before a committee of the Supreme Court in the Chamber of Justice, at Columbus. There were forty one applicants, who hailed from all parts of the State. Work began at 2 o’clock p. in , and lasted till 10 o’clock at night. Each applicant was furnished with a printed list of 75 questions and subdivisions of.the same, together with a larg; number of hypothetical cases. The questions had reference to the common law, the principles of equity, pleadings, evidence, etc. A few more than half of the applicants passed. Those whose misfortune it was to fail were mostly young men who studied in law offices. Two of your class of '86 attended and both were successful. I had a conversation with one of the examiners, and he said none of the Notre Dame students have ever failed to pass. In addition to your lectures I read the State statutes. Lt is my opinion that if the lectures given at Notre Dame are carefully read, the applicants need have no fear. I sincerely hope that such will always be the record of Notre Dame’s students.”
Local Items.
—Good fishing!	.
—We were bound to win.
—Election time is coming.
—Where is the Crescent Club:1
—Anchors are quite “ on tongue.”
—“Oars!” till some time next May.
—“ We have a shutter ready to carry you out.”
—The St. Thomas’ Academy has been reorganized.
—The “Reds’’are' gradually recovering, from their surprise.	"	"	•
—The negative of the boat crews is . quite a . work of art.
—An effective way to cure deceit, if chronic, is to lose a boat-race.	: . .
—“ Never say die! ” nehaha” on the 13th.
—Poor “Blues!” took it like little men.
was the motto of the “ Min-
It was a bitter close, but they /
—The “Laws” have put on the “cap”; the “ gown” is to come vet.	;
O	t -J	* __ ' ,	.	■
—Cooper’s throw—359 feet, 10 in.—has never been exceeded at Notre Dame.	.	'
—The delegation sent to get“rec” on the Bishop’s arrival was reckless indeed	_ '.
— A meeting of the Temperance Society is announced for to-morrow evening.	_ ■
—In the drawing contest, B. Becker, D. Quill, . and J. Ford were the lucky ones.
—The Orchestra has added to its repertoire the • “ Wedi ing March ” from Wagner’s “ Lohengrin.” ,
—The Junior members of the Staff were pleasantly entertained by the Aeryodites on Thursday last.	.
—Straw hats and overcoats are having it now. . We bet on the overcoats, every time at this time of the year. .	.
—-The “Gym” is becoming more and more popular. October’s gentle (brr-r-r-r) zephyrs are the cause.	•
—It is time for the Band to make itself heard.
We hope to have the pleasure soon of recording -its reorganization.	'
—We hope that the entente cordialc^ which-has ■ all this whiie existed between the members of the i boat-chtb, will keep on.	'	. .	.
—The chemical and physical laboratories, have -been enriched by a thousand and one articles imported from Germany. ■	' - ‘	.
—The arrangement of the St. Edward’s Day programme of Senior field sports was the handiwork of Mr. John Kleiber.	.
—The annual retreat will not take place at tile usual time this year. It will be given, probably,'. . about the Sth of December.	’
—P. Prudhomme, who holds the record in high . kicking the past three years, had to beat his record y by a foot to conquer Cooper.	; - .
—The regular weekly lectures delivered by Rev. 7 ; President Walsh, on matteis pertaining to student- .. life and bearing, are greatly appreciated. ‘ y/y y
—Some of the boys begin to. believe in such a thing as perpetual motion. It is the negativeshake Y they get when asking to go down town. - yy
—We are in receipt of a letter from “ye irrerist- J J ible” Frank. He makes a .few-moving: remarks'.; about the census, which may appear at a later date.
—From reports the weather during the'week ; has, on the whole, been.of that.mild and balmyria-;/ .■ ture which makes the month of October so.delighfc”.’ 7 ful in this locality.-- '
I32
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The regular weekly edition of the Scholastic is now 1200 copies. Give us a little boom and make it an even 2000.
— The prize for the first grade too yd. dash in the Junior Field Sports was an elegant collection of cabinet-size photographs, kindly donated by A. McDonald, of South Bend.
—Owing to a peculiar combination of uncontrollable circumstances, Capt. Craig could not accept Capt. Becker’s challenge for a second race to decide the championship.
—Many new subscribers to the Scholastic have handed in theii names. Let each one, instead of doing the cheap thing by asking his neighbor to lend him the paper, subscribe for it himself.
—The beautiful silver medal given to the second best in the mile-race, was donated by Mi. Heller, of South Bend. The Senior students are grateful to this gentleman, and will not forget his kindness.
—We would earnestly request our genial correspondents from the various University Associations—to write legibly, not to abbreviate, and send their communications by Thursday evening at the latest.	.
—Kirk was tugging away desperately at one of the parallel bars, shouting at the same time: “ It’s bound to come, boys!” “What?’* asked a dozen eager voices. “ Christmas,” said Kijk, calmly, as he strolled away.
—The members of the Boat Club are under obligations to Mr. Miller for his valuable donation to the winning crew. Mr. Miller is an old student of Notre -Dame, and as such takes a special interest in our athletic sports.
—We expect, in the near future, to hear some splendid music from the Quartette. The young men who comprise the club are possessed of rare musical ability, and there is no reason why they should not make a brilliant success.
—Among the many curiosities to be seen at. Notre Dame, there is at present, in the aviary at Mt. St. -Vincent, a white fan-tail pigeon, which produces double feathers, or two distinct feathers from one quill. There is also a canary that sports two tails.	.
—The Electric Light Co. are trespassers on the grounds of the Park, besides disfiguring the symmetry thereof. Gentlemen! remove that unsightly pole to the other side of the fence; or prepare to contest a suit for damages and have your property forcibly ejected.	‘	‘
—The 6 o’clock tea given by Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Miller last (Thursday) evening was a brilliant and enjoyable social event. Nearly two hundred guests partook of the hospitality of the occasion, among them being Rev. President Walsh and Prof. Edwards, of Notre Dame.—South Bend Register. -
—-The wires stretched across the western section of the Junior Campus, between the “-Gym ” and the “Palace,” give a decidedly urban appearance to the. locality.■By the. way, that reminds us, are not our skilful, electricians at liberty now to give-
their attention to the light in the Scholastic Office? We pause for a reply.
—The time given in the first 100 yds. race in last week’s Scholastic was erroneous. R. Rayner took the first heat in ioi<( secs., and J. Wagoner the next two in 10 C. Combe took two heats in second 100 yds. race; but not entering the first heat, was ruled out; nothing daunted, he entered the consolation race, beating all competitors.
—Very Rev. Father General visited St. Edward’s Hall on Thursday morning. Finding the Minims still in, though it was “rec” day, he said: “ The weather is too beautiful to have boys in; let them all out.” The expression of delight that beamed on the happy faces of the Minims, and the applause that answered the Very Rev. visitor’s remark, showed, better than anything else could, how they appreciated the favor.
—The case-of James Smith vs. Marine Insurance Co., an action in assumpsit for the recovery of $5,000 damages, was tried in the Moot-court, Wednesday evening, F. X. Claffey and C. J. Stubbs appearing for the plaintiff, and A. Sproehnle and V. E. Green for the defense. The case was ably handled by all; F. X. Claffey speaking at great length, fully outlining, the law bearing on the case. The decision was rendered for the plaintiff.
—To race, or not to race; that is the question: Whether it is nobler quietly now to glory In a vict’ry won by Fortune’s aid.
Or again, to take up oars against the other crew And then get left? To race, to lose!
No more the champion crew: no more to sport Those little silver anchors; no more to smile, That taunting smile that to the victor b’longs— ’Tis a consummation—bv Jove! that I don’t want.
.	Bec.
—The following pithy paragraph, from the A7". 2C Sttn, contains much sound sense wrapped in its otherwise pertinent “ environments,” and we commend it to the attention of our local readers:
“The glorious October summer is nearly ended, and cold waves and colds in the head approach. Since these things are so and not otherwise, it becomes the duty of every good man and true to warm his heart with patriotism and his chest with winter flannels, and adapt himself to his environments. For summer weather is preparing to skip, as if it were an Aiderman under bail.”
—At the second and third meetings of the St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrian Society, the following additional officers were chosen for the coming session : L. Bacigalupo, 1st Vice-President;--------------,
2d Vice-President ; I. Bunker, Treasurer ; J. McIntosh, Recording Secretary; F. Cobbs, Corresponding Secretary; G. Brabrook, Historian; H. Houston, 1st Censor; J. Doss, 2d Censor; M. Mc-Cart, Librarian; W. Kohzen, Sergeant-at-Arms; W. O’Brien, Marshall; C. Hurd, 1st Prompter; C. Badger, 2d Prompter; A. Redlich, H. Walker, Charges d'Affaires.	'
—On Friday, the 15th inst., after the “Reds” won a splendid victory in baseball from the “Blues,” the consolation race was run. It consisted of three heats of 100 yards each. Twenty or more started in this contest, but as Messrs. C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i33
Combe, A. McFarland, F. Ashton and P. Brownson distanced the others, the remaining heats were run by the four, resulting as follows: C. Combe, 1st prize, gold pen and holder; A. McFarland, 2d prize, grand photo, album; F. Ashton, 3d prize, grand plush album. After this, the Director distributed the different prizes won on St. Edward’s Day.
—The last number of that veteran college paper, the Niagara Index, contained the following notice of the play entitled “ The Triumph of Justice,” recently published by Prof. Lyons:
“ A short, interesting and wide-awake Drama that speaks well for the dramatic pen of Prof. Lyons. The author shows his skill as a remodeller of plots by keeping constantly in view the original drama of Dimond, an English writer of prose and poetry, while weaving in his own popular threads of wit and humor. The play is well adapted for use in our colleges, academies and schools; it contains tine scenic effects and gives the student an opportunity of bringing out whatever latent elocutionary powers lie hidden in his soul.”
—At a meeting of the Moral Philosophy Classes, held last Saturday, the Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas was reorganized, and the following officers were elected: Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., and Rev. President T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Honorary Directors; Rev. S. Fitte, C.S. C., Director; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter; Rev. N. Stoffel, C. S. C., Assistant-Promoter; B. T. Becker, President; J. Kleiber, 1st Vice-President; D. A. Lat-shaw, 2d Vice-President; John Wagoner, Treasurer; Geo. H. Craig, Recording Secretary; P. VD. Brownson, Corresponding Secretary. This Association is organized for the purpose of stimulating members to devote special attention to philosophical studies. Monthly meetings are held, at which such philosophical subjects as are closely connected with the leading questions of the day are discussed. The disputations are conducted strictly according to the scholastic method.
—Thursday was a gala day for the members of the Guardian Angels’ Society. With their President, accompanied by Rev. Messrs. Scheier, and J. Kirsch, C. S. C., they took a trip to the renowned St. Joseph’s Farm, where, needless to say, they enjoyed themselves. They beguiled the hours away in different sports until the noon-day bell announced that the time had come for satisfying the desires of the inner man, sharpened to an extraordinary degree by the long ride and the bracing coolness of an October day. At 4 o’clock in the afternoon they were again summoned to the spacious refectory. (Some of the Seniors may now know the reason why their coffee was not as creamy the next morning as usual.) They then gave three rousing cheers for St. Joe Farm, and departed homeward. The“ Angels” return their heartfelt thanks to the kind inmates of St. Joseph’s Farm, also to Rev. President Walsh, Brothers John of God and Cajetan, for favors extended to them.
—The patronal feast—October 13-—of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and founder of the University of Notre Dame, was the occasion for a large gathering of friends of the venerable patriarch.
Several from Chicago and other neighboring*cities o	00
attended the entertainment given in'Washington Flail, Notre Dame, Ind., by the students of the College of Music, and the members of the Euglos- . sian Club. The violin solos by Prof. Kindig and M. Falter, of Chicago, and the vocal numbers, rendered in exquisite style by Willie P. Devine, of Chicago, received repeated applause. Numerous telegrams and letters of congratulation were received from all parts of the world. A reception was also tendered the venerable founder by the pupils of St. Mary’s Academy and the boys of St. Edward’s Hall. A boat-race by the University students was one of the entertaining features of the day.— Chicago Emerald.
—The most successful impromptu entertainment of the year was that tendered to the Right Rev. Bishop McIntyre, of Prince Edwards Island, last Sunday evening. Mr. Cartier delivered a short complimentary address, to which the Bishop happily responded. Messrs. McPhee, Stubbs and Lat-shaw recited in a manner deserving the applause, they received. E. Darragh gave, in his own pleasing style, a selection from Hawthorne. This was followed by a cornet solo, very creditably executed . by young Master Huiskamp, of the Minim department. The next number on the programme was a splendid rendition of “O, Restless Sea”! by the Cecilian Quartette—Messrs. O’Kane, Jewett, McFarland and McDermott. Master W. Devine sang a beautiful soprano solo. Prof. Kindig’s masterly conception of a difficult sonata^ in which he was ably seconded by Master Falter, was a rare musical treat. At the conclusion, the Bishop made a few well-timed remarks, and the invited societies, Faculty and visitors departed, well pleased.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Archambeault, W. Akin, M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, Becerra, Brownson, Burke, Bowles, Baca, Barnes, Bush, Byrne, Barrett, Colina, Chaves, W. Crowley, J. . Crowley, Cusack, G.Cartier, C. Combe, W. Cartier, Coady, Cooper, Craft, Cassidy, Devlin, W. Dorsey, S. Dorsey, Dougherty, Dore, Deary, Dillon, Dreever, Dwyer, Dier- -dorff, Dickenson, Eyanson, Eisenhauer, Egan, Ensor, A. Finckh, Ford, Gallardo, Gordon, Gieseler, Gibbs, Griffin, . Houck, Hinchman, Hiner, Hummer, Hagerty, Howard, Judie, Jewett, Jordan, W. Jeffs, Kleiber, Kendall, Kreutzer, ' Kelly, Ley, J. Langan, J. Lyons, H. Langan, Leonard, W. Luhn, Latshaw, McGinley, T. McDermott, G. Morrison, McErlain, Martineau, McAldister, J. McDermott, Murphy, , McGinnis, Mallay, Moffatt, McFarland,.Mulkern, V. Morrison, McSweeny, McNamara, L. Meagher, Myers, Newell, Neill, Newton, Nancolas, O’Connor, O’Rourke, O’Regan,. O’Kane, L. O’Malley J. O’Maliy, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, ' E. Prudhomme, Paschel, Prichard, Pender, Ryan, Rhein-berger, Rothert, Ramirez,. Raynor, Regan, W. Rochford, Ruger, Suing, Sproehnle, G. Sullivan, Shields, Stubbs, F. . " Shannon, Triplett, Valasco, Vandercar, White, Werst, A. Williams, Whalen, Zeitler.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Bull, Bacigalupo, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Blessington, Bodley, Badger, Bunker, Brabrook, W. Boland, : Burns, Baca, S. Campbell, E. Campbell, J. Clarke, B. Clarke, ;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Cleveland, Carney, Cavanagh, Clifford, Cobbs, Cooney, Coad, F. Chute, L. Chute, Curtis, Cartier, Cooke, Darragh, A. Duffield, Dunning, Decker, Devine, J. Doss, Draper, Dempsey, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, J, Flynn, F. Flynn, Figge, Flood, Goebel, Garber, Glenn, Houstan, J. Henry, Houlihan, Hart, Hurd A. Hake, T, Hake, Hannin, Hayes, Hampton, Hove, Higgins, Inks, Jewett, Joyce, Jacobs. Ker-lin, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Katz, Kern, Kellner, Kutsche, Keating, Long, Landenwich, Luther, W. Morrison McNulty,‘McKendry, Monarch, McKenzie, McCart, Mather-son, Mallay, McGurk, Macatee,.McPhee, Moncada, Meehan, Noud, Nations, Nussbaum, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, Ormond, Oxnard, O’Brien, Pfau, L, Paquette, C. Paquette, Preston, Power, Quealy, Roper, Redlich, Rudd, Reynolds, M. Smith, Sweet, J. Stephens, B. Stephens, N. Smith, F. Smith, L. Smith, Senn, Spencer, Taliaferro, Tewksbury, Tarrant, Tionen, Vhay, L. West, Warner, Wilbanks, L. White, Walker, Walsh, Austin, H. Boland.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Boettcher, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Boyd, H. Backrack, A. Backrack, S. Backrack, Black, R. Clendenin, Cohn, W. Connor, C. Connor, Cook, J. Conners, E. Conners, Dahler, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey J. Dungan, J. Dungan, Foote, T. Falvey, F. Falvey E. Falvey, C. Franche, G. Franche. Gale, Grant, Garber, Griffin, Graham, H. Huiskamp. J. Huiskamp, Haney, Hillas, Jewett. Kutsche, Koester, Keefe, Kain, Klaner, Kerwin, Lowenstein, Lane, Lewin, McIntosh, McGuire, McDonnell, Martin. C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Munro, A Mayer, G. Mayer. McPhee. Kraber, Mason, A. Morgenweck, A. Morgenweck, Mainzer, Nester, O’Mara, O’Neill, Priestly, Prior, Paul, Quill, Riordan, Rowsey, Rogers, Savage, Sweet, Stone, Smith, Steele, Sullivan, F Toolen, F. Toolen, Tillenburg, Taft, Triplett Tomkins, A. Williamson, W. Williamson, Witkowsky, Wickler, Mahon.
Glass Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
CLASSICAL COURSE.
Messrs. C. Neill, C. Rheinberger, C. Stubbs, F. Craig, J. Alardo, P- Burke, J. Cusack, E. Finckh, G. Houck, C. Hagerty, F. Baca, W. Cartier, R. Newton, M. Mulkern, J. O’Donnell, S. Craft, A. Cooper, V. Morrison, P. Nelson, J. Meagher, P. Newell, E. Dwyer, C. Devlin, A. Ensor, M. Falter, E. Ewing, I. Goebel, L. Chute, C. West, M. Luther, W. McPhee, M. Reynolds, C. Spencer, J. Meyers, W. Morrison, E. Darragh, F. Long F. Vhay.
List of Excellence.
.[The students mentioned in-this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—accor-ing to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
,	.	. CLASSICAL COURSE.
-Moral Philosophy—E. D. Dwyer; Logic-—H. Rothert; Latin—J. Wagoner, P. Brownson, V. Morrison, E. Ewing, C. Neill, M. Falter; English Literature—J. Burns, G. Craig, T. Goebel; Rhetoric—E. Dillon, W. Morrison, R. Oxnard. R. Fisher; English Composition—C. Eyanson, B. McAldister, J. McDermott, S. Kendall, M. Falter, F. Flood, G- Mallay, C. Cavanagh, A. Gibbs; Civil Engineering— W. Cartier, H. Rothert; Descriptive Geometry—W. Car-tier; Calculus — E.Ewing; Trigonometry—C. Neill, P. Burke; Astronomy—J. Wagoner; Algebra—M. Falter, E. Adelsperger; ■ Geometry—H. McKlveen, M. Falter. W. Morrison, E. Kerlin, M. Reynolds, C. West, W. McPhee, T. McDermott, J. McDermott, P. Paschel; Ancient History—F. Long, W; McPhee; Modern History—C. Eyanson, T. McDermott, B. McAldister, M. Falter, F.Kendall; English History—T. McDermott, B. McAldister, S. Kendall, T. Goebel, C. Spencer, G. Myers; Greek—P. Brownson, T. Goebel, A. Finckh, M.-Falter; P. Burke; Mineralogy—E. Ewirig; Physiology—T. Goebel.
Saint fflary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—By mistake, Miss Gretchen Wehr’s name was omitted in the Ait report last week.
—Miss Barlow, Class ’86, writes, expressing her warm interest in her Alma Mater, and sending the subscription price for the Scholastic.
—Miss Martha Munger, Class ’86, writes from Eureka, Kansas:
“Enclosed, you will find the subscription price, that the Notre.Dame Scholastic may come to me weekly, ever reminding me of dear St. Mary’s, and the many beloved ones there, who will always be remembered by me with deepest gratitude. Every Monday morning I shall anxiously await the arrival of the St. Mary’s news as given in its columns.”
—On Sunday evening the young ladies enjoyed an unexpected visit from the Right Reverend Bishop McIntyre, of Charlottetown, Prince Edwards Island, Canada. A brief greeting on the part of the pupils was read by Miss Dillon, and the Misses Henrichs—accompanied on the piano by Miss Rend—sang one of their beautiful duetts. His Lordship responded in a few edifying words, expressing his admiration of the place, and his pleasure at the advantages enjoyed by the young ladies. The Bishop was accompanied by Very Rev. Father General, also by Rev. D. J. Gillis, and Rev. J. E. McDonald, of Prince Edwards Island.
—The entertainment in honor of Very Rev. Father General, on his beautiful feast, proved satisfactory to everyone—if we pass over some little delays caused by inadvertance, and which detained the audience longer than necessary. The entrance march, by the Misses Rend and Guise, was well performed, and prepared the way for the beautiful Greeting Chorus which followed. The various o	__
addresses, English,French and German, were finely rendered, as was also the vocal duett by the Misses R. and V. Henrichs. The music throughout the entire programme was up to the high standard of the Academy, Miss Shephard’s “ Char-acteristique Polonaise” and “Italy,” taking the lead in the instrumental numbers, as did the “ Swiss Chorus ” in the vocal. The original drama, Blanche of Castile, was well performed, the parts of “ Constantia, Countess of Brittany,” “Inez,” the Tartar Princess, and of her sister “Benice,” also, that of “Fleda Zain,” perhaps taking the precedence over the others.	'
The clergymen .who accompanied Very Rev. Father General were as follows: Very Rev. Father Corby, Provincial, Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Father Granger, Rev. Father L’Etourneau, Rev. Father Frere, Rev. Father Spillard, Rev. Father Zahm, of the University; Rev. Father Denis Clarke, of Columbus, and Rev. Father. McShane, of Chicago. Supper for the invited guests was served in the green parlor,, at six o’clock.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	135
Expression.
The magical charm of fine conversational powers is everywhere acknowledged; and of all accomplishments, a graceful facility in communicating our ideas and sentiments certainly must be ranked among the most desirable. But where is the secret of the influence exerted? It is not in the fertile thought, nor the fluent word alone; no: nor even in the faultless construction of the sentences employed. Intelligence, readiness and propriety of speech often fall coldly on the ear of the listener. Important as is their office, there is something, besides, which touches the heart, and holds the listener spell-bound, and constitutes the influence of which we speak.
An idea of this nameless charm may be conveyed by the term suavity, and yet the graciousness of speech and manner, implied by the word, may exist, and the charm we note may still be wanting; but when the earnest emotions of the soul kindle in the expressive features of the countenance and thrill in the sympathetic tones of the voice, we forget the perfection of the manner in the delight we experience from the thoughts or emotions conveyed.
But the power to sway the minds of others, unfortunately, is not always accompanied by virtuous principles. Often it exists in the malicious heart, and we have the demagogue, the flatterer, the dissembler; but at present we will not speak of these contemptible and dangerous beings. Our purpose is rather to trace the part played by expression, not only in the social world, but everywhere in nature; for most of us who have been blessed with the precious gift of intellect, of imagination, often realize, as does
“ The poet, faithful and far-seeing,” that there are mysteries in the universe which it behooves us to study, and with him we will find
“ Alike in flowers and stars, a part
Of the self-same universal being © Which is throbbing in our brain and heart;
therefore, to us the spotless lily expresses the idea of purity; the smooth, velvety petals of the rose, bring to us the thought of the fervor and freshness of youth; the fading leaves of autumn remind us of the pallid cheek and subdued look which mark the countenance of the aged.
As the gentle zephyrs blow through the long sweeping branches of the willow tree, there is a plaintive murmur in the slender leaves, and their reluctant waving to and fro in answer to the swaying winds speaks to us of sorrow. How appropriate to the expression of the tree, is the name it bears —the “weeping willow!”
The “dial of the flowers” is not scorned, even by the disciples of Linnaeus, and we have the heliotrope, the morning glory, the four o’clock, the century plant, the night blooming cerus, the night shade, and the like, all expressive of some peculiar quality in each flower. We have the gaudy
poppy, and the brilliant tulip; the “ brave old oak ” and the “ modest violet,” and a thousand productions of the vegetable world, whose very, names show that their expression is universally recog- ' nized: as the Passion flower, and the flower of the Holy Spirit; the nun-flower and the monk’s hood.	,
The sun sheds its brilliancy by day; the moon ‘ and stars break the total darkness of the night. The lightnings rend the clouds, purifying and cooling the close and sultry summer atmosphere; the rain brings refreshment to the thirsting ground; the hidden labyrinths of earth respond to the “open sesame” of commerce, and the rocks yield up their hoarded wealth in gems, and medicinal waters. What are all these, but so many expressions of God’s love for His creatures?
Watch the mighty steamers, as they plow the heaving main! Stand on the brow of the hill, on a frosty morning, and look down upon some thriving city with its countless stationary smoke-stacks here and there. See the moving lines of rail trains, the long curling plumes of radiant vapor from the engines, gleaming and glowing in the beams of -the just risen sun. What is all this fairy-like beauty, but a mirror reflecting the triumph of human ingenuity over the inertness of matter? This we must acknowledge when we revert to the past and recall the inconveniences of labor and of travel-some fifty years ago, when compared with the facilities of the present. The improvements, the advantages we now enjoy reflect the power of mind. The telegraph, the submarine cable, the space annihilating telephone, the electric light, the intricate and. wonderful machinery met everywhere, are all the expression of the deep thought, and the skilful experiment of the mechanist.
In like manner, his strophes to the poet are the voice of his soul, as the work of the artist is the ; language of his dreams and aspirations. What is the nicely-executed rondo without expression; what the gay trill of the vocalist? The technique in the one case, as well as the singing in the other, -to the casual observer, may seem faultless; but to the true musician they are wanting in the most important element of music. A ballad that comes from the heart is far morepleasing, than a recitative aria, executed in a cold, mechanical . way.	,
We give-vent to the varied emotions and moods of the mind in different styles of music. In moments of sadness, the fingers instinctively touch the' keys softly, gently, calling forth those plaintive airs which seem to penetrate the inmost depths of . , the soul. Chopin is the companion of our sorrow ; Liszt interprets oyr gay, light, happy moods,- which \ respond to his rhapsodies. Music in itself, is but . f the expression of inward emotions. The masters .... -. . ’ have given vent in their beautiful compositions to. . . their interior, aspirations. ,	. :
The desire to render substantial that which is ; ■	‘
only ideal; to present some exterior image of what ;. the mind reveres, seems inherent to the human soul. Fire-worship was but the expression ofthe aweand fearinspired bythe power of thatelemehtin'
136
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the pagan hearts of those by whom it was practised. The propitiatory hearth was always found in the centre of every “ kitchen-midden,” or mound-dwelling. There the patriarch burned the sacrifices, while on his wife devolved the office of keeping the fire constantly supplied with fuel.
Religious worship, of whatever kind, is but the expression of our conscious dependence on an unseen and superior Power. Through the darkness of heathen idolatry this ray of truth penetrated; but, alas! how distorted the reflection! See the giant oak as it rearsits lofty boughs above the surrounding trees on some island sacred to the Druids! Beneath its shadow, the priests are performing their rites. With great solemnity they pierce the bark with a knife of gold, and there they offer the produce of the earth, and even human victims, to their deity. In this, as in all mythology, we find the clear marks of human depravity, fortunately, ever growing more and more repulsive, in contrast with the beautiful charity of Christian worship.
In the variety and changes in the tastes of nations, as in those of individuals, we find the expression of their respective characters. In the luxurious, pleasure-loving Romans under the Cassars, we see little to remind us of their stern ancestors, who, like a Cincinnatus, left the plow in the furrow to take upon themselves the command of armies. The broad principles of our noble Republic represent our national love of liberty. Will time change those principles and our national character? We trust not. Let the taste be exalted and true, and the character will not descend from the present lofty standard.
Estelle Horn (Class ’cfy.)
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF ACADEMIC RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Brady, Blaine, Blair, Barry, Bub, Bates. Brophy, Burke, Blacklock, Beschameng, Blakeslee, Clendenen, Clifford, F. Curtis, M. Curtis, Coglin, Dillon, Donnelly, C. Dempsey, E. Dempsey, Dezenberg, M. Dunkin, Egan, Ewing, Fuller, Foin, Flannery, Griffith, Guise, Horn, Hummer, Heckard, Hertzog, Harlem, R. Henrichs, V. Henrichs, Henke, Hutchinson, L. Hutchinson, Kearney, Kearns, Kingsbury, Larkin, Lingle, M. F. Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, Marsh, McCormic, Moore, McCarthy, Nester, Patrick, Pierson, Rend, Riedinger, E. Regan, Scully, St. Clair, Stadt-ler, Shields, R. Smith, M. Smith, Sherman, Swegman, Stafford, Trask, Triplett,' Thompson, Williams, Wolvin, Wehr, Zahm.	*
'	. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses J. Beaubien, E. Blaine, Boyer, Bragdon, Bruns, Cook, Crane, E. Dempsey, Fritz, Griffith, Hake, Hinz, Hull, Hunting, Kennedy, Knauer, Koester; Leonard, .Lindsey, -McDonnell, Morse, E. Nester, Prud-homn.e, Rhodes.	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Becker, I. Becker, L. Cad-dagan, B. McCormick, E. Qualey, A. O’Mara, J.' Wallace.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED. '
Advanced Course—Miss Ada Shephard..
ist Class—Miss Estelle Horn.
2D Class—Misses Guise, Van Horn.
2D Div.—Misses Fidler, M. F. Murphy, Rend, Riedinger, Snowhook, Wolvin.
JD Class—Misses Dillon, C. Griffith, Kearney, McDonald, St. Clair.
2D Div.—Misses Brady, Egan, Gavan, H. Miner, G. Regan, Shields, Wimmer.
4T11 Class—Misses Barry, H. Coll, Donnelly, A. Duffield, English, Foin, R. Henrichs, E. Hutchinson.
2D Div.—Misses M. Duffield, Flannery,V. Henrichs, McCarthy, Stadtler, Swegman.
5TH Class—Misses Clendenen, Clifford, C. Dempsey, N. Dempsey, Gordon, Kearsey, Koester, M. Murphy, M. Smith, Stumer.
2D Div.—Misses Allnoch, Bragdon, Bub, Burke, Car-mien, S. Dempsey, Faxon, Henke, Kearns, A. Kennedy, McEwen, N. Morse, H. Nester, Proby, R. Smith, Steele, Wehr. Classed, Misses Coglin, Stapleton.
6th Class—Misses Bates, Beaubien, Blacklock, Cad-dagan, Dezenberg, Harlem, Heckard, Hertzog, Hinger, Hummer, Kendall, A. McDonnell, Marsh, Mason, L. Meehan, H. Meehan, E. Nester, Patrick, Pierson, Qualey, L. Smith, F. Wynn, G. Wynn.
2D Div.—Misses T. Balch, E. Balch, Dart, Griffin, Hake, Hull, Hurd, Heyman, Knauer, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, O’Mara, Prudhomme, Triplett, Zahm.
7th Class—Misses Blair, Blaine, Blakeslee, Boyer, Bruns, Cook, M. Coll, Davison, M. Dunkin, N. Dunkin, Fritz, M. Hutchinson, M. Kennedy, Leonard, M. McCormick, E. Regan, Simpson.
8th Class—Misses Campbell, Lindsey, Wallace.
9tii Class—Miss B. McCormick.
HARP.
ist Class—Misses Dillon, Shephard.
6th Class—Misses V. Henrichs, R. Henrichs, H. Nester E. Nester.
GUITAR.
4TH Class—Miss Egan.
6th Class—Miss L. Griffith.
ORGAN.
Miss R. Henrichs.
VIOLIN.
Miss Koester.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Miss M. F. Murphy.
2D Div.—Misses R. Henrichs, V. Henrichs.
2D Class—Miss Guise. .
2D Div.—Misses L. St. Clair, L. Foin, A. English.
3d Class—Misses K. Gavan, C. Moran.
2D Div.—Misses F. Wynn, C. Brophy, R. Smith.
4TH Class—Misses L. Bragdon, M. Barry, E Hyman, A. Miner, M. McNamara, E. Allnoch.
5TH Class—Misses Swegman, L. Meehan, E- McCarthy, I. Bub, A. Gordon, F. Steele, C. Trippiett, F. Hertzog, H. Stumer, F. Carmien, A. McDonald, M. Wimmer.
Careless words repeated to jealous ears, which put upon them a sinister interpretation; thoughtless acts, which were seen in an evil light by suspicious minds—things like these have been answerable for many wars and troubles.
Here is. a fine thought from a tender In Mem-oriam poem on the late Professor Gurney, of Harvard, by his friend,John Patrick Brown, of Boston:
...	“For all of us
Who have communed truly with the past
, Have many friends upon the farther shore
' We wot not of; and when we land, it is
. ’Mongst older, more familiar ones we stand, .
1. Than those the weeping ones we leave behind.” . -