
You'll neverknow 
how much good 
.· youcandO .· ~. untilyou do it. 

Vl>luntccr CanJy RicharJ.c; knowr; how much gtw.-.l t,hccaii Jo.Shc'JJoing it fl,r the chilJrcn al a ncighh1rhc.w.iJ J.1\· car..-n·nt~•r, 
. You can help people. In fact, theres a ~rying need for you. Your skills.Your training. Your concern. · ­
There are volunteer organizations in your town hard at work doing things youcl be proud to be part 0£ We'll put you in touch with.them. · 
· Ifyou can spare even a few hours a week,callyour localVoluntary Action Center. Orwrite: "Volunteer;'Washington, D.C. 20013. 

'It'll do you goodto see how much .. good you can do. · · · 
. .r~..· .·· _-­
·v·


Volunteer.• 
The National Center fa\bluntary Action · 
.. 

A Public Service cl Ths Newspaper & The Adverti,.;ng Council ~ 


Editor 
James Gresser 
Art Director 
Bill Weyl;md 
Production . Manager 
John Phelan 
Managing Editor 
Sally Stanton 
News Editor 
Jane Thornton 
Arts Editor 
Katy Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
Bill. Delaney 
Business Manager 
Sarah Bartzen 
Circulation Manager 
Paul DeBacco 
Photoi::raphy Editor · 
Ed Brower 
Advisory Board 
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, 
Madonna Kolbenschlag 
Staff 
Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Thomas J. 
Waldoch, Dave Beno, Annemarie Sullivan, 
Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, Tara Carey, 
Mark Luppino, John Kenward, Mark Ondash, 
Dave Dreyer, John Harding, Tom Birsic, 
Jack Pizzolato, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, 
Kathy McElroy, Dave Miller, Mike Sarahan, 
Nick Strittmatter, John M. Murphy, Mary 
Digan, Chris Meehan, Lonnie Luna, Mike 
Feord, Patrick Smid, Mark Hopkins, Bethann 
McGregor, Bob Gilroy, Rich Odioso, Eileen 
O'Grady, Paul Hess, John Vincent, Tom 
Moskow, Mike Towle, Rich Nugent, Dan 
Adler, Tom Desmond, Rich Landry, Mike 
Casey, Paul Starkey, Patrick Cole, Sue Grace, 
Bob Kissel. · 
The· opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. Second class postage paid· at Notre Dame, Ind . .46S56. The magazine is represented for . national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly 
· during the school year. except during vacation 
and examination periods, SCHOLASTIC 
is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, 
Ind. 465S6. The subscription rate is $S.00 
a year and back numbers are available from 
SCHLOSTIC. Please address all manu­
scripts to SCHOLASTIC,, Notre Dame, Ind. 
465S6. All unsolicited material becomes the 
property of 'SCHOLASTIC. copyright © 197S Scholastic / all. rights 
reserved / none of the contents may be re­produced without permission. 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINERS  
8  Student  Government  - Examining  the  structure  and  
value of the government from many points of view.  
10  Perspective.  
12  Student Views.  
13  Editorial.  
FEATURES  
4  The Nazz  -Making jazz and folk music easily acces­ 
sible to the students.  
14  Graduate Education· ­ The life of the  Notre · Dame  
graduate student differs in many. aspects from the under­ 
graduates.  
18  The 24-Hour City ­ Late night cuisine and atmosphere  
tci entice any Darner's appetite.  
21  Transcendental Meditation ·­ Changing attitudes open  
the  way  for  wider usage  of the "Science of Creative  
Intelligence."  
26  Ara Parseghian  - A  new job and new responsibilities  
for the former head coach.  
28  Junior Varsity Hockey  Bringing into . the limelight  
these unheralded icers.  
REGULARS  
7  Letter to the Editor.  
17  Coming Distra~_tions.  
22  People at ND. ,  
·23  People Behind.ND_.  
25  Irish Spod Shorts.  ·  '·1  
30  The Last Word.  

Illustrations: Photos on 4, S, 6, 8, 10, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 25, 27 by Ed Brower / Photo on 23 courtesy of Notre Dame Ma1:azine / Photos on 28, 29 by William . J. Delaney / Cover desii::ned by and all artwork by C. William Weyland / Photo on cover by Chris Smith. 
Jazzing at the Na*z 
One student called it •"the best thing to hit this campus since co­education." 
"It's the best way I know to spend a Wednesday night," another said. "The jazz is just excellent." 
The room isn't much, just the basement of LaFortune Student Center, usually called the rathskeller, and tables and chairs are an odd mixture from all around LaFortune. But the room is crowded, the tables are full of people, and the reason is upon stage: some of the most talented people on the campus· playing some outstanding jazz music. Together, the people,. the place and the ·music combine to . make one of the most worthwhile social endeavors on this campus: the Nazz. 
The program at the Nazz, under the careful supervision of senior Ralph Pennino· (yes, the same Ralph Pennino who brings you the Free University and the Collegiate ­Jazz Festival), is basically divided into two sections. Every Wednesday night it's Jazz at the Nazz, featuring either the full Notre Dame Jazz Band, or one of the two smaller jazz combos, all under the direction of Fr. George Wiskirchen. Then on Friday and Saturday nights, the Nazz creates more of a coffeehouse atmosphere by featuring various folk and light rock artists from around the campus. Each night the show begins and the refreshments go on sale at ten o'clock, and the coffeehouse closes at one. 

The Nazz was conceived last April when newly elected Student Body President Pat McLaughlin decided it would be a good idea to establish somethi_ng like acoffeehouse on the campus. He turned the job over to Ralph Pennino. Pennino then began to set the place up, hauling a stage, lights, tables, chairs, and a large carpet down to the rathskeller.. 
· · Pennino and McLaughlin decided to open the coffeehouse for a trial run of four weekends. "We figured we'd give it a try," Pennino said. "Hit didn't work out, we'd forget about it." 
Pennino said he wanted to create_ a place that was informal and cozy where people could go at night · either to talk or just to hear some.. good music. "There was no place to go at night around here, especially on weekends," he said. "You wouldn't want to take a date to the Huddle." 
The four-week experimen·t worked fairly well and it was decided to . keep the place in operation. There was some.proble·m aboutthe kind of refreshments to be ser_ved. Pennino. felt that it would wreck the at-· mosphere if the place start~d to sell ·.. 

pizzas and sandwiches, so they tried something more subdued. "Our original intention was to serve wine and cheese," Pennino said. "We thought that would really comple­ment the atmosphere. 
"But due to the state of repression in the state of Indiana, we were forced to limit ourselves to soda, or 'pop' as they call it in the Midwest." 
It was not until recently however, having adequately handled the prob­lem of refreshments, that Pennino 
. and the Nazz entered the field of jazz music, this now becoming one of their most successful ventures. 
When asked for the reason Jazz at the Nazz got started, Pennino said: "I like Jazz." :. ­
Having worked with Fr. Wis­kirchen during the Collegiate Jazz Festival, Pennino approached him and began discussing the possibility . of bringing the Jazz Band into the Nazz0Wiskirchen had previously, organized a jazz program called Jazz at Nine, in which he and the Jazz Band performed or discussed jazz each Wednesday night in La­Fortune. That program had not been revitalized this year. Aside from the obvious phonetic advantages, Wis­kirchen and Pennino concluded that jazz and the Nazz would go well together. 
To see how great the studentinter­est would be the Nazz planned to set aside one Friday night as a Jazz ­Night featuring the full Notre Dame Jazz Band:· According to Pennino, Jazz at the Nazz; got off to a good start. "It went over excellently," he said. "It was-wall to wall people." The next step was to turn every ­Wednesday night over to jazz. 
The music is provided on a sched-· ule which alternates between one of the two jazz combos-Erg's Finger Circus or the ND combo No. 2-and the full Jazz Band. On those Wednesday nights when none of the­groups are playing, Fr. Wiskirchen will play jazz recording and give a commentary on trends and develop­ments in. the musical genre. 

"Jazzis on the upsurge every­where," Pennino said, and he feels this renewed interest is also present at Notre Dame. "This will be an excellent opportunity for people to learn something about jazz, es­pecially from Fr. Wiskirchen. Not. too many people know more about jazz than he qoes. . . 
"The response so far has been great," he said. "We're developing a regular crowd." He feels that-start­ing the jazz concerts at ten o'clock is working out especially well, "It gives people time to study and still hear some good music.". 
Aside from the addition of jazz, the Nazz has been continuing its .· weekerid program aslwell. The crowds are consistently between_ 75 
and.100 people each night. It also seems to be a nice place to perform. According to Mike Armstrong, who _ plays the Nazz frequently, "I like to play there a lot. There are usually very good audiences at the Nazz." 
He compared it to th~St,:Mary's coffeehouse and said that while 

_, working the SMC coffeehouse is often like playing in a McDonald's, the Nazz is a lot different. "The people at the Nazz come to listen to music." Pennino added that the Nazz is always searching for new per­formers. He said the performances need not be limited -to guitarists, and that the Nazz welcomes acts like skits or imitations. "We've never denied anyone due to lack of talent," he said. 


Pennino is very hopeful for the future of the Nazz. He wants to vary the type of entertainment . provided and he is considering the possibility of bringing in outside talent for certain shows. He also hopes that funds will be available for further renovation of their loca­tion, to include some permanent fur­niture and general repairs. 
Most of those future developments will have to be taken care of by the next year's director of the Nazz, Dennis O'Brien; who now along with Jack Culligan and Dave Shaheen and about thirteen other volunteers, makes up the Nazz staff. 
For the present, though, Pennino's major goal is to make more people aware of the opportunity that the.: ·. Nazz presents. He is convinced that if more people would just give the place a try, they would be as at­tracted to it as the many solid Nazz fans.are now. He reminds students that the Nazz is a service for them, and not. a moneymaking operation. 
"Between all our expenses, and what the help steals, we just about break even." · 
-James Gresser 

r' Tea & Rice 
Letter to the Editor
. ' ' . 
"'°---•-•--"'-••-'•....... -_;.....,.,.•.0,,-a•--"""-"~,•~~ ..,i•~ +-"--,._. •~;..,,;.»?.~,•, _,_.,~.,~•~ w~'••-•~ ••~;•••-,-• 
Dear Editor, A habit of mind particularly preva­lent among contemporary thinkers is probk!matics. We enjoy the new puzzle, a good mystery, the pursuit of solutions to problems, chiefly be­cause we sense a constructive play­fulness in the process. It is not so bad as being lost or so good as being found. There is some light, and we are on the way out. Where. this leads eventually is the problem of another ·day, year or generation. It amounts to a game of wits to which we attach ourselves for the satisfac­tion of seeing some outcome. Our attitude is one of qualified engage­ment. For the'.'time being, we will recycle the bottles, do our homework on impeachment proceedings, or learn to show concern for the prob­lem of abortion, but tomorrow will save us· from the present drudgery of today's cares, and we count on that. Inevitably the kaleidoscope ma.kes its move-someday-and we are faced with new configurations of probable causes to puzzle over. Such is our mood it seems, and one not necessarily as somber as it might sound. 
.Well, whatever gets you through . the night, you might say. After all, the argument continues, we're all consenting adults. Besides no one's. going to starve. All of which trans­lates into neat, respectable forms of attentiveness. We are not the hard~ hearted bigots of yesterday or the clearheaded visionaries of to­morrow. We know ourselves for what we are: the not-so-bad (not-so. good) people who make up today's world. Translating again, ours is a not-so-good, not-so-bad world. We live in the light of fluorescent lamps and comfortable preachments. Satire is lost on us, and confrontation but amuses us. We are neither lost nor found. Our consolation is one of timing, a hopefulness by extrapola­tion. 
When serious-minded persons worry themselves about the sup~ posed epical contexts of daily · existence, heroism reverts to· man­nerism. What possible justification do we have for such outputs of energy when, as far as we can tell, it's all fiddle-faddle? What purpose is there to so gross a charade of · heroics? 
We have been so long shut up in the specialized sector~ of a bureau­cratism we are unavai'lable for com­ment. None of us in our own private pursuits have any reason to talk; only those who already agree with us could possibly understand any­way. Society is not going mad, not theoretically that is; it is only that as there .is less and less to say to one another, more and more of us sound to one another like we're crazy. The horrid frenzy of contemporary life, the so-called madness of terrorist bombings and senseless killings, is merely a way of talking over the deafening silence of a society gone dumb. The frantic workmen in the factory resort to gesture, speaking their mind by arm-waving and hand­signaling. It is not that they cannot speak, it is that they cannot be heard, but the figure.is the same, that of a dumb being. So in the working world of us all, gesture supplants speech. The noise level disallows listening and renders each of us unavarilable for comment. 
The heroics of modern society are techniques of dumbness, a riegen­tropic melodrama resulting from a chaos of noise and silence. We go through the motions of thinking and listening, but guard against letting talk get out of hand. We form com­mittees to do anything but do some­thing. So long as we can get through the day-to-day hassle of a challeng­ing schedule, manage to solve, for now, next semester's housing prob­lem, arrive at solutions for dealing with violations, or failures, or in­adequacies, we needn't bother our­selves with the disgruntlement of being misunderstood, the.difficulties of having to make changes, the fear of punishment, the agony of loss, the distress of being human. The shape most of our concern for the wretched and the displaced takes is heroic op-ed philosophizing or letter­to-the-editor freneticism. 
Fire & Ice, No one's going to starve Unless you can't get through the 
night Then some of you just might. 
With the artificial comforts of see­ing something get done, we begin to believe today's heroics are tomor­row's heroism. The machinery of our ritual acts thus occupies us with committee-holding and-decision­making and becomes, in effect, our space, and we assume the conscious­ness of a dumb being, bereft of all manner of memory and conscience. 
The mythic Tower of Babel is too easily sidestepped. The story has it that God "did confound the language of all the earth" (Gen. 11) because this great bureaucratic endeavor, consider the committee work it took, was inspired by ambition, it hoped to devise a means of reaching up to . the heavens. The B.ible does not say that these were evildoers who worked in the Great Bureaucracy or that th.eir motives were without honor. Nonetheless God's displeasure resulted in the confusion of _tongues. 
.Henceforth the human being had to 
· · labor to be understood. But the judgment at Babel can no more be thought of as merely a new wrinkle in the ball game than the judgment at Eden. The "good fortune" of Babel is its. uncovering of t:he my~ stery o_f language. Human speech, the myth confirms, with all its de­fects is yet the one legitimate device for reaching up. · Human speech is a wondrously funny, sadly mysterious device; it is the peculiar property, of human be­ings. No human being is dumb by nature. ·Each of us has this direct course to God, and it is through the confusion (not bureaucratiza­tion) of these-i.e., human discourse -that we all may perceive more. But any society, large or small, that opts for a mechanical improvisation of human discourse by building a bureaucracy that re-creates itself at the expense of othe;~ is going no­where. When many cannot be heard, some will become dumb, some will go mad and some will throw bombs -to get our attention. 
Saint Ajax 

Student Government: Advising and Serving 
·~. 
."We are just advising, and hoping that people will take our advice," said Student Body · President Pat McLaughlin about Student Govern­ment. "We try to be intelligent, to get the facts as best we can; and do it so that when somebody. has to make a decision on something, they look at our side, and see that we're not just a bunch of ·screaming stu­dents yelling about every little thing, but that we have some reasonable facts backing up what we say, and that what we say is true. When we do this the decisions will go our way." This explains the mechanics of how our Student Government is set up, as an advisory body. There is more to Student Government than being informed and voicing student opinions, however. There is also the allocation and use of money that is paid by the students to run the stu­dent government bureaucracy and to provide services and activities that students want or need. 
Every year the undergraduates of Notre Dame elect a Student Body President, a: Student· Body Vice­President, and six district· repre­sentatives. These people, especially the Student Body President and Stu­dent Body Vice-President, for a year beginning each April,· are re­sponsible for running· the student government. These people make up the student section and one third of the total membership in the Stu­dent Life Council. Along with the Chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council, they make up the Student Government Board of Commissi_on-: ers, which has the power and the duty, according to the Constitution of the Undergraduate Student· Gov­ernment of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, to determine policies, assess and allocate funds, staff the executive commissions of Student Government; ·approve the appoint­ment of Student Union Director, 

. appoint the Student Body Treasurer, and keep in communication and work in harmony · with the Hall Presidents' Council, the student members of the Academic Council, and other student representatives to the University. All this is done by student volunteers who get no pay and no academic credit. 
Student .GoveJ;'Dment has two thrusts, one aiming to influence University· decisions in the student's favor, the other to provide services for the student. The former is at~ tempted by Student Government ·in the Student Life Council, the Hall Presidents' Council, and the Academ­ic Council. The latter is handled pri­marily through the Student Union. 
•,~-); •• ,,~:v•.•.~•-'•:. ----:---,)·,._ 
-~.:-.. ... '·--·~-;--·.. ..·.-..-\1:,:~ 
:· .:' i?•t

/ •': ~/::,~~-•-.:?).:,./•\:~•:-c· 
c • ,·.

!, .. _ /;tj£_·-. :~t\ .:>~./;L·· 
::);;.:.).._, 
/.\.. ' 
by Dan Adler 

Many complaints have been heard concerning the ineffectiveness of Student Government concerning ad­vising University policy. Student Government has no constitutional powers, and the University Admin­istration has been said to ignore student opinions voiced through Student Government.· To this, Pat McLaughlin responds, "The students don't rea:lly know what is going on in Student Goverrimerit. We don't have to run around saying, 'Look what we did.' :U students want to know, they can find · out. ·On the housing thing, that ·wasn't a big issue until February. But last Octo­ber when we ·went to the trustees; we gave a· pretty good argument considering why people should be on campus, why they ·shouldn't be forced off. We 'contended the whole .time that this year there shouldn't be any more guys' dorms taken and that . women should be forced off campus, and. that any type of deci­sion had to have those two cri­teria. We spent a lot of time giving 
-. ....
-I
• 
,< ·-·'<
' --: 
l I 
! 
" ~ " I 
, l 
.. ,i 
~:~~~;~.4 
the facts about what was going on. 
We didn't have to get a big student 

rally or anything and .many people 
thought we weren't doing anything 
about it. The Observer had an 
editorial saying the administration 
refused to. discuss it; But when the 

decision came out, it met the two 
points that we brought up in Octo­
ber. On the other. hand, there is 

something like the calendar. We 
didn't have the facts, but we thought 
we did. We ·were misled about there 
having to be seventy-one or seventy­
two school days. Maybe it wasn't 
that big an issue. 
."It would be nice if it were like the 

sixties and the.students were really 
united, but it's not-not justat Notre 
Dame but at every other school. I'm 
not saying we· should.. riot over 
every issue, but we can't get .our 
heads .together ' about ,anything 
around . here. : That's .· the biggest 
. . . . ' 

problem. 
•·•People _ask why we .haven't led a demonstration. It wouid be foolish if only 300. people shmved _up. ,Dis­cipiinary cases .affect only a small number of people, and even with ~e basketball thing, there ·were 120~ students · ready . to . buy . tickets re­gardl~s of .the .· boycott. If .we -_ had the support of ·a large number of 
. students, , and not. just short-term 
emotional support; more decisions 
would.be going_ our way. , ... 
·"I have to admit that this year 

has been a .reai . quiet year: tJ:iere 
haven't been ,any big .,di~cipHnary 
cases, and· the housing thing._ was 
settled. in a .pr_etty good way. The 
only real: bad part _about the whole 
year· was the calendar.· I'm really 
sorry t~at happened. But . we were 
doing things, altllough ·there weren~t 
many . headlines.'.' . . .. . . . . . . : .. 
Students. worry about,., matters 

other than the power~ .of ;Student 
Government.. A primary:c.on.cern of 
·nearly everyone at Not.re ~anie, ~oth in and . .. out··•of . student· . , ..........office, seems .
,... . 

to be the budget. Approximately $83,000 is collected· from the stu­dents every year to finance Student Government;. the Board of ·commis­sioners .. decides in. what proportion the money will be made available· to the Student Government itself, the Student Union, the Hall Presidents Council, and certain individual clubs. Tllis year, the budget planned for the Student Union to ge( $40,000, the Student Government-$23,125, vari­ous clubs (MECHA, .International Students Organization, Neighbor­hood Study Help, and the Society of the Uj~mma are' the major recipi­ents) a total of,$6,875, and the Hall Presidents Council-$13,000-$8,500 to individual halls and $4,500 to An ·Tosta!~ The.planned Student Govern~ ment's major expenditures were: a van-$4,000, printing, campus dis·­tribution: and Observer advertising _:_$2,650, Freshman Orientation­$1,420, • Carnival--:-:-$1,500, telephone distribution and tolls--:-:$1,225. Sal­aries for:a bookkeeper and asecre­tary totalled $6,450. Also, the Nazz and the,Quickie are sponsor~d by the Student Government. . . 
The Student Union breakdown. for the year was:· $18,699 expenditure -for l~tures .to the: Academic Com­mission ($8,310 was . speilt during the first semester), Campus Press planned revenue. of $1,358, an ex­penditure of.$18,318 to·cuitura_lArts ·for.the.Collegiate Jazz· Festival; the Sophomore' Literary, Festival, Dance and. Drama;.the Blues Festival, Cin­ema '75, ai-id ISIS, $7,745'.as revenue from the Services Commission. that 
, -•.· . . . . .. 
has_· such prograµis . as ..summer storage, .Nutshell, refrigerator rent­ais, .movies, arid on-campus . mail, $5,160. . expenditures · for ·. Student Unfori Administration, arid "expendi­tures ·of ·$s;925' to'tlie Soci~ Com­
mission. '· , . , . , , , , , . .·. . ; 'Pat . Burke, the Director. o{ the student ·union; . felf~ that this year the· Student ·uiiion.·has-been· .more 
. •' . . ·.. 
GOVERNMENT STATISTICS 
The 1974-1975 school year budget of the $83,000 student money: Expenses (Revenue) Student Union: ·Academic Com-,-. _ 
mission ............ $18,699 Campus Press ...... ( 1,358) Cultural Arts --···· 18,319 . Services Com­
mission ... :.:.,.... (-7,745) 

Social Com­ 
mission  ......... ,..  . 6,925  
Student Union  
·. Administration  5,160  

, TOTAL ............ , 40,000 . Student Government 23,125 Hall Presidents · 
.Council: Halls .................... 8,500 .An Tosta! ., ...... ,.,.. 4,500 _ TOTAL .,.: ...... , .... , 13,000 

Sixteen different clubs ........... .,......... 6,875 TOTAL .............. · .$83,000. 
· Where some of·the $83,000 of student money was budget­ed for use during the 1974­1975 school year: 
An Tosta! ... , ...... , . ., .. ,$4,500 Student Govern­ment Van ...:;;;..... · 4,000 
Student Government. Salaries ( One bookkeeper and one secretary) .... 6,450 
Student Government 
··Advertising (Print~ ing, postage, Ob­server Ads, dis­tribution) ............ 2,840 
Freshman 
Orientation ..... :.... 1,420 · Carnival .......... ., ... c:. ·.· 1,500 Clubs: major 
recipients: . . · International Stu-. : 
dents Organi-·· · · · zation· ... ~.. ;.: ..... :~ 1,500. MECHA.-.... ; .. ;;.J.:,.:. ·1,500 
Society.'of Ujamma : 1,000 , ... · Neighborhood·.•; · StudY: Help:.; .. ,:.. ;; 1,200, :_ Sophomore Liter;. :. · ary Festival ........ 1,100 

economical than in the past. "We've tried· to gauge what · activities weren't worthwhile, that the stu..: dents weren't going to and we were wasting money on. For exam­ple, last year's Cinemas were poorly attended. Cinema '75 is~ing much better this year because· -the films are more contemporary." McLaugh~ 

.,, lin added about the entire Student Government, "We're running in the black for the first time in about five or six years, and we haven't raised the ($14) amount the students pay for about the seventh or eighth year in a row. I think we got a lot more out of our budget this year." The Student· Union Board of Directors is made up of the Student Body President; the Student Body Vice-President! the Student Body 
"There is more to Student Government than being informed and voicing student opinions ..." 
Treasurer, the Student Union Direc.:. tor, the Assistant Director, and the Comptroller. These people decide budgets and appoint heads for each of the commissions ofthe Union: the Social Commission, Academic Com­mission, Services Commission, Cam­pus Press, and Cultural Arts. Burke stated that he felt the Social Com­mission has been having difficulty recently, but cites a number of up­coming activities for the spring as optimistic-trips to a Chicago major league baseball game, to a Bulls bas­ketball game, and to the Second City in Chicago. The Social Commission is also responsible· for Homecoming activities, the Moe Howard Presenta­tion, the ACC and Notre Dame con­certs, ND-SMC· joint ventures, the open-house mixers, and the Okto­berfest. The Academic Commission brings guest lecturers to ·the cam­pus, such as Julian Bond, Martin Diamond, a Woodrow Wilson Fellow, Samuel Patterson of the University of Iowa, Herbert Storing of the Uni­versity of Chicago and Dr. · David Fellmen of the University of Wis­consin, who spoke at the Government Symposium re c e n t 1 y concerning Watergate'. The Cultural Arts Com­mission is responsible for the Col­legiate Jazz Festival, Cinema '75, ISIS, the Blues Festival, Dance and Drama, and the Sophomore Literary Festival. The Services ·commission sponsors such things as the Fresh­man Directory, last ·year's summer storage,· the on-campus · mail, Nut­shell, t~e refrigerator rental service, movies, a newsletter, a Ping-Pong tournament; and· the book exchange. The Quickie bus becomes part of the Services Commission next year. · 

"We've had some real good work­ers this year, and most of them were sophomores or freshmen, so they'll be back next year. When t~ere are people who get involved, we can supply good services/' said Burke. 
It seems that student government at Notre Dame is on a gradual up­swing. This is most readily apparenr in the Student· Union, where respon­sible workers are · improving and enlarging· services to .the student community. Perhaps 1ess apparent, but at least as important, is the strengthening of the student govern­ment as an advisory body. With a growing awareness, increased in­volvement, more serious commit­ments on the part of the student body as a whole and the hard work of interested individuals, the student government can continue to improve. 
-Dan Adler 



This is the fourth time that I've tried to sit down and write this article. Each time I've gotten my­self involved iri issues, predictions, policies and·excuses. I realize, · how­ever, that those who should read about these things will not and any­one who would read about these things knows about them anyway. So, maybe I'll just try to give some lasting personal impressions -tak­ing out time to thank those who deserve it, and· chastise those who have been asking for it all year ­even up the score,,if I may say. ' 
It has been a very long year. Nine 
.h~ndred forty~two work hours, to be exact. Enough coffee, grapefruit juice, aspirin· and Marlboros that I find it hard to' believe that these companies are ·· in an economic slump. It would've been very easy to sit around and feetsorry for our­selves, but each day I saw a good number of · people quietly .working at smaH jobs, tying up loose ends or answering eternal ·numbers of phone · calls and questions. They were the people who gave up their own time to see that the Quickie made it to Michigan, sold pop at' the Nazz, · 'answered a phone for the Ombudsman or spent endless hours stapling and folding. newsletters for off-campus houses. They made no big deal about it -they just did it. 

Mclaughin Examines a Long Year 

by Pat l\lcLaughlin 

It was difficult to get spme in­terest back in Student Government, especially after the years that pre­ceded us. It ~as rewarding when we got a complaint or were sought· for assistance _:__ it meant that someone was watching us and some­one cared. It was rewarding to see 2,000 people register to vote or 400 people ride the Quickie. It meant that we were willing, not to sit back and take it on the chin, but to get on .our feet and do. something. I can only offer my most humble thanks to those. people. • 
We certainly_ did not change the world, but .we recovered a lot of ground that was lost in previous years. .we were not without fault and we'll be the first to admit it. When things go wrong, however, you don't sit back and complain. You take a long hard swallow, mutter an obscenity or two, and get to work. It is very easy to grab a flaming headline in The Observer or seize the floor at a forum. You can call someone a jerk, or rant and rave about every little thing that bothers you. If-you don't get to­gether and work, however, you don't have the right. to sit back and com­plain. You must realize that strikes and.boycotts are _not "sold" to the student body. It must _be sponta­neous and it must be felt from within and .not from without. 
Now that we are in the midst of elections, some people wish to stand up and have themselves heard. All fine and good, but where the hell were you all year? You complain that you are treated like kids ....:_ what can you expect when you act like kids? A child sits back and cries -throws a tantrum, maybe. He doesn't do anything between tragedies-he sits back and awaits the next one. Did you ever feel like you had done the same? 
"It was difficult to get some interest back in Student Government, especially after the years that preceded us." 

Don't worry, administrators. You're not getting off the hook that easily. You find it very comfortable to. sit back and say that you are trying .hard. Hogwash: I've heard enough about "community" and enough about "input" and "chan­nels of communication" to make ine sick. May_be I appear stupid or something, but I'm perceptive enough to realize when I'm being patronized or when some of you are playing games. 
I . will give you · some credit, though. When the heat is on, you have the ability to command rank­and-file support. When the ship starts sinking over here, most of the crew-bails out. •Maybe it is because we allow dissent; we don't try ·and make everyone look good and we don't try to make stupid decisions look like well-thought-out ones. I know that there are many. excep­tions, but they are the exceptions and .not the rules. 
·. Underlying this vicious circle are 
the campus media, especially The 
Observer. I can understand their 
problems in reporting campus news, 
but I will let them know once more 
that Student Government does not 
exist to fill saintly columns when 
other news is not available. Nor do 
I appreciate inane questions on is­
sues that have no bearing at -that 
particular time. The struggle for 
a story, any story, is something 
that should be coped with by editors 
and reporters, not the rest of the 
campus. 
The crusades carried on by the 
media are another source of prob­
lems. _The very same issues that 
they purport to solve .are only fueled 
by one-person editorials and irre­
sponsible reporting. It is about time 
· they realized that they cannot con­demn. with their editorials yet con­done with their own policies. 
Oh, yes, I am sour because I didn't get the media's endorsements and I have gotten a few bad editorials. Frankly, I didn't need their endorse­ment, nor do I care about their edi­torials. More than once, things that are either nonexistent or minor are blown up to seem like the campus is going down the drain. More than once, they have made no mention that they had been wrong. This "holier -than thou" attitude .must stop. · God kriows that they have 
·,~­

lost their credibility with the admin-• istration, but more importantly, they are losing it with the students. 
As· for next year, I can only hope that my successor picks up on what we've done right and improves on what we've done wrong. I can only hope that students get together all year, not just during elections. They must first be honest with themselves before they can expect to be treated honestly by anyone else. That is the only hope. 
Finally, I'd just· like to thank those who have helped me make it through the year. · A poster up in Student Government says, "A prayer to be said when the world has gotten you down, and you feel rotten, and you're too doggone tired to pray and you're in a big hurry and besides you're :mad at every­. body: Help." You 'know who you 
are -Thanks. 

Hovv Students Vievv Their ·Government 
Last week Scholastic went· around asking a variety of people what they thought of the student government.
I
Here are a few of the responses: 
Brian Sullivan, a sophomore trans­fer stuaent from American Interna­tional College had this to· say on Student Government at Notre Dame: 
"At AIC the enrollment was only about 2,000, so things were much easier to plan. · Student Govern­ment ran 2 or 3· dances a semester similar to the North Quad Party. I don't • see why Notre Dame doesn't have more. In Massachu­setts the drinking age is eighteen which helps too! The structure of government here seems too large to control. At the "C" we just had a president and a· vice-president and 2 representatives from each dorm. If they would simplify things around here, they would be run much better." 
Bob Rizzuti, a senior pre-med stu­dent, voiced a little different opinion. Bob would like to see more cornrnu­nica tion between the branches of Student Governrnerit. As he said: 
"In .4 years I've never seen a com­mittee come up with something of any significant usefulness. The Ombudsman Service is the most efficient body on campus." 

Terry Johnson, a first-year MBA student and 1974 graduate of Notre Dame, has seen five administrations come and go. 
-"I think Pat McLaughlin is the best person I've seen in Student Government in five years. There 

· are certain things that one must realize cannot be done without full student support." 
Torn Demetrion is a transfer stu­dent from Montana State Universi­ty. There are approximately 10,000 students at MSU and their Student Council contained in excess of 100 students. Tom said: 
"I am relatively happy with the work done by student government this year. I haven't seen that much done, butTrealize Notre Dame is a private institution and th_e ·ad­ministration has final veto. What that adds ,up to, I guess, is a rela­tively powerless Student Govern­ment."· 

Dennis (Digger) Dziernianowicz, president of Pangborn Hall, had a number of comments: 
"I am a member of the Hall Pres­idents Council, so I will focus my comments on that body, We,have actually no legislative power; our only power is that we have the student body behind us. We can't really force the administration's hand. 

"The idea of Student Government is . cooperation versus confronta­tion. As I always say, you catch more flies ·with honey than. with vinegar. We will ·get ·more done if we work within theadministra­tion. 
"On the structure of Student Gov­ernment I thinkthe only drawback is the complexity. I think having a lot of people involved is great but too many committees get mixed up inalot of red tape. Cut­
.· ting down the number of commit­tees but increasing the number of members ·on them wouldi accom­plish this end." 
A few students in,terviewed didn't really care. Comments rariged from, "No comment," to "What difference does it make?" Most ofthe students that had anything .to ··say· on the issue struck two major ' themes. First, to get things done effectively, the Student Government must be smaller. At its present size, students felt, many important issues get lost in the· shuffle . of bureaucracy. Secondly, many · were pleased with Pat McLaughlin's job as SBP, ·yet felt that, without the supportof an interested student body, Student Government has no future at Notre Dame. 
-Michael Casey 
, ' 



Editorial-



In Need of Initiative 
In retrospect, this has not been a , bad year for Student Government. It has not been a bad year and yet quite obviously-it has not been good enough. There are.too· many students who. feel. their Student Govern­ment does· nothing for them; too many students who . wouldn't notice if there were no student body president; there are too many "elections without leaders." . 
-,_ It would of course be unfair to say the ,Student Gov~rnment and Student Union have done nothing dur­ing the past administration, when in .fact some ex­tremely worthwhile programs have been initiated. Stu-. dent Government, for. instance, should be, highly com­
. mended for their work in creating Darby's Place and the Nazz, and also for instituting the Quickie bus service. Another. department of StudenLGovernment which deserves high commendatiorl-is the Ombudsman; Bill McLean and his staff have done·an outstanding job. The Student Union, overall, has had a very good. year. .They have provided a varied assortment of social and cultural activities that have been widely appre­ciated by the students. The events they have sponsored -films, concerts and special programs: like the Sopho-.· · more Literary Festival-have for the inost part . been welcome additions to campus life. While some, people might disagree with their taste or their creativity, Student Union Director Pat Burke, Assistant Director Ray Carey·and the rest of the StudentUnion staff all deserve a great deal of thanks for their time and ini­tiative. It is in the area of initiative, on.the other hand, that the Student. Government fails the most. Just look at the major issues, that have arisen on this campus and the role Student Government has as­sumed in those issues and you can see not only the characteristic position of the Student Government, but . also_·of the entire student body. What have the great·, , issues been? Basketball tick_et prices, .the academic calendar, alcohol regulations and the transformation of Lewis Hall into an undergraduate dormitory are all we seem to have. In each one of these cases the stance of the ,students and their Student Government has al-.· ways been one ofreaction. Nothing of.any consequence ever arises as a result of student initiative. It's asif we can only act when we feel threatened by the adminis­tration, and the result is that as a student body we are obviously concerned.with _ridiculously trivial. prob­
lems. .,, Even if the Student, Government wants to· remain exclusively reactionary, at least there should be aposi­tive responie to those issues which are positively re-' lated to the concerns of students. Why has Student 
Government,remained so silent regarding the problem of world hunger? Are students content to rest, solely on Fr. Hesburgh's laurels? Or more immediately;.why is it that a hall rector makes a proposal for an experi­
, ment in coeducational living and the Student ,Govern­ment not only denies its active support, but remains mute?.· 
While it's true that each year Student Government provides funds for campus volunteer agencies, it is not sufficient for each successive administration to merely continue the policy established by a previous one.·For example, the Neighborhood Study Help Program ,is in great need of financial assistance at this time and the Student Government is not offering its support to help this,valuable organization regain its stability. 
The,comment has been made that the Student Gov­ernment cannot achieve anything worthwhile without the full support of the student body. The misconception involved here is that student.support is something that is· spontaneously generated..Student support is· not 
'. stumbled upon; it must be engendered. It is in this capacity that the. recent administrations in Student Government have failed. They have failed. to realize 
· .that their role is to lead the students as well as repre­_sent them. It is, finally, very difficult to look at the present Student Government administration-,-to look at all the hard work and long hours these people have devoted to theirjobs-and write itoff as a waste. This year.has in many ways been a year for-rebuilding Student Govern­ment and turning it from a bad joke into a worthwhile student endeavor. In many ways that has been accom­
. plished. -. But the future demands much more.,The recent elec­tion has not exactly been marked by a furious, exciting campaign. Nonetheless, those elected to the positions · of authority in Student Government must either prove themselves real leader~, capable of making the . office of student body president one of real leadership, or we the students must decide if the office is worthwhile at all. ­·Scholastic is hopeful that: the office will be .used. to good purposes. We urge those newly elected to _pick up where their predecessors left off and make .them­selves truly responsible to the students who· elected them. We urge positive initiative; we urge them to seek out aH their possibilities for positive effectiveness. Per­haps it is naive, but_ we hope they wili be able to lead the student body, with their vast human resources, and that the student body ,will respond to that leadership. -The Editorial Board 
Graduate Education: Dealing With a Different Notre Dame 
"Life for a grad student, in general, is very much different from that of an• undergrad since we'--[graduate students] are now much more ca­reer-oriented, . with definite· goals,· -·and easily caught up in studies. In many ways,• Notre Dame is a dif­ferent place for me now -the same 
buildings -but a different place." 
(Jim Masters, iri the MBA Program) 
· Graduate education is not a 
"carry-over". of the undergraduate 
experience. The advanced· student 
finds himself with a different orien­
tation and a new identity. Goals of 
the advanced student sharpen into 
focus and·take a more directed path. 
The major ·concern of the advanced 
student is to attain his degree and 
to find a job .on the outside. The ad­
vanc·ed student must deal with many 
of the same problems that affect the 
undergraduate, but . he · necessarily 
views them from a different perspec­
tive. 
Dr. Robert Gordon, Vice-President 
for Advanced Studies, sees the grad­
uate student deyoting ''all energies 
to the job of education."· Post-bac­
calaureate education seems to in­
volve a strong personal dedication 
and. the idea· of a "total commit­

ment.'' Because of the demands of the heavy work load, Kathy Gleason, . a graduate student, feels that the ad­vanced studentis under a lot of pres~ 
time, it is probably not one of their 
main concerns." For the graduate 
student; the first priority remains an 
academic one. 
Larry Burns, with one degree 

from Notre Dame_and now a gradu­
ate student in the education depart­
ment, agrees that the · goals and 
priorities of the advanced student 
differ from the undergraduate, but 
feels that the "orientation should be 
different." He suggests that the un­
dergraduate receives more than just 
education in the classroom: Under-. 
graduate study is part of ''a broad­ening · experience, growing; · finding one's self." . The graduate, with a more directed purpose, . is here "to get a degree and get out." Graduate study becomes a matter .of "voca­tional training.'' Burns.feels that the graduate experience is more "indi­vidual" in that the graduate student, . concerned primarily with his area of stuqy, is not interested in college .or University organizations. The rela­. tionship between the University and 
,., by Paul Starkey 

the graduate student; he feels, "need 
not be intimate." 
Because there is a concentration of study in one area, the advanced student identifies strongly with the department or school rather than the University. Within the depart­ment, the graduate student finds a sense of identity •and forms close bonds· with the. faculty and friends with whom he is in contact daily. 
Ann Williams, a· third-year law student and A.R. in Farley; suggests that the law school, as a single en­
· tity, serves as a source of identity · for law ·students: "There are dif­ferent organizations operating with­in the law school and also such activ­ities as rallies before football games." She feels that the law library "serves the students' needs; and-the addition of ,a lounge and snack bar is really convenient." She sees l'really little to 
. connect the law studenLwith the . rest of the campus; especially if one lives off-campus ·. . . few people really have the time to get involved 

· :11··7·:·7::1 ~1· ·.
~ ;·: .'5·(2 (._ '. 
-~.f::__ ~'._·'f\-:"~-~--< 
; \
\ 
sure and is "forced to be a lot more • 
serious." Graduate students gener­
ally share the feeling that study de­
mands are so overwhelming that 
there is time for little else. As Ms. • 

Gleason suggests, it becomes neces-_=,,,__=---== 
sary to "hang everything, but get , . 
the work done.'' 

Jim Masters suggests that because -= · of the necessary commitment to aca~ · ·~ demics,· even social life may . be less · 
important at the. advanced level: "Although students in other fields might be bothered by the limited social life, they are here to study; and because studies take so much 

"Notre Dame is recognized among the top fifty graduate sclwols in the· country."-Dr.. Robert Gordon, .Vice-President for Advan~ed Studies. · 
SCHOLASTIC 

in the different areas of undergrad living." 
The MBA Sc!tool, a. "horizontal program," cuts across the disci­plines within the Business School. Although a . student . may study · in several departments, it is not as dif~ ficult to establish an identity. "It's different from being a grad. student in the other departments," says MBA s t u d e n t Frank Musica, "because we're with the same people in classes aH day and there is at least some kind of. identification. Without this, you can become isolated, view­ing yourself as a nonentity at this university with no one to plead your case." .. 
: Among the advanced students, there is_ a. widespread. complaint of feeling neglected, "left alone." Hugh Harman, author of The Observer's column, "Left in the Lurch"--:--a posi­tion that he feels describes the grad~ uate. students' situation-claims that there is "no one 'to go to." It is his opinion. that "the Administration doesn't care" about. the graduate student. 
Dr. Gordon strongly disagrees with the notion that the University does not care about the advanced students: "That's not my perspec­tive. The University recognizes· the importance of. graduate work." He offers the argument that University officials just recently made more funds available for graduate :stu­dents.· Also, he points to the fact that there are "ample avenues of communication" available. Each de­partment has a director of grad_uate studies (sometimes the department chairman) ; .the Office of Advanced Studies remains "open"; and he has "worked with GSU presidents" in the past. To the charge that the gradu~ ate. student is a "second-class : citi­zen," he emphasizes Notre Dame's large financial commitment to post­baccalaureate education. Dr. Gordon reports that the Office of Advanced Studies receives a·substantial share of .. the total budget and, ''on the average," graduate students receive more financial assistance: A higher proportion (80%) of graduate stu0 dents receive aid .(as compares to about 58% of the undergraduates). As the advanced . student body· is small (about 1700 or 1/5 of the total student body), the advanced student receives more money on an individ­ual basis. Dr. Gordon also notes that, 
MARCH 7, 1975 
at the advanced level, the faculty necessarily spends more time on a single student because education is "a tutorial proposition, almost one­on-one." Dr. Gordon points to the· economic restraints of recession upon the University, but stresses that the graduate student is "not cut out differentially." 
Many advanced students feel that as a minority they are on the "out­side looking in." Hugh Harman sug­gests that "everything [social events, athletics, extracurricular activities] gears toward the undergrad:" Eileen Concannon, a graduate student in sociology and R.A. in. Farley, at­tended the University of Florida as an undergrad and offers the view of a graduate student coming to Notre Dame from a more liberal school: · ."I recognized quickly that ND is a definite undergraduate campus as opposed to other universities, such as the_ University of Florida, where 
"Tile advanced·: student finds himself with a _different orientation and new identity." 

the grad student is viewed as more important than -the senior." 
('It seems that other universities which are more grad school-oriented have tried to help the situation by the building of grad school com­plexes," Jim Masters states. "Al­though . ND is still very much an undergraduate institution, it seems that it _would be to the school's ad­vantage ·to try and attract [gradu­ate] students. A good grad school enhances the academic atmosphere of the university by attracting qual­ity professors and helping the school spread its reputation." . 
, Dr; Gordon agrees that the gradu­ate student body is in .the minority "when you're talking about num­bers.". He insists, however, that Notre Dame. is a "total university" which concerns itself with all of its students: "The focus of the Univer­sity is a transmitting of knowledge, a development of.knowledge, and ser­vice to the community." To suggest that the graduate program is on par with the. academic excellence of the undergraduate education, Dr. Gordon cites from a recurrent survey of the American Council of Education, "An Assessment of Quality in Graduate Education." In a 1964 study, six Uni­versity departments ranked among the nation's top twenty. In 1970, fit­teen departments received national recognition (and the departments listed in the earlier survey rated higher in 1970). With a program of "quality education," Dr. Gordon says, "Notre Dame is recognized among the top fifty graduate schools in the country." ' 
Few graduate students feel that Notre Dame lacks academic quality, but like the undergraduates; many complain· of· a poor social atmo­sphere..·For the advanced students, however, the problem becomes some­thing more than just "Saturday night and l ain't got nobody." The graduate students have no strong representative organization to plan social · activities. Again, one of the biggest problems seems to be lack of time. Few graduate students' can sacrifice the time and energy to di. vote _to any social organization. An: other problem is the diverse nature of the group. As Dr. Gordon . sug­gests, within the advanced· student body, there are "twenty-one different sub-cultures." With little common interest or identity outside .the. de­partment, most of .the social orga­nization remains within the particu~ lar disciplines. · · 
. Notre Dame students, at the un­dergraduate and . advanced levels, sorely feel alackof social opportuni­ties. More "crossroads" are needed where people cari. come together. Dr. Gordon feels that Lewis Hall "pro­moted· social life" among the gradu~ ate students with its common room and kitchen facilities. Sirice . Badin "doesn't have the necessary space," it will be important to find· other areas where graduate students can 
meet. · · · 
He mentions c~rrent plans for· a common room on the second. floor of the LaFortune·Student Center and the more remote goal of eventually . housing an Advanced Student Union. 
' -/} , 
Hall life serv~s as an ·important social mechanism and helps to inte­grate the' undergraduate . student body. Because the majority of the advanced students live off-campus, social integration is much more diffi­cult. "The.·-campus is very dorm­oriented, very campus~oriented," Ei­leen Concannon notes. "When I com~ muted, even if I read the [student] newspaper, none of it was really re­lated to me." She feels that "there are no places to get. together with the other grad students; and conse~ quently, it is difficult to get to know one another. It's distressing to-think that people-twenty-three to twenty­eight years old-have .the basic 
. problem of not knowing how to ap­. proach· and .meet one another." She is very favorable to the idea of a graduate lounge '."since even those living off~campus could go there dur­ing the day to meet other students." . Jim Masters feels that a "limited" social_. situation exists for the ad­vanced student, particularly for the graduate student who is not a "dou­ble Domer" and unfamiliarwith the Notre Dame-South :Bend area: "So­cially, I think that many_ are dis­appointed; and. unfortunately, find their. social life revolving around Corby's and Nickie's. South Bend ob~ viously doesn't provide for them; . and since few students live on cam~ pus, it is very difficult to get to­gether.'' · 
' Housing, beyond the social need for residentiality, •remains a major concern .of· the. graduate·· students; The Office of Advanced Studies han­dles housing for graduate, Law, and­MBA, students. Prior -to 1970, no graduate hou·sing existed on campus. ·Currently, only 300 of the·1700 ad­vanced students live on campus, pri­marily in Lewis, Brownson, and Car­roll ,Halls. Some 300 students live in University Village. , More· than· 200 


students are _on a ·"waiting list" to get on-campus housing. 
. At a recent meeting of th~ Ad­vanced Student. Affairs Committee, Rev. Robert J. Austgen, in charge of the graduate admissions program, told the committee that "the Uni­versity administration is committed _to finding. accommodations_ for ad­vanced students in 1976.'' Dr. Gordon _states that· "the commitment to housing will be realized within the next few years" in the building of a graduate housing complex. He_ em­phasizes that it will be necessary to choose a location that minimizes "site preparation" costs in• order.to lower the building costs so that the "ultimate rent charge will fitin the [graduate student's] pocke_t~_ook." Dr. Gordon feels that the building of another graduate housing com­plex should "take care of the wait­ing list." 
'· In· order to mitigate the problem of finding off-campus housing, Rev. Thomas Tallarida, Director of Off­Campus Residence, will provide list­ing. of available housing. Also; the Gra'duate Student Union wilf"act as a clearinghouse" for:an exchange of housing. secured independently of Father Tallarida's office. 
For the. advanced students :that now. live on campus, the type of hall life they experience does not paral­lel the undergraduate experience. "The atmosphere of a·grad dorm is very 'different from that cif the un~ dergrad hall,!' says Jim Masters,"'be­cause people are tied· up in their studies . and don't really · feel they have the time to try and-meet one 
another. In Brownson, one is very 
much isolated from the rest of the 
campus.'' Ann Williams contrasts 
the graduate living situation with 
the undergraduate ·dorm: ·"I defi­
nitely prefer living in an undergrad 
dorm. In the grad.dorm, the people 
have• their own !!lterests, their own 
life-styles; and although they may 
make afew friends, there . is really 
little sense of camaraderie....Twas 
surprised at the restrictions set for 
the graduate and law students. I 
have taught school and lived in my 
own · apartment; and · it seemed 
strange to· have the• rules of an 
undergrad." . 
Many of the concerns of the ad­
vanced• students-the "thing·s .that 
they've put up with".:...._have sharp­
ened into focus as issues since the 
announcement •of the Lewis-Badin 
exchange. Advanced students now 
feel an urgent need to present their 
problems .and find 'some solutions. 
The Graduate Student Union, a 
sounding board for advanc.ed stu­
dents, has come. alive and promises 
to provide some directed leadership 
for. the graduate students. The GSU, 
headed by preside~t. William Hinds­
Smith, is circulating a petition pro­
testing the conversion.of Lewis Hall; 
making a survey of graduate hous­
ing needs ; and, ·reorganizing ·to 
achieve.:a full reprE!sentation of all 
graduate departments. With gradu­
ate student support, the GSU can 
set up cross-departmental activities; 
take· accurate surveys of graduate 
students' needs and opinions ; repre­
sent the graduate student opinion at 
high Administration levels; and·lend 
support to· graduate-interest pro­
grams such as the Co-op plan. The 
biggest , obstacle oLthe GSU may 
be throwing off · its: image ·of a 
lackluster ·do-nothing organization. 
Frank Musica suggests that· "99% 
of, the, grad .students couldn't say 
• what it [the GSUJ has done for them. It defin~tely does not provide any ·social life for· its members.'! Hugh Harmon .diagnoses the recent condition of the GSU as "moribund," but feels hopeful that it is now undergoing· a process· of :rejuvena~ tion;.Itseems that the success of the GSU and other attempts by graduate students to improve. their situation will depend largely • on •-whether or 
· riot individuals can "find the time" to do something. · · 
SCHOLASTIC 


l\lUSIC 
March 10-Chicago Strings, David Basch, Horn; Pat­
. rick Maloney, Tenor, Washington Hall, 8 :15 p.m. 
March 12-Sciuth Bend Chamber Music Society Con­cert, Library Auditorium & Lounge, 8 :15 p.m. March 12-Joe Walsh and Jo Jo Gunne in concert, ACC, 8 :00 p.m. . . March 14-Concert: Clarinet & Piano-Roger Brown, · Library Auditorium, 8 :15 p.m. 
ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
March 9, 11; 13-Bengal Bouts, ACC. 
March 15, 16-Cavalcade of Wheels. Auto Show,_ACC, ·. Saturday nooi1~ll p.m., Sunday 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 
·. •·p.m. . . . 
·March 21, 22, 23~Antique Show, ACC, for more in­' formation' can 283~3824. 
l\lORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUl\l 
March 18-Aero~mith in Concert, 7 :30 p.m. 
FILl\lS 
March 13, 14~"Panic in Needle Park," presented by CulturalArts Commission, 8& 10 p.m., Engineering Auditorium. 
March 18, l~"The .Last Laugh," presented by Cul­tural Arts ·Commission, .8 & .10 p.m., Engineering Auditorium. . 
SPORTS. 
March 15, '16...:'..Sailing :(Freshman' 13 teams) St. Jo­. seph's Lake. . March 17-Rugby (A & B) vs. South Bend. 
ART 
East·Galleries 
through May 25-For Laym~n Only, an exhibition ere-.· ated by students and faculty of the Notre Dame Art Department. that answers questions pertaining to technique, media~ multiple images, and conserva­tion, Galleries 1, 2, 3. and 4. 
West Gallery . 

through March 30-Schorigauer to Schmide-Rottluff, 500 Years of German Graphics-a loan show ex­amining the role played by German graphics in the history of Western art from 1470 to the present. 
Isis Gallery 

through March 25-Kevin Booher, sculpture exhibition. 
OTHER DIVERSIONS 

March 7-Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament in. the Lady Chapel ofSacred Heart Church from noon till 
8:00 p.m. Benediction will be_at 8:00 p.m. March 8-Sophomore Literary Festival: .Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Library Auditorium, 8 :00 p.m. March 10, 12, 14-P. C. Reilly Lecture Series: .Prof. .Joshua Jortner, Department of Chemistry, Tel Aviv University, Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 123, 4:30 .. p.m. . . . . ..·.• 
. March 11-Finance Forum, Library Auditorium, 10:00 . a.in. and 1 :30 p.in. . . . .. . March 11, 18-AFROTC Lecture Series, Library Au­. ditorium and Lounge, 4 :00 p.m. . . . • March 13-:-Rosenstiel Lecture Series, sponsored by the Theology Department, Library Auditorium & Lounge, 7 :30 p.m . . :. March 15-Mexican-American .Lecture Series, Library Auditorium, 10:00 a.m. . . . . March· 15-Presentation D Amphibious Warfare Study XXI, Film and Lecture, 7 :00 a.m. · March 17-St. Patrick's Day. , March 18-Pre-Law. Society Meeting, Library Audito­
rium and Lounge, 7:00 p.m: . . . March 21-Easter holiday.begins afterlast class...· . 
. ~teve S.,later . 
), 




South B.end-­
·~­

A 24-Hour_ City 
"You what? You come near the edge of hunger, you near the edge of despair? Alas, sir, abate the ravishment, discourage that fiend: you needn't worry that there's no place to be." 
The evening-morning hours com­pound your thoughts, the stretch be­tween the morning and open doors seems too long? Surely your time is held to some worth -you do know that this city has some areas and plots to surround? Then let us go then, go then you and I, go to the city ·24-hours strong, the city, your city that answers the needs of the· late-night traveler, that allays the after-four yearnings of the stu­dent (yes, even at Notre Dame, and even GP students). 
Here then to accompany the eval­uation· and revelations of South Bend's answers to posed questions, here then are you and I, and no more need be said: 
"Can we get through D-2 all right? The security, they won't sus­pect any such shadowed sojourn?" 
"No, no,· the security doesn't con­sider any more than what's tied down -this car has four wheels." 
We leave D-2, we head down Notre Dame Avenue, the map heads us to 31-south, we go hence to an area opposite Memorial Hospital. 

"Now that's open ..• . Don't you suppose they'll have something in there?" 
\ 
"Not as we need it, not as we need it. It would be more concilia­tory to our pursuits were we to re­main within the context of a strictly culinary endeavour. I suggest per­haps instead-" 
"What?" 
"Instead of the hospital I propose its area neighbour, dare I say, 'Steak and Eggs'?" 
"Will it be like that other place we passed on Lincoln Way West?" "Couldn't say if we weren't there. Don't be elusive." 
Inside Steak & Eggs, ..once through the door, it is seeri ..as a place of recent remodeling, having a traditional counter, a traditional (Bonnie Ed) waiter, and accom­panying booths of sorts. We proceed to order from the menu card: 
"Coffee?" 
"Two." 
"One." 
"One coffee--" 
"-and·one tea." 
"One ·coffee and one tea." 
Bonnie Ed removes to his counter ·to prepare the order. 
"He's got his hat on. upside down." 
"Who?" 
"The cook, the waiter." 
"Does that make him wait differ­ently?" "Makes his hat different." "Different, yes different. Did you 
see the cowboy boots?" 


"On the guy at the~'counter?" 
"The one over'the newspaper-he mixes with the ·others; that makes three pairs of shoes here." 
"And one of cowboy boots." "Do you want anything else?" "Look out the side window." "South Bend's finest?" · 
· "They're frisking that kid. who 
was just in for change." "Change is illegal?" . "No, but probably what he buys 
with it. .." . 
"Ah, we, cannot infer, cannot in­fer. You ordered biscuits?" . "They were on the. menu;' You notice nothing here is more than $2.49?" 
"Coffee's the cheapest, but that's not that different." "You think there's anything hap­pening across the street?"'· "Nothing that the hospital can't 
take care of." "Want to take care of this?", "Your $1.09 turn." We depart from Steak & Eggs 
well-caffeined, and drive on :31­north, heading towards Michigan, passing the Volkswagen dealer, and coming to the next stop in the night. 
"Why is this called the White­house?" 

"Could · be the lighthouse in front." "Or it could be the sailfish on the sign." "Then again it could be neither one. Or fr could be its name." 
"Home-made donuts are thirteen cents, bakery ones are twenty. One must cover more territory than the other covers." 
"What?" 
"I don't know." 

"Those four kids ordered 'Truck­er's Specials,' "Two eggs, bacon, ham or sausage and American fries plus toast drink. extra coffee twenty cents/'.' 
"Dollar fifty-three, not including counter show." ,·, 
. "Have you seen· 'It happened One night'? The _donut scene, Clark Gable, he's quite an artist at it..." · 
"This donut just dissolved. Maybe someone'll_ get 'Rib-eye Special .for only two seventy-five.' Why don't we get out of here?" 
"Out? As opposed to what, to staying?" 
"Did you notice the 'Notre Dame Victory March,' was on the jukebox at. Steak & Eggs?" 
"It was?" 
"Of course. It does have some bearing on this city." 
"Are we going to try J & J's? That's near Steak & Eggs." 
"•.. a place more like students than the common: a place to be comfortable in." 
"But we were just down there ­we've been there once already. Any-· way. They had some sort of cereal there." 
An exit is made from the White­house, we· again travel 31-south, heading toward areas more familiar 

to students' usual travels. 
"Why do you suppose all of those 
people are up?" 
"Why are we up?" 
"But we had good reason . . . 
They're here because it seems they 
have to be." 
"Do you really think so?" 
"Haven't any reason to doubt it. 
What's left?" 
"The bus station, the phone 
booths, supermarkets." · 
"Where's the Kroger's?" 
"How about if we stop at Cafe de 
la Nuit?" 
"Why not wait awhile and go to 
Kroger's first?" 
"It's an idea." 
A checkout of Kroger's, the one 
nearest campus. We enter through 
automatic doors, proceed down 
usual aisles, between the fruits and 
vegetables, the cheeses and the 
wines. 
"Do they have carrots here?" 
"They? Fruits, vegetables, they're . all here." 
"What do we want to buy here?" 
"Anything we need to-" 
"That could be anything." 
"Then let's get only what we 
need." · 
"What did you buy the cigars for? 
The frozen waffles were only sixty­
three cents." 
"Well, these were cheaper. Does 
that make a difference?" 
"When you really don't want 
waffles it does." 
"Did you see the waitress at the 
Whitehouse? She was enough for 
two of them." 
"To Cafe de la Nuit?" 
"Just as good." 
We go still in company of street­
lights, most of the night has_ closed. 
Cafe de la Nuit, across from Corby's, 
next to a bar still with live music. 
Inside are more the student kinds, 
less the truckers and less.the others; 
in s_hort, a place more like students 
than the common: a place to be 
comfortable in. 
"This used to be . a record· store. 
All of the records have been taken 
out." 

"Edward Hopper would be in­terested in Steak & Eggs. Even this place." 
"Why this. place? There are just as many people here as there; they are all turned in the same direction." 
"Well, this is more of a steak-and­eggs place, that's all that's served here, breakfast things."~· ­
"Well, that's its purpose,·to,break fast." 
·"It's stated purpose: 'After the bars, got the munchies? For your late night dining pleasure. Across from Corby's'." 
"Do you always read like that? What are we getting here?" "Information." 
• • ...---,, ·1.·-,-.,.~ ~ =~ ¦ -;--.2•~.:-·~ ~ 
...lt~--~~·,:.. ~-::--& ·.:'.<·----~---. , 
"Information? For what? About 
what?" 
"About information. We do have 
to bring something back. to the peo­
ple." 
"Let's bring them this." 
"This what? A what you say?" 
"This evening we've looked over; 
this place, that place here, that place 
there. Will that be enough?" 

· "Enough should be there. Maybe you should . add a · postscript, ·sum. the · hours up.". ·HEREWITH: · For those of you who can ··discern the seriousness of the aforementioned articles; and for those of yoti who can deduce that some pl~ces visited are better· than others (and Steak and Eggs better than all); and :for those of you who wish· to · traverse -the evening in an area other than the : hallway or the circle bus-stop : ·or. 
20 

your notebooks or Darby's after 
A

four or the lobby of the Morris Inn or your neighbor's refrigerator: Here then (with and -in . all their 
oee·per..

nuances) are they that are. here then for your consideration and, quite possibly, eupeptic condition: 
Ca/ e de 1,a Nuit. 1019 Corby 

Relaxation_. 

Street. 11 p.m. to 9 a.m; Strictly breakfast menu, good prices. Spar­. tan surroundings. 
Steak & Eggs, 31 South, across from Memorial Hospital. In t er-_ esting,. prices in-range of $0.30 
In the past few years the Western to $2.49. Has the "Notre Dame Vic­world has demonstrated an ever in­

tory March" on a jukebox there. 
creasing interest in various facets of Whitehouse . .. On 31-north, ~ot the Eastern cultures._ The mysticalquite in Michigan; watch for a sail-favor of such techniques as kung-fu, yoga and acupuncture has aroused a curiosity and interest which prompt initial receptiveness and early popu­larity ·_ among many members . of :Western society. This early popu­larity,· however, frequently gives way to disinterest as people • find niany of the ·new ideas unadaptable to the society ~ey live _in. One tech-·. nique which has managed to avoid this fate and adapt extremely well is Transcendental Meditation. 

· When · first"· introduced · into : the Western· world, by Maharishi' Ma­hesh Yogi in 1959, many people ·viewed Transcendental Meditation as being inseparably· interwoven with the philosophical-and religious as-. pects of some far distant Eastern 
fish on• the ·west side. Prices $0.13 · culture. . Since that time TM _· has to $2.75." Better bring_ a. sense of · been successfully disassociated from humor with you. any religious considerations . and 
Kroger's. 24 hours, near . Notre ·subjected to extensi~e ·scientific-. re:: Dame Avenue .. A completely· super-search and study. What has res_ulted market atmosphere, prices fluctuat-'is that the benefits from TM have ing. . been . quantified . and ·demonstrated 
J & J's, 31-South downtown, near with the same . charts, graphs and Steak & Eggs. Don't buy any orange .. ·data that characterize the selection juice. . . . .... . . _.. . .. ,ofa winning stock on:theNew York _ : · As. a last consideration, you could Stock. Exchange ... Proponents· ·of° TM-· just stay home and go to sieep. . currently go out of. their. way "fo .·. 
. * * * .* * * ·stress the fact that it is not a ·:re­
"I. just found it," he said.. "I : ligion or philosophy;·. but a_ practice thought it ought to be useful. I just which, requires no change of life~ picked it up." . . · style, no special diet or any. kind of 
· "Pooh," said Christopher Robin · exercise. They ·. contend -. -:iliat the solemnly, "the Expedition _is over. . benefits accrued can: be as ·applicable·. You. haye_ ·just found,, the . North . fo-._·a· _Wall ::Street· bU:siil;essnian: as • ·Pol~!" they are for the cave-dwelling guru 
on. top · of some distarit\Eastern . -Mark Thomas Hopkins :mountain. 
e. 
-: ,-;_. SCHOLASTIC 

The parent organization for TM, the Institute of Creative Intelligence, describes· the effects of TM as "pro­
" viding the . mind with the opportu­nity to teI!}porarily cease the activity of the waking ·state, while cultivat­ing a high degree ofawareness and alertness."· The goals of the practice, reduction of stress 'and the stretch­ing of creative capacity, are pre.:. sented as · being tailor~made for the modern . industrial • environment. Modern business · operates . under conditions of· ·extreme stress and a number of problems such as low pro­ductivity and job alienation are seen as resulting from stress. · · · So, what better way to sell TM to a business-oriented culture than to adapt· the· research ·to· demonstrate the physiological· ·changes · which re:. lieve· . stress · and· promote . an. im­., proved business environment? A TM '.advocate might provide askeptical businessman with achart; produced from research conducted at the Uni­versity of Texas, showing that the reaction tiine of meditators is better than that.. of nonmeditators. · Pro­ponents could also provide , charts reproduced from the: "Academy of Management· Journal" showing. im~ proved relations between co-workers and management as a resuit of med­itation, · Transmitting the· message of TM to the business,world through charts and graphs is merely areftec'.. ·tion of the organizational process used on the generai'level. > ·· . The ·. teaching of . transcendental meditation 911 the ·general·Ievel fol­
~­
Q: 
Ill:e
:::, 
II) 4
z 

8 -0 
z 
Ill . 
.;.4 

-. -~-FASTER REACTION TIME ,-.6 
.. . 5 . 
C) 


.3 
. .Q ~ -8 ; 
1,1,1 
-12
(.!) 

.2 
z 

MEDITATION
-16 
-~ 
.1
V 

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
. . O NON TIME{HOURS) MEDITATORSMEDITATORS , 
MARCH 7, 1975 21 
LEVELS OF REST . HYPNOSIS




__.. 

lows a systematic procedure and is only taught by qualified instructors who have been trained personally by Maharishi. Maharishi has constructed a seven-step program ·for the teach­ing of transcendental meditation re~ ferred to as the · "Severi -Steps of .Learning to Unfold the Full' Value of Creative Intelligence.":The initial step involves an introductory lecture relating the possibilities for personal development and growth. The sec­ond -step involves another general lecture covering the mechanics of the teachings and their origins. Step three encompasses a· private inter­view with the instructor and steps four through seven constitute the instructions in the actual practice itself. The first two steps are group introduction lectures and can be at­tended with ·no commitment to pro­ceed and actually receive instructions in the actuai practice of meditations. 
During the first introductory lee­ture tlie instructor relates the possi­bilities for personal development in a scientific manner using . studies, graphs and .charts to convince ·the 
:audience of transcendental. medita: tion's practical benefits. .Each per­son who meditates can . expect growth, stability, •and increased adaptation on a physiologicaJ, psy­chological and sociological levels. 
. Physiologically, meditation is said te produce a deep· state· of restful alertness which rejuvenates and normalizes the functioning 'of · the nEirvous system and · 1eads ·_ to. a calmer state of affairs. Perhaps the most well known of all the. TM charts, the , levels of rest chart, is 
. used to substantiate the restful ef­fects of meditation. ·. Psychologically, meditation is said to eliminate mental stress, promote clearer thinking and facilitate great­er comprehension. Advocates of tlie practice poirit to tests based on the Freiburger · Personality · Inventory which verify ·a reduction ·of ·depres.:. sion, · irritability and aggression : in those who participate in meditation. 
: The sociological benefits from TM stem from the elimination of tension and · stress which . promotes more harmonious and fulfilling interper­sonal relationships. One concrete example of social benefits-is-an a~ parent reduction in the level ·of drug and alcohol use among -meditators. Proponents also point·to tests which demonstrate that · meditating helps prisoners maintain a greater level of emotional. stability· facilitating ·a higher likelihood of rehabilitation. , . 
When an instructor is finished lay­ing out the pragmatic benefits of meditation in an objective manner 
. few individuals are.-left with any foreboding mystical · preconception concerning the practice..This type of presentatiori has adapted: transcen­derital meditation so well that-in the last ten years over a quarter of a million people have taken up medita­tion and: established centers for de:. velopmerit and promotion in; over two hundred cities across the nation. 
-Tom Birsic · 
.4 


·r _-_-¼, --·---..---------·•·----c::--·--·---...... ---~--.,---~--""'.. -~----·-.-----~1 
[f}e~~P.~~ _atN~..--. _·~ .. < -" .• ~ __, _ --~ <~>---->i 
The executive committee of the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Associa­tion has recently announced the elec­tion of Notre Dame's Bruce Marek as commodore of the Association for 1975. The group represents theforty­two Midwest colleges that sail com­petitively under the sanction of the Intercollegiate Yacht Racing· Asso­ciation. Bruce has -been~ avid member of the Notre Dame Sailing Club since his freshman year and provides a living testament to the seductive power of the sport. Since his freshman year sailing has held -a magical spell on Bruce which has transformed· him from a diligent, dean's list student to the salty dog of Saint Joe's Lake. Bruce spends more time sailing than he does sleeping, and his progress in the sport has been marked by a string of achievements and honors stretch­ing over three years and some fifty collegiate regattas. In his sophomore year he was appointed secretary of the dub and won the Crew of the Year Award. He served.as the racing team captain in his junior year and captured the Notre Dame Yachts­man of the Year Award while serv­ing as the Race Chairman for the 
M.C.S.A. Bruce currently holds the position of commodore .with the N.D. Sailing Club, which was ranked tenth in the nation last December. His newly assigned. duties with the 


M.C.S.A. will include presiding at all executive board meetings and heading up the Collegiate North. American Championship Regatta to be held later this semester at the Chicago Yacht Club. 

At the end of the school year, every N.D. student will be called to 
· pick up his yearbook for the 1974­75 year. This publication, whose fee is covered for each student by .his tuition, issues ·annually from the Dome office on the fourth floor of La Fortune. The editor of the Dome this year is Susan Darin, an American Studies major from the suburbs of Detroit. She holds the dual distinction of be­ing the secondjunior editor of the · annual and the first female to hold the position. Under her direction the book has undergone a number of changes, one -of which. is a revision of format that will integrate Uni­versity life as a whole and give sequence to the events and activities occurring throughout the year. .· Susan's background in publica­tions is based on three years of ex­perience as business manager of her high school yearbook.. She was a staff member · of the Dome as a freshman, and became its business manager and faculty administration editor during her sophomore Y.,ear. 
Nothing is sweeter than witness­ing an idea taking. shape. and blos­soming: in to -.an .organization -just ask Jim Early•. Jim, a junior busi­ness major, i{the founder and chair~ man of the Notre Dame branch of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. The group was initiated by Jim with the idea that the athletes and the great-amount of team spirit. dis­played at Notre Dame provides a natural springboard for. a group in­teracting in a Christian manner. At first the group had a few difficulties getting off the ground; but with the organizational ideas of Dr. Ken Mi­lani and support from former assis­
tant football coach Bill Hickey, the or­ganization began to take root. Mem­bership in the group is restricted only in the sense that· an individual has· played in organized competition on any level. The organization holds bimonthly meetings highlighted by speakers such as Fr. Lally, assistant basketball co:ich Frank McLaughlin and fellowship member Marv Rus­sell. In addition to the meeting the members of the fellowship do speak­ing engagements at different area· high schools encouraging them to start a program on the high school level. For the past few _weeks the Fellowship of Christian . Athletes have been collecting money at bas­ketball gam·es for the. Third World Fund;. total collections have been more than one thousand dollars. 
-Tom Birsic Susan Grace 



L.~-:-~:...·./.-_.:>?·-.: __.._.: __~ -.. ·.-.. ·_-· ~:: · ...:.·.· ·... · --:--·---~. · --_, -. ----...: -----.-_. ·-. ~ ··::..:·:_· -__ ::·~~.,-; 7 
~ _.Pe:9ple:·B~hind;-_:N Di _·_·.. •. _.• _·-_... _:J 
' ...••,., __ ,•• : '=,_...•· ·-::.· ·,.._.,_'..,.,... __...,..• .,i:._,........ ·~.... i.J.-...... ..._...... ···-·-·.lo-' .... _ ·......,.. __,_,·' .·.--....:...,.;.,,•. _..., ___.., .._.._ ~--.. ·-~------.~~ 


A President Recalls 
the University's financial support who was President of Notre Dame comes from non-alumni and corpo­·from 1905-1919. After being Secre­rations like the Ford Foundation as tary to the President from 1917 to well as alumni. Because of this, 1919, he was app(?inted resident you're constantly moving around." assistant in Walsh Hall and grad­
Father ·seems to accept his new uated from Notre Dame· in 1923 life. At seventy-six years of age, he . with a Ph.B. degree in _foreign still retains a rather youthful ap­commerce. pearance. He sits in a rocking chair Ader graduation, Father worked and smiles gently as he talks about for the Studebaker automobile plant life in Corby Hall. "I like my life, in South Bend until 1925. "It was and I wouldn't change it for any­at this time," he comments, "that I
Rev. John Cavanaugh 

thing," he says. "I now meet a lot decided to become_ a priest, and I "Social life at Notre Dame today of . people and alumni, and life. is entered the Holy Cross Novitiate." is quite different. :Now it means very fine in Corby." Father is quite After obtaining his master's degreegirls and having parties~ Back then, happy to have the leisure time he in English in· 1927, Father studied social life to the· men was. athletic now enjoys. Most. of the time, theology in Washington D.C. at event~basketball,.baseball, hockey, Father relaxes, leads seminars for Catholic University of America and and the varsity sports. But it wasn't the elderly, ·or · listens to. music. "I phi 1 o sop h y at Gregorian·' Uni­a dead life." -also like rock-and-roll music," adds versity •in Rome,· Italy. In .1933, This typical statement, made by Father. "It's loud and it wakes you Father came ·-back t~ Notre Dame the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh about up in the . morning!" Unlike -most and became Director .of Campuschanges·at Notre Dame has perhaps student dormitories; Corby Hall is Ministry until 1939. .Then in 1940, been echoed by all Notre Dame remarkably quiet. he was Vice President of the Uni­alumni when revisiting their alma Father reminisced about .what versity which led to his appoint.;. mater. However,· very. few· alumni Notre Dame was ·like in· the _past. n'lent as· President from 1946-1952. 
have the opportunity· to observe all For the most part, Notre Dame was After · resigning the · presidency those interesting and striking considered a: place of study and resi­Father continued work in the Uni­changes from· the viewpoint as a dence. In hall life, there· was no versity until· 1960 as director of the 
student, administrator,· and former smoking or drinking. Visiting girls Notre Dame-Foundation . .-A series University president-as has Father at St. Mary's was limited to Sunday of illnesses hampered his health and Cavanaugh. Cavanaugh, who was afternoon -·visits, class dances; and ii wasn't until 1965 that he resumed succeeded by Father. Hesburgh as postgame rallies. "Most" important­duties as an instructor in the Col~ president of· Notre ·Dame in 1952, ly," says Father, "the University's legiate Seminar Program at-the has finally retired to Corby Hall this goal was to provide an atmosphere University. In his last position, he year. ·Behind him he ieaves 58 years conducive to Christian life and the was a chaplain at St. Mary'.s College 
of involvement arid servicewith'the Christian life asks more of you as a from 1969-1974. University. . . person." · · Father is very pleased with Notre . Father Cavanaugh is quick to · Father Cavanaugh was born in Dame today; especially with coedu­admit that one change has not oc­Owosso, Michigan, in 1899, and he cation. "Coeducation was thought curred ·in the University, and that was raised· there with his·sister and to be a distraction for males. Now, 
is the rigor · of · the·.· presidency· of 
brothers including Father Francis education is a 'much more lively Notre Dame. "As president," says P. Cavanaugh who _is also a current experience at Notre Dame," he says. Father, · "you are ·involved in so _resident :of Corby Hall. · · After He is also amazed at-the· new. build-many things. You don'_t have a graduation from St. Paul's Gram-. ings on campus. "Just miraculous," chance' to meet many students or to mar School in Owosso in 1913, a job · says Father, "they are a tribute·to read leisurely. It is a· tough job, _ with .· ari auto manufacturer, · and all those administrators, alumni, and it requires a lot of energy." some · brief '. · secretarial· training, . and friends ·of the· University who Father continties, i•The · president Father came to Notre Dame in 1917. made this place what it is.° Cer­must be"liked by people, so he must This was made possible by a man tainly Father Cavanaugh must also be effective in his relations to the with a name'familiar to him, Father be given tribute. · public. You know, a great · deal of James W. Cavanaugh · (no relation) -Patrick Cole 





No one can deny that we live in an age of revivals. Much has been resur­rected from the past as we nos­talgically yearn for the bygone eras of innocence. We have disinterred books, . movies, clothing styles;. and the memories of matinee idols, art forms and old-fashioned ideals. We have assimilated all of these and made them vibrant and meaningful in· the seventies. Of especial inter­est to us this week is the renais­sance . of the limerick,• that unique mode of expression which brings de.: light to the learned as · well as the lascivious, that singular poetic ex­perience which imparts wry wisdom in but a few. well-wrought lines; So, here you have it, an old form with a new motif and meaning._. ; . 
A rumor that rise in tuition· Would eventually come to· fruition. Sent students to state schools­Their parents were no fools-And now we've this rate of attrition. 
The fear that the closing of Badin The under-grad ladies would madden Proved truly unfounded For the girls they resounded · By heading toward Lewis uncladden. 
Said some students when moving off~ campus "Ho\Y all. of the poo-bahs do cramp · us!" We lost in the picks 

Then moved to the sticks With the mark of the exile they stamp us. 
A dining hall chieftain named Price With almost no knowledge of spice Our appetites sickened; We readily quickened To · dine on the tea and the rice. 
The men in the race presidential Speak with a grace providential But they.'ll find that their hawking And all of their squawking Will be looked on as "inconsequen­
. -tiaL"· 

Proposals of co-eds in Grace Was viewed as quite a disgrace Old domers were shocked To think of johns stocked With navy fatigue pants and lace. 
A security snooper named Pears Made efforts to. quell all our. fears He _sent his men peeping But all wound up sleeping . And frantic cries fell on deaf ears. 
A gentleman called Faccenda .· Had drinking laws on his agenda Then the ,students complained That their sex lives were maimed . -1-nd Faccenda. made an addenda'. 
. . 
. ' --~ 

A quorum of students reports -That the laundry'_s. been starching, . their shorts 
Though the. laundry denies it, Defies and decries it .. The boys still maintain that it ho.rts. 
There once was a fete held by sophs Attended by students·and profs A· discourse on "joie de vivre" Made me truly wish to leave . But enthralled the clique of pendant­
-/ : ' 
•.·• philosophes. ' . . : . · . 

The Obs~rver, ,a daily, is ~itten And reporters with much zeal are . 
Smitten,. .I . A part is muckraking . Much news are they faking, And the rest for the waste. cans is . 
fiUin'. -. 
'. 

A scholarly. senior named Paul Trapped'for years in a library stall . Quipped, "It's second semester,"• ."I'll no more sequester" . "To the bars, and to hell wit_h it all." 
Naive freshman Mary, a student Usually quite staid and most prudent Stayed all night :with Charley , : . In a single in Farley . . . And now.she's nolonger a student~ 
A Notre Dame provost named Jim Of regal demeanor-and prim, Would make light. of proposals ·: With' efficient disposals" A111l quickly make iaw out_ of whim. 
•-:-John M. Murphy 
...... SCHOLASTIC 
• I • • • 


Coach Noel O'Sullivan is having a little trouble hid­ing his optimism about the 1975 Fighting Irish golf team, and rightly so. With five starters returning from last season's squad, bringing with them a total of nfoe years of varsity experience, and a promising freshman recruit, Coach O'Sullivan touts this year's links crew as having "a good chance to be the best here since the mid-60's." The spry, affable coach, in his third year as a golf coach at Notre Dame and second as head helmsman, cites a well-balanced combination of "ex­perience, maturity, and.skill" in this year's team. The experience comes· from· three starters who are· now in · their third year as varsity golfers: senior co-captains Jeff Burda and Mike Kistner, and junior stalwart Jim Culveyhouse. Additional maurityshould be provided by two seco'nd-year starters, senior Ed Whalen. and junior Paul 'Koprowski. . 
But just as important is the belief that the team is emotionally geared for the long grind which begins March 22 at th.~ fifteen-team_ Florida Invitational in Cape Coral, Florida. Rich Knee, the easygoing fresh­man and other member of the six-man team, sees "the team's tremendous enthusiasm" as perhaps its most beneficial trait. It should be an interesting spring. . . 

Back in the Golden Age of Boxing (1931 to be exact), a small contingent of Notre Dame students initiated a tradition which down through the years has. become, as b. J. "Nappy" Napolitano so succinctly puts it, "a symbol of what Notre Dame is all about___:_kids · giving up thefr time and energy in order _to help _the less fortunate." Today this tradition is known as "The Bengal Bouts," and Sunday afternoon. at 2 :00 in·• the ACC, it'll be renewed for the 44th consecutive· year as over seventy student boxers punch it out in twelve different weight classes~ ranging from 125 lbs. to heavy­weight. The semifinal bouts will be held Tuesday, March 11, at 8:·oo, with the finals Thursday; March 13, · 
again at 8:00. . . . . As always, the fights· will take place.· under the auspices of "Nappy," the event's one-man promoter, advertiser, coach, trainer, and matchmaker. Two re­turning champs will defend their titles: Phil Harbert at 150 lbs. and Chet Zawalich.in the 165-lb. division; And,· as has been the case from ·their inception, since which time ·over $200,000 has been raised, proceeds will be donated to the Bengal Missions of the Holy Cross Fa­thers in India. Nappy promises "lots of excitement for · all." And help for the hungry. 
MARCH 7, 1975 
The Notre Dame. Rugby .Club will be on the road over break, with "A" and "B" matches scheduled against opponents in California. The team will open its western swing on March 22 versus Irvine Coast. The Univ. of Calif. at San Diego will be the opposition on the 25th, and the finale is none other than Southern Cal on the 29th. Senior Captain Larry Casey played on the coast three years ago and says that the Irish are expecting tough encounters with the California ruggers. 
The South Bend Rugby Club will· invade Cartier Field on St. Patrick's Day, the season's opener for 
N.D: . The March 17 match is slated to begin at 7 p.m. under the lights. Returning seniors Mitch Wilkes, . Richie. Arens berg and Tom Hastings will be looking to secure that first win before the trip west. Joining these vets· will be Doug Moser, who is coming off a fine fall 
season, and juniors Jim Kovac and Bill Sweeney, all forming an experienced nucleus for an otherwise young team. Captain Casey noted that. practices· are daily at 4:15 behind Stepan, and that it is never too late to · join the Rugby Club. Anyone interested in joining the ruggers is invited to drop by Stepan some afternoon or to drop a line to Larry. With 35 club members making the spring trip, and future dates with the likes of Ohio St. and Mich. St., the spring season will prove 
·to be a busy and exciting one for the Irish Ruggers. •· 

As the Rugby ciub jets. to California for their mid­semester schedule, the Irish Lacrosse Club drives to the University of Miami for a three-game schedule against 
· MIT, Florida International and the Miami· Lacrosse 
Club. . ·. . . . 
Coach Rich O'Leary· has perhaps one·. of.· his· finer teams this season, as he welcomes back Bob Thibodeau, 
· Rich Caron, Tom McHugh and Thad Naquin from last fall's squad. Home games versus the likes .of Bowling Green, Michigan and Purdue present · challenges to O'Leary and his Irish Stickmen, but confidence and patience should reap the same successful results as is the story of the Irish Lacrosse Club. 
-Bill Delaney 

Where Have You Gone,\.· Ara Parseghian? 
... -~ 
You'd never find his office without a secret map that shows the entire layout of the ACC. Go behind the Monogram Room in the fieldhouse of the double-domed center. There are four or five storage rooms, where chairs are stacked if there is a need for extras. Old rugs .are in there also, for additional use on special occasions. All of the rooms are used for storage on special circumstances. All except one. 

·Ara Parseghian came to Notre . Dame . over. eleven years . ago to re­build a football program 'drastically in need of -an overhaul. Parseghian . was known by many as the. coach that had a jinx over the Irish; his Wildcats . always had a good game against the Irish, and his. teams won several of the battles. 
But that was eleven years ago. Since that time, two National Cham­pionship. titles have been awarded to Parseghian and his Irish. He's had the opportunity of coaching many All~Americans that.would dis­tinguish themselves in the pros. 
And he's had pressures. Not only the pressure to win, but of perfec­tion. Notre Dame Alumni have to be. some of the most demanding people in the world. They're always posi­tive; defeat is not iri their vocabu-_ lary. Losses do occur in college· football. : A lucky break, a missed extra point-:-:-:these are all ·part of the game. Unfortunate breaks can happen to everybody. 
would he be pounded and hounded about his decisions over the years: . No, .he could be his own man, and live iife the way he wanted· to. No -more planes to catch, nor taxis to 
hail. It was all over. But it: hasn't been that way. ."I've _beeri so busy, and traveling 
so much, and ·not been at home, that I haven't had the chance to reflect 
on my decision," admitted · Parse­ghian in the storage room that is now his office. What was ~is lair and de_n for over six years, his _old office, . 
is now. occupied by new mentor 
Dan Devine. His new accommoda­
tions resemble a dispatcher's office 
for a truck company; within: the 
gigantic rectangular room (whose 
walls are similar to thaf of. Pang-
born and Fisher) are two desks 
in opposite corners. At one is Barb 
Nicholas, the administrative as­

sistant to Parseghian, with a moun­, tain of letters on her desktop. 
At the other is the man himself: a little tanner thari ever, wearing · the same identical navy blue sweater he wore at his· press conference only 
· 
two and a half months ago. He's still . here, and he's still involved. . . ."i've been a coach· here•for eleven . 

years, and N o tr e D a In e is in­· grained in me. But I think that the good Lord endowed me with just. enough common sense i~· letting me . recognize what was happening to me. I mean, I was going at a pace that was really putting a taxation 
·. · But not to the Notre· Daine foot-.. on me,.both. physically and emotion-ball program. . . . ... . ally,_ arid anybody that has had to 
Ara Parsephian resigned as head carry that responsibility. for the football coach of the Fighting Irish -same period of time will feel the the. night before exam week last .. same thing. It was just the wise ·semester. He had finally done it. No . thing. to d9.II -. longer would there be the pressures· He wiU-miss football, as ,is .to be of winning, of perfection. No more . exp~ted, but the time~consuming as­pects ~f the football program here at, Notre Dame wiU be a' welcome relief for the. man. 
"I know that when spring practice starts, and then when the fall sea­son starts, these two tiines. will be difficult times . for me. I'm fully aware of it. Both working _with 'the athletes and the staff to coordinate a team-all this I will miss." . Parseghian has also · been seen around the campus ·more this semes­ter than in the previous years. · 
· "I've seen more basketball· games this year than I have iriany of the . previous years I've been here. U. I hear that there's a ·game tonight, boom, I go. And before, I was gone 
· so much; that if l~as comirig back from recruiting, that if there were a game, I.'d have to decide whether to stay home or not: Now, I never hesi­tate--:.I just go/' 
·n•s a different type of pace now for the new Ara Parseghian, former head football coach of Notre Dame. "I've been all over the country since the bowl, _fulfilling _commitments in 

.. Chicago, Miami, Los Angeles, ·_wash­ington and Orlando. I've been gone due to one thing or another, butthis is still my base of operations.'; . . . .• Operational Developments is :a fancy title for pubiic relations work that the University has created. Arawill be working ·wit:h that until July 1, at least._. '. . · ._ . · . .. "The University will be sending a letter out .with my signature from 
.the Alumni Office. Some of the pub­lie relations work I'm in the process of do~ng now. However, there's been a lot of traffic around her~people 
: coming in :and all that. I. thought that it'd. be· qui.et back here, but my God, there's all kinds of traffic.';. 
July. 1"·appears to. be "the, date when Parseghian wiU be announcing his intentions. on what he is going to be doing in the future. 

"I'U be here until then, and I'll review what my intentions are for the rest of· the year." 
Parseghian unequivocally denies that he will be coaching in the pro­fessional ranks a year from now, and wishes that sports writers would quit their incessant speculations about his.. future employment. 
"The · • situation . concerning my future is very repetitive-the same answers .are given to the identical questions asked me every_day. There is no validity to any of the specula­tion that l'Ube coaching immediate­ly. I'll .be really glad when Tampa assigns their :general manager and head coach. That's the only one vacant, so. after that one is filled, journalists can't associate my name with any of these jobs, and I won't have to answer the same questions anymore." 
There .will. be no other coaching job for _Parseghian in.. the college ranks-no one college is anything like Notre Dame. 
"The next level of ascension in our profession is the pro league. If I elect .. to, in December (1975), decide that<r wantit~'go·backiri ~gain; I'd enter 
·· the pro·Ievel. That's not saying that I'm going back into the pros, because I don't know another university like Notre Dame. I don't think I could have the same affection and the same emotional response at an­other school." 
Keeping active is critical to Ara's plan. 
"I still do most of the same things that I've done before. I still get to work eqrly (around seven o'clock) to get many of the special things 

that I wish to do before distractions 
set in. I've always been that type of 
person...:...! don't think I'm ever going 
to change." · 
While much of the . content of the 
interview has been raised at or on 
many diffe.rent occasions, it is the . way in which Parseghian responds .to every comment that an interview like this comes off. 
. . 

Parseghian · is a different man to­. day; ask anybody who knows him, and they will verify this. He's much more relaxed, outgoing and carefree. He's thought out his life for now, and above everything else, he's his own man, and nothing or no one will stop him. 
He .may be in the most obscure place in the ACC, but he's there, and his presence is, and ,will always be, felt. 
-Bill Delaney 

I ) 
I 
I 
Hockey at Its Finest 
~­

"Goal by number 13, Rick Locke,. ·, and academic-related gaps. We have with the assists to number 14, Bill about .2.8-29 players on scholarships, Whiteside and number 20, Mike Mc-· including partial aid, and it wo~ld Partlin" is· not a public-address an-be ridiculous to have guys on aid and nouncement heard on a. Friday• or no organized practice." Saturday night at the ACC's ice . Hockey is an expensive sport, with ice arena. each · player's equipment running 
Rather, these goals and penalties around the 400-dollar mark. '~1­are heard by a very small crowd of though the junior icers use varsity friends and hockey nuts on Friday hand-downs, new skates cost close and Saturday afternoons. Locke, . •to 100 dollars. McPartlin, and Whiteside are just . "We try to go out and recruit the three of the 20 orso players who are best we can possibly find," noted collectively called the Notre Dame Hoene; . the first player ever to be Junior Varsity Hockey Team. recruited out of the Duluth, Minne~ 
Probably some people do not even · sota, area. "We want players. in know that Notre Dame has a JV · whornwe are confident they can step hockey·· program. Others wonder in arid play varsity and be successful. what the purpose of the program is. · "But with_ our relatively low re­People on, and connected with, the: cruiting budget, compared to other team·are unsure about the future of league schools, and our higher ad­the junior varsity team, in a time mission standards, the value of the when financial difficulties are every-.• junior varsity programs. comes in. where and the varsity program is . We are able to attract some players having its rebuilding headaches. · who are not the very best, but could 
No one is more involved in the JV develop through the JV program and program than is Coach Kevin Hoene. be ready to step in the varsity." · Hoene, a former Irish· icer back in. The purpose of the junior-varsity the infancy of the varsity team, has . is to prepare players to step in a very strong opinions about the pur~ pose, future, and ·importance of the junior vari;ity program. . 
"At first with the beginning of the varsity program; it wasn't possible to have a junior varsity program,".· explained Hoene. "Back then ('68­'70) we had few recruits, but -now every varsity player has been re-: crilited. 
"Both Tim (McNeill) and Lefty (Smith) felt that we should have a i. ··----·...· =~ program to fit in the athletes who want ·to come here without our havirig a good look at them," con~ tinued Hoene. "These are the caliber ~ l-. of players who have the talent to -~·:·:. play varsity, yet need more experi­ence . 
."The JV program, especially this year, has helped fill the holes from . graduation, pro signings, injuries, 
28 

varsity position on a given day, and be able to handle the level. of WCHA play. This sets up sort of an ex­change between the varsity and· ju­nior varsity, where ·players move between the two· squads because of injury or· · poor performanc·e, . and adds an element of competition.· 
Without the JV program's pres­ence, the · present varsity record would · be considerably worse. Dur­ing the final game of the regular season against Wisconsin; 10 of the 
' 20 players suited had JV experience in varying amounts. "The greatest asset of the program is that the younger players learn the varsity syste,!Jl at Notre Dame and when the time comes for them to step into a game situation, or even practice situation, the JV, now var-. sity, player will_ know how the other players will· react. · "Al Karsnia is a prime example, Al was r e c r u i t e d knowing · he · wouldn't step in right away. He is not· breaking. any scoring records; but is a capable, solid player in the WCHA. 
.. "-•':·, . . . 

'}}~:/ 


J 

"The Fairholms, Terry and Don­ny, are another example of the importance of the .junior varsity setup. Their success may not be at­tributable to the JV program, but they· both had the opportunity to skate every day, as well as to pre­pare physically." 
This year ,is possibly an excep­tional. year in that so many players cam'e up to the varsity. Soine of the feelings about the JV team are that it is set up for people who will never see varsity actiori. Players like Rick Locke or Bili Whiteside . probably won't ever dress on a Friday or Saturday· night, but their contribu­tion to the . overall hockey. program at ND is invaluable ·to the coaches · and 'other players. 
"This type of player probably won't play a · WCHA game, but these guys are dedicated, give good leadership and ·loyalty to ND hock~ ey;,• remarked Hoene. "Locke typi­fies the type of attitude it takes to move up. Though the JV is geared to the freshman-sophomore level, the older players keep on coming out each night. This really encourages the younge_r players . to .. keep on working." 
"When I came here as ·a freshman, I didn't know what the program was like, but as practice wore on I re:­·alized my. chances of playing varsity were small," said senior Rick Locke. "I like hockey arid the JV program gives me the chance to play, make goocl'friends, and relieve the frustra­tions of· studying." · 
A legitimate question .to ask is whether the JV players are geUing that needed work. · 
"There's always the problem of teaching an individual with limited time and so I can give only so much attention to particular problems," explained Coach Hoene. "My basic work is with skating which is the most,important aspect of hockey. I 
MARCH 7, 1975 
F·~: ·• ',...,-,it,;,tt;C,:m:»•1vn--; t&Ln' ;, • ·,J ·z'r:; 
' 

try to teach th_e JVs to be moving in the year. at all times and to practice· the other "Part of the problem is that you fundamentals of shooting and stick-can't expect the kids to foot the bills handling. · to travel and play really good com­
"The JV experience will bring a petition like the Wisconsin JVs," ex­
player to a certain point, but further plained Hoene. "We could go up development can. come only through there and get a guarantee from their competition with the best in the fan support to pay expenses for both country and that's a WCHA play. teams, but we can't.give that same To be the best you have to play the guarantee to them if they were to . 
best." come down here. · 
"I am a much smarter hockey "First I would be very disappoint­player after my years of JV work," ed 0if the athletic department dropped noted junior Bill Whiteside. "I enjoy the program," remarked Hoene. the game, especially playirig with a "Without the program this year we bunch of crazy guys, plus the game might not have a full team, but theri of hockey for me is in a much better in other years we won't need ·crv perspective." · . players. 
"As a freshman my scoring was · "Sure, it's expensive outfitting 20­only 2 goals and . 3 assists, but as 25 extra players, but the: total . a sophomore with help from Coaches expense is not worth giving the pro­
McNeill and Hoene, I went to third gram up. I feel the money is avail­highest scorer on the JVs," said able for the program to continue. I..ocke. "Before, my shooting was ·"Realistically, in the future the atrocious, I didn't keep my head up, program will be curtailed. I don't 
and had trouble carrying the puck." _ know exactly when, but it would be 
What, then, is the future of the a mistake to drop· it, as it is a great . junior varsity program in terms of asset to the varsity program and its importance regarding recruiting, would mean fewer students coming player development, and actual game here t9 play hockey. situations? "The loss of the junior varsity 
_The" JVs play many teams with would make the coaches face re­possibly the same amount_ of talent, cruiting with much more ca1Jtion. but they don't have the same amount Decisions about recruiting would be of ice time or the quality. of coach­much harder and mistakes would ing. The schedule itself is Hmited to hurt more." 15 games, when using officials, and , If, as many people fear, the junior all the games are supposed to be at varsity hockey program is dropped, home. (The JVs played three of their Lefty Smith might have to run a games on the road.) · classified ad in the Observer. 
The teams that do come to cam­WANTED-hockey players, prefer­pus and play have to pay all their ably from Minnesota or Canada, who own expenses; the athletic depart­are willing to practice two hours ment gives no financial support other every day and travel every other than ice time and officials. Some weekend and represent Notre Dame teams call up in the middle of the in WCHA hockey. season and ask for a game, but the -Bob Kissel JV schedule must be finalized early 
~ ~ ·~-,.·-..~ .,.~...~>-,,..~~--,v""" ~"""'""·'·--..;-,-.s _,,...,.,,,..,.,.~-,,, .·=·•--.,,...-.. '*'<-~--r_-r.,...,.-~~-,.,.,.~,_...,.,.,.,,,,,..,.".. · .< . .,..,.. __ _.,. 
[The Last Wp_:rd: ! 
L... ~-· -:--_ 2 J;;-.-G,~--~·-. _. ___, ----<~--,_____,_ --~-----· ../~------_;-:-:_y.:=;-::
·-·~'··----•·····:·:~·---·_ -=----/~---:-(;Y _ .......J 

Without question, the most en­
couraging step in a long time for -the 
improvement of life on this campus 
is Fr. Thomas McNally's proposal 
for an experiment in coeducational 
living in Grace Hall. Fr. McNally 
deserves a great deal of thanks, and 
his proposal deserves a great deal of 
support. 

Predictably, the proposal did not receive adequate attention from the University officers, and it seems the reason for this treatment had noth­ing_to do with the actual merits or demerits of the proposal, but with the apparent refusal of some -ad­ministrators even to give the slight­est consideration to the notion.. of coeducational living. And yet in spite of this narrow-mindedness on the part of a few people in positions of authority, the situation is still very encouraging. Though Holy C_ross priests have come out in favor of coeducational living before, as -was the case in a committee to investi­. gate housing alternatives headed by Fr. Maurice Amen four years ago, it is nonetheless -a very encouraging sign to see a member of that com­munity -take initiative again in that 
direction. 

While some people in authority 
still maintain an attitude of "it will 
never happen while I'm at Notre 
Dame," we have heard all that be:. 
fore with regard to other issues. We 
have come to realize that times 
change despite the furious efforts of 
by Jim Gresser 
individuals who would _prevent that 
change. Students should therefore 
not view the recent negative . reac­
tions to Fr. McNally's proposal as 
the last word on this issue. (I'll as­
sume that role, thank you.) It must 
be undei;-stood that -many of those 
people whose reactions found their 
way into The Observer, especially 
rectors, could simply not function 
in a coeducational living situation 
and their. remarks must be taken in 
light of that fact. 

What must be emphasized is the fact that one rector, a Holy Cross priest, has had the foresight and the courage to submit a carefully thought-out proposal for coeduca­tional living. It is now the definite responsibility of those students and · administrators who can see the merits of McNally's proposal not to acquiesce _to the stagnating _ hesi­ta_ncy of some, but to actively and continuously support this and other 
similar proposals. 
It is often the case that those in · 
leadership positions fall behind 
those they ought to lead. It seems 
that such is the· case with coeduca­
tional living at Notre Dame. Though 
the Committee on University Priori-­
ties urged that the University make 
the residence environment on cam­
pus "conducive to every proper kind 
of personal growth," . it is unfor­
tunate that some people are unable 
to see the opportunity for solid "per­
sonal growth" coeducational living 

would provide for those wllo wish to 
take advantage of it. It -is a very 
poor situation_ when leaders refuse 
even to consider an idea which re­
ceives such wide support from those 
they are supposed to lead. 
McNally's proposal is a_ positive 

step toward remedying that situa­tion. While it is not an all-encom­passing plan fQr transforming cam­pus housing, perhaps a great deal of its value for<fhe. present lies pre:.. cisely · in its experimental nature. The proposal does not ask to make all dorms coeducational tomorrow, or to leave them that way_ forever. It asks only to operate a small-scale experimef!t, well supervised, in only . one hall, for a period ·of only one academic ·year. .That's not. asking for a great deal, and it is at least a 
beginning. · · · 
Finally, then, those . people who 
support the McNally · proposal, and 
Scholastic would like to· join their 
ranks, must• actively and . vocally 
make their support known. And 
those who refuse to even consider· 
the proposal must open their eyes to 
the real situation on· this campus 
and allow open discussion of pro­
posals for coeducational living. That 
discussion must deal with the actual 
advantages and disadvantages of 
such an alternative, free from blind 
adherence to the status quo. . 
.f 


Can 




one priest
makea . 

dillerence? 
tn Italy, in the 1SOO's a poor priest met a boy of the streets. At that time there were thousands of such boys in Turin ... hungry, homeless and without hope. 
But what could one priest do? Without money. Without support. Without even. a building to house them. 
· But Father John Bosco did make a difference. He founded the first community that was dedicated primarily to youth. With a program of play, learn and pray he brought the boys from the streets back to God and gave them a means of earning their living. From such humble beginnings a movement began that now reaches around the world ••• a movement that has touched the lives of millions of youngsters -thf;l children of St. John Bosco. 
Today over 22,000 Salesians carry on his work in 73 countries.,A family of community-minded men who help to build a better world by preparing young boys to be good citizens for both God iind country. Salesians serve as teachers, coaches, counselors1, parish priests and missionaries. You see, one priest can make a big .difference. 


r-----------,
For more information about Safesian Priests and -· · ­
I 
Brothers, mail this coupon to:
I 

Father Joseph Meflel, S.D.B. Room C­
l Salesians I
~:x~I/N~~NR~c~:,~?N.Y.10802
I I
I am interested in the Priesthood D Brotherhood D 
Name________________ Age____
I 1
Street Address __________________ 
1 :::ne State ____ Zip-· I 
1 I
Education____________________
, ___________,,,,,
I Your Current Job------------------A 


. ' . 

SCHOLASTIC 
is accepting applicatio~s for: · 
Editor Art Director 
Business Manager Advertising Manager 


If interested or if applying,'. please· contact Jim. Gresser · · at 7569 or 1693 

. All applications must be in by 5:00 p'.m.. Tuesday, 
.-. ,. . '-p . ' 
. March 11.· 





