OCTOBER 28, 1960
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
THE CAMPUS SHOP
FOR SPORT COATS
$34.50 $39.50 $45.00
Enjoy the comfort and handsome appearance of a good sport coat . . . and you’ll find a big selection at the Campus Shop. Smart checks and plaids ... in popular colors including plenty of olive tones. Sizes for all men ... 38 shorts to 48 extra longs. See them soon . . . charge it the Campus Shop way.
‘	CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
THE EXTRA VEST...
10.95 to 1195
The handsome extra vest for your sport coats, extra slacks, or suits. In solid shades of gold, green, navy, red and plaids. Some are reversible. Metal buttons. See them soon . . . charge it the Campus Shop way.

On Campus W§hulman
(Author of “I Tibs a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis.” etc.}
'’HOME SWEET HOMECOMING”
A great number of people have been asking me lately, "What is Homecoming?” but I have been so busy trying to find out why my new sports car leaks that I haven’t had time to answer. I am now pleased to report that I finally discovered why my sports car leaks—I have been driving it upside down—and so I am ready today to turn my attention to Homecoming.
Let’s begin with definitions. Homecoming is a weekend when old grads return to their alma maters to watch a football game, visit old classrooms and dormitories and inspect each other’s bald spots.
The weekend is marked by the singing of old songs, the slapping of old backs and the frequent exchange of such greetings as “Harry, you old polecat!” or “Harry, you old porcupine!” or “Harry, you old rooster!” or “Harry, you old wombat!” As you can see, all old grads are named Harry.
It is not just old grads who behave with such liveliness during Homecoming; the faculty also comports itself with unaccustomed animation. Teachers laugh and smile and pound backs and keep shouting “Harry, you old Airedale!” This un-scholarly behavior is carried on in the hope that old grads, in a transport of bonhomie will endow a new geology building.
The old grads, however, are seldom seduced. By game time on Saturday their backs are so sore, their eyeballs so eroded, their extremities so frayed, that it is impossible to get a kind word out of them, much less a new geology building.
Even the football game does not improve their tempers. “Hmmph!” they snort as the home team completes a 101-yard march to a touchdown. “Do you call that football? Why, back in my day, they’d have been over on the first down! By George, football was football in those
* * *
At Homecoming time—or any time—try Marlboro’s unfiltered companion cigarette—mild, flavorful Philip Morris... Regular size or king size Commander—a brand new and happy experience insmoking! Have aCommander—welcome aboard!
days—not this namby-pamby girls’ game that passes for football today! Take a look at that bench—50 substitutes sitting there. Why, in my day, there were 11 men on a team and that was it. When you broke a leg, they slapped a piece of tape on it and you went right back in. Why, I remember the big game against State. Harry Sigafoos, our star quarterback, was killed in the third quarter. I mean, he was pronounced dead. But did that stop old Harry? Not on your tintype! Back in he went and kicked the winning drop kick in the last four seconds of play, dead as he was. Back in my day, they played football, by George!”
Everything, say the old grads, was better back in their day—everything except one. Even the most unreconstructed of the old grads has to admit that back in his day they never had a smoke like Marlboro—never a cigarette with such a
lot to like—never a filter so easy drawing, a flavor so mild yet hearty, so abundant, so bountiful—never a choice of flip-top box or soft pack.
So old grads, young grads, and undergrads, why don’t you settle back and have a full-flavored smoke? Try Marlboro, the filtered cigarette with the unfiltered taste, and Homecoming will be a happy occasion and the sun will shine and the air will be filled with the murmur of wings and no man’s hand will be raised against you.	© I960 Max Shulman
Editor:
We wish to express our wholehearted disgust with your lead editorial in the October 21 issue of the Scholastic.
Certainly the Beat Michigan State Week was chaotic and unorganized. However, this in no way excuses your criticism of the type of spirit it spawned g at last week’s game. Perhaps it did up- ’ set the campus, and perhaps it was confused — but no true Notre Dame man would admit or write that it was senseless.
We do not condone the practice of drowning out the calls of the opposing quarterback, but we deem worthy of approval, not castigation, the half-time display of spirit. Do you really believe that the Notre Dame band was slighted by the display of faith showed the team! by the students who “surprised” them ' so uniquely?	:
Unfortunately, the tone of your editorial reflects the very snobbishness i which seems particularly evident during ’ disappointing football seasons. We j shallowly criticize football spirit strong- i est when we’re having an off-year. The i much cliched “spirit of Notre Dame” j seems to be vanishing in a cloud of I pseudo-intellectual cynicism. It is muchl to your shame that this foul weather ] philosophy has found its way into the | Scholastic’s editorials.	I
This university declines, not with the | advent of mediocre football, but with the | establishment of your cynical comments I on true spirit. When the student body I stops playing the game with the team, I the type of spirited play cited in your I own “Time Out” column will vanish ■ from Notre Dame.
John Pastore Edward Davis
Editor:
I must disagree with your unnecessary criticism of the Blue Circle and Sorin Hall. I am just starting my second year at Notre Dame, but last week end was only the second time I saw any real spirit at Notre Dame. The previ-
(Continued on page 32)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is S5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
a
| The Notre Dame
Vol. 102
No. 5
OCTOBER 28, 1960
Founded 1867
DOUBLE TROUBLE: Vague plans are now in the wind about having two Mardi Gras dances so that SBP John Keegan can fulfill his campaign promise assuring a ball ticket to everyone who wanted to go. We hope that this goes no further than the planning stage. Last year 200 students sold at least ten chance books and thereby guaranteed themselves a ticket to the dance. The 310,000 thus earned also accounted for more than a fourth of the Mardi Gras income. With two dances, the major incentive of a guaranteed ticket will disappear and so might a substantial portion of the $10,000. We also wonder if a second dance could even draw the 400-or-so students that would be needed to make it worthwhile. In the recent ticket sales for the upcoming campus-wide dance, the committee went through almost the entire list of 1,700 applicants to dispose of -550 bids. Yet two Mardi Gras Balls would require over 1,200 sales to prevent economic ruin. In the best interest of the Mardi Gras fund we feel that Student Government will just have to beai* the moans and groans of the frustrated few.
editor-in-chief ~
CHARLES RIECK

associate editor
ROY RUBELI
x
news editor
THOMAS WEISS
featureseditor
THOMAS SULLIVAN
DO NOTHING: In this week’s “Escape” we feature an elaboration upon the platform of the “Do Nothings” that swept Walsh Hall in the election of two weeks ago (Scholastic, Oct. 14). Although there are some humorous additions to their original manifesto, the core of the “Escape” is a serious declaration of student government policy. But there are several local factors that make even the original manifesto printable as a humorous piece. The first is the historical fact that few of the adherents of such a creed have been as outspoken or had the courage to express such a sensible position. A second incongruity is added when we consider that few campus elections have been characterized by a dispute over real issues. By issue is suggested a wide divergence of principles which results in a conflict of concrete proposals and recommended activities. With the “Do Nothings,” the principle was limited government; no activities were to be planned unless there was a serious need. Consequently there were no promises of hall mixers, homecoming decorations, etc. While The Scholastic does not support similar programs for underclassmen (some people maintain that freshmen need mixers) the same principles of limited government and avoidance of useless activity certainly apply.
sportseditor
JAMES KILROY
4

Copyeditor
THOMAS MARCINIAK
f rtXeieaWyefassistant WILLIAM VEEDER
■«rt:^e<fil<>r^	- .
^OEhlNIS LUCZAK
J
1
DIVISION: From its inception as a fund raising drive during the war, the Mardi Gras has undergone numerous changes regarding its purpose. Last year’s profit underwent a three way split that gave approximately $10,000 each to the LaFortune Student Center, scholarships and the Charity Chest. The Student Center appropriation is necessitated by the recurring maintenance cost and the plans to renovate the third floor. Until this is finally done and paid for, the Center’s share must remain at a relatively high i-ate. But when it comes to scholarships and Charity Chest, we feel that the senators should do a little reconsidering and not automatically follow precedent. Until a few years ago the scholarship allotment was only a token $500 and was meant as an expression of interest upon the part of the students for an expanded scholarship program. Today, it has become a significant portion of the University administered scholarships. The Charity Chest has also expanded its scope. At first the Chest was concerned with answering such local appeals as TB, cancer, Red Cross, etc.; nowadays it also includes numerous bequests to widely scattered mission groups. We have no doubts that the scholarships and Charity Chest are worthy projects in themselves. We only wonder if perhaps some of this money that is collected by and for the students should not revert to them in the form of immediate and tangible projects.	.
photographer x
;|3fy^ER DALY, Jr.
bminessmanager "
ilhOoSEPH FlhMIGAN 5
$
- circulation manager ; JAMES HICKEY

REV. CHARLES CAREY, e s c.
With the publication last week of the Puerto Rican hierarchy’s pastoral letter, the seriousness of the religious issue in the 1960 campaign was effectively demonstrated. The participators in the Catholic-Protestant dialogue concerning pluralism no longer have to wrap themselves in hypothetical problems, but can avail themselves of a concrete American situation illustrating the complex relationship between church and government. It is hoped that interest in these problems will increase at the University; in particular, encouragement must be given to the efforts of the NFCCS towards a deeper probing of this issue which forms one of the aspects of their national topic this year, Pluralism. The campus NFCCS is engaged now in planning a summer seminar of national religious thinkers and students, whose focus will be the problems of pluralism. In view of last week’s events, this seminar takes on a national significance beyond its immediate purpose of informing the local student.—R&R
5

ON THE COVER: We have
RUBIN CLEANERS
Cracker Crust
reversed our lettering this week to join with those who had to reverse their opinions
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
of the Irish football
In many preseason the team was picked
team.
polls, to do
rather well, but in the five games we have played thus far..............
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
Complete Laundry Service
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
wee
PRO a ELECTRIC
-he B E c 0 S £ S H 4 v E L C T I 0 \
shave lotion
Mister... you’re going to wear that shave all day!
START WITH THIS NEW FORMULA BEFORESHAVE LOTION, stop 4 o'clock stubble trouble! You can shave blade-close, all-day clean, without “tenderizing" your face, when you use Pro-Electric Before-Shave Lotion. It contains ISOPHYL® to give your shaver extra glide-power —refreshes you with that brisk, bracing Old Spice scent. 1.00 no federal tax.
GUARANTEES
* faster, closer. LONGER-LASTING
electric Shave
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
tired of being studenthoodwinked?
Note: The sweeping victory of the Do-Nothing party in Walsh Hall three weeks ago created a tremendous surge of interest all over the campus. What follows is the political credo which is the movement’s basis.
• a A specter is haunting Notre Dame — wthe specter of Do-Nothingism. All the i powers of the old university have entered a holy alliance to exorcise this j- specter: student leaders and who’s-।	whoosiers, football	radicals and ad-
l!	ministration spies.
Two things result from this fact: p	(1) Do-Nothingism	(Faire-Neantism, in
■	more sophisticated	circles) is already
i acknowledged by all campus powers to ; ^be itself a power.
i " (2) It is high time that Do-Nothingists I should openly, in the face of the world, publish a manifesto of the party itself.
:	The movement’s basic ideas first took
form in a dingy, unlighted room in Walsh Hall. After three years of sub-J mission to the mailed fist of Big-Time I Organization, it was agreed that the time had come to strike back. The princi-[ pie of action was clear — restore to t campus government that simplicity I	which it properly deserves. In other
I	words, a vow was made to eliminate
r from that government all which was superfluous. By taking control of one hall government it was felt that the | movement could gain a foothold against | the old order and establish a model | which other oppressed peoples could I emulate. After bitter controversy it was I decided to do this by constitutional I means rather than by force. The slate of I f candidates that was selected demonstratI ed its suitability by sleeping through the I organizational meeting.
I Basing its campaign on the political I maxim that that government is best I which governs least, the party issued I this set of promises: A senior hall gov-I ernment- would be established with no I hall mixers, no hall decorations, no hall I newsletter, a minimum of hall council I meetings and hall commissioners, and no I backing down on campaign promises.
| ^October 28, 1960
Some of the more radical members of the party even wanted to abolish the term “football Saturday.” Since when, they asked, has the word football been an adjective? But a majority opposed this idea.
While other hall governments have manifested a mania for purchasing various items of furniture and statuary, the Do-Nothings rejected this practice and even considered selling some of the hall’s present furnishings.
Upon the announcement of the party’s intentions, a group of strange political bedfellows united to give opposition. Why would anyone oppose a party dedicated to such noble ideals? Because after three years of darkness in the cave of organizational thought-control (of being studenthoodwinked, if you will) the opposition could not bear the brilliance of the naked political truth. All through the campaign the opposition showed a lack of understanding of these basic issues, but their frequent harangues did cause the Do-Nothings to further define and expand their political thought. These were some of the more crucial issues:
(1)	Hall Growth. The rate of growth in Walsh Hall in the past ten years has been a dismal two per cent. If this were to continue, Sorin Hall would overtake Walsh by 1970. The immature thinking of the opposition suggested room-stufling as a remedy, but the Do-Nothings realized that the only solution would be to annex the Post Office.
DO-NOTHING AWARD
To recognize outstanding inaction in the field of campus government, a Do-Nothing Award will be bestowed periodically. The Award consists of a two-by-two blob of prime matter (pure potential, no act). Anyone who wins the Award three times may retire it and give the prime matter any form he deems suitable.
The first recipient of the Award was Patrick J. Nod, selected unanimously by Walsh residents.
(2)	Hall Aid to Maids. A plan for subsidizing maids’ cart construction without directly contributing to their salaries (thus avoiding dangerous hall control) seemed to be the only solution. This would be attached to a bill calling for compulsary retirement of maids at the age of 25.
(3)	Radio Free Walsh. The Do-Nothings called for the initiation of a series of English language broadcasts of hope and encouragement to the oppressed inhabitants of Sorin Hall.
(4)	Slum Clearance. Sorin and Badin must be replaced by low-cost apartments. These dreary tenements were originally constructed as homecoming displays, which, incidentally, is another argument against such decorations.
(5)	Hall Prestige. It isn’t necessary to knock Walsh down in order to build her up. Those who disparage the hall give aid and consolation to the enemy, just as those papers which constantly report the football team’s scores give comfort to our opponents. Furthermore, the president of Walsh need never apologize to the administration for necessary U-2 reconnaisance flights over the Dome.
(6)	Health Insurance. By raising the Student Activity Fee to $74.50, a satisfactory plan of health insurance and retirement benefits could be made available to all students.
Other key issues included a law to establish the minimum grade at 1.25, and a treaty of diplomatic recognition of Corby Hall.
After these issues were brought clearly into the open, the decision for the Walsh voters was an easy one. The Do-Nothings won every office.
This, then, is a preview of the coming political break-through. The Do-Nothing party, to these observers, does not stand in opposition to all student government, but only to that which is unnecessary. It offers not promises, but a challenge to the oppressed. It asks sacrifice from them if they are to join in meeting the challenge of the ’60’s.
7
SANCTUM
MASCULINUM
kaywoodium
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
POCKET LIBRARY OF FINE ART
Abstract Art
Impressionism
Rubens
El Greco

IMAGE BOOKS
The Christ of Catholicism
Dom Aelred Greene
FIGHT BACK!
Help preserve masculine prerogatives!
Help fight creeping matriarchy! Join SMK. No dues. No meetings. One obligation only. Smoke your Kaywoodie often—especially among women. Flaunt its manly grain. Tantalize them with the lush tobacco-and-briar aroma. But never let them savor a puff! Kaywoodie flavor, mildness, and relaxation — all without inhaling — are strictly male. Will this return women to bondage? Maybe not. But it will be a brave exercise of your male prerogative... and pleasurable to boot.
Write Kaywoodie Pipes, Inc., New York 22, N.Y. for free SMK membership card and pipe smoking booklet.
Campus, Yacht Shape $4.95
$6.00
Tuckaway, Relief Grain, Billiard Shape—$7.95
In Super Grain, $6.95. Standard $5.95. New crystal-clear-bit Tuckaway comes apart, fits in easy-cany suede finish pouch.
Viper’s Tangle
Francois Mauriac
Prince of Darkness
J. E. Powers
A Gilson Reader
Etienne Gilson
Special Price $5.50
KAYWOODIE
on - the - campus
accents the male look
8
The Scholastic
Custom Grain. Prince of Wales Shape-$10.00
Connoisseur. Apple Shape $15.00
ATTENTION:
Faculty and Students
Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
Notre Dame Bookstore
FOUR LAW STUDENTS TO CONTEND JN ANNUAL MOOT COURT CONTEST j Justice Stanley Reed to Preside Over Competition;
Other Notable Judges Also Invited to Sit on Bench
by LARRY KAVANAGH
The Supreme Court of the United States — in fiction, at least — will be the setting Oct. 29, when foul- Notre Dame law students match wits in the annual Moot Court competition. At Ostake will be a trip to the National Moot Court finals to be held next month, the Dean’s award, and a cash prize of §250 to the first-place speaker, $150 to the second-place man.
Moot Court competition, established at Notre Dame in 1950, is a contest in apellate advocacy. In September of each year, sixteen second-year law students are chosen according to their class standings to participate in the mock trials, g Through a series of eliminations the original field was cut down to four who will argue in the finals on Oct. 29. The cash awards that will be given are contributed by Mr. Harold Weber of South Bend and by the Notre Dame Law Association.
The case for this year’s moot final will be that of the National Labor Relations Board vs. the Blackheart Insurance Company. The issue has arisen £ because the Blackheart Company became involved in a hassle over wages with some stenographers supplied by an employment agency. Since the agency had reserved the right to control and pay the stenographers, the NLRB intervened under the National Labor Relations
FINALISTS BARTSCH, CASEY, HOFFER, O’BRIEN Last step to the highest bench.
Act. The case has advanced to the Supreme Court, where it will be tried next Saturday night. (For the trial, the Supreme Court has temporarily shifted its bench to the Auditorium of the Engineering Building, where the hearing will begin at 7:45 p.m.)
Representing the petitioner, the National Labor Relations Board, will be Richard Bartsch and James Casey. For the responder, the Blackheart Company, will be John Hoffer and Michael O’Brien.
Bartsch received his B.S. from Notre Dame in ’56, Casey his A.B. from Western Michigan University in ’57. Hoffer earned a cum laude along with his B.S. from St. Edward’s College (Texas) in ’55, and O’Brien received his A.B. from the University of Wichita in ’53. All four belong to the Law School class of ’61.
Judges for the final round will be the Honorable Stanley F. Reed, Supreme Court of the United States; Hon. Edward J. Devitt, U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota; Hon. F. Ryan Duffy, U.S. Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals; Hon. Henry J. Friendly, Second Circuit Court; and Hon. Clifford O’Sullivan, Sixth Circuit Court. Judging will be based on the quality of the contestants’ written briefs and on their oral arguments.
BISHOP GANGULY, C.S.C.
N.D. President moves up
Holy Cross Priest Appointed East Pakistan Titular Bishop
Another member of the Holy Cross Fathers has been elevated to the rank of bishop. The Most Rev. Theotonius A. Ganguly, C.S.C., was consecrated Titular Bishop of Oliva and Auxiliary to Archbishop Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., of Dacca at ceremonies in East Pakistan recently.
Bishop Ganguly is the first native member of the Holy Cross order to become a bishop. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1951, five years after his ordination as a diocesan priest in Dacca. He has attended Notre Dame and holds a master’s degree and doctorate from the University, and until recently was president of Notre Dame College in Dacca.
Schedule Logan to Read Original Poetry Tuesday
Mr. John Logan, a teacher in the General Program, will recite his poetry Tuesday, Nov. 1, at 8 pjn. in the off-campus room of the Rathskeller.
Poems will be taken from his second volume, Ghosts of the Heart, published last year. Evergreen Press published his first volume, A Cycle For Mother Cabrini, a few years ago. Mr. Logan teaches classes in the lyric, the novel, tragedy, and biology.
All students and faculty, especially those interested in creative writing, are invited to attend this first gathering of the Writers Seminar. A brief reception will follow the recitation.
Professors who have published creative works will speak at future monthly Seminar sessions. Plans also include the presentation of students’ creative efforts.
9
October 28, 1960
Students in Trouble Urged to See Advisor; Many Other Sources Also Offer Assistance
Students encountering difficulties in their studies are, of course, encouraged to consult anyone they believe capable of assisting them. Often this will be the professor in an individual course. At other times it may be the rector or another student. There is also a department on campus devoted to giving expert advice to anyone that requests it — the Office of Student Advisor, under the direction of Dr. William Burke.
The office keeps track of men who
are in danger of failure in a number of courses and interviews them in an effort to improve their situation. However, the individual student is the one that should know best when he is in need of counsel; and the office welcomes men that feel themselves slipping and are looking for ways of avoiding falling into deeper trouble. Scholastic ailments like cancer, are easier to overcome when they are caught early.
Attempts are made to find the cause of each problem; and, once found, to correct it. Special tutoring may be arranged, or the student may be referred to the Department of Guidance and Testing. A student may be advised to drop a certain subject that gives him special difficulty. The student is requested to report on the progress he makes and may be given different advice if he is not helped by the first. The important thing is that his problem is looked upon as a particular one that requires a particular solution.
While this individual approach should point out a way of improving one’s grades, the improvement must result
from the students own initiative to be successful. If a student is just not devoting sufficient time to his studies, the Office is powerless to help him.
Getting freshmen off on the right foot is the chief concern of the program. They are most likely to have the sort of difficulty setting up the proper study schedule that is essential for success.
Dr. Burke stresses the importance of immediately establishing an efficient study program and sticking to it. This
means devoting about half of your free time to studies. Frequently this is neglected early in the school year and it becomes almost impossible to catch up. This is especially true when several subjects haves been neglected. Dr. Burke believes that this accounts for more than half of the freshman failures each year.
Dr. Burke also warned against several other pitfalls for the diploma-seeker. One is the wrong selection of a college. A man’s studies will be far harder if he is struggling against something for which he is not suited. Too many extra-curriculars can also cause difficulty. One or, at most, two activities should be the limit for freshmen.
Many freshmen still have the feeling left from their high school days that they don’t want to be known as the sort that is always running to the teacher. Often they deprive themselves of help that would make their tasks far easier.
The advisor’s office is located in room 140 of the Main Building. Office hours are 9 a.m. to 12 noon, 2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
— Steve Stapp
D. H. Barton to Speak In Chemical Lectures
“Photochemistry of Natural Products” is the subject of lectures by Mr. Derek H. Barton, professor of organic chemistry at the Imperial College of Science and Technology, London, England. He is the second speaker in this year’s an-^ nual P. C. Reilly Lecture series in chemistry and chemical engineering.
Professor Barton will lecture on Monday, Wednesday and Thursday at 4:00 p.m. in room 123 in Nieuwland Science Hall. He is regarded as an authority in stereo chemistry and the chemistry of natural products.
The British scientist received the Frittzche Award of the American Chemical Society in 1957 and was awarded — the Roger Adam Prize, the highest" honor conferred by the ACS in 1959. Prior to assuming his present post in 1957, Professor Barton was Regius Pro-fessoi- of Chemistry at the University of Glasgow. He has served as a visiting professor at Harvard University in 1949-50 and at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology during 1958.
Professor G. M. Schwab, of the Physical Chemistry Institute, Munich, Germany, opened this year’s Reilly Lectures® Oct. 3 with a series of talks on “The Relations Between Electric Properties and Chemical Catalytic Activity.”
The annual Reilly Lectures were established by a gift of more than $1 million in 1945 from the late Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind., industrialist and a membei- of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees.
Radio Club Offers Free Service to ND Students
The Notre Dame Amateur Radio Club is offering a free service to all students and employees of Notre Dame. Via amateur radio, the club is able to offer to transmit messages of any nature to any point in the United States or its, possessions absolutely free. The message will be relayed to another amateur in the town to which it is going, and this amateur will deliver the message by telephone, also sending a written copy, in the same manner as a telegram is delivered.
Although this is a noncommercial activity, 95% of all messages sent will be delivered, usually within one day. The club is attempting to gain an award for volume of messages sent and will accept any messages from simple greetings (especially birthday) to requests for money. Replies will also be received by the club for students and will be delivered to them by phone. Messages may be left in the boxes provided in the Huddle. The club hopes all students will avail themselves of this service as frequently as they desire. Further information concerning this service or amateur radio in general may be obtained from Barry Merrill at CE 2-9239.
The Scholastic
10
Bishop Mendez Selects Coot of Arms Design: Emblem to Include Arecibo, Holy Cross, Self
/hi Q'taluuti
The Most Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., consecrated today as the first Bishop of Arecibo in Sacred Heart Church by His Emminence Francis Cardinal Spellman, has chosen a coat of ^arms emblamatic of Puerto Rico, his i own Spanish ancestry and his spiritual I kinship with the Congregation of Holy Cross.
The 53-year-old Holy Cross priest was
PRELATE’S COAT OF ARMS
r Archbishop of New York at 10:30 a.m. ; Serving as co-consecrators were Archbishop Edwin V. Byrne of Santa Fe, New Mexico, and Bishop Richard H.
’ Ackerman, C.S.Sp., of Covington, Kentucky. The sermon was delivered by Archbishop James P. Davis of San
-Juan, Puerto Rico, in the morning serv-• ice. At this time Bishop Mendez officially assumed his newly appointed duties and . initiated the use of his selected coat 1 of arms.
Bishop Mendez’s coat of arms has been designed according to the accepted principals of heraldry. As his official emblem, it will appear at the top of all diocesan documents, on his stationery, sacred vestments, the canopy of his episcopal throne, over the entrance of his ^residence, and above the door of his ^cathedral.
Divided into two vertical sections, the one to the viewer’s left represents the newly created Diocese of Arecibo, while i the right half denotes its first Ordinary, i Bishop Mendez. The Paschal Lamb with ; banner resting on the book is taken from the coat of arms of the Archdiocese of San Juan, founded in 1511 and the oldest diocese in the new world. A fleur-de-lis, , appearing on the banner is from the
® October 28, I960
shield of Pope John XXIII who created the new diocese and appointed Bishop Mendez last July.
In the lower left section appears a replica of Christopher Columbus’s ship “The Pinta.” The red, gold and silver of Spain, which formerly ruled Puerto Rico, blend into the red, white and blue of the United States in which Puerto Rico now holds the unique status of a commonwealth. The waves beneath the ship are symbolic of Puerto Rico’s insular nature, and the fish represent Saint Philip, patron of the Arecibo cathedral.
Above the ships is a partially woven basket purposely left unfinished to remind all that charity never ends, and to illustrate Bishop Mendez’s motto, Caritas or “Charity.”
On the right sector of the coat of arms is the personal arms of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The larger portion of the shield displays the arms of the Mendez family, which stems from Conde D. Hermengilde Mendez one of the first Spanish inhabitors of the island. On the American side, Bishop Mendez’s grandfather, Don Jose Mendez de Ar-caya, was the last Spanish governer of Ponce, Puerto Rico.
The Mendez family coat of arms consists simply of a red cross flory on a silver field. To this has been added red heraldic roses in honor of his patroness, Our Lady of Guadalupe, Patroness of all the Americas, who appeared to a poor Aztec Indian in 1527.
The remaining external ornaments of the emblem consist of the pontifical hat with its six tassels dispersed on each side in three rows, the mitre, processional cross, and the crosier. All of these are in gold to signify the rank of a prelate.
MOST REV. ALFRED F. MENDEZ, C.S.C.
A PAT OI TIE RACE
“Shortest meeting in the Senate s history,” said Don Rice, an avid proponent of short meetings. During Monday
night’s quickie, the Senate voted to support the United Nations and the Notre Dame Marching Band. A motion on the Student Center closing policy was tabled for a week.
This week marks the 15th anniversary of the United Na
tions. John Kromkowski, international commissioner, moved that the Senate send to six men a letter, pledging “our active loyalty to the principles, aims and programs of the United Nations.” These men are: The President, The Vice President, The Secretary of State, The Secretary General of the UN, The US Ambassador to the UN and Senator Kennedy.
This is an example of our “active” role as students. It is hard to conceive of a role for Notre Dame students, consisting of much more than gestures of this sort.
SBP John Keegan submitted a resolution praising the band and asking the students to be more considerate of it. The students who formed the human channel at the Michigan State game, he called, “highly spirited,” and acknowledged that they did not intend “ruining the Band’s performance.”
Mike Nash, student affairs commissioner, said, “The motion seems rather useless.” A viva voce vote resulted in two “ayes.” John Keegan asked if anyone had abstained. No one had abstained. A role call vote brought ten “ayes” and a double “I abstain.”
The motion definitely disapproved of the students action at half-time. This is too bad. These things add color to football games. It’s something like tearing down goal posts. Human channels are not formed often, and the good done in encouraging the team outweighs any slight inconvenience to the Band.
Ollie Williams presented a motion asking the Student Centex' Manager to re-valuate his policy concerning closing of the centei' on football Saturdays. The motion was tabled for a week and Williams was appointed to meet with the Studen Center House Committee to see if some solution could be worked out.
Refering to last year, Father Bernard spoke of “wall to wall people — broken tables — broken chairs — rugs laden with dirt.” Last year- the Senate rented the Rathskellex* and the rent money paid for a work crew to clean up.
Early in the year the Senate was not in a position to subsidize a work crew. Now, it is able to do so and the Center should be open for the remaining football Saturdays.
11
Architects Reveal General Interest Program; Club Sponsors Lectures, Card Design Prizes
Spokesmen, for the Architects’ Club have 1’evealed some of the club’s plans for projects with appeal for both the architectural specialist and the intelligent layman with a general interest in the field.
The club’s Distinguished Speakers Program for the year was initiated on Oct. 13 when artist-craftsman Emil Frei spoke on stained glass. The schedule for the remainder of the program is as follows:
Nov. 11, 12, architect Laurence Perkins of Chicago on school architecture;
Dec. 7, (annual banquet) foreign correspondent and publicist James Eldridge on “Architecture as a Profession”;
Jan. 13, 14, educator Sam Hurst on “Architecture as taught at Auburn”;
Feb. 21, architect Leo Daley, discussing “Missile Stations”;
March 21, architect James Lamantia, Jr., speaking on “The Art of Architecture;”
April 10, architect Joseph Murphy, discussing “Ecclesiastical Architecture”;
May 12, engineer John Walley on the “Esthetics of Structural Design.” All the lectures are given in the O’Shaug-nessy Hall Art Gallery at 8:00 p.m. and the public is cordially invited. Details on individual speakers will be announced in the course of the year.
Also announced were citations for five senior architecture students for having created outstanding designs for Christmas cards in a recent student compe-
ND Enrollment Reaches 6,467 Exceeding '59-'6O Mark by 71
Total enrollment at the University of Notre Dame is currently at 6,467, the largest in the school’s history and an increase of 71 over last year.
Included in the totals are 5,530 undergraduates, 171 law students and 766 graduate students. Among the latter are 67 nuns who will return to the Catholic educational system with advanced degrees from Notre Dame. Eighty-three men and women, principally professional industrial employees and teachers, are enrolled in the Graduate School’s evening program.
The College of Arts and Letters, with an enrollment of 2,040 is again the largest school within the University. Student totals for the other undergraduate colleges include Commerce, 1,356; Engineering, 1,351; and Science, 785.
By classes, 1,605 freshmen enrolled this fall; there are 1,472 sophomores, 1,251 juniors and 1,085 seniors. An additional 114 undergraduates are enrolled in programs requiring a fifth year of study.
A total of 275 priests and religious is studying here, including 37 priests, 44 brothers, 67 sisters and 127 seminarians.
12
tition. Although similar competitions have been conducted in the past, this is the first time such student work will be made available to the public. Samples may be examined through contact with any senior architecture student.
Architecture students, along with fine arts and communication arts majors have organized a “Fine Arts Circle” discussion group of twelve. At last week’s initial session, the topic of discussion was “Art in Crisis,” a paper by Hans Sedlmayr.
Introduce ’Point Four’ Bill to Senate Session
A bill to reorganize the current compulsory military training program was introduced before Congress during the past session. A National Student Association drive for “Point Four Service” as a substitute for the draft for college men is winning support on many campuses, especially in the New York metropolitan area.
The bill, called Alternate Selective Service Plan, is sponsored by the late Sen. Richard Neuberger and Rep. Henry S. Reuss and is supported by NS A. It calls for a “Point Four Youth Corps” made up of men and women with at least two years, and preferably four years, of college training. The men would engage in this service as an alternative to military training.
Corps members would train native teachers in English, biology, simple sanitary procedures, mechanics and arithmetic. Queens College Phoenix called it an “exciting and worthwhile bill” that would be a boon to underdeveloped Asian and African nations, as well as the inductees.
N. Y. U. Heights Daily News commented that the current draft setup is “pretty ridiculous.”
The use of college men “pitching tents in Fort Dix’s mud,” it said, was a waste of manpower and time. The “Point Four” program, it added, would benefit the entire nation.
NS A urges support of the plan and feels that the plan would “impart the sense of purpose that comes from participating in real events of historic meaning.”
DON’T BE LEFT OUT —
Off-campus students who find that delivery of their copies of the SCHOLASTIC is sporadic or nonexistent can improve the situation by sending their names and addresses to: James Hickey, SCHOLASTIC circulation manager, Notre Dame University Press, Notre Dame, Ind. Our apologies for the oversights which have occured.
Visiting Marine Recruiters To Explain Programs Here
The Marine Corps Officer Selection team will visit here Oct. 31 through Nov. 4 for the purpose of explaining the officer programs and interviewing applicants for commissions. The team will be located on campus at the entrance to the Old Dining Hall.
Seniors may be interested in the Marine Officer Candidate Course or the Aviation Officer Candidate Course. The OCC is designed to prepare the applicant for the duties of a Marine ground officer, while the AOCC will specifically prepare the man for assignment as a Marine aviator.
A man accepted for either program will attend a leadership training course at Quantico, Va., for a period of ten weeks after* graduation from college. • Having successfully completed the course, he will be commissioned a second lieutenant. In the case of OCC he will be assigned to Officer’s Basic School at Quantico or in the case of AOCC will be transferred to Pensacola, Fla., for flight training. These programs are available to either midterm or full term seniors.
All other students are eligible forj Marine Corps Platoon Leaders Class* which is either ground or aviation. The PLC program not only assures the student of a commission upon graduation but allows him to count all time enrolled in the program on longevity for pay purposes. This can mean as much as $127 a month over the regular pay of a second lieutenant.
Award Competition Open For Construction Design
The Engineering Undergraduate Award Program, a national competition exclusively for engineering graduates, represents the 14th annual offering of awards and professional recognition for student papers on welded design. In each of the two divisions of the program, Machines and Structures, a total of 23 awards worth $5,000 will be made. The top award in each division is $1,500, ranging down to ten sixth awards each worth $50.
These cash awards and recognition will go to the students submitting the best papers explaining how the efficient application of welded steel to the design of a machine or structure, or part thereof, has or can contribute to its improvement or reduction of its cost.
Only resident, undergraduate engineering students are eligible to submit papers. Each student may only enter one paper each year, and he must be a registered student within the period of July 1, 1960 to June 26, 1961. Further information about the contest may be obtained from the Engineering Dean.
The Scholastic
41	................—.............
i'
| Dean to Explain Chicago U. Business School Programs
Students interested in graduate study in business administration are invited by the A.B. Dean’s Office to talk with Mr. Montague Brown, Dean of Students in the Graduate School of Business of the University of Chicago on Thursday, a Nov. 3, 1960, in 311 O’Shaughnessy. w Dean Brown will be on campus from 10 a.m. until early afternoon to discuss graduate programs of study leading to the M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Chicago. He will also explain the scholarship program and career’ opportunities in informal interviews arranged by Rev. Charles E.
; Sheedy.
that erased without a trace—or,
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Typewriter Paper
It’s a cinch to "rub out” typing errors and leave no "clues”, when you use Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Paper. Never smears, never smudges—because Corrasable’s like-magic surface ... erases without a trace! (A flick of the wrist and a pencil eraser puts things right!) This fine quality bond paper gives a handsome appearance to all your work. It’s a perfect crime not to use it!
Erasable Corrasable is available in all the weights you might require—from onionskin to heavy bond. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Made only by Eaton EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS *•«•*'*
'Who's Who' Hood Explains Election Criteria; Attacks Scholastic's Commentary Statements
In last week’s Commentary, the editors of the Scholastic criticized the method, or lack thereof (from their point of view), of selection for the national Who’s Who in American Universities and Colleges. As chairman of the Who’s Who committee, I would like to fully explain the committee’s position in this matter.
These three points were made in the Commentary piece: 1) there are “no published criteria to determine the selection”; 2) “the method, in the past, has been a power play among various activities and points of view represented
wrawa.
on the board, and compromise seems to be the only law of judgment day”; 3) a request for a statement of the specific factors involved in the selection.
Taken at face value, this seems to be a valid criticism aimed at betterment of an aspect of campus activity. But this is not the case.
It is first necessary to view the nature of the award and its subject, the student. Once this relationship is understood, the invalidity of the Commentary will be apparent.
The purpose of the award, in the words of the national director, is “to recognize those seniors and graduate students in their final year who have contributed significantly to university life.” This is, to say the least, a nebulous statement; but it must be such to include the various fields in which the student can become outstanding.
The student is a human being. This is a statement of the obvious, but apparently the editors overlooked this fact. It follows that the significance of a human being in his society (in this case that of the student) can not be measured by the IBM system which the editors seem to desire. There are factors such as the ideals of Notre Dame and of simple manhood which can’t be put on paper. Thus you do find men who have remarkable skills in some field or fields, but do not merit this award. If examples in this regard are not immediately obvious, the chairman of the committee will give examples from past year, privately, on request.
It should be evident that what the editors appear to desire in this matter is impractical and impossible. I say “seem to desire,” because we have “published, criteria” insofar as this is possible. These criteria are on the poster that every senior who submits a nomination has read. The poster states the “significant contributions” requirement and requests a list of activities and scholastic average, in that order.
These qualifications are submitted to a board of fourteen juniors. Juniors constitute the board for the sake of a disinterested yet knowledgeable membership. These juniors are selected from the various activities about campus. It is obvious that no one student is familiar with all the activities, departments and colleges. Thus, this method of selection of board members is meant to provide a cross section of the student body. The chairman is to direct the process of selection and prevent abuses. If a board member develops into a “power player,” it is the chairman’s duty to correct this. You can now see that what the editors described as “compromise,” is more fairly termed a representative cross-section of the student body.
The selections of the committee are then sent to the administration for approval. If any names are struck from (Continued on page 14)	:
October 28, 1960

FEBBO'S
CE 3-0578
224 E. LA SALLE ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Famous for Pizza, Spaghetti and Ravioli
Who's Who
(Continued from page 13) the list, it is implemented accordingly by an additional meeting of the committee. The approved list is then forwarded to national headquarters.
It is hoped that this statement of policy will clarify the issues sufficiently to satisfy the editors’ third point. Any suggestions or constructive comments will be appreciated and should be addressed to 127 Pangborn. Further information may also be obtained there.
—Jim McGranery
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Vaseline
HAIR TONIC
VASELINE HAIR TONIC
'VASELINE* IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHE6EBR0UGH*P0ND*S INC.
do girls go to your head?
Or do they just go? If so try ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic—made specially for men who use water with their hair tonic (and who doesn’t!) .‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic’s 100% pure, light grooming oil replaces oil that water removes. It will not evaporate — will stay clear and clean. Your hair looks great, stays neater longer. Just a little does a lot!
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
14
The Scholastic
BObatfAAiaHtaaiau
ACAUOLt
SwDEjjr

by DAVID A. OFFUTT
whose interests are greater than the sole attainment of a diploma. And, in answer to those questioning people who think that such aims ape the already smoothly functioning college curriculum, it should be pointed out that the specific focus of NFCCS is, and must be, the significant contemporary issues that confront the world of today. This will not involve duplication since the very fact that they are so immediate makes it almost impossible to present these issues in their total scope, if at all, in the classroom. Events usually outstrip the ability of the curriculum to keep up with them.
An answer to the second question can be best explained in terms of this student organization’s name — the National Federation of Catholic College Students — with the emphasis being placed upon the word Catholic. The Federation’s approach to all phases of its programs and activities is strictly from a Catholic viewpoint and not intended to be of a secular nature. Of course, this does not mean that NFCCS segregates itself from the pluralistic society they exist in, instead, it simply illustrates that the purpose of the National Federation of Catholic College Students is one of advancing Catholic ideals and morals in an already too secular society. And the means to accomplish this goal is to produce Catholic college students who are competent and vocal, those who can penetrate the complexities of real issues and articulate them effectively. Thus, by the very nature of our work, no other existing student organization can ever come close to accomplishing our objectives.
In conclusion, all should be aware of the fact that NFCCS is not a coordinating agency for social events nor is NFCCS a super-enlarged sodality. On the contrary, the Federation is a mature, responsible organization dedicated to the proposition that students have an obligation to respond intelligently to the challenges of the Twentieth Century.
ver five hundred Catholic college students from every section of the country convened in Louisville, Kentucky for the Seventeenth National Congress of the Na— tional Federation of Catholic College Students held from August 29 to September 3, " 196t. Representing Notre Dame were John Keegan, Student Body President, James O’Rourke, Chairman of the Delegation, Peter Hennigan, Chairman of the Catholic Action Student Bureau, Kib McGee, North Central Regional President (NFCCS), John Kromkowsky, International Affairs Commissioner, Jack Clark, Bill Moran and Frank Yurasek.
The most notable characteristic of the Congress was the serious, intelligent attitude of the attending delegates who, surrounded by presidential election and other headline stories, remained calm enough to formulate plans for NFCCS sponsored activities which will better the educational communities of America. Throughout the long meetings which began at 9:00 a.m. and sometimes lasted until 3:30 a.m. the next morning, these delegates demonstrated a maturity of decision and responsibility. ® The purpose of the National Federation of Catholic College Students is to assist in the educational community’s pursuit of truth and acquisition of knowledge. Its immediate goal is to provide a national forum in which contemporary issues of major significance can be understood in their total complexity and a national instrument through which concrete action relating to these issues can be taken by students. Its long-range goal is to produce laymen who are competent, vocal Catholics aware of and responding to the needs of our time. Are these promises too high-sounding? Is there any other student organization which can accomplish the same objectives?
The answer to the first question should be fairly evident. Yes, the aims of the Federation are high but are not impossible; rather, these aims are purposely directed to excellence and therefore demand the attention of all intelligent Catholic students
October 28, 1960
New ideas bring change to the old commission system formerly employed by NFCCS to be of service to campus clubs and other campus organizations. According to the old commission concept there were ten national commissions seated at ten different Catholic colleges located throughout the United States. These commissions were to collect and disseminate worthwhile material to all Federation schools who might request something pertaining to their area of research. The validity of such a method continually decreased over the years until finally measures had to be taken to sever away the deadwood tactics of past years and to reformulate sound methods and programs which will be of real profit to the member colleges of NFCCS.
15
To replace the old commission system will be a new concept called “Secretariats.” These Secretariats will he student organized but will cooperate with professionals concerned in the four fields of Religious Affairs, Student Affairs, Social Action Affairs, and International Affairs. Not only will they assist professionals in the collection and tabulation of new and old documents in their fields, but they will also provide positive, practical programs by which the colleges belonging to NFCCS can participate in definite student action which will be of benefit to them. Thus, instead of a diversified effort of ten national commissions, some of which duplicated other’s material, a unified system of four Secretariats has been de
MARRIAGE INSTITUTE
Any senior interested in serving on the planning committee for the Marriage Institute, to be held weekly during Lent, should submit his name to Bill Pflaum in 303 Walsh.
vised which avoids imitation and produces useable programs for the campuses. A typical example of the Secretariats publications can be seen in the eight booklets published by the Social Action Affairs Secretariat, covering such contemporary issues as “Sit-ins” and “Ethics of Labor-Relations.” The entire Congress were optimistic about the newly organized Secretariats and everyone felt assured great results will be forthcoming.
Following in the successful footsteps of the National Academic Program, NFCCS will sponsor phase two in a general series of Federation programs involving campus participation, this time
16
the objective being to examine and clarify, through a process of conversation the precise areas of agreement and disagreement among the various groups — Protestant, Catholic, Orthodox, Jewish, secular-humanist — constituting contemporary American society and, most importantly, to illuminate the fundamental assumptions which presuppose these present positions. It is hoped that the students who participate in this program will use the knowledge gained from it to improve — both now and in the future as graduates — the intergroup relations in their communities.
The procedure under which each campus will organize is basically the same as that followed by the Academic Program, except that more students will
be involved in this project and improvements have been made in the mechanics of operation. At the Congress, a ninety-two page pamphlet titled, “An Understanding of Our Time,” was published and will be used for the Pluralism Study. It contains a series of articles written by Protestants, Jews and Catholics pertaining to the aspects of pluralism. Also included are easy-to-follow explanations of how the program is to be organized, plus a comprehensive bibliography of books concerning the subject of pluralism.	.
■ Notre Dame, as well as all other members, of NFCCS, will participate in thia program. And, judging from the sub
ject-quality of the program it is something which each student of Notre Dame’s campus should be concerned about and interested enough to become involved -in an active way. Enrollment for these discussions will be opened under the direction of the NFCCS Senior Delegate at Notre Dame.
D®
bring the 1959-1960 school year the Federation conducted a program called the National Academic Program. The purpose of this program was to define the problem areas in American Catholic Higher Education and to make the Catholic college student aware of his responsibility, both as student and graduate, to do all in his power to alleviate the problems and aid in their solution. The immediate goal of this pro- ~ gram was the establishment, in the stu- " dent, of a sympathetic awareness and understanding of the problems attendant upon American Catholic Higher Education. As a short-range goal, the program was to reveal areas and means by which students, as students, could help alleviate the problems. The long-range goal of this program was the development of graduates who have an appreciation and an understanding of the difficulties and thus are in a better position 9 to contribute to their solution.
Because of the enthusiastic response to this program by many students and by many well-known scholars and administrators, the past Executive VicePresident, Bill Scheckler, recommended the continuance of the Academic Program in all schools, even those which participated last year. It is believed that the resulting contact between stu- £ dent-faculty will be extremely beneficial to every campus; also, because the experience gained from this program last year the discussions should prove more fruitful and energetic.
Every year the NFCCS Congress, as the representative voice of most Catholic colleges, votes upon a series of resolutions which reflect the views held by the majority of Catholic students in the 0 United States. The primary purpose behind these resolutions is to provide a means for the vocal expression of Catholic student opinion; in addition, these resolutions contain policy directives aimed at Federation programming. By this the member colleges can mandate NFCCS to expand its activities to meet the needs of the college community in a specific area of interest, for example the “Sit-ins.”	.
At the XVII National Congress the representatives of over one-hundred Catholic colleges adopted resolutions supporting the recent “Sit-in” strikes and the principles which the National Association For the Advancement of Colored People expound. Besides this vocal support, the Congress elected to take definite action through their coming programs which will benefit the goals of both the “Sit-in” movement and the NAACP.
The Scholastic
I

Certain artists, rare though they be, simply divorce themselves from the endless conversation of dilettantes and au-thorities-on-music (whose closest association with the subject was a high school course in Physics in which the word Harmonics was mentioned) by playing a concert which defies adverse criticism. Such an artist is Hans Richter-Haaser, whose recital at Saint Mary’s on Tuesday, October 18 was a lesson for musicians and concert-goers alike in what this music is all about.
Seldom do we find a man whose technique and communicative ability are so well integrated that neither can be considered without the other. There is no question of Richter-Haaser’s technique, but it is nearly impossible to get at. When he plays, one can only hear what he is playing; to consider how he is playing it means to ignore what he is saying in his interpretation (if the how is considered as an isolated entity) and this is impossible without losing the idea of the pianist’s art: a total comprehen- . sion and command of every element of a piece of music, the relationship between these elements, and an ability to integrate them in such a way that they become a unity, inseparable facets of the same diamond.
This approach to music requires a certain reserve on the part of the artist whereby he is aloof enough from the music he is performing to know intellectually exactly what he is doing with it and how he is doing it; he cannot, in short, lose himself in the music or he loses this total command. This reserve is called the aesthetic distance.

JOHN OLIVER
When a young artist sets out to acquire this kind of comprehension, more often than not he loses the one thing that is the main thing—feeling for the music he is playing, and the complete conviction of that feeling which inspires him to capture an audience through it. The more analytical an artist becomes in approaching a work of art, the more distant he tends to become from the excitement (whether lyrical or passionate, intellectual or emotional) peculiar to that particular work. Eichter-Haaser is hardly a young artist.
Throughout Tuesday evening’s program he maintained an aesthetic distance, which was remarkable even for such a great artist. He demonstrated this most graphically at those times when he was interrupted (first by the fans in the heating system, and often thereafter by the unspeakable rudeness of an opened or closed door in the back of the auditorium) ; one was immediately aware that the pianist recognized these sounds and was perhaps annoyed by them, yet his delivery continued without a flaw, either in dramatic build or technical precision. Yet even in view of all this intellectual command and disciplined aloofness, Richter-Haaser quite unashamedly felt every note of the music he played and communicated every particle of that feeling.
He began with Novelette in F major, Opus 21, No. 1 by Robert Schumann, certainly a pleasant way to open, and played it the way he played everything: drawing everything out of the music that is in it to begin with, and adding nothing that isn’t there. The piece is lightweight by nature and it is a compliment to Richter-Haaser’s intelligence that he played it exactly for what it is, without vulgarizing it in an attempt to make something out of it. A delightful reading.
His second number, Schubert’s Wanderer Fantasy in C Major, Opus 15, (Continued on page 23)
S LARGE
9 October 28, 1960
17

CHESTERFIELD, L&M and OASIS invite you to the
Iowa-Notre Dame
Game Contest!
JUST PREDICT THE SCORE AND WIN UP TO.
- FOR THE STUDENTS AND
*300 first prize jackpot *150 SECOND PRIZE JACKPOT
*50
third prize jackpot

Pick up a pack and take a crack at exporting the big game. If you are the only one to come up with the correct half-time and final scores, the first prize jackpot is all yours. If there are ties, you share the money. The same applies to winners of the second and third jackpots. Enter as often as you like ... and to make it easy, use the backs of packs* as your entry blanks. So each time you finish a pack ... take a crack at the big money!
HERE’S ALL YOU DO TO WIN...
1.	Predict the final score for each team.
2.	Predict the half-time score for each team.
3,	Use an empty pack* as your entry blank.
READ THESE EASY RULES...
1.	On the coupon below or on the back of an empty wrapper or on a plain sheet of paper, select the winner of the above game. Predict the final score and the half-time score (predict ties if you wish). Each entry must be accompanied by an empty wrapper from L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis cigarettes (or a single hand drawn copy of the lettering L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis as it appears on the face of the package). If entry is submitted on back of empty wrapper, be sure to include name and address, printed clearly.
2.	Mail entries to Liggett & Myers, at the address appearing in coupon below. All entries must be postmarked by midnight five days prior to date of game and received by midnight the day prior to date of game. Enter as often as you want, but be sure to enclose an empty wrapper (or acceptable substitute) with each entry. Illegible entries will not be considered.
3.	Prizes: FIRST PRIZE JACKPOT-$300; SECOND PRIZE JACKPOT-$150; THIRD PRIZE JACKPOT—$50. Winning entries will be selected according to the accuracy of the entry against the following in the order listed: (a) the winning
team; (b) the final score, and, as a tie-breaker, if necessary (c) the accuracy in	I
determining the leading half-time team and the half-time score. In the event of ties among contestants, the prize money for each of the three prize categories
will be divided equally among contestants tied for the respective prizes.	i
4.	This contest is under the supervision of the Bruce, Richards Corporation, an	;
independent judging organization, whose decisions are final and binding on all	|
contestants. Only one prize per family.
5.	This contest is open to the college students and college faculty members of	■
the above competing colleges only. Employees and members of their families	!
of Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company and its advertising agencies are not eligible	'
to enter.
6.	All entries become the property of the sponsor, and none will be returned.	j
Winners will be notified by mail. A complete list of winners is available to anyone	!
sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope to the address below.
7.	This contest is subject to all Federal, state and local laws and regulations	;
governing contests and their validity.	;
START SAVING PACKS NOW!
The more often you enter... the more chances you have to win.
Write clearly the final score and half-time score of the game to be played November 19, 1960 in boxes indicated:
FINAL HALF-TIME
IOWA	(	)	(	)
NOTRE DAME	(	)	(	)
Mail this entry to:
LIGGETT & MYERS, P.O. BOX 327, NEW YORK 46, N.Y.
Attach an empty pack (or an acceptable substitute, see rules) of L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis cigarettes with this entry.
name	--------------------------------------------------
(PLEASE PRINT)
L & M has found tho secret that *> unlocks flavor In a filter cigarette. (Pack or Box).
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
CHESTERFIELD-Now “Air-Softened", they satisfy even more! (King or Regular).
OASIS—Most refreshing taste of all. Just enough menthol... just enough!
*or acceptable substitute (see rules).
Entries must be postmarked no laterthan midnight November 14, 1960, and J received at the above P.O.Box in New York by midnight November 18, 1960. |
Submit as many more entries as you want on the backs of | empty packs.* On each one print the team names and • ■ scores with your name and address as shown above. J
■9
NOTHING OF consequence that has happened to jazz through the years has ever become evident until it was immediately upon us. Then, and altogether too quickly, the innovation of the day becomes the cliche of tomorrow. No other art form remains subject to so rapid a deterioration of the level of acceptance.
During its short but chaotic life jazz 9 has, however, never been forced to go anywhere it didn’t feel like going. Its changes have all sprung from the 'natural’ wealth any new music draws from, namely, the vast Western tradition, coupled with the demands peculiar to the day and the environment and personality of the process’ now prime fount: the rare musician capable of real creation. There aren’t many firm standards in this medium of expression which 9 has already passed through three major stages of development in less than fifty years.
The work initiated by the unprepossessing foursome of Thelonius Monk, piano, Kenny Clarke, drums, Dizzy Gillespie, trumpet, and Charlie Parker, alto sax, at the outbreak of the Second World War, ushered in the most important third stage which began to take root only* some five years later. In brief, the group, meeting at Minton’s play house in Harlem virtually every night in 1942, had decided to do something about one of the more contestable foundation stones of jazz, the repertory. Tired of having to improvise on themes that were all too often musically threadbare, these musicians had the idea of keeping only the general outline and of making them over by boldly paraphrasing the melodies and revising the harmonies, either in whole— or in part. Every man in this group was™ responsible for a certain number of innovations that were synthesized only by a joint effort. If the boldness of Monk’s harmonies stimulated his partners, then no less was the rhythmic influences of the imaginative Kenny Clarke a factor. The solo choruses of Gillespie and the magnificent Parker staggered even the most open of the regular customers. The tag “bebop” appeared and was about as
The Scholastic
pete herbert: remarks on jazz
<
meaningful as the advertising exploiting it. The revolution occasioned by these men sliced jazz right down the middle.
On the one side was the Charlie Parker musical hall of mirrors, for everyone who even pretended to be modern was copying some part of his style on every instrument in jazz; on the other ^ were the swing musicians, traditionalists, and the outspoken Louis Armstrong. Like Armstrong in 1930, Parker dominated the entire field in 1950. The range and wealth of his invention was so great that two more-or-less opposing styles evolved largely from his playing; the one patterned basically on his own found further expression at the hands of pianists Bud Powell, Horace Silver; saxophonists Sonny Stitt and, of course, £ the Gillespie-fathered Navarro, McGhee-Brown trumpet school to name only a few, while the other was determined largely by the quieter, more withdrawn conceptions of men like Lee Konitz and the incomparable Miles Davis, once Gillespie’s prize pupil. The astonishing muscular relaxation of Lester Young was at least their example as the followers of this “cool” approach did away with vibrato and sharp attacks in an effort " to create a more beautiful quality of sound. Exterior ornaments were rejected following the straight path of Miles Davis, in order to concentrate on giving tone a serene, undeniably noble resonance.
As the 1940’s drew to a close, jazz was preparing to enter its most successful, rewarding decade. (This perfunctory, piecemeal patching when attached to a sum of not more than $15, will procure for your enjoyment and enlighten-W ment four of the more important ingredients for an understanding of the movement: Charlie Parker Memorial Album (Savoy MG-1200, MG-1201); Miles Davis, Birth of the Cool (Capitol T762); Jazz: Its Evolution and Essence, Andre Hodeir, Evergreen Books E~70. The latter, the finest volume in the field of jazz literature, is an engrossing work of musical criticism. Offered by the author as a mere introduction, it has yet to be ^expanded upon by anyone. He is a man
October 28, 1960
of extraordinary breadth who cannot be accused of the nostalgia and cultism that has dominated much of the vitriol palmed off by both musician and critic alike here in our own country. Little pride can be taken in a true art form that constantly suffers from the paradox labeled by Leonard Feather a Law of Diminishing Repute which tends to bring each succeeding phase of the art along a descending path from esoteric origins to ignominious endings. (Among those names of the fifties that might readily come to mind are those of George Shearing and Ahmad Jamal.) The dichotomy that has often existed between musician and our critic-historians borders on the ludicrous. I include this as a quote-without-commentary that seemingly belies the very existence of jazz if not ironically substantiating the cries of one Nick LaRocca (Trumpet and leader Original Dixieland Jazz Band, fl. 1918) who points to Marshall Steams as the man “who milked the Guggenheim foundation grant to find that jazz rhythm came from Africa only to discover later that the natives knew nothing about this jazz music . . . who created the talking mule Francis and who was to create the talking jackasses of jazz . . .” (Down Beat, Sept. 1, 1960), though he hardly intended it quite in this context.
Jelly Roll Morton was an extraordinary pianist. . . the music he wrote . . . contains some of the greatest jazz literature of all time.
—George Avakian
In the early days, the great piano players were always on the East Coast; Jelly Roll Morton played piano like one of those high school teachers in Washington; as a matter of fact, high school teachers played better jazz. Among other things, his rhythm was unsteady.
—Duke Ellington
The group’s creativity in jazz is . . . very considerable. The leader’s clarinet is played in a liquid style with much of
the Creole influence in evidence, but the blues manner also is present . . . George Lewis plays many passages that require great dexterity in execution. His style contains a level of emotion that is obviously inspired.
—Grossman & Farrell
They were doing the same thing over and over. All of them were. Every once in a while they’d stop and the clarinet would play by himself . . . they didn’t show too much imagination and I’ve heard records that sounded like they were made as far back as this that had a lot of imagination—a lot of Armstrong and Bix . . . rhythm section played on the same level all the time. I didn’t like the clarinet—it sounded like an exercise book. I’d rate it one star.
—Jimmy Giuffre (re George Lewis record, Fidgety Feet)
Bunk’s gift of ceaseless variational invention seems to derive from a perpetually youthful inspiration. No one has ever excelled him . . . his recorded band work exemplifies the dissonant tendency of the classic style.
—Rudi Blesh
Do you have to play this all the way through? . . . This music stands for something, but as it is now, it seems quite a bit webby . . . time has just walked right by these guys ... I won’t rate this one.
—Count Basie
(re Bunk Johnson record, When I Leave the World
Behind)
The significant thing to remember about Jelly Roll is that he was a genius.
—Bill Grauer and Orrin Keepnews
Well I suppose the fellows did the best they could with that piece ... I really don’t want to rate that at all. This is (Continued on page 24)
21
Sunday, november sixth . . . opening reception for students and their guests, four p.m.
Monday, november seventh . . . lecture on romanesque art given by charles d. parkhurst of oberlin college, one hunderd and four o'shaughnessy, eight p.m.
Week of november fourteenth . . . images medievales, location to be announced.	S
November seventh to december fourth . . . exhibition of original works of the romanesque period daily in the university gallery, one to five p.m., special lecture tours to be announced.
Wednesday, november thirtieth . . . slides and lectures, aspects of the romanesque period, everett me near, chicago artist, one hundred and four o'shaughnessy, eight p.m.
Friday, december second... music of the romanesque, collegium musicum of the university of illinois, Washington hall, eight-thirty p.m. (admission one dollar).
22
9
The Scholastic
' Critic at Large
(Continued from page 17) convinced me of the man’s genius. Ev-। erything this number should be, it was. ' Nothing was left untouched; Richter. Haaser’s realization of the myriad feelings Schubert wields in this work was very nearly definitive.
A The second section of the program inI ^eluded the Liszt Ballade in B minor (No. 2) and Debussy’s L’Isle Joyeuse. After hearing Liszt play Van Cliburn a week earlier it was a pleasure to hear Richter-Haaser play Liszt. This came close to being perfect Liszt; it was played for all that was in it, it was not overdone and the tempo choices were exactly right.
The Debussy amazed me. Here is an ^artist—a great German pianist according to the flyers—completely in command of the Germanic style, whose sensitivity and mastery of poetic feeling frees him completely and enables him to deliver one of the most lyrical of all the works in the French piano literature as if he had never touched anything else in his artistic life. He spun this piece into a delicate web, composed of the subtlest ^runs, the most graceful delineation of musical line and an integrated intricacy of untold beauty. It followed that he should be brought out again and again to receive the thanks of a grateful audience.
He returned again after intermission to be greeted by a round of spontaneous (as opposed to dutiful) applause. Beethoven’s Rondo in C major, Opus 51, 9^o. 1 served as an appetizer to the Waldstein which was to come. Again the । pianist spilled out phrase upon phrase of exquisite delicacy and tenderness; his ability to get inside style after style and develop it from within was as fresh and delightful at this point in the conceit as in his first number.
Richter-Hauser’s conception of the ^Waldstein (Sonata in C major, Opus 53) of Beethoven is thorough and complete. He views the work as a whole (rather than movement by movement as many pianists tend to do) and works toward the last movement. Whereas many artists lose the intended climax of the piece (the last movement) by playing the first movement with too much finality and too little foresight, Richter-Haaser played it as it is written, as ^the opening movement, the initial statement in a powerful study of emotion in music. In so doing he was able to play the second movement with an intense lyricism, colored with a certain tenseness to give it life, and direct his drive toward the last movement, the crown of the whole. He achieved his build perfectly and gave his audience what for many will be the Waldstein of a lifetime.
^October 28, 1960
At the Theaters
Finally, R.R., the Avon has heard your cries of anguish and this week will treat you and the rest of the neighborhood to a delectable dish called Career Girl. This jewel stars June Wilkinson, the girl with the built-in tray, as a hopeful of late arrived in Hollywood. The supposedly rich uncle who sent for her turns out to be a short order cook who hasn’t been seen for six months. Cute, yes? Then she meets people, and she meets people, and she meets people, and soon becomes a star. Thrilling. This high-budget production runs for all of 61 minutes and treats the eye to Miss Wilkinson’s sun bathing — whatever portions of it the censor allows. This one won’t be missed when it leaves, though Miss Wilkinson can really make an impression on you.
There is a great difference between 61 minutes and 130 minutes, and likewise there is much difference between the Avon offering and the Colfax movie: Can-Can. This lavish (my word power fails me at the time) movie stars Frank (The Clansman) Sinatra, Shirley MacLaine, Maurice Chevalier, Louis Jourdan, and Juliet Prowse. If Frankie-Boy had written the screenplay, it would have been titled "Me and Juliet.” Cole Porter was never before enlarged so much (Todd-AO and Technicolor), but never before had his songs been so prominently displayed. Among the Porter favorites gracing the score are “I Love Paris,” “Let’s Do It,” “Just One of Those Things,” and “You Do Something to Me.” Some of the songs were not in the original play, but J who complains? In dress and decor, the movie is strongly reminiscent of Gigi — and has two of that movie’s stars in the cast also.
Frank plays a lawyer with an eye for beauty, Shirley plays the proprietress of a night club, Louis Jourdan plays a young judge with an eye for beauty,'Maurice Chevalier plays an elderly judge with an eye for beauty, and Juliet Prowse plays the leading dancer of the night club. She has an eye for Sinatra. The can-can makes its appearance in court, but to see why you must go see the movie. If you have to pay _ special prices, you won’t appreciate knowing the plot beforehand.
In short, I can tell you this is the movie Nikita said nyet to, so I guess that makes it a hit. At least, that’s what the Republicans would say.
The Granada has finally straightened out its troubles and they will definitely (?) -	,
be showing Let No Man Write My Epitaph. In this movie, James Darren plays a . normal slum kid whose mother is a B-girl and whose father bumped into the electric > ; chair. Burl Ives plays a drunken ex-judge secretly in love with Darren’s mother, . .. played by Shelley Winters. He manages to speak some slimy philosophy in the course ~ of the movie. Ella Fitzgerald plays a sort of hefty Billie Holliday as she sings the Dope Addict Blues. Ricardo Montalban plays a bookmaker and dope peddler who is having an affair with Miss Winters.	? J
About the only person in the movie who is hardly touched by the filth of the ‘ slums is Darren’s girl, Jean Seberg. At the fadeout, she and Darren face a promising j future which will have him playing the piano and her making eyes at him. All in aO, ; s very edifying, unless you happen to come from the Chicago slums, where the movie 5 takes place.
The State this week is not throwing one movie at us, nor two, nor three, but four. How about that? The first of the lot is Too Young To Love, which wffl run. until tomorrow. Sorry — nothing was found on this gem. I can’t even find the thing \ (Continued on page 33)	J
pete Herbert: remarks on jazz
(Continued from page 21)
a lot of hodge-podge. I wouldn’t even be particular about listening to that any more.
—Coleman Hawkins
(re Jelly Roll Morton record, Grandpa’s Spells)
(The above quotations were from Leonard Feather’s The Book of Jazz, p. 32 if.)
Yes, it is true that there can be little in the way of standards while jazz remains subject to so rapid a deterioration of the level of acceptance. Jazz has been evolving at such an accelerated rate that most of the important contributors are all still very much alive today. For example, a trumpet chorus by Lee Morgan, who joined the Gillespie band at the age of 18 in 1956, might well have been indistinguishable from a solo by his employer. There are scores of trumpet players today capable of performances that would have seemed unbelievable in 1943, if not unique. Objectively, Morgan must be judged in terms of a listener’s awareness of the earlier contributions by Gillespie. Nevertheless, the legacy of
Charlie Parker proves the exception.
Throughout the fifties, no single musician has been able to absorb all of Parker. Improvisors, for another example, on the alto and tenor saxaphones have become quite adept at certain aspects of his style but their attempts at conquering him, and therefore proceeding directly from him, have fallen short. His sense of rhythm has never been duplicated and it seems that men like John Coltrane and Sonny Rollins already true innovators in terms of harmony and melody in their own right will leave us with a recorded heritage as provocative as Charlie Parker’s if only on the merit of their genius for creating melody. (Sonny Rollins is due to reappear shortly; he has been out of the picture for the better part of a year working in private. Although his prime target seems to be John Coltrane he would be wise to look elsewhere. Coltrane may be heard to recent advantage on three excellent albums: The Cannonball Adderly Quintet in Chicago, Blue Trane, and Giant Steps. Rumor has it he was recorded at the Randall’s Island Festival where he was the highlight of an eight-hour Saturday program. His rendering of Richard Rodger’s “My Favorite Things” was
indeed a masterpiece. He played soprano sax, his latest conquest, throughout half of the program.)
When I think of the humble origins of modem jazz, and, tongue-in-cheek, recall the remarks of Messrs. Ellington, Basie, Hawkins, and Giuffre, the former three having survived by virtue of their capacity to assimilate and their innate desire to continually improve, I cannot help but draw a parallel between thea small Harlem playhouse and a pair of once second-rate clubs in Greenwich Village as late as the summer of 1960.
As the Randall’s Island Festival was congratulating itself one Sunday evening in August, the Ornette Coleman Quartet was playing the Village Barn while the Charlie Mingus Quartet operated, per usual, at the Showplace; both were conspicuously absent from “the world’s greatest jazz festival.” The crowds were not overwhelming but a* loyal flock of regulars spumed the festival, and most of jazz as well, to attend the budding royal courts. The two groups are as distinct from one another as they are separated, by choice, from the rest of the field. The intriguing rapport captured as often as not by the Coleman group avoids the “convention”
SY
IKORSKY AIRCRAFT

1
IL SIKORSKY	KS HOW
SS
TO ft HEHC0HER-
*	WEDNESDAY
24
The Scholastic
I'
of creating melody in paraphrase, chorus phrase, etc. over an at-least-alluded-to harmonic resolve. As a group effort it has noticeably progressed the notion of free group improvising. Yes, there is often a continuity and balance created during its infrequent moments of real greatness. Individually, neither alto saxophonist Ornette Coleman nor pocket trumpeter Don Cherry are capable of a real revolution in improvisation. Revolution or not, the two can create their finest jazz consistently when working around the “blues.” This form is not really imposed but a repeated figure by the bassist usually lends itself to some restraint that now keeps them from the total disorganization they often fall prey to. Their finest recording is found on Atlantic, 1327, Change of the Century; their finest moments appeai-ing on the blues derived first track Ranxbliri and | the independent non-chordal vehicle for bassist Charlie Haden, Face of the Bass. In their spontaneous and free-wheeling attacks they often come up with jazz as fresh and imaginative as Charlie Parker’s was throughout the forties. Coleman has shown many an obvious sign of dissatisfaction and quite probably the noble experiment will collapse in at least this one group before long, leaving Ornette Coleman with no apparent replace-। ment fox’ Cherry who may very well move ovex’ to the John Handy camp which also seeks to free itself from some certain harmonic ties.
Charlie Mingus has been turning out first-rate jazz since before the death of Parker in 1955. Bassist Mingus, long an associate of Parker’s is an outspoken critic of today’s jazz, and will often carry on arguments from his stool in the tiny emporium that has been his . roost for years. Cun-ently his uncompromisingly difficult works are being devoured nightly by a 32-year-old reed man, Eric Dolphy, who has secured first place in the group effort by vix’tue of his fantastic technique and continual flow of ideas. No livipg jazz musician can rival his approach to the alto sax. He alone among the eight can possibly be responsible for any upheaval. His first release as a leader’ in his own right | must immediately supersede the four Coleman albums and most any othex* release in the last ten years. Coupled with the Miles Davis-Gil Evans orchestral approaches, the perfection of a group sound like the Modex-n Jazz Quartet, Dolphy’s solo approach can be as important a contribution. Outward Bound on Prestige can boast four successfully inventive tracks. The musicianship is superb all around.
The emotion he generates must be I heard, it cannot be explained in the light of anyone else’s work. Unveiling his alto, flute, and bass clarinet, Eric Dolphy lays himself bare to any peers with each successive solo. He succeeds in leaving a positive harmoxxic structux-e in a way Ornette Coleman could not have conceived though it is obvious Coleman is an influence. His interpretation of his own vehicle, G.W., rivals any jazz solo I’ve heard since Charlie Parker’s Embraceable You.
1 October 28, I960
h Bachelors!
Somebody ...Somewhere is hoping you're a member of our
Artcarved
CHRISTMAS DIAMOND CLUB
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $75. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value. ' '
JOIN RIGHT NOW...
Just picture her on Christmas with your Artcarved diamond ring on her finger! Don’t let her down — select her ring right now and end all worries! As little as $ 10 reserves your Artcarved diamond ring until Christmas. Join the club! Many benefits! Your membership card is waiting for you here. Come in!
Credit (with no interest) and lay-a-way available to Notre Dame men
121 W. Washington Phone CE 4-1311
Authorised ARTCARVED Jeweler
ENGINEERSSCIENTISTS
?	. '-JA-’
HAMILTON STANDARD
,	/ Divkion of ■ .
UNITED AIRCRAFT
will interview on
NOVEMBER V and 10
ENGINEERS—BS, MS, Ph.D degrees in EE, ME, MET for outstanding career positions in analytical, design and der velopment engineering.	-
SCIENTISTS—BS, MS, Ph.D degrees in Physics, EE, ME for challenging new study programs in Missiles & Space systems, Electron Beam Technology and our Research Laboratories
A typical project under development: the air induction and environmental systems for the B-70 bomber.
I was really lost without my new Esterbrook “101” pen!
Ski-time or study-time, there’s no friend like the Esterbrook “101” fountain pen. Rescues you from any number of difficult situations. It’s a different type of cartridge pen. It carries 2 cartridges of liquid ink ... one is a spare... so there’s no need to run out of ink—at any altitude!
New, but still gives you 32 pen points to choose from, so you’re bound to find one that’s right for your personality. Or, think of the fun you’ll have switching—pen points or personalities—until you find the one you like best.
Schuss down to your dealer’s and pick up the Esterbrook “101” Renew Point Fountain Pen, today. The cost: just $1.95. 5 colors. Available in squeeze-fill, too!
McDonald Studios
“The Finest in Portraits”
129 N. MAIN
Temporary location
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS 1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
NABICHT CAFETERIA
★ 1415 Lincolnway West Savory Food Since 1897
FREE PARKING
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . .. JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY ★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St	JM.S. Bldg.
Srtto&tocH SimA
♦T.M. The Esterbrook Pen Co.
The Esterbrook “101”
Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
THERE’S A POINT CHOICE OF 32—ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU I

BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN $
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic ®
26
4
Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 EDT, the Fighting Irish will face unbeaten, untied Navy in Philadelphia Stadium. The Irish will be seeking their second win of the season against four losses, while Navy will be gunning for its sev-”enth straight.
The Notre Dame team lost a close, hard-fought battle with Northwestern, 7-6, while the Middies routed Pennsylvania, 27-0.
The Navy’s “Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside” combination of halfback Joe Bel-Iino and fullback Joe Matalavage, the Middies’ captain, has been the sparkplug of the Navy offense all season.
7 Bellino, a prime All-American contender, scored on runs of one and 26 yards against Penn to ran his season scoring total to 68 points, more than any player in modem Navy history. Five-nine and 181 pounds, Bellino last season led the Navy team in rushing, scoring and punt returns. He accumulated 564 yards on 99 carries for a 5.6 yard average; returned six punts for ^123 yards and six kickoffs for 88 yards; "and scored eight TD’s for 48 points.
The other starting halfback for the Middies is John Zenyuh, another senior. He was a member of the varsity squad last season but did not letter. Supporting Bellino at left half and Zenyuh at right half are left halfbacks John Pritchard and Walt Stobach and right halfs Vic Meyer and Bob Hardison. All were members of the varsity team last season, but only Hardison lettered.
Captain Matalavage is probably the finest Navy fullback in a decade. In the Penn game last Saturday, he carried nine times for 56 yards in the last Navy scoring drive, finally scoring from the one.
Navy field general. Quarterback was S expected to be the weak spot in the Navy backfield, with the loss by graduation of Joe Tranchini and Jim Maxfield. But the play this season of Senior Hal Spooner has left little to be desired. Spooner threw for 49 yards on three completions in Navy’s 61-yard scoring drive in the first period of the Quaker game. Backing up Spooner are 160-pound Jim Stewart, and 162-pound Harry Dietz who led the Navy 150-pound football team last season.
Seniors Frank Dattilo and Jim Luper, the former a letterman, will man the end spots for the Middies this season. They will be supported by Sophomore Larry Graham and letterman Greg Mather, a junior. The third team ends are Dick Tash, a member of the Navy squad in ’59, and Gary Kellner, another sophomore.
The interior line has also performed ^well for the Midshipmen this season.
October 28, 1960
JOE BELLINO All-American Candidate
FRANK VISTED
Rugged Middie Center
GREEN TESTS NAVY POWER
Tackles are Sid Driscoll and Ron Erchul, both lettermen. Frank Butsko and Jerry O’Donnell hold down the second string tackle spots, with Rod McDonald and letterman George Huffman providing depth. Erchul is the heaviest at 234, while Butsko is the smallest at 203.
Of the two starting guards, Doug Falconer is a 191-pound senior letterman, while Vera Von Sydow is a 208-pound sophomore. Reserve guards are Dick Fitzgerald, John Hewitt, Steve Hoy, and Tony Lucci. Hoy is a soph and Hewitt a letterman.
Letterman Frank Visted returns to handle the pivot chores for the Middies, and is ably supported by Ed Musbach and Art Mouyard. Musbach is a sophomore.
Losses haven’t hurt. The Middies lost 15 lettermen from the 1959 squad, among the two ends, one tackle, three guards, one center, two quarterbacks, five halfbacks and a fullback.
They have 12 returning lettermen, including two ends, three tackles, two guards, two centers, no quarterbacks, two halfbacks and a fullback. They also have on the team 10 nonlettermen from last year’s varsity, 15 up from the Junior Varsity team, and 10 from last year’s Plebe squad. •
Wayne Hardin, in his second season as Navy head coach, has been justifiably
happy with his team’s performance thus far this season. He praises Bellino as the “finest football player in Navy annals,” and rates him a “sure-fire AllAmerican.” He also calls Captain Joe Matalavage “a tremendously improved, hard-driving fullback.”
The Navy-Notre Dame rivalry is the longest intersectional series in college football. This will be the 34th game in the series, which has continued unbroken since 1927. In the previous 33 games, Notre Dame has won 26, Navy 6, and there has been one tie.
The Irish were victors last season, 25-22. Notre Dame’s biggest margin of victory was 40-0 in 1949, while Navy won 33-7 in 1956.
Navy runs from a T-formation with spreads, flankers, wingbacks and combinations of all three. Coach Hardin calls his a “diversified, wide open attack.”
Joe Kuharich’s charges looked strong in the second half against Northwestern, although badly outplayed in the first half. George Haffner came up with two interceptions deep in Irish territory and a touchdown pass to Jim Sherlock to keep the Irish in the game, while Nick Buoniconti and Nick DePola led the Notre Dame tacklers. With no serious injuries in the Northwestern game, the Irish are in good physical condition for the Navy contest.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
27
ODDS and ENDS
Wilt Chamberlain made good his return to pro basketball as he led the Philly Warriors to a 133-123 vic ton.’ over upstart Syracuse. Wilt headed a 40-point third quarter assault that proved to be too much for the Nationals. . . .
Did you know? Every member of the Michigan State University’ Marching Band is on a band scholarship. . . .
CALL OF THE WEEK: Joe Kuharich's eleven, victim of several questionable calls this season, really’ had one to squawk about last Saturday’ at Dyche Stadium. Everybody’ will agree that Frank Minik was stopped on a fourth quarter end run, but by’ a not-so-agile official rather than a Wildcat defender. . . .
Ray Norton, Olympic hard-luck sprinter is on the active list of the San Francisco 49’ers. His speed should be felt in the NFL, where Armin Hary won’t be present. . . .
SPEAKING OF DE-EMPHASIS: The University’ of Virginia is riding a 23 game losing streak, stretching back over the last three seasons. Shades of the “old” Marquette Warriors’.!’.!
M. S. U.’s hard-nosed guard and tricaptain Freddie Boylan was told that he was too small to play at Notre Dame. . . .
CARY CALLS 'EM
Army over Miami (Ohio) Arkansas over Texas A&M Oregon State over California Auburn over Florida Michigan over Wisconsin Miami (Fla.) over Boston College Iowa over Kansas Oklahoma over Colorado Texas over SMU Princeton over Brown Southern California over Stanford Minnesota over Kansas State Maryland over South Carolina Rice over Texas Tech Penn State over West Virginia Duke over Georgia Tech Purdue over Illinois Tennessee over North Carolina Pittsburgh over Syracuse Northwestern over Indiana Missouri over Nebraska Mississippi over LSU Baylor over Texas Christian
Game of the Week Michigan State over Ohio State
Upset of the Week Notre Dame over Navy
Last Week’s Results 21 right, four wrong, one tie 84 per cent
Totals To Date 74 right, 24 wrong, three ties 75.5 per cent
28
DON RALPH
Irish Tennis Ace
ftalph, Heinbecker Pace Netmen in Fall Sessions
Captain Don Ralph and returning letter winner Bill Heinbecker are expected to spark the Irish tennis team this spring. The team is now engaged in fall practice during which Coach Tom Fallon expects to get a good idea of whom he can depend on this spring.
Ralph, a senior who hails from Bethesda, Md., occupied the number one position last year and is expected to do the same this year. During his regular season matches of the past two years, Don has racked up 31 victories and has lost but twice.
Heinbecker, a senior from St. Louis, competed in the number two post last year. His record for varsity service stands at 32 victories and one defeat. Heinbecker is also an excellent doubles player.
Certainly these two men comprise one of the most successful duos in collegiate circles, but unfortunately they are the only returning lettermen. Several players with little or no varsity experience are battling it out for the remaining singles and doubles spots.
Junior Maurice DeWald, a doubles competitor last year, will be scrambling for a position along with classmate Jim Whelan.
Sophomores Joe Brown and Jim Bemis are in the thick of the fray, while two other sophomores, Sandy Van Eyck and Don Doyle, are injured at present but could quite possibly move into starting slots if their injuries heal properly.
The schedule once again includes the always tough Michigan and Northwestern teams, and arrangements are now being made for a southern swing which could include the strong Duke and North Carolina forces.
Coach Fallon envisions a fine record if the new men produce. The Irish netmen will continue their fall outdoor sessions as long as the weather permits.
National Gridiron Foundation Seeks Promotion of Football
Something of great importance has passed relatively unnoticed for the first three football games here at Notre Dame. It is the stand representing the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. The stand is situated in front of the Stadium on football Saturdays and the idea that it is promoting is of great importance to all football fans.
The National Football Foundation is a nation-wide organization whose purpose is threefold. First, the Foundation endeavors to promote American amateur football as an integral and wholesome part of our educational process. Another important reason for its presence here on this campus and on campuses throughout the United States is to en- s courage the beneficial direction and playing of the game at schools and colleges throughout the country. The natural result of such a program is actually its third purpose — to provide the proper incentive and ideals for American youth and to set a standard of sportsmanship for the individual player.
The Foundation, in seeking to establish the true concept of the game as an amateur sport, is depending on the Notre Dame stand and others like it to^ implement their objectives for fund-” r raising drives. At present, the greatest J need of the Foundation is to effectively W create the Hall of Fame while formu- i lating its worthy objectives. The total | cost of the Hall of Fame building will be approximately $1,500,000 and the endowment needs will be an additional $500,000.
Notre Dame is doing its part in highlighting the role and purpose of the ■. National Football Foundation and Hall^' 1 of Fame here. For several hours preceding the Saturday home games and g also at the game’s conclusion, volun- g teers at the stand pass out information g concerning the Foundation and its pur- | pose.
The publicity of the Foundation is assisted by one-minute commentaries ovei-the Stadium’s public address during the »! home games. Thus far, Pat O’Brien, <J) Red Grange and Hank Greenberg have been the half-time speakers. Perry Como and Mel Allen will be guest speakers for the next two games.	j
The Studebaker-Packard Corporation of South Bend is also sponsoring the Foundation. While the speeches are carried over the public address, a Studebaker with colorful Hall of Fame pennants can be seen driving around the Stadium track.
The Foundation currently has thou-^j sands of members and about 50 active ' chapters in many cities and states throughout the countiy. These dedicated groups are all doing their part to support the program. Every football enthusiast and participant — past, present and future — is urged to join.
Each new member will receive a membership card, the “Footballeter,” the Foundation’s monthly digest, and other current information about amateur football.	$
The Scholastic ]
Sullivan Athletic Trophy Donated to Senior Class
The Rev. John P. Sullivan Memorial Trophy will be the newest addition to the Student Center this year. The trophy, donated by the family of Father Sullivan to the then Sophomore Class .President John Keegan in the fall of 01958, is a gift to the Class of 1961.
The trophy itself is a reward to the x hall which attains the highest athletic j standing in competition among the class , of ’61. In 1959 the recipient was Morrissey Hall. The 1960 winner was Dillon Hall. The winning hall for 1961 will be determined in the spring.
Competition is divided into three groups. Group one includes sports which are essentially team sports and which • would require several men taking part in order that the residence hall be represented. Included under this heading are football, both tackle and touch, basketball, baseball, softball, volleyball and indoor track.
Group two covers those sports which are essentially individual sports, but which are conducted on a team basis by the Interhall Athletic Department. Box-^ing, novice and open, cross-country, F gymnastics, swimming and wrestling ' come here.
1 Group three deals with those sports which are essentially individual sports and are conducted on an individual basis : by the Interhall Athletic Department.
, Golf, handball and tennis are included 1 in this group.
SULLIVAN MEMORIAL TROPHY
An athletic prize
9b
October 28, 1960
TIME OUT
It was a beautiful day in Evanston last Saturday—perfect football weather. Perfect, that is, except for the fact that the Notre Dame football team came up with another mediocre performance to make its season record now stand at 1-4. The Northwestern Wildcats really dominated the action much more than the 7-6 score might indicate. With quarterback Dick Thornton and fullback Mike Stock carrying the ball 44 times between them, the Wildcat offense rolled up a total of 222 yards on rashes while the Irish could manage to gain a meager sum of only 44 yards. The close score is even more astonishing when the statistics reveal that the Notre Dame offense picked up only six first downs, all in the second half, while the hosts almost quadrupled their count with 23 of their own.
NO DAY FOR PASSING
With winds up to twenty miles-an-hour, I can see why the Wildcats did not rely on the vaunted arm of Thornton. Nor was there any need to. Coach Ara Parseghian noticed that Thornton and his mates were moving the ball well on the ground and thus let his team beat the Irish at their own game. Of the twelve passes that he did attempt, Thornton completed only five for 57 yards. Meanwhile, Notre Dame signal caller George Haffner threw eleven passes and completed four- for- 51 yards. Haffner compensated for Thornton’s higher completion percentage by intercepting two of the Wildcat aerials while none of his tosses fell into enemy hands.
Even though Thornton was off in the passing department, part of the reason for his difficulty must be attributed to an improved Notre Dame pass defense. The Irish backs appeared more agile and poised and on several occasions had the Wildcat receivers so well guarded that Thornton had to rely on his outstanding running ability to keep the Wildcat offense clicking. Special praise should go to Haffner, Frank Minik and Clay Schulz. Haffner grabbed the only two interceptions of the day and looked like the most improved defensive man that Notre Dame had on the field. The small but speedy Minik proved that he can stay with the best as his last-minute efforts saved the Irish from at least two more completions. And Schulz—he played his usual game. Clay proved once again that he likes to make those crushing tackles. A defensive back with that rare quality of sizing up a play on an instant, Schulz usually ends up at the right place at the right time.
AN UNSUNG LINEMAN
Notre Dame is lucky to have a lineman of Nick Buoniconti’s calibre. Each week Nick performs his job without the acclamation that many of the other players receive and last Saturday he came through with another fine defensive game. Buoniconti, who now leads the team in tackles with 39, plays much like departed All-American Al Ecuyer. Like Ecuyer, he gets a very quick “jump” on the ball and this enables him to shoot through before the opposing linemen can get set for blocks. If the play is going around end, Buoniconti has the speed to hit the runner before he can get into the Notre Dame secondary.
Three sophomores also figured prominently in the Irish forward wall defense. Guard Nick DePola continued to look like a fine prospect as he led the Kuharichmen with eleven tackles. Ends Brian Boulac and Jim Sherlock contributed seven and six tackles respectively to the Irish cause. The few mistakes that these two did make can be attributed to the fact that neither has played extensively this season.
IRISH STARS IN THE PRO RANKS
It is with pride that you can turn on your television set on a Sunday afternoon and watch ex-Notre Dame players dominate the pro football contests. Last Sunday, on whatever channel you might have turned to, there was a Notre Dame graduate leading his team to victory. The Washington Redskin game was the first one I watched and it was Ralph Guglielmi’s pinpoint passing that enabled his team to tie the Steelers. After watching Guglielmi’s performance, I turned to the Green Bay-San Francisco contest. It should have been called Paul Hornung Day because he took over the league lead in scoring with 23 of Green Bay’s 41 points. Monty Stickles looked big and fast for the Forty-Niners and he made a fine catch right before the game ended. Then, a change of channels again! This time it was Boston against Denver. And quarterbacking for Denver was none other than Frank Trip-ucka; he ended up throwing three touchdown passes. My only regret was that I didn’t see Jim Martin’s field goals of 52, 51 and 40 yards. Quite a performance for the old Notre Dame grads! -
-^LK.
CONGRATULATIONS, GENE!
Gene Viola started the Northwestern game last week end at the offensive center position. Last Monday, Oct. 24, Gene started on a new career, that of being the father to a new baby girl presented to him by Mrs. Gene Viola. The baby was born at St. Joseph’s Hospital.
campus character:
PSAMUEL PSYCHE
A thinking man’s thinking man, Psamuel finds that thoughts come easiest when he is most comfortable.
That’s why he always wears Jockey brand T-shirts. He likes the way the fine combed cotton feels next to his skin. He likes the way the twin-stitched, nylon-reinforced collar keeps its shape. And he likes the full-proportioned body and extra long tail that never creeps.
You, too, will like yourself better when you enjoy the comfort of Jockey brand T-shirts. Your favorite campus store has them. $1.50
Tight Contests Highlight Interhall Football Action
Last week’s interhall action was almost at a standstill as most of the contests were postponed. In the feature game of the week last Monday, Alumni had an easy time as it rolled to a 30-.0 victory over Lyons. Terry Hutton led the Alumni chargers with two touchdowns while John Juliano, Dave Ryan and Denny O’Shaughnessy also countered six points apiece for the winners. On Wednesday, Off-Campus was scheduled to face a strong Dillon eleven while Zahm was meeting Howard.
Dillon, defending champion, is fielding another powerhouse this year. In their first encounter, they completely smashed Lyons, 32-0. The strong Off-Campus team this year is coached by a former Dillonite, Ed McCarron, and includes a fine quarterback, • Rich DeRosa, on its eleven. In their first game, Off-Campus upset a strong Alumni team, 7-0.
Yesterday’s lone game featured a strong Morrissey team facing St. Edward’s. Earlier this year, Morrissey ran over Howard, 14-0, thereby becoming the favorite to win the sophomore division.
Last Sunday’s action featured two fierce struggles in the Freshman League. Farley beat Breen-Phillips, 12-6, with a score after the final gun had sounded. Breen-Phillips a few seconds earlier had left the field after being informed by the referee that time had run out after a penalty had been called against them. The referee called the Breen-Phillips team back, and after a conference with the other officials, decided to have one more play. And on this last play, Farley’s Jim Drury threw a 15-yard pass to Bill Petersmark for the winning score.
Stanford, well drilled by former Irish halfback Pat Healy, rumbled past Cavanaugh, 6-0. The Stanford offense was directed by Serge Martinez, who two weeks ago threw two touchdown passes against Breen-Phillips.
Cavanaugh keyed their defense to stop Martinez but left the hole open for Steve Height, an all-state high school halfback in Kansas, to throw a scoring pass late in the first half. Height’s running was also Stanford’s prime threat throughout the afternoon.
GRIDIRON PERSONALITIES
The referee is an oft-seen sight in Notre Dame football action. His * bright red handkerchief may be seen on occasion floating lazily from his back pocket to the turf. Usually, this is accompanied with an accusing finger pointed in the direction of the most innocent-looking man in the stadium.	(' •
Notre Dame Sailors Rebound In Boilermaker Regatta Clash
After finishing in the bottom half of the fleet at Wisconsin two weeks ago; the Notre Dame Sailing Team showed its quality by bouncing back to win the(\ Purdue Fall Invitational Regatta. When the racing was over Saturday on Lake Monticello the team had won the i-ight to bring back the Silver Mug, a very appropriate trophy.
The very strong shifty winds and deceptive current made for very exciting and close racing as was evidenced by the fact that the Irish were involved in
eight protests in ten races. Fortunately,.^ our fine sea lawyers, John Zusi and-
Frank Courrages, won all but two and their eloquence thus won the regatta.
Zusi was high point skipper in “A” division. Marty Meyer’s • and Hank Chamberlin’s fine job of crewing undoubtedly accounted for the Rambler’s three-quarter point margin of victory. The point totals were: Notre Dame, 24%; Xavier, 24; DePauw and Michigan State, 23; Purdue, last.
The Sailing Club, of which the team \ is a small part, has free open sailing'1' every afternoon from 2 o’clock on.
Meetings for those who would like to join the club and learn how to sail are every Wednesday night, 209 Engineering Building. Sailors and nonsailors alike are welcome. Those interested but unable to attend a meeting should see Jim Kuras in 358 Badin or John Zusi in 157 Zahm.
—Ed Bukowski
The Scholastic^
30
KEGLER'S KORNER
The highlight of this week’s howling activity at Notre Dame will occur this Sunday as the Irish varsity squad will host a powerful DePaul team in the opening match of the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference. DePaul, winner of the MIBC last year, will be । out to avenge two defeats inflicted on J them by Notre Dame last season. This first match could have an important bearing on the final outcome of the conference as the Irish will be fielding their strongest team ever and rate as cofavorites with DePaul to win the loop. For all those interested in viewing the match, action will begin at 1:30 Sunday afternoon. Admission is free.
In the student leagues, the scoring continued high. The top score of the I week as far as teams go was compiled "by the Mathematicians of the White League. They rolled a 1011 scratch game, the highest so far in the handicap Kegler leagues.
Standings:
I96O-'6I Swimming Schedule
■’December	2  Miami
•December	17  Central Michigan
January	14  Northwestern
•January	28  Cincinnati
•February	4  Ohio
February	8  Kent
•February 11 _________________ Western Michigan
February	13 _____ Wisconsin
February	18  St. Louis
•February 25 ____________________ North Central
March 3 ---------------------- Bowling Green
March	4 ---- Pittsburgh
* Home Meets

3W. S.
JEWELERS TO NOTBE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOB OVEB 3t YEABS. Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
(1)	Classic League Bowlers Shop ..................11-1
Don Dvorak ................ 9-3
(2)	Red League Nite Kreatures ............... 8-4
Beatniks ................. 8-4
Individuals .............. 8-4
(3)	White League Mathematicians ...............12-0
(4)	Blue League AICHE ........................12-0
Cleveland Club ...........10-2
(5)	Yellow League Detroit Club .................11-1
' Lucky Strikes ..................10-2
Sixty-Niners .............10-2
(6)	Green League Untouchables .................12-0
Estrangers ...............11-1
High averages: Classic League—Dan Halloran.196
Red League—Ray Stefani .....175
[ White League—Dave Akers ..186
Blue League—John Roark .....175
Yellow League—Dan Halloran .200
Green League—Tim Kelly......176
High series: Classic League—Jim Lewis ...592
Red League—Dave Culver......538
White League—Bob Krug.......602
Blue League—John Roark......645
Yellow League—none reported Green League—Pat McMahon ...538
s'
BIG DEAL I
paperqMate CAPRI MARK III

WflSWC
NOW
High games (all leagues combined): Bob Krug 236, 211; John Roark 233, 223; Dave Akers 232; Bud Roberts 225; Bill Parker 231; Tom Callahan 217; Ron Dvorak 216; Jim Dippman 215, 211; Mike Rohr 213; Phil Ryan 212; Pat McMahon 210; Fred Hoey 209, 203; Tim Kelly 207; Larry Naymik 207; Mike Sammon 206; Tom Schroeder 204, 201; Bill Pregenzer 204; Frank Ara-neta 204; Chuck LeRose 200.
—Bob Miller
October 28, 1960
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on - the - campus
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
ous time was at the Iowa pep rally last year. Any visitor to the University would be amazed by the general rowdyism and false spirit which is present at most pep rallies.
Perhaps the student body stepped be
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP attractive, exclusive suits and sportwear for college men and prep schoolers
Our interesting Fall selection of clothing for undergraduates wearing sizes 35 to 42 is now ready. Included are good-looking new worsted suits in distinctive colorings, new designs in sport jackets and rugged new outerwear... as well as traditional favorites. All reflect our quality, styling and taste, and are as moderately priced as we can make them. Our "346” furnishings are also designed for undergraduates.
We invite you to come in and enjoy the expert service and expanded facilities of our University Shop. Fall catalogue sent upon request.
Suits, $ 7 0 to $ 8 0 • Worsted Flannel Trousers, $21.50 Tweed Sfort Jackets, $50 • Tweed Tof coats, $80 Our Own Make ”346” Cotton Oxford Shirts, jrom$S.IS
vnuusMm
^Itns fiimishings, Qats $ Shots
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON * PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
yond the bounds of good conduct last week end, but this is no reflection on Sorin Hall or the Blue Circle. After two straight defeats, the student body’s morale was generally low. The efforts by the Blue Circle and Sorin Hall to raise their spirit should be commended not condemned. They succeeded admirably. I was much prouder of being from
Notre Dame after last week’s game, than I was after the booing and card stunt incidents after the Purdue game.
John G. O’Brien 328 Morrissey Editor:
I admire the aspirations of the Scholastic Staff to attain a new level of taste in the magazine this year. However, to commit yourselves to the artistic merit of your covers as representing the o, staff’s fine hopes was a grave mistake.
If it is possible to achieve “art” on a Scholastic cover, I fear that Mr. Luczak has not yet approached it, and in fact has fallen considerably below the quality of covers in past years. All art must be charged with meaning, and “non-objective” art emphasizes meaning beyond discursive interpretation as the strength of its merit. To try to pass off meaninglessness as something esoteric reminds us of the fable of the king’s invisible suit of clothes which none but the very wise could see. The first two Scholastic covers this year were meaningless.
The other two were trite. When the Machine becomes the archetype for Democracy in America, art is chaos. Here human values are obviously topsy-turvy.
Scholastic covers by nature can never hope for any more than a superficial de- j gree of art, so please, let’s be sensible^ J about them in the future.	’ |
Dick Gemperle I 403 Badin
Editor:	i
I attend a football game primarily to cheer the team on, and not to be entertained by the band. As a member of the “mob,” which rendered “barbaric insult” to this organization by flooding the field during the half-time of the Michigan State game, I can only say that the intentions of both groups weren I identical. Perhaps a few on this campus I are getting a litttle too civilized.
August Gureno 142 Dillon
(ED: Apparently only a very few.)
Church and State
(Continued from page 34)	..
out of church last Sunday while the' letter was being read; a sign, was discovered posted on a church: “Death to the priests. Long live Munoz Marin,” and Archbishop Davis himself was booed as he entered San Juan Cathedral to read the letter.
It seems the Church has bred a legacy of hate and bitterness. Whatever the outcome of this controversy — the most heated between Church and state to take place in a democratic land — the Churchy will not succeed completely. It is fair' to say that, whenever the Church authorities engage in politics to the extent of forming a sectarian political party, the Church suffers degradation.
There is more to government than birth control and sterilization methods, and there is much, much more to the Church, than partisanship. In shorty easy to understand language: religion and politics don’t mix.
32
The Scholastic^
At the Theaters
(Continued from page 23)
listed in the release lists. Its co-feature is a delightful, if moronically simple little ditty called the Chartroose Caboose. As sleepers go, this is Rip Van Winkle. It stars that darling of the teenage set, the one and only (thank heav-•ens) Molly Bee. She’s so cute it almost f "hurts. Starring opposite her is Ben Cooper, about whom there is little to say except that here is proof that he hadn’t really been swallowed up into the studio grounds. Edgar Buchanan and 0. Z. Whitehead also star* in the movie, and they don’t make any efforts to save it either. The chartroose caboose belongs to Buchanan, a retired conductor who uses it as his home. All that can be said in closing is that Miss Bee and Cooper ^are married at the end and live happily " ever after in — you guessed it.
Some years ago, James Stewart and June Allyson cried their way through a movie honoring one of the greatest musicians this country has ever known. The Glenn Miller Story could have been conceivably better as a production, but it’s always nice to hear all those old Miller favorites once more. Even though the movie is paired with a natural sensationalist loser.
Namely, College Confidential. This could be called a sequel to High School Confidential, and plans are being made to expose all education from nursery school up. Mickey Rooney has been tabbed for the lead in one of the movies — but the producers refuse to reveal what age he will play. His own would do just fine for anything below the seventh grade.
All seriousness aside, this outstanding error of the motion picture industry is geared to attract all kinds of people
— except possibly college students. It stars the man who would rather be a live slave than a dead freeman, Steve Allen, and his charming wife who refuses to grow old gracefully, Jayne Meadows. It also stars Walter Winchell. I could visualize a scene of Winchell and Hedda Hopper slugging it out for the favors of Hollywood notables. However, I cannot visualize him in front of a camera. His sentences sound much better when you read them than when you hear them.
A lot of money was lost producing the movies available downtown this week, with the possible exception of Can-Can. If I were to select a Movie of the Week, it would get the title, but only by default. No contest, no title. Maybe next week will be better. After all, the Granada might be showing their booked feature! Midnight Lace.
See you next week. -‘—Tony Wong
Seniors-find out what Kearfott’s flexible training program offers You
Check the experiences of four ’59 graduates at Kearfott
JAMES KEATING ^Ulanova University ’59
LENNART G. JOHANSSON
Lafayette College '59
Not at all sure of the area of engineering (development, design, test, manufacturing) which would interest him most, Jim has been most impressed by the way Kearfott Project Engineers STAY WITH A PROJECT from study phase right through to production, assuming full technical and financial responsibility for the quality and salability (price-wise) of the finished hardware. He finds that this Kearfott philosophy enables him to operate across the broad spectrum of engineering.*** Coming from out-of-town, Jim was also pleasantly surprised by the wide choice of living quarters readily available.
STANLEY WALLERSTEIN
Ohio University '59
The very advanced nature of many Kearfott projects fired this engineer’s imagination. He joined the Electronics Systems Lab, where he worked on the development of a tiny counter-part of what is believed to be the most accurate test equipment yet devised for missile guidance systems. After exposure to the diversity of the projects in the Systems Lab, Stan has decided to look no further, but requested permanent assignment here, where work ranges over space navigation, digital computers, guidance systems, solid state physics, industrial automation systems and diverse electronic systems.
Len is pleased with his six months’ experience at Kearfott on two widely different counts. First is the combination of both theoretical and practical knowhow he has gained in a field that has fascinated him for a long time—transistor applications. The other is Kearfott’s location. Finding midtown New York only 40 minutes away by car, Len, a veteran, is planning to continue his studies for an MS at one of the many colleges in the New York/New Jersey area: Columbia, N.Y.U., Stevens, Newark College of Engineering are all close by. This semester, Len has enrolled for two Kearfott sponsored courses taught at the plant.
GARY WOERNER Newark College of Engineering ’59
Gary has worked by choice in two Laboratories since he joined Kearfott last June —Astronautics and Electronics. He values the opportunity he had to work in direct contact with senior engineers and scientists who have played a leading role in developing the Kearfott inertial systems and components which have been selected for application in over 80 aircraft and 16 major missile systems. Gary now leans to the choice of a permanent assignment in the Electronics Lab but has decided to work a few months in the advanced Gyrodynamics Division, before coming to a decision.
Opportunities at Kearfott are expanding
Long occupying a unique position in the fields of electronics and electromechanical components and precision instrumentation, Kearfott — in recent years—has moved more and more into the development of complete systems. This has lead to major staff expansion at all levels, including a sizable number of positions for recent graduates in all 4 major company units:
The Systems Division ' The Gyrodynamics Division The Electro-Mechanical Division The Precision Component Division
Through its flexible TRAINING PROGRAM, Kearfott offers young engineers freedom to explore the field, before selecting the broad area best fulfilling individual interests. Remarkable rapid professional advancement is possible—and likely -through the PROMOTION BY MERIT POLICY. For detailed information, see the Kearfott representative on campus.
Little Falls. New Jersey 1150 McBride Ave.
KEARFOTT DIVISION
GENERAL PRECISION. INC.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS NOV. 4 FOR ASSISTANT PROJECT ENGINEERS Make an appointment now with your Placement Director, or write to Mr. Francis X. Jones.
i
church and state in puerto rico
Everybody in the United States is aware of the problems involved in having a Catholic candidate for President. Everybody is also aware of the efforts of many Protestant clergymen against Senator Kennedy’s election. But hardly anybody who disclaims that Pope John XXIII will move into the White House if Senator Kennedy is elected is aware of a precedent being established now under the American flag.
What is this? Why does scarcely anyone know about it? Because it isn’t happening in Massachuetts, or California, or any other state. It’s happening in Puerto Rico, which is separated by 1100 miles of Atlantic Ocean from Miami.
THAT LETTER
The overwhelming majority of Puerto Ricans is Catholic, and therefore the Church is in a position to wield great power in any aspect of daily life it chooses. It has chosen politics. Earlier this year, a bill was presented in the Puerto Rican Senate proposing the teaching of religion in public schools. A demonstration in support of the bill was organized via the children in prominent Catholic schools and their parents — and by handouts distributed in parish churches. However, the bill was promptly defeated since public funds are used to maintain public schools and this precludes the teaching of religion in those schools.
The matter did not stop there, however. Due to the grave problem of overpopulation in Puerto Rico, the government has been sponsoring birth control and sterilization programs for some time now, and the Church has many times expressed its opposition to these practices. This is its prerogative. It has been the case here in the United States whenever any such program, public or private, has arisen. But, because the Church does not have the power it has in Puerto Rico, that is all that has happened. In Puerto Rico, a pastoral letter was recently issued by Archbishop James P. Davis of San Juan, Bishop James E. McManus of Ponce, and Bishop Luis Aponte Martinez, titular bishop of Lares. This pastoral letter, read in all Catholic churches last Sunday, Oct.
34
23, prohibits Catholics from giving their votes on Nov. 8 to Governor Luis Munoz Marin, who is running for reelection and whose Popular Democratic Party has sponsored the birth control and sterilization programs.
In establishing its opposition to the Governor’s party, the Church has also cited the government’s tolerance of common law marriages without realizing, it seems, that the great number of common law marriages in Puerto Rico stem from ignorance of correct procedure and that the chore of teaching people belongs to the Church as well as to the government.
Governor Munoz Marin plans to send a letter to the Vatican — after Nov. 8 — and has already warned Senator Kennedy of the national implications of the pastoral letter. The Senator has been quoted by UPI as regarding the letter as “wholly improper.”
Even though Cardinal Spellman has said the letter does not provide a penalty for disregarding it, the letter in effect prohibits the Catholics from voting for Governor Munoz Marin, in effect telling them how to vote. Yet Archbishop Davis says the letter is “nonpolitical.”
There are three reasons why no such thing has happened in the United States. First of all, while the Catholic Church has traditionally wielded great influence in all Spanish-speaking lands, it has not been able to do so in the States. Second, the Church in the United States is not able to command nearly as high a percentage of the popular vote as it can in Puerto Rico, where well over 90% of the people are Catholics. And third, the problem of rising population in the United States is insignificant compared to Puerto Rico’s problem; the U.S. government has not felt compelled to cany out a nationwide program of population control.
How significant are the charges against Governor Munoz Marin’s government? Do they warrant the move taken by the Church? The bill supporting the teaching of religion to public school children would have had the secular education time cut down to accomodate religious training in the public school buildings themselves. Viewing the level of education of public school children in Puerto Rico at present, this
seems rather foolish. There aren’t enough public school buildings to fit all the children who should be receiving pri-^ mary and secondary grade education. In fact, in some cases, one group of children is taught in the morning hours! while another group is taught in the afternoon. Is there any available time?’ Further, several Catholic parishes havej successfully established Sunday schools? in their parish school buildings for chil-« dren who receive no religious instruc-; tion during the week. This is serviced! by the parishioners themselves and costsl the Church or the children nothing. ’
The problem of birth control and; sterilization is another matter. Here, the^ Church is completely within its rights,; opposing these programs, no matter how| serious the overpopulation problem is.? But still it cannot hope to enter politics ; without raising justifiable opposition. «
AND KENNEDY*
How is this tied up with Senator Kennedy? It should make him at least; a little uneasy. He has already come out against such a move by the Church, and his stand is reasonable. The Protestants opposing his election could in all fairness give thought to the possibility that such a thing could happen in the. United States if the Catholic Church be-* came as powerful here as it is in Puerto Rico. Perhaps they could anticipate a . strictly Catholic political party to be | formed here, sanctioned and prodded ] forward by the clergy. It has happened in Puerto Rico. Their candidate for gov-emor is opposed to birth control and sterilization and in favor of that famous I bilk However, he hasn’t been asked for credentials regarding his competence in] government. Nor is he likely to he asked.J
Of course, everybody in Puerto Rico* knows that Munoz Marin will be reelected once more, and the government policies seem unlikely to change, at least within the next year. So the Church will keep battling on.
It will not have the general sanction of all Catholics, either. The pastoral letter has already created bitter feeling in many parishes. Several people walked
(Continued on page 34)
The Scholastic[
JACK SAVED HIS COMPANY $10,000
ON HIS FIRST ASSIGNMENT
While Jack Trabert was in college he had some definite career ideas. He knew what he wanted—a job with a payoff for good judgment and hard work.
With a B.S. in Business Administration from the University of Nebraska, Jack knew he could look in many directions. And he did. He talked to 20 companies. And then in August, 1957, joined Northwestern Bell, in Omaha, Nebraska.
His chance to show what he could do was not long in coming. On his first assignment Jack came up with answers that made it possible to handle long distance calls made at night in the Omaha area with less force and equipment than was needed under the old system. This resulted in a $10,000 annual saving.
Next, Jack worked on a training and devel
opment program fcr “mark sensing”—a new method for mechanized processing of long distance charges.
Today, Jack has an important role in planning and developing telephone facilities to keep pace with Omaha’s ever-increasing need for long distance services.
Jack puts it this way—“If a guy can keep his average up, there are places to go in this outfit. A man doesn’t have to wait around for opportunity to knock—he has all he can handle right from the start.”
If you want a fob in ivhich you’re given a chance to shoiv your stuff, and held strictly accountable for your decisions, right from the start—then you’ll want to visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.
“Our number one aim is to hare in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find.”
Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
•tminu
gM fleers?
and enlist






ft ft
SYSTEMS ENGINEERING CAN START HERE.
OR HERE- OR HERE- OR HERE... OR HERE
OR HERE
If you are completing studies in engineering, economics, math, science or business, have maintained high averages and are interested in a rewarding professional career leading to management, IBM Systems Engineering may be just the career for you.
What does an IBM Systems Engineer do? He studies problems in industry, science, business and government, and then organizes the most modern electronic data processing techniques and machine systems to solve them. He works at the source and with top executives in the organizations concerned. The problems are fascinating and exciting—and include automation of: process control and manufacturing operations, inventory control document preparation, satellite tracking,
highway planning, weather forecasting, and complete business control systems for utilities, transportation, banking and insurance, to name but a few. New techniques of automatic data processing are making headline news almost daily.
Your present training, combined with one of the most comprehensive training programs conducted by any company, may put you in a position to join this fast-growing new profession with virtually an unlimited future. Openings will exist in all principal U.S. cities. See your Placement Director for additional information about IBM and to arrange for an interview. Or feel free to write or call me:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager, IBM Corporation, 618-620 North Michigan St., South Bend 1, Ind., CE 2-8251
Ml
la

8
tnif
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company ■	■■■■
■W