

'I 
~·, -·-~; ·. 
: ' 
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
-~-------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------·----­
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name ------'--------"-------------­
Ad~res s ______________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
. Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __ years = $___ 

Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine October 1, 1 9 8 7 
News 
6/In Name Only by Karen Marsh 

Student Life 
16/A Taste of Nations by Sara Harty 

Departments 
4/week in Distortion: Ted & Ned Return by John Coyle 
5/On Other Campuses: The Dead Live by Steve Sparks 
8/Music: Follow Or Don't Claim by Ann Seifert 
18/ Coming Distractions 
2O/Final Word: 


Sports 
1O/Pressure Under Grace by Terry Lynch 
13/Sportsweek by Terry Lynch 
14/Breaking Away From the Pack by Molly Mahoney 
Scholaatic i• published weokly durins the school year except durina; examinatiQna and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46656 and printed at The Papen, Inc., Milford, IN 466542. The subscription rato is $20.00/year and back wuea are available at $1.00/copy. The opiniom expressed in Scholaatic are tho11e of authora and editora and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholutic or the Univeniity of Notre Dame, ib administration, faculty or student body. Editorials reprenent the opinion of a majority of the editorial board. Manuscript& are welcome. All un110licited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nation­
ally by CASS Communication•, Inc. 0 1987 Scholastic magazine. All right ¦ reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 


Editorial 
N otre Dame, despite the rav­ings of a few reactionaries, is still Catholic. And obvi­ously so. That doesn't mean, of course, that the Univer­
sity has completely fulfilled the often paradoxical role of being a Roman Catholic institution with a catholic, as in universal, perspective. But the side of 
Notre. Dame that more often suffers is that side that strives for academic integrity and balance. 
Perhaps because of conservative Catholics and influential alumni, the administration fails in acting as a true university, with free expression of all points of view. There is no clearer exam­ple of pro.blems in that area than last year's Juggler and Scholastic censorship controversies. By becoming too wrapped up in an image, the University ignores the more crucial mission of truly educating its students. And true education involves teaching the students to discover what is right rather than simply screening them from things that a proper, yet vocal, minority deems wrong. 
That is the real problem behind the 
administration's difficulties. There will be 
people who fail to understand the neces­sity for ·Notre Dame's mission to encom­pass the secular world. The administra­tion must have enough confidence in its responsibility to help prepare its students for a modern, if not always "riice" world. That willingness can only be revealed 
through continued support of non­
traditional faculty, of courses that explain 
the reasoning behind non-Catholic per­
spectives and of the complete free and open exchange of ideas. 
Scholastic 
Vol. 129 October 1, 1987 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Kathleen McKernan 
Executive Editor: Mark Dillon 
Business Manager: Cathy Coffey 
Editorial Staff 
Sports: Marty Burns Departments: Mike Farnan Student Life: Sara Harty News: Steffanie Keller Copy Chief: Bob White 
Editorial Assistant 
Sports: Terry Lynch Departments: Ann-Marie Walker 
·Production 
Graphic Arts Manager: Patricia Brienza Photo Manager: 
Allan Lim 
Systems Manager: 
Lawrence Pravecek 
Production Manager: Amy Weber 
Business 
Administration and Circulation: Matthew Bradley Controller: John Harper 
Issue 5 Staff Photography:Art: Greg Alberton Damian Shiner 
Chuck Ray Copy Editors: Sam Siewert Lisa Coleman Joe Vitacco 
Karen Marsh Distribution:Elizabeth Whelpley. 
Jim Balesh 



Letters 
Letters to Scholastic must be their year in school and college. upon request in certain instances. ty:,ed and include the writer's Faculty members should include 
name, address and phone number. their department. All letters must Scholastic reserves the right to University students ghould include be signed. Names will be withheld reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the la\".'S of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spel­



j'h:-~OPWA-;:-K-=:io~7
ling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space limitations, Scho­lastic cannot print all letters
t WALK to raise SS for the SOUTH t 
received. Letters should be limited to fewer than 250 words. Address all
t BEND POOR The event will be held t 
correspondence to: 
' OCT. 11 at St. Joe High School at 2:00 p.m. t 
The Editor SJGN UP in Dorms and Scholastic laFortune Center 
t the dining halls next week., 2a O ·,; ,ep,•• ~~ 
! 

Notre Dame, IN 46556
L---~ __. ~ ___. ._... ................. -----~ 
SUB presents 

LEll 

Starring Mel Gibson & Danny Glover September 30 and October 1 7, 9: 15, and 1t30 p.m. 
AND 


Starring Bruce Lee October 2 and 3 7,9, and 11 p.m. 
Admission $2 Engineering Auditorium 
Week In Distortion/John Coy le 

Ted & Ned Return 

he tollowing is a 
true story. Well, 
parts of it. Well, 
maybe none of it, 
except for the fact 

that I am digging that new Bananarama song in a big 
way. · One recent Thursday afternoon, I was casually flipping through the Good Book, as I so often do, the Good Book, being the T.V. Guide, of course. The sun was shining, 
the radio was playing softly in the 
background, all was right with the world. 
" ... ! heard a rumor. They say you have a broken heart. I heard a rumor." 
Suddenly, the moment of com­plete and total oneness with my soul was broken by the loud knock on my door. 
"Come in," I yelled, hoping it wasn't the maid with the dreaded vacuum cleaner out to spoil my peace and quiet. 
And there they were, two older balding men, standing in my door­way. One wearing love beads, army fatigues and a pe_ace shirt, the other, a white butcher's jacket with gizard stains all over it. Jerry Garcia and Frank Perdue, I erroneously thought. The king of the tie-dye world and the king of tender, plump, juicy roasts in my room. Speechless at first, I quickly came to my senses. 
"Listen, Frank, I don't care if it takes a tough man to make a tender chicken. Don't try to ped­dle your oven-stuffer roasters around here," I screamed. "And Jer, you're an over the hill bur­nout, so why don't you go truckin' out of here," I added. 
"Wait, wait," they pleaded, ~s I shoved them out the door. "Don't you recognize us? It's your old pals, two of the three musketeers, Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce," they cried in unison. 
"Ted and Ned," I replied in amazement, hardly believing my eyes or my ears, "is that you? You nuts, what's going on?" 
After sharing a few buddy hugs, I offered them a seat on one of our spacious, off-yellow couches. They made quite a sorry sight. 
"You guys want a couple of Buds," I asked them, trying to mask my shock. 
· "Make mine a light," said Ned. 
So I handed him a desk lamp. 

"You still haven't lost that great sense of humor, Scoopy," laughed Ted. 
"Hey, let's go easy with the Scoopy's. I'm trying to lose that ridiculous nickname," I said, dying to discover the reason for their motley appearance. "So what the heck happened? You guys look like a couple of bums." 
And then, Ted told their story. "Everything was great at first. We had the mopeds, we had the 
R. V., we had the cash, we had the Vuarnets. We were set. Every­thing was going great 'til we hit Vegas.. What the heck, a little gam­bling never hurt anyone. Well, by the end of the night, we had lost it all. Everything. We tried to find work but it was _difficult. We got a bit part in the U2 video, "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For." That Edge can play a mean 
guitar. Anyway, after that, we bounced around. Reno, Tahoe, L.A., San Francisco, you name it, we were there." 
Finally, I hooked on to the Greatful Dead Tour as a roadie and Ned got a job as an assistant butcher at Fred's Little Slice of Heaven. But we couldn't bang for long so we decided to come home. We need your help, Godfather, er, 
1 
Scoopfather, uh John," said Ted, near tears. 
It was a moving and sad tale for sure but I couldn't help but say I told you so. 
"What was the last thing I told you two guys before you left?" I asked. 
"Stay away from the cards and 
fried foods," they replied embar­
rassingly. 

"Oh well, let. me make a few 
calls. Everyone deserves a second 
chance," I said compassionately. 
After getting on the horn to a few friends and calling in a few markers. and pulling some major 
strings, I found work for these 
once proud men. 

"Alright Ned, you know some­
thing about sports and food right? 
Well, you're coaching the defen­
sive backs on the Howard football 
team during the day and working 
Flanner food sales at night." 

"Ted, you're working slop line 
Tuesday and Thursday lunches 
and doing milk Monday, Wednes­
day and Friday breakfasts." 

"Now listen, I put my neck out 
for you two jokers so promise me 
you'll stay away from the cards 
and Ted, will you please lose the 
psychedelic shades." 


Scholastic
4 
.. 
Governor Tommy Thompson of 
Wisconsin has been branded a "wienie" in a song recorded by a group of students from the University of Wisconsin Madison, reports the College Press Ser­vice. Moreover, the governor is not even the princi­pal character being roasted in the song. John Jarvis, recently nominated as the student representative on Wisco's systemwide board of regents, is really in the doghouse with U.W.-Madison students who contend that" he would "vote Tommy Thompson's line" if elected. With regard to the song, Jarvis said, "I think it's humorous." However, Thompson must be greatly displeased at being made the mutt of the joke. 

Tie-dye is on the increase on the 
campus of Brown University, reports The Brown Herald. However, Ocean Pacific and Izod need not start throwing different colored shirts in the hot­water cycle just yet, as the new fashion could be merely a fad. In this case, the dye has a lot to do with the dead; the Grateful Dead that is. The band has just finished a three-night stint at the local Civic Center, and while it has been rumored that Brown "Dead-heads" may even start going class again (again?), the tie-dye trend has remained to add a lit­tle color to campus life. So what do non-tye-dyed college students think about the fashion? "It makes no sense. It's a throwback from times past," remarked one Brown student. 
More miscellania from academia: The College Press Service reports that in 1985, the Univer­sity of Georgia endured a long embarrassing public trial for effectively fixing the grades of some football players so they could remain eligible to to play. Since then, UG has strained· to tout the accomplishments of its student athletes. Hence, the Atlanta Journal­Constitution recently ran an article which featured player Kim Stephens, who in his fourth year has 


The Dead Live 
Tye-dyes add a little color to Brown's campus 
,;:;­


({~)' 
1/':::::' f 
,, 
..,,. 
~ 
V 


already earned an undergrad in math and math educa­tion and is working on his masters in business administration. For a photo to accompany the article, Stephens posed in front of a chalkboard on which he had written a quadratic equation. He wrote it incorrectly. 
EDITED BY STEVE SPARKS 





ameOnly? 
Despite controversy, Notre Dame claims .that it retains its Catholic nature 
BY KAREN MARSH 

thirst for knowledge, a conviction that not all truths are contained in 
textbooks and a desire to foster that thirst and conviction in others -these things form the keystone of Notre Dame and have always been at the heart of its pursuits." 
These are the opening lines of an essay entitled "This is Notre Dame," found in the Bulletin of Information. It outlines the dedi­cation to academic freedom and truth that the University says is at . the core of this institution of higher learning. 
_In 1842, Father Edward Sorin founded this university under Catholic auspices, with a heavy emphasis on morality, ethics and spirituality. This was in the belief 
that a mature religious life com­
plements an academic environ­
ment. 
Today, as the University begins 
the year with its 16th president, a 
lot has changed in terms of struc­
tlire. The campus is coeducational 
and the avenues of study have 
become highly diversified. Yet is 
this university now as profoundly 
committed to its Catholicism as it . was a century and a half ago? 
The curriculum here, while in 
the pursuit of knowledge, still has 
a strong adherence to Catholic 
ideology, according to Associate 
Provost Isabel Charles. She dis­
cussed the University position on 
the centrality of theology in the 
curriculum. She said, "There is a 
grounding in faith" reflected in 
what the University has to offer 
its students. 
Every student is required to 
take an introductory theology course, which traces the development of the church with an emphasis on early Catholicism. Beyond that, the theology depart­ment offers a variety of courses to explore doctrines of other reli­gions as well. Said Charles, "An ecumenical attitude has been encouraged since Vatican II" and this is reflected in the courses offered . 

Other academic areas reflect church issues. Students may take classes in ethics, peace sudies and third-world issues. Some econom­ics classes focus on the problems of developing countries. 
A particular issue in the spotlight for a while recently was a new schema proposed by the Vati~ can for Catholic universities. The thrust of the document concerned a more active role of the church in the structure of academic curricu­lums. Many American educators 
Scholastic


reacted negatively since they viewed it as a threat to institu­tional autonomy. 
It is precisely this issue that wme critics say prevents Notre Dame from being a truly Catholic university. In the December issue of Fidelity magazine, editor E. Michael Jones represents those opposed to a what he considers a liberal environment at Notre Dame. He writes that any dissent from Vatican teachings, whether the Pope is speaking "ex cathedra" or not, is unjustified. 
There will be no break from the Catholic church for Notre Dame because "it has already taken place," said Jones. The University is not juridically Catholic now and considers itself independent of the Vatican, according to Smith. He said dissent is among the ranks at Notre Dame · and the faculty members aren't doing enough to "protect their faith." 
Jones said that Notre Dame could and should insist on the Catholicity of its professors. He says he believes that the Univer­sity doesn't want to be Catholic bacause it employs professors who are not committed to Catholic orthodoxy. The term "academic freedom is a secular context" and disregards the truth of the reli­gion, said Jones. 
There is nothing taught at this university that is diametrically opposed to Catholic teachings, according to Charles. The stu­dents, faculty and staff, regardless of their religion, are expected to represent Notre Dame in a mature and responsible fashion. The registrar's office. reports that 
approximately 93 percent of the students here are Catholic. Charles believes that the classes have a strong Catholic identity but still are open to explore issues. 
The term Catholic means universal and thus the theology department invests some of its time in dialogue with other reli­gions. The Pope encourages Catholics to have a "mutual understanding" of those with dif­ferent views of society, academics and religion. 
This is a pluralistic society. The University looks to explore the world with an open mind. The Pope said, "Pluralism is directed toward the fullness of truth," ack­nowledging the need to talk to others. Students will not neces­sarily lose their Catholic identity by learning about other religions. 
After his recent audience with the Pope, University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy told The Observer that the Holy Father is "positive and apprecia­tive" of the American Catholic higher education system. With regard to the papal comments, Malloy said, "I felt very confident · overall with Notre Dame's mission and goals." 
The Catholic character on campus could be manifested in several ways. The Center for Social Concerns is dedicated to deepening students' awareness to such world issues as racism and poverty. Their self-proclaimed mission is to work for justice and peace in a troubled world. Each year hundreds of students volunteer their vacation time to work in poverty with the hope that they may foster a change. 
Many students are active in the community. · They volunteer to care for the elderly, and as tutors for the retarded and local school children. After graduation some students opt for the Peace Corps or 

7

,:: ' :~..s:-t)f;':~J.f· ---. -•?."i. ·;-=-~ ·-,-----·. -· . -----·--------· :.___ : -. ~ -~ ---~ ,. ----.... ---. ----. . -·-. -~ --:-:-:... -~-, .'.-. 
ministerial _work. 
Father Andre Leveille, director of campus ministry, said, "In terms of pastoral practice, a large majority of students worship and pray daily. There is a genuine Vatican and 52 million American Catholics on traditional doctrines. In the September 21 issue of Newsweek, Kenneth Woodward suggested that church doctrines on such controversial matters as abor­


hunger and interest in God." He_ said that many students come to him looking for ways to explore 
their 4'spirituality." "I know of no other university in the· United States or Europe that has the fervor that is found here," Leveille said. He said that the stu­dents have a stable "community of faith" because they bring· with them the best of their respective Catholic communities. On any given day, members of the Notre Dame community can be seen at the Grotto, rosary devo­tion, vespers or mass. There will . always be a percentage of people who do not take advantage of what the University has to offer. Reli­giosity is encouraged but it is a personal decision. In the wake of recent contro­versy about dissent within the church ranks, Catholics have been forced to re-evaluate their loyalty to Catholic teachings. During the Pope's visit to the United States, media attention focused mainly on the reported division between the 
tion and homosexuality "run counter to the indulgent standards of secular societies." 
Chicago Tribune writer Bruce Bursma recently completed a series of articles on Catholics in America and covered the Pope's cross-reception of the sacraments;" 

Notre Dame magazine ·recently reported that · a survey of Notre Dame alumni seemed to indicate more liberal theological trends. In comparison to a similar study done IO years. ago, alumni were "less inclined to accept the church's position" on such issues as papal 
infallibiliity, birth control and divorce. 
Looking in retrospect, however, to their college experience, the vast majority -of these alumni were satisfied not only with their edu­cation but the way in which Notre Dame helped to "develop their values, moral standards and com­mitments to life." So where does this shift away from orthodoxy originate? Does the University do enough to maintain Catholicism? Charles said that the faculty and priests on campus are "guides." 
They "respect the church's stand" but encourage students to make their own judgements. 
"It is a goal of education to strengthen the students" enough to 

may choose only the components of religion which appeal to them, and this "poses an obstacle to the country visit. He said, "People are seeking a more democratic and liberalized church." In his travels, the Pope complained about the "phenemenon of selected adher­ence to church doctrine." He said that some Catholics think that they stand on their own and effectively address the difficult issues, Charles said: She said that today Notre Dame is still as strongly dedicated to academic freedom. Students may explore issues and seek truth without limitation. Yet, the centrality of religion among intellectual concerns is an integral factor of life at Notre Dame .. II 


Scholastic 

Music/ Ann Seifert 


Follow Or Don't Claim 

kay, gripe time! Too many bands these days are releasing music with one intention: to make money. In 

other words, they are "selling out" The latest albums from bands· such as Simple Minds, The Del Fuegos and the Psychedelic Furs were great at fitting into the formats of radio stations, but were they full of great music? I think not 
Simple Minds put out a double live album in August, and a listener would never know that this is their ninth released album because only songs from their last four albums appear on this . live set The band members seem to have completely forgotten their past, and with it the songs that made Simple Minds great back in 1979. Simple Minds lost a golden opportunity to reintroduce old songs to their more recent fans. 
Unfortunately, I have the feel­ing that Jim Kerr and the band catered to the mainstream crowds as they put together this album. It · is a fact that mainstream buyers usually only buy material they've already heard. On the other hand, people into the underground scene buy any music, as long as it is good. However, these under­ground buyers are fewer in number and thus are too often overlooked. So bands like Simple Minds make more money by releasing more accessible albums. Some bands favor artistic integrity over money, but not in this case, and as a result, Simple Minds is now trapped. What a shame. 
And what has happened to the Psych Furs? Their first three LPs were sharp, yet rough around the edges, so they were distinctive without coming off as fake. Now, their synth sound is so polished and pop sounding, that a listener can hardly distinguish them from the other billion · pop bands around. Sure, they're more popular now, but at what price? Now all they are is a group with distinctive lead vocals, but nothing else. I'll say it again ... what a shame. 
On the happier side, some bands change, but not in a bad sense. Wire, R.E.M., The Replacements and Husker Du all released albums this year which were quite different from any of their earlier LPs. However, the big difference between these · groups and groups like the Damned and The Psych Furs is that the first four bands are still releasing material that is good. Different, yes, but still excellent music. Such albums show a progression, not a fall backwards off a cliff into the world of commercialism. So hats off to those groups who can still retain their greatness, even as they release new albums year after year. 

When one hears their six albums one after the other, it becomes immediately evident that The Replacements literally "grow up on vinyl" Husker Du does much the same thing on their many albums. These changes from records to record are great -it's bands like The Del Fuegos who make me want to be ill: they released one great album, followed by a mediocre album, followed by a piece of junk. . Groups like The Replacements and R.E.M. have my respect because they can come up with new and interesting songs and melodies year after year. 
It would certainly be wonderful if all band members were what they claiin to be -ARTISTS! 


ennis Grace, Notre Dame's head soccer coach, was dis­tracted. He had just
DER 

-watched his teain come out with a 1-0 victory at home against a very physical IIli­
i'. 
The Notre Dame soccer team, under its perfectionist head coach Dennis Grace, is off to its best start in nine years 
nois State squad and was talking with three sportswriters near the bench after the game. Grace wanted to talk about the game, his team's eighth straight win to start the season, and maybe the play of keeper Danny Lyons, 
Scholastic

Defenders often have 

. . trouble keeping an eye _ on the·· "Tiger" -junior striker.. "Tiger" McCourt, 
-Notre Dame~s leading .. scorer in· 1986. 


tum.-Grace, who was aboutto talk about his team some more, was instantly taken with the idea. 
"Yeah~ that sounds good,'' he replied. "Send. out every . fr~sh­_man." Flynn immediately took off · into the darkness outside the sta­dium. In the meantime, Grace's wife Carolyn and son Christopher (who will be· one year · old. on October 7) arrived on the sceQ.e, and Grace greeted them both, tak­
. ing time out to toll an orange golf ball to Christopher on the track. Christopher saw· it, gave a brief chase, and then stopped to watch the ball roll. 
"C'mon Christopher, go get it!" Grace implored. Since Christopher was not a freshman, however, his father was a little more forgiving. Grace laughed, · then shook his head. "What's the matter, Christo­pher? Been tipping a few with 
_some of the guys in the stands?" As Grace's small audience reacted, the coach was jolted back into his postgame ritual. 
"Before the game, I told the boys two ·things: one, we had-to play to our potential -and we d.id that · for most of the game -and 
· two, -we had to play· to win," Grace . said, putting a special
who had just recorded his fourth shutout in eight games. But things · emphasis on the last word. . Grace then went on to harp. on 
weren't quite right. 
"Jim, we're . not . cleaned up his opponents' rough style,. which at one point almost erupted into a
here," Grace. said to his assistant fight ·when Irish co-captain Steve
Jim Flynn. He was looking at the . Lowney was given a_ cheap shot by 
far end of the bench, where a heap
r of cups .and ice· remained · short~y .. one of the Redbirds.. ''I've always _said that if ,you can~t play.·by theafter his players, had wandered off 
into the JACC _"Maybe we ·should rules, then don't play. · I couldn't send ·everybody. back· out. to clean belie.ve some of the stunts those it up." _ · · -· . guys were pulling out there. Arid 
"You want me to se~d out some you guys saw wltat happened' when freshmen?"· Flynn asked, trying they cut dowri Lowney;. But l've to temper Grace's · hasty ultima-, got to give him credit -he kept Jiis cool -although if he d1<J.n't he would have been out of the ganie: But he's. a senior, and he knows 
better than that.•~ '· · · · · · ''-But I think ISU got a little .. frustrated. They lost three 'already. 
in overtime, ·and they've •. played some . very good teams.". He: stops .. for . a second, . and-then . goes ori, ­addirig self-consciously,"I know-I · shouldn't say that, because all of iny players tell me to get some ney.,' 
· quotes a:bout other teams~" 
By this time, the freshmen, led by Flynn, had come back onto the track. Grace immediately pro­duced a half-playful, . half-stern look; "If you guys would have picked that stuff up in the first place, you wouldn't have had to come back out here. Now I want it cleaned up." 
"It·won't happen again, coach,'' replied one of the freshmen in the :'volunteer" clean-up party. 
"Darn right it won't," Grace replied. "All it takes is one time to not forget." Grace waited, then piped up again. . "That's all it takes, am I right?" 
"Right, coach," said a voice by the mess. "Won't happen again." 
* * * 


n his fourth year as head of the Irish soccer pro,­gram, 34-year-old Dennis Grace is the driving force behind the Notre Danie 
·soccer . program's new rise to · 
· national prominence. The stocky, hard-driving coach has comman­deered his team to a 9-l ·tecord ·1:his year, its best since·a io-O r~n 
. in 1978; In the last. t~o seas~ns he . has watched his team tie· national· 

. power Akron, beat Connecticut o~ · 'the road (which hadn;t_ beeri done in 13 years) and upset. ·perennial 'power Indiana at home·· earlier.th.is .. 
season.. All of this success, in: part, can · be ·traced to ex-athletic d.irector
· 

Gene Corrigan's hiring of the ambitious Grace. As Grace puts it, "When I was interviewed to· be the soccer coach at Notre Dame, Corrigan asked, 'Why you?' ­that's a standard interviewing question -but he went on, 'Why · should I hire you? You're only 30 years old. · We've got other guys who have coached longer and had 
more wins.' " 
"But my answer to him was, 'I 
will outwork anybody else.' Put · me up against anybody else, and I'm confident that I can say, 'I will outwork you."' 
And work he has. Like their football counterparts, the soccer team was introduced to 6:30 a.m. practices in the off-season. "They · were some of the most intense practices of the year," says junior Joe Sternberg. "People came out in the morning wanting to play ­and really going at each other." Says junior Bruce Mccourt: "If you weren't awake for the first five minutes, you were dead. It wasn't too bad, but as for sleep -I 

could have definitely used more of that." 
Grace, meanwhile, takes more of a nonchalant attitude. "I know they didn't like getting up that early. I didn't either, but we both realized that it has to be done." Even after the big win over Indi­ana, Grace wasn't up for a: big celebration. "I went home and watched some tapes (of our opponents)," he says. 
Like any good soccer coach, Grace has developed his own brand of grueling drills, including the infamous "Horseshoe" drill ­where his players go full tilt in a small area practicing pursuit and coverage for two minute intervals -and a selection of one-on-one coverage drills in which somebody wins and somebody loses. The loser sprints. 
On the practice area on Alumni field, Grace has a distinct presence on the field, viewing and directing the drills and scrimmages while consulting with his assistants from time to time. He usually can be seen wearing a blue and gold sweatsuit and sunglasses. Some­times his dog, a golden retriever named Randy, stands with him, viewing the action in the same imperious manner as his master. 
But when Grace wants to say something, he neither wastes time ·nor minces words. And if he's angty, the general vicinity is not a place for the meek of spirit. "He does a lot of yelling," says Stern­berg. "I'm not really used to it, but I'm at a point where I don't take what he says personally. A lot of players get down on themselves if they can't take it." 
Grace's style also precludes him from giving tenure to his return­ing starters. Only one senior -Lowney -starts, and seven or eight freshmen usually see action in a given match. Yet for any grumbling among ex-starters that 

c;-.: 
i i ~ 
O" 
g 

Junior Randy Morris has emerged as an offensive threat this year, as ISU defenders learned after he set up the lone Irish goal in their 1-0 win last weekend. 
might have surfaced in August, the team's quick start has all but silenced it. 
Lowney, who has seen all four seasons of Grace's tenure, is· one who has caught on to the new air of confidence on the team. "After we played Indiana during my freshman year, I thought, 'No way are we ever going to beat those guys while I'm here.' Last year, I thought, 'Maybe.' Before we played them this year, I knew we were going to win. I just knew it.'' 
Lowney has nlso seen his share of changes. "The calibre of player bfought in ill higher thttn when I was here as a freshman," he says. "We also have confidence through experience -especially as a result of playing against a lot of good teams." Grace also thinks his schedule has had an impact on his team. "You Know, the other night my coaches and I were sitting down together, and the one thing 
that really hit us was that we real­ized that our kids have been from coast to coast against the best teams in the country." 
Other than work, Grace 
Continued on p.15 
Scholastic 


SOCCER 

The soccer team takes on Wisconsin tomorrow night at Krause Stadium in a 
7:30 p.m. match. 
Over the weekend, the Irish _beat Bos­ton College, 5-0, and tied Wright State, 1­1, in the Metropolitan Life Soccer Bowl. In the process, the team improved its overall record to 9-0-1, the best in the team's his­tory since a 10-0 start in 1978. Wright State took the tournament trophy by outscoring the Irish in penalty kicks, 4-3, after the overtime had ended. During the last two weeks, the Irish cracked the Top 20 in both the ISAA Coaches poll (20th) and the Soccer America poll (19th). It was the first time in the history of the program that the Irish have been ranked in a national poll. 
Junior striker BRUCE McCOURT picked-up the tournament's Offensive MVP honors after scoring three goals in two games. Keeper DANNY LYONS notched his fifth shutout in the first 10 games of the season and has a 0.70 goals against aver­age. 
VOLLEYBALL 

The volleyball team is off to its best start ever, at 11-2. The Irish also have an eight-match winning streak and have won 28 out of their last 31 matches. After play­ing at DePaul tonight and Butler tomorrow night, the Irish return to the JACC for a 
7:30 p.m. match against Iowa on Saturday. 
Last week the Irish breezed to two 3-0 wins over Bradley and Bowling Green, the latter of which was ranked ninth in the Midwest Regional Poll before falling to Notre Dame. MARY KAY WALLER, who had been injured since Sept. 5, returned to action against Bradley and tallied eight kills along with KATHY CUNNINGHAM. TARYN COLLINS had 19 assists and three aces in two games for the Irish against Bradley. 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

The men will host the 32nd-annual Irish Ivitational, the nation's oldest cross coun­try invitational, tomorrow on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Starting time for the race is 2 p.m. 
Last Friday, the Irish finished second to Loyola in the National Catholic Invita­tional on the Burke course. DAN GAR­RETT finished second in the race, less than two seconds off the winning pace of Loyola's EDDIE SLOWIKOWSKI, who won the race in a time of 24:24. 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

Notre Dame hosts nine teams in the Irish Invitational tomorrow. Starting time is 1 p.m. This year is the first time that the Irish Invitational will feature a women's race. 
Last week at the National Catholics, Villanova won the team title for the second straight year while the Irish finished in seventh place. Junior THERESA RICE was the top finisher for the Irish, coming in eighth overall with a time of 18:55, 1:31 off the pace of Villanova's VICKI HUBER, who set a course record with her winning time. 
FIELD HOCKEY 

The field hockey team suffered a 5-0 loss to Purdue on Saturday, its worst loss of the season. The young offensive line has yet to explode for head coach JILL LIN­DENFELD, whose team stood at 1-3-1 at the end of the weekend. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

The tennis team, 2-0 after last week's defeat of Marquette, is in Evanston, IL, today through Sunday for the Midwest Intercollegiates. The tournament will include host Northwestern, Tennessee, Iowa and Minnesota. Freshman CECE CAHILL (9-0) will lead the Irish at the number-one singles spot. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Although no team results were kept last 

weekend at Navy, the men's tennis team 
turned in several strong performances from 
its top players. BRIAN KALBAS, RYAN 
WENGER, DAN WALSH, PAUL DAGGS 
and SEAN O'BRIEN reached the semifinals 
of their respective flights. 
The team opens its home season this 

weekend at the Courtney Courts in the first 
annual Tom Fallon Invitational. Matches 
are scheduled to begin at 9 a.m. on both 
Saturday and Sunday against Purdue and 
Cornell. 
GOLF 
The golf team will play its only home 

match of the fall in the Notre Dame Fall 
Invitational Sunday on the Burke Memorial 
Golf Cour11e. The Irish have won the tour­
nament for three straight years. 
Last week, the Irish beat nine other 

teams en route to winning the Glen Oaks 
-.. ,, 
RR·•• 
~~I 
·•1;_•·• V/~ekeh~(
af;h~Ji;[crda 
iiZtf&li 
.· lowikow '' 
itri'eliti~'.T'' • 
,_Jt~it~ 
L'to tli~,
·.ffilll'iiiff 
''ft~riia' 
ai~t:IX 
pte;~r 
0 nia.t 

[a~~ii11g B~Ier.:~d'Ba4';! 
•. compiled ·27 kills (~ndu~i ),19,.,.!11tainst,_-~ow!iiig\Gre~il) 
She a~_eraged ::uoikills air . gamein the tw . . . 
Fall Classic. They beat second-place Lans­ing College by a stroke (314-815) to win the event in Three Rivers, MI. PAT MOHAN earned medalist honors at the tournament. 
SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 
The Belles finished fourth in the Saint Mary's College Invitational last weekend, finishing behind Bowling Green, Toledo and Butler. Saint Mary's remains unde­feated in dual match play. SARAH MAYER finished third in the second singles spot, while JENNIFER BLOCK and CHARLENE SZAJKO finished fifth in the first and third singles positions. Tomorrow the team will host Taylor University at 4 p.m. 
SAINT MARY'S SOCCER. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team upped its record to 3-8-1 after beating Notre Dame and tying Purdue. MOLLIE MEEHAN-and LANDRY CLEMENT scored in the 2-0 defeat of the Irish. Meehan also scored the lone Saint Mary's goal in the 1-1 tie at Pur­due. The team has an away match with the 
·university of Chicago today. 
SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 
The Belles improved their record to 9-8 after beating Goshen College and Siena Heights College laat week. The team is on the road tomorrow at Purdue-Calumet. 
COMPILED BY TERRY LYNCH 

The Notre Dame cross country teams gear up to host the ND Invitational 
the largest and longest-running meet zn running 
BY MOLLY MAHONEY 
T 
hey explode from the starting line, disappearing behind the trees. The 
runners, moving as 
one, stampede across the rolling terrain. The pack begins to thin as the pace quickens and one by one the runners snake along the circui­tous course. 

Lungs aching and feet pound­ing, the runners dart into each other's shadows, approaching the back side of a course often.· con­verted into a marshland by South Bend's annual monsoon season. Weaving their way toward the fin­ish line, the members of the Notre Dame cross country team seek to widen the gap between themselves and the competition while those behind struggle to gain ground. 
It is a battle of finesse and stra­tegy that few people can fully appreciate. The art of jockeying for position, the carefully timed bursts of speed, the rhythmic con­trol of the pace -these are the mind. games of the cross country runner. These are the rules that channel adrenaline into forward motion. 
Forward motion for the Notre Dame cross country teams will carry them Friday onto the Burke Memorial Golf Course and into the 32nd annual Notre Dame Invi­tational, the oldest and largest cross country invitational in the nation. While the meet offers the men a chance to rebound from a disappointing second-place finish in the National Catholic Invita­tional last week, it also will include women for the first time in its history. 
"Without question, this is one of the most outstanding meets in the country," says Joe Piane, who has coached the Irish men for the past 13 years. "It is a race rich in traditionand a race that annually attracts some of the best teams and· individuals in the nation. This year will be no exception, especially with the addition of a women's race." 
The men's team gets its chance in this meet to resume the success disappointed losing to Detroit since we beat them two weeks ago, but I am encouraged by our finish because it was a stronger field it found two weeks ago in George­town, when it upset the favored Hoyas. Big Ten powerhouses Michigan and Northwestern, as well as Virginia, defending small­school champion Hillsdale and over 50 other schools will compete. This year's favorite, however, will be Eastern · Michigan, which returns six of its top seven runners from last year's Notre Dame Invi­tational championship team. The Irish finished I 0th in 1986, although they have won the title seven times. 
"The kids are going to learn something from this meet," says Piane. "Every man knew after the National Catholics where we could improve. Sometimes you need to have your tail between your legs to learn that no one's going to roll over and die just because you have 'Notre Dame' on your chest." 

14 Scholastic 
Ill 
Senior captain Dan Garrett will 

be one of the keys to a strong per­
formance by the Irish, and after a 
close loss at the top last weekend 
to Loyola, he believes success will 
follow if the team can "get it 
together and run as a group." 
Running in tighter packs can help 
the Irish push each other to faster 
times and improve concentration 
in the race. "With someone on 
your team running next to you, it 
is so much easier· to hang on and 
just go that much farther." 
The pack of runners that will 

compete Friday includes sopho­
more Mike O'Connor, who fin­

ished fourth in the National 
Catholics, senior Mike Smoron, 
junior Ron Markezich and fresh­
men Pat Kearns and Matt Ron­. zone. ­
The women emerged from last 

weekend's sixth-place finish at the 
National Catholics with a team stiil 
trying to recover from the loss of 
top runner Terry Kibelstis. The 
Irish lost the junior runner to a 
painful set of stress fractures in 
both legs suffered in practice 
shortly after their September 12 
win over Detroit. Although Detroit 
was one of the teams that finished 

ahead of the Irish in the National 
Catholics, head coach Dan Ryan 
was pleased. "I was a little 

than last year and we moved up a place from last year despite losing Kibelstis to injuries." 
In only its second the Notre Dame women's team. now gets to face some of the tougher squads in the nation. The ten-team field features one exceptional team in Virginia, which Ryan concedes will be the strong favorite. Still, the young coach thinks his team can place in the top five if he can get good performances from his nucleus of senior runner Julia Merkel; junior Theresa Rice and freshman Jenny Ledrick. 
Win or lose. however, the-Notre Dame cross country teams will once again have to prepare their bodies and minds for the unique ritual of running. Concentration and a purpose will have to guide them through the twists and turns, over the long, flat course and past 


With Kibelstis injured, senior 
Julia Merkel will have to 
pick up the slack. 
their competition, that often seems to glide so smoothly over ruts and the sweaty pack of challengers at their heels. The key for the Irish on Friday, of course, will be to keep those challengers at their heels. &· 
Grace 
Continued from p.12 

enforces team spirit. At every Irish soccer game, the bench claps -for the entire length of the game. "If we have 25 kids out there, 25 kids win or 25 kids lose," says Grace. "Even those three or four boys who don't make it in have to con­tribute . something. The bench has to be into it -even if the guys they're cheering on are getting kicked around right in front of them." 
While it may help, clapping hands do not put the ball into the opposition's nets. What has hap­pened is that the Irish offense has so much talent that the opposition can't focus their schemes. "They double-team Randy (Morris) and me, leaving midfield open," says Mccourt (whose nickname,"Tiger," has less to do with his athletic prowess than it does with his uncle -an alumnus of the University of Missouri ­who solved the problem of having two Bruces under one roof). "Either way, we can find ways to put the ball in the net." It is little wonder, then, that Sternberg ­who plays as a center midfielder ­is among the team leaders in scor­ing . 
"At the start of the season, coach said he needed a goal-a­game scorer," says Sternberg. "I didn't really think that it would be me. In the off-season, I had talks with coach, and he mainly said that my defense wasn't to the point where it should have been. So in practice, it was always the defense that came first, with the thought that the offense would eventually come around. I never thought I'd be the guy he wanted on offense, but I'm not complain­ing. I've just been fortunate to be in the right places at the right time." 
Even Grace wonders aloud at 
his teani's offensive strength. "I 
tell you, I don't know what I'd do 
if I had to coach against Notre 
Dame. Do I watch Sternberg; 
who's been hot lately? Do I watch 
Morris, who's one of the best in 
the country? We're not a team of 
stars -and probably never will be. 
I'll never complain if someone can 
come in and score 50 goals, but the 
kids are pleased about where they 
are." 
And where they're going. ¦ 
October 1, 1987 15 
"i 
I 


.·Taste 
Of 
Nations 
BY SARA HARTY 

he name Ted Hes-burgh did not become famous overnight, the first Notre Dame foot­ball game was not 
much more than a scrimmage, and the first An Tostal was not well attended. Members of the executive committee .of the Multicultural Fall Festival hope that the second annual festival will receive more student participaton this year and that in the future it will be an event comparable to An Tostal. 

The differences between the two events are important, how­ever. The Multicultural Fall Fes­tival aims to educate as well as to entertain and organizers hope that the event will serve as a catalyst to improve student-faculty relations. 
The executive committee con­sists of 10 representatives from student government groups and ethnic groups. Adele Lanan, assis­tant director of student activities worked with the committee. "The group I worked with was really dynamic. There's so much enthusiasm out there." 
The committee stressed that for a campus that is often accused of being homogenous there are actu­ally a lot of diverse cultures and groups around. Mary Feliz, a member of the Native American Association, and Maria Fuentes. a member of the Hispanic American Organization worked together to get groups to participate in the ethnic entertainment on the quad. Feliz said, "So much work went into the whole week. If you go to any of it you'll benefit from it. It could be such a big eye opener for students if they'll just attend. Just by working on the committee, I've become so much more aware of ethnic groups and different cul­tures on campus." 
According to Marty Rodgers, festival publicity chairman, there was a lack of awareness on campus last year about the events offered during the week. "The second time around people know the name. This year people will bring friends. There's been tremendous feedback from the faculty this year. We sent letters out to staff early and we really seem to have the faculty and administration behind the festival." 
The letter sent out to the faculty asked university staff to both encourage students to attend the events and to come out them-
Scholastic 

• 
selves. Lanan stressed that not only are all faculty members invited,· , but it is hoped that everyone who 
; comes will bring a guest. 
The f es ti val runs from October 5 through · October 10. Events include daily fireside chats, which are hour long talk sessions with a university professor who is very familiar with another country or part of the world. Students and professor alike share ideas about a range of countries that this year include the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Spain and Israel. The chats are held in the Interna­tional Student Lounge and feature a very relaxed atmosphere. Free food will be available at all of the chats so that students who choose to attend will not miss lunch. 
'Culture on the Quad' sessions will also be a daily noontime occu­rance. Each day a different ethnic ' club will be on the Fieldhouse Mall to share ideas of what their 
club is about ·with other students. Also on the Fieldhouse Mall at 
4:30 p.m. every day will be ethnic entertainment, featuring perfor-· mances by Mexican Folkloric dancers, Hawaiian dancers, Fili­pino dancers, the Black Gospel Choir and John Kennedy who will be playing Irish music. 
Special events include an American Indian Pow-Wow on Tuesday night which· will feature dancers and a bonfire. Wednesday night, Amoku, a profc;:ssor from the Massachusets Institute of Technology, will give a combina­tion performance and lecture on the history of jazz. His format is to explain a type of music and then perform it to illustrate his point. The lecture will explore reggae, Island, African, European, black and white music. Dancers will also be on hand to perform throughout the lecture. 
The week culminates during the 
Saturday night A Taste ofNations. The ethnic celebration will feature food from all over the world, in cooperation with University Food Service, and will provide a chance for everyone to dance. There will be contests for various · dances, such as the twist, the limbo and the jitterbug with prizes for the winners. 
According to Adele · Lanan, director of Student Activities, there is a lot of enthusiasm for the f es­tival. "I think there will be a big turn out for the events. There seems to be a higher level of interest that wasn't there last year. If you persist with something long enough it finally catches on and I think this will be the year for the Multicultural Festival. It will be succ¢ssful no matter what hap­pens. More and 'more people are getting the word that more of these types of things need to go on." II 




Coming Distractions October 1-7 

THURSDAY,OCTOBERl 
FILMS: 
"Lethal Weapon" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
"Caddyehack" SMC Haggar Game Room 7, 9 p.m. $ .50 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2 
FILMS: 
"Enter the Dragon" · Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
"Radio Daye" Snite Museum 
7:30 and 9:80 p.m. $2 
CONCERTS 
SMC Performing Arts Series Concert The Vince Andrews Band O'Laughlin Auditorium 8p.m. Tickets: 284-4626 
SPORTS: 
CroBB Country Notre Dame Invitational ND Golf Course women: 1 p.m. men:4 p.m. 
Tennie SMC vs. Taylor University Angela <;>utdoor Courts 
4:30 p.m. 
Soccer: ND vs. Wisconsin-Madison Cartier Field 
7:30 p.m. 
SATURD_AY, OCTOBER 3 
FILMS: 
"Enter the Dragon" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:80, 12 p.m. 
$2 . 


CONCERTS: 
Hoodo Gurus Cabaret Metro 8780 N. Clark October 1 7130 All Ages 
Theloniu¦ Monster Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark October 2 11 p.m. 21 & over 
Security Biddy Mulligan¦ 7644 N. Sheridan October S 8 p.m. 
The Del Fuegos Cabaret Metro 3780 N. Clark October 4 
7:30 All Ages. 
THEATRE: 
"Bum This" Royal George Theatre Through October 4 Tuesday-Friday 8p.m. Saturday 5 and 9:30 p.m. Sunday 2 and 7:30 p.m. 
"Comedy on Rye" Garden_ Lounge Through October 8 Tuesday-Thursday 
12:15 and 1:15 p.m. $10 
"Sugar Babies" Candlelight Dinner Theatre Through December 6 W edneeday through Friday 
8:80 p.m. Saturday 5 and 10 p.m. 
.Sunday 
2:15 p.m. $17.95-$26.96 w.o. dinner 
SPORTS: 
Baseball: 
Chicago White Sox Comiskey Park 36th and Shields v11. California Angels October 1 7p.m. vs. California Angels October 2 7p.m. v11. Oakland Athletics October 8 6p.m. vs. Oakland Athletics October 4 1:30 p.m. 
Scholastic
18 

.. 
' 
Compiled by Anne Marie W~lker 

SPORTS: 
Men's Tennis ND Fall Invitational Courtney Courts 9 a.m. 
Volleyball NDW vs. University of Iowa JACC 
7:30 p.m. 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 4 
MASS 
Spanish Mase Farley Chapel 11 a.m. 
MUSEUMS 
Guided Tour of Snite Museum of Art Free 2 p.m. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5 
FILMS 
"Applause" 7p.m. "Kiss Me Deadly" 9 p.m. Snite Museum $2 
"Kies Me Deadly" Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6 
FILMS 
"La Ronde" 7p.m. "The Terminator" 9 p.m. Snite Museum $2 
"The Terminator" Annenberg Auditorium 9p.m. 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7 
FILMS: 
"Color Purple" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
$2 
THEATER 
"Death of a Salesman" 
Washington Hall 
8:10 p.m. 
MOVIES: 
University Park West 
"Full Metal Jacket" 
7:16 
and 9:30 p.m. "Fourth Protocol" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "LaBamba" 

7:16 
and 9:30 p.m. 


Town and Country 
"Stakeout" 
7:10 and 9:40 p.m. "Fatal Attraction" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "The Principal" 
7:25 and 9:45 p.m. 

University Park Ea!t 
"The Untouchables" 
7:00 p.m. "No Way Out" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Tough Guye Don't Dance" 
9:30 p.m. "Beverly Hills Cop II" 
7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. "Can't Buy Me Love" 

7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. "Big Easy" 


7:46 and 9:45 p.m. "Big Town" 
7:00 and 9:30 p.m. 
Scottsdale 
"Hellraiser" 
7:45 and 9:4& p.m. "The Pick-Up Artist" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
TICKE'l'S TO THESE EVEN~ :MA¥ 
.. BE PURCHASED THROUGH:·•·•··· 
"' ..•• y : ; ...\. • • 
Ticke~ter: (312) 55.9,..1u2 ..·.. 
Ticketron: (312) rIC~'l'S • 
· .•Hot Tix Boc,thi .Haif-price ''daf •••o!:petformanc:e" ticketa·!oY•• . • the~r,' 'concerts; sporting •·· .. 
•venta.and other attradiona ..... (SJ.2) iirrlu&s . / ••t ·· :•' 
Theater Tix: (S12L853,-060SCurtain Call: 24;.bour . . . . 
··• info~it.tionline with . I.. ;i ..•. ' > 
•f1~1m~i;;r·~wes••·:r•·..·, + (fie 
·.. ~~·•·Concert :1'..ine: F.or.c9:rxiplete•·• •.• • ,· y,.
;c:~ncert ifil'ormation' . . . . . ..... . 

cj~2> sse~66'1 
Final Word 

Success In Service 
BY MICHAEL THOMAS 
would like to take this opportunity to tell you about Adworks, an organization I'm very proud of as well as very involved with. 
Adworks is working toward solv­-ing a problem that has existed for many years on campus. The problem is that students are sim­ply not taking full advantage of activities planned for them by various organizations, as a result of poor publicity. During the 1985-86 school year, Adworks was created to provide the neces­sary effective, efficient promo­tion to campus and area organ­izatioms. 
Beginning with five employ­ees in its first year, Adworks worked under the structure of student government. Things moved slowly at first due to a lack of public awareness of our services, in addition to the hav-· ing poor facilities and. an inex­perienced, though eager, management team. By Christmas, the organization was beginning to make a name for itself as a competent poster business, and 
·through prudent financial leader­ship, the organization managed to make a small profit its initial year. 
Entering its second year last year, Adworks moved from 
·under student government to become a part of the Student Activities Board (now Student Union Board). There it joined the Irish Gardens, and the Cellar as a university-affiliated, yet entirely student-operated busi­ness. With increased staff experi­ence, upgraded equipment, and a small clientele, Ad works embarked on its second year of operation. Adworks did well as the organization increased its sales volume 200 percent (which allows us to obtain bulk-rate advertising prices) began to attract a very talented pool of artists, gained some major clients and developed new product lines. 
The best · seems yet to come for Adworks. This year, due to an experienced and dedicated staff, Adworks was running in overdrive even during the sum­mer. This work resulted in little time lost to set-up procedures and enabled Adworks to make record sales for the month of September, helping many groups· publicize their initial fundraising efforts. Considering · the wide range of mediums Adworks now offers to its clients, the quick set-up time was impressive. Adworks' clients can now choose from posters, ads in campus pub­lications, novelty items, as well as many other products. Adworks also offers a top-:quality profes­sional resume service featuring proofing and 24-hour return time. In addition, Adworks has an extensive distibution network available to its clients. Also the team secured much nicer office furniture which helps Adworks to run much smoother, despite office space that is far too small for our purposes. An often unrealized aspect of Adworks is the benefits the stu­dent workers receive from their experience. The staff learns skills that are impossible to gain through textbooks. Applications of ad design, sales, business management · and accounting skills have helped and continue to help our employees strive toward prom1smg businessI careers. Past employees have used their experiences in careers such as financial consulting, accounting and marketing. 


The guiding influences within Adworks this year are executive vice president Rob Bartolo, along with controller Dan Walsh, and department vice presidents Karen Dettling, Monique Hes­burgh, James Karrels and also systems consultant Geoffrey Sauer. These people have been working diligently to bring the ND/SMC community our ser-i vice. As the only member of the original five still with the organi­zation, I can truly say that the success Adworks is experiencing this year is partially due to the trial-and-error we've made over the last two years but is mostly due to the tremendous effort of Rob and his vice presidents. They are making all the differ­ence this year. 




©f987 B~ MA1t 
G~o£N1N6

,-----~------,~~~-,.,~ 
6000 MORNt!JC,, PUPILS. 
IT'S i'l~f:. FOR, 
.."' 
SCHOOL IS 
~---·i 
co 
u;
HE.LL 
:,;:, 
AN Tl-4~ C.'r\ 
",:
~'3, Al'JO 1..l 
"" 

~.....i..;;....;.:._,:.;;;;;;~..;.....;;.;.;;,.i;...__-1;;; 
I>
Ul 14.E.RE. Tl-! 
-< 

TQAl)\Tl01'J SotCESS C 
,.,
"' 

li!.E WOil.i::. 
lCt'(OIIIAQ.',, "' \II 
'-C 
I: 

11THE ONL~ 0 
ce WH~E .... 
MA Co/oil: ~ 
m 



-, ~ --___ ___... ---~ ----------•---• • -• -• --~ •• -• ,• -:--••;':;'I•<•~
=r-• 

~ __ (:, ,--·q, -· :;s-·,,~,:,,/t.;2.•.:.:.....~~.,,.,,:c__,.-;,_,..;? ­



