s
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
EARTH JAM II £
1990
Live the Tradition Together
Subscribe to
Scholastic
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name ______________________________________________________________
Address _________________________________________________________
City• State Zip
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
Enclosed is a check for $25.00 x years = $
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
m O
ENTERTAINMENT
10 Music Skinny Puppy Sisters of Mercy
CAMPUS LIFE
12
The Underwriters Endowments and donations at Notre Dame fund buildings, scholarships and help the University meet its future financial needs
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
2
Editorial
3
Letters
4 On Other Campuses
5
Week In Distortion
COVER
7 Earth Jam II
Instant Benefit Concert-Just Add Audience: Earth Jam II provides exposure for campus bands and raises money for environmental causes
SPORTS
15
Twice Blessed
The Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams both finished first in last week's National Catholics
6 The Unexamined Life
19 Coming Distractions
20 Final Word
DECEMBER 6,1990
was
I
ED IT 0 R I..A.L
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Save
the Orass
Vol. 132, No. 10
Decembers, 1990
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Michael C. Wieber
MANAGING EDITOR
Derik T. Weldon
NEWS EDITOR
Traci Taghon
SPORTS EDITOR
Brian McMahon
SPORTS ASSISTANT
Jon Paul Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Tim Rogers
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Dave Holsinger
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Mari Okuda
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Dave Raedy
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
I	ADVERTISING MANAGER
I	Tony Porcelli
;	BUSINESS MANAGER
Jim Fitzgerald
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examinai ion and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556and printed at ThePapers,Inc.,Milford, IN46542. The subscription rate is $25.00/year and back issues are available al $1251 copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of NotreDame, its administration, •	faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of
the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicilied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1990 Scholastic Magazine. AH rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
2
Why are we ruining the most beautiful parts of our campus—uprooting trees, paving the grass and tearing down landmark buildings—in the name of campus improvements? Surely, these appear as improvements on the University’s financial statements, but any student, alumnus, or friend of the University knows that one of the most outstanding features of the campus is its greenery. Compared to any urban campus, Notre Dame has next to no concrete. We should leave it that way.
There are several examples of these so-called improvements. The new courtyard on the north side of LaFortune has replaced what was once the Band Annex Building. Clearly, the old building was not an architectural vision, but is a concrete park much better? Why not sod such areas over rather than pour cement? Oxygen, after all, is necessary for healthy young minds. Concrete cannot photosynthesize.
But, it gets harder to see the grass every time it rains because the campus has no storm sewers that drain walkways and quad areas efficiently. Notre Dame has a Civil Engineering major, but all of the knowledge in this department stays in Cushing and Fitzpatrick. Next year, a Domer survival kit
should include a mask and snorkel for rainy days.
Evidently the University is running out of grass to pave because it has begun to build walls. For those of you who live on South Quad, the J uniper Road corridor is currently being walled-in with an aesthetically appalling combination of brick, mortar, and steel. What is the point? Is the University worried about students who jaywalk? Could the money for walls have possibly gone to hiring more Arts and Letters faculty?
Again, Notre Dame’s administrators are showing their true colors by paying for pointless, surface improvements while ignoring the most pressing academic issues on campus. Nature, even the few healthy blades of grass left on the quads, is most beautiful when left alone—and certainly more pleasing than cement.
On the other hand, building a quality educational program requires constant observation and evaluation. If administrators stuck their noses into the classrooms more often and left the campus greenery alone, there would be no reason to complain. Equal access to classes, and green grass to run through: who could ask for more?
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should indude their department. AUleltersmust besigned. Nameswill be withheld upon request in certain instances. . /
Scholastic reserves the right to reject Utters that are Ube-lousor obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfilling, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Carter
Notre Dame, IN46556 "
H SCHOLASTIC
Scholastic Apologizes for Inappropriate Comments in Article
To SMC/ND Students
Who Took Offense at the Column “The Price of Paternalism” (Scholastic, November 29,1990):
I would like to acknowledge that the most controversial line in the article was inappropriate and sophomoric. For that line, I apologize. It was never my intent to insult or in any way denegrate Saint Mary’s student body. Because of poor judgement on my part, the article was taken as doing exactly that.
However, I must admit that I was surprised and disappointed that the entire section concerning Saint Mary’s has been interpreted as venerating sexist stereotypes. The intent of that section was to imply that the same perverse thinking that drives Notre Dame’s impulse for paternalism is responsible for the kinds of Notre Dame stereotypes that exist concerning Saint Mary’s and Saint Mary’s women. In saying these things, I never intended to suggest that they should become a figurative or literal reality. And I do not believe that the section in question, if read in context with the rest of the article, does anything of the sort. I personally have received no complaints concerning other sections of the article.
We live in a community where, year after year, people actually debate whether or not Saint Mary’s students ought to get football tickets. This should be the least of our concerns. I am not happy about the situation. I expressed my bitterness over this state of affairs sarcastically. If this was misinterpreted, I am sorry. However, I cannot apologize for my bitterness.
• ?. L1
Alex Halow
Dear Readers:
I would like to make my own response to last week’s Week in Distortion, “The Price of Paternalism.” On behalf of myself and my entire staff, I would like to apologize to Saint Mary’s College, The Student Weekly, and all others who took offense to this column.
The intent of “Week” has always been comedy and entertainment as those of you who read the column weekly obviously know. However, last week we went a bit too far. Both Tim Rogers and I were negligent in our duties as editors, and, due to deadline pressures, the column was not given the usual attention directed at all our articles, and in particular, at our comedy pieces.
As Alex Halow says in the other letter this week, his intent was to poke fun at certain institutional values around Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, not to simply anger our readers. I do recognize, nonetheless, that just as a racial joke designed to mock racism still injures the target, such so-called humor
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
♦FREE LOCALCALI.S
♦KITCHENETTES	go
♦LAUNDRY	3! S
♦AAA AND MOBILE RATED 3® “
W
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL TOLL FREE:
1-800-347-8016
fails as its point is disguised in unnecessarily harsh or insensitive terms. Clearly, this was the case in last week’s article.
I would like to reaffirm my personal support for any activity whose goal is ; designed to strengthen the oftentimes tense relations between the two schools. Such positive interactions can do nothing but dissolve the stereotypes suggested in the column.
As far as The Student Weekly is concerned, I would apologize for any blatantly unfounded criticism. I would, as an editor, encourage this publication to better define its goals and to continue to strive to produce a higher quality newspaper of broader appeal.
Again, my sincere apologies to all.
Michael C. Wieber Editor-in-Chief Scholastic
DECEMBER 6,1990
3 >

Pray Bush Stays Healthy
The Danster Does It Again
If you’re a little short on tuition funds, maybe Vice President Quayle can help. OR MAYBE NOT. The College Press Service reported that Quayle made a generous offer while speaking at the national convention of the Society of Professional Journalists in Louisville, KY. During a question and answer period, University of Florida student West Davies asked the Vice President “Why are we spending money on sophisticated weapons and not on our future with our students?” Quayle said present levels of education funding are sufficient, but Davies pressed him for a better answer. That’s when the Danster made his offer: “If anyone is being denied the opportunity for a higher education, then you tell them to write a letter to me and I will help them out.” So far, Quayle’s office has only gotten 20 letters. Students unite! Leiters can be sent to Vice President Dan
Quayle, Washington, D.C. 20510. What do you have to lose?
Naughty Band
The Stanford marching band received a one-game suspension for its tactless half time display in Oregon. They renamed themselves The 4
Banned. The StanfordDaily published this list of rejected shows for the band’s next performance:
10. The “Immaculate Conception” Show
9. The “Jesse Helms Wet Dreams” Show
8. “Goldilocks Does Cal”
7. The “Last Temptation of the Dalai Lama” Show
6. The “Swear Words in Braille” Show '
5. The “Virgin Mary Tractor Pull” Show
4. “Eugene: Land of Enchantment”
3. The “Euphemisms for Vomiting” Show
2. The “Gummi Products That Didn’t Go Over Well, In Fact They Were Complete Disasters” Show
1. The “Dilemma of the Blind Gynecologist” Show
Cinematic Prophylactics
The Brown Daily Herald reported that Jen Wilcha, a ’90 Brown graduate, is making a movie for the university. She is filming a video which will replace “Condom Sense,” a movie that has risen to cult status after being shown for years to incoming freshman. The new video will be called “Pros and Condoms.” “The challenge is to convince [students] that condoms can be fun,” Wilcha said. She
neglected to mention if the film would feature
CENSORED
Lavoratory Masterpiece
The Chronicle of Higher Education brought us a serendipitous tale. Twenty years ago, Charles Clore, a Swiss businessman decided that he didn’t like a certain painting in his apartment He gave it to the Weizmann Institute of Science. They hung the painting in a bathroom. Last year, a visiting art historian to the Institute found the painting hanging upside down after making a trip to the little wrangler’s room. “He suddenly returned as if smitten... and announced excitedly that the picture was by the Jewish North African artist Henri Atlan,” related the President of the Institute. Well, Henri Atlan might not mean anything to you, but the painting later fetched the handsome price of $700,000. Keep your eyes peeled next time you freshen up.	□
edited by Tim Rogers
SCHOLASTIC
,tT. o w
Toward A More
Personable Dart
DART: you have to love it. If you don’t, DART can tell and will express its hurt feelings by doing further damage to your schedule. Yet as much as we love DART already, we could love it even more with a few changes. People don’t like getting shut out of courses by a cold, impersonal machine. If the folks at the Registrar’s office livened up DART a little, we could be shut out of classes by a computer with a little bit of personality. Here’s a few sample personalities for DART that you could select with your touch-tone phone.
Compassionate DART: This DART personality will attempt to console you when you find out all of your favorite classes are closed. Sample response: “Gee, I really hate to tell you this, but History 309 is already closed. Believe me, I’d squeeze you in if I could, honest. Hey, I hope there’s no hard feelings here. Maybe I could interest you in an electrical engineering course instead? It’s not too late to change your major...”
HAL-DART: The university could work but a deal with Arthur C. Clarke to bring in his famous computer from 2001: A Space Odyssey. This personality will be particularly appropriate for registrants named Dave, as in: “Dave, I must tell you that Theology 235 is closed. I still don’t understand why you want this course. Maybe if you’d tell me why, I could get you in. Dave, I’m afraid if you don’t explain things to me, I will have to terminate this phone call...”
Sarcastic DART: For those students with a sense of humor: This personality would come with a number of sound effects, including the Family Feud buzzer. For example: “You want an English elective? Survey says...BUZZZZZZZ! Sorry, Charlie! Not even close on that one! What’s the matter, don’t you read The Observer^. Those
DECEMBER 6,1990
classes closed a week ago! Why don’t you save us both some time and hang up?”
Sour grapes DART: This personality will attempt to persuade you that you didn’t want that class after all. Sample response: “Well, Economics 421 is closed, which is just as well if you ask me. I hear that the professor assigns a ton of homework and that he’s a really tough grader. I know a guy who took that course and just hated it...”
No-nonsense DART: Direct and to the point. Sample response: “No.” (Click.)
Play-by-play DART: Live narration is provided by a computerized Keith Jackson. Typical selection: “Smith pushes the number sign and takes off. He dodges the prerequisite! He enters the authorization code! It looks like he’s going to score! FUMBLE! Hold everything! The class is full! DART regains possession. Whoa, Nellie!” For basketball fans, the voice of Dick Vitale would also be available.
Well, enough about DART. In a rare departure from form, I will try to be fair for a minute. It’s really not DART’S fault we
don’t get the classes we need. There are simply not enough classes to go around. Fortunately, the University is preparing a number of supplemental courses so we can
fill those holes in our schedules. Sure, these courses might not seem very appealing, but you want to graduate on time, don’t you? Scholastic is proud to offer this sneak preview of four supplemental courses.
Military Science 450: The Desert and You. (Required for all ROTC students; cross-listed with Gender Studies 450: Modem Women and Sand; definitely not crosslisted with any Peace Studies.) This course will address day-to-day life in one of the world’s most fascinating environments. Topics will include dealing with heatstroke, waiting for months at a time, and removing sand from one’s undergarments.
Economics 414: Marxism’s Big Comeback. (Cross-listed with Psychology 408: Neurotic Denial.) 1989 and 1990 were off years for Marxist theory, since there no longer seem to be many Marxists outside of China and American universities. This course will argue that Marxism is stronger than ever, that capitalism is even closer to collapse, that the earth is flat, and that black is white.
Chemistry 490: Principles of Alchemy. (Cross-listed with Physics 490: Pb-Au Conversion Processes.) Reviving interest in alchemy will serve two important University objectives. First, it will give Notre Dame a boost in becoming a nationally respected research institution. Second, by discovering how to turn lead into gold, the University will save a bundle on regilding the dome, painting football helmets, and manufacturing class rings.
Psychology 202: Coping with DART. Students will learn methods of expressing frustration which do not involve destruction of property or bodily harm to others. □
by Roger Hipp
5
Philosophical Delimmas in Modern Medicine
Dear Dr. Head: The other day I was watching "On Scene"—you know, the show featuring real life emergency situations with real life twisted car wreckage and real life blood and guts. If s my second favorite show after "American Gladiators." Anyway, the episode last week showed a guy suffering from a heroine overdose and a massive cranial contusion who got stuck on a precipitous cliff. A rescue helicopter plucked him from his peril and rushed him to a hospital. He later died.
That show got me to thinking. If a person got in a really bad accident and the only organ that survived was his brain, and if another person coincidentally suffered a head injury and his brain was messed up beyond help, but his body was fine, and if we had the technology to put the first person's brain into the second person's body, what would you call that? Is that a brain transplant or a body transplant?
Gill McCracken, senior, off campus.
Gill, Lace is the best American Gladiator. She is the harrier of all weak contestants.
Your question puzzles me. Obviously, if someone loses an arm and you sew on a new one, then you’ve got an arm transplant. But if someone loses a body and you find them a new one, then you’ve got a problem.
6
Whether it’s a brain transplant or a body transplant depends on your relation to the patient. If you know a person whose body gets mangled and who has their brain put in another body, then it’s abody transplant. On the other hand, if you know the person whose brain gets mangled and who has a new one put in their body, then it’s a brain transplant
It’s all relative.
Dear Dr. Head: I am a long standing WWII history buff. Recently, while doing some research into the final days of the Third Reich, I came across an old German war document listing recommended ex-Nazi hide-out spots in the West. As one might expect, Brazil topped the list, due to climate and sound governmental policies. But to my surprise, I discovered that our own South Bend was listed as the second best place for ex-Nazis, for similar reasons. In fact, both Notre Dame and Scholastic were mentioned by name. What do you have to say to that, Dr. Head? Or should I say, Dr. Klaus Von Head— German SS, Class of'41!!??!! Concerned Historian, senior, Morrissey.
Mr. Historian, I served in only a minor capacity in the Schutzstaf-fel. It was only for a couple months, too. It was no big deal. Really. I only ate dinner with Hitler once — twice tops.
For more research, try over at Student Affairs. They’ve got a couple folks with some suspicious German-sounding names.
Dear Dr. Head: Why, when "dealing" with the bookstore, are we forced to endure the "ON THE CAMPUS" logo? Is there any punctuational validity to this "expression?" Is there "any" other place the "ND" bookstore would "be?"
Colleen, Noreen and Mary Ellen, seniors, Lewis.
Why does it take three of you to compose a letter?
If the Hammes bookstore were merely ON THE CAMPUS, it would be no different from the Morris Inn, the hotel ON THE CAMPUS — except for the fact that one place sells books and the other rents sleeping space.
Have any questions? First make sure that they aren't offensive or sexist or based on cheap humor, then send them to Dr. Head, care of Scholastic, 303 LaFortune. Please include your name, address and place of residence. Thanks.	□
; SCHOLASTIC
Instant Benefit Concert -- Just Add Audience
band” who work together as a tight, energetic, dance-oriented live act. The concept of “The Generics” (each band member wears a T-shirt onstage which has the name of his instrument across the front, and the band’s logo is a UPC symbol), as described by junior bassist Brian Grunert, “is probably a reactionary thing to people in bands who really play up their image and act like ‘posers.’”
Earth Jam II provides exposure for campus hands and raises money for enivronmental causes
“What’s this Earth Jam thing I keep hearing about?”
Earth Jam, following up last year’s Earth Day celebration on Fieldhouse Mall, is an awareness-raising and fundraising event sponsored by Notre Dame’s Students for Environmental Action. It will run from 7 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Saturday, December 8 at Stepan Center. Cost will be $2, and the
funds raised by admission (and t-shirt sales) will go towards SEA’s precycling program. Earth Jam is the brainchild of SEA co-prcsident Amy Jcnista, who saw a need both for awareness-raising and the opportunity to raise money for SEA’s projects.
Overall, Earth Jam looks to be mutually beneficial for the both the bands involved and for SEA Not only will the SEA make its cause a little more well known, but the bands get some additional on-campus exposure to students who might not have been able to catch their acts at bars or SYRs. Also, the opportunity to play through the University’s sound system at a big venue like Stepan Center is a definite plus for most campus acts.
SUB has continued its tradition of helping campus bands to get the exposure that they deserve by contributing to the cause—their usual approach of sponsoring bands on the Fieldhouse Mall doesn’t quite work when it’s out in the sub-zero South Bend weather, so to give campus bands a needed push
during the winter, they’ve helped out Students for Environmental Action by cosponsoring Earth Jam.
Earth Jam hasn’t really even taken that . much effort to put together. As one club member remarked, “Really, all it took was a few phone calls, talking to the bands, and getting the publicity done.” Not bad for a do-it-yourself benefit.
As far as the actual entertainment at Earth Jam goes, diversity seems to be the key. Earth Jam’s organizers wanted the concert to be something that was accessible to everyone, so a variety of styles are
represented, from dance music to hardcore.	“Down Under,” and “Rio,
VOICE GUITAR BASS KEYS the BEAT
Earth Jam’s opening act, the Generics, Geistand Jim Siwek on guitar, junior Dennis describe themselves as a “progressive dance Wolfe on drums, and their “excellent sound
“It’s definitely reactionary,” agreed senior vocalist Damian Shiner. “We all just try to fit into this concept”
Their concept, as they explained to me while setting up for the Beaux Arts Ball several weeks ago, is to play to a wide range of tastes, and to try to play tunes that people know to make them “a band that people want to dance to.”
“That’s the reason we don’t do originals,” explains Damian. “People don’t dance if they don’t know the songs.”
Brian agreed, “We thought about that [playing originals], and our old band played a lot of originals, but they really don’t fit into the whole idea behind the Generics.”
Well, even though they don’t play originals, they do have one infamous and unique set of songs. Their “K-Tel Tribute,” a collection of “oldies” (?) from the early 80’s like “Whip It,” “The Safety Dance,”
” always seems to get people up and dancing.
“You can’t help it ... when you hear those songs, you want to dance,” says Brian.
In addition to Brian and Damian, the Generics include sophomore Aras Ulenas on
The Generics: no pictures, no poserlsm, they Just fit Into the keyboards, concept.	juniors Dave
DECEMBER 6, 1990
7
man,” Tom Sullivan.
“We do have a lot of fun together,” explains Brian. “We have a good time on stage, and we try to express that to the audience.”
“That, and we’re just not the Generics unless we’re all playing together, trying to get that chemistry on stage and with the audience,” elaborates Damian. “We feed off the energy of a live situation...we really thrive in the live environment. I think our high energy level comes from the fact that we’re not professional and we don’t try to act like we are professional.”
Whether or not they consider themselves professional, they certainly have established an identity for themselves as a dance band. For a healthy dose of the Generics energy (and the opportunity to dance to a live band for a change), be sure to catch the Generics’ set at Earth Jam from 7 pm. to 8:30 p.m.
IB
XYZ Affair continues the tradtion of great campus few bucks on the side, and


bands with roots in South Bend.
Earth Jam will also feature a band of freshmen from South Bend. XYZ Affair, all formerly of St. Joe High School, areanother band in the legacy of campus bands with roots in South Bend (St. Paul and the Martyrs and Vibrolux, to name a few).
When I interviewed these guys and asked them what year they were, they all responded, “Freshman,” and my jaw dropped. I supposed they hadn’t been playing together very long until they explained that they came from St. Joe High and had been playing together for almost four years. Not that I’m any less impressed by a very cohesive freshman band, though.
Anyway, the five members of XYZ Affair are: Todd Royzicki on vocals, Scott Gruszynski on guitar, Anton Rivera on bass, Dave Robinson on drums (Dave is a student at IUSB), and Brian Palmer on keyboards. They claim a wide variety of influences (everything from older progressive stuff like Rush and Yes to new wave bands like the Cure and the Smiths). Their live experience over the course of four years has been mostly bars, clubs, and dances, and they recently opened for the Tiny Lights at Stepan Center (but you wouldn’tknow that, because no one was there). In any case, they’ve developed quite an extensive set list and have even started to crank out some originals (they’ve cut a four-track demo which they would describe as, well, “different”).
These Benders have come a long way in their musical progress. As guitarist Todd explained, “We really started from ground zero, and I guess we’re never really satisfied with what we’re doing.”
Vocalist Todd clarified, “We decided who would be in the band . and then built everything up from there. Our first big influence was U2, and after that we started to evelop more.”
What are they looking for now? odd says, “It’s a good weekend ctivity, maybe we’ll pick up a
eventually put out an album.”
Well, they have an early start on establishing themselves as a presence on campus (and elsewhere.) Be sure to catch XYZ Affair at Earth Jam from 9 to 10 p.m.
from Notre
Chisel - can you believe these guys are Dame?
The Who, What, Why, Where, and How on Chisel:
About their purpose: “We consider ourselves an environmental band ... Earth and cheese, that’s what we’re all about.”
About their live shows: “I’d say it’s just one big gigantic extended orgasm.”
About their chemistry as a band: “I think we’ve gelled really well as a band.” “I think we need to use more gel.”
Whatever these guys say about themselves, they’re definitely worth listening to. One of the most unique, experienced and inventive bands ever to grace Notre Dame’s campus, Chisel is the living antithesis of everything you’d expect to come out of the ND music scene. With hardcore/punk roots in D.C. and New York, Chisel are ready to make Notre Dame (and the rest of the world) take notice of them. The band consists of Ted Leo on guitar/lead vocals, Chris Infante on bass, and John Dugan on drums, and occasionally “Sean the secret weapon” on flute. They are the carryover of a band who appeared briefly at the Anti-Tostal concert (remember that?) called Crankshaft. This year, Ted and John (both were in Crankshaft) recruited Chris to play bass (he bought a bass for $90 at a pawn shop), and they began to come up with some searing originals.
Chisel’s influence comes mostly from the D.C. hardcore scene: bands like Minor Threat were a tremendous influence on their sound, as were bands from the New York scene like Jawbreaker (Chisel says it’s a good thing Jawbreaker broke up because the two bands sound just a little bit too much alike). Ted has recorded with a New York band called Puzzlehead, with an album due out soon, and Chisel’s sound is evocative of the “emo-core” sound of hardcore bands from both cities. “Emo,” in hardcore circles, is short for “emotion,” and their songs and live shows are full of it. They bring out emotion in both themselves and their
8
' SCHOLASTIC
audience at their live shows (one audience member at a recent show was “spiritually, physically, and emotionally moved to the point of making T-shirts for the band”). Whether or not you’re moved to the point of drawing t-shirts, you’re sure to find something you like in Chisel’s live show. Tunes ranging from angsty earsplitters to emotional instrumentals and primal three-chorders are all a part of Chisel’s sound. As diverse as their sound has been though, it’s nothing near as diverse as the crowds which they’ve played to.
“The crowd at our last couple of sets has been mostly the ‘Deadhead-folksy’ crowd, and they’ve been real responsive to us,” explained bassist Chris. “We played some places where I didn’t think they were going to like us at all and they loved us.”
“We’re pretty much willing to play with anyone,” continued Ted. “It’s not like we want to say that ‘Oh yeah, you’re not a real band because you only play covers’—that’s not it at all. It’s just that what we’re doing is completely different. We’re really excited about playing together with the other bands at Earth Jam — I’m looking forward to getting the exposure with a different kind of crowd.”
As far as the future goes, Chisel are looking at recording a demo, possibly over Christmas. Their past experience in bands has certainly been helpful in getting the band’s sound to develop to the point of being recordable, and their originals sound like the work of a band which has been together far longer than a semester or two.
“I think maybe next month is the time to start worrying about that,” said John. “We could put out a 7-inch or an EP on our own without too much trouble, but I think we haven ’ t really been around long enough. We have to record a demo first and see how things work out,” explained Ted.
Hopefully they’ll be around long enough to record and become better known, and apparently the band is looking forward to the future as well.
As Chris said, “Yeah, I think our ambition is eventually not to play in the South Bend area. We’d like to play Chicago....”
“I’d like to play Flint, Michigan,” Ted interjected, “just ‘cause it sounds cool.”
Chris continued, “My one ambition is to be together in our Senior year so we can play Theodore’s in our last week of school and...,” and, well, I don’t want to spoil Chris’ secret ambition for you. Stick around for another year or two and see what happens. It’ll be worth the wait. In the meantime, though, you can catch Chisel at Earth Jam between 10:30 and 11:30 p.m.
Exit 77: A clever name, a clever band, and a lot of unique songs to fill out their Earth Jam set.
Earth Jam’s final act is a band called Exit 77. Fifty bonus points to anyone who can guess how they got it... stumped? Take a look at the number of the exit you take to get into ND from the Indiana Toll Road next time you come back from break. Oh, yeah, sure, now you get it!
A band consisting mostly of Carroll Hall residents (maybe this band should have called themselves the Vermin), Exit 77 claims a wide variety of influences and looks to be a fun band for the cleanup slot (midnight to 1 a.m.) of Earth Jam. Their lineup, rather large for a campus band, includes: Keary Ryan on lead vocals; Carol Rojas singing backup; Marie Prein on lead female vocals; Mike Baumer on bass; Dave Palumbo on acoustic guitar; Tom Hitselberger on lead guitar; Chris Boetcher on sax; Maria Anglade on keyboards; and Sue Sikorski on drums. They’ve been together for a while—last year they played at the Nazz under the name “Better Off
Dead” — but their lineup has changed recently with the addition of Keary Ryan on lead vocals.
Overall, their sound is pretty varied — they play originals, covers of bands like U2 and R.E.M., and even include a twisted cover of the Indigo Girls’ “Land of Canaan” in their set. As bassist Mike Baumer explained, “We try to play stuff that people know but also stuff that not every other band on campus is playing.”
“We try to have fun with it, and play a wide variety so that it doesn’t get boring for us,” elaborated Dave.
Although Earth Jam is their biggest outing so far this year, Exit 77 is looking to get more exposure later in the year, and they certainly have v ^the makings of a good ycampus band — the size of jthc band, among other ings, gives them a broad d unusual sound that can’t e achieved with the standard “guitar-bass-drums” lineup. With some originals under their belts as
well, Exit 77 shows tremendous promise for achieving a strong identity as a campus band. Be sure to stick around for the final band of Earth Jam from midnight to 1 a.m. on Saturday.
All in all, the diversity and quality of the bands atEarth Jam should make itenjoyable for both bands and audience. Earth Jam’s organizers want to thank all of the bands participating and S.U.B. for making Earth Jam possible. Also, don’t forget that this is an awareness raising event. Student social concems/social action groups will be on hand to distribute information about their respective causes, so hopefully in addition to raising money and awareness for SEA, other groups like Amnesty International and the Gulf Crisis Action Group will be able to spread their message as well. It’s not quite Live Aid, but Earth Jam should be a helluva show.	□
by Dave Holsinger
Dave Holsinger is the Entertainment Editor at Scholastic and one of the organizers of Earth Jam II.
WWW
DECEMBER 6,1990
9
Their new release, Too Dark Park, is just as disturbing as ever
Too Dark Park
' As Skinny Puppy’s horror ■ show steamrolled through the country last month leaving :	carnage and destruction in its
‘ wake, bandleader Nivek Ogre invited the audience into the evil, bloodstained and apathetic j	world of the Too Dark Park. The
jl	pounding soundtrack was, as
i ; usual, emphasized by Ogre’s use of masks, stage blood, mud > ;	and bizarre props. As if that
t	weren’t enough, he
;	complemented the show with
i	the use of meallic stilts and
crutches, video screens filled with revolting images of horror ; i films, animal experimentation, i! and chemical warfare footage, a ;	' particularly gory Chinese snuff
■ film, and the aptly titled “Chair of No Care,” a throne L resembling an evil tree fully equipped with camera and : monitor, and branches holding I! .
10
things like masks and knives. After surviving the crush of the crowd and the brutal attack of sound and image, the deranged Skinny Puppy fan can still enter the apocalyptic world of the Too Dark Park by listening to the band’s eighth work, entitled Too Dark Park. But be warned, you will not leave the park the smug individual you were when you entered.
Following quickly on the heels of the disjointed and disorganized Al Jourgansen collaboration, Rabies, released earlier this year, Skinny Puppy has dispelled the rumors of disintegration and returned with an album full of as much power as the band’s best work, 1987’s Cleanse, Fold, and Manipulate. Backed by keyboardists, programmers	and
percussionists Cevin Key and Dwayne Goettel, and a few of the usual Nettwerk guest musicians, Ogre’s vision of Armageddon is established from the album’s first attack, “Convulsion.” This song, filled with samples and percussion from hell, and screams of “Hate Disease,” is basically a desensitizer for the rest of the album. Itsettlesdown afterward with the single, “Tormentor,” featuring less furious percussion, a heavy bass line,
and a theme that seemingly deals with psychological study and experimentation. Harsher, faster songs like “Spasmolytic,” which evokes images of a decaying city, the thrash guitarlike “TWFO,” and the crashing, rolling drum crescendo of the closing instrumental, “Reclamation” all conspire in the unrelenting attack on the listener’s eardrums.
Skinny Puppy’s other strategy is psychological attack. While calming down with more accessible songs, high synth sounds, and lower voices, the band raises on even more ominous spectre that still horrifies and shakes the listener awake with a muffled fetal scream. “Nature’s Revenge” accomplishes this effect brilliantly, with the addition of a clean guitar sound, New Orderlike fretless bass, and more restrained vocals helping, rather than hindering, the effect of a rising storm.
“Shoreline Poison” and “Grave Wisdom” continue in this build, with high synths and heavy bass synths, along with imagery of waste, human ignorance, and ineffectual hindsight through such lyrics as “fleeting image ghost destruction T.V. screen,” and “blind faith a tragedy.” The
album winds down with “Morpheus Laughing,” basically a summary of everything Ogre sees as accelerating humanity’s destruction. Subjects such as animal experimentation, chemical warfare, the destruction of the environment, misuse of resources, and basic hatred and greed, all previously dealt with in the band’s earlier works, are included. Following the chaos of “Reclamation,” this last track leaves you realizing that the physical and psychological gore that Puppy violently rubs your face in, through their sound and screamed stream-of-consciousness lyrics, is not of some future or past world of monsters, demons, and general terror, but the world we live in. If bands like R.E.M. are the heralds of Greenpeace and saving the planet, Skinny Puppy are the prophets of destruction, reacting with a vicious and violent primal scream of the trapped human race.
by Jason L. Winslade Jason Winslade is a frequent contributor to Scholastic, a DJ at WVFI, and he claims responsibility for what his alter ego Jazun Jetsam does with his "relatively unproductive use of air time.": /
1 SCHOLASTIC
SISTERS OF MERCY Andrew Eldritch and Co. are back with a fierce new album
SISTERS OF MERCY
VISION THING
In the bygone days of the late 70s, bands like Bauhaus, Joy Division, the Birthday Party, and Siouxsie and the Banshees redefined the beatniks’ idea of black as a fashion statement while everyone else was doing disco. The resulting cult following of Gothic punks soon began to challenge the spikes and chains of the Sex Pistols crowd, with their black hair, slick leather jackets, eyeliner, and death obsessions. One of the bands popular with this group of anguished youth was the Sisters of Mercy, led by frontman Andrew Eldritch. After a brief careeer of a few
DECEMBER 6,1990
obscure EPs and a couple of albums, the Sisters broke up, with the rest of the band leaving to form the Mission U.K. Left on his own, Eldritch did a brief stint as the Sisterhood, went into hiding, and re-emerged with 1987’s Floodlands, and a quite popular gothic-dance hit, “This Corrosion.” Now Eldritch is back, with a new angle on the guitar, less keyboards, and for the first time since the original Sisters, he has a real band backing him up. With one listen to the new Sisters album, Vision Thing, it is apparent that with the new band, Eldritch entered the studio prepared to kick some ass.
The album opens with the title track, the latest in Eldritch’s usual attack on the American dream, focusing his energy and anger on none other than George Bush, as demonstrated in the chorus, “One million points of
light, one billion dollar Vision Thing.” Along with the anger, no sign of any keyboards can be heard, as guitars pulsate and Eldritch bellows in the typical multi-layered vocal style of the Sisters, giving the effect of an angry choir. The next track, “Ribbons,” starts out with what seems to be a generic dance beat, but quickly surprises the listener with biting, almost violin-like, metallic guitars. Here, Eldritch powerfully utilizes his low, breathy whisper with slicing lyrics such as “flowers on the razor wire.” The song eventually builds and then takes away listeners in a rather prolonged ending, punctuated by hysterical shouts of “Incoming!” Other harsh tracks, such as the hard rock-influenced “Denotation Bouleyard” and the basic gothic pop of “When You Don’t See Me,” are balanced by slower tracks utilizing acoustic guitars,
as in “Something Fast,” and the album’s closer, “I Was Wrong,” which displays and unusually uneffected vocal. Other tracks on the album range from “Doctor Jeep,” in which Eldritch attacks everything from Pee-Wee Herman to Jane Fonda to AOR radio, to the single, “More,” the closest to the keyboard/sampled string/piano dance style used on Floodlands, With the use of female backing vocals on this track and some others, along with the more basic harsh guitars on most of the other tracks, the Sisters of Mercy tread a fine line between Gothic Rock and mainstream hard rock. The Goths have grown up now, and on Vision Thing, that maturity brings an unprecendented power to Eldritch’s unique slow bum shout and his razor-sharp guitars.	□
by Jason L. Winslade
11
iW.M P tT:;S<L 1 1? E
The Underwriters
Endowments and donations at Notre Dame fund buildings, scholarships and help the University meet its future financial needs
f A library building to cost $150,000.
xjL Two new dormitory buildings at a cost of $60,000 each. A fund for the endowment of athletics...” Thus begins a passage titled “Needs of the University” in the 1906 Dome. The passage calls for donations by alumni and tells of a plan under advisement for a “...special board to administer all monies contributed to the university.”
Since that time, the numbers have changed a great deal, and the needs of the University continue to grow. Many new needs arise each year, the construction of a new quad with more classroom space, the new ROTC and band buildings, financial aid to help students cope with increasing tuition costs.
The University has had to adjust to accommodate these needs. There are now several Vice Presidents of the University and various departments to regulate the flow
of funds from Notre Dame’s many generous benefactors. Funds can come in as direct donations, but many funds are presented as endowments.
Endowments are important because by nature they are long-lasting. The difference between an endowment and a direct donation can be explained by the following example. When a donation of, say $5 million, is made to the University as an endowment, the amount is placed in a bank. The University gets a return on this amount in terms of dividends and appreciation:
The dividends are spent each year, and the appreciation is left in the bank with the original deposit. Since no part of the original deposit is spent, it remains in the bank to earn interest the next year. Furthermore, the appreciation is added to the deposit, and it accrues interest as well.
So, an endowment produces funds year
12
i SCHOLASTIC
after year, and the fund itself grows to keep up with inflation. This makes endowments especially useful for such things as underwriting construction projects and scholarships. At present, the University has over $600 million in endowments.
The use of endowments in underwriting construction can be seen in the names of buildings on campus. Dorms such as Lewis, Knott, Grace, Siegfried and Stanford have been financed in this manner. Students can see portraits of these people in their respective halls.
By far the biggest single donation has come from alumnus Edward DeBartolo. His $33 million donation has spurred construction of an extensive classroom facility and a center for performing arts. These will be located in the new quad south of the Snite Museum of Art
Another notable benefactor has been Notre Dame trustee Frank Pasquerilla. He has underwritten two of the dormitories on campus as well as the new ROTC building,
which is the largest privately funded building of its kind in the nation.
Notre Dame trustee Arthur Decio funded the Decio Hall facility, located east of O’Shaughnessy Hall. And Joan Kroc, the widow of McDonald’s founder Ray Kroc, donated $6 million for the Hesburgh Peace Institute.
In addition to its use for underwriting construction, endowments are very useful as sources for scholarships. Undergraduate
scholarships presently account for 10 to 15 % of the endowments, according to Joseph Russo, director of financial aid. “We’re looking really hard to build that,” says Russo. The future does indeed look promising, with expectations of hundreds of new scholarships in the next decade. Students will automatically be considered for these scholarships when eligible.
The biggest University-based scholarship is the John and Mary Boyle Dailey Scholarship. This scholarship has an interesting history. Florence Dailey, the benefactor behind the scholarship, was a secretary at a bank around the turn of the century. The bank’s owner, A. 0. Fenn, was a good friend of George Eastman.
Fenn encouraged Miss Dailey and her fellow workers to invest in Eastman’s company, the then new Eastman Kodak company. Dailey followed through and, mostly due to these investments, died with assets of over $20 million in 1966. For reasons that are still uncertain, she decided to split most of this money between Notre Dame and Georgetown to be used for scholarships. They have been used by thousands of students since that time.
In the past several years, a growing number of scholarships have been coming from alumni clubs. There are over 200 alumni clubs across the country. Today,
over half of these clubs have become involved in scholarship activities, often as regional awards.
As the University continues to grow, needs keep arising, but the donations of others are helping to make a difference. Endowments and other donations are making it possible for the University to meet its needs today and in the future.	□
by Steve Tankovich
Joseph Russo, Director of Financial Aid oversees incoming funds Including new endowments and donations.
DECEMBER 6,1990
13
Do you have something: funny newsworthy
Entertaining
distinctive
to say? Come write for us. Stop by the Scholastic office at 303 LaFortune and sign up today.
Paul Webb
The Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams both finished first in last weekend's National Catholics
BY BECKY WOOD
r Bp he Fourth Annual National Catholic JI Swimming and Diving Championships, which returned to Notre Dame this past weekend, has grown from the inaugural meet three years ago in both size and competitiveness. All the event’s time cut-offs for top sixteen places have reached a senior national level. “The meet is gaining in stature and will continue to gain in recognition on the national level. I had not seen any of the east coast programs compete in the past and was very impressed with their preparation,” said Irish Assistant Coach Randy Julian. “National Catholics was more exciting than a conference meet.”
DECEMBER 6, 1990
- The major difference is that teams aren’t pitted against one another as in a conference meet. In fact, they have more in common than swimming. What makes National Catholics special is its spirit. Bringing teams together from Boston to San Diego has enabled athletes to share both “a common educational philosophy and a common athletic experience,” noted Irish Head Coach Tim Welsh.
Fifteen teams competed last weekend in what Ray Heath called a “thrilling display of excellence-just remarkable.” Heath is vice president for student affairs at LaSalle, and his daughter, Kristin, claimed third place in
the200 individual medley and 200 fly for the Irish. “Athletics report to me at LaSalle. Kristin reports to me at home,” said Heath. What’s more, Heath and Welsh were fellow collegiates at Providence, and Providence competes in National Catholics too. Notre Dame Freshman Alicia Feehery also has cross-team relations; her twin brothers both swim for LaSalle.
The excitement and intensity of competi-
Above: Junior Jim Birmingham (left) and freshman Dave Nathe congratulate each otha^ after finishing first and second ihlhe 100-yard freestyle.
15
Paul Webb
Boderick (left) and Cooley take-off to first and second place in the 200-yard breaststroke.
tive swimming and diving culminated last Saturday night in the final event of the Fourth Annual National Catholic Championships. Before the start of the men’s 400 freestyle relay the noise level in the Rolfs Aquatic Center prompted the announcer, Jack Jackson of Creighton, to bellow, “You can shake down the thunder after we get started.”
The gun went off and the crowd roared. A team championship was on the line between last year’s winner, Notre Dame, and 1988’s champion, LaSalle.
Even though Notre Dame’s Jim Birmingham and Dave Nathe placed first and second in the 100 freestyle, the Irish were second behind LaSalle going into the final 100 yard leg of the relay. Jim Birmingham, winner of the 100 free and the 50 free- in a senior national qualifying time- overtook LaSalle’s anchor swimmer after coming off the 50 yard turn. Birmingham touched the wall in a meet and pool record time of 3:02.96.
David Nathe, Chuck Smith and Greg Comick swam the other three legs of the relay that sealed Notre Dame’s second consecutive National Catholics title by 21/2 points. Notre Dame scored 754.5 points followed by LaSalle, Villanova, Fordham, and Boston College.
“What characterized the men’s meet across the field was the intensity and the excellence of the
competition,” said Irish Head Coach Tim Welsh.	.
Although Fordham was out of the race for first, the Fordham men symbolized the spirit that was evident throughout the meet. Chris Desmarais out-touched Notre Dame’s John Godfrey in the 200 backstroke by one-tenth of a second and Atsush Ohtaka broke the meet and pool record in the 200 butterfly. Ohtaka beat last year’s 200 fly champion
and swimmer-of-the-mcet, Eric Buhain from LaSalle.
The Irish men had refused to concede the meet even after going into the last five events 50 points behind front runner LaSalle. Notre Dame senior co-captain Brian Rini out-touched Buhain in the 200 fly to make the final transition for the Irish. Sophomores Ed Broderick and Colin Cooley carried Rini’s momentum into the 200 breaststroke and placed first and second, respectively. Broderick recorded a meet and pool record of 2:05.25. Freshman Sean Hyer finished second, in-between first and third place LaSalle divers, and closed the Irish gap to 3 1/2 points going into the 400 free relay.
“In a close contest, each team will get one chance to win,” Welsh believes.
The Irish men seized their opportunities and turned in outstanding performances. Every race was important and every Irish swimmer scored.
Across the board, 22 meet- and pool records fell to both men’s and women’s teams. The Irish men broke five, most notably, the 400 free relay team in the 200 free relay, and the 800 free relay team of Rini, Birmingham, Comick and Nathe.
The women’s meet was less suspenseful, but no less exciting. On Friday the Irish women moved from a one-point lead over last year’s champion Villanova to a 60 point lead. Every Irish swimmer scored on Saturday and contributed to the Irish women’s first National Catholic Title. In 1989 the Irish placed third. This year the Irish’s final score of 751 beat
Paul Webb
Rini set a Notre Dame record in the 200-yard butterfly.
16
SCHOLASTIC
second place Villanova by 102 points.
“The entire women’s meet had very strong commitments to the top places,” said Coach Tim Welsh. “The women deserve special credit for their performance at the beginning of the second day.”
The women recognized the opportunity to put the meet away on Friday and took advantage of it. However, senior Christy Moston, who placed second in both the
Paul Webb
Welsh confers with Irish sophomore Tanya Williams, who was named female
swimmer of the meet for the second year in a row.
records in both medleys, with 2:02.29 and 4:20.93. Williams also set a pool record in the 200 fly, with 2:02.70.
Feehery claimed the 100 free in a record time of 0:52.18, placed third in the 200 free, fourth in the 50 free and swam on three first-place Irish relays: the 400 free relay, and the 200 and 400 medley relays. Shana Stephens, Shannah Mather,	Colette
LaForce, Moston and Williams also swam legs on the first place relays.
Junior Jenny Kipp defended her one-meter diving win from last year and
earned the Female
Diver of the Meet
100 butterfly and the 100 backstroke, wasn’t sure how the meet would turn out.
“It’s hard to get psyched for home meets, but everyone was focused on doing well and the score took care of itself. The meet was very rewarding for everyone involved. It’s a peak to our fall training, we can now go
Freshman Feehery paced the 100-yard freestyle.
Paul Webb
back and improve on whatever we did or didn’t do,” said Moston.
Tanya Williams and Alicia Feehery both stood out, breaking four meet records for the Irish. Williams was honored as the female swimmer of the meet for the second year in a row after her stellar performances in the 200
and 400 individual medleys and the 200 fly. Wil-1 i a m s qualified for the NCAA Champi-onship meet in both the 200 and 400 indi-vi du al medleys and set m e e t -and pool
award for the second year. Coach Welsh was voted the women’s Coach of the Meet
Welsh was ecstatic after winning both meets. “This meet was part of a four-year dream when we first wondered whatit’d be liketo win both meets onthesameday. Theanswer is wonderful. Both meets were exciting,” said Welsh.
“I’m very pleased for the meet itself, that the quality of swimming has been raised each year,” said Welsh. “To win a race at this meet you need to be approximately at a senior national level time.”
“The efficiency with which the meet ran had a lot to do with the meet’s fast times. Sports Information and all the volunteers were invaluable.”
As National Catholics develops into a prominent national level championship meet it will continue to join Catholic institutions across the country. It is Boston College’s turn to host the meet next year. In the meantime, Notre Dame swimmers hope a Catholic University is established in Hawaii. □
DECEMBER 6, 1990

MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
David Bankoske: Bankoske, a junior from Williamsville, NY, scored three goals and recorded three assists as the men's hockey team took two games from the Mercyhurst College Lakers this past weekend. The two wins ran the squad's winning streak to six straight victories.
Tanya Williams: Williams, a sophomore from Boca Raton, FL, was named outstanding female swimmer of the National Catholic Championships this past weekend for the second year in a row. She qualified for the NCAA Championship meet in both the 200 and 400-meter individual medleys and recorded a personal record in the 200 with a meet, pool and school best of 2:02.29.
GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS
For the next football game or your next party, call Subway for a delicious Party Sub or Party Platten
CALL 277-7744
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a 50*1 discount off any footlong Subway sandwich. .
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. bn days of home football games.

State Road 23 and Ironwood
W SCHOLASTIC
Coming (Distractions
MOVIES
1
i
j j.
THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE UGLY will be showing at the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune on Thursday, December 6 at 8 and 10:15 p.m.
DIE HARD 2: Bruce Willis is back as John McClane is this sequel to the mega-hit Die Hard. Be sure to catch this thriller at Cushing Auditorium on Friday, December 7 and Saturday, December 8 at 8 and 10:15 p.m. Admission is $2. Sponsored by S.U.B.
CRY BABY, a film starring Johnny Depp and directed by John Waters, will be showing at the Annenberg Auditorium on Friday, December 7 and Saturday, December 8 at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Department of Communication and Theatre.
SPORTS
HOCKEY: The Irish will take on Lake Forest at the J.A.C.C. on Saturday, December 8 at 7:30 p.m.
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL will face Indiana at the J.A.C.C. at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, December 6, and Syracuse on Saturday, December 8.
WRESTLING will take on Missouri at the J.A.C.C. on Sunday, December 9.
THEATRE
ACCIDENTAL DEATH OF AN ANARCHIST will be at Washington Hall through Sunday, December 9. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk.
CONCERTS
EXOTIC BIRDS, a techno-pop band from Cleveland, will be at Stepan Center at 7 p.m. on Friday, December 7. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk.
EARTH JAM II, a benefit concert for Students for Environmental Action, will be held at Stepan Center from 7 p.m. to 1 a.m on Saturday, December 8. Admission is $2 at the door, and t-shirts will also be available for $10.
LECTURE
MAYA ANGELOU, author of I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings, will be speaking at Stepan Center on Thursday, December 6 at 8 p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk for $2. The event is sponsored by S.U.B.
MISCELLANEOUS
WINDY CITY SHUTTLE will be making a run to Chicago at the Main Circle at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday, December 8. Reservations can be made at the LaFortune Information Desk.
DECEMBER 6,1990

Coresideateia1itey
NOW!
^x-	W&*	W.5& UvW*
■jp or any Notre Dame student a trip to JP another college or university can be quite an eye-opening experience. In at least one aspect, the dormitories of friends or relatives at schools such as Michigan State or the University of Massachusetts provide totally different living conditions than a typical Domer has ever been exposed to: These schools have co-educational housing.
While the Notre Dame powers-that-be brag about the great Notre Dame “community” to recruits and admirers around the country, they have created a bizarre set of circumstances through parietals and singlesex dormitories which produce very unhealthy, and abnormal male/female relations. Friendships are rare between men and women and a large gulf exists between the sexes which can often only be bridged with some help from the great equalizer, alcohol.
This issue has been hashed and rehashed innumerable times. A flip through The Observer on any given day is bound to contain a sexist column or letter from an ignorant male who is totally in the dark about how to deal with a woman (aside from the level of a sexual object), followed up quickly by a bitter rebuttal by an enraged female student.
For instance, a letter defending parietals which was written about a month ago by two foolish little boys masquerading as Notre Dame students clearly reveals the problem. Their main argument for keeping parietals focused on two points: first, that “co-eds” (a derogatory term in and of itself) were disruptive to proper study habits, and second, that keeping women out of the male dorms prevented students from having sex. So, basically, these two were saying not only that women willfully prevent men from attaining their intellectual peak and thus must be kept out of the dorms, but also that women are
20
Domers will continue to graduate completely unaware of how the real world, where men and women work and live side by side, really works.
If men and women lived down the hall, the tension between men and women would be eased. It wouldn’t be considered a come-on to drop in on someone or just hang out down the hall. A lot of people (men and' women) agree, going to the room of someone of the opposite sex carries with it an awful amount of baggage: “Is he/she here'as. just a friend or do they have something else in mind?” “Am I sending the wrong message by stopping by?” These thoughts run through everyone’s mind and create an aversion to developing basic friendships between men and women. It’s foolish, but it is a definite problem.
Another problem is that the single-sex dorms seem like foreign places. Entering one is like entering another world. To get into most women’s dorms at night, men must call up. This eliminates the casual hello which can come from a stroll down the hall or up one set of stairs. And don’t forget when the women come and get the man; he waits for her and then she must escort him upstairs like a criminal.
Granted, security is a problem, but if a crazy rapist was considering a spree on a college campus, wouldn’t a dorm of exclusively female residents seem more inviting than a dorm where twenty or so strong young men live down the hall from the intended victims?
And yet the University continues to fos-
only good for one thing, sex, and men must therefore be protected from temptation. Forget basic friendship between the sexes.
Until this issue is resolved,
ter these screwed-up male/female relations by legislating morality. While there exists a self-enforced honor code for academics, students can’t be trusted to be honorable in their own morality. This policy seems to be both hypocritical and rather insulting to the bright young people who study under the Dome.
As young adults, students must make their own decisions about male/female relationships. Most of the students attending Notre Dame arrived with a firm moral and ethical base, anyway, which were in general developed in Catholic, stable middle-class family environments. .Mistakes and falls from grace may occur occasionally, but ethics and morality forged through the crucible of human experience are held closer to the heart, and are stronger than those which are enforced without consent. Yet, the administration continues to force-feed archaic rules and regulations to the student body.
The administration should institute coeducational dormitories. The towers of Grace and Flanner would be a logical place to start, alternating floors or having men and women oh opposite sides of the tower. And, at the same time, single sex dorms could be kept available as a viable alternative.
It took 130 years to Allow women into Notre Dame. Let us hope itdoesnot take 130 more years for the next logical step towards forming a true, healthy “community” of men and women.	□
by Jon Paul Potts
SCHOLASTIC
CHH€NK€LB16N’S
-pan p^e.
youutAe s -	WAh’S to iKlTeRC^Pr TH6 MeuM an-
k'eV |^oMe^r$ iM TV PerM&R's; Y6AR
B1? UJAW6R CAWP
f\?OLOC 16$ MUS, g£	bu& To L/\^G&
OF PlGTJ^, KArue&s MAS' BO llODi$TltQGUlSHA8l-e
SBBB
"... state of the art dance rock that can compete against the New Order's and Depeche Mode's on any given day." - Scene Magazine
" ... garnering attention in the Heartland, there's style and talent here."
- Billboard Magazine
COME AND DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY WITH
EXOTIC BIRDS
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7 FROM 7:30 - 9:30 @ STEPAN CENTER
A great way to kick off your last FREE FRIDAY before finals!!!
Admission is $3 student/$4 other Tickets available at LaFortune Info Desk
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame. IN
Permit No. 10
or at the door