NOW... WARMER AND LIGHTER THAN EVER BEFORE .. .
THE FAMOUS "NORDIC VIKING" COAT BY McGREGOR
$39.95
The most famous great coat in America! And no wonder! Once you slip into this feather-light coat . . . feel its warmth . . . see its handsome styling . .. you’ll agree it’s the finest coat of its kind obtainable. The outer shell is a rugged blend of Dacron polyester and cotton. The 3-layer lining: quilted nylon . . . windproof Curan insulation . . . nylon fill . . . keeps out wind and cold without weight. Completely washable, of course. Detachable hood. See them soon!
^GILBERT'S
^^ampuj^hop^
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .
PAY	PAY	PAY
V3	1/3	1/3
IN JUNE	IN JULY	IN AUGUST
No Carrying Charge
Being well dressed . . . looking the part of a successful gentleman ... is no problem while you’re a student at Notre Dame. Get the clothing you need when you need it . . . and choose from the most famous brand-names in America . . . charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay for it next summer. This convenience costs you nothing extra — there is never a carrying charge nor interest to pay. Drop in at the Campus Shop soon.
ONE OF AMERICA’S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS . . .
On the Campus—Notre Dame
3
On Campus
WMman
(Author of “I Wag a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
THE DATING SEASON
I have recently returned from a tour of 950,000 American colleges where I made a survey of undergraduate dating customs and sold mechanical dogs, and I have tabulated my findings and I am now prepared to tell you the simple secret of successful dating.
The simple secret is simply this: a date is successful when the man knows how to treat the girl.
And how does a girl like to be treated? If you want to know, read and remember these four cardinal rules of dating:
1. A girl likes to be treated with respect.
When you call for your girl, do not drive up in front of the sorority house and yell, “Hey, fat lady!” Get out of your car. Walk respectfully to the door. Knock respectfully. When your girl comes out, tug your forelock and say respectfully, “Good evening, your honor.” Then offer
her a Marlboro, for what greater respect
can you show your girl than to offer
Marlboro with its fine flavor and exclusive selectrate filter? It will indicate immediately that you respect her taste, respect her discernment, respect her intelligence. So, good buddies, before going out on a date, always remember to buy some Marlboros, available in soft pack or flip-top box in all 50 of the United States and also Cleveland.
S. A girl likes a good listener.
Do not monopolize the conversation. Let her talk while you listen attentively. Make sure, however, that she is not herself a good listener. I recollect a date I had once with a coed named Greensleeves Sigafoos, a lovely girl, but unfortunately a listener, not a talker. I too was a listener so we just sat all night long, each with his hand cupped over his ear, straining to catch a word, not talking hour
To the list of things girls like, add the king-size, unfiltered Philip Morris Commander. Girls, men—in fact everybody with a taste bud in his head—likes mild, natural Commander, co-sponsors with Marlboro of this column.
after hour until finally a policeman came by and arrested us both for vagrancy. I did a year and a day. She got by with a suspended sentence because she was the sole support of her aged housemother.
S. A girl likes to be taken to nice places.
By “nice” places I do not mean expensive places. A girl does not demand luxury. All she asks is a place that is pleasant and gracious. The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, for example. Or Mount Rushmore. Or the Taj Mahal. Or the Bureau of Weights and Measures. Find places like these to take your girl. In no circumstances must you take her to an oil-cracking plant.
4- A girl likes a man to be well-informed.
Come prepared with a few interesting facts that you can drop casually into the conversation. Like this: “Did you know,
Snookiepuss, that when cattle, sheep,
camels, goats, antelopes, and other mem-
bers of the cud-chewing family get up, they always get up hind legs first?” Or this: “Are you aware, Hotlips, that com grows faster at night?” Or this: “By the way, Loverhead, Oslo did not become the capital of Norway till July 11, 1924.” If you can slip enough of these nuggets into the conversation before dinner, your date will grow too torpid to eat. Some men save up to a half million dollars a year this way.	c I96I M„ ShuImM
GLANCES
In the January 16,1959, Scholastic, Charlie Bowen revived the classic tradition of the Greek tragedy. In this issue we revive Charlie Bowen on . . . page 7.
News of the homecoming dance and . . . other things is included in “News and Notes” . . . page 9.
Fifth year thesis students of Architecture plan the downtown redevelopment for an Indiana city as part of their course . . . page 10.
A variation on an old theme — a next-to-nothing platform — is one of the sidelights of this year’s hall elections . . . page 12.
Jacques Maritain, lover of knowledge, speaks at Moreau Seminary in a public lecture on man and the human condition . . . page 13.
John McGuire describes the week’s fare in entertainment “In Town and Around” . . . page 17.
Another pride of patriots who roai’ for recognition on . . . page 18.
We offer a flashback to last Friday night’s Limeliters concert on . . . page 20.
This week presents the first glimpse of a pawn-pusher’s paradise . . . page 22.
Well . . . anyway, let’s look at tomorrow’s game with the Wildcats . . . page 27.
An interesting possibility — a bowl bid for Notre Dame — is considered on . . . page 28.
Daryle Lamonica, starting junior quarterback, maintains that “We’ll Bounce Back” . . . page 28.
Bill Cary questions the more-than-questionable actions of MSU’s coach, Duffy Daughterty in last Saturday’s game . . . page 29.
Halloween party with hayride and Oh Boy! Get your tickets in dining halls and three cheers to the everactive social commission . . . page 32.
Jim Rhodes, senior chemistry major, and Ed Barton, senior AB-engineer, weigh scientific education at ND and find something lacking; read “Forum” . . . page 34.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC, >5 printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip' lion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be* comes the property of the SCHOlASTlC.
4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
	Vol. 103	No. 5 October 27, 1961
Founded 1867'
LIMELITERS — AND ALL THAT: Last Friday that portion of the student body spending an evening in the Fieldhouse was treated to a performance by one of the more sophisticated and entertaining groups currently in vogue, the Limeliters. At the same time, a rude and distracting side-show was going on, both behind and in front of the audience. From behind came the noises of the sellers of refreshments, who were counting their money, dismantling their booths, and hauling them away on trucks — all this during the performance. Whether this enterprise is managed by students or by an outside organization, it would seem that the operators could show enough courtesy to postpone their Philistine activities until after the show. In front, the combination of unpleasant lighting and unpleasant cameramen detracted much from the enjoyment of the music. We understand that the lights were left on in order that the cameraman might film the performance for a national television program. Yet it is difficult to see why the student who paid a minimum of $1.50 for this entertainment should have had to bear this annoyance. In the future we hope that the Social Commission will be firmer in the interests of the paying customers.
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor -
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE
features editor
THOMAS HOOBLER
sports editor	*
WILLIAM CARY
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor -
THOMAS HANSEN Patrick Saxe ^Robert Sajnovsky
layout editor
STEVEN PODLAS
business manager
JOHN WARD .
Robert Buckley
circulation manager JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisor
DONALD COSTELLO
ALL QUIET: So far as we have been able to determine, the new regime established via Father Hesburgh’s summer letter has not as yet been accompanied by any drastic outbreak of moral degeneracy or riotous behavior, save for some general disorder in the freshman halls. The general quietness in the upperclass halls during the later evening is a welcome change from the noise which, in past years, began at 9, built to a crescendo at 11, and gradually faded away sometime after midnight. The so-called transition period — one of the bugbears preventing earlier progress — has apparently passed with no major upheavals. This acceptance of the new regime with equanimity is, we hope, the index of a new (or at least previously well-hidden) maturity and sophistication among Notre Dame students. It would, however, be unfortunate if the conduct of our freshman brothers were to cause a return to the former system for them. But it could happen.
. ON PATRIOTS: Nominees for the 1962 Patriot of the Year award comprise a list of ten very impressive men, men who have indeed served their country well and deserve the appreciation of all their fellow citizens. But somehow, to hear any of them called “Patriot of the Year” sounds peculiarly inapt and unsatisfying to us.
Mention the word “patriot” and people generally think of Patrick Henry, Nathan Hale, Simon Bolivar and scoundrels. But today the concept has become divorced from connotations of virtue. “Patriot” has a funny sound to the modem ear; an age which has seen many a patriot turn out to be a bane rather than a boon to both his own country and the world is just a bit suspicious of any claimant to the title. Perhaps it is that the world doesn’t particularly need patriots any more so much as it needs men who can transcend the nationalistic foundations of patriotism without lapsing into cultural relativism. In any case, the patriot certainly is not the hero of the age, not the popular idol that mother wants little Johnny to grow up to be just like.
In light of this, we suggest that the whole concept of a Patriot of the Year award be critically reviewed. There is ample evidence that the award committee itself is aware of the inadequacies of the concept of patriotism as a basis for an award of honor. In trying to arrive at a “working definition” of Patriotism (see p. 18), the committee resorted to a catalogue of praiseworthy but essentially unrelated and illogically juxtaposed qualities. In this connection, the Oxford English Dictionary is content to define patriot as one who “loves and loyally supports his country,” but, true to the temper of the times, the committee doesn’t want to be giving the award for something as limited as that. So we get a hodgepodge of descriptive virtues that includes everything from love of country to clean living lumped under the term “patriot.”
It seems to us that the nationalistic denotation of “patriot” is conflicting with the qualities which the award committee seems to be trying to honor, judging from the official description of the award. Of the recipients of recent years, only that of last year, Admiral Rickover, even approaches the classical conception of what a patriot should be. Maybe we should make the award into some sort of Notre Dame peace prize; or give it to those who defend and advance the spiritual and cultural values of the West. There just seem to be too many people who don’t respect patriotism as such to make it a viable rationale for such an award.
— W. & Z.
5
QQ
PRODUCTS
FOR THE AMERICAN ROAO • THE FARM . INDUSTRY • AND THE AGE OF SPACE

°g Osa

tike about 239,000 miles if you’re part of the scientific team at Ford Motor Company’s Aeronutronic Division in Newport Beach, California.
A leader in missile development, Aeronutronic was assigned to build the U.S.'s first moon capsule for the NASA Ranger lunar exploration program. This 300-pound instrumented package will be launched by a larger spacecraft for impact on the moon's surface where it will transmit computer data to earth. Meanwhile, back on this planet, men and ideas are in constant motion at Aeronutronic, planning scientific break-throughs which will effectively transform new concepts into practical products for industry and defense.
Aeronutronic has been awarded prime contracts for the Air Force “Blue Scout" rocket-space program; the development of DECOYS in the Air Force ICBM program; SHILLELAGH surface-to-surface guided missiles for the Army.
Ford Motor Company recognizes the vital relationship of science to national security. Through our Aeronutronic Division supplemented by our scientific research and engineering facilities at Dearborn, Michigan, we actively support long-range basic research as an indispensable source of today's security and tomorrow's products. This is another example of Ford’s leadership through scientific research and engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn. Michigan
6
The Scholastic
a literary event, with critical introduction
by CHARLES BOWEN
Every now and then a work is produced of such luminous greatness that the critic is thankfully relieved of the task of carping and can concentrate on the more desirable duty of appreciation. (For, as someone in a recent issue of this very journal was pleased to point out, when you’ve gotta extol you’ve gotta extol.) We are glad to announce such a shining occurrence, and here, apud nos, on our own campus.
We ask you to consider the name Marvin Mousepack. Speak it, sound it, roll it around on your tongue. For one day that name will be as well known as Shakespeare, as Milton, as Howard R. Garis or Laura Lee Hope. Perhaps our enthusiasm may arouse surprise — but wait until you hear
the story of this astonishing young man. >
Did he begin, like most undergraduate writers, with the Scholastic? With the Juggler? With the Sunday Visitor? Far from it. He burst upon our eyes, from total obscurity, as the author of a prizewinning drama! No one suspected the quiet-spoken junior (he majors in business ethics) of any literary activity. (In fact, his English II instructor, when queried, seemed surprised to hear that he was literate.)
But there can be no doubt of it. The facts are in, the news is out. A new play by Marvin Mousepack has won the annual Greek Drama Award and captured first prize at the Dionysian Festival (held this year at the Apollo Quick Lunch, in Dearborn, Mich.) The play is described as “a
tragicomedy of the Notre Dame Dining Hall, with overtones of come-tragedy.” Actually, it introduces several new features into the Greek tragic tradition, helping to prove the old truism that every classic is a revolution.
While retaining , the traditional chorus and hero, it includes elements of the medieval mystery play, the Shakespearean drama, and the modem musical comedy. The influence of contemporary realism is seen in the fact that everything on the stage, including sets, properties, and actors, is covered with a thick layer of soot and grease. (“... symbolizing,” as the author points out, “not only the barrenness of modem civilization, but also the general messiness of every
thing ever.”) And yet there is room for hope in the universe of Mr. Mousepack. For the end of the play sees love triumphant and spring returning to the parched earth, while in the background an invisible choir of monks chants a plainsong arrangement of The Wasteland. (“I’m an unabashed romantic,” cheerfully admits Mr. Mousepack, brushing a lock of hair out of his blue eye with a lanky, graceful hand.)
We are proud to include for your consideration a portion of the first authorized translation, done by the playwright’s roommate (“my best friend and severest critic”). Here, then, is the first act of:
OEDIPUS RETCHED or
Please Don’t Eat the Chuck Wagon Steak
Cast of Characters: (Appearing) Gregory Grubstake, a poorbuthonest student plate scraper.
Hanna Hotski, a sensitive girl who is forced by her avaricious father to wait on the head table.
Foul Flintheart, an enigmatic character with a moustache who appears at odd intervals to shout meaningless orders to no one in particular.
George Washington Furd, a deus ex machina.
Gourmets, Gourmands, Checkers, Grub Girls.
Ladies, Gentlemen, and Retainers. Curtain: The stage is dark. Light from an undefined source grows slowly and objects begin to take shape: Tables, chairs, a loudspeaker, through which music is playing softly, saltshakers, sugar jars, silver bowls of 1000 Islands Dressing. Suddenly the Victor Herbert selections are interrupted right in the middle of “My Lttle Gypsy Sweetheart” and a voice from the speaker is heard:
VOICE: Come, muse, and sing of doom; Of death, sing, muse, and also of life. There is despair in thy song, but also the seeds of hope; there is cowardice, but also the seeds of courage; there is cauliflower, but also the seeds of grapefruit.
(Lights up. GREGORY is seen sitting in an attitude of despair at the table. GOURMETS and GOURMANDS enter rear. While GREGORY is speaking they pass by stage right and receive helpings of breaded veal cutlets, mashed potatoes, applesauce, salad, ice cream, and beverage, and sit at the tables.')
GREGORY: (sobbing cosmically). Another day! Another dinner! Another $1.42! Again must I greasily grub; groaning. Ah! What a treadmill! When will I ever be free? There is a monstrous unfairness in this scheme, methinks. There sit your pre-meds and PFA’s, who have nothing to do but eat, and here am I, who might, but for this bondage, be fulfilling myself: My soul thirsts — I must have more paperbacks, more Bartok records, must attend the Concert and Lecture Series and the Festival of the Arts! But
(Continued on page 33)
October 27,1961
7
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE CARL HORN
How many more people will need telephone service in Illinois by 1970? How many more telephone buildings should be built, how much more equipment ordered? Helping to find the right answers (because the wrong ones could be very expensive) is the job of Carl Hom, a telephone company economist who graduated from college just last year. His studies and estimates help management
make important forecasting decisions. Decisions that will bring advanced communications to the nation.
Carl Hom of Illinois Bell Telephone Company, and other young men like him in Bell Telephone Companies, help make your telephone and communications service the finest in the world.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
8
The Scholastic
HOMECOMING BEGINS TONIGHT
Jimmy Dorsey’s Orchestra under the direction of Lee Castle will provide the music for the occasion as the annual Homecoming Dance is held in the LaFortune Student Center tonight.
Reigning over the spectacle will be Miss Virginia Wesely of Mankato, Minn. Miss Wesely was the winner of the campus-wide Homecoming Queen Contest conducted last week by the Social Commission. She will be accompanied by John Hutton, a senior from Alumni Hall.
An 18-year-old honor student from Mankato State College, Virginia is 5'7", weighs 115 pounds, and does part-time modeling and TV work. She was chosen on the basis of a picture submitted with a letter of nomination
VIRGINIA WESELY
What’s in a voice?
and a telephone conversation with the Social Commission.
For her prize, Virginia will receive a $100 cash prize, box seats at the Northwestern-Notre Dame game for herself and her date, a chauffeur-driven car for the weekend, and a part in judging the hall homecoming displays.
Her court of honor will be: Miss Elaine Richards, Gary, Ind.; Miss Carol Craven, Norman, Okla.; Miss Barbara Larson, Garden City, N. Y.; Miss Ann Wilkalis, Evanston, Ill.; Miss Candy Lee, Berea, O.; and Miss
Elaine Klinger, Rochester, N. Y.
Guests of honor for the weekend will be Miss Helen Anderson of Aurora, Hl., date of General Chairman Rich “Chonek” Jalovec; Miss Mary Fran Luecke of St. Louis, Mo., date of Executive Chairman Dave Kennedy; and Miss Terri Crosina of Los Angeles, Cal., date of Social Commissioner Greg Weismantel.
According to Jalovec, decorations for the dance will center around a typical football weekend theme. Such things as scoreboards, goal posts, and trophies will adorn the Student Center. The door to the Rathskeller will be decorated as a “Gate 14” to gain the effect of the football weekend.
“American Heroes” is the theme for the Hall Decorations Contest. Such notables as Paul Revere, Casey Jones, and Mike Fink will be prominent on the campus as each hall competes for the top prize of $50. Runner-up will be given a $25 prize.
Assisting Jalovec are: Dave Kennedy, executive chairman; Ron Van-nucki, business manager; Phil Yawman, tickets; Ted Nylese, refreshments; Phil Ruddy, accommodations; Jim Cregan, publicity; Lee Piovarcy, IBM; Dan Baldino, entertainment; and Dick Juckneiss, decorations. Mark Marquardt, Joe Bracco, Kevin Quinn, and Greg Weismantel were the Homecoming Queen judges.
NSF AWARDS GRANTS
The National Science Foundation has announced that it will award scholarships again this year to qualified students. Fellowships will be awarded for study in the mathematical, physical, medical, biological, and engineering sciences, as well as in anthropology, psychology, economics, and the history and philosophy of science.
A qualified student as defined by the NSF is one who has completed four years of college, is a citizen of the United States and has the recommendation of his department of study.
Applicants for the graduate awards will be required to take the Graduate Record Examination designed to test scientific aptitude and achievement. This examination, administered by the Educational Testing Service, will be given on Jan. 20, 1962. The deadline for the receipt of applications for regular postdoctoral fellowships
is Dec. 18, 1961, and for graduate fellowships, Jan. 5, 1962.
The annual stipends for graduate Fellows are as follows: $1800 for the first year; $2000 for the intermediate year; and $2200 for the terminal year. The annual stipend for postdoctoral Fellows is $5000. Limited allowances will also be provided to apply toward tuition, laboratory fees, and travel.
IRC SEEKS MEMBERS
The International Relations Club, composed of 25 sophomores, juniors, and seniors, is holding interviews for new members. The group meets on alternate Tuesday nights to discuss foreign affairs and their impact on the United States.
At the meetings, the club members read papers or listen to a lecture by an authority concerning the causes and impact of foreign relations problems.
This year, in conjunction with the St. Mary’s International Relations Club, the group will attend a series of lectures by noted scholars. Other meetings between the two groups are being planned.
Full membership is not open to freshmen, but they are invited to attend and participate in the discussions as associate members.
Officers of the club are Filippo Valli, president; Robert Kelley, vicepresident; Howard L’Enfant, secretary; and Alex Cogels, treasurer.
SHUSTER ADDRESSES AB COUNCIL
Dr. George N. Shuster will address the Notre Dame Advisory Council for the Liberal and Fine Arts tomorrow morning at nine-thirty on “The Liberal Arts College and Foreign Affairs.”
Shuster is assistant to the president of Notre Dame and a United States representative on the executive board of the United States Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). He was president of Hunter College in New York City for twenty years, and presently he is coordinating the Notre Dame social science research programs dealing with man in contemporary society.
The Advisory Council is a board of twenty-seven men and women who meet semiannually to review the University’s programs in the liberal and fine arts.
October 27,1961
JUNIOR WINS CONTEST
Winners of the first, second, and third place prizes in the intercampus Viceroy Cigarette Football Contest for Oct. 20 are Scott Carroll, 307 Dillon Hall; Gerald Vairo, 103 Alumni Hall; and William Stone, 214 Dillon Hall.
Carroll, who submitted only one entry, guessed all ten teams correctly and won $100. Vairo submitted five entries and got nine teams right for
SCOTT CARROLL
A thinking man’s choice.
a prize of $50. Stone won $25. The five runners-up who will receive $10 each are Jack Jaganti, Mike Kramer, Fred Lederer, John Skeese, and Tom Wish.
GALLERY SHOWS McNEAR WORKS
Currently on view in Notre Dame’s Art Gallery are two score paintings by Chicagoan Everett McNear. Said Curator John Howett about the show: “The McNear show consists largely of landscapes, both city and rural, and seascapes; his paintings are regarded as modem, semi-abstract, urbane, and sophisticated.”
McNear is the many-prized designer and exhibition chairman of the Arts Club of Chicago. His exhibition continues through Nov. 8.
Seven other exhibitions are scheduled for the coming year. Included are Contemporary Belgian Paintings, Nov. 12-Dec. 15; The Arts of Ancient Peru, Dec. 20-Jan. 28; Selections from Outstanding Chicago Private Collections, Feb. 4-March 4; The Saints in Print and Manuscript, from the Lessing Rosenwald Collection, Nov. 11-April 8; Contemporary Sculpture, from the Sculpture Center of New York, Apr. 15- May 13; Notre Dame (Continued on page 32)
EACH year the fifth year architecture students are required to work out a thesis on their own choosing. However, this year in cooperation with the Michigan City (Ind.) Chamber of Commerce the twelve thesis students are working on a project in urban renewal for Michigan City’s downtown waterfront area. The city planning project, which is expected to chart the community’s redevelopment potential, will culminate in a design for a well-integrated civic center in a 24-block area, the heart of the future greater Michigan City Region.
The project, to be known as the “Michigan City Center, 1980,” will provide valuable experience for the students and will also, it is hoped, stimulate the interest of residents and community leaders in Michigan City’s future development. Prof. Frank Montana, head of the Department of Architecture stated, “We are very excited about this project. The department feels that this experience will be very worthwhile for the students
MICHIGAN CITY CENTER:
and can also help Michigan City realize some of its long-range objectives.”
Serving as faculty supervisor of the student team will be Julian Kulski, visiting professor of architecture. Kulski, who is engaged in the practice of architecture and city planning in Washington, D.C., is a graduate of Yale University. He has directed city planning programs in a number of communities including Meriden and East Haven, Conn.; Cumberland, R.I.; and Littleton and Lebanon, N.H.
In the thesis program, Mr. Kulski describes the task of rebuilding our urban centers and of guiding the growth and development of our metropolitan areas as second only to that of preserving peace and national defense. He has noted that the majority of our cities are in dire need of reutilization and rebuilding, for the unprecedented urban growth, being haphazard and without control, has resulted in abandonment of the city’s central area as the center of community life. These urban centers are a national asset and the economy of the community, the cultural development of its citizens and the environment in which they live and work largely depend on good city planning.
Therefore, Mr. Kulski has suggested that, “Michigan City, Ind., should be considered as a case study of the problems which exist in the majority of American urban communities.” He commented that Michigan City is “ideally suited for a study such as this.”
Kulski said the students will begin by studying existing conditions in Michigan City. Aiding them will be an urban development plan which the city prepared last year and other data supplied by the city and the Chamber ' of Commerce. Stage One of the project consists of a community investigation in which the team is divided into smaller groups to study existing conditions.
Robert Canizaro, the team leader, is responsible for the research and development aspect and the compilation of the information obtained by the other groups. David Trigiani and John Martine are making the land use study while Jack Castin, Tony Mileto, and Paul Murphy are making traffic and parking study. The redevelopment and regional planning study is being conducted by Jim Cassidy, Ted Maniatis, and Bernie Rauch. The project also requires an economic and population study, which
19S0
is being executed by Charles Boldrick and Canizaro. Finally the base maps for the location of the civic center are being worked out by Joe Giattina and Tom Regan.
In a second phase of the project, each member of the student team will present a small scale model as his own proposal for the area under study. These models will indicate existing buildings, proposed buildings, and recommendations for the handling of traffic and parking. This phase of the year-long project will take the form of a competition, and a jury of University and city officials will pick the best scale model which will become the nucleus of the remainder of the project.
Toward the end of the first semester, each student will select a building in the winning design and do a planning sketch study.
When the second semester is underway, the students will collaborate on a large scale model of the winning design, showing the city, its downtown district, and waterfront in considerable detail. Then in the final phase of the project, each student will do working drawings for one of the buildings of the proposed neW Michigan City.
10
The Scholastic
Architecture group redesigns downtown area as senior thesis project.
ABTCABVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING BINGS . . . JEWELBY
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
104 N. Main St	J.M.S. Bldg.
RUBIN CLEANERS
★
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card
★
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
★
Complete Laundry Service
*
After seeing the proposed plan of study, whereby the students will analyze present conditions and design for future needs of the community, John Garrettson, president of the Chamber stated, “The Chamber of Commerce has long felt that the business community should interest itself in long-range planning of our central area. This project, the board feels, will give us an opportunity of visualizing the redevelopment potential of our downtown area. We know,” continued Garrettson, “the benefits of this program will have far-reaching effects on the future of Michigan City.”
The students have been working on the project since the beginning of this month — operating out of their drawing room above the Huddle and making weekly visits to Michigan City. Last week they participated in a panel discussion with the City Fathers, discussing their planned project.
CINEMA SIXTY-TWO
The Notre Dame Student-Faculty Film Society is now selling season subscriptions to CINEMA SIXTY-TWO, ten programs of award winning films. A series ticket which is good for nine feature films and ten or more short films, detailed program notes, and participation in informal discussions may be purchased for $4 in 328 Walsh, 311 Dillon, 324 Pangborn or 423 Farley. Faculty members should contact by mail Prof. Donald Costello, Department of English.
October 27, 1961
The team’s spirit is high and the tabulated data and preliminary studies indicate it is off to a great start into a rewarding opportunity.
SPECIAL COMPLIMENTARY OFFER FOR COLLEGE MEN Learn the Pleasures of Fine Tobacco Enjoy the Original Extra-Mild Cavendish in the Handy “ Poly" Pocket Pouch

Blended in Holland by Douwe Egberts Royal Factories
AMPHORA, is cool, even-burning, long-lasting. Its pleasurable smoking qualities have won loyal friends—it outsells all other tobaccos in its class! If you haven’t tried AMPHORA, be our guest. Simply fill in the coupon below and mail it. You will receive a complimentary full 2-ounce pouch.
ROMICK’S INTERNATIONAL TOBACCO CO.
11918 Vose Street, North Hollywood, California
Gentlemen: Please send me a complimentary full 2-ounce pouch of AMPHORA. I enclose 10# coin to cover cost of handling and mailing, (PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT)
NAME_________________________________________________ STREET_______________________________________________ CITY, ZONE, STATE_____________________________________
U NIVERSITY___________________________________________
Only one offer per person. Not good after Dec. 31,1961.

Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing ★
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-3630
AL SMITH'S DISTRIBUTORS OF HI-FI COMPONENTS
ONLY 1$ FOR A $24.00 STEREO CARTRIDGE
WITH PURCHASE OP ANY GARRARD RECORD CHANGER
Complete Line of HI-FI & STEREO RECORDS & TAPES
AL SMITH'S RECORD BAR 128 W. WASHINGTON AVE.
Phone: CE 2-3344
NICOLA'S Cracker Crust Pizza
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
CREEPING FAIRE-NEANTISM
Hall elections were conducted last Tuesday amid the usual student apathy and stereotyped campaigns. High points of the whole proceeding seemed to be the omission of a freshman candidate’s name from the presidential ballots in Stanford Hall, an oversight which necessitated a rerun of the contest Wednesday, and the election of a fire warden in Badin.
Indicative of the general indifference to the elections were the low vote totals. Coupling this with the fact that 25 of the 76 offices filled, or nearly one-third, were won in uncontested races, indicates a rather low rate of student participation. Howard, Alumni, Sorin, and Dillon were “first with the least” in this respect. Howard elected its entire slate unopposed, Alumni with only two races found one of them in the same category, and Dillon and Sorin managed to scrape up only one contested race each.
The campaign pledges of aspiring presidents in most cases fell into one of two groups: the lavish and the little. Some thought it advantageous to promise freely, others tried the subtler “let’s be realistic” approach. Vestiges of last year’s do-nothing theory, modified to next-to-nothing, also appeared. In the senatorial campaigns permanent-hall residence and a better informed constituency were the key issues. In addition nearly every hall had at least one candidate emphasizing the bright prospects under the lightened disciplinary regulations.
Sorin found the “Losers” party, candidates who had all lost an election somewhere along the line, victorious. Unopposed Ron Nahser, Dick Meece, Hayes Kavanaugh, and John Tracy took president, vice president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively with Rich Jalovec a 78-40 winner over Pat Powers in the senatorial contest.
Dan Koenig won the Walsh presidency and will have as assistants Jim Gannon, vice president, and Dick Christie, secretary. John Kost took Walsh’s senate post.
Fisher installed Jack Castin as president, Charles Switzer, vice president, Art Nordhoff, treasurer, and John McGuire, senator.
In Dillon’s only contest, Ed Eck won his senate seat in a landslide. Jerry DiCuccio and Ed Siegfried took president and secretary.
Pangbom will have Tom Hotopp at the helm with George Yeend his vice president. John Coleman and
Dan Gillespie will fill the secretary and treasurer posts and Tom Vollmer the senate job.
In Badin John Kotischiak won the coveted fire warden post, Tom O’Connor easily copped the presidency, Tom Bishop was the senate winner. Ed Malloy, Jim Kelly, and Jim / Peterschmidt took vice president, secretary, and treasurer respectively. '
No Howard candidate found an opponent as Dan Brosnan and Larry Kavanaugh assumed the presidential and senate jobs, and R. H. Fitzgerald and Joe Norfray the vice president and treasurer posts.
In the closest race on campus, Paul Charron nipped Peter Clark for the Lyons senate seat, 103-102. In contrast, Tim Morrison won the presidency by a 152-27 margin. Mike Raff, Steve Stuecheli, and Mike Bo-hani took the vice president, secretary, and treasurer contests.
Morrissey had a squeaker for the senate seat too, with Bob Early edging Pat Whelan, 158-152. Tom O’Brien and Jack Stem found easier going in their president and vice president campaigns and Dick Pri-neau and Mike Carey were unopposed for secretary and treasurer.
Zahm will send John O’Hare to the Senate debates while Jack McCabe presides at the hall meetings. Roy Booker, Jerry Berthold, and Pat McCormick will fill the vice president, secretary, and treasurer posts.
In a light voter-turnout in St. Ed’s, Tom Brewer won the president’s gavel with Mike Toal his number one assistant. Tom Sherman will handle finances and Jack Tate will represent St. Ed’s in the Senate.
Among the freshmen, Cavanaugh featured an unusual vice president race. Paul Knipper held a one vote lead in first place tallies but lost via the preferential system in the third round to Jim Kelly. In more ordinary races Marty Kardes and Ben Beall became the new president and senator with Tom Keane and Jim Moran the new secretary and treasurer.
Breen-Phillips will find John Roons presiding at the first hall meeting-Terry Pehler took the senate seat from Tony Ulrich by a narrow 3-vote margin.
In another 3-vote decision, Dick McCarthy won the right to represent Farley in the Senate from Nick Sardi-Larry Beshel was victorious in tbe presidential race as were Pete Goyer> Tony Doheny, and Rick Devlin in the vice president, secretary, and treasurer contests.
The Scholastic
JACQUES MARITAIN
MARITAIN ON THE
HUMAN CONDITION
Jacques Maritain, French philosopher-theologian, will speak on “Man and the Human Condition" next Tuesday, at 8 p.m. in the Moreau Seminary Auditorium. He will appear under the auspices of the Department of Philosophy and the Notre Dame Jacques Maritain Center of which Prof. Joseph W. Evans is director.
Tickets for the lecture will be distributed free of charge through the Philosophy Department upon request. However, due to the limited seating capacity of the auditorium, only 325 tickets are available. If the demand is sufficient his talk will be piped into other study rooms.
The greater the scarcity of wisdom and order, the more we feel inclined to think that society needs the philosopher badly, according to Dr. Maritain, author of some fifty works, one-time French Ambassador to the Vatican, and Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Princeton University.
(Continued on page 14)
PITTSBURGH
A limited supply of student trip tickets is still available. Those interested in this journey should contact the occupants of 238 Walsh within the next few days.
CAPRI
Chrome cap, five barrel colors. $1.95 gift-boxed
CAPRI MARK IV Gold or chrome finish. $3.50 gift-boxed
Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
October 27,1961
13
Mantain
(Continued from page 13
Dr. Maritain presents his reflections on the role of philosophy in the life of man, particularly man as a social being, in a volume, On the Use of Philosophy, published this week by Princeton University Press. It contains three essays.
Two of the essays, “Truth and Human Fellowship” and “The Philosopher in Society,” were given as lectures at the Princeton Graduate School. The third, “God and Science,” is a new statement on the relation of modern science to man’s knowledge of God.
Dr. Maritain joined the Princeton faculty in 1948 as a visiting professor in the Department of Philosophy. He retired as Professor Emeritus in June, 1952, at the age of 70. A native of Paris, he received both his M.A. and M.S. degrees from the University of Paris and his Ph.D. from Pontifical University in Rome. Princeton award
ed him an honorary degree in 1946 on the occasion of the University’s Charter Day Convocation.
Prior to his Princeton faculty appointment, he was for many years professor of philosophy at the Catholic Institute of Paris. Also, Dr. Maritain held a professorship in the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies at the University of Toronto. An authority on the teachings of St., Thomas Aquinas, he has been a leader in the group which is applying those teachings to contemporary problems. He participated in Princeton’s 1946 Bicentennial Conference devoted to the subject “The Humanistic Tradition in the Century Ahead.”
Chairman of the French delegation to the UNESCO Conference in 1947, he was in 1955 the first recipient of the Catholic Book Club’s Campion Award for long and distinguished service in the cause of Catholic letters.
The author of more than fifty philosophical works, including Art and Scholasticism, Freedom in the Modem
World, Religion and Culture, and Reflections on America, Dr. Maritain was honored in 1958 by the establishment at Notre Dame of a philosophical research center in his name. Recently he received the Grand Prize for Literature, given annually by the French Academy, for the entire body of his philosophical works.
The Hon. Shaul Ramati
Israeli Consul to the United States speaks on
“Basic Struggles in the Middle East and the Chances for Peace”
at 8 P.M. on Mon., Oct. 30
in the Law Auditorium
A distinguished lecturer presented by the Academic Commission of the Student Senate.

'0

(	THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 9
14
The Scholastic
oun
qR® 6g® OW® CW IM13
|A/haf s better-
lame or fortune4?
| | Would rather have $50,000-$100,000 yearly salary—and obscurity
O Are students conservative or liberal ?
| | Would rather have world recognition
—and small financial rewards
9 Do students

□ Conservative
Middle of the road □ Liberal
non-lilter cigarettes4?
n029Istir(!entsTatH00j
Start fresh Stay fresh with L‘M Any way you look at them — L*M’s taste better. Moisturized tobaccos make the difference I Yes, your taste stays fresh with I?M — they always treat you right!
CO O00V8QX SaiAM 11139911
Mt
HUBu nofi sfivmi» ftdqj,
•im
HUM HS3HJ AVIS Z31SV1 U3J3Bd
'WS1 HUM
HS3M3 1UV1S iSUdllld 83J3Hd %8? SJ81I1J-U0H
%£fr	[BJaqn
%6Z peojaqjjo aippiifl
%83	9A|tBAJaSU0Q Vfe'
%V£ auiBj SAeq jaqiBy
%99 aunpoj
9ABq jeqtBH
LIGGETT 1 MYERS TOBACC
I
We at Rasmussen’s have
The rich and mellow Cypress
Paneling ... the authentic
Colonial decor ... the hand-
some coach light ... the informal Coke and coffee bar

recognized the real need for an exclusive, young men’s shop in the area for some time.
Hence the Cypress Room. It’s your shop—set apart from our other fine men’s furnishings.
And it’s packed with all the latest and smartest campus fashions for fall.
and the many other appointments combine to create a friendly and casual atmosphere for you. Come in " soon and shop’or browse with the other young men who are on their way up.
Cricketeer Clothes• H. I. S. Wash Slacks • London Fog Rainwear • Arrow Shirts • Repps & Foulard Neckwear by Reis* Thane Full-fashioned Sweaters • British Byford Hosiery • Gulf Stream Slacks • H. I. S. Outdoor Jackets* Cricketeer Sport Coats
SPLITTING THE CORNER AT MAIN & WASHINGTON, SOUTH BEND
The Scholastic
16
loaner

Of Special Interest. Subscription sales for the University Theater continue. The thespians didn’t expect a sellout but they did expect to sell more than a mere handful of tickets. Particularly considering the program that they are offering this year: The Cocktail Party, Arms and Men, and South Pacific. Because there are two benefits the season tickets have been very popular in the past: there is money saved, there are better seats obtained. The theater office in the back of Washington Hall (up the black-iron staircase) will be open for future sales until October 31.
The Morris Civic Auditorium brings the bands of Notre Dame, Purdue and Northwestern together for to do battle on their stage. So after the rally head down to the Civic and cheer our own — the biggest thing in band music since Sousa came to town on that historic day with all of his trombones. Cheer the band tonight and the Irish tomorrow.
St. Mary's College is bringing Peter Pan and all of his friends to the magnificent O’Laughlin stage next week. Lynne Stovic, a talented and experienced newcomer to the SMC stage, will play the lead. Judy Gerhart and Park Camon support as Wendy and Michael Darling. Michael Brewer, a Sixth Grade South Bender — not a particularly small Freshman — plays John Darling, the little brother. The effects and costumes are elaborate — thanks to Joannie Beck and her crew — even the Broadway flying equipment has been imported to give the show a very professional touch. It opens on Wednesday the first and plays through the fifth. Tickets are available for a dollar at O’Laughlin Box Office.
The Presbyterians have reportedly done an excellent job with the production of the Male Animal by Thurber. It is on stage again tonight and tomorrow — at 300 W. Colfax.	■
The Avon Art. Never on Sunday is going to go another week. And after seven days it still, sigh, is as condemned as it was before. And then following it we have a pair of flicks that would make the word “art” flush red: Night of Shame and the Lowest Crime. Neither are even rated by the code as to value and maybe they’ll sneak up on us. But I understand that they are not very wholesome and anything but good movie fare. You can’t tell a book from its cover . . . but you can usually tell a movie from its title . . . they’re promoted that way.
Campus Clubs. The California Club will show Executive Suite in the Biology auditorium on November 1 (the holiday). It is a dramatic picture, in black and white, about a sneaky plot to gain controlling interest in an especially powerful company. Plots are written to be thwarted, however. Very tense, very good, very old.
(Suite: 3:00 — 7:00 — 9:00.)
Colfax. Walt Disney tells another dog story this week: Greyfriars’ Bobby. This time it concerns a little Skye Terrier who loses his old, shepherd master to rheumatism and the elements. The whole thing takes place in Edinburgh and is marked by a heavy Scotch burr. It is a slow movie; only active when Bobby scampers hither and yon with his little tail going like it itches. It was filmed for dog. lovers — a Disney specialty. And would better be classified as
(Continued on page 23)	.
October 27,1961
After turning out three rather uninspiring columns and generating many a sarcastic remark (“You write the bridge column?”) and very little controversy, the author is determined to do something about this situation — write another insipid column.
Seriously, though, today’s column deals with that ancient weapon of the have-nots, the pre-emptive bid. Dating back to auction bridge, this bid has gone through a remarkable transition over the years. If any of us has bridge-playing parents, they are almost sure to have a copy of Culbertson’s Blue Book, published in '29 and the final authority on bridge in its day. We find such hands as AKQJxxx, KQJxxxx, and other fairly strong suit bids pre-empted to the three level and to bid four, opener is admonished “to have one more trump.” When Goren revised the system, he weakened the bid somewhat and introduced the “500” Rule, which demands the preemptor to be three tricks short of his bid if not vulnerable, and two if vulnerable. Against suits of this type, the penalty double is a poor bet, and a good hand is shown by a takeout double, overcall, or cue bid.
After the war, when defensive bidding began to come into its own, experts began to open weaker and weaker pre-empts when they realized that their opponents could double them and make the bid stick once in a blue moon. Suits like KJxxxxxx, QJxxxxxx, and even xxxxxxxx were opened pre-emptively, and the poor hands with stronger suits were now pre-empted at the two level. With no effective means to double the increasing number of slim pre-empts, the harassed holders of good cards struggled to their final contract and watched their tormentors escape unscathed time and time again. Clearly the old co-operative double had to be scrapped. This genteel form of open banditry had to stop.
There are currently two bidding conventions used to cope with the problem. The Fishbein Convention is
(Continued on page 24)
17
JUSTICE FELIX FRANKFURTER
Born Vienna, Austria; November 15, 1882 Arrived in United States, 1894 A.B., City College of New York, 1902 LL.B., Harvard, 1906
D.C.L., University of Oxford, 1939
Assistant United States Attorney, Southern District of
New York, 1906-10
Law Officer, War Department, Bureau of Insular Affairs, 1911-14
Professor, Harvard Law School, 1914-39
Chairman, War Labor Policies Board, 1918
Appointed Associate Justice, Supreme Court of
United States, January, 1939
The nominating committee selected Justice Frankfurter for his recent opinions in cases involving the Smith Act and other anti-Communist legislation, and because he has consistently fought for what he be- < lieves is the spirit of the legal tradition of the Constitution.
GENERAL DOUGLAS MacARTHUR, U.S.A. (ret.)
Born Arkansas, January 26, 1880
Graduated, United States Military Academy, 1903 Chief of Staff, 42nd (Rainbow) Division, 1917 Commanding General of 42nd Division, 1918 With Army of Occupation in Germany, 1918-19 Superintendent, United States Military Academy, 1919-22
Military Advisor, Commonwealth of the Philippines, 1935
Commander-in-Chief of United States and Filipino forces during invasion of Philippines by Japanese, 1941-42
Appointed General of the Army, 1944
Commander United States Armed Forces in Far East, 1941-51
Appointed Supreme Commander of Allied Forces to accept surrender by Japan, 1945
Commander Forces of Occupation in Japan, 1945-51 Chairman of the Board, Remington Rand, Inc., 1952-55
Chairman of the Board, Sperry Rand Corp., 1955-
The nominating committee selected General Mac-Arthur because he is a man who has devoted his life to seeing that our country remained free and strong, serving as a great leader in three wars, and coming back from retirement to command the American forces in the Far East during World War II.
ADLAI E. STEVENSON
Born Los Angeles, Californio; February 5, 1900
A.B., Princeton University, 1922
J.D., Northwestern University, 1926
Employee, Bloomington Doily Pantograph, 1922-26
Admitted to Illinois Bar, 1926
Practiced law, Chicago, 1927-33
Special Counsel, A.A.A., Washington, 1933-34
Practiced Law, Chicago, 1935-41
Assistant to Secretary of Navy, 1941-44
Assistant to Secretary of State, 1945
Advisor to U.S. delegation. Conference on International Organizations, 1945
United States delegate to United Nations, 1946-47
Governor of Illinois, 1949-53
Unsuccessful Candidate for President of United
States, 1952, 1956
Appointed Chief United States Delegate to United Nations, 1961
The nominating committee selected Ambassador Stevenson because he is unique among American political figures of recent vintage in that, having lost his two opportunities to become President of the United States, he is still devoting his efforts for the sake of the preservation of the United States and the peace of the world.
SENATOR BARRY M. GOLDWATER
Born Phoenix, Arizona; January 1, 1909
Associate with Goldwater's, Inc., Phoenix, since 1929; president 1937-53
Colonel in United States Army Air Force, 1941-45
Chief of Staff, Arizona National Guard, 1945-52
United States Senator from Arizona, 1953-
Author of The Conscience of a Conservative, 1960
The nominating committee selected Senator Goldwater because he has forcefully attempted to redirect American thinking along more Conservative lines that he feels hold the solution for America's problems in today's world.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
Born Denison, Texas; October 14, 1890
Graduated, United States Military Academy, 1915 Allied Commander-in-Chief, North Africa, 1942 Commanding General Allied Powers, European
Theater, 1943
General of the Army, December 1944
Chief of Staff, United States Army, 1945-48 President, Columbia University, 1948-52
Supreme Commander, Allied Powers in Europe, 1950-52
President of the United States, 1953-61
The nominating committee selected former President Eisenhower because he led the Allies to victory in Europe and because, at great personal cost to himself, he led our country through eight of the most difficult years in its history.
PATRIOT 01
NOMI
One hundred and twelve years ago, Notre Dame, began what has today 1 traditions — the Washington Day Exer< is to constitute a public and formal a Notre Dame," through a commemoratio
In 1954 the Senior Class of Notre Year" award as a part of the Exercises honoring those sons of Our Lady who of an American flag by the senior clas the presentation of the Patriotism AW<
The selection of the Patriot of activities of the senior class, and one i contribute significantly. The continuing s entirely on the responsible and mature recipient. Significantly, the President o General are both past winners. Other P J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. She von Braun, Richard M. Nixon, and 1 Rickover.
Th«
E*e inc
This year’s election will be held man of the 1962 Washington Day senior class officers; the committee
Oberkoetter, and Joe Baroody. .
Following the precedent of the 1
(Continued c
18
The Scholastic
GENERAL LAURIS NORSTAD, U.S.A.F.
Born, Minneapolis, Minnesota; March 24, 1907 Graduated, United States Military Academy, 1930 Air Corps School, 1931
Duty with General Headquarters, Air Force, 1940-42 12th Air Force, 1943
Acting Vice Chief of Staff, Air Force, 1950
Commander-in-Chief, U.S. and Allied Air Forces in
Central Europe, 1951
Air Deputy, SHAPE, 1953-56
■ Supreme Allied Commander tn Europe, SHAPE, 1956-
The nominating committee selected General Nor-stad because he is a symbol of American military might, and has devoted his life to the preservation of American freedom and independence via military means, a means that is still patriotic.
F THE YEAR
INEES
by DICK MEECE, CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATING COMMITTEE
, Father Edward Sorin, the founder of become one of the University’s oldest ■cises. The principle behind this function acknowledgment of "God, Country and ’n of the war dead of the University.
a Dame instituted the "Patriot of the s> which now includes a Memorial Mass 0 served our country, the presentation 5S vice-president to the University, and 'ard.
Year is one of the most important a/which every member of the class can s¥of the Patriotism Award depends ■ f ttitude of the seniors, who select the United States and the Attorney >revious recipients of the award include en> General Curtis LeMay, Dr. Wernher Year’s winner, Admiral Hyman G.
acsday, November 2. The general chair-ercises was appointed last May by the cudes Jim Flynn, Al Hamilton, Frank st two years, a suggested list of ten on Page 22)
Born London, England; May 29, 1903
Radio, film, television comedian; 40 movie starring roles
Since 1945 has annually conducted tours at Christmas to entertain the American armed forces in all corners of the world. Has been associated with numerous philanthropic activities.
The nominating committee selected Mr. Hope because he has devoted much of his time to building morale among the people of the armed forces. In addition Mr. Hope has fulfilled the higher purpose of a humorist, i.e., conscientious criticism of current life and government.
GENERAL ALFRED M. GRUENTHER, U.S.A. (ret.)
Born Platte Center, Nebraska; March 3, 1899
Graduated, United States Military Academy, 1919
Chief of Staff 3rd Army, 1941-42
Chief of Staff 5th Army, 1943-44
Deputy Commandant, National War College, 1945-47
Director, Joint Chiefs of Staff, 1947-49
Army General Staff, 1949-51
Chief of Staff, SHAPE, 1951-53
Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, 1953-56
Retired from the Army, 1956
President of American Red Cross, 1957-
The nominating committee selected General Gruenther because he has done an excellent job as president of the American Red Cross following his retirement from the military.
DEAN RUSK
Born Cherokee County, Georgia; February 9, 1909
A.B., Davidson College, 1931
B.S., St. John's College, Oxford, 1933 (Rhodes Scholarship)
M.A., St. John's College, Oxford, 1934
Associate Professor of Government and Dean of
Faculty, Mills College, 1934-40
Served with United States Army, 1940-46
Special Assistant, Secretary of War, 1946-47
Director of Office for United Nations Affairs, U.S.
Department of State, 1947-49
Assistant Secretary of State, 1949
Deputy Undersecretary of State, 1949-50
Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, 1950-51
President of Rockefeller Foundation, 1952-61
Secretary of State, 1961-
The nominating committee selected Secretary Rusk because, under exceptionally harsh circumstances, he has stood firm under more threats of war in a shorter time than any Secretary of State in recent years.
HERBERT HOOVER
Born West Branch, Iowa; August 10, 1874
A.B. in Engineering, Stanford, 1895
Professional work in mines, railroads, metallurgical works in United States, Mexico, Canada, Australia, Italy, Great Britain, South Africa, India, China, Russia, etc., 1895-1913
Representative at Panama-Pacific International Exposition in Europe, 1913-14
Chairman, American Relief Commission, London, England, 1914-15
Chairman, Commission for Relief in Belgium 1915-19
United States Food Administrator, 1917-19
Chairman, United States Second Industrial Conference, 1920
Secretary of Commerce under Harding and Coolidge
President of the United States, 1929-33
At request of President Truman undertook coordination of world food supplies of 38 countries, 1946
Chairman Commission on Organizing Executive Branch of Government, 1947-49
Chairman Second Commission on Organizing Executive Branch of Government, 1953-55
Now Chairman of American Children's Fund
Now Chairman of Boy's Clubs of America
The nominating committee selected former President Hoover because of his long record of tireless service to his country before, during, and after his term as President.
October 27,1961
19
“NOT GREAT, BUT VERY GOOD”
CRITIQUE
It’s a rare group of musicians that can manage at the same time to be commercially successful and musically good, and a still rarer one that can conform to a popular trend and retain any spark of artistic maturity. Last Friday night in the field house, the Limeliters, in a pleasantly surprising evening, proved themselves the rarest • . . of the rare: a really intelligent, tasteful, versatile group of commercial “folk singers.”
They are not folk singers in any real sense, of course, any more than the Kingston Trio or the Brothers Four are folk groups. And all the banjo strumming and phony dialect in the world doesn’t alter the fact that the experience of an evening with the Limeliters is totally different from that of an evening with, say, Odetta. But the group is, nevertheless, exciting in its own slick way, and vastly superior to any of its competitors in the relatively drab realm of the Ivy League Leadbellies.
The Scholastic
In the first place, the Limeliters have probably the most powerful voices in the folk tune field. Banjoist Alex Hassilev’s approximate baritone (best heard in a Cuban work song and in one of the encore songs, a Spanish funeral march) is clear, forceful, and, in the up tempos, honestly swinging; guitarist Glen Yarbrough’s tenor (lead in the beautiful “Rising of The Moon,” a song of the Irish war for independence, and in a mediocre “Molly Malone”) is smooth and at times excellent, but marred by a wide vibrato that was unfortunately almost ludicrous in “The Lass from the Low Country,” and an occasional slip in the intonation; bassist-leader Lou Gottlieb’s bass is adequate for the harmony, and well suited for mimicry, as in the quite funny “Have Some Madeira, My Dear.”
But the most striking thing about the Limeliters’ repertoire is the eminent tastefulness and variety of their arrangements. Gottlieb, who is apparently responsible for most of the book, was formerly arranger for the Kingston Trio, and has a Ph.D. in musicology; it shows in the arrangements. The simplicity of the voicings in the group’s swinging but too lickety-split “John Henry,” and the woodchopping harmony in their “Hard, Ain’t it Hard” were both reminiscent of the early — which is to say, the interesting — Kingston Trio. But in the Limeliters, Gottlieb has something more to work with than he did with Kingston — namely, good voices — and to the basic gimmicks which have recently become so dull and repetitious in the recordings of the Tom Dooley men, he has been able to add crescendos that at times took the present reviewer right off his chair (notably in the otherwise undistinguished “Molly Malone”); relatively complicated introductions and codas (in the funeral march and in the bright “Whistling Gypsy”); and plush, rich progressions and exten-
“DIFFERENT FROM ODETTA”
20
“SUCCESSFUL AND COMPETENT"
sions of the basic chords (in their Russian songs notably, though in fact in almost every one of the serious efforts) that, while not by any means avant garde for an arrangement, are all too rare in any other commercial folk singing group. For a drastic change, also, this particular group can pronounce words. It was actually possible to understand what was being said in their songs at first hearing
id quod mirandum est. The Limeliters are by no means far out musically. But compared with the raucous, repetitious Kingston Trio, the absolute tepid Brothers Four, and the Unintelligible Highwaymen, they sound like Ornette Coleman himself.
on a cold audience, but was a good example of this spirit. And, of course, the inevitable “Vikki Dugan” was the point where the group’s own heat began to evoke a sympathetic condition in the upper rows. (It should be noted in passing that “Vikki,” though terrifically funny, is one of the group’s failures, for the simple reason that the Limeliters are not at all good rhythm and blues singers. Their basic quality is a good deal closer to Shearing than to Ray Charles.)
As for the introductions to the songs and the general presence of the group, there is not much to be
said except that the Limeliters are intelligent professionals. Gottlieb was very funny at times in the first half of the show, weaker in the second, but always in control of himself and the audience; he got and maintained their interest, and during some of the ballads the hall was the quietest this reviewer has ever heard for a concert. As the Limeliters are musically more advanced than their audience makes necessary, they are also at times more hip. One very good line in a song about the USA - USSR cultural exchange program, a line dealing with Charlie Parker, passed right over the heads of most of those present, and some of the best lines in a tune about a psychotic cowboy were lost to the crowd. But the group did more than enough to please the audience. Called back for two encores, cheered loudly throughout the whole show, they were a welcome example of a successful and competent trio singing some quite good music.
The Limeliters are not great — as a matter of fact, there are probably not three great musicians in the world today. But they are very good in their own genre, they are professional, and they are distinctively witty and musically tasteful. And what is probably the highest compliment such a group can be paid, they are acceptable and pleasurable to any intelligent listener, whether a member of the folk-rhythm and blues cult or not. And this is perhaps the final test for really good music — which is, after all, only a little less uncommon than great music today — namely, its ability to transcend the fad and the fan club atmosphere and to stand or fall simply as music.
The Limeliters, more than any of their cohorts in the field, approach this happy state.
— Frank McConnell
They are also spirited — really spirited, and not merely adolescently enthusiastic. Their finale, “The Hammer Song,” is the best possible closer * for a group of this sort, and revealed the group’s honest feeling for their music perhaps better than any other t song of the evening. But the spirit was obvious throughout the show, and was infectious. In their comic songs — which were pretty funny — as well as in the ballads and pile-drivers, there was obvious a certain dignity that comes from believing in what you are doing, and a certain control and effectiveness that can only be achieved by sincere craftsmen. The opener, a cute commentary on suburban living, was not any more effective than it should have been
“BELIEVING IN WHAT YOU ARE DOING”
October 27,1961
21
CHESS
— I — ANDERSSEN, FIRST OF THE MODERNS
by RICHARD JENSEN
A century ago, chess, that most popular and ancient of intellectual games, reached a level of greatness that has been its hallmark ever since. The leitmotif of chess theory in that era was the attack. Games were usually begun with “gambits,” sacrifices of pawns and even pieces made to precipitate rapid contact with the enemy. In the middle game (i.e. after the first five or ten moves) every effort was expended to discover sacrifices and forced variations (called “combinations”) that would disintegrate the opposing position and produce quick wins. Thus positional play — the accumulation of small advantages to telling effect — was virtually ignored.
Adolf Anderssen (1818-1878), a quiet German schoolteacher, was the . acknowledged world champion of the day. From 1851, when he captured first place in sensational style at the first international tournament, till his death, Anderssen played chess whenever and wherever he could get a chance. His untiring zeal and love for the game did much to give Germany the pre-eminent role it held in the chess world before 1914.
Anderssen was an inspired player; his games were fresh, lively, full of ideas, novelties, and surprises. Many excellent players came before him, but none could match his ability to make a seemingly even position explode into a spectacular win. The acme of his genius may be seen in the following contest, justly dubbed “The Immortal Game.”
“THE IMMORTAL GAME” White: Anderssen Black: Kieseritzky
London, 1851
1.	P-K4 P-K4
2.	P-KB4
The key move in the “King’s Gambit”
22
opening — popular in the 19th century for its attacking possibilities.
2.	... PxP
Black accepts the pawn, and the consequences. He could refuse the gambit by 2... B-B4 or 2... P-Q4.
3.	B-B4 Q-R5 ch.
Better is 3... P-Q4 or 3 ... N-KB3, but Black decides on a premature attack.
4.	K-Bl P-QN4
Black wants to lure the Bishop to a bad square.
5.	BxP N-KB3
Black is hemming in his own Queen. Better was 5 ... P-KN4.
6.	N-KB3 Q-R3
7.	P-Q3 N-R4
Black threatens N-N6 ch. winning a rook, but this threat is easily beaten off; better was 7_B-N2, a developing move.
8.	N-R4 Q-N4	-
9.	N-B5 P-B3
10.	P-KN4!
The best defense is counterattack.
10.	... N-B3
11.	R-Nl!
A sacrifice for a King-side attack.
11.	... PxB
12.	P-KR4 Q-N3
13.	P-R5 Q-N4
14.	Q-B3
White threatens to win Black’s Queen by 15. BxP.
14.	... N-Nl
The only way to save the Queen.
15.	BxP Q-B3
16.	N-B3 B-B4
Two developing moves. Black threatens BxR.
17.	N-Q5
But White counterattacks the Queen.
17.	... QxP
18.	B-Q6!!
The fireworks begin!
18.	... BxR
If 18 . . . QxRch.; 19. K-K2, BxR; 20. P-K5 the same result follows. If 18 . . . QxRch.; 19. K-K2 QxR; 20. NxPch. K-Ql; 21. B-B7 mate! If 18... BxB; 19. NxBch. K-Ql; 20. NxPch. K-Kl; 21. N-Q6ch. K-Ql; 22. Q-B8 mate.
19.	P-K5!!’
A “quiet move” — now Black’s Queen cannot guard against NxP ch. One of the most brilliant moves in chess history.
19.	... QxRch.
20.	K-K2 N-QR3
Black has no more free checks. The
19. P-K5
threat was 21. NxPch. K-Ql; 22. B-B7 mate. But 20 ... B-R3 was better.
21.	NxPch. K-Ql
22.	Q-B6ch. ! ! NxQ
The final sacrifice.
23.	B-K7 mate.
'Patriot'
(Continued from page 19 nominees was prepared during the summer by a nominating committee. In addition to personal qualifications, the committee members were selected with a view to their geographical location in the country, the college in which they are enrolled, and their academic standing. The members are Chris Buckley, Dave Castaldi, Mike Herron, Al Hamilton and Jim Mercurio. These men each submitted a list of ten suggested nominees to the general chairman during the summer. From these lists, a list of over thirty names was drawn up and voted on in September, using the preferential system.
There are two misconceptions concerning the elections that must be clarified. First, this award is not meant to be a “Man of the Year” type of award. The seniors, when they vote, should choose an individual with the understanding that this year the senior class is recognizing a living American for his patriotic activities over an extended period of time.
The second misconception has to do with the definition of a “patriot.” In selection of the best nominees, the following definition has been used as a criterion: a patriot is one who loves and loyally supports his country, thus best exemplifying the American ideals of justice, personal Integrity, courage of conviction and service to country. Thus a patriot is a man who, over an extended period of time, has recognized and fulfilled, in the manner he deems best, his obligation to the American community.
The Scholastic
'In Town'
(Continued from page 17) cute than absorbing since absorbing it definitely is not. Alexander Mac-Kenzie and Donald Crisp support the dog who stars.
(Bobby: 1:30 — 3:30 — 5:25 — 7:20 — 9:15.)
Granada. Back Street has been dug up again. It was last made into a film twenty years ago — and even then it was a refurbishing. It has had as many lives as a cat, almost, and at least as many as Tarzan. The current edition stars Susan Hayward as the ill-fated clothes designer who falls madly in love with a married department store heir. The two are suited for each other . . . but, alas, it seems they’ll never meet. Not in Chicago or New York or anywhere. But their love grows and the years pass . . . and the hick town designer comes into her own. Whence she is found again by John Gavin . . . the hero heir. Our hero has little respect for the marital vows and welcomes the sweet bliss of Mistressing. Where else better than Paris? And thus a “Back Street” romance . . . from there the story. Primarily a ladies’ story what with all of the flounces and dress designs ... but a solid tale. Among the best in town this week, which isn’t saying much.
(Back Street: 1:15 — 3:15 — 5:15 — 7:15 — 9:15.)
River Park. The Mishawaka theater is going on a purely weekend schedule after this week. So, for the last full-time week they have scoured up something for everybody in the audience but Mom. The afternoon has Snow White and the Three Stooges as well as Misty to wow the tykes and rejuvenate the senile. The evenings are for the older people being that little people are to be in bed. The Naked Jungle and Charlton Heston will co-feature with Elephant Walk with Elizabeth (are you kidding me) Taylor. Which is through Thursday of next week whence the River Park closes.
(Naked Jungle: 8:00 — Elephant: 9:35.)
The State. The Hustler is supposed to remain hustling for another week • •. or at least as long as his Scotch lasts. Last chance to see it, though, because it is on the block. Soon to be replaced, I am told, by the Devil at 4 O’clock . . . no later than November 3 — and possibly sooner. Spencer Tracy and Frank Sinatra team up in the latter to tell a story about three convicts and a tropical island. Tracy,
an aging priest, is to be replaced by a younger cleric (Kerwin Mathews) whose plane also contains three cons on their way to prison in Tahiti. What a place for a prison. But they never do get there — within the picture, anyway, because a series of volcanos serves to interrupt the whole island and everything upon it, giving the story its rhyme and its reason. Columbia has categorized it as “Drama in the South Sea...” The South Sea is obvious... Sinatra and Tracy supply the drama. The story is pretty good too.
All freshmen and sophomores interested in writing for the features staff of The Scholastic should contact Tom Hoobler in 6 Morrissey, or in the Scholastic office Sunday and Monday nights.
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied behind your back—it’s easy to turn out perfect papers
on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser.There’s never a telltale erasure
mark on Corrasable’s special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION •*£': PITTSFIELD, MASS.
*••••»*
(Hustler: 1:20 — 3:50 — 6:20 — 8:50.)
Washington Hall. The Savage Innocents with Anthony Quinn will appear at the ND Roxy. It is a story about Eskimos . . . but unfortunately that’s all I know about it. I really can’t imagine Anthony Quinn as an Eskimo, however, and it might be worth seeing him rub noses with his Eskimo wife. It’s homecoming and it'll probably be raining like mad anyway. The picture has gotten very good ratings.
(Savage: 6:20 — 8:30.)
—John McGuire
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874


*^1*
October 27, 1961
23
'kibitzer'
(Continued from page 17) the more popular, treating any immediate double behind a pre-emptor as for penalties and a warning to partner to keep out unless he has something positive to say. A bid of the suit immediately over that of the pre-emptor is for take-out, and is not necessarily showing the suit.
An exception is three no-trump, which is a desire of the overcaller to play the contract there. This describes a balanced hand of great high-card strength, and responder may pass, take out to his long suit if imbalanced, or make slam overtures.
Over three spades, four clubs becomes the takeout bid. Any other bid at the three level is natural, and show’s a strong six-card suit and an opening hand. The major drawback becomes apparent when the pre-emptor opens in diamonds or hearts, because an overcall in hearts or spades does not indicate a suit and is only for takeout.
This is important in duplicate bridge, where the small difference between a minor-suit and a majorsuit game can be the difference between a good board and a bad board.
The Weiss Convention or Cheaper Minors avoids this by making the lowest possible bid in the minor suits
a take-out bid. Four clubs is take-out over three hearts or spades or diamonds, and three diamonds over three clubs, for example. What I have presented here is a bare outline of these conventions; the full details can be found in several books on the subject.
These conventions and others less known are no panacea; occasionally, even the experts get “fixed” by a pre-empt. There is no substitute for judgment in their use, and if they are not fully understood, the conventions are better unplayed. Properly used, they can help to win the points to which your cards entitle you. — Wallace J. Guillaume
VAULT CAPER
©FFICE JAMMED WITH Q2 CLIENTS ALL PAY.
SOLVED SEVERAL INTERESTING CASES. COLLECTED #9.31 IN FEE5.TOO MUCH TO KEEP ON HAND. STARTED IO BANK. STOPPED OFF FOR BOTTLE C MENNEN SPRAY DEODORANT.
Q
WENT WITH TELLER TO PUT MY CASH AWAY. POOR JAMMED. HEAT INSIDE TERRIFIC. FORTUNATELY, MENNEN SPRAY DEODORANT IS HARD-WORKING ANP LONG-LASTING. X STAYED CALM ANP COOL. TELLER DIDN'T.
SHE STARTED SORTING OUT THE $ 1.000 BILLS. 6AIP SHE LOVED TO COLLECT PICTURES OF GROVER CLEVELAND. SOUNDED LIKE A PHONY NAME TO ME... SO I SLUGGED HER.
TELLER TURNEP OUT TO BE "BELLE GRAND?,. LADY BANK ROBBER. GOT REWARD FOR CAPTURE. SPENT IT ON ANOTHER BOTTLE OF MENNEN SPRAY. WENT BACK TO OFFICE. IT WAS FULL OF CLIENTS. SNEAKED HOME TO REST.
24
The Scholastic

Pat Weaver, National College Queen
What makes Artcarved Diamonds the favorite of America’s College Queens?
Actually there are many reasons. Artcarved diamond rings must meet traditionally high standards for color, cut, clarity and carat weight. Their award-winning styles are a delight to the eye. And, they take all of the guesswork out of buying a diamond. Every Artcarved ring carries a written guarantee for quality and permanent value that’s recognized and respected by fine jewelers from coast to coast We think you’ll agree with America’s lovely College Queens.
Stop in at your jeweler and be sure to see all the exquisite Artcarved diamond rings—the rings you buy with confidence and wear with pride.
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED IN AMERICA’S LEADING MAGAZINES
r tear ved
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
EVENING STAR
-* First choice of America's College Queens
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc, Dept. CP-21 216 E. 45th St, New York 17, N.Y. Please send me more facts about diamond rings and "Wedding Guide for Bride and Groom." Also name of nearest (or hometown) Artcarved Jeweler. I am endosing 10^ to cover handling and postage.
Name_____________________________________________
Address,.________________________________________
City___________________County or Zone
State.___________________________________________
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
fop
Evening Star Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet.............. $ 60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $425.00
Bride’s Circlet.............. $ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (withno interest)* AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311 Avihortxed Artcarved Jxwxtw
October 27, 1961
25
C^Notre Dame Men Have to Win
in each of^/lCeroy§ Big Football Contests
Cisei. BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.
ONE OF THE 8 MIGHT AS WELL BE YOU!
IsT PRIZE $1OO°°
2nd PRIZE $50^0
3 RD PRIZE $25°°
5 PRIZES OF $1 O®®
PLUS OTHER PRIZES OF FREE
»
> s
: • VICEROY.: ■	filter
c' 1
^LCeipy—Something Special End to End...C SPECIAL FILTER! SPECIAL BLEND!
Why look for just filter or flavor in a cigarette? You get both with Viceroy! At one end is Viceroy’s famous Deep-Weave Filter. And at the other, Viceroy’s famous Deep-Cured Blend —for a special taste of goodness you deserve in your cigarette, and get only with Viceroy.
JV GET ENTRY BLANKS ON BALLOT BOXES WHERE YOU BUY CIGARETTES ON CAMPUS
The Scholastic
26
BOB EICKHOFF Senior quarterback
AFTER being defeated 17-7 in a heartbreaker by the Spartans of Michigan State last week, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame will return to their own stadium tomorrow afternoon where they will take on the Wildcats of Northwestern University. The game will mark the annual homecoming weekend at Notre Dame as well as the halfway point in their football calendar.
Notre Dame’s loss to Michigan State at East Lansing ended the Irish’s undefeated skein at three consecutive victories in what may have been the Game of the Year. Northwestern suffered its second straight defeat this year, losing to Ohio State, 10-0. To date, the Wildcats sport a 2-2 record, which includes victories over Boston College and Illinois and a loss to last season’s national champs, Minnesota.
Tough defense. Both teams are anxious to get back to their winning ways after sampling defeat last week. The Irish will be eager to avenge a 7-6 nipping sustained from the Wildcats a year ago at Evanston. Northwestern’s tough defense will get a rigorous test when it faces the Notre Dame rushing attack featuring Daryle Lamonica, Mike Lind, Angelo
most experienced back. He missed the 1959 season due to a thigh injury. He is a defensive specialist.
With the graduation of Mike Stock, leading ground-gainer and scorer last season, fullback has given the Wildcats another major backfield problem. The only returning letter-man at this post is Paul Flatley, a 185-pound junior. However, sophomore Bill Swingle, a 200-pounder, has performed outstandingly at fullback this year and crossed the end zone five times. He was injured in the Ohio game.
Northwestern’s line, which has been its outstanding feature of the current campaign, averages around 212 pounds. But again, the Wildcats have been weakened along the forward wall by graduation. With the departure of Irv Cross and Elbert Kimbrough, inexperience is particularly noticeable at the flanks. Ray Dillon and Pat Riley started against Ohio State. They are supported by Charles Logan, a 6' 4" sophomore, who could possibly start against the Irish.
Echols shines. Northwestern’s greatest strength in the line is at the tackles, where 250-pound Fate Echols and 228-pound Bud Melvin are
IRISH SHOOT FOR NO. 4 AGAINST WILDCATS
ARA PARSEGH1AN Wildcat head man
Dabiero and company.
With Northwestern in a rebuilding year after heavy graduation losses, Coach Ara Parseghian has had to replace starters at four key positions on the team. One of the biggest problems was to fill the vacancy left at quarterback by Dick Thornton. The Wildcats seem to have remedied the situation with Bob Eickhoff, a 5'10", 163-pound senior. Eickhoff is an adequate passer and specialist on the bootleg play. He is ably backed up by a junior, Fred Quinn, who is also adept in the passing department. Tom O’Grady is a promising sophomore who could see some action against the Irish.
At the halfback positions, Northwestern will rely on speed to offset a big deficit in size. With the exception of returning letterman Al Kimbrough, a 185-pound senior, the only experienced halfbacks are juniors Larry Benz and Bob Snider. Benz is the number one man at right half. He is a reliable pass receiver as well as a consistent ball carrier. Bob Snider, who started against the Buckeyes last week, is the incumbent at left halfback. Kimbrough is Northwestern’s
the anchor men. Echols, a senior from South Bend, goes both ways for the Wildcats and is a big factor in their defensive unit. Melvin is an outstanding blocker and is used primarily on offense. The tackles are backed by Isaac Smith, a senior and George Thomas, a junior who is from South Bend also.
The guard positions are manned by sophomores Larry Zeno and Kent Pike. Pike replaced junior Jack Cverko after Cverko was injured in the 28-7 win over Illinois on Oct. 7. Two juniors who won monograms last year, Chuck Urbanic and Bert Petkus, back up Zeno and Pike. Pike is the biggest guard on the team at 220 pounds.
Larry Onesti, a senior and captain of the 1961 Wildcats, is a 190-pounder who will play exclusively on defense at middle linebacker. Jay Robertson will be over the ball offensively. Onesti bulwarks the much touted Northwestern defense, key to their football hopes this season. His speed and astute diagnosing of plays allowed Northwestern’s first three opponents only 364 yards rushing.
—Frank Hinchey
October 27,1961
27
by JOHN BECHTOLD
Now that the bubble has burst, what should be the goal of the football team for the rest of the season? With a 10-0 national championship out of reach thanks to George Saimes and Co., the logical goal of most teams would be a bowl bid.
It was apparent at Michigan State last weekend that beating Notre Dame was not of primary concern. Neither was the chance to climb to the number one spot in the rating polls. The Michigan State team and student body are mainly interested in a late December trip to California. “California, here we come,” not “we’re number one” or a mock version of the Irish victory march, was heard at most frat parties last Saturday night.
Notre Dame has no conference title to shoot at, but must content itself with beating a host of traditional rivals for the remainder of the season. It has been the tradition at Notre Dame not to accept bowl bids for a variety of reasons. It seems that these reasons are as out of date as the eleven o’clock lights rule.
This speculation may seem a bit premature at this mid-season date. However, even the most pessimistic football fan must realize that this year’s Irish squad will be near the top of this season’s final ratings. Therefore, a major bowl bid is not unlikely.
Moose Krause was quoted a few years ago as approving of a postseason contest. Unfortunately, the sincerity of this remark has not been tested in the last couple of seasons.
With no outstanding Eastern independent on the horizon this season, the bowl committees will have slim pickings when it comes to picking opponents to meet the conference winners in the majority of the major bowls.
I hope that the administration will consider any bids seriously and will not continue to have the same trite answers for any change in the status quo as has happened in the past.
QUOTE OF THE WEEK: The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, chairman of the Notre Dame athletic board, commenting on the whirlwind comeback of Michigan State to beat the Irish: “Maybe we’ll beat you by 1990.”
“We’ll
Bounce
Back
Daryle Lamonica
by DARYLE LAMONICA as told to TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Losing to Michigan State was awfully tough for us, but we’re going to make up for it tomorrow.
There were many factors which influenced the outcome of the Michigan State game, but I don’t feel that any particular play could be pinpointed as the turning point or the play that lost the game.
First, the Spartans had tremendous depth, and that was a big factor. Their “free substitution” helped wear us down.
Second, on a couple of occasions
Lamonica for six
we called the wrong defense and got stung when they ran to our weak side.
Third, we got some bad breaks, but they were just one of those things. The interceptions hurt us of course, and when Jim Snowden hit the line on fourth and one, I was sure that he had it.
Even though we lost, I feel that we have a better ball club. Our line played a tremendous game. They were just outstanding, I can’t praise them enough. I’ve never seen a line play so well for so long. Mike Lind played a great game for us, too. I felt that I could count on him whenever I really needed yardage. In a lot of cases, just one more downfield block would have sprung our backs for long gains, but somehow we just couldn’t make it or couldn’t hold it quite long enough. I know all of us wish we could play Michigan State just once more.
Actually, losing to the Spartans could help us through the rest of the season. We learned a lesson —• we never again want to experience the feeling that we had after that game last Saturday. We learned from our mistakes, too.
Tomorrow we’re going to make up for last Saturday. I know that I wished we could’ve played on Monday, I was so anxious to get another chance. We’ve got the greatest, most spirited student body in the country behind us, and we can’t let them down. Notre Dame belongs on top, and we’re determined to put her there.
We come to every game with only two intentions: to play and to win. After the Michigan State game we are more angry and more determined than ever. It means a lot to us to know the students are still behind us, and we know that tomorrow we must win for them, and justify their confidence in us. All I can say is that Northwestern better be ready to play a hell of a ball game. . . .
28
The Scholastic
ND Engages Spartans In Cross Country Duel
What eleven Notre Dame men were denied last Saturday against Michigan State will not be denied of five this afternoon: victory. Such is the strong conviction of a smaller, but no less spirited, group of Notre Dame athletes — the cross-country team — which engages the Spartan runners in a dual meet on the golf course at 4:00 p.m.
The results of last week’s Notre Dame Invitational indicate that the Irish should be able to handle the Spartans. Probably the leading advocate of thebeat-the-Spartans axiom and the best equipped to prove it is Frank Carver, a sophomore from Ivyland, Pa., who last week ran himself into the University’s record books with a stirring, come-from-be-hind victory. After only three weeks of varsity running, Carver, covering the Burke Memorial Golf Course track in 19:32.5, smashed by 8.5 seconds a 1953 record held by the former University of Kansas great, Wes Santee.
Carver won his meet with a driving finish that all but burned out the pacesetter and runner-up, Les Hege-dus of Central State.
Nor are Carver’s teammates without the qualifications needed to defeat a graduation-depleted State j team. Captain Tom Dempsey cut over a minute off his previous best in the Invitational, and appears to be coming into his own. The Yonkers, N. Y., senior, who has been suffering from mental doldrums accumulated in three years of so-so college running, ran well Friday, although finishing twelfth. Perhaps some of Carver’s spirit is rubbing off on Dempsey. At any rate he looked one-hundred per cent better than the previous week. Good performances from him are just the thing this year’s team needs to recover from a poor start.
Other team members (Ray Wherry, Bob Latsko, and Tom Butler) also bettered their previous marks in the Invitational, giving Coach Alex Wilson’s team a fourth place, behind Western Michigan, Ohio U., and Slippery Rock.
Nonetheless, a general improvement in team personnel is needed if the Irish are to score in upcoming meets. The Big State, Central Collegiate Conference, and IC-4A trials m successive weeks will provide । severe tests of the maturity of the Irish harriers.
—J. C. Higgins
October 27,1961
CARY CALLS ’EM
JUST A LITTLE THINKING OUT LOUD —
To begin with, how does Duffy Daugherty get away with sending his entire defensive team into the game four times in the first quarter as he did at Michigan State last week? The NCAA rules state ever so clearly that a player may enter two times in a quarter and no more, except that a single replacement may be substituted after each play and/or whenever play is stopped. There is an honor (?) system used by Big Ten teams which puts the coaches “on their honor” not to violate the NCAA rule.
Daugherty’s conscience must be dead if he can make such a flagrant violation of the rules as he did last Saturday and then turn around and angelically declare, “We were on the ropes and all Notre Darners should be proud of their team.” Sure, we’re proud, but Duffy should be ashamed of himself for his actions Saturday. If you’re going to play the game, stick to the rules. Just because he had five supposedly objective (again I must insert a question mark?) Big Ten officials acting very subjectively on a few crucial occasions, doesn’t justify Daugherty’s wholesale substitution. But then again, lovable Duffy undoubtedly is a faithful disciple of the club whose motto is, “Winning isn’t everything, it’s the ONLY thing.” To this one could add, “Might makes right.” It did Saturday.
THE SECOND HALF
What happened to Notre Dame in the final 30 minutes you might ask? I think that to anyone who saw the game it was very apparent that the Spartan hordes, with the aid of some opportune halftime adjustments, simply overran the Irish. For the first time this year, Notre Dame was out-depthed. Just as we wore down Oklahoma, Purdue, and Southern California, so did the Spartans grind down our first team. This is no disgrace. Rather it is a tribute to the first team which played over 50 minutes, a tribute to this rugged, gutty, never-say-die group of Irishmen who held the vaunted Spartan ground game to 12 yards rushing in the first half. Eventually the fresher Daugherty troups overcame the Notre Dame ironmen, but then again, 33 men have always been able to beat 11 in the long run and they always will. This 1961 model of the Fighting Irish covered themselves with glory in a losing cause. The students, the fans, everyone connected with Notre Dame, and especially the players themselves, should be justifiably proud of the job done Saturday. There should be no hanging of heads, no embarrassment at losing to a team as talented as Michigan State. Notre Dame is still a great team and they’ll win a lot more games this year before the final gun sounds at Duke Dec. 2. Norb Roy put it best when he said, “We did a good job. It wasn’t good enough. But this team will come back. We’ll get our spirits up for Northwestern.” Then he added, “I wish we could play them (Michigan State) again.” So do I.
NICK AND "THE HORSE"
Two players stood out for Notre Dame Saturday. Offensively, Mike Lind blasted relentlessly at the Spartan defenders in a tremendous performance. Until the second half heroics of that Golden Greek, George Saimes, Lind was far and away the best back on the field. Had Notre Dame won, Mike would have been the hero that Saimes was in the State win. Defensively, Nick Buoniconti played like the All-American which he is. He led the Irish charge which blanked the high flying Spartan express for 42 minutes of the bruising battle. Daugherty stated that at least ten times Buoniconti was the reason for a Spartan play not going thru successfully.
RALLY TONIGHT
Tonight is the Northwestern pep rally. Get out to the rally, make your presence heard, and let the team know that to you they still are Number 1. Give the team your full-hearted and full-throated support at the rally tonight, the game tomorrow, and for the rest of the season ad infinitum. They won’t let you down; DON’T YOU LET THEM DOWN.	—Bill Cary
IRISH BACK OF THE WEEK
Mike Lind, the finest prep back to
Interhall Football
come out of Chicago since Abe Woodson, bulled, churned, and twisted for 83 yards in 15 carries, a 5.7 average, to lead Irish ball carriers against the Spartans.
IRISH LINEMAN OF THE MEEK
Nick (Skip) Buoniconti spent most of the afternoon riding herd on the touted Spartan backs. He finished the day with 12 tackles, high for the game, and played his best game of the year.
Dn RW TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington —Phone CE 4-5777
RAH! RAH!
MODEL 22AW
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9* specify 23* frames. Men under 5'9* specify 21* frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You'll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
ALBRIGHTS
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988
Interhall football rolled into its second week last Sunday. The end of the day found Keenan, Lyons-St. Ed’s, and Dillon each on top in its own league.
After playing to a scoreless tie last week, Keenan broke into the scoring and winning column against Cavanaugh. The rather unusual score stood at 9-8. Keenan scored on a five-yard plunge by Mike Tragarz and on a thirty-yard field goal by Ed Hurley. Its defensive team, headed by Lou Ecklecamp, held Cavanaugh down until a pass was deflected into the hands of a Cavanaugh receiver. The loser’s other two points came on a safety.
Breen-Phillips and Stanford battled to a scoreless tie in the other game in the freshmen league. B-P returned the opening kickoff for a touchdown, only to see it nullified by a clipping penalty. Stanford used the vaunted “shotgun offense,” but poor line blocking stifled any chances of a score. B-P’s record now stands at 0-0-1, while Stanford’s is 0-0-2.
Zahm evened its record at one and one by beating Morrissey 14-0. Fullback Dick Russel scored both TD’s
on 25-yard runs. Morrissey, too, tried the “shotgun offense,” but, here again, the line blocking failed. Its record is now 0-2.
Another scoreless tie occurred in the game between Dillon and Off-Campus. In this contest, neither team could engineer a concerted drive. In its first outing last week, Dillon was sharp in defeating Sorin-Walsh and was picked as one of the teams to beat. Sunday, however, was a different story as neither team clicked offensively.
The Lyons-St. Ed’s combination remained undefeated and unscored upon by nipping Howard 6-0. Last week they beat Morrissey 14-0. These two victories have given them a firm hold on first place in the Sophomore league.
Farley and Badin-Pangborn Halls were idle last week and the senior trip forced the postponement of the game between Alumni, the pre-season favorite, and Sorin-Walsh.
The schedule next week will find 12 teams paired off like this:
1.	Alumni vs. Off-Campus
2.	Dillon vs. Badin-Pangborn
3.	Morrissey vs. Howard
4.	Zahm vs. Lyons-St. Ed’s
5.	B-P vs. Keenan
6.	Cavanaugh vs. Stanford.
Of these, the games to watch are Zahm vs. Lyons-St. Ed’s and Dillon vs. Badin-Pangborn.
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Tomorrow
Alabama 36; Houston 6
Army 17; West Virginia 13
Auburn 8; Clemson 6 Penn State 20; California 1 2 LSU 17; Florida 10 Georgia Tech 14; Tulane 7 Syracuse 25; Holy Cross 12 Southern California 19; Illinois 17 . Michigan State 37; Indiana 6 Iowa State 14; Kansas State 7 Iowa 19; Purdue 13 Mississippi 24; Vanderbilt 7 Missouri 13; Nebraska 8 Pitt 23; Navy 14 Ohio State 27; Wisconsin 16 Washington 14; Oregon 7 Rutgers 21; Penn 7 Texas 24; Rice 13 UCLA 20; Stanford 7 Yale 15; Colgate 8
Game of the Week
Minnesota 17; Michigan 14
UPSET OF THE WEEK
Oklahoma 21; Colorado 14
30
The Scholastic
SOCCER
Last Saturday the Irish Soccer team upset Indiana Tech by a 4-0 score to boost its season’s record to 2-1. Spoiling the soccer homecoming for Tech, Notre Dame was sparked by forwards Josef Echelle, Hernon Puentes, and halfback Bob DuBois.
Indiana Tech fought the Irish to a 0-0 tie at the end of the first quarter, but then the Irish attack started to click. Forward Fran Juda opened the second quarter with a quick goal. Juda again booted another over in the second quarter to give the Irish a 2-0 advantage. Then Charlie Wong kicked a goal from the far left corner to make the score 3-0 Irish at the half.
The Irish closed the scoring with a goal by captain Echelle in the third quarter and then held the Tech team to preserve the shutout.
After the game the Irish captain
Echelle remarked: “We’re playing together now. We played a smarter ball game and as a result our offense and defense are much stronger.”
Puentes and Echelle played a strong offensive game, and center halfback Bob DuBois was the defensive star of the game, as the Irish completely dominated play. They limited Tech to about ten shots at the goal, while they were able to take forty. The team’s shooting was much harder and ball handling more precise on offense. A beautiful job of checking Tech as soon as they entered Irish territory was a key factor in the Notre Dame win.
The Irish have two weeks off before they take on Goshen here at Notre Dame on Saturday, Nov. 4. The soccer team is looking forward to some good support as they face the tough Goshen team.
FRESHMAN SWIMMING
In the Freshman Swimming Meet of Oct. 13, Breen-Phillips captured first place in 4 of the 8 events in compiling a winning total of 23 points. Runner-up Stanford, with 2 firsts, 2 seconds, and 3 thirds, had 17 points. Cavanaugh and Farley tied for third place with 11 points, and Keenan finished with 10.
CYR'S BARBER SHOP Michiana's Leading Barber Shop
•
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD - NOT FlLTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
October 27,1961
31
A REPEATED REQUEST — Once again the Scholastic requests that any member of the faculty or student body who wishes to submit material to the News and Notes section phone extension 515 on Monday, Wednesday or Friday between the hours of 2 and 3 p.m. or Sunday and Monday night between 7 and 12 p.m.
News and Notes
(Continued from page 10)
Student Exhibition May 20-June 24; and Five Centuries of Religious Prints, from the Binet collection, July 1-July 31.
SPOOKS HAUNT CENTER
Tuesday night the Social Commission is giving a Halloween Party, “The Punkin’ Patch,” for all of the would-be trick-or-treaters that won’t be able to go from house to house. Costumes must be worn and if at least two hundred people attend the dance, the commission is going to award $50 in prizes to the boy and girl with the best outfits.
Included in the $1.50 admission will be apple-dunking and cider-drinking.
A date service has been established for those who want to go but haven’t made inroads into SMC yet. And, if it is at all possible and the weather permits, the Dixie Shuttle will be replaced by hayrides to and from St. Mary’s.
Tickets will be available Sunday afternoon in the dining halls as well as at the door Tuesday night.
ENGINEERING COUNCIL
The 1962 Engineering Open House is now holding interviews for positions on the executive committee. Opportunities include executive coordinator, auto show chairman, and public relations manager. Engineering students who have a desire for activity in organization and management and are willing to accept the responsibility for such activity are invited to apply. Submit a brief letter stating qualifications and preference to Dennis McMahon, 402 Badin Hall.
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
New'wetter-than-water" action melts beard’s tough, ness-ln seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—in seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier ...gives you the most satisfying shave...fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.
SHU UTO IM
FROSH TOP SPIRIT POLL
It may not have a name, but there must be a law of human nature which states “the quantity of spirit or enthusiasm a person has is inversely, proportional to the length of time he has been exposed to the thing to which the spirit is directed.”
In other circumstances, the crowd at the Circle would have stretched to the main quad, but last Saturday night, it was miserably small.
Which class has the most spirit. The following poll is published without further comment.
The Scholastic talked to 210 students at the Circle. The breakdown
by class: Freshmen .....................128
Sophomores ................... 4?
Juniors ....................   1®
Seniors ...................... 1^
32
The Scholastic
'Literary Event' (Continued from page 7) here am I, aye, I am here. Here. Here!
GOURMETS AND GOURMANDS: Hear, hear! Poor lad! It seems to us that you have uncovered Some Basic Issues.
GOURMETS: (Strophe).
Shall a man, for mere money, be forced to forego all that life, all that art can offer.
And bury his elbows in the slop! It seems a cosmic mystery.
GOURMANDS: (Antistrophe). A mystery, a mystery, It seems a cosmic mystery. Hi de ho and fiddle de dee, It seems a cosmic mysteree. (Dance of Checkers and Grub Girls.)
FOUL FLINTHEART: (Entering left) All right! Everybody back to work! (Exit right.)
HANNA: (Rising from the orchestra pit.) And what of me? What of the woman? For men must work, and women must weep, but I have to do both. (Turns dramatically toward audience.) Have you any idea how those men eat? The other day I dropped my powder puff on the table and before I could pick it up somebody had eaten it and I have several bites on my left arm as a result and the doctor says I’ll never play the piano or pass the physical to get into Smith either and I have varicose veins at 17 and I feel a cold coming on and Presley records are going up to $4.98 the first of the month.
GOURMETS and GOURMANDS:
A good point, young lady. It is our professional opinion that this place is lousy with basic issues. GOURMETS: (Strophe)
Is this necessary? Is this civilization? Is this dynamic conservatism? Is this America?
GOURMANDS: (Antistrophe) Shall they, wasting in despair Die because a profit’s fair?
Come, Mr. Flintheart, face us if you can,
And justify the ways of Furd to Man.
There is a rumbling and a flash of lightning. Furd is lowered from above, enthroned on a cranberry-sauce crate. Waving his trident, on ivhich is impaled a pork chop, he fires everyone.
A general rout, during which GOURMETS fight GOURMANDS, GRUB GIRLS dance with CHECKERS, and ladies drop gentlemen into Retainers.
Curtain.
October 27,1961
COVER — Collaborating on this week's cover, Pat Saxe and Tom Hansen combine the spirit of Homecoming Weekend with that of the trick-or-treat season. Result — the SCHOLASTIC'S Halloween Playmate.
Also Tweed Sport Jackets, $50
Topcoats, jrom $80
from our University Shop OUR GOOD-LOOKING SUITS styled by us, in sizes 35 to 42
Our University suits are cut on Brooks traditional models in a range of attractive materials including unfinished worsteds, worsted flannels and worsted cheviots. The distinctive colorings include blackolive, black-brown and unusual olives... and greys, browns and navy. $65 to $80
ESTABLISHED 1818
l^hns furnishings, fy^boes
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
33
FORUM
SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION ITS PRICE
by JIM RHODES and ED BARTON
Jt has often been said that the science and engineering curricula are much more exacting than those of Notre Dame’s other colleges. The student who wishes to meet the requirements of these courses must devote many painful hours of effort to his studies; he must rapidly assimilate the most difficult principles and intricacies of method. At the end of four years, however, the same student is proud that he has been able to apply himself so totally, especially since he feels that his effort has secured him superior benefits.
These benefits may, and should, be examined in the light of the purposes of a Notre Dame education, which are threefold. First, and of the least importance, a man’s education should enable him to earn a comfortable living in our society. Secondly, the University should strive to produce scholars who are capable of significant contributions to the enlargement of man’s knowledge. Most importantly, a Notre Dame graduate should be oriented by his education towards a life guided by the understanding of what it is to be man and of what it is to be creature. If the University’s programs have been successful, the benefits to which a science student points will be simply the realization, in himself, of the university’s purposes. This is unquestionably the case with respect to the first two purposes mentioned. On the other hand, it is doubtful that graduates of the sciences have acquired any meaningful insights at all into things religious and philosophical.
It is not possible in this article to deal at length with the reasons for shortcomings of the religious program at Notre Dame. However, it can be briefly stated that this program should encompass both the practice and the understanding of one’s faith. The Holy Cross Fathers are deserving of the highest praise
for their work with students on the level of practice; the means of grace are everywhere and always available, and the very use of them lends to the love and appreciation of Catholicism. The program is pathetically weak in the other necessary facet, namely, advancement in the intellectual understanding of theology. In most cases, experience and observation tell us, material which is not advanced enough to be worthy of a student’s time is presented in a most uninteresting way by men who are not first rate scholars of the subjects they teach. (Obviously, there are some exceptions to this mediocrity.) Interested students can pursue meaningful topics in a meaningful manner (for example, the study of St. Thomas’ works) only on their own time. This presents an insurmountable handicap to students of the sciences because, simply, they have little time to devote to noncourse work.
The temporal exigencies of the scientific curricula are harmful to students in additional ways. In one light, so demanding a schedule causes men to look upon courses out of their colleges as additional burdens which are not even consistent with the most “important” aspect of their work. In another respect, so total a training molds a student’s interest toward questions which are capable of being explicated by way of mathematical or empirical analysis. Other questions come to be regarded as inferior, trivial, and meaningless.
These effects are quite distressing; they tend to produce an “a-philosophical man,” if not an absolutely anti-philosophical man. When a student has neither the time nor the interest to devote to Notre Dame’s excellent courses which consider man qua man he loses the opportunity even to become aware of the fundamental problems of human
existence. When a person has adopted the main tenet of positivism, he will tend to ridicule philosophers, ancient, scholastic, and modem. He will certainly not appreciate that even seemingly ludicrous philosophical endeavors, such as Plato’s proof of the existence of the soul, often, in their total context, represent great advances in man’s thinking with respect to what it had been previously. He may even ridicule philosophical works of the greatest technical excellence, such as scholastic metaphysics.
Less important, the totality of scientific training at Notre Dame tends to frustrate a person’s advancement in appreciation of the creative arts, at least for four years. Perhaps it is safe to state that the damage is permanent, for the student has lost the opportunity to gain advanced understanding which would sharpen his enjoyment of the great and noble works of art which man has fashioned.
These voids in a man’s education have no observably drastic effects; however, the student has not acquired those ideas and dispositions which Aristotle (and successors in the Aristotelian - Scholastic tradition) felt to be essential to the whole man.
The University’s new common year of freshman studies is welcomed as a first step in the alleviation of the problem of such voids in scientific training. It is hoped that officials will take the further step of offering significant and comprehensive liberal programs to second, third, and fourth year men in the sciences. As an encouragement to enroll in such programs, certain scientific courses which are not essential to the student’s major might be dropped from his curriculum. Other solutions which are not so oversimplified might also be studied.
(We would welcome further comments.—Ed.)
34
Ri
$5.00 and up

Casually
yours
The Authentic Arrow button-down shirt has a perennial appeal to the discerning college man. This University Fashion favorite has the famous Arrow contour tailoring for a slim, trim, tapered waistline.
In basket weave striped oxford and solid colors of your choice. See your Arrow Retailer.
■ARROWS
From, the “Cum Laude Collection”

imium
Styling ...in the classic tradition
From the Arrow Cum Laude Collection comes the perfect example of authentic traditional styling. This luxury oxford is offered in subtle British stripings tailored with buttondown collar and box pleat. Whites and plain colors, too. $5.00
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
K
:» *
imlh



Its whats up front that counts FILTER-BLENDlup front, ahead of Winston’s pure white filter proves Winston has it. Mild, flavorfill tobaccos specially selected, then specially processed for filter smoking. That’s [FILTER-BLENDI. Quite a smoke. Next pack you buy, make it Winston.
GAREnEs
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO^ WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.

Also available in crush-proof box.