

23 APRIL 2009 

05 news 
7 The Year Easter Came Twice 
Alexa Shoen 
The Easter Mass on NBC delivered to televisions across the country-tape-delayed. 

09 culture 
·1 O Dancing with the Stars: ND Style 
Maria Sellers 
Assistant culture editor Maria Sellers takes a twirl with Notre Dame's Ballroom Dancing Club. 

Cover: The DiversityDilemma
14 
Marques Camp 
Despite the notions of the Notre Dame "family." there are still those who do not feel fully welcomed. Scholastic explores the past, present and future ofdiversity at Notre Dame. 


23 sports 
26 It's All Academic 
Matt Formica 
Scholastic explores the many demands of being a successful student-athlete at Notre Dame. 


28 humor 
31 FMylife.nd.edu 
Kathleen Toohill 
So what's going on in your life? Kathleen Toohill tak~ a look at the travails of the Notre Dame student. 
32 last word 
32. Posed to Death 
Daric Snyder 
•· 
In an increasingly public world, our self-personas carry a-magnified imP.ortance. Bu~ just how genuine are we? 
23 APRIL 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 1 

On April 25, 2002, Scholastic published an issue entitled, "A Changing Face"-an issue that explored the problems with race relations on Notre Dame's campus. Coinciding with the publication of that issue was the beginning of the editorship of Sarah Childress, the first ever African-American editor-in-chief in the 135 year history of Scholastic. On April 23, 2009, at least for this one issue, I will have assumed the place as only the second African-American editor-in-chief in the magazine's 142 year history. 
What is perhaps most ironic is that in the ensuing seven years after the publication of"A Changing Face," nothing much has changed-there are still many minority students who feel unsure ofor uncomfortable with their place at this university; there are still laments of a general sense of complacency among the university administration and its student body; there still exists a widespread perception that, when it comes to diversity, Notre Dame is as white as it can get. 
Such charges may perhaps be unfair; compare the university's culture today with that of20 years ago, or even 10 years ago, and most will tell you that Notre Dame has come a long, long way in increasing its intiative towards making the institution more ethnically diverse. 
What is also ironic, however, is the cyclical nature ofcampus news coverage. With a constantly overturning student body, history is quickly forgotten and re­packaged as a new, novel perspective of university life. Combing through issues 
of Scholastic dating back over 140 years, the stories are the same -controversy over " The Vagina Monologues"; Notre Dame's identity as a Catholic university; gender relations; sexual assault; and not least of all, diversity. Pick any issue that 
Scholastic has covered in the short time you've bee~ here, and chances are that same issue was covered with the same amount ofdepth with the same cliched insights no more than three or four years prior to your arrival. 
I would argue that this particular issue is no different -much like seven years 
ago, figures on this campus like Daniel Saracino in admissions and Iris Outlaw in MSPS have stories to tell. Much like seven years ago, there is a widespread 
concern among the minority community about issues of diversty and inclusion. Much like seven years ago, many say that Notre Dame is better than it used to be 
but still isn't where it needs to be. 
So where does Notre Dame need to be, and how do we get there? How do we break the cycle so that it doesn't have to take another minority journalist seven years from now to delve into the problems ofcampus diversity? We simply need to remind ourselves that the whole ofour Notre Dame history isn't confined to a four-year vaccuum, and that we have the power to impact issues that will outlast our tenures at the university. We must not forget history, or else Notre Dame will forever become an absurdist embodiment of Groundhog Day. 

Marques Camp Interim Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 APRIL 2009 



Congratulations to our brothers who were ordained to the priesthood at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart-on Easter Saturday. 

Rev. Vincent A. Kuna, C.S.C. Rev. Charles F. McCoy, C.S.C. Rev. Aaron J. Michka, C.S.C. 
"We hear-d a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way" 
(Constitutions, I.3) · 



vocation.nd. edu 
i, 

, I 

Periect ior your graduation ie&tivitie& or any occa&ion. 
Order giant subs, sub platters, and cookie platters for your event! 


It's Electric 
General Electric earns Hesburgh Ethics. 
award -. 
Claire Reising 

From energy-efficient light bulbs to a desalination plant in Africa, The General Electric Co. "promotes ethics across all parts of their company," Notre Dame MBA student Heather Burns says. The corporation was awarded the Rev. Th~odore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Award for Exemplary Ethical, Environmental, Social and Governance Practices (the Hesburgh Ethics Award) in a ceremony on April 1 in the Mendoza College of Business. 
Each year, the university honors a company that exhibits leadership in ethical and environmental policies. Patrick Murphy, marketing professor and co-director of the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide, says that this year, the prize was awarded to the company as a whole, rather than to a single leader. The prize advocates a "Triple Bottom Line" business approach, in which the company addresses issues from "economic, social/ethical and environmental" perspectives, Murphy says. 
To select the winning company, 20 students submitted nominations, and a committee, of which Murphy was a member, selected the winner. "GE met the criteria quite well, and people on the committee [rated] them first or second across the board," Murphy says. Keith Sherin, chief financial officer ofGE and Notre Dame alumnus, traveled to campus to accept the award on the company's behalf. 
According to Burns, who nomipated GE, the company addresses several social concerns, such as aiding inner-city schools and becoming involved with the Hudson River cleanup. She says she is impressed with GE's humanitarian use of technology for issues, such as desalination of water in Africa. "A lot of the water in Africa is unusable," she says. "[There are] 50 million gallons ofwater a day that they're able to change into usable and drinkable water." 
GE is also known for its "Ecomagination" program, which the company's Web site describes as "a commitment to imagine and build innovative solutions that solve today's environmental challenges and benefit customers and society at large." Murphy cites the use of wind energy and energy-efficient light bulbs as two important Ecomagination initiatives. 
Despite the struggling economy, Lisa Lanspery, Manager ofCorporate Communications at GE, says that Ecomagination continues to succeed. "Last year, Ecomagination generated $17 billion in revenue. We have a goal of $25 billion in 2010, and even in this challenging economy, we're continuing to invest in clean technology." 
With President Barack Obama's emphasis on green-collar jobs, Lanspery says that "now is the time to strengthen and expand." According to a recent GE press release, the company is contributing to "Energy-Smart Miami," a project that will give consumers more choices for how to "consume and conserve electrical power." The project will generate demand for an estimated 800-1,000 jobs in two years. 
In addition to environmental policies, the award recognizes a company's ethical practices. Burns says.that GE holds its suppliers to the same standards to which it holds its employees. "They've made their mission beyond profit," she says. "A lot of good will come out of their brand." 
Murphy says that he hopes this experience increased his students' awareness of ethical business policies and that they will "drill down and look at companies in more depth." "I hope they go away with a great appreciation and [know that] no company is perfect," he says. 0 




•'-"J'__,'-':~-.~~ 
4,.. _ __, --­
,___..., ' 
--·. -··"··-·-··· 

1~~ '--~~--=·~·~~~ 
,-­
. 
Madonna Falls off a Horse 
And then she tried to adopt it. 
Susan Boyle 
We wish we were ugly enough to get appreciated for our talents 
Miss California and Gay Marriage 
Protecting the sanctity of Opposite Marriage, one contestant at a time 

Lohan/Ronson Breakup 
Lohan's quest to become the next Ellen put on hold 
'____; 
r::~-=-~ 

The Shirt 
~~: Get ready next season for a sea of 
~ .::?-~~ 
flesh
.~\: 
6 J SCHOLASTIC I23 APRIL 2009 
Vanessa Adjei 
How many people travel down a dirt path in a roofless vehicle along 
streets lined with trash, only to pull up to a makeshift shelter? In some 
of the impoverished areas of Haiti, the experience is commonplace. 
Filmmaker and Notre Dame alumnus Justin Brandon held two screenings ofhis film, "The Road to Fondwa," last Thursday, April 16, in the LaFortune Student Center. 
In the film, 2004 graduate Brandon and 2005 graduates Brian McElroy and Dan Schnorr employ issues from the small town ofFondwa to illustrate the importance of education and community involvement to combat poverty in Haiti. 
The Haiti Working Group is one of the main avenues through which Notre Dame students can get involved. The group is comprised of students and faculty members who work to raise awareness about human rights issues in Haiti. 
"The working group is more about building awareness and consciousness, but there are service and research components that have been part of the group's palette of activities," says Rev. Tom Streit, C.S.C., current chair of the group. 
"I find it significant that our Haiti program has helped the Haitian government build a program to combat and even eliminate [some] infectious diseases. This way, we are teaching what we know about how to solve these problems," he says. 
The group has faced issues with student travel. "One of the shortcomings in recent years is that the travel has been restricted by the State Department and by events in Haiti," Streit says. 
These difficulties, however, have not kept all students from making the trip. 
"I had the opportunity to travel to Haiti during my junior year, and ofall of the trips I have taken within the United States or abroad, it was probably the most educational and the most inspiring, says senior biology major Megan Rybarczyk says. "I hope to make it back sometime soon. I firmly believe that the University should support the direct involvement of students within the country in any way possible as soon as it is able to do so." 0 




The Year Easter Came Twice 
NBC films Easter broadcast from Basilica 
Alexa Shoen 
To outsiders, those walking around campus in their Easter Sunday best on Saturday, March 28 were nothing more than terribly confused church-goers, perhaps overly ambitious to get a seat for Mass on Good Friday. Inside the Basilica, however, patrons lining the pews were absolutely right to attend Easter Mass two weeks early. If they wanted to be on television, anyway. The Council Bishops selected Notre Dame as the location for a special telecast, aired by NBC at 5:00 a.m, both PST and EST, on April 12 Rev. Lou DelFra, C.S.C., along with Rev. Richard "\,Varner, C.S.C. and Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. celebrated the Mass. Participants in the service, such as members of the Folk Choir, were not relieved of their duties for the actual Easter services -though each choir member received a DVD of the NBC taping. Aubry Skorich, who sings in the Folk Choir, says, "Anytime, that I can use music ministry to reach out to people, it's a blessing." In the case of filming an additional Mass, there are "people who would not have the chance to experience the blessings the university has to offer." Cameras are set {ip permanently in the Basilica, as Sunday Masses are taped and posted on the university website, so the NBC film crew was not particularly invasive. "Everyone voluntarily came. The liturgy was just as special," Skorich says. Both attendees and clergy understood the importance of allowing the Mass to reach out to those who could not make it on their own. Above all, the broadcast allowed for as many patrons as possible to pack into the Basilica -one way or another. "They did make us redo one part, though, which was funny," sophomore Lauren Tonon says. "We all started to leave and go out for the buffet, and the camera guys legitimately blocked us into the aisles and stopped us from leaving until some part could be re-filmed. vVe had to do the line all over again." 0 

Methods ofprocrastination for study days 

Finally start that summer internship search 

Spend three hours pushing buttons in Library elevators 

Actually use the LaFortune arcade 
4 Sign up for obscure social ' 
' 
networking sites 
5One word: Sporcle 
23 APRIL 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 




A Springtime Opera 
Opera comes _alive in the student production of 
Beatrice and Benedick Katie Buetow 
Opera is not the kind ofperformance found on many college campuses. From the technical production issues to the challenge of appealing to a-young crowd, the difficulties involved seem to deter most universities from staging performances. Opera Notre Dame, the university's opera company, however, has enjoyed widespread success by attracting talented casts and diverse audiences. This year's performance of Hector Berlioz's Beatrice and Benedick, which ran from April 16-19, was no exception. "It's remarkable that opera is done here at all, and it's more r~markable that.it's done on the level that it's done," director Mark Beudert says. Beudert says it is important to engage the audience as performers in the opera, likening a successful performance to a dinner party. "You can't just sit home and read recipes. A lot of the way we consume music these days is passive. It's much more fun and exciting when it's active. " The cast of Beatrice and Benedick, based on Shakespeare's play Mttch Ado Abotti Nothing, was comprised of music majors as well as students from a variety of other majors and university staff. Rob Becht, director of budget operations for the College of Arts and Letters, made his opera ·debut this season. "Everything is new to me," Becht, who joined the Beatrice and Benedick chorus after watching his first opera last year, says. "I'm learning how to read music, keep up with the steps. But then watching the students perform -the talent is so incredible." Louis MacKenzie, chair of the Notre Dame's music department, played Somarone, a music master with a trademark drinking song. "The thrill of being onstage with the orchestra is almost unimaginable. It's like running in the outfield with the New York Yankees," MacKenzie says. Like Becht, MacKenzie says he is privileged to be able to work with such a talented group. "It's thrilling to be singing with the students." For last year's production of Fattst, the university hired professional vocalists to sing the lead roles, but this year, students filled the roles. "The professionals were great role models, but they took away performing opportunities from the students," sophomore vocal performance major Dan Crupi, who played Don Pedro, says. Crupi also contrasted the content of Beatrice and Benedick with that ofFaust. This year's opera was light and airy, as opposed to the dark drama of its predecessor. "It's a very light-hearted and fun show with music that isn'~ very well-known but is still great," he says. Over the years, sold-out crowds have become routine for Opera Notre Dame. But packed houses and good publicity, while desirable, are not the performers' main priorities. Beudert says he hopes that the opera will open up discussion of"performance as a political act, performance as a sociological act" for the entire campus. "The more you look at it from a philosophical and professional standpoint, opera is a perfect fit [for Notre Dame]. We can talk about these things here, and they are amazingly effective." 
0 

CULTURE 
~J',:,',,·:.,::{:!i',/
.•....·· 


Maria sJHer~,~\ A _j \
Notre Dame legend Knute Rifckne
}•·.·.·. ,( 
coined the phrase, "Wvn-t~ going 
gets tough, the tough get going." The 
Ballroom Dance Club has taken a unique 
approach to his ~ords, donning a similar 
version, "When the going gets tough, the 
tough go .dancing," onits.cl11b t-shirts. 
The Notre.Dame Bal!room Club president 
and fourth y~ar architecture major Aimee 
Sunny reme1il.befs··this phrase from her 
first year wi~h the cluhi Many students are 
involved with the club because they believe 
that dancing is refreshing and uplifting. 
The social club, which has been active at 
the µniversity for more than 15 years, meets 
every Th:ursday from 7-8 p.m. in the Rockne 
Memorial. It grants students, faculty and 
staff the opportunity to/learn an expressive 
art for~ while making ffi~~ds and easing the 
day's tensions. / ' ·. 
"I love spendingtiine witn my 'friends in 
the dub, impro~ing my dan!=ing,a~d getting · exercise. It's a great str~ss reli~ver and it's a · lot of fun," co-vie~ p:,;esid~nt)i:mily Lyons 
says. ;__.,,,.,,,,,... '•,-~.-:\ 
. /,. ......., I 
Advisor Ramzi Bualuan, a computer science 
and engineering professor who has been a 
member of the club since he was a graduate 
student, demonstrates how the passion of 
dance unites ·all. As a dancer, instructor, 
judge and master of ceremonies (MC), he is 
involved in all expressions of dance -/{rom 
the joy of dancing, to the impaffi~iitjr,,of 
judging, to the fun of being the MC. j;>,~.\ 
The club meets weekly to learn dances 
such as the cha-cha, waltz, rumba, tango and 
swing. It typically takes a semester to gain 
the basic skills .for such dan_ces, with a new 
dance taught every two weeks. 
During a typical class, dancers are first 
separated into leaders (men) and followers 
10 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 APRIL 2009 
CULTURE 

(women). The basic dance pattern is then personal and competitive edge. Competitions Dancing Club hosted the Irish Dancesport dem9nstrated in slow motion. Once the are "fast-paced and exciting," as social club Gala at the South Bend Century Center, leaders and followers understand their and American competition instructor Clay with 19 other schools in attendance. The .. parts, 'they .ar,e placed together, combining Berkley says. event consisted ofa four dance final with two 
'"· •.. their indiyidiial steps with the music. With Typically, the competitors begin the smooth/standard dances, such as the waltz experienced instructors present to assist, weekend with a social dance. The following and tango, and two Latin/rhythm dances, ;tr1istakes_are mitigated, preventing bad habits day, the competition extends from about 9 such as the cha-cha and merengue. ;.~nd ensu~ing solid technique. a.m. to 7 p.m., running in rounds by skill "The team did pretty well," Bualuan says. Although the dancers are challenged, many level with single elimination. "The team's improvement was apparent say that ballroom dancing is a useful and fun Dancers can compete in,, the beginner, in their success at the intercollegiate learning experience. ,,---.1 bronze, silver, gold, novice, pre-champ competition." "I enjoy attending the social nig~ts because and champ levels: Depe.ilding on their Because the number ofwomen exceeds the it is great way to learn more (about .. the intensity and commitment to ma:stering;the number of men in the club, co-vice president timeless art of dancing rather than sticking ballroom technique and steps, dance.rs'rise in Alex Stuckey says there is extra incentive for to the ra,ridom dancing gyrations of today," competition level every ·one to two years. men to join. "Dancing is a great social skill, sophompre classics · major Caitlin Carlin "Like anything of / C<?J.Upetitive nature, and it is really impressive if a guy knows how says. / winning can put you q11-t6p of thew9.rld and to dance." -,·-The' club currently--:boasts a membership coming up short can leave you really down. The Ballroom Dance Club prides itself on of about .·. 60 people.' No previous dance ,yvhat I try to emphasize to the dancers is that welco~ing dancers of all levels and abilities; experience is required to join the group. , preparing for competition means working the only requirement is a desire to have fun. (Al/out 95yercent of the club members"h~ve' towa.ra.-a goal that will PfSh them to improve ·.. "All ;hre. welcome. People of all skill levels n<':ver particip~tedin ballroom dance befor~'.) . thdr dancing," Berkley says. "They should''-~ c_ome togei:lj:er to learn how to dance, so .iyle;.iibership is' set,_at $35 a semester, or $4'a;/ seek, better and better p·erformance from one do11't beiijtimidated if you've never danced session. . · Y competition to the next, quite apart from bif5Jre,'>. I.,,fpns says. 0 The social club extends into a competition how well they place." ,.. · ·" team of about 20-25 students. Lyons says, "Competitions are a great time These dancers put on their dancing shoes to show off what you've learned,/see some anywhere from two and a half to 10 hours awesome upper-level dancing,~andsp~~d:the 
\~::7 
a week to prepare for competitions, which day with friends." .-\ 
/ 
consist of opportunities · to advance one's On April 3 and 4, the ND/ Balltoom \
,,.;/''··.\ 
23 APRIL 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 11 



COVER STORY 

T H E 

L E M 
What will be futu"re 

COVER STORY 

Marques Camp 
High school senior Juliana Partridge found herself at a dorm party one spring Saturday evening at the University of Notre Dame, her eyes slowly scanning 
the room for any serendipitous sign that the university was the right place to attend college. 
What Partridge saw could be described as the typical atmosphere for a dorm party at Notre Dame: students awkwardly mingling, neither dancing to the music blaring out of the room and across the quad nor conducting any substantive conversation. "Iwas sort ofworried that all anyone did for fun was drink, which at the time concerned me," she says. 
Partridge, who is African-American, was one of the more than 200 admitted minority students invited to one of the university's three Spring Visitation Weekends, which are designed to allow students to visit Notre Dame's campus who 
M A 
may not have otherwise received an opportunity to do so. The three-day visit is an opportunity to sit in on classes, meet other Notre Dame students and faculty, and get a sense of the campus atmosphere. 
Partridge was first attracted to Notre Dame when she was invited for a weeklong conference for 40 high-achi(;!ving African­American high school students the summer preceding her senior 
-·year. Impressed with the campus during the conference, she was excited to participate in Spring Visitation Weekend. 
the 
What concerned Partridge more than the drinking, however, was that she did not see any other students at the party that looked like her. Nor did she see many in the rest ofher three-day visit to 



of diversity at 
Notre Dame's campus. The minority students she did talk to did not express the enthusiasm for Notre Dame that she had expected or for which she had hoped. "I think I got more of a feeling of dissatisfaction from the black students I met, particularly

Notre Dame? 
socially," she says. When it came time a few weeks later to choose a university, Partridge decided that Notre Dame was not the right place for her; instead, she chose to enroll at Spelman College, a historically black women's college in Atlanta. 
Partridge's brief exposure to Notre Dame illustrates a broader concern that lingers in the minds of many prospective minority students, as well as many minority students and alumni at Notre· Dame: The diversity dilemma. 
A Look Forward 
The diversity dilemma is a vicious, cyclical problem that Notre Dame has spent many years trying to solve. On one hand, many prospective students like Partridge find themselves uncomfortable with the thought ofattending Notre Dame largely because there aren't enough students who look like them. On the other hand, it is difficult for Notre Dame, and universities in general, to shore up diversity issues without minority students, 
· like Partridge, who are willing to make a leap of faith. According to the university's Admissions Office, for the class of2012, 38 percent ofNotre Dame's admitted African-American 
23 APRIL 2009 I -SCHOLASTIC I 15 
COVER STORY 
students chose to enroll at the university, compared to 54 percent overall. This disparity is not only evident in African-American students: 41 percent of Hispanics, 36 percent ofAsians and 47 percent ofNative-American students enrolled. Since the university began tracking such statistics, the percentage of admitted minority students enrolling at Notre Dame has been consistently lower than the overall percentage, in many cases considerably lower. 
Though Assistant Provost for Enrollment 
Daniel Saracino proudly 
emphasizes the increase 
in minority applicants 
and acceptance 
rates, he recognizes the difficulty in producing a higher yield for accepted minority students. 
"Once they're admitted, they have great choices," Saracino says. "The ethnic minority student who is admitted to Notre Dame wasn't admitted because [of his or her race]. They were admitted because they were talented and we wanted them here. That student then has choices that are very good, and what we must do, without saying anything negative at all about Stanford, Princeton, Harvard, Columbia, we need to get out a stronger story of what Notre Dame is." 
Complicating Notre Dame's competition with other elite universities for talented minority students is the stance of its financial aid office against awarding merit-based scholarships to students. Despite the university's commitment to meeting 100 percent ofa student's demonstrated financial need, the lure ofacademic scholarships and a reluctance to take on student loans leads many highly-talented ethnic minority students, especially those in the diversifyng middle class, to shun Notre Dame in favor of elite universities with more favorable financial aid packages. 
The university's long and arduous 
struggle to become a more diverse 
institution is also reflected in its 
senior year retention rates for 
ethnic minority students, which 
over the past 20 years have consistently rated lower than those rates for 
white students. According to the university's 
Office for Institutional Research, the class of 
2008 graduated 93.6 percent of the minority 
students who entered as freshman, compared 
to 96.3 percent of white students. Minority 
retention rates reached a low of 83.3 percent· 
for the class of1992, compared to 95.7 percent 
for white students in the same class, while 
reaching a high of 96.1 percent for the class 
of 2006, the only graduating class in the past 
20 years to have retained a higher percentage 
of minority students than white students from 
freshman to senior year. 
Coupled with the difficulty of attracting admitted minority students like Partridge to enroll comes the difficulty of addressing · the common perception among prospective students and tl1eir parents that Notre Dame is not a diverse university. "There's a perception issue we try to fight against," Michael Wong, Chairman of the Asian Pacific Alumni Association ofNotre Dame, says. "The Notre Dame experience for minorities has been different than for white students." 
A Present Look 
Earlier that sa01e Saturday, Hoai Xuan Phan, another student visiting campus as a part of Spring Visitation Weekend, sat on a bench looking out at South Quad, reflecting on similar concerns about the lack of diversity on the Notre Dame campus. For the high school senior from Arlington, TX, it had not occurred t~her that college life in general, and Notre Dame in particular, was not as diverse as she had believed it to be. "At the time, I just [assumed] all colleges were diverse," she says. Her sister, who had visited campus during Spring Visitation Weekend two years prior and eventually enrolled at Duke University, also shared reservations with Phan about Notre Dame, telling Phan it had left her unimpressed. 
Unlike Partridge, however, the lack of diversity was not enough to dissuade Phan from enrolling at Notre Dame. Now a junior majoring _in sociology and Chinese, Phan, perhaps prone to hyperbole, says, "It's the biggest mistake I've ever made in my life." Though her frustration with. the university is exacerbated by the distance from her ho~etown boyfriend and her occasional academic struggles, she believes that many of her social frustrations result largely from the lack of a truly diverse culture on campus. 
"I definitely think it would be different if 

. . / _,, 
' ' .· ,, .. 
·, ... ~ ~ 
.• , ' 
COVER STORY 
there were more minorities here," Phan says. "I feel like I would go out more often. I would actually have a place in certain clubs. Because a lot of clubs I think I woul~ be interested in, their minority representation isn't as high, so I mostly stick to cultural gubs, the clubs where I know people won't just look at me weird becaus~-I'm not white/' 
While Saracino emphasizes his'·office's efforts to aggressively reach out on the recruiting front to a larger pool oftalented minority students, Gil Martinez, a Hispanic alum and an associate director for admissions, believes that the same aggressive attitude must also be directed toward providing support for struggling minority students, the lack of which is partially responsible for the university's historically lower minority retention rates. 
"Notre Dame is a very, very strong culture," Martinez says, "and that can contribute to a profound sense ofloneliness." ThoughMartinez notes the efforts ofMulticultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS), he believes that the university must make a stronger push to formalize and ·institutionalize more comprehensive support and counseling systems, especially for minority students who may encounter academic or social difficulties while adjusting to Notre Dame. 
MSPS Director Iris Outlaw, who first came to Notre Dame in 1991, says, "There are avenues available to historically underrepresented students, but a lot of times the pride is so strong that they don't want to utilize them. If they're struggling psychologically, you almost have to walk them over to the counseling center because per their culture if you go see a psychologist you're [considered] crazy." 
Coinciding with aggressive diversity initiatives spearheaded by former university presidents Rev. Theodore Hes burgh, C.S.C. and Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., the percentage of entering first-year ethnic minority students at Notre Dame (excluding international students) has risen from 7 percent in 1979 to 20 percent in 2008, reaching a high of23.7 percent in 2006. 
Ethnic diversity at Notre Dame is not, however, reflected wholly by its student body's demographics. Despite the significant attention the university has given to increasing the ethnic diversity ofits student body, and despite the demographic gains for minority students, there still exists concern among Phan and many other minority students that the university may not be as truly diverse as the numbers indicate. 
Phan, a member of the Asian-American Association and one-time performer in the cultural talent showcase Asian Allure, remembers performing on stage at Washington Hall, and, in ·a situation that conversely mirrors Partridge's experience, scanning the audience and seeing that too many of the people in the audience look like her. 
"At cultural events, you don't see as many white people unless they're with another Asian pei;son who has forced them to come or another black person who has forced them to come. It's not like they see it as an opportunity to branch out outside their circle and experience something new that they've never been able to experience before," Phan says. "I'm pretty sure many white people here haven't tried to do anything that's part of a real culture's experience. It just doesn't seem like a priority for them." 
Phan's concerns echo the broader lament among minority clubs that multicultural events, such as Black Images or the Black Fashion Show, both organized by tl1e Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC), or Latin Expressions, organized by La Alianza, do not host as diverse audiences as they hope. 
Though this perceived lack of integration of white students into multicultural events is a concern for some members of cultural clubs, many believe it rises less out ofcultural hostility than out ofcomplacency and, in some cases, apathy fot cultural diversity. 
. ­


TOTAL PERCENT 
MINORITY MINORITY 

••• • • •--•• •-• 
....... , _______...... --,---··--·---------··•-··"'-"'··•· ... -------. -·-----····-···· 
.272 _15.l ]99lr-:°_·' 278 14.7 
1 1990· 

,...,:\;?:~~):; 261 13.9 
··-1993•.•·· :. 264 13.9 

300 
262 
274 
; 1999::'.:,·-307 15.6 32.( ·--__-_-}6~.5". ·1 331 16.3 320 16.4
lflifIIL j 
419 21.0 208.i:"r-: 429 21.6 20.5

i~~@:!ff !~f 
23.7 
432 21.6 
400 20.0 
*Statistics courtesy ofthe Office for Institutional Research · 
23 APRIL 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I17 
. ' ,, 
--~------------------------------------------­
Junior pre-med and psychology major Aaron Quarles, the former chairman of the Black Student Association, seems as equally perplexed as Phan by the lack of curiosity about minority cultures. "White students [seem] either unmotivated or uninterested in such events. They just [seem] indifferent to the importance of diverse experiences, or worse, see no value in them at all," Quarles says. "I've actually asked some white students fulfilling experience. It's not perfect, and it could have been more fun or more comfortable elsewhere. But I feel that I am better for my time at Notre Dame," he says. 
Though Phan feels much less optimistic than Quarles about her experience at Notre Dame, she hopes that she will one day look back on it as a learning experience. "A majority of the time, I feel like it was the biggest mistake I've made in my entire life. But I always hope says there were only five African-American students in his graduating class. 
When asked about the lack of diverse audiences at multi-cultural events, Wong says that, in some sense, it is a fortunate problem for today's minority students to have. "We had nowhere near the type of programs that the campus has now," Wong says. "It's a much more diverse campus than when I was here." 
Outlaw came to Notre Dame amidst a 
[ab~ut this issue], and what they ;.lr~¾~Ul!t~{.tit's one ~ofth~gs~here peoplelook___ st~r~ of mi~ori~y prote:t:and disccmtent me 1s that they don't see a neecy?r ci1yt![S,Iq'./f;-b;ick and/say/Yqu ~n9'IV 'IVhat, G6d really with the umvers1ty's policies. In the fall 
:;::!~',~:::;:,:·,~::iiiFW1~t14~~~i~}~t;1t!:·:;~;.(Z'.~~:,~;:;:~::ai;~d:'.'.~'\;::::tf.·. 
"';~~':;body P,esidcnt G~i~~jj(~\J~;,:~1;~;;1;:~l~;::;;:;! ~;:~;a~~:::to'.T :,~,!:;:v:s~dJ,·._. 
says, "Students are generally :v~lf;g~H"-Wf~SVi?Ybn I lo0k~~c,k?~fy,cqJlege exp.~nence," any background, race and ethmc1ty o~Pfi.an says. ~:'.~:~ -----.:.__ 
Dame's campus. However, I also believe that often times there is a sense of complacency, where students feel as if they are already knowledgeable ofparticular cultures and not necessarily willing to take it a step further." Quarles has, however, sought to ensure 
that his experience with Notre Dame is not adversely affected by a lack of campus diversity. "The moment I want to complain aboutmyexperiencehere,Ihavetoaskmyself, 'What are you doing about it?' By carving out my-own niche, by allowing myself to grow, by trying to learn from my peers, I have had a 
18 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 APRIL 2009 
A Look Back 
Despite the struggles articulated by minority students, Wong still sees today's culture of diversity at Notre Dame as much improved from that of his experience here in the mid-1990s. The same sentiments are echoed by 1984 graduate Martinez, who admits thatlittle attention was focused on the concerns ofminority students during his time as a student, and 1969 graduate Saracino, who har~~sm~nt policy on camp~_§· The group, along with other_ s_tude11t groups, protested on the steps of the administration building and staged a sit-in in the Office of Student Affairs in January 1991. In April of that 
year, dissatisfied with dealing with the OSA, an estimated 150 students staged a sit-in in then-President Malloy's office to voice their concerns. In an Observer telephone survey administered around that time, 46 percent of students replied that they did not believe the univ~rsity was truly committed to cultural diversity, compared to the 32 percent who believed it was. 
Outlaw recognizes that the relations 

COVER STORY 
"Whit;e st;udent;s [seem] eit;her unmotivat;ed or unint;erest;ed in such event;s. They just; [seem] indiPPerent t;o the importance oP 
diverse experiences, or worse, see no value in t;hem at all." 
' 
L ..-•--··· -·--•--'-·----~-----­
between white and minority students have improved immensely since she first arrived on campus in 1991, but still sees the struggle with diversity as one that has just started. "I don't think diversity has truly been ingrained in the culture of Notre Dame," she says. 
Much like Notre Dame's struggles to attract minority students to campus and diversify the demographics ofits student body, its struggle to positively impact minority alumni has also been a significant concern. Various surveys conducted by the university indicate that for many minority alums, their Notre Dame experiences were less than ideal. 
For example, a 1996 post-graduate survey of the class of 1986 revealed that minority 
•alumni were less likeiy than white alumni to report that they were satisfied with their undergraduate experiences, and more likely to report that they were either generally or very dissatisfied with their experiences. Minority alumni were also more likely than white alumni to report that, given a chance to do it over again, they would not choose to enroll at the university. 
"We have a lot ofchildren ofthe [minority] alumni who came here in the '70s, and they would say that it was tough at Notre Dame then," Saracino says. "But then you'd ask them, 'Well, why do you want your child to come here?' [They say] 'Because it's the real 
-Aaron Quarles 
world.' They would tell me when they visited that this wasn't the same place it was before, and yet it's still not where it should be." 
The Future oP Diversity 
The diversity dilemma is one that encompasses the past, present and future of Notre Dame's culture. The problem begins with concerned prospective minority students like Partridge and the commonly held perception that Notre Dame is not a diverse university. The perception is fueled not only by the racial makeup on campus, but also by the quality of life and struggles for minority students like them. For Partridge, student testimony played a significant role in her college search. "Black students at all these · schools expressed that it could be pretty tough to be black there, both in social and classroom settings," she says. 
"Perhaps if the minority students were happier, then they would attract other minorities," Princeton junior Clelia Douyon, an African-American who, like Partridge, visited Notre Dame during Spring Visitation Weekend and left unimpressed, says. "It is really obvious when a student is unhappy, and 
·· 
[high school students] sometimes associate that with race relations on campus.'' 
The key to breaking the cycle is putting the experience for current Notre Dame minority students in the context of a long and complicated history of diversity and race relations on campus, and reflecting on where the university has been and how future generations ofminority students can improve the culture of diversity. Saracino says that part of the university's task in improving diversity is targeting the kinds of highly talented minority students who are proactive and willing to make a difference. 
When asked what he would say to prospective students like Partridge or Douyon who might feel reluctant to attend Notre Dame because of a perceived lack of diversity, Saracino says, in an impassioned plea to future classes of prospective minority students, "Ifwe cannot get young men or women like you to come here we're not going to get any better." 
Martinez, deferring to the venerable Mohandas Gandhi for advice, says, "I would say simply -'Be the change you wish to see in the world."' 0 
23 APRIL 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 19 
; l 
. •-, . --... 
. -; ~ -. ' -, ~{ .... ... . 
~ 
Campus Chat:t:er 
DEPARTMENT OF ROBOTICS 
Outlined against a blue April sky, the Stepan Center dome loomed in the distance. Anticipation radiated from the hulking edifice as I strolled in with a much-needed 10 a .m. Saturday morning Ven ti Iced Carmel Macchiato. Game day. But this was no ordinary game day at the University of Notre Dame. With battery-powered athletes and a field proportionate to the stadium end zone, a crowd quickly gathered to view the event. 
I meandered through the crowd, enticed by the idea of a Blue and Gold robotic football competition. Days earlier, I observed the football practice. Controlled by their mechanical engineer creators ·with a guy-to-girl ratio of about 20:2, the robots perfected their throws, tackles, catches and secret plays. I was swept up in the thrill of competition as I wondered just how much progress was made by the dueling robotic football squads since Thursday's practice. 
As an event, the robotic football game provided the Notre Dame community with entertainment. For 75 mechanical engineers, however, this was the moment of senior project truth after months of preparation and tireless work. If successfully executed, the event would serve as an example for college engineering programs nationwide. 
The little robots seemed to have minds of their own, scurrying around the terrain of Stepan, dodging opponents and attempting to tackle, a feat accomplished by hitting with five pounds of force for at least one second. 
The Blue team held a 27-16 halftime lead. The majority of the scoring, however, took place in the second half. Of course, the usual third quarter words of wisdom were delivered by Officer Tim McCarthy: "Remember, these robots have been driving with artificial intelligence. Don't you drive with genuine stupidity." 
The game concluded with a nail-biting final play. With five seconds left, Blue fumbled the ball to lose the game, despite an open lane to the end zone. Final score: Gold 59-Blue 54. 
Both teams, however, experienced a sense ofpride after completing the innovative game. "Even though the Blue Team lost, I still feel like we accomplished so much. We went from starting from scratch to having a team of robots in only 12 weeks," senior Mike Ouimet says. 
Most sporting events declare a Most Valuable Player at the competition's conclusion; the Blue and Gold robotic football game was no different. When asked which robot he believed deserved this honor, senior Nathan Yanchak says, "Has to be Spanky. He played every down unlike any other robot." The lineman seems to have a 
bright future ahead of him, despite only one robotic football game in his history. 
Due to the overwhelming amount ofenthusiasm, it looks as though next year's annual Notre Dame Blue and Gold football game will again be accompanied by a similar event played by Weis and Co.'s robotic counterparts. 
-Cloii·e Kenney 

20 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 APRIL 2009 
I . . . -. . . . /:. , " . . . . . . ' . ·~ 
• . . a ' ..,. ' ,· ' ­
CULTURE 

Souled On Blues 
Kate Zinsmeister 
The 2008-2009 season at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center is going out with a bang-with blues musician Eric Bibb. On .May I ·and 2, the Grammy-nominated singer/songwriter will bring his voice, guitar and soul to the Decio .Mainstage Theater stage as the final performerin the Center's "Visiting Artist" series. 
Bibb is hailed as one of blues' greatest storytellers, but don't be turned off if you are not a particularly bluesy person. His songs are infused with the distinctive sounds of folk and gospel and are sometimes reminiscent of the music of Bob Dylan. His sound is original but recognizable as he draws inspiration from many different musical styles. 
Bibb's lyrics tend to be soulful and ballad-like. Lyrics like, "Sing your song / So that we remember / All the good times we've had" will make graduating seniors a little te.ary-eyed. On the other hand, the words to the song Shine On, "Keep on when your mind says quit / Dream on 'til you find you're living it / I'll be right by your side," might be all you need to get through finals week. But if you're the type who avoids inspirational tunes, love songs and rhyming verses, this may not be the concert for you. 
The concert promises to be fun, uplifting and light -a perfect way to spend the evening with a loved one, friend or roommate and a chance to become souled on blues. ~ 
You'll Love "I Love You, Man" 
Tim Hronick 
A movie about a guy's desperate quest to find a best man for his wedding may not seem appealing to the average viewer, but the concept works in directorJohn Hamburg's "I Love You .Man." 
The film exemplifies what a springtime comedy should be: Well­conceived and original, it does not require too much deep thinking, but provides enough one-liners and awkward interactions to keep it entertaining and engaging throughout the film's one hour, 45 minute run time. Paul Rudd (Anchorman, 40-Year-Old Virgin) stars as the friendless Peter !Gaven and proves that he is more than simply a great supporting actor. Guys and girls alike will find Rudd's attempts at gaining a best friend a hilarious contrast to typical chick-flicks. Ifyou are looking for a movie that you can be certain will not disappoint, I recommend "I Love You, .Man." 0 
\ -­
. -. 
. •, ­
. 

t-c 
=-o 
< ~ 
t 4 
C'-j 
II Teatro D'ltaliano 
Claire Kenney 
"\Vashington Hall will host an Italian theatrical performance on Saturday, April 24 and Sunday, April 25. The performance is the product of the hard work of The Italian Theatre Project class. Over the course of the semester, students were required to communicate in Italian and were assigned to the various aspects of production, including acting, costume design, set design, publicity, lights, audio and stage management. 
The production, directed by Professor Jenna Olson, includes two plays, II Castello dei Briganti (Castle of Thieves) and La Marcolfo, both of which are dramedies, and the latter of which earned playwright Dario Fo a Nobel Prize for Literature in 1997. Formatted in traditional Italian commedia dell'arte fashion, Il Castello dei Briganti includes stock characters who depict a treasure hunt intertwined with romantic comedy in the one-act play. La lvl.arcolfa is a tale of an indebted marquis who goes to great lengths to pay his debt in an attempt to win over his lover. 
23 APRIL 2009 j SCHOLASTIC I21 
. .. . , " ~ , •,. 
--. ~ . -.,._ ... ..... 
' 
' 
~-~~~~-------'--'-~ 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, &Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(lnformaUon, education, and resources) Contact Sr, Sue Dunn, OP, dunn,54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 eo.Mo; discussion and support) Contact Fr, Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact Dr, Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
corecouncil.nd.edu 

The Work Behind the Blue and1 Gold 
Offseason workouts continue for the Irish 
Alex Hellmuth 
Junior linebacker John Ryan has been waking up at 6 a.m. since returning from Christmas break. From conditioning to lifting weights to playing football, Ryan has been training for the football team non-stop for three months. 
As Ryan explains, workouts began in January, with grueling "Coaches' Stations" activities beginning in mid-March, followed by 15 practices for spring ball, and culminating in the Blue and Gold game on April 18. "It takes a lot of time, hard-work and devotion, but it's all part ofteam development in preparation for the fall," Ryan says. 
Football at Notre Dame is associated with shining gold helmets, Rudy and thousands of cheering fans moving to the beat of the fight song, but junior wide-receiver Brian Coughlin, who walked ·onto the team last spring, says that a lot of work goes into suiting up in blue and gold. "The off-season practices are much more intense than when we are in season, especially the Coaches' Stations, which are, by far, the hardest workouts that I have ever participated in." The grueling mat-conditioning that characterizes the coaches' practices involves intensive training, which Ryan calls a "gut-fest." 
While spring practices are vital for keeping the players in good shape, they also serve as a time to develop the team and form bonds among the players. "When there is no opponent and you are competing against your own team, you get to know your teammates really well and figure out who is going to be on the field with you in the fall," Coughlin says. 
Because seniors do not participate in the spring practices, the off­season allows the juniors to emerge as the new leaders and build the team that will follow them into the fall season. The leadership of veteran players like Ryan will be even more important after the team suffered a disappointing season last fall. "This spring, we are really trying to keep up the morale of the team and embrace the idea that we will be a legitimate contender in the upcoming season." 
Both Ryan and Coughlin say they believe the gold helmet is worth the time and dedication that go into Irish football. "This is my last year, so every time I go to practice or workout, it's the last time I am doing it, .and I don't want to have any regrets after what has been an amazing four years," Ryan says. 
Coughlin says, "It feels good knowing that you have worked as hard as you possibly can to improve so that you can contribute to so_mething bigger than yourself: the team." 
After the Blue and Gold game, the practices and workouts become less intense, but fall football camp starts in early August, and for Ryan, it cannot come soon enough. "We have been working really hard, and this fall is going to be a great year for the Notre Dame football team," he says. 0 

RYAN RI ·HTER 
Tommy Krcmaric 
I 
. Freshman pitcher Ryan Richter is off to a fast start for the Irish baseball team. His first career victory came on April 1, and he hasn't looked back since. The South Bend native has become an integral part of the pitching rotation, and on April 15, he recorded a career-high six strikeouts in his first start of the season. 
You starred at center.ield in high school. Now you are solely a pitcher. How l1ave you made such a quick adjustment? It's tough sometimes during batting practice. I want to be out there hitting with the guys, but I'm just happy to have a role on the team and [to] be helping out with my pitching. 
Coming out ofhigh school, you were something ofan unlmown commodityin the national college baseball scene. Did that putpressure on you to perform, or have you used it as motivation?
V I've definitely used it as motivation. I don't ~eel like I ?ot snubbed, but I_ wanted to 
•· l prove to the South Bend area that I could pitch at a high level. It's defimtely been \ more motivation than pressure. 
\ 
Have you had any typical "freshman duties" this year? 
:We're in charge of carrying the luggage. Each of the freshmen has luggage duty · -when we fly and we make sure the locker room is clean after team meals ... and you should definitely give up your seat on the plane when an upperclassman asks for it. 
You are 3-1 with a 2.04 ERA. Did you ~pect to achieve this much success so 
quicklyin your first college season? 
I am definitely happy with what I've achieved so far, but I'm not satisfied. I just want to help the team win, whether that means facing one batter or a whole bunch. 
Its the bottom ofthe ninth inning, two outs and a full count. l-vhat pitch do you 
throw and why? 
. [Laughs] That's hard because I haven't pitched that much. But I'd have to go with my two-seam fastball. 
You were a great all-around athlete in high school. ~'hatis it about baseball that makes ityour f.nrorite sport? There's just something special about coining to the ballpark on a nice day with your buddies. You have so many opportunities in baseball, and it teaches you to overcome failure quickly. It's all about what you do next and not dwelling on the past. 
Baseball players are known for being superstitious. Do you have any wild 
superstitions or rituals that you belie,,e in?
0 
I never touch the foul line when I go on and off the field. I had more that I used to 
do in the batter's box, but I've given those up since now I only pitch. 
Growing up in South Bend; did you follow Irish baseball from a young age? 
· Yeah, I've always been a big fan and tried to get to a lot of games as a young kid. I was the little kid always asking for autographs. 
··· You play baseball andgrew up in the 90s. Tl1erefore you 're a f.m ofthe movie The 
Sandlot, rigl1t? 
[Laughs] FOR-EV-ER. I've seen it so many times. 
\ l¥hat are your personal goals for the rest ofthe season? I just want to continue helping tl1e team win -tl1rowing strikes and getting ·. people out, hopefully win the conference, get to the tournament, and do well in tl1e 
· Js there a Major League Baseball player you model yourself after? David Price minus 10 MPH on my fastball. [Laughs] Really, tl10ugh, I don't model my game off anyone. I just try to get out every batter I face in any way possible. 0 


Mimi DiSipio 

The Notre Dame women's golf team competed this past weekend for its second consecutive BIG EAST championship title. The team began its quest for the program's fourth conference title during the 2009 BIG EAST Championship on Sunday, April 19 at the Lake Jovita Golf Club in Dade City, Fla. The Fighting Irish entered the three-day, 54-hole event as the second seed in the seven-team field. This is the seventh BIG EAST women's golf championship and the second consecutive year in which the winner will receive an automatic bid to the NCAA Championship Tournament. 

Senior Irish lacrosse players Scott Rodgers and Jillian Byers have been nominated for the 2009 Tewaaraton Trophy. The award is presented annually to the nation's top male and female collegiate lacrosse players. Rodgers, captain and goalkeeper for the Irish men, ranks second nationally with a save percentage of .649 and has been key to the team's success this season. This is the second time that Byers, midfielder and captain for the Irish women, has been nominated for the prestigious award, the most coveted accolade in collegiate lacrosse. Nominees were selected by coaches across all three NCAA divisions. The Tewaaraton Trophy will be presented on May 28 in Washington, D.C. 

Junior guard and basketball co-captain Melissa Lechlitner received the Notre Dame Monogram Club Most Valuable Player Award at the 2008-09 Notre Dame Women's Basketball Banquet on April 14. Lechlitner started at point guard in all 31 games this season after having started only once in her first two years with the Irish. She more than doubled her career averages across the board this year, averaging 10.6 points and 3.4 assists per game. Lechlitner also received the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Rockne Student-Athlete Award. 
FINISH ON THE 50 Students participate in a 5K run on the morning of the blue-gold game to support Hannah & Friends. 
\.·•r 
.;;D 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL The nation's largest outdoor 5-on-5 basketball tournament returned full force this season. 
23 APRIL 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 
SPORTS 
Matt Formica 
Academics and athletics are intricately intertwined at Notre Dame, creating a unique dynamic. It is one of a handful of schools that consistently demonstrates that rigorous academics and excellent athletics are not mutually exclusive; rather. that it is possible to fuse the two pursuits into a challenging yet fulfilling experience. Notre Dame's stature as one of the nation's elite athletic programs is all the more impressive when coupled with the high academic standards that are an inescapable aspect of the Notre Dame experience. Such standards form an interesting paradox: They create an obstacle that coaches must overcome during the recruiting process, yet they also function as a persuasive recruiting tool. "I think it can work both ways," head volleyball coach Debbie Brown says. "There are many student-athletes that don't have the academic qualifications for Notre Dame. However, when you find the athlete who has a strong commitment to academics, Notre Dame has a great opportunity to attract that student." When considering a prospective student-athlete, Notre Dame coaches do not actively recruit a player until they know that he or she is academically qualified, while coaches at some athletic powerhouses may overlook a player's academic struggles and fixate solely on 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 APRIL 2009 
his or her athletic talents. 
"When we are recruiting a young man, we talk about the academics here as much as we talk about basketball in the Big East," men's basketball coach Mike Brey says. 
Commitmentto academics immediately reduces the pool of players from which Notre Dame's coaches can recruit, creating. a numerical disadvantage. "I'd estimate that more than half of the most highly ranked junior golfers in the country do not qualify academically. That certainly makes . it difficult to compete against the top programs, who draw from all ranked golfers," men's golf coach Jim Kubinski says. 
Although the university's academic standards may act as an impediment during recruiting, they also attract many student-athletes to Notre Dame. While the prospect of attending a school at which one wilf have to devote as much time to studies as to athletics deters some of the nation's top high school athletes from considering Notre Dame, there are also countless student-athletes who value a balance between academics and athletics. 
"The level of academics had a huge impact on my decision to attend Notre Dame," freshman lacrosse player· Devon Dobson says. "Throughout the recruiting process I was always more concerned with the school's academics, rather than how good the lacrosse team was." 
Many Notre Dame student-athletes plan for their futures after college and after sports. "I wanted to go somewhere where I knew I'd be challenged. I wanted a university whose degree means something after graduation," senior soccer player Matt Besler says. Throughout his college career, Besler embodied the concept of "student­athlete". He was named the 2008 Scholar Athlete of the Year by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America and earned first-team All-America and first-team Academic All-America honors. 
Notre Dame's student-athletes face the arduous task of balancing their academic workloads and their athletic responsibilities. These individuals' endurance of the recruiting and admissions processes, however, suggests that they have the requisite skills to 'succeed both in the classroom and on the playing field. "The interesting advantage is that prospects who are more accomplished academically generally exhibit certain skills, such as time management, that allow them to be successful even with the great demands placed on our student-athletes," Kubinski says. 
Many Notre Dame students feel overwhelmed by the academic workload · without participating in time­consuming extracurricular activities. Student-athletes must juggle studying for an important exam while preparing 

SPORTS 

for the biggest game of the season. "Time management is the biggest tool for success. You must be on top of your schedule and try to get things done beforehand," Besler says.· Additionally, communication with professors and classmates is imperative to compensate for the classes missed while traveling with the team. 
The university provides additional resources for student-athletes to aid in striking a balance between schoolwork and athletic commitments. The student­athlete study center, located in the Coleman-Morse Center, for example, offers an· environment conducive to completing coursework. Student­athletes may also meet with tutors throughout the week to catch up on their studies. 
Despite attending several hours of practice each day in addition to devoting time to class_ and homework, Notre Dame's student-athletes are not asking for sympathy. Most agree that varsity athletes should be held to the same academic standards as other students. "Student-athletes make a choice to play athletics in college. No one is forcing them to play. If they can't be held to these same standards, ,they shouldn't do it," Besler says. 
It is attitudes like Besler's that allow Notre Dame's varsity athletes to maintain an effective balance between academic and athletic responsibilities. Three student-athletes, Besler, senior soccer player Brittany Bock, and senior track and field athlete Patrick Smyth, were awarded NCAA Postgraduate Scholarships for the fall season. The three scholarships have already matched the Notre Dame record for most NCAA Postgraduate Scholarships for a single academic year, and the accolades for winter and spring athletes have yet to be announced. 
In addition to outstanding individual achievements, many of Notre Dame's sports teams boast strong academic records each semester. "The academic climate on the team is very good. We've been very successful in the classroom, and we've been one of the top teams in terms of G.P.A. every semester," Brown says. 
It is not just the varsity athletes who have to balance academics and athletics. 
Notre Dame's student body is widely regarded as one of the most athletically talented in the nation. Students approach section sports, intramurals and inter­hall sports not only with enthusiasm but also with skill. The Princeton Review, in its annual college guide, ranked Notre Dame first in the "Everyone Plays Intramural Sports" category. "Everyone gets involved with sports in one way or_ another," sophomore Rolfs employee Ryan Schwab says. 
Many Darners find time in their busy schedules to exercise on a daily basis. Although spending a portion of the day in the gym may seem to detract from academic commitments, doing so can actually have the opposite effect. "I go to the gym and blow off some steam, and when I get back to my dorm I'm able to concentrate better and work more efficiently," freshman Shu · Hagiwara says. 
Not only are academics and athletics at Notre Dame not mutually exclusive, they are inseparable. ~ 
23 APRIL 2009 II SCHOLASTIC ll 27 

Listening In ... 
e Student: "I don't know how to tell you this, but I have Chlamydia." . -'\udent: "Well, that's probably my fault. We'll deal with this together." 
'~!~ Student (picking at the frosted oat shapes in Lucky Charms cereal): "What are they "'liifto teach kids? This one's not even a letter!" · 
an Girl: "I used to be shallow and only like him because he dressed so well, but :,, realized that he was actually really hot!" 
Back In the Day ... 
It's 2:00 a.m. on Friday night, the beginning ofthat obnoxious reality ofNotre Dame life, parietals. Where to go? What to do? Instead of hailing a cab and venturin-g off-campus like today's typical inebriated Darners, a group of students in the 70s had a different plan for the evening: scale the . golden dome. 
Heading toward God Quad wearing little-to-no clothing, a few Keenan men used their friend's janitorial job to their advantage. Upon managing to properly use keys in their distorted states of mind, they stumbled into the building to complete the task they had set out to accomplish. While some lagged behind, dubbing it an impossible feat, the rest persevered. Due to a construction project, scaffolds were scattered around the building, making the dream of these adventurous students somewhat obtainable. After they had made considerable progress up the interior of the dome, their ascent came to a halt, not due to NDSP, but to sheer laziness. Perhaps one day their legacies will live on, and the dome will finally be conquered. 
-Meg Kowieski 
28 ISCHOLASTIC I23 APRIL 2009 

HUMOR 

Greetings, my muddy little piglets! After a year spent hiding in bedroom closets, peeking in dorm windows and hanging out at local dive bars to catch ND students at their best, the Gipp is sad to announce that this will be his last column. Despite Gipp's best efforts, it seems he actually amassed enough credits to graduate. Along with those of many of the subjects of this year's stories, "Pomp and Circumstance" is calling his name. That, and posters of aborted fetuses. It is only proper that our senior class has stepped up to take advantage of its last chance to immortalize its classmates' most shameful antics i.11 the hallowed annals of Scholastic ... 
With warmer weather comes a renewed sense of passion and adventure for many students, and our first two explorers -we'll call her Lewis, him Clark -were certainly no exception. Perhaps afraid that at three months, their blossoming relationship was losing that experimental fire, they embarked in search of a new frontier. As the sun sank in the sky, Lewis and Clark sunk more and more of that friend of all explorers, the natural aphrodisiac now known as beer. Upon leaving the watering hole, our adventurers traversed a pavement jungle until they stumbled upon a plot containing rolling dirt hills and three floors of uncharted territory, destined to become the habitat of future off-campus Darners who are too good for the apartment complex formerly known as TC, also formerly home to the biggest rager of opening weekend before the university decided to systematically kill all fun. But I digress. 
Our adventurers climbed to the top of this metaphorical peak where Clark flung aside his hard hat and showed Lewis his purple mountain's majesty. Awestruck by the view, she quickly removed her travelling attire as well. The two proceeded to explore each other in addition to the rest of the semi-finished building, navigating around nuts and bolts, rusty nails, and two-by-fours. Although the sun no longer lit their way (thankfully for any passersby) the electrical wiring had been completed, and artificial lighting likely made Lewis and Clark's journey visible from the street. When they completed their explorations and discovered what they came for, the two found themselves uncharacteristically disoriented. Although Clark's compass always pointed north, it was not enough to help the explorers find their way back to the room in which they left their clothes (at least not for the half hour or so spent frantically searching). 
Our next tale also involves soon-to-be­graduating travelers, this time in search of territory familiar to most ND students on Thursday nights. Declining to forge or caulk and float, the group opted to hire a guide to ferry them across the river and to the bar. It seems that it was two-for-the-price-of-one in the middle-aged guide's wagon that night, as he shared the front seat with a much younger and bustier acquaintance. "Are you 21?" she asked two of the male riders, and when they answered in the affirmative, she proceeded to pass the peace pipe -in this case, two aluminum canteens -to the back seat. 
Travel-weary and thirsty, the boys quickly consumed the contents and began scheming as to how they could charm their new friend, a pale-faced, blond-haired and tribal-pierced Sacagawea, into giving them another roadie before they reached their destination. Sure that Sacagawea would not abandon her wagon driver, the boys' flirting led to an invitation for her to accompany them into the oasis. To their surprise, she agreed. Although Sacagawea was a native of those parts, she insisted that it was new territory for her, filled with an unfamiliar tribe, and they must become her guides and not ditch her once inside. But since she no longer had 
her supply of free, frenzy-inducing elixir, the 
boys decided to strike out on their own path 
as quickly as possible, leaving no trail. "Why 
do they always scramble away?" Sacagawea 
lamented. 
Sacagawea recovered, however, when 
she saw the small tribal dance area in the 
corner of the bar. Reserved for only the 
most intoxicated participants, it is awkwardly 
elevated so that it becomes something of 
a stage for everyone else who is still aware 
that dancing is rare and a cultural taboo in 
this particular oasis. But Sacagawea seemed 
completely comfortable in this setting, 
performing surprisingly practiced and 
perfected ceremonial gyrations for both 
one lucky ND fellow and the surrounding 
audience. It was as if she did this often -a 
fact confirmed by some of the watching 
crowd, who identified her as belonging to 
the exclusive, south-side tribe of the Torch 
Lounge. It turns out that Sacagawea regularly 
shakes her tail feather. For dollar-dollar bills, 
ya'll. 
Well folks, we've come a long, long way 
together, but now, just like Lewis and Clark, 
it seems we're at the end of our happy trail. 
Special thanks to the seniors who have . 
frequented these pages: Rihanna, Gentle 
Blond Giant, Captain Chug, Buffy and so 
many more. You will be missed. But the 
Gipp has no doubt that future generations 
will continue to commit inappropriate acts of 
love, lose basic bodily function control and . generally embarrass themselves on a regular basis. As always, when this happens: Be a 
friend. Tip the Gipp. 
Peace out, The Gipp 
1;PiH0$fPP 
o o o o o at gipper@nd.edu 
23 APRIL 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 29 

•·• . • :;:1,Qiij}tlje/·qoofestb();bk on. ca111 pU$•. · . ·.c~1l;~•(' · .. ·•.· ···.•· •·•··•·•·· ;lJnd n•c,i.tit's n~lEacebook) 
;' -·,:.:;·:···'i .. "•,. . . ,-,• :··,,.,'·: . ::. ' 


·FMyLife.nd.edu 
, My life sucks but I d.j:>n't give a f*** 
Home -Top FML-Flop ~ FML -Random FML -FAQ -FML Store -Submit your FML 
It's been three hours and 22 minutes since you sat down in front of your computer to start your research paper. You've played ; 
• : more games of Tetris than you care to count and sent bumper stickers to every single one of your Facebook friends. A few short ; months ago, it would have finally been time to buckle down and start your paper. But never fear, procrastinators of Notre Dame, : the World Wide Web of wasting time has devised yet another site guaranteed to keep you glued to the computer screen as your ; tuition money trickles down the drain. FMylife.com has taken college campuses by storm, which got me thinking: What would an 
FMylife site written entirely by Notre Dame students look like? Here are a few possibilities: 
· Today, I proposed to my girlfriend of two years by having friends serenade her with Taylor Swift's "Love Story." ·.. 
. Apparently, these former friends saw the Keenan Revue one too many times and thought it would be funny to mess : 
. with my girlfriend. Needless to say, "It's a hookup story, baby just say yes" isn't quite as romantic as the original version. 
, She walked away, annoyed, before I could even give her the ring. FML 
Today, I got my dorm assignment for next year. I'm in Carroll. I was so upset at the news that I tripped down the stairs, breaking both my legs. I'm in a wheelchair for the next six months. FML 
Today, Iwas studying for an orgo test and missed dinner in the DH. I only had 5 flex points left, but planned on getting a 12-inch sandwich for $5 at a certain sandwich place on campus. Despite commercials assuring me otherwise, I found that the 12-inch sandwiches were actually much more than $5. I couldn't afford anything for dinner and subsequently 
, failed my test the next day. FML 
..... 
' Today, I got yelled at by a professor for using 11 recieve" instead of "receive" 39 times on my term paper. On the bright side, I was offered a position of copy-editor at The Observer. Unfortunately, I had written the term paper as part of an · application to teach language arts at an elementary school and already sent in the application. FML 
Today, I was hanging out with some guy friends in their room a few hours after parietals. Around 4:00 a.m., I put on a hooded sweatshirt to disguise myself as a guy and walked out the dorm right past the rector without him getting suspicious. I was pretty tipsy and so excited at making it out unscathed that I triumphantly blurted out the whole story to a random guy sitting on a bike outside the dorm. I didn't notice the letters NDSP on the back of his jacket until it was too late. FML 
Today, I inverstigated of my roommate's stuff to try to find the source of the strange noises I've been hearing. Thank you ORLH for random rooming assignments. The pet squirrel I found under his desk explains my missing cereal and the random yellow spots I find on my towels. FML 
-Kathleen Toohi/1 
[Page: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ... 209j << Previoius page I Next page>> 
23 APRIL 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 


LASTWORD 

The stranger says, "SMILE!" The camera flashes. "Is it good?" Katie asks. The photographer shrugs and passes the camera back to my friend Katie, screen first. She squints at the screen, the photo's a little fuzzy, and she's not quite happy with her smile. I'm probably blinking. I don't get to see the screen, so I'll have to trust her judgment. Katie pushes delete and passes the camera back. "Can we take another?" "Sure, smile!" I remind myself not to blink and switch on a smile. I can only hope it's the right one. I guess I'll find out online sooner or later. 
Like any college student, I spend staggering amounts of time mindlessly distracted by Facebook. But recently, despite my best efforts, the squishy bits of my brain dedicated to higher reasoning have been focused on the never-ending stream of photos on the site. 
I'm starting to feel a little uncomfortable at how posed all these photos are. 
What's so upsetting about this? After all, people have been posing for pictures for centuries. Until recently, there was no other way to get an image. Early photography needed painfully long exposure times. Today, we have instant, digital snapshots, but we're still posing. With cameras that offer immediate feedback and nearly unlimited memory capacity, we're posing more now than ever before. Even the candid shots are mostly staged for the camera. We'll gladly interrupt whatever we're doing to chronicle the events of our lives. 
With point-and-shoots in hand, we're · beginning to live in perpetual scrapbooks, idealized versions ofreality that edit out both the mundane and the poorly lit. We upload them to Facebook in albums deceptively titled "RANDOM," as if they accurately represented any given moment of our days. vVhoever said a picture was worth a thousand words should be accused of price gouging. 
Welcome to our mediated future: a time where our experiences will be recorded and broadcast back to us, to be remembered and shared as we edit them. Reality is too dangerous to be trusted. While living increasingly public lives, we're gaining unprecedented license to edit our personas. If someone posts an unflattering picture of us, we can simply untag it. 
This trend goes beyond online photo albums. Facebook and the newly popular website Twitter allow users to update their status from the web and from cell phones, broadcasting to friends and followers their every move. Used successfully, supporters claim, the innovation lets people share · information quickly and foster serendipitous happenings -those rare moments when you find yourself in the right place at exactly the right time. In reality, this technology indulges a pornography of self, keeping the world updated on what your freshman year roommate ate for lunch. It's just more posing, via 140 characters or fewer. 
This idealization of self faces inward, too. For years now, I've been able to plug into an iPod, ramp up the volume and soundtrack my life. Every mundane task takes on a new, profound importance from behind those little white earbuds. I can be the hero of 
my own blockbuster, taking trips to Subway tantamount to a quest through Mordor. I'm trying to find a use for it all. Maybe I'm not self-absorbed enough for the future. 
I have a carefully crafted Facebook profile, well-stocked with pictures of myself looking like I'm having fun at interesting events. And, yes, I even tweet. But I'm not certain I'm enough of a narcissist to embrace what's surely coming: There's something unnerving about a phone with GPS. I'm increasingly hesitant about the impending techno-utopia where I can find out what my friends are up to without having to do something barbaric like sending them emails. 
I doubt we're capable enough to edit ou,r own lives for real-time broadcast in ·a meaningful way. With the growing pressure of living public lives, we're at risk of losing our ability to be mindful of the present and refle\:tive on the past. By constantly answering the question "What are you doing?" we squeeze our lives into narratives suitable for broadcast, instead ofexperiencing life as it comes at us. I'd rather not end up on my deathbed thinking, "Well, at least I had a lot of good status messages along the way." 
Maybe we should try to admit that we're all probably more boring and less attractive than the way in which we present ourselves on the internet. Keep that unflattering photo tagged! We should embrace new technologies, but also embrace our true selves. Let's actually get to know each other better. Just keep yesterday's lunch to yourself. 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 








