/-/ow -/he s/ars gcrf~ s/ari-ecf ....
Star of “The Bridges at Toko-Ri1
50
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem, N. C.
William Holden says:
“My Dad, a chemist, wanted me to follow in the business. But I got the play-acting bug in school and college. I was in a small part at the Pasadena Playhouse when they picked me to test for ‘Golden Boy’. I never worked so hard in my life! But the success of the picture made it worth it!”
i'm for camels 1
I'VE FOUND THEY GIVE ME EVERYTHING I LIKE IN A CIGARETTE -GENUINE MILDNESS, REAL FLAVOR. YOU'LL LIKE CAMELS,TOO!"
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness
and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
-fa Mikhess favor
Cameis agree with more people s
Scholastic
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A Notre Dame Tradition 11:30—1:30 NOON LUNCHES—75 < 601 N. Niles Ave.
GLASSES FITTED Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. LensM Ground in Our Own Shop. J. BURKE
Optometrist DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Aaaooiatat 228 So. Michigan St.
Vol. 95 MAY 7, 1954 No. 23
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.	‘
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Agents Wanted
In spare time you can make more money faster and easier taking orders for “Holdrite”, the new and better hanger for trousers, than with any other like product. Make $10 to $15 a day. Earn tuition money during summer months. No long sales talk necessary. A proven product. Thousands in use. “Holdrite” sells itself. Every' man a prospect for 3 or more. “Holdrite” fits into trouser cuffs, holds press in, hangs wrinkles out. Saves pressing bills. All-metal construction. Trousers can’t fall off. Retails for $1.00. Generous commmission to agents. Send $1.00 today for starting samples of 2 “Holdrites.” Address, WALLACE BRANDS CO., 20 Broadway, Toledo 4, Ohio.
PAUL FULLMER ...............Features
FRED C. ECKART................. News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE	....Assistant News
JOHN A. ADAMS ..................Copy
ROBERT B. FROLICHER...........Sports
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ___......Circulation JERRY D. BAIER ------------------------Advertising BOB FOWLER.................Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE..............Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
STOP, ANYFACEff-IF YOU SAW MEIN HALE I'LL STARVE TO DEATHS ONE CAN'T LIVE ON MV SALARY, MUCH LESS
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton, Robert Kaufman, John Kelly, Eugene Les-mez, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Jack Mullin, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan. Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Norman Wendrowski.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Kit Eckl, Gary Gates, John Guegen, Dave Kilkeary, Jack Kirby. Ray Lescher, Dick Mannion. Jim Morris, John Phelan, Bob Ruhl. ADVERTISING ASSISTANTS: Ken W’oodward, Pat Logan.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER
This week’s issue, afteT the hectic weeks of campaigning, takes an overall look at the political situation on the Senate and especially at its new president, Joe Daley. Feature writer Dave Cohen gives you a bird’s-eye view of the first popularly-elected Senate president on page 10.
Daley formally took office' last Sunday evening when he delivered his inauguration address before the new Senate, and this is the first thorough look-see at the 1954-55 Senate prexy.
May 7, 1954
3
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquet* and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
128 W. Washington
Opportunity
For Unique Experience In Human Relations
A limited number of positions as Psychiatric Aides are available to college graduates at one of America’s foremost psychiatric clinic-hospitals. If you are interested in psychiatry, psychology, personnel work, teaching, or social work, this is a valuable opportunity for practical on-the-job ex- . perience in the basic areas of human relations. You will also enjoy the benefits of living in a stimulating atmosphere with congenial people. You will have complete room, board, recreational and social facilities plus a cash salary7. For further information, write to: Barbara St. John, Director of Personnel, The Institute of Living, 160 Retreat Ave., Hartford, Conn.
The Scholastic
X>ur telegram on Mother's Day
by Ken Murphy
Top of the WEEK
The econ majors had 12 days of Easter vacation, just like everybody else,. . .
A Little Fishy
The recent campus elections really had the place in a dither for awhile, but things seem to have calmed down a bit and have just about returned to sub-normal.
The Huddle resembled an overgrown billboard more than anything else there for awhile, what with guys running for
says all the things you want to say
everything from dog catcher to bird watcher and the various candidates promising to do everything from taking your final exams for you to blowing up your draft board.	'
Mingled in among all the campaign posters was a sign announcing Father Baldwin’s annual fishing contest and consequently there were a few anxious moments the night of the balloting. Our correspondent at election headquarters ■wired back that Father Baldwin was making a pretty good race of it for Senate president for awhile.
This Machine Age
Some wise guy put the following sign on the candy machine downstairs the other night:
“Out of Order!!! If You Don’t Believe Me, Try It.”
Now, if he had just stuck the “Out of Order” on the sign, everything would’ve been just fine. But it was the “If You Don’t Believe Me, Try It” that got us. So we’re' out a dime. So you can’t win ’em all.
other athletes across the country and the first thing you knew, a couple of winter sports enthusiasts were swapping vows at the top of a ski slope. We can see' him now, gingerly placing the wedding ring on her dainty little ski pole. The moral to this story? Why, they skied happily ever after.
Patent Patience
We have a little project for any pseu-do-Edison who’s sick and tired of trying to construct a better mouse trap. Mechanical pencils, as you all know, do have erasers on them. And these erasers, as you probably have noticed, have been known to wear out on occasion. Now, if someone' would just come up with some sort of invention—any old invention will do—so that a used eraser can be removed to make room for a shiny, new eraser, we’re sure that the outlook of the country as a whole' would be greatly improved.
11
in such a warm and loving way
Speak Now or Forever Hold Your
Breath
It appears that a new fad has replaced Scrabble. This latest rage is commonly referred to as the marriage ceremony. Now, we realize that this ceremony is nothing new in itself, but the manner in which it has been performed in recent WEEKs is something again.
First oif a couple jokers got the ingenious idea of tying the knot underwater. Obviously he must be a frogman left lying around from the last war, and she a mermaid. Maybe they plan on building an aquarium in the country with white picket fence so they can raise little fishes. We realize that it would be pushing things a little too fa^ to say that they are both all wet, so we’ll leave that up to the' judgment of our avid readers.
The idea immediately caught on with
Where the Windy City Got Its Name
If there is one thing, which more than any other- single factor, will influence us in rooting for everybody in the American League except the Chicago White Sox, it is that guy Aesop, or whatever his name is, who announces their games.
In the eighth inning of one of the Sox’ games on their recent Eastern trip, Aesop announced: “And Minnie Minoso is stepping up to bat in Boston.” Since the Sox were playing in Beantown, wouldn’t you say that that was probably about the best place for Minoso to step up to the plate?
Bottom of the WEEK
So they could cram for their comps the day after we got back.
Whatever else you do, send her a telegram, too.
WESTERN UNION
105 N. Main St. Telephone 3-6101
May 7, 1954
5
Recently a voung mid-westerner enrolled at a university as a Logic major. His father had told him, with some understatement, that he was illogical. He refused to squire a pretty girl to a dance because her name was June Betz and he was against gambling.
He wouldn’t eat avocados because they were also called “alligator pears” and he didn’t like alligators.
In addition, he was a slob.
Some of the men in his dorm tried to talk to him.
“Look at that shirt.” they said. “The material’s cheesy.
Why don’t you hop down and get a Van Heusen Oxfordian... it’s soft, fine oxford cloth.”
“I’m not attending Oxford. I’m attending Old Siwash,” answered our boy.
“But, look, Buster. This oxford cloth is woven tighter so it’ll last longer. It’s a smart investment.
And it only costs S4.50.”
“So rvho needs it? I might get hit by a truck. Then what good would it be?” quoth Buster.
“What about your collar? Flat as a pancake! Don’t you want a good-looking button-down with that famous Van Heusen relaxed-roll?” one asked.
“I got nothing against pancakes. I hate rolls.”
Note: Our man flunked Logic post haste, and tvas drafted. The Army has him classified under “Secret Weapons.”
See the New Van Heusen Shirts at
RASMUSSEN
men's shop
MAIN! AND WASHINGTON STREETS
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2Jf-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477


We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
M-G-M PRESENTS gi WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S K
JULIUS I CAESAR I
STARRING MIRLON BRANDO I
MMES MASON • LORN GIELGUD I LOUIS CALRERN•EDMOND O’BRIEN j
GREEK MkSOH «DEBOKAH KERR a
COLFAX—Now Playing
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti" The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made Chili Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN BUY WITH CONFIDENCE Nationally advertised WATCHES—DIAMONDS JEWELRY—RADIO Guaranteed watch repairing.
6
The Scholastic
SBLUIiL
Volume 95, Number 23	Notre Dame, Indiana	May 7, 1954
FLANAGAN ‘FASCINATES’ JUNIORS TONIGHT
Dinner Dance, Mass Fill Weekend Agenda
Five hundred juniors will catch something of the “Fascination” in the air tonight as they take to the Student Center ballroom floor for the 1954 edition of the Junior Prom. For the first time in Notre Dame dance history Ralph Flanagan and his orchestra will grace the dance-goers with velvet versions of the current hits.
Miss Jeannette Young, date of Chairman Don Ye'ckel, will reign in the “Fascination” setting as queen of the Prom. A resident of Rochester, N. Y., she attended Our Lady of Mercy High School, graduating in 1950. She is presently employed as a private secretary.
Weather permitting, the third-year men have arranged an innovation for their “big night”; outdoor refreshments will be served in the court between the Center and the Architecture Building. Forty to fifty tables will be scattered about the lawn for the -relaxing couples.
The city gates will remain open to the juniors until 2:30 a.m., giving them an hour to get under the wire after the dance closes at 1:30. Flanagan will strike the first downbeat promptly at 9:30.
A top-ranked band in Billboard, Flanagan’s troupe features Buddy Victor and Scottie Marsh on vocals plus the “Singing Wings.” Flanagan succeeds Buddy Morrow on the Junior Prom bandstand.
Chaperones for the dance will be the University’s five college deans.
Although nothing has been scheduled for tomorrow afternoon, the couples are expected to take advantage of the Northern Indiana spring weather to picnic in the surrounding countryside.
Tomorrow night they will travel to the South Bend Country Club for- a dinner dance featuring Dop Gels and his Lettermen. The third-year men will wine and dine until twelve when they will have to see their fair maidens home’ and then make the mad rush to the dorms.
Bobby Brown’s Spotlighters will play
at an 8:30 to 11:30 junior dance at the Center Saturday.
The traditional Mass and Communion Breakfast will cap the weekend on Sunday morning. An additional innovation by the committeemen will be the' staging of the breakfast in the Dining Hall in order to accommodate more guests. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Head Coach Terry Brennan will grace the speaker’s platform for the early morning risers.
Honored guests for the breakfast will be Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University; Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice-
MISS JEANNETTE YOUNG
Tonight’s Queen of Fascination
president in charge of business affairs; Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs; Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Junior Class chaplain; and the three junior hall rectors.
Following in the footsteps of the sophomores, the juniors will publish a “Memory Book,” under the direction of next year’s Dome editor, Bud LaLonde, which wi 11 cover the whole weekend’s activity.
Seniors Erect 'Village1 For Next Week's Ball
The Austrian village, site of the 1954 Senior Ball, “Auf Wiedersehen, featuring Ralph Marterie and his orchestra, will undergo construction this week. The Ball will be held from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. next Friday in the Navy Drill Hall.
The village is being erected under the direction of LeRoy Bazany and his decoration committee.
Friday afternoon before the dance, there will be an open house for seniors in the Student Center. It will be complete with a Dixieland band and a Charleston contest. Another feature will be an hors d’oeuvre table. .
For the big evening affair, Marterie’s music, featuring the melodies of the' Four Friends, will be danced and listened to by ball-goers until 2 a.m.
Late permissions ""ill extend until 3 o’clock.
According to George Pflaum and Ron Mazzoli, co-chairmen of the Ball, the Varsity old timers football game will provide additional entertainment on Saturday. That evening the Ball committee has arranged a dance exclusively for the seniors, to be held in the Student Center from 8:30 to 11:30.
Following Mass in Sacred Heart couples will breakfast together at the Church Sunday morning, a hundred Moms Inn.
SENIOR BALL
Construction of decorations for the Senior Ball will begin today in the Navy Drill Hall. All seniors are requested to devote any free time in helping with the decorations work.
Also, anyone talented on the accordian or violin, who would be interested in working at the Senior Ball, should contact LeRoy Bazany in 415 Walsh Hall.
May 7, 1954
Debaters Add Laurels Student Views on New Easter Vacation Vary; As Season Nears End 'No Cuts' Regulation Draws Wide Disapproval
With the debate season drawing to an end, the Arguing Irish continued their Minning ways. Donald Dowden, team vice-president, won the National Catholic Extemp Speech title in the annual NFCCS tournament held at Loyola University of Chicago. The topic Dowden spoke on in the final round pertained to the necessity for maintaining a strong Air Force.
In other divisions, three Irish speakers won honors in the national meet. Named outstanding Catholic debaters were William Hank, Charles Doherty, and Richard Schiller. Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of Forensics, was presented with a Sheaffer’s pen and pencil set for his contribution to Catholic forensics.
Dowden, and teammate Gunderson, were also busy over the Easter holidays. They spent a week in Pittsburgh giving exhibitions before clubs, schools and societies. The' tour, sponsored by local businesses and the Pittsburgh Press, included a television debate with University of Pittsburgh speakers.
Also in Pittsburgh over the holidays, Team President William Hank and Charles Doherty commented to a high school group, “We’ve had a truly fine reception here. We’re honored that we •were chosen over all the other schools in the country and we’ll try to justify your faith in Notre Dame.”
The team travels to Milwaukee this weekend for the Continental Nationals to be held this year at Marquette University.
CARL GUNDERSON, TITLIST DON DOWDEN DISPLAY NATIONAL SPEECH TROPHY Dowden Wins Extemporaneous Division in NFCCS Tourney
Student opinion varied notably as a weary student body dragged themselves back to academic routine after the first elongated Easter vacation in many years.
In attempting to siphon the sentiments of students concerning the extended Easter vacation—12 days instead of one ■week—Scholastic has conducted an informal poll among the various halls and the Huddle.
“I think the extended vacation was very nice', but actually I would vote for a short vacation at Easter, and anofher between semesters,” quotes John O’Hara from Denver, Colo. Of the same opinion was Kerry Dalton from Springfield, N. J., who said, “I think we should have a betwe'en-semesters vacation because it is too long a haul.”
“I -would still rather have both semester and Easter vacations,” says Mike Aquilino from Pennsylvania. “The length of time between Christmas and Easter is not overcome by the advantageous length of the vacation •when it finally comes.”
Bob McGlyne from Portland, Ore., maintains, “As it stands, a long vacation at Easter and none at mid-semester, I get at least one chance to go home. However, I am definitely against the ‘no cuts’ situation before and after the vacation.” Similarly, Joe Crowley, from Amarillo, Tex., said concerning the vacation, “I like it pretty much. However, I didn’t like this cutting out of class; they should excuse you for a train.”
Eugene Schmidt from Oklahoma re- '.Z plied, “I enjoyed the extended Easter vacation very much. But the main draw- -back was the fact that most of the stu- wf-dents from the other universities were ; not home'.”	}
Taking a definite negative stand was Nick Pelleagrino from New Jersey, who 'k’f stated, “I did not like the new Easter vacation. If one cuts classes he would p get the same' length of vacation. We, J? however, were not able to cut; and at the f , same time got no semester recess.” Mike ;< Ahem from Fond du Lac, Wis., replied, / “There should have been no Easter vaca- " tion at all. We could have been out around the 20th of May. If they are go- ' ing to give us a two -week vacation it " should be at semesters. Scholastically I ’ am in worse shape now than before I ■went home'.”	<
SENIOR BALL BIDS
Seniors who resell their Senior Ball bids must notify Tom Stubler, 227 Fisher, so that the new purchaser may receive late permissions. No Senior whose name isn’t registered with the ticket committee will receive late permissions the night of the dance. Today is the deadline for bid exchanges.
S’-I'
Country Club Scene B Of Law Ball Tonight
From 9 to 1:30 this evening, "tomorrow’s lawyers’’ will hold their an- £ nual Law Ball at the South Bend Coun- j try Club. This year’s theme is the “Advocates’ Serenade”, according to Tom Q Hanrahan, chairman of the affair-, if;
The barristers and their dates will dance away the night to the music of Don Gels and his orchestra. Over one hundred couples are expected to attend, *3 with the dress for the ladies being formal while that for the men is optional. || An innovation similar to that introduced at the Freshman Frolic will be initiated concerning choice of queen.
Instead of announcing the queen prior to the dance, this year’s “selection board” headed by Bill McFadden has fif: decided to “shock” the distinguished . young lady right on the dance floor, . for it will not be until the dance, that y , the reigning belle will become known.
Jack Bradshaw will make the announcement. The decision of the judges will be based on a number of photos which •were submitted.
The Scholastic jib
Engineers to Conduct Open House May 14-15
The Third Annual Engineering Open House will begin informally at 10:30 a. m. next Friday with the presentation of General Electric’s “House of Magic” in Washington Hall. The' event will continue through Saturday evening.
Dean Karl E. Schoenherr will formally begin the 1954 Open House at 1:30 p. m. Friday with a welcoming address. Immediately following this brief welcome, the “House of Magic” ,	will again be presented for	the benefit
I	of those unable to see the	first show-
‘	ing.
Tours will be conducted through the seven engineering departments begin-
I ning at 3 p. m., and lasting until 6 p. m. On Saturday, tours will be held . from 10:30 a. m. to 3 p. m., and again | after the' Varsity-Old Timers football f game until the Open House closes doors at 9 p. m.
A featured display throughout the Open House will be Buick’s experimental Wildcat sports car, plus one of Buick’s 1954 production models. The I sports car, standing 54 inches high, has a reinforced fiberglass body and is used for experimental purposes only.
Plans have been made for an air show on Blue Field at 9 a. m. Saturday, but it is still pending approval by the Civil Aeronautics Board.
The engineers’ traditional chariot race will be one of the main highlights. It will take place in the Stadium Saturday afternoon between halves of the Old Timer’s game. Colorful “chariots” will be drawn by competing teams. The winner and the department with the' best looking chariot will receive awards. The award for the best departmental display at the Open House will also be presented at this time'.
The entire student body is invited to attend the Open House.
Bolin Receives Honors
As 'Outstanding Senator'
Phil Bolin, campus social commissioner for 1953-54, was recently voted “Most Outstanding Senator of the Year” by his fellow Student Senate members.
Bolin, a senior journalism major, has been very active in social affairs on campus. In his junior year, he acted as cochairman for the Junior Prom, and in his capacity as social commissioner this year he has been in charge of campus club dances and other social activities.
Among Bolin’s major accomplishments was the bettewnent of campus relations with St. Mary’s College and St. Joseph’s Nurses Home.
May 7, 1954
ENGINEERING OPEN HOUSE FEATURES BUICK WILDCAT
Sports Car on Display in Engineering Building Lobby
Daley Eases to Victory in Senate Prexy Race; Contests Close for Other Class, Senate Posts
Some 2,300 voters marked their “1’s, 2’s and 3’s” last week on this Spring’s preferential ballot, including 51 candidates fighting it out for next year’s class ajid Senate offices.
Joe Daley, this year’s Senate Secretary, swept into the president’s slot in the Senate overwhelming Rick Hicks, his closest opponent, and George Vos-mik. Daley will succeed Tom Field, who assumed the position at midyear. Daley amassed 1,270 votes to Hicks’ 698 and Vosmik’s 373.
Other officers did not win so easily with the new preferential voting system which requires at least a one-half majority to win. If there was no majority the votes of the last place candidate had to be redistributed among the remaining contestants.
Jim Nortin scored a close win over Dick Lewis for Science Senator, 204 to 131. John Bendel was hard pressed in winning over John Tramontine for Engineering Senator, 304 to 266. Bob Swinde-man had 188.
In one of the most colorful senatorial races, Roy Belknap overcame Ron Kue-ber, 404 to 336, for Commerce Senator. Dick Hairsine was third with 102. Jerry Hughes became next year’s Arts and Letters Senator, uncontested. Hugh Schaeffer was the Villagers’ unopposed candidate, while Richard Miller gained the Off-Campus senatorship on the first ballot.
Over 700 Junior Class voters turned
the race for Senior Class officers into a scramble that ended in a three-way photo finish. It took four redistributions of the ballots before Dick Burke could gain a majority over Jim Ehert, 341-299. In third place was Jim Griffin with 122. Others were: Ed Kelly with 97; Larry Buckley with 60; and Neal Halloran with 34.
Vice-presidential ballots had to be redistributed twice before Tom Carey-swept ahead of Jim Hesburgh, 365 to 293. John O’Meara was third with 118 and Dick Cook fourth with 104.
In the race for secretary, Tom O’Malley defeated Clem Devine 376 to 172. Tuck McCoy was next with 143.
Harry Edelstein and Bill Walsh fought through three ballots before Edelstein won 336 to 305. Frank McCarthy was third with 155 and Ed Dempsey fourth with 133.
Over 680 sophomores turned out to put Dan Devine in the president’s office-over Dave Collins, 453 to 226. Vicepresident was Ed Spengeman over Jack Owen, 367 to 306. Jack Casey as secretary over Karl Marterstack, 383 to 259, and Clem O’Neil as treasurer over Dan Quigley, 434 to 248, rounded out the offices.
Freshmen voters, over 960 strong, chose Frank Pedace as their sophomore president over Jack Moynahan, 579 to 299. In third place was Bill Watson with 80 votes. Chuck Grace was elected vice-
(Continued on page 16)
'Student Government No Toy,' Asserts Daley; Senate Head Pledges Greater Student Voice
By DAVE COHEN
“Student government is nor the synthetic council of campus big wheels which meets in mutual admiration and to pose for yearbook pictures; it is not the administration’s whip, nor is it a plaything. Student government is the democratic system organized for the purposes of representing, educating, and serving students,” Joe Daley, recently-elected president of the Student Senate for 1954-55, asserted at the inauguration ceremonies last Sunday in the Student Center.
Joe Daley is serious about student government and the pai't it plays at Notre Dame. He feels that real government can and should work with the University faculty and administration to iron out difficulties and to act as the voice of the’ student body. The new president wants the 1954-55 Senate to represent the students by securing student opinion, evaluating it, and then presenting the'
NEW SENATE PREXY JOE DALEY CONFERS WITH CLASS PRESIDENTS
(L-R) Dan Devine, Dick Burke, Joe Daley, and Frank Pedace
orientation committee of the Blue Circle and composed an advice-type letter that is now sent out to all incoming freshmen, telling them about some of the things they can expect to find at Notre Dame. This year, the junior pre-med from Girardville, Pa., became assistant chairman for the freshman orientation program, was made chairman of the Campus clubs committee of the Senate, and continued on as Senate Secretary and sports director for WNDU.
One of his pet projects while serving
results to the faculty members and administrators.
Another plank in Joe’s proposed Senate activities for next year will be an education campaign to develop and encourage leadership among all the students.
Campus Activity Record Good
Joe made a few broad political promises in his inaugural address, but a look at his campus service record should show any critics that the Notre Dame student body picked a top-flight man to head the Senate.
As a freshman, Joe was a WND announcer, debate team member, and one of the first-year men admitted into the Blue Circle. Last year he moved up to the sports director’s spot at WNDU, got elected to the Student Senate as Science Senator, and became secretary of the Senate. He worked on the freshman
as Science Senator was the establishment of a Science Advisory board that functions to discuss matters with the science faculty concerning student problems. He thinks that such advisory boards are needed in all the various colleges because it’s the best way for students to help the administration and help themselves in things pertaining to class work.
Joe also worked with the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, in establishing a sci
ence seminar for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College students. Paper-back editions of the science classics are made available to those attending the seminars and excellent local and outside lecturers address these meetings. Joe calls these seminars “a really worthwhile experiment.”
Will Collect Dollar Again
Joe’s facing another big stumbling block — the financial problem that plagued the Senate this year. He says the dollar fee will ag'ain be collected in September at registration time and that “the money shall be' spent wisely and economically with the community betterment always in mind.” He went on to say that, “future activity fees must always be based on student need but beyond next September, no one can accurately look.”
Joe Daley’s avowed policy is student betterment and he’s promised that the Senate will “provide services for the students which will promote their betterment and it must operate on the guiding principle that the students are number one.”
This, then, is the man you chose to head the Senate next year. He won the first popular election ever held for senate president in a hotly-contested campaign and now that the votes are in, Joe’s ready to tackle the problem of giving the troops a bigger voice at Notre Dame.
Holiday Mishaps Claim Lives of Two ND Men
A canoeing mishap and an automobile accident were responsible for the untimely deaths of a Notre Dame student and a graduate of the class of ’53 during the Easter holidays.
Charles Covucci, a first-semester sophomore in the College of Commerce, was drowned while canoeing with three of his friends on a lake in northern New Jersey. Covucci was unable to reach shore when the canoe accidentally overturned in the center of the lake, but the other three men were rescued.
Covucci was a resident of Forest Hills, Long Island, and lived in Farley Hall while here at Notre Dame.
The other vacation victim was Pvt. William Londo of Green Bay, Wis. Londo met death on Easter Saturday while traveling in an automobile in Georgia.
Londo graduated last year with an AB in Journalism. While at Notre Dame he served as assistant sports editor for the Scholastic, 1951-52, and last year as assistant to Charlie Callahan, director of sports publicity at the University.
The Scholastic

10
H
0
Bill Walker provides danceable music
n

s
w
0
Gay Showboat Greets Couples as they Enter Center
Bill Walker’s music and the inauguration of the newly-furnished Caron Court highlighted this year’s Freshman Frolic last Friday at the Center. The Frosh decorations featured a glistening white showboat on the first floor and a giant mural over the bandstand.
Miss Maureen Horan of Peoria, Ill., was crowned queen of the affair by her date, Jim Cusak. She was selected by a democratic vote of the freshman class.


Cusak crowns His date Maureen Horan Queen


(hurtni
Next time you go to a part}- join in the fun_really have a good time. It’s so easy! Thousands have overcome timidity and shyness simply by learning to dance well. And it’s amazing what poise and confidence you gain after attending a few Arthur Murray Student Parties. At these friendly get-togethers which are held often, you meet interesting people, dance with all kinds of dancers in a gay, informal atmosphere.
An Arthur Murray teacher can quickly make you a far better dancer. For the Magic Step—key to all dances — is easily mastered. And you’ll be delighted with the many proven shortcuts to poise and popularity he can show you. You’ll soon be the most sought-after partner in your crowd! So come in now and learn the secret of popularity and good times. Arthur Murray Studies,
Arthur Murray
120 E. Wayne	2-3339

'Old Fashioned Picnic' Slated At Potowottomi Park May 22
"Many pupils have told me how much more confident and carefree they feel since taking dancing lessons. They have a new outlook on life!” says Ann Ross.
The Student Senate will sponsor an “Old Fashioned Picnic” on May 22 from 1:30 until 5 p. m., in Potowattomi Park. All students from Notre Dame, St. Mary’s College, and St. Joseph’s Nurses Home are' invited to attend. Tickets are available from the hall representatives.
The Senate has reserved the whole park for the occasion anticipating a large turnout. Also, it has arranged different races and ball games with prizes to be given to the winners of these events. There will be refreshments, and bus transportation will be' provided from the Circle to the park.
The picnic committee is headed by Chairman Phil Bolin, assisted by Marty Vieth and Don Zech, head of activities; Jim Sheer, refreshments; Bob Hanley, tickets; Jim Deline, transportation; Ray Kramer, arrangements ;and Jack Moynahan, publicity.
Later in the evening, from 8:30 until 11:30, the Senate is sponsoring a “Farewell Ball” in the Drill Hall. This is expected to be the largest dance of the year, as it is the last. Don Belloc and his orchestra will provide the music. The event will be highlighted by the crowning of this year’s queen.
Special Student Rates
Freshman Frolic Junior Prom Senior Ball
Approximately 1,000 suits to choose from. All the newest styles in all sizes.
Free alterations for personal satisfaction.
A complete line of accessories may be rented or purchased. No Deposits for N.D. students or faculty.
LOGANS TUXEDO RENTAL
107 N. Main	Oliver Hotel, So. Bend	' Ph. 3-9658
12
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
IRISH BATTLE NAVY NINES OVER WEEKEND
Great Lakes, Glenview Conclude Road Trip; Purdue Seeks Revenge at Cartier Tuesday
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Notre Dame’s varsity baseball squad concludes a five-game road trip tomorrow and Sunday when they invade Great Lakes Naval Station and Glenview Naval Air Base to clash with a pair of talented service teams. The Irish return to Cartier field Tuesday after an absence of almost two weeks for a return match with Purdue.
The' Boilermakers are headed by a clever pitching duo of Dennis Blind and Ray Rosenbaum. The Irish handed Blind his first defeat in an earlier engagement which the Irish won, 16-10.
On Wednesday the Klinemen travel to Evanston for a return game with Northwestern. Strongest department on the Wildcat squad is the pitching staff where three ’53 regulars, George Barvinchak, Ziggie Niepokoj, and Don Zitek return.
Notre Dame lost their home opener to the Wildcats, 6-3, with ND’s ace pitcher, John Reynolds, suffering the defeat.
The Klinemen opened their season
IRISH DROP HOME OPENER TO NORTHWESTERN, 6-3
ND’s Tremblay Sneaks Back to First As Wildcat Attempts Pickoff
with a southern trip over vacation and returned with a 4-3 record. In their opener they absorbed a 10-0 shellacking on a two-hit performance at the hands of Arkansas State Teachers. The Irish bounced back ■with a 7-3 win over Memphis Naval Air Station as Reynolds scattered five hits.
Sophomore Jerry Spaeth overcame six errors by his teammates to lead the Irish to an easy 8-2 victory over Southwestern at Memphis. The Memphis airmen came back and avenged their earlier loss by romping ND, 12-3. Another sophomore, Angelo Capozzi, a left-hander, threw a nifty seven-hitter- to pace the Kline nine to a 9-1 win over Memphis State.
In a two-game' series with Arkansas State, the Klinemen split even as they dropped an opening 4-3 verdict in ter. innings, but gained an 8-7 decision in the second game. Reynolds and Spaeth shared the pitching duties as two ND (Continued on Page 16)
Irish Cindermen Seek First Outdoor Victory
The Notre Dame outdoor track squad tackles Michigan Normal today in their only home meet of the season. Although the Irish lost their first dual meet of the season last week, Coach Wilson is confident his squad will finish on top.
Last Saturday, Notre Dame lost a close meet to Michigan State, 79-62, at East Lansing. Although the Irish had two double winners in Bill Squires and Al Pestrichella, it was not enough to overcome the flashy Spartans. Squires captured first in both the one and two-mile race, clicking the tape at 4:17 in the one-mile.
Pestrichella scored his double victory in the 100 and 200-yard dashes, his time of :21j1 seconds in the 220 setting a new field record. The Irish also captured firsts in the pole vault and discus. Jim Harrington and Captain Joe Springer both tied for first place in the pole vault at 13 feet, 9 inches, establishing a new meet record. Jack So-ranno won the discus with a heave of 137 feet, 3 inches.
Notre Dame'. swept all three places in the two-mile race and also in the javelin throw won by Jack Cunningham. Ben Zajeski came in second in the shot put and Bill Copeland took the number two spot in the 440-yd. run. Bernie Allard came in second in the high jump with a leap of 6 feet, 2 inches.
After the opening of the outdoor season with the Texas Relays April 4 and 5 the Notre Dame track team continued their season with three meets over the Easter vacation.
On April 1-5, the Irish came in second in the Triangular Relay with Indiana and Purdue at Bloomington. The mile relay team of Dennis Malec, Pestrichella, Jim Pitcavage' and Squires came in first in the sprint medley. Captain Springer and Harrington both tied for second in the pole vault and Allard tied for second in the high jump.
The four members of the sprint medley team came in second in the Kansas Relays at Kansas on April 17. The (Continued on Page 16)
May 7, 1954
13
Injury List Grows As Workouts Near Close
The injury gremlin hit the Irish again in scrimmages last weekend. Minutes before Coach Terry Brennan called a halt to a day’s work due to a steady downpour, freshman halfback Buddy Ward suffered a broken leg on the slippery turf.
If the Irish injury list grows any larger, there will be more gridders on the shelf than on Cartier field. The back-field has been hit hardest by the injuries, particularly at fullback.
Paul Reynolds, whom Coach Brennan counted on to be one of his front-line fullbacks, is out of action again with a banged-up knee. To make things a little darker for Brennan, John Gaffney is also out with a sprained ankle. It is doubtful if either Reynolds or Gaffney will be available for the remainder of the spring drills. Other backfield men out are: Dick Fitzgerald, leg injury, and Leo Callahan with a pulled muscle. In addition to these casualties, quarterback Jim Bigelow missed the first two sessions after the Easter recess as a result of an infection.
So far the linemen have been spared . any serious casualties although Brennan, in an effort to bolster his reserve strength, has been making several switches. Wayne Edmonds has been moved to right guard and George Nicola has been put into the right tackle spot. Both Dick Frasor and freshman Joe Bihn have been switched to guard posts while Lou Loncaric, formerly a center, has been switched to end. Paul Schramm
has been shifted from end to tackle.
With five practices remaining before the Old Timers game the first string still consists of Ralph Guglielmi at quarter, Tom Schaefer and Joe Heap at the halves, and freshman Dave Kaiser filling in at full. The line has co-captains Paul Matz and Dan Shannon at the ends, Sam Palumbo and Frank Varrichione at tlie tackles, Ray Lemek and Jackie Lee at the guards and Dick Symanski at center.
Aquilla Bowls Irish Keglers To Second in MIBC Tourney
John Aquilla’s four 200 games led the Irish intercollegiate bowling team to second place in the eighth annual MIBC tournament last Saturday. Aquilla won a trophy for high individual series in the tournament, 1003, and also had the second best single game of the day, 227.
DePaul won the five team tournament, with Valparaiso finishing in back of Notre Dame. DePaul’s Kenny Cohen took the trophy for the high single game of the day, 233, and finished with the second high series, 954.
Buz Velotta of Notre Dame had the third highest single game of the day, 226, to go along with his 912 series. DePaul also had the best team game of the day, 994, and Notre Dame turned in the' second best team effort, 961.
Besides leading Notre Dame in the tournament, John Aquilla also had the best season average for the team in MIBC league competition. Aquilla’s final average was 181, two pins better than that of Paul Pfonl, the team captain.
Tracks+ers Compete For Interhall Crown
The first interhall track meet will be held Sunday, May 9, on Cartier field. Freshmen track coach Leo McAvoy, assisted by Marty Vieth and Don Zech wall hold run-off trials in the morning starting at 9:30 in the 100-yd. dash, the' 220-yd. dash, the 440, and 880.
Also at this time the trials for the 120-yd. high hurdles and the 180-yd. low hurdles wall be held. Immediately following these trials the finals in the high jump, broad jump, pole vault, shot put and discus will be' held.
The finals in the 100-yd. dash, the 220, the mile as well as the 120-yd. high hurdles will be held in the afternoon at 1:15. The 440, 880, and the 180-yd. low hurdles will be run off in sections because of the large number expected to enter these events. The winners wall be determined by the best times posted in each event. The only relay on the agenda for this meet is the 880-yd. relay.
Each hall may enter two men in each event and four in the 880-yd. relay. Each participant may compete in three events but they must be either two track events and one field or vice versa. They are not permitted to compete in three events of one type.
The only ones not allowed to participate are those -who won their Freshman track numeral or who are on the varsity track team now or in the former years here at Notre Dame.
Seniors Begin Competition in Initial Class Golf Tournament
ACTION DURING RECENT SPRING DRILL SCRIMMAGE
Brennan Shifts Line-ups Attempting to Reach Winning Combination
Eighty seniors have started play on the University golf course in the first tournament held by the Senior class. Play began May 3 and continues through until May 18.
The seniors are required to play in foursomes and must record two 18-hole rounds during the two week period. A special handicap, determined by the committee, will be subtracted, from each player’s gross score.
The handicap will be calculated and deducted from both 18-hole tallies. It is found by doubling the par score of nine blind, or holes selected by the committee. From this number, course par (71) will be subtracted. Seventy-five percent of this remainder is the player’s handicap.
Two trophies will be awarded. One will go to the lowest gross score1, and another, donated by Reco Sporting Goods Store, will go to the lowest net
The Scholastic
14
score. These trophies are now on display in the Golf Shop of the Rockne Memorial. Also there will be a runner-up prize of six golf balls for the second lowest net score.
Preparations for the tourney have been handled by Jake Noonan of Alumni Hall.
by Bob Frolicher
Netters Face Hoosiers; Clarke, Reidy Undefeated
Coach Charles Samson moves into Bloomington today with his Irish netters for a match with Indiana’s Hoosiers. Notre Dame will be seeking their second victory of the season after dropping two straight.
Indiana is the fourth member of the Big Ten to oppose the Irish, ND meeting Northwstern May 3. Purdue, Wisconsin, and Iowa still remain on the schedule.
Samson’s squad opened their regular schedule on April 24 by defeating Cincinnati, 8-1 on the Bearcats courts. Notre Dame netters were winners in all the single matches and lost only the number two doubles match.
Last Friday Michigan’s Wolverines handed ND its first home tennis loss by defeating the Irish, 6-3. Wally Clarke and Maury Reidy, in the number one and two single slots, and teamed in the number- one doubles were the only Notre Dame winners, as Michigan won four out of the six singles matches and two out of three doubles duels.
Following the Michigan reversal, the Irish were beaten on their home court, 5-4, by Michigan State on Saturday. Clarke and Reidy remained unbeaten for the regular season by taking their respective singles and combining to win the number one doubles. Bill Reale and Don Kennedy were victors in the number two doubles against the' Spartans.
The squad spent the Easter vacation on a tour of the south in which they played four practice matches, losing to Duke, 7-2, North Carolina twice, 7-2, and tying Kalamazoo, 5-5. Against Duke, Reidy captured his singles and a combination of Reidy and Clarke took the doubles.
In the first match with the Tarheels, Reidy won the number two singles while Captain Chuck Gallagher and Kennedy came out on top in the number three doubles. Clarke took the number two singles, and along with Reidy, won the doubles in the second match.
The Irish wrapped up the one, two, three and seven single’s and the first doubles in tying Kalamazoo. Reale and Gerry Finney were the number three and seven winners respectively.
May 7, 1954
HAL REILLY
Sparks Early Play
. . . With the diamond season almost halfway over, Captain Hal Reilly appears to have won a “personal” battle for himself. During spring drills before the season’s opener, it was a big question mark whether the veteran would even be able to start this year. The two-year monogram winner was bothered with a bad right arm, his throwing aim. He had little or no throwing and batting practice before the campaign opened.
However, after 10 games, he continues to hit the ball at a lively pace. After the Kline-men returned from their southern trip, winning four and losing three, Reilly was the leading batter with a .360 average. The third-sacker followed this exhibition with one of the four home runs blasted against Purdue. Last Saturday against Western Michigan, which the Irish won, 7-4, marked the first time this season the Irish captain was held hitless. After the first 10 games, Reilly is hitting the ball at a .325 clip, behind only centerfielder Mark Tremblay (.366) and second-baseman Dick Colloton (.349).
Reilly is also fighting to crack a “jinx” which hits the Irish diamond leaders. In two
of the last three seasons, the captain has failed to play the entire schedule because of an injury. In 1951 captain and first-sacker Dick Giedlin suffered a broken ankle early in the season, and last year captain and centerfielder Joe Ridge broke his leg.
. . . Dick Rosentnal, graduating captain and center of the 1953-54 Fighting Irish eagers, became the second ND player in the five-year history of the World Series of Basketball to be awarded the Coca Cola Award as the most valuable player in the recent All-Star-Globetrotter series. Rosie’s feat duplicated the distinction achieved by Leroy Leslie in 1952.
. . . Wedding bells rang last week for Don Penza, former captain of the 1953 Notre Dame football squad in Racine, Wis. Indications from the Sports Publicity office are that it was quite an affair. Best of luck to the “greatest of Irish captains” and his wife.
College Men
Earn $75 per week during Summer
(Part-Time Work During College Term Also Available)
This is your invitation to attend a group interview at Audio Visual Center, Main building, 4 p. m. sharp, Wednesday, May 12.
CAR ESSENTIAL	Must Live Within 100 Miles of Chicago
15
Election Results
(Continued from page 9) president over Vince Dooley, 597 to 342. John Slevin took the job as secretary over Tom Schriber, 563 to 373, Jack O’Drobinak defeated Dick Pollenz for treasurer.
The Blue Circle election committee ran the elections. Over 50 members of the Blue Circle helped with the elections. The election committee officers were George Carhart and Don Gels.
The new Student Senate held its first
formal meeting Friday evening in the Student Center. Tom Field addressed the senate and offered suggestions on what should be done by the Senate this year.
The Senate also elected Dick Burke as the new vice-president of the Senate, Charles Hickman as treasurer and Tom Crehan as secretary.
The new officers of the Student Senate were inaugurated last Sunday at the Formal Inauguration ceremony. Tom Field addressed the Senate and Joe Daley delivered his inaugural address.
Baseball
(Continued from page 13) runners were called out at the plate. The Irish led all the way in the other contest to tack up their fourth win.
Notre Dame- unleashed a 15-hit attack, featuring four home runs, to gain a 16-10 victory over Purdue. Capozzi and Spaeth split the hurling with Captain Hal Reilly, Dick Collotan, Jim Two-hy, and Tremblay all contributing homers. Colloton was the batting- star as he added three singles to his roundtripper in six trips to the plate.
In their home opener against Northwestern, the Irish dropped a 6-3 decision to the Wildcats. Notre Dame outhit the Cats, 7-6, but errors proved to be their downfall. Reynolds pitched seven innings, getting relief in the eighth and ninth from Leo Linbeck and Jim Dalton.
Ron Mottl pitched a seven-hitter against Western Michigan last Saturday as tlie Irish gained a 7-4 win for their sixth win of the year. Mottl had the game in hand all the way after giving up a run in the' first inning.
Notre Dame put together four singles for a run to tie the score in the second inning and then added two in the third on two walks and Bill Teschke’s long single to right. Tremblay led the Irish attack with three singles.
CHANGE TO THE SPALDING BALL POWER-RATED FOR YOUR GAME
SPALDING AIR-FLITE®
The perfect compression for the hard-hitting, low-scoring golfer. Tru-Tension Winding assures absolute uniformity, consistent maximum distance with sweet “feel.” Its Lifetime White Cadwell cover—resists scuffing, bruises.
SPALDING KRO-FLITE®
If you require a ball with extra durability, play Kko-Flite. Powered for maximinn distance, fortified with special, rugged Cadwell cover. And it’s Lifetime White — Spalding’s tough, high-gloss permanent whiteness. Won’t chip or yellow.
Varsity Track
(Continued from page 13)
only Irish representative in the Drake Relays April 23 was Springer and the Irish ace tied for first place in the pole vault. Six other members of Wilson’s squad went to the' Penn Relays. The other half of the vaulting duo, Harrington, came in first, while Allard took second in the high jump and the sprint medley team of Bill Schoen-ig, Joe Puccinelli, Pestrichella and Squires won the third slot.
CANOE TRIPS
Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $5.00 per man per day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and map write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box 717 C, Ely, Minnesota.
SpaldinG
MORE GOOD GOLFERS PLAY SPALDING THAN ANY OTHER BALL
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.

16
The Scholastic
V^^AAAMa^^AAAAZ^AMAAAaAAAAAAAAAA^^
Capsule Corner
SS Test Set for May 20
Students who missed the April 22 Selective Service College Qualification Test because of illness or emergency, will have an opportunity to take the test on Thursday, May 20.
Application forma for the May 20 test can be obtained at the Department of Guidance and Testing, Room 251, Main Building.
Fr. Hesburgh Receives Citation
Rev. Theodore' M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, recently received the annual Brotherhood Award of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round-table of the National Conference' of Christians and Jews.
Father Hesburgh accepted the award which cited the University “For its inspiring leadership and practical brotherhood in the spiritual, academic and cultural life of our community and our nation.”
Graduate Business Test May 13
Notre' Dame will be one of the testing centers for the nationwide admission test for graduate study in business to be conducted next Thursday.
About 15 will take the test required for graduate study in business in universities throughout the' nation.
Frosh Orators Clash Monday
Preliminaries for the annual Freshman Oratorical Contest will be held Monday. The finals will take place in the Student Center Wednesday.
The contest is being conducted by the Director of Forensics, Prof. Leonard Sommers. Details are posted on Freshman Hall bulletin boards.
Nine Theses in Art Exhibit
A two-week exhibit of senior ait theses will begin today and continue through May 21 in the Art Galleries of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Aits. The semester’s work of nine students will be featured.
Arrow Sports Shirts Hailed Inter-Collegiate Champs!
Once again, Arrow sports shirts have beat out all competition and won the title of campus champions. Winners on two counts . . . style and comfort . . . these champion sports shirts are now available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW
►
TRADE ® MARK
—— SHIRTS • TIES * UNDERWEAR « HANDKERCHIEFS * SPORTSWEAR -
See the new Arrow Shirts at
‘SCHOLASTIC’ ALL-AMERICAN
The Scholastic has been awarded the Associated Collegiate Press rating of All-American for the Fall semester of 1953-54, it was recently revealed. This is the third consecutive semester Scholastic has won the highest rating in the ACP’s critical survey, this year including 450 papers.
Michigan at Washington—On the Corner
May 7, 1954
17
by Gordon Bergquist
There is one curious thing that seems to be a result of life ar Notre Dame, and that is the average Notre Dame man’s tendency to look away from himself and his own surroundings. Many problems come up on a national or international level. But seldom does the average student have the sight to relate these tilings to his own life here on the campus.
We have heard for several years now such .terms as “intellectual” and “egghead” bandied about. Neither side seems to be quite sure just what they are talking about. But the one tiling that has come out of this particular controversy is
a sort of disrespect for the man who thinks, a pooh-poohing of any person who wants to discuss and define before he acts.
Along this line, I would like to quote for you, in its entirety, a paper by Michael Long, senior English Major, which seems to deal quite specifically with this exact thing. Read it. He’s got something to say.
Have You Seen Any Intellectuals Lately?
Most of us know what they look like.
They are generally tall, thin creatures with glasses. They wear odd clothing —scarves wrapped jauntily around their necks, old beat-up coats—and they walk around the campus, most of the time' in groups, arguing fiercely and making wild gestures.
There are other campus conceptions of what an INTELLECTUAL is. One student has defined him to me' as “one who reads widely above the novel level.” Another says the INTELLEC
TUAL is a “pseudo-thinker who dresses out of the ordinary and smokes a pipe.” And still another says that he is “a person impressed with his own thinking ability, who tries to impress others with it, in terms as abstruse and erudite as possible.” In general, he is considered genus Notre Dame' man, species INTELLECTUAL, with a campus popularity rating of nil.
Maybe we are begging the question here. Are we Notre Dame men because we are men who happen to be at Notre Dame? The answer is no, I think, because being a Notre' Dame man entails something more than just being here. Now, is a person an INTELLECTUAL because he reads widely above the novel level, dresses odd, smokes a pipe, tries to impress other people with his thinking ability? Again, I think we can answer no.
What is an INTELLECTUAL then, you ask? I’m not sure. I don’t think anyone would really disagree with me if I said an INTELLECTUAL is one who thinks, who picks things instead of letting things pick him. However, I think I know what an INTELLECTUAL isn’t.
What I am objecting to here is, really, the connotation that we have given to the term INTELLECTUAL. And the disrespect for thought that this connotation causes.
When You Join
The "Men Who Measure"...
When you leave school as an engineer and join the ranks of the “men who measure/’ you’ll want the most accurate and durable measuring tapes. Lufkin Chrome Clad Tapes ARE the most accurate and durable because their markings are bonded to the line and protected by multiple platings of metal that also protect the fine steel in the line. This all-metal line is longest wearing — it won't crack, chip, peel — is easiest to keep clean — is most rust and corrosion resistant. Chrome Clad Tapes are the choice of engineers the world over.
Whether you're running a survey, building a bridge or a building, railroading, road building, mining or drilling —there's a Lufkin measuring tape exactly right for the job.
Specify Lufkin when you get out on the job— send today for our free catalog.
THE fUFK/N RULE COMPANY SAGINAW, MICHIGAN
।-------- -----------------------------------------— i
|	THE LUFKIN	RULE CO., Saginaw, Midi.	|
|	Gentlemen:	|
I Please send me your illustrated catalog of measuring J |	tapes and rules.	|
1	Nome__________________________________________   •
।	Address__________________________________________|
| City------------------------------State__________ |
1—----------------------------------------------------I
If we want to get etymological about it, the word comes from the Latin intelligers to UNDERSTAND. You say it’s impossible to think about something without UNDERSTANDING it? Maybe it is. Anyway, when we say that we understand something, what we are really saying is that we get the meaning of it. So that our 'INTELLECTUAL is a person who thinks about things and gets their meanings. Or at least tries.
So what about the guy who reads widely above the novel level, dresses odd, smokes a pipe, etc.? These people are not necessarily INTELLECTUALS at all. They are merely sensitive persons who have suddenly clashed head-on with truths they never even knew existed before. The experience has warped them slightly.
But I don’t think we should confuse them with the person who thinks and goes after meanings. Keep an eye on yourself and you’ll probably discover that you do the same thing sometimes. Like the time you thought about sportsmanship. Or when someone asked you if you thought 18-year-olds were qualified to vote. Or maybe even about Plato’s Republic.
Perhaps we should drop the word INTELLECTUAL from the Notre Dame language.
The Scholastic
1&
A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY
TU
duM WMW&I'
Dick Wallner, ’52, left a trail of work as he whirled through a year of telephone training. Here he recalls the variety of his training jobs.
(Reading time: 36 seconds)
“Training can really be interesting. I found that out when I joined A.T.&T.’s Long Lines Department after getting my B.A. at Cincinnati and my M.A. at Michigan in ’52. Long Lines is the organization specializing in Long Distance communications. I was put in the training program, and there wasn’t a dull minute.
“For instance, one of my jobs in the Traffic Department was estimating the exact number of calls that would be placed in a city on Christmas Day. My estimate was off by only 68 calls!
“Then in the Plant Department, I made a study of damage done to a certain cable. Found out that the most damage occurred in an area used by hunters. Some special public relations work among hunters helped improve that situation.
“And in the Commercial Department, I helped analyze the communication problems of one of the largest textile companies—it had widespread offices and plants. The recommendations made are now in use.
“The variety in my training has carried over to my regular job here in Cincinnati. My job is to see that good service is maintained for private line customers — pipeline and power companies, theater TV and the like. Every day is different.
“As far as I am concerned, Fve found my career”
• • •
Like so many college people who have joined the Bell System, Dick has a job he enjoys. There are also job opportunities with other Bell Telephone Companies, the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. This is a good time to see your Placement Officer for full details.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Today's Chesterfield is the
Best Cigarette Ever Made!
Cop) right 1954. Liccett it Mum Tobacco Co.
AMERICA’S
MOST POPULA
2-WAY
CIGARETTE

The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research.
The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine—the taste you want—the mildness you want.
The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

CHESTERFIELD StSrFOfiYOU