THE CAMPUS SHOP for SPORT COATS 34.50 to 45.00
The best looking sport coats in America are at the Campus Shop now! Handsome checks and plaids in popular charcoal tones including olive. Sizes for all men from 38 short to 48 extra long. See them soon! o
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
Get what you want — when you need it — and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in January, one-third in February, and one-third in March. No carrying charge.
? I *
On the Campus—Notre Dame
THE ALL WEATHER RAINCOAT
WITH ZIP-OUT LININGS
Enjoy the casual comfort of the popular new all-weather raincoats from the Campus Shop. Imported models with zip-out fleece linings ... the Alligator Storm Wind, with zip-out plaid wool linings ... and many others. See them soon.
Storm Wind by Alligator, not illustrated 25.95 .
^GILBERT'S
On Campus W Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
A MODEST PROPOSAL
A movement is afoot — a shocking, startling movement—to solve the problem of overcrowded colleges by the simple expedient of refusing admission to women at coeducational schools I
It is argued by proponents of this plan that in today's world a college education is absolutely essential for a man, while for a woman it is merely a pleasant interlude between adolescence and housewifery. There is simply not room enough for both men and women in our overburdened colleges; therefore, in all fairness, women who have far less need of a degree than men, must yield their places.
Well sir, when I heard this drastic proposal, I was so shocked that I sat right down and lit a Marlboro. I always sit right down and light a Marlboro when I am shocked. I also always sit right down and light a Marlboro when I am not shocked. There is no time, no condition, no mood, no estate when it isn’t a source of soul-deep gratification to settle back and have a full-flavored smoke—Marlboro, the filtered cigarette ■with the unfiltered taste—Marlboro, the jewel of cigarettes —Marlboro, the pinnacle of the tobacconist’s art—Marlboro, my comfort, haven, and snug harbor.
Well sir, I sat smoking my Marlboro and thinking over the shocking proposal to keep women out of coed
schools, and hoping fervently that another solution can be found. If the calamitous day ever comes when women are banned from coed colleges, I will gnash my teeth and rend my garments and take to my bed without supper. Like any other Marlboro man, I love women. I love the sight and sound of them, the cut of their jibs, their beauty and grace, their cunning little spitcurls, their sleek dimples, their middy blouses, their aura and effluvium. Moreover, I freely admit that when it comes to brainpower, they
Classroom space is short, but smoking pleasure is in abundant supply. Try Marlboros—or Marlboro's unfiltered sister cigarette—mild, flavorful Philip Morris, now available in regular size or the sensational new king-size Commander. Have a Commander—welcome aboard!
can give the average man cards and spades and big casino too. It would be a shame, a disgrace and a catastrophe to keep these beautiful, intelligent creatures out of college.
However, it is always wise in time of fair weather to prepare for foul. What if the advocates of keeping women out of college begin to gather strength? We who abhor this fiendish plan must be ready with a substitute ... and it just so happens I have one—and a mighty ingenious little plan it is, if I say so myself.
Granted that classroom seats are in short supply, and granted that men need degrees more than women, it is still not necessary to bar women from college. Let them go to college but—here’s the beauty part of my plan—don’t let them go to class!
This solution, it seems to me, answers every requirement. It releases hundreds of thousands of cla^-rcom seats to needy
n.u.cs. At the same time, it docs not deprive women of the rich and varied benefits of campus life. They can join sororities, shoot pool at the Union, build bonfires for Homecoming games, pour at the Dean’s tea, plait daisies in their hair, organize drag races, sculpt in ice, hook rugs, walk their cheetahs, play Monopoly, find love—in short, they can do anything except go to class.
Tell the truth, girls: Is that bad?
© I960 Max Shulman
WE GOOFED
Editor:
I was quite disappointed in reading last week’s “Escape.” Not that Messrs. Brown and Burns did a poor job. You simply missed an opportunity to run a true classic of comedy. Father Collins’s latest encyclical on “Women Visitors” 1 would have made the perfect “Escape” column. I trust that henceforth you will be more careful to select the best of the available material for your important articles.
—Dave Boneau
FOOTBALL-BOXING?
Editor:
I read with interest Mr. Dechene’s ar-tide on the Bengal Mission Bouts. As he / presented his arguments, I could not help but wonder what Mr. Dechene would say about football. Doesn’t the football player, too, voluntarily put himself in a condition of partial consciousness? Slight concussions are certainly not a monopoly of the boxing ring.
Aren’t football players, too, judged by the number of times they “hit their opponents with powerful, clean blows?” Admittedly, the object of football is dif-ferent from that of boxing, but the means are the same. Who would be so naive as to deny that lineman do their best to punish and weaken their opponents with hard physical blows, or that the best pass defenders are those who make the receivers “hear footsteps” with vicious, punishing tackles? And what self-respecting football player would admit to “enduring with patience y every inconvenience”? Surely Mr. Dechene must conclude that football, as well as boxing, is a scandal.
—M. Schlichting
Editor:
Mr. Relph’s revelation that governments often derive their- authority from religious notions is not profound. Nor (Continued on page 32)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is_ a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
I The Notre Dame
r<««
--i

Vol. 102
No. 8
NOVEMBER 18, 1960
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief -?.
CHARLES RIECK
. associate editor
ROY RUBEL! ; 5 f
-.news editor.
THOMAS WEISS John McCabe
features editor
THOMAS SULLIVAN
. William Gorman / . .
. .. Andrew Griffin ’	.
. Thomas Hoobler . ? , ;
sports editor .
JAMES KILROY	3
; William Cary. ■	:;
? \ • John Bechtold .	/
copy I editor ? ‘	/
THOMAS MARCINIAK GeneDombkowski
Philip Larrabee ?-?
executive assistant •/’ ■* '■ ? ? / WILLIAM VEEDER ?
art editor?' ? ■ v? ' ’ ?< ■?. / /'?.’/? DENNIS LUCZAK /,■;/.; -' ?;/?.-' 'Thomas*'Hanson'?. ’ -.?■' •?
photographer '//-/'
, business manager /'.’•???/-
?J/?. JOSEPH FINNIGAN ?	? Robert Buckley	'
?'cirtulcriohtn»dnag^ ' 7 ? JAMES HICKEY
? moderator.:• ? ?<\.. . "
-$/// REV.CHARLESCAREY,c.s.c.
'v „ " * 0 '' Vs/'	?'*?
Vney^tt^^^	; /;
' Joseph Caspar ?? A?	/ ?
Frank Cuiffo / >S??/W? ffichbrtfMp^
Ralph Kent Thomas Scheuring Steve Stapp Steve Stuecheli
■* * ■ v
Robert Chiappinelli Walsh .

4

WELCOME: This week the first issue of the Juggler will appear, following’ in the wake of last year’s new look. The efforts of this year’s staff headed by Chris Watters have issued in an even more successful result. Dispensing with the ‘showy’ flash of Jim Yoch’s three appearances, the Juggler staff has taken an approach that combines the best additions to last year’s magazine with a sounder table of contents. Last year’s eight-page photographic insert remains; two of the paintings in this issue’s insei-t demonstrate the fruitfulness of the Christian themes when probed by the modem artistic imagination. But missing are last year’s book reviews; their removal increases the creative and critical writings. This is a much needed change if one considers that the Juggler’s purpose is the publication of works with an intense personal significance. We also note that the proportion of purely critical articles has increased, bringing into closer balance the creative and critical aspects of the Juggler.—C.R.
A QUESTION ARISES: John Keegan’s emphasis on the academic role of student Government this year has raised the crucial issue of Student Government’s function in the university. If it is going to be anything more than an efficient social union—its name implies that it has the needs of the student primarily in mind—Student Government must devote a great part of its energy to the intellectual needs of the student. But such a concern must be selective, and the organization must assume only those responsibilities proper to the student rather than the faculty or administration. In previous years, there has been much confusion over- this latter point. In fact, the Senate is now in the awkward position of giving §12,000 worth of university scholarships per year. A noble deed in itself, this hardly has the direct academic needs of most students in view. We must suggest, then, that this money be directed into other- programs, such as the Distinguished Lecture Series, a revived Artists Series, under-writing of an increased dramatic schedule, the faculty evaluation project, and the Symposia. In each of these areas the Senate can perform an invaluable service to the campus by giving the student a free hand in forming part of his own academic career, a prerequisite to his intellectual honesty and responsibility.—C.R.
FUTURE LAWYERS: This is our last edition before the Law Day that will be conducted by the Notre Dame law school for the juniors and seniors. Having participated in the program last spring, we can testify to its value. Within the short space of a day, a program was organized that gave a good idea of what a law education involves, including the content of courses and their manner of presentation. Because of the problems of cuts, only juniors and seniors will be able to attend, but perhaps the smaller and more interested group will make the program even more interesting. The lawyers are to be complimented and thanked for theii- interest in the undergraduates.
—R.R.
COMPETITION?: We are glad that one missed edition did not mean the end of The Informer, Student Government’s newsletter. In view of the apathetic cynicism often felt by the students towards the Senate there is a real need for an organ to present the Senate’s case. But instead of news items that can and do appear in this magazine may we suggest descriptive articles that explain the background for various actions as well as articles that detail the activities of some of the minor Senate groups and commissions that are not often heard about. Broad, general statements about mission and purpose only add to the conviction that there is more hot air than action in government functions.
—R.R.
HEAR YE: We have received some complaints about the quality of humor in the Escape column. In view of this we have ordered our writers to be funnier.—C.R.
ALWAYS A FEW: Although our football game with Northwestern University was an away game they apparently managed to strike close to home. Now that the rash of N.U.’s that were painted on two walks and burned into the grass are being cleaned up, we can stop to think what a nuisance pranksters generally are. What was hilarious for a few generally ends up being an inconvenience for many.—RJi.
when you look at
a knot
do you want to untie it?
If you’re the type who enjoys unraveling tough problems ... who finds it hard to resist any challenge . . . you’re apt to discover unique satisfaction and opportunity in the dynamic field of electronic data processing.
The marketing of data processing systems is challenging and fascinating. After comprehensive training, you work with management executives in diverse industries, study their business or scientific problems, figure out the solutions by use of data processing systems, and assist the customer in putting the solutions into effect.
Electronic data processing offers great opportunities for outstanding, technically trained young men with a flair
for business. It’s a new professional occupation offering unusual opportunities for personal and financial growth. There are openings throughout the country in the marketing of systems or direct sales.
If you are a candidate for a bachelor’s or advanced degree in engineering, science, mathematics, or business, see your placement director for additional information about IBM and arrange for an interview. It you prefer, feel free to write or call me:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager, IBM Corporation, 618-620 North Michigan St, South Bend 1, Ind., CE 2-8251
You nature, have abietene to grow T D |kjW Data pR0CESS|NG D|V|S|ON with a growth company. ■ J	MW
The Scholastic
’marx
means everything
In an effort to dispel certain un-ftruths concerning the origin of the modern Russian state as promulgated by Commune-Wheel and sundry other liberal political reviews, I present here a chapter recently censored from my senioi’ thesis.
part I.—MARX
The origins of the present Soviet State can be traced back to a German ^conomistynamed Karl Marx who had *many capital ideas. The Prussian government so valued his contribution and his abundance of common cents that they commemorated him with the treasury’s issuance of German Marx. He first came to public attention by writing a flowing literary account of Berlin entitled Das Kapital. Capitalizing on the profits from this best seller he made an investment in labor and, consequently, ^oon had a growing interest in the working man. In 1844 Marx met the industrious industrialist Engels at his home, Engelland. Before long Marx knew all the Engles. Both men were influenced by the young Hegelians (George Hegel, Wilhelm Hegel and Friedrich Hegel) who concluded, logically enough, that truth is contradiction. Thus, by simply contradicting all economic, social, theological and political theories, Marx and Engels arrived at the truth. Most intellectuals of the time considered this to be revolutionary. Under the pseudonym of Marxanengels they wrote a moving socialist work entitled The Communist Man in Festo which urged laborers to infest government and create revolting conditions.
PART II.—BULLSHEVIKS
Marx’s doctrines rabidly infested ^Europe and soon reached that remote
November 18, 1960
eastern portion of Prussia known as Russia. Here there were three political groups claiming to represent the people. First were the liberals who sat to the left of the Tzar but were more right than the other two rival groups, which were further left and thus wrong. Because of their childish military uniforms they were known as Cadets. Second were the Populists, so called because they were more popular among the populous populace. Historians, trying to impress their students, refer to them as Narodniki. Among their achievements they had collected a huge file containing the name of every Slavic member. This was known as their Slav-o-file. Lastly, there were the Sociable Democrats who first met at a social gathering which had all the Marx of a communist party. But the cellbration didn’t last long. Insults were passed around soon after the hors d’oeuvres. One group was shocked and became known as the Whites or Mensheviks. The other group was embarrassed and was called the Reds or Bullsheviks. All attempts to settle their differences failed when it was discovered that the only point which they held in common was that they were both “sheviks.” After Vladimir Ulyanov got over his embarrassment he changed his name to Lenin and became the standard barrier for the Bullsheviks. He was assisted by the former Russian crosscountry star, Trotsky, who now wanted to run for office.
PART III.	—REVOLT NO. 1
As a rehearsal for 1917 a group of laborers walked with their chains to perform before the Tzar’s palace. Lacking a definite program, their performance met with critical disapproval when the palace guards helped to set the stage for 1917 by killing several hun
dred of them. (NOTE: American capitalists in the ice cream industry com- -memorated this occasion with a new delicacy, the “bloody sundae.”) Because the laborers were thought to be party workers the Reds were blamed for this uprising and were soon white-washed. Trotsky was sent on a business trip to Siberia where it was said he got a cold reception.
PART IV.	—REVOLT NO. 2
By 1917 the people were discontent over Russia’s military efforts in the Great War which were crippled because J the soldiers had no arms. Despite the j new hands the Czar sent to the front, . without arms the Germans continued to win victory hand over hand. Moreover, / it was repeated that he reputed raspin’ 7”; Rasputin influenced the Tzarin^. Alaa, . Rasputin gave his last rasp when an . assassin blasted him. All this plus a V few food riots led the Tzar to dissolve. '7 the Duma. But this was no solution. . 7 Both the Duma and the Soviets claimed 7 r < the right to rule. The Tzar abdicated.,,?-in favor of his brother, who, not appreci- -ating the favor, abdicated in favor, of ~ >7 the Provisional Government, who, being unable to provide for itself, abdicated - - 7 in favor of anarchy. Because of Russia’s 7 dense population the Bullsheviks were now able to gain popular support. They seized control of the government and XHS began to rule by farce. Civil war broke out when the Whites saw Red in Petro- ? grad. By 1920 all the Whites had dyed§6^ and the Bullsheviks were ironing out ? domestic difficulties with an iron fist In keeping with this spirit an ironcur-<?7? tain was hung at the window to?tl»?Of West and the capital haditsnami»?7 changed to Leningrade — “Larin”^fq^§l Lenin and “grade” for Marx.
8
its easy as P.V.P
to recognize true diamond value
Even the boldest can become a bit bewildered when choosing a diamond engagement ring. Decisions,decisions, decisions! How can you be sure of the right ring, the wise choice? Elementary — look to Artcarved! Only Artcarved offers P.V.P.... the exclusive Permanent Value Plan that gives guaranteed proof of the enduring value of any Artcarved diamond ring you choose. Only with Artcarved do you have this lifetime protection—in writing! You know the ring you choose will always be just as beautiful, just as valuable ... anywhere in the U. S. A.
Interested in knowing more about Artcarved rings and the unique Permanent Value Plan? See your Artcarved jeweler,or... Write to:
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept. CP-70, 216 E. 45th St., N.Y. 17, N.Y. for valuable tips on ring buying.
Name.
Add ress_______________________________________________________________________________
City____________________________________Zone State
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
Beloved by brides for more than 100 years (1850-1960)
your
HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND
FOR
DIAMOND RINGS
$475.00
$ 60.00
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring
Bride’s Circlet ..............
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring
Bride’s Circlet ...............
$225.00
$ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
J
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311

The Scholastic
STARS TO GLISTEN OVER MILITARY BALL
Three Queens to Rule eOver Tri-Mili+ary Ball
by John McCabe
Not one but three queens will be on hand when the campus ROTC units present their annual Military Ball tonight from 9 to 1. Using the theme, “Starlight Rendezvous” as a backdrop, the queens will be crowned by the University’s respective ROTC commanders, _and escorted by the chairman of these ) "same units. Dan Belloc and his orchestra will provide the entertainment in the LaFortune Student Center to initiate the week-end activities.
The fair ladies. Brown-eyed Kathy Johnson of Crystal Lake, III., and a senior at Barat College in Lake Forest, will represent the AROTC and be escorted by Cadet Major- Don Chrniel, chairman of the army unit. Chrniel, a , ^senior marketing major from Bayonne, ’ WN. J., is training officer of the Brigade. The Navy’s entry in the Friday night dance is Jane Ann Gleixner of Chicago. A senior in education at St. Mary’s College, she is the guest of Thomas Ryan, a senior from Buffalo, N. Y. Ryan is a midshipman Captain and Battalion Commander of the NROTC. The third queen, a junior from Ball State Teacher’s College is Beth Lehman of Logans-I^port, Ind.
* Tom Medland, AFROTC commander and mechanical engineer also of Logansport, will do the honors for the AirForce as he escorts the third queen. Since this is Medland’s second year as Air Force service chair-man, Miss Leh-
BETH LEHMAN
Royal trio ^November 18, 1960
man is serving as queen for the second consecutive year.
The three queens will be honored by the combined drill teams’ human aisle leading to the three golden thrones under hundreds of blinking pin lights. Following the grand entry, ROTC commanders Colonel William Muller, Captain James E. Hackett, Jr., and Lieutenant Colonel Everett Blakely of the Army, Navy and Air Force will crown the three in the midnight ceremony to highlight the week end. Each queen will have her own elevated throne topped by a colorful canopy to embellish her position.
Saturday the Irish play the Iowa Hawkeyes in the closing home game of the 1960 season in Notre Dame Stadium. A Victory Dance is on tap for Satur-
KATHY JOHNSON . . . to receive scepter
day night featuring the usual aftergame atmosphere.
Sunday morning after the 8 a.m. Mass at Sacred Heart Church the couples will attend the Communion breakfast at the Morris Inn. The Rev. Thomas O’Donell will speak at the 9 a.m. breakfast to conclude the three-day festivities. Father O’Donell of the Alumni Office is a noted speaker for the Notre Dame Foundation both here and across the country.
In addition to Cadet Commanders Don Chrniel, Tom Ryan, and Tom Medland, the Ball chairmen are: Bill Bish, business; John MacReynolds, publicity; Leo Jaroszewski, accommodations; Bob Brown, tickets; Bob Hetzler, entertainment; Don Hickey, favors and programs; Ed Giesselman, refreshments; Pete Jarema, decorations and Jay Whitney, Communion Breakfast.
JANE GLEIXNER
... at "Starlight Rendezvous”
One-day car permissions may be obtained as well as 2 a.m. permissions for the cadets attending “Starlight Rendezvous.”
To Consider Latin American Problems in Lecture Series
Latin America’s recent internal disorder has caused it to become a center of great local as well as international concern. Newspaper articles all over the country have discussed in detail such topics as Castro, Cuba and Communism. Sponsored by the “Project for Extending the study of Foreign Areas in Indiana Undergraduate Education,” discussions regarding this topic will be presented at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College.
Mr. living P. Pflaum of the American University Field Staff will visit the campus of St. Mary’s College on Tuesday, Nov. 29, and the University of Notre Dame on Wednesday, Nov. 30. Tuesday Mr. Pflaum will speak in O’Laughlin Auditorium in a public lecture on “The Cuban Revolution and Latin America.” Wednesday in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall- there will be a panel discussion on “Revolution and Reform in Latin America.” On the panel with Mr. Pflaum are Dr. Fredrick B. Pike, and Dr. Julian Samora.
Having traveled extensively through Cuba, Mr. Pflaum has obtained first hand impressions of the effects of the Castro Revolution of the Cuban people, industries and institutions. At present he is affiliated with the staff of the Medill School of Journalism, Northwestern University.
Law School to Hold 'Law Day' December 5; Program Aimed at Junior, Senior Aspirants
Law Day, a full-day program offered by the Notre Dame Law School each year is to be held in the Law Building, Monday, Dec. 5. The schedule is aimed primarily at the juniors and seniors interested in the study of law, though any student may attend.
The purpose of Law Day, as outlined by Chairman Michael Phenner, Notre Dame graduate and second-year law student from Neenah, Wis., is to provide an opportunity for the undergraduate students to learn the practical elements of the study of law. In addition, the program is designed to help students in their choice of a law school.
Notre Dame law students, representing more than 60 colleges where they received theii* undergraduate degrees, will be present to answer questions in scheduled, but informal sessions.
“Many students in undergraduate school are undecided about their future, even as late as the junior and senior year,” Phenner stated in explaining the program. “Our thought is to provide those students who have some inclination toward law an opportunity to see a law school in operation. If some of the participants decide to apply to the Notre Dame Law School, fine. But our primary end will be served if they take away some thoughts on how law is studied and how utterly different any law school is from its undergraduate counterpart.”
The program, which begins at 9:00 a.m. after registration, will include attendance with law students at regularly scheduled classes. A general session will include a discussion of the various spe
cial activities and programs of the Law School. Among these are the Notre Dame Lawyer, the school’s Law Review, Moot Court and Gray’s Inn. The program will be concluded at 4:00 pan. after a speech by Professor William Rollinson.
Senior law students who were placed by Dean O’Meara in some of the nation’s top law finns and large corporations, during the past summer, as well as one student who spent the summer in a small private law firm, will tell the undergraduates something of the practice of law. A similar program on summer work was recently presented to
the Law School and was received with a good deal of enthusiasm.
During the afternoon sessions, a Moot Court exhibition will be presented. Moot Court is a simulated appellate argument before three judges, one of whom is a Law School professor. Appellate procedure deals with cases which have already been decided on the trial level and are being appealed to a higher court.
Two coffee periods and small discus-sion-group sessions have been included in the program. At these sessions, the law students will be present to talk informally with the undergraduates, and to answer questions about law school.
Cancelled cuts are available for the juniors and seniors. Other students who desire to attend are welcome, but cancelled cuts cannot be provided.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. will be present in the morning, and will
(Continued on page 12)
Senate Sponsors New Travel Control Group
Expediting campus clubs’ chaitering of bus transportation for vacations and excursions, the Transportation Committee, a newly formed group in the Student Senate, will begin operations on Dec. 1. The Committee’s aim will bef, to organize and standardize the procedure for obtaining bus transportation, and to avoid the confusion which has been prevalent in the past regarding bus permissions. Chris Buckley, chairman of the committee said, “It has been formed as a service to the campus organizations, not a hindrance, and should lead to lower rates and better service by the bus companies.”
Henceforth, all organizations will^ channel their bus transportation re-> quests through this committee. Forms containing space for all the essential information concerning the trip for which permission is being sought will be provided and will be turned in weekly to Father Bernard to be checked and approved.
Assistance will be given by the committee to all organization in selecting a bus company. Once permission has been obtained from Father Bernard, the organization heads may choose which bus company they wish and then contact it personally.
Transportation forms may be obtained in the committee box in the Student Government office at any time, as well as from Chris Buckley, 203 Pang-born, and Dave Kennedy, 309 Howard. Forms may be returned at any of these places. The Committee will have office hours in the Student Government of- J» fice from 7 to 9 pan. every Wednesday at which time any questions and suggestions will be received.
Set Mardi Gras Ticket Distribution for Monday
Prospective salesmen will have the^ opportunity to prove their worth as distribution of Mardi Gras tickets begins Monday night.
The hall presidents will pass out the packages which contain tickets and explanatory material.
A quota of two books per student is the aim. Books cost $15 apiece, $5 going to the seller and $10 to the school. The hall with the highest percentage of two-book sellers gets $75 and the second^ place hall gets $50.
Cash prizes will be awarded to the top salesmen with the high man collecting $50 and runner-up getting $25. Selling ten books entitles the student to a free Mardi Gras bid. A $5 commission per book is awarded as the book will sell for $15.
The first collection will be on the Monday after Thanksgiving. The last collection will be on Jan. 5.
The Scholastic
10
James A. Eldridge to Address ISA Banquet; Expect Lecture on Catholic Layman Position
The annual Architects’ banquet will be held Wednesday, Dec. 7 at Alby’s. Mr. James A. Eldridge will speak as the third speaker in the Architects’ dis-^languished speakers program.
w Mr. Eldridge, a member of the National Catholic Educational Association and the Catholic Association for International Peace, has become a very popular lecturer in America. He is experienced as a journalist, foreign correspondent, and publicist. In 1958, he wrote a series on contemporary Catholic affairs in Great Britain for Our Sunday Visitor.
Mr. Eldridge customai-ily lectures on ^topics related to the Catholic and his ^position in modern society.
At least seven students judged by a
ND President to Talk On ’Atoms for Peace’
“Atoms for Peace” will be the main topic of a discussion on science in world ^ffairs to be presented at 8:00 p.m., WDec. 7 by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University.
The discussion is the third in a series of five informative programs being presented by the International Relations Council of St. Joseph County.
Father Hesburgh is well versed in the effect of science on world affairs, being a member of the National Science Board, director and member of the over-all ^panel of the Special Studies Project of ^the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency. After the lecture, a question and answer period will be held.
The next lecture, to be held on Jan. 10, will be concerned with Latin America. The Honorable Antonio Carillo Flores, Mexican Ambassador- to the United States, will speak on “The Lessons of the Mexican Revolution.” The Qfinal program, on Feb. 16, takes Africa as its topic. Mildred Adams, of The Economist, will lecture on “Africa, What Comes After Independence?”
Regular- membership for the International Relations Council of St. Joseph County is $4. Membership for students and their wives is $1. Memberships and tickets for the program may be obtained from Dr. E. L. Eliel, 355 Nieuw-land Science Hall.
• CALL FOR THESPIANS
The University Theater will hold tryouts for OTHELLO, the season’s second production, on Sunday, Nov. 20 at 1:30 in Washington Hall. Rehearsals will begin Nov. 28 and the play will be presented Feb. 9, 10, 11 and Feb. 16, 17, 18. All students are welcome to tryout for the play.
^November 18, 1960
jury last week end are not broken up about the affair. A jury of nine architects judged designs of architectural students in a competition as part of the Indiana Society of Architects week end.
The senior problem was a Civic Improvement Project. The winners wei*e James Cassidy who took first place and $50 prize money, Charlie Boldrick who won $25 for second place, John Martine whose third place entry earned $15 and Dave Trigiani who won $5 with an honorable mention.
Junior winners named. The firm of Perkins & Will of Chicago submitted the problem to the juniors —a high school in central Michigan. Robert Taylor took $50 for first prize, Dick Gemperle won $35 for second place and Robert Hoffman won $15 for his third place entry.
The winners and the visiting architects were honored at a banquet in the Morris Inn given by the I.S.A. Friday.
In the afternoon, a lecture was given by Prof. Ernest H. Brandl on Romanesque Architecture in connection with the Festival of Arts.
Mr. Perkins, of Perkins & Will, spoke in the evening on “Environment for Learning.” He expressed his philosophy by “Brick, stone, glass and wood are the materials of building. Ideas and ideals are the materials of architecture.”
An informal coffee hour was held after the lecture in the Donors’ room of the Morris Inn.
Ahmad Jamal to Appear In Field House Concert
Ahmad Jamal comes to the Notre Dame campus with his trio Dec. 7 to present the first jazz concert of the school year. Ticket sales foi- the 8:00 p.m. performance in the Field House will be held Nov. 30 from 4 till 6 pan., and Dec. 1 from 2 till 5 p.m. The tickets will cost $1.50 per person and will be sold at the Field House ticket office for the one night concert.
Ahmad Jamal, a native of Pittsburgh, received recognition in Chicago’s Blue Note and Pershing Lounge. Together with Israel Crosby on bass, and Vernell Fournier on drams, Ahmad has risen to national fame as a jazz concert pianist. According to Willis Conover, past winner of Down Beat magazine’s “Spokesman of the Year” award, “. . . the combination of Ahmad, Crosby, and Fournier is about the most propulsive thing in the rhythm field today.”
Scheduled for the evening’s fare are the original compositions, “Ahmad’s Blues,” “Seleritus,” and “Sophisticated Gentleman.” Complementing these will be Ahmad’s unique renditions of such favorites as “But Not For Me,” and “Tangerine.”
QlakaM
8PBS SESAME
Apathy and Poverty came to Monday night’s meeting and the Senate fought
unsuccessfully.
The administration does not give financial support to “minor sports.” Ollie Williams heads the minor sports committee which distributes $1,000 to minor sports;
them somewhat
the and Dan dore
sailing, bowling curling teams. Shuster, commo-of the sailing
team had asked the committee for $1758.
Shuster presented his case and much discussion was forthcoming. It was decided that the $1,000 would be parceled out in accord with the decision of the minor sports committee, meeting with the heads of the respective teams.
The real problem, how to adequately finance the sailing team, was left unsolved. John Keegan said that he would consult with Father Bernard about administration appropriations. This is probably a blind alley. Though tried in the past, the only solution seems to be an investigation of the needs of the sailing team and the ways in which the Senate can support it.
Student government’s great problem is to arouse the apathetic, to kindle initiative in souls of indifference. Monday, the Senate was trying to light a fire under some of its own committees.
Tom Colleton, student body treasurer, emphasizing the need for an immediate effort said, “If anything is to be done this year it must be done in committees.” John Keegan also encouraged “all committee chairmen to get their committees working on projects as soon as possible.”
Taking the hint, committees on dance policy and the Student Center decided to hold their first meeting, ending eleven days of rest.
A motion by Chris Buckley to place a “Suggestion Box” in the Huddle was passed with much opposition. The box would allow students to air their “legitimate gripes and constructive suggestions about anything on campus.” Buckley said the box “would be a way to beat student apathy.”
Mike Nash said, “This is a little ridiculous. I don’t think this is a very dignified way of going about getting suggestions.” Others were of the opinion that if Buckley wants a box, let Buckley have a box.	.
A “Suggestion Box” will not do any harm and may arouse some interest in student government. It should not be a substitute for the personal contact' of the students with their elected officers.

Lobund Receives Surgical Research Award; To Develop Human 'Germ Free' Technique
Lobund Institute of Notre Dame has been awarded a $152,000 grant, spread over three years, by the Surgeon General of the Army.
The grant will support a project to adapt Lobund’s “balloons” — more accurately called jacket isolators — for human surgical uses and other hospital applications, such as isolating patients with infectious diseases. Notre Dame and Lobund are collaborating with Walter Deed Hospital in this study.
Head man. Leading a team of associates is “chief investigator” Philip C. Trexler, associate professor of bacteriology at the University and a long-time member of Notre Dame’s Lobund Institute.
Lobund first developed the isolators, made of ultra-thin plastic commercially manufactured, to help its scientists mass produce germfree animals. Bulkier- and costlier steel isolators were replaced by the plastic isolators in which germfree animals now breed, live and serve as experimental subjects. The isolators are sterilized, sealed from outside air and supplied with pure air pumped in through filters.
Professor Trexler foresees numerous hospital uses for various sizes of these devices. They would eliminate many of the elaborate sterile precautions in surgery now required of operating room staffs, including restrictive gowns and masks. Though no humans have yet been operated on through a jacket isolator, some dogs have, in encouraging experiments at Walter Reed Hospital.
Still some “bugs.” By working out some of the practical problems, Trexler and his associates hope to make the isolators so easy and safe to use that they one day will become standard hospital
Modern Language Club Aims To Boost Culture Appreciation
Greater cultural appreciation coupled with an enhanced knowledge of a foreign language is the aim of the newly organized Modern Language Club.
Through lectures, films, discussion groups, travelogues, etc., members may become more familiar with certain modem European cultures and tongues.
The club held its kickoff meeting yesterday and possible activities were mentioned.
Mr. William Grupp, head of the Modern Language Department, is chairman of the club’s directors. Student officers are President John Clark, Vice-president Filipo Valli and Secretary-Treasurer Don Dietz.
All those wishing to join the club are urged to contact John Clark in 125 Walsh.
12
equipment. A low-cost, disposable isolator is an immediate objective.
Staphylococcus strains resistant to antibiotic treatment endanger every hospital. Patients with such infections could be easily isolated with their beds. This would be done in an ordinary room or in a ward.
Large doses of total radiation given leukemia patients can stop the antibody defense mechanisms which protect the body from harmful micro-organisms. Isolators may be the answer to infection dangers facing such patients.
The grant will also aid a Lobund study of micro-organisms in laboratory animals. This may result in better laboratory animals for improved scientific research.
—Steve Stuecheli
Debate Team Travels To Wayne State Meet
Four members of the Notre Dame debate team are participating at Wayne State University in Detroit in “Debate Days in Detroit.” Colleges from all over the Midwest are in competition.
For the affirmative from ND are Joe Haggard and Bill Beaver. Martin Gordon and Dick Meece constitute the negative team. The topic for all the intercollegiate tourneys this year is “Resolved that the United States adopt a program of compulsory health insurance for all citizens.”
This week end, eight members of the squad are journeying to Peoria, Ill. for a debate tourney at Bradley University.
An 8-0 record wasn’t good enough at the 13th annual Forensic Conference sponsored by Purdue University, as the Irish debaters went undefeated but still landed in second place. On the basis of total points, Northwestern captured the first place trophy by scoring 361 out of a possible 400 points. Notre Dame had 343 points.
The Irish affirmative team was composed of Maurice O’Sullivan and Jay Whitney. The negative debaters were Chris Lane and Guy Powers.
Powers was selected as one of the two best negative speakers and participated in an exhibition debate after the tourney. Powers and Whitney tied for fifth place as the top debaters.
A novice Irish debate team entered competition at the University of South Carolina last week end and came away with the first place trophy.
John McGrath and Jim Murray for the negative and Dick Jaskunas and Jim Shay for the affirmative comprised the team. McGrath and Murray won trophies as the top two debaters respectively and also took third and second place respectively in the senior division of extemporaneous speaking.
Begin Collection Drive For Used Textbooks J
f
In connection with the annual Thanks- J giving Clothing Collection, the Inter- ' national Commission of the Student Senate has renewed the drive for textbooks, magazines and Catholic literature. Distributed to the various needy^^ missions throughout the world, the Com- ~ mission has already sent over 1,000 books to 10 institutions in the last two years. Beginning Sunday evening Nov. 20, and continuing through Nov. 23, the book drive will use the boxes designated for the clothing collection.
Practically any form of literature is welcomed by the organization, though special emphasis has been placed on the acquisition of such magazines as Harp-ers, Atlantic Monthly, America and?;?* Commonweal. Part of a continuing year long campaign, no definite goal has been set, though according to Mike Divney, co-chairman of the group, “We would appreciate as much as possible from as many as are willing to give.” The greatest percentage of the books required are used high school and college texts not otherwise useful to their owners.
Of the numerous volumes previously^ ’ sent abroad, the majority have gone to* Bauko in the Philippines, and St. Peter’s Seminary at Cape Coast, Ghana. Other recipients have been the Kerala Mission of India, St. Luke’s Hospital in South Nigeria and similar missions in Africa and Asia.
Hugh McQueen, a graduate student from Montreal, has directed the movement for the past two years and plans to make it a permanent 12 month opera-^ tion. Presently co-ordinating the faculty, student and South Bend drives, Mr. McQueen would like anyone interested in such an organization to contact him in room 35 of the Engineering Building.
Law Day
(Continued from page 10) make a brief address to the participants. Members of the Law Day Committee include: George P. McAndrews (la.), George Vander Vennett (la.), Raymond Brown (N. J.), Jay Charon (Ind.), Norman Stark (Pa.) and James Wysocki (Ill.). With the exception of Wysocki, all are members of the second year class.
In conjunction with the Law Day announcement, Dean Joseph O’Meara issued an invitation to all undergraduate^) students interested in Law to observe the Law School’s Practice Court. Each Saturday, members of the Senior Class argue a case before a jury in the Federal Distinct Court in the Post Office j Building downtown. Federal Judge L. M. Swygert hears each case. The Practice Court will continue on each Saturday until the Christmas vacation. The trials last all day, but observers may enter and leave at any time.
♦3
The Scholastic
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leading Barber Shop
•
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza a
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
tPlan now for your BERMUDA College Week 1961 bigger, busier, better than ever!
•	Informal welcoming dance to start the fun.
•	College Day at the Beach — the biggest beach party of the year.
•	All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon, Calypso music, Gombey Dancers.
•	Round Robin Tennis Tournament. 0	• College Week Golf Competition.
•	College Talent Revue.
•	Fun Festival with jazz concerts, choral groups, dance contests.
•	Barbecue Luncheon.
•	Sightseeing.
•	Special Golf and Tennis Trophies. ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE
The BERMUDA Trade Development Board
620 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.
November 18, 1960
Your razor rides easy all the way. Softens the most stubborn beard instantly for a faster, closer shave, soothes and lubricates your skin. Extra-rich, extra-thick, push-button quick. Regular or Mentholated, only 1.00
SMOOTH SHAVE
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
13
medieval music: collegium musicum
The final event included in this year’s Festival of the Arts is the campus appearance of the Collegium Musicum of the University of Illinois. — Directed by Professor George Hunter, • the five-member ensemble devotes its interests to music of the past which is seldom played in an effort to give today’s audiences the opportunity to hear it as it was intended to be heard. Their interest lies primarily in the music found in the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, the music of Ma-chaut, Landini, Dufay and Binchois to name but a few.
The group has grown out of a course which Professor Hunter originally taught at the University of Illinois. Students in the Illinois Music Department, in addition to investigating the music of the Middle Ages, learned to play the instruments designated by the medieval composers and thoroughly investigated the stylistic and historical aspects of this music in order to perform it in a historically authentic
-r manner.	.
* November 18, 1960	-
In order to approach as closely as possible the sound of this music the Collegium Musicum uses careful reconstructions of the musical instruments which were in use during these early periods. Some of the instruments used by the group are the vielle, a viola-like instrument but softer than its modern descendant; the rebec, a small, bowed string instrument with an extremely nasal, penetrating tone; the lute, plucked like the guitar but with a dryer, less mellow sound; the krummhorn, a wind instrument with an enclosed double reed; the recorders, a family of end-blown flutes of different sizes; the portative organ, a tiny, lap-sized pipe organ with hand bellows; the violas da gamba, a family of bowed string instruments with a soft, blending tone. These instruments will be demonstrated individually at the campus performance.
It is interesting to note that the early instruments are not only quite different in sound from the instruments of today, but they are also strikingly different among themselves. Because of the different timbres, the early composers drew
on their imaginations specifically for the purpose of creating interesting and sur- . -prising blends and mixtures of tone within the small ensemble they had to / work with ‘the larger groups — the symphony, etc., — had not yet come “ into existence). This concern for vari- ' ety of tone carried over into the art of J I singing in medieval times, and the men-bers of the Collegium Musicum as- . >; signed to this art culture their voices ' accordingly. The contemporary concert- ■ - i goer will be somewhat startled to hear . their tone for it will sometimes be produced without color, that is, without the t > pleasant mellowness .of vibrato which the modern ear is used to hearing. _	, . 1A
The group will appear in Washington . Hall at 8:30 on the evening of Decern- ; ber 2. Tickets will be available in the ; \ Washington Hall box office before the ••’ v; concert and on Thursday and Friday, December 1 and 2, from 4 to 6, as well as from the Music Department facjrfty; on the second floor of O’Shaughnessy < Hall. Admission is $1. .	AWS
LAW DAY 1960
The second of the Notre Dame Law School’s annual Law Day programs is set for Monday, December 5. The often-mysterious Law Building near the bus stop will throw open its doors to undergraduates for a day of observation of law, law study and the Notre Dame system for producing lawyers.
As was true last year, Law Day will concentrate primarily on law study in general, but Notre Dame’s unique approach to legal training will also be analyzed by the professors and law students conducting the program.
Notre Dame has taken advantage of its relative smallness — and of class make-up that pennits thorough discussion and close student-teachei* contact— to inaugurate a “problem method” approach to law study that is several years in the future in most national law schools. Notre Dame students spend the second and third years of their study actually solving unique fact situations
16
(left) students prepare their briefs in the libraries of the law school (right) confer with a professor on a difficult point and finally take their case before the Court.
with the legal principles they draw from casebooks and statutes.
The system, complemented by a full year’s “case” study the first two semesters, produces a law graduate who has actually been doing in law school what he will be called upon to do as a practicing lawyer. It has drawn favorable comment from judges and practicing attorneys all over the country and has been the subject of several articles in national journals of law and legal education. (See American Bar Association Journal, July, 1957).
Special programs, both curricular and extracurricular, are tailored to fit in with this practical study system. Students in all three years of study participate in Notre Dame’s Court competition all during the academic year. First year students brief and argue a fictional case on appeal as a matter of requirement during their second
semester in the law school. Second year j students enter four elimination rounds of argument, which result in four finalists being chosen in May of each year. These finalists argue before from three to five federal judges — one of them a justice of the Supreme Court of the United States — every October. Winners of the finals represent Notre Dame at regional finals in Chicago and national competition in New York City,
Each third year student in the Law y School acts as attorney in a full-dress jury trial during his fifth semester. These trials are heard on Saturdays — one trial each Saturday — in the United States District Courtroom in South Bend. Judge Luther M. Swy-gert, chief federal judge for the Northern District of Indiana, presides at these trials. The program is directed by Prof. Edward F. Barrett of the Law School faculty.
The South Bend Police Department, doctors and interns from St. Joseph’s Hospital, University faculty members and Vetville residents make up the parties and witnesses in these fictional trials. Jurors are drawn from the Law School’s first year class and from St. Mary’s College.
Extracurricular programs other than the Moot Court are important features of the Notre Dame legal education. Gray’s Inn, the Law School discussion society, headed this year by Joseph Slade, South Bend, specializes in relaxed bull sessions on legal and quasi-legal subjects at off-campus meetings. Speakers are drawn from practicing attorneys in this locality, doctors, police officials and newspapermen, among others. These discussions provide much-needed relaxation, and a close associa- ; tion among the law students, another advantage of the small Law School. •
The Student Law Association, under President Paul Schierl, takes care of student government at the Law School. The Association sponsors two formal law balls every year and numerous smokers, supervises the school’s “honor system” of taking examinations and oversees a host of incidental activities during the school year. For the first time in its history, the entire Law School now takes examinations on an honor system, which is completely voluntary.
The Notre Dame Lawyer is the school’s quarterly law review. A student i staff numbering, this year, 35 members, j writes and edits articles in the review t on current legal problems, recent cases, ‘ new statutes and administrative developments. About half of each issue is devoted to lead articles written by law professors, attorneys and legal specialists and edited by the student Editorial Board.
Law review staff members are chosen according to class rank, after a semester-long period of probation the first year. The Lawyer now stands among the best law reviews in the nation and carries its own powerful recommendation to potential employers of past and present staff members.
(Continued on page 22)
The Scholastic $
y^/ver this past week end the Saint Mary’s Drama Department staged Aristophanes’ witty comedy, The Birds, as adapted by Walter Ken* for today’s theater. This riotous two-acter, a satire on the advance of civilization (and suburbs) and those moments in the lives of men when power over others becomes most important, sprang to twentieth century life at the hands of Kerr, Mr. James Cronin (the play’s director) and f a splendid cast headed by John Patrick Hart.
The play in this adaptation contains just the proper amount of modernization for today’s general audience and makes just enough of the author’s original point to be useful and not ancient Greek. The specifics (thrown in skillfully by Kerr) include such things as reference to the audience itself and a rather foreboding warning to the critics at the | end of the first act by the Chorus of the Birds, to the effect that bad reviews would be followed vei*y quickly by misfortune from above.
The production itself deserves equal space with the adaptation. From Donald Rathgeb’s extremely usable setting to Sue Stemnock’s dependably effective costuming, The Birds found itself clothed superbly and provided for those fortunate few who went—why is it that the * most enjoyable events are inevitably the least attended—an evening of pure delight and abundant laughter.
Certainly director Cronin has found the key to a well-ordered, done-to-a-turn production. The task of keeping the . thing together is always laid at the feet of the director and in this instance he carried it out formidably. Two points occur to me as worth mentioning in _ this regard.
" A most welcome introduction into Aristophanes was Cronin’s prudent use of stage business for comic relief. Whenever a choral passage of any notable length occurred, for example, he introduced an appropriate and correctly-timed piece of business on another part of the stage to provide today’s audience with the distraction it needs for continued enjoyment of something it’s not used to. Further, Mr. Cronin’s use of the stage itself helped the pace of the show tre-
• mendously. Because of the use of an
open set (no walls) there were more than ample exists (often a hindrance in the hands of less imaginative directors who don’t know how to use them) and Cronin made the most of them. He seems especially adept at managing motion on a stage, that is, moving several characters at the same time in different directions or on different planes in a pleasing and simultaneously stimulating way. And the largei* the crowd, the more he seems to enjoy placing them.
Speaking of crowds, the downfall of most Greek plays for* modern audiences and certainly a problem for adaptors such as Kerr, is the chorus. And what a joy this chorus turned out to be. In the first place the individual choirs (highs, lows and mediums) could be clearly distinguished without any trouble. This gave the group a basically interesting sound to work from. Secondly the phrasing and diction came through like sunlight; Joanne Rathgeb, the director of the chorus, proved not only that it can be done but that it should be more often.
The play opens on the frustrated forms of Pithetaerus (John Patrick Hart) and Euelpides (Tony Bill), groping their way through the orchestra pit in search of the Kingdom of the Birds. Each has his own private bird (of the hand puppet variety) to guide him, and on opening night the fun that began here was still going on during the curtain calls. John Patrick Hart sent the audience from one fit of laughter to another without milking a line, and Tony Bill kept right with him. Haft’s mannerisms, which never buried his characterization, were all but perfect and fit him like a glove throughout the play. His mastery of delivery and timing is seldom found on this level of theater, and he uses it both to his own advantage and to the play’s without the one interfering with the other at any time. The likeableness of his stage personality comes through as a result of his downright enjoyment of what he’s doing at all times (I remember this trait as being an impoi*tant part of his performance in last year’s Shadow and Substance).
Tony Bill also scored heavily in this corner. He’s learned to use spontaneity to his best advantage, so that when his lines come off (which is about 90% of
the time) they have a freshness and verve about them which give them an added bite and candidness. His presence grows out of this spontaneity and as a result he manages much of his business as subtly and hilariously as possible. He provided much of the comic relief (relief for the most part from other comedy) and did so with much skill, so that his contributions didn’t in any way distract the audience from their main line of concentration.
The smaller parts were surprisingly well done (with one or two inevitable exceptions) and Mary Armbruster, vet-ei*an that she is, graced the chorus, as its leader, with a particular kind of clear cut, professional diction and projection which brought the level of this facet of the play up that much higher.
Anyone who has been at all connected with theater at any level knows the importance of the elements that go into a play from such obscure places as the light board and the sound booth. If these elements function smoothly in performance they go unnoticed by the great majority in the audience, simply because they don’t get in the way of the play itself but rather, help it along so subtly that they fail to call attention to themselves as separate entities. Such was the case with The Birds; the smoothness of the production as a whole credits the people responsible for these chores admirably and shows in a very real way what a unified college theater can and should be.
All in all a real fine show, and a special olive wreath must go to Betsy Cush-
(Continued on page 21)
JOHN OLIVER CRITIC at large
• November 18, 1960
17
Although perhaps the average person of today does not feel obligated to answer for himself questions concerning vital elements of the political, diplomatic and economic world, preferring instead to trust the word of authorities in these special fields, this average man, because of a tremendously increasing interest in the world of art, usually does feel an obligation to answer for himself questions which arise over problems to be found in the field of the creative artistic endeavors of mankind. In regards to modem art this average man who will be labeled John Doe quite often becomes ensnarled in the pitfalls of preconceived theories which have little relation to the actual art at hand, and he therefore recoils from it, or worse, he condemns it without ever attempting to evaluate its contributions to contemporary life. On the other hand, when John Doe is confronted with art from a historic period he assumes that since it has been accepted by past ages he usually will simply accept it as “a good thing” and let it go again without understanding its contribution either to its own time or to oui* present time. When that art is composed of somewhat broken sculptural fragments, tiny, delicate ornaments, or perhaps painstakingly-produced manuscript books, Mr. Doe usually becomes fascinated with the artist’s skill without ever seeing the function of the work nor understanding the truly monumental aspect of the conception of the object at hand. And when to this is added the fact that Mr. Doe also has probably only the vaguest idea of the extremely complicated society which produced the work, its worthiness as an. object of art representing its own time and contributing to the present is lost for him. In other words, he is either charmed, fascinated or intrigued, but usually completely unaffected by having been exposed to a rare and exciting art experience; he sees without comprehension.
Fortunately, Mr. John Doe is the exception rather than the average in an educational community. In university surroundings the student has the opportunity and the ability to assimilate his concentration of studies with a concentration of cultural elements, and as a student readily turns not to his own incomplete source of information, but to the authority or teacher in that field for the answer to his questions. This process is part of the basis for university education, and the resultant maturity of this process distinguishes the university graduate from the man of the street who has been too busy providing for material comforts to either care or understand what those same comforts can provide for him.
Most authorities agree that the Romanesque period, in its broadest sense, stretches from the Ninth Century to the 18
end of the Twelfth Century. Of this time the chief activity occurred between A.D. 1000 and A.D. 1200. The earlier part from A.D. 800-1000 is generally termed the Dark Ages—that period which saw Man at one of his lowest ebbs, as he watched in terror the coming of the mil-lenia change, the Year 1000, at which time he fully expected the world to come to an end. It was a time, as well for great plagues, strife, and a nearly complete cessation of learning. However, after the millenia change, and seeing that the world did not end, man entered upon a sudden burst of creativity which has had little parallel in history. By the mid-Eleventh Century a contemporary scholar observed that the world was covered with new churches as a field is covered with new snow. This was perhaps a bit overoptimistic, but it did reflect that men of that day were aware of the greatly increased activity. This activity was created by vast waves of peoples traveling to the various pilgrimage centers in France, Italy and Spain, significant of the revitalization of religion. The centers to which these peoples flocked soon became the scene for great building projects. The architecture of the Romanesque era reflects the renewed faith by its solidity and mass—strength of the Church Eternal. In order to educate and inform the illiterate man of the time, the church structure was decorated by a covering of sculpture, placed so that the elemental structure of the building was emphasized. The sculpture was conceived to instruct by way of symbols rather than through reality — symbols which were familiar to the people and could be interpreted by them.
Of the pilgrimage centers themselves, the greatest were Santiago de Compostela in northern Spain where Saint James the Greater was buried, and of course, Rome. The pilgrimage routes ran from northern France and Germany through central France to a point on the Mediterranean coast where the northern road joined that to Rome. From just over the Pyrenees the road turned west to Santiago. Along the major routes were lesser pilgrimage centers to which a visit was deemed necessary when passing by. Today these places are usually little more than sleepy country villages dominated by enormous and massive churches, evidencing their Romanesque importance. In some instances nothing remains of the former glory but crumbling ruins. Regardless of present-day condition the art work found in or on these churches reveals a magnificence which is astonishing; and the architecture itself reflects the powerful forces of Empire and Church—the dominant factors which ruled the life of Romanesque man.
To explain the period further, it is necessary to define the term “Roman
esque.” Present-day scholars disagree somewhat as to the exact reason for the usage of this term. Architectural his- _ g torians point out that many of the de- -J " tails which articulated the solid, massive walls or delineated the separation of sculptural areas are obviously derived from antique Roman sources. For example, the very shape or silhouette of the many sculptured capitals follows that of the Roman Corinthian capital, although the designs of the Romanesque work generally involve the depiction of stories from the Bible rather than the graceful abstractions of the Corinthian y. । acanthus leaves. Also such a detail as the cursive Greek-Key design of the ancients is to be found again and again in the borders of window, cornice and frieze. And perhaps more important is the fact that the Romanesque architect was primarily interested in the function of the structure of the building in a mannei* similar* to that of the ancient Roman architect. Romanesque architecture also makes use of the round-top Roman arch, and problems of vaulting ’ were solved through use of antique methods. In addition to this, the Romanesque world still had a large number of ancient Roman ruins for inspiration, and the towns themselves not only occupied the site of Roman forts, but were connected together by the extensive Roman arterial systems, still in usable condition at that time.
Regardless of specifics, it is obvious that there were enormous and general 1 influences from antique Rome upon the life of the Eleventh and Twelfth Cen- J tury scholar and thus we speak of the period as “Romanesque” or under stimulus from the Roman classical world.
The reason for assigning the Ninth and Tenth Centuries also to the Romanesque { era is that on Christmas Eve in the I year* 800 Charlemagne was crowned I ‘Emperor of the Romans’ by Pope Leo Ill signaling a re-establishment of the Roman Empire, and this in turn stimulated creative work based on prototypes from the antique world.
Although the structure of Romanesque art was built on the foundations of Byzantine and ancient Roman artistic principles, the location of Romanesque centers were concentrated primarily in western and central Europe. Because of the barbaric Mongol hoardes migrating to and invading eastern Europe, _ and establishing the Islam, eastern Europe has little evidence of Romanesque activity. The chief centers were located along the Pilgrimage routes in France, Germany, Spain and Italy — specifically at Santiago de Compostelo, Vezelay, Conque, St. Pons-de-Thomieres, Cluny, Hildesheim, St. Gall, Cuxa, Paris, Mainz, Worms, Canterbury, Durham, London, Regensburg, Speyer, and Rome. Monastic centers were important for be-
The Scholastic
s key reeve: what is romanesque art?
ing in possession of relics of various saints; Metropolitan cathedrals had an -added importance relative to the cities Sin which they were built.
In viewing the actual art objects themselves one must keep in mind the fact that they were designed not only as decorative or functional objects, but also as instructive devices to teach the stories of the Bible and the Laws of the Church to an illiterate people. In order to do this, an artistic style was devised which would not only clearly instruct, but also hold the attention of ^the observer by beauty and technical "facility. Art from this time is abstract through being conventionalized and stylized; it is composed of an intricate and complicated series of pictorial symbols, some of which are still in use today. The Romanesque man learned how to read these symbols and was thus taught the ways of Christian thought and life. The equilateral triangle is an example of one of the simplest forms of symbols. It stands for the Trinity, sug-•gesting three equal parts joined into one. The triangle with three circles is the monogram of the Trinity: the Three Persons in the One God: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. This last symbol was put to great use by Romanesque architects to serve as the shape of windows or pierced openings in walls. The cross is, of course, the most universal symbol of Christianity, and in its broadest sense is the sign of •the Christian religion, the emblem of atonement, and the symbol of salvation and redemption through Christianity. Certain specific symbols also serve to identify the various saints. For instance all martyred saints hold a palm leaf signifying triumph over death; and the chalice is the symbol for each of the twelve apostles. These symbols, when shown on or near a figure repre-^senting a saint serve the same purpose ^as a name-tag, and are referred to as attributes. The description of these symbols is known as iconography. The attributes of Saint Catherine of Alexandria are the martyr’s palm leaf, the spiked wheel upon which she was tortured, and a sword by which she was beheaded; she also sometimes carries a book significent of her great learning, and she is usually dressed as a princess denoting her noble or royal birth. The ^medieval man had simply to glance at “a work of art representing Saint Catherine and, through his knowledge of the symbolized attributes, could identify the Saint immediately. Contemporary man, due to his dependency upon printed labels, generally cannot identify such a representation from the attributes alone. In ordex- for the attributes not to dominate a work of art, everything was presented in an abstract manner so as to fit into place. This abstraction con
9 November 18, 1960
sisted of certain generalized practices: first, all representation of human form was made to look very similar. This process is called “conventionalization.” A good example of this is seen in the life-sized wooden sculpture of the Virgin and Child (No. 55) where the faces of the Christ Child and the Virgin are nearly identical. Secondly, all lifeforms are decidedly stiff and artificial and wherever possible an element is repeated over and over to produce an effect of design rather than reality. This process is called “stylization,” and many good examples of this can be found in the Romanesque exhibition, especially in the photographs (Nos. 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, and 19) and in the larger stone and wooden sculpture (Nos. 32,33,35,37, and 49). By combining conventionalization and stylization a truly abstract or non-realistic art form emerges. There is almost no sense of depth, and as a result perspective such as table tops, etc., are tilted upward at a sharp angle. Figures in the background are depicted above the foreground figures rather than behind them. Important figures are shown larger than one of less importance. All representations of leaves, flowers, vines, etc., are handled as decorative augmentation rather than objects of nature. Romanesque man represented himself and his world in the terms of the Divine Manesfestation of Nature, and by so doing molded his art in to an elaborate and decorative articulation for the fabric of Christianity.
The exhibition in the Ai-t Gallery is composed of original objects primarily from the Eleventh and Twelfth Centuries augmented by photomurals of sculpture and architecture still intact upon existing buildings. Of all the works, two stand out as unusually fine objects — the great Mondsee Gospel (No. 14), and a Rhenish Crucifix (No. 38). The fox-mer is a Lectionary of the Gospels from south Geimany and is said to have come from the Benedictine Abbey of SS. Petex- and Paul at Mondsee, neax- Salzburg, Austria. The cover is Twelfth Centuxy and the manuscript book is of the Eleventh. To quote from the exhibition catalogue in describing the work, the cover is made of “thick oak boards, the uppex- covered with silver1 plates patterned with filigree and four ivory plaques cax-ved in relief with figures of the Evangelists. The four-plaques between the ivoi-ies are gilded, so as to form a cross, in the center of which is a large cabuchone crytstal covering a painting of the crucifixion on gold leaf. The corner bosses are ornamented with designs in niello. Gems, now missing, once adorned the border. The lower covex- is set with a gilded copper plaque engraved with Saint Michael conquering the dragon. The spine is covered with an early Roman
esque silk of Regensburg type, now very worn. The semicircular- tab at the end is an ancient feature seldom preserved on surviving bindings. The book retains its ox-iginal sewings, and has never been recased — an unusual situation with treasury bindings, which often underwent alteration and repair in the course of time. Liturgical books enclosed in Treasury bindings were not part of the monastic library, but were kept in the treasury with the rest of the precious liturgical vestments.” This work has been lent to the University Art Gallery by the Walters Art Gallery in Balti-more. The Rhenish crucifix is considered by scholars to be the finest example of Romanesque gilded bronze crucifixes in America. Although this work is from the Twelfth Century, the Corpus is somewhat under a Byzantine influence in its lack of stylized drapery and muscles. The front side includes at the ends of the cross the sun to the left and the moon to the right, symbols to indicate the sorrow of all creation at the death of Christ. At the top appears the Hand of God with two fingers extended, symbolical of the blessing of God and the Son (the Romanesque era hesitated to depict the countenance of God the Fathei- and His presence was indicated most often by a hand issuing from a cloud or sleeve of a robe; in the hand symbolized here the unity of God the Father and God the Son also is indicated). At the bottom of the cross appears an angel bearing a scroll. On the reverse of the crucifix the symbols of the four Evangelists appear at each end and at the center is the Lamb of God carrying a cross. The piece is further- decorated by the attachment of six (originally eight, but two are lost) pieces of chiastolite, a grayish-brown gem-stone, cut so that their cross-sections also form a cross within the stone. This crucifix is lent by the Newark Art Museum, Newark, New Jersey.
Of the other works in the exhibition, probably the most fascinating and ele-grant are the enamels. The medieval enamel craft consisted of fusing colored ground glass and gold leaf to a bronze or copper- base through the process of firing (or heating) the objects sufficiently to melt the glass and gold onto the base material. In making an examination of the enamels, one is struck by their amazingly intricate designs and patterns. The areas of color were separated from each other by tiny raised walls or dams of the base material. The process is called “champleve.” The chief centers for this type of work were in Limoges and Mosan in France, and in Hildensheim, Germany. The most unusual piece of champleve enamel is the Eucharistic Dove (No. 23); such an article was used in Romanesque times (Continued on page 21)
19

a taste of jazz
“Pd love to have a little boy someday with red hair, green eyes, and a black face — who plays piano like Ahmad Jamal.”—Miles Davis
Commercial success constitutes a crime in the jazz world today. Many a new and talented jazz musician comes on the scene, sells a few records and plays a few jazz festivals, only to find himself in the midst of critical disapproval. Take Dave Brubeck for instance. Before he made the “Jazz Goes To College” LP for Columbia most critics had nothing but nice things to say about the Brubeck Quartet. Now that his group has become one of the most popular in jazz, critics make a point of accusing his group of grandstanding, of lowering their standards, of “being commercial.” The same holds time of Lambert, Hendries, and Ross, of the Julian Adderley Quintet, and of the Stan Kenton Orchestra.
This has become more and more prevalent of late because jazz has become an extremely saleable item. Jazz LP’s have sold up to 500,000 copies, jazz festivals can draw thousands of people, and concerts featuring jazz musicians are becoming more and more successful all over the country. Artists who in the past would have found it impossible to make a living from playing jazz today are finding it easier to live off their music. But if he is too successful, the critics jump down his throat with the old familiar “he’s commercial, he’s commercial, he’s commercial.”
Ahmad Jamal is a case in point. A relatively unknown pianist working out of Chicago (home-base of many excellent but obscure jazz musicians), Jamal bounded into fame a few years ago with a best selling album “Ahmad Jamal At The Pershing” (Argo 628). Up until the issuing of that album only a few musicians and a small but loyal group of fans had been familiar with Jamal’s work. Now his followers are legion.
And the critics have jumped down his throat with gusto. They have good reason too, for Jamal’s style is commercial. Not that he makes an obvious attempt to play for the people, but the base of his style is simplicity and simplicity is appealing. Jamal knows, as few musicians know, how to use space. He will lay out for several bars at a time, let the feel of the rhythm section come through, then come back with a melodic, hard-swinging phrase that hits the listener right between the eyes. His tone is likeable, almost because it is different. He uses the upper register of the piano well, playing in that register with a bell-like tone that few pianists can match.
On Poinciana he plays phrases that
continually build in intensity much like Revel’s Bolero. One has the impression that he is thinking as he plays, not just showing off his technique. Jamal knows the piano, can get what he wants out of it. His lyric style, well known to his fans, is balanced beautifully with dramatic phrasing. The ultimate in tension is achieved often when a soft phrase bounded by rest is integrated with the solid meaning of a hard one. Even though his demands on the piano are not great they are musical and exciting. # As he says (in Downbeat, March 19, 1959) “I’m always conscious of improvisational technique. It’s a challenge to perfect one’s art. It requires concentration and demands absolute attention.”
For this reason Jamal takes on a serious composure when he plays. There is little of the jumping around or grunting that other pianists glory in when Jamal plays. His composure is serious, but his music does not reflect this. His music is essentially happy and S* swinging. On such times as Music, Music, Music and Beat Out One this side of his playing comes through well.
Ahmad Jamal started his life and musical career in Pittsburgh. At that time, long before he became a Moslem, his name was Fritzie Jones, a young man who spent much of his time jamming with local musicians and playing with a local group called the Foui-Strings. Jamal moved to Chicago where 9) he played famous clubs such as the now defunct Blue Note and the Pershing Lounge (where his first best seller was recorded.) Occasionally, he made forays to the East and was featured at such spots as The Embers in New York.
Since the Pershing album the Ahmad Jamal Trio has attained remarkable success. Several of their* albums have sold over 200,000, they have repeatedly played the best clubs, and have been featured in concerts and jazz festivals.
His trio is a tightly-knit unit, and together its members achieve an amazing amount of excitement. Besides Jamal, the personnel includes bassist Israel Crosby and drummer Vernell Fournier. Crosby is one of the most underrated bass players in the business. His tone is strong and his phrasing remarkable. His rhythmic figures behind Jamal are truly beautiful.
Vernell Fournier, on the other hand, is a very poor musician. He shows little or no imagination and no feeling for music. His playing on ballads is in poor taste. About the only thing that he can do well is keep time.
The group swings well, and is exciting and come December 7 the Fieldhouse will be full of fine music.
,	—Stan Farbis
20
The Scholastic^
9 •
Critic at Large (Continued from page 17) man, the Captain of the Birds, for her first act delivery of the exclamation: “I was moulted!”
Saturday night we approached Washington Hall to view Phillip Barry’s comedy, Holiday. Here is a problem child. The play itself, while beautifully written, fj Ais dated, not merely in its setting but in its idea. Of the two main points the play has to make, the strongest one (the idea of big corporation influence on the American way of living in the early middle part of the century) deals with an issue that our generation has all but adjusted to and shelved. The weaker of the two points (the more general idea of man’s struggle to liberate himself from the materialistic and secularistic aspects of modern society) doesn’t quite make the •grade for this type of audience unless it is forcefully and perfectly done, and this is nearly impossible in the college situation. As a result, the main interest in the play lies in the effectiveness of character delineation and emotional interplay between the wonderfully developed personalities of the various characters in the play. This, of course, demands an immense amount of both understanding and polish on the part of the actors 5 •and 3S necessarily inaccessible to certain y w people by virtue of their inexperience.
Often character delineation can be suc-cesfully accomplished by allowing a certain feeling for a part to grow out of mere repetition of the part itself by methodical line reading. This method works quite satisfactorily in plays that are less well written than Holiday. In this play, however, the element of character relationships is indispensible. There ( -isn’t a character in the entire play (save “the servants) who doesn’t bear an intricate relationship to everyone else he deals with. Barry has woven these relationships so tightly and so realistically that they are thoroughly convincing and, in addition, thoroughly necessary.
Therefore, in order to deliver one of these characterizations to an audience, the actor must not only be deliberately and acutely aware of his own emotional J •and psychological make-up as designed by the author, he must also be completely familiar with the make-up of every character he must deal with, of his relationship to each of them and , their relationships to one another. This । necessitates a vigorous investigation and J constant awareness on the part of every actor throughout the course of rehearsals and during every performance of the play. Simply, this is a play to first study, and then grow in; it cannot be merely • read.
Father Harvey knows this play well; everything he did with it points up this fact. The pace held the action together in just the right proportion; the staging as usual was excellent. His ability speaks for itself.
No one in the cast quite got through this dramatic obstacle course without a spill (or at least a slip), but for sheer seriousness of purpose and technical con-(Continued on page 23)
'	® November 18, 1960
At the Theaters
Coming next Thursday at the Avon is another foreign exercise called The Cousins. It revolves around a young man’s indoctrination in life through the eyes of Parisian Bohemia. All through the movie, we are treated with the now-too-common younger generation groping blindly for the meaning of said life. They want desperately to identify themselves, though it’s their very desperation which prevents it. No brighter side to this.
The Colfax is launching a little-known facet in the life of the most controversial American of this century: Franklin Delano Roosevelt. The Dore Schary work and production, Stmrise at Campobello, stars Ralph Bellamy and Greer Garson. This promises to be very good entertainment even for die-hard Republican recounters, though it gets uncomfortably sentimental at times. Bellamy merely suggests a physical resemblance to FDR, but Miss Garson has been made up so expertly even the teeth look like they belong to her. However, these teeth and Bellamy’s cigarette holder get in the way of the dialogue quite a bit, enough to pain the ear in parts. Hume Cronyn is extremely good as Louis Howe, FDR’s close friend. Jean Hagen as Missy LeHand, Ann Shoemaker as Sara Delano Roosevelt, and Alan Bunce as AI Smith are also good.
The stoiy deals with the events in FDR’s life between his attack of polio and his nomination of Al Smith for Presidential candidacy. Though many people looked for infinitely deeper meanings in the story, it will prove satisfying as merely the very warm tale of a very human family.
The Granada will be showing Butterfield 8 for the next two weeks. That is simple enough, as is simple to say that Elizabeth Taylor plays the female lead. She seems to do it all right, according to some critics. This is probably another step toward her eventual screen maturity, which started back in Raintree County. Lawrence Harvey plays opposite her, and the producers found room even for Eddie Fisher. I hesitate to say whethei' this is good or bad. However, since the original story was written by John O’Hara, it should prove good viewing unless they murdered it like they murdered From the Terrace.
The State is coming up with North to Alaska, starring John Wayne, and will hold it until next Wednesday. On Thursday, they start what’s billed as their Thanksgiving special: GJ. Blues with, of course, Elvis Presley and Juliet Prowse. Sorry our information sources couldn’t dig up anything more about these two, but you can get a good idea of their content by the stars.
Risking condemnation as an aging sentimentalist, I would like to say some words about what generally comes to this fair hamlet in the way of screen entertainment. Quite a bit of it is good, which is surprising, but the bad things we get are really lousy. And usually they come in double bills (if the shoe fits, I had nothing to do with it).
If anybody asks me what, in my estimation, is the best movie which has come to town since September, my answer would be without a doubt Inherit the Wind. Of course, this is a very personal opinion, but it had been a very long time since I had last been so satisfied with a.movie. The presence of Spencer Tracy and Fredric March definitely had a lot to do with this. Even though they have not always come up to their (Continued on page 24)
21
Law Day
(Continued from page 16)
The more personal aspects of the law student’s life will be a matter for discussion during the Law Day program. Notre Dame law students have a choice between private rooms in Fisher Hall or off-campus accomodations. Several groups of students have combined to rent houses in the South Bend area; many of these do their own cooking and housekeeping between bouts with law books.
For those law students who choose campus rooms, undergraduate restrictions are generally relaxed. Five a.m. is the time limit for students who keep late hours; University restrictions generally respect the fact that law students are only months from being full-time professional men.
The Law School faculty is entirely self-contained — that is law professors teach only in the Law School. Eleven full-time professors and Dean Joseph O’Meara are supplemented by a half-dozen pi-acticing attorneys and judges from South Bend. Professor William D. Rollison, senior member of the faculty, has been at Notre Dame since the early 30’s; he recently published a two-volume work on estate planning, his law school specialty. The set was his fourth book publication.
Law students soon learn that the better share of their time is spent in the high-ceilinged law library, on the second floor of the Law Building. Miss Marie Lawrence is law librarian, she heads a staff of three full-time workers and several students.
Notre Dame law graduates of recent years are now practicing law in every state of the union and in several foreign countries. They are in government, large law firms, small offices, private practice and in highly-coveted law clerkships with federal judges. A law clerk is the legal assistant of a judge; normally, a clerkship is for a one-year term.) Some examples:
GOVERNMENT: John F. Beggan and G. R. Blakey of the Class of 1960, both recruited in the Honor Graduate Program of the U. S. Justice Dept., now among several Notre Dame men who are practicing law with the Attorney General of the United States; Edward N. Denn, ’58, former editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, now employed in the Office of the General Counsel, Federal Aviation Agency; Donald A. Garrity, ’60, last year’s Lawyer editor, now in the office of the Attorney General of Montana.
CLERKSHIPS: Paul H. Titus, ’60, winner of last year’s Moot Court finals, now clerk for federal Judge Luther M. Swygert; Patrick F. McCartan, ’59, former Lawyer editor, law clerk for Mr. Justice Whittaker of the Supreme Court of the United States last year, now with Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis, Cleveland; Robert P. Mone, ’59, clerk for federal Judge McNamee, Cleveland; Eugene F. Waye, clerk for Judge John
22
Biggs, Jr., U. S. Court of Appeals, Philadelphia, 1958-59, now with Saul, Ewing, Remick & Saul, Philadelphia.
Also: Thomas S. Calder, ’57, clerk for Mr. Justice Potter Stewart, Supreme Court of the United States, when he was an appellate court judge in Ohio, 1957-58, now with Dinsmore, Shohl, Dismore & Todd, Cincinnati; Robert P. Gorman, ’57, former Lawyer editor, clerk to Mr. Justice Clark, Supreme Court of the United States, 1957-58, now with Clapp & Eisenberg, Newark.
LAW FIRMS: Ronald P. Mealey, ’56, with Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine, New York City; James E. Murray, ’56, with Hogan & Hartson, Washington, D. C.; Norris J. Bishton, ’59, with Rothschild, Hart, Stevens & Barry, Chicago; Burton M. Greenberg, ’58, with Kratker, Soffer & Soffer, St. Louis; Robert D. LeMense, 55’, former Lawyer editor, now with Whyte, Hirschboeck & Minahan, Milwaukee; Joseph T. Helling, ’54, former Lawyer editor, now with Crumpacker, May, Beamer, Levy & Searer, South Bend; James A. Uhl, ’54, partner in Downing, Smith, Prince, Jorgensen & Uhl, Decatur; Cari F. Eiberger, ’54, with Akolt, Turnquist, Shepherd & Dick, Denver.
Notre Dame men regularly register high scores on bar examinations across the nation. John F. Beggan of last year’s class was first man on the Wisconsin bar last summer; Thomas M. Calder, ’57, was first man on the Ohio bar in 1957. Both competed with students from the nation’s top law schools.
Last summer, nearly half the members of the Law School’s current third-year class took summer clerkships with law firms over the nation. These ranged from a relatively small firm in South Bend, to Wall Street firms, to the Office of the General Counsel of the Ford Motor Co., the national headquarters of Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., and firms in Washington, D. C., St. Louis, Chicago and Indianapolis.
Favorable placement of students and graduates is not the result of accident or blind search. The Law School’s placement service, directed by Prof. Edward Murphy, brings information from firms, corporations, government offices and judges to the attention of potential graduates months before bar examination time. This past week, four interview teams visited the Law School to meet members of the current third-year class. Several members of that class have already obtained employment commitments for June.
The Notre Dame Law Association, the school’s alumni organization, has members in every state and several foreign countries. Brochures of information on potential graduates go to these members during the year. The Notre Dame law student has literally hundreds of employment agents working in his behalf in every state. Dean O’Meara proudly notes that, to the best of his knowledge, no Notre Dame law graduate has failed to secure satisfactory employment since he came to the Law School in 1952.
ILWTURBOW \pRTomiTRirr
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
Wanted Immediately Campus Travel Representative—
by only U.S. GOVERNMENT CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD approved AIR CHARTER EXCHANGE. Drawing account and commission available to right person.
Call Collect—CEntral 6-1828
Mailing Address: INDEPENDENT AIRLINES ASSOC.
7 W. Madison St.
Chicago, Illinois
RUBIN CLEANERS
★
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card ★
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
Complete Laundry Service
FIVE SHIRTS LAUNDERED FOR $1.10
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
ROCCO'S
537 NO. ST. LOUIS BLVD.
Sirloin Steak Spec. Tues. $1.50 Carry Outs - CE 3-0976
In the same time-honored tradition
ROCCO'S NEW RESTAURANT Just a forward pass away from Notre Dame Stadium
CARRYOUTS - OPEN SUNDAY Private Dining Rooms for Clubs and Parties—for Reservations Call:
CE 4-7224
18142 SOUTH BEND AVE.
The Scholastic
This is the B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common with the first wargalleys of ancient Egypt...and with the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it.
For certain young men this presents a career of real executive opportunity. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excitement and rewards... as a Navigator in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet you must be an American citizen between 19 and 26%—single, healthy and intelligent. A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable. Successful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant... and your Navigator wings.
If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Aviation Cadet Program for Navigator training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail this coupon.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the -y Aerospace Team. I I
Air rorce
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY AVIATION CADET INFORMATION DEPT. SCL010 BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D. C. I am between 19 and 26%, a citizen of the U.S. and a high school graduate with ______years of college. Please send me detailed information on the Aviation Cadet program.
NAME_____________ STREET____________ CITY______________ COUNTY.___________STATE.----
critic ai Large
(Continued from page 21) trol several members of the cast really showed they have what it takes. Larry Finneran came closest to total success in the part of the well-oiled Ned Seton; his reaction to situations and other characters were an assumed part of his stage personality and his technique is nearly flawless.
Diane Crowley, who had the biggest job in her portrayal of Ned’s sister, Linda, gave as thoughtful and warm a performance as one could ask for in college theater. The emotional shifts involved in Linda’s character development would overwhelm almost any actress, and the tendency would be to drop the complicated relationships of the part and blithely stroll through a stereotype. Fortunately for herself and for her audience, Miss Crowley refused to be discouraged. She must have worked intensely at her part and her results were extremely fine. She managed for the most part to have a definite set of emotions ready when playing to each individual character she dealt with and still maintained enough of a unity to be convincing as a single person. The proportion of her success in relationship to the difficulty of her* part was truly wonderful in every way.
Another difficult task faced Dick Kavanaugh in his portrayal of Ned and Linda’s overbearing father. His life as a corporation man was consistently and smoothly portrayed, but I wonder if he didn’t sacrifice a certain amount of flexibility for the sake of experienced, man-of-the-worldness. In any event he leaves his audience with a clear picture of the character he portrays.
In the roles of Nick and Susan Potter, Bob Oberkoetter (a freshman!) and Marilyn Wolter won their audience completely and should be applauded again and again for their delightful rapport and completely convincing performances. Pat Gallagher, also, carried her beautifully integrated Laura Cram expertly through the show and contributed much to the whole.
Chris Gladis in the important role of Julia Seton seemed rather unconvinced of what she was doing (which is precisely in keeping with the nature of Julia’s character in the first two acts, but cannot in any way succeed in the last act when she is revealed as a hateful and quite purposeful woman) and Joe Harrington struck me as being slightly tentative, which is quite unlike him and most likely can be attributed to the night on which I saw him.
The fact is that in so many, many ways this is a terrific production and should not be missed. Certainly the difficulty inherently involved in the play itself has brought this cast up to a much higher level of performance than they possibly would have achieved with a lesser play and the results are stimulating and most worthwhile. If the play was not a total success perhaps it is better so; it’s certain that everyone involved knows much more about theater as a result of their efforts.
—John Oliver
TRADITIONAL!
Slacks
Post-Grads are traditionally styled for those lithe, tapered lines you’ve always had a yen for! Smooth, pleatless front; precuffed bottoms. At the smartest college shops; in a host of washable fabrics from $4.95 to $&95.
For colorful 17*x 22* Mountaineers poster— send 25c to H-l-S, Dept CO. 230 Fifth Are., M.Y. 1 For set of 6 posters (6 different sports) send $L50i
November 18, 1960
Take me to your Esterbrook dealer!
At the Theaters
(Continued from page 21) best, they were almost too good to be true. The material was well written, the event was well known, and both actors gave all they had to the colorful characters of Clarence Darrow and William Jennings Bryan, which they played through different names. Florence Eldridge, Mrs. March in real life, used this relationship to her advantage in portraying a woman’s love for a very difficult husband. Even Harry Morgan (formerly from December Bride, now from Pete and Gladys) surprised me by turning out a good performance without a wisecrack of his usual character type.
This kind of movie is the kind which satisfies but which tragically few times brings in large returns at the box office. Maybe most of us here at Notre Dame like the other kind. Quite a few go downtown to keep things like Garden of Eden running two weeks or more.
—Tony Wong
Attention earthlings! The word is getting around! Esterbrook Fountain Pens are out of this world! With 32 custom-fitted pen points there’s an Esterbrook to fit any writing personality—star-struck or earth-bound.
The Esterbrook Classic is only $2.95 and great for class notes. It starts to write as soon as you do ___with that amazing new miracle discovery—ink! Feels just right in the hand, too—not fat, not thin, looks good, too! Colors? There’s a veritable rainbow to choose from. Pick your favorite of six colors. Why not today? No space ship needed. Just zero in on your Esterbrook dealer.
'Romanesque'
(Continued from page 19)	;
in lieu of the tabernacle on the altar. The Host was kept in the dove, which ! was suspended over the altar by chains from the ceiling, and at the moment of the Host’s use in the service the dove was lowered to the altar, symbolizing the descent of the Holy Spirit to Earth. The finest piece of enamel is the little plaquette with a scene from Ezekiel 9 on it (No. 20).	.
The exhibition is of special importance at Notre Dame, for it presents some of the most important Romanesque objects I in American collections	'
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
THE CLASSIC FOUNTAIN PEN $2.95 Other Esterbrook pens from $1.95
SimA
•T.M. The Esterbrook Pen Co.
BUY YOUR	J
ESTERBROOK PEN	<
J at the	i
NOTRE DAME	j
BOOKSTORE	i
The Scholastic
24
Credit to Campus V.I.P.s
You are invited to join this preferred credit group!
How to Get Your Braniff Courtesy Card
Simple! Just fill in the coupon below and we will send you the application forms to sign. No red tape. Reasonable assurance of your financial responsibility is all we require.
Good credit is an asset in school—and invaluable later in your business, social and community life. Establish your credit early with a Braniff Courtesy Card, and use it for any trips you make on Braniff. Your Braniff Airways Courtesy Card will eliminate any delay or inconvenience in having cash for your air travel trips. It ends the hazard of carrying a lot of money. It’s a good credit reference at hotels, restaurants and stores. It sets you up instantly, in any situation, as a person with an excellent credit rating.
AIRWAYS
BRANIFF COURTESY CARD COUPON
District Sales Manager
Braniff International Airways
Palmer House, Suite 305, Chicago, Illinois
Please send me a Braniff Credit Card application blank and complete information concerning its use.
Name_______________________________________________________
College or University______________________________________
SCHOOL ADDRESS
Street No._________________________________________________
City and Zone______________________________________________
State and Country__________________________________________
November 18, 1960
25
Zeroing in on the future
At Gen Tel, our aim is to develop the supercommunications system that will be needed to meet the demands of tomorrow. And we’re constantly shooting new ideas at this target.
In our 24 research laboratories, more than 3500 scientists and engineers have their sights set on entirely new concepts in order to achieve these results.
Example: a task force of General Telephone & Electronics scientists, working in the unexplored areas of electroluminescence and photoconductivity, have developed an operating model of a switching device with no moving parts, that may revolutionize telephone communications. It is a thin wafer only 3 inches square that may someday connect and disconnect up to 10,000 telephone lines.
Meanwhile, this new discovery holds promise of having numerous applications in other fields, including switching and read-out devices for electronic computers.
Research is but one of the many areas in which General Telephone & Electronics is thinking and working ahead —not only to meet today’s communications needs, but tomorrow’s as well.
* 5
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRON ICS
26
The Scholastic
it £ !
KUHARICHMEN FACE POWERFUL IOWA ELEVEN
s
Evashevski After Win To Close Out Career
by Bill Cary
IN 1956, the Oklahoma Sooners visited Notre Dame and imparted a 40-0 ; whitewashing on the hometown Irish, i Oklahoma was paced by the speedy ! Tommy McDonald. Tomorrow the Iowa I Hawkeyes visit the Stadium and the '•J result may be the same as the Oklahoma , 1^ visit of 1956. These Hawkeyes have the '•* fastest set of backs in the country ill now. Also they will be playing with j|: incentive since this is the final collegiate I appearance as coach for the renowned a Forest Evashevski.
g The Hawks have measured Oregon g State, Northwestern, Michigan State, £ Wisconsin, Purdue, Kansas and Ohio B State this season. Their lone setback 1 was the 27-10 whipping at the hands gj B of Minnesota. Last Saturday they re-gf bounded from the Minnesota loss by | overwhelming Ohio State 35-12. Thus, K the visitors enter their ninth contest I with a brilliant 7-1 record.
g The Irish are in the midst of a seven B game losing streak, longest in Notre g Dame grid annals. The 28-21 whipping g by Miami last Saturday evening was the fifth such loss this dismal year by
5 the margin of a touchdown. After meet-5 ’ing the Hawkeyes tomorrow the Irish close out the year with a visit to Los Angeles a week hence to meet the equally disappointing Trojans of Southern California.
HOUIS
WILBURN
Sleight-of-hand artist
Winged-T offense. Iowa’s offensive attack is based on the winged-T, an attacking formation made famous by the intelligent Evashevski. The Hawks are blessed with one of the finest quarterbacks in the land, Wilburn Hollis. Hollis, a 200-pounder from Boys Town is best known for his running talents, and these he has plenty of. Wilburn’s favorite maneuver is the rollout in which he has the option of passing or running. The only team that has been successful in stopping the talented junior was Minnesota. Hollis is also a better-than-average passer and a skilled ballhandler.
When the Hawkeyes feel a real need for the aerial game they turn over the controls to Matt Szykowny. The 6'3" soph did a good job in the second half against Ohio State after taking over for the injured Hollis. Both of these operators will be ready for the Irish tomorrow.
Speedy team. One word is sufficient to describe this Iowa eleven — SPEED. In Larry Ferguson, Jerry Mauren, Joe Williams and Sammie (Mercury) Harris the lowans have four of the fastest backs in the country. Harris is reputed to be a 9.5 sprinter and is the fastest man on the squad.
Ferguson and Mauren are the starting halfbacks with Williams the fullback. Harris relieves Ferguson, while Bernie Wyatt, a defensive standout, is the No. 2 right half behind Mauren. Gene Mosely plays behind the 208-pound Williams.
Ferguson provided the big thrill against Ohio State when he streaked 91 yards for the final Hawkeye score. He also has scored on long-distance scampers in the Northwestern and Oregon State games.
Williams is best known for his 71-yard dash with a fumble which broke open the Michigan State game in the final five minutes of play. He gives the Hawks a power runner who also has exceptional speed. Indicative of this speed is his 48-yard touchdown run in the Ohio State game last week end.
Captain and leader. Mauren is the captain of the Hawkeyes and is one of the most consistent players on the team. The 170-pound senior scored in the Notre Dame game last year on an 80-yard punt return. He was hurt in the Ohio win last Saturday but should be ready to face the Irish.
Iowa has a fine pair of ends in Bill Whisler and Felton Rogers. Rogers has been particularly impressive this year with his aggressive all-around play.
Chester Williams, Sherwyn Thorson, Bill VanBuren, Mark Manders and Al Hinton comprise the Hawkeye interior line which does the blocking for the
FOREST EVASHEVSKI
Evy’s last stand
speedy backs. Williams and Hinton are the stalling tackles and are ably supported by 6-4, 225-pound Charlie Lee. Thorson and Manders are the first unit guards and the veteran VanBuren controls the center post.
The trio of Thorson, Manders and VanBuren gives the Hawks great up-the-middle strength and renders the center of the Iowa line near impregnable. Thorson, a 215-pound junior, is an All-America candidate who has been
slowed by injuries. His replacement another junior, Bill DiCindio who close to being the equal of Thorson.
VanBuren, a 6-3, 225-pounder, is
is is
a
service vet who returned to the Hawk-
eyes this year gram in 1955. Humphrey, a Dayton Perry.
after winning a monoBehind him are Lloyd senior, and sophomore
Kicker Moore. Iowa is blessed with a fine extra point and field goal specialist in Tom Moore. Indicative of Moore’s proficiency is his record last year of 14 of 17 extra points and three field goals.
In the all-time series the Irish have won nine, lost six, and tied three. However, Iowa has won three of the last four and would like nothing better than to present Evashevski with a win over Notre Dame in his final game.
Coach Joe Kuharich’s eleven has been preparing diligently for the Hawkeye contest. Two of the Notre Dame regulars, George Sefcik and George Williams, were injured against Miami and were forced to miss practice time during the week’s work.
^November 18, 1960
27
ND Cagers Meet Western Illinois;
Play Tough Kentucky December 7
Coach John Jordan’s five opens its season in the Fieldhouse on December 1 against a Western Illinois squad which compiled an 18-7 record last year. Al Avant, a guard and last year’s second leading scorer, is expected to lead the visitors along with Sophomore Bob Bris-sie.
The small college champions for the past two years, Evansville, will be Notre Dame’s second opponent. Despite the loss of Little All-American Ed Smallwood, they are expected to have another fine squad. The names Wise and Saunders loom large in Evansville’s plans. Wise averaged 15 points and 17 rebounds last year and is considered one of the nation’s premier rebounders. Six-foot Senior Saunders will be trying to direct his mates to a record comparable to last year’s 25-4 slate from his guard post.
Last year’s 18-7 season was the second poorest in Adolph Rupp’s career at Kentucky. High in his “comeback” plans stands Senior Bill Lickert, a 6-3 AllAmerican hopeful. Ned Jennings, Carroll Burchett and Dick Parsons are other veterans. Two junior college transfers, Vince Del Negro and Doug Pendygraft, are great performers and will be counted upon heavily.
Expected starters for Notre Dame in these games are Captain Bill Crosby, Senior John Tully and Juniors John Dearie, Eddie Schnurr and Armond Reo. These are the men Coach Jordan must rely on heavily.
The Irish will show the fans “something new” this year if preseason practice is an indication. The “something new” is the use of the fast break when
COACH JOHN JORDAN AND HIS HOOPSTERS
Preparing for December 1 encounter
the opportunity is ripe. The Irish, with Crosby and Schnurr leading the way, plan to surprise opponents who are used to the slow-down style of play that the Irish have used in the past few seasons.
The cagers have been impressive in workouts. One of the pleasant developments has been the good showing of Reo. The big 6'6" forward has shown a good jump shot and fine rebounding. He is playing the wing on the left side while Crosby has moved over to the right side, Emmett McCarthy’s old spot.
Dearie and Tully have been showing the same rebounding and shooting form that featured their play last season. Dearie has improved his offensive moves while Tully continues to rely on an outstanding hook shot. These two men provide the major offensive thrust for the Jordanmen during the 1960-61 campaign.
Schnurr and Crosby give the Irish a shifty and experienced backcourt duo. Crosby’s shooting has improved considerably in the practice sessions while his defensive play is the most tenacious on the team. Schnurr will direct play from his post around the free-throw circle. Effective at setting up teammates for shots, Schnurr is also a threat with his proven set shot.
Guard John Matthews and Center- Bill Kurz have been two of the outstanding sophomore prospects in practice. Matthews is one of the fastest men on the club, his speed especially effective in the fast break and on defense. Kurz, at 6’8", is the tallest member of this year’s unit. Greatly improved over his freshman showing, Kurz has surprised everyone with a good variety of shots.
Ci
FOOTBALL REVIEW SEEKERS
The 1960 Notre Dame FOOTBALL REVIEW will come out on December 2. As a regular issue of the SCHOLASTIC, The Review will be distributed to all students with SCHOLASTIC subscriptions.
Those not subscribing to the SCHOLASTIC but wishing to purchase the REVIEW should contact University Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. The price is 50 cents.

Sailors Take 2nd Place; Angsten Regatta Is Next
By taking a second place in the Dis- jj trict Eliminations, the Notre Dame ~ Sailing Team qualified for the Tinimie Angsten Memorial Regatta to be held ; in Chicago at the Chicago Yacht Club I over Thanksgiving week end. The Eliminations were held at Lake Monticello, Indiana, and were hosted by Purdue University.
The qualifiers were the top three out of five competing schools. The four “A” and four “B” races were sailed Saturday in mild winds and sunshine. As has happened in the past this season, the Irish won because of their debating ability in front of the Protest Committee, rather than greater sailing prowess. J. Day Kuras was involved in 1 three protests in four races and, by I winning these, clinched second place for I the Ramblers.	1
Besides Kuras, Chuck Finnegan skip- ■ pered. Henry Chamberlin and Bob J Singlewaid came up with fine jobs of W crewing. Team mascot for the week was I A. Burd.	■
The final scores were: Wisconsin, 31; I Notre Dame, 28; Marquette, 24; Pur- I due, 23; George Washington, 0 (for- ■ feit).	I
The Angsten Memorial Regatta is a I sort of national championship since, be- I sides the nine best Midwestern colleges, three Eastern schools will compete. It ® is generally agreed that the best intercollegiate sailing is on the East coast. The dates for the Regatta are Friday, Saturday and Sunday of Thanksgiving week end. Details will be given at the Sailing Club meeting Wednesday night at 7:30 in room 209 Engineering.
Free open sailing will continue on St. Joe’s Lake until Thanksgiving vacation.
A WATER SHOW
The Notre Dame Dolphin Club and the Varsity Swimming Team will present their second annual water show in Rockne Memorial pool tomorrow night at 7:30 and Sunday at 8 p.m. One of the water show’s featureswill be clown diving.
28
The Scholastic
JIM KANE
Captains Irish wrestlers
I'“	Lettermen Kane, Churnetski
Head Young Wrestling Crop
» Practice for Notre Dame’s wrestling 1J £ team began October- 18 under the guid-4 ance of Coach Tom Fallon. The grap-piers are led by Senior Captain Jim 4 Kane. Coach Fallon’s squad has suffered the loss of several outstanding g wrestlers due to graduation. .
The Irish will be counting on the ’ performances of outstanding sophomore prospects to offset the graduation losses. Of the sophomores’ performances thus far, Fallon remarked, “Our outlook for । this year is one of optimism, though depending a great deal on our sophomores who have looked very good thus far in practice and have excellent high school backgrounds.”
In the 123-pound division, Sophomore Dick Martin has the edge while Junior Carmen Belefonte is leading the 130-pound group. Another first year- man, Fred Morelli, is expected to be number one at 137-pounds. The outlook for the 147-pound class appears bright also as there are three men contending for the top spot. Larry Bunchek, Chuck Maloney and Al Wolnski have all done well in this event thus far.
John Churnetski, one of two letterwinners returning in this weight group, will be the 157-pound entry. Two sophomores, Dave Ames and Ralph Pastore, lead the 167-pound group. Letter-winner Kane is the worthy Irish grappler in the 177-pound class. In the heavyweight 4 division, Al Kristine, Ed Rutkowski and Al Salvino are getting the nod because of their fine ability.
The season opens at Purdue on December 3 with the host team, Indiana State, Ball State and the Irish competing. Then Notre Dame will travel to Navy Pier in Chicago for a wrestling session with the University of Illinois branch there. The Fallonmen return to campus to face Northwestern in their first home altercation.
November 18, 1960
TIME OUT
The Iowa team that Notre Dame faces tomorrow in the Stadium could well be one of the fastest teams of all time. The visitors, with breath-taking speed at each of the backfield positions and also at the end slots, have literally outrun each opponent with the exception of Minnesota. The Gophers were successful in stopping the Hawkeye speedsters with the one proven formula— good hard tackling. At times in the game, played two Saturdays ago, the big Gophers were stretched the entire width of the field, preventing the fabulous lowans from running to the outside.	.
However when the Kuharichmen enter the game tomorrow afternoon, it is very doubtful that they’ll surprise Iowa with a performance similar to Minnesota’s. The Notre Dame eleven just lacks the over-all speed and manpower to compete evenly with its more experienced visitors.
EVASHEVSKI’S MEMORIES
Iowa has nothing to lose and everything to gain in this game. Having already clinched a tie for the Big Ten title, the Hawkeyes will still be playing at their best. Their mentor Forest Evashevski, who is relinquishing his coaching reins at the completion of this season to take over as Iowa’s Athletic Director, would like nothing better than to beat Notre Dame in his final .game. The Iowa coach can think back to last year’s game at Iowa City when his team was on the verge of beating Notre Dame four times in a row but then fell by the narrow margin of 20-19.
But Evashevski’s real bitterness dates back to 1953 when he brought his Hawkeyes to Notre Dame to play an Irish team undefeated and untied in its seven previous encounters of that season. Iowa had a comfortable lead of 7-0 as the first half of that memorable game was di-awing to a close. Notre Dame had moved the ball to the Iowa 14 but there were only two seconds remaining on the clock. At this point, Irish tackle Frank Varrichione grabbed his back and began to yell that he was injured. The officials called an “injured player” time out, giving the hosts time for one more play. But that was enough! Quarterback Relph Guglielmi passed to Dan Shannon for a touchdown and Notre Dame went into the dressing room with a 7-7 tie at halftime.
Iowa scored a touchdown early in the fourth period to go ahead in the game, 14-7. But, once again, victory escaped their grasps when, with only six seconds left in the game, Guglielmi again hit Shannon with a touchdown pass followed by a Don Schaefer conversion to tie the game, 14-14. Evashevski put up quite an argument about Notre Dame’s first half score but he was overruled by the officials. Tomorrow, he’ll want to show that he still remembers!
THE QUARTERBACK NEMESIS
Notre Dame, a team which has faced outstanding quarterbacks in almost every game thus far this season, will have more than enough trouble on its hands tomorrow when Iowa’s Wilburn Hollis takes the field. According to statistics, Hollis is not an outrtanding passer, having completed only one-third of his tosses. Yet, Hollis is a clutch passer and also quite a running threat. Many time this year, Hollis has produced the long run or pass when his team really needed it.
The list of quarterbacks who have starred against Notre Dame this season is impressive. Beginning with California’s Randy Gold, there have been no weaknesses in any of the opponents’ signal-calling positions. Tom Wilson of Michigan State, Ray Farris of North Carolina, Dick Thornton of Northwestern and Ed Sharockman of Pitt were excellent runners and proved they could throw when necessary. Gold and Eddie Johns of Miami were perhaps the more potent passers with Johns showing that he was quite a runner in his own right.
LAST SATURDAY’S BATTLE
Notre Dame suffered an unprecedented seventh consecutive defeat last Saturday night at Miami. And the same thing happened in this game that has happened in most of Notre Dame’s games of late—the opponent secured possession of the ball and immediately drove for a touchdown. In each instance after the opponent’s initial touchdown, the Irish played on at-least even terms for the remainder of the game. And that’s just the reason why it’s so hard to lose. Three minutes at the beginning of a game shouldn’t decide the outcome. Against Miami, for instance, Notre Dame controlled play much of the game but it was the first big mistake that later proved to be disastrous. I hope the Irish get off on the right foot tomorrow.
—J.K.

Tankers Open Season Against Mighty Miami
Coach Dennis Stark leads the Notre Dame swimming team into its third year of intercollegiate competition on December 2 when they meet Miami of Ohio. The meet, to be held in the Rockne Memorial pool, will pit the Irish against last year’s second-place finisher in the Mid-American Conference. Miami should launch another strong team this season.
The Notre Dame team was badly hurt with the graduation of Jim Carroll and Paul Chestnut, the two great Irish divers of the last two seasons. The number one backstroke man of last year’s team, Gene Jordan, is also departed.
On the brighter side, the Irish have nine lettermen returning from last year’s squad. Senior Gene Witchger from Indianapolis has been re-elected captain of this year’s team. The freestyle dashes should be a point of strength with four
3000 SUMMER JOBS
IN EUROPE
ASIS EUROPEAN SAFARI
WRITE TO:
American Student Information Service Jahnstrasse 56a, Frankfurt/Main, Germany
Inexpensive
seniors, Bill Cronin, Frank Dinger, Chris Lund and Joe Meany returning in this department. Junior lettermen Ray Stefani and Jim Grever will provide strength in the freestyle distance events. The butterfly event will be bolstered by another senior monogram winner, Tony Haske. Only one semester of competition remaining for senior breaststroker Steve Sauer hurts the Irish, but junior Dave Witchger returns to bolster the event.
Power will be contributed by sophomores this season. Bill Vasu in the freestyle, Matt Garrity in the butterfly and John Clark in the freestyle distance will all add depth to the team. Mike Donovan in the backstroke, Jim Rem-mers in the breaststroke and Tony Devine on the diving board also have been useful.
Practice started October first for the 1960-1961 team, and consisted of three weeks of gym conditioning before the Irish began swimming. Coach Stark’s Mermen face a much tougher schedule this year, with Miami (Ohio), Cincinnati, Kent University and Wisconsin all newcomers on the schedule.
Adventure
Freedom Acculturation
Romance
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
o
The Ugly American
W. LEDERER
a
How to Read a Book MORTIMER J. ADLER
a
POPULAR LIBRARY
The Remarkable Kennedys By joe McCarthy
a
The Enemy Within ROBERT KENNEDY
a
Profiles in Courage
JOHN F. KENNEDY
a
MERIDIAN
America & Image of Europe
DANIEL BOORSTEN
Not this: a student who studies drowsily no matter how much sleep he gets.
This! Perspicacious... sharp! NoDaz keeps you awake and alert—safely!
If you find studying sometimes soporific (and who doesn’t?) the word to remember is NoDoz®. NoDoz alerts you with a safe and accurate amount of caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
So to keep perspicacious during study and
exams—and while driving, too— always keep NoDoz in proximity.

The safe stay awake tablet—available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students a Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.) a
Special Price $5.50 ----------------------
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus _______________________
The Scholastic
30
C4RY CALLS 'EM
Tonight
Syracuse over Miami (Fla.)
Tomorrow
Arkansas over Texas Tech j Auburn over Florida State
Baylor over SMU
Duke over North Carolina
Yale over Harvard
Northwestern over Illinois Iowa over Notre Dame Tennessee over Kentucky I Purdue over Indiana
Oklahoma over Nebraska Minnesota over Wisconsin Mississippi over Mississippi State Oregon State over Oregon UCLA over Southern California Texas Christian over Rice LSU over Wake Forest
Washington over Washington State
Thanksgiving Day
Texas over Texas A&M
November 26
Notre Dame over Southern Calif. Holy Cross over Boston College Army over Navy
S Georgia Tech over Georgia Florida over Miami (Fla.)
Game of the Week
Pitt over Penn State
Upset of the Week
Kansas over Missouri
Last Week’s Results
18 right, five wrong, one tie
78.3 per cent
A
v	Totals To Date
127 right, 42 wrong, five ties
75.2 per cent
Help preserve masculine prerogatives!
Dillon, Stanford Clash In Campus Title Game
In the final games of the season in Interhall football competition, Dillon dbdged Morrissey, 6-0, and Stanford trounced Farley, 18-6, to advance into the post-season championship game. In the only other contest of the day, Keenan stopped Breen-Phillips, 8-0, for their first win of the season.
Dillon’s six points came on a 30-yard (Continued on page 33)
Help fight creeping matriarchy! Join SMK. No dues. No meetings. One obligation only. Smoke your Kaywoodie often—especially among women. Flaunt its manly grain. Tantalize them with the lush tobacco-and-briar aroma. But never let them savor a puff! Kaywoodie flavor, mildness, and relaxation—all without inhaling—are strictly male. Will this return women to bondage? Maybe not. But it will be a brave exer-
rise of your male prerogative... and V^J^^white Briar, Paar Stam pleasurable to boot.	"
Write Kaywoodie Pipes, Inc., New York 22, N.Y. for free SMK membership card and pipe smoking booklet.
J McDonald Studios
“The Finest in Portraits”
129 N. MAIN Temporary location HAVE YOUR CHRISTMAS PORTRAIT TAKEN NOW!
•-------------------------
November 18, 1960
KAYWOODIE accents the male look
31
Letters to the Editor
(Continued from page 4) does the fact that he can nimbly jump through a span of 2800 years in so enlightening us make the fact any more profound. Nevertheless, he forgets it. “It is the duty of American citizens,” he
during the Thanksgiving holidays select your clothing and furnishings AT OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
In our New York, Boston, Chicago and West Coast stores...and this year in our newest branch in Pittsburgh... an interesting selection of good-looking suits, sportwear, evening clothes and outerwear awaits your visit. Made to our exacting specifications in sizes 35 to 42...and all moderately priced for such fine clothing.
Suits, $70 to $80 ‘ Sport Jackets, $50 Topcoats, from $80 * Outerwear, from $45 Tuxedos, $75 ' Worsted Flannel Odd Trousers, $21.50
ESTABLISHED IBIS
l^ens ^imishings,
7+ E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
says, “to avoid communism and admire democratic and Christian principles . . . because the only way we can keep this government of ours in operation is to eliminate persons who don’t have the same forms and ideals we do.” If the purpose of democracy is merely a pragmatic coherence, why not drop it and
ask our Eastern friends for real coherence?
The author then applies his original “principle” to the problem of Puerto Rico (in two sentences), states that religion and politics mix because “it was an issue in the election,” and sums it all up by telling us not to count on a world organization. There are two things which one must do when writing: 1) pick a subject and 2) organize the material.:^ Mr. Relph does either, poorly.
—Wade Clarke
THERE’S A TAVERN . . .
Editor:
There is a minority in the student body which has earned all of us an ill reputation. We are locked out of local taverns and are disgraced in the eyes of local citizens. This is due to the immaturity of some of us with regard to theQ use of intoxicants.
I need not refer specifically to the acts which have disgraced us. However, I do not feel that any amount of “school spirit” is worth the unpleasant results which this spirit produces. I would rather see the team lose games than be considered ill-mannered and un-Christian because of the demonstrations of the students. (I sincerely doubt if this kind of spirit really does much for the team.) .
If Notre Dame is to be respected as® a stronghold of Catholic manhood, the ideal of the “animal” must be destroyed. When some of us revere the egotistical drunkenness and braggardly attitude which the term “animal” implies, then that group ought to be disassociated with the university. If this seems harsh, remember that we represent, as Notre Dame students, a tradition which we profess to hold as valuable, and indeed, represent the Catholic faith to many per-® sons. We have no individual right to betray this trust. As long as we are associated with the university, we bear this responsibility; let us vindicate it.
—R. H. Distel
SPOTS ON OUR REPUTATION
Editor:
Admitting that I am not an aficionado of the printing art, I must nevertheless^ sincerely ask, “Are all those dirty-look-* ing blobs just printing errors?”
J. Michael Kelly 221 Walsh Hall
TWO WAYS OF ESCAPE
Editor:
Congratulations to Bill Hanley and John McGuire for having attained Escape velocity for two consecutive weeks. It is a real pleasure to learn that there still remain grounds for wit-i® ticism other than the St. Mary’s girls.
Rene E. Pomerleau
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS. Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So.
32
The Scholastic
II
Irish Bowlers Defeat Loyola; Procure Top Spot in MIBC
Last Sunday the Notre Dame Intercollegiate Bowling Team sneaked by undefeated Loyola to move into first place in the Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference. Captain Dan Halloran and Chuck LaRose struck out in jthe tenth frame to win the first game my 16 pins.
The Irish went on to win by a slight margin of only twelve pins, again requiring a clutch team effort in the tenth
I frame of the ' Notre Dame: 4679.
Loyola: 870,
final 886,
game.
1029, 881, 945, 938,
948,
985 956, 908, 4667.
I The current high average on the team I is held by Sophomore Bill Lieber with i a 201, distantly followed by Dan Hal-Ljforan at 192.
In the Classic League, the Bowler’s Shop and Don Dvorak’s Five are notted up at 16-4.
High series for the week:
Jim Lewis . Dave Akers Ted Nekic .
.235-231-174—640
.176-233-213—622
184-228-197—609

High games for the week:
Herb Moeller ..........
I Jim Lefere.............
Al Knobloch ...........
Burke Reilly ..........
2*1 ft
.........252
........245
.........237
.........224
—Bill Miller
Dillon, Stanford Clash (Continued from page 31) pass from Bob Henry to John Hutton, ^while Keenan took advantage of a safety '■mnd a runback of a pass interception to score their eight.
Stanford’s first score was set up by a Farley fumble deep in their own territory. Right half Pete Kump went over on a slant through center. A long pass from quarterback Serge Martinez
to end Dick Kuhn set up the next Stan-
I ford touchdown, with Martinez sneak-i ing over from the one. Pat Healy’s > ^team tallied their final six points on a long Martinez to Kump pass.
Dillon and Stanford will meet for the
campus championship next Sunday at 2:00 p.m. The game will be played either in the Stadium or on Cartier
Field, with Cartier the more likely site.
NABICHT CAFETERIA
★ 1415 Lincolnway West Savory Food Since 1897
FBEE PARKING
ENGINEERING HELPERS
Applications for the auto show, Engineering show, program, publicity, or secretarial committee chairmanships for the 1961 Engineering Open House should be submitted to James Kaval in 126 Walsh before December 7, 1960.
This Grand Tour of Europe can be yours... next summer!
* American Express Travel Service, Sales Division
8 65 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.
® Dear Sir Please send me literature on Student Tours of Europe □
J	European Escorted Tours—1961 □
| Name______________________________________________________
8
j Address___________________________________________________
8 City______________________________Zone____State
England ... the Continent... touring capital cities, hamlets . . . traveling through beautiful countryside, quaint villages and passing landmarks ... enjoying good fellowship ... laughter, conversation and song! And it’s all yours when you choose one of the American Express 1961 Student Tours of Europe! Groups are small, led by distinguished leaders from prominent colleges. Itineraries cover England, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, The Rivieras and France. There are 12 departures in all, timed to fit in with your summer vacation; ranging in duration from 47 to 62 days ... by ship leaving New York during June and July.. .startingas low as $1402.50. And with American Express handling all the details, there’s ample time for full sight-seeing and leisure, too!
Other European Escorted Tours from $776.60 and up. MEMBER: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service or simply mail the coupon.

Classified Advertising
THE FIRST CHRISTMAS GIFT “. . . and they presented unto Him gifts: gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.” (Matt. 2:11) Invoke in your home memories of the first Christmas with the real scent of frankincense and myrrh. A new dimension in Christmas decorating. Send stamp for unusual Christmas catalog. Huntington House, 2901 Otis Street, N.E. Washington 18, D.C.
a 8 a a a a a a a
^November 18, 1960
government in an era, of mass societies
A responsible, stable government, a government under which men may live in freedom, is not established by a simple decree, or by the recognition of other governments, nor is it constituted by a contractual agreement of unrelated men, but such a government comes into being gradually, in time, through the felt need for rational organization by a group of men living in conununity.
Because of the inevitable—although tenuous—solidarity of all men in one human nature, a group of men living together, sharing a common experience of life over a period of years, will tend to grow into an ever more solid condition of relatedness. Out of the common experience of the group in a common life will grow a lived agreement on values, and the mutual willing to live according to these values will knit the communal bonds of the group ever tighter. This agreement on values and common willing to live by them is not rationally affirmed and drawn up at first, but is a lived agreement, a concretely experienced communal consensus, a felt sense of mutuality of purpose and belief.
Through experience—over a period of years—this communal consensus on values, this agreement on purpose and life together, comes into being and is sensed and held ever more consciously by all the members of the community. At a certain point in this process of the "articulation of a people,” organization or government will develop. The beliefs of the society formed previously in the common experience of the people and existing only concretely in their common way of life, will be rationally formulated into rights, laws and principles of government (a constitution).
FROM COMMUNAL CONSENSUS ....
Having grown into such a condition of relatedness in belief and way of life, the people feel a need to organize, feel a need to establish a communal organization to represent their beliefs and way of life and thus constitute or articulate these and themselves for "action in history.” Thus out of the communal consensus on the level of thought and action, a government grows, a representative government—i.e. a rational organization established by the people to represent
34
them, their beliefs, their way of life, for “action in history.”
It does not matter too much what form such a government takes, whether it is monarchic, democratic, aristocratic or even dictatorial. The form depends mainly on the temperament of the people and their social maturity or strength of felt and consciously realized agreement. What does matter is that the government be representative, be established by a people to represent themselves, their way of life and belief. Only when a government is truly representative can men live under it in freedom, for only then are their inner beliefs embodied in the dictates of the government and rulers.
Applying this theory of representative government—government in freedom—to the government of modern mass societies, leads one not to condemn entirely such governments, but it does lead us to advocate—if men are to be free under the rule of their government—that modern mass societies be governed in a hierarchically structured pattern with the areas of a government’s jurisdiction decreasing in direct proportion to its remoteness from the men governed. The areas of jurisdiction of a government must be directly proportional to the strength and inclusiveness of the consensus of the governed community—if the governed are to remain free.
Where the consensus is strong, vital and covers almost every aspect of life, a government can have almost unlimited jurisdiction because the governed community will be in fundamental agreement with all of its decrees. And, it will not need much power of enforcement. The people will normally act according to its law, which is only a rational formulation of their own beliefs on values, just as they would normally obey their consciences.
When, however, in a given large or small community or mass society, the area of communal agreement is not so great in its range of inclusiveness, the areas of governmental jurisdiction over that community will have to decrease. Where there is no common ground, no common purpose, there cannot be any common action in freedom. And, the coercive power of this government in its limited areas will have to be greater in proportion as it is removed from its governed; because men are ever inclined to avoid their remote social responsibili
ties in favor of closer individual desires.
This brief formulation of a philosophy of government based on our theory of . representative government—government^ in freedom for the governed — shows clearly that we can have government in freedom even on the level of modern mass society. We can have such government in freedom IF it is established in a hierarchically structured pattern according to the basic principle of representa- | tive government—that government be es-	I
tablished and limited in accordance with ■ the agreement on values and way of life * of those whom it wil govern. For exam-^1 pie, in the United States we are in^ virtual agreement on the national level on the need for a strong defense against Russia while we are in disagreement on the correct policy concerning race and other welfare issues. These areas of communal agreement should dictate the areas'of governmental jurisdiction: federal for defense, primarily states for these domestic matters.
.... TO TOTALITARIANISM •
This fundamental principle of representative, free government — that the government must be limited to the area of agreement of those whom it governs, is all important, especially in this era of mass societies. Without insistence on this, representative government—slowly but surely vanishes and instead the govern- I ment becomes divorced from the gov-^ ; emed, becomes more and more coercive and authoritarian, easily succumbs to an ! ideology to provide the lacking spiritual ! unity and inner substance of strong communal consensus, and assumes a totalitarian form.
This could be what is happening in ■this nation today. It must be always kept in mind that it is not just democracy alone which assures us of representative government—of government in freedom —but this depends on the continued vi-^ tality of the inner substance of communal belief and purpose on which our people were first constituted as a nation, and especially does it depend on the foresight of this constitution which established a firm limitation on the federal government—realizing then better than now—the dangers to freedom and even to governmental stability of establishing the primary governmental organization too remote from the people governed.
The Scholastic^
"oxford accent"...
prints of distinction
The sport shirt that gives you that rugged masculine appeal... printed in neat figures in uniquely attractive colorings. Well-cut collar style in classic button-down lines with box pleated back. In traditionally favored oxford cloth.
$5.00
cum laude collection by
-ARROW*

authentic...
university sport shirts
Classic example of the casual tradition . . . from our Arrow Cum Laude collection. Tailored for the man who prizes perfection of cut, fit and cloth. Come in to see this superior group of "oxford accent” prints.	$5.00
^GILBERT'
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
fc
ICXKIOk
The big difference is HLTER-BLEND
.and only Winston has it!
Also available in crush-proof box.


fl iaOUARTH
Kl N G

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.


A lot is being said these days about flavor in filter cigarettes. But remember Winston was the one that put flavor into filter smoking by developing exclusive FILTER-BLEND I —rich, golden tobaccos not only specially selected, but also specially processed for filter smoking.
So try Winston! It’s America’s bestselling filter cigarette, because it’s America’s best-tasting filter cigarette.
**ER
p"’En ;r
Winston tastes good-like a cigarette should!
I