Cbe
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCe-QVASI-SemPCR- ViCTVRyS- VIVG -9VASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS;
Vol. XLVII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 29, 1913. No. 10..
Desire.
’ [ WERE sweet to be the rose vines, little one, Sleeping in love’s lone bower, Where ’neath the lavish kisses of the sun
It opens into flower.
But oh! to be.the bread or purple wine— Were it not far preferred?—
Whose substance is made human and divine By power of a word.
R. F. D.
History.
fHE term Boycott was first applied to a peculiar system of persecution originally practised by the land league. in Ireland against. English landlords and their agents. It takes its name from Captain Boycott (died 1897) who, as the agent of the Earls of Earne in County Mayo, 1897, was the first to suffer its penalties. The league bound itself to attempt the ruin of landlords by depriving them of farm laborers, shutting the shops against them, and cutting them off from human intercourse! Paying tenants were subjected to the same treatment.
The boycott has been frequently used in the United States. In Milwaukee, in 1882, the brewers withheld their business patronage from the ~ merchants who had favored the proper observance of Sunday. laws. During the labor ■ troubles of 1886? the boycott was practised.
The^ Constitution of the American Federation of Labor which was drawn up'in 1886 provided: “it shall be tlie duty of the Executive Council (composed* of the -President, the vice-Presideht, the Secretary and Treasurer) :■to secure the unification5 of all labor ■ organizations sb far as to assisteach other in anyjustifiable boycott. ”:
During the. same year an .amendment made the final words “justifiable, boycott” read . “trade dispute.” Since that time the boycott has been a much-used weapon of the Federation,	:
boycotts of between 400 and 500 firms having been conducted.	.
Two of these boycotts by the Federation have become famous through the lawsuits which have accompanied them. They * are the Danbury Hatter’s case and the Buck’s Stove and Range case. In this article we shall take up the latter case fully, but first we must get a general idea of the manner of conducting and the wide scope of the boycott as practised by the American Federation of Labor.
The American' Federation of Labor, draws ■ its financial support from the pocket-books of 2,000,000 men, and through the families of its members controls in a large measure the purchasing power of 10,000,000 people, which influences in no small degree their dews on economic and political questions. It has affiliated with it over 500 city central labor unions and 28 state federations of labor. The city central labor union or councils compose .	. -
all the labor unions in their respective cities, , while ’ each State federation composes all the unions of that state. . Through these councils . .. and federations are woven 115 International Trade Unions, with their 27,000 local unions. .
Besides all these there are 668 Local Trade and Federal Labor Unions'having no Internationals, making a total of . nearly 28,000 local unions throughout the country.	,	. .	'
Each local union sends delegates to the , Annual. Convention of its International Union, ,	; .J.
and this convention in turn elects delegates	r
to the Annual Convention of the American -	.
Federation ofvLabor. At this last-named r > Convention the officers and Council of the ...	: .
Federation : are elected and rules and regii- . b . !
• latidns! adopted; The \Fedefati6n A has >ov&;7: r y 7 ■ C--
146	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i,ooo organizers scattered over the entire country, whose duty it is to see that all orders and business (including the boycotts) of the Federation are enforced.	-
■ So much for the construction of Organized Labor. We will now turn to its method of carrying out a boycott. When one of the 28,000 local unions, or a small percentage of the members of a local union who are working for one concern, get an idea that they have a grievance against their employer and find he does not agree to their terms, the men are called out on a strike. If such action does not gain their end the local union declares that its members will not purchase any goods manufactured by this employer, nor* any kinds of goods handled by a merchant who deals with said employer. If there is a city council of labor in the city in question, such council then instructs its entire membership that the said employer is “unfair” and that his goods,.and the goods of any of his customers, are not to be purchased. These facts are usually advertised in the community by means of posters, hand-bills, word-of-mouth, etc. The International Union of which the striking local may be a member, then takes up the boycott through the means of its different local unions. If no settlement is reached the facts of the case are introduced at the next convention of the American Federation of Labor or an application to the same Federation fob an endorsement of the International Union’s -boycott is made. If-such application is favorably acted upon the Executive Council of the Federation endorses the boycott and orders printed in its official
' magazine, the Federationist, the name of the employer in question as being “unfair” and his name placed, on the “We don’t, patronize” list. All labor papers and pubheations are instructed to do the same, and the 1,000 or more organizers* are instructed to see that no member of the Federation purchases goods made by the said employer nor goods handled by his customers under penalty of a fine. These organizations thereupon notify all customers
of. said, employer that they must quit handling the goods, of said employer or suffer a boycott at the hands of Organized Labor. . . - , \
1 This is the,method of boycotting.. But the - reason for putting, this machinery in operation . is. not always due to the fact that certain workers: are dissatisfied, with-.the.;methods ; of.
- their employers. < In the boycott , against, Henry
H. Roelofs and Company of Philadelphia, F. Berg and Company of Orange, New Jersey, and D. E. Loewe and Company of Danbury, Connecticut, the object was to force these concerns to employ only union men. In the case of D. E. Loewe and Company several of the workmen testified that they had been perfectly satisfied with conditions in Loewe’s factory and with his methods of business. . The first two companies mentioned above were forced to accede to the terms of the American Federation of Labor, but Mr. Loewe, after years of fighting in the courts, secured a judgment for £74,000 damages, which under the terms of the law was trebled to £222,000, plus costs and allowance for attorneys’ fees. ' The Buck’s Stove and Range Co. Case.
Since 1S46 this company, with headquarters in St. Louis, Missouri, had been engaged in the manufacture of stoves and ranges, having an invested capital of £950,000 customers in all the territories and nearly all the states of the Union, gross sales amounting to about $1,250,000 annually, nine-tenths of its product being disposed of in the course of Interstate commerce to customers in the territories and states other than Missouri.
For 25 years it had operated as a ten-hour shop; that is to say, the men and machinery in all departments worked ten hours per day. In its seven departments 750 men were employed. The company had always maintained an “open shop,” that is, a shop where both union and non-union men were employed without discrimination. Of the 745 men, between 400 and 500 were members of various unions, and of the 75 men engaged in the polishing department, 36 were members of the Metal Polishers’, Buffers’, Platers’ Union No. 13 of St. Louis. This Union No. 13 was one of more than 130 local unions which together composed the Metal Polishers’, Buffers’, Platers’, Brass Moulders’, and Brass and Silver Workers’ International Union of North America.	.
The 36 metal polishers in the employ of the company were “piece workers,” that is, they were paid by the piece, and earned from $4.00 to S5.00 per day, according:to their individual skill, and the number of hours worked. .	.
In.November, 1905, it came to the attention ‘ of the President of the -Company, Mr. J. W. Van Cleave, that- metal polishers were leaving their, work before)quitting time, some of them . as early as' an hpur and a half before, at what
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ever time they happened to finish a j ob. Shortly afterward the works were closed down for annual repairs and inventory, and upon the day of closing, Van Cleave called together all polishers and informed them that the shop was then and always had been running ten hours; that he could not permit men to leave before quitting time; and that when the works reopened in 1906 every department and every man in every department would have to work ten hours. They were also informed that if they were not satisfied with the rules and conditions of the shop that Van Cleave would give them six days’ 'notice three weeks before the reopening of the shop in 1906, in order that they might get other places if they'wanted to; but, if they returned to work, they would have to return under the rules of the shop, and not under any rules they might make.
.Upon the reopening of the works in January, 1906, notices were posted in its Polishing Department that all its employees were required to work ten hours per day during the year 1906. All of these men returned to work, accepted their old positions and worked ten hours per day until August 27th, earning- larger wages. At five o’clock on the 27th, one of them, named Ford, gave a pre-arranged signal to quit work; the men immediately left their wheels, put up their work, and left the department. Upon the morning of the 28th the men all -returned to work, and all were permitted to resume work save Ford and Jansen, who were discharged for having incited the men to break the shop rules the day before. At five o’clock the second day the signal to quit work was again made by one Brindle. Upon the morning of the 29th the men returned to work; all save Brindle were permitted to resume, he being discharged as Ford and Jansen had been for inciting the men to break the shop rules. Upon the discharge of Brindle, the foreman of the Plating and Polishing Department was straight, way informed by a workman named Poex, that if Brindle, Jansen and Ford were not reinstated before eight o’clock the men would leave the shop at that hour. They were not reinstated, and at eight o’clock the 36 union polishers struck and left the shop in a body. Thereafter Local Union No. 13 .declared a boycott against the company’s product, and asked its endorsement and declaration of boycott from the Central Trades. and Labor. Union of ’ St. Louis, the ‘Metal Polishers ^Buffers’ ‘Platers’, ’Brass Moulds
• 147 -
ers’ and Brass and Silver Workers’ International Union of North America. Meanwhile rmion men remained in the employ of the company, drawing pay for- making the very product which' labor unions were boycotting outside the doors.
■On October 24th. David Kreyling, Secretary of the Central Trades and Labor Union, St. Louis, Edward Lucas, member of the Metal Polishers’ Union, St. Louis, and Mr. Bechtold, , Secretary of the Metal Trades Council, St. Louis, called together at the office of Mr. Van Cleave and held a conference with him. Shortly after, Mr. Bechtold sent the following state- . ment of grievances to the Executive Council . of the American Federation of Labor as a basis for its endorsement of the boycott:	-
‘’About August rst, 1906, the Buck’s Stove and Range Company attempted to force the Metal Polishers to resume the ten-hour day . after enjoying the nine-hour day for a period of . eighteen months, and are still making every effort within their power to adjust their grievances. Mr. J. W. Van Cleave, also President of the Manufacturer’s Association, enjoys a reputation equal to that of Parry and Post. He is Presi- ; dent of the Buck’s Stove and Range Company, and absolutelv refused to deal with a committee -composed of David Kreyling, Edward Lucas, and myself, stating that he was a member of the Founders’ National Defense Association, and his Association acted for him in such matters.” ’
The boycott was endorsed by the three unions which these men represented, shortly after this conference. Thousands of circulars were distributed amongst the public and the custom- ’ ers of the company stating the case as follows:
“To Whom It May Concern, Greeting:. “The Metal Polishers’ and Buffers’ Union .
No. 13 have been on strike at the Buck’s Stove . and Range Company, 3500 North Second Street, St. Louis, Missouri, since August 27th, 1906. The Polishers in the employ of the Buck’s Stove and Range Company have been working the nine-hour day for eighteen months; this firm not being content with having peace and harmony - -exist, insisted on having the men return to ' the ten-hour day. This the Metal Polishers’ . Union objected to, knowing that if the Buck’s . Stove and Range company were allowed, to M place their polishers back on the ten-hour day,;	<
it would be only a matter of a'short time before; - • the other firms where our members are working the nine-hour day would adopt the same method. This firm has been placed upon the^' .J J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
148
- ‘unfair’ list of pur International Union. The . Central Trades and Labor Union, and the Metal Trades Council of St. Louis and vicinity have also placed said firm'upon the ‘unfair’ list and.. _	‘ We-dou’t-patronize’ list. This circular is be-
in? sent to inform the dealers who handle the product of the Buck’s Stove and Range company of the unfairness of this concern. We trust that if. your concern is handling any of the products of said firm you will cease doing the same, thereby assisting the Metal Polishers’ Union against this unfair firm.
‘.‘Thanking you for any assistance rendered our organization in this matter, and assuring you that if at any time the favor can be returned, we will gladly do so.
.	“Respectfully,
Metal Polishers’ & Buffers’ Union, 1310 Franklin Ave., St. Louis, Mo.”
The following is part of another circular: “To Organized Labor and Friends, Greeting:
“ ... .We sincerely trust that your organization will render all moral assistance in your power in giving this ‘unfair’ firm as much publicity as possible, and also appoint committees to visit dealers handling stoves and ranges of said firm, and request them to cease handling , said goods, and also have them write the firm a- letter to that effect.
“Do not file this circular, but appoint your committees immediately, as a victor}’ in this ’ fight means a great deal to organized labor in general, and a blow to the Citizens’ Industrial . Association.
. “Thanking your organization in advance ’ for this favor, we remain,	.
.	% “Fraternally yours,
(Signed) Metal Polishers’ ' Buffers’ and
-Platers’ Union No. 13.”
While the application to the American Federation of Labor for its endorsement of the boy; cott was pending, the following article appeared 'in the Journal, which is the official organ of the. Metal Polishers’, Buffers’, Platers’, Brass -	; Moulders’, and Brass and Silver Workers’
< International Union.	.
“ Charles R. Atherton, Editor, Journal:
-	' ’	“ ......Now Brothers, it is up to you to help
/. yourselves1 by driving the Buck’s Stove and
. Range Company 'from the markets. As the line is' something* we "all use, either; for cooking ty'ty'. or heating purposes, if we. can not .make our-
:. .selves felt. in. this fight we certainly can not in "
any other line. In Toledo, Local No. 2 has put up.a great argument with the one dealer who handles Buck’s stoves by visiting all the unions in the city, and by distributing boycott cards, and, until every workingman in the city knows the firm is ‘unfair.’ The local dealer, after spending a large sum in advertising the stoves, and carting stoves back to the store that had been sent out on trial, was forced to ■admit that his stove business is dead in Toledo, and has stopped advertising, and if he ever gets rid of his present stock of Buck’s stoves, he says he will never do it again. Do not let up now, for when the season for heating stoves is past they will then try again to push the ranges and the cook stoves, and if discouraging letters reach the makers from every part of the country, from their agents and dealers, Mr. Van Cleave will probably then realize that trying to burst unions is not in his line, and will take less interest in such business, as I believe him to be a modern business man, and more ready.to sacrifice his principle than his business.	Fraternally yours,
Maxz, Local 2.”
' Copies of the foregoing and similar circulars and of the Journal were distributed broadcast amongst those merchants who handle Buck’s goods, the members of labor unions, and the public generally. The American Federation of Labor meets once annually in- convention of the representatives of the Trade Unions affiliated throughout the land. According to its Constitution, “No endorsement of a boycott shall be considered by the Convention, except it has been so reported by the Executive Council. At the time of the Convention in 1906 the Federation had endorsed boycotts against, and was carrying in its “We-don’t-patronize” list, the names of three firms who had been boycotted by the Metal Polishers’, Buffers’, Platers’; Brass Moulders’*, Brass and Silver Workers’ International Union, and was rendering effective these boycotts; so that now its laws prohibited; it - from endorsing the. boycott against the Buck’s Stove and Range Company. The Metal Polishers’ International Union had instructed its "delegates to the-Annual Convention to secure an endorsement nevertheless, and to-that Convention its President, Mr. Grout,; was a delegate; and Bechtold; the same who had taken part in the conference with Mr. Van Cleave, delegate froimthe International Brother-
. hood; of Foundry Workers; mpbiLthe floor. of the
THE N.OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Convention introduced the following Resolution:
“Whereas, the Buck’s Stove and Range Company of St. Louis, which is owned and controlled by J. W. Van Cleave, President of the Manufacturers’ Association, has persistently dis-, criminated against members of the. Foundry Employees’ Union to the extent of discharging every man as soon as it became known that he was a member of said union; therefore, be it resolved, that the product of the abovenamed factory be placed on the ‘We-don’t-patronize’ list of the American Federation of Labor.”
The resolution was at once referred by the President, Gompers, to the Committee on Boycotts, upon which he had already placed, amongst others, the aforesaid Grout, President of the International Polishers’ Union. This Committee reported back the resolution with recommendation that it be refeired to the Executive Council. This recommendation was adopted by the Convention and the Resolution so referred with a direction to the Executive Council to take action thereon at the earliest possible moment. This council, at its next meeting in March, 1907, at Washington, D. C., placed the name of the company and its product on the “We-don’t-patronize” list of the American Federation of Labor, and immediately thereafter there was a broadcast distribution of many thousands .of the following notices:
‘‘ Important Notice.
“The Executive Council of the American Federation ' of Labor, in session at Washington, D. C., March 18-23, 1907, place the Buck’s Stove and Range Company of St. Louis, on the Unfair list,
“The publication of this concern ■will be made in the ‘We-don’t-patronize’ list commencing in the May issue of the American Federationist.
“The firm is commencing to advertise in daily papers all over the countin’', endeavoring to offset the above action. All . members take notice. Appoint committees to visit, the dealers and bring it to the at-
tention of organized labor.” •
The May ■ issue of. the Federationist contained the following:
..	.	. . “Special Notice.. ..
-.	Washington, D. C.,. 6—25-07..
“To all Affiliated Unions:—At the request of the Unions .interested, and after
- 149	:
due investigation and attempt at settlement, the following concerns have been declared unfair:
“Buck’s Stove and Range Company, St. .
Louis, Missouri.	.
“Secretaries are requested to read this . ■ . notice at.union meetings, and Labor Reform Press, please copy.
•	“Fratemallv yours,
“Samuel Gompers, .
■ . President, American Federation of Labor.”
Upon the appeal of Air. Van Cleave to the' Supreme-Court of the District of Columbia,- * Air. Justice Wright, Washington, D. C., on November 18th, 1907, issued an injunction restraining the American Federation of Labor, its officers and members, from conducting a boycott against the Buck’s Stove and Range Company of St. Louis, Alissouri. His reason for so doing were:	.	-
“That the officers and members of the American Federation of Labor had combined for the purpose of:
“1. Bringing about the breach of plaintiff’s existing contracts with others. .
“2. Depriving plaintiff of property (the value of the good will of its business) without due process of law.
“3. Restraining trade among the several ’ States.	-
“4. Restraining commerce among the several States.
“To preserve an existing status until the . case could finally be heard.”.	.	■ .
Before the issuance of the injunction, Alessrs. ; Gompers, Alitchell, and Alorrison, officers of the . , American Federation of Labor, declared their intention of not conforming to the injunction . as it was illegal, since it did away with the right	..
of free speech and free press. Subsequent . / to the issuance of the injunction this threat, was carried into effect, and upon these men ' failing to show cause why judgment., should ; not be pronounced upon them for violation of the injunction, when they were summoned to : do so, Air. Justice Wright on December 23rd, ; 1908, in the same court at Washington, D. C., ’ sentenced them to imprisonment in the jail of: =; the District of Columbia; Air. Morrison for :■ • -. six months, Air. Alitchell for nine months, . and Air. Gompers for twelve months. Upon . an appeal being made, bonds -were fixed at ' J $3,000, $4,000, and. $5,000, respectively. <
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
150
Varsity Verse.
Yawp.
Take a little strip o’ paper
And fill ’er full o’ “hop”
Careful, carefully you shape ’er Roll ’er neatly, lick ’er sweetly, Take a match and then—but stop, Look and listen, what’s that sound,	.
What the------, what’s that stealthy, shufflin’ sound
On the floor by the door? ' Ah, that rapping, rapping, tapping at the door!
Quick into the yawning gobbine
Goes your little “pill” a-bobbin’. “Come in, sir,” you said, then swore, “Darn you, Louie.”—Yep, you swore, This and more, yea, this and more.
So you cut another caper
With another strip o’ paper
And some “hop.”
Careful, carefully you shape ’er
Fillin’ neatly, lickin’ sweetly, Take a match and then—don’t stop At. the stealthy shufflin’, shufflin’ on the floor
Round your door.	'
“Come right in,” you gently roar,
Blowing-lazy, hazy ringlets in the air Without a care, Breathing lazy little rings of smoke into the clouded air.
Moan.
They say there’s a Divinity that deftly shapes our ends, And that Heaven will protect the working girl, But the student with his smoking, (These are facts, sir, it’s no joking) Gets a good and plenty soaking.
And not a hand to help him or to save him—Yes, I . swear it,	*
There’s not a hand to shield him from the cruel fate, , Demerit. ,	H. V. L.
Youth and Age.
But yesterday a smiling child .	. Tripped o’er life’s early lawn, .
With fancies beaming, rich and wild, He looked toward manhood’s dawn. .
' Today a gray-haired man is he ~ Infirm and feebly slow,
. He longs for .what shall never. be, The days of long ago. ‘;	’
_ : So we like children, day by day, . . . Look toward a phantom dawn, -
'. Until the sky has changed to grey ' ■'	. And the white sun is-gone. J- J- T.-
When Man Forgot.
JOHN CARROLL, ’14.
The old sergeant shifted his cud of tobacco to the other side, and said,
“Jomaree’s back.”	-	.
Robinson looked up from the stick he was whittling and whistled.
“Are you sure?” chorused the rest.
“Sure as I stand here,” replied the sergeant, and spitting reflectively, “Cantwell came through the gate while you were at mess. He brought Old .Man Stillel with him—dead—shot in the head down by Silver Gulch. John was. cornin’ back from Araphahoe and found the old man back in the wagon box and his bosses waitin’ for him to say ‘Giddap!’”
“The Indian’s work, all right,” said Peters, who had been in the fight on the Little Bis: Horn. “Well, there’s no use talkin’, he’s got to be caught this time.”	‘
A low buzzing was heard. Then, “S-s-s— spit-hiss-ss.” Peters jumped like a shot from his carbine. He landed on the sergeant who had jumped at the same time. They both fell on the others who had jumped before them.
“A rattler!” and they looked in vain for the hissing snake. A ’ hearty laugh added to their discomfiture. John Cantwell, the youngest trooper in the fort came toward them.
“By the great sufferin’ cats,” gasped Peters . “was that you imitatin’ a'rattler?”
“Imitatin’ nothin’,”' said the sergeant. “I tell you, there’s a real, live, blood-thirsty serpent ’round these parts.”
“No, not this time, sarge. Listen,” and he repeated the serpent’s hiss. ■
“Gosh,” exclaimed the chagrined sergeant.
“Well, boys, who’s ahead on the pinochole tournament?” asked Cantwell. And they fell' to discussing the events, that had taken place since John had left for Araphahoe. .
A message from the captain called John to headquarters. Captain Scott’s face . was grave as he spoke.
“Your commission arrived today, Cantwell. You are now a corporal. . You will>begin at once your, new duties.” Then more slowly, “I want you to get Jdmaree. He’s back again, because Stillel was shot by him. I know his work. "Now get him. I don’t need to tell you what he is. I am choosing you because there
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
must be no failure. Jomaree has got to be taken. Understand?”
“I think I do, sir,” answered Cantwell, saluting as he went out.	•
He chose Peters and Billy Jackman for his companions. Rations for a week were packed and silently they pointed the noses of their horses to the mountains. For a day and a night they rode, stoppong only for meals and a few winks, of sleep. It was nearly three o’clock on the third day when Silver Gulch was reached.
“He must be around here,” said Cantwell, “He never leaves as good a place as this to hide in.”
Billy Jackman was about to speak. Not one, hundred feet away, a rifle cracked and Jackman lurched in his saddle and fell. Quick as a flash the other two were off their horses and lying between, the rocks.
“There he goes,” whispered John as he caught sight of Jomaree running up the hill.
They went over to the place where Jackman lay. As length, the young corporal said grimly:
“You take him back, Peters. I am going to .get that Indian.” And not. heeding the protestations of Peters, he put some provisions in his knapsack and was off up.the hill. Cantwell’s teeth snapped and his hand clutched his rifle as he thought of the man he was trailing. It was between man and man now. The one would be the victor who first got the drop on the other. Jomaree knew every inch of the hills and the desert beyond. Wily, treacherous, and the best shot in Arizona were the qualities for which Jomaree was known and feared throughout the country, The man who hunted him had three years’ experience at the fort, a celar head, and an indomitable courage. ‘
Cantwell trailed Jomaree up the mountain, then down a sharp incline, over a stream, and when evening came he stood at the edge of the desert. Jomaree had led out into the desert, where he would test his knowledge, and that of the trooper in a place, where no man is not the e$ual of another. ■
When morning came, Cantwell stripped himself of every unnecessary article. At the last stream, he had filled his canteen. Thus, with rifle on shoulder, he went out to get his man.
The sun gradually , rose to its zenith, and its rays poured down on the trooper. At noon, he paused for a slight repast and a drink of the precious water. rThen.he continued stolidly
151
on. A shot from a distant clump of sagebrush told him that the Indian was near. He fired into the brush. An answer came, the bullet grazing the lower part of his coat and going through his canteen.	.
Water! the most important* thing in this desert chase, was • gone, and as he sucked the few drops from the bottom of the canteen, Cantwell knew that the shot was a piece of cunning shown by the Indian.
“So, he’s going to let me die of thirst unless I turn back.” He saw' the Indian running. “No, no!” he cried hysterically, “I’ve got to get him, and I will.”
He lay down that night, his tongue parched and his countenance ashen. His food would not go down his throat at breakfast and he dazedly picked up his rifle and marched forward. The sun getting w*armer and warmer scorched his very soul. His head swam with the heat and a nauseating feeling crept over him. He was staggering now, and too weak to raise his rifle. He dropped it and relied on his revolver to bring down the Indian. Finally he could go no farther. The Indian seeing his plight came towrard him. Cantwell, tried to raise his revolver but could not. He sank in the desert sand. Jomaree came forward, a leer upon his face.
“You will die here, and Jomaree will let you,” he sneered and picking up the trooper’s revolver, he threw it far into the desert.
“No, . Jomaree wrill not shoot you. You want some water, maybe?” he asked.
. “For God’s sake,” he w'hispered.
The answ’er wras a kick which sent him back to the ground.	.
“Bah!—you thought you would catch me, didn’t you,” and the Indian turned his revolver in Cantwell’s face. “I will not kill you. It is you W’ho shall pay the price for trying to take Jomaree. Jomaree shall never be taken. ’ ’	•
Minutes that seemed like hours passed. The Indian sat dowm, his gaze wandering over the expanse of desert. With all the energy that his dying body could muster, Cantw^ell brought his lips together, -
‘ ‘ Hiss-s-s-spsss-ss-ss—’ ’	'
Jomaree jumped in the air, his revolver, dropping to the ground. .Quick as. a flash, .Cantwell grabbed the weapon and a moment) later the Indian toppled over. Jomaree had forgotten.	.	•
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Books.
FRANK W. HOLSLAG.
Poet, peasant, priest and prince, Sovereigns, saints and slaves, Martyred heroes, cowards that wince, Men from a million graves;
Writing, fighting, humble in pain, Deceived and deceiving by looks,
Laughing, crying, living, dying, . All in a case of books.
The Scribbler.
F. ANTONIUS.
Amonsr the inmates of Rockefeller Hall was a o.
man of about sixty years of age, named Barrett. By his carriage, manners and speech one concluded that he had known better days and must once have been a gentleman of good standing. All who knew him styled him a scholar, some of the students who were more intimately acquainted with him pronounced Barrett a fund of general knowledge. Besides Latin and Greek he was thoroughly acquainted with the French and German languages. He would talk for hours on historical characters and events of the different countries. His chats abounded with scientific facts and illustrations. He had a profound knowledge of rhetoric and many a student got his plot for a story from our friend the tramp. He knew all the celebrated authors and their works. Any novel, romance or short story of note which had. been
~	,	a
written within the last thirty years had been read and studied by this strange scholar.
It was but natural that the students 'were inquisitive to find out our friend’s past history, but their refined delicacy for the old man’s feelings prevented, them from giving even the slightest hint in order to satisfy their curiosity. Some thought that he had been a teacher in languages or history in one of our large universities, others, a lecturer. - Some would have him to be a rhetorician, while others again pronounced him an author, none however was sure of his assertion.
‘Tibet you,” said Malone to his friend Murphy, “that Barrett is one of. these .private students . who make it their hobby to get hold of whatever knowledge they can.”	.
"Go on,” returned his chum. "How in
the world could he get the books?”
"Can’t he go to a public library and get all the books he wants?”
“You’re sick, do you suppose that any and	|
everybody who comes to a library is given	|
books for the simple asking?” ’	|
“I don’t suppose so, but anyway he is not	|
an author or an ex-prof, as some of the fellows	I
say. He wouldn’t be sweeping the dining room	|
or washing dishes if that were the case. Why,	I
a man with a head like his could get along any-	I
where and pocket money, too. No, siree,	I
- there is something else the matter with that	I
fellow.”	, I
"Let’s go and see him,” said Murphy, "perhaps we can get him to tell us something about his life.”
,	" I’ll go with you, but you needn’t ask him any
questions regarding his history, I wont stand for it. You may be sure that he has reasons for not telling the fellows about his past. How would you like to be questioned if you were in his shoes?”
“Oh, well, if you’re so delicate about hurting the old tramp’s feelings, I wont bother him, but, we might go over anyway and have a talk with him.” ’	.
A
They found Barrett sitting in the front of ’ the door on an old soap box,, and greeted him familiarly with a “Hallo, Barrett.”
“Good evening, boys,” kindly responded
the old man. “Come to have a little talk?”
“Well, yes,” said Murphy, “I came over .
to see whether you could not give me a plot for a short story. We have to write one and I can’t get an idea into my head to save my neck. I was thinking of copying an anecdote . out of an old “Century”, but Malone here suggested to me that'you could easily give me a plot of some kind of other.”
"You have a good friend, my boy, and owe him a lasting gratitude for suggesting this.” ;
“Why?” asked the astonished Murphy.
"I will tell you a story,”: responded the
old man.	. .	.	’	,
“About twenty years ago, a writer who named himself ‘TheScribbler’ attracted with his stories, essays and J poetry the. attention and applause of almost every important newspaper and magazine of this'country. His works and contributions were eagerly sought and highly paid for, by the editors. His witty essays ap-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
peared in small pica type on the front .page of the New York Sim. Some painting of a character from one of his stories with ‘A new story by the Scribbler’ in large Gothic letters met your eyes at every bookstand. In a word, his fame and name spread like wildfire.
“This lasted for several years and still the editors clamored for more. It seemed as though they thought our poor author to be a-human fiction machine; that he could work day and night, week in and week out, one year after another, without a minute’s respite for his fatigued body and exhausted brain.
“The continued strain of ceaseless labor gradually began to tell on the Scribbler. His mind no longer responded as quickly to the call for plots, his once ready wit was getting flagged and his past versatile pen wrote not as freely as it once had done. Still the call for more.
“One day when our friend was more weary than ever and when his mind was so thickened that after racking his brain for more than a day to get a new plot it still remained unresponsive, the unhappy and crazed man took in a moment of despair a story from an old English magazine and sent it in to the ‘ Century’ as his own. He never thought of its being detected. That story is at least thirty years old and besides it was edited in England, he mused. The following week the editor of the ‘Century, wrote in the April edition:
“‘The ‘Withered Foot’ by the Scribbler shows another accomplishment of our great contributor.’* The sharp wit of his former works is substituted by a gloom and pathos -which is astonishing. We are confident that his new story from the pen of so great a writer, will meet with the commendation and
153	.
approval	of his former contributors.’	.
“Several weeks passed and still the plagiary remained	undetected. The Scribbler	con-
gratulated himself on his ‘good luck,’ as he called it, and worked as hard as before in order to supply all the demands of the different papers. One morning, however, he was as- . tonished to find among his'mail a large foreign-looking envelope. He opened it and to his ' bewilderment it contained an edition of the old English magazine from which he had taken the ‘Withered Foot.’ He looked through the pages, and re-examined the envelope expecting ' to find a note, but his search was useless. The hit .could not have been severer. Then followed one after another notices from the different editors cancelling all engagements. The Tune edition of the ‘Century’ contained an exposition of the fraud. They called him a cheat, . a thief, a plagiarist.
“A month found our formerly popular author reduced to beggary'. 'He tried everything * to get a new start; he went West where he hoped to be unknown and thus be able to begin life anew, but all in vain. It seemed as though his forehead was branded with the word ‘Plagiarist.’ No one, not even the editor-of • a small country weekly, would accept his proffered contributions.	’
“Thus left to himself, and with scarcely any . money in his pocket to procure food, he started the life of the common tramp. Among them . and them alone was he received as a companion' in the universal misery of life. He now no longer needed to be ashamed; each one had his own tale to tell. With them he drifted now in the West, then South, then East again till finally he, with a few of his friends, was received at the hospitable board of Rockefeller Hall.”
Jim’s Little Pet. -
• ■ A “pony” was lim’s favorite pet;
*	■	Like Mary’s little lamb;	.
It followed him to class one day—	.
_	i	The day of the exam.
Professor said ’twas riot allowed	He used it once, but only once,
To have • a pony there, .	- .	And then the crisis came,
But Jimmy loved his. little pet ■	'	The’ teacher glanced along the aisle
And said he didn’t-care. •	-	And called out Jimmy s name.
: “Come pony,” said the wounded lad,	-
.	.	. . Don’t tarry here, be quick; .	*
I have a premonition that, .	.	'	'
•.	My ma has taken sick.- - -	- B. V.	'
1.54
THE'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana -
VOL. XLVn. NOVEMBER 29, 1913. NO. 10
Board of Editors.
WILLIAM M. GALVIN,’14 JOSEPH M. WALSH, ’14 WALTER CLEMENTS, ’14 GEORGE SCHUSTER, ’15 ARTHUR J. HAYES, ’15 HUGH V. LACEY, ’16 TIMOTHY GALVIN, ’16.
Welcome Home.
—The 1913 Varsity eleven passed into history Thanksgiving day on Clarke Field, Austin. Its history has been the most glorious of all Notre Dame elevens. We can not say liow proud we feel, but to the men of ’13 we say: “You have done your work well: We are proud to welcome you home.”
.	-	--- M--------
—Literary^gourmands as well as humbler novel	readers	have	doubtless observed”Tthe
tendency of the modern story to descend into .	the	regions	of prob-
The	Problem	Novel,	lem.	Social	questions
’	.	are indeed the most en-
ticing sensations of the day and might well be pardoned even in the novel,, if treated there in a pseudo-intelligent manner. The calamity facing us, however, is that many of our most beloved writers are indulging in crude and unsterilized fomentations for the evils of- the day. ' The charming author of “Richard Carvel,” for instance, has.- felt himself called upon to discuss religion in “The Inside of the Cup.” Churchill, beyond doubt, is sincere, and the muddled fruits of his earnestness is heartily admired by many unfortunates. But a treatise on religion whose arguments could be over' whelmed by the simplest of theologians, a stricture bn modem life which meets the issue in the dark and mistakes it for a decayed stump, adds nothing wholesome to the. controversy,
and deadens the respect.we feel for the author’s quondam literaiy, skill. Churchill, however, is a gentle instance. Mary Johnston, the very able and popular historical novelist, has soothed her ardor in the outpour of “Hagar,” a story of the new woman; Needless to say this woman is not at all like the Blessed Virgin, whom all admire as a tentative ideal. This new woman is half Amazon, half Cleopatra, and is filled with a wild desire to be like George Moore. Verily, it might almost make us forget the “Long Roll” and “Audrey.” Last and foremost we have Hall Caine, of whom everybody knows something, and about whom the less said the better. Mr. Caine, indeed, we may picture the murderer of souls crying out, “Am I my brother’s keeper?” These three are examples of a disease that is alarmingly widespread. Writers to whom we have hopefully attributed a view of life and a mission of true inspiration have developed into poor critics of our social system. Literature is life. Today, however, there are no joyous, sunbrowned laborers in the field. Their glee is done. The literary landscape is made gloom}’’ with coalsmoke and nauseous with the. odor of stockpens. It is sighing for a rain.	■
—From the headlines given in many of our metropolitan dailies one might be led to believe that the following incident about Charles B. Brickley is of quite uncommon occurrence. It is, however, very ordinary at Catholic schools ,and among Catholic people to see each member of a team attend, mass and receive Holy Communion on the morning of the day of a hard game. Aside from victory or defeat it should be remembered that serious accidents sometimes occur in football games and the wise man is the one who goes prepared for the danger.
Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 23.—Charles E. Brickley, the Harvard fullback, who kicked every one of the fifteen • points which defeated Yale here yesterday, is, as his mother calls him, a “wonderful boy.”
Brickley’s loyalty to, his university’s athletics and his devotion to his mother have been known to his mates since he entered Harvard three years ago.
That the big fullback sought inspiration for his victories within his ' church, was not known until yesterday, and then by accident. .
Less than an hour after Brickley of the deft toe had turned back the invading Yale team, a friend met the great Crimson kicker and fullback on his knees in St. Paul’s Catholic church, his head bent in prayer. After- it was learned he had visited the church before the. game. -	;	-	. .	’	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Personals.
—Charles W. Lahey of the ’13 Civil Engineers is located in Chicago with a large construction company. Charlie’s address is 48 W. Garfield Boulevard.
—The marriage of Miss Edna May Reuss to Mr. Robert Louis Fox (Old student) took place in Fort Wayne, Indiana, November 19th. The Scholastic offers greetings and best wishes to the happy bride and groom.
—LeGrande Hammond, of Paw Paw, Mich., was the guest of Sorinites on last Tuesday. “Ham” is associated with a prominent firm of attorneys in Battle Creek, Michigan, and is doing well in his professional work.
—Wedding bells have rung for Francis H. McKeever (Litt. B. ’63; LL. B. ’04) and Miss Grace K. Gallagher of Chicago, who were united in holy matrimony Wednesday, Nov. 26th. May every subsequent day be a Thanksgiving day in their lives. -
—“Jake” Birder, of the Lawyers of ’13, writing from his home at Park River, North Dakota, wishes to be remembered to all the-“old boys” at the University. “Jake” is to engage in the active practice of his profession on the first of the year.
—The old timers will be glad to hear from John F. McCague (Ph. B. ’12) who is now prominent in the commercial life of his home town, Munhall, Pennsylvania. “Mac” is con- nected with the mercantile business of his father, and is making good in his chosen sphere.
—Mr. William Draper was recently appointed Western Advertising Representative of the Associated Sunday Magazines, with headquarters in Chicago. “Bill” was a Varsity athlete of note some years ago, and was a prominent figure at the local football games this year.	•
,—Under the able tutelage of “Jimmie” Bach, (C. E. ’07) a Varsity star of his day, the Columbia University team bids fair to finish the season as secondary champions of Oregon. “Jimmie” has done great work with the teams of the past few years at Columbia, and is deserving of much credit.
—The President of the University has been requested to recommend a director for a Catholic Athletic Association in the^ South. There would be fifteen or sixteen classes a week. The
155
salary would be one hundred and twenty-five dollars a month and would be granted for at least six months. The position is now open and replies ought to be immediate.
—We are pleased to announce the marriage of Mr. Frank J. McHugh (old student) and Miss Marion Manca, which took place in Seattle, Washington, November 18th. The bride is a young lad}'- of unusual charm and accomplishment and the groom has in an unusual degree the respect and admiration, of his contemporaries in the University.' Prosit!
—One of the most prominent and prosperous law firms of Portland, Oregon, is that of Messrs. Scott, Collier and Hope, in which Notre Dame leads, two to one. The two junior members of the firm are Frank T. Collier (A. M. ’08), a former -instructor at Columbia University, and our Athletic Manager and Varsity Debater of 1910, “Jimmie” Hope (LL. B. ’11). Although not quite two years old, the firm is well established and is making a name for itself in the-courts of the state.	•
Calendar.	•
Sunday, November 30—First Sunday in Advent. Sermon—The Season of Advent,—Fr. Irving. Brownson Literary Society, 7:45 p. m. St. Joseph Literary Society, 7:30 p. m.
Monday—Orchestra practice, 7:00 p. m.
Band practice, 5:00 p. m.
Special instruction for military officers, 4 30 p. m.
Tuesdaj'—K. of C. meeting at Walsh Hall, 7:30 p. m. for Installation of Officers.	*
Wednesday—Civil Engineering Meeting, 7:30 p. m.
Thursday—Band practice, 8:20 a. m.
First Friday Confessions.
Friday—First Friday Communions.
Special Instructions for Military . Officers, 12:30 a. m.
Band Practice 1:15 p. m. -
Local News.
—All aboard. No more stops before Xmas:- .
There was no military drill on Monday as -the new uniforms were being distributed. ’
—Corby Deacons,. 6; Walsh Chicks, c; Vine Mooney and Eichenlaub can surely play football.
—A mass was offered on Monday morning L < for the repose of the soul of. the mother of George McCoy. All the boys of Walsh hall attended. ‘
—A duck-pin tournament is being held in ? Walsh. A meal ticket at Mike’s is to be the '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i56
prize for the winner. Allerton Dee is the champion so far.
—Professor Bender tested the voices of the Sorinites on Monday evening. Ue has visited all the halls and we may expect some good vocal music this year.
—The lid was pried off the basketball season last Saturday night when the Corby Deacons . defeated the Corby Scrubs, 16 to 14. McDonald was the star with six baskets to his credit.
---------The first of the preliminary debates in preparation for the proposed meeting with Holy cross, Valparaiso University and others, * was postponed to next Sunday, when the same subject will be debated.
—Daily rehearsals of “As You Like It” are being held under the direction of Professor Koehler and rapid progress is being made with the play. - The performance will be the feature of the entertainment on President’s Day, December 11.
—Next Tuesday evening at eight o’clock a meeting of the Knights of Columbus will be. held at which the officers for the coming , year will be installed. All ■ the members of the local council are requested to be present and members of other councils are invited to' attend. •
—Walsh hall is preparing for a big reception to the Varsity and to the Interhall champions, to be given next week. The Varsity, all the members of the Interhall teams and the Scholastic staff are to be invited. Walsh has a great team, and we are confident that she will give a great reception.	.
—Acting on the suggestion of Father Bolger who served as critic in the absence of Father Walsh, the Brownson Literary and Debating Society at their regular meeting Sunday night, chose as the subject for extemporaneous discussion, “Equal Suffrage.” The speaking was spirited, and was featured by the address of Harold Wildman. Father. Bolger closed the discussion with a well received talk on the theory of debating, which was at once both instructive and encouraging in its purport.
—A number of valuable donations have . recently been made to the Lemonnier Library.
The American Society of Experimental Biology, and Medicine has donated ten volumes of their proceedings and has placed Notre Dame on their permanent mailing list. The American Railway Engineer’s Association has
sent to the library two consignments of magazines. These magazines have been accumulating in the office of the Association for a number of years and they will undoubtedly be of great interest to our electrical .and mechanical engineers. The engineers will also find valuable reading matter in the recent reports of the highway and railway commissions and the mining boards of the various states. However, the most important donation to the library this year has come from the American Association for the Advancement of Science. This association is the largest and most representative body of scientists in America, containing more than Sooo members.' The association embraces seventeen branches, each treating a different scientific subject and in addition has a number of special scientific societies affiliated with it. This association has furnished our library with a complete record of its proceedings from 1845 to 1910, which records are now being bound and will soon be at the disposal of the students.
—Last Saturday evening the members of the Civil Engineering Society met and re. organized. Prof. M. J. McCue was unanimously chosen Director for the ensuing year. He responded' with a brief talk in which he complimented the members for their zeal and ’ energy in the past and also called, attention to the purpose of and benefits accruing from the society.
Mr. Katie was elected President. When the applause had subsided, he rose and addressed the meeting, emphasizing the necessity for prompt and faithful attendance at the meetings and care in the preparation of the tasks assigned.
To Mr. Conwa}r was entrusted the books of the society as Recording Secretary, while Mr. Derrick became the Corresponding Secretary. Messrs. Yearns and Hogan were burdened with the onerous duties of Censors'and were especially instructed in. their duties by the Director. The fofmer, as is his custom, delivered a masterful address on the dccasion, while Mr. Hogan contented himself with merely acknowledging the honor.. .	•	\
The question of making the work of the society a seminar, was. presented for consideration and was commented upon favorably by the' members, but no decision, was reached. It was decided that the meetings should be held on: Wednesday evenings as heretofore. •	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Athletic Notes.
Varsity Swamps Texas in Final.
It was the greatest game ever seen in Texas. It was the greatest game in more ways than one. It is seldom that a Thanksgiving game is played between two teams, both of which have gone through the season without defeat, but such were the conditions last Thursday. Notre Dame went into the enemy’s camp with a clean slate and more than an' equal claim to the Championship of the West. Texas had not lost a game and were undisputed champions of the Southwest. No other eleven ever before played to such a crowd in the Southwest. No other eleven ever showed the finished article of football displayed by Notre Dame.
Texas played a fine game, played hard, and - fought long, but they were simply outclassed. Simmons was their one big factor in keeping the Varsity from scoring more than they did. The big Longhorn back was fast and hard to tackle and more than once he broke through our team for thirty and forty yard gains. But in the pinches, our line strengthened, and with Dorais to do the open-work and Fichenlaub, Finnegan and Pliska to buck the line, we made consistent gains.
The game was the last for Dorais, Capt. Rockne and Gushurst. Dorais, in' his farewell to football, played the best game of his life, throwing his passes far and accurately, even though the ball was wet; returning punts in a way never seen before in. the South; dropkicking the slippery oval with telling accuracy; and generaling his team without an error. Our brilliant pair of ends, Rockne and Gushurst likewise gave noble account of themselves in their last fight for Notre Dame. The Texas team has been perfectly drilled in the end run. Simmons is a very hard man to get, and his interference has proved impregnable to other teams, but our ends managed to break up the strong interference and allow the backs to get the runner before many yards could be gained. The Associated Press account of the game is given below, taken from the Chicago Tribune. .	.
Austin, Tex., Nov 27—Notre Dame’s football team- defeated the University of Texas today, 29 to 7, by using a combination of old and new style play. The undefeated Notre Dame eleven battered the .Texas line until it was almost exhausted, then opened up. a series of forward. passes and drop kicks which
157
repeatedly were turned into scores. The Hoosiers crossed the Texas line twice in the last quarter.
Notre Dame’s backs plunged into the Texas line seventy-seven times for a total of 248 yards. The Hoosier players scored three touchdowns, and Dorais booted three field goals. One of the touchdowns resulted from a fake forward pass. Another came in the last minute of play, when Mills, a tall substitute right end, caught a Texas forward pass high in the air almost directly above the goal line. Quarterback Dorais of Notre Dame himself scored seventeen of his team’s points.
Texas tried six forward passes. Two of them were successful for a total of sixty-eight yards. Notre Dame tried twenty-one, ten of "which netted 200 yards.
Fullback Eichenlaub and Finnegan and Pliska the halfbacks, gained for Notre Dame through the line.	.
Texas’ punting superiority was nullified by the diminutive but fleet Dorais, though the southerners excelled in running around the ends.
Rain had made the field slippery, but the sun was shining when the game began.
Texas kicked off and Notre Dame, after two exchanges of. punts, rushed the ball from its own sevenyard line across the field for a touchdown. After a series of end runs, line plunges, and one thirty-two yard forward pass, Dorais carried the ball over from the Texas fifteen-yard line on a fake forward pass. He also kicked goal.
The first quarter was fiercely contested. Notre Dame at times breaking through for long gains, only to have their interference smashed and be forced, to kick a moment later. Texas made one first down and Notre Dame four.	.
Texas scored a touchdown in one minute of play after the second quarter opened, taking the ball from its own thirty-one yard line and crossing Notre Dame’s goal in two plays. Brown kicked goal.	"
Texas kicked off and Notre Dame, after rushing the ball to midfield, lost it on a long forward pass on fourth downs. Simmons of Texas ran through the entire Notre Dame team for thirty-five yards to the centre of the field. Then Texas lost the ball on downs;
Notre Dame forced the play into Texas territory, and after two exchanges of punts Dorais drop kicked a goal standing on the Texas fifteen-yard line. A few minutes later he missed in a trial from Texas* twenty-yard mark. Putting the ball in play on its twenty-yard line, Texas gave it to Simmons for another thirty-five yard, run to midfield. Texas lost the ball on a forward pass. When the half ended the score stood: Notre Dame, 10; Texas, 7.-	-
At the start of the third quarter, Notre Dame forced the play into Texas territory, but Dorais failed to boot a goal from Texas’ twenty-yard’ line. Notre Dame got the ball again and rushed it forty-five yards to Texas’ fifteen-yard line, where Dorais drop kicked a goal; Notre Dame forced the play all through the quarter, but Texas braced whenever the Hoosiers neared their opponents’ goal. Notre Dame led, 13 to 7, as the period closed.	-
Notre Dame showed marked superiority in the last quarter. , After line rushes and a forward pass had
158
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
put the ball on Texas’ two-yard line, Eichenlaub was I sent over for a touchdown. Dorais kicked goal.
Later, after Texas had been severely penalized for rough playing, Dorais kicked a field goal from the twenty-yard line. Mills caught a Texas forward pass soon after and scored the final touchdown. Dorais failed to kick goal. Final score, Notre Dame, 29; Texas, 7.
'Gushurst, Mills	R. E.	Edmonds
Lathrop	R. T.	Charleton, Barry
Fitzgerald	R. G.	Jordan, Goodman, Birge
Feeney	C.	Dittmar
Keefe, Cook, King	L. G.	• Birge, Murray
Jones	L. T.	Bass, Niblo
Rockne (C.), Elward.	L. E.	Turner
Dorais	Q. B.	Barrett
Finnegan, Larkin	R. H.	Brown (Capt.)
Pliska, Bergman,		Daniels
Kelleher	L. H.	Simmons, Littlefield
Eichenlaub, Duggan	F. B.	Daniel, Simmons
Touchdowns—Dorais, Eichenlaub, Mills, Barrett. Goals from touchdowns—Dorais (2), Brown. Goals from field—Dorais (3). Referee—Van Riper (Wisconsin). Umpire—Glaze (Dartmouth). Head linesman—Utay (Texas Aggies).
Christian Brothers Prove Strong.
Saving his men for the Texas struggle, Coach Harper played a number of the Reserves against the Christian Brothers College and was satisfied with beating the St. Louis aggregation 20 to 7 last Saturday. The St. Louis papers declare that the Christian Brothers never played such a gilt-edge article of football as they did last Saturday and the whole city was jubilant because “Notre Dame, champions of the West,” were scored on.
The game was played under adverse weather conditions, “a heavy rain beating down on the players continuously, and the new’ gridiron across the baseball diamond being nothing more or nothing less than a swamp.” ■ Under these circumstances Coach Harper’s pony backfield—noted for its speed—could not show to best advantage. But even the eleven that -was first put into the field with only-four Regulars in the line-up worked the ball down to within striking, distance of their opponents’ goal time after time, only to lose it on a fumble or-downs'or intercepted passes. In the critical moments they could not get their plays away from them in their usual form. . To. make things look worse, Ratican, the show-me prize, picked up a fumble in this half and carried the pigskin off for a touchdown. He kicked goal, himself. . And thus the period ended with the score, C. B. C., 7; N. D., o.
Coach Harper , saw that. the heavy field prevented his Reserves from getting away , as.
they are wont to do, and wishing to make a reasonable showing against his opponents, put in the full strength of the Varsity backfield in the second half, leaving Cook and King in the line, however, because of their splendid work. With the heady Dorais and the heavy Eichenlaub back in the game, the whole aspect of the game changed.	-
At the opening of the second half the Varsity received a scare, but after that they had things all their own way. A penalty of half the distance and an intercepted forward pass gave the Christian Brothers the ball on our 15-yard line. On off-side penalty and two-line plunges put the ball a yard from our goal, but here - our line held like a wall. Two more plunges into it proved futile, and the Varsity recovered the oval on its own three-yard line. Here Dorais called his own signal twice in succession and netted 35 yards. Another forward pass was intercepted, but the Christian Brothers were forced to kick. Dorais returned the ball to midfield and from this on there was no stop-. ping our line-plunges, and finally Eichenlaub went over for our first touchdown. Dorais Kicked goal, tieing the score at 7 to 7.
In the fourth quarter Dorais broke loose. The C. B. C. failed, to gain after receiving the kick-off on their 15-yard line, and were forced to punt. Dorais returned the ball well into his opponents’ territory, but an intercepted pass lost the ball. The Missourians were held for downs again, however, and when Dorais received Ratican’s punt in midfield, he showed the “show-mes” some clever open-field running, dodging individually seven of the St. Louis men, and carrying the ball over for the second touchdown. He missed goal, being the first time this year out of twenty-eight attempts.
Immediately afterwards Eichenlaub returned the kick-off to the centre of the field, and then made 15 yards around end. Dorais then punted out of bounds to the C. B. C. 12-yard line. Ratican returned the compliment on the next play by punting back to Dorais in midfield. Eichenlaub gained 10 yards, and then Dorais went around end again for 40 yards and another touchdown, kicking goal again and raising the score to 20 to 7.	'
The feature of the game was Dorais’ wonderful running. The heavy field that so upset the other men seemed not to bother him. We quote from the ..St. Louis Globe Democrat as follows: .	-	- .	...
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
159
It was not Notre Dame and neither was it Eichen-laub that brought about the downfall of C-. B. C. Dorais, one of the greatest Western quarterbacks since the days of the famous Walter Eckersall, is the man who is directly responsible for the victory. This clever little fellow making two sensational runs, which resulted in two touchdowns after his ten team-mates appeared as though they had practically given up the task as a hopeless one.
Notre Dame (20)	Christian Brothers (7).
Rockne	L. E. •	Quinn
J ones	L. T.	W. Essman
Cook	L. G.	C. Essman
Fitzgerald	C.	Menges
King	R. G: ■	Diver
Lathrop	*	R. T.	Ohmeyer
Gushurst, Mills	R. E. ’	McGinnis
Finnegan, Dorais.	Q. B.	Gallag	fher, Murphy
Kelleher, Pliska, Berg	;man R. H. B.	Ratican
Larkin, Finnegan	L. H.	Shea
Duggan, Eichenlaub	F. B.	White
Referee—Thomas.	Umpire—Turner.	Head lines-
man—Brockmeyer. Touchdowns—Ratican, Dorais (2), Eichenlaub. Goals from touchdown—Dorais (2); Ratican. Time of quarters—Fifteen minutes.
Walsh Wins Championship.
Before the season opened, Bather McNamara ' told us he was looking for a place to “hang that banner,” and last Sunday night we agreed that it was a good idea. The undisputed championship of the 1913-14 football season goes to Walsh hall, and they certainly deserve it. Last Sunday’s game would have convinced anyone of their superiority, and that without detracting a whit from the credit due to Sorin, the runners-up.
The score, 26-14, was a pretty good index of the relative merits of the two teams. Walsh played the same fast, tricky, -fighting game that has characterized her work' throughout the season. Sorin put up a strong defense, but she could not cope with the speed of the Walsh backs, who circled her ends time and again for repeated gains. The Orange and Black did not confine its play entirely to end runs, however,—line bucks often netted them substantial distances. Their first touchdown was scored this way: after a couple of brilliant runs by the little speed king, “Matty” brought the ball to Sorin’s 15-yard line. Walsh lost the ball on downs, but immediately received a Sorin fumble, and “Matty” was sent around the end for the second touchdown. The third came in the last quarter, when the score was dangerously close. Sorin had the ball on the Walsh 10-yard line, and was going along at a great pace, when Wright, the Walsh quarter, - picked a fumble out of the
air, and raced 90 yards for a touchdown. In the last few minutes of play, Walsh scored again, when Matty got away for two l,ong runs in succession. On the first he returned a punt fully fifty yards, slipping through the hands of one tackler after another.
Sorin drew first blood at the very beginning of the contest when they rushed the ball down the field at the kick-off, and scored on a pass over the line to Havlin. Their' second seven came in the final session on the prettiest play of the game. They had worked the ball to their opponents’ 20-yard line, and on .the third down tried a forward pass over the. line, Newning to Cofall, who picked it out of the air, from the hands of two Walsh backs. Another clever play came shortly before this when Sorin’s ends and backs all dropped out to one end of the field, and Walsh, expecting a forward pass, shifted to that end in a hurry, but Hynes double crossed them with a dash through the other side of the line that netted him 40 yards.
Though Sorin met defeat, Cofall, their big half-back, was the individual shining light of the game. He played a wonderful game on . the defense, and without any exaggeration, made three out of every four tackles. Rarely was he deceived by a Walsh trick play or stopped by interference however compact. *
Walsh had so many stars that it is hard to give special credit to any one. Matthews, Grady, Kowalski, and Wright in the backfield proved themselves easily the best backfield seen in interhall football in recent years. They combined speed, aggressiveness, line-plunging ability, and strong defensive powers all in one. The ends, Baujan and McQueeney, broke, up most of Sorin’s passes that the latter had counted on for gaining points. Walsh’s line played a strong offensive game this time, but were a little weak on the defense. This was due, in great part to their lack of weight. All in all„ it was a great fight and the best team won.
Carroll Defeats Rensellaer.
Last Saturday afternoon the Carroll team completed its regular football season with a victory over St. Joseph’s High School by a score of 15 to 13. A field goal by Blackman won the game.,
Barry was the star of the game, running 80-yards for a touchdown in the third quarter. Meyers also played an exceptionally fine game at tackle, feeling his man before he had time to gain an inch.	.
160
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The team as a whole played a fine game, and if the day had been the right kind of a one for a football game no doubt the score would have been much larger.
A game or two will be played with the Walsh Chicks the week after Thanksgiving to decide the winner of the five-game series between the -two teams; as it stands now Carroll has won the first two. And it will be up to the Chicks to hustle and make good.
Safety Valve.
Our idea of an educated worrian is a school teacher who inquires if football is anything like checkers.
• - - *** -
The fair one (at Sunday’s game)—Why do the Sorin ’ boys wear such horrid, unbecoming stockings?
*** -
Prefect of D. (to student)—Do you admit you were in town last night?
5—No.
P. of D.—Do you admit you smoked cigarettes in town?
. S—No.	'
P. of D.^Two negatives make an affirmative.
You’re suspended.
- ***
• “John,” said Helen, as she moved uneasily on the bleachers, “why did you ever take me out to this horrid game knowing I knew nothing about it?”
“But, Helen dear,” he protested, “just watch them . and you’ll catch on to the game in no time—a bright girl like you?	.	,
“John,” said Helen (a slight pause), “what’s the matter with that man’s nose?”	.
“ Nothing at all, Helen. Simply a nose-guard that he uses to protect his nose.”	.
“And is his nose under that?” -
. “Yes, dear.”	.	.	.
“And. those two Walsh hall, boys—how did they become so bald?”
“They’re not bald—that’s a headgear.”
“And what’s a headgear?”
•	: “ It’s a protection .for the head? It keeps the head
. from being hurt.”	.
-“And are their heads under-those?”;;	.	\
Yes, yes.
“And what—”	. .	'	'■	.
7 ‘‘Helen, .you. are . right. This is a wicked, cruel, htrocious’game'. I had no right to -bring you here.
: - Corrie,-"corrie, purJcar-is waiting.” .	_ t 1	;
:“	.the Artist’s Model. ; ■ .
. . . What Shall be Done With Him?. “ . . .	, _ _	________ The.other ■evening-about .five of iis were'"discussing'
{Weekly instalment of our ’great cereal story). . the record of the N. D. football eleven, its .recent
“ /“ “S . ' ‘	” victories over 7 the Army arid • Penn - State,’ when a
C^Cf^psiA^^	studious “ha^who^^ rmthing^ibput; footbafl and
[NoW^ck nflmlSrs iri^bg sbcmrid“t the -News'	:
....................................' ■	■	-■_“Say, fellows,-.who do you7think wiH’win the state .=
championship,“Purdue	J	"
Sta nd: from Cook.] “““ ““ ““ I::	;	’
• “VirgihiaJis - an.artist’s -model,; arid Jis: very, much in love ‘ with Robert,-the' artist.. whdnr. she.Lposes J for.. He; in J tura;ylqves« her, sb much' that'.he Tias) proposed'
to her, but owing to his financial condition, their marriage can not take place. ■ Sir Francis Mousant, a rich man, visits the studio intending to buy a picture. While there he sees Virginia the model, and falls desperately in love with her. Finding out that the artist will not be there the next afternoon, he decides to come and make Virginia flee with him.
Chapter IX.
“Now will you consent?” he shrieked at her. In the same voice Mary yells: “-Now will you be good!” at Willie when the latter is getting a licking for pulling her hair.	.
“Not if you kill me,” she answered haughtily and folding her arms she looked straight into the teeth of the villain. “I aint afraid of you,” she added. - He, purpling a deep purple with rage, rushed on out into the hall, snatched (as a Carrollite reaches for a bun) up a bucket of cocaine, pulled two dynamite sticks and a revolver out of his inside vest pocket, and placing all on the table he grabbed up the clock and set the alarm for 2 o’clock. .
{Continued in our next).
_ - _ ***
Rockne—Oh, yes, it’s by far the best team N. D.
ever had
Yes, I’m captain
’ Overheard in Dining Room from Co-eds.
Lalazwekiano onos pievz uneaywx wkrvvooezhshi lousyiouvra kota bluatorioes Nicholons Kane or Josephus Smith*.	.
- *** v
Malone in Commerical Lain Class—Grrr-r-r-r— Grrrr—r—r—r--Nrgrrrr-r—r—r—-. Hu! Woah!...........
What’s the question prof?”	... .
' ‘ , -
The Road to Yesterday—The Hill Street . ***
■	To His Nose.
■ . Sugar is sweet
’	. . .Violets,, blue; . .
, Roses are red ,
7-	And so are you.
— , ***
“Quick, Sommers, get a doctor! The suffering from curvatiite of - the heart,’ “Speed” Durbin a few nights ago.
Car.
man is shouted
‘	. Exam Echoes.
.The Aqua Regia lies between the lens and the outer coat of;the eye.	J
Molecules are small moving bodies invisible to the telescope.	.
’ One of the; parts of the.brain is known as the Pons Verdi. ::	’ r	<
*Mr-< positively Bassetts i-that .there is not an.
atom of:tru"^	ougHtic know: <
