THE CAMPUS SHOP QUALITY SALE
Suits, Topcoats and Sport Coats
25% DISCOUNT
Save one-fourth now on our fine quality topcoats, winter and year around weight suits and sport coats during the Campus Shop semi-annual quality sale of men’s clothing. Shop now for best selection.
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Take advantage of the savings during the Campus Shop Quality Sale and charge it the Campus Shop way . . . pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . and one-third in August. There is never a carrying charge. So, shop soon while selections are good . . . save one-fourth now . . . pay next summer.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS...
3
On Campus WMman
[Author of “Rally Round The Flag. Boys", “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
THE MANY LOVES OF THORWALD DOCKSTADER
When Thorwald Dockstader—sophomore, epicure, and sportsman—first took up smoking, he did not simply choose the first brand of cigarettes that came to hand. He did what any sophomore, epicure, and sportsman would do: he sampled several brands until he found the very best—a mild, rich, flavorful smoke —an endless source of comfort and satisfaction—a smoke that never palled, never failed to please—a smoke that age could not wither nor custom stale—a filter cigarette with an unfiltered taste—Marlboro, of course!
Similarly, when Thorwald took up girls, he did not simply select the first one who came along. He sampled. First he dated an English literature major named Elizabeth Barrett Schwartz, a wisp of a girl with large, luminous eyes and a soul that shimmered with a pale, unearthly beauty.Trippingly, trippingly, she walked with Thorwald upon the beach and sat with him behind a windward dune and listened to a conch shell and sighed sweetly and took out a little gold pencil and a little morocco notebook and wrote a little poem:
I will lie upon the shore, I will be a dreamer, I will feel the sea once more, Pounding on my femur.
Thorwald’s second date was with a physical education major named Peaches Gler-dower, a broth of a girl with a ready smile and a size 18
neck. She took Thorwald down to the cinder track where they did 100 laps to open the pores. Then they played four games of squash, six sets of tennis, 36 holes of golf, nine innings of one o’cat, six chukkers of lacrosse, and a mile and a quarter of leapfrog. Then they went ten rounds with eight ounce gloves and had heaping bowls of whey and exchanged a
Marlboro, however, is rich enough for anybody. It takes mighty good makin’s to give you unfiltered taste in a filter cigarette. That’s the flavor you get in the famous Marlboro recipe from Richmond, Virginia. You get a lot to like.
firm handshake and went home to their respective whirlpool baths.
Thorwald’s final date was with a golden-haired, creamy-browed, green-eyed, red-lipped, full-calved girl named Totsi Sigafoos. Totsi was not majoring in anything. As she often said, “Gee whillikers, what’s college for anyhow—to fill your head full of icky old facts, or to discover the shining essence that is YOU?”
Totsi started the evening with Thorwald at a luxurious restaurant where she consumed her own weight in Cornish rock hen. From there they went to a deluxe movie palace where Totsi had popcorn with butter. Then she had a bag of chocolate covered raisins—also with butter. Then they went to a costly ballroom and did the Twist till dawn, tipping the band every eight bars. Then they went to a Chinese restaurant where Totsi, unable to translate the menu, solved her problem by ordering one of everything. Then Thorwald took her to the women’s donn,
boosted her in the window, and went downtown to wait for the employment office to open.
While waiting, Thorwald thought over all of his girls and came to a sensible decision. “I think,” he said to himself, “that I will stick with Marlboros. I am not rich enough for girls.”
© 1962 Max
GLANCES
This week’s most popular topic of conversation, the Great Computer X Strike, is taken up by Jim Pottmyer in his “Arms and the Programmer” . . . page 7.
“News and Notes” echoes Mr. Pottmyer as it covers the University Theater production of Shaw’s Arms and the Man and the registration mix-up .. . page 9.
An interview with Rev. Joseph Papin concerning the recent funeral of Ivan Mestrovic in Yugoslavia is presented on . . . page 13.
Those who fly with the right wing will be interested in the article on the recent Goldwater visit . ,. . page 17.
The current thespian endeavor, Arms and the Man, is previewed on . . . page 18.
The much-maligned Blue Circle has its chance to answer back ... page 19.
Entertainment, in the form of movies and bridge, is discussed on . . . page 20.
The owners of the paintings currently on exhibit in the University Art Gallery are interviewed on . . . page 21.
A look at the coming basketball games is given on . . . page 25.
The sports world at Notre Dame “As We See It” on . . . page 26.
Eddie Schnurr, senior basketball star, is subject of the article on . . . page 26.
“Voice in the Crowd” features (as usual) a few special comments . . . page 27.
“Dialogue of the Deaf — The Case Against Latin,” by Thad Trenn, graduate philosophy student opts for the vernacular in the Mass . . . page 33.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second claxs mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate
** “ represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press, The subscrip* Hon rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts, to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
A MODEST PROPOSAL: There has, in these latter days, been a lot of talk about the possibility of establishing a tap room here on campus.
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
newi itaH—John Buckley, Vince Oe Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stopp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Whorton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
‘ features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. £.'McGowan, Brion Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Festa, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD
Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Woikerstorfer.
sports staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys, Bob Scheffing, Tom Kistner, Joe Ryan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky. photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Datum.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
Such ideas have worked out satisfactorily at Georgetown and Fordham Universities, and a similar plan is being considered at Villanova. Why not let the Senate busy itself with this project for a while? It would thus cause a minimum of bother for the Administration and give the Senate something that would occupy its energies to the end of the year.
Just think of the advantages. It’s really quite inconvenient to have to travel all the way into town on these barely above-zero winter nights, and the return trip is even more of a nuisance. And then there’s the profit involved. There is no reason why some of the gains from the struggling student’s beer money shouldn’t stay within the University community and be used, say, to finance the decennial re-gilding of the dome. Admittedly, the plan would decrease the opportunities for Student Government to deplore the local studenttavern keeper relations or to put places “off-limits” and call for boycotts. But perhaps our student leaders could run the whole project to keep them from the all-too-common frustrating experience of being eager young activists with nothing worthwhile to do. (Of course, this method of administration would probably cut rather deeply into the profits.)
But best of all, such a campus pub, if conceived and executed with imagination and taste, might become a center for informal discussion groups of mature students and faculty and be instrumental in the formation of valuable and rewarding relationships not possible in the more forbidding surroundings of the classroom or faculty office.
Minors would be no serious problem, given the rigid insistence on patrons’ display of University photo-identification cards.
Where could it be put? With the opening of the new library and the Stepan Student Center, and the resultant shifting about of various offices and organizations there ought to be some space available, perhaps on the third floor of the La Fortune Student Center.
Of course, every time this idea is mentioned, someone brings up the old rumor that it is “illegal on college campuses, etc.” We certainly make no claims to legal scholarship, but a cursory examination of Bums’ Indiana Statutes on alcoholic beverage control revealed no such explicit prohibition. And anyhow, the Morris Inn has a licence and it is on the campus. So there.
IBM, AND ALL THAT: We must admit that, despite the preliminary debacle, registration came off rather well. Perhaps the mechanics of getting students into the building could have been better handled, thus avoiding the possibility of pneumonia, frostbite, and diverse virus ailments. However, once one was in, the process itself was managed quite smoothly. Granting the danger of a wrongly inserted stack of IBM cards, it would seem that we must ascribe a moral victory of sorts to automation and the Office of Academic Affairs....
And speaking of Academic Affairs (we were, you know), a question has arisen among those whom in a little while we shall not see, concerning the present method of computing averages for graduating seniors. As it is now, only the first seven semesters are included in the computation to be used for graduation. It has been said (though no one knows by whom exactly) that this method tends to encourage, if not complete frivolity, at least a somewhat less than serious approach to academic life during the final semester of senior year. While the Scholastic is not coming out categorically against frivolity, we do feel that there are other disadvantages to the method which warrant a reconsideration of its excellence. Chief among these is the problem of those for whom the last semester could make the difference between graduating with or without honors, and this difference is of no little importance to them. With the recent (albeit somewhat pyrrhic) victory of the IBM at hand, it would seem that the process of recording the final grades for seniors could be speeded up, in order that this final semester might not be in vain.
DEFINITION OF THE WEEK: Parable: a teaching story (or example) for use in instructing intelligent, but uneducated peasants.
— W. d Z.
5
COVER
This week's cover is a tribute to that infallible, mechanical simplifier of registration—the IBM computer.	-
— Pat Saxe
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
New "wetter-than-water* action melts beard's toughness—in seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—in seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave...fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.
S M U LT o IM
REPERCUSSIONS
CAR RENTALS
My attention has been called by Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., dean of students, to an editorial in your publication of Dec. 15.
This editorial reprinted a letter of complaint concerning the availability z of rental cars for students’ weekend use, noting that car rental agencies . refuse to reserve cars for student use on weekends.
I cannot speak for any other carrental agencies that might be operating in this area, but as far as Hertz is concerned, this is completely wrong. We have always made, and continue to make, reservations for student use of rental cars on the weekend.
As a matter of practical fact, the weekend is the time when we have the most cars to rent and we would much rather have them used on Friday and Saturday rather than wait for Monday’s activity. Our policy, quite simply, is this: if a student is qualified by the University to drive a car and for as long as the supply of cars lasts, we take reservations and are most anxious and willing to do so.
I hope you will find it possible to print this leter as an answer to the erroneous impression received from your Dec. 15 editorial.
Norbert Gassensmith Manager
SIGN OF PROGRESS Editor:
Some person(s) in the Administration truly deserves recognition for a small but, nonetheless, important item which appeared in the first and second semester University of Notre Dame Official Schedule of Courses for 196162.1 am referring to its unique classification of theology on the cover page. Throughout history theology has been called some pretty strange things, even, for example, “Queen of Sciences” in the Middle Ages. It is really good to know that theology can be confidently placed in the paternal arms of its fellow disciplines: air science, military science, naval science, developmental reading program, [theology significantly goes here] and last, but not least, speech clinic. These species of learning do accurately belong, as one must admit, under the genus of “University Service Courses." This seems to me to represent an intelligent advance.
Honestly we must admit that though this is only a small matter, it is the most we can hope for. It (Continued on page 31)
The Scholastic
Arms and the Programmer
Having acquired a healthy distrust of digital computers during this past week, I decided to drop EE136 (Digital Comp I). I’m a second-semester senior anyway; and I’d be foolish to take an unnecessary course which might take time away from my more noble pursuits — such as regular visits to Chester’s.
Three days ago I wasn’t at all sure whether permission was required to drop a course. Fearing that going through “regular channels” would only end in my convincing the dean of my laziness or in my giving up the idea, I forswore all honest means of dropping this course.
Two hours of planning convinced me that I could outwit the administration. I began by typing my name, I.D. number, course sequence number, building and room code, height in inches, and weight on the top of an IBM card. I attached this card to a bulletin board and then challenged my roommate to a game of darts. I then embarked for the Computing Center with my punched card in hand.
When I arrived at the Center, I encountered an unforeseen obstacle. The door was locked. I pounded on the window; I shouted; I knocked on the door. Alas, I was acoustically isolated from the five humans nursing the machine. I finally gained admittance to the computer room when one of the employees left the room in order to throw away several hundred sheets of paper.
As this employee returned, I asked innocently, “Didn’t you just get those printed sheets out of that machine over there? Why are you throwing them away already.”
“Don’t be ridiculous. Do you actually think anyone could read as fast as that machine over there can print?”
“What good is the machine then?" I objected.
“Oh, we do have all that information punched on cards. Any computer of equal or larger size could read it easily.”
“But . . .”
“Sorry, I’ve got to throw out another armload of paper now. If we let this get out of hand, the room could fill up with paper. What if someone got confused then and hit a wrong switch? Do you realize how
much computer time costs per minute?” ;
I approached another employee. “Tabulating Department sent me over here with this card for a student who is dropping a course. Can you put this card with your others?” I handed him my spurious card.
After two minutes of swearing in English and an indeterminate number of Oriental languages, he punched a card correctly and dropped it in a card hopper with a number of similar cards. My purpose accomplished, I ventured a question: “Why are you using the computer for adds and drops after it failed on registration?”
“The computer did not fail. Human beings failed. Tabulating Department failed. After you yourself brought me a card that looked like it had been used for a dart board, you have the audacity to accuse this computer of a mistake. 14.162971 per cent of the students registering signed up for impossible schedules. Next year we’re going to feed in the courses being taught, the requirements for a degree, the courses a person has already had, a person’s IQ, age, College Board results, and health record. The computer will then assign majors, pick electives, and assign each person a class schedule. Can you imagine these human advisors letting 14.162971 per cent of the students sign up for impossible schedules?”
“Anything else planned?” I asked.
“Of course, when we get our new 1107, it would cost too much in computer time to read out all this information and then feed it back in at the end of the semester with grades. Some preliminary tests indicate that, by proper programming and feeding in professors’ grades for three years and results of psychological tests on students, we can already predict correctly 91.623756 per cent of all grades given at the Univeristy. As soon as we improve this to 95.000000 per cent or better, we will print out “pink slips” and grade reports every September for an entire year for every student.”
“Well, at the rate that the new Computer Building is being built, I won’t worry about this for a year or two.”
The little man was offended. “What’s wrong with our new Building? It will be ready in July,” he said.
by JAMES POTTMYER
I pointed out that I hadn’t seen a single girder between the new library and the Stadium.
“But how would you expect to? After all the Center will be in an air-conditioned bunker 200 feet below the Stadium. We can’t be too careful with the ‘brains’ of the University.”
“I fail to see why such precautions are necessary.”
“There's always the danger of sabotage during a football game by the visiting team.”
I was perplexed.
“See that fellow over there with the long hair who hasn’t had any sleep for a week. He’s been working constantly since last Friday on a football program. Our new invention will be as monumental as the invention of the forward pass. Each football player will have a radio receiver. The computer will receive information from certain tracking devices. It will interpret this, decide on the best possible action from each player, then transmit simulated brain waves which will be received by each player on his assigned frequency. The player will respond immediately. Of course, other schools will pick this up, but we will have a head-start and as good a computer as any Big Ten school. Our only fear is that Army might acquire the use of ‘Stretch’ which is a little faster than anything we’ll have.”
I noticed that the drop and add cards were being loaded into the card reader. I decided to wait around another minute to see if my plot for dropping EE136 would be successful.
The cards were read in. The machine began flashing red lights. It’s only moving part began making a grinding noise. Suddenly it stopped. One of the employees tried to start it. It rapidly typed out:
“MAY YOU BE FOLDED, SPINDLED, AND MUTILATED!!”
The magnitude of this curse, apparently the worst that the computer can utter, worried everyone for a while. Then the difficulty was discovered. The employees all laughed. “Can you imagine anyone actually thinking he could get away with dropping a course on digital computers?”
I resigned myself to the fact that, after this affront, the computer would, no doubt, flunk me.
February 9, 1962
7
RCA, builder of Tiros Satellite, needs young engineers today for spectacular achievements tomorrow
Tiros has broadened man’s scope of the heavens and earth. From an orbiting observation post high in the sky, it transmits a new wealth of meteorological information to earth-bound stations below.
Tiros is only one of many RCA successes in the wide, wide world of electronics. And as the horizons of electronics steadily expand, the need for more and more competent and creative engineers increases in direct ratio. That’s why RCA, now in the forefront of electronic progress, offers such tremendous opportunities for Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engineers, and Physicists.
if you already know what you want to do in engineering ... and are qualified, RCA can offer you direct assignments in your chosen field, and back you up with training and guidance by experienced engineers.
If you're not quite sure which direction you want to go ... RCA’s Design and Development Specialized Training will help to point the way. You’ll receive full engineering salary while you progress
An Equal Opportunity Employer
through engineering assignments that give you a clear picture of various fields you might choose.
Or, if you’d like to continue your graduate study ... RCA will pay full cost—tuition, fees and approved text—while you go to school or study two days a week, and work at RCA three days.
These are only a few of the many reasons for getting all the facts about a career with RCA. See your placement officer now about getting together with an RCA representative, for an interview on:
FEBRUARY 14, 1962
Or, send your resumi to:
College Relations
Radio Corporation of America
Cherry Hill, Camden 8, N.J.
The Most Trusted Name In Electronics
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
The Scholastic
' THEATER PRESENTS ARMS
Arms and the Man, the University Theatre’s second production of the year, will continue a two-weekend run in Washington Hall tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 and again next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at the same time.
The comedy which was written in 1894 by George Bernard Shaw was his first major success and is typical of the humor that has always marked his plays. In Arms and the Man Shaw pokes fun at the romantic idealism in love and war which was a characteristic of the late nineteenth-century Europe. Because of the passage of time the play has has lost much of its satirical humor, and now the great value of the play lies in its humorous treatment of the foibles of human character.
The Romantic idealist who wars for glory and fame is pitted against the professional soldier who fights with a determined necessity but only when he has to. They are thrown against each other both on the field of battle and in the affections of a young lady whom they both desire.
James Loula will play Sergius Sera-noff, the wartime Don Juan; and Frank Vitro in his first leading role plays Captain Bluntschli, the Swiss professional. Raina, the lady divided
February 9, 1962
between the two ideals, is played by Jan Ziherle from St. Mary’s. Richard Kavanaugh and Mary Armbruster play Raina’s parents; and Peggie Hess and Bruce Bigwood have the roles of the servants who know too much about their masters. Michael New-brand has the role of the Russian officer.
Prof. Fred W. Syburg is directing the play and A. Owen Klein is technical director. Tim Carroll designed the costumes.
Tickets may be purchased at the ticket office in Washington Hall any day from 4 to 6 p.m. and till 9 p.m. on the days of the performance. Prices for St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students are $1.00.
IBM FUMBLES REGISTRATION
Unions need not fear automation if Notre Dame's recent adventure in machine registration is any indication of its effectiveness.
The attempt to have an IBM machine do the work of registration failed in the small hours of Wednesday morning when some cards were placed in the machine incorrectly.
Over four thousand students had been registered when it was discovered that 38 students had been overlooked. The trouble occurred when
their 300 or so cards were placed in the machine upside down. The computer lost its tallies and “forgot” how many were in each section.
Leo Corbaci, assistant to Vice President for Academic Affairs, remarked that a tremendous effort by all concerned was responsible for the quick and efficient manner in which the emergency registration was handled. In other schools, when similiar mishaps occurred, lost time has been as much as 10 days. As of now, no class days will be added or vacations shortened to make up for the two lost in the mixup.
“It just wasn’t in the cards this time,” shrugged Corbaci. This method will probably be attempted again since it is a great time saver . . . when it works, he added. As soon as the actual registration is cleared up, the machine will be given another chance to show what it can do in a dummy registration. This will help to iron out the bugs in the system.
The computer is not as perfect as some thought it to be, for it allows for class conflicts. However, on class conflicts, the machine was to register the students for both classes, leaving the student the task of straightening matters up. It was found that about 14 per cent of the students had such conflicts.
According to Corbaci, the IBM method of registering gives each student a fair shake since it fills all sections gradually. Students at the end are not closed out of the “good” sections. Enterprising students such as those who snuck through windows in O’Shaughnessy Hall to register early would not get a chance to try out their talents.
ALUMNI CHOOSE CHIEF
The board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association has chosen William P. Mahoney, Jr., president of the 30,000-member alumni organization. An attorney from Phoenix, Mahoney succeeds Walter Fleming, Jr., of Dallas.
Mahoney, ’39, received his law degree from Notre Dame in 1940. He captained the 1938 track team and served as a track coach in 1938-1940. A World War II naval officer and father of seven children, Mahoney has participated in Arizona politics.
Maurice Carroll of St. Louis, Roger Huter of Louisville, and Harry Mehre of Atlanta, were elected vice-presidents of the Alumni Association and James Armstrong of South Bend was re-elected executive secretary.
9
WHO’S
WHO in ’62
William Beaver, president of the Finance Club, is a member of the Debate Team, Tau Kappa Delta, and the Academic Commission.
Chris Buckley, Student Body President, has held four student government offices. Last year, as junior class president, he was chairman of the Student Welfare Committee. He has a dean’s list average and is a Blue Circle member.
Nick Buoniconti was captain in the last of his three years on the varsity football team. He is also on the AB Business Forum.
Edmund Burke, a Bookman from Greenwich, Conn., is president of the Young Democrats and Associate Editor of the Juggler.
William Cashore, carrying a 5.5 average in AB pre-med, is president of the Wranglers and the Aesculap-iam Club, and a member of University Theatre.
David Castaldi, with a 5.5 average in Business Administration, is Commerce senator and Chairman of the Finance Forum. He received the Army Reserve Officer’s Merit Award.
Robert Cihak, from Yankton, S. Dak., is president of the Bookmen and Dome photographer.
John Clark has been in the Student Senate for three years, has a 4.6 Dean’s List average and is brigadier commander in Army ROTC.
Tom Colleton, a Dean’s List political science student has been a hall president and currently is Student Body vice president.
John Crowe, a member of the Blue Circle and the Herodotians, is President of the Glee Club and on the AROTC Battle Group Staff.
Joe Della Maria is chiefly known as Chairman of the Blue Circle.
John Donlon, in his fifth year in AB — Electrical Engineering, was co-captain of the 1961 fencing team and an All-American. He is presently assistant fencing coach.
Douglas Drane, from Jackson, Miss., is senator from Alumni, secretary of Tau Beta Pi and treasurer of Joint Engineering Council.
Thomas Eiff, NROTC company commander, is chairman of the Collegiate Jazz Festival and senior trip. He received the 1961 Sons of the American Revolution Award.
Jaime Fuster, from Puerto Rico, holds membership in Blue Circle, the National Honorary Political Science Academy and the International Commission. He is president of the Latin American Club.
Thomas Gettelfinger is editor of the Dome and a member of the Aes-culapians.
10
The Scholastic
Michael Giacinto is Monogram Club president and captain in his third year on the varsity track team. He has participated in varsity football two years.
Al Hamilton is Program and News Director for WSND and a member of Blue Circle, Herodotians, the Debate Team, and the International Relations Club.
Carl Houck, with a 5.4 average in Civil Engineering, is a NROTC company commander and has been president and treasurer of both ASCE and Navy Council.
Andy Keenan, carrying a 5.0 average in Electrical Engineering, is recording secretary of Tau Beta Pi, chairman of the Joint Engineering Council, and on the staff of the Tech Review.
Jack Killilea is a Dean’s List student majoring in pre-med. He is a member of the Blue Circle and treasurer of the Aesculapians.
Earl Linehan, the senior class president, has played varsity football and is a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
Pat McMahon, an Aeronautical
Engineer and member of Tau Beta Pi, is the head track manager.
Dick Meece, a finance major is feature editor of the Dome, chairman of the Washington Day Exercises, and officer of the Debate team, and moderator of the “Controversy” series on WSND.
Con Nolan has been a member of the Marching Band for three years and Concert Band for four years. For the current year he is the Band president.
Paul O’Bryan, a Dean’s List English major, is chairman of the ND unit of the NFCCS and had been a member of the WSND news department for three years.
Dan Omilianowski is a chemistry major and has won the Inland Steel-Ryerson Merit Scholarship. On the Dome staff for three years, he is assistant chairman of the 1962 Science Open House.
Bill Otten, an Economics major in the AB college is academic commissioner of the senior class and a member of the Student Government Academic Commission.
J. T. Philips is the Station Manager of WSND and a Platoon Leader in NROTC.
James Pottmyer received the Outstanding Engineer Award'as a sophomore and is a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. He is book review editor on the Tech Review.
Mike Sanderson, a member of the Blue Circle, is assistant chairman of the Collegiate Jazz Festival, a regional MSA delegate and Mardi Gras Concert chairman.
Harold Schaefgen holds a 5.448 average in Electrical Engineering and is president of Tau Beta Pi. Holder of a General Motors Scholarship for three years, he has elso been a varsity fencer for the same length of time.
Gary Townsend is an AB pre-med with a 5.58 average. He is program director of WSND’s FM station, chairman of the Student Government Travel Commission, and a member of the Bookmen.
Greg Weismantel heads the Student Government Social Commission and the Senior Ball committee. He has also been Junior Prom chairman, Victory Dance chairman, and Executive chairman of the 1961 Mardi Gras.
(Continued on page 14)
PATRIOT of the YEAR: BOB HOPE
Bob Hope has been announced as the winner of the ninth annual Patriotism Award of the Senior Class. In making the announcement, Washington Day Exercises general chairman Dick Meece pointed out that better than 85% of the seniors living on-campus voted in the November election, and that Hope was the overwhelming choice of the class.
While the name Bob Hope is synonymous with entertainment and good humor, Hope is also known as a goodwill ambassador of America who has always sacrificed himself and given unselfishly of his personal time and talents to bring happiness to those serving their country in distant lands. His work in entertaining American troops during the Second World War is almost legendary.
Since the end of the war Hope has spent each Christmas entertaining our troops at some foreign base, bringing with him many top names in the entertainment world.
In addition to his work with the Armed Forces, Hope has also been associated with numerous philanthropic activities. He is noted for his fulfillment of the higher purpose of a humorist — conscientious criticism of current life and government.
Because of his many professional .committments, no definite date has ■.been set for Hope's appearance here. '! Hope will speak to the student body in the Field House. He will also be a guest of the University at a banquet with Administration officials and student leaders. At the ceremonies, Hope
will be presented with a plaque and citation. In addition, the Senior Class will present an American flag to the University to be flown at Commencement Exercises on June 3.
The “Patriot of the Year” Award, won last year by Admiral Hyman C. Rickover, was established in 1954 as part of the annual Washington Day Exercises held at the University since their institution by the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, founder of Notre Dame. The award is presented each year to an American who has contributed to his country’s welfare in his own particular capacity and who “exemplifies the American ideals of justice, personal integrity, and service to country.”
BOB HOPE
NEW PLAN FOR STAY HALL
RESIDENCE
A student-administration committee, working closely with Emerit Moore, director of student accounts, has produced a practical proposal to implement Stay Hall Residence at Notre Dame.
The slim margin of approval in the recent student referendum on Stay Hall Residence demonstrates the importance for careful construction of a workable plan. Many who opposed the plan may merely have been opposed to one of the plans previously mentioned.
The present plan, intended only to apply for two or three years, consists essentially of a “flow diagram” for the main body of moving students. When, after a few years, the majority of students are in rooms which they are content to keep, this plan will oe unnecessary; other procedures will be used to accommodate the relatively few room changes. But, until that time, the following plan will serve to “guide traffic.”
In its simplest form, the plan can be stated this way: juniors and sophomores may either stay in their present room or move up (into a hall now containing a higher class than their own). Freshman must move to any upperclass halt This means that present juniors may keep their present room or move to a senior hall. Sophs have a choice of their own room or any junior or senior hall. Freshmen may move to any available room in a soph, junior, (Continued on page 30)
SUMMER JOBS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS
MARITIME CRUISES
★ cabin boys * deck hands
★	waiters	★ waitresses
★	recreation	★ others
GOVERNMENT JOBS
* national parks
* agriculture
★ commerce	★ science
★ forestry	★ engineering
FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS ONLY, APPLY NOW FOR ADDRESSES & INFO. SEND YOUR NAME, ADDRESS, AND $1.00 TO COLLEGE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, P.O. BOX 243, HARTSDALE, N.Y.
The Scholastic
FERMENT IN YUGOSLAVIA
placement in St. Mark’s Church in Zagreb.
However, Archbishop Seper, successor to Cardinal Stepinac, wired from Rome to have a pontifical mass read for Mestrovic in the Church. The posted funeral notice was immediately removed by state policemen.
Yugoslav officials sent the body on to Drnis near Otavice where Fr. Papin and Bishop Franic joined Matthew and Marica Mestrovic for the burial service. The body was then taken to the family mausoleum just outside Otavice.
Three thousand peasants awaited the arrival of the body, and on January 24, 1962, Ivan Mestrovic was interred. In the late afternoon Bishop Franic came forward to give a last invocation. He began, “Receive, O Lord, a great sculptor, Christian, and Croatian....” The Communist officials interrupted. Shouting at the bishop, “You criminal, you thief, you bandit,”
the Communists made a bold attempt to disrupt the service; the peasants responded, “Why did you come?” A few days later two peasants were in jail.
Fr. Papin says of Ivan Mestrovic: “He was the symbolic founder of his country. His artistic works had worldwide acceptance and approval. At Split, Croatia, his works dominate the; face of the city. He was a great sculptor and a great man.”
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Ivan Mestrovic, the internationally celebrated resident sculptor at Notre Dame, died Jan. 16, at the age of 78. This was his seventh year at the University.
The Croatian-bom artist was regarded as an outstanding sculptor of religious subjects. Among his works is the seven-ton “Pieta" which was exhibited at New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art for several years before being placed in Sacred Heart Church on campus.
As a tribute to his artistry, Mestrovic was awarded the Gold Medal for Sculpture of the National Institute of Arts and Letters in 1956, and the Fine Arts Medal of the American Institute of Architects in 1955. He held honorary degrees from several universities including Notre Dame, Columbia, Marquette, and Colgate.
His early exhibitions marked Mestrovic as a leading Croatian nationalist. He fled to Italy at the outbreak of World War I when nationalists were threatened with arrest. Imprisoned by Hitler’s puppet government in World War H, he was released as a result of Vatican intervention and spent the latter part of the war in Switzerland. He became an American citizen in 1954.
After a Jan. 19 service at Notre Dame, Mestrovic’s body was sent to his native Otavice, Yugoslavia, for burial. Matthew and Marica Mestrovic, his son and daughter, and Father Papin of Notre Dame accompanied the remains and encountered difficulties with Yugoslav officials. The body was not allowed
ENGINEERS
it’s
time
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. -------INTERVIEWS’----------
TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 27 & 28, 1962
We need BS and MS ENGINEERING and SCIENCE majors for RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT	PRODUCT DESIGN
PRODUCT SERVICE	SALES PROMOTION
IF YOU WANT—
opportunity to build your future by working hard—by contributing something extra—by doing a little more than is expected ...
Sign up today at your PLACEMENT OFFICE to discuss employment with our representative
We or* on equal opportunities employer
February 9, 1962
13
WANTED!
One position open on Scholastic business staff for off-campus student living near downtown area. See or call:
Jay Ward — 304 Dillon, Ext 632
NABICHT CAFETERIA
★
1415 Lincolnway West
AAA Approved Cafeteria ★
FREE PARKING
Who's Who
(Continued from page 11)
Tom Weiss is editor-in-chief of the Scholastic and holds a 4.8 average while majoring in political science. He was previously news editor of the Scholastic.
DOME PORTRAITS
Juniors and second semester law students are urged to make appointments for their portraits in the 1962 DOME. Hours are from nine to five, Monday through Friday, in room 2C of the Student Center.
SLOAN BACKS RESEARCH
The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation has awarded a two-year unrestricted research grant to Dr. Sperry E. Darden, assistant professor in Notre Dame’s Department of Physics. Dr. Darden will use his grant to conduct neutron polarization experiments as part of a project dealing with low energy nuclear physics.
Dr. Darden’s grant was one of eighty-three such fellowships totaling more than $1,300,000. The Sloan Foundation has been awarding the stipends since 1955 to “young and highly creative scientists” to allow them complete freedom in their research. Dr. Louis Pierce, assistant professor of chemistry, received a similar fellowship last year.
SPACE, MISSILE & JET PROJECTS AT DOUGLAS have created outstanding career opportunities for SCIENTISTS and ENGINEERS B.S. degrees or better
Assignments include the following areas:
Servo-Mechanisms—relating to all types of control problems Electronic Systems-relating to all types of guidance, detection, control and communications Propulsion — relating to fluidmechanics, thermodynamics, dynamics, internal aerodynamics Environmental —relating to air conditioning, pressurization and oxygen systems
Human Factors —analysis of environment affecting pilot and space crews, design of cockpit consoles, instrument panels and pilot equipment
Heat Transfer—relating to missile and space vehicle structures Structures —relating to cyclic loads, temperature effects, and the investigation of new materials, methods, products, etc.
Aerodynamics—relating to wind tunnel, research, stability and control
Solid State Physics—relating to metal surfaces and fatigue
Space vehicle and weapon system studies—of all types, involving a vast range of scientific and engineering skills
Get full information at INDIVIDUAL ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS with a Douglas representative
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19
We urge you fo make an appointment through Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C. Director, Placement Bureau. If you cannot, please write to_
S. A. Amestoy, Staff Assistant to VP Engineering DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY, INC. 3000 Ocean Park Blvd., Santa Monica, California
An equal opportunity employer
14
The Scholastic
0 What’s your © MEN: do you smoke favorite	an occasional pipe
kind of date?	as well as cigarettes?
□ walk&tafk □ a few brews with friends	□ Yes □ No	S;S
Expect more, get more, from L&M j
It’s the rich-flavor leaf among L&M's choice tobaccos that gives you MORE BODY in the blend, MORE FLAVOR in the smoke, MORE TASTE through the filter. So get Lots More from filter smoking with L&M.
HERE’S HOW 1029 STUDENTS AT 100 COLLEGES VOTED!
%W
%9K
°NQ
%OZ“"spuajjj sMajq ms j e
%0?----- XpedasnouQ
%82....W 3 X|BM %Z£‘...----- aouep
.........
%9........jnqpvoBW
%9.......tajeMpiog
..... U0SU3A31S
%ZI...... J3M0t|U3S!J
%12....... Xpauuax

L&M’s the filter cigarette for people who really like to smoke I ..................  -S-..A......
AUTOMATIC LANGUAGE TRANSLATION
ojiHoro nojia fliw
From the same field the berry
C’est bonnet blanc et blanc bonnet
It is hat white and white hat
Six of one, half a dozen of the other
If computers process data in mathematical terms, how can they be instructed to handle information and applications that are not essentially arithmetic? IBM, in cooperation with the U.S. Air Force, is finding some answers through research in automatic language translation systems.
Machinetranslation of idioms,forexample.isteaching us a great deal about information processing. An idiomatic phrase may have a meaning quite different from the sum of its individual words, and a system that merely matches these words won’t come close to translating it. One solution is an “expanded electronic dictionary” that contains idioms and grammatical instructions as well as single words. Work is now under way to clarify meaning further by automatic syntactical analysis.
Systems research such as this requires its own kind
oftranslation—the translation of an idea into a working system. For people with this ability, who like to travel beyond the boundaries of their specialized areas, IBM offers unusual opportunity. If you’re interested in any of the fields in which IBM is making important advances—semiconductors, microwaves, magnetics, superconductivity—and your major is in engineering or one of the sciences, you are invited to talk with the IBM representative. He will be interviewing on your campus this year. Your placement office can make an appointment. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. Write, outlining your background and interests, to: Mgr. of Technical Employment, Dept. 898, IBM Corporation, 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a dynamic growth company
IBM will interview March 1.
by T. J. WEISS
Political observers in recent years have noticed a growing flock of clouds on the distant right of the political horizon. However, aside from a few indistinct and impotent rumblings like Young Americans for Freedom and the National Review, this new flock has yet to produce any significant political storms. But if only out of default, for lack of a true novus dux, it appears that Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona may be the only possibility for seeding the political skies to produce the reign of the right.
Last Tuesday night Notre Dame saw two very different faces of Senator Goldwater. Early in the evening, at the Indiana Club, Senator Goldwater addressed a crowd of some 800 at a banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame Young Republicans and attended both by students and South Bend right-wingers. Then, escorted by a screaming squad of Studebaker police cars, he was rushed to the Engineering Auditorium where he delivered a speech to a standingroom-only crowd of students.
At the Indiana Club banquet, listeners heard the old familiar Goldwater they have come to expect, the Goldwater that Herblock and Bill Mauldin caricature so elegantly in the Washington Post and St. Louis Post~Dispatch. After apologizing for not having prepared his speech better, Goldwater took his point of departure in the observation that youth is now reacting against the predominance of predominance of New-Deal liberal ideas in the academic world. With characteristic explicitness he pointed to what he claimed to be the trouble with “liberals”: that they consider man only as a “belly to be filled”; filled, that is, through welfare legislation. The conclusion: welfare measures are undesirable because charity is better. Then, too, he opined, power corrupts and federal Power corrupts absolutely. So, if charity or private cooperation can’t do the job, then let’s have (less corruptible?) local government taking care of the citizen’s needs.
February 9, 1962
Goldwater’s beliefs was conspicuously absent.
It is probably too much to expect nowadays that politicians should write their own speeches, yet there was probably no need to make it quite so obvious as all this. Several times stumbling strangely over words, the Senator displayed a heretofore very well-concealed streak of erudition in his make-up. With eyes closed, it wasn’t too hard to imagine that we were hearing readings from Russell Kirk, as Arizona’s pride rattled off, with a straight face, quotations from Cardinal Manning, Orestes Brownson, G. K. Chesterton and Edmund Burke, all fitting together to make the point that the struggle between Communism and the West is ultimately expressible in theological terms. That is, American institutions embody, in some measure, a representation of a belief in “the transcendent”; whereas, the Communists regard man only as a thing with a “belly to be filled” (the same description applied earlier in the evening to the contemporary liberal). Even in the question period following the speech, Senator Goldwater did his best to avoid any discussion of his domestic policies that might offend the sensitive ears of academia.
Obviously, the man has serious intentions. He has apparently been doing much homework; he spouted details and statistics on various subjects, including Cuban arms figures estimates and numbers of NDEA fellowships awarded for study of Buddhism. But whether he can successfully be the Moses of modem conservatism is extremely doubtful. He is not a moving orator, not a great genius, not a great man. The role is too much for him.
The good Senator came out (and no one can quarrel with him here) four-square for love among men. And in his view, the big obstacle in the way of this love today is dirty old federal power. Says this son of the Southwest, “human nature never changes”; thus we can’t legislate love.
A good point, and certainly one well worth remembering. But as one Chicago paper recently observed, the Senator’s skill with the scalpel greatly exceeds his ability with the sutures. In his own fumbling way, he has sensed one of the biggest problems facing our society: how to deal with great numbers of men as persons rather than as faceless objects. Yet his facile criticisms of the bureaucratic apparatus characteristic not only of government but of all elements of modem society goes far wide of the mark. For the plain fact is that the “given" of contemporary society does not permit men to deal with one another as persons on anything approaching a large scale. The reduction of men to numbers is indeed unfortunate, but it is not a problem that will be solved by refusing to submit to the necessary consequences of the conditions that produced it. Thus, it is only in this sense that Goldwater can validly be accused of wanting to “turn back the clock” to centuries when personal relations were an integral part of the existing order of things.
Goldwater, or anyone else in the public eye for that matter, has yet to make a viable case for the assertion that social meliorism expressed in legislative action is itself in necessary opposition to the freedom which the Senator wants so passionately to preserve, and which he defined one hour later on campus as the freedom of moral choice.
But it was a different Goldwater who spoke in the Engineering Auditorium that evening. This Goldwater was prepared, not to say canned, with consummate skill and a keen eye toward the composition of the audience. In it, any and all reference to the domestic economic aspects of
Senator Goldwater
17
PREVIEW
PLAY
George Bernard Shaw gives Arms and the Man the epithet of “a pleasant play,” and a pleasanter play would hardly be possible. Arms and the Man is more than a pleasant play; it is simply a delight. It is as palatable and flavorful as the chocolate creams given to the central character.
It has often been postulated that Shaw replaced the traditional conflict between the antagonist and protagonist of a play and the audience. In Arms and the Man, however, relations between the play and the audience seem entirely amicable and indeed pleasant, a situation not typical of Shaw’s plays. Perhaps the play is so charming and easy to take because it is dealing with and dissecting ideas that are not nearly as prevalent nor widely accepted as they were when the play was first copyrighted in 1898. Shaw is examining here the romantic conceits and auras surrounding warfare principally, and also love and heroism, and what constitutes a gentleman. It is hard, as it always is with Shaw at his best, to determine exactly what he is saying about these notions, but it is clear, or rather can be un-
18
mistakablyfelt, that he has said something important.
Romantic visions of war were certainly much more popular at the turn of the century, a period much closer in feeling to the romantic period in literature. The memory of two world wars and numerous other sanguine campaigns has made modem audiences quite ready to accept any work that destroys or disparages a romantic outlook on war and kindred enterprises. However an idealistic view of war is not really treated severely by Shaw.
Sergius Saranoff, the dashing and suave major, is shown to be a bit of a buffoon, a humbug, and a blackguard, and his heroism is shown to be mere stupidity. He doesn’t even believe in most of what he tries to stand for, such as the “higher love” between a man and a woman. Blunt-schli, the Swiss mercenary, is so improbably practical that he carries grub instead of ammunition. His unbelievably down-to-earth shopkeeper’s mind thinks of things that wouldn’t even occur to a “gentleman.” However Bluntschli says he has remained a
professional soldier and is lucky to be alive because he is an incurable romantic. The recent battle had been decided not by practical seasoned pro- . fessionals, but by rash, impassioned young hotheads led by Sergius, who stupidly and impulsively led a cavalry charge against machine guns , but who won anyway because the guns had improper ammunition.
The truth that Shaw is getting at is certainly not one-sided in favor of steadfast idealism or gross practicality and realism. Both have a grasp > on reality and the most practical people are perhaps the most romantic.
There is throughout, as in other of Shaw’s plays, the Wordsworthian overtone. The idealists and romantics are compared with or referred to as children or infants. They don’t suffer from this comparison because children in the Wordsworthian scheme come “trailing clouds of glory” and are closer to the transcendent reality than adults. And Bluntschli, the person who seems to have the most sensible view of life, love, and war is an admitted romantic.
The play, however, is not primarily one of ideas, a thought play. Indeed, Shaw is often accused of being shallow and superficial. The play seems concerned not with doctrine but with aesthetic entertainment and even more with pure fun.
The story is set in Bulgaria in 1885. Western civilization has only recently arrived, which is a great source of humor. The Bulgarians, under Prussian officers, have routed the Serbs, under Austrian commanders, the de-ciding charge having been led by Sergius Saranoff. The play gets a fast start when the Swiss mercenary Bluntschli, in the hire of the Serbs, crashes into the bedchamber of Raina Petkoff, the fiancee of Sergius, who is felling the Bulgarian army. Raina comforts him and gives him chocolate creams to eat. She and her mother Catherine Petkoff allow him to sleep there and then slip him out in the overcoat of Major Paul Petkoff., Raina’s father, Catherine’s husband and one of the first citizens of Bulgaria. (He can trace his family back twenty years.) Raina gives Bluntschli a picture of herself — to her chocolate cream soldier as a souvenir.
Sergius and the bumbling Petkoff return heroes, but Sergius decides to renounce his commission because of his blunder that won the battle. As soon as Raina’s back is turned, Sergius forgets the higher love ana makes a play for the servant gW Louka whom he secretly loves and
(Continued on page 22)
The Scholastic
A
PRO-BLUE
PROGRAM
by JOE DELLA MARIA
Last week, the announcement was made that applications are now being accepted for membership in the Blue Circle Honor Society. I am taking this opportunity to describe the nature and work of our organization to all Notre Dame students. Since this article will also discuss the experiences and opportunities of membership in the Circle, I hope to encourage the application of all interested students.
The ultimate concern of the mem-. bers of the Blue Circle is to serve the University. This is not to say that it is the handmaid of the administration or the servant of the students. It means that its members dedicate themselves to the University as a whole — its students, faculty and administration as well as the ideals and principles that bind them together in a unity of purpose. Each Circle committee plans and executes its activities with the understanding that in some real way, however small, they contribute to the welfare of the entire University. Through the service of its members to the ideals and objectives of the University, the Blue Circle strives to become the personification of those ideals and objectives.
Most of the functions of the Blue Circle are concerned directly with the' development of the ideals and objectives of the University. Of these freshman orientation is the most important and the most rewarding. It is the privilege and duty of every Circle member to introduce incoming students to Notre Dame and to its spirit of dedication and charity. In conjunction with the work done during Orientation Week, the Circle’s Leadership Training Committee has exPanded its program to cover both semesters. This fall’s discussion concerned hall life and student govern-ment. It will be complemented this spring by a program discussing the nature of a university education and leadership in the university commu-
Since its founding in 1923, the February 9, 1962
Circle has greatly expanded the scope of its activities to cover all realms of Notre Dame spirit. The Circle’s original purpose, to promote student athletic spirit, still remains an integral part of its present purpose. Each year the Student Trip Committee arranges transportation, accommodations, and entertainment for over five hundred students who wish to see the Irish play in Pittsburgh, Baltimore, or Philadelphia. On the campus, the Pep Rally Committee conducts rallies for each home game, as well as several impromptu gatherings at the Circle and at practice field.
Working in another realm of student life, the Spiritual Committee assists the University Chaplain in such functions as October Rosary Devotions and May Devotions. Other work includes helping the Senior Class with the Lenten Marriage Institute.
Several Circle committees attempt to bring the Notre Dame spirit to visitors to the campus and to residents of South Bend. Already this year, over a thousand people have been taken on Circle tours of the campus. From the time of their arrival until their departure the distinguished guests of the University at commencement exercises are escorted by Circle men. The duties of ushering at Washington Hall are, to a lesser extent, another service to guests of Notre Dame.
Some Circle committees are organized to provide opportunities for Notre Dame students to perform acts of charity in the South Bend area. This Christmas we sent men to the crippled children’s hospital, the old folk’s home, the day nursery, and the orphanage. We are planning another function of this nature in the spring,
BLUE CIRCLE OFFICERS
a “help week” that will send over 150 students to do the manual labor that is necessary at these institutions.
The men who organize the Christmas caroling party provide an opportunity for students to bring the Christmas spirit to South Bend residents. In addition, the night of caroling provides a welcome break from pre-Christmas term papers and exams.
Some committees in the Blue Circle concern themselves with providing service directly to the student body. There is a standing committee to assist the Student’s Infirmary with the administration of a campus-wide vaccine program any time it is needed. Other direct services include the supervision of campus elections and the co-ordination of those members of the junior class who select the nominees for Who’s Who.
It would be dishonest to claim that the objectives of those committees are the only reason we have for initiating them. There is a world of experience that accompanies membership in the Circle — experiences of friendship and responsibility and social life. No description of our nature would be complete without a mention of this aspect of Circle membership.
It should be clear that membership on each committee involves great responsibilities. Many have budgets for thousands of dollars, and the others are responsible for the reputation of the University itself, or at least for the impression it gives its visitors. However, the most important experience entailed with membership in the Blue Circle is that of association. It is certainly a fraternal organization. But this “fraternity” is not something legislated (Continued on page 22)
19

Of Special Interest. The Speech and Drama departments on both sides of the Dixie have gone hog wild this week and have each prepared “a little something” to keep the campus culture addict glued to the balcony rail. Ladies first: The Saint Mary’s drama staff has worked long and hard to produce a Shakespearean musical. Not an easy thing to do. The words and the music are entirely original . . . the plot remains the same to protect the innocent. Much Ado About Nothing is the particular take-off, though a tuck has been taken here and a seam adjusted there to reduce that comedy to a more reasonable duration of about two hours. This, I would like to emphasize, is what colleges should be doing all across this scientifically oriented nation of ours. It is a step in the right direction, so to speak; an example. And you might be there to witness a milestone. The originality isn’t the only feature: I would say that an experienced cast is its forte, and will, after all, make or break it. It’s too early for me to criticize. That I’ll leave to you. But it is shaping up very nicely and will be tremendous entertainment Myrna Walker and Bonnie Piedmo have the female leads, and the males are portrayed by Bill Barth, Mike Ritschel, and Tony Bill. Admission is $1.50 for students. On the nights of Feb. 14 thru 18. For those who are proud and refuse to be seen on the SMC campus, rumor has it that this production will be honored by TV coverage in a prime time spot in the very near future. You can keep your head high . . . and still see it ... on the video.
Then, almost concurrently, on our side of the highway the theater fanatic has the option of tested drama. Arms and the Man by G.B. Shaw is here. And it will run in Washington Hall (no movies) on this weekend and next: February 9-10, 15-16-17. Admission for students is $.75 or $1.00, and the box office will be open everyday at four o’clock in Washington Halt Little needs to be said about the quality of the playwright. Prof. Syburg is the director and, remembering Othello from last year, the direction is in good hands. The cast should be capable . . . they’ve appeared enough on the ND stage, and that must be an indication. Mary Armbruster plays Mrs. Petkoff; Dick Kavanaugh, Major Petkoff; and Jan Ziherle, their daughter Raina. Frank Vetro and Jim Loula also have leading roles. Hearsay deems it excellent and my advice is not to miss it.
Any lighter form of on-stage entertainment will have to be found at the Morris Civic Auditorium. Genevieve, the Jack Paar pixie (ahhh, Jacques, daaaarlingg), and “some chorale groups,” will present From Paris with Love tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. Seats are on sale at the box office and the cost ranges from $1.50 to $4. On the heavy side, the next day, Sunday, finds Theodore Lettvin, concert pianist, performing with the South Bend Symphony, at four p.m. Tickets from $1.50 to $3.00 will be sold at the door. Dick Gregory, the Negro comedian, will take his unbiased stand on the same stage Tuesday night. Prices are the same as Genevieve’s. You can see him here on campus in May for cheaper!
The Avon. One of Italy’s most realistic is to be held over on the Avon’s agenda for another week. I think that’s what they called it It is more like a conglomeration of good acting trapped in the quicksand of a directionless story. And, what is worse, the English dubbing isn’t well done and there is nothing more irritating than uncoordinated sounds and lips. But don’t sell it short
(Continued on page 22)
Well, here I am back again after , a rather long leave of absence from this literary gem. Actually, I was simply too pot. ... eh, pressed to make the deadline. Anyway, we have an interesting column for you sports fans outside. How ’bout that?
Modem bridge is permeated by a new philosophy — a sharp departure from that of whist, its venerable ancestor — demonstrates the game to be the unique challenge that it is: In whist, which the bidding, when there is any, is natural; you simply indicate your strength by bidding as high as you dare. We see this principle of so-called natural bidding carried through the early systems even to the present Goren system. However, the modem bridge theoreticians, led by Stone, Roth, Sheinwold, Kaplan, Albarran, and the Italian champions, have thrown this idea aside and assess a bid on its utility and frequency of use rather than its so-called natural significance. The unusual notrump overcall is a case in point, and of you bear with me, I think that you will see what I am trying to say.
In America, the unusual no-trump really got its start when Roth and Stone, the famous American experts, were playing in a tournament several years ago. Roth held a hand highly distributional, but weak in high cards, and passed the hand. When one of the opponents opened and his partner responded, Roth found his two suits. * (Continued on page 23)

THE FIRST OF THREE
The Law School and the Jacques Maritain Center will present a lecture “Religious Establishment in England — Canterbury ond Rome 596-1500" by Robert E. Rodes, Wednesday at 8:00 p.m. in the Rockne Lounge.
20
The Scholastic
Mrs. James Hackett, Mr. Boleslaw Szczesniak, Mr. Stanley Sessler, Sonny Goerner, Mr. Edward Goerner, and Mrs. Devere T. Plunkett
Chicago
Although no one was turned away at the door from last Saturday’s faculty preview of the University Gallery's Chicago Collectors' Exhibition, its coordinators, the Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., and John Howett, consider both the preview and the present exhibition substantial successes. It is the first time that a group of leading Chicago Collectors have contributed to an exhibition here, and the contributions themselves are generally quite tasteful and varied. The collection includes early Oriental bronzes and Jacobsens, Miervald, and Champaigne portraits, with, also, a Dubuffet and two Renoirs.
The contributors themselves, usually notoriously available at special showings of this sort, were little in evidence Saturday. Only three of the thirteen showed up for the tea which began at three o’clock. However,
Collectors:
in
SCHOLASTIC Interviewer Tom Cullen, Donor John U. Nef, Gallery Director John Howett.
Person
among them, the three provided more than enough color for the rest and proved quite as interesting as their contributions. In an introduction to the guide printed by the Gallery for the convenience of visitors to the collection, Earle Ludgin (contributor of three Tattners) noted that “Collecting is indeed highly personal, knowing no rules, or disregarding them, and recognizing few boundaries of time or place.” One of his more vociferous fellow contributors proved his statement quite true with a poorly veiled impatience for the taste of some of the other contributors represented in the exhibition.
Perhaps the highlight of the exhibition and certainly one of the most popular paintings Saturday was the oil by Andre Derain entitled Bust of a Woman. Thought by many to be Derain’s finest, it brings all the best of modem art to a warm and compassionate treatment not of a woman but of womanhood. It was loaned, along with two Dufys {Longchamps and The Circus) to the exhibition by John U. Nef, professor of social thought at the University of Chicago.
Prof. Nef, a very warm and compassionate man himself, when asked about his contribution to the exhibition, admitted that the Derain was certainly his favorite and described Dufy as a “decorator” with a fresh and childlike vision. As a young student in the Paris of the 1920’s, Nef befriended three artists who had received only a measure of the acceptance and popularity the art world was to give them. The three were, Matisse, Raoul Dufy, and Andre Derain. At that time, Nef made a somewhat questionable (at that time) investment when he purchased half a dozen of Derain’s oils and a number of Dufy’s. Three of these classics, including “Bust,” are now on exhibition in the University Galleries.
Another very interesting contribution is the collection of three Rattner oils provided for the exhibition by Mr. and Mrs. Earle Ludgin. Rattner, a resident artist at Wisconsin University, derives strongly from the style of Rouault and is noted for his striking portrayal of religious subjects. Miscellaneous highlights include La Vie Des Sous-Sols (oil, 1951) by Jean Dubuffet, an untitled bronze by Alberto Giacometti (early 1950’s) and Renoir’s Enfants Jouant a la Balle (lithograph). If good art and proper presentation produce successful exhibitions, the Gallery’s hope for the show should be realized. But nearing the end of the Saturday afternoon reception, one of the tea hostesses sighed with an unconscious candor, “There’s still plenty of coffee and cake here if you’re hungry.” — Tom Cullen
21
9, 1962
'Play'
(Continued from page 18) who is engaged to the other servant Nicola. Bluntschli then comes back to return the overcoat, and in a hilarious scene, his presence is discovered by Sergius and Petkoff who made his acquaintance at the truce proceedings. Bluntschli stays to help Sergius and Petkoff write orders and, through the confusion over the picture and the missing overcoat, the truth comes out that Raina and her mother sheltered Bluntschli during the battle. Sergius discovers, through Louka, Raina’s attraction for Bluntschli and admits his love for Louka. Nicola, the servant to whom Louka is engaged, acquiesces in a gesture of great idealism or great opportunism (which may be for Shaw the same), for now when he opens his shop he can count on the good will of a new member of the nobility, Sergius’ wife Louka. Bluntschli then affiances Raina and the romantic quadrangle is resolved in the scrambling turn-about Shavian fashion, amid great and rollicking dialogue. Bluntschli then leaves temporarily to take care of the vast estate of his lately deceased father.
The play leaves the audience with the distinct feeling that Shaw has said something, but what he has said certainly can’t be put into propositions. The title, Arms and the Man, has the familiar ring of Virgil’s “arma virum-que cano,” but no more unlikely soldier than Bluntschli could be found to be likened to Aeneas the True. Perhaps in harking back to and reworking the old story of the warrior cast on strange shores, Shaw is suggesting that the real “Aeneas” is something closer to Bluntschli, but not incompatible with Sergius. Even Sergius is not a consummate fraud and really has a pretty clear idea of what he really is.
The great comedy of the play operates independently of reflection and meditation, though, as when Petkoff takes his wife to review the troops because they will be more afraid of her than him. Arms and the Man can hardly fail to please any theater-goer whether he is looking for serious thought, great fun, or just entertainment
The cast should have little trouble in bringing off this first-rate play in first-rate style. Arms and the Man is Shaw at his best and should be the University Theater at its best A fine play, and certainly a must for anyone in Army R.O.T.C.
— Carl Wiedemann
22
'In Town'
(Continued from page 20)
Two Women concerns World War II Italy and depicts the transformation of a mother and daughter as a result of the war’s ravages. It implicates the liberating troops in such a way as to make a conclusion impossible. Vittorio De Sica directs it. Sophia Loren and Elanora Brown are the women. Jean Paul Belmondo and Raf Vallone are two of mama’s lovers — but out of the necessity of war which, the movies would have us believe, somehow changes the value of morality. A good foreign film — but doesn’t rank with La Dolce Vita.
(Women: 7:15 — 9:20.)
The Colfax. Madison Avenue is the special for the week — and should be a big hit with the Commerce men. It is a complicated picture (but isn’t Madison Avenue supposed to be complicated) and the ruthless tactics of one Clint Lorimer (Dana Andrews) in the “big build up” advertising business. All for the account of the American Dairy Association. But one adman doing his best to torpedo another adman seems to result in the destruction of his own career — as well as the audience’s interest. Howard St. John is the torpedoed. Jeanne Craine and Elanore Parker provide female confusion. But what are females doing on Madison Ave. anyway? A little slow, perhaps.
(Madison Avenue: 1 — 3 — 5 — 7 — 9.)
Granada. “A Smash ...” (Philadelphia), “Tremendous ...” (Chicago), “Sock ...” (Los Angeles). It has been getting rave notices. One, Two, Three: a farce about a Coca-Cola bottling company branch in West Berlin under the directorship (dictatorship?) of Jimmy Cagney. The screenplay was written by Billy Wilder and is typical . . . very satiric; modem vocal slap-stick. The dialogue is ultra contemporary and for that reason it is particularly funny. Horst Buchholz and Pamela Tiffin are the young couple that provides the fun. An East German Communist for the former. And a Georgia millionairess for the later. Cagney applies the formula of peaceful coexistence so forcibly that Lenin would turn over in his mausoleum. Wilder directed and produced it too. You can tell. The best in town this week.
(One, Two, Three: 1:05 — 3:05 — 7:10 — 9:10.)
The River Park. This weekend the River Park will provide you Misha
waka dwellers with a re-run of The Hustler. The pool hall movie with Paul Newman and Jackie Gleason: one of the best of the year.
(Hustler: 7 — 9:15.)
The State. F. Scott Fitzgerald’s Tender Is the Night has been transformed into a not too tender motion picture by the experienced, ancient even, hand of Henry King. It is the story of a psychiatrist who falls in love with his patient and marries her, and all of her money. They live a ‘ rich life when an “American on the Mediterranean beach” comes to a Columbus Day party and falls in love with the psychiatrist. Jill St. John is the intruder, Jason Robards, Jr., the psychiatrist. Jennifer Jones leads with the role of the hysterical wife and Joan Fontaine and Tom Ewell support. It is well written. It is well directed . . . Henry King is a veteran. But it is a very sad story.
— John McGuire
'Blue'
(Continued from page 19) or false. It arises naturally among men working together toward common goals. Association in the Circle is with men who have been selected because they manifest the ideals of the University. It is with men who respect the University and its purposes to the extent that they W’ant to serve both in their free moments.
These experiences of association and responsibility are powerful sources of personal development, but they are not the best reasons for applying for membership. Too frequently there will be tasks that are trivial and apparently meaningless-These can be accepted willingly only by men who embrace the purpose of the organization itself, by men who have the desire to serve Notre Dame. Such a desire proceeds from a real attachment to the University. It based on the realization that Notre Dame is the locus of four years fille“ with the incidents and people that will become precious memories. Its origin is in an appreciation for the development that takes place in °ur own personalities in these same four years. It manifests itself in a desire to become more a part of the Unl* versity and to serve a cause which is greater than ourselves. This form o* loyalty to Notre Dame is what makes the Circle work make sense to Circle members. It is one quality we wm search for in all applicants.
— Joe Della Maria
The Scholastic
'kibitzer'
(Continued from page 20) unbid and scratched his head for a bid. He hit upon the neutral bid of one no-trump, and his partner, correctly concluding that his partner had a weak hand, answered in one of the unbid suits and made a profitable sacrifice against the opponents’ game. Since that time, the bid has been much refined, and the remainder of this column will concern itself with some recurrent examples.
One may ask what is to be done with the extremely strong hands with which one formerly used no-trump overcalls to describe. Experts now tend to double or trap pass, because the possessor of a strong hand needs a larger number of points from partner to make game, and even with a stray king or queen in partner’s hand, declarer often cannot even make the two or one no-trump contract that he bid. The bid user naturally rarely wins, and frequently loses. When we contrast this to the frequency with which these two-suited distributional hands occur and the precise bidding that we can do in knowledge of our fit or lack of one, we see why so many experts are adopting the unusual no-trump bid in some form or another.
The most common unusual notrump overcall is at the two-level, and, therefore, must have certain rigorous qualifications to protect Partner, who must bid at the three-level. This distribution must be at least 5-5, extra length or strength de-sired if the overcaller is vulnerable, and describes a hand which is in gen-eral too weak to double. The 5-5 distribution is important; partner may hid a three-card suit with the assurance that he is an eight-card fit. Then the other suit may be set up to sluff declarer’s losers in the outside suits, defense against a contract arrived at hy such bidding consists of forcing dummy’s trumps, since they are its Primary entries, and preventing declarer, who usually has the short rumps, from ruffing any of the hoard’s losers in his hand.
h^ss common but highly effective is ne unusual one-trump overcall. This shows a hand of less exotic distribu-10n, so in keeping with the increased anger, partner is forced to bid at corresponding low level. This proves °st effective against systems which Provide for a large exchange of in-ormation at low bidding levels, such Italian systems and the Shein-Wold-Kaplan system.
A highly exotic cousin is the un-sual no-trump opening, describing February 9, 1962
close to an opening hand and two five-card minors. Overcalling this bid and responder’s takeout into one of opener’s suits must be made on solid values, either high card or suit strength. This is especially due to the guaranteed bad split which will occur in trumps. When responder fails to take out the bid, he will have most likely five trumps in any suit you go into and the only reasonable action is to double with a strong hand. At rubber bridge, I once saw a player overcall this bid and opener’s partner, holding six cards in each major, doubled him and held him to three tricks for 1100 points. When the hand is a gross misfit, as that one was, you don’t wish to play the contract at any level in any suit.
Wallace J. Guillaume
Positions with Potential
ENGINEERS • CHEMISTS * PHYSICISTS
Ceramic • Chemical • Civil Electrical • Industrial • Mechanical
Metallurgical
National Carbon Company, America’s leading manufacturer of carbon and graphite products, offers positions to qualified B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields listed above.
Our products include graphite anodes, electrodes, motor and generator brushes, arc carbons and special graphite shapes used in nuclear, missile, and a wide variety of industrial applications.
We serve such key industries as aircraft, aluminum, automotive, chemical, mining, motion pictures, nuclear, steel, transportation, and the electrical manufacturers.
Positions are available at 12 plants and laboratories located in Ohio, New York, West Virginia and Tennessee and also in our Marketing organization which covers the 48 states from nine key cities.
Interesting, rewarding careers are offered in research, process and product development, production and methods engineering, product and process control, machine development, plant engineering, marketing, technical sales and technical service.
A National Carbon representative will be on campus:
FEBRUARY 21, 1962
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
Division of Union Carbide Corporation
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
for
EWfefo ?
NtRHUI
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD-THE FARM • INDUSTRY* ANO THE AGE OF SPACE
Automatic cars with button and lever controls may seem far out right now. But Ford Motor Company scientists and engineers are busy prying out and buttoning down some fantastic computer-controlled guidance systems for future Ford-built cars.
Among the controls now under study at Ford is a radar system that warns a driver when he gets too close to the vehicle ahead. Another is a short-range radio frequency device that extends the limits of drivers' senses by giving advance information on road surface and weather conditions, evaluating and appraising obstacles in the driving path ahead. When developed, control systems like these will enable drivers to enjoy safer, faster driving without fatigue.
Advanced studies of this nature are but a part of a continuous and wide-ranging program that has gained Ford its place of leadership through scientific research and engineering.
24
The Scholastic
T OMORROW afternoon the improved Notre Dame basketball squad finishes out its meager home schedule against Creighton University. On last Dec. 9, in a wildly contested game at Omaha the Bluejays handed the Irish their first defeat after two straight wins. Since that game, Notre Dame has managed only three victories while dropping nine, giving the Irish a 5-10 record.
Last year it was Creighton which proved to be a big disappointment. The Bluejays won only eight games while absorbing seventeen losses. This year the bleakness has been removed from coach Red McManus’s memory. He has recruited for Creighton its best basketball prospect in a quarter of a century — Paul Silas. Silas, skinny, shifty, and stringy at 6'7”, is averaging around 20 points at his post position.
Another sophomore, 6’8” Jim Bakos, plays the other post in McMan-nus’s double-post offense.
The other starters are Herb Millard, Ed Hubbard, and Chuck Officer. It was Officer’s 35-foot set shot that sunk the Irish at Omaha with nine seconds to go. His last second
since the Butler fiasco, the Irish have looked like a different team. They won two games in a row over Detroit and DePaul in the Fieldhouse before dropping two in a row to Illinois and to St. John’s.
Against the University of Detroit, the Irish played one of their best games. ’ They seemed to have learned about the fast break the hard way from Butler and put it to good use against the Titans. Armand Reo played his finest game, holding Dave DeBusschere down until the waning minutes when the game was already decided. Reo also scored well, especially in the first half before his defensive duties tired him somewhat.
John Andreoli, employed in the high post by Jordan, played a beautiful game. He made several nice driving layups after faking out All-American DeBusschere. John also grabbed several rebounds and passes from the taller Titans. Eddie Sch-nurr played one of his better games, sinking some nice long jumpers, and leading the Irish fast break. The other starters, John Matthews and Karl Roesler, played the entire game.
DePaul offered the Irish another
COACH JOHN JORDAN
IRISH SEEK REVENGE IN FINAL HOME TILT
heroics put the Jayhawks ahead 73-71.
Thursday the Irish travel to Butler to start a dangerously long road trip. The last six games of an altogether weird schedule put the Irish against Butler, Detroit, Purdue, Evansville, and DePaul , on the opponents’ courts and against Bradley on the neutral floor of Chicago Stadium.
Earlier this year, Butler administered the Irish their most painful defeat of the season. At the Irish Eieldhouse before a stunned student body, unheralded Butler humiliated the Irish with fine shooting and a swift fast break. The Irish, completely embarrassed, could neither shoot, pass, nor defend against the Bulldogs.
Highpowered guards Gerry Williams and Dick Haslam provide the hulk of the patented Butler fast break. Williams has a very good outside jump shot, a difficult shot to defend against. He plays very well Under pressure, evidenced by his high point totals against Notre Dame and Bradley.
After the low point of the season as reached against Butler, Notre ame began a period of improveent. During the four games played
February 9, 1962
strong challenge. The Blue Demons sported the top rebounding average in the nation when they came to the Fieldhouse. But aggressive Irish rebounding and consistent shooting by Reo, Schnurr, and Andreoli were too much for the game Chicagoans. Schnurr put the stop on DePaul guard Joe Reuter in the second half to offset his great set shot.
At Chicago Stadium, Notre Dame had tehir two-game winning streak stopped by the Fighting Illini. The score was very close until the closing minutes when Irish centers John Dearie and Karl Roesler both fouled out. The high spot of the game, as far as Johnny Jordan was concerned, was the play of John Matthews. Matthews potted 21 points, as did Armand Reo. At one point, Reo plunked in five straight shots from his favorite spot at the top of the key.
On Feb. 5, the Irish lost a real heartbreaker to St. John’s. Trailing the whole game, the Irish tied it on a jump shot by Reo only to lose in double overtime.
Tomorrow afternoon marks the final Fieldhouse appearance of Armand Reo, Eddie Schurr, John Dear-
(Continued on page 29)
KARL ROESLER
25
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Gibbons
SHORT EDITORIALS:
The Presidential physical fitness committee, chaired by Oklahoma’s Coach Bud Wilkinson, may have found the answer to America’s pressing physical fitness problem in the “incentive” physical training program used in the La Sierra, Calif., high school (Look Magazine, Jan. 30).
More applicable in high school than in college or on the adult level, it depends for its success on individual pride and determination....
Though it is not exactly a thankless task, the job done by Jim Gibbons with the freshman basketball team deserves public note. . . . Gibbons has unusual competence and knowledge of the game, the necessary personality for a freshman coach, and the respect of his players. ... Few realize the difficulties of coaching a
freshman team: the coach must teach fundamentals of the game and the college system through daily drills, but at the same time must avoid discouraging or boring the players — there are no games for which the team can point, and hard practices tend to become monotonous.
In addition, the freshman coach must have a more paternal attitude toward his players than the varsity coach; he must take more personal interest in their off-the-court activities and problems.
All in all, it’s a tough job, and Jim Gibbons is doing it well.
MISCELLANY:
When Tommy Williams of Duluth, Minnesota, joined the Boston Bruins last week he became only the second American-bom player in the National Hockey League. . . . Heavyweight Ed Rutkowski is easily the best wrestler in Notre Dame history. In his two matches this season he won on a pin at 30 seconds of the first period, and then nearly decapitated 270-pound giant Roland Pearson of Illinois in winning an 8-2 decision. . . . Basketball Coach Johnny Jordan has won the Chicago Knights of Columbus golf tournament eight times....
Eddie Schnurr:
Not A Total Loss
by EDDIE SCHNURR as told to BOB CHIAPPINELLI
Although this season hasn’t turned out as well as we expected, I think we can still salvage something out of it in these last seven games. The team has been showing a lot of spirit in practice — a lot more spirit than you would expect from a squad with a losing record — and with a few breaks and some good basketball I think we can reach or, at least, come close to a .500 season.
Of course, six of these seven games will be played on the road, and road games have bothered us all year. You just naturally miss the home town fans and familiar surroundings.
However, we have been playing good ball for the last month or so and seem capable of winning most of these remaining games. During this stretch when we have been playing well we haven’t really had a breather. When we win, we usually win by only a few points and when we lose, we lose by the same small margin.
When you play some of the country’s best teams game after game it’s tough to get up for every one of them. We were 3-3 at Christmas break, but then we lost our stride and got stomped on by Kentucky, Indiana and North Carolina.
Tomorrow we play Creighton and we know that that will be another tough one. They beat us in Omaha by two points and have a good rebounding and defensive club. Paul Silas, their sophomore center, can do everything and looks like a potential AllAmerican.
Naturally, we will use the same 1-3-1 offense which we have used all year. Other teams find it tough to defend against us because they don’t see our style of play too often. In addition, the 1-3-1 places four men instead of three in good position to take rebounds.
Although we aren’t by any means a fast break team, we will run with the ball if we find that the particular
situation calls for such tactics. We ran quite a bit against Detroit and it worked out well for us.
In practice we do an awful lot of running, but in a game you have to be more careful. In any event, we are moving the ball up court quicker than in past years and we can hit with the fast break layup if we get the chance.
After Creighton we go on the road from tomorrow until the end of the season, March 3. During that time we will be playing Purdue, Detroit, Bradley, Butler, Evansville, and DePaul. It’s going to be difficult, but I still think that we can win enough of these games to break even for the year.
Next year’s team should be able to improve on our record, despite the loss of five seniors. The freshman team has looked very good in practice and four or five of these boys should fit in well with returning first stringers, John Andreoli and John Matthews. After the newcomers become accustomed to the 1-3-1 and gain some experience, Notre Dame should have a good, solid team.
SCHNURR
26
The Scholastic
Swimming
With a 4-1 mark for the first half of the schedule, Coach Dennis Stark now faces a tougher task ahead. Four of these early season meets were contested at home, whereas four of the final six are on rival ground.
Tomorrow, the mermen of Western Michigan meet the Irish at Kalamazoo. This meet will be followed next week by one at Purdue. Then Notre Dame is faced with back-to-back contests, Feb. 23 and 24, against Miami and Cincinnati, both in Ohio.
It will take a well-trained Irish squad to beat Miami and Cincinnati on successive afternoons; but the Notre Dame team opened the season with back-to-back out of town victories, and it is hoped it can repeat the feat.
After the Cincinnati meet, the swimmers return to Notre Dame to conclude the season by meeting Pittsburgh and Washington of St. Louis.
The Notre Dame swimming team continued in its winning ways by triumphing in two of its last three home meets. On Jan. 12, Ohio University became Notre Dame’s third consecutive victim with a losing 66-29 effort.
Wisconsin, however, proved too much for Notre Dame, limiting the Notre Dame mermen to three firsts as they dealt the Irish their first defeat, 52-36. Last Saturday, Notre Dame again showed its fighting spirit in a 56-39 conquest of Northwestern.
Leading the Irish in scoring was junior Bob Lieb, who gathered five firsts and a third in the three meets. While collecting these victories, Lieb Set a new pool record in the 50-yard free style and established a new varsity record in the 100-yard freestyle.
Ohio proved no match for the powerful Notre Dame squad, which took first in eight of the eleven events and came up with six second-place finishes. Bob Lieb scored his usual sweep with victories in the 50 and 100-yard free style events, with Bill Vasu trailing in the 50 and John MacLeod coming in second in the 100. Chuck Blanchard, Randy Wise, Jim Grever, Dave Witchger and the 400-yard medley and free-style teams accounted f°r the other first place positions.
The situation was entirely reversed m the meet against Wisconsin as the frish were unable to overcome a Righty Badger effort. Wisconsin broke ?Vo pool records, while Bill Vasu, “ob Lieb, and co-captain Joe Bracco allied the lone Irish firsts.—Joe Ryan February 9, 1962
Voice in the Crowd
With its many star performers, pro basketball still remains a second-class gate attraction compared to pro football and baseball. The best example of this lack of interest is shown by the apathy of the fans towards the Most Valuable Player Award given annually to the top man in the pro game. While baseball fans argue over the respective value of Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris and football followers feud over the merits of Paul Hornung, Y.A. Title, and Jimmy Brown, few even realize there is such an award for pro basketball. This is a shame for the race for this year’s honor promises to be one of the closest and hardest-fought in the history of the sport.
Last season’s winner, Boston’s Big Bill Russell, again has paced the unbelievable Cetltics toward another title. Wilt “The Stilt” Chamber-lain is breaking his own scoring record, averaging close to fifty points a game. Chicago’s Walt Bellamy is having one of the finest rookie seasons in league history. When not working for Uncle Sam, Elgin Baylor has again proved the opinion of many who believe him to be the best all-around player in the game. Two outstanding players, Bob Pettit and Oscar Robertson, are playing the best basketball of their careers but will be hampered by the quality of their teams.
Any one of these performers could cop the award. However, the likely and, probably, most deserving recipient of the honor is none of these but a sophomore in the league by the name of Jerry West. West has transformed a green, tail end team into a polished, championship outfit While Baylor is still the big gun of the team, West is “the man who makes the Lakers go,” according to Laker Coach Fred Schaus. Sport Magazine, in calling him the best basketball player, pound for pound, inch for inch, in the world today, gave the reason why he may win the MVP award: “ ... West provides the inspirational spark that has lifted the Lakers from a mediocre, and worse, ball club to the coming great team of basketball. With Elgin Baylor, alone, the Lakers lost. With Baylor and West, the Lakers won.”
A BARREN WASTELAND
While FCC Chairman Newton Minow has been mostly condemning the excess violence and sex on television, the network coverage of sports also is becoming a “barren wasteland.” While there are many fine coverages of sporting events, the year 1962 has already produced some of the worst presentations in viewing history. The commentary on the New Year’s Bowl games set an all-time low mark in television reporting. The recent Bing Crosby Golf Tournament was probably the worst “special” ever seen. A thrilling playoff between winner Doug Ford and Joe Campbell was played while viewers watched John Doe bogey the eighteenth hole.
HERE WE GO AGAIN
Another all-Ohio final in the NCAA tourney is possible if Cincinnati can edge the Bradley Braves for the Missouri Valley crown. The Buckeyes of Ohio State have completely dominated the college season and it will take the upset of the century to keep them out of the finals. A dark horse at this time is third-ranked Kentucky. The Wildcats can win the NCAA title without leaving the state of Kentucky as all their regional games and the NCAA finals will be played there. While it seems impossible to consider anyone else for the title but the Ohio quintets, Kentucky Coach Adolph Rupp is noted for his “Cinderella” finishes.
THE END OF THE LINE
Tomorrow afternoon will mark the final home appearance of Armand Reo and Co. Seniors Reo, Eddie Schnurr, John Dearie, and Karl Roesler, are not All-Americans but have for three years represented the Irish well. A well-deserved ovation should greet each when he finishes his final game in the ND Fieldhouse. — John Bechtold.
27
FAMILY SKIING CENTER
HOLIDAY
SKI RESORT
Traverse City, Mich.
Ski night and day. 1J runs. T-bar lift, tows. Snow-maker, Sno-pack-er. Lodge, food. Excel-Ie n t accommodations nearby. Special ski club ■nd family rates.
Free	HOLIDAY—BOX 3M
Brochure	Traverse City, Mich.
Wrltei Windsor ••6035 or 7-B07S
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
live sweetly?”
from The Dove, line 10
on Life Savers:
INDOOR TRACK
Notre Dame’s track team heads for the wilds of Michigan in search of a little better fortune than befell the group last weekend in downstate Indiana. The Irish are set for an appearance in the Michigan State Relays Saturday. Next Thursday will see the Hoosier party in a triangular meet featuring Michigan State and Central Michigan in East Lansing.
In their first meet of the indoor season, Feb. 3, the Irish were victims of a rarity, as Indiana University duplicated last year’s half-point victory in a 52-51% squeaker at Bloomington. Purdue also racked up an identical score of 25y2 to bring down third place again in the three-way affair.
Individual winners for Notre Dame were Tom Dempsey in the mile with a time of 4:15.9, John Mulrooney in the 60-yard low hurdles and the 70-yard highs, and Frank Carver, who covered the two-mile in 9:22.8. Indiana had just one more first place, the mile relay — the final event of the afternoon.
Dave Mills, the American indoor record-holder in the quarter-mile, ran
a remarkably fast race for this early in the season as he set an Indiana University fieldhouse record of 47.9. ND’s Dan O’Brien was fourth in this event.
Coach Alex Wilson will send much the same team for tomorrow’s relay meet. Two-mile and shuttle-hurdle relay teams are also entered. The latter group, composed of Mulrooney, Pete Whitehouse, Ed Kelly, and Jerry O’Connor, appears a strong choice to cop first-place honors.
Other entries for Notre Dame in the Relays and the triangular meet include Carver and Bill Yaley in the open two-mile; Dempsey in the mile; Frank Froelke, Mike Terry, and Jim Wrack in the pole vault; and Mike Giacinto, Carl Ludecke, and Tom Finneran in the shot put.
Fencing
The fencing team of Notre Dame won two dual meets on Feb. 3. In those contests they defeated Iowa and Indiana by 15 and 17 points respectively. They now stand 3-2 for the season.
Tomorrow the Irish travel to Chicago where they will encounter the University of Chicago and the University of Detroit. In previous meetings the Irish fencers have taken five meets from Chicago and 16 meets from Detroit while only losing one meet to each school. Coach Mike De-Cicco will be depending on his four co-captain seniors Mike Bishko, Tom Dwyer, Dan Kenny, and Tom Shipp, to form a strong forward wall. Backing these men will be sophomores Sam Crimone, Steve Dreher, and Dick Marks, termed by the coach as good future material.
In the meets so far the co-captains have compiled the best individual records. Tom Shipp is high man in the sabre at 10-4 Dan Kenny, who is replacing All-American John Dolon, now assistant coach, is leading with the epee with a 10-5 record. Tom Dwyer, 9-4, and Mike Bishko, 9-5, are vieing for the top spot with the foil. Of these four men Coach DeCicco expects three to enter the NCAA Fencing Championships at Columbus, Ohio, on March 30 and 31.
Saturday, Feb. 17, will be the last home meet for the Irish this year. Their opponents will be Michigan State and Ohio State. The following Saturday, Feb. 24, at Madison, Wise., they will meet Wisconsin and Illinois. Victory in these meets would make the Irish the unofficial champions of the Big Ten.
The Scholastic
28
Wrestling
Notre Dame will be trying to post its third win of the season as it hosts the wrestlers from the University of Bowling Green tomorrow. The Bowling Green team is currently riding on an impressive 40-0 win over Western Ontario. However, Head Coach Tom Fallon is optimistic over the future performance of his charges. He feels that with the addition of Ed Rutkowski, a junior heavyweight, plus a bumper crop of sophomores who have picked up experience in the last seven meets, the rest of the season may pick up for the Irish in the form of key victories.
The University of Illinois turned aside the Notre Dame wrestlers 21-10 last Friday at Notre Dame on the strengh of one pin and three decisions. The Illini wrestlers proved to be formidable opponents for the Irish, now 2-5 for the season, as they dominated every weight class except the heavyweight division. The Irish’s only victory in the meet came in the heavy division as Ed Rutkowski outmatched Roland Pearson 8-2. Rutkowski, who pinned Marty Karasch of the University of Chicago at :30 of the first period for his other win this year, is undefeated in regular season competition, and has already proven himself the finest wrestler in Notre Dame history.
At 147 pounds, Jack Barry of Notre Dame won by forfeit, and at 157 pounds, Ron Cabral of Notre Dame, a sophomore, wrestled a 2-2 draw with John Polz of Illinois.
Following the Bowling Green match, Notre Dame will be participating in the Wheaton College Invitational Tournament which will be held at Wheaton, Illinois, on next Friday and Saturday.
Basketball
(Continued from page 25) le> and Karl Roesler. With the improvement shown in the past four games, the ensuing roadtrip probably will not end in complete disaster. ®ut it is hard to imagine how any team could be expected to up its record with six straight away games m the end of the season against top •tight opposition. This is enough to test the greatest of Notre Dame teams — which, unfortunately, this year’s is not. — Bob Scheming
February 9, 1962
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by horp
(GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!)	"
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
I®
FITCH
LEADING MAN'S
somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control.
QMAIUID^r\ Kcep y°ur hair and sca,p I
really clean, dandrulT-frec! 3
SHAMPOO.
FITCH
RCMGVPN

ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied behind your back—it’s easy to turn out perfect papers on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser.There’s never a telltale erasure mark on Corrasable’s special surface.
Corrasable is available in light.
medium, heavy weights and Onion /	j)
Skin. In convenient 100-sheet /	J! /
packets and 500-sheet ream /	/
boxes. Only Eaton makes /f*Toirs ?	/
Corrasable.	/
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION fEl PITTSFIELD, MASS.
Ethics and Enterprise
Edward S. Jamieson
On Sunday, Feb. 18, the Commerce Activities Council will sponsor the second annual Commerce Senior Day. The program planned for the faculty and graduating seniors of the College of Business Administration will center around a theme of “Ethics, Enterprise and You.” Activities for the day will begin with a 9 a.m. Mass celebrated by the Reverend Theodore M. Hes-burgh in the Alumni Hall chapel. Following the Mass, Edward S. Jamieson will be featured as the principal speaker at a Communion breakfast in the Morris Inn.
Jamieson’s topic is “The Ethical Responsibilities of the Businessman.” Holder of a B.A. from DePaul University and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, Mr. Jamieson has worked for Montgomery Ward and National Dairy Corporation. Currently, he is president of Jamieson Incorporated, a prominent Chicago textile
THE SAFE WAY to stay alert without harmful stimulants
Never take chances with dangerous “pep pills.” Instead, take proven safe NoDoz@. Keeps you mentally alert with the same safe refresher found in coffee.Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Abso
firm. Mr. Jamieson has shown an interest in the practical aspects of business ethics as illustrated by two of his many professional affiliations. In addition to being the Chicago discussion leader for the American Management Association, he is also the national Coordinating Chairman of the Catholic Employers and Managers Study Groups. Mr. Jamieson is the leading figure in this new study group movement designed to aid the business executive in gaining new insights into the moral and ethical aspects of his specific daily management responsibilities, policies, and decisions.
The subject of corporate ethics is an extremely appropriate one for the graduating senior; for in a few short months he will be facing, not textbook cases, but real problems with very real consequences. To a large extent the way these problems are approached and solved will measure the true value of the Notre Dame man’s business education. The Commerce Senior Day program will give the senior the opportunity to talk to a successful businessman who believes that adherence to Christian ethics is not only compatible with, but also necessary for, the achievement of real success in business.
In sponsoring Commerce Senior Day, the Commerce Activities Council hopes to establish a greater degree of unity among the commerce seniors. Several clergymen who are past graduates of Notre Dame’s College of Business Administration have been invited, giving the event a well-rounded
lutely not habit-forming. Next time monotony makes you feel drowsy while driving, working or studying, do as millions do ... perk up with safe, effective NoDoz. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
cast of clergy, lay faculty, and students.
David Castaldi is the general chairman of the program. Cliff Angers and William Beaver are handling the publicity and ticket sales respectively. Other Council members assisting with the project include Ronald Vannuki, Austin Doyle, and Tim Dunigan.
Under the leadership of CAC President Ronald Vannuki, Vice-President William Beaver, and Commerce Senator David Castaldi, the Council has planned several other activities directed toward the goal of commerce unity. In April a Sophomore Orientation Program will aid the sophomores in choosing their academic majors. A panel of seniors representing each of the four majors in the College of Business Administration will give a student’s view of the advantages and disadvantages of their respective fields of concentration. During May the CAC will sponsor Commerce Activities Night, at which time the Council’s “Outstanding Club Award” will be presented to one of the five commerce clubs. The Activities Night will also serve to acquaint students interested in joining one of the clubs with the objectives and functions of each commerce club.
’Residence'
(Continued from page 12) or senior hall. But juniors can not move into another junior hall or a sophomore hall, and sophs cannot move to another sophomore hall. The only exceptions to this rule are those moving in as roommates with someone who has kept his room.
The present inhabitant has preference to his own room, and may choose a roommate from his own class. Selection procedure otherwise will be similar to past years. A list will be posted of those eligible for on-campus rooms, based on the number of rooms available and academic average. The rectors will be notified by those wishing to keep their rooms, and the remaining rooms will then be available, first to juniors, then sophomores and freshmen in order of averages. As before, those choosing a new room will have their choice of roommates.
In deference to the majority opinion against including the incoming freshmen, the present plan retains the separate Freshman Quad. It is hoped that as the system settles down, it will become practical and desirable to house the newcomers in every campus hall.
The Scholastic
30
Repercussions
(Continued from page 6) goes clearly to show that things are looking up. I for one vigorously applaud the move and I know there are many who share my sentiments.
Michael Murray
MAN AND THE COMMISSION
Editor:
One of the most controversial segments of our Student Government this year is the Social Commission. It has become the habit of this Commission to completely disregard the little man in its efforts to monopolize as much praise and admiration, and to make as much money, as possible. A prime example of this is the way the Commission has tried to fill every available date with one of their own activities; hence forcing such organizations as the hall social commissions and St. Mary’s theatrical association into direct competition with the Commission. It would seem perhaps that
there is not only something intrinsically wrong with our Student Government, but also there is something lacking in the type of student that has been entrusted with the student leadership—something called charity.
Rob Mier 201 Zahm
NOT PLEASED
Re: Your article on Prof. W. Allen Wallis in the Jan. issue; humorous sub-heads and off-beat sub-cut lines are, no doubt, to be chuckled at when done well and in good taste.
It is my considered opinion that the Scholastic has fallen flat on its already much bruised (from similar failings and fallings) face.
I can only hope that in the future the editors will have the perspicacity to see through such amateurish efforts and recognize them for what they are: feebly tasteless attempts to copy Time’s style by reportorial neophytes.
James R. Olson 125 Walsh
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
• Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38 LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
D^R.WTURB0W
\OPTOMETRI*T
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES! AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD-NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
February 9, 1962
Learning never stops for engineers at Western Electric
There’s no place at Western Electric for engineers who feel that college diplomas signify the end of their education. However, if a man can meet our quality standards and feels that he is really just beginning to learn... and if he is ready to launch his career where learning is an important part of the job and where graduate-level training on and off the job is encouraged — we want and need him.
At Western Electric, in addition to the normal learning-while-doing, engineers are encouraged to move ahead in their fields by several types of educational programs. Western maintains its own full-time graduate engineering training program, seven formal management courses, and a tuition refund plan for out-of-hours college study.
This learning atmosphere is just one reason why a career at Western Electric is so stimulating. Of equal importance, however, is the nature of the work we do. Our new engineers are taking part in projects that implement the whole art of modern telephony, from highspeed sound transmission and solar cells to electronic telephone offices and computer-controlled production techniques.
Should you join us now, you will be coming
to Western Electric at one of the best times in the company’s history. In the management area alone, several thousand supervisory jobs are expected to open up to W.E. people within the next 10 years. And our work of building communications equipment and systems becomes increasingly challenging and important as the communications needs of our nation and the world continue to increase.
Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical. Industrial, and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business ma{ors. All qualified applicants will receive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Relations, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric Interview when our college representatives visit your campus.
i
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.-, Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III, and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distrl-but ion centers in 33 cities and installation headouarters in 16 cities. General headauarterst 195 Broadway. New York 7, N. Y.
32
The Scholastic
FORUM
DIALOGUE OF THE DEAF ... THE CASE AGAINST LATIN
by Thad Trenn
OTRE Dame’s pretensions of preparing the laity for active participation in the Church are on trial. We are faced with an issue that cannot be dismissed as academically sound but practically vague. If we are really interested in enriching the value of the Mass and are convinced that the use of English will help us toward this end, then we must act on these convictions. The fathers of the forthcoming Ecumenical Council have expressed their desire to hear the voice of the laity in this regard. Can we fail to respond without incurring blame for the possible adverse decision in this matter? Here is the issue.
Are we able to really participate in the Dialogue Mass as we should? If only we could pray together as human beings during the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass, this center and guide for our entire lives as active members of the Mystical Body would become much more meaningful. We know that we should pray the Mass with our entire beings. If only we were not at war within ourselves and divided in our efforts, we could do so. Our spirits desire to reach °Ut to God in corporate union with °ur brothers, as Christ wished us to do when He instituted the Mass. Yet it is difficult to fulfill this obligation Under present conditions.
It almost seems that the previous way was better. At least we could Pray intelligently, although privately. Now we are constantly distracted oy the meaningless mumble that echoes, usually faintly, throughout Ine church. Our very privilege and responsibility to participate in corporate worship seems now to work against us. If only we could pray together with integrity, the walls of the church would reverberate with Praise for the Lord. Those within ne Church would grasp more fully February 9, 1962
the real meaning of the Mystical Body. They would participate with such enthusiasm that those outside the Church could no longer remain deaf to the word of the Lord. The Mystical Body would finally begin to function dynamically and universally again.
The sad fact at present is, however, that we have hardly any such corporate activity. Although we have unity of spirit and intention, we must pray the Mass alone while rattling off a patter of phrases in a distractingly mechanical manner. If only we could meaningfully pray together, we would once more have the Church in its fullness as established by Christ
Once we thought the solution would be for us to learn Latin well enough to think in this language. However we were rudely awakened to the stark reality that most of us would never be able to learn it this well. To be practical about the situation, there are many of us who are able to speak intelligently only in our mother tongue. Christ Himself understood our failings in this regard. When He told the Apostles to baptize in the name of the Trinity, He was aware that the many nations each had their own language. Thus He meant that this teaching should be done in the vernacular of each nation. The Apostles celebrated the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass and the sacred mysteries in a multitude of vernaculars. St. Paul remarked to the Corinthians that it is better to speak five words which are intelligible to those with whom we pray, than ten thousand in a language which they do not understand.
Now if we cannot learn Latin well enough to participate meaningfully in corporate worship, is there possibly another answer? As a practical solution it seems that if we cannot
adapt to the Latin liturgy, then let it be modified to fit our present needs. §OME of course will object to this alternative. Holding up tradition, they will claim that the Mass just will not sound the same without the Latin. This is the way our ancestors prayed the Mass. How could we even consider changing such beautiful prayers? Others may wonder what effect this would have on Church unity, or reply that Latin is a fixture in the Latin rite.
. Such reactions reflect a lack of understanding concerning the true function of the liturgy. Certainly Latin is beautiful, but so is Greek. However, this did not prevent a wise and prudent Church from changing the liturgy from Greek to Latin in the fourth century, after Latin had succeeded Greek as the vernacular. It has only been since the Council of Trent that the manner of offering the Mass and dispensing the sacraments has been made uniform throughout the Western Church. The Eastern rite does not have such disciplinary strictness as is prevalent in the Latin rites. The Protestant Reformation resulted in an unnecessary paralysis of the Western Church in the sixteenth century. It is only now recovering. Such rigidity is only a recent development, and is not characteristic of the universal Church. Obviously then, this is not the way things have always been. Quite the opposite is the case. We are only trying to recover what was lost.
To argue that our prayers just would not sound the same is either to utter a truism or to express lack of understanding of the true function of the liturgy. It should be meaningful, dynamic, practical, animate, and useful. The liturgy is not an end in itself, whether aesthetic or otherwise, but a means by which the Mystical
33
Body can properly function. Such a means must obviously be adaptable to the geographical and temporal context within which it is used.
Equally narrow, yet more disastrous in consequence, is the attitude that loss of Latin may adversely effect the unity of the Church. Certainly one cannot argue that Latin is an integral factor in this unity. Such a position would imply that the Catholics of the Eastern rite are not quite as Catholic as they would be if they were to use Latin also. This is not only theologically false but also offensive to our Eastern brothers. The Byzantine rite, for example, has members which are fully Catholic in every sense of the word. They have always followed the principle of ver
“How can one who holds the place of the layman say the Amen to thy thanksgiving, since he does not know
what thou art saying?’3
—I Cor. 14:16
nacular. Some have even begun to use English. Just recently they have received even greater encouragement in this practice from the Holy Father.
Then if Latin cannot be an integral factor in Church. unity, can it be a sign of such unity? If so it must be restricted to the Latin rites and cannot represent the universal Church. Language does not reflect unity within the Byzantine rite, for example, which has both Catholic and Orthodox factions. Although they share a common liturgy, they are split asunder in doctrine to this day. It seems that the real source of unity then, which is the common doctrine of faith and morals, is clouded by external uniformity. A true mark of the Catholic Church is this internal unity of doctrine within external diversity of language and custom. Thus the unity for which we recently prayed during the Church Unity Octave is not advanced merely by uniformity of language. In certain cases, in fact, this reunion is actually being impeded by such an external disciplinary restriction. Can we expect our Protestant brothers to give up their privilege of speaking intelligently to God? How can the Mass be instructional to the catechumens of our day?
^1/ HUS it seems unquestionable that the vernacular is beneficial to us. It remains only to see whether the actual change can come about within the Latin rite. Anyone thinking Latin is a fixture would probably be surprised to learn that only the
34
Canon is invariant. The reason for the fossilization within the Church for the past few centuries was the Reformation movement of the sixteenth century. Part of the doctrine advocated by the reformers was based on the supposition that the Mass is not a real sacrifice and hence such a memorial must be, by its very essence, intelligible. It is on these grounds that they made their demand for the vernacular. After considerable debate, the Fathers of the Council finally condemned this position, during the second series of deliberations in 1562 under Canon X of the Council of Trent. It reads: “X. If anyone says, that Mass must be celebrated only in the vernacular: let him be anathema.”
The use of “Latin” is conspicuously absent from the condemnation. Its purpose is only to condemn the linking of the Mass with any determined language whether vernacular or Latin, since the validity of the sacrifice is completely independent of the language used. Thus this condemnation has raised no impediment to the use of the vernacular, whenever it is deemed expedient to grant permission for its use.
Now although the validity of the sacrifice is in no way affected by the language, its efficacy does not seem to be so linguistically independent. It is contingent upon intelligent and meaningful participation. Thus it seems indubitable that the vernacular is more conducive to the restoration of corporate worship, which will then allow the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass to properly function as the driving power within the Mystical Body.
Although there is no impediment to the use of the vernacular, Pope Pius XII has made it clear in paragraph sixty of his encyclical, Mediator Dei, that he reserves to the Apostolic See the power to grant the necessary permission. He admits the advantages of such a change, but must also gauge its expediency at the present time. It seems that eventually such permission will be granted. Pope John XXIII has recently given us new hope that the vernacular may soon become a reality. He is doing everything possible to promote the use of the vernacular for as many of the ceremonies as possible, and to keep Latin for times
and places where nothing else will do.
The officials of the forthcoming Ecumenical Council have expressed their desire to hear the opinion of the laity in this regard. They want to know whether we are sufficiently interested in the situation to make a change to vernacular expedient at the present time.
A wholehearted response is certainly the least we can do to show our interest. If we do not act now, we will probably not be granted permission until we sufficiently under- ' stand our part in the Mystical Body. Too long has the laity been content to be indolent and let the clergy handle everything, as if this were the proper order of things. Can we here at Notre Dame be indifferent in such a crisis? Many have already sent in their petitions for the use of the vernacular. They truly see the great need for an active participation within the Mystical Body. It is their considered opinion that the vernacular will aid in achieving this goal. What is yours?
To the	-
Rt. Rev. Msgr. P. Annibale Bugnini, C.M. Pontificia Commission de Sacra Liturgia Preparatio Concilii, Vatican! II.
Mindful of the many privileges recently bestowed upon us, yet aware of the urgent need for more | meaningful participation in them, we, the undersigned, earnestly submit the following petition in response to the desire of the Fathers of the Council to hear the voice of the laity:
That permission be granted for the use of the English language in the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass as well as in the Sacraments and Sacramentals, both as a medium for the greater instruction and devotion of the faithful and as a positive step towards Church reunion, in the United States of America.
I * HOUSANDS have already responded with petitions such as this, realizing their obligation to act upon their convictions in this matter. In acknowledgment of the reply to date, the secretary of the Liturgical Commission recently sent the following letter to the former president of the Vernacular Society:
To the
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Robert J. Sherry
St. William’s Church	'	{
Cincinnati, Ohio.	, j
Up to the present I have received many thousands of petitions for English in the Mass and Sacra | ments. Others continue to arrive daily. Erom Cincinnati alone I have received many hundre of signatures.	.	#
I can assure you that so extensive a desire o the Catholic people to participate more actively in the Liturgy of the Church will be submitted o the Fathers of the Council.	, .
I thank you very much for your prayers, wis1 and practical interest.
Sincerely yours in Christ, A. Bugnini
Why could not we take up such a petition, so the Fathers will know that Notre Dame is interested in the life of the Church, before it is too late?
The Scholastic
Tapa
Prints
The bark cloth prints of the Hawaiian Islands inspired us to design a new collection of shirts completely different in coloring and pattern. We are sure you will want to add one or more of these fine shirts to your casual wardrobe. Tailored so well it looks personally measured. Button-down collar-tapered waistline.
Long sleeves $5.00 Short sleeves $4.00

From the
“Cum Laude Collection"


TAPA PRINT CLASSICS
The richly colored prints of Hawaii offer a new change of pace in the traditional styling of men’s shirtings. Yom- wardrobe will be given a ijft. by the inherent good looks of this Cum Laude Collection.
Long sleeves $5.00
Short sleeves $4.00

IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend