^he ^Notre Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
College Parade
. ..By Harry Walters
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND ----- Navy Associate Editor ROBERT RIORDAN ----- Managing Editor BILL WADDINGTON ------ Sports Editor BOB O'TOOLE ----- Circulation Manager
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY ----- Observations JOHN POWER ------ The Green Banner HARRY WALTERS -	.	-	- The' College Parade
GEORGE KRAUSER -	- Splinters from the Press Box
ART WAGNER ------ Swabbies Log
IT CAN T HAPPEN HEBE
The Purdue Exponent reports that “the assistant manager of Union, always anxious to please his guests, felt proud of his newly arrived stock, when Sinclair Lewis, visiting lecturer, requested cigarettes. Smiling, and thinking of his cartons of all the various brands—Chesterfields, Luckies, Old Golds, P. M.’s, he had them all, and told Lewis to only name his brand—Lewis, the dillusioner of all time, pronounced his favorite Rameses, which of course, the Union was without.”
Sinclair, you old meanie!
MARY HAYWORTH'S MALE
The following bit of humor is adapted from the Annapolis Log-.
“Reactions on being told that a boy wants to meet her:
“Religious girl—‘Which church does he belong to?’
“Popular* girl—‘Is he a slick dancer?’
“Athletic girl—‘Is he a letter-man?’
“Studious girl—‘What is his average?’
“St. Mary’s girl—‘Where is he?’ ”
BLAME IT ALL ON HERSHEY
Selective Service has really caused a manpower shortage at Kansas university. We learn from the Daily Kansan that:
“Owing to the man shortage, there are approximately 35 women in the university band. They battle the elements and appear for marching practice at the early hour of 7:30. All the girl members of the band are wearing the regulation men’s uniform—altered of course.”
Tessie Tingle, K. U.’s cymbal player reports she got a big bang out of her college education. (See page 19)
CONTRIBUTORS
GEORGE DESPOT FRANK GRIMALDI HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR JACK McGRANE
BOB COCHRAN GREG HALPIN ENRIQUE LULLI JACK MILES TOM McNALLY
RALPH HAYMAN RON BYERSMITH JOE BRESLAW JIM CAREY JOHN FEENEY
“Peace on Earth . .
. . To Men of
Good Will"
I
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD	' DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
The SCHOLASTIC extends sincere wishes for
»
& #lerrp (Ojristmas ant)
*
3 Wappp gear
to the Faculty, the Students, and the
. Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Riends of Notre Dame
I	'	$
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
DECEMBER 21. 1944
No. 6
Great Exodus Begins Before Christmas
Activities Planned for Those Remaining on Campus
BY RALPH HAYMAN "Scholastic" News Writer
This week marks the exodus of students leaving for homes of friends and relatives to spend the Christmas holiday, and one will find the campus virtually deserted come Saturday.
The greater part of the civilian student body is expected to take advantage of the recent reversal of the University’s policy, because of the accelerated program of study, which rescinds the order of triple “cuts” being assessed upon students for single absences from class preceding and succeeding the Christmas holiday-season. The absence of civilian students from the campus on Friday is expected to be followed by the departure of most navy students on Saturday.
Glee Club Sings Carols
In an appropriate prelude to the advent of the Christmas season, the University Glee club, under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, will commence holiday activity with their rendition of several Christmas carols as they tour the campus this evening, thus climaxing another year of devotion and study within the shadows of the Golden Dome, and the raising of the curtain on another “white” Christmas at Notre Dame.
For those remaining on campus over the holiday season one finds much by way of activity which will make his Christmas a truly memorable one and one which will linger among his treasured
THE COVER
The winner of last semester's SCHOLASTIC Photo-Contest in the Still Life division is M. J. O'Connor.
His "Silent Night, Holy Night" was photographed at Maryknoll College, Ossining, N. Y.
thoughts and associations of Notre Dame.
Underlying all campus holiday activity will be a spiritual and religious program, and Father- William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion, has announced that the solemn midnight Mass will again be celebrated on Christmas Eve in the Sacred Heart Church. As is customary, the Brothers of Holy Cross, from Dujarie Hall, will sing the Mass and contribute a program of Yuletide carols commencing at 11:30 p.m.
"They found Mary and Joseph, and the Babe lying in a manger."
Resultant from the over-whelming popularity with which it was received last year, plans are again being made for an informal post-Communion breakfast, to be held in one of the hall recreation rooms. The attendance of navy and civilian students is welcomed. An innovation last year, this proved very successful, as those visiting Carroll hall will attest.
Bulletin boards will furnish complete details of the post-Communion breakfast.
(Continued on page 17)
3-
NROTC Ball Week-End Set for Feb. 9-11;
Added Saturday Night Pleasure Planned
Notre Dame’s Naval ROTC will hold their semesterly Naval Ball the week-end of Feb. 9-10-11 it was announced this week after a meeting of the entire battalion at which time the date was decided upon, en masse. Cadets John Mack and John Caron have been named as cochairmen in charge of the event.
Of the six previous affairs, two of them coming before the NROTC went on active duty in July of ’43, they were major successes in every sense of the word. The first two undertakings, in civilian days, were minor affairs with local bands supplying the dancing entertainment. But as the unit became more organized, living togethei* within the confines of the USS Walsh, there has been a definite tendency for each ball to surpass the grandeur of the one that preceded it.
The first big ball, held in October of ’43, included a ball, a football game, a victory dance and a tea dance, all in three days. In February and May of this year, the semesterly balls were held in the Service Center with grand turnouts and a reward of pleasure to the ballgoers.
Last October's—Sensational
Under the able direction of Herb Dai-ker and Bill Grant, last semester’s extravaganza was an ultra-ultra success. The Ball on Friday night at the Service Center, featuring the music of Hal McIntyre and his orchestra, playing over a coast-to-coast hookup over CBS for 30 minutes, was a spectacle worthy of anybody’s attendance. Then the Notre Dame rout of Tulane the following day added to the week-end’s enjoyment, topped off by the Victory Dance at the Indiana club that evening.
Already, negotiations have begun for contracting a name band, a feature that is characteristic of NROTC foresight— to have something better. On the band committee is Rudy Anderson, who did a job on decorations and in procuring a band for last term’s gala event. Decorations will be handled by Jack Cassidy, adding some of his own unique artistry to the setting. Supporting Cassidy are John Kramer, Al Wade, Ted Brownell and Dennis Hartnett. Frank Gilligan concerns himelf with the worries general to all-around fixer-upper, assisted by Dave Murphy, Ed Ball, and Bob Cleary. Jack Kearney is responsible for the tickets aloiig with Bob Griffin, Tom Sparks, Pete Gaydos and Clyde “Boats” Goebel.
4
Publicity is being taken care of by Bill Waddington.
Always Something New
Besides the Ball on Friday night, Feb. 9, there is a concentrated effort on the doings for Saturday night. Among the suggested bits of entertainment are an informal dance at a local country club, a sleigh or hay ride, depending upon the weather, and a vaudeville show, with the possibilities of incorporating all three in the biggest Saturday night to go down in NROTC annals. In charge of the Saturday night planning are chairman Don Claeys, and his committee, Bill Pfister, Gerry O’Brien and George Finn.
For those of you who intend importing females, it’s time to start thinking. In order that there won’t be a burden on the pocketbook, the committee in charge of tickets has arranged to collect the sum of the bid in two installments, one portion coming from the January pay and another from the February GI issue of bucks. Although the official price of the bid has not been decided upon, it will be more than reasonable for the entertainment to be derived from the NROTC’s seventh Naval Ball week-end.
Co.'s B and G Win More
Honors in Bond Drive
Companies B. and G. of the V-12 Unit who last week were announced as leading contributors to the War Chest collection, also earned their distinction as honor companies of the Regiment by virtue of their respective outstanding showings in the Sixth War Bond Drive.
Company G led in the number of sales with 49 trainees out of the 101 men in the company purchasing bonds, for a percentage of 49%. Company B with 44 sales out of a company numbering 73 men, led in percentage of sales with 60 percent.
The War Bond Drive was conducted under the direction of Ensign Hummon, war bond and insurance officer for the V-12 unit and was pronounced a definite success as a total of over $4,000 in bonds was purchased by the unit as a whole.
... not until next year
The SCHOLASTIC will not be printed next week because of the Christmas holidays; the next issue will be that of Friday. Jan. 5. 1945.
The Editor
Alumnus May Assume Wisconsin U. Position
A prominent University of Notre Dame alumnus, George N. Shuster, president of Hunter College in New York City may be offered the position of president of the University of Wisconsin to succeed President Clarence A. Dykstra.
Professor Shuster graduated from Notre Dame with an A.B. degree in 1915 and received his M.A. in 1920. He was head of the English department at Notre Dame during his tenure as a member of the faculty from 1920 to 1924. He then went to New York City in 1924 to become associate edittor of the Commonweal, a Roman Catholic publication, for 12 years. He also became its managing editor.
The regents committee of the University of Wisconsin, is said to have President Shuster’s name under consideration for the post. He has been president of Hunter college, a school for girls, since 1939. He is the author of several books on education and political science and has been a contributor to periodicals. He also has been connected with the faculties of the Brooklyn, N. Y., Polytechnic Institute and St. Joseph’s College for Women in Brooklyn.
A native of Lancaster, Wis., Professor Shuster was born August 27, 1894. During the World War number one he served with the military intelligence division of the United States Army.—Raly Hayman
Cavanaugh Holds Party
Last Friday night, Cavanaugh hall buzzed with activity as the “fellas” of the hall gathered in their recreation room for a Christmas party. The feature of the evening was the entertainment provided by Father Eugene Burke. Father started the evening with a few “solid” jokes and then surprised everyone when he sat down at the piano and started singing and banging out some of the “Sorin immortals” which he had composed.
Immediately following, refreshments were served, consisting of cider and doughnuts. The rest of the evening was highlighted by songs by Father McMahon, the rector, and short “skits” by the different talented members of the hall. Anyway when the party was over everyone was convinced that the “best guys of all come from Cavanaugh hall.”
—Harry Siemonsma
Excuse Us Please
Credit for last week's cover picture should have been given to Dale Murphy, photographer; and to the South Bend “Tribune."
The "Tribune" went to a great deal of trouble to make the print of that picture obtainable for our use, and a credit-line should have been given it by all means.
jH.oue>
This week’s reports bring the casualty list up to 160 killed, 24 missing, and 24 captured. The following were those reported killed:
★ 154 Lt. Richard J. Carroll, ’37, Chicago, Ill., was reported killed in action on Jan. 14, ’43 in the Mediterranean as a result of the destruction of an Italian submarine upon which he was a prisoner. He was a pursuit pilot in the Army Air Corps.
★ 155 Lt. Robert Andreiv Fischer, ’43, Wauwatosa, Wis., of the Anny Air Corps was killed in action. ...
★	156 Pvt. Thomas Francis Galvin, ex. ’46, Lawrence, Mass., was killed in action. No other information is available.
★	157 Sgt. Matthew R. Grant, ex. ’44, Freeport, HL, was killed in action in France on Nov. 23, ’44.
★	158 Pvt. Raymond Janies McManus, ’43, Indianapolis, Ind., died on Nov. 22, ’44 in France of Spinal Meningitis.
★	159 Sgt. Francis M. Murphy, ex. ’44, Los Angeles, Calif., was reported killed in action in Sicily.
★	160 Flight Officer Edivard Alfred Rowan, ex. ’45, St. Louis, Mo., was killed in action over the Atlantic.
Lt. Harold Wilbur Borer, ’40, Great Neck, New York, has just recently been reported missing in action.
Lt. Ora Alfred Spaid, Jr., ex. ’46, South Bend, Ind., has just been reported a prisoner in Germany. He was a navigator.—Harry Siemonsma
Mass Club Hears Nutting
This Monday, the local Mass club was honored by having Mr. Willis Nutting, history department, as their guest speaker at the second of a series of talks on the Liturgy presented at the Rockne Lounge. Mr. Nutting spoke on the “Liturgy and the Laity.”
He stressed the responsibility we Catholic laymen have in cooperating with the clergy in offering the Sacrifice of the Mass. He pointed out that the most successful way we can attend Mass is to recite the prayers with the priest aloud. He held that this enables the Catholic to better understand the sacrifice, that this type of participation in the Mass widens and deepens our spiritual life, and <ast of all, that it helps us to acquire a greater love for God through the Mass.—Harry Siemonsma
Choral Group Entertains
An enthusiastic crowd of Navy trainees and their guests gathered in Washington hall on Wednesday night for the second in the series of regular V-12 midweek liberty programs for the winter semester. The program on Wednesday night featured the Bendix Girl Choral Group in an outstanding program of songs and carols for Christmas.
High points of the evening were the appearance of two outstanding lyric soprano-soloists, Miss Dorothy Edwards who sang Friml’s melodic “Giannina Mia” and Miss Louise Pucker who gave a vivid rendition of Arditi’s “11 Bacio.” Other outstanding features of the program were the appearance of the “Har-monizers” sextet and the singing of selected popular songs and Christmas carols with the trainees and their guests joining in on popular seasonal favorites. Program for the evening:
’ “Salutation,” Gaines; “America Let’s Go,” Foster; “The Prayer Perfect,”
V-12 SIX-MAN OFFICER STAFF ANNOUNCED
The Officers Staff for the V-12 training unit for the present semester will consist of a six man executive directorate headed by Lt. Commander Clarke Olney.as. executive officer in charge of the V-12 unit. ’ " '
Commander Olney will be assisted by Lieut. S. L. Beatty, Course Officer; and Lieut. J. H. Northrup, First Lieutenant, Dillon Hall Barracks Officer; Recreation Officer, Clothing Officer, and Public Relations Officer. Lieut, (j-g.) Bradford Lamson will serve as Discipline Officer,
Left to Bight: Lt. (jg) Brewbaker, Ensign Hummon, Lt. Beatty, Lt. Comm. Olney, Lt. Northrup, Lt. (jg) Sanfield (now detached), Lt. (jg) Lamson
Stenson; “Glorious Forever,” Rachmaninoff.
“Nobody Knows the Trouble I See,” Spiritual! “Summer Time,” Gershwin; “A Brown Bird Singing,” Wood; “My Heart At Thy Sweet Voice,” Saint Saens; “Homing,” Del Riego.
Deceased Grad Eulogized
The Scholastic reports the recent eulogy given the late Thomas K. Donnelly in Memoirs, a publication of the American Society of Civil Engineers. Mr. Donnelly, who died Dec. 20, 1943, was a graduate of Notre Dame, class of ’04 and in succeeding years became prominent in the field of civil engineering.
In the years following graduation from Notre Dame, he was associated with several railroad companies in various capacities and later as co-partner of the firm of Wenzell, Donnelly, and company of Detroit and concurrently was assistant professor of civil engineering at the U. of Detroit.—Ralph Hayman
Alumni Hall Barracks Officer and Assistant Course Officer.
Lieut (j.g.) Carey Brewbaker has been assigned duties as Physical Education Officer, Welfare Officer, Transportation Officer and Watch Officer while Ensign Byron Hummon will serve as Drill Officer, War Bond and Insurance Officer, Communications Officer, and Trainee Aptitudes Officer.
Commanding officei- for all Naval activities at Notre Dame is Captain J. Richard Barry, U. S. N.
5
Vaughn Monroe to Play for V-12 Ball
Ice Skating Party, Tea Dance, and Informal Dance Will Highlight "Winter-Frolics."
The Regimental Ball, outstanding feature of the V-12 “Winter Frolics,” will be set in an atmosphere permeated by the sweet and swing of one of America’s five top orchestras—Vaughn Monroe and the “Most Talked of Band in America.”
Featured by the baritone crooning of Vaughn himself and highlighting the beauteous Marilyn Duke, popular singing star, and Bobby Rickey, sensational 18-year-old drummer, the Monroe unit stands out as the finest dance orchestra ever to appear at the now traditional V-12 Ball.
The handsome young bandleader brings his great band directly from New York’s Hotel Commodore. Possessed of a distinctive, inimitable style of orchestration, as well as the added feature of his own personable presentation and a truly sensational vocal style, the 6-foot two-inch Monroe has skyrocketed to the top, faster than any other batoneer of recent years.
Organized less than four years ago, Monroe’s Victor records have made every best selling list from Maine to Los Angeles. His radio programs for Coca-Cola, Fitch, and Camel cigarettes have carried to every part of the country, plus his sustaining CBS, NBC, and Mutual network shows, and have established Vaughn as the new idol of dance fans everywhere.
Vaughn, for the third successive year, placed among the first five bands of the nation in the WNEW “Make Believe Ballroom” poll conducted throughout the music and entertainment world. Listening to his great band will convince you that it is the nation’s new sensation.
Maestro Monroe recently made his motion picture debut in MGM’s “Meet the People.” One look at the rushes of “Meet the People” convinced the movie critics that they had something more than just another band leader. Vaughn’s immense popularity, his pleasant appearance and his excellent baritone voice all qualify him for screen stardom and MGM has signed him to a long term contract.
Vaughn Monroe was educated at Carnegie Tech and the New England Music Conservatory. He started his music ca-
BY GENE DIAMOND "Scholastic" Associate Editor
reer with Austin Wylie in 1931 and later joined Larry Funk as trumpeter and featured vocalist for three and one-half years. Later he joined Jack Mar-shand, Boston society band leader, and in 1937, he organized his first band and played alternately in Boston and Miami for two seasons, first attracting national attention with his NBC broadcasts and his Bluebird recordings. •
In its nascent stages, the Monroe theme was “mass and class” appeal. At first, strictly emphasizing the sweet and sophisticated modes proper to country club society, Vaughn reorganized his style in 1940 to include the jump and rhythm that intrigue the millions of young music fans from coast to coast. In 1942, Vaughn’s recording of the “Shrine of St. Cecilia” established his reputation as it sold a half million copies and became the ballad hit of 1942.
Once Again the V-12 Will be out on the Dance Floor
Latest outstanding Monroe recordings include “Crossroads,” “Cornin’ On,” “White Christmas” and “Trolley Song.”
With the acquisition of this, an outstanding and famous orchestra, the V-12 ball is assured of the best music possible for this campus presentation and provides the most essential ingredient in making this semester’s ball the outstanding social event in the history of the Notre Dame naval unit. The Orchestra Committee of Bill Kornblum, Ray Kopituk, Ed Faust and Jack McKay exerted every effort to assure outstanding music for the Ball and have succeeded beyond all expectations. Al early indications point to an “unforgettable” weekend for all trainees from the very first bar of Monroe’s haunting theme song, “Racing With the Moon.”
The complete schedule for the snowtime extravaganza has now been completed and indicates a busy and diversi-(Continued on page 17)
6
Band to Open Its Concert Season Jan. 10 in Navy Drill Hall; Dr. Frank Simon Guest Soloist
BY OCTAVE EMOND
Mi'. H. Lee Hope, director of the Notre Dame Band, has announced that plans have been completed for the coming appearance of Dr. Frank Simon, distinguished American bandmaster and soloist, with the University’s band on Wednesday evening, January 10th.
Dr. Simon was originally scheduled for an appearance with the band on December 21, at the proposed Christmas Concert which had to be cancelled because of holiday complications.
As a lad Dr. Simon came under the guiding influence of the late Herman Bellstedt, cornet-master and composer of the world famous cornet solos which are so popular today. After several years as soloist with Weber’s Prize Band of Cincinnati and a member of the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, he was engaged as cornet soloist with the late “March King,” John Phiilp Sousa, with whom he remained several years.
Steeped in the inspiration gained with Mr. Sousa and responding to the urge of creating his own band, he accepted the invitation of the leading industry in his home town, Middletown, Ohio, to organize and direct its band. With this band, which became the most
Dr. McCrone Demonstrates Usefulness of Microscopy in Scientific Chemical Research
Watching crystals form was the highlight and privilege of the members of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society at their 188th meeting which was held recently in Chemistry hall. Dr. W. E. McCrone of the Armour Research Foundation spoke and gave a highly interesting and engrossing lecture, and demonstration, on the applications of chemical microscopy.
In his lecture, Dr. McCrone pointed out that chemical microscopy covers the application of the microscope to the solution of chemical problems. Recognition of chemical microscopy as a tool is based not on the fact that small samples are required but on the rapid and direct observations which can be made. Positive conclusions can often be drawn which could not be obtained in any other way. In the hands of a qualified operator, the microscope is well adapted to the fundamental study of chemical problems.
successful experiment in industrial music, Simon played many important engagements both in Canada and this country, as well as several highly successful tours.
In 1930 radio was fast coming into its own, and to meet the exacting needs of this new venture, he organized a highly professional band in Cincinnati. For ten consecutive years he and his band brought the best in band music to countless millions throughout the nation.
In the field of educational music the name of Dr. Frank Simon is none the less prominent. He is director of the Band Department of the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music, and presidentemeritus of the American Bandmasters’ Association. Many honors and distinctions have been accorded him in recognition of his untiring efforts in the field of band music.
This concert, which is sponsored by the University, will be presented in the Navy Drill hall and will begin promptly at eight o’clock. There 'will be no admission charged; the public is cordially invited. The complete program and further details ■will be announced in the next issue of the Scholastic on January 5th.
The numerous applications of the microscope to research and industrial problems was emphasized by Dr. McCrone and he classed them into three groups: Quantitative analysis, Qualitative analysis, and Physical chemistry.
During the demonstration which consisted of slides being projected from the microscope to a screen, Dr. McCrone showed clearly how crystals formed into their complicated structure. The fact that each compound has a definite crys-taline structure has a great advantage in qualitative analysis of certain compounds. By use of a polarized lens the crystals forming appear in beautiful shades of color. In order to attain this crystalline formation it was necessary for Dr. McCrone to heat his samples with a special made heater and quickly insert them into the machine and then due to the sudden change in temperature it was possible to actually see the crystals form.
Observations...
3y LEuT. S. I. BEATTY, USNR
1.	Quota for March, 1945: The official letter has been received stating that the quota at Notre Dame for V-12 beginning next March is to be between 701 and 779. Approximately 200 men of the present complement of 835 are finishing their last allowed semester in V-12 next February. To bring Notre Dame up to the indicated quota of 700 or more will require the transfer of additional trainees to Notre Dame from other units. Fewer men than usual are expected to be separated from V-12 this mid-term or at the end of February, since all men now in the program are more or less healthy scholastic survivors of the first term, and have learned how to study successfully. With not over two men to any barracks room, with a study hall on each floor for late or early hours, sincere and prepared students have an extra good opportunity to succeed.
No trainees either from the service or civil life will enter the V-12 program in the term starting 1 March 1945. That decision, based on estimates of the Navy’s future needs for officers, does not affect the 1,000 enlisted men chosen from the ranks for the term which began 1 November 1944, for which no civilians wTere selected. Similarly, other students already enrolled in the program in colleges and universities under contract to the Navy will continue their training as scheduled. There are at present 69,000 prospective young officers in training in V-12.
The announced policy for the immediate future is to choose experienced men from the Fleet and send them to NAR or Navy Academic Refresher schools for from eight to twenty-four weeks, to prepare them for midshipman school or for pre-flight, according to the quotas they have sought and been found qualified for.
2.	Officers and Instructors Train at Sampson for Rehabilitation.—A refresher course in physical rehabilitation wras opened at the Naval Training Center, Sampson, N. Y., late in September. A total of 150 officers and 1,000 athletic specialists were trained at that school in courses lasting four weeks. Their training completed, they are detailed to the Naval Hospitals within the continental U. S.
When the nazis recently announced that an air raid caused little damage, American planes scattered thousands of tiny aerial photographs over Germany showing the actual damage.—Bits Out of Life	‘
7
Administration Changes Completed After Frank Lloyd Resigns Comptroller's Office
The recent changes in the personnel of the University administration resulting from the resignation of Mr. Francis W. Lloyd, comptroller, have been completed, effective last Friday. Mr. Herbert E. Jones, formerly business manager of athletics, has been promoted to the newly created position of Business Manager of the University, and William Broderick, formerly chief accountant, has taken office as University comptroller.
John P. Donnelly, director of student accounts since July, 1943, has succeeded Mr. Jones as business manager of athletics. Miss Anne Stroyna, who has been assistant to the director of students’ accounts, is now acting head of the department.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., in announcing Mr. Lloyd’s resignation issued the following statement: “Out of consideration for Frank Lloyd’s health, I am accepting his resignation. Naturally he will be missed here at the University where for 12 years in a most responsible capacity he has loyally placed his talents and valuable business experience at the disposal of Notre Dame. Altogether grateful for his past service, I wish
Mr. Frank Lloyd
him a renewal of health in the field of endeavor that he plans to enter.”
Mr. Jones has been associated with Notre Dame for the past 23 years. For two years prior to his enrollment as a student in 1923 he served as secretary to Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C.; and to
the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., when he served as president of the University from 1921 to 1923. During his four undergraduate years here Mr. Jones worked part time in the athletic office and became assistant business manager of athletics upon his graduation in 1927.
Mr. Herb Jones
While serving in this capacity he was closely associated with Knute Rockne in the latter’s varied activities. Mr. Jones succeeded J. Arthur Haley as business manager- of athletics in 1940, and he has become nationally known for his efficient work in connection with the success of the Notre Dame Athletic Association.
Mr. Donnelly was student manager of the football team in 1937, when he was a senior at the University. He entered the law school and graduated from there in 1940. Following his graduation he held positions with the Department of Public Relations and as secretary to Frank Leahy, and in July 1943, he was appointed director of students’ accounts.
Mr. Broderick attended Notre Dame but left in 1925 to assume a position with a steel company and in 1932 he returned to take over new duties in the accounting office of the University. In 1940 he was made chief accountant.
Miss Anne Stroyna, replacing Mr. Donnelly, has been with the department for the past nine years, and has been assistant to Mr. Donnelly for the past year and a half.
Literally hundreds of colleges have added geography to their curricula during the war, reports Dr. Raymond E. Murphy of Pennsylvania State College.
Inter-American Affairs Club Announces Schedule
The Inter-American Affairs club announced today its program of proposed speakers for the early months of next year. Each speaker has been assigned to a certain region of North or South America.
At the first meeting of the new year, which will be held on Jan. 4, Enrique R. Lulli, Lima, Peru, will speak on Bolivia and Peru.
On Jan. 18, Harry Berliner, California, will speak on the Western region of the United States.
Stuart Prentice, Guatemala, and Rolando Duarte, El Salvador, Central America, will present a talk on Central America on Feb. 1.	.
On Feb. 15, George Despot, Shreveport, La., will speak on the Southwestern United States.
Luis Beltrenana, Guatemala City, Guatemala, will talk on the Island Republics, on March 8.
The Southern United States will be discussed by Charles Sartore, Memphis, Tenn., on March 22.
On April 5, Larry Romagosa will speak on his home-region. He is from Panama City, Panama.
Ralph Baiocchi, Chicago, Illinois, ■will deliver a talk on Eastern Canada on April 19.
On May 3, the subject will be Brazil and the talk will be presented by Her-mando Santana from Chile.
Robert Horenn and Philip Tomber, both of South Bend, will prepare jointly the talk for May 17 on Indiana.
Another duo will function on June 7, with Alfredo Nieto and Benjamon Campo, both from Mexico City, Mexico, preparing a talk on their native land.
Others who will speak, and their regions, are George Tansey, Southeastern United States; Miguel Vila, Southern South America; Richard Martin, Western United States, and Harry Zeilstra, Illinois and Michigan. Their exact schedule will be assigned at a later date.
Miss Varga Resigns as
Advertising Manager
The main office announced this week that Miss Marguerite E. Varga has resigned from the Publications office to take up new duties with the Alumni Office. Miss Varga began her work with the Scholastic in February of 1942.
Her duties have been advertising manager, handling address changes and circulation, office correspondence and bookkeeping.
Her work with the Alumni Association will be chiefly concerned with Alumni Fund Programs.
8
The Green Banner
...By John Power
TOP OF THE WEEK
Tomorrow we leave!
Friday, Dec. 22, and we have to go home. That is an order and GEE how we hate to comply. To do that we will have to pass up delicious dining hall buffets to go home and eat that nasty stuff that Mother cooks. Oh! What a tragedy! Not only that, but to think of going home and sinking into a nice soft mattress for ten or twelve hours is absolutely disgusting when we could stay here and sleep for six whole hours at a crack in an ultra-modern, rock-filled bed, only to be awakened by sweet sounding chimes. To top it off, the very thought of leaving the wintry beauty and blasts of Indiana sunshine almost causes us to defrost and feel normal again. Isn’t it terrible! Now give me a drag on that before you throw it away. It must be the cigarette shortage.
THROUGH RAIN, WIND, AND SNOW
I wake up just in time to miss my 8:00 and find that my mail has been delivered already. The Greenest Banner of Honor is to be awarded to Tom Vail for meritorious conduct, above and beyond the call of duty.
In case you doubt it and many often do, people do read the Scholastic. In fact some lads in St. Eds get two or three copies of the same issue so they can read them over and over. Sorin is noted for its racketeers but the third floor of St. Eds would put them to shame. Ed Mieszkowski and Frank Yacobi will hop up and down on one foot and swear that 304 is a triple while Johnny Agnone will stand there with a straight face and give you the sad tale that conditions are so crowded that Fr. Garvin has at least half a dozen roommates. And the guy that delivers them, boy is he dumb. But he really isn’t that dumb as he lived in 307 himself for two semesters. Johnny will be telling us soon that the room next to the drinking fountain is a double, and it is too, John.
COMPETITION IS SCARCE—
To listen to Pat Mazza elaborate on Sorin’s Interhall basketball squad, you hang up your you-know-what and retire. Sorin, it is said, will use a single wing on offense and a 2-2-1 on defense with Tom Schreiber at the center slot to push you around.
Joe “I’m Whipped” Sylvester is the
sharpie on the squad. He hit for 18 points one night and his roomie, John O’Rourke, hasn’t been able to get any sleep since. When Sorin’s single wing meets the Laws club’s “T,” complete with Creighton Miller’s and Wings Wingender, McKeever’s problem for next fall will be solved. Only the living will play.
The fact that Frank Kent and Bud Malone have been attired in black this past week is due their mourning that St. Mary’s left, and with such good news at hand', Notre Dame may have a Merry Xmas after all.
SPECIAL TO THE "SCHOLASTIC"
I'll bet that basketball game in Chicago on Dec. 3 will be very interesting, John Power! It's too bad that's the date of the "Freshman Ball" at St. Mary's, isn't it.
I know that you would have loved to attend the ball with that little girl from across the highway. You know, she writes to “Dear John" every day, or more often. Well John, Fate plays cruel tricks, but may be there will be another dance in the near future. Maybe there will be another basketball game too.
—Persecuted
WINGED VICTORY
The manufacturer of Debs sends one million rose-tipped weeds to Notre Dame’s Milk Bottle Bombardier, John Rinella and his heroic crew, Red Kennedy, navigator, and Jimmy Donovan, waist gunner.
“Bombardier to gunner, bombardier to gunner—Prefect of Discipline coming in at nine o’clock.”
“Gunner to bombardier, gunner to bombardier—Doger Wilco???”
“Bombardier to gunner, bombardier to gunner—No, Bob McAuliffe.”
As this column was in the process of being written, and while the author was out for a smoke, the following was stuck on my desk by an anonymous contributor. If you like it, thank us—if you do not, then shut up or blame “Anonymous.”
CICERO AND MILTON
Washington Hall presented “Dr. Was-sel” and it wasn’t bad; nevertheless, we feel sorry for those two wallflowers in the strange garb and who are commonly referred to as Demosthenes and Cicero, who have to take in the pictures every week.—Incidentally, the poems “Those Swinging Doors” and “Tin Pan
Alley,” appearing in previous issues, were due to the Milton-like genius of Harry Walters; and thanks a lot, Harry!
WIN FRIENDS AND INFLUENCE PEOPLE
“Now, Junior, you’re going out into the civilized world tomorrow and you are expected to be a gentleman. If you don’t believe us, read that pink notice on the bulletin board.”
People act differently outside the South Bend city limits. Maybe it’s because they are human.
FIRST OF ALL
1.	When you get on the Pacemaker, don’t head for the Club car right away. Wait until you pass Mishawaka.
2.	Morning checks will not be required by Mother, the only bell to answer will be the dinner bell.
3.	It will seem strange eating off plates. Use caution when cutting that Christmas turkey lest a drumstick land into Pop’s lap. He still has the keys to the car.	.
4.	Don’t be afraid when a man in a grey sombrero walks in the neighborhood club. Go ahead and drink your soda; it’s not whom you think it is.
CORN IN THE CLASSROOM
Prof. Mullally (before class in Metaphysics) We shall now take up the opposites of “Being” and I shall begin by talking about nothing.
Student:—I thought that’s what we have been talking about all semester.
Physics Prof, (to student) What do you know about the behavior of waves?
Student: That’s a difficult question to answer, sir.
SANTA IS COMING
.... and the lads will return next week bearing all the goodies left in thei’* stockings.
Dick Sadowski will be sporting a new suit—purple pinstripe, double breasted.
Joe Brady with a supply of Roosevelt buttons for 1948.
Jumbo Cauley with a ten-year subscription to the Open Road for Boys.
Bill Granfield with a lifetime pass to the Arcadia.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Wednesday, 8:00 A. M.
9
Lack of Experience is Doc Handy's Problem
BY JACK McGRANE "Scholastic" Sports Writer
The commencement of indoor track practice last Friday has once again made the fieldhouse one of the most active spots on the campus these chilly
Over the top. . . and then again
afternoons. The main floor is swarming with alcohol-rubbed athletes. The basketball team has control of the east end. In the infield, the high-jumpers, pole vaulters and shot-putters work out on the west half while runners whiz continuously around the periphery of the banked dirt oval. A casual observer of this ordered bedlam had better be quite alert or risk being trampled upon, gored, or conked with a 16 lb. ball.
Coach E. R. Handy’s track team is in the process of limbering up for the forthcoming season. Most of his distance men are in top condition, having recently finished a very successful crosscountry season, while his sprinters, hurdlers and field competitors are rounding into shape after months of inactivity.
Aside from the cross-country team of Ken Muening, Bill Tully, Roger Wheeler, Steve Provost, et al., Handy has just a few members of last year’s second place NCAA winners returning. Among those who were with the team last year are George Sullivan and Joe Kelly, shotputters; Dave Murphy and Fred Jones, half of last winter’s mile relay team; John Burke, a sprinter; and hurdlers O’Neill, Walsh and Vince Laurita.
Irish Trounce Loras, 91-44, For No. Five
Notre Dame’s high-flying, offensive-minded basketball team smashed the alltime mark for points scored in a single game by an Irish five as it walloped a valiant but unorganized and weary Loras College quint of Dubuque, Iowa, 91-44, on the N.D. court Tuesday evening. The former high for scoring was established less than two weeks before as Clem Crowe's squad routed Kellogg Field, 8928 in the campaign’s inaugural.
Startling and comprehensive though the’ victory and its margin were, Notre Dame suffered a misfortune far more crippling than any single conquest could be gratifying. It was the loss, temporary or otherwise, of spark-plug Billy Hassett, stellar guard, who was knocked to the floor with only a few seconds remaining in the first half. Hassett didn't appear again and later it was learned that he had suffered torn ligaments in his left leg. The injury will deprive the Irish of his services for at least a short time; it is doubtful that he will see action against the formidable Iowa Hawkeyes at Iowa City Saturday.
Against the Duhawks, the Blue and Gold were held in check for only the first few minutes; then the deluge came. Vince “Bullets” Boryla, sensational center, batted in the first fielder . d Hassett and Johnnie Dee followed up «.o boost N. D.’s advantage to 6-0. Then the two clubs battled on almost even terms before N.D. began to pull away. The count was 20-12 when the home club really caught fire and seven minutes later the teams retired for the half-time rest with the Irish leading, 39-19.
Thereafter the run-away assumed indescribable aspects as the Golden Dom-lads hit often and from all angles. Toward the end, as the record mark was being approached, Notre Dame loosened its defense and raced against the clock for the necessary points. Forward Paul Gordon, who notched 16 points in all, climaxed a fine performance by tallying the clincher and followed up with a free toss.
Crowe used 13 players and 11 of them scored. Boryla again set the pace with 23; Dee and Gordon added 16 each. Reserves George Ratterman and Bill Roberts hit for 13 and eight respectively. Center Wareham, with four field goals and six gifts, was high for the Hawks. He committed five fouls and his subsequent absence proved a blow to the lowans’ cause.
I j I I
Irish Risk Undefeate Ri
Notre Dame goes after its sixtl straight win of the season Saturday night at Iowa City when they take oi the Hawkeyes in one of the topnotcl contests of the Irish’ ’44-’45 billing.
In their first meeting last year in the fieldhouse, Coach Ed Krause’s boys trimmed them, but decidedly, 66-42, tc knock-off one of the contending quintets in the Big Nine. This year, in the. second renewal of the series, Coach Clem
( i ( t r b b V c K. <1 t
Another Basket to Add to th! Lai
10
j I I
ite
Record Against Iowa
"Scrap11 Young—Veteran Irish Trainer— Leaves Notre Dame for Farm and Boys Camp
sixtl i rd a; :e 01 iotc!
i the boys 2, tc quin-1 the Clem
Crowe’s charges go in risking an unblemished record. Against his brigade of Dee, Gordon, Boryla, Gilhooley and Hassett there will be a trio of Iowa scorers named Dick Ives and the Wilkinson brothers, Clayton and Herb, who will be trying to outsmart the locals all the way.
Action on the home front will return, Saturday, Dec. 30 when Purdue is the guest, the Fighting Irish making a return engagement at Lafayette, Jan. 2.
to th! Large Point-Score of the Irish
Come the first of the year and there’ll be one more very familiar face missing from the scene—especially the athletic scene. For when Eugene “Scrapiron’’ Young bids farewell to the campus, in less than a fortnight, the University will lose a faithful and invaluable servant who has treated the wails and wounds of its athletic populace ever since the early 20's when he first helped Rockne and then took over permanently in 1927.
His departure will not only leave a big gap to fill but his experience with the training and proper care of athletes, for which Notre Dame has become renowned, will leave too. But Scrap has something new—he’s going to direct a boys camp neai- his new home. The camp, at Covington, La. will be in addition to running his Louisiana ranch of 464 acres.
Came Here By Luck
With the loss of his father upon graduation from high school at Dover, Ohio, and the family without funds to send him to school, Scrap spent the price of a postage stamp and time enough to scribble a few lines to his idol—the late Knute Rockne. Despite the fact that his high school athletic record was just fair, Rock suggested he enter Notre Dame. His first job here was to direct students employed on campus. Rock admired his spunk and willingness and before very long, a cardboard sign was hung on the trainer’s room, “Scrapiron Young.’’ It was then that he was helping Rockne with the training duties.
He graduated cum laude with a degree from the Notre Dame College of Law in 1927 and in the same year was the recipient of the Kanaley Award, emblematic of the highest academic average to be attained by a varsity monogram winner. During his undergraduate days, Young excelled in track, his time of 4:27 for the mile run being his most noteworthy achievement. The two-mile run and cross-country were also his specialties and for a period of two years, he was undefeated in the latter event. He held the Indiana State championship his senior year.
Becomes Full-Time Trainer
Although he once aspired to be a member of the bar, he went to work upon graduation in 1927 as a full-time trainer, a job that he soon leaves. All these years not only the football performers have had the benefit of “Scrap’s” skill and experience but also the candidates for N.D.’s other varsity squads. “Scrap,” as he’s known to the athletes, was never too busy to check and administer aid to
their injuries and aches. During the football season he had many 18 and 20-hour days, but he always prided himself in having “his athletes ready.” Notre Dame’s win record proves that fact.
When asked about the grid greats, he’ll undoubtedly answer that Marty Brill is the best football player in his book and
The Famous Trainer at His Work
in basketball he’ll name a team of Moir, Riska, Krause, Baldwin and Smith. The team of 1930 is the one he considers best although last year’s National Champions ranks high on his list. The outstanding victories that he has witnessed include the 7-0 win over Army in 1929, a 27-0 trouncing of Southern California in ’30 and the 14-13 decision over Iowa Pre-Flight last season.
His Heart Still Here
Although he is a pal of all Notre Dame athletes, regardless of their rank, he always had a soft spot in his heart for little Greg' Rice, the famous distance runner. Scrapiron admired Rice because of the physical handicaps he had to overcome in pursuit of his favorite pastime.
His tasks are many and varied, all of which he handles with cheerfulness and efficiency. One must see him at work to appreciate fully his usefulness.
In accepting his new assignment, Young says he is “going home” to his Louisiana ranch, just 20 miles from the Covington camp. With him will go Mrs. Young and their two sons, Russell and Eugene Jr. But Scrap insists on one thing: both boys are coming back to school at Notre Dame.
11
N.D. Wallops Wisconsin, 57-46; Record Intact
BY JOHN FEENEY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame’s rampaging cage squad —undefeated and with a 71-plus average in four games—stepped out against real competition for the first time this season last Saturday night at Madison, Wis. and emerged unscathed, victor over the previously unbeaten Wisconsin Badger, 5746. An unsuspecting throng of more than 11,000 fans witnessed the tussle and went away stunned with the conviction that this edition of Notre Dame basketball is the best to represent the South Bend institution in recent years. Saturday’s victory is the first N.D. has ever registered in the Madison fieldhouse.
Elongated Dan Rehfeldt, the Badgers’ six-foot, six-inch pivot man, opened scoring with a free throw but high-scoring Vince “Big Chief” Boryla, Irish center, potted the first of his 18 points to knot the count. Then he batted in a rebound • to send the Irish into a 3-1 lead which they never relinquished. The entire first half, which ended with Coach Harold Foster’s Badgers trailing, 26-30, was nip and tuck. During that period Johnnie Dee netted a like number of gifts. Firewagon Billy Hassett rolled in eight in the first half also and Frank Gilhooley, his running mate at the guard posts, accounted for the remaining two.
Only Close Once
Early in the second period the losers made their only real threat as Des Smith’s short shot diminished his team’s deficit to two digits. However Clem Crowe’s lads then began to click once more and, with Boryla, Hassett, and Dee consistently bombarding the mesh, maintained a commanding advantage. The box score tabulation belies the fine defensive play of Paul Gordon and Gilhooley, the other members of the starting five, who together attempted only five shots.
Late in the game the winners displayed a dazzling passing proficiency in freezing the sphere, thus ruining any chances the Badgers might have had.
Notre Dame’s accuracy percentage was .319 with 22 field goals in 69 tries. The Northerners had 14 for 67 for .209. Thirty-seven fouls were called—21 on N.D. and 16 on W.U.—but only Bill Johnson of the home club and Gilhooley of the Irish left the game with five personals.
America’s sixth president, John Quincy Adams, laid the cornerstone of the University of Cincinnati observatory on Nov. 9, 1843.	•	.
12
Wrestling Semi-Finals
Scheduled for Dec. 27
The Wrestling tournament is about to open. The semi-finals will begin on the 27th of this month with eager trainees and students ready to test their strength and ability with their opponents. Wrestling is quite a sport and it seems as though it is getting more and more support as it goes along here at Notre Dame.
Advance training in wrestling will be given on Dec. 19, 20, and 21 in the regular wrestling room of the old gym each day from 1600 to 1730 for those who are interested. John P. Durdach Sp. (A) 3/3 will be on hand to give pointers on “How to Throw ’Em!”
The Finals will be held on Jan. 3, 1945 on the new basketball court in the Old Gym. Durdach expects this to be quite a night. This will be the entertainment for the regular Wednesday night program the V-12 has provided.
—John P. Durdach
Franks and Kuzma Both
Winning Against Illness
In a quiet room in the infirmary at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, two well-built patients lay in adjoining beds listening anxiously as an enthusiastic radio announcer told of the courageous but futile last-ditch attempt by the Wolverines to snatch game, glory, and the Big Ten football crown from Ohio State’s Buckeyes. As Culligan’s last desperate pass fell harmlessly to the ground, the nurse turned the dial and the two patients turned to each other with a resigned “next year.”
Had these'two men been able to don the maize and blue colors, that day the complexion of the game undoubtedly would have been vastly altered, for in that one hospital room were two of the greatest gridders ever- to bring glory to the “Victors”; Tom Kuzma and Julius Franks. Both were stricken with tuberculosis not long after the 1942 season which had seen both achieve national acclaim.
It took the 1943 National Champions to avenge the defeat which these two had helped to manage over the Irish in the local stadium in 1942. Notre Dame still remembers Kuzma, adding his potent end sweeps’ to the spins of Weise to help roll up 32 points; and Franks, a great guard, repeatedly plugging holes in the center of the Wolverine line to stop Clatt or Miller just when a touchdown drive seemed to be in the making.
After facing the “Fighting Irish,” Franks went on to win unanimous AllAmerican rating and Kuzma was running well ahead of the records compiled
by Tom Harmon in his sophomore and ! junior years at Ann Arbor.	i
Now both have played their last game | of football and two outstanding athletic = careers have come to an end. Both are J now waging a successful battle against . disease and look for recovery within a ■ year. Notre Dame joins with the sports j world in general in shouting encourage- i ment to two outstanding competitors for their courageous battle against their toughest opponent.—Gene Diamond
Interhall Basketball
Off to Flying Start
BY JACK MILES
• "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Interhall basketball got off to a good start Wednesday, Dec. 13. Some good teams issued fair warning of their intentions to cop the campus championship.
On Wednesday, the Cavanaugh Dead Eyes decisioned the B-P Falcons, 44-28, with Miller snaring ten points for the winners. Regan led the losing cause with 14 points. In the second game, the Sorin Politicians, led by Sylvester with eight twin-pointers and two free flips, eased by the Harps of St. Ed’s, 47-37. Long led the Harps with six floor counters and one charity pitch.
Thursday saw only one battle ensue, that between the St. Ed’s Mustangs and the Zahm Greens. The Mustangs finally won out, 26-23. Duffy sparked the winning team with five baskets. Cavanaugh’s Palookas won by forfeit from the B-P Tigers.
The next night, the N. D. T. C. overwhelmed the blues-singing Carroll Blues, 47-24. Kronbach led the way with ten baskets and one free throw. In the second encounter, Zahm’s Blues did not sing the blues, but won from the Sorin Commandos, 19-13. Bruno led the charge with eight points, while Coleman took Commando high-point honors with seven counters.
On the following Monday, the LaRaza five went down to defeat before the Lawyers, 43-31. Duarte, of the losers, took individual scoring honors with 12 points. In the final, the Rocketts, led by Cisz-czon, triumphed over the Shamrocks, 37-22. Ciszcon garnered 15 points, while Yacobi notched ten points for the Shamrocks.
NROTC Hockey Sextet Seeking Campus Games
The NROTC has formed an ice hockey team. They would desire games with any organized teams on the campus. Contact Coach Dan “Liggory” Long in room 128 Walsh if interested.
"THERE WILL BE NO SNOWBALL THROWING BY NAVAL TRAINEES!"
Shortly after the order “There will be no snowball throwing by Navy trainees!” was published in the noon muster announcements, several “loop-hole” interpretations developed to legalize the continuance of feuds and the fulfillment of many cases of “sweet revenge.”
“The order said nothing about making snowballs and then pushing them into the victims’ faces . . . nor did it particularly outlaw the throwing of chunks of snow packed by the delicate hand of nature . . . nor was mention made of kicking snow; or of tripping the chosen subject into a snow bank . . . .”
These, and many more, were formulated and practiced as an effect from a “strict” interpretation of the order by the administration and a “loose” interpretation by the trainees. The idea is good, but don’t get caught!
CHOW CHISELERS. INC.
In spite of the fact that the only thing lower than a chow chiseler is two cooperating chow chiselers, the practice has become an art. Some find better results can be obtained by working alone, while others work in pairs or small groups. The effect of getting into the chow hall “illegally” is the same in any case. (This information has been compiled by observation and interview; it in no way reflects the experience of the writer.)
These cold days have developed so many more than usual “organized, wholesale” chow chiselers that company commanders are seriously considering complete abandonment of the command “column of files from the right” and replacing it with “Company! On your mark; get set; GO!” (Suggestion: Give this command at a safe distance to avoid being .trampled to death by the stampede.)
INDIVIDUALISM PERSONIFIED:
Company Commander: “Liberty party shove off.”
Individualist (quietly): “You can’t push me around, cupcake, so just don’t try to rush me, see?”
THE NOTRE DAME NAVY V-12
I’m very discontented now,
My classes are a pain.
My math is tough, my chem is worse.
I wish I had a “brain.”
My Phy. Ed class is aivful, The pool is icy cold.
I wonder what the matter is,
I must be getting old.
High on the things I hate,
Is--------, the “third.”
He shows his rank and takes your card, For things you’ve never heard.
But worst of all I hate to rise, '
So early in the morn.
That clanging bell can go . . .
I’d rather hear a horn.
They say the chow hall food is great, Of course that’s just a farce.
Phil
Noon Muster: "V-12 Trainees will simply have to PLEASE stop throwing snowballs.'*
The Mystery balls remain the same, They just couldn’t yet any worse.
And so it goes, the livelong day, And far into the night.
If ever I survive the course, I’ll never live to fight.
—Jimmy List.
THE BLACK WATCH
Two V-12’s were discussing the dirty watch stripe of a third: “Just check that dirty watch stripe!”
The third character overheard, and replied : “You guys must be behind in your Naval Organization; this is the new official stripe to be worn by all members of the ‘black watches of 2400 to 0400.’ ”
MERRY CHRISTMAS MATES!!!
Entered in the Swabbies’ Log on 22 December, 1944, is a short notation extending a sincere wish for a very MERRY CHRISTMAS to you all.
Football Banquet Set For Jan. 8; 500 Limit
The annual testimonial football banquet for the Notre Dame grid squad, sponsored by the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley, will be held on Jan. 8, in the Indiana Club, South Bend. The attendance is limited to approximately 500, and the tickets are available from Notre Dame alumni in the South Bend area. The price of the ticket is $4.00. Joe Boland, WSBT announcer and president of the St. Joseph Valley club, is in charge of arrangements.
13
>14NTEDS
L	FROM THE
I^RESS BOX
A MERRY CHRISTMAS to Notre Dame
By GEORGE KRAUSE
Riding the crest of a five game winning streak, the Irish will next meet those tough Iowa Hawkeyes tomorrow night. The Irish will have to stop Dick Ives, the Big Nine’s leading scorer of last season and the Wilkinson brothers, Clayton and Herb, who last year led Utah to the championship of the Rocky Mountain Conference. The Hawkejres have gone over the hundred mark once this year and recently crushed Nebraska 61-45. In that game, by the way, Clayton Wilkinson dropped in 24 points and Ives and Herb Wilkinson combined for 20 more.
Against this scoring combination the Irish have one of their own. The fastbreaking Blue and Gold quintet sports Big Vince Boryla at the center spot and the 6’ 4” pivot man rustled the nets for 66 counters in the first four contests, despite playing only a half of most of the games. Close behind is Johnny Dee, the aggressive 5’ 7” forward, who has rippled the draperies for a 58-point total. Finishing out the scoring trio is Bill Hassett who came into his own against Wisconsin when he tallied 16 points. Not to be slighted, however, are the other two members of the first five, Frank Gil-hooley and Paul Gordon, responsible for the numerous set-up chances that the other three have had.
The Hawkeye game promises to be the toughest Irish test to date and will be played on Iowa grounds. The netters round out their holiday schedule Dee. 27 and Jan. 2 when they meet the Purdue Boilermakers at Notre Dame and Lafayette, respectively.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
11 BVa N. Main St.
South Bend, Ind.
In the Future
Some future opponents of the Irish didn’t meet much success last week-end as De Paul’s high-flying Blue Demons met defeat at the hands of a crack Illini five, 43-40. One Blue Demon made himself known in the affair, nevertheless, and that was—you guessed it—toweling George Mikan. The lanky All-American center had a field night as he pitched in 26 points to tie the Chicago Stadium record, which he also held and still holds only more so. He hasn’t been stopped yet, so it looks as if the Golden Domers will have to be at their best for their February date with the Demons.
The Marquette Hilltoppers were tumbled again, this time by the Wildcats (See next page)
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly sei-vice from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.

14
One thing for sure is that the boys in Sorin hall are going to have a White Christmas—the maids have just changed the bed sheets.
The other day, I asked Harry Zeil-stra how he liked St. Eds. Harry said, “The one thing I like about the place is the way it is laid out. I don’t know how long it’s been dead, but I like the way it’s laid out.”
George Despot told me how ritzy the St. Mary’s girls are. It seems that when they eat horseradish—they even wear their riding habits.
Johnny Power, that Chicago democrat, claimed that the only reason Roosevelt ran for a fourth term was because of the housing problem—With things as they are now, where else could he get a room?
Don Lamberton, of the V-12 Lamber-tons, walked out of the La Salle hotel, the other evening, and commanded an aged gentleman, resplendent in gold braid and a dark blue uniform, to call him a cab. “I’m not a hotel doorman, I’m an admiral.”—“Well, then, call me a battleship,” Lamberton said.
Jim Coleman says he can hardly wait to get home for Xmas because the first thing he hears when he gets there is the patter, patter of little feet. So what does he do—put out the mouse-traps.
Ernie Rauscher, filled with Xmas spirit, hung up his stocking in Sorin, but the South Bend Board of Health made him take it down.
Wings-Wingender, the state of Washington’s gift to women, is always bragging about how many girls he has on the string—The boys in Sorin claim that the one he was with Saturday night should have been on a leash.
❖
Professor Engel’s, N. D.’s big game
hunter, went duck hunting a few weeks ago, claims he shot down the largest duck on record.—That was until the pilot bailed out.
Bill Granfield really has a grievance against the Notre Dame Cleaning and Dyeing plant. Last week, he sent his best suit to be cleaned. He claims that he doesn’t know what kind of cleaning they used—but his suit came back to him on a spool.
Larry Romagosa from Panama, loves to eat in South Bend restaurants. Not only is the food good, he claims, but he always finds money on the table.
Dick Sadowski is going to quit wearing those loud sport coats to class because last week he was embarassed when six guys came up to him to place bets.
PRESSBOX SPLINTERS (Continued from page 14)
of Northwestern. Since both teams are Irish opponents, it is interesting to note just who’s who on the two quints. In the Hilltopper battle, Max Morris and Duane Sickels sparked the NW attack with 17 and 13 points in that order. For- Marquette, Joe Evans was the shining light as he contributed 13 markers to a losing cause.
In the Bluegrass State, the University of -Kentucky kept rolling along on its winning ways paced by Wilbur Sachu, Alex Groza, Jack Tingle, and Jim Parkinson with 16, 15, 12, and 9 points respectively. Parkinson incidentally holds the All-Southeastern scoring record, having tallied 27 times in last year’s playoffs. The date of the Irish-Wildcat clash is set for Jan. 27 in Louisville.
Great Lakes bounced back from recent Illinois defeats by handing the Minnesota Gophers a 46-42 reverse. The Sailors had to fight hard for the win after leading the Gophers 18-5 at one time. Luke Majorki, Warren Ajax, and Paul Cloyd carried off the lakes scoring honors with a 29-point aggregate.
Facts About Our Five
In the Alma College clash the Irish sharpshooters were “red hot.” Vince Boryla fired 10 times at the hoop and 8 efforts were successful, while Johnny Dee pitched in 9 of 13 tries. The only weakness was shown in the free throw department where only 7 of 21 gratis heaves were converted. Against Wisconsin they were much improved as they counted on 13 of 23 gift tosses.
An Englishman's View of Basketball
In Manchester, England, recently the residents of that city received their first glimpse of basketball played by Americans and reported it to be “an admirable
medium of grace, speed, and skill.” The reporter for the Manchester Guardian was impressed particularly by the continuity of the game and he remarked thus: “A side that has just scored is particularly vulnerable if they are unwise enough to indulge, even for a split second, in self-congratulation.” Stating further about the great American game, he said, “The shooting from all angles calls for supreme body control. Most diverting of all is the ability of the guards or backs in particular to look in one direction and pass in the other.”
Aircrewman Training
Still Open to Civilians
The Naval Aviation Selection Board in Chicago announced today that all young men interested in applying for the Navy’s top-notch Aircrewman Training Program are urged to take the necessary physical and mental examinations in Chicago during the Christmas holiday vacation. The board will process applicants each day except Christmas day and Sundays, between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
All those interested should make application by writing to the Naval Aviation Selection Board, Room 301, Board of Trade Building, Chicago. Transportation to Chicago will be mailed to applicants and meals and lodging will also be furnished if necessary.
Upon successful completion of the tests, applicants will be eligible to be sworn into the Navy for this training which offers approximately 14 months of instruction, equivalent to two years of college in such subjects as radar, mechanics, and ordnance.
Upon graduation, each man will also be awarded the coveted Navy’s Silver Wings and a petty officer rating. As Aviation Specialists they will then be equipped to team with the finest airmen —the Navy pilots—in the greatest air force in the world.
Barracks Dance Jan. 6
The first of the Navy Barracks dances, under the auspices of Alumni hall will be held in the Rockne Memorial on Jan. 6, 1945. Music will be provided by the V-12 “Commanders,” sensational campus quick tempo ensemble under the direction of Dutch Crask.
Seaman Lawrence Buchstaber is in charge of the committee arranging the dance and plans are being made for a new high in barracks dances, and a unique scheme of decorations is being arranged. This will be the first navy dance of the winter semester and a good turnout of men from Dillon and Alumni halls is expected. The Dillon hall Barracks dance will be held on Feb. 10.
IS
Aeros Boast 20 Members;
Many Fail to be Present
Daniel O’Donnell, from Trenton, N. J., secretary-treasurer of the Aero club, local chapter of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences announced recently the complete list of members of the club to date. At the last meeting the vacancy in the vice-chairmanship was filled by Cliff
Marks, Chicago, Ill.
The members of the club are now: John T. Montgomery, Lawrence, Kans.; David Cartwright, Elwood City, Pa.; Robert Fox, Woodside, Pa.; Raymond Phinkevich, Waterbury, Conn.; Richard Niemer, Plainfield, Wis.; Raymond Loy, Downers Grove, Ill.; Carlson Early, Sheridan, Wyoming; Frank Marciniak, Hartford, Conn.; Daniel Kriscziokaitis, Chicago, Ill.; James Kinn, Fostoria, O.; Roger Buzzard, Barberton, Ohio; James Murray, Cumberland, Md.; Robert Snyder, East Syracuse, N. Y.; Kenneth Schultz, Kewanee, Ill.; George Kaier, San Antonio, Texas.
All other members of last semester failed to be present at the meeting therefore it is impossible to tell whether they have dropped from the club, or whether they had too much homework the night of the meeting.—George Despot
When U. S. warships go into action, telephone equipment transmits orders instantly, clearly. For the huge battleship "Wisconsin,” Western Electric supplied two systems using equipment designed by Bell Telephone Laboratories.
1.	Sound powered telephone system—with 2200 instruments connecting all battle stations. These battle phones operate on current generated by the speaker's voice, so damage to the ship’s electrical power supply cannot interrupt communications.
2.	Battle announcing system—with 20 transmitter stations and over 300 giant-voiced loudspeakers.
Helping to supply "battle talk” equipment for use at sea, on land and in the air is providing important work for many college graduates—both men and women—at Western Electric.
Buy all the War Bonds you can—and keep them!
W' Western Electric
IN PEACE-SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM.
IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
Commerce Forum Meets;
Robert Riordan Speaker
Members of the Commerce Forum met in regular session in the Lounge Room of the Rockne Memorial building to hear Robert Riordan, senior Foreign Commerce major from Solomon, Kas., talk on “Cartels: The Post-War Specter.” The Forum was honored with the presence of Mr. L. Eells, professor of finance, who gave many helpful comments following Mr. Riordan’s speech.
Emphasizing the part of the American influence in the post-war world, Mr. Riordan contended that it was our duty to realize the potentialities of these world agreements known as cartels, and divert their power to ends sympathetic to American ideals.
James Donnely, Forum president, presided, and Mr. E. A. Smith, was faculty moderator.—Mike Garry
16
V-12 WEEKEND
(Continued from page 6)
fled weekend for all who attend. The V-12 Executive Committee presents the Winter Carnival Program:
Friday night: V-12 Regimental Formal Ball—Drill Hall. Vaughn Monroe’s Orchestra, featuring Marilyn Duke.
Saturday afternoon: Ice Skating Party Ice show and carnival in cooperation with the University of Notre Dame. Guest figure skaters from the Chicago Figure Skating Club.
Saturday night: Informal Dance, Music by V-12 Commanders; Floor Show, featuring Royal Hawaiian Orchestra and Singers.
Sunday afternoon: Tea Dance, Local Hotel, local orchestra.
Comments on the acquisition of Vaughn Monroe and his orchestra:
Lt. J. H. Northrup, Recreation Officer: “The choice of the Monroe orchestra comes as a result of a unit-wide poll. Sixty per-cent of the trainees plan on bringing in dates from out of town for the Carnival but would not unless a real name-band was hired for the ball.”
Sp(A)3/3 J. P. Durdach, showman and producer: “The committee has made a most erudite music selection. I could not have done better myself.”
Sp(A)3/c W. J. Von Pinnon: “Colossal!”
Sp(A)2/c J. D. Wardley: “Stupendous!”
Dick Grant, Baseball
Letter Winner, Killed
Another Notre Dame monogram winner has been lost in action, it was learned late last week, when the War Department announced that Sgt. Matthew R. (Dick) Grant of Freeport, Ill. had been killed in action in France, Nov. 23. Dick was a member of the Irish baseball teams of 1942 and ’43, winning a letter in the latter year. Dick was also a Scholastic sports writer. He is the son of Doug Grant, well-known sports editor of the Freeport Journal Standard.
MASS SCHEDULE
Sunday, Dec. 24:
5, 6, 8, and 11 a.m‘.
Christmas Day:
5, 6, 8, and 9 a.m.
New Year's Day: Normal Mass Schedule will be Resumed.
All Masses Will be Celebrated in Sacred Heart Church
Walter Ziemba, Ass't.
Coach to Marry Soon
Walter Ziemba, assistant Notre Dame football coach for the past two seasons and basketball coach during the past season, and an All-American center in 1942, will be married on Saturday, Jan. 6, to Miss Julia Krukowski of Hammond, Ind. The ceremony will take place in the Log Chapel on the Notre Dame campus at 11:00 a.m. Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., will officiate.
CHRISTMAS PROGRAM "
(Continued from page 3)
Father Craddick urges those planning attendance at the midnight Mass to arrive early, as few seats will be available after 11:45 p.m.
Religious Atmosphere Manifests Itself
At a University especially dedicated to “Our Lady,” it is only fitting that increased devotion should manifest itself during the period commemorating the birth of the Infant Jesus, and this spirit, which so typifies Notre Dame, is fostered by the miniature “crib” scenes which have been placed in all hall chapels, where students may express adoration and gratitude through their prayer and meditation.
To further depict the Yuletide atmosphere, Christmas trees have been placed in all chapels. The beautiful Christmas scene incorporating the entire backwall of “Our Lady’s Chapel” in Sacred Heart church has always been synonymous with the season of Christmas at Notre Dame, and this year’s scene is in keeping with such a tradition.
Mass Schedules Changed
It is to be noted that masses will be celebrated at 5, 6, 8, and 11 a.m. on Sunday, Dec. 24, and on Christmas day at 5, 6, 8, and 9 a.m. This is a deviation from the normal Mass schedule which will be resumed New Year’s day, when most students will have arrived back on campus.
Other Events Provide Activity
Adding to the religious festivities will be an inviting array of activities, and topping this off will be Purdue’s “Boilermakers” invasion of the Irish fieldhouse, where Clem Crowe’s fast moving aggregation will be seeking another decisive victory. This engagement of the wooden-ways is set for Saturday, Dec. 30.
For the movie-goer, one finds rich in enjoyment the “Adventures of' Mark Twain,” based on the life of the immortal character of Samuel Clemens. This is to be supplemented by a NewsShort and a Walt Disney creation, all of which will be shown at Washington hall this Saturday evening, time 7:15.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Est.
52525252525252525252535252523 m Glasses Correctly Fitted
g	J. BURKE
§	W. G. BOGARDUS
g	E. C. BEERY
p] Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians g 228 S. MICHIGAN ST.
[“ Evenings by Appointment
15E5E5aSE5E5B5E5a52SH5E52525E525R5R525
1900
A Christmas Suggestion for a Notre Dame Gift z
CAMPUS CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS
$5.00
THE SET
"Notre Dame—100 Years' and "Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell"
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
17
AIR WAVES
BY GEORGE DESPOT
SANTA'S SKIPPED
Friday night at 7:30, Nick and Nora Charles are forced to give up their lazy and pleasant dream of a white Christmas long enough to solve the case of “The Misplaced Santa Claus.”
I DID MINE EARLY
Axel Stordahl, orchestra conductor on the “Frank Sinatra Show,” told Frank he’d been Christmas shopping. “Did you see anything you liked?” asked Frank.
“I sure did!” exclaimed Axel, “but the floorwalker kept making her go back to work.”
NINTH TRY
For the ninth time since 1934, Lionel Barrymore brings Scrooge to life in his traditional presentation of Charles Dickens, “A Christmas Carol.” The program hits the air waves at 6:00 Saturday evening.
I'M DREAMING OF A . . .
At .7:00 it’s Kenny Baker and at 8:45, it’s Jessica Dragonette with Christmas favorites like “Toyland,” “Bless This House,” and of course “Silent Night.” They add up to one hour of white Christmas melody.
SIXTH TRY
For the sixth consecutive year Kate Smith is narrator in Charles Tazewell’s beloved “The Small One,” the dramatic feature of her Christmas Eve broadcast Sunday (6:00). She adds another bit of tradition with her singing of “Silent Night” for the fifteenth time.
NOT A CHRISTMAS TREE :
Guests Ray Bolger and Constance Bennett were discussing their family backgrounds on “Stage Door Canteen”:
“Ah, I have a wonderful family tree!” bragged Bolger.
“The tree is wonderful,” Connie agreed, “but the crop looks like a total failure!”
THE TITLE IS DIFFERENT
“A Miserable Merry Christmas” and “Our First Christmas Tree” will be dramatized on the “Radio Reader’s Digest” at 8:00 (Sun). Following the presentation of the stories, special Christmas music will feature Van Cleave and the orchestra.
A MEDAL FOR DE BUM
For her defense of the Brooklyn G.I., on her noontime program, Kate Smith will receive a citation from the Society for the Prevention of Disparaging Remarks About Brooklyn. Kate’s comments were answers to Noel Coward’s uncompliments.
IT SEEMS TO ME I'VE HEARD, etc.
The “Star Theatre” (Sun. 8:30) will feature James Melton singing “I’m Dreaming of a White Christmas.” Alec Templeton will be there to add comical and musical enjoyment to a Chrismas program. Al Goodman’s orchestra furnishes the background.
STRICTLY FOR SQUARES
Vera Brodsky chooses an all-Bach program for her Christmas Eve piano recital (10:15). Her selections include Egon Petri’s arrangement of “Sheep May Safely Graze”; “Jesus, Joy of Man’s Desiring,” arranged by Myra Hess; “I Call On Thee, Lord” and “In Thee Is Joy,” Busoni arrangement.
GET THOU TO MIDNIGHT MASS
The last hour of Christmas Eve brings the annual CBS Christmas Carol program with the voice of Sally Moore, the network’s new contralto discovery, and the Collegiate Chorale directed by Robert Shaw. The program includes carols by contemporary composers, and many traditional favorites.
STATIC
Mary Boland, guest on “Stage Door Canteen” told Hildegarde: “If you will look closely, you will see that I’ve had my face lifted.”
“Oh really,” countered Hildegarde, “who took it?”
Cando no wrong!
An Arrow White Shirt gets along swell with your loudest sports jacket . . . your best blue suit ... or any outfit you can dream up! And Arrow Whites can’t go wrong on wear! Fabrics are pre-tested to last! Sanforized label means less than 1% shrinkage.
Arrow White Shirts, $2.24 up
ARROW White SHIRTS
THIS IS IT!
Starting at 3:00 and ending at 5:00 is the Christmas Day feature. Stars for the program are George Burns and Gracie Allen, Carmen Miranda, Joseph Szigeti, Bob Hope, Jack Benny, Bing Crosby, Eddie Anderson, Barbara Jo (Vera Vague) Allen, Ginny Simms, Announcer Ken Carpenter, the Les Paul Trio, the Charioteers, the Swing Wing musical group, and Don Ameche as emcee.
That’s two hours of songs, carols, fun, and All-American entertainment. It is one program that all radio fans should hear.
HOLIDAY FEATURE
Throughout the week, many excellent and outstanding programs will be heard on the air, but to all America, there is one program in which everyone can be genuinely interested. Sunday, Dec. 24, at 4:15, President Franklin D. Roosevelt will deliver his Christmas Eve message to the nation and to the Armed Forces the world over.
Mail Service Reopened
Mail service is reponed in the form of plain post cards at 3 cents each for Belgium, France, Switzerland, Vatican State and unoccupied Italy. Letters may also be sent to France (limit 1 oz.) and Italy (limit 2 oz.) No enclosures of checks, drafts, securities and currency allowed.
Small parcels up to four pounds may be sent to France and certain places in Italy.
’ Personal remittances may be sent to France and Italy. For this service consult the local bank.
18
Debate Tourney to be
Staged by Wranglers
The Wranglers, honorary campus discussion club, announce an Interhall Debating tournament which is to begin shortly after the the Christmas holidays.
The topic, or a variation of it, will be: “Is a Genuine Community of Nations Practical?”
The Wranglers will judge hall eliminations; faculty members will judge the interhall debates.
A Wrangler has been assigned to each hall to assist in organizing its team. If you are interested in participating in this tournament please contact or notify the following Wranglers:
William O’Connell, 225 Sorin hall for Breen-Phillips.
Robert Riordan, 339 Sorin for Cavanaugh.
Jose Cardenas, 11 Sorin for Zahm.
Richard Martin, 233 Sorin-for St. Ed.
James Cassidy, 231 Walsh for Walsh.
Thos. Devine, 320 Walsh for Alumni.
Norbert Grier, 238 Walsh for Dillon.
COLLEGE PARADE (Continued from page 2)
BEER OR BREAD
The Indiana Daily Student discovered that “The Federal Trade Commission recently ordered a brewers association to stop advertising that beei- is equivalent or even comparable to bread in nutritional value. They admit that both bread and beer contain proteins, minerals, and vitamins, but say that it takes one and a half bottles of beer to provide the same number of calories as four slices of bread. So the question is, are you vitamin hungry or just plain thirsty?”
On reading this, some St. Eds genius will probably try to trade in four- slices of bread for the “head of a thorough-bread” at the dining hall.
CAMPUS CAPERS
Les Horvath and Bill Willis, Ohio State All-Americans, assisted at a birth in an emergency recently. They were visiting a professor when the cat gave birth to kittens.—At Loyola University, New Orleans, a mother and her daughter are classmates in the school of Pharmacy—“What’s the answer to the fifth question, Ma?” — A Northwestern university coed has organized a glamazon club for girls over five feet, seven inches —Harry Ryan, take note—Hanging on the door of the downtown print shop that
is the home of the Torch, Valparaiso university paper, is the following sign, “This is not a ration board.”
LUCKY ME
“I’ll have lots more material from which to choose items for the column. The Scholastic is exchanging with the Selective Service Netus.
National Campaign for
New Radio Material
Determined to find new jokes, new comedy situations and new radio ideas geared to current big-time radio programs, Joke’s, Inc., radio material marketers, are instituting a national campaign among the students of colleges and universities for new material.
West Coast representatives of national advertising agencies, producing top Airshows, have consented to review new material and, if interested, will purchase same at prices established by a bureau of professional writers in the industry.
The necessity for new material and ideas was brought to the industry’s attention by weekly Variety, radio’s leading trade paper, who recently editorialized in part—“There’s been glaring evidence in the past couple weeks that radio has done nothing to remedy its most ob-vious weakness—opening the door to new writers. The way the comedians are tossing around these same gags, even on tire same night, points to a situation that, while evident enough last season, has now reached an alarming state.”
Only fresh, clean and original material will be offered for sale. Old and used material -will be discarded. The plan is to interest embryo writers to send in original material weekly which xvill be acknowledged and permission to sell requested.
Marketable material will be presented to interested agencies at established values, ranging from $20 and up. When sold the writer will be advised, paid fifty (50%) percent of the sale price, and each transaction certified to by the purchaser.
Material must be geared to specific shows, and shown as such. The typed material, together with the writer’s name and address, should be sent to Irving W. Parker, care of Joke’s, Inc., 702 Taft Bldg., Hollywood and Vine Streets, Hollywood 28, Calif.
A small boy recently described the circulation of the blood aS flowing down one leg and up the other.—Bits Out of Life
— Compliments
of
1 Krauss Jewelry Co. X j 207 N. Michigan St.
I
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
. DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4.5661 702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. 4. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J.-ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
4O6-4OB TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
19