Vol. XXVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, September 24, 1892.	No. 3.
The Symbols.
[/« Memory of Daniel Donghei Zy.J
Pure of heart and sound of head, Loyal friend and honest foe, .
When the fight was thick you led,— When the nation’s sun was low,— You to all the Best were true!
No evil aim, no evil thing
Marred the glory of your days;
Alas! that grief should have its sting, And we be late with words of praise .
Of all the good and truth in you.
Come, let us lay a violet crown
Upon the grave we love so well, That grave in which our hearts lie down, And feel the sweet and bitter spell Of love whose life is gloomed by grief.
A violet crown, not only bays, Though from your lips rare poesy sprung;— A violet crown, for all your days
Were great with fine things thought and done; And in'your crown no withered leaf.
He was Athenian, yet Christ’s son, ’ Fine as a Greek, with Christian heart;
Corinthian deeds were Christly done;
He chose, of will, the better part, And we, not he, have pain of loss.
A violet crown I claim for him,—
Him of the tongue and heart of gold;
Who is there that speaks shame of him ?
Not one;—O you new Greek of old, For you the violets and the Cross!
..	Maurice Francis Egan.
—The Pilot.
A gentleman at a party was declaring that he had lost faith in everything and everybody. “In fact,” said he, “I don’t believe in anything.” “That is because you don’t know anything,” said a smart little lady across the table.—Ex.
Style.
As style is the mirror of the author’s mind it reflects his character and the thoughts that struggle for expression in his soul. If it has too much ornament, he is fond of pleasure; if too little, he is cold and impassive; if it is wanting in thought and has much flourish, he is silly; if it has great sound and little sense, he is hollow; if it is obscure, his mind is not clear and his conception of the subject vague.
Every original genius has a peculiar method of expression. On everything he says, on everything he writes is stamped the impression of his soul. You feel his personality, the vigor of his activities, the consciousness of his convictions and the flights of his imagination. His style is something more than the mere words employed to convey his thoughts—it is even more than the garb in which his thoughts are dressed: it is the expression of his individuality. As his mind is clear, refined and strong, his style has perspicuity, elegance and energy. These are the three great underlying principles of style; and when regulated by the laws of economy make, in the words of Buffon, “the style of the man.”
Perspicuity is simply the power of the writer or speaker to make himself known to others. It is the first and most important principle of style. For want of it nothing can atone. Without it, ornament is tinsel, and dignity of language is a sham. It is not a negative virtue —it is a positive beauty. It makes style the limpid stream into. which we look for the thoughts that run through the author’s mind. Style, to be clear, must have in words purity of diction, propriety and precision, and in the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
structure of a sentence every word must hold that place where it will have most effect.
Purity is the use of words and structures which belong to the idiom of the-language. Propriety is the selection of such words as the best authors would use to express the thought. Precision is the expression of this thought and nothing more. In the structure of a sentence there should be such a distribution of materials as to keep the dominant idea before the. mind with minor parts so arranged as to indicate their dependence and connection. This gives the sentence unity. Language then becomes a machine for the conveyance of thought; and, as Herbert Spencer says, “The more simple and better arranged its parts, the greater will be the effect produced.” Whatever force is absorbed by the machine is deducted from the result. The reader or listener has at each moment but a limited amount of mental power available. To recognize and interpret the symbols presented to him requires part of this power; to arrange and combine the images suggested requires a further part, and only that which remains can be used for realizing the thought conveyed. Hence the more time and attention it takes to receive and understand each sentence, the less time and attention can be given to the contained idea, and the less vividly will that idea be conveyed.
* In every sentence words should be so placed that they will give precision and idiomatic energy. When words are loosely arranged the contained idea strikes the object for which it was aimed, like an arrow from a bow; but when words are so arranged as to give precision and idiomatic energy, the contained idea “goes home”'like a bullet from a rifle. Words should have such a sequence as to suggest the elements of the thought they aim to express. The same is true of the divisions of a sentence. The usual form is the subject, the copula and the predicate; but when an emotional thought is to be expressed, the predicate comes first, as it determines the aspect in which the subject is to be viewed. In poetry, in oratory and in very strong prose this style is common. It keeps the mind in a kind of easy suspense, and prepares it to receive the thought in all its strength and beauty. Spenser call this the direct style; and the usual arrangement of words he calls the indirect style.
’ In the structure of a sentence of two propositions the subordinate one should come first, as it is explanatory of the principal one. This order prevents misconception, and saves the mental energy of the recipient. Words closely -
connected should come near together, and the qualifying members of a sentence should stand near the qualified. The less distant they are apart the less mental power will be required to carryforward the qualifying member to apply it. If many qualifications are to be carried forward at the same time, the mind will be overloaded, and its powers will be exhausted. So the fewer the suspensions, the greater the force. In the direct style the qualifying elements come first; that is, thoughts come from cause to effect; in the indirect style this order is not regarded. The style to be preferred in the structure of a sentence must be determined by circumstances. As in the charge on the field of battle it is sometimes better that the subordinate be first in line, and the commander hold his positionin the rear, so it is in a sentence; the least important members should come first, and the commanding one close the sentence. When any army is besieging a city, and the line of attack is far extended, and the general finds it difficult to send his orders along the line with sufficient dispatch, he should take a central position and send his commands both ways. So it is in a long sentence; if the qualifying members come , too far from the qualified, the commanding thought should be placed in the middle. And again, when the general feels that his men are not filled with the spirit of enthusiasm, and may drop their guns at any moment, he should lead the charge; likewise in a sentence; if the qualifying members fail to take the mind of the recipient step by step, let the commanding thought come first, take the fort, and the others will follow in good order.
What manners is to man, what refinement is to woman, elegance is to style. It gives to style a delicacy of touch which is always felt, but-cannot be described. Elegance depends upon euphony, rhythm, harmony, variety and imagery.	•
Euphony is the use of words and phrases of a pleasing sound. However, it is not against the canons of euphony to use harsh combinations to portray corresponding ideas. This is the highest kind of- euphony. It makes “the sound echo to the sense.” The happy choice of words gives to style that quality called beauty— beauty which raises in the imagination emotions calm, gentle and serene. If this imitative quality is heightened by passion, the style becomes sublime. Beauty is the vernal zephyr that breathes the odor of field and grove, and attunes the rustling leaves of the woodland with the music of the spheres; sublimity is the hurricane impetuous in its course, as it howls
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
35
o’er the land and sweeps o’er the sea. To have beauty or sublimity in composition there must be rhythm or an easy flow of numbers. Rhythm is not only pleasing to the ear, but appeals to the musical sensibilities; and music has a wonderful power over the mind. It can raise or quell the greatest of emotions. Hence words and periods should be so arranged as to have .a flowing measure, gradually rising in sound and swell, and ending with a pleasant cadence. When the words and periods have melody, and that modulation which makes “the sound echo to the sense,” the style has harmony. The gay and the grave, the merry and the solemn, the beautiful and sublime, each appears in its own dress. The tender melody of the love ditty echoes the yearning of the heart; the quick beat of the war song fills with fire the hero for the fight; Ciceronian swells speak of something great and important; the abrupt, nervous periods of a Demosthenes come with the violent sho'cks of an earthquake, the convulsions of a volcano because on their force depend the rights of a people or the liberties of a nation.
One cannot bear too much of anything, so the style should have variety. A traveller can see little beauty on a straight road in a level country. Put him on a winding way where he sees the landscape of mountain, hill and lowland, and you give his mind pleasure. The mind loves variety in nature; it loves it also in style. What gives variety to style is imagery. As variety of scenes pleases the traveller and helps to awake his attention, so imagery stimulates and economizes the mental faculties. This is natural; for until the heart.is steel, until the soul is a block of ice and imagination is no more, figures will have a more prominent place in literature. Man was created with an imagination, and by this power of mind he assimilates the beauties of the universe. As the flowers of the field, the trees in the forest and the waters of the sea absorb part of the rays of the sun, so the imagination absorbs part of the beauties of nature, lifting the souls from the lowly things of earth, and raising it up to the realms of heaven. Figures give language copiousness, variety and color; they condense, they elevate, they afford pleasure by giving two thoughts at the same time; express delicate distinction,, and above all economize the mental energies. When the figure helps in forming an image it should come first, as it will save attention by carrying forward all the elements together. As in the direct style the adjective comes before the substantive, the predicate and copula before the substantive and their respective
elements before them, so the figure should come before the qualified images. If the figure is the mere flight of fancy it does not illustrate the thought; if it does not grow out of the subject it is only a showy patch; if it is explan atory it is tiresome; if suggestive it is pleasing. Figures in the right place vivify the thought and give strength to the style.	.
Strength or energy is that vigor or force of expression which influences the mind addressed. To be strong one must be clear, simple, use specific instead of general terms, and let each sentence rise in importance until the whole ends in a climax.
Clearness and simplicity come from the use of Saxon English. Saxon, as a rule, is the strongest because it is the most direct, and conveys the idea with more rapidity to others as it is more closely connected with the idea and is easily understood. The fewer words used to express the thought, the better, as there is a saving of the mental powers. This rule is true of symbols: the fewer, the better. “As when the rays of the sun are collected into a focus of a burning glass, the smaller the spot is which receives them, compared with the surface of the glass, the greater is the splendor, so in exhibiting our sentiments by speech, the narrower the compass of words wherein the thought is comprised, the more energetic is the expression.”
• Speaking of Anglo-Saxon words, it does not follow, however, that all words should be monosyllabic. One who uses nothing- but monosyllables puts on mock-modesty; and is as much of a pedant as Dr. Johnson, who “ made little fishes speak like whales.” When an emotional thought is to be expressed Latin derivatives may be used with great effect.
To prevent waste of the mental energies of the reader or listener, the images should be presented to his mind in order. The mind loves order, and likes to rise with the speaker from the little to the great, and feels shocked when an image is introduced out of place. When the sun appears above the horizon in the morning we cannot see the stars, although they are still there; and when an insignificant thought comes after an impressive one, we cannot see its beauty; it is lost in the light of the great one. As in the structure of a sentence the sequence is from the weak to the strong, so in the whole work it should be from the less important to the most interesting. The ideas should rise like the waves of the sea; and as the sea changes with the atmosphere, the style should change with the theme and the occasion. .
.	Hugh O’Neill.
36	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
An Eventful • Night.
'	During the year 1874 I was employed in the
First National Bank at Alhambra. As much of the bank’s money was chiefly invested in property, they did a real estate business in connection with banking. Being esteemed by my employers, I was often sent to transact business in the adjoining towns. This business consisted in either buying or disposing of property. It was a very interesting employment, though the salary was moderate. But having no responsibilities I lived very comfortably.
Marionette was a small village some forty miles distant. There was not much travel between the two towns. Two stage coaches made trips every day. The road was very ;	lonely, and quite frequently the stages were
“held up” by robbers. My employers owned a house and lot in this town, and thinking it was too far from Alhambra to be looked after they decided to dispose of it. A sale was consequently advertised to take place on the 15th of the next month. On the preceding day
I	I was called into the office of Mr. Palmer, the
president of the bank, and was informed that I
I	was to go to conduct the sale; in addition he
said that it was a wild country, and I could not be too careful. I accordingly put two of the cashier’s pistols into my pockets thinking that in case of necessity they would come handy. I ;	took the first stage for Marionette which left at
i	9 a. m. There were only two passengers besides
myself—a " drummer,” who was going to Elroy, |	a town twenty-two miles from Alhambra, and
|	an old woman who was going on a visit to
|	Marionette. The stage stopped at our desti-
;	nation about 4 p. m. I entered the hotel and
;	registered: as it would be nearly two hours until
J	supper I decided to stroll about the village. I
had not gone very far when I noticed two rather suspicious-looking characters eyeing me from head to foot. I soon lost sight of them, however, and after having viewed the town I returned, had supper and being very tired immediately went to bed.
In accordance with the advertisements, I considered it my duty to call the sale exactly on time. So at one o’clock next day I began my part of auctioneer. It was some time before I could get a reasonable offer; but at last one of !	- the merchants of the town bid $5000. I accepted
;	it; we went to his store, the deed was made out,
I	and I received the money. I was rather timid
!	. about carrying such a large sum, as I had seen
I	’	'
1 .	.	•	.
the same two characters I had met the previous evening at the sale. I returned to the hotel and soon was in the stage on my way home. This time there were about ten or twelve passengers. We had proceeded almost fifteen miles when the stage broke down; fortunately however, it was near a tavern by the wayside. Mr. Evans, the landlord of the house, was soon on the spot, and invited the passengers to go to his house for the night; but as some half a dozen of them were determined to go on, there was no alternative but to get out an old express wagon and dispatch them on their way. The stage horses were made available, and the passengers piled in with selfish haste, and long before I could get my valise out of the stage and reach the wagon it had rambled off and left me, with half a dozen more, behind.
It was absolutely necessary that I should be at Alhambra that night, else I should cause serious inconvenience at the bank next morning; and as I had always been congratulated on my promptness, I felt very loth to be behind time now. I spoke to Mr. Evans asking him if he could not let me have a horse to continue my journey. I would pay him liberally and return the animal in good condition the next day. But he shook his head. He had only one horse in the stable, he said, and Mrs. Evans was subject to dreadful spells of colic and might be taken any hour, and he made it a rule of his life never to let Jennie go out of the stable, for fear his wife would be seized and die before the doctor could be brought.
Under the circumstances I could not urge my request. . There 'was ho chance for me to get to Alhambra until eleven o’clock the next day unless I footed it, and this I would not have hesitated for a moment to do had it not been for the fact that the road to Alhambra was the vilest in the country.
“Go to my house and stay to-night; ! can give you a good supper and a warm bed,” said Mr. Evans.
“Pray, sir,” said a sweet voice at Mr. Evan’s elbow’ “is there no way to get to Alhambra to-night?”
“Not to-night, my dear,” was the reply, as the light of the lantern shone on the face of a pretty girl, whom I had scarcely seen before, as she had been an inside passenger. “I fear you’ll have to take up with the accommodations of my house.”
“I must go on. I have been some months from home, and have been summoned thither by the illness of my. father, and can’t delay here as the dispatch stated that he was dying,”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
37
“It’s too bad!” said Evans; “but I wouldn’t let Jennie go on any account, because, you see, if my wife was taken sick she’d die before we could get the doctor here on foot.”
“Hello! who’s coming now?” A close carriage, drawn by two dark horses, came up and halted by the side of the overturned coach. It was just light enough to show that there were two men in the carriage, and they wore caps and were well muffled.
“What’s the difficulty?” asked one of the men in a hoarse voice.	.
“Stage upset, axle busted!” replied the landlord.
“Well, you’ll have your house filled to-night if you’re the landlord of the place back yonder,” said the stranger. “Any gentleman here that would like to go down to Alhambra? We can take, one down.”
I stepped quickly forward and said I would be greatly indebted if they would give me a seat, and then I introduced myself—George Goodyear.
“And here’s a young woman as is going too,” said the landlord; “her pa’s sick, and she must git there;—Miss—Miss—what’s your name, my dear?”
“ Palmer,” said the girl, “Emma Palmer. My father is James Palmer of the Alhambra bank.”
The President of the bank for which I worked! I knew Judge Palmer very well, and was able to tell Miss Emma that his illness was not considered dangerous. But she insisted on going on, and at last, after considerable conversation among the two strangers, they consented to take us both. I assisted Miss Palmer into the carriage and took with her the back seat, our companions occupying the front.
Only one of the carriage lamps was burning and it gave a dim light. The farther we went, the deeper seemed to grow the darkness. It was a lonely road at any time, but now it was particularly gloomy. We came at last to a long stretch of timber which intersected the country at this point and was about three miles wide. There was not a house the whole distance. As the horses panted and staggered through the mud, I was confident that the men spoke together in subdued whispers, and I distinctly caught the words: “five thousand dollars!” I grew cold with dismay. That was the amount I had about me, and it seemed as though these fellows had got information to that effect and intended to rob me. If I had been alone I would have had no fear, as I had confidence in my courage and strength as well as in a pair of revolvers which I carried. I took them out to
see if they were all right; and after satisfying myself on this point, I replaced them. We had travelled about half through the woods when one of the men stopped the horses, and the other rose up in his seat and faced us.
Miss Palmer grasped my arm. I knew she was terrified, but she did not cry out as most women would have done.
“There is no need of beating about the bush,” said the man, with admirable coolness, “and I will come to the point at once. You have 55,000 in your possession, and my friend here and myself are in want of it. We planned the accident to the stage by sawing the axlehalf in two, and we happened along expressly to take you down to Alhambra. The lady we did not reckon upon, but could not refuse to ttake her. And now the question is, will you or will you not give up the money?”
“Most decidedly, I shall not!”
“Then we must use force,” said the man; “ and I warn you now: I will murder you before I will allow you to escape^with the money. Give it up peaceably, and I pledge you my word of honor that you and the young lady will be left at the next village unharmed.”
“ I will never give up a cent of the money,” said I, feeling my indignation rise at the scoundrel’s coolness; “not a cent of it unless it is taken from my dead body!” As I spoke the man seized me by the shoulder. I leaped out of the carriage, dragging him with me, and then began the.struggle.
“ Don’t use the pistols,” said the other villain, “knife him if you can.”
My antagonist was a powerfully built man, but I, being a good athlete, was a match for him. Over we rolled in the mud, first one having the advantage, then the other. At last I grasped him by the throat, but his cry for help brought the other villain upon the scene. Two against one was rather unfair odds, but I flatter myself that I gave them several blows which they felt. I felt my strength giving way, and I knew I could not hold out much longer. Just as the larger of the two had placed his knee on my breast and had raised his knife to strike my heart I saw by the dim light of the carriage lamp that the young lady had got down and was hurrying towards us.
I tried to shout to her to run for her life, but she heeded not; the next moment I heard a cry of rage, and the man on my breast stumbled off. She had made a slip noose with her scarf and flung it over his head as he was about to strike the fatal blow. With a wild oath he twisted the scarf from her hands and sprang
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
upon her, both went down to the ground. I broke loose from the other villain and observed that the former one was tying Miss Palmer’s hands. She was between me and him, and I called out to her. “Miss Palmer, drop your head and do not move till I tell you.” She obeyed, and I fired one of my pistols at the breast of the man; he dropped, and before I could turn upon the other fellow, I felt his grasp upon my throat, and the cold touch of a revolver on my forehead. It was a case of life or death with Miss Palmer and me; so I fired the other barrel of my revolver at the man. He dropped. Having assisted Miss Palmer into the carriage, I drove as fast as I could to the next village where I aroused the proper authorities and placed them in possession of the facts. Then I took Miss Palmer home and; was glad to learn that her father was out of danger and slowly convalescing. The robbers were recognized as old offenders, and were sentenced to ten years in the state prison. I received a liberal Reward from the bank officials.
Needless to say, I asked Mr. Palmer for the hand of his daughter in marriage, to which he consented. Soon afterwards I was promoted to cashier, but shall never forget that eventful night.	A. E. D.
Duelling.
A few short months ago the reading public of two continents were laughing long and heartily at the antics of two would-be duellists. One professed to have received an injury, the other signified his willingness to give satisfaction. A long discussion occupying many columns of our papers was published,—the letters being chiefly remarkable for sanguinary expressions and poor English—and it was said that exclusive New York society was shaken as if an earthquake had suddenly disturbed it. After the merriment had subsided, and as the two “honorable gentlemen” never fought, the question at once arose as to whether the age of duelling is gone. While it may be true to say that in our country, where blood is thought to run much slower than in warmer climes, the “code” no longer “binds,” still we cannot say that it is true of the world in general. But on the whole the conclusion forces itself upon us that the institution of duelling, founded so many years ago—founded, in fact, in the animal propensity of man to fight,—is slowly tottering to the ground. Let us take a brief look at it
before it has crumbled, like so many other human practices, to the dust.	,
We have said before that duelling was founded centuries ago. -In truth, if the theory of a great genius is to be accepted, man’s natural state is , war, and fighting, therefore, his chief enjoyment. Without entering into an elaborate treatise on the subject of duelling in general, let us confine ourselves to what is called the private duel in contradistinction to the now obsolete public one.
A duel is defined to be a private agreement between parties to fight with weapons in themselves deadly. Then it must be opposed to natural right, which, as has often been said, forbids us to kill another or to expose our own life without sufficient reason. Man in a duel does both. He usurps the right that , belongs to his Creator. God gave man liTe, and He alone may take it from him. The man who engages in a duel sins doubly: first, in taking the life of the party with whom he is fighting, if he be successful, and in exposing his own life.
But what are the reasons given to. authorize duelling?	-
i.	To prove one s innocence. Can innocence be proved by a duel? If A slanders B, and B, knowing himself to be innocent of the charge brought against him, should challenge A, and be killed, in what manner would his innocence be established? The charge would still be against him and he would not be in a position to deny it. Innocence does not need a clarion trumpet to proclaim its presence, neither does she need the sword or pistol of the duellist. Is the death of one of the parties conclusive proof that the other was innocent? In olden timesone of the means employed in trying men charged with a crime was to see whether they could lift a red hot bar of, iron without being burnt. If they could do so, their innocence was clear; if not, they suffered the penalty. Needless to say the innocent were not numerous. It is the same in the duel.
2.	To avenge, an injury. This is very common, and at first view one might think that it would be proper to avenge even with blood an affront or an insult. But what affront, what insult can ~ be atoned for by the sacrifice of life? The satisfaction of seeing one who has wronged you stretched on the grass, his life slowly ebbing away, should that be the desire of a Christian ? Who gave man authority to avenge himself?— God? No: He expressly forbids it. Society?— .No; for it would create turmoil and confusion; and order, without which society cannot exist, would be unknown. Man, then, has no private
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
39
authority to avenge himself, and when he does so, he usurps the power which belongs to his Maker.
3.	To preserve one’s honor. This is the chief cause or reason underlying the majority of duels. “My honor,” says the duellist, “is more sacred to me than my life.” A duel, too, is often the only means of defending one’s honor or good name. A suit for slander in a law court would probably satisfy the avaricious; but blood is the only coin which would soothe the insulted feelings, of a gentleman. Looking upon it in this light, it does appear as if the duel were in some respects worthy of the high place which it formerly occupied. But what does the result depend upon? The safer man is not always the innocent party, the one who has been wrongfully and deliberately insulted, but]the one who is the better master of the weapons, and, as was said before, if the injured party were killed the stigma would yet be upon his name; his innocence and his honor, would lie side by side in the same grave with himself, while the insult would still be in men’s mouths. Then again, is it not a mark of honor, of heroism for a Christian to bear wrongs with patience? A duel is evil in all cases; true honor surely cannot come from such a source.
4.	A proof of bravery. If it be admitted that standing in front of a pistol distant but twenty or thirty paces is true courage, then we can say . no more upon this point. -It certainly gives opportunity to exhibit a kind of bravery. But who are the more courageous—the duellist standing on the battle ground ready to yield up his life in defense of a good name, or the martyr enduring insults, suffering wrongs in order that he might please his Almighty Father? Patience is a truer test of courage than vain-
’ glory. -
The only honor which possibly can be acquired from duelling is fictitious honor, and what i« that? A Will-o’-the-wisp which lures but to destruction; a bawble, which, however, is never safely within your grasp, but is almost as dangerous as a dynamite cartridge. Resting upon the opinions of men; and when has mankind ever proved itself to be constant? The idol of the multitude to-day, to-morrow a fugitive from the enraged hands of the selfsame multitude, such has been the history of men wh'd aimed but to acquire fictitious honor.
The duel is a wrong: . a wrong in itself, a wrong to the adversary, a wrong to society, a grievous offense against the naturaf law and against God. ,
Fitz.
Books and Periodicals.
—A valuable and pleasing number is The Popular Science Monthly for October. Dr. Henry Ling Taylor contributes the opening article on “American Childhood from a Medical Standpoint,” in which he points out the unwholesome mental and physical influences that surround American children, especially in cities. There is a timely article on “ Specifics for the Cure of Inebriety,” by Dr. T. D. Crothers, who tells what the signs are by which a great quackery may be distinguished. A notably interesting article is that on “ The Evolution of Dancing,” by Lee J. Vance, which is accompanied by ten spirited illustrations. In his Lessons from the Census, Carroll D. Wright treats of “The Native and Foreign-born Population”—a subject on which every citizen should be informed. William Simpson takes “Mud as a Building Material” for his subject, and with the aid of half a dozen pictures establishes a pretty strong claim for his client. In “Language and Brain Disease,” Dr. H. T. Pershing shows how loss of speech from brain disease throws light upon the process of obtaining the mastery of a language.
—Godey's Magazine for October is no longer known as Godey’s Lady’s Book, but Godey's America’s Hrst Magazine, established 1830. In the first place, the magnificent work of art, “ Godey’s Idea of the ‘World’s Fair,’” which is to be presented to every purchaser of . this number, is said to be so beautiful and artistic in design and coloring that everyone will want it. It is a faithful reproduction of one of W. Granville Smith’s latest and greatest pictures, produced expressly for Godey’s. The publishers guarantee that the Magazine itself will be filled with surprises and beauties from cover to cover. First in the contents comes John Habbertori’s complete novel, “Honey and. Gall,” a companion to “Helen’s Babies,” fully illustrated by Albert B. Wenzell. This is an idea first conceived by Godey’s and now produced with brilliant success. Godey’s fashions will be a most conspicuous and beautiful feature of the publication, there being, in addition to carefully edited descriptions and fashion articles, four exquisite plates produced in ten colors, and representing four of the leaders of New York society attired in the latest Paris costumes. Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher’s “Home” department will be read by the women of America with delight, and all the Magazine’s old admirers will read with interest Albert H. Hardy’s care^ fully written article on “ Godey’s Past and Present.” Among the choice verses is the latest poem written by the late Josephine Pollard. John Habberton reviews all the books, and the whole forms such a rich literary feast that to simply examine a number of the new Godey’s Magazine will mean to irresistibly desire it.	.
40
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WWW SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, September 24, 1892.
—--.----------------------a_____________________
JPubltefjtfi t&nj> Saturbaj) burins JTrrm &imt at N. B. Rnibtrettj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC now enters upon the twentysixth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum.' Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he ■will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed anumber, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases early application should be made at the office of publication as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.	'
—Our Catholic authors will be well represented during the coming Centennial celebrations. Professor Egan will read a poem at the Columbian Banquet in Chicago on Oct. 12, and Miss Starr and Mr. George Parsons Lathrop will be represented, the first by a musical ode, the second by a poem at the New York celebration. .
good wrought by the former, though, owing to limitations of seasons, different means will have to be employed. To supply the deficiency occasioned by the necessarily limited attendance of lecturers, the official organ of the.“School” will publish the papers of the speakers and circulate the same among all the members. In connection with this subject, we take pleasure in announcing that the Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., Professor of Science in the University, has been chosen Dean of the Faculty of Science for the “School.” Father Zahm’s lectures .will be among the first published during the coming season.
—The University lecture course for the winter season promises to be one of the most interesting and instructive ever afforded the Students of Notre Dame. We are not as yet prepared to announce all the good things in store for the patrons of Washington Hall during the winter evenings, but the various attractions will be announced in due time when arrangements are perfected. At present we are happy to state that Mr. Richard H. Clarke, LL. D.,the distinguished historian of New York, will deliver a lecture on “Columbus,” in connection with the Centenary celebrations on October 15 and 16. The Rev. Dr. Conaty, .of Worcester, Mass., will deliver two lectures during the coming month. Besides these we shall have the Hon. Henry Watterson, of Kentucky; the Hon. Bourke Cockran, of New York; Remenyi; the Royal Bell Ringers, etc., etc.
—We have been informed that Dr. Marc F. Valette, of the American Catholic Historical Society, New York, is engaged.in writing a history of the Catholic Church in the United States from the Second Plenary Council of Baltimore in 1866 to the Columbian Celebration in 1892. We know of no one better qualified to accomplish such an important work than Doctor Valette. To the natural endowments of an. able mind he brings the experience arid knowledge acquired by years of investigation and research, together with the advantages of a personal and confidential acquaintance with those personages who have made the. history -of the Church in our country during the last quarter of a century.
—An outgrowth of the now justly famous Catholic Summer School is found in the “Winter School” established under the same auspices. The latter no doubt will continue and extend the
A Literary Chat.
Realism is nature as it is,and idealism is nature as it ought to be. The former is the basis of all fiction as well as of poetry; the latter builds upon this foundation and clothes it in a garb that makes it presentable to the intellectual view. There are many things in nature at the very mention of which a mind trained in a refined civilization revolts. Idealism sets aside and, in a sense, hides the disagreeable parts, merely suggesting in euphemistic terms things which, though improper to be spoken outrightly are subjects of universal knowledge, to be ignorant of which would show a great. lack either of circumspection or of understanding. In writing—unless it be on a subject which requires precision? as a science, and which is written simply to instruct as matter of fact—realism and idealism should be combined. The writer of a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
novel or other literature'whose object is toplease and inform should be as real as possible without offending, and should make things appear in their true light.
One of the chief aims of literature is to give the reader an insight into human nature and human affairs; but in order to do this it is not necessary to present nature wholly stripped of the mantle of metaphor and imagery. One thing, however, is to be guarded against. It is frequently the case that authors, having acquired by constant practice, a facility in the use of the pen, permit themselves to be carried away by their too ready imagination and paint real or fictitious scenes in colors which true life does not substantiate. The writings of these do not meet the proper ends of literature. They are misleading, and they instill into the minds of their'readers purely fanciful impressions of life, and induce them to build “castles in the air.” Such is the case when idealism is carried beyond the scope of its proper prov ince. The extreme on either side is to be avoided.
From reading the chapter in Carlyle’s “Sartor Resartus” entitled “The World in Clothes,” HerrTeufelsdrock’s philosophy.of clothes seems to be very correct.
There is a principle in man that distinguishes him from, and raises him above, the rest of the animal creation. He is the only animal in whom is planted that seed grain whose unfolding and growth, cultivated by the inborn desire for improvement both within himself and in his relations to his fellow-man, is continually developing the individual, intellectually and morally. The use.of clothes were not> according to the professor,, originally adopted for warmth and comfort, but, above all, for ornamentation,—to make the outward appearance of his walking frame attractive. The human body, it would appear, even in the eyes of the savage, divested of all decoration, is an unsightly object, and it has always been the desire of the human kind to screen it and build around it a little castle of varied hue.
This is exemplified, first in the savage, who prior to the use of clothes was given to tattooing and painting. It is still seen in our Terp-sichorean red-man of the prairie, who is not content with filling the requirements of modern civilization by donning outer vestments, but whose lady-love would consider him uncoura-geous were he to go to the fight without first bedaubing his whole countenance with the most unartistic combination of varied pigments.
Particularly with civilized man have clothes a special significance; they have imbued him with a sense of shame and refinement wanting in the brute creation. Man is a tool-using animal, and without tools he is a weak and small creature; with them he is king of animals (if not of beasts). He is not satisfied with living in a state of nature, but uses those means by which he is enabled to progress in social and intellectual development. . C.
Whittier.
The death of the poet Whittier has had the effect of bringing out many pleasant stories in regard to him. An enthusiastic visitor to him once remarked: “‘Hannah Binding Shoes,’ I consider your best poem, Mr. Whittier.” “It is truly a most admirable production,” answered the old Quaker. The visitor was a little surprised at his ready aquiescence, but ventured further. “It will live forever, Mr. Whittier; it is an immortal poem.” “I quite agree with you,” said Mr. Whittier to the astonished woman, who could only stare in amazement. Was this the modest poet of whom she had heard?
“ May be thee would like to meet the author,” went on Mr. Whittier, calling in Miss Lucy Larcom, who chanced to be visiting at Oak Knoll. “ Let me present to thee the author of ‘Hannah Binding Shoes.’”
The good old poet was one day making a call in Boston, and when he arose to leave it occurred to the kind mistress of the house that the sidewalks were covered with ice and that the way to Beacon street was up hill. The aged man must not, she thought, make that icy climb alone. So, saying that she needed a breath of fresh air and wished to take some letters to the post-box at the head of the street, she insisted upon going up the hill with him. The incline safely passed and the letters posted, Mrs. Sargent said good night, and started home. when the sweet, persuasive voice of the Quaker poet stopped her: “Now,” he said, “I shall see thee home, Elizabeth.” And see her home he did, and never knew her little stratagem which was such a signal failure.
Whittier was like a gentle child to the last, and although naturally sedate, he possessed always a playful and happy manner, “like,” says one, “the color and perfume of the Mayflower under the grayness of the leaves in the spring.”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The University of Notre Dame.
The University of Notre Dame is situated about a mile north of the corporate limits of South Bend, Indiana, a^city of 27,000 inhabitants. It is owned and conducted by a famous religious community of the Catholic Church, known as the Congregation of the Holy Cross. It was established in 1842 and chartered in 1844. While Catholic students are in the majority, yet students of all religious denominations attend. However, religion is never made the subject of controversy, and there is absolutely no friction on account of it. Freedom of opinion in that regard is respected and secured in all cases.
The building comprising the University proper and its several departments are among the stateliest and most attractive in the West. The chief ones are ranged in the form of a parallelogram or square.. They are the University proper, Conservatory of Music, Exhibition Hall, Science Hall, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Observatory, U. S. Post Office, Library Department of Law and the Church. Back of them are the Manual Labor and Agricultural Schools, a large printing office and bindery, a Seminary or Ecclesiastical School, and a Novitiate and Normal School and an infirmary, together with bath-houses, gymnasiums, etc.
The grounds are very extensive and comprise at least one thousand acres. Just north, and in the rear of the main building, is one of the most attractive little lakes in the State. It is about a mile in circumference, and the receding shores rise to a considerable length, and are crowned with a heavy growth of timber. The lake is made available for boating in summer and skating in winter. Besides,-the St. Joseph River, skirting the University grounds, is less than a mile distant. The outlying grounds, comprising about five hundred acres, are under cultivation. In addition to the land around the University the corporation owns, in the adjoining township, a farm of three thousand acres. This is used -for agricultural and grazing purposes.	’"
The students board, lodge and have their school year homes at the University. As the law students enters into the general current of collegiate life it is thought advisable to give these preliminary facts before dealing specially with
THE LAW DEPARTMENT.	'
This was founded in 1869 by the Very Rev. William Corby, then President of the University.
However, after the fire of 1879, which destroyed all the old buildings, the number of law students greatly decreased. In fact, it had fallen to a discouraging minimum in 1883, when the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, who then was and still is President of the University, determined to reorganize this department. To that end he secured the services of a-former student of the University who was actively engaged in the practice of law in Chicago. The name of this gentleman was William Hoynes, LL. D. Of him when about to leave that city, newspapers published personal notices highly complimentary— the following from the Chicago Evening Journal serving as an example: “Mr. William Hoynes, one of the very ablest men of the Chicago bar, has just accepted the professor’s chair in the law department of Notre Dame University. The University authorities are to be congratulated on their selection. Mr. Hoynes, as a speaker, writer, thinker and lawyer, has no superior of his own age in the Northwest.”
As a boy, Col. Hoynes learned the printing trade in the office of the La Crosse (Wis.) Republican. In 1862, while still a mere boy, he enlisted in the 20th Wisconsin Volunteers, and went to the front. He was very severely, and it was feared fatally, wounded at the battle of Prairie Grove, Ark. But his wonderful vitality and constitutional vigor enabled, him to rally and return from the gathering shadows of the dark valley. He was wounded again later in the war, his command being then in Mississippi. After the war he returned to the " printing trade, and worked at the “case” until 1868. He then entered the University of Notre Dame as a student. In 1872 he received the honors of graduation. Afterwards he was called to New Brunswick, N. J.-, to take charge edito-	j
rially of the Daily Times. His services as	i
editor were very successful and highly valued;	(
but his desire to perfect himself in the law was	I
so great that he resigned his position with that	|
object in view, and returned to the West in the	g
fall of 1874. However, before getting fairly	|
into practice he again did editorial work on	|
leading newspapers in Chicago, Denver and	|
Peoria. In the city last named he edited the	I
Daily Transcript. While engaged in editorial	I
work he was wont to give his spare time to	I
reading law, and as opportunity offered he	g
tried cases in court. In 1876 he received the	B
degree of Master of Arts from the University	B
of Notre Dame, and some time prior thereto	K
he was made an LL. B. by the University of	8
Michigan. He was first admitted to the bar in	S
Michigan. Afterwards he was admitted to	S
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
43
practice before the United States Supreme Court and also the Supreme Court of Illinois.
In 1881, Col. Hoynes dropped journalism altogether and turned his attention exclusively to the law. From the very first he met with success,and had a lucrative practice when called to take the chair of law at Notre Dame. Thereafter the number of students steadily increased. It now averages about thirty-five. A library comprising the standard text-books and reports was purchased. This was placed in the mootcourt and lecture room so as to be accessible to the students at all reasonable hours. The course of study was extended to three years for those attending two classes a day, and two years for those taking three and participating regularly in the moot-court work, to which Wednesday and Saturday evenings, or about four hours a week, are given. The methods of instruction adopted may be called for the sake of brevity
THE ECLECTIC SYSTEM.
It aims to combine the best features of the distinctive courses of other law schools, together with such additional and original means of imparting legal knowledge as the Dean may seem proper. Two lectures are delivered daily, copious notes of the same being taken by the students. These are advised to read during the day the most important cases cited in the notes. Whatever appears from time to time to be specially difficult to remember is written on the blackboard, in addition to being stated in the lecture, and students may at their leisure study . and copy it into their note-books. Instructive illustrations, or actual cases briefly stated, are given in explanation and support of such principles as seem at all obscure to learners. The lectures are changed year by year, even the latest cases being cited when they seem to be well considered and likely to stand the test of arguments for a rehearing. Text-books on the subjects treated by the lectures are read collaterally by the students. The notes and textbooks are thus found to be reciprocally aidful, and the principles stated in them are as firmly fixed in the mind as may reasonably be expected in the case- of beginners. Moreover, Kent’s Commentaries, and some of the revised editions of Blackstone are read. Written examinations, comprising on an average about five questions for each day, are given to the students at the “quiz” class, which meets every afternoon. Attention is thus drawn to the difficult points and distinctions to be noted in each branch of the law, and the questions and answers bearing upon the same are written out and handed
to the Dean the following week. He examines them, or has them examined, marking mistakes of all kinds, whether in law, orthography, the meaning of words or otherwise, and the papers are then returned to the writers. Moreover, oral examinations are held daily at “ quiz.” Much attention, too, is given to the study and analysis of leading cases. A strong case is, as it were, taken apart, and put together, and considered in all its elements and relations. What the rule would be if this element or that element were wanting, etc., is pointed out, and the reason for the doctrine governing it as a harmonious whole stated. This exercise is made very interesting, instructive and profitable, and gives the student remarkable facility in unravelling the intricacies of hypothetical cases, and stating how they should be decided under the law. Fortunately, the class is not so large as to prevent this kind of work, and moot-court practice from being carried on successfully. Referring more particularly to moot-court work, it may here be stated that to it much time, thought and research are given. We have the regular mootcourt, a court of chancery, and a justice’s court. One of the most advanced students in the postgraduate course is chosen justice of the latter court. Assisting him are a clerk and constable. Col. Hoynes or Professor Hubbard presides as chancellor in the court of chancery and judge of the moot-court The court of chancery has its clerk, master, bailiff, reporter, etc., while attached to the moot-court are a clerk, prosecuting attorney and reporter, as well as the sheriff and coroner. Statements of facts involving disputed questions of law are given by the Dean from time to time to the senior students who select juniors as assistants. Pleadings are filed and issue is joined in practically the same manner as in cases of genuine proceedings in court. In like manner, too, juries are impan-nelled, witnesses examined, arguments made, and instructions given to the j ury. And with like formality the verdict is returned and a motion made for a new trial. This is argued in from three days to a week afterwards, and granted or overruled. Then follow the steps incident to an appeal. Most of the cases involve points of law exclusively, and are heard and passed upon by the court without the intervention of a jury. Moot-court work is deemed a highly important feature of the system of instruction pursued at Notre Dame.
AH’ law students entitled to the standing of juniors in any of the collegiate courses are given rooms in Sorin Hall without extra charge, and those pursuing the post graduate course are
44
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
supplied with rooms in the same building without reference to the test prescribed for undergraduates.
The post graduate course is for one year. Those following it attend lectures on the Roman or Civil Law, Comparative Jurisprudence, History, and Philosophy of Law, Rise and Development of Institutions, Parlimentary Law, etc. Much attention is also given to the preparation of pleadings, moot-court trials, miscellaneous work of a law office, etc. By way of showing the thoroughness of the work thus done, it may be stated that the graduates, in many instances, open offices and put out their “shingles” very soon after leaving here. This is especially true of those who begin practice in the newer States. Preliminary work in a law office, is often found impracticable in such cases.
All classes in the collegiate courses are open to the Taw students without extra charge. In fact, they are required to take some of these classes, as Logic and History, in order to pass an examination before graduation. It is optional with them to take elective studies, or, should they desire to become candidates for a degree, the regular studies of any course they may select.
The cost of tuition, board, lodging, washing, mending, etc., is S300 a year. The scholastic year begins the first week of September and closes the last week of June._ At least ten or twelve hours a day are given to class work and study in all the departments. I know of no institution anywhere in the West, in which students do harder or better work. A mile distant from town they enjoy immunity from the distractions incident to town life and the claims of society upon their attention and time. They may work, with reasonable intermission for meals and recreation, from six o’clock in the morning until half-past nine at night.
Col. Hoynes is Dean of the law faculty. He is assisted by the Hon. Lucius Hubbard of South Bend, one of the ablest and most widely known ' lawyers' in Indiana. Mr. A. L. Brick, of the same place, delivers lectures on criminal law and criminal pleadings. -
The Hon. John Gibbons, L. L. Mills, Dr. Harold N. Moyer, of Chicago, and William P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, are also named in the catalogue, and counted upon for occasional lectures. Col. Hoynes is still actively engaged in the practice of the profession, but he is obliged to limit himself to cases of more than ordinary moment, and to the Chicago courts. His work at Notre Dame is extraordinary—probably without precedent or parallel anywhere. It
is not at all unusual for him to lecture and give instru ctions in the class-room three or four hours a day, besides preparing statements of facts, hearing and deciding most moot-court cases, etc. As a recognition of his literary work and thorough acquaintance of the law in all its branches, he received in 1887 the degree of LL. D. from the University of Notre Dame.
Col. Hoynes is too busy to bestow much attention upon politics, although he was the Republican candidate for Congress in this (13) district in 1888, and succeeded in reducing the Democratic majority given for his competitor in 1884 about 1900. The district has been heavily Democratic for several years, but he came so near carrying it that he was believed to be elected for a whole week, and his name was at the time published in the newspapers as among the elected. It is generally conceded that he would have been successful had he worked less strenuously for Harrison and Hovey, and more particularly for himself. But it would not be natural, if even possible, for him to do so. Selfishness would indeed be an incongruous element in a nature so cordial, kindly and sympathetic.—E. W. Brown in The Intercollegiate Lazo Journal.
Personals.
—Leo Scherrer, ’90,is one of the efficient managers of the German National Bank of Denver.
—Benjamin C. Bachrach, of ’92, has become one of the prominent business men of the * World’s Fair City.
—The Rev. M. Van de Laar, Rector of St. Patrick’s Church, South Chicago, was a welcome visitor to the College during the week.
—John J. McGrath,’92,-familiarly known as the “ Old Settler,” is energetically and successfully directing business in his father’s office, Chicago.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin continues steadily to improve in health, and, to the joy of all, manifests his wonted interest in the University.
—William McPhee ’90, now holds the responsible position of Cashier in the extensive and enterprising firm of McPhee & McGinnity, Denver, Colo. .
—Charles T. Cavanagh, ’91, visited the University on Wednesday to the great delight of numerous friends. He entered his brother Tom in the Junior Department.
—Among the welcome visitors during the week were the Rev. John Bleckman and Mr. J. Lemke, of Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. M. and Miss Angela Cooney, Toledo, Ohio.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
45
—Numerous friends at Notre Dame extend their sincere congratulations and best wishes to Mr. Samuel T. Spalding, ’79, on his recent marriage to Miss Laura Hill at Lebanon, Ky.
—Thomas E. Steele, ’84, paid a flying visit to Alma Mater on Saturday last, and was heartily welcomed by many old-time professors and fellow-students. We hope that soon he will be enabled to make another and longer stay amid ye scenes of old.
—Our one-time Director of the Art Department, Signor Luigi Gregori, now residing in Italy, has lately completed a remarkable painting of the Nativity. The maestro has had this chef-d.' oeuvre in contemplation for upwards of fifty years. It is now attracting great attention from art critics in Italy. We understand that it is to be exhibited at the World’s Fair in Chicago, and subsequently in other cities throughout the Union.
—Henry C. Murphy, ’92, is enjoying a trip through Europe with his parents and relatives. In a letter to Professor Egan from Baden-Baden he writes:
“We arrived here yesterday from Heidelberg where we spent a day very pleasantly. The scenery at that place is very beautiful, and the many curious and interesting things which are to be seen make a visit very profitable. The famous University, of which I have heard you speak in praise so often, was the most interesting place for me. I was disappointed that the school was not open, the vacation having begun the 1st of August to last until October. However, I visited the University buildings and peeped into all the class-rooms and even dared to mark upon a black-board with chalk. The buildings are not at all imposing; in fact, they are not nearly so fine as the buildings at Notre Dame. The prison rooms where the unruly students are confined for various misdemeanors was curious. Almost every inch of the once white walls is covered with caricatures of the hated professors or regents who imposed the punishment upon the unlucky fellows, and verses of - poetry are everywhere. This place is very pleasant.
Thousands of visitors, mostly Europeans, are here taking the baths, and the scene on the Langstrasse, the fashionable drive in the afternoon and evening is very brilliant. Last night I attended a concert at the Conversation hall gardens and had the good fortune to meet an intimate friend of ours from Chicago. We had looked for her all over Europe and hardly expected to find her there. In Dresden I was very much surprised to meet Frank- Fehr of Louisville. You probably met him at Notre Dame.”
Obituary.
—We have learned with deep regret the sad news of the death, at Covington, Ky., of Mr. Charles A. Tinley, ’84. The deceased was one of the leading students at Notre Dame during the years of his collegiate course, and beloved alike by his companions and professors. In particular he was the guiding spirit of the St.
3 Cecilia and Thespian dramatic associations, and contributed much to the entertaining and instructive qualities of the reunions that were often held. His friends and relatives have the sincere sympathy of all at Notre Dame. May he rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Bicycles.
—Base-ball.	;
—Still they come.	.
—Prepare for the 13th.
—This is society week.	.
—Field-Day approaches.
— Go ahead mitde moosic!
—Where is our friend John?
—Are we to have a boat-race?
—The Pickwicks are strictly in it.
—The barouche still holds the fort.
—Say, you must be full of sand burrs.
—Which do you prefer: “Yard,” or “Campus?”
—Two weeks of regularity without a hitch is great.	*
—The spire on the church tower is very nearly completed.
—The Philodemics will organize during the coming week.
—Have you seen the Carrolls’ Bulletin? Call around and see how it hangs.
—The Carrolls are about 13000 stamps behind their competitors, the Brownsons.
—Many of the students have been enrolled in the League of the Sacred Heart.
—On dit that the various halls must be placarded with “Standing room only!”
—Warblers! Warblers! Beware! The “Rev. Rector” is of a nervous temperament.
—The concert room is crowded every evening. Get your tickets early. Standing room only.
—There are only three (3) rooms vacant in Sorin Hall. Apply early and avoid the rush..
—Visitors to Notre Dame will please not mistake St. Edward’s Park for the Garden of Eden.
—Our lecture committee promises at least eight (8) first-class entertainments during the next two months.
—The Carrolls are delighted with the new arc lamp which now so brilliantly illuminates their Campus.
—The latest is a young Carrollite endeavoring to light a match on an electric lamp. He hails from Michigan.
—Sorin Hall Glee Club has come to the front and is evidently determined to stay. Long life and success to it! .	,
—First Typo: “I hear that our picnic is on the road.” Second Ditto: “Yes; rode to death, perhaps.”
—The Carrolls are to have a hand ball tournament this winter consisting of single, double and triple contests.
—Hamlet is thinking of becoming an American citizen, as otherwise he cannot secure a patent for his new collar. .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—It is said that the Carrolls’ walk and campus will be renovated “when all the fall crops are in mother earth.”
—Notice: (Al. Sig. Carpette lesRume'). It is not customary in Sorin Hall to play lawn-tennis in rooms; nor to play at marbles with dumbbells.	‘
—Mr. E. Brennan, of Carroll Hall, has the thanks of the residents of St. Thomas’s dormitory for his beautiful gift which now adorns their altar.
—Base-ball does not absorb all the attention of the “princes.” Bro. Cajetan tells us there are to be twenty starters in the coming bicycle tournament.
—T. F., of the Manual Labor School, now claims to be the oldest settler. It is also reported on good authority that he is all light— but, st! speak no further!
—The Crescent Club Orchestra has been re-established. Prof. Edwards will soon inau. gurate proceedings in Brownson Hall, the Carrollites being duly organized.
—Judy, Sorin Hall’s pet dog, suffers much from nervousness and easily drops off in a fit “ of speed” at the sound of heavy voices; he doesn’t sleep under the stoop any more.
—The youthful canine who holds out at the butcher shop, should be bound over to keep the peace. Some ill-natured individuals assert that it is the dog, not the master, who keeps the w(h)ine.
—Field-Day is looked forward to this year with greatest interest. It is the Reverend Father Founder’s “Golden Jubilee” year, and at the same time it is an event in the annals of the Columbian season.
—It is currently reported that the inmates of Sorin Hall will give a “boom” to base-ball this . year. There is no lack of talent and material, it only remains for the boys to wake up and show their mettle. .
—The Belles-Lettres class is already deep in the study of how to build up an oration. The Literature class has, as usual, begun the study of Shakspere and Philology, and the Criticism has begun the analysis of style.
—Rev. President Walsh, accompanied by the Rev. Prefect of Discipline, paid, a formal visit to Sorin Hall on Wednesday evening. The rules were read and explained, and an instructive address delivered to the students. ;
—Frederick B. Chute (Lit. ’92) returned to the University on last Tuesday to complete the course in Law. His many friends were delighted to see him once again, and now we may expect soon to see Company “B” in full blast.
—About 1000 volumes have been recently re-bound for the Library, while new books are being constantly placed upon the shelves in the Hall. The Library is now-in first-class order and should be the daily resort of all who thirst after knowledge. .
—B. H., the instigator of all the “ bloody” contests among the nines of Carroll League has puffed his “Invincible?” with the idea that they can beat any nine in Sorin or Brownson halls, exclusive of the members of the ’Varsity team. Quo ammo?	.
—A very interesting game of ball was played the other day on the M. L. S. grounds, the score being 5 to 6 in favor of the Blues. This makes the second game for the Blues. “Just wait awhile,” say the “Atlantics,” “and we will show the June-bugs how to play ball.”
—B. H., of the Carrolls, has sent out a challenge to the Brownson and Sorin hand-ball champions. The challenge was finally accepted by Mr. Schaack, whose reputation as a handball player suffices to clear away all doubts from the minds of the Sorinites as to the result of his encounter. '
—Holy Cross Seminary is rapidly filling with a large body of bright levitical students. Among the recent improvements may be noted the grand gymnasium, to the southwest of the main building, nearly completed. It will be fitted up with all the modern appliances for the development and perfection of the physical man.
—During the past two weeks Prof. Edwards has received several large boxes of books, manuscripts, relics, etc., for the Library and the Historical Museum. Prof. Edwards, with commendable zeal .and devotedness, always returns from his vacation trips laden with rare and valuable treasures for the precious collection at Notre Dame.
—The Band has been reorganized for the scholastic year with a membership of twenty. There are a few vacancies remaining, but for these early application should be made by those musically inclined. The organization, with its skilled director and the experience of concerted music,’presents rare advantages that should not be neglected.
—Conducting pipes have been laid from the oil reservoir in the rear of the College to the tanks at the M. C. RR. station. A pump will be placed at the Farm in a few days, and thenceforth the oil will be pumped from the depot to the reservoir. The lover of the peaceful and aesthetic will rejoice at. the disappearance of. the noisy and noisome carts that have for some time marred spiritual and terrestrial beauty in the immediate vicinity.
—Father L’Etourneau’s new wonderful musical instrument, called the “ Pneumatic Symphony,” is attracting quite a number of visitors, who are delighted and surprised at its accurate rendition of the many and various pieces included in his repertoire. He has music to suit all tastes—masses, hymns, classical overtures, * gems from operas, national melodies, etc., etc. This pneumatic organ, is from the firm of Wilcox & White, Meriden, Conn., and is said to have cost about $500. We shall refer to it again.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
47
—All the societies at the Seminary are now in running order. The Leonine met last Sunday for reorganization, and the following officers were elected for the present session: President, Rev. J. J. French, C. S. C.; Vice-President, J. A. Leo; Recording Secretary, W. McNamee; Corresponding Sec., P. Quinn; ist Censor, J. Clark; 2d Censor, J. Brennan; Critic, Jos. Gallagher; Historian, T. Hennessy; Sergeant-at-Arms, J. Kulamber. Judging from the present talent of the society, this year promises to be one of the most successful in the Leonine’s history.
—The first regular meeting of the Athletic Association was held on Thursday, the 22nd inst. Officers were elected as follows: Directors, Rev. J. Burns and Bro. Paul; President, Col. Wm. Hoynes; Vice-President, F. Chute; Recording Secretary, M. McFadden; Field Reporter, J. Henley; Treasurer, P. Coady; Captain of Special Nine, W. Covert; Captains of First Nines, Messrs. McDermott and McCarrick; Captain of ’Varsity Eleven, P. Coady; Assistant Captain of ’Varsity Eleven, J. Combe; Captains of Rugby Football Teams, Messrs. Roby and Flannigan.
—During the past few weeks Holy Cross Cemetery, or the Cpmmunity graveyard, has undergone a thorough remodelling in its outward form.. The sepulchre and the “Hill of Calvary”—the shrines of many a devout pilgrimage in days of yore—succumbed to the ravages of time and were removed. Now, the “ city of the dead,” with its level green relieved by crosses and monuments and shady walks, presents an appearance that, in all its pathetic attractiveness, invites the passer-by to linger for a moment and think of men, great and gifted and beneficent, of former times.
—The O. S. M. Club held their second regular meeting in Sorin Hall reception room on Thurs-. day last. Mr. P. Coady was appointed temporary chairman. After making a short speech of welcome, in order to fill out an impromptu programme, he called upon Mr. Combe to make a few remarks on the'“ Toxicology of Drinking.” “ Joe” has a great reputation as a speaker, yet, like «ZZ orators, does not like to be surprised. But the boys insisted, as he had spent his vacation in “Old Kentucky”—or by “Old Crow” as some one suggested—he was full of the subject. We regret our stenographer at the time, was torpidly listening to the “fishy narrative” of our political friend from the “Succor” state, who spent his dreams during vacation at Buzzard’s Bay.
Roll of Honor.
’	SORIN HALL.	"
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bolton, Brown, Carney, Correll, Cummings,' Combe, Coady, Crawley, Chute, Dacey, Dechant, DuBrul, Ferneding, Flannery, Flannagan, C. Fitzgerald, J. Fitzgerald, Hannin, Jewett, Joslyn, Kearney, Keough, Langan, Maurus, Monarch, J. McKee, F. McKee, Mitchell, McCarrick, McAuliff, O’Donnell, Neef, Powers, Quinlan, Ragan, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Schillo, Shaack, Schopp, Thorn.
BROWNSON HALL.	.
Messrs. Barrett, Barton, Beck, Baur, Brennen, Brady, Burns, C. Corry, A. Corry, Cameron, Covert, Chassaing, Colby, Cutler, Coady, Cook, Cullen, Cumisky, Crilly, R. Corcoran, Casey, Carter, J. Corcoran, Curran, Devanny, Donahoe, Dinkel, Dempsey, Ey.anson, Egan, Foley, Fardy, Ford, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, R. Flynn/A. Flynn, J. Flynn, Graff, L. Griffin, O. Griffin, F. Hoffman, J. Hoffman, Herman, Hennessy, Hoepe, Hartnett, Hartman, Healy, R. Harris, Hesse, E. Harris, Hagan,’ Hill, Isbell, Jacob's, Karter, Kelly, M. Kirby, Kirker, Kennedy, Kenny, Kunert, Kearn, Krembs, W. Kirby, Lancaster, Linehan, Luther^ Leonard, Marmon, Murray, McCuddy, McFadden, Murphy, Meibers, Monarch, McCullough, Maynes, McDermott, Moxley,‘McVean, Newton, O’Connor, O’Shea, W. O’Neill, F. O’Neill, Priest, Pulskamp, Prichard, Peak, Perkins, Quinlan, Riordan, Rice, Roby, C. Ryan, Randolph, Rogers, G. Ryan, M. Ryan, Ring, Stanton, Schueler, Sherman, Smith, Tinnin, Tratt, Vignos, Vurpillat, Whitehead, Walker, Wilkin, Weaver.	•	-	„
. CARROLL HALL.	’
Messrs. Bergland, Barrett, G. Brown, R. Brown, R. E. Brown, JrBrown, O. Brown, Berles, Blumenthal, Bach-rach, Bixby, Baldauf, Bums, Breen, Brennan, Blake; Cornell, Creedon, Cox, Carter, Chauvet, Conrad, Clendenin, Connell, A. Coolidge, E. Coolidge, Cavanaugh, Cullen, Dorsey, Dion, Durand, Druecker, Dticey, De-Lormier, Dannemiller, Dempsey, Dixon, Freeman, Fleming, Franke, Fischer, N. Furthman, Fossick, Funke, G. Gilbert, E. Gilbert, L. Gibson, N. Gibson, Gerding, Garfias, Gifford,'Gonzales, Gerdes, Girardin, Hill, Hack, Hittson, Healy, Hurley, Hathaway, Hoban, Hargrave, Hickey, D. Krieger, D. Hilger, A. Hil-ger, Jones, Janssen, Jonquet, Johnson, Krollman, A. Kegler, W. Kegler, Kutina, Kuehl, Kelliher, Kindler, Lanigan, Lee, J. LaMoure, W. LaMoure, W. ’Lambke, Lantry, Lohner, Lawler, G. Lowrey, T. Lowrey, Loser, Louie, Ludwig. Lynch, Lane, Lippman, Maurer, Mattox, Mitchell, Maguire, Murphy, Medalie, J. Miller, L. Miller, May, Marr, Moss, Mills, Miles, Moore, Monaghan, Marre, McDermott, McDonald, McPhee, McGarrick, McCarthy, F. McPhillips, J. McPhillips, J. A. McPhillips, Nolan, Nichols, O’Meara, F. O’Brien, W. O’Brien, Oliver, O’Neill, Payne, Priestly, Powell, Pim, Reis, Rumely, Rend, Ruppe/. Repscher, Renesch, Reilly, Sievers, Sweet, Straus, W. Spalding, S. Spalding, Spiegel, Slevin, Sullivan, Sparks. Segenfelter, Stem, Sharp, Todd, Tong, Towle, Taylor, Trankle, Thome, Tempel, Treber, Thornton, Wagner, Wensinger, Welty, Waterman, Yeager, Walker, R. Wilson, H. Wilson, Whitehead, Walde, Washburne, N. Wietzel, B. Wietzel, O. Wright, D. Wright, C. Zoehrlaut, G. Zoehrlaut.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.	. .
Masters Ayers, Ahem, L. Abrahams, Bump, Ball, R. Berthelet, V. Berthelet, Bourgeois, Burnham, Barrett, Bopp, J. Coquillard, Corry, Curry, D. Campau, F. Cain-pau, Croke, Cross, Corcoran, .Christ, Cressey, Durand, Drew, Dugas, W. Emerson, F. Emerson, Engelhardt, Everest, Egan, B. Freeman, N. Freeman, Flynn, Finnerty, Feltenstein, Getchel, Girsch, Gavin, Green, Howard, Higginson, Holbrook, J. Higgins, W. Higgins, Roy Higgins, Ralph Higgins, J. Healy, W Healy, Hudson, Jonquet, Keeler, Kinney, LaMoure, Lawton, Londoner, Langley, Lowrey, C. Monaghan, A. Monaghan, R. McCarthy, G. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, Emit McCarthy, McGinley, F. Morris, R. Morris, McDonald, McPhee, McAllister,- McCorry, Ninneman, Otero, O’Neill, W. . Pollitz, H. Pollitz, Peck, J. Rasche, H. Rasche, F. Roesing, B. Roesing, Roache, Shipp, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Swan, Stuckart,. Segenfelter, Trankle, Thompson, •Wilson, Wilcox.
—Visitor: “How well preserved 'Noah’s Ark is!” .	'	.
Porter (scornfully): “No, no, that is the Palais d’Industrie.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mapy’s fleademy.
One Mile West of Notre Danie University.
Note.
Essays, society reports, and items of general interest regarding the Academy appear in Si. Marys Chimes issued monthly by the pupils of St. Mary’s Academy. Price of subscription, Si.oo per annum.
Weekly Bulletin.
Graduating Class— Misses Thirds, Moynahan, Haitz, Lynch, Hudson.
First Senior Class.—Misses Kimmel, Davis, Charles, Tormey, Gallagher.
Second Senior Class.—Misses Keating, O’Mara, Pumpelly, Griggs, M. Nichols, Healey, McLoughlin, Dillon, Hellman, Ruppe, Carico, Stuart, Holmes, Wagner, Morehead, Call, Brady, N. Moore, Gibbons, Hutchinson.
Third Senior Class.—Misses Meskill, Bogart, O’Sullivan, Miner, Coffin, Coady, Garrity.
First Preparatory Class.—Misses A. Butler, Crilly, Doble, Gardner, Hittson, Klemm, B. Moor, Schoolcraft, Terry, Dingee, Sachs, Gold-soli, McCormack, E. Baxter, Kaspar.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses Culp, B. Reed, Cunningham, Ellet, Schultz, Russert, Werst, Tong, Foulks, Robbins, Hazlitt, Bartholomew, Augustine, McDonald, Lodewyck, Payne, L. McHugh,Dent, Morgan, Murray, A. Cowan, Graffe.
Third Preparatory Class.— Misses Thompson, LaMoure, E. Keating, Cahill, T. Hermann, Mitchell, A. Girsch, Sargent.
Junior Preparatory Class.—Misses M. McHugh, Flynn, Tilden, Trask, Casanave, Riordan, Crandall, Otero, Beck, Seeger, E. Dowling, I. Dowling, M. McCormack.
First Junior Class.—Misses Campau, Allen, L. Dowling, Titsworth, Finnerty.
Second Junior Class.—Misses Binz, H. Girsch, McCarthy, Fisher, McDonald, M. Wolverton.
Jhird Junior Class.—L. Smith, V. Smith, I. Brown, E. Brown, K. Buckley, G. Myers.
Language Course.
LATIN.	.
First Class.— Misses M. Roberts, A [Thirds, L. Hudson, K. Healy.
Second Class.—Misses T. Kimmell, B. Lancaster, M. Higgins, E. Barry, E- Griggs,- C. Calkin. .
Third Class—Misses H. Pumpelley, A. Terry/ L. Gallagher, L. Welker.
FRENCH.	.
Second Class:—-Misses Davis, Lynch, Morehead,. Gibbons, Tormey, Sanford.	.
Third Class.—Misses A. Thirds, Call, Stuart,.
Doble, S. Smyth, M. Nichols, A. Cowan, Seeley, Dempsey, M. Byrnes, Charles, M. Burns, K. -Ryan, Whitmore, Field.
Second Division.— Misses Bogart, Griffith, Culp, Baxter, Meskill, Riordan, E. Reed, Garrity, McHugh, Wagner, E. McCormack, Morgan, Hutchinson, E. McCarthy, E. Hammond, Mc-Phillips.	'
Fourth Class.— Misses Cunningham, Lodewyck, Dingee, Tong, Crilly, Dent, Marshall, Thompson, Robbins, Ellet, G. Reed, Mitchell, Furlong, Goldsoll, Foulks, Daley, Sargent, Seeger, E. Dowling, I. Dowling, Kennedy, A. Ryan, R. Butler, Otero, N. Hammond.
Fifth Class.—Misses M. McCormack, Finnerty, Bourgeois.
GERMAN.
Second Class.—Misses A. Haitz, M. Carico, M. Russert, E. Zeiger, L. Dryer, C. Kaspar.
Third Class.— Misses M. Moynahan, G. O’Sullivan, P. Hellmann, N. Keating, M. Ruppe, A. O’Mara.
Fourth Class.—Misses L. Holmes, B. Win-standley, G. Winstandley, A. Cowan, M. McLoughlin, M. Bartholomew, J. Pfaelzer, L. Schaefer, H. Klemm, A. Girsch.
Fifth Class.—Misses G. Bogart, A. Coady, L. McHugh, C. Graffe, H. Seeger, C. Hermann, T. Hermann, L. Binz, L. Flynn, C. Cahn, P. Gardner, D. Sacks, A. Cahill, M. Schultz, G. Casanave, A. McDermot, E. Dowling, I. Dowling, M: Feltenstein.	.
Roll of Honor.
•	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Augustine, Agney, E. Barry, Bogart, A. Butler, Bartholomew, Brady, R. Butler, M. Burns, Byrnes, Bassett, C. Barry, M. Barrett, Charles, Call, Carico, Cowan, Coffin, Crilly, Culkins, Coady, Cunningham, Cahn, Caldwell, Cahill, Culp, Clifford, A. Cooper, M. Cooper, Cooney, Davis, Dillon, Doble, Dingee, Dempsey, Daley, Ellet, Furlong, Foulks, Field, Gallagher, Griggs, Good, Griffith, Gardner, Goldsoll, Gibbons, Haitz, Hudson, Healy, Hellmann, Holmes, Hittson, Hazlitt, C. Hermann, T. Hermann, Higgins, Hunt, Hutchinson, Hammond, Hopkins, Kimmell, N. Keating, Klemm,. E. Keating, Kennedy, Kauffmann, Lynch, Lancaster, Lodewyck; LaMoure, Moynahan, Miner, McLoughlin, Morehead, Meskill, B. Moore, E. McCarthy, M. McDonald, Marshall, McDermott, Mitchell, N. Moore, McCune, McCormack, M. Nichols, B. Nichols, Nicholson, O’Sullivan,Pumpelley, Plaelzer, Payne, K.. Ryan, Ruppe, G. Reed, B. Reed, Robbins, Russert, Roberts, A. Ryan, Stuart, Seeley, Schoolcraft, Sachs, Schultz, Schaefer, Sanford, Thirds, Terry, Tong, Thompson, G. Winstandley, B. Winstandley, M. Wagner, E. Wagner, Welker, Werst, Wurzburg, Whitmore, Wright, Wolverton, Zieger.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses Allen,. Binz, Beck, Baxter, Cowan, Campau, Crandall, Casanave, Coddington,Dryer,Dent, E.Dowling, I. Dowling, L. Dowling, F ord-, Flynn, F eltenstein, Garrity, Girsch’, Graffe, Grub, Garst, Hammond, Kasper, Kelly, L. McHugh. M. McHugh, McGuire, Murray, Morgan, McPhillips, Otero, Pendleton, Riordan, J. Smyth, S. Smyth, Seeger, Sargent, Tormey, Tilden, Trask.
; MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses. E. Brown, I. Brown, Buckley, Bourgeois, Finnerty, Fisher, Girsch, McCormack, .McCarthy, McDonald, Myers,- L. Smyth, V. Smyth, Titsworth.