Vol. -XVIIL
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 21, 1885.	No. 28.
Our Lady’s Golden Rose.
(Accompanying the L^tare Medal, presented to Miss Eliza Allen Stxrr./tow the University of Notre Dame.)
You, through great love, redeem our English tongue, Which, most of all, spake harshness of our Rose, Our Lily, and Our Lady, from whom flows
Christ’s sweetness and Christ’s splendor,—blessed among
The women of our race, from whence she sprung;
Your ardent soul, in spite of Northern snows
And drily hearts, with love for Mary glows
Redder than * scarlet lace or fire wind-flung:
For you Our Lady’s golden gift is meet,
■ Who on her sacred shrines lay your high gifts,— You, Mary’s artist, poet of Our Lord,
Your best lies fragrant at their royal feet;
Your love, your work, our hall-cold love uplifts: We pass beyond the Angel’s flaming sword.
Maurice Francis Egan, A. M.
L.etare Sunday, 1885.
What the Church Has Done for Science.
(Concluded.)
But my task, although drawing to an end, is not yet finished. During the course of my lecture I have spoken incidentally of some of the discoveries and inventions of Catholic scientists, but I have not told you all. Neither have I spoken to you of the introduction of many important industries which have materially contributed, directly or indirectly, to the advancement of science,. It would require a volume to outline even what the Church has done in this respect; but there are a few inventions and industries to which I must call your notice, notwithstanding the limited time at my disposal. In this age of distorted history one is apt to ignore what the Church has done, and to forget that it is to her that we are indebted for nearly everything—I might say everything—that we now regard as essential to the comforts and luxuries of our boasted modern civilization.
I have told you of'the invention of the telescope and microscope in Catholic Italy, and .of the grand revolution effected in science consequent on their application. The most important invention, how-
» • Canticle of. .Canticles. . , _	.....
ever, and the one that aided most-in the diffusion of knowledge, was that of
PRINTING,
invented by Gutenberg in 1436. This invention, which, in the hands of Gutenberg and his co-labor-ers, Faust and Schoffer, was the marvel of the world at the time, on account of the rapidity and perfection with which books were multiplied by its means, anticipated by nearly a century the much-lauded reformation of Luther. And all necessary preparations had been made for this glorious invention. Cotton paper was ready, and had been used in Italy in the 10th century; and linen paper, according to Hallam, was invented in the century following. . A little over a century later, in 1562, the first newspaper was published in Venice. ,
Clocks may be looked upon as the joint pro- • \ duction of three monks, as each had more or less to do with their construction. These monks were the illustrious Gerbert, whom I have repeatedly mentioned; Friar Pacifico, of Verona, and Abbot William, of Hirschau, Germany. Watches were invented some time in the 15th century, as Nuremberg was celebrated for those manufactured there as early as 1477. Spectacles were first constructed by Salvino, an Italian monk, in 1285. Some years, before, Roger Bacon, in speaking of a piano convex lens, had spoken of the benefit of it to old men, and “to those that have weak.eyes” in reading and viewing small objects.
Schwartz, a monk of Cologne, first prepared gunpowder about 1320. Fire-arms were introduced before the end of the century. The thermometer was invented by Santorio, of Italy, early in the 17th century. A few years afterwards the mercurial barometer was invented by’a countryman of his—Evangelista Torricelli. The camera-obscura, that all-important instrument in photography, was invented some time during the 16th century by the founder of the first scientific societv, Giambattista della Porta. The first photographs were taken in 1839 by two Frenchmen—Niepce and Daguerre. The magic lantern, an instrument that has of late years proved of such value in the hands of the scientists and educators, is the invention of the learned Jesuit, Father Kircher, who died in 1680.
Flavio di Gioja invented-the mariner’s compass early in the 14th century. But the* navigator
438	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
needed something more, and this something was furnished him, in 1569, by a pupil of the University of Louvain, Gerard Mercator, the inventor of the chart that bears his name. “ Such is the suitableness,” it has been said, “ of Mercator’s projection to the use of the mariner’s compass that the latter seems to have been an incomplete discovery until the announcement of the former.” The Portuguese were the first to use the astrolabe in navigation; and the celebrated mathematician, Pedro Nunez, in his book on navigation, published in 1537, was the first to direct special attention to the quadrant, now replaced by the sextant as a substitute for the astrolabe and other instruments for observation that had previously been used. The log, according to Humboldt, was in use before this period. It is mentioned by Friar Pigafetta, the historiographer of Magellan’s voyage around the globe, as a well-known means of measuring the distance made by a vessel at sea.
Locks for canals are of Italian origin. Watermills and water-engines were invented by Leonardo da Vinci. Terrestrial and celestial globes were first used for illustrating lectures by the famous Gerbert,and—would you believe it?—he was the first to construct a steam-organ, something that bas been dubbed as an American invention, under the name of a calliope. «»	.
The apparatus—now so common—for the gen. eratioh of the	-
ELECTRIC LIGHT, and known as dynamo-electric machines, are frequently pointed to as examples of American skill and invention: but nothing could be farther from the truth. Nollet and Van Malderan, of Belgium, about thirty years ago, constructed the first magneto-electric machine for producing the electric light,—a type of machine still in use. In i860 Dr. Antonio Pacinotti, a professor in Florence, constructed an electro-magnetic machine, which embodied in principle all that we find in the more improved dynamos of to-day. Pacinotti’s great invention was the armature he employed—of which all the armatures now in use are only modifications. A few years subsequently the subject was taken up by M. Gramme, a Belgian mechanic; and his experiments resulted, in 1871, in the production of the first successful dynamo that was put on the market. The first place where it was extensively.used was in Paris; and the first street illuminated by the electric light was P A venue de V Opera of the same metropolis.
M. Gramme is, likewise, the inventor of the electro-motor, as he was the first to discover the reversibility of the armature of a dynamo on the passage through it of an electric current. This was justly pronounced by. the eminent English physicist, the late’Prof. Clerk Maxwell, as the greatest discovery of the present half of the 19th century. He saw in it the utilization, of the now waste forces of wind, wave, and waterfall, its varied applications—as numerous as wonderful—to the arts and industries of modern life, and the eventual substitution of electricity, for steam as a source of energy.	.
The first electric lamp was invented by Leon	1
Foucault in 1848. The carbons used for electric lights are the invention of M. Carrd. The first storage battery,—than which nothing seems to	.
promise greater or more important results in the • near future,—is due to Gaston Plantd a member of the Catholic Scientific Society of Brussels.
So it is in regard to the
STEAM-ENGINE.
Watt is usually considered its inventor, and yet patents were taken out for steam-engines—and practical working engines, too—a full century before Wait commenced his experiments on the Newcomen engine; and this engine, to which Watt did no more than make some additions, was, after all, only an improvement on an engine constructed by Savery, who appropriated in toto the work and inventions of the Marquis of Worcester. And this Marquis of Worcester, the first inventor of an actual steam-engine, for which he received a patent from Parliament in 1663—just one hundred years before Watt took up a model of a Newcomen engine in Glascow College, and one hundred and nine years before he took out his first patent—was a devoted Catholic.
So, too, is it respecting the application of steam to propelling boats. Robert Fulton is famed as the inventor of the steamboat, and still he was not its inventor. Far back, in 1543, Blasco de Garay, a Spanish sea-captain, exhibited in the harbor of Barcelona, in presence of Charles V and many of	|
his court, a boat propelled by steam, and which was capable of going at the -rate of a league an hour. But Charles was then engaged.in an ex-	!
pedition that did not permit him to give his atten-tention to the subject of steam navigation, and as	।
a consequence, Blasco de Garay’s invention lay dor-	■
mant for more than two centuries. Towards the	i
latter part of the 18th century the subject was taken up again by several persons in Europe and in this country, and eventually resulted in Robert ’ Fulton’s first steamboat, the Clermont^ which made her trial trip from New York to Albany in	i
January 1808.
The invention and application of illuminating	$
gas is usually regarded as an English invention.
In 1792 Wm. Murdock used coal-gas to light his	|
workshops at Redruth in Cornwall. But it is a	f
matter of record that, eight years before, Jean	I
Pierre Minkelers, a professor.in the University of	]
Louvain, had made use of the same gas to light	’
his lecture-rooms. To, this same professor .is also due the first application of coal-gas to balloons (the invention of two Frenchmen—Stephen and Joseph Montgolfier), although the credit of it is usually given to the English aeronaut Green, who, however, did not use it until upward of thirtyyears later.	...
Let these examples suffice for the-present. 1 might add to the list, and show also how the inventions themselves have been improved and. perfected. But this. would not strengthen the proposition I wish to prove, viz., that the Church is ever and especially the originator and- pioneer - in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	439
every branch of invention and discovery. Others may contribute towards the development of what she has begun, \yatfocile est addere inventis,—
“IT IS EASY TO ADD TO INVENTIONS.”
In any event, however, the glory of the Church remains undimmed.
I insist on this point, as it is specially important. “The invention of an instrument,” says Stanley Jevons, “has usually marked, if it has not made, an epoch. The science of heat might be said to commence with the construction of the thermometer, and it has recently been advanced by the introduction of the thermo-electric pile. Chemistry has been created chiefly by the careful use of the balance which forms a unique instance of an instrument re-mainingsubstantially in theform in which it was first applied to scientific purposes by Archimedes. The balance never has been, and probably never can be, improved except in details of construction. The torsion balance, introduced by Coulomb towards the end of the last century, has rapidly become essential in many branches of investigation. In the hands of Cavendish and Bailey, it gave a determination of the earth’s density; applied in the galvanometer, it gave a delicate measure of electrical force, and is indispensable in the thermo-electric pile. This balance is made by simply suspending any light rod by. a thin wire or thread attached to the middle point. And we owe to it almost all the more delicate investigations in the theories of heat, electricity and magnetism.”
/ And there are yet a few more contributions of a different kind that I can not pass over in silence. They do not bear directly on the advance of science, but they illustrate so well what I have been speaking of—viz., that we owe everything that conduces to our comfort and well-being to Catholic sources —that they deserve a mention.
We all love music. It was the Monk Guido of Arezzo who invented the gamut, in 1124. He was also the inventor of the cymbals and the heptachord, the precursor of the piano-and other stringed instruments of a later date. Organs-were invented in Italy in the 8th century. Church bells were introduced by St. Paulinus, Bishop of Nola, in Campania, about A. D. 400, whence the name nola or campana—bell—still retained in several European languages.
The first bank was founded 1171 in Venice. Letters of exchange were introduced in Barcelona early in the 15th century. Book-keeping is of Italian origin, and the first treatise on the subject was written by the author of the first work on algebra, the monk Luca Pacciola,- and published in Venice in 1495. Post-offices were established in France and Italy early in the 12th century. Stone coal was first developed in England about the middle of the 9th century,'and by monks. Glass windows were introduced in the 3d and 4th centuries, and stained glass during the Middle Ages.
• 'Cotton culture was introduced into Spain in the • loth-century; and was extended to Sicily and Italy shortly after. The silk-worm was unknown in Europe before the'reign of Justinian,- when it was
brought from the East to Constantinople by two monks. Tea was first imported by* the Portuguese in the beginning of the 16th century. Coffee was brought to Venice about a century later. Quinine was made known in Europe by the Jesuit missionaries, and from this circumstance it was named Jesuits’ bark. To the missionaries we are also indebted for the knowledge of many other plants used in medicine and the arts.- Among these may be mentioned rhubarb, vanilla, various gums and balsams, and that important article of modern industry, caoutchouc; ordinarily called gum-elastic or India rubber. I may remark here, as an item of interest, that, the first to recognize the value of caoutchouc in erasing marks was Magellan, the great navigator. It has been stated that the chemist Priestley was the first to make this observation, but, as stated, it was made over two hundred years before he was born.
Sir Walter Raleigh is usually credited with introducing the potato into Europe from Virginia, and yet there is the best of evidence to show that it was brought to Spain from Quito at a much earlier period. In 1588, two years after Raleigh is said to have carried it to England, it was sent to Flanders from Italy, where it had been received from Spain, in which country it had been cultivated as an article of foo<J..for many years. Indeed, the same year (1586)40 which the English navigator is said to have taken the potato to his country it was described by the botanist Charles de 1’Ecluse as being well known and commonly used.	’
Knives and forks and wheelbarrows, like so many other things, are of Italian origin. The hydraulic press was invented by Pascal. Artesian wells were first used in Modena, and were made known in France by the astronomer Cassini, where they were given the name they now bear. The one to regulate the clock of*time, by the calendar we now use, was Gregory XIII, aided by the Catholic astronomers of Europe, most of whom were ecclesiastics.
And so I might continue the list almost indefinitely. But it is not my purpose to give the history of science, and so I arrest myself here. I should like to tell you what the Church has done towards the development of the sciences and inventions of which she is the author; I should love, too, to tell you of the labors of the Catholic scientists of England, Germany, Belgium, and America, and other parts of the world, especially in more recent times and in our own day; but I can not now. I . have barely alluded to a few of them; but I am satisfied to let you judge of their present work by what they have accomplished in the past. Ab uno disco omnes. In my introduction I asked you to consider not only what the Church' has, done directly, but also what she has accomplished by her influence. After all I have said, it is unnecessary for me to-dwell on this, point at length. I prefer * to let you draw your own conclusions. The Influence of an organization that has'always been so . active, always foremost in the march of progress, -can have, been in but one-direction—forward, ex
i
44°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
celsior! We may look back on the Church at any period of her history, and we shall find that she was progressive then as she is to-day: that then, as now, she was the one power capable of directing and carrying with her the genius of the world. : Judging her children, who have reflected such honor on her, we repeat with Lord Macaulay: “ The question with respect to them is not where they were, but which way they were going. Were their faces set in the right or wrong' direction ? Were they in the- front or rear of their generation? Did they-exert’themselves to help onward the great movement of the human race dr to stop if? This is not charity, but simple justice and common sense. It is the fundamental law of the world in which we live that truth shall grow—first the Blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear.” Judged by this standard, in her relation to the advancement of science, the Church is all that I have claimed she has been and still is—the sole possessor of the sceptre of Science in the whole of Christendom, and that by right Divine.
La Lumiere Electrique a Notre Dame.
Le soleil est couche. L’urne crepusculaire.
: Rdpand il’ombre douteuse a grands flots sur la terre: • Al’horizon s’etend 1’epais brouillard du soir,
Tout se tait, tout s’endort. Seule; au firmament noir, La pile lune veille, et, pareille a la lampe De l’autel, verse un jour mysterieux qui rampe, Un jour vague et trompeur aux reflets somnolents. De 1’Universite les sombres bAtiments Sont a peine baignes d’une lueur qui tremble, Et Notre Dame, au sein du silence, ressemble Un enorme geant couche dans son tombeau, Qui pour revivre attend un miracle nouveau.
Mais soudain Fair s’enflamme: il pleut de la lumiere Sur les palais de brique et les maisons de pierre.
C’est une explosion de pdtillants soleils: Partout des points d’argent a des astres pareils, Rejaillissant partout sur la neige et la glace. C’est une splendeur blanche envahis«ant 1’espace, Plus limpide et plus vive, en ses rayonnements, Que 1’eclat du cristal ou des purs diamants. . Tout cede a la magie: oh I quel jour fantastique Descend sur les vitraux de 1’eglise gothique, Sur les bois, sur les lacs, sur FUniversitd!
Notre Dame est debout li, dans sa.majestd.
O feux incandescents, etranges dtincelles, Repondez: venez-vous des yofites eternelles, Et la main du Trfes-Haut, qui lance les dclairs, Vous fait-elle sortir du ciel ou des enfers? '	'
—Non, Fhomine est .notre.pere et nous vivons par lui Lui seul il nous crea,lui seul il nous conduit. .
O Benjamin Franklin, honneur du Nouveau-Monde, Qui, le premier, scrutas 1’immensite profonde, •Et revins triomphant, la foudre dans ta main,	.
Salut!—Nous acclamons, moderne Promethde,	.
La gloire, lumineuse aurdole, jetde	. .
Sur ton front surhumain! <-	-
Et toi, Volta, qui sus faire nnitre sur terre Cette puissance errant, terrible et solitaire, A travers 1’epaisseur du nuage noirci;
Toi qui sus la guider dans un fil metallique Sous forme d’un courant invisible et magique, Nous t’acclamons aussi!
Le fruit de tes labeurs est cueilli par notre Age: En mourant tu Idguas. bienfaisant heritage, Les secrets prdcieux du fluide dompte;
Et d’autres, enrichis de ton experience, -Heureux fils du Progrfes, appliquent la science’ De PEleciricite.
Ce n’etait point assez que, bravant l’Atlantique, L’Europe en un instant lan^fit en Amerique Des depSches glissant le long d’un fil de fer: Ge n’etait point assez qu’en un quart de seconde, Une force portAt A 1’autre bout du monde
Une pensee-dclair! .	.
1 Fiat lux ”! a dit I’homme au genie electrique, ‘ Sob clarte; resplendis sur la place publique! ” Et puisque le soleil se derobe a rios yeux.
Du carbone vaincu jaillira la lumiere, ■ . • Et des astres nouveaux, dressant leur t£te altifcre, •	Eclaireront les cieux!
Un jour, nous 1’esperons, Ie majestueux dome, Transparent, Imnineux, nous rappellera Rome, Et Saint Pierre noy6 dans la flamme et le feu: Alors les douze Eclairs sur I’image dorfee Chanteront A jamais la gloire immaculde De.Ia Mere de Dieu!
Education.
The importance of this .topic has been evident at all times. Its growing necessity becomes more apparent with each succeeding year; and in this age, when persons who think at all turn their thoughts to questions of education, it seems unnecessary to call attention to the interest of the subject.
During the Middle Ages education was confined to the few. The majority of the people sought pleasure in the chase, or renown on the field of battle. Learning was .beyond the reach of the common people, and beneath the notice of the aristocrats.- Should a man be unable to write his name, it was an indication of his noble birth.
But with the invention’of printing came a radical change. IBooks of all kinds became more numerous, learning more widespread, and the world made giant strides in literature and science. New methods of warfare were established, the old temple of European chivalry crumbled into dust, the common people were raised to a higher social plane, and new and more humane manners and customs were adopted.
The printing press, worked by steam, has brought education to the door of the poorest family, and has made it possible for all men to read and write. It is education that draws the line between civilized and barbarous nations; for in what do we differ
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	441
from barbarians but in our greater knowledge and superior strength of character.
Education has taught man to control the thou-sand natural forces and make them subservient to his will. It is education that enables him to appreciate the grand, the beautiful, the sublime in nature. What exquisite pleasure a learned man enjoys in reading of the great deeds of his fellowmen!—At his will Caesar fights again his bloody battles, or Napoleon makes England tremble to her centre. In-spirit he may climb the Alps with Hannibal,.or with Columbus sail out into the unknown western waters in search of a new world. His fancy may dive to the bottom of the sea, or soar through boundless space to the very Throne of God.
Truly, intellectual-delights are the best of all. “They are pure, they elevate, they refine; time only increases their charm, and in the winter of age, when the body is but the agent of pain, contemplation still remains, like the light of a higher world, to tinge with beauty the clouds that gather around life’s setting!”	T. E. C.
{From the Philadelphia “Star."') “The Great Cryptogram.”
Hon. Ignatius L. Donnelly, of Minnesota, is on a visit to the city, and was yesterday seen by a Star representative. In answer to our inquiries as to his forthcoming new book upon the question • ’ of the authorship of the plays usually attributed to Shakspeare, Mr. Donnelly said that for years he had belonged to that large and rapidly-increasing class who believed that William Shakspeare, of Stratford-on-Avon, was not the author of the plays in question. The writer of the plays was not only a. man of vast genius but of great learning; whole ' pages were written in French, and there were evidences that the author was a Latin, Greek, Italian and Spanish scholar. It was also conceded that he was an accomplished and erudite lawyer, so impregnated with the terms of his profession that they flowed from the mouths of all his characters in all scenes of life. It is not pretended that William Shakspeare was a lawyer, or that he had any education, except such as could be received at the little village school at Stratford, where the opportunities were of the rudest, and where the English was not even taught. And yet the “ first heir of the invention” of Shakspeare, the “ Venus and|Adonis,” was the most perfect and finished piece of courtly versification produced -in that age. It is as if Robert Burns had migrated to London and had at once proceeded to produce great works without a - tinge of the patois which he had spoken all his life.
There is also-the curious fact that Shakspeare did not, either in his will or in any other way, make any claim to the authorship of the plays; they were not even published in his name, for he always signed his name Shakspere, the first syllable having. the-sound of Shax,-while the name on the title-page of the various editions of the plays was Shakespeare, very often printed with, a hyphen, thus, Shake-speare. . It has been recently shown.
thaL.Shakspeare’s nephew, Shakespeare Hart, wrote his name “ Shaxpere Hart.”
About five years ago Mr. "Donnelly,.believing that the illustrious Francis Bacon, Lord Chancellor-of England, philosopher and scholar, and the greatest intellect of modern times, was the .real author of the Shakspeare plays, conceived the idea that Bacon might have left in the plays some statement in cipher in which he asserted his authorship. He was led ..to this view by the fact that he knew Bacon was of a secretive nature; .that he was very fond of ciphers; that he had .discussed the subject of ciphers at length in^his philosophical works; that he had invented several ciphers; that it was an age when no man dared. express his opinions openly, either on politics or religion, without fear of the rack and the block. .Mr. Donnelly found; in the plays many evidences of the existence of a cipher story. In the first part of.HenryTV he found all the words necessary to make out such a sentence as this: .“Francis Bacon, of St. Alban’s, Sir Nicholas Bacon’s son, master of the exchequer of England, and lord keeper of the great seal.”
Bacon had left in one of his works—the De Augmentis—a description of a cipher of words, where the secret story is infolded in a larger body of words, “ holding a quintuple relation to the writing infolded, omnia per omnia;” and Mr. Donnelly proceeded to find the clue to the cipher in first part Henry IV. After years of great-labor he has solved the problem, and he-finds that, instead of a brief message, such as he had anticipated, the plays from beginning to end are one marvellous Mosaic work of internal narrative, arranged by a system as accurate, unvarying and precise as a sum in arithmetic.	. .
The story, as he has so far worked it out,—for he has crossed the track of the cipher midway,— gives the inside, history of the stormy conspiracy of the Essex faction against the Cecil faction, for the possession of power, which culminated in the treasonable actions which cost Essex his head. Incidentally, the story is given of the production of the plays, and the whole literary history of the Elizabethan age; the biography of Shakspeare forms an unimportant side-chapter of this story; his robbery of Sir Thomas Lucy’s orchard; the riot, referred to in the “ Merry Wives of Windsor”; the killing of the deer; the beating of the game-keepers; the flight to London; the pursuit; Shak-speare’s first encounter with Henry Percy, the servant of Bacon; he.was then poor, ragged and begging at the doors of the play-houses.
It was probably with a view to the ultimate discovery of this cipher that Bacon in' his will said, “ As for my memory, ! leave it to men’s charitable speeches, to foreign nations, and to my own countrymen, after some time be passed; ” for he doubtless gives somewhere in the plays—probably in Henry VIII—a complete defense of himself from the charges of corruption; for he was sacrificed to save King James’ favorite—the greedy and un-scrupulous Buckingham.
Mr. Donnelly hopes to have his book ready for publication by next fall. It will, be called “ The
442	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Great Cryptogram.” It will contain fac-similes of the original text, and each reader, by a simple process of counting, with the rule before him, can demonstrate the existence of the cipher, and follow out the story for himself.
Art, Music and Literature.
• —Mark Twain intends visiting England in May for the purpose of giving readings from his own writings.
—Mr. Dickens’s David Copperfield is being produced in Paris in weekly illustrated numbers at one penny each, and is one of the most successful publications of the season.
—According- to the new catalogue of the Brit-ish museum,'the library has 1,350,000 printed books and 50,000 manuscripts, making it, next to the library of Paris, the largest in the world.
—Dr. James McCosh has prepared for publication a pamphlet on “ The New Departure in College Education,” which is a reply to President Eliot’s recent defense of the departure. It will be published by Charles Scribner’s Sons.
—We have to record the death on the nth ult., in the fifty-second year of his age, of Father A. •Baker, a monk of the Cistercian Order, a remarkably clever heraldic draughtsman, and also a painter of mural decorations in various convents in the Midland Counties.—Athenaeum.
—The hat worn by Daniel Webster when he sat for the picture from which the portrait in the March Century was engraved is preserved in the rooms of the Pennsylvania Historical Society. For years the curator has allowed visitors to try the hat on, in the hope of finding a head big enough to fit it, but up to date he has not succeeded.
—Lord Ashburnham has presented to Leo XIII the Regesta of Innocent III. This volume had been removed from Rome to Avignon, and it then disappeared from France. The director of the National Library in Paris informed Cardinal Pitrathat the manuscript was in London; and, while negotiations were going on for its return to the Vatican, Lord Ashburnham generously restored it to his Holiness.
—The largest bell in the world is in a Buddhist monastery, near Canton, China. It is 18 feet high and 45 in circumference, and is of solid bronze. It was one of eight bells cast by command of Emperor Yunglo, about A. D. 1400, and it is said to have cost the lives of eight men who were killed during the process of casting. The whole bell, both inside, and out, is covered with an inscription in embossed Chinese characters about half ah inch long, covering even the handle, the total number being 84,000.. The characters tell a single story-one of the Chinese classics.
—Four years have gone since George Eliot -passed away, arid before the story of her life has :been issued,-edited by her husband, Mr. Cross. There are few. secrets in the book; and the . letters
which go in greater part to make it up are not those of a master of the art of letter-writing. They are the records—often very prosaic ones—of her literary labor and of the books she read. Her delight in the weird sayings of the prophets of the Old Testament was great. Dante was constantly in her hands. Ruskin, Tennyson, and Browning she admired; she had a great feeling for Cardinal Newman’s Apologia, and a worship for Thomas a Kempis. In pictures her vigor drew her towards Rubens as a painter; and her idealism to Beethoven as a musician. At composition, George Eliot tells us, she was “slow”; writing was a painful duty. Yet the last volume of Adam Bede was written in six weeks.—London Register.
—Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera, which is Japanese, was produced in London last week. Its title is “The Mikado; or, the Tonn of Titipi.” The royal hangman is the personage about whom the action revolves. Heis in a good deal of dis-tress for the reason that, while the law compels him to make an execution at least once in three years, the whole Japanese nation has become suddenly so moral that no crimes whatever are committed, and there is, consequently, nobody to be punished. In this dilemma it becomes necessary to find some one who is willing to be sacrificed, and the hero of the opera, who is in love, is inclined to offer himself, his only objection being that he is of an old and respected family, who would be pained at the manner of his taking off. In this dilemma a reward is offered to'anybody who will commit a crime; but before any fatal result ensues the law is repealed, and matters are duly straightened out. The hangman is naturally an elegant, refined, and kind-hearted person who would be pained at a slight injury to a sparrow. The other characters in the piece are equally droll.
Scientific Notes.
—The Paris Electrical Exhibition, to be held in the Observatoire, under the auspices of the International Society of Electricians, will be opened on March 15th.
—The opinion of Prof. Lockyer now favors the theory that several remarkable seas—including inland seas, some of them connected and some not, by straits, with still larger seas—are at present definable in the southern hemisphere of the planet Mars.
. —According to a careful report in Comptes
Rendus, coffee is a complex aliment which acts	I
mainly by modifying the phenomena of nutrition	!
and the general functions. It renders .the organism capable of consuming and destroying larger quantities of nitrogenous substances, and may consequently be regarded, as an indirect source of available energy. -	..	.
.—A few remarks.on the'care of watches.are made by a writer in the Popular Science Monthly. A good watch should be oiled. once a year and cleaned once in three years. If a-jeweller, tel Is .you that there is some, very serious trouble or break in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
443
your watch, which will cost several dollars to get repaired, ask him to take the watch “ down” and let you see the trouble. It is better to wind one’s watch in the morning than in the evening, since, if you wind at night and expose the watch to the cold, the chilling of the tightly-wound mainspring may break it. Frequently empty out the dust that accumulates so quickly in your watch pocket. It will not injure a watch or clock to turn the hands backward.
1	—Three new tidal observatories have recently
, . been established in Indian seas—one at Cochin and two at Ceylon. There are now in all twelve such observatories in those seas, each continuing its work /	for a period of five years; for tidal observation has
this advantage over land meteorology that, after a ;	limited time, a particular locality is exhausted, and
the instruments can be taken up and moved else-z	where. These observatories have recently come in
■	for a good deal of the attention of the Survey
j . Department, although it is not probable that this f	portion of the department’s work will ever be
very widely appreciated by the public, its results bearing only in a strictly scientific way upon the operations of the Trigonometrical Survey, or helping to correct the charts and tables which are
1	furnished to the practical navigator.
i	—At the last meeting of the Societe Scientijigue^
of Brussels, the distinguished Orientalist, P. Van den Gheyn, read a most interesting paper on the “Ethnography of Balkans.” He confined his attention to the Roumanians and the Bulgarians, representing the two most ancient nations of the’ Peninsula. The Roumanians trace their origin to a mingling of the Roman colonists sent by the Emperor Trajan to the banks of the Danube with the native Dacians; and so are Daco-Romans. The Bulgarians are of Tartar origin, but have become completely Slavified, and profoundly influenced by the ancient Thracians, who in the fifth century still occupied the plane of the Hebrus, when the Bulgars made their incursion into this region. P. Van den Gheyn, having established the relationship of the Dacians and the Thracians, examined the theories regarding the origin of the Daco-Thracian tribes. No less than five systems have been propounded assigning to these populations a Germanic, Slav, Pelasgian, or Celtic origin; but the lecturer followed that of ,M. M. Tomaschek, Lenormant, Evans, etc., who attach the Thracians and Dacians to the Eranian branch of the Aryan family. The three chief arguments upon which this view is based are drawn from language, from religious cult, and from the formal testimony of
‘ classical antiquity. It would appear that'on their ।	arrival in Europe these tribes divided into two
i	branches; the Dacians occupied the Carpathian
1	region, whilst'the Thracians descended into the
I	plains of the Peninsula. The latter disappeared
;	under the repeated onslaughts of the barbarians,
f	while the former still survive to a great extent in
the modern Roumanians, true to their national motto: Roman no fere—“the Roumanian never perishes.”—London Tablet,	*	'
College Gossip.
—A Jesuit College has been established at Morrison, Col. The Rev. D. Pantanella, S. J., is the priest in charge.	.	.	.
—Professor Agassiz’ gifts to Harvard College during the last thirteen years amount to more than five hundred thousand dollars.
—At a college examination a professor asked: “Does my question embarrass you?” “Not at all, sir,” replied the student; /“Not at all: It is quite clear. It is the answer that bothers me.”
- —President Warren, of Boston. University, deplores “ the decay of scholarly spirit at Harvard;” and predicts that students of generous aims will need to pass by that institution and go elsewhere in search of a classical education. .	•
—Professor J. W. White, of the Greek Department at Harvard, is talking of giving another Greek play, a comedy, next year, on the occasion of the celebration of the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the college.
—Randolph Rogers, the sculptor,-who passed his boyhood in Ann Arbor, but who has lived for many years past in Rome, leaves by his will at his death his entire art collection to the University of Michigan, including some originals and casts of all his works. The “Nydia,” one of Rogers’ best known works, has long, been in the gallery, having been purchased in 1862 for one thousand seven hundred dollars.
—The San Francisco Board of Education has decided that the position of any female teacher who marries becomes vacant. Another rule adopted by the Board abolishes corporal punishment in grammar and primary schools, except by the principal, and he is forbidden to chastise pupils on the same day that the offence is committed. The rule also provides that no cruel or unusual punishment be allowed, and that there be no corporal punishment in high or evening schools or upon girls in any grade.—Pilot.
—The Vassar alumnae of Chicago and the West are endeavoring to establish an educational fund for the education of.Western girls whose scholarship and character make them worthy of the advantages of a collegiate education, but whose poverty prevents their obtaining it. Some of their plans for raising money are suggestive. One alumna sent bouquets twice a week last summer to a book-store where they were sold and the money, obtained was given to the fund. Two graduates prepared a girl for the Freshman Class at Vassar, received the regular price for such work, and contributed it to the fund. The alumnae of Omaha have given two successful concerts, in which the musicians gave their services, some being friends of V assar, and some alumnae. The Vassar alumna of Michigan have recently held a fair in Grand Rapids for the sale of fancy articles, prepared by themselves and friends. In these and similar ways nearly two thousand dollars have been raised during the past year.—Home Journal.	.
444
THE NOTRE DAME'SCHOLASTIC.
IMgCSGWSfE
lli
Notre Dame, March 21, 1885.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends' that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THENOTREDAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
I choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions' df the day, as wfell: as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the .week by their excellence jn class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all, .	'
.	. Old Students should, take it.
Terms, Stjo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—On Saturday evening last we had the pleasure of attending the Art Entertainment given by Rev. Father Zahm in the Academy of Music, and we do not hesitate to say that it was as fine a stereopticon exhibition as was ever witnessed at Notre Dame. The views of New Orleans and the World’s Fair, were all new, and made expressly for Father Zahm by the unexcelled artist, Mr. E. L. Wilson, of Philadelphia. Mr. Wilson has made this work a specialty, has travelled over and taken photographs in many parts of the world, and has justly acquired the reputation of making the very best of slides. Aside from the splendid execution of the work, Mr. Wilson’s slides show an artistic taste rarely met with; and his admirable choice of objects and position, together with his care in making the most of every favorable circumstance, have won for him a place at the head of his profession. The set of slides which he has furnished Father Zahm contains some which seem simply perfect in artistic effect and in execution; and these, projected with a stereopticon of the best construction, were welcomed by the audience with rounds of applause.
Father Zahm’s lecture was, as usual, full of interest and information, and was delivered in his easy and entertaining style. Following the views as they were thrown upon the screen, he first: gave us a glance at a few of the more interesting sights in New Orleans; then showed us the Exposition buildings and took us through them, explaining the various exhibits. ’ The entertainment, in short, was indeed an Art Entertainment, and those who witnessed it have reason to congratulate themselves on having seen as fine a set of views as are any where thrown upon, the screen.-	.
We are pleased to state that Father Zahm has not only many more unexhibited slides, but all.the most approved accessoriesr to the.stereopticon, including attachments for microscopic projections, as well as for various beautiful optical experiments; and in the course of the. session the students will have an opportunity of seeing some of the wonders which are revealed by the modern art of Projection.	.
:	' The Laetare Medal.	■
LETTER FROM MISS STARR.
According to announcement.made in our last issue, the“Laetare Medal ’’.‘was, on Sunday last, presented to Miss Eliza Allen. Starr, at her residence in Chicago. Among, those present at the interesting ceremony were Rev. Dr. Roles,1 of St. Mary’s Church, Prof. J. F. Edwards, of Notre'= Dame, gnd Hon. W. J.Onahan,LL. D.,of Chicago, who made the presentation address in-behalf of . the: gentleman’s address in time for publication,-but we1 University. The medal-was blessed by Dr?Roles and presented-to the gifted lady. Accompanying the medal was a sonnet written by Mr. M:aurice F. Egan, Associate Editor of the New York Freeman's Journal. .The poem, was beautifully engrossed upon parchment, elegantly illuminated,, the work of the Art Department at St. Mary’s Academy.	*	’
Miss Starr, in acknowledgment of the award, has sent the following letter:
TO THE VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, FOUNDER OF NOTRE DAME. SUPERIOR-GENERAL AND BELOVED PATRIARCH
OF THE ORDER. OF THE HOLY CROSS; TO THE REV. PRESIDENT, TO THE FACULTY, TO ALL IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH THE UNI-
VERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
What shall I say of the distinction this day conferred upon me by the Lasi are Medal, but that it is the < rown-ing of more than twenty-five ye *rs of a friendship which has been not onh a happiness but in every sense an honor! It is this which gives such preciousness to the precious gold the precious inscription- and device.
But there is, above and beyond all personal gratification, its testimonial in defence of all ages of the Catholic Church as the mother of knowledge, and of all her institutions of learning as the nurse of this same knowledge: and this, not only in regard to great scholars, but to all who pursue knowledge, if, haply, they may with her find wisdom : and this, too. in regard to women, on wbo.-e labors the Church has ever smiled so benignantly, and to which she gives so many encouragements. It is as a living proof of this that mv “LaMare Medal” becomes a witness fur my word of mouth as well as of pen. .	' :	' .	.
Be so good as to believe that, relying upon the grace of God and of His Christ and the inspirations of His Holy Spirit, depending, too, upon the intercessions of Mary, Vii-gin and Mother, of St. Joseph and all the saints. I trust to be faithful to the. cau-e of Catholic Literature and Catholic Art as I hope to be to Catholic faith; in which hope and confidence I subscribe myself •
Yours most smcerely,	’
'	Eliza Allen Starr.
St. Joseph’s Cottage, LaMare Sunday,i8?5'.
‘ • ***
.	If ▼ •	- ’	.	-
Of this award on the part .of the University, the Catholic Review (New York) says:?-.— ■ j
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:	445
“ Catholic universities have always recognized the equality, or even the intellectual supremacy of women, when it existed. Italy has a whole calendar of great women, who held chairs in her chief schools, and, having merited, freely received the honors of her universities. Why should not an American Catholic university equally honor a Catholic American lady of eminence in literature and art? We see no reason why, provided the eminence be indisputable. It therefore seems a very happy thought of the University of Notre Dame, which is acquiring a substantial reputation for the excellence of its numberless ‘ happy thoughts,’ that its Lsetare Medal should this year be given to a lady, whose beautiful life has found expression in works and writings that are appreciated by all who know them—Miss Eliza Allen Starr, of Chicago, the author of ‘Patron Saints,’ ‘ Pilgrims and Shrines,’ and other equally meritorious writings.”
.The New York Freeman's Journal, commenting upon the subject,speaks as follows:
“The University of Notre Dame, Indiana, inaugurated three years ago the custom of giving a gold medal on L^tare Sunday to some distinguished Catholic. Notre D.ame, not devoting itself to. bricks and mortar, finds opportunity to show its appreciation of Catholic American progress in the finer arts. The medal was bestowed, the first year, on Dr. John Gilmary Shea; the second on Mr. Keely, the architect of so many churches. This, the third year, it is given to a lady whose name is well known to our readers,-Miss Eliza Allen Starr. ■ •
■	“‘.She, Mary’s artist, poet of Our Lord,
. Her best is laid down at their royal feet.’
“ In appreciation of Miss Starr’s ‘ Pilgrims and Shrines,’ the Freeman's Journal has not been reserved. That volume is unique in the English language. It has completed all that was lacking in the books of Mrs. Jameson and Mrs. Clements. The shrines of the Blessed Virgin are painted, with word and pen, with all the fervor of love and the skill of art. To quore the phrase of a Protestant critic: ‘One is made to see Christian Rome and its wonders without having been at Rome.’
“ Miss Starr is a native of Deerfield. Mass. She is at present living in St. Joseph’s Cottage, Chicago, one of the quaintest and most artistic dwellings in the United States. Her influence in that city is making Catholic art and literature respected and studied. Her lectures are listened to by the most cultivated ladies there. And Miss Starr’s conferences run the risk of becoming too fashionable. Of late —onl of late—has she received that appreciation from the Catholics of Chicago which she had long received from the Protestants.
“ The Universitv of Notre Dame has done many gracious and worthy things; but there is none which shows a truer Catholic spirit than these acts of homage to «enius and disint -rested work, of which the bestowal of the Lietare Med tl on Miss Eliza Mien Starr is one. We congratulate the Very Rev. Father Sorin and the Faculty of Notre Dame on this admirable and graceful tribute and example.”
Celebration of St. Patrick’s Day.
The morning opened cold but clear, and the March breezes blew chilly, gusty blasts from the North. The snow still lay upon the ground, and made walking far impracticable, so that the old-time custom -of treading the campus to the inspiring strains of Irish music was this time dispensed with. However, this did not dampen the enthusiasm nor prevent the day from being celebrated with any less spirit.
At eight o’clock, solemn High Mass was sung bv Rev. Father Toohey, with Fathers Stoffel and R.-g in assisting as deacon and subdeacon. A new Mass was sung by the Qrpheonic choir, whose col
lection of well cultivated voices sounded exceedingly pleasant and to good advantage in the large, vaulted church. The sermon, delivered by Rev. President Walsh, was an eloquent and noble tribute to the great saint who planted the seed of Christianity in Ireland, fourteen hundred years ago, and who labored so effectively for the conversion of the Irish race.	.	'
The rest of the day was passed pleasantly enough; shamrocks fluttered upon every breast, and the inspiriting strains'of the Band at intervals, added not a little to the general enthusiasm. The exercises of the evening were conducted by the
COLUMBIANS.
The programme of the exercises wj!l be found in our local columns. A large audience assembled to do honor to the occasion and greet The members of the Association. The entertainment- was opened with music by the Band, who.played a-collection of Irish national melodies with good effect.
The	'	‘
».	r
ORATION" OF THE DAY,-------
a brilliant production and .eloquently spoken—was delivered by Mr. Daniel.Byrnes, of ,the:lJaw Class, and a Columbian. The .speaker began by welcoming his auditors in the name of his society, and entered upon the subject of his speech—“The Day We Celebrate.” It.'was a day that recalled most tender and most sacred meriiories. It brought before the mind the history of a nation once the foremost of the nations of earth, now poor, downtrodden and afflicted,—a nation whose sons have made imperishable names in the world’s history, for prowess in the field of battle, and superiority in the domain of learning. If, for a number of years, ignorance prevailed among the Irish people, this was to their glory, not to their shame; for it was due to the cruel, bloody laws of a tyrannical Government. The speaker eloquently defended the right of the Irish people to seek for a change of government:
“Ireland is their native country,” he said, “they see her Iving in rirns; they make a desperate effort to collect her broken fragments into something like a nationality. Who can blame any Irishman for seeking to effect a radical change in his country, since no change consistent with social order can make her condition wor-e than it is? Poor Ireland! her history is a sad one; it is written in the tears and blood of her children! Her sons have been so long accustomed to injustice that they almost look upon themselves as aliens and outcasts in the very land that God gave them as a heritage. Yet they love their country with all the fervor of their heart. The more she suffers, the more they love her. As the;r own sweet poet has truly and beautifully said:
“ ‘ Her chains, as they rankle, her blood, as it runs, But makes her more painfully dear to her sons.’ ”
The speaker eloquently depicted the scenes incident to the condition of Ireland bowed beneath the voke of oppression. Continuing, he said: .
“ But let us turn aside >or awhile from this sad picture, and contemplate the eminent services of Irishmen to countries that have afforded them an asylum. The Emerald Isle has been prolific in warriors, statesmen and poets. It has given to the world more than its share o* genius and greatness. ,Its brave am1 generous sons have fought successfully in all battles but its own. In wit^pd humor it has no
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
equal; while its harp, like its history, moves to "tears by its sweet but melancholy pathos. Ireland,—the land of Curran and Grattan, of Emmet and Fitzgerald, of Burke and Sheridan, of Goldsmith and Swift, of Moore and O’Connell,— Ireland, the great producing nursery of American brains and bravery which the Creator seems to have established the cradle and source of genius and genuine American patriotism; which furnished the inexhaustible supply to the limitless demand for that material in the American market which gave to our navy and press some of its greatest men: which gave us the ornaments of our judicial v, the eloquence of our bar, the lights of our pulpit, the founders of our colleges, the genius of our stages, the foremost of our merchants and literary men whose names I have not here time to enumerate!”
In conclusion, he spoke of the bright future yet in store for the “ Green Isle of the West,” and said:	.	■■
’ “ My friends, let us not be despondent. If the. days that are past left painful memories, days are to come that will cheer us with bright and gracious hopes. We may trust that Heaven may. not forsake us, nor. permit us to forsake ourselves. We must gird our loins with new resolutions. And it will greatly tend to bring about that for which every true son of Ireland prays—the good time coming, when the dying request of the noble-hearted Emmett will be fulfilled; who said: “ When my country takes her place among the nations of the earth, then, and not till then, let my epitaph be written.”
As a young orator, Mr. Byrnes has few superiors: his carriage being at once striking and easy, and his voice clear and strong, while his whole manner indicates a style both elegant and forcible. At the close of his remarks, the speaker was received, with a burst of well deserved applause. Mr. P. Howard read the complimentary address to Rev. Father Toohey, in which he expressed, in an easy manner, the gratitude of the association to the Rev. Father for.the interest he has always taken in their well-being. Following this were the Prologue, by Mr. Lynn Austin, and a solo by Willie Devine, who sang, in a clear and pleasing voice, “ Come Back to Erin.” The Orpheonic song and chorus and the selection given by the Orchestra were both well received.
The feature of the evening’s entertainment was
THE DRAMA.
“ Robert Emmett,” which turns upon an event in Ireland’s history too well known to require description.
Mr. M. O. Burns, as Robert Emmett, the hero of the play, had a good perception of his role, and in all his acting displayed great depth of feeling both as regards modulation of voice and the use of expressive gestures. His ability, as a speaker was fully shown in the trial scene, where he entered so thoroughly into the spirit of his part as, in his longest speeches, to completely hold the interest of his audience. Mr. A. McMurray, by his mel low and ready brogue and his droll sayings as “ Darby O’Gaff,” made quite a hit, and secured not a little of the applause. Mr. Howard has found his character in “ O’Leary,” an old soldier, which part he successfully acted in the play, remaining throughout true to its proper conception. The foie of coquettish “Judge O’Dougherty ” was taken "bv Mr. Chas. Finely, who “ brought down the house” by his interpretation of the character, and who, in the kitchen scene with Darby reached the
height of* the ridiculous. Mr. Paul Chapin made a good appearance as “Sergeant Topfall, han' Henglish hofficer,” and spoke with dignity, although at times rather indistinctly. As “ Addis,” brother of Emmett, A. Marion did justice to the part, and acted, naturally and with ease. P. J. Goulding and J. Conlon acted respectively as attorneys for the prosecution and defence in the trial of Emmett. The roles of Messrs. Rahilly, Austin; O’Kane, and Waggoner were exceedingly well taken, notwithstanding the Ipwness with which one or two spoke. A pleasant feature of the last act was the drill by the militia under A. T. Smith, who went through several difficult manoeuvres in good order. “A"Handful of Earth,” sung by W. Ramsay, and accompanied on the piano by R. Oxnard, drew an encore from the audience.	•	’	*
Between the second and third acts, Herr Hoch, a German virtuoso, well known in Europe, gave several performances of rare excellence upon the cornet, one of the many instruments' over whose keys he exercises a magicsway. The distinguished musician was received with a burst of enthusiastic applause, and was called before the curtain several times. ■	'
The closing remarks were made by Rev. VicePresident Toohey, who expressed his thanks for the “ honor conferred in dedicating to him the entertainment.” All retired to the strains of “St. Patrick’s Day,” played by the Band.
'	R.
The Eclipse.
The Solar Eclipse of March 16th, as viewed at Notre Dame, was not a success. The great expectations aroused were by no means fulfilled. The chickens did not go to roost, the cats showed no indications of preparing for nocturnal orgies, and a weird, unearthly light was not diffused over the landscape. Johnny Skclliton, who means to be a respectable undertaker when he grows up, was in great hopes of seeing the countenances of his companions assume a cadaverous aspect. But, alas! the roseate hue of health refused to depart from the cheeks of the golden youth. So great was the general disappointment that the Professor of Astronomy had to keep out of the way till the excitement was over, to avoid being mobbed. At eleven o’clock things were looking very favorable, the whole western limb of the sun being darkened, and it seemed as if the obscuration was travelling eastward and would become nearly total. But it soon manifested an upward tendency, and passed off leaving the sun unscathed. At the time of greatest obscuration, the attractions of the dinner table proved' irresistible to most of the observers, and after dinner there was no eclipse worth mentioning. Propositions were made to repeat the performance on a larger scale, but as there is no money in it, the authorities declined. An enterprising member of the surveying class has figured out the total area of smoked-glass through-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	447
out the United States and Canada used on this occasion, at one hundred and forty-nine acres, two roods and fifteen perches and a half (149 A., 2 R., 15^ P.), which would seem to imply a vast outlay in glass; but the truth is that most of it was picked up in a fragmentary state, utterly worthless except for solar eclipses, transits of Venus, etc. No special costume was exacted for the occasion, but we were glad to see a display of white kids (mostly minims), while the boys in general took . their pants out of their boots and assumed attitudes of admiration, not unmixed with awe, during the whole performance. Great praise is due to the sun for the perfect composure he exhibited on this trying occasion.
Captain Scootrr.
Exchanges.
—Two of our esteemed Canadian visitors, The Portfolio and The Sunbeam, had a little editorial spat some time ago, which occasioned a cold feeling between them. Some careless post-office official aggravated the unpleasantness by non-delivery of the regular exchange; but explanations are now making that will, we hope, restore the old-time
> entente cordiale. Both the Sunbeam and Portfolio are exceptionably good papers, and clean,—un-।	tainted by the nonsense and the almost immoral
।	stuff that obtains a prominent place in many col-
I'	lege papers, even those with which females—we
■ can hardly call them ladies—are connected.
“ Immodest words admit of no defense, A lack of decency is a lack of sense.’
—The literary department of The Pleiad (from Albion College, Mich.,) has of late contained ar-tides of unusual interest. The article on the f “Johns Hopkins University,” contributed by Prof. F. M. Taylor, is one of the best sketches of college history and work that we have seen for a long time. In the current number are contributions
1 from Prof. Samuel Dickie and R. A. Michaels, Ph. D., the first on the religious character of the poet Burns, the second on “ American Fiction.” The fact that none of the leading articles in either of the last two numbers are from the college undergraduates seems, at first, to reflect upon that body unfavorably, but this is not to be taken for granted. Good articles from post-graduates or former students are always gratefully welcome to college editors, and i	entitled to the courtesy of an early insertion. The
I	literary editor of The Pleiad is either a lucky fellow
I	or he possesses good tact and judgment in the man-
I	agement of the literary department of his paper.
|	Picturing his ideal of a college paper, one of the
I	editors says that it “ should contain several literary
|	and. scientific articles of genuine value on questions
|	of interest, not simply to the student, but to the
I	alumnus and general reader. It should contain a
I	well-edited alumnal department replete with alumni
I .news, [when you can get it—Schol.J and always I open to the pen of the alumnus [we fear it will be
nearly “always open"^. Then there should be the local column, in which everything in the line of personals and college news may be found firsthand. . Among the exchanges the reader will expect to find the latest tidings from the college world.” Perhaps the editors of The Pleiad will succeed in realizing their ideal,—which we have dwelt upon because it is much like our own and that of other college editors—but we doubt it. For our own part we would gladly welcome contributions from the talented alumni who in years past made the Scholastic a power among college papers and a welcome visitor to thousands of firesides; but the}* seem to be too busy to write—indifferent we know they are not.
—Our esteemed Kentucky confrere the St. Mary's Sentinel contains an interesting article on “ The Exile of Erin,” the authorship of which has been accredited to the poet Campbell.. We are here told that about twenty-five or. thirty years ago quite a spirited controversy was carried on, in which Campbell’s authorship was disputed—some claiming it as the work of Geo. Nugent Reynolds, but the New York Citizen—John Mitchel’s paper —asserted that it was the work of neither Campbell nor Nugent—that it was simply a translation from the Latin of an Irish monk of Jerpoint Abbey, whose original manuscript copy of the “Exul lerme” had lately been found in the Sapi-enza Library, at Rome. If such a manuscript had been found, and could be produced, the next question, says the Sentinel, would be the priority of the respective claims—whether the Latin was first written, or only a translation from the English, like the famous “ Father Prout’s ” playfully alleged “Rogueries of Tom Moore,” which the versatile author of the “Bells of Shandon” backed up with a Greek version of several of Moore’s “ Melodies.” A parallel case, which the writer in the Sentinel does not mention, is the dispute about the authorship of Mac Pherson’s Ossianic poems, which at one time attracted a good deal of attention. The Sentinel also publishes an account of “Boyle O’Reilly’s Escape from West Australia,” quite a romantic and trying adventure. The title reminds us that Mr. O’Reilly, not very long since, took a brother editor to task for dropping his Christian cognomen, reminding him that his baptismal name is “John,” and that he would like to have it used in its proper place. In the editorial department the Sentinel is enthusiastically Democratic, and bases a firm hope on the success of President Cleveland’s policy. We join with it in saying that all good citizens will unite in wishing Mr. Cleveland a hearty Godspeed in his administration, and furthermore that the safety of the country does not depend from the keeping of any particular “ party ” in power. “ Party ” spirit has gone too far and sways too many honest men, who are hoodwinked by the corrupt “ machine ” politicians that make a trade of politics only for their own and the •“ party’s” advancement, at the expense of the people, to the detriment of. public, morals and the country’s welfare.
11
448	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•	Personal. '
—J. B. Zettler (Com’l), ’82, is a successful wholesale and retail grocer at Columbus, Ohio.
—Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Amoretti, of Lander, who are now on their bridal tour, visited the University during the week.
—A. J. Burger, ’80, is a successful physician at 'Brooklyn, N. Y. We were in error some time ago in locating him at Lancaster, Pa.
.	—O. M. Schnurrer, formerly a Professor at
Notre Dame, now resides in Brooklyn, N. Y. where he is engaged in the drug business.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., ’59, delivered a lecture on St. Patrick’s day in the cathedral at Fort Wayne. His subject was “ The Battle of Life and the Irish Race.” .
—Among the visitors of the past week were Mr; D. W. Fisk, of the Helena (Montana) Herald; Mrs. F. A. G rever, Mrs. J. O’Kane, Cincinnati, O.; Mrs. F. Dexter, Kansas City, Mo.
—We were pleased to hear from Dr. J. B. Ber-teling, ’80, now a prominent physician of Cincinnati. He has our thanks for a number of “ Personals.” We commend his example to other alumni.
—Mrs. Porter, of Eau Claire, Wis., mother of Harry, Charlie and Ed. Porter, is a welcome guest of the University. Mr. Will. Porter, who has just returned from a tour of Europe, pleasantly surprised his mother and brothers by meeting them here on St. Patrick’s Day. -
—Joseph E. Farrell (Law), ’84, is meeting with gratifying success in the practice of law. Though still residing in Lorain, Ohio, he is connected with the well-known firm of .Foran & Dawley, in Cleveland. Last week he was successful in a case involving some very nice law points and the disposition to be made of an intestate’s property valued at $10,000 or more.
—J. B. O’Reilly, of ’83, has given up his clerkship in the United States Commission of Salt Lake Citv, Utah, ami accepted an excellent position in the. Post Office Department. He has recently sent one of the Senior Prefects a book of beautiful views of the principal buildings, churches and places of interest in Salt Lake City. The views go to the Senior reading-room, by special request of the donor, who, himself was one of the first guardians and decorators of this room. ,
Local Items.	-
—Receptions are now in order.
—The Philopatrians come next on the list.-
—The carpenters have resumed work on Science
Hall.	•' .	’	.
—The Amateur Photographers’ Club will soon be organized. .
—Where is the man .who said the back-bone of winter was broken?.. ~	.
—The Columbian “reunion” will-take place to-morrow afternoon. . -	.
—Mr. Sydney Dickerson’s essay on “ The Right of Property” will appear next week.
—The Columbians have sustained the time-honored reputation of their organization.
—Old Winter still holds the fort. The “ backbone ” seems to be very strong for a broken article.
—Rev. President Walsh will lecture in the Church of the Holy Angels, Chicago, to-morrow (Sunday) evening.
—Our new press has arrived, and is being put in position. We will probably have more to say about it next week.
—Mrs. Clement Studebaker, of South Bend, has kindly sent from her conservatory some rare plants for St. Edward’s Park.
—An illustrated astronomical lecture will be given next Tuesday evening. This will close the Entertainments until after Easter.
—There was excellent skating on the lake on St. Patrick’s Day. This was something never seen before in the memory of the oldest inhabitant. 1
—The Columbians express their thanks to Rev. President Walsh and Father Regan for favors received in connection with their late entertainment.
—Among those present at the Columbian Entertainment were Mayor Loughman, Aaron Jones and T. A. Deweese of the Iribune, South Bend.
—The Band is now in fine condition. Their out-door-music on Tuesday and Thursday contributed much to the brightness and pleasure of the festivals.
—The “Laws” express their thanks to Prof. Lyons for the elegant lifelike bust of the late Gen. Mulligan, which he has kindly placed in their assembly-room.
—The boys thought that Cleopatra’s needle was being brought to Notre Dame on the 17th, but close investigation demonstrated that it was only “Roxy” and his big hat.	’
—Rev. President Walsh received a gold piece from a kind friend last Thursday. With his characteristic generosity he handed it to the Minims to buy tickets for the concert. The Minims, one and all, return the Rev. President thanks for the favor.	~
’ —On the festival of St. Joseph, the 19th inst., solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, assisted by Rev. Fathers Stoffel and Regan as deacon and subdeacon. The sermon of the day was preached by Rev. Father Kirsch.	-
—The Cincinnati Catholic Telegraph, in noticing the drama of “The Recognition” recently published by Prof. Lyons, says:	.	' - -
“ The plays presented from the University Press of Notre Dame all bear a classic impress, and are all more or less historical and convey the indispensable^^# moral, without which play or story is useless. Academies and colleges will find the ‘ Recognition ’ indispensable.”
—The fourth regular meeting of the Philodemic Association was held on the 18th inst., Prof. Hoynes presiding. The question “ Resolved that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
449

a Large Navy Would be Beneficial to the United States” was ably.discussed by P. J. Goulding and H. A. Steis on the affirmative, and J. Conlon and A. J. Ancheta on the negative. The chair, after reviewing the arguments and giving the speakers some valuable advice, decided in favor* of the affirmative. A declamation was delivered by A. A. Browne.	.	’
—The Directors of the Lemonnier Library are indebted to the Hon. W. J. Onahan, LL. D., of Chicago, for a fine copy of the History of Rome, done into English from the French of the Rev. Fathers Catron, S. J., and Rouille, S. J. The plates in these volumes merit , particular study on the part of our classical, students. Dr. Onahan has also presented to the Historical Collection, a photograph of the first Catholic church erected in Chicago, and a steel engraving of the late General Shields.. Mr. James Cummings, of Lehigh, Mo., has the thanks of the Library Association for a contribution of five dollars; and the good Ursulines, of “ Quebec, for Glimpses of the Monastery of the Ursulines of Quebec during two hundred years —from 1639-1839.”	,
—Last Thursday evening a concert was given in Music Hall, by Herr Theodor Hoch, the celebrated cornet virtuoso. It was a real musical treat, and greatly appreciated by all who had the good fortune to attend. Herr Hoch is a master of the cornet, and in his performances displays the powers of the instrument so as to astonish those who are acquainted only with its role in band music. The numbers of the programme included a collection of fantasies, with difficult variations, triple tongueing, etc., which were executed with ease and correctness. The numerous encores were responded to by the rendition of several popular airs. By way of variety, Herr Hoch played an excellent solo on the violin, and in response to an encore, performed a number of humorous imitations on the same instrument. The concertist was assisted by Prof. Paul, who played the piano accompaniments. Pleasing interludes were provided by Mr. W. Ramsay, who gave some of his inimitable recitations, and Master Oxnard who rendered several excellent piano solos.
—A meeting of the Scientific Association was held on the afternoon of the 17th inst., for the purpose of reorganization; Rev. J. A. Zahm, the Director, presiding. The following is a list of the officers elected for the ensuing^ session: Rev. J. A. Zahm, Director, Rev. A. M. Kirsch, President; W. H. Johnston, Vice-President; C. C. Kolars, Recording Secretary; J. J. Conway, Corresponding Secretary; J. W. Guthrie, Treasurer. The society is one devoted exclusively to the investigation and demonstration of scientific truths. The Rev. Director anticipates giving several public exhibitions before the end o£ the present scholastic year. Members were appointed to prepare papers for the next meeting on special subjects, as follows: N. H. Ewing on “ Sound J. J. Conway on “ Crystallography”; J. W. Guthrie on “Light”; W. H. Johnston on the “ Theory of Attraction ”; C. P orter
on “ Photography H; Porter on the “ Origin of Volcanoes and Earthquakes ”; and C. C. Kolars on • “ Glaciers.”
—In spite of the severe cold weather of last evening, quite a number of city people went out to Notre Dame, and before six o’clock Washington Hall was filled by students and guests. The seating capacity was.-soon taken up, and those who came late had to be contented with standing, room. The occasion' ; was the twelfth annual celebration of .St. Patrick’s Day by the Columbian ' Literary;,- and Dramatic Club of the University, and.was complimentarv to the Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Vice-President of the University. The programme was a most, interesting one from first .to last, opening with an. Irish national air by the University Band, and con-; eluding with a drama. The opening address by P. Howard was a fine elocutionary effort as was also the oration of the day, by Daniel' Byrnes; The latter pictured in eloquent words the story of Ireland’s struggle for liberty and extolled the fidelity of the Irish race to their country, their religion and their families. He paid a fond tribute to’the memory of the heroes of the Emerald Isle and to Robert Emmett, the martyr of Irish' liberty. The oration was scholarly in composition and delivered • with fine effect. The entertainment concluded with a drama, entitled “ Robert Emmett,” arranged for the occasion bv Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame. It is historical in character, taken from the story of Ireland’s struggle against tyranny and oppression, and was presented in three acts. The dramatis ■personce consisted of 34 actors chosen from among the students. The costumes worn were procured especially for the play, and some of them were rich and elegant in their make-up and unique in pattern. “ Robert Emmett,” the hero of the play, was well taken by M. O. Burns. The scenery was well adapted to the play and many of the scenes were presented with fine effect. The closing scene of the trial of Emmett, concluding with Emmett’s famous speech in defence of his character, was the best scene of the evening, and was admirably presented. In the interval between the acts, Mr. W. Ramsay appeared before the curtain and sang the original Irish song, “A Handful of Earth,” which was received with a piolonged encore to which he responded.—South Bend Tribune.
—At the twelfth annual celebration of St. Patrick’s Day, by the Columbian Association, the exercises, which were made complimentary to Rev. Vice-President Toohey, were conducted according to the following
programme: '
Music-r-‘-‘ Irish National Air ”—(J. Keller), N. D. U. C. B. Song and Chorus—“When Erin shall Stand ’mid the
Isles of the'Sea ”—(W. Maynard), Garrity, W. Devine, J. Senn, and Orpheonics.
Address.............................  P.	Howard
Solo—“ Come back to Erin ”—(Clartbef)   W. Devine Oration of the Day............... Daniel	Byrnes
Prologue................'.............L.	Austin
“ ROBERT EMMETT,”
THE MARTYR OF IRISH LIBERTY.
(An Historical Drama in Three Acts'. Remodelled for< ' . the Occasion). ....	.	.
1
45°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Dramatis Persona.
Robert Emmett (The Irish Patriot)..........M.	O. Burns
Addis (Emmett’s Brother)....................A. Marion
O’Leary (An old Soldier)....................P. Howard
Sergeant Topfall (One of his Majesty’s)...Paul Chapin Lord Norbury (Chief Justice)..............J. Wagoner
Baron George (Attorney for Defence)..........J. Conlon
Baron Daly (Attorney for Prosecution)... .P. J. Goulding Darby O’Gaff ( Sprigs of the Emerald ( A. McMurray J. O’Dougherty	Isle.	( Chas. E. Finley
Dowdall (A Friend of Emmett).................L. Austin
Kernan (in the pay of the English Government) G. O’Kane Coporal Thomas (One of the King’s Own).......J. Rahilly Connor (Overseer of Prison)..................W. Breen
Clerk of the Court.__’.....................J. De Groot
Foreman of Jury.............................W. Cartier
De Wolf )	cm TT- ’	< J Troxell
Andre J Officers of the King s Bench, j J Bates
Tichborne (Bailiff)._______ Cavanyah (ist Officer).
homme, Regan, Real, Rose, Rattigan, Rebori, Ruffing, Remish, Reynolds, Rogers, Robinson, Senn, Soden, H. Smith, F. Smith, Stange. Shaw, Sedberry, Talbot, Thurston, West, Wabraushek, Zollars, Thompson, Redlich.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Boos, Bunker, Berry, Bull, Barger, Blakeslee, Baker, Crotty, Campau, Cobbs, Carnahan, Chute, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, J. Doss, E. Doss, L. Doss, Ernest-, T. Falvey, E. Falvey, F. Falvey, Garber, Grunsfeld, Grimes. Henry, Haney, Hopkins, C. Inderrieden, R. Inder-rieden, S- Jones. J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Kellner, J. Kintz, A. Kintz, Landenwich McPhee, McVeigh, Murphy, Morgan, McGill, C. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Mason, McNulty, McGuire, Mooney, Nussbaum, Nester, Noonan, O’Kane, F. Peck, j. Peck, Piel, Piero, Perkins. Paul, Quinlin, Quill, Rugee, Ramsey, Salman, Scherrer, Sweet, Stone, Smith, Shoneman, Weston, Williamson, Willard.	•
* Omitted by mistake for three weeks.
Mulligan ) Muldoon ) McGrath ' O’Brien O’bhaunessy )■ Murphy O’Sullivan J Dundreary J Fitznoodle | Chester | O. Wild I Derby [ Bacon i Jones j Salisbury J
Attendants.
Irish Militia.
Soldiers of the Crown,
TABLEAU.
__A. T. Smith ( M. Loomis } T. McGill f J. Cusack | A. McNultv < J. Troy O. Ryan Pat McGuire ‘ M. White C. Duffin
J. Gordon ! R. Rice l E. Schultz H. Rothert
I W. Harless ^E. A. Hotaling
Glass Honors.
Closing Remarks..............Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C.
Music (Retiring March) “ St. Patrick’s Day,” N. D. U. C. B.
A. A. Browne will act as prompter. The original “ Handful of Earth ” will be sung between acts by W. Ramsay. The Orchestra and Cornet Band will discourse appropriate music during the drama.
Boll of Honor.
PREPARATORY AND COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Messrs. E. Riley, Trepanier, Rahilly, Breen, Coghlin, W. Murphy, Rice, Marion, Chapin, Austin, J. V. O’Donnell, McMurray, C. Paschel, H. Paschel, Livingston, Noonan, Hamlyn, McNulty, Ramsay, Darrah, Johnson, Mullane, Daly, Rogers, Spencer, Myers, Berthelet, O’Brien, Luther, F. Long, Menig, De Haven, Ruffing, Holman, Hibbeler, E. Howard. Harris, Monschein, Wabraushek, Dillon, Devine, H. Smith, Cleveland, Frain, Hornbeck, Burke, Cooper, Flood, Amoretti, Sedberry, Macke, Ewing, West, Cleary, Fehr, Reynolds, M O’Kane, Emmons, Day, Fi-her, Donnellan. Eppstein, F. Reilly, Arts, Oxnard, Tarrant, Sokup, R. Morrison, Dougherty, Soden. H. Warner, Finckh, W. Wagoner, Rebori, Chamberlain, Cummings, Moody. L. Chute, Hemisbaugh, W. Morrison, D. Ackerman, Senn, Nussbaum, Hoye, Real, Martinez, Zollars, E. Prudhomme, Grunsfeld, Levin, Phillips. Becerra, Padilla, Hutchison, P. Prudhomme, Maguire, Wiley, Gould, Jess, Williams, De Groot, Jones, Finley, Conlon, Howe, Snapp, Snyder, Price, Woodbridge, Spillard, Baca, Estrada, E. Crawford, Shaffer, McMillian, F. Browne, A. S. Williams, J. P. O’Donnell, Sykes, Ashton, White, Triplett, Tully, Ruppe, Cusack, Jno. Troy, T. Ryan, G. Hasson, Freyer-muth, Troxell.	-
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ancheta, Alvarez, Ashton, A. Browne, Baca, Becerra, M. Burns, F. Brown, Breen,* Byrnes, F. Burke, V. Burke, Callaghan, Conlon, Crilly, Walter Collins, Wm. Collins, Chapin, Conway, Crawford, Creel, F. Combe, Cusack, Cartier, Campbell, De Groot, Dwan, Dexter, Dolan. Estrado, Finley, Freyermuth. Flynn, A. A. Gordon, Guthrie, A. Gordon, Horn, Harless, Halligan. Howard, Hausberg, Hutchison, Johnston, Jess, Jones, Kolars, King, Kavanagh, Livingston. McCabe, McMillian, McKin-nery, McGuire, Meyer, McErlain, McCartney, Marion. McGill. Murdock, Jno. Murphy, Nester, J. V. O’Donnell, O’Kane, O’Connell. H. Paschel. C. Paschel. Perle'. Pattison, Padilla, P. Prudhomme. J Prudhomme. C. Porer, Rothert, O. Ryan, T. Ryan, Roth. . E. Riley. G. Smith, Sheridan, Steis, Spillard, Saviers, Schultz, Snapp. Snyder, Triplett, Jno. Troy, Troxell. Trepani- r, J. S. Troy, W. Williams, Wagoner, White, Wilsc-, Zeitler, Keyvs, McMurray.	.	-
junior department.
Masters Arts, Amoretti, Borgschulze, Baur, Berthelet, Burns, Congdon, Cummings, Colina, Chamberlain, G. Cartier, Cavaroc, Cleary, Chute. Dillon, Dempsey, Doren-■ berg, Dougherty, Donnellan, Daly, Darrah. Devine. Ewing, Finckh. Fehr, Flood, Frain. Grunsfeld. L. Grever, E.Grever, Grimes, F. Garrity, Hoye. Hemisbaugh, Howard, Hibbeler, Holman, Houlihan, Hagenbarth, Johnson, Kelly, Kenny, Luther, F* Long. Loya, Lewis. Levin, Martinez, McCourt, V. Morrison, B? Morrison, R. Morrison, Monschein, Menig, Mason, Myers, Mullane, Meehan, Nussbaum, Oxnard, O’Brien, O’Kane, Portillo, Prud-
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY AND COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. E. Reilly, O’Kane, Menig, Jno. Troy, Becerra, Padilla, .McMillan, Grunsfeld, Johnson, Myers, Zollars. McCourt, Remish, Arts, Kelly, Nussbaum. Ne-ter, Houlihan, Cooper; Grammar—Messrs. Sedberrv, Ratighan, Menig, Holman, Howard, Nussbaum, E. Prudhomme. Grunsfeld, Arts, Hornbeck, Cleveland, W. Grimes, Wieting, Creel, Trepanier, Tewksbury, R. Morrison, Chapin, McCabe, Tully: Arithmetic—Mes-rs. Fehr, Jess, Trepanier, Finley, Hutchison. Schulze, McMillian. Zollars. Martmez, Hornbeck, Nussb >um. Chamber lain, Hibbeler. Sheunemann, Hamlyn, E. Howard, E. Benner; McCartney. Wm. Collins, McMillian, Loomis, Roth, Collins, W. Williams; Geography—Messrs. Hutchison, Meister. J.Murphy. Woodbridge, Keys, Ackerman, Padilla, Day, Creel. Williams. Darrah, Dorenberg, Remish, O’Brien; United States History—Messrs. Triplett, O. Ryan, Sedberry, Phillips, Williams, Prudhomme, J. Murphy, Collins, Mullane, Darrah, O’Brien, Berthelet, Menig, Tewksbury, Rose, Arts, Frain, Donnellan, -Prudhomme, Dorenberg. Meehan. Remish; Book-Keeping—Messss. Daly, E. Howard, O’Brien, Borgschulze, Houlihan, Hol man, Ruffing, Troy, Crilly, El Reilly, Duffin, Livingston, Quill, O. Ryan; Penmanship—Messrs/ Nussbaum, ‘ E. Prudhomme, Fisher, Quill, Remish, Shields;- Algebra— Messrs. Harless, P-Wagoner, Ramsay;- W. Morrison, Cleary, Nussbaum; Latin-7-Messrs. Daly, Mullane, Maguire, F. Baca: Christian Doctrine—Messrs. R Morrison, Warner,- Shields, Dillon, Cummings, Oxnard, McCourt.,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
45?
Saint TFlary's Acabemy.
The Inalienable Heritage.
BY CLARA GINZ.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The usual monthly lecture before the St. Cecilia Society was given on Saturday.
—By mistake, the name of Fannie Spenser was omitted last week in the list of those who received too.
—The music report, which was unavoidably crowded out this week, will be published next week.
—Ola Boyer wears the Roman mosaic cross by the graceful courtesy of Lilly Van Horn to whom it fell in drawing.
—Among the welcome visitors were Mr. D. W. Fisk, of the Helena Herald, his wife, Mrs. Julia Walker Fisk, Class ’74; and Mrs. Maggie Walker Salisbury, valedictorian, Class ’75, and her beautiful little daughter, Stella Julia Salisbury; Judge and Mrs. Scully, and Mrs. Quinlan, of Chicago; Miss M. Beale, Musical Graduate, Class ’84.
—In Mrs. Julia Walker Fisk, whose skilful pen is now more gravely employed, a contributor to Vol. 1 of The Scholastic Year may be recognized. A very young Junior at the time, she addressed in its pages “An Ode to Jack Frost.”
—Mother Superior kindly distributed the good notes to the Juniors and Minims on Monday. Of the Juniors, the readers were the Misses Snowhook and Van Horn; A recitation—“ St. Martin’s Summer ” —was rendered by Grace Regan. In the Minim department, recitations were given by Alice Schmauss and Mary Lindsey.
—On Ltetare Sunday, No. 3, Vol. X, of 37. Mary's Chimes was read. Editresses: the Misses O’Connell, A. Murphy, Kearsey and Griffith. Mrs. Fisk, of Helena, Mrs. Salisbury, of Salt Lake, Mrs. Scully and Mrs. Quinlan were present. The number closed with a poem entitled “A Wreath of Lsetare Roses,” by Mary Dillon, which embodied several merited compliments in honor of the day.	’	•
—The award of the “ Ljetare Medal ” to Miss Eliza Allen Starr is greeted with the warmest satisfaction by all at St. Mary’s. The pupils have been, of late, daily regaled by the charming style and. pure, rich thoughts which adorn, the narrative of her visit to celebrated shrines in Europe. But, leaving out of the question the artistic and literary merits of Miss Starr, her life of noble, indefatigable personal usefulness might well win for her the high distinction bestowed upon her by the University. The key-note of her labors may be found in these lines of Father Faber:
“ Though thy life may be fretful and swift, yet.delay To soothe the least sorrow that comes in thy way; Tears shed for others are waters that rise ’ To their levels.above in the grace giving skies;
’ ’ Time wasted for others is paid back at last, ... .Counted out.in eternities, future, and past.” . .
Fortune! How much of music to the ear of youth is centred in the word “fortune”! We hear it everywhere; on the lips of every one. To be fortunate is to be happy; to be unfortunate is to be wretched. But what is fortune, and where and bow are its advantages-to be secured? Permit us to give the definition as immunity from evil, from want, from adversity. Can the treasurehouse where fortune is to be found exist upon the earth? Are its possessions at the command of mortals? We say, for example, that education secures us against being imposed upon by the pretender. It opens up to us many sources of enjoyment, and therefore we call a liberal education a fortune. Attractiveness of person, affability of deportment secures us against the slights and disregard of the society in which we move; hence, accomplishments, beauty, and grace of manner are counted as a fortune. But the possession of wealth, of gold and silver, houses and lands is generally understood when fortune is mentioned, A fortune, they tell us, has fallen to our friend. In an instant, before the mind’s eye is presented a picture of affluence. Money is plenty, and whatever money can purchase,—the means to travel, to “ go abroad ”; to visit the wonders of nature and art in foreign lands; to beautify home and to surround it with everything desirable; the means to guard the person from the dreaded oppression of poverty,— yet, in a broader sense,fortune is earthly treasure of whatsoever kind; and, humanly speaking, it is more or less at the command of the individual. Its province is earth, and we may find our fortune in any earthly advantage—as, in a good name, distinguished birth, rare talents, influential friends, personal charms, and the like. In truth, the gifts of fortune are as varied, almost, as the tastes of mankind; but in the wide range of the advantages at command, earth knows no treasure so precious as affection; but is this, like the others, subject to the mutations of time?
We call fortune—the much-lauded leaderof the human heart—a “fickle goddess.” .Surely, she stands convicted of the charge, in spite of her smiles and of her flatteries. Does it need proving? Let us arraign her before the bar of truth. Here is a beauty, carrying everything before her by the sweetness of her face and the winning enchantment of her every movement. Roses are on cheek and' lip; eyes are clear and bright; health and buoyancy are in every step and motion. A cold is caught some-luckless day. It settles in the supple joints: it dims the flashing eye, it pales the glowing cheek, and darkens the sunny brow. A painful chronic disease is contracted, and, farewell, beauty! farewell, forever! We' see how shallow the fortune beauty brings.
But talent is surely a more steadfast inheritance. Its treasures are of the inner life, and beyond the reach of the cold blasts of changing seasons. And,
452	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
again, are we mistaken? An unforseen accident occurs—a fall from no very great height fractures the walls of the citadel where the mind holds its court, and the brilliant genius of to-day turns out the raving maniac of to-morrow. Talents, like beautv, we see, are not to be trusted, prone as we sometimes are to doubt the truth; for, “ We endow what we love,” as well as those whom we love, “ in our blind, passionate fondness, with a power upon our souls too absolute to be a mortal’s trust.”
But money, invested in national bank-stock, is undoubtedly safe,—the solid wealth of kingdoms is pledged for its security. Is this true? Not while nations are subject to wars; while cities are at the mercy of pestilence, conflagrations and earthquakes. In moneyed interests, more than in anything else, do we find fortune a “ fickle goddess.” Her favors are lavished at sunrise, to be withdrawn when the sun goes down. The millionaire, whose stores of wealth seem inexhaustible, enters upon an ill-advised speculation—maybe his sons are spendthrifts—his creditors may have reckoned without him, and some dreary morning he awakens a bankrupt.
But all these reverses, disheartening as they are, are not without their solace. Money, talent, beauty, education may vanish and leave no trace behind, but their loss can be endured if affection still remains. With cheek unblanched we can see these all depart, if our friends are but left to cheer us. Alas! -graves are in the world, and the cities of the dead are more populous than the cities of the living. Change is at work with the heart’s most sacred trust. Brother and sister, neighbor and friend, tutor .and pupil, parent and child, yes, the most tender and endearing relations of life are at t^he mercy of this cruel invader. If there be no alienation from other causes, death will burst as-sunder the strongest ties of earth.
Fleeting, as the summer wind; evanescent, as the morning dew, such are the favors of fortune. __	o *
They are.not to be relied upon; but to those who love God as a Father and who look upon His dealings with His children as merciful and just, there is an inalienable heritage before which all merely human splendors, all worldly advantages pale. It is the priceless boon of cheerfulness,—a heaven-born gift,—which, with charity, lives beyond the changes of this decaying sphere.
The genial gayety.of innocence possesses that quality which belongs to the diamond—the most precious of gems. Into darkness the most impenetrable it finds its sunny way, and carries its clear light. No cave is so gloomy as to obscure the innate brightness of the diamond; and there is no sorrow so deep or so inconsolable aS not to be cheered in the presence of a gentle, sympathetic, and joyful nature.
As the diamond seems to have caught and to have assimilated a portion of the brilliancy of the sun, so cheerfulness seems to have gathered ’into its broad and loving beauty something of the wealth, the. warmth and strength, the joy and steadfast glory Of the infinite Author of goodness^
Cheerfulness seems to possess the grace of a perpetual youth. The light heart, guileless and true, is a
“ Heritage that-keepeth the old man young.”
Joy seems to renew the vigor of the soul, as the eagle renews its age. The grey forest eagle out-lives the centuries.
“ I»s flaming eye dims not; its wing is unbowed: Still drinks he the sunshine: still scales he the c'oud”— unchanged, though kingdoms rise and fall, and generations pass away. So is it with the power of a cheerful energy. It disarms the poignancy of affliction, and sometimes even turns pain into joy. Cheerfulness finds the bright view of the most sombre picture and proves truly that
“ The gloomiest day hath gleams of light, The darkest wave, hath bright foam near it, And twinkles through the cloudiest night, Some solitary star to cheer it.”
The smile of Christian resignation has power even to transform the mournful chamber of death into a temporary paradise. Of all good gifts to man in this valley of tears there is nothing so heavenly. A sunny$ kindly temper is the “ philosopher’s stone” in life—the magic power by which all grosser elements are turned into gold. The cheerful heart is the inheritance that cannot be taken away.
The rays of the sun penetrate the most hidden nook of the forest, and of the deepest mountain gorge. Sunbeams work the wonders of nature. The miracles of beauty wrought all over the world are achieved by their wonderful skill. Cheerfulness is a ray from the increated Fountain of light and love, and the angels who see God face to face ever follow where it leads. Let it once find a warm home in the heart, the foes of Heaven can - never enter there; and in a true sense we may say that its possessor lives above the woes of earth; that to him heaven is already begun.
Boll of Honor.
_
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, M. Bruhn, Blaine, M. Blair, Brady, Bubb, Carney, Cox, E. Call, Dunne. A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, Dwan, M. Dillon, Fehr, Fuller, Fitzpatrick, C. Griffith, C. Ginz. B- Goye, Gavan, B Heck-ard, L. Hutchinson, Hale, N. Keenan, N. Kearns, Kearney, Lange. Lauer, T. McSorley, McHale. Newman, O’Connell. O’Halloran, Ramsey,-Rose, Sharrette Sheekey. M. Scully, C. Scully. Schmidt, Shea, L. St. Clair, Schuler, Schilling, Thornton, L. Walsh, E. Walsh, White, Walker. 2d Tablet—Misses Barlow, A. Gordon, A. Gordon, M. Helpling, Murphy. Munger, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, A. Shepherd, Taylor, Wolvin.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par .Excellence—Misses M. Brown, O. Boyer, F. Balch, F. Hertzog, E Hagan, L. Norris. C. Prudhomme, E. Preston, C. Richmond. G. Regan, E. Sheekey, B. Snowhook, G. Stadtler, M. Smith, L. Van Horn, id Tablet—Misses L. Trask, M- McEwen. 'r'
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence— Misses E. Blaine, E.Burtis. E. Chapin, M. Hopkins, E. Hammond, FY Johnson, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, B. Mun ay,.A. Schmauss, F. Spencer, S. Van Fleet.