t!OLLEGE 
The Real OC 


.. 
30 A Killer Among Us 
Mike Augsberger ! ·. 
.-.. 
. I ~

I· l
An in-depth look at ND women's volleyball's most lethal weapon. 


32 humor 
35 Don't Hate, Procrastinate! 
Natalie Kratz 
A guide to what could become your new f~vorite activity, ifyou ever get around to it. 
11 DECEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC t 1 



EDNOTES 
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO BE WHEN YOU GROW UP? 
The closer I get to graduation, the more I long for the days when I wanted to be a princess when I grew up. Or a butterfly. Any life path was equally plausible and equally acceptable. The two most important male figures in my life at the time -my father and Tom Petty-assured me: The future was wide open. 
As we grow up, however, the choices we make inevitably narrow our options. Where to attend college, what to major in, whether to plunge headfirst into the increasingly abysmal job market or seek refuge from loan payments in a graduate or service program ... we start to realize that we can't have it all anymore. With each choice we make, we give something up. 
As I talked to some of the men enrolled in the Holy Cross undergraduate seminary program for this issue's cover story, a few things immediately jumped out at me. One was that the men of Old College are -gasp -really normal guys! And secondly, they have a very mature understanding of the aforementioned phenomenon of choice-making and sacrifice. For many people looking at the priesthood from the outside in, the vows of poverty, chastity and obedience seem so extreme as to only be an option for certain personality types. The Old Collegians, however, articulate their understanding ofvocation in a way that makes tangible the attractions of the priesthood for any "normal" person. Check out pages 14-19 for a closer look at the Old College program and the men who live there, each day actively discerning a call to the priesthood. 
HAPPY CHRISTMAS 
To get you through finals week, News Editor Vanessa Adjei has compiled a list of 
study tips on pages 8-9. For a study break, get in the spirit of the holiday season with our Christmas edition of Reviews/Previews on page 21. And find out who won the annual North Quad/South Quad snowball fight, as Assistant Culture 
Editor Courtney Ball details her role in the battle on page 20. 
For those ofyou who are over the whole corporate Christmas thing, turn to pages 12-13 for photos of religious iconography on campus by staff photographers Phil Langthorne and Conor Bindner. Conor also deserves credit for last issue's photo spread, which was mistakenly attributed. 
We're sad to have to say goodbye to all of our junior staffers going abroad next 
semester. You'll be greatly missed! Not that we're rebounding already, but ... 
anyone who is interested in attempting the impossible task offilling their shoes, 
please let us know at scholast@nd.edu! 
See you next semester, 
Jessica Farmwald Editor-in-Chief 
21 SCHOLASTIC I 11 DECEMBER 2008 

MERRY CHRISTMAS 
irom 


THE HUD-DLE 
@-~ • p~arrd ~~l~r ­
Don't forget to stop by the Huddle and stocl< up on everything you need to survive_ finals! 
food.nd.edu 


looking for a 
Louder Voice 
CLAP campaign promdtes union rights 
Mike Tresnowski 
Over the course ofthe past month, members ofCampus Labor Action Project (CLAP) have collected over 500 signatures from students, faculty and staff on union support cards and hung up posters throughout campus to tell Notre Dame staff members that if they choose to form a union, they have the right to do so. 
"We decided to target this semester toward education. Just making the idea of a union acceptable on campus gets people talking about it, so that workers don't feel the same threats if they talk about it," senior CLAP member Mary DeAgostino says. 
Senior CLAP member Michael Angulo says that while change in the atmosphere won't be apparent overnight, the campaign is worthwhile. "In general, working towards the goal of making Notre Dame an environment that values the idea of organized labor and workers' rights and things like that, I think this is a positive thing for the Notre Dame community," he says. 
The campaign developed out of CLAP's efforts last spring semester to reach out and form more relationships with Notre Dame workers. "We came to realize through that experience that it wasn't just a living wage that workers wanted, it was issues of respect in the workplace. It was issues ofvoice in the workplace and feeling like they were part ofthe Notre Dame family," Angulo says. 
The members ofCLAP cited two events in the past two years in which workers' collective requests were not answered by the administration. In the spring of 2007, all but two employees ofLaFortune Student Center signed a petition asking to receive a higher pay rate on football weekends, but the administration did not act on their requests. Last semester, some workers brought forth concerns about changes in their vacation policy that were made without their consent. Workers presented a petition signed by 200 housekeeping employees to the Staff Advisory Council, but made little progress. "Every time they tried to present it there would be some problem," DeAgostino says. 
University Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said in an e-mail that the administration has made an effort to keep up communication with campus staff, citing the Staff Advisory Council, town hall meetings, Human Resources Business Partners, Office of Institutional Equity, ND Integrity Line and his open door policy. "We are committed to.continue the dialogue we have established with employees and be ever vigilant to their concerns," Affleck-Graves says. He also cited an independent study done in May by consulting firm Towers Perrin which showed that hourly compensation on campus is 9 percent greater than the average of local employers. "Notre Dame provides a comprehensive benefits package in excess of those found in most universities and many corporations alike," Affleck-Graves says. 
Angulo sees the on-campus dialogue aboiit vrorkers' rights a different way. "The administration is of the thought that a union is unnecessary at Notre Daine because we're ;i family. But if they are part of this Notre Dame family, why are we paying them so little? vVhy are they often not included? Take the opening ofJordan Hall of Science; the workers there were not invited to come to that ceremony. Or the fact that you have people working three or four jobs. You don't do that to a member ofyour family, right?" 
CLAP looks to begin next semester with a public event at which it can prominently display the union support cards it has collected. 
··-
Abreves 
Saves a lot of time, but you sound like a I2-year-old on AIM. 

The "Twilight" movie 
Horrible movie, hot actors. 
~-­
,-----­
ND's berth in the Hawaii Bowl 
So ifwe get C's in all of our classes, can we get a trip to Hawaii, too? 

Britney's comeback 
Oops, she did it again ... baby, one more time. 
The looming bankruptcy of all print journalism 
The shaky futures of Scholastic's staff just got shakier. 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 DECEMBER 2008 



A Whole New World of Prayer 
Campus Ministry provides opportunities for dialogue 
James Napier 
Opportunities for interfaith dialogue are growing at Notre Dame. Through programs like Prayer from Around the World and the Notre Dame Interfaith Fellowship, Campus Ministry allows students the opportunity to deepen their understanding offaiths with which they may be unfamiliar. Prayer from Around the World is an initiative meant to enhance the intellectual understanding of different faiths through firsthand experience of prayer rituals. "It is not a spectator event; people participate fully [in the prayer activities]," Priscilla Wong, director of Cross Cultural Ministry, says. Founded in 2002, the series started with Islamic and Hindu prayer, but over the past six years the program has organized prayer sessions in many of the world's great faiths. Prayer sessions next semester will present Taize, Jewish and Zen prayer. The Notre Dame Interfaith Fellowship takes a slightly different approach but echoes the same ecumenical goals. "Through respectful dialogue we challenge one another to thi~k about our own beliefs and keep each other on the right path," .Mark McGuir:e, a founding member of the Fellowship, says. Like Prayer From Around the World, the Fellowship also provides interactive experiences. 'In October, the Fellowship met to share and learn about foods that are considered important by various faiths. No announcements have yet been made for next semester, but the group hopes to continue to grow and spread its message of mutually-beneficial dialogue. 

This Little Light of Mine 
Measuring the energy impact ofChristmas lights 
Katie Buetow 
LJ 
Squirrels!
The holida~ season rais~s un!que questions about Notre D~me's en_ergy consumpt10n. The u111vers1ty purchased 69 cases of Christmas lights 
this year, Director of Facilities Operations Valerie RiChard says. Each case contains 12 boxes of 100-strand lights, amounting to a total of 828,000 bulbs. 
YVhile the lights outside the Security Department are of the energy­efficient LED variety, "the majority are the standard indoor/outdoor 100 

~ Sprinklers!
string miniature lights or icicle lights," RiChard says. These displays are lit for about 12 hours each day. 
Using an online Christmas Lighting Energy Calculator, RiChard estimates that the cost to power these lights is $36.76 per day, or $1104.39 per month. These figures, however, do not reflect the cost of all Christmas lights on campus, as they only take into account the lights purchased this year. 
Determining the impact of Christmas lights on the university's energy use 

South Bend!
is difficult. "During December, campus consumption is odd for a number of reasons: shorter days, colder temperatures, students leaving mid-month, and campus shuts down for just over one week," RiChard says. 
The Landscape Services department usually begins the decorating process in mid-November. In addition to installing lights, Landscape Services is also responsible for decorating the Basilica, putting up Christmas trees purchased by residence halls and arranging the Nativity scene at the Grotto. 0 

Ahl S· 
I
c4:J:i 
now. 
5 Sex! 
11 DECEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I7 

~
,• -0 T -0 ,_ 0 • -• ~--~-~------~ _ _.-..-.-,.-------~­
' . ~-~ . ----~ ---'_. 
It's that time of year again. The snow is falling, the halls are decked and finals are just around the corner. No worries, help is on the way. Dr. Warren Chaney, an expert in the fields of brain development and cognitive processes, has developed Mind Technologies Inc. He specializes in the brain's capacity to expand and improve. Chaney's work sheds light on ways to improve the health of the brain -translating into a better quality of life. His techniques could help to make all those hours of hardcore studying worthwhile. The concept of brain plasticity has some helpful implications for students. Brain plasticity refers to the brain's natural ability to make new connections to respond to injury or changes in the environment. Chaney addressed some of the common mistakes that college students make while studying. "The biggest mistake that a student makes is to cram, but an even bigger mistake is failure to review the crammed material over time. All 'cramming' results in a memory that's short term. Often much of what was crammed for vanishes shortly after the examination. The rest of it tends to vaporize in the following six weeks. Cramming losses are substantial," Chaney says. 
8 ISCHOLASTIC 111 DECEMBER 2008 
tj ,J 
Ii ll 
There are ways to avoid these mistakes by committing information to long-term memory. Chaney says, "Much of memory is lost due to one making ineffective cues." So it is important to associate new information with previously known information to form 
,/4 1<7 · 
i r1 . ,,, 
, i r -I 
t., -; t .,
Li~l The~) biggest mistake that a 
; 1 ! -• -i 
Lstuderifmakes is to crani'. But an even bigger mistake is failure to, review the crammed material over 
!_: 7:7 
time. L / of self-esteem. "When anyone can suddenly
g;J 
j:/ , improve their intellect, they gain an edge -Dr. Warren Chan~/ t;/ that will remain· with them for a lifetime. This benefit gives them the opportunity to effective memory cues. "Cues permit the , progress more rapidly than they would have 
than others. "If one can study in the same environment they are taught and will be tested in, their scores will jump nearly a letter grade. Thatis because the brain stores context in addition to the memory. Often when one cannot think of an answer during an exam period, they ·can remember where it was written on the page. The study environment is context and should be considered when studying. Studying is most effective when dbne in different locations. Again, storing different contexts for different memories is key to the memory process." 
.The function of cognitive systems is not only a matter of science; it also involves issues 
brain to 'latch' onto the data and hold it. :· Students tend to compound the error by failing to reprocess and rehearse the material over an extended period of time." Chaney · recommends repeated review of information soon after it was originally studied. 
Studying is a major part of college life, but some students do not realize that certain environments are better for studying otherwise," Chaney says. 
"It's not really about techniques. It really is ·about getting the brain to re-engineer itself and to re-grow · areas. If you change your brain, you change your mind ... and if the brain change is positive, the mind change is positive and the life change is positive." 0 
· · 


NEWS 
1) Too little & too much food upset the nutrient & chemical balance of the brain 
2) Green & black tea,· avoid caffeinated foods 
3) Cinnamon and cloves 
4) Water 





[:E~ff!-t~t-ffl;1t11~1;;~,~io/l'~ 
1) 8 hours of sleep are optimal,· naps help tool 
2) Naps result in greater alterness & enhanced memory retention & creativitY.. ..;{Ytffi}f}iv·
3) Take naps in the late morning or early afternoon,· late afternoon naps = 
4) Dant eat foods heavy in fat or sugars before you nap. Protein and c 
5) Sleep for an hour -it allows a full cycle ofsleep -x:::ui:f,,y 
6) Decrease caffeine consumption 
1) Relax the mind. Stop trying to think of a specific memory 
2) Think about what is lost. Can you recall details such as people or even.ts? 
3) In names, try recalling the first letter the missing name starts with 
4) Be prepared to wait a period for the missing memory to 'pop up ,, 
1) Benefits memory. 
2) Reduces stress 
3) Improves creativity 
4) Stimulates motor skills 
5) Improves stimulation oflanguage skills 
6) Positively influences mood 
11 DECEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 

And on Wednesdays, We Go Bowling 
Students take to the Janes in official club and informal Jeag4e 
Mitch Bradford & Jessica Farmwald 
Every Wednesday, the lanes at Chippewa Bowl are filled to capacity 
with families, friends and 'mid-weekers.' The place is friendly and 
warm, well-lit and expansive. One would not expect this to be the type 
of place where one seeks glory, but it is for members of the Notre Dame 
bowling club. 
Taking up six lanes out of 70, the Notre Dame bowling club takes 
their strikes and continued success all in good stride. "Strrrrrrike!" junior CJ Kaltenbach, vice president of the bowling club, yells as his bowling ball nails pins across the lane. Kaltenbach pumps his fist as his · bowling partner and co-vice president, junior James Breen, laughs and 
says, "He's good. Real good." 
This year, Kaltenbach and Breen have attempted to take the club to 
the next level competitively, bowling three times a week for two hours. 
The club still places an emphasis on fun, but nowadays, winning is 
more important than usual. "Sure, we like to have fun," Kaltenbach 
says. "But we'd also like to win." As if on command, Breen cracks some 
pins, leaving one wobbling before leveling itself out, still standing. 
"We'd like to knock down all the pins!" Kaltenbach shouts in jest. 
In all, the Notre Dame bowling club comprises nine people. Its small 
membership, however, has not stunted its hopes for the club. "Our 
goal is to eventually have a club of 20 to 30 bowlers on a weekly basis. _ 
We also want to continue to improve alongside our coach Dan Dews' 
instruction,'' Kaltenbach says. Breen says, "By the end of the year, we 
will have a top 10 finish in a tournament too." 
Across town, the vVednesday night crowd at Strikes and Spares is 
a little bit different. And so are the rules. The league was started by 
students three years ago, and over the summer, senior Patrick Sweeney 
took the reins to keep the tradition alive. Twenty teams with five 
students each fill every lane in the facility from 10 p.m. to midnight 
or 1 a.m. every week. Each person pays $5 for shoe rental and three 
games. And tall domestic drafts are only $3.75 apiece. 
As students feed the jukebox, top-40 hits mingle with the sounds of 
pins colliding with the floor -and that distinctive thud as balls hit 
the gutter. Senior Traci McMillan says, "Our team tends to do more 
dancing than bowling." 
But it's OK, because girls in the league have additional means to 
boost their score. Sweeney says, "If a girl wears a skirt, her total 
points per game increase by 10 pins. That's 30 points at the end of the 
night, for those who are counting. The origin of the rule is somewhat 
of a mystery. The truth is that bowling alum and legend throughout 
bowling league circles, Edward Fitzpatrick ['08], first petitioned for 
the rule on a cold winter night a few years back. The idea snowballed 
and is now documented in the official rulebook." 
Every Wednesday, each team faces off against a new opponent. 
Specific scoring gets complicated, but it is based on comparing the best 
individual scores for each g~me against that of the other team. 
Points are tracked throughout the semester, and the final four faced 
off on Dec. 10. Plans for the championship are still in the works. 
Sweeney plans to run the league again next semester, with registration 
preferences going to teams that participated this fall. 
Students interested in joining the Wednesday night craze can contact 
the official club at ndbowl@nd.edu or Sweeney at psweene3@nd.edu for 
the Strikes and Spares league. 



Life as an Undergraduate Seminarian 
Jessica Farmwald
It's 10 o'clock on a Tuesday night in a campus residence hall. In a common area, someone plugs an iPod into the sound system, and a few guys break into the 
"Thriller" routine as MichaelJackson's voice fills the living room. In the adjacent kitchen, another group discusses Charlie Weis' odds as they grab lemonade and Rice Krispies squares. 
Pop music, sports, junk food ... the scene could have been found in any of the dorms on <::ampus. And that's something that the me~.· of the Old College Undergraduate Seminary hope to convey to the rest of the 
· student body. 
"A lot of people probably think that we're not very normal," J.P. MacPherson, a freshman in Old College, says, laughing. 
"They think we're kind of strange, or weird, ·or hard to approach, I guess." They're not. But the Mass in the log 
· chapel that is hosted by Old College and precedes this social gathering each Tuesday night highlights the seriousness of the Old Collegians' commitment to discerning their vocation. 
In addition to a normal course load, . extra~lf~ricular·involveme17-t-a1J,d; a variety ; 
:o( hobbies; the' undergracjtiate .s.e1tiinarians / 
. ·· . . ' f I \ ' . _; 


l______________CO_V_E_R_S_TO_R_Y 
attend Mass every day, gather in their chapel It was hard for me to reach to anybody." their freshman, sophomore and junior years around 7:30 each weekday morning for prayer The Old Collegians emphasize that in Old College, they enter Moreau Seminary and adoration, attend special Formation discernment is generally a process, not a for their senior and candidate year. The classes and participate in various other single, shining realization. "The first time additional philosophy and theology credits community meals and activities throughout I realized that a call could be possible was they have earned allow them to essentially the week. when I read some vocation stories of priests shave a year off of the Master of Divinity 
These additional requirements are geared in my diocese and realized how normal program. toward helping Old Collegians to discern they were," Haan says. "I have not had that The flexibility of the program and the the common call they feel to the religious experience of Paul on the road to Damascus extent to which Old College is embedded life and also to prepare them, should they yet, and I don't know if many people do." in campus life was a major attraction for decide to continue toward the priesthood, for While the seminarians are very serious some of the seminarians. "I think that it's the Master of Divinity program at Moreau about exploring the possibility of a vocation distinctive and advantageous to young men Seminary, located across St.Joseph's Lake. in the priesthood, it remains just that -a that don't know exactly what they're called 
From feeling "the call" to taking the possibility. MacPherson says, "I think [a to be," Haan says. "It doesn't shut any doors vows, from a sense of brotherhood to the no­misconception] is that everyone at Old yet. The great thing about Old College is dating policy, the Old Collegians explain the College is going to be priests, like they're in that I knew that this program would not only special challenges and joys they experience it for sure, and it's like, a lot of us are just not shut doors, but that it would form us in a as undergraduate seminarians. Welcome to checking it out, discerning, seeing if it's for way to be good Catholic men, and potentially the real OC. us or not." good priests, and I wanted to prepare mys_elf 
After three years in Old College, senior for that opportunity." 
The Call history major Chris Ochoa decided to take . Potential seminarians apply to both Notre the next step in the discernment process Dame and Holy Cross College, and there is a Some of the men in Old College felt a call and is now in his candidate year at Moreau separate application process for Old College to the priesthood from a very young age. Seminary. "Of course, you do doubt as well. The application consists of 22 pages 
"Becoming a Catholic priest was always constantly. I think that's kind of part of of general data, six or seven essay questions something that I had considered when I was life; Trying to figure out, really, who am I, and a series of psychological tests. growing up," junior theology and philosophy what am I supposed to be doing, and that's Men are invited to come for an informal major Kevin Wack says in an e-mail from what this whole program is designed to do," visit, during which they stay in Old College Belgium, where he is currently studying Ochoa says. and get a feel for the community life abroad. "When I was in grade school, the there. They also come for a formal visit priests I saw were some of the happiest men The Program which includes a series of interviews with I knew. While some kids may see a heroic a psychologist, the director of the office fireman and dream of riding the 'big rig,' I Old College offers a unique opportunity of vocations, the director of Old College, saw a joy-filled priest and dreamed of wearing for a select group of men who want to another priest who shares a common interest a Roman collar." earn a degree and have a fairly normal with the applicant and someone in lay 
Junior math and philosophy major Anthony undergraduate experience while at the same ministry in the ND/HCC community. Stachowski had a similar experience, growing time exploring a call and preparing for the Each of the interviewers writes a report, up the oldest of eight in a large Catholic seminary. which is sent to an admissions committee family. "From a young age, people tell me Most undergraduate seminaries across that makes a recommendation for each that I was saying that I thought I wanted the country are separated from the campus candidate. The Holy Cross Provincial makes to be a priest, so it was on the back burner with which they are associated and have the ultimate decision. for a long time," Stachowski says. "I mean, more predetermined courses of study. Old MacPherson says, "It's fairly intense, but l there's not much you can do in grade school Collegians, on the other hand, live in a think it's reasonable. They want to find good for it." He began to seriously consider life in dorm next to Bond Hall, are encouraged to guys, guys that aren't crazy or psycho, but the priesthood as a junior in high school, and participate in campus life and are allowed to guys that are serious about the call. They when he found the undergraduate seminary pursue whatever major they choose. want to get a sense of you, and you get a program at Notre Dame, it seemed like a Fr. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C., who is in his sense of them. It works out well, and you get perfect fit. fourth year as director of Old College, says a feel for each other." 
For second-year Old Collegian and senior that most undergraduate seminaries require Red flag-type issues that would prevent philosophy major Thomas Haan, the call a major in philosophy. "Someday we may admission include psychological disorders came after he spent two years at Purdue decide to do that as well. Our bishops have and social or spiritual immaturity. Russeau University, the first as a walk-on for the asked us to do it," Russeau says. "But what we says, "We want people to be healthy, and the football team. "I started feeling a pull to want to do is prepare them for the Master of seminary helps people to become healthy, something deeper at Purdue, especially a Divinity program, because that's the degree but grace builds on nature. So we want to deeper spiritual life," Haan says. "For me, I that helps us to learn how to be priests." be sure that they've had some time to kind found it to be a bit difficult to get to daily The Old Collegians are required to receive of practice the things that we want them to Mass, Eucharistic adoration on a regular 18 philosophy and 12 theology credits in be able to have. They need to be able to have basis, to even speak with a priest about addition to their other courses. relationships, friendships, to be able to relate discernment ofa vocation and fellow students Ifthe seminarians do decide to continue on with men and women. They need to have that were experiencing the same things I was. the path towards priesthood after spending a certain kind of maturity. They shouldn't 
11 DECEMBER 2008 j SCHOLASTIC j 15 
. -. ' ' . 
• • ~ I • -. • ', r-• • , 
~
. . . .. . 

have a criminal record. They ought to have religious practice." 
Fr. Pete McCormick, assistant director of vocations and rector of Keough Hall, says that he does not see any one kind of personality trait or background in applicants, other than that they have generally grown up in supportive Catholic families. "God calls a lot of different people, so we as a result work with a lot of different people and personalities," McCormick says. "And that's what makes it exciting. There's no one mold." 
.The parents of Old College applicants are encouraged to visit campus and be a part of the admission process. Russeau says, "I think that some people think that the seminary is like the 'Sound of Music' or something, like we're kind ofbehind gates and not accessible, so we try to bring the parents along to get them involved as well." 
McCormick agrees. "[We want to assure parents that] this is a good choice; we're going to take care of your son. Your son will be happy. He won't live a life of utter loneliness and despair." 
The in-depth application process also helps to reassure the seminarians that they will fit into the Old College community. "It just felt like home," Stachowski says. "Sort of the family aspect of Holy Cross really drew me in. I guess coming from a big family, I was looking for something like that." 
Since the undergraduate seminary program began in 1950, numbers have fluctuated greatly. Russeau says that in 1999­2000, there were 14 men in the program. Four years ago Old College was down to just five seminarians. Today, there are 17 men total, three of whom are currently studying abroad. 
Russeau says that they do not track 
16 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 DECEMBER 2008 
statistics on enrollment or on how many Old Collegians continue on to the priesthood. 
"I just don't find those things exciting or interesting," Russeau says. "The thing is, OK, we have 17 guys now, we don't know what's going to happen to them. But our hope is that all of them become better men. We don't necessarily want all of them to be priests. Because if they're priests, but they don't really have the vocation of priesthood, that's not going to be good for them or good for the Church. Our program's success is not based on our retention rate." 
Community Life 
Walking around .Old College, it is easy to_ see part of the reason that the men of Old College are so-close. Located next to St. Mary's Lake and the log chapel, Old College is the oldest building on campus, built by Fr. Sorin and his Brothers of the Holy Cross in 1843. It is also by far the smallest residence hall on campus. 
McCormick, who lived in Old College as an assistant rector for one year, says, "The house is so small, it's itty-bitty! But I think it was just a good opportunity to get to know · guys well. I think the folks really enjoy _that type of community, so from prayer together, meals, watching TV together, goofing around, whatever the case may be, just because of the size of the building, you are· around folks constantly." · The Old Collegians constantly refer to· their bonds as a brotherhood. MacPherson ·says, "All of us in the dorm here are together-· for a reason, for community, for formation. We're all discerning the same thing, which is a little different than when people have · different majors and they're going different ways, so it's kind of cool that we're all here 
for the same kind of reason, because we 
feel we have a call. It's a deeper sense of 
brotherhood, I think." 
Along with living like brothers, Haan says 
that inevitably, they sometimes fight like 
brothers as well. "A great advantage, if there 
are conflicts within the house -which there 
are, in such a small house -an advantage 
is that it's so small that you can't escape the 
conflict. It must be resolved pretty darn soon, 
or it's very uncomfortable. So, we've learned 
how to live in a close-knit community, which, 
even dorms might not have that advantage," 
Haan says. 
Russeau says that within the dorm, they·· try to resolve issues in the same way that any family would. "You try to talk things out, and try to find out what's best and try to move on," Russeau says. "When you're in a chapel so much of the day, you really kind of get a sense that you're there to kind of work ori your relationship with Jesus. And when . you work on that relationship with Jesus, 
it's harder to hold grudges. It's harder to be 
argumentative. Not impossible, but harder." 
The seminarians speak of the variety -of personalities in the house as positive. 
MacPherson says, "After being here for 
a week, I figured out that we're all really 
different sometimes, but it's like the 
chemistry is kind of unreal. We're all kind of 
like brothers, like best friends, and it's kind 
of funny." 
The sense of community is fostered from 
the very beginning, as the men of Old 
College take a week-long retreat to La Porte, 
Inp., before the start of each academic year. 
Russeau says, "After [the retreat at] Deer 
Park, while all the other dorins do whatever 
it is they do to initiate their freshmen ­
some _healthier than others -we have a holy 
hour in the log chapel where we pray about 


COVER STORY 

the brotherhood, we read the constitutions about brotherhood, we bless crosses that the guys wear, to welcome them into our community, and we process back to the Grotto with votive candles for their own intention. So from the very beginning, we kind ofrecognize them as brothers, and then we treat them as brothers." 
Each Sunday evening, two of the Old Collegians prepare dinner for the rest of the house, and on Saturdays the men participate in a housework period in which they do various upkeep tasks, such as landscaping, cleaning and Christmas decorating. "It really makes us feel part of this house," Stachowski says. 
In light of all the extra time commitments the Old Collegians make, the men are on scholarship from the university and only pay room and board. Russeau says, "One of the things we try to do is work on time management, as all college students try to work on. It's no more than any of our athletic teams have. You know, our basketball team is practicing as many hours as we're praying, and they do it OK. They have a support staff to kind of help them. And so do we at Old College." 
Campus Involvement and Interaction 
Although th~ men of Old College take classes with the rest of the· undergraduates at the univer~ity and are involved in various campus activities -from the marching band to Bengal Bouts -the seminarians say that they think many people do not even know that the Old College seminary program exists. 
"Every once in a while you'll hear like a tour director saying 'Oh, it's a museum,' or 
something like that," Stachowski says of the 
Old College residence hall. 
Stachowski says he thinks that it helps that there are more Old Collegians now than when he entered. "People are seeing us more around campus," Stachowski says. "Once in a while you hear the people who say, 'They never come out ofthere, they're stuck in their building,' and that's definitely not true." 
The seminarians receive mixed reactions 
when people find out they are in the process 
of discerning a call to the priesthood. 
MacPherson says, "I try to make it not as 
awkward as possible, but, it can be kind of awkward. You're talking to a couple of girls, and they're like, 'Oh, what dorm are you in?' and you're like, 'Old College,' and they say, 'What's that?' and you answer 'The seminary,' and they're like, 'OK, bye!' So, I mean, it can be [awkward], but it's a way I've found that I can learn about people. How they react to it. Some people react really positively, and that's kind of cool, that's the kind of people I 
want to be around." 
Stachowski says that many people are very supportive of his commitment. "Most people react pretty well. They're like yeah, that's pretty cool," Stachowski says. "A lot of people here are trying to figure out what they want to do, like careers, whether they're interested in a religious vocation or some other kind of service, so I think they know that they're going through a lot of the same stuffwe are." 
Because the laity most commonly interact with priests in ministerial or professional roles, Ochoa says he thinks they often miss the fact that men in the priesthood have other interests and aspects to their personalities. 
"lVIaybe some misconceptions, certainly ones that I had coming in, would be that priests were pious, kind of set apart, really holy guys," Ochoa says. "This is true, ;Ve strive for holiness, we strive for perfection, but at the same time we're normal guys in a big way. We share the same kinds of human emotions and desires, we have a lot of fun joking with each other, so in that sense, a very kind of normal guy can be a priest." 
McCormick agrees. "At the end of the day, we're people that enjoy being around other folks. The most common misconception is probably the sense that all we do is kind of priestly-type stuff. I mean, I'm a big Notre Dame basketball fan, I'm a big sports guy, I like just kind of talking about average things," he says. 
Ochoa says that the elements ofcommunity life that are not specifically religious are an outlet for many of the priests, a time to relax and enjoy each other's company. "People joke about Holy Cross a lot, but in the community it seems like a lot of the things that we do, we pray, then we party, then we eat, and then we pray, then party, and then eat some more," Ochoa says. "That's about our lives. It's a lot of fun." 
The Vows 
·while many people outside of the priesthood see the vows -obedience, poverty and chastity -as a kind of restriction, the seminarians speak of them as liberating commitments. 
Wack says, "I feel that there is a common misconception that the actual vows taken by a religious are seen as the cause of the sacrifices. For example, some people may think that the vow of chastity causes a priest to sacrifice the joy of marriage. But in reality, the·vows taken by a priest cause him to be completely free and open to the will of Christ; the resulting sacrifices of the 
11 DECEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 1'7 


COVER STORY 
vow are the necessary counterpoints to such a blessing." 
The vow of obedience means that the men of Holy Cross commit to accepting whatever assignment is given to them by their superiors. 
"You are in constant dialogue with [your superiors], and they're typically not going to ask you to do something you really don't want to do. So in that sense, it's not too bad, but we do have to give up a certain level of control," Ochoa says. 
The vow of obedience is designed to free priests from worrying about their future, and both the needs of the community and the gifts of the individual priests are taken into consideration. Ochoa says, "We're freed up to just work on our project at the moment, whether that be in the parish or teaching or in the dorms, that can be your focus. You're not having to worry about other things; there's a priest that's assigned just to do that." 
Similarly, the vow of poverty is intended to relieve the priests of any worries about money. Seminarians manage their own finances until their novitiate year at Moreau. At that point, they must either turn over their personal assets to the order or they can set up a trust fund to be managed by someone else. 
All money earned by members of the Holy Cross community goes into one general pot, from the salaries of parish priests to the $400,000 University President Fr. John 
Jenkins, C.S.C., earns each year. Each person is asked to fill out a budget for each year, which is looked over and eventually approved. The members of the priesthood are given credit cards, and Holy Cross pays the bills. 
Ochoa says, "All the expenses need to be approved, and they do ask you to live simply. We're not supposed to live extravagantly, but they do meet our needs very effectively. Everyone does have a phone, a working computer, so nothing is technically ours, it's all owned by the community." 
The vow of poverty means that the members of the priesthood have less control over their own finances, which Russeau says can be a blessing. "Yes, I can't provide for people I want to give gifts to. Perhaps, maybe economically, I don't have that ability. But I also don't worry about things," Russeau says. "I don't worry about medical insurance; I don't worry about who puts gas in the car; I don't worry about transportation -things are taken care of for me." 
The vow ofchastity is one that often raises 
the most questions from those outside the priesthood. 
Haan says, "I think there is some sort of 
emphasis on [the vow of chastity] because 
in the culture we're raised in, our sexual 
lives are so exulted in secular society. So it's 
something we must deal with, absolutely." 
The seminarians compare the sacrifices that come with the vow of chastity to the sacrifices made by any other person living the married or single life. MacPherson says, "You go into marriage, there's going to be sacrifices there. You have to provide for your family, you have to make tough decisions for your family. Single life, same thing. I think that's kind of a misconception with the priesthood. Any vocation you choose, you're 
going to be sacrificing a lot." 
Stachowski agrees. "I've heard stories 
where parents would give up a career path 
that might take them a lot longer, just so that 
they can choose another career in order to 
provide for their families and stuff like that, 
so there are sacrifices on both ends," he says. 
Haan says that while he appreciates other 
people's admiration of the commitment to 
celibacy, marriage should be seen as just as 
big of a commitment. "My mother even said 
it almost best, that if people saw marriage as 
the same level of commitment as entering 
the priesthood, the world would be a better place," he says. 


As part of their discernment process, the Old Collegians are asked not to date. Russeau says, "We want them to .have friends, we want them to be able to interact with people, we want them to be social. 
" 
So we draw the line with the dating policy, that there should be no physical intimacy, which maybe seems pretty basic, but we also say that there should be no emotional exclusivity. So there should never be just one person that the person is spending time with; If there is, then he's 
. not spending time with his community and taking care of the other obligations he has." Ochoa says this policy allows the seminarians to relate to men and women on a slightly different plane than other undergraduates. 
"Certainly it does change the way people interact with you [...] People talk about Notre Dame's 'hook-up culture,' or whatever, we don't experience that as much. Which is kind of, I guess, liberating. People are able to just talk to you and see you as kind of a friend without any of those overtones as much," Ochoa says. "But of course, we're human as well, so that's there, and we do have to be aware of it. But I think it certainly changes your status in their eyes, and we have to be aware of that, that we're seen a little differently and held to different standards." 
By not giving of themselves to one particular person, priests hope to open their lives to everyone. 
Russeau says, "Hopefully, the way that I love, while it's not exclusive with somebody else, it's inclusive, I'm available for everyone. So it's a real positive thing, I think." 
The priests on campus serve as models for the seminarians, showing them the joy tl1at can come with taking the vows. Stachowski says, 
"Just seeing how happy a lot of the guys are that are priests here, and how devoted they are to their work, it helps you along the process. Just seeing, wow, a lot of the happiest people I've met have been priests, so I think there's definitely something in it." 
The. Future of the Priesthood 
It is no secret that the numbers of men joining the priesthood have been in decline. But the men of Old College say they are not disheartened. 
"A lot of people get discouraged about it, that like eventually we are going to run out ofpriests. A lot ofpeople are like 'Why are you doing that? There's no one. doing it anymore,"' MacPherson says. "But the Church needs it more now, so it feels a little more like I'm actually having an effect." 
Ochoa says he thinks that a re-organization may be necessary within the Church, with a larger role being played by the laity. 
Russeau agrees. "There are fewer priests, but there are still dynamic things going on. I think ofAlliance for Catholic Education here. I don't think we would have an ACE program, with so many dedicated lay teachers, if it were still up to the priests to teach. Other good things have kind of com'e in its _place, a lot of lay volunteer programs and things like thar," Russeau 11ays. 
The Old College undergraduate seminary hopes to prepare the seminarians for both the individual and collective challenges they will face if they ~ecide to join the priesthood, and despite all the fun they have, this is something that the Old Collegians take seriously. "I think people are just now starting to think through the ramifications ofwhat are the next 10 years going to look like, what are the next 20 years going to look like for the Church," Ochoa says. "But at the same time, it's 
· kind of exciting. It's a time of opportunity and growth for Holy Cross, or at least reorganization for Holy Cross, so that we can reexamine the way we're doing the mission and try to do it in new ways." 0 
CULTURE 



am 
u 
r 
DEPARTMENT OF FRIGID BOMBARDMENT 
After five charges and the trampling of hundreds of Uggs-clad feet, the snow of North Quad had become pretty icy. Out of the blue I was hit ... in the dead center of my face. Stunned by the force of the blow and blinded by the snow freezing my eyes, I was forced to retreat f~om the front line. I heard a fellow fighter (and PLS major) say, "It is in the snowball fight that we see man in the true state of nature." If Locke only knew the pain of a snowball to the face ... 
I spent my first two years at Notre Dame doing everything in my power to avoid the annual North Quad-South Quad snowball fight. Coming from Georgia, where snow is a foreign and unpleasant entity, nothing seemed less tempting than issuing an open invitation to be pelted with ice missiles. This, however, was the year to change that. It felt right; I knew it was time for me to face my fears and stuff a fellow student's face into the snow. I was even willing to accept the possibility that I would take a few minor hits as well. But I was totally unprepared for the battle that would ensue. 
I have no experience in starting a snowball fight. I always assumed that when all of the proper elements combined, a spontaneous combustion would result. Snow, plus a tradition of North and South feuding and a couple hundred students full of tension ready to be released equals a wintry war. Unfortunately, even after several sneak attacks on innocent South Quad bystanders and a fair amount of trash talking, only minimal fighting occurred. 
I began to get desperate and considered returning to the warm haven of my room when I suddenly heard a war cry that chilled my already frozen body. Suddenly students en masse were swarming from South Quad to North, chanting "North Quad sucks." Those were fighting words. I forgot all ofmy reservations·about the dangers of the cold and snow and boldly entered the battle. Charging the South Quad line, I successfully tackled a random guy to the ground. I was too much of a novice to make a very effective snowball, so I supported my quad by scooping up snow and shoving it into the face of the nearest South Quad-er. I was feeling pretty good about myself -until on the fifth charge he took revenge. I had no idea how much pain a snowball could inflict. 
Staggering from the battle lines, I observed the war raging about me for the first time. Things had gotten personal. One North Quad ally found himself in a fist fight with the enemy. Showing quad solidarity, those nearest to him were quick to pelt the offender with a shower of ice. Amidst the chaos, a group ofsmokers stood in the middle of the two lines, seemingly oblivious to the firestorm of snow periodically striking them. They were outdone in strangeness only by a guy in his boxers and a girl in her bikini jogging by on an evening run. 
I was faced with a decision: I could either reenter the melee and risk a repeat encounter with the malicious South Quad-er, or I could watch and do nothing as fellow North Quad-ians suffered. I had just mentally prepared myself to rejoin the bedlam when a miraculous thing happened. With a victory shout, the Northerners chased the Southerners into Stonehenge where they were temporarily trapped by a barrage of snowballs. As soon as an escape was possible, they retreated back to South Quad in shame amidst our cheering of "NDH! NDH!" Victory is almost as sweet as the crepes in North Dining Hall. 0 
-Courtney Ball 
The views of this author m·e not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine. 

20 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 DECEMBER 2008 


CULTURE 
IE PRE 
IE 



Seasonal ~inging with the Glee Cub 
Claire Kenney 
As Christmas 2008 approaches, what better way to· celebrate than with the sounds of the season? The University of Notre Dame Glee Club will carol its way into your hearts this holiday season with its concert at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on December 13, at both 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. The men of the Glee Club shine in a mix of traditional, chant, motet and international numbers. Enjoy pieces such as the "The Carol of the Bells" and "In DulciJubilo" that the club has prepared and perfected for your delight. This concert is regarded as the Glee Club's most anticipated event of the year and is sure to spark that holiday spirit. Tickets are $8 for general admission, $6 for faculty/ staff, $5 for senior citizens and $3 for students. This event allows you to enjoy Christmas cheer and spread the love at the same time -all proceeds benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 0 

'Four Christmases' Not a Total Flop 
Jennifer Hoffman 
With an impressive resume boasting blockbuster hits like "Wedding Crashers," "Old School" and "Dodgeball," fans have come to expect a lot from Vince Vaughn. It is apparent from "Four Christmases," however, that Vaughn shines more during wedding season than Christmas season. 
Although Four Christmases has its funny moments, they have been seen too many times before in other holiday films and are as old as leftover turkey on Christmas Day. 
As with most ofVaughn's movies, the funniest parts revolve around his incoherent rambling. Vaughn plays the character he has perfected: the oblivious, bumbling idiot who somehow manages to capture the beauty's heart. After so ;nany movies, this repetitive comedy should be boring, but who can resist Vaughn's ridiculous and long-winded fumbling? 
It is this familiar humor and comedic genius that saves "Four Christmases." Even with cameos from stars like Jon Voight, Sissy Spacek, Robert Duvall, Jon Favreau, Tim McGraw and a certain character from "The Office," the movie is enjoyable but not memorable. 
But before you put "Four Christmases" on the Bad List, you can't overlook the feel-good sentiments. This flick is not a total flop-there are moments .ofgood humor, painfully awkward yet realistic "meet the parent" conversations and witty dialogue. At the heart of the movie is a good message: Nothing is more important than family. 
Ifyou want to get in the Christmas spirit now, "Four Christmases" will certainly help you do so. But if you can, wait until this movie comes out on DVD. Who knows? Maybe you can enjoy some of that leftover turkey while you watch. 0 

Classic Christmas Show Comes to South Bend 
Allison Thomas 
As the semester winds down and visions ofdreary all-nighters dance in your head, it's always a good idea to step away from Starbucks and have a little Christmastime fun. Ifyou decide to put down the books for a few hours, consider taking a ride to the Morris Performing Arts Center (MPAC) in downtown South Bend to catch Tchaikovsky's classic "The Nutcracker," performed by the Southold Dance Theater. This fairy tale ballet makes for a perfect date, section event or reading day excursion with friends. The dancing snowflakes, sinister Mouse King and dashing nut-cracking prince are sure to stir your holiday spirits. Even if you're a seasoned Sugar Plum spectator, the me:rry suites and dazzling costumes are enchanting time and time again. 
Performances are Saturday, December 13, at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. and Sunday, December 14, at 2 p.m. Tickets start at $10 (be sure to ask for the student discount) and can be purchased on the MPAC's website, www.morriscenter.org. So abandon your coveted close-to-an-outlet booth in LaFortune or your ···, temporary home in the library and remember why this holiday classic is worth every minute of your Study break. 0 

Stephen Colbert is Laughing at You 
Mike Tresnowski 
Suppose you were a comedian and you wanted 
to make fun of the fact that Americans are addicted to buying Christmas stuff. You would probably just write a joke about it. But how does comic genius Stephen Colbert do it? He actually gets people to buy useless Christmas stuff. 
Colbert went on his show last week and challenged his viewers to raise his Christmas album, "A Colbert Christmas: The Greatest Gift of All!" to number one on iTunes. And they almost did, raising his album from number 16 to number two. On his album's first track, he makes his intentions quite clear: "My register's ching-ching chinging from the cash I'm bringing from another Christmas song." 
But even though the fact that people are actually buying an album by a guy who doesn't sing is the biggest joke, Colbert doesn't shy away from other targets. One of his lines, "Hear the baby Jesus cryin' ho ho ho," does a great job of illustrating the contradiction of modern Christmas (Birth of Christ + fat guy who gives people stuff). Jon Stewart's track trying to convince Colbert to celebrate Hanukkah earns a few chuckles. Then there's also that bizarre one where Willie Nelson brings marijuana to Bethlehem. 
The one track that might be worthy of a spot on your finals Christmas playlist is the cover of Elvis Costello's hit, "(What's So Funny 'Bout) Peace, Love, and Understanding," with Costello, Colbert, Nelson, Toby Keith, Feist and John Legend. 
Is the joke worth buying? Probably"not. But I still did, and Colbert wouldn't be surprised ifyou did too. 0 
11 DECEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 
Zebra6sh 
Sophomore science pre-professional major Colleen Finlay joined Dr. Lei Li's zebrafish lab this semester. Their collected f data attempts to pinpoint the gene that causes . blindness in zebrafish embryos and serves as a 
I . :model for comparison to human eyes. In the lab, \Dr.Li, Finlay and a small team of others map genes ~ · and highlight the rods of zebrafish embryo eyes. \ Finlay says, "I really enjoy working in research \ be~aµse it gives me an opportunity to apply; · · µiy factual knowledge and skills from the 
classroom to a real issue." 
.-·'Wilderness Ther;py~
.. 
and Troubled Teens ·. ···. 
/ ,. Inspired by a Summer Service ·• ,,/Learning Project, senior anthropology/ Arts ~ . / and Letters pre-professional major Marie Bader is .~onducting research based on her trip to Missoula, Mont., f 'where she worked with the InnerRoads Wilderness Program. 
r!., 
· This program reaches out to troubled teens who have been ,: non-responsive to traditional treatment by using the beauty of '­. the backcountry to build self-esteem and leadership skills. It · aims to teach teens a healthier lifestyle through hikes, teamwork 
\ and balanced diets. Bader says, "The life stories of the teens I ,, ':.worked with will just plain break your heart, but working with .' · InnerRoads, you get to fight for the kids who really don't ·.. '·=.,:have many people in their corner. I cannot even describe ) 
\j~QW· amazing the transformation ofthe teens is from . / ·'){~e,start of the trip to the end ... They were SU:cp ,/ :,;~::; different people." Her project is overseen /~ 
~" by Professor l?aniel. Lende. arid will,/~ . · .·. concludeift~ra year of_,.. / 
Senior physics major Kyle Neary '''\, works with Professors Chris Howk arid " · Nitolas Lehner to examine how our galaxy \ 
has e;olved. He is currently completing a survey\ of the ratio of C+3/Si+3 gas in the galactic halo, · the high plane above the galaxy. After observing 
selected stars, he can see to what extent gas is obscuring the stars from our sight. He hopes to learn how supernova (exploding stars) activity . has affected the history of our galaxy. Neary 
says, "I am glad to get some exposure and · .. learn what I can now, so hopefully I . . · · will have a chance to make bigger/ · advances in the future."• · 
, · Quilt Packaging · '.· ... 
~rofossor:Gary Bernstein employed t_he",, he!;of f?ur students to aid in his project called\ Quilt Packaging." This is a method ofattaching\ 
egfated circuit chips' edges to each other, allowing_., Jlectronic systems to function faster and with less power': '_'Withjn the project, junior ele.ctrical engineering major \ Siyuan Dai studies methods to facilitate the attachment of 
the chips. Senior electric engineering major Joe Bon~th designs and constructs the metal structures that act as , springs, providing reliability under thermal stress. Fellow senior electrical engineering major Ryan Savino / \ completes methods for holding the chips together./ . Junior mathematics major Thomas Bounds 1;'' , . . utilizes the models to determine the>;':dj '-,economic-impacts in manufacturin . ·,. ·· electronic systems. . ·,., 
·-::-,,: 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue·ounn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 


corecouncil. nd.edu 


Flying Irish 
The Ultimate Sport at ND 
Josh Flynt 
Dodgeball. Capture the Flag. Ultimate Frisbee. These sound like sports for a high school gym class, but for the Notre Dame Ultimate Club, frisbee is more than just a casual game. While ND's varsity teams receive the recognition and publicity, the university's club sports programs offer a different atmosphere. Whatmakes Ultimate Frisbee popular among college students is the communal atmosphere, combined with the opportunity to continue playing sports competitively. "Ultimate players play because they love the competition, the game and hanging out with teammates," senior Daniel Reimer says. It combines a fun atmosphere with athleticism _and fierce competition. "The sport challenges endurance and usually draws previous soccer players or cross-country runners since you have to constantly run," senior Ryan Gorman says. The unique community in the club system fosters great friendships. "From team dinners after practice to cross-country road trips to everything else we do, the Ultimate Club becomes more than just an athletic team," Gorman says. Ultimate Frisbee is a one-of-a-kind sport. As legend has it, college students in the 1800s discovered that the pie tins from Frisbie Baking Company could be easily tossed. The word "Frisbie" was used for the flying disc from the company's name. Since then, it has been altered into the trademark Frisbee we know today. Ultimate Frisbee also combines elements of soccer, basketball and football. It is played 7-on-7, and players pass the disc up the field with the objective to catch it in the encl zone. Unlike these other sports, however, there are no referees, so players call their own fouls. "As you can imagine, this can lead to quite a few arguments," senior Danny Collom says. This fall, the men's and women's teams competed in the Classic City Classic in Georgia. Battling some of the country's best, the men's team finished 5-0 in pool play. After a win against Virginia in the quarterfinals, the Irish fell to Pittsburgh in a hotly-contested semifinal matchup, finishing the tournament tied for third. "It was the best that I can remember the team playing in the four years I've been here," Collom says. The women's team also competed against some stiff competition, including games againstAuburn and Penn State. They finished the tournament with a 13-3 victory over Virginia, but did not advance. "It was great for our team to face some of the top teams in the nation this early in the season," Co-captain Katie .Morin says. Although the fall season is over, neither team plans on slowing down during the winter. "Our ultimate goal is to qualify for the UPA [Ultimate Players Association] College National Championships in late .May. We still have a long way to go and will have to perform well at regionals in: late April," Gorman says. .Morin echoes Gorman's words. "We will be training hard this winter to prep~re for the spring. We hope to improve how we place at regionals, and we are always shooting for a bid to nationals," she says. Although Ultimate Nationals are no BCS Championship or Final Four, the members of Notre Dame's Ultimate teams share the same goals as those athletes on the university's Division I teams -to represent the Fighting Irish and to reach the pinnacle of their sport. 0 

Malisha Samarasekera 
The boys of 225 St. Edward's Hall know their football. Their walls are adorned with Notre Dame banners from our record-setting days, and behind their couch hangs a 12-foot-long scaled replica of the football team's illustrious (albeit plain) field. So naturally, when I was assigned an analysis of the football team's season, my first stop was to the home of Andy Nester, Cameron Hogue, Ben Fotsch and Steve Bartoli. Though I beat all four of them in our Fantasy Football League and ended the regular season in first place, I figured there would be nobody more helpful than these four when it came to ND football. Armed with my laptop and an arsenal of questions, the boys served as my think-tank in determining what we have improved upon -and what we must work on if we hope to return to prominence in the future. Despite losing to Syracuse and coming close to being defeated by Navy and San Diego State, it is easy to forget just how bad we were a year ago at this time. Our win percentage doubled this year from last year 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 DECEMBER 2008 
as we won twice as many games, finishing with a .500 record and the chance to play in a bowl game. Perhaps our lackluster 6-6 season is a blessing in disguise; we have been given a highly insignificant and irrelevant game against a team that is equally undeserving of the chance to play in the postseason, finally providing the Irish with the chance to break that pesky bo~l game losing streak that has · existed since we beat Texas A&M in 1993. Sure, it's not the National Championship ... but I'm sure somewhere in this great nation there is a person who plans his or her year around who is playing in the 2009 Hawaii Bowl. Winning a bowl game -regardless of how . unimportant it is -may give our team enough motivation to shake off another unfortunate streak plaguing. the Irish: our inability to establish a winning record 
during the last two seasons. 
Tlie Irish seemed to play two seasons in one this year, starting out with a 4-1 _ record and hopes for at least an eight-win season. Sophomore quarterback Jimmy 
. Clausen showed progress during the first five· games of the season, displaying vast improvement early on despite ,failing to successfully lead the team against Michigan State in a 23-7 defeat. He led the Irish to 12 touchdowns during the first five games and seemed to peak during the Oct. 4 game against Stanford. During the game, Clausen achieved a career high passing rating of 170.12, throwing for 347 yarc\s . with a 72.5 completion percentage, three touchdowns and zero interceptions. Sadly for Irish fans, his much-improved statistics did not extend into the following seven games of the year. Clausen capped off the season with only eight touchdowns and nine interceptions, finishing with a season total of20 touchdowns and 17 interceptions. These numbers, while unremarkable to say the least, do not give an accurate picture of Clausen's play during the season. He seemed to plateau at a level .of mediocrity that was acceptable against the less-talented teams they played during the first half of the · season, yet it was glaringly evident 

SPORTS 

during the much more difficult second 
stretch that such lackluster play would not 
suffice against football powerhouses such 
as Southern California -and even bottwn 
feeders like Syracuse: "' Perhaps what was missing from the equation for Clausen and the rest of the Irish squad was an intangible quality that no amount of practice or attention to a playbook can produce: true emotion on the field. It was obvious while watching defeats by North Carolina and Boston College that the offense lacked passion when playing on · the road; though they were enthusiastic against USC, it should not require the last game of the season against a rival team to .muster up emotion, especially when this emotion leads to only three points and zero first downs until the concluding seconds of the third quarter. When looking at past national champions such as Florida, LSU and Texas, it is clear that mere talent does not amount to success· on the field -what does is an u~deniable love for the game and the inability to accept defeat even in the most difficult situations. A lack of palpable emotion from the team cannot be placed solely on the players and serves as a reflection of the attitude portrayed by Head Coach Charlie Weis. Weis was extremely successful as the offensive coordinator ofthe New England Patriots, a job which required 
him to view football as exactly that: a job. Such a view of the sport can work when coaching men who are paid to play; it is less effective when used with 18-year-olds who should be playing with the same excitement they felt when they tried on their first pair of cleats. Part of what makes football such a popular sport is its ability to provide both athletes and fans with a release of pure, unadulterated emotion that very few other moments in life can elicit. When this passion becomes mechanical and studied, the very essence of the game is lost, turning it into a chore rather than a communal and unifying experience for all involved. 
Though the Irish encountered many problems this season, there were a few bright spots. The defense, while far from perfect, outplayed its Notre Dame counterpart during much of the season's second half, providing the Irish with opportunities to win even when the offense was struggling. Even in a dismal 38-3 loss to USC, slight glimpses into the defense's improvement could· be seen: Three total interceptions on quarterbacks Mark Sanchez and back­up Mitch Mustain and eight penalties by the Trojans prevented an Irish loss by an even more disproportionate score. The offensive line helped lead to a reduction in sacks, allowing "only" 20 sacks this year rather than the 34 of last season. The stellar play of sophomore wide receiver Golden Tate and freshman stand-out Michael Floyd eradicated many of Clausen'.s mistakes, providing the Irish with offensive weapons and earning 1,605 combined yards. Sophomore kicker Brandon Walker became much more consistent as the season wore on, finishing the season with a 58.3 field goal percentage after starting by making only one out ofsix field goals in the first five games. Senior walk-on cornerback Mike Anello became the hero of the 2008 season, transforming into a modern day Rudy and 
becoming one of the most dynamic forces on the Irish special teams unit. 
After peppering my friends with questions over the dismal state of Notre Dame football for nearly two hours, the results were slightly less illuminating and just ~-s speculative as the theories proposed every Saturday on College Gameday. Andy left me with one sentiment, however, that all Irish fans should remember when looking back at the 2008 season: "No matter what, Notre Dame is still awesome." Not as awesome as BCS contenders Florida or Oklahoma, but at a lucky 6-6, :we'll take what we can get. 
0 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 
nior Film, Television and Theatre major _Edca Williamson has : come a strong veteran player for the Irish women's basketball team :her second year as a starter. The No. 11 Irish look to Williamson consistent fundamental play on the court. Off the court, . illiamson likes to look for laughs and spend time with friends. olnstic sat down with Williamson to learn more aoout her role on 
,e team and the goals the Irish have this season. 
ow has your role on the team changed over the past three years? 
_hink over the past three years, I've gained a lot more responsibility 'thin the team. I think my coaches look to me to keep our team's ."rits high and to continually motivate everyone. I try to emulate ·:t year's Amanda Tsipis in that role. She was a great example of ·:w to be a great team leader, so I try and be the supportive team :ember she was last year. On the court, I think I've kind ofbecome 
.. e post player that the coaches know will go in there and play a · ecific role for them. I consider myself to be a really fundamental layer. I'm not going to go out there and be a flashy player, but I'll · out there and do what we need to do in order to win . 
•hat is your pre-game routine like? _ur hours before game time, our team goes to a local restaurant. changes with the games -IHOP for morning games or Logan's, 
ulihan's, Olive Garden or Papa Vino's for night games. After that all kind ofroutine. We get back to theJACC Uoyce Athletic and nvocation Center] about three hours before game time. From re, I change into my uniform, head to the training room for 
. atment and go and shoot on my own before our team's pre-game rm-up. Our team has some quirks about us that most ofus do, but t's a team thing, so I don't want to let the secret out. 
ho would win in a fight: Mike Brey or Muffet McGraw? dwhy? 
w. That's a tough one. If anyone's oeen-to a game, they have 
n our coach in her· heels, so I would have to pick Coach McGraw · ning the fight with the backofa heel to an eye. That's somewhat ~stic, but I definitely think Coach could get to Coach Brey with -~ heels. Plus, you've always got to root for the female! 
':hat is your favorite thing about the basketball team? 
hink my favorite _thing about the basketball team is that we know 
to keep things in perspective. We know that life isn't all about 
,sketball, and although we all work hard in practice, lifts and 
riles, we also know that our lives don't revolve around basketball. 
akes us all well-rounded and also helps us enjoy basketball that 
. ch more. Keeping life in perspective and staying sane throughout 
long and grueling season is really, really important in our sport. 
· r team ddes that really well. 
at is one thing 'J:lOt a lot ofpeople probably know about you? 
:mething people might not know about me though is that in middle , ool, I played the saxophone in our school's concert and marching µd. One spring, during one of our parades in May, we played ~ Muppet theme song, with kazoos and everything. My family ppened to have a Kermit the Frog costume, don't ask me why, but :nded up marching in the front of the band as Kermit the Frog. etty big frog, ifyou ask me ... so I stuck out pretty well. 

Courtney Ball 

Following a win (4-1) and a tie (3-3) last weekend against Western Michigan, the men's hockey team earned the No. 1 spot in both national polls, overtaking the University of Minnesota. This marks the third time in the 41-year history of tne program that Notre Dame has earned the top ranking. Notre Dame has exceeded preseason expectations, which ranked the team fourth in both polls. The success of the Irish is partially due to Notre Dame freshman right wing Billy Maday, who was recently selected as the Central Collegiate Hockey Association rookie of the month for November. Maday is currently third on the team in scoring with nine goals and five assists. The Irish currently have a 10-game unbeaten streak (8-0-2) with an overall season record of 10-3-2. 

Notre Dame's men's basketball team has had an impressive start to their season and continues to break records. Currently ranked No. 7 by the Associated Press, Notre Dame is one ofeight Big East teams ranked in the top 25. This is the highest number of teams from a single conference to achieve top 25 rankings simultaneously in the history of the AP poll. Notre Dame is third in its conference behind No: 2 Connecticut and No. 3 Pittsburgh, followed by No. 11 Louisville, No. 16 Syracuse, No. 17 Villanova, No. 20 Georgetown and No. 25 Marquette. In addition to helping set a national record, the team is breaking school records as well. In a home game against the South Dakota Coyotes on Dec. 2, Ryan Ayers was 9­of-14 from 3-point range, scoring a career-high 35 points, and Kyle McAlarneywas 7-of-13 on 3-pointers for a total of27 points. The Irish set a new school record with 19 treys in a game, cinching a 102-76 win against the Coyotes. 
X 
The Irish fencing team has again put Notre Dame into the international headlines. Freshman epeeist Courtney Hurley recently earned her second gold medal with a first place finish at a Junior World Cup in Tauber, Germany. The Irish expect continued success in Junior World Cup events, as Notre Dame currently boasts a total of five top-five finishes in Junior World Cup events this season. In addition to Hurley's impressive record, sophomore Avery Zuck placed fifth in men's 
sabre at a Junior World Cup event in Dormagen, Germany that occurred on Nov. 22. Teammate Barron Nydam secured the second place spot at the Junior World Cup event in Montreal. The team will compete in the North American Cup A beginning on Dec. 10 in Columbus, Ohio. 

HE SHOOTS ... The men's basketball team clobbered South Dakota 102-76 PADDLED The Fall 2008 Table Tennis Ch-ampionship took place on Nov. on Dec. 2. 19 and 20 at the Rolfs Recreational Sports Center. 
11 DECEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC 1·29 
-I" ' • • '\. 
. . . --. , 
-~---------------------------------------------­
ll 
I 

----··--;:~

/):;;\:;---
/ 
// 
I 



----~~ ~ 

rger P7,, 
..~ 
#3 Christina Kaelins fiery presence, an old fi:iendship andrainyLondonre-ignitehercareer. 
The dark colors junior Christina Kaelin wears on the road and her lethal ferocity betray her. She's a serial killer, a repeat offender, who fits the usual-suspect profile right down to the life-changing injury. On the court this outside hitter is a ruthless challenger. And it's not lost on anyone, from the home crowd's prepubescent, screaming girls to her hard-working teammates. St. Louis University setter Whitney Roth hit to Kaelin during their Louisville grade school days. That was before their high school team, Assumption, topped national polls. "She's one of the most intense, high-key players I've ever played with," Roth, who still trains with Kaelin over the summers, says. "I remember when we were 17, playing club at nationals in the quarterfinals. In the fifth game we were down 11-4, and I remember her looking at me, screaming, 'Set me the ball!' We ended up coming ,back and winning." Roth says Kaelin plays well under pressure. And she still does. "I definitely play better whert I have a chip on my shoulder," Kaelin, . thrice a conference weekly honoree this season, says. "[The passion] comes from the people I've played with my entire life. My coaches and my teammates from home are really intense, really competitive." She recorded 24 kills at her first collegiate match three Augusts· ago. "She's not delicate­she wants the . ball," freshman outside hitter K!isten Dealy says. "yVe've·had recruits come in and be scared of her," junior outside hitter Serinity Phillips says. The two first met playing for a national team development program as freshmen in high schooL "She has no problemwith being in-your­face. She wants the ball, but she also encourages u~ to demand the ball the way she does." The 2007 season was lost to Kaelin when she tore the labrum in her hitting shoulder during a 
SPORTS 
summer workout. 
. Especially irksome was the gradual nature 
of the tear. Before arriving at Notre Dame, 
Kaelin's shoulder was healthy. "It started to 
hurt at the end of freshman year," Kaelin says. 
"But I didn't really think too much ofit, thought ;• 
it was just a sore shoulder:In the spring it got 
progressively worse." 
She and Roth arrived back home in Kentucky 
for the summer. They went to a gym together. 
"She was setting me some balls. I took a couple 
swings, and it was just bringing me to tears," 
Kaelin says. 
Tears accompanied a tear of her labrum that 
rendered the killer powerless. Louisville doctors 
did the MRI, and Notre Dame's orthopedics 
team performed the surgery that ended Kaelin's 
2007 campaign. 
The Irish spirits and win-loss record headed 
south without Kaelin. Notre Dame finished 15­
13 and missed the NCAA tournament for the 
first time since 1991. Phillips says, "We missed 
her edginess, her competitive spirit. She would 
have been a huge influence on that_team." 
Kaelin credits a six-week seiµiiiar in London 
in the summer of 2008 as imperative in healing 
her shoulder. London qro~ght Ka~lin a long 
way from her year-long slJmber and, in fact, 
from her youthful civer~aggressibn. "They 
didn't have a gym over th~re," she' says, ''so I 
didn't take any swing1 fqr 1a month. I just, did 
lifting and conditioni~g, and I know it_so~nds 
weird because I didn't do anything, but I think 
that the rest helped it to hea_]_compietely." 
"I think my shoulder wasn't totally heal~ci' 
before I went," Kaelin says, "but after I goi;M~k 
it felt tenfold better than it did at tl~~..enlof the 
spring semester." The junior has improved since 
her freshman season in every major· category, 
raising her attack average by almost 100 points. 
Yet her injury and tl1e rehab have refined her 
most valuable asset: her fire. 
Sports Information Director Alan George 
has studied every move of Christina's injury­
plagued year and her return to the lineup since 
he was appointed prior to the 2007 season. 
According to him, during her high school career, 
tl1e killer could take her intensity over tl1e line. 
"By all accounts I've heard, in high school on 
the court she could really be downright nasty," 
he says. "Just screaming at opposing players 
across tl1e net, referees." 
Christina admits she has done her worst in 
the past: "Going to my knees, slamming the . floor," she says. She laughs immediately upon invitation to give an example, then shakes her head -it's not repeatable. "But I've definitely 
cleaned it up since high school." 
One of the few Irish to have seen Kaelin at 
that time, Phillips agrees. "Now she's bottled her intensity," Phillips says, "so it's still intimidating but not ... but not 17tde. She brings our team an edge, but it's a classy edge." 
She brought back the edge on Aug. 29, her first match after the surgery. George could feel her · nervousness before a win over IPFW in which she posted only two kills and a negative attack average. But for a player Phillips describes as ''~ riot and outgoing" from the day tl1ey rriet six-., years ago, the nervousness took all of20 hours·_ to diffuse. The next two nights Kaelin notched 24 kills, hitting .480 in a loss to Valparaiso~ a complete turnaround from the previous game. _ 
"It gave her a confidence boost," George says,··., "tlrnt enabled her to realize she actually was over the injury. It was done." 
It was almost done. Not long after Irish Coach Debbie Brown put her to the test at home against Marquette. Following a first game in which Kaelin committed four attack errors, Brown benched her under-performing killer. The team emerged for the second game with Kaelin right backwhere she was the previous year-'-o~ the pine. 
"Kaelin was playing bad, and so were most of the starte,rs," ~rnwn told The Observer Oil Nov. 3, 2008. "It's no_t fair to have our backups sitting wh,en tl1ey were ·,playing tl1at poorly." Kaelin responded to Brown's discipline with eight kills in tl1e tl1ird game, a 25-20 Irish win. Altl1ough tl1e Irish feil·in,•games four and five, the match w1as a realization for I<;aelin. Most impressive for ]{er w~sn't·her stat line -it was her attitude. It wouldn't have happened in high school, and it may not have happened before her injury. Yes, she was angry, and she was still angry a week and a halfl~ter, q;,it she managed her emotions. 
('I hate fatchinl from the sideline, and I th/nk I <liq that enough last year to last me a lifetime," Kaelin says. "Whenever I'm taken out of the gamd, even now, it j~st fires me up more. Bec~use I wJnt to be ~ut there so bad." 
But:herinjurymadeherreevaluatehersideline contributions and curb her feistiness when she \Vasn't in the-lineup. Kaelin says, "From the sideliriey~u have to take on a new role and help out the players qut 'cin the court. I learned that last -y~acTry" to pick up strategy, techniques during the game to help out the other hitters." 
The Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center security guards usher out those left in the arena as tl1e lighting fades. George stops on his way out. "Kaelin's the type ofplayer that can cl1ange a program," he says. Over his shoulder; a young man begins to shoot hoops on tl1e arena floor, almost in the dark. He takes his first shot.-Air ball. 
"We have Kaelin last year, and we win five or six more games. And ifwe didn't have Kaelin this year?" George's voice trails off into the void ofa barrenJoyce Center. · 
An air ball from the background answers his query. 0 

Listening In ... 
!;'.~'cff~~~~#l: What do you think would make an animal popular? 
t 
i:,:··-···,.,,,;; Ftoshi#2: Huh? .. ,,., 
...,, 
Frosh #1: Like, likeable to other animals. 
Frosh #2: Uh, I dunno. The way it smells? 
Frosh #3: Does sexually promiscuous count as likeable? 
f;{j;f:ffe.) really bad for my future wife. I sobbed when the Giants won the Super Bowl but mJJil:i'ii\'ig:;fo intention of crying when I get married or when my first child is born." -die-hard Giants fan 
";)~'\'.\fl~) pu ever think that Notre Dame would feel a lot smaller if we weren't so popular ~;;~1:\liiEfo·an't have so many friends?" . . -student with a slightly-inflated ego 

e is a game, I believe. Oh, no, wait. That's Boggle." -erudite philosophy major 

Back In the Day ••• 
Imagine finishing your classes late on the Friday afternoon ofa football weekend. While the campus is buzzing with excitement, you decide you need to prepare for the weekend wrth a quick nap. You curl up in your bed, and just as you start to drift into a deep and relaxing sleep, you are rudely awakened by the Notre Dame Victory March. As you begin to sit up in bed, obviously aggravated, you hear Chuck Lennon commanding you to "Raise the roof," foll?wed by thousands of people banging on their chairs. Ah, the pangs ofliving in theJACC. 
While this situation is implausible today, it could very well have been a reality for a student duri_ng the 1970s. Insurance laws in Indiana at that time stated that inhabited buildings were less ofa risk than those that were uninhabited. Always looking to save money, the university placed a student in every building on campus, from Washington Hall to the architecture building. Each student was charged with locking up the building as ,vell 'as controlling the lighting. While it may seem like a hassle, each student lived in his room free of charge. Dorm party in the Radiation Research Building, anyone? 
-Michael Doyle 


32 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 DECEMBER 2008 

Tis the season, dear little Gipplings! Which season, you ask? Why, the season of love! The season of stockings! And most importantly, the season where Gipp chooses to light a kitten on fire every time he hears Mariah Carey's "All I Want for Christmas." This is the year it ends. Gipp knows it's in "Love Actually," and Gipp knows the little boy is just so cute when he plays the drums for his IO-year-old classmate with the ridiculously age-inappropriate voice. But Gipp also thinks it's time for Darners to branch out: Perry Como, Toby Keith, Anne Murray -the possibilities are endless. So this year, make the soundtrack to your holiday shenanigans original and save the cats. Plus, it's a far more noble pastime than letting snowballs aimed at your ex-boyfriend in the 39th row go wide left and end up on ESPN, disgracing the entire Notre Dame institution, and making our student body look angry, murderous and bitter. 
But Gipp has more important issues to worry about. Namely, the insomnia he's been suffering after hearing the following tale. Usually when Gipp goes to sleep at night, he does not wear socks. And he feels safe. However, Gipp's dear friend -we'll call her Sockless Susan -has a tale sure to make your toes curl. One night, Susan, desolate and rebounding after a recent heartbreaJc, stumbled upon a dorm party invitation. Eager to cure herself of old memories, Susan and two of her cronies shuttled over to said fiesta and proceeded to drown their miseries in Bon J ovi, black lights and Solo cup-tinged happiness. When that cursed second hour . struck, one gallant gentleman sacrificed his bed for Susan, allowing her the opportunity for peaceful, comfortable and completely solitary sleep. Susan accepted and settled into her new room, alone, and promptly passed out. 
A few hours later, her slumber was suddenly interrupted by a lun1bering, intoxicated beast of a man. We'll call him Paul Bunion. Bunion proceeded to climb up the bunk and immediately demanded that Susan leave what he termed "HIS BED." Confused and slightly terrified, Susan quickly relinquished the mattress and moved to another empty bed in the room. All seemed to be well -until half an hour later, when Susan awoke to a strange sensation: Paul Bunion, in a sleepwalking fit, was seducing her feet. Frightened to find her toes in another person's mouth, Susan kicked Paul Bunion in the face and pulled her legs back under the covers. But anyone who has seen "Sleepless in Seattle" knows sleepy love will not be deterred, and our Paul Bunion was no exception. Hungrily, he continued his flirtations with Susan's feet, diving into the covers and eventually submerging her heel and then her entire right foot into his mouth with passion. Some of his roommates even entered at this point -but their shock at the scene prevented any sort of intervention. Under their stunned gazes, Susan continued to combat the slobbering, fetish-focused beast, until a few kicks later, when our male friend finally retreated to "HIS BED." In the morning, Paul denied all participation in the phalangical seduction. But the otl1er observers' memories are unanimous: Deep in the night, looking for some love, Paul Bunion loved Susan ... and her beautiful soles. 
Sometimes, such unspoken flattery does not succeed in winning over a lady. In those cases, the next best option for a true gentleman is to seduce through the art of language. Gipp's next tale finds us at a party full of exclusive hoodies, excessive flannel and conversations about the difference between "techno" and "techtonic" (Gipp argues that it's just all gravy). Here, our little hipsters found their party suddenly crashed by a Wes Anderson­blessed rock band, who pulled up alongside the house in the late hours of the night, tour bus and all. One by one the rock stars entered the party, determined to have a Domerlicious time. It didn't take long before the hip, thick­rimmed glasses-wearing men had managed to seduce all the women, conquer the DJ equipment, break house keg stand records, and moreover, break a whole bunch ofhearts. One particularly suave band member -we'll 
HUMOR 
call him Spongebob -became particularly engrossed with one party game called "Insert Anatomically Correct Female Reproductive Words into Movie Titles" (which, Gipp notes, can become quite disturbing with movies like "My Big Fat Greek Wedding" and "Dr. Strangelove: or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb"). Spongebob, with his already eccentric artist ways complicated by intoxication, managed to corner a lovely game participant. In one beautiful moment, he turned around and announced to her, "You're pretty cute, __ (insert biology-class word for the most prominent female reproductive part)." Unfortunately for both parties, the little lady failed to see tlie clever ingenuity behind her rock star lover's compliment and promptly ­fled the scene. Which leads Gipp · back to the conclusion that sometimes love spoken is love ruined. In the end, none ofthe rock stars left the South Bend party house that night ... instead, the tour bus stayed parked in the alley next door, band members, newfound groupies, broken hearts and all. 
So, in essence, Gipp encourages all of you to follow your hearts this holiday season. You may fail like Paul Bunion, you may fail like Spongebob, but at least you'll be able to say you've tried. Some ofyou may even be able to say you tried -and failed -six times ... to no avail ... but that's OK, because this is the time ofyear to give love, embarrassment and opinion articles freely! Even projectile liquid courage all over your friend's bed can count as a generous gift, as long as you disappear and escape from your night of sleeping in the fetal position before the hosts wake up to confront you about it. So put stockings out on your mantleplace (or keep tl1em on your feet), turn off Mariah Carey (and turn on more indie music) and let the love in, my dear little Gipplings. Happy Holidays ... and also, Gipp was joking about hurting kittens. Gipp loves kittens! 
Love, 
The Gipper 



T;PTH0$?PP 
o o o o o at gipper@nd.edu 
11 DECEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 33 

PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 


I . ~ "~the latest camp~news~d spo~1ts 




) ) / 
/ '.
L// 
·...·. .· · 
-
' 
'. ' 

Published Since 1867 Serving the Notre Dame Community 
10 ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 
First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 
NAME: _______________ 
ADDRESS: ______________ 

iJ)_j
m-depth coverage. ~cam.pus issues 
·.., 
./ f//'/ J
·_,, reviews O c::ampusvntertal, ment
/ /' . 
off-the-wall hum0r 

SCHOLASTIC 
understand campus ·events even when you're not on campus 
SEND THIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
NOTRE ~AME, IN 46556 
· OR 
ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:I/MARKETPLACE.ND.EDU/ STUDENTSHOPI 
HUMOR 




Don't Hate, Procrastinate! 
Natalie Kratz 
Notre Dame has a vast collection of vital resources for the average college student. We have academic advisors and mentors so we don't fail out. Campus Ministry and the C.S.C. 
remind us to help each other out and potentially help us escape eternal damnation. The Career Center ·swears I won't end up living in a box after ND kicks me to the curb in May. Health Services has thus far kept me from death, despite living in a petri dish (or "dorm," but I think my term is far more accurate). But I have found a gap in this school's offerings -they have failed to cultivate the art of procrastination. 
Now, I'm going to go out on a limb here and assume that approximately 95% of students know all about procrastination and will get nothing out of this article. (They also know that reading a student publication is an excellent form of procrastination, so they will probably read it anyway). What worries me is the 5% who actually read for dasses like Accounting I and do "recommended" homework problems. You guys might think you have it all together, but you lack a very important lite skill. What are you going to do when you get a job and your boss gives you work that you don't feel like doing yet? Fear not. I am here to help. 
You, as an ambitious and productive student, might be asking right about now, "Doesn't procrastination make life harder in the long run? Why would I ever want to do that to myself?" And to that I say, 
"One: almost definitely. And two: because homework is not fun." I can tell I have already convinced you that putting off those chemistry problems for another time (like never) is a good idea. Excellent. Now you are dying to do some serious procrastination instead ofbalancing those oh-so-'enticing equations. Slow down, champ. Baby steps. Start by reading through the rest ofthe magazine. (I know everyone comes to humor section first because it's the best). 
Now that you are getting a feel for this, turn on the TV and start surfing. I'd recommend "America's Next Top Model." It tends to come on in marathons and has a crack-like addictiveness. Next thing you know, you have watched four entire cycles, yelled atJanice Dickinson during final panel and now foster a weird obsession with Tyra. It happens to the best of us. Chick fights and stomping the walk not your thing? I guarantee that someone you know owns every season of "Arrested Development" on DVD. If you don't manage to get through at least the first season in one sitting, you fail as a procrastinator, and maybe even as a person, because that show is amazing. 
If you are having a hard time picking a procrastination activity, find one based on what you should be doing. Writing a paper? As long as you are on your computer, you might as well just check your Facebook. I imagine the new format is still confusing for people ­who don't use it for at least three hours a day. Go ahead and spend some time familiarizing yourself with the new system of tabs. Tired, but have a long night of studying ahead of you? Go get coffee: Or meet someone for coffee and talk about the test. Or talk about the professor's sorry attempt at a comb-over. Or just take a two-hour nap. 
Whatever you do, remember that practice makes perfect. Don't expect to suddenly be a good procrastinator during finals ~veek ifyou haven't warmed up during the semester. I'd also recommend applying procrastination to all aspects of your life, not solely homework. For example, my neglected to-do list for the day includes the following: do laundry, prepare for tomorrow's interview and buy the book I was supposed to read last month. I have, however, taken two naps, done three crossword puzzles and watched an hour of "Spongebob Squarepants." I highly recommend that you start procrastinating immediately. 
Now, when that big paper comes up, you'll be ready to put it off. 0 

11 DECEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
j.{rsday night, senior architecture major Jonny Fleya Park will be at Club Fever. "'"Id of waiting in line with the masses, he will be at the front greeting people '.lq11.g their names off the VIP list. Park is a promoter for Club Fever, as many.#i the Club Fever Facebook group, and it is his job to spread the word about 
iakand events to the Notre Dame student body (not to mention getting to \yThursday partying it up). 
}Why did you get involved with club promotions? 
k: I've been interested in possibly starting my own club and nightlife venue -'_''·~ for awhile and wanted to know how everything worked inside and out. 
µdents across campus know you through the Club Fever Facebook group :hink the Web promotion has been a success? · #pretty successful. Though turnout isn't as high as previous years due to 
rtiy, the relationship and interaction between the club and student body has ·~µch stronger, since the club makes changes based upon the feedback that I ;'in students. 
;,~tiir first time club promoting? ~e:done some work in the past with other nightlife venues while abroad in ·'\and interning in Atlanta, Ga. 
·~s your job as a club promoter entail? ;tc,h really. All I need to do is raise awareness ofthe club's existence and hope ~3are attracted to the venue. Work-wise I design flyers, coordinate events, tag lsically mingle with people. It's nice, right? I get paid to party. 
,F'ant to keep doing club promotions in your future, or is this just a hobby? 
11job to do now, though architecture is currently owning my life. Also, it ,,latoll on my sleeping patterns during the week, since I'll be out late either ''¥.rs, hitting up the bars or playing at the clubs. In the future, I only see 
~.}fas a side thing, if anything. 
1t~j}'~Jj~2your favorite part of the job? 
,:,:...\\\~; '.J~: Seefiigpeople all decked out in their clubbing gear. It's nice to see, especially the .;\)"./' \1i4~~s.1~tiring something other than sweaters, sweat pants and Uggs. Also, getting a _,., · cha:nceJi'i'.1Ileet different characters and people that you would normally never talk to 
. , \·-::, .. :.•n-,:.:•=·'. 
is)g_uitdit ;t~rtaining. · · 
Jsee a lot happen while you're working -what's the funniest thing you \~ed? fo, stories to tell, but I'll share iny all-time favorite with you. A few months i9four student night event~, I watched this creepy guy walk onto the dance ing his drink in one hand and with this "I'm so cool" smirk on _his face. He 
·\finds a girl with long black hair innocently dancing with her friends and ping aggressively on her from behind. Surprisingly, the girl and none ofher ~a any of their anti-man tactics to get the guy away from her. So they dance 
'911.gs, and the guy begins to kiss the girl's neck [ ...] Then suddenly tl:ie guy's .. ·'ge, he drops his drink and started gagging as ifhe were about to puke. The :'<:l around to help the guy out, but he pushed her away and ran towards the '\When I took a closer look at the scene, it was obvious why the guy stormed }fhe did. The "girl" was not a girl, but a full-fledged man with long hair! Jlie story: Know the differen_ce between man and woman. 
:g else you'd like to share about Club Fever or club promoting? 
e:ver get bored on a Thursday night, just head on down to the club, and I'll ffyou have an amazing night! Also, for those of you that are still under 21, ''µning on doing an [18-and-o:ver] night on Fridays next semester for the rest bool year in the Green Room with a separate DJ and everything. 
},';' 


PRESORTED 
Notre Dame Archives STANDARD 
U.S. Postage
University of Notre Dame PAID 607 Hesburgh Library Notre Dame, IN 
Permit No. 2
Notre Dame IN 46556 




