' ' Cbc
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
D’SCc-QVASisempeR-	vive-pvAsr cra5-moi^itvrvs*
Vol. L.	‘ NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 19, 1917.	No. 31.
Flower Song.
BY BROTHER MATTHEW, C. S. C., ’17.
J LOVE the Lily of the Vale, That paled before her God of old, When offering odorous sacrifice
Tn chalices of gold.
I love the richness of the Rose,
That blushed in all her queenly grace. When turning to her God she saw
The splendor of His face.
I love the humble Violet, In. faith and love serene, Who purple donned to mourn her God;—
I crown her flower queen. --------------------------
The Needs of a Mission School in Bengal. ,-}
^H^HE Holy Cross: Bandura - Gobindpur || High English School is a long name with a short history, though the school is now more than a name.
In 1911 a Hindu high school in a village called Gobindpur, in the diocese of Dacca was, after six years of precarious existence, on. its last legs. It was but a mile from the Catholic Mission primary school, and to save its name from complete extinction it offered its all to the mission to be combined with the mission school, the main condition being that in the process of amalgamation the name Gobindpur --£§Sould be retained. And so it was. The new school .was named Holy Cross, after the .Mission of Holy Cross, Bandura, after the village formerly the centre of the Catholic Mission, and Gobindpur after the Hindu school.
From a little over one hundred pupils, Hindus, Mahomedans -and Christians, it. now numbers five hundred, and from the stronghold of Paganism it bids fair, to become a great centre of Christian influence. The only draw
backs are means to expand, to make room,for the demand and to get Christian teachers. We have the full high school course in arithmetic,, algebra, geometry, English, Bengali, Sanskrit, Persian, Arabic, Urdee, history (Indian), geography, and drawing. The languages include the grammar and literature as well as translation into English.
From the beginning up to Class IV all wbrk is done through the medium of Bengali. From' " class IV to class VII, the text-books are bi-lingual, the matter being given in English characters or figures but explained in the vernacular. From class VII to X all subjects, are taught through the medium of English, and all text-books, except those in the languages, . are in English.
At present twenty teachers are employed, of whom fly e are graduates receiving a monthly. -	’ '
salary from $20 to S25. Four are undergraduates, i. e., they have passed I. A. (intermediate arts)., or F. A. (first arts) or have studied up to A. B. but did not pass- the final . -examination. These get from Si5 to $18 a . ’ month. There are four teachers with normal training whose salary is from S3 to Sii, four more, trained for the lowest classes, get from
S5 to S3. Specialists for Sanskrit, Persian,	.
and Arabic get from $10 to S15 a month.
Imagine an expert in Sanskrit, a man knowing . " the language. and literature well, getting S12	.
a month in the United States of America.	; J.
Of these twenty teachers there is, besides : myself and a Brother, but one Christian.. Why “ ’ . so? For the simple reason that they can’t be -had. It is only now that the Christians in their / J 3. villages are beginning to go in for high school . education, and in the* whole diocese this is the . ; .I. v: only high school for natives. -But if this goes j? ; well and financial aid is forthcoming we shall, ' • in the not far distant future, be able to replace. V’y .?. the Hindu teachers with Christian ones.^ . . . 2 ' ? ‘ .
At present there are three Christian’boys ~-Zi^ who will go up for the high school examination..
VX.'W.
5*4
' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
next year. If they pass, they will be eligible for a college course; but then comes the hitch-’-wlio will bear the expenses? If no one helps me to do it for them, it won’t be done, and with the little bit of knowledge they have they will ’ go and look for a “job.” The expense of going to college is not in itself very great here, and ■yet very great for those who have nothing.
’ The monthly fee for attending college is but $i-75, and the'boarding but S2; so for less than S4 a month a boy could get board-and tuition for the four years. of the college course.
■ Pagans and -Mahomedans are most anxious to come to the Mission school, and are most docile and willing to follow ' any regime. At . present there are 300 Hindus, 95 Mahomedans, . and 92 Christians. All play and go to class .	together, are the best of friends and neighbors,
and are just as “thick” as chums are among the different “persuasions” in an American school or club. If you ever pay us. a visit, you will not find it an easy job picking out Hindus, Mahoine-'dans and Christians as they sit side by side in - class or jostle one another on the play-ground.
The attendance of Christians is small, mainly because the Christians are very poor, and at the age of twelve the boys (the girls marry at .	_ thirteen) run to the cities to take up-the work
of cooks. The culinary occupation runs in their blood. Generally the}' begin as water-carriers or potato-peelers to some cook who is a relation of theirs. The parents argue thus when it is a
---	question of leaving the children.at school: “It
-	is bad enough to have to feed my son in idle-
ness—school life—but to have to pay school '	- fees in addition is a burden I. can hot bear; so
he must go to work- if he can not get his schooling ■ ■	. free.” And to work he goes, as is shown by
" the act that although there are more than 6,000 ’ Christians within easy distance of the school, .. there are not fifty in the high school classes. .	Many a good and promising young lad has
. had his desire,, to study} cut short and: has had “	. to become a dish-washer from want of School
: fees: Yet .expressed in dollars-and. cents the
. .school fees are'paltry.	~	.
. : The infants begin with four annas, or eight . cents a month.. Class one. gets sixteen cents, - j ’ class two, twenty-four, and so on, making an . increase of eight cents for each class up to class ;	5,m	ten'receiving one dollar. In addition
. ; to this, the boarding fee-Tor those who can ;	get nothing to eat at home—is but two dollars
T y > : 3^	In other words, you can feed, clothe,
and educate, one of these little 'Bengali pickaninnies for three dollars a month, and who that has the mission spirit at heart would refuse that much? If you could but see how many, not only Christian; but Hindus and Mahomedans, come to me crying, actually crying, for a chance to go to school! They beg their food, beg their books; but I am generally unable to harken to their entreaties, because the .Government, under whose supervision the school is, allows only five per cent free students. If I take more I must pay for them, that’s where the shoe pinches.
’ How fine it would-be if- some good people who can not come to labor here would become the spiritual fathers of some of these poor boys. Should anyone be so considerate as to adopt and help to educate one or more of these poor Hindus, Mahomedans, or Christians, I shall try to send from time to time—if I can come by a kodak—a snapshot of his protege.
Apart from the great good charity can do in helping the poor here, I need urgently help along other lines. We have grown from pne hundred to five hundred in four years, andTave outgrown our accommodations. Should accommodations permit there is no doubt but the present number would double itself within four years.
The building of sheds—our boarding and school houses are but sheds—Tas not kept }pace with the growth of the classes, so now to avoid overcrowding there is badly needed a shed, measuring about 60x20, to furnish class rooms for one hundred and fifty children. Our sheds consist of a mud floor, wooden posts,, a corrugated.'iron roof, and mat walls—the mats being made of split bamboos or a kind, of
• grass or sedge. In a few cases the walls are of corrugated iron. .	' . -
These sheds are not very expensive, but at’ present the price of zinc is more than double what it was some time ago. Yet even at that, -I, could get the required area under roof for about $400. . That would not build a very big school in America where thousands, are but small figures for building purposes. Still it would give us a building as good as a palace.
But to'keep on. and. tell .you some more of : our needs. I have a little house, and a-little room in that house-serves as a church or chapel. So. we need very much a chapel building where the pagans may see the' ceremonies, and where those “whowish may; attend, -Ta building 'which will.keep religion before their eyes. The. building •- of this little chapel for us ’ would;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
certainly show a desire to have God’s kingdom furthered on earth—a desire to bring Jesus before the eyes of the pagans. Such a little chapel as we need, built of brick, would cost but $500.
But if I get this chapel I will need something to put in it. Some friend of St. Patrick'would give me means to get a set of green vestments. At present I have none. The red ones barely hold together, but can be tolerated in private. The black ones are respectable, but must be handled with care as the lining thereof acts under- touch as does burnt paper. I have- no monstrance, benediction veil, or cope; so there is no chance to give Benediction to the children after school. Nor have we stations of the Cross -^-but it would be shorter to tell-what we have got than what we haven’t.
Now, dear reader, you are not going to come here yourself, but how are you going to show your real Missionary spirit, your desire to further Christ’s direct interests, your wish to help those who have given to the work all they have to give—their time and energy? Are you going to make it possible for some of these poor pickaninnies to come to school as day scholars, at a cost for one of from eight cents to a dollar a month,.or will you help to feed, clothe and educate one or more of them for but three dollars a month? Perhaps you will build a shed for class rooms, a house for teachers,-. or a chapel for Jesus, or pay a teacher to work in your place. Maybe you are one of those who like to see children enjoy themselves out of class hours. If so, will you not help to purchase a playground? Our present one is scarcely large enough to hold the total number of pupils when standing “close formation.” There is land~to be had adjoining the school, but the till is empty.’ Sometimes it is discouraging when one muses and sees how much is to be done, how much could be done if the wish were but father to the means.
If you are not willing to give something for, apparently nothing,, could you not give something for something. If you want a High Mass, /. with what unction these Bengali pickaninnies could sing it. It would do your heart good as it does theirs, to hear .them shout their loudest . With the income from .Mass intentions I could, comfortably run my little.shanty, that is, pay the cook and dhobi (washerman),. the inaif (the hewer, of wood and drawer of water), and the table boy, and feed and clothe myself and-the Brother , who. is with me.. J	.	.	.
515
Don’t you know the Vision the lover of the missions had, after the example of Abou Ben Adhem? Seeing the angel writing in the Book of Gold he asked “What writest thou?” Who answered: “The names of those who work on tjie Missions.” “Then mine’s not there? No hope for me? And yet I work for the Missions—not in but for” The angel vanished. Time passed. Again the Vision came, writing in a book of 'burnished gold. “What writest thou?” he asked in trembling accents. Swift and softly came the answer: “The names of those who love the Lord.” “Is mine one?” Tor answer the Vision turned the Book and there in glittering letters heading the burnished page he read his name, with the-note, “He loveth much because he worketh much/or the Missions.”
Every offering sent by money order, cheque, or greenbacks, will be thankfully received, gratefully acknowledged, and ever prayerfully remembered.
J. J. Hennessy, C. S. C.,	'
Holy Cross High School,
Hashnabad, Dacca, Bengal, India. - ------------—_
Petals. -
Tinted petals soft Turn your eyes aloft
There where all the silver clouds go. by. Smile with every breeze Laughing through the trees
As it sings its journey through the sky.
Dewy petals bright In the rainbow light How you make the hearts of children glad.
How your smile of grace Sweetens every face	-
By the snowy folds in which you’re clad.
Petals ruby red, So the legend said, .
You were dipped in crimson rays at morn Which the falling dew Stained to deeper hue—
Witchery of clouds and moonlight born.
• White rose petals play	•
. At the close of day With the gentle winds from out the West;
Rocking to and fro,	-
'	As the breezes blow—	' .
Softly close your lovely eyes and rest. ' ' ..
• .	_	. .	B. Xavier, /ig. *'
5i6	' THE 'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Blade to Blade.
BY JOHN LOUIS REUSS, ’l8.
It had Ijeen a big day for Three-fingered Brannigan. Three unsuspecting strangers had fallen victims to the cunning and subtle affability of the most clever cutpurse that has ever worked Fifth Avenue, and as a result, Brannigan’s capital had been augmented by more than a hundred dollars.
While the crippled hand nervously guarded the pilfered-mammon, the keen eyes of the crook searched the human sea before him in the hope that one more fish might be added to the day’s catch. Brannigan prided himself on never having failed to size up his man properly at first sight, and failure had been the result of none of his artifices to relieve the unwary of their wallets. He possessed an almost preternatural ability of estimating a man’s purse by nothing more than his appearance and bearing.
As he gazed about him, his attention was' suddenly fixed upon a rather queer-looking person who stood a few feet ahead- of him, gazing wond’eringly at a splendid shop-window. It did not require the keen sense of Brannigan to see that the man was undoubtedly a product of the rural district. Attired in an outfit that would have been far more appropriate at a masquerade ball than upon tire streets of New York, the stranger was most prominent amongst the surging throng that hurried homeward. Brannigan promptly recognized in the rustic a promising possibility. He approached the man, greeted him familiarly with a hearty slap upon the back,’ arid with the oft-used, but still serviceable introduction: “Well, well, if it isn’t my old friend. And how are all the folks back home?” sThe stranger turned and gazed surprisedly into the face of the confidence man. ..There was no sign of recognition or suspicion on the part of the victim.
.. “I don’t know as to how I recollect as to havin’ seen you before.” .	•
“You don’t mean'to tell me that you have forgotten me already? Why, don’t you remember the fellow that used to visit the village store every few months, and stock up old FarmerBurns?” .	. * .	.	... -
.“Farmer Bums! They ain’t no Farmer
Burns in Woodville. Ed Lyons runs the store do~wn home.”	-	.	*	‘
“To be sure. Come to think about it Farmer Burns lives in Parkton. It’s pretty hard to remember the names of all the towns I cover, I get over so many of them. Sure, Ed does run the store in Woodville. I remembered seeing you in there, and recognized you as soon as I saw you.”	,	•
“So ycu are the feller that used to come into Ed’s from the city. I’d oughta kriowed you when I first seen vbu.” - _/
As Brannigan now had all ’the necessary information, he continued: “I suppose you are paying our city a little visit?”
“Well, you want to be careful with your money, for this place is crowded with crooks that are just waiting for a chance to get away with people’s hard-earned cash.”
“Don’t you ever think that they will git any of .Hez Tonkel’s spondulics. They ain’t ' none of these city chaps can slip anything over . on me. I guess they’d have a pretty hard time a gettin’ it too, ’cause I put ’em all in my boot . soon as I got off the trains.”	;
Now this .was just the information that	j
Brannigan wanted, and he was not a little	I
disappointed that he would have to work	i
upon this stranger somewhat longer than he	|
had upon his previous victims. He had never	I
in his long career	of crookedness	resorted to	|
force, for "this, he	reasoned, was	the surest	|
way of getting acquainted with the warden I of the penitentiary.	That the rural	visitor was	I
well supplied with	money, he did	not doubt,	I
for he still carried his carpet-bag with him and	I
had evidently had no chance as yet to dispose	|
of any of his savings. Without' question, the booty was at present quite inaccessible and as a way of making it more available, Brannigan resolved to try the old ruse of offering to share his lodging with the stranger.	•
“ Have .you secured your room for the night? ”
“I jest got in, and ain’t had no time to git none yet. Do you know of any around here?”
“ Why, I’ll tell you. Come over and share my room with me.” —
. With th^ money in the farmer’s boot, the only plausible way ■ of getting at it was'to separate the boot from its. owner for a little while. >	.
“It’s only a couple of blocks from here, and we can go over there now,- and give you a chance
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
to rest a bit after your ride. What do you say?”
“Well, I guess I ain’t goin’ to refuse the-kindness of a friend, so I’ll go right with you. I feel kind of sleepy at that. I got plenty of time to sec the city the next couple of days, as I ain’t goin’ to go back to Woodville till I’ve got my head full of stuff to tell the folks at home.”	'
The two men strolled down Clay Street until the}' came to the Garner Hotel, where Brannigan'was well-known and highly respected for his smoothness as a “con” man and pickpocket. After an early supper they were shown to their room. Brannigan soon signified his intention of “hitting the hay for a good night’s sleep,” and proceeded to put his intention into execution, followed shortly by the stranger.
The “con” man waited quietly until the healthy snores of his companion assured him that i': was time for the work in hand. Creeping cautiously from the bed, he felt his way to the chair 'on which had been left the shoes of his unsuspecting victim. The crippled hand searched one shoe and then the other, but the anticipated roll of bills was not there. Lighting his pocket-ilash, Brannigan went swiftly but carefully through the clothes of the sleeper, but the net result of the search was only one dollar and thirty-six cents. The pickpocket cuised himself over and over for having wasted his time on such a “cheap-skate.” Disgusted with himself, he decided to get at least a good night’s sleep and then rise before his companion, leaving the latter to pa\r the hotel bill, x
When he awoke early the next morning his bed-fellow was snoring loudly at his side. He arose, dressed hurriedly, and cursing himself anew went down to the office and remarked to the clerk that his friend would pay for the room. He then walked several blocks to his favorite restaurant, where he hoped he might forget in a good breakfast the futility of his latest effort. He did succeed presently in-dismissing the unprofitable incident from his mind' and began to,plan the ventures for that day. When at the end of his meal he took out his pocketbook, he found it empty. Even the dollar and thirty-six was gone. Nervously he searched every pocket, but the profits of the previous day could not be found. He hurried back to the hotel, and rushed up to the room the two of - them had occupied. The stranger had gone, and the empty carpet-bag-lay upon the floor. Brannigan’s preternatural judgment had duped him.
Varsity Verse.
The N. D. Men in Khaki.
The martial trumpet sounded the country’s call for men,
And N. D. men responded—some’ll ne’er be back again;	-
They’ve swapped their beds in Sorin for the soldier’s little cot,
They’ve swapped their place in student ranks for the training soldier’s lot.
The cap and gown they’ve put away; it’s khaki now they wear,	z	.
They’ll hear no bachelor speeches, but commands that fill the air:
In years gone by we’ve found them for the gold and blue in fight,	-	•
For it they’ll still be battling, since the gold's turned red and white.
John A. Lemmer, ’18.
Reverie. .
In dreams I live in a northern land. That is set in frozen seas,	•	-	.
And I hear the song that the forest sings— The sigh .of countless trees.	.
I love to walk jn the endless ranks	-	'
Of the giant pines that speak, ‘
And to feel the odor-laden breeze,	- “
As it brushes past my cheek.	_
B. Godfrey, ’ig.	‘
The Vagabond.	.	.
A - .
To the vagabond, all things beyond The rise of the distant hill -	’ .
Are sure to please—so his heart at ease—
He wanders where he will;	.	.
On the beaten track, he turns his back—-	7.
A child of Nature still.	-	. /<
On nights of ease, beneath the trees, _	.	.
Sheltered by clinging vines;	< ^5
He eats his bread, while overhead .	■	. ’ ; <
The star-lamp faintly shines;	. ' J--J,
With’ the morning cup, the sun is up,	'-’7;
As red as ancient wines.	.	.
From the breathing earth, he hears the mirth .	-	'
■ - ’ _, * • ”
Of the plover and the snipe;	. . :	'
I
5i8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Echoes awake on the woodland lake At the bittern’s mournful pipe;
From brown fence rail, the speckled quail . Shouts that th? wheat is ripe.	_
'	F. S. Farrington, ’iS.~
The Ancient Alibi.
The sun was just through sinking In the west so far away,
And the stars had come to twinkle At the dying of the day.
The chimes peeled off six sturdy strokes In accents clear and true,
And the students filed to supper To down the evening stew.
Yea, and in this mob there rambled A Father and a "stude, ”	.	,
Who said unto the pastor,
. "Ye gods! these meals are crude!” Then at this remark a tear bedecked The honest preacher’s eye, .
And turning to the learned lad "	'
He made this here reply:	*
*	(chorus)	■
If you don’t like the meals that you,’re getting, Well, don’t crab till you’re too hoarse to speak, For it’s not food we care about, ’Tis for your soul that we look out; ' Think of church seven times every week.
So if you don’t like the tea that you drink of, If-you don’t like our prunes, hash and stew, Well, don’t crab, no, don’t crab, but just think of The church and prayers we’re giving you.
..	-	- B. J. A.
---:---=--—-------------
The Human Side of St. Philip Neri.
BY WILLIAM C. HAVEY, ’20.
- . Loin de nous les heros sans luimanite—Bossuet.
. The bent, white-haired priest turned slowly - about, and nodded'to the server. With acolytal ' celerity, theMad arose, went to the altar side .	and, taking up a- small placard, hung it on the
oratory door. He then took off his surplice and cassock and rushed out to join his crowd, of - boisterous r playmates. In the meantime the priest was raised from the floor by some invisible-; agency, his face glowed with, an ineffable - .	. gladness, and his whole frame shook cbnvul-
. sively.. After' two hours the altar-boy would return, remove the. card, which read, .“Silence!
the Father is Saying Mass,” and rouse the enraptured celebrant from his trance of devotion.	•
Nowhere are the natural and supernatural side of St. Philip’s nature better illustrated than in this incident. ‘’His human quality is evidenced by his thoughtful consideration for the server and his charitable dismissal, of the lad who naturally preferred enjoying his games to serving the long Mass of a saint. Philip’s intimacy with things of the spirit is shown by his extraordinary devotion during the Holy Sacrifice, his inspiring ecstasy while the Hidden God of the.Bucharist reposes within his breast and his ardent, seraphic thanksgiving.
Philip was born in Florence a few years after the celebrated religious of that city had upset society by his violent denunciation of existing conditions and instigated a thorough ecclesiastical reform. There was nothing extraordinary about his infancy except his- wonderful faculty of drawing others to him, a personal magnetism which developed steadily through the years of his youth and manhood, and which was one of the great secrets of his influence. Like all normal boys Philip possessed an inherent spirit of mischief, which precocious spirituality never prevented him from -indulging. Once when his sister Catharine had persisted in distracting him at his * devotions by making faces, he adroitly upset the stool upon which she stood and then, charitably averting his eyes and stopping his ears to the wrath of offended feminine dignity, resumed the1 recitation of the psalms at the top of his voice. At-the age of Tight he urged a donkey which he had mounted to leap down a flight of cellar stairs, to the terror of his parents and the astonishment of the crowd that was collected by this feat of “donkey manship.”	•	•
After the completion of his higher studies, Philip sold all his books,, distributed the proceeds among the poor, and then journeyed to San Germano'to engage in business with his father’s cousin. During his' years of study Philip had acquired a love for the ancient writers that had almost become a passion, but he did not, according to the spirit of the age, subordinate the immortality of the soul to the literary immortality of Horace; he did not' deify_ the classics to the disparagement of religion. His sacrifice in disposing of . his* books was incomparably greater than the charity involved. He realized to the fullest degree the aphorism, “summa
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
519
‘voluptas ex discendo capitur,” yet he voluntarily relinquished the intense pleasure derived from congenial study, deliberately cut off the noblest source of earthly gratification, the more effectively to laboi' among 'his fellowmen. .	.	.
At San Germano the prosaic, hard-headed man of affairs was so taken by Philip’s affectionate disposition' and admirable traits of character that he resolved to make him his sole heir. After a short time he informed Philip ■of his magnanimous intention, but was staggered with surprise when Philip coolly explained that because he had decided to go to Rome at once where he was. sure his life work lay, he did not wish to be harassed by monetary responsibilities, and that while he was deeply grateful - for the proffered generosity, he coulcT not afford to change his purpose.-	'
The old man expostulated, pleaded and raged, but to no avail. Philip was firm, and bidding his .cousin and patron a loving farewell, set out for the Eternal City.	"
Without money or friends, the inexperienced youth would probably have had difficulty in securing shelter, had not a former Florentine, who was favorably impressed by his appearance and character, engaged him as a tutor for his two sons. Here the Apostle of Rome remained for sixteen years, teaching, praying, and perfecting himself for the noble work he was to do, until finally his spiritual light shone so brilliantly that the cloak of humility under which he was wont to veil his great deeds was no longer able to conceal them, and the world, like a happymoth, flew straight to this sun of celestial glory in dazzled wonderment.
As a. resume of his life shows, Philip’s career was not to be of the conventional kind. When his family pedigree‘was presented to him with the remark that his was a distinguished lineage on which to build an enviable reputation, he tore it up. When informed of the burning of his father’s house, though he did not, like the Siwash student comment on his progenitor’s misfortune by a nonchalant “ how-careless-of-father,” yet he showed sufficient unconcern to render it noteworthy. When asked by a society damsel if it were a sin to wear high-heeled shoes, he replied that it was perfectly legitimate provided .the latter caused no local scandal by •tripping up the wearer, indeed Philip was at all times 'irresistibly human- and cheerful, which fact probably helps, quite as much as his
personal magnetism and indefatigable zeal to account for his power over persons of every character and condition.
Philip indeed 'posessed an intellect which, by some writers has been favorably compared to that of the remarkable Picco Della Miran-dola, the beardless prodigy who knew a score of languages and could discourse with admirable skill on more than a thousand difficult topics. His chief claim to ecclesiastical distinction, however, rests not on his mental accomplishments but on his spiritual deeds. His sermons are not in themselves notable examples of pulpit eloquence. They have none of the terrific denunciation of Savonarola, the sweeping sublimity of Bossuet or the spell-binding oratory of Bourdaloue, but St. Philip had, what most of the great preachers- have not, the rare faculty of penetrating the most jealously guarded breast and melting even the hardest of hearts with verbal- shafts tipped in a furnace of love. His words could reawaken sentiments bf affection, generosity and virtue that had been dorm’ant for years and revive in the souls of even the most perverted all the goodness that had been stifled by corruption. On one occasion thirty, dissolute young men entered a church where Philip was preaching, with the intention of ridiculing the auditors, but so potent were .the simplicity and unction of the saint’s words that everyone of them renounced his intention and resolved to walk thereafter in’the “straight but luminous” path of virtue.
Philip’s whole career is a rare example of transcendent holiness linked with striking human qualities. Every chapter of his long life is a living refutation of the popular delusion which pictures a saint as a grim, eremitic creature, unapproachably isolated in some high cloister far from the real life and experiences of ordinary people, an unearthly being to be shunned as an abnormal during life and regarded with. awe after canonization. Philip became in the fullest sense “all things to all -men,” adapting himself to every kind of person and temperament so happily that his unpretentious chamber became a famous assemblage-room for j cardinals and padres, nobles and beggars, high-strung artists and rude laborers. His manner was so easy and genial that men of whatever character or rank did not hesitate to approach him on the most intimate terms, for he was regarded by all, not as a saint, . but as a religious of exceptional benevolence .
520
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and affability. In all interviews Philip was cheerful, gay, and inspiring. He extracted
Marie Adelaide of Luxemburg.
mirth out of the most common things, and saw the good under the most sordid aspects of human life', as Theodore Maynard says of someone, “he laughed liis way into heaven.” Ever ' enjoying himself hugely, whether plunging down a cellar-way astride a beast (with a disposition like the papal mule’s) or commanding a father of the Oratorv to march thrice around the refectory with a monkey on his shoulder as a remedy for his recalcitrant pride, Philip’s life is an inspiration not only to holiness but to cheerfulness arid geniality as well.
BY JOHN'A. LEMMER, *l8.
Senior Thoughts.
Sovereign of a little land beautified by - picturesque valleys and charming -rivulets,' by ■ unsheltered uplands and wonderful, fairy-like forests, a land solemnized by cabalistic ravines and stately feudal. ruins, is Marie Adelaide, the young and beautiful Grand Duchess of Luxemburg. The story of her twenty-three years reads like a romance, as interesting as any that fancy has ever fashioned. She is as ’ pretty a princess as any novelist has pictured, and noble suitors have been numerous, but the one’Prince Enchanting has not yet appeared; more than once has the precarious nature of her position upon her throne been made manifest. What more could the heart of even the king of romanticists require? .
The thousand square miles, an area less than that of the. state of Rhode Island, over which this princess exercises sovereign authority, is peopled by two hundred and. fifty thousand inhabitants. They speak a.'-patois bearing close affinity with the German tongue, but Trench is the official language of the court. Most of the trade is. with Germany, since Luxemburg is a member of the Zollverein; the Prince Henry Railway is a German possession, and most of the business in Luxemburg is transacted with< German currency. Yet the people of Luxemburg bear no love toward the Germans, more particularly, toward the Prussians, as is testified by the words of their national song, “We want to remain what we are,” for which’ are often substituted the words “Prussians we do not want to be.”
' It was on June 14th, 1912, that Marie Adelaide, a young-lady of eighteen, the eldest of . six sisters, became the youngest reigning queen of Europe, the Grand Duchess of the land from which came the. good, blind King. John of Bohemia and Godfrey \le Bouillon, leader of crusaders and founder of the Kingdom of
Persevering effort is the one road to success.
Except when needed, bravery is always superabundant.
If smiles " were., dollars the pessimist would need no pockets.	•
Conscience is the road-map on the tour through life’s wilderness.	;
I know a man who is so modest that he won’t look at naked truth.
Brains are like meerschaum pipes,—the more we use them the better they get.
The man who has never been broke cannot know the joy Of-being in funds.
- Beware of the man who says he has never loved;' he is either a liar or a fool.
' It is easier to tell a man that he ought to be “dry” than it.is to.make him so.
’ Although the seasons change, you may always . keep the springtime in your heart!
The girl who says chewing tobacco is a dirty habit never saw her brother clean his pipe. .. .
He who is satisfied with himself has either a very wonderful imagination or-none at all.
The fact that we' live but once is a good reason for making that living worth while. 1 y; .Borrowing in cases of .emergency easily degen-
. erates into borrowing through force of habit.
; .’ .Remember that the matter, not the manner,
-. of your. writing or speaking is! the prime esseri-tial. As regards their relation arid importance, thought and the; expression of it may be compared to .the soul arid the body as "constituent
• .. elements, in /man : /both are, essential, .but the first? is by.far the superior;element;/; Tyy'. //.
Jerusalem/ Her father, was William Alexander, the last, prince; of the House of Nassau; her mother, the. Ddwager Grand Duchess Marie Anne, a - Portuguese . princess of the. family of "
-Braganza, akiir to half of the reigning houses of Europe. On the day of the coronation of Marie Adelaide, .the people" of Luxemburg . discovered .that they had found a Grand . Duchess/who, despite, her youth, would rule ; -

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
with a ‘ resolute hand. Immediately upon her accession to the throne she exacted perfect deference from all. She wished it clearly understood that she was an independent sovereign, and that her will was to be the will of the court.
■ That Marie Adelaide is well qualified to guide her subjects, that her intensive study of government made while she was a mere girl cannot but result in a masterly efficiency, events within the past five years have frequently proved. Her appreciation of the importance of her charge was well illustrated at the outbreak of the World War when the German troops entered Luxemburg on their march to Belgium. The accuracy of this story is now questioned, but most Luxem burgers are not willing to doubt its verity. When the Grand Duchess was informed of the incursion of the German soldiers, she promptly drove to the famous bridge, Pont Adolph, upon which she halted her machine. There she waited the approach of the Germans. When the commander appeared at the head of his troops she reminded him of the Treaty of London of 1867, which guaranteed the independence and neutrality of Luxemburg, and ordered the German troops to “about-face.” The German commander gave little heed to the princess who attempted to check his progress, and commanded his men to proceed. Resistance on the part of the sovereign of the invaded state would have been ineffectual, since the Luxemburg army consists of but three hundred men, including the members of an excellent military band. Indeed, Luxem-burgers delight in telling the story of the “crooked cannon” used by their diminutive army, the shot from which, because of the peculiar but wholly fanciful curved structure of the cannon, follow ever bend in the boundaries of the little land. .	.
It was generally feared by- the subjects-of Marie Adelaide that she would be influenced considerably by Prussians, and frequent protests were made that there were too many Prussians at her court. Whatever reason there may have been for such apprehension, the mind of the Luxemburger was greatly relieved by an ^English legend in which the.German Emperor plays the role of villain, a legend telling of the coldness with which the youthful Grand . Duchess received the great Hohenzdllern, declining to be seated at a conference with him, and thus compelling him to remain standing.
'Luxemburg is almost .'exclusively a land of-: < -	' j. i	.
Catholics, scarcely five thousand of the inhabitants professing a Protestant belief, and yet . religious controversy is the source of most of Marie Adelaide’s troubles. The Grand Duchess is a model of Catholic piety despite many serious . efforts that have been made to undermine her faith. But in some manner. Luxemburg had fallen into the hands of Liberals and Socialists. The Grand Duchess upon her accession found herself surrounded by a Liberal Cabinet; the legislators were anti - Catholic, and they attempted to prohibit the teaching of religion , in the schools. Dr. Eyschen, then prime minister, was a shrewd politician and a clever diplomat. Three times had he saved the throne for Marie Adelaide, but now he bestowed his favor upon her anti-Catholic opponents. Upon the director of the Normal School depended greatly the extent of the religious teaching in the schools of Luxemburg. Marie Adelaide, to insure the continued instruction in Catholic doctrine broke all precedent, and named the director herself. Her Liberal Cabinet, angered -at this assumption of a power formerly wielded by it, objected’ strenuously, but to no purpose. Marie Adelaide knew too well her constitutional powers as Grand Duchess, and promptly accepted the resignation of the cabinet members.
Religious differences have been the cause of controversy in another way. Before the present war Marie Adelaide was believed to be the betrothed of Prince Henry of Bavaria, a Catholic. The German emperor earnestly desires her marriage to a German prince; the people of Luxemburg just as earnestly oppose it, and find some comfort in a supposed declaration of their . queen that rather than marry a German noble, she will enter a Benedictine convent for women of nobility. Is Marie Adelaide affianced to a German prince, or is she determined to enter a convent to elude such a marriage? Is she the innocent victim of the Kaiser’s amicable advances, or is she extremely unfriendly to the German ruler? .	.	.
These unanswered questions puzzle the Lux- . emburger, but it may be safely asserted that / the people of the little Grand Duchy still worship their beautiful princess; they love her gracious manners; they admire her capability; they promptly awake from impassiveness upon . the mention of her name. And as cultivators of beautiful roses, they recognize in their Grand. Duchess, the fairest of their .flowers, Marie . Adelaide of Luxemburg. :	. ..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published 'every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
,	Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid .
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Noire Dame, Indiana
L.	MAY 19,1917	No. 31.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17 Speer Strahan, ’17 Edward J. McOsker, ’17 Harry E. Scott, ’17 Michael J. Early, ’17 John A. Lemmer, ’18 Stuart H. Carroll, ’17 Charles W. Call, ’18 Delmar J. Edmondson, ’18 Thomas F. Healy, ’19 F. Jennings Vurpillat,’iS John Urban Riley, ’17 W. Breen McDonald,’18 Michael A. Mulcair,5 17 Edward G. Lindemann, ’ 18 Francis Farrington' ’ 18
—America needs food! For the first time since the Pilgrim Fathers faced starvation in the dead of winter, the American people* are in
,	actual need. Last year’s' .
Grain for Food Only, grain crop was a failure, . . -	, and thus far this year’s,
promise is not very consoling. Our present food problems are still further aggravated by the prospect of having to* feed our allies whose need is even'* greater than our own. Only by-judicious conservation can our supply^ of food last through the year. Unless the dire prediction of the German war-lord—“Nemesis is attending to the starvation of the Americans who scorned the German heed”—is to come true we must utilize every means within our power to make the grain last. The liquor industry of this . country- consumes .more than 600,000,000 . bushels of grain each year. If this grain were .	released for food dur problem would be materially ‘
. mitigated. For the simple reason of food'. necessity, aside from the moral and disciplinary reasons -that point in the. same direction,
medal. many years ago, and for several years
Henry has added to it-a,cash prize of $25 . . period of the war,- at least, as one way of meeting . annually in. memory ofhis -father. R. I. -P. .
; /the fatal shortage of food. ■ ' >	:	. A-	—/—;— .
-national prohibition should be adopted for the
who served as leader of the orchestra during the year and as director of the club after the Christmas holidays, Mr. Hugh O’Donnell, the director until the winter recess, and Mr. Ward S. Perrott, organizer and graduate director, were constant and conscientious in their efforts to develop the chorus work and specialty numbers. Mr. George O’Laughlin served ably as leader of the banjo club, while Mr. George Shanahan worked faithfully as a most efficient secretary and business manager of the whole organization. The Glee Club has done much to spread the good name of Alma Mater. The entertainments were of the highest standard, and the conduct of the - singers and - instrumentalists at home and abroad never failed to elicit favorable comment. It is to be hoped that the future years of the Glee. Club may be worthy successors to this one.	'
Obituaries.
The Rev. George Schramm. -
The University lost a "faithful friend, the diocese of Fort Wayne a noble priest, and the people of St. Peter’s Parish, Laporte, Indiana. x a model pastor in the death of Father George Schramm last Saturday. He wore gentleness like a mantle; he was refined, scholarly, hospitable and pious: He was a great priest-, and “ all who knew him loved him in life aiid mourn him in death.. R. I. P.
. Henry J. Quan.
We regret to announce the death of Henry J. Quan who passed away at his home in Chicago on Thursday morning, May 10th. The President and the Vice-President of the University attended the funeral at Holy Name Cathedral.
Henry Quan was a student of Notre Dame from ’69 to ’75. He was. a successful business man of fine character and he. was devoted to . Notre Dame. His father, founded the Ouan
.A" ?-'■ v ■-/ • \	:	ty ■_	New Course in Foreign Commerce and South;
. ' .'The Notre Tame Glee Club, concluded' a . /	... American History. \	.
splendid-season.with the fine'concert at Indian-. tyty	.	...
: apblis two weeks ago.-. The efforts of the Club . In view of .the'present critical-state of com-
; , /	;t_:.-v .- .: have always beep highly success-- . mercial . irittycdurse/.bf the United/States with .
THe Glee Club ful; and much praise,is due the /foreign/ countries, the .addition of a Depart-
~	y / /./bcm. who h ave.made the success^,; ment Tf :<Edreign“ Trade J to the'; College jqf. Com-
; L	- rntycetyaiid/^ '//Management- for. next

..	- THE NOTRE DA
year is very, timely. This course will* offer special and profitable opportunity to those interested. As ia all probability the greater part of our foreign trade for some years to come will be with the countries of South and Central America, we should make some intelligent preparation for-it. In the new course special attention will be given to business ethics based on the teachings of the Catholic Church. In connection with the course in foreign trade and ' as an auxiliary to it will be another new one, a course in Latin-American History. One of the - interesting features of the new department will be a Board of Trade to be chosen from the . students of the course, which will hold weekly meetings. Along with the theoretical studies there will be numerous kinds of practical work. '	.
• Rev. John O’Hara, C. S. C., who has spent many years in the Latin-American countries, will be dean of the new course. He will have as assistants Rev. W. A. Bolger, C. S. C., dean of the department of • Economics, and Rev. John C. McGinn, head of the department of Sociology.
■ Thus the course will.be ably led and will doubtless rank high with like courses. in other colleges.-	.
Courses in scientific commerce are. being .offered in a few of.the more important American . universities, but the department of Latin-American History as an adjunct to it is peculiar to Notre Dame. ‘	.
Of great importance in-connection with these ' new courses is the recently acquired “South American Library” of Very Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C. Rather Zahm is well-known asH. J. Mozans, A. M., Ph. D., and his achievements in science and literature have been favorably recognized throughout the world. The library, which, consists of about ten thousand volumes, mostly history, travel- and science, will serve * as the main reference library for the new course in Latin-American History. The. South Ameri-. can Library is historically valuable as being the one chosen by Father .Zahm on his trip with the, Roosevelt Exploration Expedition of the Amazon . River and is one of the most valuable donations to the Un i versity Library since the gift of D oct or Greene’s Botanical Library.	.	.
- Students .who have a taste for this kind of ’ work will do wisely in considering the advantages ' of the new"course and the opportunities it offers/ dor aTife w;ork. - It is, as a rule, the new field - . and virgin soil that bears the richest, harvest.
IE SCHOLASTIC- -	.	523.	'
Varsity News.	-	.
—Ward Schlotzer, of St. Joseph Hall, is - J ' nursing a badly sprained arm, which he acquired r ~ in the St. Joseph-Walsh baseball game on , " . Sunday.	■
—The editorial .“Poland’s Appeal,” which W. appeared in a recent issue of the Scholastic; . X . has been reprinted in Free Poland, a periodical , . published in Chicago by the Polish National . \ Council of America.	’	.	•
—“Loyalty to the Stars and Stripes” was . the topic of an address delivered by Alexander -A. Szczepanik, a sophomore journalist from '	.
Corby Hall, at the patriotic exercises" held last _ Sunday evening in the hall at the St. Stanislaus * Church, South Bend.	t
—Maximilian G. Kazus, a junior lawyer w-ho : . / has addressed many Polish-American audiences W ■ at South Bend, has received an invitation to '	'7
address the Poles of LaPorte, Indiana, at the -patriotic exercises which will be held on June J; 3rd under the auspices of the Polish Falcons. ? . *
'—About eighty Notre Dame-students will W -take part in the Dunes Pageant which will . _ . be.given at Port Chester, Indiana, on May 30th ' and June 3rd: Air. Donald Robertson gave .	>-
oiit the parts to the students on the evening of . > .. May 10th and rehearsals are now being held. , v : Together with South Bend, Notre Dame will	,:7.x
present the third episode of the pageant. .	- L
—All students who wish to take part in the - - J ; '7 ; contests in oratory and elocution should hand" .
in their names to Professor Farrell not later - l L than Saturday, May 19th. The dates for the : contests are as follows: freshman oratorical, J ." May 21, 7:00 P. M.; sophomore oratorical,
' May 22, 7:00 P. AL; junior oratorical, May . — ;
24, 7:00 P. M.; elocution, May 25, 7:00 P. ALJ
----Two thousand dollars in prizes have again _ 4 /. \ 5 been offered by Hart, Schaffner & Marx for ; . 7: 7 j essays on economic subjects, the contest to . X; close June, 1,918. Announcement is made at.: this time so that students who wish to do so .
may. utilize the summer vacation to prepare . ...'XL777 .. their papers. Students who are interested . • L J may refer to the bulletin board in Sorin HM17/7 ~ "-7/L "where the list of subjects and details concerning , .* < x
the prizes are posted.' . . -	'	' CR LA
-	—-Many of our readers will be interested in 7 ■ ’	' J
the following letter Mom Air. A. C. Keif er, J-.; the father of Louis Keifer, who. graduated ip A L X ? journalism last June:	-	, MM?
- -	- ,	,. -	* f	' ,	\ f •
•	-	~	' .	>	. '	-	~	'	’	-	;	w
524
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Terre H-aute, Ind.,
Conditional Examinations.
May 12, 1917.
Rev.Father Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,	.
President of the University,
’	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Father Cavanaugh:
I was very much pleased to receive your letter. Youwill be glad to learn that the reason the government did hot desire a Notre Dame Unit was on account of having in mind an army » of Notre Dame officers. Louis and his Indianapolis Notre Dame chums'have been accepted in the Officers’ Reserve Corps. They report to camp Monday. .
You would, appreciate very much the high standing of Notre* Dame from the Army standpoint if you had heard the complimentary remarks from the officer in charge at Indianapolis when the boys mentioned that they were from Notre Dame. I have had some correspondence with Adjutant-General McCain at Washington, and called his particular attention to all of the young men from Notre Dame who have entered the Officers’ Reserve Corps Training Camp as to their high standing in morals, sobriety and reliability, the three important requirements in young officers.	_
With kind regards, I remain,
"	Yours respectfully,
■ (Signed)—A.. C. Keifer.
—The debating teams of the Hoty Cross Literary and Debating Society again showed their superiority over the teams of Brown-~ son by winning both contests. The question debated this year was National Prohibition.
. On the evening of May 4th, the Holy Cross affirmative team composed of T. Duffy, A. Hope, and L. Ward, won by a two-to-one . decision from the Brownson negative team, composed of A. Slaggart, L. Struhall, and R.
. Gallaway. Rev. E. Burke, Mr. John Lemmer, and Mr. Oscar Dorwin were the judges. -The /second- debate, held on Thursday evening, May loth, in wliich J. Brennan, R. Switalski, and C. Palmer upheld the negative for Holy Cross against; S. . Meyers, F. Dent, and L. Finskityyho def ended the'affirmative for. Brown. ‘ son, resulted, in. a; unanimous decision for the .Holy Cross. In this debate Rev. J. Colentine, :. Rev. J McEihone, and Mr. Bernard Voll acted .. . as judges. For over a decade the Brownson and ' .7 ' Holy. Cross teams haye been meeting annually to ; ' testTheir debating abilities,	e. G- l. ;
Conditional Examinations for the first three quarters of this year will be held in the rooms in which the classes are regularly taught on the following davs: -	O v
subjects -Latin, Greek, French, German, Spanish..._____
History lb, II, III, VIL. Philosophy, Psychology, Logic, Ethics, etc......., Christian Doctrine....... Chemistry, Physics.......- Biology, Botany.......... Algebra, Analytics, Geometry, Calculus....... Political Science
' I,-III, IV, VI, etc....
TIME
.May 18, 4:00 P. M.
.‘.May 23, 4:00 P. M.
..May 24, 4:00 P. M.
.May 26,
.May 26,
4:00 P. M.
7:00 P. M.
2 :oo P. M.
4:00
P. M.
May 28; 4:00
.May 28, 4:00
P. M.
P. M.
Consult professors in regard to examinations not listed above. ..
Personals.
—Thomas J. Hoban, who has recently recovered from a serious operation, and Wm. J. Curley, Jr., former students, were visitors on the campus during the past week.
—John F. O’Brien (.Student ’o5-’o/) was a visitor at the University, during the week. He is now engaged in the automobile business, and lives at 816 29th St., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
—Oliver J. Tong, a student here abo.ut fifteen years ago, called at the University on Monday. Mr. Tong, whose home is in Minneapolis, is now Secretary of the Board of'Control, which has charge of the Court House and City Hall.	. •	,	,
'—Lawrence S. Highstone (LL. B., ’01), • familiarly known/ among the students of his day, as “ Sidgie, ” writes that he intends' to enter the Reserve Officers’ Training Camp at Fort Sheridah. Mr. Highstone, who has been making his home in St. Ignace, Michigan, since . his graduation, is1 one'of the oldest Notre Dame alumni to signify his .intention of entering the . summer camps, r.
—Dr. William J. Qnahan (LL. D., 1876) and Laetare Medalist, has recently presented to the library a valuable volume, “Sacred Books of the East;’’/ It is a rare edition, and is illustrated with -fac-si miles of ' old Chinees
*5
THE NOTREDAME SCHOLASTIC:
prints clone in the best style of the art. The contents comprise the Vedic Hymns, the Zend-Avesta, the Dhammapada, Selections from the Koran, and the Life of Buddha. The . latter, originally written in the Sanscrit, was translated into the Chinese in 420 A. D., and only recently into English. Part of the translation is the work of the celebrated Orientalist, Max Muller. ,
—William E- Bradbury (LL. B.,-’i6) has acquitted himself very creditably in his first appearance as an attorney in a big case. William, and Coke Lowe, assisted by J. A. MacHatton, were appointed to defend Thomas Wheeler Anderson, who was convicted on a serious charge. Concerning the work of Bradbury and Lowe, the Constitution of Robinson, Illinois, where the trial was held, says in part: “This was the maiden effort of Mr. Bradbury and Mr. Lowe in an important trial in a court of record, and the boys acquitted themselves with honor, although their client was convicted.' Public sentiment and -sympathy was all against Anderson, which is thoroughly exemplified by the fact that he was compelled to stay in jail one year awaiting trial, not being able to furnish bond. The boys, after studying his case, became convinced of his innocence and based their defense on that hypothesis. They handled the witnesses with the skill and acumen of veteran lawyers and their arguments to the jury were able, earnest and convincing, which is also demonstrated by the light punishment given in the verdict by the jury.”	F. s. F.
Athletic Notes. "
Chicago, 83; Notre: Dame:, 52.
In the first dual meet held, between the- two schools during this century the University of Chicago walloped x Notre Dame on Stagg Field, Saturday last 83 to 52. The- Notre Dame Athletic Guide is our authority for stating that May 20th, 1899, was the last time Chicago and Notre Dame had met in a dual on the track. Singularly Chicago won by almost1 the same margin on that occasion.
. Last Saturday Notre Dame was not at her best. Chicago has a well-balanced team composed of men who know how to fight and do. They won the Indoor Conference title last March. After conferring ever}'- honor upon the Maroons1 for their brilliant victory on the. first
5-5 ■ A A.
resumption of athletics with the G0I4 and Blue/ it would not be fair to the local team’that has fought its way through a long and strenuous A j ". -schedule to ignore certain facts that are often NST referred to as “extenuating circumstances.” A/ Surely defeat does not and victory could not N alter the following statements. First of all the L Rl team was unable to present its full strength.
Twenty-four hours before Captain Miller had AA: left for a training camp at Fort Benjamin yAAy; Harrison. The leader had been figured on for ’ A -points in the dashes, the quarter-mile, and the .. broad jump. McKenna heeded the call of war ’AA the'day of the meet, and Edgren was forced to „ IE remain at Notre Dame with/the baseball team, <A-’ -. leaving the track men minus two stars in the.	,A-
pole-vault. The war-ridden aggregation was	"I --
further crippled when Meehan was taken sick- ,?~A just before the meet, which made him groggy'. Ay; at the end of the mile-run and unable to enter _ the half-mile.	,	Al ? I
Kirkland, Bachman, and Vogel were the only A ’ A Notre Dame men to .finish'first .in their events.	AAl
Vogel sent the javelin sailing 166 feet, 9 inches. * /. .a Starrett came into his own by placing second in each of the hurdle races. He was not the least . - A A bit disturbed by a battery of cameras that were A AA j. bent'upon securing his picture for various . . AA Sunday editions. McGinnis missed first place • '/A. in the broad jump by three inches. Douglas, A'A after failing by a narrow margin to clear 5 feet, . 1 Ay 10 inches in the high jump -was forced to be .Ay contentjvith second place in that event. Kasper " y AT ran a fine race in the quarter, but seemed to have	’ A--
spent himself in the. half. Noonan again was < s 'A unlucky enough to be in third place right at the < -.. Aj heels of two Chicago men in the twa-mile race, - A which he travelled in /better than ten minutest’	A - . -
Mulligan finished a ver}7 close second. in the . . y rA 100-yafd dash, but tired, before reaching they .’ : AA A tape in the longer sprint. King got third in yy: the hundred, but came second in the two-	LAA
twenty. Kirkland won. the high hurdles and - A y was third in the lows. Bachman’s-total included y A A a first in the discus,, and second in both. the . A A shot-put and the hammer-throw. Meehan ran	.- AA
a game race in the mile,'but in his weakened a Aff condition could not cope with the fleet TeuneyTA ^ on the last straight-away.	- .	: 'AAA
Aside from the “fact that Notre Dame / did/TAAtA not, for reasons, mentioned above, put up the AAA fight she seemed capable, of the meet. / was a A ATI most pleasing one. To read Chicago -on: theyAA;Ay opposite side of “versus” more often in..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
future may be one of the important results of the meet. Notre Dame hopes so. Natural rivalry, geographical location, and .apparent equality of strength in the different branches of sport seem reasons enough why competition should be encouraged. ' The summary:
100 yard dash—Won by Feuerstein, Chicago; Mulligan, Notre Dame, second; King, Notre Dame, third. Time, no 1-5.	.
Pole vault—Fisher and Graham, Chicago, tied for first; Yeager, Notre Dame, third. Height, 11 feet, 3 inches.
Shot put—Won by Higgins, Chicago; Bachman, Notre Dame, second; Gorgas, Chicago, third. Distance, 43 feet, 8 inches.
One mile run—Won by Tenney, Chicago; Meehan,
Notre Dame, second; Angier, Chicago, third.
4:36.	.
220 yard run—Won by Feuerstein, Chicago; Notre Dame, second; Brinkman, Chicago, Time, :222-5.
Time,
King, third.
120 yard high hurdles—Won by Kirkland, Notre DameT^Starrett, Notre Dame, second; Bent, Chicago, third. Time, :i6 2-5.
Quarter mile run—Won bjr Clark, Chicago;; Kasper, Notre Dame, second; Greene, Chicago, third. Time, 152 2-5.	-	.	‘
High jump—Won by Fisher, Chicago; Douglas, Notre Dame, second; Coughlin, Notre Dame,--third. Height, 5 feet, 10 inches.
Half mile—Won by Clark, Chicago; Jones, Chicago, second; Kasper, Notre Dame, third. Time, 2:02 1-5.
Broad jump—Won by Feuerstein, Chicago; McGinnis, . Notre Dame, second; ' Graham, Chicago, third. Distance, 22 feet, 2 3-4 inches:	. '...
Hammer throw—Won by Brelos, Chicago; Bachman, Notre Dame, second; Traut, Chicago, third. Distance, 134 feet, 3 inches.	'
Discus throw—Won by Bachman,. Notre Dame; Gorgas, Chicago, second; Higgins, Chicago, third. Distance, 126 feety-10 inches.
• Two mile—Won by Otis, Chicago; .Powers, Chicago, - second; Noonan, Notre Dame, third.' Time, 9:58.1-5.
- 220 yard low hurdles-:—Won by Bent, Chicago;. ^ Starrett, Notre Dame, second; Kirkland, Notre Dame, third; Time, J25 3-5.	.	, '	-
Javelin, throw—Won by. Vogel, Notre Dame;
' Higgins, Chicago, second; Kirkland, Notre Dame; third. Distance, 166 feet, 9 inches.	.
Notre Dame, 12; M. A-. C
o.
The Michigan Aggies used three pitchers in a vain - attempt to stop the Notre Dame , batsmen on Saturday 2 last, and needed still another one. The local players were , engaged in a : hitting-bee, and. were: not to be denied, . while “Swede” Edgren had the Farmers; under ....	.	. . . ..
- perfect control throughout the. gome. .	St. .Mary’s. ?n:;s^	-
c -y : >	r	Father.: Provincial. . ..	.
As Coach Harper... was .m-Chicago-with the a, „ -	; A -x. '
-- =	.a,:'.V ''-. V ’ - . ; -Football.is.a very good:and exciting game, and can
1berhiigelyr enjoyed by-any one in. heavy boots if he is . Tde^lve^ Captain	. -A ;..
cold weather was not conducive to. good baseball, and the stands were nearly emptied at the close of'the game, the “bobbles” on the part of Notre Dame were few and did not count in the scoring.
Sjoberg and Myers led in hitting, each getting three bingles, and - each scoring four runs. Keenan, Wolf and Allison also had a good day with the stick, the former poling out a three-bagger the first time up. Edgre.a struck out
fourteen men,	and	contributed	a neat		single	
that drove in two runs. The box score					of	the
game follows:						
M. A. C„ (0)		-	' R	H	PO	A	E
Pratt, 2 b						0	I	1	4	0
Willman, cf				 0	0	2	0	0
Hannes, rf				 0	0	0	I	0
Fick, ss						  0	0	2	I	0
McWilliams, If....				 0	I	0	0	o-
Frimordig, lb				 0	0 .	12	I	0
Hood, 3b..—								t...	0	0	0	I	0
Oas, c					1	 0	I	5	2	0
Demond p	.					 0	I	0	3	0
Hinkle, p.					....		 0	0	0	0	0
Roonan, p.					  0	0	0	2	0
Totals..—		—				  0	4 '	.24	15	0
Notre Dame,	(12)	R	H	PO	A	E
Keenan, cf.___.			—			 1	2	I	- 0	0
Dubois, If				......			 0	I	0	-I	I
Allison, c.				2	‘ 1	9	4	0
Meyer, .ib...		—		-	4	3	9	I	0
.Sjoberg, rf.	.....	—				 4	3	6	0	0
Wolf, ss					.1	 0	2	2 -	I	0
Kline, 3b					 I	1	2	2	I
Spalding, 2b		—	A	 0	1	4	2	0
-Edgren, p							 0	0	0	IO	0
Totals.	.'.			.........	12	14	27.	2 1	- 2
M. A. C				0	0 0 0.0 0	0	0	0	0
*
Notre Dame.,—3 o o 004
Three-base hit—Keenan. Stolen bases—Kline, McWilliams. . Hit by . pitcher—-Spalding; Meyer. Struck "out—by Edgren, 12;. by Demond, .1; by-Roonan, 1. Double play—Wolf to Spalding to Meyer. Left on bases—M.' A. .C., 4; Notre Dame, 5. Passed ball— Oas. ‘Time of game;—2:15. Umpire—Schaefer.
.	.	'	.	c. w. c.
In the Old Days
x In the first volume of the Scholastic, which was published just an even half-century ago, we find among the many quaint and interesting items the following:
A.premium fdrthe.greatest quantity of nuts gathered by anyAne? young lady was offered to the pupils of
t

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Philodemics had their tenth regular debate last Tuesday evening, the subject for discussion being, Resolved, That the farmer is more beneficial to society than the mechanic.	'
‘ The following deserve honorable. mention in rhetoric: Denis Clark and George Dixon.	r
Christmas coining on Wednesday this year the three following days will be recreation days. Classes will recomraenqc on the Monday following.
The .seniors are reserving themselves for New Years eve. We say nothing of the midnight Mass at Notre Dame or of the music of Prof. Girac’s choir, led by Bro. Leopold on account of the Professor’s indisposition.
Our readers will regret'to hear of the demise of a highly respected denizen of Notre Dame.
Mr. Charles Dodge delivered, with appropriate feeling, the address of Spartacus. When his voice will have acquired greater volume, the pleasure of . hearing him will be greatly increased.
Dr. Cassidy.—This talented young' physician now practising in connection with Dr’. Meyers,- is, as most. of our readers are alreadj’ aware, the first “B. S. ” of Notre Dame.	.
Hereafter we shall give the exact date of the arrival - of each student, so that parents- may know the exact time of their arriving here and see whether or not thejr have loitered on the way. -
We would like exceedingly to make The Scholastic Year an illustrated paper, so far at least as to give the photographs of the intelligent, frank, cheerful-looking . students who are rapidly filling up the college halls and making the playgrounds resound with their merry. making, and rejoicing the hearts of the professors by their zeal and enthusiasm in class; we must content ourselves, however, with giving a list of their names.
All Communications intended for this paper should be addressed to Rev. N. H. Gillespie. ,
While the University .of Notre Dame is rejoicing in the attractions of the magnificent new bell lately ■ arrived from France’, St. Mary’s has to congratulate herself upon the acquisition of many little Belles from various quarters of the United States, whose fine tone— mental and moral, we mean, Mr. Editor—already -indicated by their modest and elegant deportment, will' be brought out, we trust, in the course of the year _
to come. .	.
Errata.—Scholastic Year, No. 13, page' 7th, 2d paragraph, 4th line; For prove, read prune; iith line: for proved and grateful, read pruned and grafted.
The First Arithmetic, under Prof. Ivers, is the most
orderly class in the. College. If people will not . believe :us, let them observe the excellent order kept in going to and from, class.	.
We, the members of the Mutual Base Ball .Club, ' - . gratefully-acknowledge the receipt of a very fine bat
• from Brother .Urban, our respected director • and
' prefect.	’/	/	'	\
- A _ Gymnastic Club is about to be • formed among, the Senior ‘ Students.. When the good-which such an institution can do is considered, we cannot but desire for it a prompt beginning; and success without end.'
Scents of Humor.
Yellow is the color of '	.
Every slacker’s flag.
“ Let the other fellow, do it. Let me stay at home and brag; Only fools will fight the Dutch Who never could fight very much.”
, * * - .
Those who are scoffing at the little ambulance corps . . should stop and think of Macaulay and Fenelon carry- .. ing “Bach” off the field of carnage—if they can.	—
* - -■ * * . -
/
U. ‘N. D., April 30.
Dear Father:	.
Guess you have already heard that Mr. Wilson has " declared war on Germany, or did the Donora papers get this bit of news yet—you know it only happened April 1st.	.	•	. ■
Of course I think it is the duty of every red-blooded American youth to respond to the call—so Lam writing , you to get your permission ■ to enlist. Here is the plan'we are to follow. We go to Indianapolis May 14th ” where they have a camp to show us how to be officers . the camp lasts 3 mos. and we are to get 100 dollars a mo. The students that go are to get all their credits -, for the remainder of the year just the same as if they ■ studied. Now there is the whole plan in a few words. ' ’ You understand I want to go awful bad, but I. don’t think I will be able to pass the physical exam on account of that elbow of mine and besides I never . was strong like other boys then I will never get my .. credits for .this last quarter for I’ve flunked my course. several times this -year and it wouldn’t be fair to you to be paying for something you don’t receive. I never was much of a soldier but I’i go if I get your permission: ’ I know this will break Mother’s heart, so you try to ' talk it over with her I’m sure you will never convince., her, but I’n case you do mail your permission when you ’ have time, we have 3 days left—so no need to hurry. ,
Yoflr loving sou Paul. .
P. S. Statistics have it that an officer’s life is only seven days.—P;	.	.
Son:
The' Answer. -
Donora, Mo.
' .	. May 4,
' Didn’t think it was in you. Your plan is a good one. / For once in your life I must say you are showing yourself :
to be a. son of your father. Mother is overjoyed. Before you go have your picture taken in uniform, so that, should you never return,.we can point to it with the pride we all feel in you. Now go out and-
knock.’em dead. Good-bye. Go J bless you.-
.	.	. Lovingly, Father.
The rector was just leaving the hall for town. - " ' “Did you drop a nickel in little Ben(gal)?” asked a student pointing to the familiar box in the corridor;// “Yes,” laughed-the rector, “I’m going to walk; down.”	'	"	_ /v
Returned the student, but not loud enough for the rector-to. get it: ./'	/ .	.	- . . .
“Oh, well, drop in anotiier nickel and don’t come
/back!”
J- J- s..- /
- '• -
■	428	TIiE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Book Review.
Ventx Sancte Spiritus. By Rev. Clem. M. Thuente, 0. P. The Mission Press, Techny, Illinois. P. 16, price 5 cents.
“A Timely Meditation for Priests and Religious is the sub-title to this useful pamphlet. A great deal of good thought is condensed into this little work, and few pages furnish suggestions for many good sermons on a rather neglected subject. It makes a plea for more of the spirit of the Holy Ghost which “we need so much in these days of cold materialism and religious indifference.” Father Thuente is a well-known missioner, and this booklet- should receive a generous welcome, especially from the many religious who have heard the excellent retreat sermons of the . eloquent author.
Old Students’ Hall.
'	Subscriptions to May 18, 1917.	■
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the • building committee:
•	.	$2000.00,
Samuel T. Murdock,' *86.
$1000.00
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, P. T. O’Sullivan, ’68; Right Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, '75; M. F. Healy, '82; John C. Shea, ’98; Clement C. Mitchell,’02; Byron V. Kanaley,'04; Daniel P. Murphy,’95; John P. Lauth, ’68; James D. Callery, ’73.
.	$500.00
Robert Sweeny,’03; C. A. Paquette,’90; Rev: John Dinnen,’65; Warren A. Cartier, ’87; Stephen B. Fleming, ’90; Thomas Hoban, '99; Angus D. McDonald, ’00; William A. Mclneray, ’01; Joseph M. Byrne, ’79; Cassius McDonald, ’04; William P. Breen, ’77; Student from Far West; Rev. I. E. McNamee,’09; C. C. Craig,'85; Frank E. Hering, ’9S; Peter P. McElligott, ’02; James J. Conway, '85; George Cooke, ’90; John Dowd, '99; G. T. Stanford, ’04.
$300.00
Frank N. Mass, ’77; William A. Walsh, ’95.
*	$250.00	-
Fred E- Murphy, ’93; John M. Flannigan, ’94; John H. Neeson, ’03; Joseph B. Naughton,’97; Peter Kuntz,’98; John H. Fendrich, ’84; John Eggeman, ’00; A. A. McDonell. '00; Eugene A. Delaney, '99; R. ’A. O’Hara, ’89; M. P. Hannin, '93.
.	$200.00
W. G. Uffendel, 'or; John O’Shea, '11; James F. Kennedy, ’94; Louis C. M. Reed, ’98; Francis O’Shaughnessy, '00; Joseph J. Sullivan,’02; G. A. Faratiaugh,’04; Robert Anderson, ’83; Joseph Lantry, ’07; Rev. F. J. VanAntwerp, ’14; L. J. Keach, ’oS; Rt.
‘ Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03; Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94; F. A. Kaul, '97; William Hoynes, ’77; Edwin J. Lynch, ’10; T. D. Mott, • ’95; F. Henry Wurzer, ’98; Paul R. Martin, ’13; Timothy V. Ansberry, ’93; John M. Quinlan, '04; Daniel Madden, ’06; Fred J. Kasper, '04; J. S. Corby. ’98; Thomas Steiner, ’99; John F. Cushing. ’06; Francis H. McKeever, ’04; Daniel V. Casey, ’93; Arthur B. Larkin, ’14; Edward Peil, ’14; L. C. Nash, ’00.
.	$150.00	'	.
Rev. Michael Shea, ’04; Ambrose O'Connell' '07; William Byrne, '95> James L. Tong, ’94; W. A. Draper, ’06; James E. Deery. ’09.
$120.00
Maximilian St. George, ’oS.
*	~	$100.00	. -
Oliver J. Tong,’73; Hermann C.R.Piper ’11; Rev. Edmund O’Connor, ’,94; J. L. Lamprey, ’03; Walter Joyce, ’07; George N. Johnson, ’95; William H. Boland, ’88; William J. Granfield, ’13; M. O. Burns, ’86; Rev. Michael Ryan, '95; William P. Higgins. '03; James Frederick Coll, ’89; George J. Hanhauser, ’01;' James.P.
' Fogarty, ’00; Rev. John B. McGrath, ’80; John F. Fennessey, ’99; Cyril J. Curran,'12; Ernest E. L. Hammer,’04; Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97; Edwin Wile, '74; Francis C. Schwab, ’02; Rupert F. Mills, *14;
. William H. McCarty,'99; Edward J. Glynn, ’11; Frank P. Crowley, ’09; Thomas B. Curry, ’14; James A. Curry, ’14; Harry V. Crum-
‘ ley, ’03; Harry. S. Cahill, ’08;. Walter V. Heekin, ’05; William McKenzie, ’88; Rev. Bernard P. Murray, Mark M. Foote, ’73; Patrjck J. Houlihan, ,’92; E. J. Maurus, ’93; Thomas J. Swantz, . ’04; H. G. Hogan, ’04; Harold P.- Fisher, 'c6; John B. Kanaley, ’ - *091 Jamefi F. Hines, ’09; John B. McMahon,.’09; Rev. John M. Byrne, ’00; J. H. Gormely, ’03; Thomas O’Neill, ’13; Robert E.,Proctor, ’04; . John F. O’Connell, ’13; Frank C. Walker, ’09; -. -Rev; Gilbert Jennings, ’08; George O'Brien, ’90; Vitus Jones, - -’02; W. A. Duffy. '08; Rev. J. H. Guendling, ’14; Fied C. Me--Queen, 'oo; - Charles' J. Stubbs, '88;. Rupert Donovan, ’08; Rev.
’’ Francis H. Gavisk, '14; .Rt. Rev.. Frank O'Brien, ’95; Frank
L. .McOsker. ,’72; Chai les E.Ruffing, ’85; James F.’ Foley, -’13;
-	-Rt. Rev. T. C. O’Reilly. ’09: Thomas J. Welch, '05; William ■- E. Cotter, ’13; John C. Tully, ’11; John F. O’Connor, ’72; T. P.
-	O’Sullivan, ’02; G. M. Kerndt, '82; Dr. Frank J. Powers, ’94;' . - .’-.Rev. John Talbot Smith, ,’07;. Daniel C. Dillon, ”04; Thomas- • _ C. Butler, *08; - Edward M. Kennedy, ’08; John J. Kennedy, -’09; ■-
Peter M. Ragan, ’92; James D. Barry, ’97; Fred L. Steers, 'ii; Walter Clements, '14; Edward J. Carlton, '16; Leonard M. Carroll, ’16; Luke L. Kelly, ’16; Frank E. Swift, ’16; C. P. Mottz, ’16; Samuel Ward Perrott, '16; Edward C.'Ryan, ’16; James Francis Odem, ’16; Emmett P. Mulholland, '16; Thomas A. Hayes, ’16; Frank J. Hiss, 'i6;‘_ Joseph J. McCaffery, ’16; Walter P. McCourt, ’16; M. J. McEniry, ’81; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, ’r5; James . F. O'Brien, ’13; Michael L. Fansler, ’04; -A. C. Fortin; 'or; Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05; M. H. Miller, ’10; William D. Jamieson, '05. Grover F. Miller, ’16; Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16; Edwin H.-Sommerer,’16; Joseph O’Sullivan,’16; Jacob E. Eckel,'16; Vincent Mooney, ’16; John T. Shea, ’06; Edward M. Schaack, ’93; Anton C. Stephan,’04; Dr. F. B. McCarty,”o7; Harry F. McDonagh,'10;
Charles W. Lahey, ’13; Adam J. Kasper, ’95; George W. Kasper. ■ ’95; Robert A. Kasper, '07; Charles Girsch, ’94; Gerald A. Fitz-bigbon, '07; John B. Fruechtl, ’04; Hugh J. Daly, ’12; Edward K. Delana, '13; Harry Cuitis, 'oS; Charles Cullinan, ’07; Daniel Cullinan, '07; Dr. W. P. Grady, ’99; Edgar Crilly, ’90; George S. Crilly, ’88; James V. Cunningham, ’07; M. H. Miller, ’10; Frank X. Cull, 'oS; Jesse E. Vera, ’10; Walter Duncan, ’12; James W. O’Hara, ’13; Joseph Collins, ’it; Dr. H. G. McCarty, ’12; James Dubbs, ’06; Raymond E. Skelly, ’n; William R. Ryan, ’11; William A. McKearney, ’oS; Maurice J. Breen. ’09; Raymond C. Langan, '93; Charles A. Grossart, ’96; Edward J. Rauch, ’95; William J. Mooney, Jr., ’14; John J. McShane, ’14; Henry A. Wim-berg, '96; Gerald S. Clements, ’14; John G. Wimberg, ’96: Philip B. O'Neill, '02; Elmo A. Funk, 'oS; Rev. J. C. Scullin, ’09; Oscar A. Fox, ’06; Dwight Cusick, ’12; Paul F. O’Brien, ’12; C. P. Somers, ’15; F. W. Durbin, '13; Arthur W. Ryan, ’13; E. H. Savord, ’12; Robert L. Fox, ’01; John McKeefrey, Harry J. Zimmer, '09; Owen Murphy, '13; Thomas A. Havican, '09; Jacob W. Kraus. '98: James Devlin, ’13; Thomas C. Hughes. ’09; A. W. Page. '03; John W. Ely, ’09; John McCague, ’12; Cleveland Alumnus, ’12: Joseph P. Shiels, ’00; George Attley, '10; William W. O’Brien, ’00; Charles M. Bryan,’97; Clement Ulatowski, ’11; John S. Corley, ’02; Joseph A. Martin, ’12; R. Newton McDowell, ’06; M. J. Ney, ’98; Otto Schmid, ’09; T. Paul McGannon, ’07; Poyn-telle Downing; ’14.
$75-0°	.
John W. Costello. ’12.	■ v
.	-	$60.00
Raymond T. Coffey, ’10.	'
S50.OO
Albert B. Oberst, ’06; Louis P. Chute, ’92; William Fish, '12;
J. Clovis Smith, ’14; Frank B. Cornell, 'oo; Rev. John Schopp, '94; A. J. Major,’86; Charles Vaughan, .’14; Stephen H. Herr, ’ro; J. N. Antoine, '70; Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09; Fred Stewart, ’12; Jay Lee, ’12; Albert F. Gushurst, '09; Edward P. Cleary, ’09; Rev. John J. Burke, .'S3; Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 'io; Rev. John P. Quinn, '83; Simon E. Twining, '13; J. V. Birder, ’r3; Cecil E. Birder, '14; M. Emmett Walter, ’15; Ralph Eberhart, ’02; Rev. John M. Gerenda, ’09; Timothy P. Galvin, ’16; Ray M. Humphreys, ’t6; Hugh E. Carroll, 'r6; Jesse C. Harper; Ronald S. O’Neill, ’14; Louis P. Hari, 'r6; Joseph D. Kovacs, ’16; Patrick.Maloney, ’r6; J. F. Delph, ’16; Hugh O’Donnell, 'r6; James Sanford, ’14; Ira W. Hurley, ’14; Emmett G. Lenihan, '15; Francis H. Hayes,- ’14; Raymond J. Kelly, 'r6; Ernest P. Lajoie, ’rs; Rev. P. J. Crawley, ’95; Arthur Pino, ’06; William Milroy, '13; Dr. Robert Frost, '02; Eustace Berry, ’03; A Friend from the South; Daniel Sliouvlin, '14;. R. B. McConlogue, ’09; Thomas J; Jones, ’03; Twomey M. Clifford, '13^ Cletus H. Kruyei, '12; Dalton B. Shrouds, '09; D. R. Sliouvlin, '09; P. W. Purcell, ’12; Carmo F. Dixon, ’09;. Joseph P. O’Reilly, ’03; W. B. Helmkamp. ' '11; Rev. M. T. Griffin, ’04; Robert E.' Daly, '15; Ray J.Dasch-bach, ’04; M. P. Clinton. Jr., '08; Matthew A. Campbell. '06;	*
Dr. L. G. Duan. ’04; Dr. Joseph Kearney, ’94; Thomas D. Quigley, ’12; Dr. John M. Lilly. '01; Robert C. Newton, ’89; Rev. Wm. D.
Hickey, ’14; Martin O’Shaughnessy, ’00.	.
'	$40.00	t
V. E. Morrison, '89; Gerald N. Krost, ’04; Stephen A. Fazekas. .	$25.00
John M. Culligan, ’15; Joseph M. DeLone, ’02; Simeon T. Flanagan, ’14; W. B. McLain, ’04; Lawrence Janszen, ’09; Rev. A. A. Lambing, '83; James M: Riddle, ’13; Henry Hess, '82; Dr. ’ E. M.-McKee, ’06; Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13; Rev. John H.
Mullin, ’11; I. N. Mitchell, Sr.. ’92; Frederick Williams. ’13; Rev.	,
Joseph Toth, ’11; Joseph M. Walsh, ’14; Max Adler, '89; John G.	.
Mott, ’95; Rev. T. O. Maguire. ’09; Paul J. Smith, ’16; C. I..	.
Krajewski, ’16;. Joseph P. Flynn, ’16; John P. Conboy, ’16; W. W. Turner, '16; Alfred Fries, ’16; J. A. McCarthy, '16; J. Harry Sylvestre, ’16; Harold P. Burke, '16; Peter C. Yearns, ’16; Fred M. Pralatowski,’16; Francis J. Kilkenny,'12; Edward L. Figel, ’ 1 i; . Thomas J. Dooley, '97; Mark A. Devine, ’10; Daniel E. Coney, '10; Fremont'Arnfield, ’12; W. W. Harless, ’86; Edward J. Walsh, '00; Thomas Curran, ’16; D. D. Myers, Jr., '00; Dennis Moran, '14;..Leo F. Welch, ’12; Ralph A. Reitz,'14; Lawrence Luken, ’02;' 'William L Beckham, ’ir; Frank C. O’Rourke, '12; Martin Hena-'-han,’15; Robert J. Dederich,’09; Carl K. Roelands,'06; Clarence W. May. ’06; J. S.-Cangney, ’12;-George Rudge, ’74; Rev. Patrick A.. Barry, ’’12; William B. .Akin, *88; J. V. Sullivan, '97;. Rev.
William J; Dames; George A. Lynch, ’13.	-	-
. $20.00	.
Gabriel Davezac, ’94;- James R. Devitt, ’13; Albert A. Glockner ’16; Julius M. Hack, '92; G. D. McDonald. ’16.	*
*	. ‘ - $15.00 .	■	' ’
Bernard Durch, ’13.	_	.	.
"	'	.	■ $10.00 -	.	"	’ '
- P. J. O’Connell, ’73; Paul T. Markey, '08; Edward J. Markey, ’06; Alfred Vignos, ’95; Andrew L. Shimp, ’91; Frank Niedecke, ^09; Harry Kirk, .’13; Louis Chute,’92; J. J. Deasey,’06; H. King, \ ’16; James E. Roach,-'16; J. E.-Hogan, '16; Frank Maher,’02;	.
Frank W. Bloom, ’84; George F. Pulskamp, '96; Joseph-J. Hinde, -’09; John A. Sawkins,’13; Bernard Bannon, ’07; LeGrand Ham- ' ihond, ’13;	.	'	’	- '	.
S ' M $5-0° ’	-	'
Robert D. Murphy, ’01; Mark Duncan, ’15; Hiram Halliday,'06;
Claude S. Moss, ’95; John Bell, ’o8;'-P. M.’ OMeara, ’09; A. I. -Strickfaden; A. K Grimes,''14. . _	—	...	'
"< -,
