
. -,.._ 
. •· : 
. '~ 
\ ... 


January 24, 1975 Notre Dame, Ind. Volume 116, No. 8 
1974 IRISH FOOTBALL REVIEW 
4 Introduction 28 Air Force 
6 Georgia Tech 30 USC 
8 Northwestern 33 Statistics 10 Purdue 36 The Era of Ara 
12 The Four Horsemen 38 Trip to Miami 14 Michigan State 40 Orange Bowl: Alabama 
Key to back cover: 1) Al Sani~el, 2) Steve 
16 Rice 42 From the Sidelines · 
Sylvester, 3) Ron Goodman, 4) Mike Fanning, 
5) Drew Mahalic, 6) Toni Clements, 7) Reggie 
18 Army 45 Prognosis '75
Barnett, 8) Greg Collins, 9) Pete Demmerle, . 10) Steve Neece, 11) Wayne Bullock, 12) 
20 Halftime 48 The View from·Across 
Gerry DiNardo, 13) Mark Brenneman, 14) Kevin Nosbusch, 15) Eric Penick. the Road
.22 Miami 50 The Last Word
24 Navy 
26 Pitt 
.111111.11,11
The· opinions expresse"<i ln the SCHOLASTIC · are ·those of the authors:and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent 
. Scholastic Editor: James Gresser the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, 
Football Review Editor: Bill Delaney-its administration, faculty or the student body. · .Second class postage paid aLNotre Dame, 
Art Director: Bill Weyland
Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National .Educational Production Manager: John Phelan Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly 
_Assistant Art Director: Little Tommy Waldoch· during the school year except during vacation 
Game Writers: Bill Delaney, Rich Odioso, Peggy Lawlor Donaldson, Greggand examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC Bangs, Eileen O'Grady, Kathi Paterno, Gary Caruso
is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, -Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 
Staff: Annemarie Sullivan, Mike Karels, --Steve Slater, Dave Beno, .Tara Carey, · a year and back numbers are available from Mark Luppino, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Kathy McElroy, Dan Lombardi,
the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu­Bob Gilroy. · · ·· -· scripts .to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre·Dame, Ind;-_ 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the Credits: Photography by Ed Brower, Chris Smith, ·John Dlugolecki, Zenon · property of the SCHOLASTIC. Bidzinski, Harry Bush, Paul Joyce / Artwork by Weyland, Tom Paulius, Bob copyright ID 1975 Scholastic / all rights Zanot, Louise Karas. · · reserved / none of the contents may be re­
Special. th.anks to Bob Best for permission to reprint his article on the Four
produced wi_thout permission. 
H~rsemen, which appeared_ in the Notre Dame Football Program. 


The First Word: Memories Forever, I'~, Promises to Come 
It ended is the same fashion as it had begun­
with weeknight wins on warm Southern nights. Yet 
between the romp against Georgia Tech and the 
squeaker with Alabama, the air of controversy around 
Notre Dame Football never quieted. · 
The idea of controversy and suspicion began Janu­
ary 1, 1974-a few hours after the Irish's astonishing 
victory in the Sugar Bowl.. Immediately following the 
reaction to the win, all attention was focused upon the• 
ability of Ara to pull it off again. An entire starting 
backfield, a rugged defensive backfield and a solid of­
fensive line would make many coaches very happy. Ara 
certainly was. "We've got a solid nucleus to build 
upon, and with a few breaks, we should have a good 
season," said the man at the beginning of the winter­
conditioning program. 
But then things started to· happen. 
Spring drills didn't seem to be heading the way Ara 
and his staff hoped they would. Little aches and bruises 
began to take their. toll. The offense looked sluggish. 
The kicking game was totally lacking. 
Then Eric got hurt. 
It happened the week before the Blue-Gold game. 
The diagnosis was a broken bone in Penick's lower leg, 
and torn ligaments in the ankle. Two months' rest away 
from contact would supposedly heal Eric's injury. · 
Summer vacation didn't turn out to be a time of . 
rest and relaxation for the Football Program. Tim 
Simon lost the sight in his eye in a freak accident while 
at home. Steve Quehl was almost killed when his trac­
tor-trailer cap exploded on the Ohio Turnpike. He wound 
up with his leg broken in more than a dozen places. 
And this was only the beginning. 
Nothing further needs to be said about the suspen­
sion of the six players during the summer-enough has · 
been revealed by the University and the six athletes. · The vultures of .the press have postulated so many the­ories that both the combined departments of psycho!­
ogy and philosophy at Notri;Dame would have to spend at least two years in analyzing them..The verdict of a year's suspension with the charice for readmittance was the best Ara could do for the six. "If Ara hadn't inter­vened, there W?-S no way those kids were going to get back in," commented Assistant Coach George· Blanche,., who was the liaison between the six and the University; 
Fall football brought about another occurrence when "things started to happen." Every journalist; 
. alumni, teacher and fan came to South Bend wishing Ara the best in the months ahead~ There weren'.t enough hours in the day for the interviews Ara, his staff, and the team had to bear. 
The pressures off the field brought casualties at the beginning of contact drills. Simon decided .he could play with one eye, but a knee injury brought hi~ sopho­
. more year to an abrupt end on the first· day of 'contact~ Bob Zanot (who drew. the. back cover of this review) also got a knee injury, this time-in the first scrimmage in the stadium. Although walking out' under his own power, the injury was more· serious than he. thought, and surgery made Reggie Barnett the· Ione returnee in the defensive backfield. There were some bright spots during those dark times.. John . Dubenetzky. and Randy .Payne emerged from nowhere into starting positions in the defensive backfield. Al Wujciak stepped into Frank Pomarico's old spot, and the offensive line was set.· Collins, Mahalic and· Sherm Smith as linebackers brought a· sense of hard work and . determination : which was about ,to . 
pay off;·. · · Yet there were still the critics.· . I don't want to r~view the games, for there~ are some twenty-six pages · devoted to that. What is im­portant, however, is to point out the various moods on· this unique team that·were present for the season>So .. much has been advanced on this. subject that it is about time something was said about it. 
Georgia Tech and Northwestern meant a reduction This now leads to the Orange Bowl. 
· of the pressures surrounding them for the four weeks Ah, Miami. The girls, water and fun times. Bear, leading up to the opener. The _slaughter with North­... remembrances of the Orange Bowl debacle, motor­western left the team extremely loose for the Purdue . cycles _and sunburns. But most importantly, Ara's game. swan song. This was his last"game, and no one on that -­
eighty-four-man traveling squad .was going to let AraEnough has been said about Purdue; the loss left leave as a loser. The victory not only represented a .
the ·team stunned. Eight minutes was all that ·was doubling of last year's winning margin, but also re­needed to destroy the h~pes for a second consecutive sulted in the loss of a few additional hairs to an oldundefeated season. 
grizzly who'd lost his seventh consecutive bowl game.Michigan State and Rice were commonly referred to 
There were many other memories about the season, as the "Wayne Bullock Show." Bullock's record-carry­
now some twenty days behind us. Going to practically
ing performance with State and his touchdown in the 
every practice, rain or shine. Telling some wild stories final drive versus Rice brought out his value in the 
to the profs to get out of classes. Jogging with Colonel Irish attack: . · . . . ' 

Jack. Consistent hazing by the other _kid-Bob Best. 
-Navy_::_supposedly one of the weaker breathers on from Sports Information. Discussing the disadvantages our schedule:--:--:--presented the secondlargest mystery of of pro ball with Mark Brenneman (who is coming ba~k 
•••• -· -~ • • • • • > • , •• 
the season .. : Shut out for over three quarters, every to Notre Dame this semester). Irish drive ended in frustration. Clements and,company ..... _ Talks with the man. Parseghian is _such a complex pulied 'it.out, howev~r, but six points is hardlyjrstrong i;:fu,n that_ it's.impossible to begin describing him. One show o·f authority against Navy. ··. ·· .· ,t,;}t'./_;,t~;:,.,· ['1J!i~ng is true: if·you take an interest in his. program, 
·P'tt b ht.··. b f · • . ft h;:t::h· }p':'T ~ /\!!}~mhe''l take an interest in you. We took an intere~t 
~ -roug .a· num er -0 worries a ~£;t,'"' (k,,_:JM!1, !f)ii::him; and he certainly helped us. . . •·-· . thers . second-stnng quarterbackkept them m ,the game.,,,,,._,_""'.r•_-1 ·Ab t h 1-· A 1 t f th. t. d fl •t 1 d d ·t 
. . . . . r·-,., ,.-:r•-;•,l'/•ii,:: _ou ep. o o a was e meynee e o
Agam the Irish pulled.it out, and the-bombardmentof ,,:;::.,, k h' . 'bl Pl d 1
A. ·F ·· -d · ,, t.h : f th· 1.•:·:-,,.,·-.1 thh"···'•·•f.;,;cma ertiit is magazine possi e. ans starte ast sum­
ir orcema e.up.a.or epamso eprev1ous ree,>YI/'x,<.•·''"'"·· . . . ­outin s . : . . . . .: . P_-::?_:_'.•~_.,_,, . ~f-•cr"•:_,_-_••;,_}:W_._·_E!m~_,_tr_,.-._ g__nes Beach fo.r th.e review. Col_or was·_thrown 
. g . . . . . . . . f><~-I t:f::' ·,;/around and through the help of Father Dave Schlaver, · Suspensions, 'injuries ·and extraordinary~t'ensio@;,{f 'fr"'\.vJhi[thtough. ; Father Dave put up one tired sports 
. • • . -• •~--~-.. ·<· 1,:•..,::,:•·11~--~-,...,.-, . 
always part of the ga~e, t?ok ·their toll throughr~!::'.< editotJ!f~outhern Cal, and his help throughout the the season. Sherm Smith with knee surgery was lo~t< : year :tias made the review possible. . · for ,the_ season._ Brenneman was constantly pickingl~tG , . 0-'~tk)wbe forgotten when talking about aid is the . bu~ps and brmses, but he always played. Bullo_ck hat!_c~-:J}Spholai!Jic staff itself. We've tried many new things painful sh_ou_lder, bad back, swollen ankles, and a spr.e-this-year, and without the support of editor Jim · big -~~e. _,._ · · Gresser, many of· these ideas would never have been 
, The Art Best story also mirrored the Notre Dame realized. · blues. A broken jaw i~ _the Georgia.:;rech game put A review wouldn't be a review without pictures; and Arthur out for three weeks. Comebacks for the most in this case we were fortunate to ·have Ed· Brower ·as part leave many disappointed, and in this instance Best's photo· _editor and Bill Weyland as art director. 'Little performances left a lot to be desired. Gainixig a total of Ed and· Bill did their best to present a·pictorial as well 241 yards for seven· games was quite aco.medown from as written interpretation of the football yeiir, and their his· freshman and sophomore years, but .Art saw.·it efforts are in the review. through; as did Ara. · · ·· -· · .-Many thanks aisc:> to Roger Valdiserri and his staff 
over at Sports Information for their valuable assistance 
Ara Parseghian's resignation left the Notre Dame 
. throughout the season, Athletic Director Ed "Moose"comm.unity in• a sort of shock; Sure, the season had a 

Krause and Col. Ja.ck Stephens for their support and
lot of bad moments, but Ara's bombshell on December their help in the Southern Cal excursion, and· to Father 15 appeared to cap off tpe weirdest three. months of 

Joyce for .his approval of the SC trip. With a' group
Notre Dame football.·' · 

like this, working on the review was a much easier task. 
Which, of course, followed the USC debacle (or the And finally to you, the readers. Together with Ed Anthony Davis Show. Il): Where could' ·you see An­Sanna and his staff at Ave Maria Press, we've created th.ony Davi~ do 101 things· with' a football; and. stili a review that you'll hopefully enjoy; ·It took a long score four touchdowns? 55~24 seems like the halftime time. to do, but it was _the greatest experience in my score between the Knicks a~d Nets, but it was the·final life. I just hope you'll enjoy our effort-the 1974 Irish 
outcome of a game that stood 24-6 in the favor of the Football Review, · · · visitors some thirty minutes before the final gun. · -Bill Delaney 


GEORGIA TECH 

Season-opening games have the habit of . either 
showing. fans· that your program is on the way up, or 
reaffirming that continued success is in the offing. For 
the; Yellowjackets of Georgia Tech, -the' former -best fit 
their situation September' g; ·Concerning the· latter, 
continued success was only a small consideration of . 
Notre Dame's promise for the· '74 season as Defending 
National Champions. · · · · ' · · 

· -There were many factors surrounding. this encounter 
with· Georgia Tech· far different and complex from those -' 
of previous opening games.· Not only was this Notre 
Dame's first defense·of their title as National Champs, 
butthis was also F. C. Rodgers' inaugural as head coach 
of Tech. ·After ·stints at Florida, Kansas and UCLA, 
Pepper Rodger~ (Tech: class ,·of '55) was lured back-to 
the olci home grounds. -(or. stamping grounds if you
choose) ofAtlanta'... . . . , ·.. . . . . . 

.. Billed as the "Sayior ·of the South" Rodgers was the 
l'shining white knight" . hoping to slay the ·"menaci~g · dragons," ·including Pitt, Georgia and South.Carolina. Pepper brought back to Tech the ideas of . winning in the old style Yellow-jacket fans were used· to, leading thenifofarmore victories than even Sherman amassed . . He promised a winner in Atlanta this season.· And the 
people believed;. . . _ :Notre Danie· was to be his baptism.·.· The first series of Notre Dame's. 1974 sea.son pro­. duced · a touchdown; unfortunately, :the points on the Grant Field scoreboard flashed on the hoine team's side: . 
Rudy. Allen's toss to'Jimmy·Robinson ·covered• the. final 
eight yards :of the 68-yard drive, leaving the Irish; as 
well as the:American public, aniazed at the audacity of 
the Yellowjackets: . . Notre Dame• wasn't about to panic down in Georgia 
• __ · • • • 

on this fine evening-,-Heisman Trophy Candidate Clem­
ents ai:id ·company were about to flex· their' muscles.for 
their final . season's -opener. Covering _fourteen yarcls 
·after :brew.Mahalic's fumble-recovery, Wayne Bullock's 
plunge gave -the:the,Irish their first points of the very
• • . ~ • . . ·. : . . . . . . . • . ···_ ! 

young season. Dave Reeve's 22-yard field goal and a seven-yard pass play from Clements to Demmerle capped the scoring in a very strange starting, but ex­ceptionally . mechanically ending the first half for the Irish. . 
Clements and Buiic>ck started the first second half with a 54-yard drive, only' to .end with a Clements intended aerial to.Demmerlefalling short at the Yellow­jacket 15. Tech's hopes of turning the momentum some-.. how fell short as Stock, C:ollins· a~d crew. manhandled every play sent in by Rodgers. Due to that pressure, Tech was able to make their longest play of the game-a 53-yard quick kick. Bullock took command.of the situ~ ation and his one-yard ·dive over Al Wujciak gave the Irish another six. . . . . 
. Ai Samuel ended the scoring festivities at Grant Field with an'eight-yard sweep around right end.. As the seconds ticked away, the outcome was very distinct: Ara arid -his boys had the firepower Pepper and his Rebels didn't. Just as in the Civil War, the South. stung, in.the beginning, but settled'down to the corn pone in the end-Notre Dame 31, Tech 7. , .. 
. For the victors,.the.win ended four weeks of practice and frustrations~suspensioris,. injuries and the pressures of being number one were building 'up since the begin­ning·of fall practice. ABC's $2.5 million offer moving the· game from the originalNovember date to this. September night, Ara's daughter's wedding, and the · personal anguish Parseghian suffered defending the six suspended players made the ·Tech· meeting take on a special notoriety. Through this ·victory many of the pressures of the past were able to be abandoned, and the habit of winning football games -would be the major priority now. · · 
.As ·for the team, .the dominance Notre Dame dis­played can be supported by looking at the statistics: after GT's . touchdown, Notre. Dame's defense shut off Tech's offense to 106 yards for the remainder of .the evening. Clements showed no f;igns of the eight-month layoff, hitting on 10 of 14 attemp!s, good for 170 yards~ Bullock's performance needs· no.· description; he was. there when he was needed. · · · · 
With victory often comes disappointment, as the saying goes. The loss of. senior linebacker Sherm Smith due to torn ligaments shelved him for the season. Art Best's broken jaw wiped out Notre Dame's speed for at least three weeks, putting increased pressures on Bul­
lock, Goodman and Samuel. . . . . For the Yellowjackets (the longest" nickname of our opponents ·this s~ason), perhaps ·the p<>stgame locker-
room remark by a mild (but gracious) Pepper summed 

up Tech's feeling about playing Notre Danie. "Now, ­
don't give me. the credit of scheduling Notre Dame," · drawled Rodgers. "Hell, man, I never scheduled them, I riever would have, and besides that, I'd hate to play 
them when we should've-in November." 
The victory marked the eleventh consecutive season~ 
opening victory (starting with Ara's first year at Notre 
Dame), but more importantly, the Georgia Tech en.:. 
counter represented the second defense as National 
Champs under Ara. "It was a good way to start a 
season," remarked the man beginning his eleventh 
year as head coach at Notre Dame. l'But there are still 
ten more games remaining on our schedule; and we've 
just finished the first." But ~hat away to start. 


_BpIIock Explains How He Does It 
Notre·.Dame ........................ : .. Georgia Tech ...'....... : .. : ... ,: ..... ·  7 7  10 0  7 o  . 7-31 ·o-7  
Scaringi . . GT: Allen to Robinson, 8 yards (Smith k.ND: Bullock, 2-yarci run (Reeve kick). ND: Reeve, 23-yard field goal. . . .  . ick).  

ND:,Clements to Demmerle, 7 yards (Reeve kick). ND: Bullock; 1-yard run (Reeve kick).· ND: Samuel, 8-yard run (Reeve kick).·. 




NORTHWESTERN 
As in the · opener .with Georgia Tech, the Irish , stumbled and fumbled around in the early going before powering past outmaimed Northwestern 49-3 in the' Wildcats' Dyche Stadium~ Despite turning the ball over four tinies in the first half the Irish still led 14-3 at iritermis­sion. Notre Dame then: playe«r as expected in the second half scoring five touchdowns to.assure the win. 

After· each team had turned .the ball . over, the Irish put. together a 76-yard, 14-play drive midway· through the first quarter. Passes by Clements to Demmerle and Russ Kornman moved·· the Irish· to ·.the Wildcat 23. On fourth down, cielll:­
ents hit_· Demmerle. ·again .·· for · 21 . . career,. rushing. for · 44 yards ·. and yards and a firsLdown at the North-. passing for 139. Of his eight pass · 
western 2. · Kornman picked up the . touchdown, running off left guard on the next play. . .. -· 
The game turned into a kicldng 

duel until Ron Goodman' muffed a Randy . Dean punt early in. the sec­ond ·quarter.. The ·Irish.. defense,.. which limited the Wildcats. to just one yard rushing in tlie first. half, rose to the occasion and the Wild~ ·cats.missed a 32-yard field goal try.· 
The Irish could not move after · 
the miss and Tony.Brantley shanked a 17-yard punt. Here the Wildcats .mounted their. best offense of the day picking up two first downs be­for Notre Dame stiffened. This-time 
.Jim Blazevich's 27-yard field goal .. 
was good, and Northwestern had · · their first points against Notre Dame 
in 12 quarters. 
Stung by the field goal, the Irish roared back for their second touch­down. Al Samuel returned the kick­off 27 yards and, with a 15-yard per­sonal foul penalty on the Wildcats, Notre Dame took over near mid­field. It took Clements eight plays to direct the Irish the remaining 54 yards. On the first play, 'the Clements-to-Demmerle combination teamed up for 15 yards and twice thereafter Clements would scamper for first downs. After Clements 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

. carried to a first and· goal Bullock leaped the.final yard for the score. . 
Notre.. Dame threatened again with their final possel?sion • of the half. · Clements and Bullock were 
· the key figures as Notre Dame moved to the Wildcat 15, but a clipping penaity set the Irish back and a last-second aerial was picked 
. off in the end zone. . .. The Irish had outgained North­western 257 to 58 and had twelve 
. first downs to the Wildcats three at the half. Three lost fumbles and an interception, however, limited Notre· Dame to the 14-3 lead. In the first 
• thirty_minutes Tom Clements played some of the best football of his 
completions five wereto Pete Dem­merle. Meanwhile the Notre Danie pass rush had been harassing Wild~ 

cat · quarterback Mitch Anderson. With no time to throw long, Ander­son . was forced to . rely on short yardage swing passes. Anderson was . sacked twice, and tlie only time he did throw long, Reggie Barnett made a fine interception. 
· Wildcats to reach· the N orthweste'rn 
14. At' tha:t' point Clements lobbed a pass that Robin Weber reached over his-shoulder · and held onto long · enough to record his only touch­down of the season; .. 
The Irish dominated the second half.on both the field and the score­board. · Ron Goodman broke the game .open four plays into the sec­ond half racing around right end, flashing 62 yards for a · touchdown. Goodman's ·run would prove to. be . Notre. _Dame's longest scoring. play 
of the season. 
. An interception foiled Notre 
Dame's next possession, but when 
Northwestern took over, Kevin Nos­
busch sacked Anderson for the · sec­
. , . ' -. . . ond time. In the · process Ander­son's shoulder 'was separated and the Wildcats lost whatever . chance they_ had of winning the: game. Notre Dame powered out 78 yards in _10· plays for. their next touch-J down; making .it 28-3 midway through the third quarter.. On the drive, .the Irish used short passes, the power running of Bullock and a key personai foul peJlalty · on the 
Northwestern fumbled on the sec­
ond play following the kickoff and 
Steve Niehaus recovered putting the 
Irish in business at the Wildcat 26. 
The Irish eventua~ly punched it in al­
though it took eleven plays and over 
four minutes to move · 26 yards. 
Frank Allocco, who replaced Clem­
ents midway through the possession, . 
scored the touchdown on his third 
try from the one-yard line with fif. 
teen seconds left in the period. 
The Notre Dame second and third­
stringers riioved through the Wild­
cats for the game's final two touch­
downs in the fourth period. With 
Rick Slager directing the attack, 
halfbacks Mark McLane and Terry 
Eurick, ·an_d tight end Ken MacAfee · 
were impressive in the first extended 
action of their careers: Notre Dame 
scored in the fourth period with an 
eleven-yard, tackle-shredding run by 
McLane and a two-yard plunge by 
Eurick, accounting for Notre Dame's 
final fourteen :points. 
Clements, playing under the added 
pressure of knowing he would be the 
cover subject of the next week's 
"Sports Illustrated," finished with 
13 of 23 passes for 182 yards. "Our 
running game wasn't working well 
in the first half, that's why we were 
throwing inore," commented Clem­
ents after the game, "I think I'm 
throwing a little better this year 
.

because I have more experience, my 
arm's a little stronger and I'm more 
confident." 
Demmerle, who caught seven of 
the 13 completions, agreed with his 
quarterback, "We're throwing more 
because our backfield is somewhat 
depleted and when Tom does throw 
he's sure of himself." 
Losing Coach John Pont was im­
pressed with Notre Dame, main­
taining, "They're as good as they 
were last year even though they are 
young at certain positions." Ara 
Parseghian was pleased with the 
play of one of the young positions 
since, "this was the first time our 
young secondary has gone against a 
good passing attack, and based on 
my concern, I'm well satisfied with 
the defensive·. secondary's perfor­. mance." Making life easier for the inex­perienced secondary was the play of the front four. Although Drew Mahalic and Marvin Russell led the team in tackles, the key players were defensive tackles Nosbusch and Mike 
JANUARY 24, 1975 

Fanning who made the middle ·im~ penetrable against the run and, ha­rassed the Wildcat passers through­out the contest. 
Parseghian reported thathe urged the team to play better in the second half to make up for all the first half mistakes. Orie week later he would have to make a similar plea at half­time against Purdue. 
Notre Dame ......  7  7  21  14-49  
Northwestern  _  0  3  0  0-3  
Scoring:  

ND: Kornman, 2-yard run ( Reeve kick). NU: Blazevich, 27-yard field goal. ND: Bullock, 1-yard run (Reeve kick) . ND: Goodman, 62-yard run (Reeve 
kick). . , . ND: Clements to Weber, 14 yards 
(Reeve kick). ND Allocco; 1-yard run (Reeve kick). ND McLane, 11-yard run ( Reeve kick). ND Eurick,_2-yard run (Reeve kick). 
,9 

found Bullock in Purdue's end zone, and Purdue's lead . was cut to seventeen. . . . · The remainder of, the second qtiarte~ saw the Irish 

PURDUE 
Eight minutes make up about one-seventh of a fciot­
ball game. Take away. those eight minutes and you 
would cause a forfeit. Perhaps Notre Dame would take. 
that forfeit after the first eight minutes with Purdue. 
For within th_e first eight minutes of the forty-sixth 
reunion with theBoilermakers, twenty-one points were 
scored by the visitors. Two fumble recoveries and an· 
interception put those twenty-one points on.the score­
board for the nation to see. Only· eleven· plays were 
needed for Purdue to-carry off that seemingly impos­
sible task, and when the smoke cleared at the stadium, 
Notre Dame was on the wrong side of a 21-0 lead. ­
It all started on the second play of the game: 
Clements' pitchout to Al Samuel was bobbled, and Rick 
Oliver pounced on .the bouncing ball on.. the Irish 32. 
Purdue quarterback -Mike Terrizzi_then led his -team 
toward the Irish goal, with his pass to Mike Burton 
bringing the ball down to the seven. Three plays later; 
Terrizzi kept, and swept around right end for the first 
points of the gaine. Only 3:30 elapsed on the clock. ­
Following the kickoff, the Irish stumbled, fumbied, 
and punted. Two unsuccessful plays_ led up to Pete 
Gros' slam over left tackle, good for 52 yards and the 
touchdown. _Blowing over -the number-one . defensive 
team in the country was an easy task during these first ' 
eight minutes, as many of the defensive starters would 
admit later. _''God, it happened so fast," ,was the only 
response Steve Niehaus could say about those-eight 
minutes. "I still can't believe it happened." · · 
But more was to come. After the ensuing kickoff, Clements' intended aerial to Demmerle was picked off by Bob Manella. Instead of just waiting there fo be · tackled, Manella took off and scored. Purdue now-had a · comfortable lead of 21 points. And :there :were still seven minutes left in the first quarter. Half of ·the first quarter was gone, and Notre Dame ran only eight plays during that period. Comeback time for Notre Dame was definitely now. . . _: · _ -__· 
Notre Dame's drive stalled once again on this rainy afternoon. Clements' inability in moving the ball-was again evident, with a two~yard loss on a keeper stalling yet another drive. Brantley got off a twenty-yard punt, giving Purdue the ball on their· own thirty. Terrizzi drove down to the Irish 31 in eight plays, creating a 47­yard field goal opportunity for Steve Schmidt ..His kick was good, and the Boilermaker margin of victory was upped to 24 . 
. Bullock finally got untracked, and the "Train" was rolling again during the first drive of the second quar­ter. Clements to Demmerle for fifteen, Bullock for ten, and-Clements to Demmerle again for thirteen set the stage for ~otre Dame's first score of the dark and dreary afternoon. Four minutes into the second quarter 
try to make a comeback, •but penalties,. interceptions and missed blocks wiped out any chance of catching up. On the final drive before the half, Clements passes to Weber, Goodman and Demmerle forty yards. to the Purdue 32. Samuel's dash for'six kept the drive alive, but Kornman's failure to gain and an incompletion set the scene for a fourth-and-four from the sixteen~ Clem_­ents' sneak came up a yard-short on· the try, and Purdue took control of the ball again with 21 seconds left before the half. . · · · · 
The fifteen-minute intermission ,afforded Ara .the opportunity to try to do something posUive· in the re­maining thirty minutes. The statistics. were certainly deceivingabout the points on the stadium's ·scoreboard~ 

· Outgaining the Boilermakers in total yards· 208-168, ,in first downs 13-8 and ·~umber of possessions 8-6, the Irish only lacked the proper nuinber. of points. How­ever, they were where they belonged--.:.On the side which 
said PURDUE.· . -. Notre Dame's defense p~vided the first_scorin~ op­portunity in the second half .with their hard hitting across the line. Greg Collins was the one-man show in stopping Purdue, and Mark Vitali, replacing the injured _Terrizzi, _-failed on his fourth-and-nine surprise. run . .A missed connection between center Jim Polak and Vitali necessitated the run, and. Randy Payne's force-out of" the Boilermaker QB_ on the Purdue 26. --Then -Bullock 
took over. . -.. • . -. ·The .second scori~g-drive .by. 0Wayne and_ crew took·_ only five plays to put six additional p_oints on' the score­.board. A Clements to Demmerle reception for 15 yards, Bullock up the middle for ten and then again ·for four brought the ball to the Purdue. one: -Wayne's blast through the right side of the Purdue line brought an­other six points, cutting the lead to 10. : · . . : ·: The ·final· twelve minutes .of ·the' third. quarter · marked a tremendous defensive _battle between the underdog trying to pull off the.upset of the year, and · the ,old veteran; hoping to pull out· still· another one. 


Collins and Mahalic did their best in stopping Purdue, doesn't normally win ball games. and Collf~s• fumble recovery on the Purdue 28 put Ara and his boys. were in a state of shock in the Clements back in business. empty stadium locker room after the game. "We played 
But the hard times of recession affecting big busi-· one too many bad first halves and it cost us the ball ness as well as Notre Dame's football fortunes were game," offered Ara about his team's performance. felt this Saturday afternoon.. Samuel failed to gain. "What else can I say? We lost." Clements passed to his tailback for eight, but then on·•· . Mark Brenneman, the "old man" of the team at a broken play lost one, On fourth-and-three at the center, couldn't· explain what happened over the past Purdue 16,.Ara went for the first down instead of the two hours. "The points came so fast, that we didn't sure field goal. "It wasjust a decision that.we had the really know what was coming off. Whenever we tried confidence in Tom's ability to get us the first down," to come back, something would always go wrong," explained Ara of his decision to stick by Tom. explained a despondent Brenneman. 
But it didn't quite work-out. The play called was a quick toss from Clements to Goodman; The pass was a . little short, and another drive was stalled. 
Vitali was stopped again by. linebackers Russell and Mahalic, forcing Purdue again to punt. Vitali, who also · doubles as punter, shanked the_ ball out of bounds, with the Irish taking over. on the Purdue 47. . 
Goodman lost three, but Clements to Demmerle for ten wiped out the lo~s. Bullock gained five, and then two, up the middle..· But Clements to · Goodman was . broken up by Fred Cooper, and on the next play Tom rolled out, attemped to· pass, a·nd was hit. Steve.. Sylvester picked up the ball, but the referees called an .. ineligible receiver downfield penalty, killing yet another 
drive.. · · 
Frustration continued for. the remainder of the. third quarter and into the fourth until Clements was again intercepted. Two quick receptions by Dem;. The cheer~ and jubil~tion ~suany· reserved for the 
merle and Goodman leci up to Jim Woods' interception · home locker room at Notre Dame Stadium were shifted on,the)rish 40. Vitali then passed to Burton for sixteen .to_ the visitors' room this afternoo_n, the first time in and Paul Beery for fourteen. Mike Northington theri seventeen games (Missouri's 30-26 wiri two seasons took the pitch from Vitali, scampered around Fanning ago). "Who's Nqmber One?" was what Agase and his. and Collins, and werit in for Purdue's final points of the staff asked his team in the postgame locker room. •iwe afternoon. are" was all ·that you could hear for fifteen minutes 
Seven minutes were left for Notre Dame to pull it. . . before the· press were allowed into the vi~tors' locke_r out. There was no way a field goal or safety could make room. the game turn for the Irish~ighteen points were "I'm very proud of this teain because they always needed. And fast. · · · · · · · knew they could win," offered Agase:· "And you know, 
Bill Stinchcomb's kickoff went to Samuel, but his we did. Nothing was going to stop us this afternoon."· return was nullified by another Irish miscue-blocking . The cover of the ·Notre ·Dam~Purdue football below . the. knee. :Starting from the ND six, Bullock . .program best told the events of this ~tartling afternoon. picked up eight· and four on two consecutive jaunts. Tom Clements' desperation pass to Weber turning Repeating earlier success, •. Clements again went to around' the· Sugar. Bowl was brilliantly ·displayed to a 
· Weber and Demmerle to advance the attack. With 4:37 · nation on television, and . now it was on this cover. left, Clements found Demmerle for the touchdown, . . . Alabama was the victim then. Tw~ games and almost cutting the· lead .to eleven. Ara ·decided to go for. the , ten months later brought that identical shallow feeling two-point conversion, with a pass to Weber the call'. .. · to the Irish. · · . . · · · ·· However, not even · this fine drive could change the . The loss would be felt for a long time to come;· fortunes of the Irish this .afternoon. The pass. failed, · · ·.· and thescore stood at 31-20, Purdue. . ·.. ·Purdue ·............................... . 24 . 0 o. 
7-31 . Alex Agase's first victory overAra Parseghian ended. Notre Dame ......................... . 0. 7 .7. 67"""20 
with Russ Kornman's plunge at the Irish 28. Seventy_ 
· Scoring:
yards and another touchdown were all that Notre Dame ·· ·_·. PU: Terrizzi, 1-yard run (Stinchcomb kick). 
needed to win. But on µtis afternoon, nothing was going · PU: Gross, 52.:.yard run (Stinchcomb kick):to take away. those eight minutes.. . · _ . 
PU: Mannella, 21-yard ·interception ·run (Stinchcomb
·, The statistic_s were· definitely in favor of the losers ..-kick). . . . . this' afternoon. 'Leading in_,first downs 22-14, passing 
PU: Schmidt, 47-yard field goal .., ._. _ 
yardage 264-106, ·and totalyards 407-270, the Irish· had ND: .Bullock, 2-yard run (Reeve kick). the: prerequisites needed for victory. However the sta~ . ND: Bullock, 1-yard run (Reeve'kick). . . . tistics concerning. fumbles lost and passes intercepted.. .. PU: _Northington, 6-yard run (Schmidfkick). _ . told the story of the ;disaster 'at South Bend.· Losing ND:. Clements to Deinmerle, 29 yards (Two-point at­
.· -· tempt failed). · · · · · · · 
one· of two fumbles, and having three passes intercepted 
. . 

·JANUARY 24, 1975 
..., 



THE FOUR. HORSEMEN. 
(Ed. Note-This is the 50th aniversary of one of the notable traditions 
at Notre Dame-Rockne's ,Four Horsemen. Bob Best (c7.ass of '72) is the 
Assistant Sports Information Director at Notre Dame, and is also an 
Editorial Assistant to Notre Dame Magazine. His articles on the Four 
Horsemen were in the football programs during the season· and, with, his _cooperation, the introduction to the series appears below-De"laney.) 
A goal of every writer is to say something people will longremember in at least one story during a career.. Most writers never do; Grantland Rice did it more than once, most ' notably after a Notre Dame game of 1924~ One day _that fall Rice watched unbeaten Notre Dame de­feat Army in the East. For Rice, the bullet~quick Notre Dame back­field of Jim Crowley, Elmer Layden, Don Miller and Harry Stuhldreher was a cyclone. Images of Notre Dame's-· thundering herd remained 
.in Rice's mind after the game and this is how.he began his story: 
"Outlined against a blue~gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction ·and Death. These are 

. only aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, _Miller, Crowley. and Layden. They formed the crest of the South Bend cyclone before . . which another fighting Army foot­ball team was swept over the_ ~recipice at ·the Polo Grounds · · yesterday afternoon as 55,000 spec­tators peered down on the bewilder­ing panorama spread on the green plain below:· · . 
"A cyclone can't be snared. It may be surrounded but somewhere it breaks through to keep on going. When the cyclone starts from South Bend where the candlelights still 
·gleam through the Indiana syca­mores, those in the way must take to the storm cellars at top speed. The cyclone struck again as Notre Dame beat the Army 13 to 7 with a set of backfieid stars. that. ripped and rushed through a strong Army defense· with more speed and power than the warring Cadets could meet." · 
With that October 19, 1924, account the "Four Horsemen" were born. They were around before Rice introduced them to the whole world. Back in the late summer of 1921 the names of Crowley, Layden, Miller and Stuhldreher had ap-· peared on the list of incoming 
by Bob Best 

. knee and he thought that would hinder his football-play. Halas con~ tended the injury wouldn't affect 
·.. Layden's ·performance, but Rockne would only agree to let him come to play basketball and baseball. 
Ironically,· after Layden arrived, . Rockne didn't.want him near a · basketballcourt or baseball field.' 
Miller didn't·liave a Notre Dame grad as a high school coach. Buthe .didn't need. -much convincing to come to Notre Dame. Four of his . 
· brothers had· played football at Notre Dame. Brother Ray was an end during Rockne's playing days. 
. Harry was a halfback who earned . 

freshmen at Notre Dame. The four ···recognition from Walter·Camp,.the 
had a common goal-get agood education and play football if pos­sible. . . . . 

Crowley was an outstanding passer at East Green Bay High . School. He played left halfback and always seemed slow-moving. That 
•is until he was called on to act. Often after being tackled he would. get up slowly.and appear hurt or . tired:' Then on the next play_he 
_.would take off like a cannon shot. His high schoo_l coach was Curly Lambeau, who played with George -Gipp at Notre Dame. Lambeau often talked of Gipp's exploits and Crowley was inspired. He decided Notre Dame was the place for him, too. 
Layden wanted to come to Notre Dame but Coach Knute Rockne wasn't sold on having him play football. In fact, if it hadn't _been for Rockne's new assistant, Walter Halas, brother' of Chicago Bears' : owner George Halas, Layden never would have made it. Halas had been the coach at Davenport (Iowa) High Schoolwhere Layden was a . halfback on the state championship football team, a state champ in six. _. 
top football analyst of the day, in · 1909. Brother Walter teamed with George Gipp on the 1917-1919 
·teams. .And Gerry was a teammate of Dori's atNotre Dame from 1922­
24. Miller, who was raised with a footbaii in his hands thanks to his brothers, was an outstanding right 
·halfback at Defiance·(Ohio) High 
School. .. . . 
Stuhldrehef also.·had a brother, Walter, at Notre Dame. He en~ couraged Harry to attend, but it was Jim Marks, Stuhldreher's coach at Kiski Preparatory School, who 
·did the most coaxing. Stuhldreher played quarterback at Massillon (Ohio) High School and for three· years gave the fans something to cheer about. But he weighed only 135 pounds-hardly enough for the rugged demands of college football. 

· So he attended Kiski Prep for a year and played for Marks.· His friends .tried· to dissuade him from playing college ball the.next year, : 
-but Marks fold him there was· one school wherea small man might be given a. chance--c-Notre Dame.· · Stuhldreher was no stranger to --·­Rockne when he decided to come to 

·. track events and all;state as a guard· Notre Dame; "The Rock" had in basketball. Despite these feats, . · -coached and played end forthe · Rockne heard Layden had a•-trick · professional--Massillon Tigers when 
-THE SCHOLASTIC 

Stuhldreh,er was a youngster. Harry used to hang around the lobby of the local hotel on Sunday mornings, hoping to see the players. Rockne grew fond of young Stuhl­dreher and let him carry his 
_helmet to the stadium so he could get into the games free. Rockne:was always Stuhldreher's hero. 
And so the four backs were on the scene. _Still, they were anything but instant successes. In fact, when it came time to pass out the uniforms for the 1921 freshman team, the equipment manager's supply ran out before Miller was fit. Miller had to 
· wait nearly half the season before getting a uniform. Even then it was a pieced-together outfit and Miller looked more like a hobo than a football player. The Four Horsemen did not play in the same backfield as freshmen. At the beginning of that season Layden was at quarterback, Don Miller's brother Gerry and Ward Connell were at right halfback, Crowley at left halfback, and Rex. Enright and. Bill Cerney at fuilback. Before the season ended Stuhldreher had moved in at quarterback, Don Miller was a right halfback, Crowley and Layden were alternating at left halfback, while Enright and Cerney were still at fullback. The squad iost to Michigan State and .Lake Forest Academy that year. Nothing about the 1921 freshman team forecast what was to come the next few seasons. 
But the four backs figured almost immediately in .Rockne's varsity plans. Miller started at right half and Crowley and Layden alternated at left. Stuhldreher was the reserve quarterback behind Frank Thomas. The Notre Dame Ramblers (so~ called because they woul~-play ­anycme, anywhere) had nci trouble in the first six games of the 1922 season, beating Kalamazo·o, St. Louis, Purdue, DePauw, Georgia Tech arid Indiana. During the Georgia Tech game, ~ockne decided to alternate Thomas and Stuhl­dreher at quarterback. 
Notre Dame had a tough time with Army, tying the Cadets in a scoreless game. The Ramblers could have won the contest if not for an unfortunate incident. Crowley and Miller worked the ball down to the Army four-yard line and ap­peared set for a score. But on the 
JANUARY 24, 1975 
next play Crowley ran off-tackle and 
-. had the ball jarred from his arms. · Army recovered and neither team threatened after that. · In the next game against Butler starting fullback Paul Castner dis­located his hip. Although Notre Dame went on to win, the Ramblers missed Castner's experience the rest of the season. But this was the final piece in the puzzle that fit the Four Horsemen together in the same backfield. Rockne decided to move Layden to fullback and the next week against Carnegie Tech the Four Horsemen were off and run­ning. Or at least they were off. "My debut as a fullback was less than spectacular," wrote Layden in his autobiography. "Rock started the 'shock troops' and they worked the ball down to the five-yard line. Then Rock told Harry and me to go in. Thinking it was fourth down, he gave Harry a pass play to call. I was to be the receiver. In we went arid Harry immediately discovered it was only third down. Now in those days we did not huddle; the huddle still was several years away. Harry _called signals from behind the center in our basic 'T' formation; then we shifted and the play was under way. Harry decided since it was third down he wouldn't pass, but rather send me on a fullback buck into theHne. As he called this signal, and we shifted, I sensed this change in plans at the split second Bob Regan centered me the ball. The ball bounced off my knee, sailed five yards forward and landed on · the goal line where our end, George Vergara, fell on it for a tol.!chdown. Now you know why I can tell my grandchildren I had a hand in scor­ing a touchdown the first time I played with the Four Horsemen. Or should I say a knee?" 
Notre Dame lost only one game that season, against Nebraska, 14­
6. The Ramblers finished 8-1-1. The 1923 season was similar. Notre Dame started out hot, beating the best teams in the East including Army, the first game the Cadets had lost in two years. Try as he might to prevent overconfidence, Rockne 
-couldn't, and the Ramblers missed a perfect season, spoiled once again by Nebraska, 14-7. The 1923 team was 9-1. 
Notre Dame had easy wins over Lombard and Wabash in the first two games of the 1924 season. Capt; Pat Mahoney was sent by Army · Coach John McEwan to scout the :t:'l"otre Dame-Wabash game the week before the Ramblers met the Cadets. He reported the following: "Now, that Crowley, he's like lightning. Better put two men on him! And that Layden makes yardage every time. Put two men on him! Then there is Miller. I don't have to tell you that·I advise putting two men on him! Stuhldreher, the quarter­back, is the most dangerous of them all. He can think! Have three men on him!" 
Army's strategy must have been faulty. Notre Dame won that game and Rice eulogized the Four Horse­men. The Ramblers continued un­defeated, they beat Stanford in the Rose Bowl (Notre Dame's first bowl appearance ever) and wound up national champions. In three varsity seasons the Four Horsemen teams won 27 games, lost only two and tied one. 

But after the 1924 season the Four Horsemen didn't ride off their separate ways. They moved into professiona~ football for a time and reunited as much as possible on other occasions. Harry Stuhldreher 
· and Elmer Layden have died. Don . Miller is a federal judge in Cleve­land and Jim Crowley is retired in Scranton, Pennsylvania. The two remaining Horsemen returned to Notre Dame 50 years to the day after Rice-wrote his story, for the game that had the most_ significance for them-Army. Columnist Jim Murray recently discussed their contributions to coH~ge football. 
"The Four Horsemen were a re­markable unit in that they stepped through life together as precisely and enthusiastically as they stepped through Army or Stanford," he said. "They became a banquet table staple as reliable as the rubber· chicken. People never tired of the old stories, the joshing, the ­needling. 
"But a piece of Americana will walk off the field with them; a last link with Rockne, and Grantland Rice, and the Golden Age and, perhaps, in terms of the enjoyment and fellowship and fun they have given their fellow men, staying _ ­together all. these decades, it damn _ wen· WAS the greatest backfield ever." 
MICHIGAN. STATE 
1·' 
The Irish were back on the road again just seven days after the Purdue disaster. Instead of breath­ers like Georgia Tech and North­western, the Spartans from East Lansing were a definite threat· to even Notre Dame's record at two. 
"Boy, that was· some week," said Frank Allocco about one of the more bizarre weeks at Notre Dame. After countless . hours of going over tp.e game films, Parseghian's only. com­ment concerning last Saturday's result was a confession. "We made 
_a number of mental mistakes during that eight-minute period, something we can't afford if we want to win." 
One man who wanted to exploit the weaknesses of the previous week for his personal gain was State Head Coach Denny Stoltz. Stoltz brought the finest team_ of his short coaching career into the Notre Daine ball gam·e: in Clarence Bullock (no rela~ tion to Wayne) and Levi Jackson, he had two of the most · prestigious rimners in the Big Ten; quarterback Charlie Baggett had finally · · dis­covered he had ah arm,· and he was making good use of it. No, Stoltz 
wanted to leave Spartan Stadium with a better record of the teams entering it-by going 3~1. 
For the first few series, however, it appeared that the best way that either team would leave Spartan Stadium 3~1 was to bring in· a Gatling gun to wipe out the other 

. side. While Notre Dame's first two· drives moved the ball for a total of 18 yards, State's attempt -to jump into a quick lead fell short by a few 
yards as .Tom Birney's 44-yard field goal fell short of the crossbar. ND's next possession -represented· their longest drive of the young afternoon (twelve yards), but Tony Brantley's punt put State deep into their own territory on Spartan thirty. Then the Irish defense took over. 
14 
"Well, I just saw it there, so I fell on it," explained Kevin Nosbusch about his fumble recovery. Levi Jackson skirted around left end for two, and was hit by Stock and Fan­ning, with the ball coming loose. Nosbusch's recovery gave the Irish their first scoring opportunity in more than five· quarters, with Clem­ents taking the offense in for the score. A roughing penalty against State led to Clements' ten-yard aerial to a waiting Robin Weber' at the goal line. Bullock (ND's Wayne) cul­minated the 27-yard drive with his· plunge over the right side of the line, putting Norte Dame on top, 7~0. 
Notre Dame's second_ score again came after some standout perfor­mances by ·the defense. A thirty-
t 
yard drive was stopped'by Clements' interception, -but only one play by the defense was ' needed for the Spartans to turn the ball over again. Bullock (not Wayne) attempted to go up the heart of Notre Dame's defensive line, but before· he could take another step, the ball was loose. Jim StockAwho has the knack of being in th~ right place at the right time) pounced on it at the State ten. It took Bullock (Wayne) one try to score, with -his journey through the middle of· the porous Spartan line making the Bullock name a more familiar -one around the households of East Lansing. 
' Another Spartan miscue resulted in the third and final· score of the half for the Irish, with punter Tom Birney · being the culprit this time; 



Bullock's Easiest Yard of the Season 
A heavy rush by Collins, Nosbusch this afternoon, and Dave Reeve. was excuses· for· his team's performance. and Fanning forced a 14-yard punt · once again called upon to, come: . "We played well and we are very by Birney, and Dave Reeve's 38-yard . through. His 32-yard boot made the proud of our showing," _responded 'field goal made the score 16-0, Notre Irish lead .a. comfortable .twelve .Stoltz. "We didn't quit,_ and that's Dame. points, requiring two touchdowns by. something I'm very pleased about." 
The opening of the second half ap-State for them to win. And more For the Irish,: .the story was all peared to be an instant replay of·the. ·importantly,.•· eight minutes re-· 'Bullock (no relation to. Clarence). events of the previous thirty min-•, mained. _ His thirty-six carries set a new utes. Birney again had problems Baggett wasted little time dusting· Notre Dame record that stood for getting off a punt, and his bobble of off his newly found assets. His 45-thirty-two years.. He was in for the snap resulted in a kick of 15 yard bomb to Mike Cobb started off almost half of Notre Dame's plays. In yards this time. Clements engineered the fireworks.in the Spartans' come-wha( had to be one of the under­
a: 54-yard drive down to the State . back. Baggett's pitch to tailback statements of the year, Parseghian, one, _but Art Best's fourth-down•:. Rich Baes . gave State six of the in response to a question concerning plunge fell. short, and State; took, twelve . points needed, and. Hans his use of Bullock, said, "We didn't possession. Starting one yard away :(from Denmark) Nielson's PAT plan to run Bullock quite that much, from their own goal, Baggett led the · closed the: gap to five, with 3:39 but he was running well, so we Spartans on a 99-yard march for a remaining. stayed with him." _ score. Jackson's skirt around left Bullock· ·(no relation to Clarence) And what. did the"inan of the hour end,'-a keeper by Baggett and a 26-attempted to carry the burden again have. to say about the afternoon? yard pass play from Baggett to Mike in Notre Dame's final drive, picking "Well, the job had to done, and I Jones broke the ice ori State's· scor.; and gnawing· the· final three of his guess I was the· one who had to do ing. Fifteen minutes were left to 127 yards on a·three-yard dive over it. Nothing special7••• I just had to play. : _ DiNardo. Brantley was called in do it," explained a. cool and calm 
.Nine points isn't that comfortable . again to punt, and his kick. put W:ayne: No relation to Clarence. a margin in a Michigan State-Notre_ Michigan State back on their own: Darrie game,. and Ara was very con-. fourteen, . with seconds remaining scious of it. On their first drive of for State to .pull'it out. 
the fourth quarter, Clements arid Fortunately,_ ·the· ball had some:. Noti:e Dame ..... . 7 · 9 0 ·: 3-19 crew .-started on: the. twenty with thing on it .this ·afternoon, and Bag­Michigan State 0 · 0 7, 7-,-14 Buliock ··.. (Waynef again•• beirig the. gett's desperation pass· intended. for. 
key man in the ·drive. Whenevei.\ a: Jones was· intercepted ·by Randy,:' tci1?~n~ck,-l-yiui;un (Ree;e kick); key play. was needed; . BuUock in-. Payne ·as· time ran out. · . . ND: Reeve, 38-yard field goal. variably ,got the call, ~nd he__ sue-The. mistakes which had hurt ·ND: Bullock, 5-yard run (Kick no ceeded; Whether it was Bullock up . Notre Dame a week ago had sud-good)• · . . the niiddle,·.Bullock around end,:or :denly materialized again, but .this.' MSU: Baggett to. Jones; 26 yards
· · · · ·. (Neilson kick).·.· • 
Bullock sriags another one, he was time.the opponent fell victim to mis-• ·ND: Reeve, 32.yard field goat . always there. Wayne, that is. -. . fortune. . . . . ·. ·.· . . . . . · MSU: Baes; O~yard run (Neilson kick). 


RICE 

Al Conover, the "Wizard of Rice," entered Notre Dame Stadium with the promise that "we'll give Notre Dame all they can handle. Our guys feel they can go out and play with anybody." 
The Rice Owls went out that Saturday afternoon in the first of three Notre Dame home games and played Notre Dame to a 3~3 deadlock until Wayne Bullock slashed around left end, giving the Irish a 10-3 margin for victory. 
The drive, covering 80 yards in 20 plays, salvaged Notre Dame's fourth victory of the season, although withoµt even playing, the referees outgained the Owls against the Irish. 
Overcoming a mistake-filled and penalty-riddled first half which cost them three scoring opportunities, Notre Dame's game-winning drive with 3:08 remaining pleased· Irish Coach Parseghian. "I think that drive into the wind was one of the best of the year, especially under the pressures of time running out," noted Ara. "But all things considered, I am fearful that this game didn't reflect" any improvement on the part of our of­fensive unit." · 
Following the loss to Purdue two weeks earlier, and a narrow victory over MSU a week before, Rice af­forded· the Irish no easy challenge to overcome. For Al Conover, complete with his bag of firecrackers, broken blackboards and starter pistols, the Notre Dame-Rice encounter represented a situation he relished.."Look, we've got everything to gain and nothing to' lose. Beat­ing Notre Dame would ·make our season a little more bearable."· 
Referee Tom Paspalas and his crew certainly did much to make the game "a little more bearable" for Conover and his Owls. For the afternoon, the Pas­: palas team in ·their home uniforms of black and white, called 20 penalties (10 for each side) for 160 yards. Their big play, of course, was a 35-yard multiple 
penalty early in the second quarter. · 
The Irish had driven to the Rice 23-yard line at 
this instance, when~ on first down, they received a five­
yarder for illegal procedure. This was immediately fol­
. lowed by two unsportsmanlike-conduct penalties on Ara 
Parseghian, placing the ball back on the Notre Dame 42. 
"I've been coaching for 25 ·years, and I have never 
seen a call like that," said a bewildered Parseghian 
after the contest. "We ran an:off-tackle play for first­
down yardage and there was no. motion .on the play. 
The official indicated our offensive linemen weren't 
lining up properly on the ball. 
"I went down to about the 30-yard line," continued 
Ara; "and .asked him, 'Where do you want them? Are 
they all right now?' I was merely soliciting informa­
tion. The official turned to me and said, 'You are beyond 
the 35-yard zone' and threw the flag for the, first 15 
yards. The second 15 came · because of my ensuing 
language," said Ara, "but I think the first penalty was 
uncalled for." 

Whether the penalty was right or wrong, the. Irish 
offense, struggling through a very inconsistent year, 
appeared to snap out of their· sluggishness on the second 
series of plays. Gary Ferguscm's · fumble on the Rice 34 
was scooped up by Randy Harrison, who rambled in
··~m·.Y-',-~t;,'i-,.,..:\41 
~ ''. ~ .~· 
.. 

for what ,appeared to be an apparent score. Messr. Paspalas called the play back to the original line of scrimmage, but the Irish started again. 
Clements and company hammered down to the six, with a 14-yard pass from Clements to Demmerle the key play, but an illegal receiver downfield penalty on Steve Sylvester stalled the drive, and Dave Reeve's attempted 31-yard field goal fell short. 
The Owls scored what were to be their only points in the game on their second possession. Rice marched 59 yards in seven plays, with Alan Pringle's 36-yard field goal giving the Owls the lead. 
Notre Dame didn't tie the Owls until their sixth possession of the game, a 54-yard-drive starting from the ND 46. Clements came out throwing, hitting Dem­merle for 13, Samuel for 11 and Jim Weiler for four 

on three consecutive plays. Dave Reeve's perfect kick from the 35 (making the kick an_ actual 45-yarder) knotted the score at 3, marking the least number of points the Irish have had going· into the third quarter this season thus far. 
The third quarter featured some very hard hitting by both sides, but the Irish "D," showed that they were for real. "We're on t~e right track now," said a jubi­lant Mike Fanning after the game. -"We had_ to give some help today and I think we did just that." Quarter­back Claude Reed, gaining success with the Irish_ in the first half, but feeling terror from Notre Dame's front four in the last 30 ininutes, agreed with Fan~ ning. "Notre Dame has abig front four, and we had to outfinesse them with quick passes. We couldn;t over­power that line, and our breakdown gave them_ more time to rush." 
Statistically speaking, the defense did the job in the Rice -game. Rice garnered a mere 149 yards; gaining 50 of them rushing and twice as much in the air. Co­captain Greg Collins led his unit in tackles with 
16. Mike Fanning was in on three tackles for losses of 25 yards in all. The defense held Rice in check the second half, with a 19-yard drive their longest of the final thirty minutes. 
-

As sparkling as the defense was against Rice, the Irish offense just couldn't seem to get going. "We'd gain positive yards rushing, but the penalties would push us back into a situation where they knew we had to pass," noted Tom Clements, who was 15 of 26 for 179 yards. "They were vulnerable in the flats, and our exploitation of that area brought about our scoring drive near the end of the game." 
Overall, there were many standout Irish perfor­mances. Split end Pete Demmerle, with six passes for 86 yards, faced double coverage much of the game, dis­playing his All-American potential once again against the scrappy Owls. 
Perhaps the happiest of the offensive performers was center Mark Brenneman, who often had Rice All-American candidate Cornelius Walker to contend with. "He was good laterally," conceded Brenneman, "but I think we beat him and their whole line straight on. That's why we were able to gain three and four yards at a clip on that last drive to give us the game. 
., I do wish that we could score first and let them come at us; I'd feel so much better that way." Mistakes, penalties, and a gritty football team from Rice University made this Saturday afternoon a tough day for the Irish. Notre Dame avoided another upset by going back to the Irish's breadwinner all-season --c Wayne Bullock -for the score. Hopefully, Army will bring the opportunity for. another star for the season to emerge -the referees almost took that honor for Rice: 

Rice ............ -.......................... . 3 0 Notre Dame ......................... . 0 3 
Scoring: . ­RICE: Pringle, 36-yard field goal. ND: Reeve, 45-yard field goal. . ND: Bullock, 2-yard run (Reeve kick)., 


ARMY 

-Over the years, the Army-Notre game preparation over the week on tunity to do just that." Dame· game has had· a special sig-cutting down · on our mental mis-The offensive line of Brenneman, nificance in collegiate football an-takes and thereby not allowing our Al Wujciak, Steve Sylvester,_ Gerry nals. The first time Notre Dame ever opponents any breaks against us," Dinardo and Ed Bauer (replacing played Army. back in 1913, Gus noted Head Coach Ara Parseghian. the injured Steve Neece) provided Dorais and Knute Rockne (they "Army just had the misfortune to hoies large enough toallow i2 Irish made a movie about him you know) meet us on the rebound." backs to gain 525 yards and 30 first shocked the Cadets and the rest of · That "rebound" started witp. Irish downs rushing, a new Notre Dame the football world with ·the forward fullback Wayne Bullock's slash off record. ­pass, rocking Army, 35-13. right tackle for a six-yard touch-·"we worked hard all week be-
There has also been• an old saying down with 18. seconds remaining in cause we knew Army had a tough over the years that·the Army trav-· the first quarter. "When we fumbled team," said guard Al Wujciak. "Our els best on its stomach. Well, these · at the goal line in the first quarter execution was really fine, and we two statements seem to tie together (Bullock's fumble in the end zone, opened. great holes for our backs, somehow, because the trip back to . which capped off a' 57-yard drive), _and they tbok itfrom there." . ·. the Plain of the Point for Army I thought 'Here we go again,' but I · Notre Dame_'s starting backfield of Coach and his Cadets certainly had· was really pleased with our team's Wayne "the Train" Bullock, half­to be a long crawF this year. ·The reaction· to the error." · · backs Art Best and Al Samuel and fact that the Fighting Irish blanked "After the fumble, we just got to-quarterback ,Tom Clements finally Army 48-0, might· have· had some-· gether and decided we just had to came into their own this game, con­thing to do with it. put it together," said center Mark tributing 329 yards to -the Irish 
In a game that marked the second Brenneman. "For the first time all rushing. game. Samuel gained 124 half of Notre Dame's season and season, we had put points up on the yards ori 12 carries for one touch­their second of a three-game home board, _and_ had the opportunity to . down, ·_ and Bullock carried 24 times stand, confidence and consistency display· our power.. We definitely for 112 yards with two TD's. Not were the two goals the Irish pursued. · needed a game where we could solid-bad· for a team who's had trouble 


Bullock accounted for another Irish score in the second quarter, this time capping off a 56-yard drive. His slant off... left tackle gave .the Irish their second score, and Clem­ents' 7-yard keeper· later in the quarter ended the final drive of the first· half, . making the score 20-0, Notre Dame. 
The halftime festivities honoring Don Miller and Jim Crowley, the . two surviving members of the Famed Four Horsemen, brought back some touching memories for the crowd iri attendance. However, the Army lockerroom must have wished that the festivities honoring these Domers · of the past would continue through­out the afternoon, saving the Cadets from taking.the field again for the second half. . . , . 
The Irish came out in the second . 

half as if ther:e had been no halftime at all. . They put 28 • points ori the score board during this half, scoring three times · in the third quarter and once ·in.the fourth. Full­back Russ Korm;nan's runs of seven. and four yards capped 72-_and 41­yard drives, . respectively,· for the Irish in the third quarter. · 
"We were very pleased in our backs' play, but more importantly, the ability to give everyo'ne achance to display ·their. talents gives us an indication of their performance," noted Backfield Coach Toi:n ·Pagna. "Wayri·e had a great game, but his bruised shoulder (suffered in the Rice-game) was aggravate·d early in the first quarter, and, we· felt it necessary to take him out.; Al Sam­uel had perhaps his best perfor-
JANUARY 24, 1975 
· mance of the season, and his play on through some unforeseen circum-. the. pitch-sweep really impress,ed stance, ·you may lose your key us." players. _We wanted to see the back­
. The "pitch-sweep," where quar-ups pla"y as much as they could, not terback Tom Clements pitches out only for their experience .~for the to one of his halfbacks already in rest of the season, but for our evalu­motion, had .not been _too effective ation of them for next fall."· in past games, but the Army match The Irish "D," led by . cocaptain · was a different story. Samuel's final Greg Collins, limited the Cadets to a carry of .the · afternoon, a 35-yard total yardage of 89 yards, allowing sweep touchdown around right end only eight .yards through the air. (behind Wujciak arid Kornman), was ·Cadet quarterbacks Scott Gillogly similar to that sweep, engineered by ·and Greg McGlasker could manage 
·Parseghian and his staff. "The game-only one completion in fourteen at­by-game experience I've had, along tei:npts for the afternoon, 
· with the coaching, has helped me be--Cadet Coach Homer Smith was come a better runner,"· commented· extremely · disappointed over his a jubilant Al after the game. "Run-· team's poor showing against Notre ning the pitch is just a matter of . Dame. "We. worked very hard to reading the blocks and ·turningthe have a chance to possibly beat.Notre corner. After that, it's all up to me." Dame," Smith said..· "When you 
Notre· Dame's final score, a pitch-come up short, it is bitterly disap­
out · from· Frank·_. Allocco to·•-se~ior . . pointing." · _ . . . . . halfback T9m Bake, ended the scor-. The Irish were a little more opti­ing festivities for the Irish -not too , mistic with their victory overArmy,­early 'for ,the _Cadets' sake..Place~ ·• ·for as Wayne Bullockhad put it, III kicker:Dave Reeve converted on six hope w~did jell. this game, for it of seven PAT's, while .his kicking·. was a long time overdue. Hopefully, mate,. Tony Brantley,' saw the least . this will carry \IS into Miami." action of. any. player on either:team· 
for the afternoon, pu·nting·once for• ---------------­36 yards: All totalled, Parseghian · Army ...... ,,........ O O O O:.._ O sent 68 players into the game, some-Notre·Dame ....,. 7 13 21. 7-.:,..48 
thing all the coaches wanted to do. 
·. Scoring: . . .. .

"Morale and confidence are very im­
ND: Bullock, 6-yai'd 1·un (Reeve kick);portanftoeach player, and working ND: Bullock, 9-yard run (Reeve-kick). hard in practice day after day is•re­ND: Clements, 7-yard run (Kick no 
_warded to the preppers in the oppor-. . good). . .· . 
ND: Kornman, 4-yard run {Reeve kick).

tunity for thei:n to play." . · . 
ND Samuel, 35cyardrun (Reeve kick).

Defensive line Coach Joe Yonto . 
ND Koi·mnan; 7~yard run (Reeve kick).agreed with Parseghian.."You can ND . Bake,'6::.yard run (Reeve kick).· never be 'too deep' anywhere,. for 
there is always the possibility that 

'H 
' 
A 


L F T 
I 
M E 



MIAMI 
Last year's final obstacle between Notre Dame's first undefeated season since 1947 and the National Championship of College Football was Pete Elliot's Miami Hurricanes. At the end of that game, the Irish ended their magical season with the identical score as they started -44-0. What was supposedly to be a dif~ ficult test for the undefeated Irish turned into a pleasant romp for Head Coach Parseghian and his boys down in the fun and sun of Miami: , . . 
A year• had come· and· passed since the . "favorab}e _ Orange Bowl debacle" and this year's .,confrontation · represented a critical test for the Irish in their attempt for a bowl bid.· The previous week's massacre of Army may have ·provided. the incentive for the Irish to · · roll: on. · Something must have happened, however, as Notre Dame easily handled the Hurr!canes this year by the score of 38-7. · 
The Notre Dame-Miami game possessed more excit~ . ment -around Notre Dame circles than any previous game. Head Coach Pete Elliot brought his Miami team into Notre Dame Stadium with a 4-1 record (his single loss coming at the hands of Auburn). He had in· middle· guard Rubin -Carter and tackle Dennis . Harrah · ~11-Anierican candidates, and in I~back Woody Thomp­son, a definite running threat against the number-one-. ranked Irish defense. Football experts thought that the Irish were going to have their·hands full come Satur­day afternoon, But it didn't happen that way.

-·. . ., . .· yard pass to split end Pete Demmerle for a touchdown 
·marked the earliest_ the Irish had.• scored all season, and with 2 :09 elapsed in the first quarter, Notre Dame led 7-0. ­
Two· additional·: scoring·· drives en·abled the Irish to roll up _!!le ·score to 17-0 as -the first quarter ended, making. many· feel as if they were -watching a remake 
· ofthis year's Purdue game -only in reverse. . -· "Su.re,it'really felt good to beat:Miami in the way we did,"said a happy Parseghian after the game. "We ·capitalized on their early mistakes for our scores. You never know how a game is going -a change in mo­.· menti.tm or field position can instantly put points on the 
board." · · Notre Dame's change in"~field position sudd~nly 
canie after Tony Brantley's 69-yard punt to Clarence . Lattimer· was -fumbled on . Miami's.· nine. -The 69-yard · change in field position was capped off with a touch­
down one play later, with fullback Wayne ''The Train" ·-: Bullock going behind Steve Sylvester for the score. A 
·24-yard pass play from Clements to tight end Ken Mac­Afee (replacing the injured Robin -Weber) set up·. an 18-yard field. goal by Dave Reeve, making it 17~0, . Notre Dame after the first quarter. 
The Irish continued to -roll during the·second quar­ter, scoring three times, on a 44-yard Randy Harrison interception, a Clements 'run, and a 4-yard _MacAfee 
Wayne reception from Clements: Miami's vaunt~d offense 

-------------------c_.-------­
stalled in the warm afternoon sun of Notre Dame Sta­dium, with, each Hurricane drive ending in a punt. Perhaps Miami's busiest player was punter Rod Huff­man, who had-a 40-yard average on seven punts. The gun signaling the end of the half showed the Irish had nothing to worry about :With powerful Miami, with Notre Dame whitewashing Miami, 38-0. 
After the half, the Irish continued their dominance in the game, with the second and third teams gaining some val~able_ playing time. Perhaps the key moments of the seCO!],d halfwez:e t~e reappearance of a face Irish _ fans _h~dn't seen since the. Sugar_ Bowl, and a_ fake on­the part-of punter Rod.Huffman that accounted for· Miami's only score. . . ·,. -­
Eric ~enick, N.otr.e. Dame's premier haifback, hurt since last May, m~d~ his debut this day versus Miami.· "It sure felt good .to be· out there, to get into some action,". said the jubilant· Penick· in the locker room.· ''I really f«:lt as -i{ I were apart of the team again; cheerleading isn't my style. Back in the huddle with the guys giving me encouragement -that made the . wait worth: it." "Eric lost ayard on his only carry but ­this. appearance could ~inly give him more donfi­dence _in, the upcoming games," noted .offensive back­
field coach Tom _Pagna. -_-_-_ -. . ­
Rod Huffman,. perhaps tired of .the ~ay Miami's 
offense. was going __ this afternoon, tried to. advance 

the ball his_ own. way, and his play set up_ Miami's. point~ for -the afternoo11. :-. On -a . fourth~and-sixteen, H~ffman took thesnap._3:nd skirted around right end, ~nd behi~d-the entire Irish defens_ive wall for 37 yards and_ a first do\Vll, -'"!'hey -completely caught-_ us off guard," noted Parseghian .. i•we felt that we had com~ . pletely ·s~ut -them ·off in. all a~pects, buf that single 
play gave them an oppor_tunity to score/' . . ·· 


Frank Glover's pass to his tight end Phil_ August gave the Hurricanes their first points iri seven quar­ters,: but they were too few and too late, ·as the Irish defense shut off Miami f_or the rest of the afternoon. 
_ The game ended with Notre ·Danie• 38, Miami 7; a score many wouldn't-believe possible this year with this Notre Dame team. "We played the best first half we've plared all season,". commented Parseghiani : "There were no mental lapses_ as in the past, and our defense; save that fake punt in the third quarter; really showed what they were made of today." ­· Statistically, the Irish outgained the: Hurricanes in 
·-the•air and on the ground, 186 to 81, anil-267 to' 137, respectively; Clements was 13 for 19 for 154 yards with two touchdowns. The leading ·rusher; :Wayne ·Bullock (who else?}, gained 68 yards in_ 13 carries, and had orie touchdown for ·the aftemoon. Al Samuel's attempt to be 'quarterback-for~a-day failed ·when -his halfback option pass to Pete Deinmerle was just off Pete's finger­tips. Randy Harrison's pass interception for a touch­down -was the first time a -broken play resulted ·in a score.this season for Notre Dame.· ' --. 
. All things considered, the victory over·a-"weakened" Hurric_ane did: ·very much to jell a Notre Dame team that needed confide~ce·and teamwork in the worst way. Execution and hard play paid off for Ara and his crew. With_· midsemester break providing a week off from 
· school for the team, hope for a continuance ·of domi­-nance was the theme for -the ·upcoming encounter with Navy.· --. 
Miami · .. / · ..........· . · · .... · -· : ... o __ o, "1. 0~1 Notre Dame .,.~·················-···· 11 21 o .. o......:3s 
Scoring: . ---, . _ -_ _ . -ND:·c1ements to Demrrierie, 47 yards (Reeve ldck).· ND: Bullock, 9-yard run (Reeve kick}. _ · · •. -ND: Reeve, 28-yard field goal. · · · · · ND: Harrison, 44-yard interception run (Reeve kick). 
· ND: CI~ments, 8-yard run (Reeve kick}.·· · · -_ : ... ND: Clements·to MacAfee, 4 yards:(Reeve kick}. MIAMI: _Glover to August; 2 yards (Reeve.kick}; _ 


NAVY 

The offense that had powered had controlled the ball for four and Irish 44. Three plays later and faced through Miami the week before was a half minutes, but as what appears with· a fourth and six, Stuffelbeam unable to score throughout the first to be consistent all season, failed faked a punt and, as the Irish de­three periods against Navy in Phila­to score. fense covered the imaginary kick, delphia. With a scrappy defense and Each team could manage just one passed to ,Cleveland Cooper good an impressive kicking game, the out­first down the rest of the half as the for 22 yards and the first down. The manned Midshippmen carried a 6-0 Middies' John Stuffelbeam punted Notre Dame defense refused to wilt, lead into the final period against five times . for an excellent 46.6 pushing the Middies back two yards the heavily favored Irish. The final average while Brantley countered in three plays, but. Dx,kes hit on a 14-6 Irish victory wasn't treated like with four punts for a 39-yard aver­37-yard field goal· for a 6-0 Navy one by many observers in the stands age. With seconds left in the half lead. and in the press. Galpin picked off a Clements pass The Irish took the kickoff and 
Despite the early November date and returned it into the Irish terri­surged downfield behind the running the sky was sunny over Veterans tory. A clipping penalty pushed the of . Bullock, who , powered out 43 Stadium and the temperature was in Middies back as the half ended with yards in six_farries, including a 16­the upper 70's as the· game. got un­Navy leading by three, with a mon­yard burst, his longest of the season. der way. The week before against umental upset in the making. But on second and six at the Middie Miami the Irish scored on a Clem­The Irish appeared to gain field 17, Jim Steges picked off a Clements ents to Demmerle pass on the game's position on the opening series of the pass at the goal line and returned it third play. But the Navy proved second half using a varied offense to out of danger. Subsequently, Stuffel­different as Ron Goodman fumbled a pick up three first downs,. but once beam launched a 49-yard punt Midshipman punt on the fourth play again could not score. From his own putting Notre Dame back in its own setting up Dykes' Navy school rec­28, Navy's 'Stuffelbeam drove a 65-·· territory as the third period ended. ord 48-yard field goal with just over yard punt that backed the Irish back Following ari ND punt, Navy took tiii:-ee minutes gone. to their own eight. After Bullock over on their own 18 with 14 min­
A roughing-the-kicker penalty missed gaining a first down by a utes left in the game. On second gave the Irish a first down on their yard, Brantley powered a 55ayard down, Jim Stock burst through from opening series, but three runs gained punt but Navy's Robin Ameen re­his position at right defensive end only five yards and Tony Brantley's turned the kick 28 yards to the and tackled Ameen for a seven-yard next attempt to kick went unim-a--~~~:-~; ......,.___ ·_._.·_·
', ~;..-,.,, 

. . -_· ,:t'.' _-:'}.i,,,.,... ­
peded. · ' .. 
' ' . ' 

."l, .
It was Notre Dame's turn to rough the kicker on Navy's next possession. Following the first pen­alty, the Midshipmen picked up two more on a pair of Poirier passes. . The Navy drive sputtered when Poirier was sacked trying to pass, and Dykes' 45-yard field goal try was wide to the right. 
Starting with 3:28 left in the first _quarter, the Irish marched 71 yards in 14 plays but failed to score. The rushing of Wayne Bullock and Art Best carried ND to the Navy 36 where Clements teamed up with Best for a 27-yard pass play. With a first and goal at the nine, Bullock gained nothing on a plunge. Clements missed Al Samuel twice in the end zone and Dave Reeve misfired on a 27-yard field goal attempt. TheIrish 
24 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


~4, 
':·-----~---"--....-_"<' 

loss as the Middies attempted a re­verse. On : the next play Stock · re­peated his· performance sacking the new Navy quarterback Mike Rohan for a ten-yard loss back to the two­yard line. Harassed in his end zone Stuffelbeam punted a flat 41 yards which Goodman returned 15 yards to the Navy 28. 
The Irish finally scored as Clem­ents and Mark McLane each gained nine yards to the Navy 10. On first and goal Bullock powered for five but a fumbled snap on the next play set up a third and goal at the 6. 
At this point_ Clements, suffering through the worst game of his career, completed his only pass of the second half, . ~olling right and hitting Pete Demmerle in the end zone. Reeve's extra point gave the Irish a 7-6 lead. 
The Notre Dame defense stopped Navy on the Middies next posses­sion. The Irish then started a sus­tained drive, racking up four first downs behind. the running of Clem­ents before the quarterback fumbled at· the Navy 10, with the Middies' Galpin recovering. 
JANUARY 24, l975 
Russell Announces His Presence 
Proirier at quarterback picked up 
a first down with a 12-yard rollout 
but on the n_ext play was intercepted. 
Randy Harrison · returned the ball 
40 yards for the game's second and 
final touchdown. Only a week earlier 
Harrison had returned his first col­
legiate interception 44 yards for a 
six-pointer against_ Miami. The 
touchdown with 2 :12 left sealed the 
victory for Notre Dame as the Irish 
defense stopped Navy's final posses­
sion well before it could reach scor­
ing territory. 

The final statistics showed Notre Dame with greater dominance than ·the final score indicated. The Irish . led 21-7 in first downs and gained 341 yards to 138 by Navy. Bullock was _the leading rusher with 130 yards in 25 carries while Clements had his finest day rushing with 70 yards in 12 carries. But the quarter­back had his worst day passing, hit­ting just 5 of 22 attempts and suf­fering a pair of interceptions and fumbling twice. Jim Stock had an outstanding gaITle on defense and was named AP -Lineman of the Week. The game's other outstand­
ing player was the Navy punter Stuffelbeam who averaged 48 yards on'.11 punts. · · 
In the locker room Parseghian praised the Navy defense and kick­ing game as well as his own defen­sive effort. The Notre Dame offense however was "Not what we are cap­able of. We simply did not execute offensively." He concluded by saying, "It's a win, that's all that counts." But there were those who did not look at it that way. 
On the flight back to South Bend, Ara Parseghian decided to resign as .head football coach at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame ...... ·  0  0  0  14-14  
Navy ..................  3  0  3  0-,­ G  
Scoring:  

NA: Dykes, 4!l-yard field goal. 
NA: Dykes, 37-yard field goal. 
ND: Clements to Demmerle, G yards 
( Reeve kick). ND: Harrison, 40-yard intercepted run ( Reeve kick). 

This season, it l~oked :for a whil~~ as if Pitt coach Johnny Majors and his Panthers had gotten their ticket punched for an· upset victory. -. But they were derailed 

PITT 
No scintillating sobriquet distinguishes the Train.. 
Instead of "The Flyer'' or "Cannonball,,. it's known 
simply as "Wayne." Nevertheless, the Train is a foot­
ball special -a throwback or, more appropriately, a 
runback, to the old days of Notre Dame football. 
.The Train is Irish fullback Wayne Bullock;· a 6'1", 

233:pounder with·a barrel chest resembling the boilers· . of an old steam engine ·and thick, powerful legs_ that churn like pistons. He's not an express, but he never makes a milk run, either. Instead, he carries the freight 
on lengthy cross-gridiron junkets for Notre Dame. 
With Tom Clements aboard as conductor, and "the . 
Train" Wayne Bullock as chief engineer, the Irish can­
nonballed by Pitt, 14-10, leaving an upset-minded Pitts­
burgh team waiting at the station, in our -ninth game 
of the season. 
A year· ago in Pittsburgh, Bullock had upstaged a 
record-setting performance by the Panthers' . All­
American freshman halfback, Tony Dorsett. Dorsett, 
who can fly with the best, performed some amazing 
maneuvers while amassing 209 yards -more than had 
ever been previously gained by a Notre Dame opponent . 
-but he never reached the end zone. TheTrain chugged 
for 167 yards in 27 carries, scored four touchdowns, _and 
Notre Dame won, 31-10. ·Dorsett's antics were so much 
pie-in-the-sky, while the Irish sat in the dining .car of 
the Train, having their cake, arid eating it, too. . 


by the Tra_in. _ . Trailing 10-7, with just over eight; minute~ left to play and the ball 55 yards from the goal line, Ara 
·Parseghian called on the Train time and again, with the urgency of an engineer running,far behind schedule on a critical trip. Indeed, the ·Irish had already been bumped to a siding by Purdue in their journey toward 
a . second consecutive national championship and an­other delay would prevent Notre Dame from reaching its destination. . 
Faced with a fourth-and-two situation at-the Pan­ther 47, and 6:13 showing on the clock, the Irish rode the ·Train for seven yards and a first down.. After a Clements keeper, ·the Train went for· five more yards and another first down, to the 31. _ 1 . 
On third-and-six, the Train brushed off Pitt tacklers· and rumbled for· 10 yards to the 12. 
Next, it was the Train for seven. And then for-two more: Then Clements, .from ·three yards out, jumped' off the Train· and -nimbly entered "End. Zone Station" · fo the cheers of the Irish faithful anx~ously awai_ting his arrival. . ·. . 
Pitt coach Johnny Majors, who viewed the Train with somewhat less affection than the Chattanooga Choo~Choo that used. to run past his Tennessee home, 
· shook his head in defeat and said, «Anybody that does not think that Wayne Bullock was the difference in the game is crazy. He is the finest fullback we have ever faced." 
-Dorsett echoed his coach's sentiments. "Bullock has to be one of the best fullbacks in the country,". he said. 
•, . ·"That guy is big, strong and·. tough. -• Whenever they need the big yardage, Bullock always seems to get it for them." · 
e 


, . . . 

Bullock carried the ball .25 times against the Pan-return by Larry Felton; the· Panthers were just · 23 thers, raising his season total to 193, enabling him to yards from the Notre-Dame goal: break· the Notre· Dame· single. season. record for rush,; · Quarterback Bob·· Medwid;-subbing;:for · the· injured 
.ing attempts previously held for 23 years by_ Neil' Bill Daniels, connected with split end-Karl Farmer-for Worden: The Train picked up 125 yards, including 32 in· · 13 yards and followed that up ·by running Dorsett for the winning touchdown march; a critica,l fourth-down · · seven:-Medwid then kept twice,· rolling over the goal c~rry in Notre Dame's first ·scoring drive, and 37· yards . line with 1:27 left in the half. . in a lengtliy first-half march that stalled just short of '-:Placekicker Carson··Long· put the Panthers 'ahead the end zone when Bullock, human for an instant, furn-on the next-to-last play of the third quarter,-.with a bled the.ball away. three-pointer from the 42. The ball, afterhitting the 
· Bullock's bobble came nine. minutes after, and 89 · crossbar; bounded up and through the uprights ->the yards away from, a .Dorsett. fumble-that would,have longest field-goal ever kicked against Notre.Dame.· enabled the Panthers to tie the score in the first Surely, Parseghian must· have questioned the -luck 
quarteri . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . ·of the Irish. · . . . . .· . . Notre Dame had scored on its first possession; . But the Train had yet to make the final run of the Clements throwing to.Peter bemnierle for 35, and then afternoon... ·Notre Dame climbed ~board,' and rod~ to three Y,~l'cls _and a . t~uchdown to ·complete a· 54-yard victory. . drive. ,: · · · · · · Afterwards, Majors said, "Our team ·played' a·'.very But the· Pa~tliers threatened to erase that advantage . great game today. I'm as proud of thbi'team as any after Chuck Bonasor.te blocked aTony Brantley punt I've ever coached in my entire life. We •might have and Ed Wilamowski" recovered· at the Irish 12. . . won today, but time ran out on us." ' . . . 
. . I. . . . . . . . . : . ; 

Thank God the Train was on schedule toda·y. 
-··_Dorsett -went _inside twice· and wingback. Bruce Murphy outside onceto give Pitt a first and goal at the one..Then ,Dorsett tried -unsuccessfully ~ to go over . Notre Dame ........................... 7 O' 0.-• _7-14 the··middle of the Notre Dame defense and, when. he 
Pittsburgh ·········:·:--················. _o .0 3 7-10 
attempted:the_:indiscretion,a second time, Kevin ·Nos­buschjarred the.ball,loose and Randy Payne recovered. Scoring:.· UP: Lo~g, 42-yard field goal, .
, -· Thus · reprieved, .the Irish.: started feeding the ball 

ND:. Bullock, 7~yard run (Reeve kick).·. 
to Bullock, like coal'.-into a boiler,· and the Train took UP: Medwid, 1-yard run (Long.kick). .
them to the Panther_ nine befo_re running out of steam. 
. ND: Cl~ments to Deminerle, -.~ yards. (Reeve kick)~ ·: Following 'a' 25-yard ·Brantley punt arid an· 11-yard · · 
JANUARY 24, 1975 



AIR FORCE 


The day was much like any other The luck of the Irish then shone point to cap. the 99-yard scoring ef­
football weekend at Notre Dame this through as tailback Chris Milodrago­fort. 
year. For what seemed to be the vich fumbled and Worden recovered However, the_ Irish did start ·a sixth week in_ a row it was raining, it on the 16 -for an-_11-yard loss. drive at the end of the first quarter snowing and whatever comes out of Worden then tried to ·gain the loss -that would lead to an early second-­-the heavens over South Bend. And back in one play by attempting a quarter touchdown. Parise started judging from the opponent's record, pass down the middle to Milodrago~ where he left off by running the ball it looked to be another long boring vich which was picked off by John down to the Air Force 36. Clements 
afternoon. 
However, one fact about this game 
made it stand out; for it was the • 
graduating seniors' last game and 
not even the lousy November 
weather or the killing of the "Senior 
Death March" could dampen the 
spirits of the suddenly nostalgic 
seniors. This spirit led to a 38-0 
whitewash of the Air Force Falcons. 
This year's Air Force team came 
into the game with a 2-8 · record. 
This record was not indicative of 
their play as they had .been plagued 
by last-minute losses and generally 
all-around bad luck. Ara Parseghian 
was very much aware of this: "They 
are probably the best 2-8 team you'll 
ever see. We knew they were a good 
passing team as well and we know 
that any good passing team can 
have a hot hand and score a lot of 
points. On their first drive I won•.. 
dered if that _wasn't happening to-_ 

Penick Dodges a Flying Falcon
day." 

Ara wasn't the only one wonder­Dubenetzky on the 1-yard line. After then went to the air and hit All­
ing about the potential of the Air this brief scare · Notre Dame re-American candidate Pete Demmerle 
Force. offense when they took the taliated with a long drive ofc their . for 17 yards and a first down. Parise 
opening kickoff and started march­own. cracked,frir seven more yards as the 
ing down the field. On the first play Tom Clements got the Irish out of gun sounded to end the period. 
from scrimmage,_ Air Force opened a hole by a combination of short Parise then didn't waste any time 
up the passing attack .that Par­passes and runs. Junior· fullback · scoring the· touchdown he missed 
seghian had talked about. Junior Tom Parise, playing for the injured in the first quarter, with:an 11-yard 
quarterback Mike Worden passed for. Wayne ·"the Train" Bullock; then burst over the middle on the· very 
17 yards to Bob Farr which brought made the· big play of this drive. first play -of the second quarter,-­
them to the Air Force 41-yard line Starting on his own 25, Parise cut · ·Reeve once again kicked the e~tra 
and another first down~-Mild-concern off left tackle and lumbered down the point to give the Irish a fourteen­
turned to outright terror as Wor­sidelines for 62 yards where he was -point lead.­
den faked a pass and then scampered knocked out of bounds by T. J: The Irish and the -Falcons then 
43 yards to the Notre Dame 16 Parker and Mike Scott. Al Samuel .traded field positions for the greater 
where Randy Payne made a touch­and Eric Penick ran-the ball _down part of the-second quarter. However 
down-saving tackle. After two in­to the 1-yard line where Russ Korn-this_ only proved to be stored energy 
complete passes, tailback Ken Wood· man plunged in for the touchdown. as the Irish stormed for two touch­
slashed for 11 yards to the Irish 5. Dave Reeve converted the extra downs within a three-minute span 
28 


at the end of the second quarter. The first Irish score was a direct result of the Irish running attack. · Al Samuel's running highlighted the· drive as he raced for runs of 12 and 6 yards. Parise once again con­tributed for runs of 4 and 5 yards and Kornman added 4 yards to bring the ball to the Air Force 9. Clements then. took matters into · his own hands and raced the ball in for the touchdown. Add Reeve's kick and the score increased to 21-0, Notre Dame. With 2 :06 in the half remaining, the Irish took· possession of the ball on their own 35-yard line and pro­ceeded to pass their way down to the Air Force 2L Clements passed to· Ken MacAfee for 14 yards and a first down. On the next play, he· hit Ron Goodman for 17 yards and another first down. Two receptions by Dem-· merle brought the ball down to the Air Force · 21 and a first down. Goodman and Samuel rushed to the 5 where substitute quarterback Frank Allocco · passed to Kornman ·for 4... Allocco himself then rolled over the right end for the score with but a mere 14 seconds remaining in the half. During halftime the festivities in the stands rivaled those on the field. The senior fans were out to have as good a time in the stands as the players were on the field. Seemingly as well prepared as their senior counterparts in · the stands, the Irish gridders kicked off to the Falcons and forced them to punt on the initial series of plays in the third quarter. 
Notre Dame's second team offense then took over on their44. Halfback Art Best ran for 6 yards on his first play from scrimmage. Quarterback Frank Allocco then pitched out to 
·freshman halfback Terry Eurick, who scrambled for 12 yards to the Air Force 38. Best then added runs of 6 and 18 yards to move the Irish further into Air Force territory. It was here that the Air Force de­fense stiffened, forcing the Irish to attempt a field goal of 33 yards. Dave Reeve proved true to task, booting it through to give Notre Dame a 31-0 lead. 
After another unsuccessful Falcon offensive drive, the Irish once again . took control of the ball. Taking over at their own 37, the Notre Daine· 
JANUARY 24, 1975 offense moved to midfield but was penalized back to the 35 because of a clipping penalty. Frank Allocco came right back by passing to Eur­ick for 6 yards. The next play proved to be the luckiest play of the game for the Irish. 
Allocco, apparently trapped in his backfield, lateralled to Best who promptly sprinted 29 yards to the Air Force 30. After Eurick banged out 5 more yards Allocco fired a 25-yard scoring pass to senior end Kevin Doherty. Reeve kicked the extra point and the scoring ended at Notre Dame 38, Air Force 0. 
Following the game, both Par­seghian and Air Force. coach Ben Martin had words of praise for Notre Dame's performance. Martin seemed to be addressing the ludi­crousness of Notre Dame scheduling service academies when he admitted the Irish were too powerful a ball club for this . type of squad. 
"When they don't make mistakes it makes it especially difficult and nearly impossible to do anything. 
Judging from the films we have seen. of them this year, they.prob., ably. executed as well as· they have in a long time. We suffered a let­down after .we _didn't score on_ our 
first drive, and never really re-. covered after that. You don't get many opportunities against them," he commented. 
Niehaus Handling a Grounded Falcon 
Ara seemed very pleased with the 38-0 shutout over the Cadets. "I am really proud of this football team, . -I believe this was the first time the Air Force has been shut out in something like 77 games" (actually 72). 
Parseghian also pointed out that all facets of the Irish game had im­proved. He cited Jim Stock's defen­sive play as "fantastic" and thought senior kicker Pat McLaughlin "did a fine job on the kickoffs." 
So amid the rain, the snow, the Falcons, and the beer, the Irish brought their record to 9-1, and back into the championship picture. 
. The seniors ended their four years of football-mania o·n. a happy note, which was to take a turn for the worse a week later. 
Notre Dame ...... 7 17 7 7 -38 Air Force .......... 0 0 0 0 -0 

_Scoring; 
'ND: Allocco· to· Doherty, 25 yards
(Reeve kick). ND: Clements. 9-yard run (Reeve kick). ND: Pa1·ise, 11-yard run (Reeve kick). ND: Reeve, 33-yard field goal. ND: Allocco, 1-yard run (Reeve kick).
-ND: Kornman, 1-yard run (Reeve k!t:k). · 
USC 
It has been said that football is not a game for the weak of heart. The game continually ·tests both the high and low points of a person's emotions, which often results in making an average football fan a complete 
· schizophrenic. If ·this is indeed true, ·then seventeen minutes of the Notre Dame-Southern California game produced· more cardiac arrests and split personalities than Marcus Welby can in one hour. · · In that span, the Trojans · of USC scored eight touchdowns and fifty-five points. This seems eve:i:i more remarkable when one considers that Notre Dame had dominated most of the first half; being up 24-0·at one point in the game. · 
The twenty-four points that the Irish scored was in itself a surprise, for the Irish had scored one point less than that in a tough 23-14 win over the· Trojans last 

year at South Bend. Besides Coach.John McKay's de­
fense lead by middle. guard Otha Bradley and the ever. 
present All~American linebacker Richard Wood, the 
Trojans had been coming on strong late in: the season 
and did not figure to let up 24 points in less than a half.: 
The Trojans kicked off to Nohe Dame. -Picking up 

one first down,. the offense stalled and·· Tony Brantley 
punted to USC's Charles Phillips .. After -two -runs by 
Anthony Davis, Pat Haden drC>pped· back to-pass and 
promptly rifled the footballinto the arms of Irish line­
backer Drew Mahalic. who returned the ball to the 
USC 39. 
On the next -play, Irish quarterback Tom Clements · passed _to halfback Ronny Goodman for 21 yards and 
a first down. Wayne Bullock then took affairs into his 
own hands and ran the ball four successive times, the 
Collins About to Finish' Off A; Davis 


; last one being a two-yard tou~hdown run. With Frank . :Allocco . holding, Dave Reeve kicked the extra point to : give ND a seven-point lead. . . 
The next Irish· score· came as the result of a blown . 

: USC gamble. With fourth and one on his own 29, McKay 
. gambled and decided to try for the first down. How­
ever, the Irish held and on the very next play,· Clem­
ents hit paydirt, firing a 29-yard touchdown pass to 
'All-American wide receiver Pete Demmerle..·.The extra 
i point was successful and the Irish had a'14-0 lead. The 
. first quarter ended _with .the Irish holding th_at lead.· 
Dave Reeve gave the Irish a 17-0 lead by kicking a 

: twenty~yard field goal .after an Irish drive stumbled on 
· the USC three yard. line. The last Irish score was 
. registered by Mark McLane off a nine-yard draw. 
' Clements led a beautiful drive:· combining both pitch­
. sweeps to backs Goodman and • McLane and aerials to 
. Ken McAfee. These two scores gave the _Irish a sur­
prising 24-0 lead and Irish fans in the· Coliseum, at 
'. Notre Dame, and throughout the country· had a just 
reason to start celebrating during halftime. 
· However the Trojans quickly ·gave notice of what 
· was to come in the third quarter. Only 53 seconds re­
. mained in the half, when Pat Haden completed a pass 
•to Shelton Diggs for twenty yards to the Irish 44. · Haden then ,hit Diggs ori the fifteen and the quick . flankerback ran it to the Irish eight. After an .incom­' pletion to McKay, Haden hit A. D. Davis with a swing ·. pass, and .the. Irish nemesis. took it into the end zone. · Notre Dame blocked the extra attempt to head into the 
locker room with a 24~6 yead. 
The opening of .the second half resembled a replay 

. of the 1972 game which saw Anthony Davis run back 
two kickoffs for touchdowns. No sooner had television 
: viewers across the country commented on how it was 
: strange to b·e showing replays of the '72 game before 
the second.half, did.they find out that it was no replay 
· at all. _Davis _ha_d just scampered 102 yards with the opening kickoff to make the score 24~12.· The two point . conversion •attempt-was no good; ·but only fourteen 
JANUARY 24, 1975 seconds had gone by. 'I'he blitzkreig was just beginning. 
USC was to then proceed scoring twenty-eight addi­tional points in that quarter and fourteen in the fina:1 . of a seemingly endless fourth quarter. Following a 31-· yard Haden to McKay pass, Davis scored on a six-yard • run: The extra point attempt was good. Notre Dame led 24-19. Two long Haden pass completions following a. Kevin Bruce fumble recovery set up a· Davis scoring burst of four yards. A.D; then drove into the end zone for the two point conversion. USC then took the lead, 27-24; A Haden to McKay touchdown pass upped the lead to 33-24. Tack on an extra point you've got 34-24, Trojans. The quarter ended on yet another USC. extra: . point conversion. The touchdown that went with it to give the Trojans a 41-24 lead was another 44-yard pass; from Haden to McKay, Jr. 
Kevin Bruce once again was the opportunist as he 
recovered his second fumble of the day on the Irish' · sixteen. Haden wound the arm up again and fired a · · touchdown pass to Shelton Diggs. Kick · good. USC 
· which USC safety Charles Phillips intercepted and ran back 58 yards for a touchdown. The kick_ was good and USC was ·· up 55-24. The rest of the game was: just a scoreless tie -,-both teams were prabably too· shocked at what had happened, to continue. · 
After seeing such a turnaround, one wonders what 
· was responsible for such a remarkable shift of mo­
. mentum: . Ara Parseghian thought that the momentum· · "did shift · on that· kickoff return by Davis. Then we had the punt return, then the fumble and then...." John McKay also thought that the kickoff returned by Davis changed the flow of momentum. "They (Notre Dame) had kicked to·A.D. earlier in the·game and dur-: . ing the halftime we· discussed that there was no NCAA rule against blocking on kickoffs. The other 10 men have to want him to score on the lorig run and.he got some excellent blocks," he explained . McKay also mentioned something about how he re­minded. his team of the 1964 game (where his team · came from ·· seventeen down to ruin ND's national championship aspirations). Ara mumbled something about how the cold· weather had. affected his team's preperations. But regardless of the reasons why and . why not, this game. provided a script even Marcus never could have dreamed up. 
Notre Dame ......................... . 14 10 0 0-24 
use ...................................... 0 6 35 14-55 
.Scoring: . . ND: Bullock, 2-yard run (Reeve kick). ND: Clements tci Demmerle, 29 yards (Reeve kick). ND: Reeve, 20-yard field goal. ND: McLane, 9-yard ruri (Reeve kick). 
· USC: Haden to Davis, 7 yards (Kick !;>locked). ·USC: Davis, 100-yard kickoff run (Two-point try no good). USC: Davis, 6-yard run (Limahelu_kic;J<:). · USC: Davis, 4-yard run (Davis; two-point try·good). 
_USC: Haden to McKay, 18 yards(Limahe~u kick). USC:·Haden to McKay, 44 yards.(Limahelukick). USC: Haden to Diggs, 16 yards (Limahelu kick). 
.. USC: PhHlips, 58-;yard interception run (Limahelu_ ki_ck): 
NOTRE DAME'S SUMMER­SPORTS CAMP PROGRAMS 
ALL-SPORTS CAMP ---CONCENTRATED HOC~EY CAMP 
' ­

CONCENTRATED BASKETBALL CA1HP ---CON,f;ENTBATED FOOTBALL CAMP 
A variety of sports camp programs conducted right on the campus of the University of Notre· Dame, utilizing the University's professional staff, as well as its facilities. 
Programs Include: 
* An all-sports program in which each camper enrolled 
receives daily instruction in each of the following five .sports: baseball, basketball, football, golf and tennis. 
*-A concentrated Hockey program conducted by the Notre Dame Hockey staff, in which each camper re­
. ceives a minimum of three hours of ice instruction per day, plus power sk_ating drills -weight training ­hockey films and lectures. 
*-A concentrated Basketball program conducted by the Notre Dame Basketball staff. Instniction centers around offensive ball handling, shooting and rebounding, as well ­as all phases of defensive play. ....
* A concentrated Football program conducted by mem­bers of the Assistant• Coaching Staff. This program fea­tures instruction in offensive line and backfield play and defensive secondary, linebacking and interior line play. 
All camp programs also feature swimming and recreational 
activities. · 
· Brochures outlining dates, application procedures and more details about each camp program are usually available after· February. By checkirig the appropriate box or boxes below, your name will be included on our mailing list for camp brochures when they become available. 
I am interested in the: 

• 
AU-Sports Camp .......................................................... 0 

• 
Co1:1centrated Hockey Camp ............. "'························ D 


• -Concentrated Basketball Camp..... :............................ D 
• Concentrated Football Camp...................................... D 






Lefty. Smith Digger Phelps Paul Shoults • · 
Send following information to: 

Name .............. _............ ·.............................................................· Age: .. ··:······ 
Joe Sassano, Coordinator 

Notre Dame SJ)l'rts (;amps Street Address ................................... ·..................-• .............·· ........................ . Athletic & Convocation Center ­Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 City ..........•......................................... State ............. ·........... Zip ............... _.. 
NOTRE -DAME FOOTBALL -STATISTICS 

(ELEVEN GAMES) 
SCORING BY QUARTERS 
Notre Dame ................ 73 101 
Opponent •...••••..••••••.... 37 16 
TEAM STATISTICS 
Totol Offense .. : ..............•................ Toto I Ploys ..............•.••................ Yards Per Play •.•......... , ............... Yards Per Game •....•........•.••..•...•. 
Net Yards R~shing •....................•.... Attempts .•..................•••.........•..... Yards Per Rush ..............•............. Yards Per Game .••......•................ 
Net Yards Passing .........•................ Attempts ••..••.........••............ ' ....... Completions ..............•................. Completion Percentage ................ Had Intercepted .................•........ Touchdown Passes .:•..................... . Yards Per Completion •........•........ Yards Per• Attempt ............••........ Yards Per Game ....•..................... 
Interceptions Made .......•.. : .....::........ 
66 65-305 55 28-136 
ND OPP 4779 2147 919. 
693 5.2 · 3.1 434.5 195.2 
3119 1131 684 488 4.6 2.3 283.5 102.8 
1660 1016 235 205 132 82 
:562 .400 12 8 
9 7 
12.6 12.4 7.1 5.0 150.9 92.4 
8 12 

.Yards Returned ............................... 119 191 
Punt Return Yards .............,:............. Number of Returns ...................... Average Return .............:.............. 
Kickoff Return Yards ........................ Number af Returns ...................... Average Return ............................ Total Return Yards .............•........ 
Average Punt .................................. Number al Punts ..............: .......... . Yards Punting .............................. Had Blocked ......................,.:...., .. 
Penalties Against •............... : ........... Yards Penalized •..•.............•........ 
173 252 28 21 6.2 12.0 
408 918 25 44 16.3 20.9 292 443 
38.8 39.5 49 82 1903 3238 0 
58 45 577 382 

Fumbles (lost) ···.·····························24 ( 18) 23 (15) 
Total First Downs ····--------................ . by rushing .................................. 
by pauing 
by penalty 
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE 
G  
Clements  ··················  11  
Bullack  ....................  10  
Samuel  ; .....................  11  

LEADERS 
Plays 310 203: 
96 

RESULTS ••• Won 9, lost 2, Tiec:i' 0 
ND J 1 49 20. 19 
10 . 48 38. 14 14 38 24 
0~ 
al Georgia Tech  ................  7  
al Northwestern •...............  J  
PURDUE  ............................  JI  
at  Michigan SI. ......•.........  14  
RICE  ...: .................·..... ·...  3  
ARMY  ...........•....... , ..........  0  

MIAMI ....•.•.................. : ...•. 7 
.al Navy .........•.....•...••........6. PITTSBURGH .................•.... IO . AIR FORCE •.........•..•.... : •.. ~. 0 at Southern Col •............... 55 

Jon. 1__::Alabuma (Orange-Bo~I) INDIVIDUAL PUNTING 
G  No.  Yds.  
Brantley  ..........  I J  48  1903  
Team  (Blocked)  I  0  

273 133 
175 76 87 _50 11 7 
Yards Avg. 1918 6.2 855 4.2 525 ·.5.5 
Attendance 45,228 ss.oootcl 59,075(cl 77,431 (cl 
s9,01s1,1 
59,0751c) 59,075 (cl 
. 48,634 59,075(c) 59,075 (cl 83,552 
. Avg. Long 39.6 69 0.0 0 

Notre  Dame ....  11  49  1903  38.8  69  
Opponents_ •.•.••  11  82  3238  39.5  65  
JANUARY 24, 1975  

PASS RECEIVING G PC Yds. Avg. TD long 
. Demmerle .... 10 43 667 15.5 6 47 
Weber .....•.... 8 13 206 15.8 I 28 
11 · 
, 

· Samuel ........ 14 134 9.6 .0 17 Goodman ..... II 14 149 10.6 0 21 Bullock ·.. : ... :: 10 II 103 9.4 ·o 17 MacAlee ...... 10 14 146 10.4 I 24 Doherty ........ 5 4 59 14.8 I 25 Kornman 7 6 57 9.5 0 17 Best .........•...• 7 3 54 18.0 0 27 Mclane 8 5 56 11.2 0 16 Weiler 11 3. 21 7.0 0 10 Eurick .......... 7 I 6 6.0 0 6 Penick .......... 4 I 2 2.0 0 2 
Notre Dame .• 11 132 1660 12.6 9 47 Opponents .... II 82 1016 12.4 7 29 
TEAM SCORING 

ND OPP Total Points ...............................: ...• 305 ·136 Average ·......................................... 27.7 12:4 
. 41

Touchdowns ····-~---------------·····.......... 17 by rushing .:...........................: ...• 30 7 by passing .................•................ 9 7 
by return ...........•.................•.:.... 2 3 
by recovery --------------------------------0 0 
Field Goals (Made-All.) .......•...•.... 7-10 6-14 
Safeties ........................•........•........ 0 0 
PAT-Kick ..........•.•.......•............... 39.40 14-15 
PAT-Run •..•.......•.......................• o.o 1-2 · PAT-Pass . o.o O·O 
PASSING G· No. Comp. .Pct. Int. Yds. TD 

Clements 11 215 122 .567 II 1549 8 
Allocco ........ 11 10 7 .700 I 72 I 
Slager 4 8 3 .375 0 39 0 
Goodman ----11 I 0 .000 0 0 0 
--------I 0
Samuel II 0 .000 0 0 
Notre Dame .. 11 235 132 .562 12 1660 9 Opponents •... 11 205 82 .400 8 1016 7 
RUSHING 

G  TC  Yds.  Avg.  TD  long·  
Bullock  ..........  10  203  855  4.2  12  16  
Samuel  ..........  11  95  525  5.5  2  35  
Clements  -------­ 11  95  369  3.9  4  35  
Best  7  51  241  4.7  0  29  
Mclane  ---------­ 8  42  207  4.9  2  16  
Parise  9  .. 40  207  5.2  I  62  
Goodman  -----­ 11  25  144  5.8  I  62  
Weiler  ............  11  30  133  4.4  0  15  
Eurick  ............  7  19  131  6.9  I  28  
Kornman  ........  7  25  99  4.0 .4  13  
Slager· •...........  4  12  82  6.8  0  17­ 
Allocco  ..........  II  17  36  2.1  2  12  
··  Parseghian  ---­ 3  7  32  4.6  o·  12  
Bake  ..............  2  5  23  4.6 -1  9  
Penick ··-···-·-·--Doherty ----····-­ 4 5  12 2  14 .9  ·1.2 4.5  0 0  9.,  
Rulo  ..............  2  2  8  4.0  0  4  
Kelly  ........•.....  I  I  3  3.0  0  3  
Moriarty  -------­ I·  I  I  1.0  0  I  
Barnett 37 3-10 9 0 ·.o.


· Noire Dame ...;:· 11 684 3119 4.6 30 62 Opponents 11 488 1131 2.J 7 52 
RETURNS 

Interceptions Punts Kickoffs Bullock ............ 7
I .. 

Goodmon ........ is.so 5. 81 Samuel 8-150
······..--.. 

Barnett ............ · J.-0 Harrison 2.94.2 6-42
·········· 
Payne .............. 2-19 
Burgmeier ________ 

6.46 3-52 Dubenetxky .... 2-16 Best ................ 1-15 
...

Chauncey · 1-5 Mahalic 1-0 . Mclane .......... 6-95 Weiler I. 8
·······•···· 

Notre Dame ----8-119-2 28-173 25-408-0 Opponents 12-191-2 21-252 44-918-1 
INDIVIDUAL SCORING  
G  TD  Kick  R·PA  FG  TP  
Bullock ........  10  12  72.  
Reeve ········..  11  0  39.40  ·7-10  59  
Demmerle ....  10  6  36  
·Kornman .......  7  4  24  
Clements  II  4  24  
Samuel ··--··-­ 11  2  12  
Harrison -·····  11  2  12  
Allocco --·----­ II  2  12  
Mclane -------·  8  2  12  
Goodmon  ---­ II  6  
Weber  ·······­ 8  6  
Eurick  ..........  7  6  
Bake  ······-···  2  6  
MacAfee ···-··  10  6  
Parise ---------­ 9  6  
Doherty  ···-··  5  6  

Notre Dame 11 41 38-40 o.o 7-10 ·305 Opponents .. II 17 14-15 1-0 6-14 .136 
•22 yards vs. Georgia T~ch 38 ond 32 yards vs. Michigan Stole 45 yards vs. Rice 28 yards vs. Miami 33 yards vs. Air Force 20 yards vs. Southern Cal 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS "TM Tl-Yds. PBU FR BK 
Collins ........•......... 144 6-22 0 0 
Mohalic ................ 117 6-27 4 1· 0 
Niehaus 95 13-82 2 . I 0 
Fanning ................ 85 12-52-, I .0 
Nosbusch ..........•.... 76 0 
·-·········-···· 
9.40. 
Stock 76 19-120 2 3 0
·····-·············· 
Harrison 57 1-3 7 0
···-············ 
Qubenetzky .......... 56 6-12 .4· I 0 Russell 52 1-2 I 0 0
--················ Eastman 43 2-12 · 0 0 ·o
-··-············ :Payne 40 3-12 6 0
·-·-················ 
-----············· 
Weston •u••••••••••••• 31 2-22 0 0 ·o Novakov 19 0-0 0 0 lopienski 18 o.o 2 0 0 Becker .................. 12 1-19 0 2 0 Johnson ................ 11 l~l 2 I 0 0 Zappala 7 2-12 0 0 0 
••••000000000 
-··············· 
Burgmeier ............ 6 o.o 0 0 .o Wujciak. ................ 5 o.o· 0 0 0 s. Smith 4 1-2 0 0 0
-··············· 
Hughes .................. 4 o.o 0 0 0 Achterholl 4 1-3. 0 0
··-········· Pszeracki .............. 3 o.o --o o-0 Banks 3 0-0 0
-··················· Corney 3 o.o 0 0 0
-----··-·········­Reeve 2 o.o 0 0 0
········-··········· 
Cullins 2 o.o 0 0 0
-·-··············· ···--···········
Galanis 2 1-13 0 0 0 Demmerle .............. o.o 0 0 0 Bullock o:o 0 0 0
···-·············· 
Brenneman o.o 0 0 0 Best· ..........:........... o.o 0 0 0 Rohan .................. ·I .o.o -0 0 0 Chauncey .............. 1 0-0 0 0 0 Arment 0, 0-0 0 0 
••HOOOO••oo 
·-·············· 
Parise I o.o 0 0 0
---·--·-·········· DiNa.rdo ................ o.o 0 0 0 Sylvester o.o 0 0 0
·············· 
.Eurick .................... o.o 0 0 0 Laney -.:....,............. o.o 0 0 0 
Notre Dome .......... 1025 90-'477  43  14 I  
Opponents 1108 -45-132··-·········  24  18 1  
•TM ­Includes solo, and assists  I  
33  J  
.r  
:;:  


1974 INDIVIDUAL GAME-B:Y-GAME STATISTICS 
I 
I. 
! 
I 
i 
1 

1974 INDIVIDUAL GAME-BY-GAME STATISTICS 

The End ·of an Era 
The end occurred December 15, 1974. Three hundred and forty-nine days following the greatest victory in Notre Dame's Football History, the man behind that great coup had decided to leave. 
It wasn't an easy task for Ara Parseghian to leave· 
the University of Notre Dame: eleven years ago, a 
young Armenian Presbyterian had been introduced to 
the press by Athletic Director "Moose" Krause as.Notre 
Dame's Football Coach. There was a challenge at Par­
seghian's appointment, for the Irish were having their 
problems· in winning football games. Attendance was 
low. Coaches didn't pan out. The quality of the athlete 
coming to Notre Dame wasn't quite the caliber it was in · the past. Something had to be done. · 
And so it was Parseghian's turn to turn around the fortunes of Notre Dame Football. 
He did. 
Having a losing record· for the five years before his arrival (and going 2-7 the year before), Parseghian's new system brought Notre Dame back into national prominence with a 9~1 record. His teams finished third and ninth in the years leading up to his first .National · Championship in 1966. The controversial 10-10 tie with Michigan State assured Notre Dame their first cham­pionship since 1949; ending all questions concerning Ara's ability. 
1973 was certainly a very special year in Irish Foot­ball History, and Parseghian was instrumental in that season, as his team finished with ·an unbeaten, untied season, the first in twenty-five years. The 23-14 win over the Trojans ofSouthern Cal (the first win since 1966) and the 24-23 triumph over Alabama in the Sugar Bowl were two of the finest in College Football History._ 
And Parseghian was behind it alL 

In his eleven years at the helm, Notre Dame football teams have finished in the top-ten polls nine times. Irish teams have had only a single season (1972) where they. have lost as many as three games. Parseghian has brought Notre Da_me to five postseason bowl games, and has come away with three victories. He has been cited as "Coach of the Year" by various media sources. And all this in eleven years. 
Then why the resignation? 

"I'm tired," was one of the explanations a weary Ara had attempted to bring across to the press. "I've tried to come up with other alternatives to the situa­tion, but I believe that this is the best way to .solve the problem. I've seen many good men lose a lot more than ball games in the coaching ranks to know that I could not keep up the pace I've been used to for the past few years." 
Actually, Ara was contemplating retirement three . years ago, according to Krause at the press conference. "Ara had come into the office a few years ago, and we talked about the pressures he had been under. After the talk, we both decided that he should continue, and that was that." 
Winning the National Championship didn't· help alleviate the pressures Parseghian·was under; "After the victory, the pressvwere already .pointing to next· year-and he hadn't taken a. shower yet," commented Vic Dorr, former sports editor of ttje Observer. He was in demand across the country to: relive that season. Pressures _to remain number one were :becOIT1ing _un­bearable. 
_Pressures are something we all have to live with­whether you ·are President of the· United States or a banker in Pago Pago. · The coaching . profession· has many factors unique -to itself. Recruiting, staff, 
e 

public relations-these are crucial to every successful coach. Imperfections, no matter how minute, can wreck a football program. Coaches strive for. winning seasons for the situations they create: increases in con­tributions from alumni, new facilities, increased talents of recruits. These contribute to make a winning .coach have a greater chance to continue. 
The problem of staying on top is dramatically in­creased at. themajor college level. It is here where the packed stadiums, the television contracts and pro scouts come to watch a successful program. Alumni come from across the country to see their alma mater do what they've come thousands of miles for-victories. It never changes-the head coach is put on the spot to come up with awinner. . . 
The problem at> Notre Dame is that. the football team is supposed to win every game, every season. No excuses. A national championship is demanded. When we do lose (perish the thought), the entire country has to air their feelings on the reasons for the disaster.. The man who shoulders the blame had been doing it for the past eleven years. Seventeen times he had to bear the brunt of the critics for losses. Seventeen times were enough for him. 
"The.pressures of Notre Dame Football have made an impossible situation for me to continue working in," explained Parseghian. "The rugged pace I've kept over the years (twenty-hour days) has made me reevaluate my feelings toward coaching. There have been instances that have made me believe that I've. done the right thing. So, I'll now be coaching for the fun of it down in Miami.".. 
He did appear to enjoy himself those last few weeks after the resignation. The haggard look he had dis­played the entire season had now subsided, and a new, joyful look had surfaced. "I really feel great," was his reply two days before the Orange Bowl. The injuries to . Collins and Brenneman and the illness of Bullock wor­ried him, but it was not the same as before. "I really feel· that we're going to win this game. Everyone has picked us to lose because of one thing or another, but I feel that we can do it." 
Notre Dame beat Alabama, 13-11 . 

.The score isn't significant, although it represents a doubling of last year's margin of victory.· What is more important is that he went out a winner. There were no longer any pressures to repeat, no thoughts about re­cruiting. He was finally free to absorb a victory and not worry about its consequences. · 
"I'm never going to forget any of you guys," was the single cry a jubilant Parseghian declared in the winner's locker room. "We . were underdogs, and you showed them that you were for real. And I'm so proud for all of you." 
The postgame news conference echoed Parseghian's reflections about his situation. "It was a team victory, and every member deserves credit," replied Ara to the cameramen and sports reporters. "It was such a great game for College Football, and this was one game I'll never forget." 
Perhaps Moose Krause had put it best at the press conference, now some sixteen days old. "Ara will go down as a legend at Notre Dame, and will always be something we can admire and respect." 
We'll miss him. -Delaney 


In Search of Miami 
Looking back, the trip. was a: healthy experience for us all: four glorious day, three action-packed nights that faded together into a Miami blur of entertainment, hang-overs; sunny beaches, romance, auto accidents, and a woman in chartreuse pants passing out hand­bills urging mothers of America to burn their bras. All of this experienced by seven Domers confined with­fo a Pontiac station wagon. 
Years from now, the trip will certainly become the sort of event I'll insist upon relating frequently to my grandchildren much to their delight. I listened to Papa Caruso tell his World War II adventures of hijacking enemy armored cars loaded with money and booze. This was a· great story but Miami is magic: lanky tanned girls in scanty bikinis, sunny beaches, plush hote_l rooms, gullible residents and superb gormet food. The entire world wishes it were Miami. 
I began my vacation at the Paulius house in Light­house Point, a few miles north of Ft. Lauderdale. Six­teen Domers converted a quiet house into a chaotic one. To amuse ourselves the first evening we played Scrabble. However, darkness engulfed Florida so we trekked to the Mai-Kai Polynesian Restaurant where I drunkenly and unwisely bought a $39 round of drinks which swelled my American Express account. 
Only in Ft. Lauderdale would an otherwise well-adjusted Domer find comfort arguing with girls from Michigan· State. One girl wearing "Lefty" across her chest threw a hefty left jab after (had informed her that I was rich and spoiled and did notneed her around. We retaliated by thrusting popcorn, beer cans and shoes at her which prompted a quaint Michigan State response. 
While lying on the beach enjoying' the sun and sights; one often became bored. Such was our fate so 
.· '.~'f} 
•ififf~ 

we decided to make a sand leprechaun. ·An hour later the seaweed beard completed our sand sculpture while the gallery of fans w;ho had· gathered to watch ap­plauded our efforts. · 
That night we drove to the Orange, Bowl Parade in Miarrii. At one intersection Mike left the car to talk to a policeman. , We had to continu~ ~with traffic so Michael temporarily. disappeared from our sights.. At the next intersection a car came speeding beside us and the'traffic cop &ew his gun to stop that car. He shoved the revolver through the window against the black driver's head, pulled the driver out and frisked him. We decided to drive slowly1~fter that. · 
In an attempt to find Mike we marched down the middle of the parade route like a general reviewing his 
·troops' staring at the people lining each side. We asked an officer with a walkie-talkie if he could direct. us to the area where the black man was stopped by the res volver. He replied,· "We don't discriminate like _that: And besides, we only talk about the times· we use our gun." 
After finding Michael we watched the parade with eager anticipation· for the Irish Band. The band finally passed which inspired us to follow them along the crowded· sidewalks. Pushing here, shoving there, shak­ing hands with people, doing° the "Bump" with a girl, running around barricades and cutting left or right like a running back in platform shoes helped us follow the band along the entire three-and~on~-half-mile route.'At the conclusion of the .route r·stood soaking wet from perspiration but amazed to see approximately seventy-five people who had followed us. We had been the pied-pipers of the Orange BowLParade. 
On our way to the car we spied a four-way stop light sitting on the sidewalk begging .to be taken.. We tried 
:·.. ,} .•. ;: .f. '. •
.·II"· 

The Miami Travelling Team 
----------------------;"_______ 
in vairi to move the monster which stood hip-high to me, but it weighed a few hundred pounds. And besides, it was tied down with a rope. 
We then headed for Miami Beach for a swinging New Year's Eve party. However, we stopped for a car pulling out of a parking space which caused the other station wagon behind us to stop. But to our dismay a guy from New York decided he wa,s not going to stop-:-­or at least until he hit the second station wagon which hit into us. Needless to say the guys behind us were drenched in beers which caused one of them to drop an open can under their car so that "nobody would see it.''. . 
Before -we moved the cars this Domer decided to retrieve his beer, but by doing so stretched his legs into traffic. A cop yelled, "Watch your legs," but he miraculously grasped the can with a drunkard's ease and without police detection. 
A man parked his black Thunderbird to tell his ac­count of the accident. "I saw the bullet leave the gun," he stuttered while gesturing with his fingers. The traffic policeman finally persuaded the man to leave but not before we all lost our patience. Tom yelled out that I was a congressman's son which caused__the cop to quickly continue his investigation. · 
"Are you hurt?'!, the cop asked me. 
"Yes," I replied. ---__ · __ l'No you're not/' interrupted Bill .. "How. do·you,know?" I snapped, "Mind· your own 

blankety-blank business.". 
The officer asked who was sitting on what side of which seat. Since we traveled in a three-seat -station wago~. we-got confused so we lined up on the sidewalk exactly in our seated positions. The eight guys· behind rari into us seven to simulate as accident and chaos once more prev~iled. , --_ , 
AfterJeaving the scene of the crime by way of a wrong turn, we found ourselves on an island just twenty minutes before midnight. _Fifteen minutes of finding our way back to Miami Beach began our search for the Playboy Plaza which is no longer in existence. Thus we spent New Year's on the causeway headed toward Miami with grouchy dispositions. 
Arriving at the Playboy Club bunny-eyed (like the pun?) and tired, we stood in line, drank $1.60 drinks, bought aPlayboy key with myAmerican Express card (ouch), and then headed for Fr. Toohey's hotel floor. We· defintely were hungry_ so we followed Mr. Clem­ents and Mr. DiNardo to. a place called the Golden Nugget. After sitting twenty minutes waiting for the waitress, I noticed the "Southern Procedure" employed at that fine eatery. The waitress would take an order from one table to the kitchen, wait for the food to be cooked, serve the food to that table, and then go to an­other table for the next order. I figured that we would have been served at just about kick~off time for the 
. Super Bowl! Mike decided that we would leave but that we would show our Northern· displeasure by placing our water. glasses upside-down_ so that whoever picked them tip next would be able to wash their hands too. · 
Three 'hours of sleep on Fr. Toohey's floor did wonders for my back as well as astonish Fr. Toohey on Orange Bowl morning. ""Are all these guys on the Schola.stic ·staff?1' was Toohey's)irst utterance of the. day. Fortunately for the Scholastic we aren't. 
JANUARY 24, 1975 
One Alabama fan slobbered something about Notre Dame losing big this year. Mike calmly predicted that we'd win by two points instead of one. 
We left the beach and headed for the Notre Dame headquarters where we finally found a place to _shower. Tim Truesdell was kind enough to let us use his room, but I'm -not sure he'd do it again. Seven guys stripped and, dripping wet, flooded his bathroom, at his pretzels; used his hot comb, search his room,· borrowed a _few "Go to Hell 'Barna" ribbons, but took the fastest seven showers, shaves, shampoos, et cetera in history. In ex­actly ·thirty minutes we all -walked out of that room looking like kings. 
After falling asleep at the so-called "rally,,, we went to the Orange Bowl where no one came. away disap­pointed (Domers that is). At times during the game I couldn't help but get tears in my eyes thinking how very proud I would be if I could have the honor of play­ing in Ara's last game. Yet the game ended cheerfully and we regrouped outside ,the s_tadium next to ·a lady in chartreuse pants who was passing out handbills urg­ing the mothers of America to burn their bras. 
Whenever Bill returned, he satin the car bewildered and ·dazed. "He's the finest man I ever knew," Bill whispered. "I'm really going to miss him." Bill was noticeably choked-up, and I could share his feeHngs _be­cause only an hour before in the stands I too had been as emotional. Ara had opposed a hostile Alabama crowd at the Sugar Bowl the year before and had tamed them considerably. This years that somewhat tamed Alabama . crowd came to the Orange-Bowl won­dering wheth~r the Sugar Bowl victory -was -merely Irish luck._. Once more Ara demonstrated that Notre Dame was a_ school and team which demanded respect from .that Alabama crowd. 
It was Ara's finest hour, like a king marching home victoriously. Not only did Ara gain respect for. Notre Dame, but for_ college football itself, which Bill and· I realized at that moment. So as we drove back .to. the house, we felt exhausted yet proud .to be-part of Notre Dame and the Irish tradition. 
The next day. most of our group departed for. the frozen North. When asked· how I was getting back to Pittsburgh, !motioned my arms in a flapping manner. "Oh, you're' hitchhiking with fruits, huh?" wisecracked someone. I was really. flying United, but before I left I attended -a Mass celebrated by a Rev. Schlinkmann, who talked with a .Bronx accent about the new con­tribution ·envelopes being distributed. His lector must have thought he was Oral Roberts because he told us, "If you're like•me, you sing off key. But don't worry, the Lord hasn't complained yet. So let's all sing number twelve. . .'' . ­
· , That mass .climaxed a great vacation for me. My father always insisted his World -War II stories were true; and I maintain that nothing written about Miami is an exaggeration. Even if you don't see it happen, un­usual events like ours are going on just at,the time.you 
_think about it. Notre Dame should offer a course so students can survive bowl trips. Or better yet, Alabama should offer a course so their team can survive a bowl game as well as• try to contain The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. 
· ....:..Gary Caruso '73 

ORANGE BOWL 175:· 



ALABAMA 
The skies were clear over Miami on New Year's Night, although if rumors printed in the San Francisco Chronicle were to be believed things had been stormy in the Notre Dame football program for most of the season. But if disharmony existed, it was not in evi­dence in-this year's Orange Bowl. A team effort knocked Alabama out of the national championship by a 13-11 score and sent Ara Parseghian out of the college ranks a winner. 
Ron Goodman started the game with Notre Dame's longest kickoff return of the season, advancing 30 yards to the 38. But Wayne Bullock missed a first down by a yard after three consecutive cracks at the line and Tony Brantley shanked a 20-yard punt out of bounds. 
As was to be the case most of the evening, the Irish defense shackled the 'Barna attack. Eric Penick picked up a first down on Notre Dame's second possession ofthe game with an eight-yard burst around left end, but the attack stalled and once again the Irish punted. This time Brantley's punt was in play and the Title's Willie Shelby fumbled it. Al Samuel came up· with the recovery at the Alabama 16. 
Three plays later the Irish were faced with a fourth­and one at the seven. Bullock came up with a big play, powering over the left side for three yards and the first down. On the next play he slid over the other side for the evening's first score. Dave Reeve's extra point gave the Irish a 7-0 lead with less than seven minutes goine. The remainder of the quarter was scoreless as both teams played outstanding defense to go with their own jittery offenses. The• Irish took over on their own 23 with fifty seconds left and controlled the ball for 6:31, running off 17 plays on a 77-yard touchdown march. The Irish attempted only one pass on the drive, a nine­yard completion from Clements to Mark McLane. The remainder of the drive was. on the ground with McLane and Samuel picking up good yardage on sweeps while Bullock worked the middle. The drive appeared to stall at the 'Barna 28 when a fourth and four confronted Notre Dame. Alabama's Ricky Davis went alt out to block the attempted field goal but in the process jumped offside giving the Irish new life. Mark McLane then finished off the resurrection, taking a pitchout 12

I 
yards around the left end. · Two plays later he twisted

i 
reminiscent of Chubby Checker-nine yards for the score 
40 

off left tackle. Reeve's conversion, barely missed to the left and the Irish lead stood at 13-0. · 
Bullock lost a fumble on Notre Dame's next posses­sion. putting the Irish defense on the spot with the Tide just 40 yards from the end zone. 'Barna quarterback Richard Todd hit receivers twice on third down to move the Tide to a first and goal at the eight-yard line. But the Irish defense dug in and Alabama had to ~ettle for Ridgeway's 21-yard field goal. The Irish ran· out all but eight seconds of the half to takea 13-3 lead into the locker room as a horde of bands, floats, clowns, singers, balloons and stiltwalkers took over the field. 
· To the casual observer, the scoreless third quarteroi the Orange Bowl may have appeared very dull. But to a team that had been outscored 35-0 in their last third period, as the Irish had against Southern Cal, it 

e 


was welcome fifteen minutes of peace indeed. The Irish frontal defense keyed by Steve Niehaus and Tom East­man stifled the fabled Alabama rushing attack.· Ala­bama· attempted to pass, but their inexperience in aerial football was evident. Unable to take consistent advantage of openings in the Irish secondary, the Tide managed just three first downs in the quarter, all by passing; Notre Dame's offense was also stagnant, con­verting zero of_ four as the Irish failed to add to their lead. 
Notre Dame took over on their own eight to start the final period and spurred by necessity, the offense surged into life. Samuel picked up twenty yards on a pair of sweeps to spring Notre Dame from the hole and then McLane and Bullock took over. Faced with fourth-and-one at the Alabama 42, the Irish went for it with Bullock. And as usual, Wayne· picked up the key yard. Out of gas, the train left the game at this point and his absence was felt when Woodrow Lowe and Mike Turpin stopped another fourth down try on the next series. 
-fnspired by the defensive play, the Tide put together its first stustained offense of the evening, racking up four first downs in as many plays, three on passes by Todd. The whirlwind attack carried to the Irish 12 but there it abruptly ended when Todd delivered an inter­ception' to John Dubenetzky, who returned the ball 16 yards out of danger to the 26. 
Four plays later Brantley punted and the Crimson Tide took over on their own 47 with 4:29 left; Todd hit two of his first three passes but only for five yards. On 4th and 5 Steve Schamun ran a simple down-and-out. Randy Payne gambled for an interception and missed, allowing. Schamun to catch the pass unimpeded and sprint down the sideline for a 48-yard touchdown..The Tide. got the .two-point conversion when Willie Pugh made a fantastic diving catch in the end zone. Trailing 13-11, Alabama needed only a field goal to win the na-
JANUARY 24, 1975 tional championship and gain revenge for last year's one point Sugar Bowl loss. 
Bullock picked up one first down but Frank Allocco (replacing the injured Clements) was sacked trying to pass and Brantley punted to 'Barna with just under two minutes remaining. 
On his first play from the 'Barna 38, Todd picked on the now over-cautious Payne for a 16-yard gain to Schamun. _He then came back with an 8-yard com­pletion to Randy Billingsley that put the . ball on the Irish 38. On the next play Todd proved him a prophet, throwing an interception which Reggie Barnett claimed. Barnett weaver back and forth across the field with the ball before crashing, like Alabama's title hopes, among the wreckage of the Tide bench. 
One minute and eight seconds later, the Era of Ara was over as players and fans carried the victorious coach off the field for the last time with the familiar navy blue jacket on. After the game the·now gray­haired cocah preferred to emphasize the team aspect, "I didn't overburden the team with this being my last game. The kids won the game. They played with as much pain and injury as I've ever seen." Kevin Nos­busch, Greg Collins, Mark Brenneman and Wayne Bullock were among those who played with injuries that might well have sidelined them. It was fitting that there were no _great individual stars in the game for quite properly the win was Parseghian'~. 
Alabama ............................... . 0 3 0 8-11 Notre Dame ......................... . 7 6 0 0-13 
Scoring: 
ND: Bullock, 4-yard run (Reeve kick). ND: McLane, 9-yard run (Kick no· good). ALA: Ridgeway, 21-yard field goal. .. _ ALA: Todd to Schamun, 48 yards (Two-point attempt good). · 



From the Sidelines---· 
(Ed. Note-This is Tom Pagna's final column for the Scholastic. His decision to resign from the Notre Dame Coaching Staff leaves a ·void that will be very hard to fill. . 
Ending his eleventh season with Notre Dame· as offensive backfield coach and offensive coordinator, Pagna has been one of the major contributors to the Irish Football Program. His talent for coaching is only surpassed by his warm personality and congeniality for· everiJone he meets. He will surely be missed; .not only as Payna the Cooch, but as Pagna the Man -Delaney.) 
Perhaps the greatest thrill in niy own personal life­time -was to have been a part of the 1973 undefeated National Championship. 
Immediately after having.written that line,· I renect that. there is no bigger fallacy than·a man who stands still -with some past achievement and can only reflect backwards. This is not my intention at all, but it is necessary to set the stage of 1974's adventure. 
We never sacrificed a principle, never coerced ad~ missions to enter faulty. students, never used "wealthy alumni" to encourage anyone's attendance here. · We further. did not attempt ·to recruit ·junior college ath­letes and try:to. become a farm squad for the pros. All of this made the achievement one of greater satisfac­tion. We were proud of the fact that we did it with taste, class,-and integrity. It was in keeping with Notre Dame's own image. 
.At the start of 1974, the opponents rose up strongly motivated. They could point to us as the one "big . game" of their season; We, of course,• were allowed no such luxury. Our task was to "repeat"_the ultimate of success in the collegiate footbal~. realm. _· · · · · 
! 
./ 

Summer witnessed industrial accidents to · Steve Quehl and Tim Simon. The previous spring hiid left a seriously injured Eric Penick. In late ·summer· six players were dropped from the University on disciplin­ary charges. The normal mortaiity of a season and its injuries .already counted nine starters before.we= ever got· under . way. 
We did what we had: to do, we pulled ourselves up . and went to work because of a rescheduled earlier starting:_date versus Georgia Tech .. 
· The opening ·game went well enough on national· TV; so well that the scribes again touted us highly and ''Nick the· Greek" made us· odds on favorites all the way. 
But "though plans are man's, the odds are God's." No o_ne can dominate any ·level :of competitive sport when talent is so evenly distributed. . ·. . . . · 
. We fought hard to beat Northwestern and won­dered why the "lethargic" showing of our squad. It wasn't lethargy at all;· it was the buildup, the residue of-all.the pressure and the expectation by scribes,.fans, bookies/and media. "You are Notre Dame, aren't you?" 
Then why can't we beat everyone by large scores and with ease? ·. That attitude weighs very_heavily upon players. :, 
Purdue, playing inspired ,and blessed ·,with good luck ·and early breaks,· jumped :out to an incredible lead. It was like the -Champion getting knocked down for a ·9 yount, and 'blurry-eyed,·-fighting back',out of 
. instinct. _We could not overcome. the too early. and too large lead. ·.We were "upset,'' the writers said..This is always. an opinion~that fails to recognize that in .the great sport of football· any team can beat any other team of a comparable ability ori a given day. 
· We scrapped through some close and hotly contes.ted 
1974. .Season 
. :;.· 

games after that Purdue game, and the same talent we have always had to incite great emotion in the opponent was always there. · ___ __ 
Invariably the opposing· coach was quoted _postgam.e in words to the . effect, :'.'I'm .proud of my team, they played their best game." : · 
That Michigan State and. Rice were close wins and Army was having a down cycle led us novvhere. We jumped on Miami ·early .pecause_ psychologically --we· were ready for· -ariot}_ler hectic contest. Miami was a rarity; though large on taient and size, they did not play with the .emotion of other teams "souped up" for the Irish. 
Navy fought us to a standstill and almost won ­but we pulleditout with alast-quarter surge. _ _ 
-The ratings.-lowered us. The-critics were picking the bones of all their contentions. All we had managed to do was wiri. Somehow. through the paradox of be~ coming a victim .of one's: own success, that was riot 
enough;'. _-· · _ · "When _the mighty fall, the jackals come. to call/'_ wrote _Jack London with an inspired vision of human and animalisUc behavior. . . . -, ·-­It was <'all so =·simple that people· could summarize things into one-line questions or answers. . · -· ."Sure -Parseghian doesn't recruit well."__ "They are playing: patsies -so when they come up_ . against _a toughie -etc." The: myth that we perpetuated by winning more. than ·we had lost 'for eleven straight years;. began io work its black magic. The players fought hard to ignore· the opinions _: ·knowing each game is an entity unto_ itself and cannot allow·any distraction. . We fought even more solidly to win over Pittsburgh and Air -Force and had salvaged nine victories. 
Tired, emotionally drained, wounded from warding off inspired opponents, and weary from the wintry elements of late November in South Bend, we faced Southern Cal out there. 
What· happened in that game cannot" be· registered into any computer. -All of the facts are ·impossible to evaluate. Our 24 to 6 halftime lead appeared to be the one great surge a thoroughbred horse has:Whenever he spends it, it is spent for that race. · 
There were many contributing factors and just one of them was again· the· brilliant kickoff· return. of' An­thony Davis.· That triggered -· their ·emotion· and dampened ours. Breaks that had gone well earlier now mushroomed against us; The final score of 55 to 24 was meaningless; it was a loss in the worst possible sense, regardless of score. · 
"Why would anyone kick to Anttiony:Davis in the first place?" The stupidity and frequency of that ques­tion. deserved to be answered only by those that posed it: L Where else can you kick .the ball but north and south, short or long/arid in bounds? ·· ·· 
-· It was over;· and· the sorr~w and perhaps the relief upon our players feeling the pressure ·of too' _much expectation was evident -. ---. 
: A nine-and-two season with a rest before facing revenge-motivated Alabama iri the Orange Bowl. 
What's this -Ara resigns?· Like all great ·men in ­public life such news is met with great extremes: "God is dead" for some, a~d "long ·uve the rie'w ·King" for others. 
·For me personally, I was grateful he had:recogriized his' emotionally drained symptoms before theY becam.e obvious to everyone -else -out himself. ' ·He worked too hard, too long, with too much integrity and character to allow one stormy' show of indiscretion to mar abril­liant career. 

I've known coaches to be driven to excessive drink or throw fits of public rage and violent indiscretions ­I· am grateful .that Ara Parseghian exited as he had entered and endured -with class! 
The memory of our players, not as players but as men, will always be a great trophy to carry in my mind as the years pass by, They met every challenge with storybook idealism and heroics. To list them all would be futile, because all the members are included. 
And so it is that I make a major decision in my own less than storybook career. When Ara resigned and the new man was named as Dan Devine, it caused me to decide on another course of action in the rest of my life. 
Dan Devine is a soft-spoken man with deep integrity and sensitivity. He is exactly the measure a man should be to fulfill the very large challenge of heading Notre Dame's football family. I wish him· very well as I do to each member of the staff and every player on our squad that will be under the new regime. I will pull for them, root, pray, sympathize and agonize every time they take. the field. I'll even be one of the few not to second-guess or backbite, because my experience knows that these things are the product of little people with part knowledge· of all the circumstance_s. 
In my office hangs a sign, "I'll be a legend before I'm 20 -30 -40 -45." It was hung in humor. Right now I'm not worried about being a legend, only what I'll be doing with the rest of my life. 
One very dear and inspiring memory of all the years, teams, and players, comforts me as I say a last farewell. 
"How glad I was for the opportunity, how thrilled to be a part of a real legend -that ofNotre Dame and the family of people who love her so well." 
In a last breath, the season of 1974 was no more than that, a season. The players were great men ­their actions and convictions and efforts gave great moments -so when asked "What about the 1974 season and team?" I shall reply with a proud voice, "Great, it, like all seasons and all players, was abso­lutely great. . . . none like it before or after, because no two are the same!!" 
A Postscript & ·Bowl Game 
We faced-Alabama on the evening of New Year's Day in the Orange Bowl. Ara had made no special fanfare, there was no limit to win one for anyone but "themselves'-' to the players. · 
The Southern Cal game prompted writers and critics to intimate dissension, poor morale, problems with the black players and even fist fights between players and coaches. 
We went into the game knowing full well that none of these things held a grain of truth. We knew it had to be an emotional and physical game without letup. 

Great courage beyond what any coach would expect or ask for was displayed. Kevin Nosbusch played on a knee that was to have surgery ,a month before. Greg Collins played with stitches across both knees received from a motorcycle fall 5 days before the game. Wayne Bullock fought off intestinal flu every day while in Florida. He managed one day of practice and one trophy for the outstanding player in the game. He was brilliant in the gai:zie and totally exhausted in the locker room. 
Mark Brenneman played on a~broken foot for one half and never practiced at all. He exited the game with great reluctance and tears·of -regret in his eyes. 
Our defense spent themselves with great and lasting effort. Our offense gave everything they had and it combined. with God, was enough. 
The game was a labor of love for coaches and players and ended the only way it could -:--in the final Notre Dame and Ara Parsegl}iari victory. Time will reveal how truly great the "Era of Ara" had been. 
I leave an "Italian Gem" to all who love Notre Dame. "May you live in my heart forever and you need 
never pay rent!" 

Prognosis •75i The Beginning of the Devine Age 
The "Era of Ara" has now given way to the "Devine Age" as was witnessed immediately after the Orange Bowl. For just a few seconds following the two-point victory, two ND students raced down the sidelines with the banner, "ARA WAS FINE, BUT DAN'S DEVINE." How quickly they forget. 
But a head coach was needed to fill the void, and Dan Devine was the man chosen to follow in the steps of Rockne and Leahy and now Parseghian. · 
•To say that Devine has a good team to work with could be considered an understatement. Parseghian, in his statement to. the press on his resignation, said that he was "going to leave the best possible team for Dan to work with." 
Quarterback Frank Allocco, who has waited for the opportunity to lead the Irish for the past two seasons, has apparently received his wish. His availability for a bonus year gives Notre Dame some experience at quarterback. 
Devine, who says that he admires "kids that want to hit," has many to please him in Doug Becker, Pete Johnson, Tony Novakov and Tom Eastman at line­backer, and John Dubenetzky, Randy Harrison and Mike Banks in the deep backfield. 
Looking at the depth chart, however, should give . Devine some cause to worry. With many games going down to the final quarter (or drive, in two instances), those on the second team spent most of the season on the bench. Only Ed Bauer and Ken MacAfee on offense and JeffWeston on the defense saw ·more than the usual limited ·amount of playing time--and this was due to injuries. 
Offensively, Devine's hardest job will be coordinat­ing a new line, with Al Wujciak at left guard, as the lone returnee. Vince Klees is the only substitute with any measurable playing time, and he gained that by back..: ing up Mark Brenneman. Co-captain-elect Ed Bauer will take over Steve Neece's spot at tackle, but the other tackle position is wide open, with Harry Woeb~ kenberg and Pat Pohlen vying for the job. Steve Quehl will be attempting a comeback after his truck accident, and along with Cal Balliet, Elton Moore .and Mike Kafka, Wujciak should have a capable mate a~ guard. 
Bullock, Goodman, Samuel and Penick .depart, but McLane, Weiler, Best, Kornman and Parise return. Bullock's durability will be hard to overcome, but in Tom Parise the Irish attack won't suffer due to lack of determination. "Parise is one of the hardest workers on the team, and we all feel that he is capa_!>le of doing the job in Wayne's place," commented Offensive Back­field Coach Tom • Pagna.· McLane's performance at ·Northwestern and down in .Miami gave strong indica­tions of what to expect from the hard-hitting sopho­
more. 
. If Allocco is the quarterback for next year, then Devine faces ·a problem in coming up with a capable backup, · Rick. Slager was the heir-apparent to fill Clements' role until Allocco received the bonus year and, with the coaching change, finds himselfin a more enviable position. Junior Kerry Moriarty is the remain­ing quarterback with any playing time (one series the entire season), and none of the freshmen suited up for any of the games. Not a very promising outlook for Devine, who considers depth at quarterback "one of the prerequisites for a good football team." 
The defensive situation is another story. The front four loses Mike Fanning and Kevin Nosbusch. Line­backers Greg Collins and Drew Mahalic had perhaps their greatest games in Miami · three weeks ago. Reggie Barnett, the "old man" of the Irish secondary, leaves Coach Paul Shoults with a big gap to fill. 
But Shoults does have some bright spots to work with in the spring. Bob Zanot and Tim Simon will be returning from knee surgery, and both will be ready to play. Tom Lopienski made some inroads with his battle for a starting position, and his punting ability could make him a little more valuable in the spring. Tom Maschmeier, Mike Banks and Ted Burgmeier (who'll get a try at quarterback in the spring) will also be in the running for the open positions in the backfield. 
Aside from the notoriety as the breeding· ground for pro linemen, Linebacker Coach George Kelly has two sophomores, two juniors and a senior .with previous experience returning. Sophomores Pete Johnson .and Doug Becker join Marv Russell and Tom Eastman for the underclassmen representation of the crew. Add Tony Novakov and possibly John Dubenetzky to .that group, and you'll see a lot of competition in the spring. · 
Steve Niehaus. did something ··he has never done before at Notre Dame-:-he finished the entire. season. Breaking his "four-game jinx,"·Steve had a great sea­son,. capped off by. his exceptional play in the Orange Bowl. Niehaus will return, as well as co-captain-elect Jim Stock, at defensive end. Jeff Weston appears to be the major candidate to fill Nosbusch's position, and if Niehaus is moved into the other tackle spot, John Galanis may get the nod at end. Stock's versatility has been borne ouf this season, and his selection as co­captain is a great reward for his performance. 
The final areas of noteworthy importance are at the 
end positions. All-American Pete . Demmerle departs 
with the memories of two great years with Clements 
and Ara. Kevin Doherty, Bob Walls and Dan Kelleher 
will be the main contenders for the job, with Doherty 
gi'.ven the edge. As for• split end, injury-prone Robin 
Weber and Ken MacAfee will battle it out to see who's 
number one. Ed Bauer, Steve QuehLand Doug Buth 
have experience at the position, and' may step into the ·tight-end picture ifanything should develop.·· 

Coach Devine will have his first opportunity to see what he has inherited under contact conditions with spring drills. There are many holes to fill, but inexperi­ence appears to be the major problem Devine and his staff will face. The schedule is ,different next season, with Boston College and North Carolina replacing Army and Rice. Southern Cal invades ~otre Dame · Stadium October 25,'and the Purdue rematch is sched­
uled for September:13. ~ 
Recruiting has already be~n, and September 4 

marks the first opportunity America,· but more impor­
·tantly, the Notre Dame Alumni can assess the coaching 
performance of Dan Devine.. Ara has left him many 
of the basics to do the job. The rest will be left to him. 
-Delaney 



National Campaign Chairman Ara Parseghian, · _ Asks You To Join Everybody's Fight.· 
Athletes vs. 
l\lultiple Sclerosis is a neurological· disease-a·disabling affliction of the central nervous system. In MS, the substance called myelin, which in­sulates the nerve fibers, disinte­grates and is replaced by scar tissue. This distorts or blocks nerve im­pulses which control such functions as walking, talking, seeing, etc. It is not a mental disease, nor is it contagious. The disease is unpre­dictable. Not all patients 'experience the same symptoms, and impr·ove­ment cari occur lasting for limited or extended periods of time. It is estimated that 500,000 Americans suffer from MS and related diseases. 
·Volunteer support of the Nl\lSS, in any form, gives hope through re­search that the cause, prevention and cure of MS will be found. Such support helps your local chapter to 
MS 
serve the patient, family and com­munity. Many local chapters have programs of friendly visiting, rec­reation and referral service, and may also supply equipment to pa-· 
·tients ineligible for other com­munity or governmental assistance. If you need help, want information about multiple sclEtrosis, or wish to join in the fight against MS, call or write to your nearest Chapter. 

The View from Across the Road 
Sometimes the view is clear and sometimes sunny. Mostly grey and cloudy. Above the trees, across the road glints the Golden Dome. It has been the same for the past four years. 
It. was about that long ago, in 1971, that a naive, young St. Mary's freshman, excited by all the pre­season chatter, queried the knowledgeable upper-class­men, "Who is Ara Parseghian?" A cardinal sin. And yes, believe it or not, another newcomer to the football scene brightly asked, "Knute Rockne: what's that?" 
That was four years ago: the year of.-,.the,.merger, dorm parties and an 8-2 season. Bacl(theri, th~;social life for many centered around atliletic/eVents/?'Has
' ;.. ... •\ ­
_ 
much changed? Well, the "consummlltion;o! the mar­riage" failed, hall bashes all but di;~ppeareci:}ina~ne football season posted an 11-0 record~SociaJ/<hfe, th?ugh, still tends to center around ~;!~ayWa:rr,i~~~s, tailgates, and Saturday afternoon fi;e11z1es'.J.: :< 1;·•0-i·-•_ 
Where does St. Mary's come int~the'pi~ture? .:What 

the father than graduated from ND (class of '45) and married the mother, SMC (class of '47). Nonetheless, the tradition is there and it is catching, binding the two institutions with an invisible link. 
The view, however, is not all rosy and sunny. Four years have also ignited heated arguments concerning the· role of St. Mary's in./the world of Notre Dame athletics. For at least the past four years, rumors have ebbed and flowed with regard to reserved season passes and bowl game ticket.priorities for SMC. A student boy­cott of basketball tickets affected a price reduction for ND students. only. With these events dawned the realization that, in truth, St. Mary's is not a tenable member of that athletic scene. On both sides of the road, inevitable hard feelings arose, with the future none too bright. 
,. .09:)i;nmediate aspect of the frustrating. contr?­1e.rl>Y,}SiJhe emergence. of St. Mary's sports m their o:i-y~friglit. Granted, there is as yet no national 
is the view from across the ro~d?._ -Cert1linly,_.: t, __-t_,_____ r_. ___ ..-_lhip football team _or na_tional i~vitational
__ ____ h_;_:e_·_r~_._·_•_._·i_.~---i_·_·_·_..-_-. ____-____c __-_aJr_._._P_._~-----on_:_ 
more to be seen than the skylme. _ t:•/ :?1\,; :;, l _ _/:_tournament basketball squad. Athletic enthusiasts have 
On close inspection, the two dis_tinct!Yf 1iff!j!reI1t,J0 Joj~~ •}~tramural baseball, volleyball and even com­schools, St. Mary's College and the Umvers1ty. oLNohe. :: pet1t1vt,dorm football squads. Dame, share numerous ties th~t were not sh:erep br\c.l j~e ~~ffasiR_n has ser.:ed ~o set _the c?ll:~e on _its past_ :vents. Concer~s and. parties,.co-exchan~E! c~~s~esl~f_::J°~ A~q f~,c~d ,a re-exammat10n of its pr10rities, with 
fam1hes that span either side of Highway 31 name Just·· a few of the connections. . _ _ 
Oh, yes. Sports. Somehow, when it comes to the ac­tivity and exci~ement of th: Big C!ame, any boundaries crumble and views from either side become the same. Everyone wants to win. 
For many on the all-female side of the road, there is just as much pre-game discussion of the "team," as much spirit and enthusiasm, and as much apres-game celebration as found on the eastern side of U.S. 31. The frenzied desire for success is for the guy-in-the-next­seat in class, the fellow senior, a just plain good friend. 
Tradition moves as easily across the dividing street as the numbers of dates on any given Saturday night. Perhaps it arises from the legends of Knute Rockne, Father Sorin and Sister Madeleva, who darned the socks of the early founders. Perhaps it is instilled by · be~eficrnl1result~\ . 

-.~r:,~fthin th~;women's college there is a wide spectrum of'attitudes on viewing Notre Dame athletics. Some f~gar~ the sc1~_with indiffe~ence, som:~ enjoy just the '(1,:\V<l3.,~d~me.6,~ome pass10nate affic10nados. Panty ra1ds;ana p~~;falhes can be fun or a waste of time and intellig~,,.. What, then, is the view across the road? Sometimes sunny and-clear, sometimes doudy and grey. For the future, the view is uncertain. With the two schools so inextricably linked, however, the view will hopefully riot . be obscured. And perhaps within the next four years some naive, young freshman will enter" the hal~ lowed halls of St. Mary's and ask, ."Who is Dan Devine ....?" 
"""'.'"Kathi Paterno 


ATTENTION ALUMNI, FRIENDS AND FANS 
THE FOOTBALL REVIEW 
is also available as part of .a yearis subscription to 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
which now includes· sports coverage in every·· issue~ Find out what happens all .year round on campus; subscribe to 
the SCHOLASTIC, 
the student magazine of Notre Dame 
I would like to receive the 

SCIIOLASTICfor l year -($5)
2 years -($10) 
Name............................................................ . 
Address ............... ·· ..............•.......................... 
write to: SCIIOLAS'lI'IC La Fortune Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

THE LAST WORD 

· Something should be said, for 
those who might be · slightly un­familiar with Notre Dame football, -about the terrible problem we have of keeping. the game in its "proper perspective.". Actually, I'm not so sure there is any great problem, but among certain circles it is some­times important to maintain that 
there is. 
"Oh, you go Jo Notre Dame. What 
a football factory!'' 
"No kidding. It's so hard to learn 
anything in that kind of atmosphere. 
And it's impossible to teach any­
thing. Especially on Fridays. But 
some of us are students." 
"Yeah?"·· · . 
"Oh yeah. Actually, I even like 
to see us lose; you know, for per­
spective. Much better atmosphere for 
study when .that happens. And it 
helps fight grade inflation...." 
Seriously, though, perhaps there 
are a few problems with perspec­
tive, not so much with the games' 
supporters but· with its detractors. 
Knowing that I'd be writing this 
article, I decided it would be a good 
idea to hang .around fairly close to 
the team during this: year's Orange 
Bowl. After the game,. I got on one 
of· the team buses to go back to the 
hotel, and I remember very clearly 
a remark one of •the coaches' wives 
made to another. She seemed anx­
ious about the tremendous strain 
her husband was under. 
"Thank God it's just a game," she 
said. 
Her·meaning there is obvious. For 
those so intimately involved with the 
game, I suppose the emotional ten­
sion can become almost overwhelm-

by Jim Gresser 
ing. If you can keep that pressure from getting too high, though, and keep the right perspective, you can actually say, j'Thank God it is a 
·game"; because_ the game is really a good thing. Hopefully without too much offense, it can be compared to · art or fiction or poetry, because all these things create worlds of their own which are separate and distinct from the real world'. While the.play-· er, coach or artist might disagree, the events in a game or a novel have no great direct effect on the. world. That, however, does not mean that they are worthless. In fact, just the opposite is true.· 
· What is the value· of the fiction of football? First of.all, the game_ is a· lot of fun, and you really can't have enough of that. There's also .the beauty of the individual and collec­tive . skill, precision and athletic ability involved. (And players like · Pete Demmerle, Bobby Zanot;. Pat 
. 
ing· lots' be~pme one large tailgate party, and the band goes wild, peo­ple get a chance to demonstrate what this place means to them; all through what is just a game. 
Like ariy other fiction, it's a very fragile thing arid· it can be abused. If you don't believe that, just ask Dr. Engels, 'who spends . his four quarters repairing · fallen fans who 
. overexerted themselves at a tailgate waini-up. But as an exciting, emo­tional activity, which brings thou­sands of people together, ymi can't beat it. As Coach Tom. Pagna, who is, by the way, one of the finest-men around, said after the Orange Bowl, "I've seen a lot of emotion, but this was_ the true, raw team . emotion, when everybody feels it" Every-· · body;· not just the teams. · 
If there is a problem with the foot­ball perspective at __ Notre • Dame,' then, I'd like . to suggest that the problem Hes with those who refuse 

McLaughlin, and Marv RusseU have • to see the benefits of the game. These shown that football is definitely not . days, it's really nice to see something 
their only talent or ability.) Perhaps most importantly, foot~ ball at Notre Dame is• a ritualistic 
· event that more than any. other . single activity helps tounite all the people thafhave been, are, and will be connected with Notre Dame. As a· university, Notre Dame means many things to many people, but one thing they have in commori is that they care about.Notre Dame and its people'. Football provides a practical opportunity ·for people to express that common bond. On those . autumn afternoons when ·traffic is backed up to. Gary, the bookstore rocks the stock market, ·an the park­
. . 
that brings people together instead of separating them..Insofar as Notre Dame football-the pep rallies, the band, the Victory March, the skill,: the game-brings the people .of Notre Dame together, it's a very good thing. 
Plus, as I said before, it's a lot of fun, and that's good too, right? . ·* ·X· ·* -X· . 
As Scrolastic editor, I'd like to thank Sports Editor Bill Delaney and·all the other people who helped make this review possible. I'd also like to thank them for all. tlze work tlun.J have done for Scholastic sports throughout the year. 

I 
50 THE 'SCHOLASTIC
I 
' 
' 

=?~ 1/ 
c_~-==~,----~--=-~) 1i' 
_, 
~ 
... 






