APRIL 25, 1972 NOTRE'DAME, INDIANA
scholastic
course evaluation booklet/fall 1972
7	evaluation format
ARTS & LETTERS
8	american studies IO art.
13 economics
17 english
28 government
36 history
40 languages .
45 music
48 philosophy
53 psychology
55 : theology
. -BUSINESS .59 .	•	’ : ,
ENGINEERING 62
SCIENCE ■
64 biology
65 chemistry
67 geology >
68 mathematics .
- - 73 - physics 78 epilogue - - -
VOLUME 113. NO. I2
- . ; The opinions expressed in the Scholastic -are those of the authors and editors of the - ~ Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the - ’ opinions of the University of Notre ‘ Dame,< ? \ * * J ; its administration,.faculty,or the student body. "
Second-class postage paid at Notre*Dame,<;	t t
- ;Ihd. 46556. The. magazine is represented for,> national advertising by National Educational ;	>
* ’ J Advertising Services, . 360 Lexington Avenue, % » z /* 'V - J New/York,' N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly ,/ 1. rA ' during the school year except during ; J vacation and examination periods, the ; , -< ‘
/ J r- Scholastic is printed atAve Maria Press, f < t „ u Notre.Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription^^ - " J r,rate is$5.00 a year and back numbers are I,\
" *7 available; from the Scholastic. Please address*
:	; 5 all manuscripts to the Scholastic, Notre
< Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited'material	.
_ - j v becomes the property of the Scholastic.
course evaluation editor: jim fanto :
• editor: greg .stidham / art- director: michael lonier / managing editor:
- .jim munsch 7 assistant editors: geqrge block,’dan o'donnell, jim fanto, pat
- m	/ business manager: joe’.meyer / circulation:
’ < •' cliff zmick.[ .faculty.advisor: frank o'malley/’.staff: ed bower, kevin cassidy,
;. t. j. clinton,-buz craven,, bob elliptt,'johntflahnigan, bruce	T .
■ hooper, daye jones, jerry, koshinski,-martin linskey/fred rnonsour, .
: . r -joKn modr.e,' john moran',-jim pearce,' casey pocius;- John ring, bob rizzutF, ■ . neiL rosini'7. jane? thornton,:-pete; weber,> mark ,'w	, 7 .;
mimi wheeler,?jeff/wyszkowski/art:-nan’smith.-.-	-	- ■
Course Evaluation Staff
Arts and Letters
American Studies/Pat Anderson, chairman
Ginger Birskovitch, Joan Buehler, George Efta, Paul O’Connor, Pat Sullivan.
Art/Ed Pino, chairman
Michael Bird, Jerry Dalton, Hugh Gillespie, L. Chris Johnson, Kevin Juranek, John Largo, Kevin McGill, Frederick Payio.
Economics/Dale Belock and Buz Craven, co-chairmen John Abowd, Mike Casale, Joe Cooney, Joe Hotz, David Lah, Chuck Luken, Jim McDermott, Gary Wilbert.
English/Dave Kravetz and Tom Yannuci, co-chairmen Dan Balmeit, John Barnett, Denny Barthel], Dave Burch, Mike Cervus, Phil Closius, Joe Galock, Chuch Harkness, Rick Hilton, John Hurley, John Kwicien, Dave Lawson, M. LePui, Paul Maich, Pat Meaney, Joe Mondello, Joe O’Brien, Jim Palenchar, Jim Pauer, Pat Raddiffe, Rich Ruddy, Andy Scantlebury, Al Schieck, Pat Smith, Myron Walker, Jack Wenke, Mike Young.
Government/Tom Callahan and Dick Seryak, co-chairmen
Pete Barnett, Tom Barry, John Borkowski, Keith Buersmeyer, Jeff Farrow, Jim Gartland, Pat Geary, Bob Hall, Pete lannini, Dave Keitges, Dave Lah, Ted Marciniak,. Dan O’Donnell, Paul O’Connor, Pat Perkovich, Tom Rozynek, Mike Spencer, Jim Sweeney, Jim Thunder, Tim Westman.
History jPhil Closius, chairman
Steve Bailey, Jeff Farrow, Vicki Fornicola, Ted Marciniak, Leo Meirose, Jim Munsch, Jack Nagle, Gary O’Connor, Tom Patton, Dan Shephard, Roland Simpson, Bob Webb. ,
Languages/Steve Bailey, chairman
Bruce Bower, Sally Fischer, Barb Galik, Tom Hubbard, Peter lannini, Tom Knoles, W. Thom Knudson, Dan Koehler.
Music/Mark Sears, chairman
Brock Burrows, Leo Turgeon. ,
Philosophy/Thad Ludwiczak, chairman
Tom Filiak, Mike Fitzgerald, Phil Glotzbach, John Haley, Kevin Kearney, Dave Novak, Ron Paja, Greg Perczak, Bob Raccaglia, T. C. Treanor, Rich Wall, John Zeis, Joe Zoucha.
Psychology/Pete Clement, chairman
Bill Cooley, Lee Fort, Jim Goett, Pete Hartmann, Larry Skelly, John Theis, Bill Wozniak.
Theology/Jeff Noonan, chairman
Bob Foster, Jeff Gainey, Bill Johnston, Patie King, Larry Mancini, Paul McGee, Jim Schellman, Dick Thoen, David Tokarz, Tom Wilhelm.
Business
Bill Bauer, chairman
Mary Davey, Bob Kearney, Bob Kelley, Gene Krathaus, Tim Lawson, Dan Laughlin, Jim Sebastian, Dick Westerheide, Bob Ziegelbauer.
Engineering
Warren Yau, chairman
George Friedrichs, Allan Lindroth, Dan Sandoval, Pam Seifert.
Science
Biology/Dave Soballe, chairman
Mike Murtaugh
Chemistry/Jim Kaduk, chairman
Paul Adams, Kevin Burke, Frank Catinella, Bill Elliott, Mike Joyce, Greg Kacorowski, Max Wasilevich.
Geology/Bob Rieser, chairman
Mike Sanders, Charles Kern
Mathematics/John Kurtzke, chairman
Tom Bornholdt, Richard Esposito, Philip Gulling, Mark Langford, Ed Lay, Tom McNulty, Matt Payne, Vince Wagner, Joe Wilkowski, Pat.Wyant, Jim Yates. - -
Physics/Pat Wyant, chairman :
Dan Dzurisin, John Kurtzke, Tom Mofaczewski, Chuck Sulzman, Jim Sweitzer, Gary Thrash.
4
THE SCHOLASTIC
LAVIER $500 ALSO 250 TO 5000
R. K. MUELLER, INC.
Genuine Registered KEEPSAKE diamond rings
Downtown 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St.
CASTLEAIRE $375 TO 450
WEDDING RING 175
ALEXANDRA $175 WEDDING RING 87.50
When you know it’s for keeps
Being together is really what it’s all about... so tell the world with a Keepsake diamond ring. Pick your style from our swinging Keepsake selection... and get a lifetime of perfect diamond quality.
PETAL TRIO $250 ALSO TO 2100 WEDDING RING 34.75 MAN’S RING 50
Keepsake'’
REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS
HE HAD THE VISION WE HAVE THE WAY.
When the Paulists were founded in 1858 by Isaac Hecker, they were the first religious Community of priests established in North America by an American and for Americans.
Father Hecker, who was a century ahead of his time, wanted Paulists to be free of compulsory activities so they could be flexible enough to meet the needs of the Church in every age as they arose.
Today’s Paulist can be as involved as he wants to be. He is given the freedom to use his own talents to do his own thing. He may be a parish priest, an educator or a press, radio or television personality.
Father Hecker discovered the value of communications early. With his monthly publications and pamphlets, he laid the foundation for the Paulist/New; man Press, the country’s largest publisher and distributor of Catholic literature.
Today, Father Hecker’s vision and foresight have led to the establishment of Paulist radio, television and film centers on a scale that perhaps, noteven hedreamed of.
But then, he had the vision. He showed us the way.
For more information on the Paulists. write to: Rev. Donald C. Campbell, Vocation Director, Room 500.
pouter fathers.
415 West 59th Street
New York, N.Y. 10019
April 25, 1972
5
WANTED
,.. missionaries
THE WORK IS TOUGH!
THE HOURS ARE SUN-UP TO SUN-DOWN..
AND SOME WILL NOT APPRECIATE YOU.
FOOD AND LANGUAGE MAY BE AS
. . STRANGE AS THE CUSTOMS.
AND ALL THIS FOR NO PAY!
EXCEPT, FOR WHAT GOD GIVES YOU.
IF YOU WANT TO KNOW MORE ABOUT
OUR LIFE. WRITE ME:
FATHER TOM STREVELER, SVD
DIVINE WORD MISSIONARIES
DEPT. 20M
EPWORTH, IOWA 52045
Include your age, education address, etc.
<6 . J >	,	THE SCHOLASTIC
the following five-part outline was the key used by notre dame evaluators in reviewirig[cburses * ■ offered in the fall semester	'•-<7 ’
Content	.. . .	.
This section focuses on the professor’s statement about his course. What we want here is a general description of the course —its subject matter (authors, periods of history^ theories, etc.), the approach the professor plans to, follow, concerning the subject matter, the insights and skills that he expects to convey to the students. We can’t\ escape the inherent philosophical . nature of this section, but you, as the evaluator, can help the professor clarify his description by asking certain pointed questions. Above all, remember that this section is informational and should not include any of your own comments. Enumerate also prerequisites for the particular course.
Presentation
Here describe briefly how the course is taught. Tell whether the course is lecture, discussion, or a mixture of both. Again, ask the professor for this information. Don’t rely on your past experience with the course^—he may have changed its format in the course of the year. Note, also his use of audio-visual materials. ,	/	'	-
Readings	■
List the texts (including authors), readings, materials, 7 records, and maps that a student is required to purchase for the course. List the prices of these books. Describe the number of handouts (major), magazines, and books in the reserved bookroom that a student is expected to read. How many books does the student have to read in this course per week?
evaluation format
■ .	... Organization .	.	.	.	.
.	List what is expected of a student in a particular course—	.
papers, projects, quizzes, exams. Give the number of papers and	,
_	their average length in typewritten pages. Give the number	„	.
of tests and whether they are take-home or in-class. Describe \	.	-
the nature of the tests—are they a review of text information and notes, or do they give a student the opportunity, to express „	\	\
:	.	his thoughts , based on course material. Ask the, professor how -	t
J	.	.	he integrates the student’s work into the course ; grade—e.g.,	.	-
. : . - 7	20% final, 40% papers. Do not mention the average grade" in	\
-	.	the course. : \	77 /	,	”	.	:
, .	. Comments	.
" f	> .This .section makes or breaks our course evaluation booklet	.
;	. 7^ - ~	. and your own evaluation of a particular course. In the past,
_ \ j J /	, , this section has become a forum for extravagant praise and	;
'	. 77 biting criticisms of a professor and his course (many of which	.	.	.	.
. were not supported by evidence). We want neither of these two .	,	/
z,:	, extremes nor a mild wishy-washy comment about the course.	.	,	.
..	\ \	. We don’t mean to be overly restrictive concerning your com- .	,
z.	. ..	ments, and we want to give just praise and criticism its due.	\	,
. .	-	; But,. if you. have something to say, back it up with specific	’	. ~ ,
, , £	..	7 examples-and 7 reasons. or don’t say it at all. Also, speak, with .	“
j '	' / \ -	’ two or three other students who have taken'the course and ~	,	t
.	. \ 1	* question them as to their comments about the course. Use their	_	! .
/	- .	- ideas to either. substantiate and expand your critique or to	4 ;
\	; point out the weaknesses in your criticism.	.	/
c .	. -Try to .answer this question in making your comments: was	<	.	1	*	.
v J ‘	~	the course successful in regards to the expectations the professor	• _
: r A % V - _ 47 . had ?(which\you have listed clearly in your Content section) ?	,	,	.	.
a.. J	If not, why not? If so, why? Did other insights or skills	\	,
,	^7	7 emerge; from the course which were-not expected? Make use.	,	-7
::	. ofall the . variables—presentation, readings, organization—to	.	...	<
7aa f ;	justify<ybur_comments. Was the professor’s presentation effec-	r . 7\	.	/
/ // . ' . %Stive—did his lecture style transmit course information, were .	.	>	;	7 ~	„
;	7 ' y -‘his;discussions adequately moderated? Think of this section as ,	-	. : - '
- a	a .conclusion to. an essay in that your comments refer to in- , .	■ , \.7	7 z	. . . . .
:77 a ,	. x -formation cited in the other sections, and don’t suddenly appear	•	f	; 7 ; t ,
' .	.. .from the heavens.	.'	.	:	.
April 25, 1972	.	;	.	7
arts and letters
American Studies
Edward Fischer
American Studies 343
Visual Communication
Content: This is an experience in basic design—line, shape, form, color, harmony, balance, etc.—in both theory and practice. The course provides an understanding of the principles that underlie advertising, film, television, magazines, and even writing. There are no prerequsites for the course; indeed, Mr. Fischer prefers students who swear that they can’t design. He proves that they can. Restricted to 25 students. Required of all American Studies majors with a communications emphasis—open to nonmajors if places remain.	.	,	"
Presentation: This is primarily a “learn-by-doing” course. -After about two weeks of lectures and slide presentations on design theory, the students spend the remainder of the'semester-putting theory into practice through design projects. /	.
Readings: No text books. No readings. The student is ex
pected to “create” his own textbook as the course progresses.
Organization: The course consists of 13 to 15.assigned design projects. These progress from simple non-representational “cut and paste” projects to more complex designs of ads,> book jackets, record covers, brochures, magazines, and three-dimensional packaging., Ample time and instructions are given before each project, thus late projects are frowned upon. Because the in-class work and patient, soft-spoken guidance ofMr.Fischer are the essence of the course, cuts are limited. Grades are based .
change in American history.} The course .will explore the. style, methods; and aims of an interdisciplinary approach involving the arts, humanities, and social sciences in an examination of three historicaE periods of; acute cultural change: 1830-1870; 1890- . 1920; 1960 to* the present? The? course will examine such ques,	. tions as: t “What causes cultural'change^” “Do alL facets of a com-
on the projects and one or .two? multiple-choice tests' of the plex culture—its politics,social; organization, science, philoso-Famous-Artists-School genre. :	\	:	phy, theology, arts" and media-r-<to simultaneously, or are
Comments: If you think cutting andpastingisjuvenile, J there cultural Tags?”	\	~
stay out of the course. But if you want to be guided by a compe-' .	. J Presentation: >The?course; will begin by asking such qu'es- .
tent, sensitive man and explore the secrets of design—and have tions of: the: currentJcultu^	in order to formulate hypoth-
good creative fun to boot—take the course./‘Youwill surprise? ;/ eses-about the;possible sources, content and consequences of the yourself.\	? V / ‘: \	. cultural crises that Americans may or may.not be experiencing at ?
present; Then theinvestigation will turn to an inquiry of identifi-.. able transition periods of American cultural and intellectual his-tdry,with the J hope ofa better understanding of the nature of cultural; change. Z The course combines lectures by lMr. Schlereth with student discussion sessions. .	? ^ , 7 :	.
Readings: A partial list for the course includes: Cooper,
Thomas .Stritch... ?• AmericanStudies357 The Arts of America;
. Content: This bourse, ‘ beingroffered for the? firsttime, * is an; American Studies elective dpen?to all students; Tt is av survey of all' the. arts/of • the. .U.S., including; painting,? architecture, music, film, sculpture, some ; crafts, ’ and enough literature^ for^ useful comparisons. The-course sets but to investigate. the relations between art and society in the U.S. throughout its history, but with emphasis bn the twentieth century.	:
Presentation This is primarily a lecture course with slides,’ records, films, and other audio and visual materials used to illustrate the points. J L *	.	. A 1
8 A;
Readings: Selections from various sources will be used, including: Kouwehhoven, The Arts in American Civilization; Harris, The Artist in American. Society; Larkin, ’Art and Life in America; Flexner, American Painting; Mast, Short History of the Movies; Andrews, Architecture, Ambition and Americans.
Organization: Class attendance is obligatory. There will be five to eight short papers; (2-3 pages), a mid-term and a final.
Comment: Although the course is, new, it is safe to say it will be a good one. Mr. Stritch has'a deep interest in the arts of America and,has been working on the course for a long time. His lectures are well-organized and insightful; his style quite witty and entertaining.	; -
ThomasSchlereth
American Studies 359 . .	- .' .'
•Turning Points. in American Culture
- Content : This American. Studies elective, a new offering in the program, will be - a r comparative inquiry into the origins, characteristics, and ramifications of cultural and intellectual
The Notions of Americans and The American Democrat; Emerson, The American Scholar; Leyda, The* Portable Herman Mel- , ville; Aaron, -Impact of the CiviLWdr Upon American Culture; * Whitman; /Democratic Vistas/ Pizer ?(edJ); American \ Thought and s Writing; The 1890’s; Zabel < ( ed,)/ ~ ThePortdble Heniy -James; May, The End offAmerican:Innocence; O’Neill, Coming: ; A partAn T nfo rmal History^ of :A merica/ in the -I 060fs; and ; Hayes (ed.), Smiling Through: the /Apocalypse:* Esquire’s H is to ry .of [the'Sixties.'j/:: A -", A:Organization:5 Requirements-for the c include \class projects, fa) mid-tern	- A r J T . .
:	The Scholastic
Ronald Weber .
American Studies 381	.
The American-Character .
Content: “The American Character” is the required junior seminar for all American.Studies majors. Since American Studies is an interdisciplinary major,, this course is used as. an introduction to such study. Mr. Weber, calls it a “model for integrated perspective.” Readings and. lectures will span American, history, focusing on the cultural dialectic created by the forces of primi- . tivism and civilization. .	.	.	.	-
Presentation: Mr.-Weber prefers lecturing to open discussion. His reason for this is the student’s lack of background in the field, and the amount of material he wishes to cover. Questions are entertained, however, and one thing Mr. Weber repeatedly asks is, “Does this make any sense?” This fall, the course, will have more audio-visual lectures using the facilities which the department has collected during the past year. The course is con- -eluded with a full length movie. This year’s movie was Lonely Are the BraVe. .	'	.
. Readings : While the reading list for “The American Char- . ~ acter” is quite lengthy, the student should not be scared away. Many times only a few chapters will be assigned and often a. book will be discussed without its being require reading. ; The list includes: Crevecour, Letters From An American Farmer; Frank.-lin, Autobiography; Jefferson, Notes On the State of Virginia; Cooper, The Pioneers; de Tocqueville, Democracy in America; Thoreau, Walden;. Twain, Adventures of Huckleberry Finn; Garland, Main Traveled Roads; Hofstaedter, Age of Reform; Lewis, Babbitt; possibly an Horatio Alger book; writings by Jack Kerouac, Ken Kesey, and Tom Wolfe; and a book still to be chosen, maybe, still to be written, concerning a contemporary American issue.	.	.	.
. Organization: Mr. Weber’s work load is not' burdensome. There are only four or five one to two page papers, each on a book read in class. In addition, a seminar paper will be required . at the conclusion of the course. Here, the student is offered a chance to use the . tools, not necessarily the . information, - of the course to show the dialectic between primitivism and civilization oh a current topic. The reading for this year’s paper was. Charles Reich’s Greening of America. This paper can be anywhere from 7. to 15 pages in length; The only test is a final, which offers the student an excellent chance to show what he has learned..	.	,	.
Comments: “The American Character”, is a stimulating course. There is no other way to describe it. For years, before a major in American Studies existed, this course, as part of the . Communication Arts Department was always one of the .first . courses to close on registration day. Mr. Weber is a very good lecturer, and the material is interesting.
John Meaney ...	.	.
American Studies 453
The American Cinema	.	■■
/ Content: . The presentation of American civilization and society as portrayed in its-film of the twentieth'century, and . the study of American national character through readings followed. by discussions, which are samplings of observations, . conjectures and interpretations of writers and scholars. " .	'
Presentation: A film is viewed very Tuesday and a reading assignment given.. On Thursdays, a discussion of the film and the . assigned readings is led by Professor Meaney. .	• t	,
. Readings :' The textbook for the course is The Character of _ Americans, edited by Michael • McGiffert; Additional recbm-mended readings include: D. W. Brogan, The American:Charac- -ter; Hortense Powdermakef, Hollywood, the Dream Factory;;and Jacques Maritain, Reflections, on America: . ,	--r-
Organization: Each student is expected to view the films, complete the readings (10 to 25 pages per week), and par- . ticipate in the class discussions on Thursdays. In addition, a term paper of ten pages or more, completely documented and annotated, or some equivalent project, (a.debate, film, etc.) is re- ' quired. Both a mid-term and . a final exam are given, in .which the student is able to integrate, the material learned through the . films and the readings, and express his own ideas on. them.-The / grading, policy: 1/3 based on mid-term exam and participation . :
April 25, 1972	.
in discussion; 1/3 based on assigned topical report, debate, film, etc.; arid 1/3 based on final exam.
. Comment: , Professor Meaney’s course is well-organized to achieve the/objectives stated. He brings to the class a wealth of knowledge, insight, and experience. He also has a deep appreciation for each student’s contribution. He has a unique ability to lead, and guide a discussion, drawing the best from the students and yet not monopolizing the floor himself.
John Meaney	.
American Studies 451
The Frontier in. American Development /
« Content:, This is a seminar course designed to trace the growth and persistence of American characteristics associated with the frontier experience.	■	■ - ■ - .
Presentation: The course is taught as a seminar.with 15-20 students. It is limited to American Studies seniors. ’
Readings: R. A. Billington, America’s Frontier Heritage; Daniel Boorstin, TAe Americans, The National Experience; Fredrick J. Turner, “The Significance of the Frontier in American History”; Billington, The Far Western Frontier, 1830-1860; Thoreau, Walden; Charles Reich, The Greening of America; W. R. Jacobs, Dispossessing the American Indian.
' Organization : There is a midterm and a final. A report for class presentation is also required. This report can be of a very flexible nature. Personal contact with the effects of the frontier concept in one’s own life may be used for the project. For example, one person in the seminar had lived in Brazil and related his experiences with its frontier as a comparative study.
Thomas Stritch
American: Studies 471
The Culture of the South Since 1865
Content: This is a redding course of fiction, nonfiction and poetry aimed at investigating aspects of southern culture, omitting the race question and omitting Faulkner.
Presentation : This reading course is a new concept in courses for the Program in American Studies. It is a mid-way point between regular classes and directed readings. The class, which is limited to 6-8 students, meets at the pleasure of the instructor—steadily at the outset to lay the groundwork for the course, less so later on. The focus of the course, however, is a self-contained syllabus which carefully guides the student through the specialized course material. The aim of the reading course is to give student and teacher alike greater flexibility and independence within a specialized area.
? Readings: Some of the reading topics are: “The Legend”; “The New South”; “The People”; “Demagogery and Reform”; “God”; “Agrarians, Old and New”; and “Today.” Authors include: Bishop, Davidson, Lanier, Page, Potter, Woodward, Warren, Welty, Cash, Key, Tate and O’Connor.
Organization: Although there will not be regular class meetings throughout the semester, Mr. Stritch will hold individual conferences with each student. No papers are required; only’a-3-hour examination at the end. -	'	'
Comment: A special kind of course for a few people really interested, in the /culture of the South. Professor Stritch most definitely is, and he’s a delight to .work with and-to talk to. It promises the. student a unique experience in learning. .
John Meaney	.
American Studies 473	.
Tlie Americanization Process in Education
• Content : This is a new course in the American Studies Department .which will be concerned with the absorbance of Americans into our country’s culture through the school system. It will cover such areas as colonial education, land grant colleges, the Progressive Education.movement, the Amish education problem, bussing, and free school and alternative education in contemporary America,,	.
. Presentation: This is listed as a reading course. There will be a tutorial. type meeting approximately once a week but no
’ri ~	'	9
formal lecture at all. There will also be two films—Blackboard Jungle and Up the Down Staircase.	L
Readings: Ben Franklin, On Education; Jefferson, Correspondence, 1802-17; two essays by Horace Mann; Edward Eddy, Colleges for Our Land and Time; Charles Eliot, Popular Education; D. W. Brogan, The American Character; Charles S. Peirce, essay on “The Function of the University”; Nicholas Butler, The Meaning of Education; John Dewey, Democracy and Education; W. H. Kilpatrick, Philosophy of Education; J. B. Conant, The American High School Today; Henry Adams, The Education; E. L. Thorndike, Psychology and the Science of Education; J. Kozol, Free Schools; H. G. Rickover, Education and Freedom; Beggs and McQuigg (ed.), American Schools and Churches. Partners in Conflict; Jencks and Riesman, The Academic Revolution; and several articles in Time and Saturday Review on the Amish, Bussing and Education.
Organization: There will be a comprehensive final exam, but much of the- grade will also depend on the student’s participation throughout the semester in the tutorial sessions. The tutorials will be for the students to raise questions and draw themes from the readings together. This course is geared to a-very specific subject and will-probably be quite small (6-10 students).
Thomas Schlereth	- .	. .
American Studies 483	/
The Intellectual in America
Content: “The Intellectual in America” will’be an individual and corporate inquiry' into a particular problem in the modern historical experience of complex cultures, namely, the intellectual vocation in American life. Major emphasis will be on nineteenth and twentieth century sources, as the course seeks to provide students with the opportunity to , explore. the style, methods and aims of an interdisciplinary inquiry involving the arts, humanities and the social sciences. .	. ,
Presentation: This course is a new one taught by a new professor in the department. It is one of three American Studies seminars being offered (and limited) to the seniors in the program. The seminar’s investigation and discussion will revolve around such questions as: Who are intellectuals and how have they been defined in America? In what ways have intellectuals related to: reform and humanitarian movements; politics and governmental service; industrialism and mass culture; the ideologies of socialism and.communism; the life-styles of Boheiriianism, alienation and expatriation; as well as the.frequent manifestations of anti-intellectualism in American life? : ,	.	> .
Readings: General texts for the course are Hofstadter’s ^nti-
Intellectualism in American Life, Rieff’s On Intellectuals^ Theoretical Studies: Case Studies, .and^Coser’s Men of Ideas, A Sociologist's View. Some of the readings’; in specific areas will be drawn from-the following:, Emerson, The^American Scholar; Whitman, Democratic_ Vistas ;: Holmes, The Autocrat at the Breakfast. Table; Adams, The Education :of Henry Adams; Bourne, War and. the Intellectuals; Cowley, The Exile's Return; Bellow, Herzog; Podhoretz, Making It; and Solo tar off, Writers
. and Issues.	7 .
Organization: There will be various class projects for the course and a major seminar paper.	1	.	/
Thomas Stritch
American Studies 485	'	...	:
The Mass Media / .
Content : This course raises questions. Does television change strongly held opinions? Dp newspapers suppress news? Do any or all of the media promote violence? Does advertising create wants? In sum, what are .the processes and effects of the mass media? .	\
"	, Presentation : This is a seminar class offered to the seniors
in the program (enrollment: 15-20). Mr. Stritch teaches it in a very easy-going manner, beginning with a series of lectures on the mass , media'which . allow for much discussion. After the first few weeks, group projects are presented, which take up half of a class period. These presentations continue throughout the year. During both discussion sessions'and‘ projects, Professor Stritch says very little. He is there mainly for consultation when problems may arise. /	- ’ ; . J /	-	. '	’
Readings: The list includes selections from „ Casty, Mass Media and Mass Man; Jacobs, Culture for the Millions; the reports of the Violence and Obscenity commissions; McLuhan, . Understanding Media; Ellul, Propaganda, and a choice of readings in an individual medium. , \ ‘	/	-
5 Organization s Student/presentations utilizing audio and video tapes, recordings, etc., are a main part of the course. Each student works on one either in a group or on his own. There are also a few short papers required, but no tests. -
Comment:/This course depends greatly on the attitude of the student. You get out of it what you put into it; Mr. Stritch is very helpful and always seems to be around when you need him, without interfering, which* allows for a' lot of freedom in the class.. He takes a personal interest inall of his students. His lectures in-the beginning of : the course serve as a sound basis on which to begin'the projects, which cover many aspects of the-mass media and are. entertaining as well as interesting.
Art
;/ Presentation:' The-course has a slide/lecture format. Rep- / .' resentative -pieces I and notable exceptions are shown. from ’each t period,/and/many works such as Stonehenge and the Colosseum . / receive detailed study.	.
READiNGS : There are two/paperback texts: Readings in Art
History^ Volume I, (ed. Harold Spencer) ($4.95); and Art,.;' < Style,-and History (Jon Longaker) ($4.50). These texts are : interesting and provide background material for the lectures./
\ Organization:- There are three exams, including the final.;
They are. objective, drawn from the readings and the lectures^ - j . and sometimes involve specific slide identification. There/are _ review sessions before each test. A research paper is optional..	_
. .Comments: Art Tradition is a very fine course, especially if you can afford to take only one art course. Mr. Leader has - travelled extensively in Europe, and many- of the slides , shown
- are his own; 7 H1S -enthusiasm, first-hand knowledge, and personal
The Scholastic
Robert Leader;	>. 7 \ /7";7// 77	7
Art 151 /////v://L//^/^
Art Traditions7	r7’, .
Content: This is an introductory course intended for all,. students who want to learn’ something about Western art. The -first semester begins looking at L the art and architecture/ of / Egypt, prehistoric caves, Crete, ancient Greece and Rome,-and ends in the Byzantine era. Mr. Leader calls the course a “comparative study of. style,” and he tries to communicate/ to his / students a feeling for each cultural period and a sense ofthe historical continuity in which these periods arise-and evolve. There are no prerequisites, and all years and colleges are represented.	- / . '	< ■///-;
10	:	./ ..	:	,
anecdotes make the classes very enjoyable. It would be a.good, course to sit in on. Some complaints are heard about the exams. They tend to be difficulty- sometimes requiring, memorization of , = facts. -Little-time'is given to the readings in class;.blit they are important on the tests.' Nevertheless, the' students generally agree-that exams are fair. .	.	.	-	-	-	.
Staff	1	:	.	■
Art 210 .
Studio Art Introduction	,,
Content: . This course entails a mixture of both-lecture-and discussion, however a. great deal of emphasis is placed on individual observations and creativity.
Presentatons The staff does a fine job of relaying aesthetic principles to the students and help them develop, personal styles and techniques. _	.	•
Readings : There are no formal. readings or texts required for the course (outside reading and study are encouraged). Certain, art materials are needed. The average, cost of the necessary materials is about $12.	. .
Organizatiion : There are a series of short papers concerning art exhibits and other aspects of art required' during the semes- ter. Two brief, informal exams, which, may be considered more as quizzes, are given. The material on the exams is usually reviewed immediately before they are given.	,
. A great deal of emphasis is placed on the individual’s inde-. pendent work in drawing, painting, sketching, etc. This makes up the bulk of the. course and receives heavy consideration when , grades are evaluated. I might add that no great amount of art dexterity is necessary to do well in the course. .
Comment: The course allows the student to express himself and think abstractly. It gives him an opportunity to get away , from the rigorous pressure characteristic of courses that require a person to think concretely. The course requires enthusiasm and intent. It allows one to be intellectually stimulated, to mold the course'material to fit his own needs and have fun at the same . time.	- -	- - -	. - •
Staff . '	.	.
Art 240	’	,	-
Basic; Sculpture Techniques .
Content: This is an introductory art course which seeks to give the student a basic understanding of the techniques used in ■ clay, and plaster sculpture. Though this course may be slightly . restructured next term, the areas, to be dealt with will, in general, .	include clay modeling, plaster. casting, and plaster modeling.
,	Both human-derived and abstract forms of sculpture will be
explored. The class consists mainly of non-art majors, therefore previous experience in art is not a necessary prerequisite. The desire and willingness to express oneself in a new medium is all that is required. ;	.	.
/-'-Presentation: Presentation is very loose. It consists mainly - of short lectures on techniques, used when approaching sculp-' .	. ture, in terms of modeling-arid casting. After .these introduce-
. < tions, the • student is pretty, much ori his own, ’ with ’ guidance > provided through the help, and suggestions offered by the instructor.' .	.	..	.	,, . .
, Organizatiion : As - stated before, this course may change next term, but students have in. the past beeri required to com’	; plete three projects involving the three areas previously listed; -
. Student work consisted of (a) the modeling in clay of ,the , .	; , human, figure from a live model, (b). the modeling in/clay of a.
j ; bust in the individual student’s likeness, and the subsequent.
' . . -plaster, casting of . that bust, and (c) the modeling,;in plaster,1 ■	. of a student-designed abstract piece. Grading, though subject
. ■ to interpretation of the instructor, will no doubt take into account -	- the . thinking and perception the student has shown in approach-
. ing the sculpture, as well as the finished product.	..
.?.	Comments: A very good course for all of those students
•	desiring to explore, their	possibilities of expression in the* three-
, J dimensional form. Most	members of the class, have had little
.	art background, therefore, the only prerequisite is an eagerness .
. to learn. Though most	students will spend some time out of
April 25, 1972
class on their projects, the work load, in general, is not overwhelming. , In all, the atmosphere is congenial: towards making the. class , a worthwhile experience-	-	.. :
Anthony Lauck, G.S.G.	„	.
Art 341
Sculpture Carving.
- Contents Fr. Lauck views his course as a formal introduction to the long-neglected medium of wood carving. He hopes that . the; student will be able to control the medium for the expres. sion of his creativity. Essential to that expression is the necessity for an artistic design which will produce an aesthetically good piece of sculpture. This requires a combination of good designs in the sculpture which the course aims at achieving. He hopes his course will lay the groundwork for continued involvement in this medium after the student completes the semester.
Presentation: Fr. Lauck views his function as a teacher to channel the student’s creativity, and the course presentation reflects this attitude. He is open to anything the student wishes to carve, even a six-foot statue, although he discourages very small pieces since these are not best suited for the medium. It is impossible for Fr. Lauck to teach the skill of wood carving, and thus he can only help the student to acquire it through the efficient use of his tools. The student works on his own. under the direction of an experienced carver who is receptive to any and all ideas and techniques.
Readings : The materials needed for the course are a wooden carving mallet and several large gouges, all of which are available in the bookstore or art stores in downtown South Bend. The mallet costs $4 and the gouges, depending oh the size, $6-9. At least one large gouge and a smaller one are necessary. A slip stone for sharpening the gouges is desirable, plus several extra wooden handles for the gouges which periodically need to be replaced. Expect at a bare minimum to spend $25 for materials.
Organization : Progress is slow due to the nature of wood sculpture and. the sense of accomplishment will be dissatisfying to any student expecting to turn out several pieces of sculpture. There is no specified number of pieces required for the course, arid, one piece alone is adequate. No pressure is exerted on the student provided he works continuously. Fr. Lauck suggests any- rion-art major take the course on a pass-fail basis since any letter grade evaluation is made on the strengths and abilities of the art student as known to Fr. Lauck, who evaluates him accordingly in light of his sculpture.
. Dean Porter
Art; 356
Early Christian Art	.
Content:- This is a new art history course to be offered in the Fall semester.- Mr. Porter says this course will consist of a study = of the. development of early Christian art through the : Early Byzantine Period and the Golden Age of Justinian (1-6
Centuries A.D.). Areas to be investigated will include: sculpture and painting* of late Roman antiquity; early Christian catacomb painting; the origin of the Constantinian T-basilica; early Byzantine art; mariuscript illumination; the Golden Age of Justinian; pre-Carolingian aft. There are no prerequisites for the course although it may be helpful for the student to have had . a basic survey of art history, such as Prof. Leader’s Art Traditions course. ■
Presentaton: Mr. Porter will continue his policy of delfv-.. cring his lectures with accompanying slide presentations.
Readings: Beckwith’s Byzantine Art will be one of the . required books for the course. Mr. Porter says he is undecided about other texts to be used.
. Organization: There will be two tests, one mid-term and a . final exam. He refers to his tests as “thought organizers” in the' sense that they are open-book. Also, there will probably be two papers required, one short and one term paper. Mr. Porter is very, helpful and assists his students in clues to the research and development of these papers. ,
. Comments: The most important aspect of Mr. Porter’s approach to his teaching is his interest in the students as indi-
viduals. He is generally available for student consultations. Mr. Porter is primarily interested - in the students’ understanding of the material and the development of each individual student’s insight. His classes are usually small and. permit an ’ informal relationship with his students. However, it should be noted that the student gets out of the course only what he puts into it.	'
Richard Stevens
Art 385 Photography I
Content: ’The purpose of this class is twofold: first, teaching basic darkroom skills (developing film, making prints) in order to make a technically good, black and white photograph; second, developing the student’s visual and emotional sensitivities, stressing the artistic and creative aspects of photography. In addition, some history of photographers past and present is given.	.	-
The students are generally beginners, though a. few may have had previous darkroom experience. Students must own a flexible camera (35mm is the most popular.)
Presentation : The course consists . of both • lecture-discussion classes and independent darkroom work. Student participation is essential in class. There are frequent slide presentations and sometimes student work from previous semesters is shown. Basic darkroom techniques are taught early in the semester.'
Readings: There are no required books. Costs of film, paper and other supplies: (aside from the camera) average between $35 to $40, and one may easily spend more.
Organization: There are no'written tests, quizzes or papers. There are four critiques of student work during the semester, and four prints are to be shown at each. Mr. Stevens strongly encourages student participation in the critiques. The final grade is based on a portfolio of twenty prints. ..	• J .
Comments: Mr. Stevens is well versed in many aspects of photography and complements the interests in photography, of his students. Students choose their own subjects, and experimentation within the medium is encouraged. This course will not make one a great photographer overnight, nor will one solve all of his technical and aesthetic problems in a semester. However, Mr. Stevens’ often challenging opinions offer students the opportunity to expand their knowledge of photography as an art.
Douglas Kinsey ?	;	,
Art 491 / < f	. / : /
Printmaking: Etching-Woodcut
Content: This course offers new possibilities of self-expression. Intaglio is a printing process of etching done on a metal plate; .woodcut relief is etching from the woodcut,.bdard; .While Mr. Kinsey emphasizes intaglio’ over relief, he nevertheless, teaches both processes in. this course. He offers demonstrations, of his techniques, as well as those of.Don .Vogl and .Dean: Porter. The class learns, the intaglio process.,in the first few weeks of the seinester, and later learns -the woodcut /process. /While Mr..
Kinsey wants technical ability, he is also interested in artistic content—composition, shading, lighting, and texture.
Presentation:. There are -no . lectures per se. .However, Kinsey does give deirionstrations. of . the printing process and of the various techniques of -etching. He frequently converses with students on an individual basis. Since, intaglio.involves:several adjustments between proofs, it is necessary to plan your next phase of etching, such as aquatint or soft ground, texture. Here, Mr. Kinsey helps you decide what technique to use to achieve . the desired effect; He also discusses the technique of woodcutting.
Readings : There are no readings. However, in the beginning of the semester, Mr. Kinsey introduces several'books on printmaking for recommended reading. These can. be obtained from the library and from, the architecture library.	.
You buy tools and plates from Mr. Kinsey (you can charge them and pay later). The studio furnishes the printing process materials and supplies^ Since printmaking is a messy:job, one is advised to wear something to protect his. clothes.	J
Organization : A student must produce at least two editions, each consisting of five prints per credit hour. For new students, at least three of the editions should be intaglio and one should be . relief. . Various . intaglio techniques should also be included in the student’s portfolio, of prints. Attendance .is required. Since a student is expected to work at least-three hours a week per credit hour,'he must often work outside class hours. At the midterm, a portfolio of two - editions must be presented by the student, and the portfolio must include a matted print for each edition^ At the end of the semester, the portfolio of the semester’s work is due. Grades depend upon the quality of the portfolio.	•	.	.	.	.	.
Staff
Art 100, 200, 300,: 400
Art Units I-IV ,..
Content: .This is a.special series of courses designed.by the art department’primarily for majors. The student elects a certain number of credit hours and he. also elects the medium and the professor that he wants to work under. The philosophy behind : this system holds that.’the artist works best on his own time and on his-own initiative?. The various'mediums for the artist’s expression are also subject to change. Thus, he may study many different fields, all in the same semester.,	-
Presentation: The student works on.his own time. He has a weekly meeting with his instructor, in which- the student’s work- is- discussed ‘.and -analyzed. < At the end of each semester, . the student presents his. semester’s workJ to .a .reviewing board . consisting of all the; members, of the art department teaching in the unit system. .This- group decides: upon the. student’s, final
’ grade. .. - . ....-f/.A”'	.
. Readings: If . professors . assign readings; it is. rare. The amount of work-expected is dependent on. the type of art form (painting,~ sculpture,' etching, -etc.) that one has-chosen. Both quality arid quantity are/emphasized. ? , ; // ...	- .
■ - Comments : This is a . fine system for; ah -artist to work. , under.. The structureoftheunitisupto the . professor ■-and student. There: is one/drawback: many, students select the same instructor. Thus, ..several. professors are overloaded with inany. student meetings./ -	. :	-

The Scholastic
Economics
H. R. Carby-Samuels
Economics 220	'
Economic Analysis I
Content: This course is basically, intended for second and ’ third year Economics majors (although students from other disciplines are more than welcome) who have taken or are taking . the Principles course. Basically the course will consider economic decision-making, i.e. the rationing and allocating activity which is guided by economic analysis. Economics is seen as a way of structuring an economic perception of reality. Given this understanding, Mr, Carby-Samuels will examine the technical component of economic analysis, and'he will also attempt to explore . the way in whichJ this economic structuring is formulated and , determined.	\	‘	*
Presentation: Mr. Carby-Samuels runs a very'different type of course. He combines .some basic lecturing with sticky questions which he throws out. in class. His approach is an attempt to force people to deal with the material rather than simply presenting it to them himself. .	•.	?
Readings: There are several basic Textbooks which Mr. Carby-Samuels hopes to use next year. The two core texts will most probably be Economics (2nd edition) by Lipsey-and Steiner and Microeconomics by Glower and Due. He will also use Concepts and Cases in Economic Analysis by Warner and Fuchs; The Capitalist System by Edwards and Weisskopf; and Readings in Contemporary Economics by Silk as readings booksJ The above books should be purchased by students. ’ The New Industrial State by Galbraith; Scholasticism and Welfare Economics
* by' Worland, and Symbols and Civilization by Ross will be sup, plementary sources which are germane to. the course. >
- . Organization: Mr. Carby-Samuels will, probably have two exams, a final and a paper. The exams are very different than a normal essay-type exam. He, gives Three or four statements . which a student must answer with a true, false, or uncertain, and the student must offer his reasoning for such answers. What is sought in these exams is a logcially consistent answer which _ \ deals with the realities - contained iri the statement. The paper must be consistent with the subject matter of the course," arid is not intended to merely be an exercise in research alone but rather „ , it is meant to involve a thinking process on the part of the student. ,	.	\	/
: Frank Bonello .	\	/
; -r Economics 223	? .	-	.	; .	..
. Principles of Economics . . _ .	. ,./■ ...
, ^'Content:- The Principles course is a prerequisite for<Ecpn /	majors < and . sophomores in: Business Administration., It- is ah
“ _ introduction tomacroeconomicsthat studies . economic-growth/ monetary and fiscal policy, money and credit, nationals income,
.	\ with a special emphasis on the changes in macroeconomic^ policy. '
; > Ari examination of Nixon’s wage' and: price controlswill be related to the material to reveal and study macro policy in action today. * '	' y.	' .. "R- : _	’
:/ Presentation: The course is divided. into a lecture twice a S -Za week, with/small tutorial sections meeting once a week. Mr.
^Bonello’s lectures are generally clear and complete ;for the em-C	places on macroeconomics. Because of the large
< ; I size/of the class,, some lectures may at times appear dry to the \ student who is not a real econ nut, but Mr. Bonello maintains
/7 a? good rapport .with his • students. The tutorial sections are //7 handled by the Econ staff arid are set up to allow for discussion
, . 6L the principles presented in the lectures, and to discuss an
April 25, 1972
assigned related readings book. There are no prerequisites for the course.	,
Readings : In the recent past, Samuelson’s T Economics, priced at $10.95, has been the required text, and will probably be retained because of the good macro section by the recognized “Superman” of Economics. Last semester’s readings book was The New Economics of Richard Nixon, and may be retained.
Organization: There are two tests and a final which total 80% of the grade. The other 20% comes from the tutorial sections. All tests are in-class and are derived from lectures and Samuelson readings, along with skills gained from worksheets handed out in class. Tutorial exams are usually short quizzes based on the extra readings book.
Comments: A basic background to Macroeconomics can be gained in this course if the student keeps up in his Samuelson readings and relates them to the lectures. Mr. Bonello presents the material in the most effective way that is possible in a large, lecture class. He is a good lecturer that tries to keep the student interested by relating the relevancies of economics today to economic theory that may appear dry at times. The skills that a student can receive from his course are highly dependent on his or her attitude toward economics and large lectures.
Stephen Worland	.	.
Economics 225
Introduction to Economics	.
Content: This is a one-semester survey course, designed to. introduce students to the tools of economic analysis.' Topics covered are price theory, national income analysis, and balance of payments. Tt is intended to give students in other disciplines enough basis in economics to Take more advanced courses later; It should be emphasized that Mr. Worland considers this to be a “tools” course emphasizing methods and analysis and not a “relevant” course in the sense that it does not concentrate on contemporary policy problems.
Presentation: This course is taught as a lecture. Mr. ; Worland makes extensive use of graphs to explain the material. The lectures move along at a rapid pace, and one must pay close attention Jn class to get adequate notes. Mr. Worland . generally welcomes questions in his lectures, even though he - likes To keep a good pace. ,
Readings: Mr. Worland has had trouble finding a text which gives a good presentation of the subject matter but one . which is not too advanced for those taking the course. He has found Contemporary Economics by Spenser to be fairly adequate and:will use it next semester.
Organization: There will be three hour exams in the course and a homework set due each week. The exams are very com, prehensive in nature and are generally thought to be too long to adequately answer in an hour’s time. Mr. Worland is aware of this latter criticism, but he wants to give the student enough A of a variety so that the student will not be hurt by a section which he does not understand as well as others. Also, Mr. Worland grades the exams with limitation of time in mind.
William Davisson	.
Economics 301.	.
Microeconomics -	.
Content: Microeconomics is a required course for majors designed to provide a working knowledge of the- price system and resource allocation. Three major topics are covered: 1) consumer demand, including utility and indifference analysis; 2)
13
the student to relate the various models of Microeconomics to the U.S. economy, and be able to analyze developments with the aid of, these models. Mr. Masters plans to devote several lectures at the beginning of the course to tracing the development, of Macroeconomics and the various economic views of man. Following these lectures the remainder of the course will be devoted : to developing the various macro models. Principles, of Economics is not a pre-requisite, however it is strongly recommended by Mr. Masters,as well as,students currently in the course. -
\ Presentation: The course will consist of lectures and discussions based on questions asked by the students. For - each • class a seventy-five minute lecture is planned, however questions may be asked at any time. To aid the student in following the * material, an outline of each Jecture/ is distributed before class as well as the algebraic proofs of the models being presented.
Readings: - The required texts are tentative, but the ones in use this semester are expected to be retained. These are:
. Macroeconomics, Dernburg . and , McDougall; Macroeconomics: Selected Readings Shapiro, and Monetary. vs. Fiscal Policy _ Friedman, and Heller., CostJor the three books is approximately $16.00. Besides the required texts there will-be twenty publications on reserve from which one or two segments are assigned for the purpose of supplementing/ the lecture: material. The \ reading load is heavy with several of the articles being highly mathematical, however these are expected to be dropped.: : . Organization: Grades are determined from the results of -two tests and a final examination. The-student is expected to . be able to discuss comprehensively the. material as well as a specific model or analysis. In answering the questions the student is allowed to use an intuitive discussion, an algebraic discussion, or a geometric, depending upon his preference. 7 - ’ Comments: This is Mr.' Masters’ first semester at Notre
Dame, therefore he will probably: make changes: in this course for next.semester. The material is.dry. and it becomes difficult , to take adequate, notes over a seventy-five minute presentation, however the handouts aid The student in following the lecture and recognizing the ideas that are important.; Because the tests consist mainly of material from the lectures,'good notes are essenr tial as well as is class attendance. Thoughout the course different Macro models are constructed arid the student learns • that there exists no standard model; but many that can be used in economic . analysis. The tests are difficult because, of the comprehensiveness with which the questions are expected to be? answered and the lectures are tedious and slow.moving. Mr. (Masters is certainly an accomplished man. in his .field (he. has-written many articles in the field of poverty)/ but many/students , have found, his classroom performance * somewhat Jacking.	\	,
Clarence;Durbin; C S C. 7'777.- , Economics?3107	7z7 ? ./	-
. Economics of : Consumption ? ; /	. ..
Content: This? course-' is? open to -ail; Juniors and Seniors with an AL or/BA , intent.; It; dealswith Economic principles and practices in the U.S. directly related ?to The 5 consumer andv , his / viewpoint.' It/prbvides an. analysis/pf ?advertising, fraud, financing, insurance C investaent/arid f other /factors; relating:/ to. ? 7 corisuiher demand/ There are no/prerequisites for the1 course.
Presentation./The class is designed to include admixture of both lecture: andfdiscussioh^deperidihg/bn *the?size;of the class. _
\ Fr. Durbin Javpfs stiideft^^^
introduce? the/studentr^to the material i arid/to -.give him a basic / , , understanding^ of/the/subject/^	<77 >1 7 ;/ - /<
7 Readings 7/The: basic/t^^	7
for\Consunw	and/Lee,-arid/priced 5atf$8.95//A
/ number forihandpu^	aid; the/student tin'.his'h
study. 7;7.77*77/ .7:777 7'/ >7:777 7?::7'/;-^7- ' ' '• ’ S Organization:/There are/usually?. fduri/exam^	/
largely/pn/the,(material/given in lecture//^
„ opportunity; tcri express his thoughtsipn/the problems Jacirig con7 sumers, today on these tests of; equal weighty An optional paper \ )
/assignment has been: offered in the past. . L< / ^	7,s <
* /^Comments-: ;For the student seriously interested (in;the 'dn/_ „ j -. alysis of consumer problemsj this course, provides the opportunity
to .compare his. line of thinking with the facts: available t ori /the -subject. The/lectures provide an outline of the essentials of the '
The Scholastic
the production function and related supply concepts isoquant, isocost analysis; and 3) equilibrium in the product market for perfect competition, monopoly and imperfect competition. Some coverage of factor markets and general equilibrium is also ineluded. The course concentrates on the market model of economics and de-emphasizes mathematical approaches. 7	7 „ ,
. In past years Economics 224, Principles of Economic, has been a prerequisite but the department no longer requires majors to take 224 before 301.	. ' '
Presentation.' Mr. Davisson’s course is primarily lecture and discussion. One or two topics are covered each lecture for about 30 minutes. Normally, questions from the class fill the other 20 minutes. Davisson makes use of computer assisted instructions in which the student uses prepared programs to investigate elasticity and the production function. In addition, the final project in the course is computer oligopoly simulation. . Readings: One textbook, Microeconomics by E. Warren Shows and Robert H. Burton, will be used. This is a new text costing approximately $10.00., In addition, Mr. Davisson provides alternate, non-required readings in any microeconomics text which a student may have. Students who request readings . in any basis text will be provided with the appropriate chapters. Most people who take advantage of these readings use either Davisson’s Introduction to Microeconomic Theory ($2.50) or Paul Samuelson’s Economics (about $10.00).	_
Organization.* Students are graded on a 430 point scale. 200 points come from 2 in-class tests. These are essay test which consist of two or three very broad guestions. Answers require a detailed exposition of the, text material, including graphs.. 200 points come from two take home tests. One . take-home is a typewritten essay five to eight pages long on some aspect of consumer demand or production. _ The other take-home is the writeup of the computer oligopoly game. This is a team project with three students on a team. The average length of the report is 25 to 30 pages. The work, however, is necessarily done over a three week period and need only be typed before submission. The final 30 points come from one computer assisted project assigned in the middle of the semester. The final is not cumulative and the grade is not curved.	J
Comments: The most widespread criticism of Prof.. Davisson’s course is that he puts the students too much on their own. Microeconomic theory is one of the driest topics in economics. If it is not related to specific examples, students lose sight; of the real aspects of the market model. The criticism stems from the fact that in the past„ the text,, which Davisson paralleled in his lectures, was highly theoretical. The new text provides a case study with each chapter. : These case studies, if they are discussed in class, should make the theoretical aspects of the course more palatable. .	\ : 7 /	/ J /	. .
The course is designed to make economics majors thoroughly familiar with the tools of ^microeconomic analysis namely / marginal analysis and .marker structure. n Davisson, assumes that . students are not well acquainted' with those L tools. From / this viewpoint, the course: is primarily a^. rehashing of the principles course (Econ. 224). Only, two new concepts are introduced. This is unfortunate for students who are interested in graduate economics or related ^fields but ..since these, students comprise, a relatively small portion of the? class, the approach is. probably justified.' :/ 77: '77'-777(:;7 ’/7 77 7v 7
. The\basic .asset of the course is that it provides an ' introduc-tion:to the^economic use of computer techniques? This; is Davisson’s specialty and-many students have complainedthatheover-emphasizes: the computed^ approach.; The/cpmputer assignments have been reduced and are more thoroughly explained-; Also, the ' applications: of the-techniques’’are /discussed^?/1 . 777/7/7
Stanley Masters?' V	77‘7 7: 7--‘
Economics 302 . /s 7:77777/7 Intermediate Macro Theory? z. ?77?7777
Content.’ This is a~ required course for * all r EconomicsJ majors and is usually taken; after Microeconomics.; Mr. Masters7 . believes the primary objective of the course should; be for the ' student to acquire a basic knowledge and familiarity with , the - economic structure as a whole and the effects produced by _ changes in any of its-components. A secondary purpose is?for 14 . - .	\
economics of consumption.- Fr. Durbin likes to give -the -stu- '
dent the opportunity to think-by encouraging discussion in class and . allowing the student to integrate his own thoughts., on- the ....	. .	.	.	„	.
subject matter with knowledge obtained, from the lectures and _ problems as similar problems will appear on the tests- By doing reading materials on tests. Lectures are easy to-understand and the homework and coming to class, the student will.be well-
'	’ '	prepared . for the straightforward exams. The: final grade Is
based almost entirely on the student’s text average with some
are /entered around relevant,topics. Fr.'Durbin is a fair grader who will do anything he can . to help the student.: Though. the course is, not technically regorous, it can -be worthwhile- for those who want an introduction' to consumer economics. ,
Clarence Durbin, C.S.C: . Economics 367	.. ,
Public Policy—Economics of Water and -Air Pollution Control
- Content: This, course offers a . systems-analysis approach to the causes, extent, and technical feasibility of controlling pollution. Appropriate policies that should be considered, and the economics and social costs'of pollution are also examined. There are no prerequisites for the course, which is' open to all Juniors and Seniors. . .	...	,
Presentations: Initial plans for the course would have a lecture take up approximately 3/5 of the class, with the remain- . ing part of the class being devoted to discussion of the material, depending of course on the size of the,class and the student’s . willingness to participate. .	/ -
. Readings: Because of. the fact that this is a new field, there is no text for the course. Fr. Durbin is in the process of writing a text for the subject. There are numerous handouts and, many books on reserve for the student , so that, he can examine the technical information not gone over in class lecture.
Organization: The student will have the option of taking 4 tests of equal weight, or substituting a paper for one of the tests. The university policy is generally_ followed by Fr. Durbin on grading his exams, which are essay in nature, and provide the opportunity to integrate lecture material facts with the. students’ own feelings on, the subject of pollution policy.	.
- Comments: Student expression carries much weight in aid- . , ing the student himself and in determining the success: of this class,- which, is one , of few courses of this kind offered in the . U.S. The student is given the opportunity to study and learn the intricacies of public policy regarding' pollution, all he has to do is have a mature outlook toward its study. Fr. Durbin does not place the student under-extreme duress as far as the deter- ■ mination of . grades is concerned. He wants to honestly, ackriowl-edge-a student’s achievements rand does-sb., Fr. Durbin enjoys , the; course and expects the student to do. likewise, while approaching its study, with the same energetic, desire, to analyze: it as he does. This.course is a good prelude for Economics of. Natural-Resources, another . Fr. Durbin course.. '	-
. Gregory Curme. . -Economics 393	;.
. Statistical Inference I
//-/	;/-/.- /'./-,- 1 ' '-/-/./ " ■ - /.	/- -Organization: There are three exams and a final. For
-./Content: Noprerequisite .'of any kind. The. course-begins; . those students who. receive a B or above on the first exam, Mr. with- elementary probability: which ; includes-. discussions on the . Worland offers, the option of writing a paper in lieu of the third . classical ' distributions:/Time .will , be,: spent, studying discrete . exam. ..The exams generally involve a few short identifications -/ random . variables. One., of ’ the? largest sections-deals with ; the of key . terms or ideas which come up in the lectures and/or /.construction ofconfidence/intervals, using . both-Tchbysheffs in the readings, and a choice of several longer essays in which / Theorem arid the .Gentral.Limi/Theoreih:-The. last-part-of. the • a . student must discuss ideas which are important to the topic course, is spent testing-; hypotheses bn ‘-means using one;and .two under consideration. The exams are demanding as a student /■“-sample; tests. : The ‘course concludes'-..with'-a‘ discussion of the ' ■- must'have-ra firm grasp of the material and must be able to ./. Chi-Square/analyis.'/All-raf/the/inferences/are illustrated; by- ; synthesize the lecture: and reading material.
- ; simple/applications.	'/‘”.//.	/ Comments: Mr.- Worland is an exciting and demanding
' - - ../Presentation:-*;THe- courseMs' entirely lecture, but ?Mr._ - -teacher. He. is highly successful in conveying his enthusiasm for Curirie-encourages questions;at;all;times. .’Almost- all.'the material . rand knowledge of economics to his students. The vigor of his . . is ..presented in .class./( there-rare- occasional handouts ) as Mr. ..approach and lectures may sometimes overwhelm a class, but few ,	Curme. has/found . no/textbbok-iwhich, is ^adequate:-., // ,/. .-^7./ .	students complain. He is very receptive to questions and plans
/ ;	, Readings .‘ /There is one. bbbk/ari introductory/ext by.:Hunts/	for -them in his lectures. The readings that he assigns are not
/ berger,which Mr. Curme refers/ to/occasionally ^ his. lectures. /demanding, .but have to -be carefully prepared—especially for '/; Theftext-is riot-required:nor ;is"it, terribly/helpful./: If one/does .--..'the- History of Economic Thought seminar classes. The Intro;	want -to -purchase- the .book,’ one ought- to .be able-'fq/buyr-dr///• duction’ to Economics course should prove useful for students
borrow it from someone who has had the course before?": / /	outside4 economics who need a view of economic methods for
April 25, 1972	•	1?	15
Organization: The work load is not very heavy. During the semester there are approximately four take-home problem
sets, one for each new section of study. They are good practice
more -weight on the final exam and more weight placed on the second hourly than on the first.
- . Comments: This course is very worthwhile. Mr. Curme makes sure the student understands just why the material he is studying is important. The student quickly realizes how much Mr. Curme dislikes the “cookbook” method of teaching statistics because such a method does not allow the student to see how an inference is developed. Mr. Curme is very aware of student interests. On a “long” day he may end a class early with “It’s over to the ACC for me; I’ll see you on Monday.” Or, during football season, he may spend a class computing the probability of an undefeated season. Seemingly dry material is made interesting by Mr. Curme because of his rather loose manner of presenting it. No formal, required pace is kept; he adjusts to each class and takes into account the difficulty of the material. But, at the end of the semester, you will be surprised how much you have covered and learned. He grades very fairly and from the start makes it known that grade pressure is not part of the course.
Stephan Worland
Economics 405:	..■
History of Economic Thought I j	.	, o
Content: The format of this course has been changed for the next semester. The course will start with the 16th Century Mercantilists and terminate with a discussion of Marx including a consideration of Smith, Ricardo, and the Classical Economists. . It is somewhat regretful that Mr. Worland has dropped his consideration of Aristotle and Aquinas because these two writers offered some - interesting and germane insights into economics, but Mr. Worland is hopeful of offering a separate course on this deleted area. The course is aimed at the liberal arts student interested in the study of economics from a viewpoint of intellectual history, and the economics student who wants a better understanding of the history of his discipline and the evolution of the theory that he has studied in other economics courses. ;	.
• Presentation: Two of the weekly sessions will be lectures devoted to the material under consideration. The Friday session is generally a seminar which concentrates on a discussion of a short reading germane to the topic considered in the lectures.
Readings: There is no textbook in this course, although Mr.-Worland may select a few short paperbacks, dealing with several of the topics, which the student will be asked to buy. The. rest' of the readings will be from books and articles found in the Reserve Book Room. The readings are generally not too
long, and they are good supplements to the lecture material, although bne should not depend on them totally.
later work in their own fields, such as a government major studying international relations or the problems of poverty. The History of Economic Thought course will be useful to the majors and non-majors who have a background in economics. Concepts taken for granted in theory courses are not taken for granted here—they are studied as have evolved from the classical economists to the present time (covered in the second semester of the course). The courses are not easy, by any means, but they are not impossible. Mr. Worland brings an incredible talent for teaching and an appreciation of economics to the courses which makes the course very worthwhile for students who want more than a superficial treatment of the discipline of economics.
William Davisson
Economics 417
Economics of Pollution
Content.- Economics of Pollution is a new course for majors. Mr. Davisson will attempt to develop a microeconomic approach to pollution control which assumes that solutions can be found in the capitalist market-centered United States economy. There are three major content areas: 1) a two week introduction to the problem of pollution control; 2) a five to six week presentation of the cost-benefit techniques used by various government agencies for determining the environmental effects of their projects, the development of a microeconomic model for pollution control and the evaluation of one federal project in environmental economic terms; and 3) a five week presentation of case studies of pollution problem areas including Gary, Indiana and Pittsburgh, Pa.	.	■
One course in microeconomics is a prerequisite (either Econ. 224 or Econ. 301).
Readings: The textbooks for the course have not been selected, although Mr. Davisson promises that they will run no more than $15,000. One text will be a collection of general essays on pollution for the introduction section. Most of the other readings will be on reserve in the library.	.
Organization: The exact organization has not yet been determined. At least half of the final grade -will be determined on the basis of a term paper on one research problem in environmental economics. Mr. Davisson suggests that the topic of this paper come from the student’s home town. There may be one or two additional tests.	,	'	.
William Leahy	-
Economics 454
Collective Bargaining
Content: This course is designed to riot only convey an understanding of the technique and procedure involved in the collective bargaining process, but also to give students an appreciation for the work place and the uniqueness of the labormanagement relationship. This is accomplished through the game theory approach in which the class participates in an actual bargaining situation by negotiating a labor contract. Class members are divided into two groups representing a fictf-. tious company and union, and they proceed as in a real world situation with both sides making demands and obtaining concessions to bolster their positions. Major emphasis of the course is on the development of a working relationship among the members on each side of the bargaining table. It will be taught only this fall, and Mr. Leahy’s consent is required for registration.	.
Presentation: The first three weeks of the course are devoted to lectures concerning the basis of collective bargaining and. its various strategies. It is during this time that students learn how to negotiate the contract. The rest of the semester is spent in bargaining sessions which meet at night in Mr. Leahy’s home. A night and time suitable to all members of the class will be worked out after the course begins. .
Readings: There will be one text, The Impact of Collective Bargaining on Management by Slichter, and a paperback concerning negotiations in the public sector, Collective Bargaining in Public Employment by Moskow.
Organization: A 10-15 page paper is required at the end
16
of the semester, but there are no tests or quizzes. Mr. Leahy emphasized that.final grades will be mainly dependent on. the student’s performance in the game theory portion of the course.
Comments: Because of Mr. Leahy s personal activity and experience in the field of labor-management arbitration, this course can prove invaluable to anyone interested in the study of labor law. The learning atmosphere is relaxed and a lot can be garnered by anyone willing to put some time and effort into his work. Mr. Leahy does not unduly pressure his students realizing that a person will get something out of his course only if he wants go. His main concern is with his students’'growth both in and outside the classroom. He takes a personal interest in everyone in his class and will go out of his way to help a student if necessary... Due to these personal characteristics of Mr. Leahy and his extensive practical knowledge in the field of labor relations, this course should be very worthwhile.
H.R. Carby-Samuels
Economics 481
Aspects of Economic Change
Content: This course is recommended for senior social science majors, though juniors can take the course with the permission of the instructor. The course attempts to explore the meaning and phenomena of economic change. This course is not simply a course in economic development, as the attempt is made to look at change in a broader context. The aspects which are considered are: what is an economy, what is economic change, what are the components of such change (those economic as well as non-economic factors), what are the goals implicit in such change, and what are the instruments which can be used to effect such change?	.
Presentation: The course will be taught in the same manner as Economic Analysis I. Much time will be spent in a close textual analysis of the readings in order to develop components essential to the subject matter.
Readings: The basic text will be Economic Policy and Planning in Developing Countries by Bognar. This semester the book could only be obtained from the Reserve Book Room, but Mr. Carby-Samuels hopes to order copies for everyone next semester. The book is an excellent discussion of the components which go into economic development and change, including both the non-economic and economic aspects. The other texts for the course are: Development and Society by Novack and Lekachman; Politics, Economics, and Welfare by Dahl and Lindblom; The Dark Side of the Marketplace by Magnuson and Carper; and Symbols and Civilization by Ross, all of which should be purchased. There also will be a couple of articles which will be put in the Reserve Book Room.
Organization: The course will be organized in the same way as Economic Analysis I in terms of exams and papers. Students will also be expected to give a couple of class presentations on some of the articles from Development and Society.
Comments: Both Economic Analysis I and Aspects of Economic Change ought.to be interesting courses because Mr. Carby-Samuels. is interesting as a teacher and as a man. He is in the' classroom to-challenge students and to force .students to think about the subject matter in more than doctrinaire terms. The contents of his courses are much different than any other economics course offered at this University. He views economics as a science in which reality is structured in a certain way, and attempts to lead students to an understanding of that structuring and perceptions which are entailed. He also brings in the realities of existence which shape and impinge upon the analytical framework of economics. At times he can be a very aggravating person because he will not allow students to be loose in their thinking or get away with pat answers to his questions. For this reason, and because of his seemingly disorganized style of teaching, some people do not think that he is a good teacher. Yet, such a judgment, to this evaluator, seems to miss the point of his teaching. He is in the classroom precisely to challenge students to really think about aspects of . economics which many students have come to believe are invariable truths. Thus, for those who really want to explore the discipline of economics in more than a merely technical way (although Mr. Carby-. Samuels does not ignore this approach), these two courses are highly suggested.	.
THE SCHOLASTIC
William Leahy	.
Economics 487
Urban Economics	.
Content: This course is basically concerned with economic growth in our nation’s cities. Realizing that there • are a number of factors affecting such growth, the topics of urban manpower, firm location, minority group problems, and poverty are delved into. The form and shape of cities are playing an increasingly important role in determining all of these factors and are especially discussed at length. The Model Cities Program is also an integral part of the course. At times, Mr. Leahy’s lectures will be supplemented by outside speakers who have extensive personal experience in this area.	_
Presentation: Mr. Leahy’s lectures are informative and well prepared, relating extremely well to the' readings. He stimulates discussion at many points during the class and is very open to contrary opinions which he especially welcomes since
one of his main objectives is to get students thinking for themselves. Mr. Leahy hopes to break the class into seminar groups about every fourth meeting if interest in particular subject matter - warrants this.
Readings: There are two books required for this course: Urban Economics by Leahy and Spatial Economic Theory by Leahy. It is important that you purchase both of these books.
Organization: There are no tests or quizzes, but a major paper due at the end of the semester which is “worth a considerable part of the grade.” Classroom participation is just as heavily emphasized.	.
Comments: Mr. Leahy has a very easy-going personality and makes the classroom atmosphere as enjoyable as possible. The subject matter is at times dry, but he is more than able to make up for this through his knack for stimulating an interesting discussion. He is genuinely interested in each one of his students and is always available for assistance. Mr. Leahy has done a good deal of research in this area (which resulted in his books) so he should be very competent in his field.
English
Eugene Brzenk
English 301
Writing Short Fiction
Content and Organization: Ideally, this course will be a writer’s workshop in which interested writers will read and discuss each other’s fiction (NOT to be submitted anonymously) and learn more about the craft. Either, ditto copies or oral presentation will begin a discussion that is expected to be conducted by the writer-student. Also, the various issues in narrative writing (point of view, handling of dialogue, characterization, etc.) will be introduced as well as critical bases for judging fiction. Each student will write three short pieces or their substantial equivalent.
John Matthias
English 307	.	-
Writing Poetry	.
. Content: The focus is on fundamental matters of craftsmanship and might well find its Art Department analogue in a basic drawing class. The assumptions of the course are three: 1) that by trying to write poems one learns by the best method possible how it is that poems come to be written; 2) that by trying to write poems (by trying and trying and trying) one might, with luck and good weather, actually, once or twice, pull it off; 3); that, writing poems is a unique .and extraordinary pleasure.
\ The class is limited to 20 students.
'	- Presentation: Classroom time will be spent on the reading
of students’ poetry and criticism thereof.
Readings: Pound, ABC of Reading; Richard, Practical . Criticism; Gross, Sound and Form in Modern Poetry; Scully, Modern Poetics; Martin, The Distinctive Voice; Allen, The New .	, American Poetry; possibly Skelton’s Practice of Poetry,
Organization : Prerequisite: submission of a manuscript to ’ Mr. Matthias. A manuscript must also be submitted . at the beginning of the course (this, however, may be the same as the _ manuscript submitted as a prerequisite.) The student is free to add to his manuscript at any time. A final manuscript of no \ ; . more than ten poems must also be submitted at the end of the
April 25, 1972
semester. Students are also required to keep a journal of reactions to the readings and submit written criticisms of the work of fellow-students.
Comment: Don’t expect this to be a mutual admiration class. It’s expected that you are a beginning poet (?). Mr. Matthias is a man who says exactly what he thinks. Soon the rest of the class gets into the spirit of things, and you discover how far you have to go to produce anything really worthwhile. It’s the constant discovery that makes this an excellent class for anyone serious about the craft of poetry.
James Walton
English 460	.
The English Novel to 1845
Content: This course confines itself to the study of the English novel tradition, offering a wide range of examples of critical method.
Presentation: As in his Novel course, Mr. Walton uses the lectures on the first two novels as a period of acclimation and an introduction to archetypal themes. Class consists of his critical analysis of the various novels, and is wholly a lecture course.
Readings: The reading list is: Bunyan, The Pilgrim’s Progress; Defoe, Robinson Crusoe; Richardson, Clarissa; Fielding, Tom Jones; Sterne, Tristam Shandy; Godwin, Caleb Williams; Austen, Mansfield Park; Scott, The Heart of Mid-Lothian; Dickens, Oliver Twist, Weekly reading load is proportionate to the speed with which Mr. Walton covers the novels; that is, variable.	*
Organization: Three short critical papers on novels of the student’s choice are required, as well as a take-home final covering all the semester’s material. Mr. Walton expects well-written, highly concentrated papers on themes not covered by himself in class. The creative freedom this provides places a burden on the student to produce high-quality work.
Comments: Mr. Walton’s degree of personal involvement in the course is a decided asset. His lectures are well organized into a unified whole, and his frequent digressions provide diverse perspectives on the novels. He is a demanding teacher as his standards of quality are high. But he is a fair marker and is readily available for consultation. For those pursuing a serious study of the novel, Mr. Walton’s courses are challenging, stimulating, and rewarding. As a teacher, he has a considerable
17
wealth of knowledge to offer, and the' student is expected to return imaginative work of good quality. If the student applies himself he will indeed have received - an excellent introduction to the critical study of the novel.
Edward Kline .
English 308	.	:
Linguistics for Teachers
Content: This is a course designed for potential elementary and secondary’ school teachers.. Students'will be introduced to structural and - transformational generative grammar, ;with at-. tention to both theory and methodology of teaching. There .will be a review of current “English books,” i.e., primary and secondary English textbooks. The course is designed to. equip the prospective teacher to be able to teach from current, linguistically-oriented textbooks.. There are no prerequisites for. the course. . .	.	. .
Presentation: The course is basically lecture. There will be some use of an overhead projector.
Readings: Readings are: Jeanne H. Herndon, A Survey of Modern Grammar; Harold B. Allen, Applied English Linguistics; R. G. Geist, An-Introduction to Linguistics. These books are moderately priced paperbacks. There will be readings available -in the reserve book room on language: as language. The student will be asked to select and read some of this material during the semester.	'
' Organization There will be. one oral report to the class, group projects presented in class, and three papers, three to four pages each. There will.be two; exams in class. The exams; will be a mixture of objective and subjective questions! All tests and papers count equally .toward the final grade.
Edward Vasta English 313 Intro. Engl. Lit. I
Content: As the title implies/ the studies of this course will be confined to English literature with an emphasis on interpreta-. " tion and understanding of the material pressented. Ther study will, present the classics of all periods and genres. Due' to: the
and-one-longer work/. Mr. Brennan/marginalia will;be extra-, ________________________ _	 ________	 ______________ ordinarily infromative,/ fair,' arid/provocative; you/kriow how you limitation of time, entire selections and works-will-not'(cannot) . are doing. .-The final counts 30%. Class participation is a,decisive. ■	■	-- - -__-_____- —	-_- • corisideratiori,, and, -is; encouraged/ arid; demanded. by the com-
. plexity of the-readings, . h?\	. - /• ,	-'
■ .Comments: ; Mr.-Brennan’sI/lectures - pierce ’ through-.the intricate. intensity of;.the readings down.into "an: unsettling -depth-of: human consciousness.i Thehburse: is, simply,, a serious encounter with the; existential perspective bn. man/ (ori oneself/ the . - student discovers).^;' "-//,	.	.. .. ■ . .
be read and studied in great depth.' Therefore,- many-representa-
tive sections, parts, and' units will be. used. ' .-
It is Mr. Vasta’s wish that the student, with the guidance of the teacher, fill the goal of .the. title. of . the course—that of being introduced-to the wide field of English - literature; and ' profiting, from; a direct acquaintance . and 'experience..-wtih' it.-As the/course develops, the student should gain .a .sense/df the craft, an . appreciation of/the: literary attempt;: arid, some knowl- . h/<h edge. of - the historical / development of the-.literature.-..; Iri'-Mf.-	-p. h ih -•-X..;
Vasta’s .words, the ■ primary goal .would be that Jhe'students.gain	- -L'OnaiUljUlterrCZ
in'their ability to.read well, cope with,/and-understand literature.
There aremo pre-requisites, for this course,; nor. is- it, necessary£ for- the’ student to,take/the; second part-of/the, cqurse/which/.is' offered. duringthe. second, semester!- 4 /	-/h; -4?<2£./;
.Presentation.: The;course is based on informal/discussions of the^readings. Lectures wilLbe/given as they;are?heeded on ; factual.material such as prosody,- historical!1 arid,’ Cultural;back-/ ground,/and/so on. AudioWisual/aidsewni/be qsed/ifiav^ and' applicable. at. the time.
,. ; Readings > .Only! one/ text/ is required £ fqr/_this» course. j£ J tsis. / the Norton Anthology,of English,Lite fat u^ purchased, for. approximately.five;dollars in' paperback: :
. , Organization : ./There, Jrill/be .Jfiye/4br/:sixi.sh^	-
papers, /the-topics :qf?which/will? vary randf are/usually/chosenfac-;. cording, to. the. preference of the/stiident^/There/jrin^
term and a final,/both of which will be in class./These Jestswill/:' be designed . to be; learning experiehces-.bqthjfqrjstudentf-ana teacher. •
Comments : Mr. Vasta, ?after/a Hong absence, from teaching ' this course, is returning to it; at; his own/ request? and /shows a /•/' definite enthusiasm for the;subject. .	X/;?*'
is ' \
Although, at times, it may seem that the discussion wanders, ■ the professor has control of the ship and eventually leads .it to a predetermined harbor. - His preparation for his . classes is always thorough and well:done.-	/ .-'/	.-
With respect to grading, three criteria are .used for tests and papers: l)"the individual’s intellectual level (this involves one’s ability, to be aware of and to grasp important consequences, relationships, etc;), 2) the amount-of effort put forth by the students, and 3),.the! actual concrete knowledge of the.subject '
. According, to. Mr. Vasta,’the-course, isprimarily in the classroom with tests and papers being-additional specifics.. Faithful, attendance (although absences, are permitted) is' recommended.'
Mr. Vasta is npt .only honest and fair with students,-but is' - very open to their desires and wishes. Early in the course the direction of the course is discussed, and suggestions are not only urged and welcomed; but acted'upon; The.majority;of students find this .flexibility, not only refreshing but very rewarding as well.
J. X. Brennan
The Existential Novel
Content: The-.course- explores -the, complex formulations of existential visions,: into fiction/: A prior. understanding of the world view operant here, not necessarily in factual knowledge of ’ the ontological content so much as in, experience of the particular sensitivity, serves .as what could be called “helpful preparation.” This 'meaningfully, reduces to the requirement (and perhaps the goal), of a vigorous .human consciousness. .
, - .Presentation: The- lectures are. at once insightful and very complex, and as such are demanding of class discussion; the
extraordinary feel that'the.student is really needed in the searching is genuine. . The most .incisive content of .aBrennan course is the occasional interplay, the: dynamic tensions of co-searching.
Readings: ' Dostoevsky,.^Notes';from- the Underground;
Tolstoy, The; Death of Ivan I Ilyich;-Conrad, Heart of Darkness; Unamuno,' Abel Sanchez; Kafka, The.Trial, and Metamorphosis; Camus, The Stranger;/ Wright, .TAJ-Man -Who Lived Under-
. ground;' Hesse, , Steppehwolf; fMdrnvx.,~ Marts;Fate; Sartre, Nausea; Becket,,/MpZ/oj;?Bellow, Herzog. ' .	.'	. - -
Organization: 'Required* are'about-/20 pages, of original writing, either in-four papers of/equal length," or/in;two such
English 322 . The Novel j
./ ddNTENTf/rhisiik’a/new/^	balanced
. survey. ! The/ examination /qfrepresentativ^	of the . genre . I
. is .expected;JoVdisclosesEasfc/Jbrinalist/con^^
= . limits. 6f;-the:-peciniarrart.’»rAXpertinehtt.questidn/from this .per- . . spectiye.'might'/be/^-Hak; Cervantes Jn/D	'done/every':",
; thing/thap/the/J novelist /might; accomplish? : Another question/ i/might be:: Can;we. detect any “real evolution of the form? This Yj.method/dfJnquifyrimplies an attempt to see novels1 not as. mere ". /'historical^-:documents,'/but ' as .viable- manifestations'. ofXa - con-: -tinuous/literaryexperience... Although the English traditiori and/J / twentieth, century are..admittedly favored, the approach t'othese:.,.. works-should-help; the student to an insight into the novel'fat/' -/all;-stages . of ■ its' development or non-development. /-: P .-h. - JV Readings :? Course readings will include ten- novels andtwo - . ;. shorter novels,.tq.be chosen from among the following: = Cervantes, ~ -. -Port’'.Quixote;;. Defoe,^J?oAinson .'Crusoe; "Fielding, .Joseph: Ari-rt-''.
dfews; Dickens, Great Expectations of Flaubert,.The:Sentimental	,
/	X the scholastic
. -	- Education; Tol toy, Death, of Ivan.Illyich; Lawrence, Lady. Chat-
terly’s Lover; 'Joyce, .Portrait of the Artist ~as ;a Young Man;
'	Roth,..Call.lt Sleep;.Conrad, Heart of Darkness; Conrad,-:Lord
/iLz,/Mailer,-Armies-ofthe Night; Waugh, Decline and Fall/6r , .	. Lessing; The Golden.Notebook. ;From this proposed list/at least:
■ one,work'will be.dropped.- 7;	. •. - . 7. f
.	. Organization::.Student obligations:include a-paper of-.ten to. twelve pages, a midterm and the final.	..
. James Walton	-
. English 322	-. , j .	./ . ' >
The Novel .	: // ;
. Content: The goal of this lecture course is to introduce, the • - student to. a most inclusive idea of literary form,'particularly that , of the novel. Mr. .Walton takes a variety of . approaches in order to familiarize, the. class with a wide range of critical methods;.	. .
. Presentation: The lectures bn the first two books .serve, as a long, slow orientation session. During this period, which may take, up to half the semester, Mr.-Walton acquaints the student with .the study.. of. the. novel and introduces him to -. the archetypal
. themes to. be found within.- His lectures consist of Lis intensive . critical-analysis of the various novels and the comparison and cor- .
, relation of their themes. '	.	.; . <	-	<	. .	'
■	’■ Readings: .The books to be studied are: Cervantes, Don
Quixote; : Bunyan, The ' Pilgrim’s Progress; Defoe, Robinson Crusoe; Balzac, Pere Goriot;.. Dickens, Oliver Twist;.. Flaubert, ' - Madame Bovary; Conrad, Lord. Jim; Joyce,, A . Portrait of the Artist As A Young Man/Kafka, The Castle; and-Borges, Fic-
. clones. Reading keeps the uneven pace.of'the lectures.	..
- - Organization: After the study.of the.first two novels a take-
. home examination is given. Two other short, highly concentrated critical'essays ■ are assigned-on novels of the student’s choice, ' roughly 3-5 pages each? A comprehensive take-home final is given .	. at the end of. the semester; The papers are to reflect the student’s
own critical thought; not. that-of Mr. Walton. Imagination is :	. highly prized as-well as literary style.	/	.
.	. .' - Comment : Mr. .Walton is by his own admission an egotistical
teacher. .He derives great personal satisfaction from his teaching, arid r the student gains from, his emotional involvement in the
* course. The. frequent ■ digressions add. to :the lectures, for -ME Walton’s tangents often provide new perspectives, of-the; novels.
Ernest Sandeen : - ■	.	.	.	.
English 327	: . - ,	,	:	'
Poetry /	1 ? /	'	; . 7
,	.. Content : ME. Sandeen operates this course on .the premise :
.	- .that. it. takes two. people, to make a poem—the poet .and the’.
- v reader... The entire course, is oriented: to the response :of the .	- student.to ,the poems, discussed in class. .. . . ..	. .
\ Throughout the semester, Mr. Sandeen looks at such topics "as point of view, and tone of. the ,poemj-imagery,:sentence and .stanza.structures, meter,.rhythm, blank verse, and.free.verse. A .	: great . deal . of time rs spent on the modern' and contemporary
; ' _. poets.	- , , ■ f / ..' .	' -’ -"■? ■
= . . J .	Presentation : The course is a discussion course! Dr.' San-.
■ T deen-does-very Tittle ..lecturing. .Movies are used (around, four' last; semester) .as well as .tapes..-/ . •:/	-
: \	' /. . .Readings:; Readings consist of the poems .discussed,in class./'
/. J. i Three-.anthologies .are. used; These texts are mot’ definite' for .
. ;, riext/seihester; buttherewill be -.one dealirig .with the/classic r 2poets,'one-.with, the'modern poets, 'and one.with" the contemporary / '--/,/	. /songwriters.:/ The 'reading Toad: is -by/no means heavyjA .The
//; /; ' y? cost fob texts', last 'semester, was. around $10.00.	//•-/--’/// /. T ; ...
.' ”;	Organization: ..There?-are/between.’.three! and five ipapers-
•. '... - /required/ of'- thezstudent Z-Thet lerigth- is / between * two 'and Three' .
;	. / pages;-./Th ere; is. brie Hake-home. final..Mr.Sandeen!sphilosophy . -
/./ kv-T / 'regarding tests is: thatrtheif/purpose is- tocontinue Hhe.'learning: pr'oces/y;-T:T/.'zT	km -W/kTy-' ;/Z.;
& V/lt Comments : The/course is - very- good .for the: student .wanting. J:.	either*.to'- become/exposed: to. poetry; lor; to"widen Lis' readings J
:. ;-../•''//■/ arid knowl edge. in. the * field;!, Theirelaxed • meetings - are' very; con-kT/K//Tducive "for the very; freewheeling .discussions:;that usually take \
April 25,: 1972
place. .Mr. Sandeen also has optional meetings at his home on various nights of the week. Students who have taken him are very enthusiastic in their praise for the course, and for the way Mr. Sandeen handles the class. . ’
James Doubleday <	..
^English 331 Z: :	;
Age of the Hero . : < - . .	: .
- Content: This; course exairiines such fundamental literary problems as the character of the hero in the “heroic age,” his function within his ! culture, the nature of the code which he ' ' embodies and seiyes, and the attitude of the poet and his.audi-. ence toward theLero. The general student, and even the stu-\ dent of literature, kriows the hero only in degenerate forms or in antitype; this course is ari attempt to understand his original nature. ■ . - -	■ - ;-	-	-
Presentation: Mr. Doubleday relies on a lecture format. However,: there will be as much discussion as the students desire. Audio-visual materials are hot emphasized.
/Readings:; Students will study works from Old Irish (the Tain Bo Cuailhge), Old Welsh (the Mabinogion, Culhwch and ’ Olwen, ' The Dream of Rhonabwy), Old English (Beowulf, Finn'esburg, The Battle of Maldon), Old French (The Song of Roland), and Old Norse (some of the Eddaic poems, Njaly’s Saga, Hrafnkel’s Saga, the Saga of Grettir the Strong), all in ’ translation. The exact editions have not yet been selected.
Organization: There will be no tests or final. Students have the choice of writing two short papers (7-10 pages) or one long one (15-20 pages). Topics are selected by the students.
Comment: Mr. Doubleday possesses an excellent grasp of his - material, although his knowledge may occasionally be obscured by a deliberate lecture style. Mr. Doubleday is not a dynamic ' speaker, • but a scholar who exhibits a profound respect for the . opinions of his students.	,
Richard Sullivan	-
English 301.. .	. .
Writing Fiction I	.
/ Content and Organization: Each student submits three short stories or their larger equivalent during.the semester. They are mimeographed, distributed and criticized by the class and Mr. Sullivan. Anonymity is preserved. The students’ own works provide the only texts for the class.	-
Comments: This course provides an excellent opportunity for the student who wishes to try his hand at writing, needs a deadline to motivate him, and desires critisim of his work. Mr. ' Sullivan has a lot of “inside” knowledge about the art of writing fiction. However, because the students are basically incompetent ,in their knoweldge of how to criticize short stories, the discussion . at times can be something less than provoking. At any rate, the experience of writing creatively, if only for one semester, /certainly justifies-the value of a course like this one.
John Huber	.
English 334	/ ; ..	-
Medieval Ideas Of Love
,x Content: !The course is .primarily concerned with tracing ‘TheTove/theme. through, a variety of medieval perspectives, espe-/• cially the -courtly .love: tradition and the religious view of the / topic.. The student willLegin with a few background readings .■..in/'classical theories of . love-which were available to medieval
: /writers, Plato;’Cicero, On Friendship;-and Ovid, but the major •/work-of-the course will be done within the reading list. Digres; sions, . of course, will occur, and the class will investigate areas Pof:their curiosity, ideas such as:’ Is the love-wish a death-wish? /TsJ. the anti-sexual attitude a part of our medieval heritage?
Was Chaucer’s Pardoner gay? The authors include Boethius, i Von Strassburg, Chretien de Troyes, and Chaucer, and the reading list is a solid foundation for the course.
19
Presentation: Mr. Huber.is a great believer in class discussion and this becomes the central format of the course. He does give short lectures, usually of the historical nature, but oftentimes discussion will follow from that point. For the most part, Mr. Huber will introduce a problem(s) upon .which the class will write a short two-page paper. The discussion evolves from the handling of the problem. Mr. Huber is respectful of the student’s insight and many times the problems and questions he asks are ones he has not yet answered. Although the courtly love tradition and spiritual attitude on love are the two major topics, Mr. Huber encourages and often leads discussions into areas where, as he puts it, “we have no special competence but a great deal of curiosity.” Although all the readings are in Modern English, Mr. Huber will many, times read aloud sections in the Middle English so that the student will perhaps acquire a certain appreciation of the original.	'
Readings: Boethius, The Consolation of• Philosophy; Innocent III, On the Misery of the Human Condition; Andreas Capellanus, The Art of Courtly Love; Chretien de Troyes, Arthurian Romances; DeLorris and , De Meun, The Romance of the Rose; Von Strassburg, Tristan and Isolde; Clifton Wolters, ed., The Cloud of Unknowing; Hellman & O’Gorman, Fabliaux; Brian Stone, tr., Medieval English Verse; Chaucer, Canterbury Tales (Bantam Dual-language edition). Total cost:.about.$16.00.
Organization: The course requires time, but it is not difficult . to keep abreast of the work. Insights are the .key to the course and this is why a careful reading of the texts is required. The problems posed in class help the student in his reading and the numerous two-page papers become an aid and not a chore. Mr. Huber will have questions for .these short papers on each work read (10), but in the past he has required only five of them for grading purposes. These papers can be written as the student reads the work. There will be one short paper (6-8 pages), and a long paper (15-20 pages), of which-Mr. Huber expects a scholarly effort. The long paper gives the student the opportunity to investigate a particular idea; ample time is given to prepare it. There is no midterm, and the final exam is open-book.	.
Comments: In the past, many people have been apprehensive of this course, basing their judgment on the title. Don’t be apprehensive; you will be.dealing with an exciting concept, its development and use in the literature of the Age. of Chaucer. The course has been changed to a 300 level , course and non. English majors should feel no qualms about taking this course. Mr. Huber has a sound knowledge'and scholarly appreciation of the _ material, and he • successfully conveys this-to the, student. His amiable personality and openness to the student make for a positive experience; The reading list is-excellent-and'the presentation of the material, through discussion and report, is most effective. Because of Mr. .Huber,- the class-becomes a delight.-
Paul Rathburn -./ English 344A . / ?.. Early Shakespeare
Content:-Mr. Rathburn’s Early Shakespeare course is to be \ a two-semester'course,’ with the fall semester covering'a selection" of early.-works up . to around the 17th century.- There will be time spent ; on the life of ; Shakespeare, arid soriie work* qnj: sonnets arid , poetry, of 'the. writer.. Mr. Rathburn’s lectures, -the : readings, and.any other media he uses, intend /toi; provoke/the’, student to get more involved Tin Shakespeare’s -works through outside readings, papers,’’discussions or-the like.',’;.-	J. <
Presentation: Dependingonits . size, T the/.class'.- will be ■, mostly lecture,: with time .for questions and: sometiiries-discussion; Recordings of the plays are .-reserved-/several ^tiriies '.weekly? and— students are encouraged to "part^e in. these.l’There<w^ tional weekly discussionsessions/for/.those' interested/^Finally,’ Mr. -Rathburn plans to have movie -'versions of/soine. of thefplays: shown for his class/ : ./;•...	■	- "‘7,- /',-//?-
Readings: At this time, = it is undecided whetheriMr./Rath-bum will order T/ie Complete Works,of. Shakespeare, edited-.by.. Hardin Craig ($12.95). or;the Pelican Edition of the coiriplete works. It is: encouraged’to buy a hard cover complete works-over the paperbacks. L ,, ; . .	- r .	;/.//-" T///-
Organization: - Mr.. -Rathburn plans .to ; possibly 7 have Tstu/ . dents write three papers arid do three:take-home tests/TEach ; 20	' ' - -
third of the course will , be noncumulative in regard to the take-homes. '	. :/	• -	’ .
Comments: If you are interested in reading and digesting Shakespeare, Mr. Rathburn’s course/is well , worth your , while: The written work.promises to-be challenging, with-dissatisfaction proceeding from a half-hearted effort. Mr. Rathburn is well prepared, yet-spontaneous-, and at ease with a class that “wants to be there.” .To praise more is absurd;. Only the line at registration limits the size of. the class. ‘ /	•	.	’
Paul McLane	.
English 345 . .	-	.	.
Shakespeare ...	.	.	.
Content: Mr. McLane tries.in this course to convey a basic . appreciation for the work of. William. Shakespeare. Because a majority of the class are usually- non-majors, an attempt is made not to go into too much detail in.the individual-analyses of the . plays. Instead, Mr. McLane presents each play as he and other critics understand it in overview.' An emphasis is placed oh the major works of Shakespeare with a particularization of famous characters and quotations. He-hopes that he can give significance to these works as important'milestones in modern literature. ,
Presentation: - Because Mr. McLane -feels that most of his class have had. little or no .contact, with Shakespeare before, he presents the course in a lecture -form' with criticism and analysis of each separate play. He does-field any questions asked of him, but he never initiates any class discussion; '
Readings : The. only required readings for the course are the fourteen or fifteen Pelican Series plays, that Mr. McLane lists. The-books range in price from 65 cerits to $1.25. A reserve list of critical works is handed out at .'the beginning of the year for any outside interests.-One to two plays are covered each week. -
Organization: . Two<papers-and two .tests are the general requirements in course work. The two papers are to. be from 3-5
pages in length, and the. tests are a combination of identifications and essays.' The -, tests usually emphasize the material - taught in the lectures—the quotations, are always mentioned in the analysis of each play as. given, in.,'class. Mr.: McLane looks for the ability of his students to/express themselves-in an'organized manner both oh the papers and ori his tests. ' The objective portions weigh far . less than the'written materials oh .the grade, and the two tests and . two papers, are about equal-in . the determination ., of the final grade. <	// ,	,	.
Comments: Mr. McLane definitely aids the student in learning to appreciate Shakespeare; unfortunately, the appreciation
-" comes more from the power: of; the works'than from the analysis given in class.’ Although Mr. McLane . attempts not to oyer-analyze, he, goes into, such detail that he: elicits boredom in his lectures. ' Everi though, this- happens, - his-presentation of. each play does. aid - the: student .;ih /undefsfandirig ’more fully what he
: has .read.- A broader-knowledge, of the; works of Shakespeare brings a’ broader knowledge, of literature; Mr.. McLane passes ori
, such knowledge,-but. the time taken’.to receive it seems extremely
long. ’
A. L. Soeris English 345 ■ Shakespeare
Content f/MfiiSoehsTdescribes “this .coufseyasa/treatment; 6f - -.
- Shakespeare/and T his ? .plays/ dsyTffi^	;
> with additional emphasis",given,tp'the'historical'circumstances sur- ■ ' -y- rounding’ .the Tplays/^/well as Shakespeare’s . pefsonal. develop-" -ment. - A/secon dary,%'though.: minor/-/‘objective off the.1;-course is,; " according. :to Mn .Soens, “exppsunT/to/thean . .
.added- item" in our/cultufal/barik accounts.” - The: student', is ex-.-: .
.. pected to gain ah extensive knowledge’ofstheistagingTtechniques, and iconography as well asthe literary, significance; of . the/plays.
- Presentation: The course is composed- of ;a,mixture, of'lee-' tures : and discussions, the former,' constitutirig/the ‘.majority/ of. ' 1 .
- class, time/. The’staging .0/.productions':by>-students also/ occupies. - " -. a significant portion; of the;course.< .	: ? :	. ’.
.-/Readings:/.Hardin-Craig, /ed.,- The Complete’ - ‘-Works z,of - •
T . THE SCHOLASTIC ■
Shakespeare; Bentley, Shakespeare and His Theatre; Auerbach, Mim esis; t * Sty an, . Shakesp e are’s S tagecraft; Spurgeon, Shake-/ speare’s Imagery;	Shakespeare’s Bawdy,> Required
texts total-about $25—the Hardin-Graig most of that with a $13 .tag. - J	- -/ -' *	. /?“'....../-■
; Organization : JThe student is required, to submit three 8-10- page analytical papers and to take the final. Appearance in one in-class production is also mandatory. /
Comments: Mr. Soens’ knowledge of :his subject is broad, and his* lectures are well-presented. He covers the plays-in a unique manner; the emphasis leans slightly more to the theatrical , aspects of the material, right down to the swordfighting techniques of the 1500’s. The student performances give one the opportunity to become involved, , as well as adding, a touch of fun. Note-taking is impossible, ’and not necessary at that. Dis-_ cussion is minimal, and the'papers are challenging but very eh-
_ lightening. Mr. Soens’. grading is lenient. - -	* ~	,
? The course is interesting, worthwhile, and occasionally quite
enjoyable. The .work load is a little, heavier than moderate, but ;	the student is required only in. conscience to do the reading.
A. L. Soens .
English 320	/	'
Drama
Content: English 320 is a historic approach to the evblu-tion oF drama from the Greeks' to Becket and Pinter. The course concerns itself with the treatment of the dialectic between the audience and the stage, the establishment of models for'analysis, t and a look at individual dramas as theatrical icons.	. :
Readings: Becket, Waiting for Godot; Rostand,\ Cyrano de
' Begerac; Barnes, ed., Eight Great Comedies and Eighth Great Tragedies; Pinter, The Birthday Party; Corrigan, Tragedy, Meaning and Form and Comedy ;~ Cohn, Casebook on Godot.
Thomas . Jemielity	. ,
English 351	_
English Literature J ’	..	/
English 451 .
Johnson-Boswell Seminar .	.
. English. 528	. . . <
. . Classical and . 18th Century Satire
ENGLISH 351 .;	,	. .	. .
, Content: This course acquaints the student,with the English writers of the early eighteenth century.; Although it is a survey '	course,'do not be misled	into ’thinking Mr. Jemielity-will give
/	a cursory examination of	the material. He will emphasize the
principal worksof each' author/ but he always .presents an' in. „ -	Z depth: analysis?; His lectures on Pope and Swift should be* espe-
.	\	ciaHy; interesting. He has	aii ability to position the works in a
\	' historical;.and religious ' context??	5 < ? - '
\ Readings:: The reading list will beavailable in Mr. Jemiel-?/ ity’s office, Gil, during preregistration. Tentatively, Mr. Jemiel-
~	- ity will cover Dryden, \ Pope, Addison, Steele; Bunyon, Defoe,
: ; arid-Swift. The course will also cover three plays: The Conscious
Loversy'TheLondonMerchantaxidL The Beggars \O per a. / . r ? Organization:/This course will probably be lectures^ How-/ Z /?/ ever?;Mr?JemielityI’always* welcomes discussion and:questions by } the students. His timetable depends on the, students^ .There .will ' / : ' 7 / be; three; short; papers and two, * possibly three, examinations dur-7’' 7-^	A final caiFalsobe expected.?/ \ :
„ 7/ rContent : This seminar is* an ' intensive, - and. extensive exam-/ 7 ination •of Johnson and Boswell. -. Mr.y Jeniieli ty < is • interested in ?? contrasting, and comparing the public and private images of the
7; jwo/men/: Therefore, the student; will read Johnson’s diaries : :	t andjetters as well as: his major andminor poetry. Boswell’s
; /;< : > April 25, 1972	;
public and private journals will also be read. By the time the - course is over, the student should have an appreciation of Johnson’s and Boswell’s literary talents, as well as a deep awareness of their personal lives. Mr. Jemielity wants the student not . only to understand the material: he wants the student to experierice the men, their ethical attitudes and their religious experiences.
, Since Johnson and Boswell were biographers, the course emphasizes the genre of biography. Mr. Jemielity spends consid-/ erable time explaining. biography as a legitimate and effective art form. This seminar is the only course in the English department where biography is studied in detail. Thus, the student would be well advised to take the course—if only for that reason.
:Readings: The reading list will be available in Mr. Jemiel-ity’s office,. Gil,, during preregistration- Mr. Jemielity plans to cover.Johnson’s diaries, letters, his major and minor poetry, his preface to Shakespeare, and his biographies of Savage and Pope.
, From Boswell, the student will read the public journals, the private journals,.and the Life of Johnson.
Organization : The course is a seminar. Expect to take an active part in all the classes., The student will have to give two to three class presentations, which will serve as a basis for the subsequent , papers.; The student presentations are important. The course depends on the students. Mr. Jemielity can provide insight and direction, but the students must show a willingness for quality discussion.
ENGLISH. 528
Content: This course is a thorough. examination of satire. Mr. Jemielity acquaints - the student with the author’s viewpoint and the social forces . that, acted upon the author. He analyzes the mind of the satirist and the time in which the satirist wrote. He himself displays an ironic wit . that highlights the ^material? . . .	-	’ .	--
,, Readings :The book list will be-available in Mr. Jemielit/s office during preregistration. The course will cover Juvenal, Horace, Aristophones, Pope, Swift, Gibbon, Johnson, Austen, Blake, and probably Voltaire.	,
Organization: This will be * a lecture course, but Mr.
Jemielity always welcomes discussion and questions. Undergraduates should not shy away from the course. Mr. Jemielity respects their opinions and invites them to enroll.
J'g Comment: Mr. Jemielity knows the 18th century, but that is not the only reason why you should take one of his courses. Mr. Jemielity teaches you to think. His ironic wit and his probing questions cause you to react; they cause you to explain and justify what you say. Mr. Jemielity likes to explore the ramifications of your thought. His interest in students is well known. When you ask: a question, he actively listens. Though he could easily intimidate you with his expertise, he allows you to search.
Leslie Martin
English 356	. ,
Restoration arid Eighteenth-Century Comedy
.	Content : The class is proposed as a study of themes, forms,
and functions in comedy from 1660 through the career of Jane Austenl Plays /by Dryden, Etherege, Wycherley, Congreve, Far-7 :quhar, Gay/and Sheridan; verse satires by Dryden, Swift, Pope, 1 and Johnson; hovels by Fielding* Sterne, Smollett, and Austen;
essays from several periodicals;1 Swift’s Gulliver’s Travels and Johnson’s Rasselas; and some bathetic, or unintentionally comic performances by -Shadwell, Cibber, Ambrose Philips, and other “dunces” together with one or two awful plays and Fielding’s parody, Tom Thumb.
A - Presentation : The course is predominantly taught by lecture but each class session usually contains audio-visual material and a series/of questions put to the students once a confident general structure of topic is set up by the lecture. The questions are,comfortable for both student and teacher and usually serve as the: direction for more detailed development on what comes to light.
Mr? Martin plans to continue to complement the days’ work with a wide variety of Audio-Visual materials which include re-/ cordings, excerpt recordings of the material, and related pictorials,
21
paintings, music and song to convey the general color of the , period. He would also like to plan with the students certain “days’’ within the scheduling to devote entirely to the presentation and exposure of this kind of related material. He claims the . possibilities to be unlimited arid opportunities of this'kind for him . are rarely passed up.	.....	-	-
Readings: The class will meet three times a week and readings will be selected from the general list presented in the content section. The texts, then, are “generally inexpensive” (bookstore prices) paperbacks, collections and arithologies; Total price oyer the course of the semester can run anywhere between $10 and $15. Martin does not use any secondary materials in his 300 level courses. The student then is expected to cover from one to three plays over the week. .	.
Organization: Three papers, probably varying between 5 and 10 pages, are planned for the course,: together : with two examinations, the precise nature of which are not determined untillater. Once into the semester, however, such specifics'tend .to float in a kind of arbitrary liinbo, somewhere between department requirements, class response, Mr. Martin’s convenience, and everyone’s enjoyment of the class. Ample time is guaranteed the - student, though, to prepare for tests and papers. In the past,
papers have suffered in many cases because of a lack of specific ...J	........	.....
assignment of topics: However, this can provide , an opportunity .. reflection of intellectual,-, social, and . cultural forces, impinging
for exploration in expression. Mr. Martin is especially open and available for agreement, advice and criticism. The final grade is a review of whatever grades exist by the end of the semester.
■ Comments: Martin expressed his own comment on the class in two interesting ways. First, that people should “want” to read the type of material that.will'be covered arid that, his course.is “disrecommended to the sour, the saturnine, and the surly.” The man has a very? capable and commanding knowledge and understanding of-his subject and quite a romantic view of its time. This, in the past, has been seen as an asset from the student’s position. Mr. Martin becomes thoroughly immersed in a kind of “verbal ebullience” in his delivery that can efficiently and erijoy-ably balance the pressures of the classroom. His.style, above this, provides for encountering a broad picture of the iridividual work —influences, relationships, interpretations, anecdotes, and per-, ' sonalities—and includes, a'specific cataloguing of theme, form, and symbol on the blackboard.	/'	.
Students will encounter a noticeable, amount of Mr. Martin’s personal opiriion during the course, of a class, but he' is the first to acknowledge these as only opinions which'students are in'rio way ' required to “parrot.” It is important to note that the section entitled content should-not be'viewed as “expectations” in a limited sense' of title and achievement, rather as a loosely determined area in which Mr. Martin works. The reading syllabus is usually re-
the very beginning—to give a broad yet related survey of the literary developinerit of .the nineteenth-.century. The classes usually range from 70 .to 80 students, eliminating/the .possibility .of intimate or. detailed discussions.. However, Slabey compensates for this with his . extensive -knowledge and/enthusiasm for the course. One is immediately/attracted to .his dynamic and effervescent approach ’ to lectures—an experience' one will - never forget. Mr. Slabey encourages and is readily..available for con-/ sultatio'n/ The subjective exams are representative of the material -vised (pared/down)-during the semester/ But opinion has it that and class notes. For those with” an; extensive, (rather than in-, the revision-is-adequately .complemented-by-his use'of audio- . tensive) interest in this-area, Slabey should not be overlooked, visual materials and the unique insights.and skill his style affords	. :	?.?---?? =
to the subject.	-	'	. .	'..../ 7. /’	/. / =/-- .. . /. , /? . . -	.
Comment's: Mr.. Callahan has taught this'course on both the graduate and the undergraduate levels many times in the past, and his knowledge of the material /is. impressive. He. treats the works'of the artists'in relation to the Romantic movement as well as to their persdrial philosophies, giving the student an excellent sense of perspective regarding'the material. He provides a broad scope for’the student both in choosing the most representative material and.in furbishing useful infonriation relative to the poets’ lives and .times, ..	-	/.. . .'	...
Robert Slabey .
English 381	- / . •
American Literature to 1900
. Content : In. this survey of the Ainerican-literary tradition the coverage is exterisive rather than-.iritensive, with attention divided between trends and ihovemerits and representative, texts. After a brief consideration of/antecedents, .the course will focus on. the major cultural movements of. the nineteenth century'. American prose,-.poetry, and fiction will.be studied:as an artistic
on the sensibilities of writers. There are* no pre-requisites.
Presentations. The lectures are formal, concise, and well-organized. Slabey, however,‘.gladly, accepts any questions. .
Readings: The basic.text, Irving Howe’s The Literature of America: Nineteenth Century (McGraw-Hill), will . be supple--mented with several paperbacks:/Franklin’s Autobiography, The Scarlet Letter, Moby-Dick, and.a. novel by. Henry James. The total cost for these paperbacks is about $10.00. The reading load is moderate'and. the’students will have ample, time to complete
each assignment. .	. - - ? • .
. , Organization: .Students ’.will’ write two one-hour examinations, five or six short (one-page) papers,./and, a .final comprehensive, examination. The.final grades-are-.always a fair estimate of one’s performance arid: improvement, throughout the course.
Comment: Mr. Slabey clarifies the intent .of the course from
Patrick Callahan ? J
English-360. ?.-	7 <
The British Romantic Movement
■	Content: This cburse, divided-roughly.irito' two.parts,'-will.
cover two' generations-;^ Roriiantic? poets. . The first/' con- -sists' of/Blake, Wordsworth -and/Coleridge; 'the; later-'poets cqn-7 sidered will be/Shelley, Byron and Keats./ Besides/the/ poetry/of these. authors, Mr. CaHaKan.' will devote/sofrie time ; to/erilight- .. ening prose" works as well,' such; as tHesPreface to "the < Lyrical . . Ballads} Defense of Poetry and Coleridge’s Bibgraphia:Liierdria, in order to discover the philbsbphicaF'and aesthetic relatioriship j of the author to his work.. : ■	. ' ' • /-
- Presentation: The forfhat .will He.primarily discusriori/with an occasional lecture to fill in details.However/thetextcontaihs enough background information about the/authors/ahd^their works to reduce the necessity of these lectures. ?	'7^^
Readings: There is only one required text: EnglishRqmah-tic Writers, • edited by David Perkiris, " which :costs;'$f0;56/^ls<£ there will be a few suggested; reserve readings. .	- : "	- V
Organization:''Course'requirements are'threejpapers'iof.six to eight pages in length which/require' some /original/'thought,/‘a midterm and a filial, both-'of; which are/ giveri in/cl^s>f7/////-£/7
22.
Thomas Werge
. English 383 /; //. .>.4 American Writers Survey
Content:? A study ,of: selected ’works of ‘fiction and poetry-by / . major -Americari-;.authors./of.7the ;nineteenth and/ twentieth centuries;
.- . Presentation:7The;-fpririati-of?.-the?’course ‘is,, primarily, - - lecture. :Howevef,/.7Mr.-;.Werge?. incorporates/.'into - his/style'<of • lecturing-? the/;-technique ? of//posing? questions; which /stiinulate thought ■ ori-the? part-of - the /student/ / Questions ..arid comments -... froiri.. the? students; afe^encquraged;./^	/'/?:.- ■
; - READiNGs:ffPoe}^Selected$Wriiings^ (Riverside)'; ?HawtKbrne,' - House	:-Mbby ''Dick'-
.:?-(Bobbs-Merrill)/;;?Jrim'es;7Turii5'o//tfi^	^DaisyiMiller-:
(Viking)/;'SelehtedfiWqrksz(Harcourt,V.Brace? & /World) 4?Hemin‘gway;’‘.;FareweZi7;tq,X?4rmj/?(Scri	Steinbeck,/.- The
// Grapes?of-/?I^r4f/i/j(yi^^	Catcher.Z.ih\vthe>-Rye-
//r (Signet) .■?//-<	.
< /////ORGANIZATION ;7/TwO^^ //.•y finaI?ai^./fequiredfXiThexmid/term^	?.
//./The/tests/are basedtujao^ - 7©The/%lecture's"'?are./ insightful,1 ''interesting, ' arid . /.;./wen-ofganizea^Mrf?Ayerge’s'flectur«:6^	especially 7
: .'97//SO
excellent.. His tests are very fair, arid they do require the student
. to be well acquainted with the material.? Because of their short-	___ -_______-
nes® pf length (three page maximum), the major difficulties that novel, probably Styron’s The Confessions of Nat Turner. Most a student may .encounter in doing the papers? are to develop/a	‘	*
. sharp focus and. to, be\clear arid /concise, without;exceeding the
. assigned limit.' ,
John McDonald .
' < English 385 ;: ;	'	.. /
Major Americans Writers I :
' Contents This course will focus on the works of Nathaniel . Hawthorne, .Edgar Allen Poe,/Emily Dickenson, Henry, James, and Mark, Twain, and how these * authors envisioned their role as artists in NineteenthrCentury. America. The primary/ concern will be the moral aesthetic and social, implications, of their, chosen identities? with some attention?given to political corollaries.. A-significant part of The reading consists of literature about The ’ creativeness of literature. The fefnainder of the reading list deals with characteristic work^ on other ; themes by each author. .
. Presentation: Though the format of the course is .largely , .t	. - ,	>-	,	-	-
in lecture form, the presentation will be informalZ/Questions	Man and Superman; Chesterton, The Man Who Was Thursday;
are welcomed arid encouraged, and There-is always room. for	Conrad, Tlie Nigger of the Narcissus and Nostromo; Joyce,
_ discussion if the student takes’ the initiative. ” ?'	:	Dubliners land Portrait of the^ Artist as a Young Man; Forster,
Readings: ’ Hawthorne, Selected Tales, and Sketches (the course will cover; about Ten. selections), The Scarlet Letter,-The Marble Faun; Poe/ Selected Prose and Poetry; Dickenson, Final .
. Harvest: Emily Dickenson’s Poems;James, Great Short ZWorks of Henry James (includes, four selections), Portrait of a Lady,
. The Spoils of Poynton; Twain, Great' Short Works of Mark Twain, Huckleberry Finn, A Connecticut Yankee Tn . Arthur’s Court. All books are in paperback' and cost a little/undef $20. However, one will probably he able to pick up all of them used.
Organization: t There will Bea one-hour exam and a .final.
~ Also required. are two short papers of about five pages and a . longer one of about ten pages. The student is afforded the best
/ opportunity, to express his own ideas in the,papers. ,	l
. Comment:.- Students who have taken, this course last fall . have said that Mr. McDonald did an excellent job of presenting
an overall picture of the artists in their nineteenth-century Amer- : icari setting, as well as rendering an informative treatment of specific individual works. Mr. McDonald is readily available for assistance and advice, and it is suggested that the student take advantage of his guidance, especially before writing' a paper for him. '	:	r ? 1	/■ ’
- Robert Slabey; .. .	\	.
. . English 389	. .... . /. .. . . .
-; The; Southern' Literary . Tradition:
- Content: Since Southern literature is distinguished not; by „ .material alone .but by. tone, and attitude, this course will .be an excursion into a country of,the imagination father than.a survey of- regional..writing.?The cultufaLand aesthetic bases,wilkbe set.
. / in Cash’s, The Mind ofthe. South, especially Book ! (which stu; dents, should’read during The summer);and Tate’s “A? Southern ”/' Mode; of the; Imagination,” ; The course will then .make ;a. his., toricalprogrcss from; the , Frontier/and? the
;: present’d ay. /There , are , no pre-requisi tes for? th is; co u rse besides / /<\ a general interest; in the literary develop^	area. ,
,/// /Presentation : Although there /will i be „ a Tew; lectures,, most/ / sessions/will be ^informal discussion?/Readings? beyond/the ?re; , /quired b'ooks should be expecteT Exact procedures and assign-
. '<ments/wi^^	part/ be^determined- by^^	class rand /
" . the'interests/ofJte*;memfe	?/~?/	/;/
‘ X /?/Readings : ./The? texts /will /include Cash’s The: M inddof - the > ? r ';SouthtZ(yintage)TT^	f(Rinehart);,
///Guilds/J^	-(Merrill) ;//Vri of
T'Zt^	* Frederick ^	//Mark; 1 Twairi’s;
■ ; TThe \Eugitives Po els /andselections?Jr om/Ell * TaEe^My^ '.Stand;-TTRichard'Wri^	(or Black.Boy) //several/
/April 25,1972
plays by Tennessee Williams (Summer and Smoke, A Streetcar
Named:D esire, and The Glass Menagerie); and a contemporary
of these are paperbacks; the total cost—about $15.00.
. /Organization: Students will write mid-term and final ex-
aminations, one long and several short papers. The final and - Jong paper will each count a fourth of the final grade, and the remaining half will be based on the student’s performance on the mid-terni/short, papers and class participation.
J. D. Garvick
English 390 A /	-
Modern British Literature I
./Content: The course will be an attempt at an enlightened survey of-modern British iiterature? in the period 1890-1930. It / has no pretensions beyond those of a survey course, but Mr. ; Garvick observes that this is notmhefently unsatisfactory.
. Presentation: Lecture. He \vill, of course, entertain any .questions which arise during the course of the class.
///Readings: The following is .a tentative reading list: Shaw,
Passage, to India; T. E. Lawrence, Seven Pillars of Wisdom; D. H. Lawrence, Lady Chatterly’s Lover, Apocalpyse, and selections from his short stories; Virginia Wolff, To the Lighthouse - or Mrs: Dallawdyi.Intimate familiarity with Conrad’s Heart of Darkness is; assumed, in more, ways than one. Poets covered will be Hardy, Kipling/the War Poets, Yeats, and T. S. Eliot; the text.will.be the clothbound Modern British Poetry, by. Louis Un term eyer (Harcourt Brace), and will be used in both the first . and second semesters of the course. ..
Organization: Three exams, in class; no papers.
. t Comments : This is the. first time Mr. Garvick is offering this course—an? exciting prospect in an area of particularly keen interest to him. . -	_	?
Richard Sullivan
English, 401 •	'	'
Advanced Fiction Writing
Comments; Everything about this course is identical to English 301 except the quality of the work expected of the student.
The course is intended for the student who^has had some writing experience of who can demonstrate some writing proficiency? -
Francis .O’Malley ;	; •
. English 416.	;
-Philosophy of Literature
/.Content: What happened To art in .western culture since the. Middle Ages? .Mr. O’Malley believes that most artists and T.writers are, nd longer working in the service of God and. the human community, but have fallen prey to the hubris ofindi-- vidualism’ihTheir artl This, he sees, has led to the disintegration of style and the betrayal of human and divine truth..Mr. O’Mal,: jeyTexaim^^	who have persevered in the “Quest of
the’Presence’? (Rilke, Sostoevski, Rimbeaux, Claudel, Kafka) and ./ those who have not. In these men, artistic creation flourishes as / a spiritual expression. ?/'/.;/	.	,
/,, /./Presentation	O’Malley lectures bi-weekly in a manner
//distinctly his -own—poetic and > powerful, by reason of ; his own -?? conviction?	,
///Readings course.?
Mr. ?Q’Malley’s lectures are The “texts”/of the \ ,
//^Organization/- Creative efforts and written/reflections/are encouraged? Students create Their own organization-^	course
by arranging /oUoquia with Mrr O’Malley-/ //?//	< *
’/? Comments :? M	inspires? the respect^ imdTove, of -
his 'students. It is difficult, to make a. distinction, between, this .
•	”	• ■? - '	'	'■ z<? - 23

1 *'?&!'	”4?^	^X5>-
>-eZ>«v	/r^	»f^cSL
*	ir"M-	"lUSr
1^	..*£#?«
z	■ fp^*' -“T^xS^y	T$S*C 'Zf&ZSA '^^y-^7
^**4&zA.a~:.	?>S*^!-^5^SiS	£-C ^^SsES^s^'
. yy^ayy^z' <<’.'7^-	. ■jstc&Hy. ^y<^sx -Tfti ~AAt- ^^ad^r^ix
5 I --zyyn ^ffaya^ Sy.’- g—na tfy£. Ay^r'^y .xy ■^■^-a-^.:^-^. \v	-n^i-.y z^sgt -.ygyzy. ■-;$ 'yzcy-^fiyy^' g^xs^sz
,**. yr-tt* zz^-- -ya'-a-z - yazy y yx yznyyy&~ ry-yyy£~ayy‘ -A z'^y Ayry yy-y^ yyy~- • -y -yrM-ytt ’gngyy^' yzyy y-, -fys^-s^ tk&f- z-zg-
-4>s5-v .y. zgyzy y.-zzy	•ysytS-Az 'jj^atfesss
y-'r ry .yy^^y h> y r-y’-ynya' ^yrjyyy
Ty^^yy/x-gyi'- \z<^zy.'szy ^-y. ■&£.':%&>&£.	^eygtgu^jg.
\y .fe, yyy^-yrz '^yyy gysAtgrgg, y& ~1y-.i&ttis&pep. c««5tj. jgjsttxtef ,-yyg -ay—- -yzyg'.^ry ‘,rA^ft^gAty- yz y^yy
s^^yy-yiygy >-"? .>> yyty .y. -fay -yxys:'. -AAa’ ziry: z-ry yryyyy^ -gyyy z^tlrSyit: -s^-. -s^j^y y-tixsy '^yat-^ yxsylyn-
■>><’< ‘zf-ity. yyyy-y «*» ti	'psHy ",feS^- ‘’tesSL- yy. .
7rf.y .•/>»£■?. '"jfy ^yy^fZyy, -J' M-'-S‘-az-'i	Thil 'PW>h
^£r 4>' y'yy&^fyjzyy $£M .e y -s^tri^r .yri &£. zyA^r z^iy^y^y-. yryt,y- zyyy^giif'.	Ay- ^nii&yyr-
ysyy><yy:'6y '7mz nyt y. 'x.-t^.n’ yg naxsf. 5X -y^ -.*•*•*&?, ’'iyi- -byt	4$ -j^gg? rayi- tssey wdi. 5*^
-jy'"'^***!- &*’ y^yrayy df- t-y yyyz^- 'Z'yy^it: «>»iL zg&t zsy. a y-^ytyx^ yyt.^y. ^ygirfyf. 'fty:	-hf^rsg ^i:L ziy: &- 'Styy
gi&y 4*?^-	‘yy-	yy -'gy- y^yzzzzgy 5?itts^y.
?.yty ■^ygy^g^iy'jrg. -^ytt, thy- yy^' -y- * 5ti75 ^ftr^fii^ '<s?^jff»: zy^ z^.y ,~»y. &f-	t^»	^p*>'
5<^i-	.	, _	_ .	,
X»t -R" z^/yiy c yy&rf	yfft^ yyyyz: *€*t c^rt'
yztyyyy, '^s.- rfyyz z^^zy jgfayy:	'
7'^	%c, ^n^s. fru, y
'yg- '■fiiy:	yyi^yy.	yy ^jg:
yyyy^y- y^i'^,4- -y^ iyy siii ^yyyv^- ‘fty^yyy^ Ayyyyigt^ .	.
S#k .yyy yyyyy yyyyy^-	^y
^4 ~y s^yyi^	yy^y y£ ayy "y Tygy^ z&sy
•	yyrr' sssu$j«trx
py- -9/ f^y	^rf ^z ^itifyy
zf^	.
z/^'	t4 ^yiy Ay :y fny ^.^ygyyy syt^
A&/&W	y
My & #&r£jfr ^4^^- $9	&&& Azzy ^yyfyi
1^ t^v	<£ tyy^yy
^yf sfy&yyy
-<W	gfyztett
Wilier fe,	;	,:
441	:
Pf&& :
Pf6^ & (y&wty
gfitL	9f&iy w$tfe	(rti
ifi^d v/biUnnd ifMfe p&tf	fmt
^GiUin d (Mif<^t tifecrr^kgl aeyyfii 'Mitl be on (jf ^S ftffd older in the fdtb eenuiry, Re^n^ ivilL Inciude the 24	'
yxa^ z^ysg	V^-’	4yt^^r^5&&i
J^:3«4w«^ 5?, -&y -y^^yy. ■xj^y -xysy'^^A:	y, z^ny	XX. ifes.
-f.yi^£y^y	5v	sat> £&.*;.-	'iftifAw z$ ^yy^-z ^yyy^g^ 3?isa2isl.
^sx^yxy,. ~ya>-'4^y- ~&sj^ -Ayr&ei> ~vrW	zKiy&yttssxisxz
^r-	1W?	1^	''*TW*'	^W®
~^- zxy^z ss’iK' ■sstf- zwy-w iy6j>^xxfi>zif& zJ1,	^oxsxy^-
y^'zzT-x.xi./zxzg^^- ', ~yA: 'yt^y is- zziM) 'yyM-f^i^~' x£stz jasx sac; 4\s>‘^^ A.	-a^. yy^ay
yixyfyfsg 'irfi^.- ^^..v-. yiy	6^ x A-eg sc sep-
sis -i^ty ■ satf iats}' zi^Ji Has- jMirg- -yiL siC yc- ssic gsyz- 'st ■.5^.>rr KiiCizE4-	y SftSs^K -y^Xtixy 3xy: z^S-
Itxzxgzyyy--■. jTy	J4ahy^z	Ay^xy yi-i yy ^zn^iz:^
-y-	SXlEtswite;.;	SSan^txx.
"ygna.	?**&■ XfeZa^e
T& jferfsr	-A Sittwe A:	&c-^ ■«£.
"jGixxsSS^-’; i^x«-	35u«wt.	^-SUI-ixSG
Ufe&sarrt. •	-J^xk .hxyx.z 2c-,tvs£. Ssz^i-
7?«&5 (7n?&s> yiyiiiaUapriia & Tif Cy£yc Cyny. <zL iSs^S’??’' (7ua?-S..<	^AgzJftfc /r-i^ris: f"^TssfiihgxE
$&s&«;-.'	An sr lA&gMzy sfot?}* l^ynsx
^yyA^AXz	37tn (ynyyy Z&kzrttOL : -xsc^gc. _
^Um.- zwyyx-ixx ■vtxTszey a«c	yyyny 'hzycaxxs.. Lzsz
->yA 5>_- -fcrrEi; scriisfei va xyy'y, ~xy xxsTSxx^. sr® sjzcsc .our k t-yesSy -yyjiH. sny ’W7" s -wseL
73se »u2exc h yxzynzyi bs & cxn& stzzH jzyyn- ce 3»een?t?d: 5c etsm. 'xy Azz& {IC-31 pa®^' pscer •xn as. xa'y^aAfy xaaairt: ^iy sc Sty dasst czyr & rnulcy.n- sac. s -xr?^. ~3xy yxsxxsu. -^tssassxz. a. pcec&e faswfeME cf die nsa^rc^.. -eut -ity .^issiiOTc sxe »x rszsrgftstwe^ TEey are el d(&v. ind. .5«3itne sc awry s> m. Ess woris of i£e perid as a -ariinay- ~x%yy ydH dhx> he ^zkc prc.se style exercises. The yts&tt gaif 5aixe eayrr -zxaz & the weight of the grade. Oacjr.si-<sr Zet -is rrx xy -dzi: the course work is demand-,xn^ stui x- -c 3^r. Zfedi. Mr. Davis knovax this material, and. sArxsy^u^xnA,. ix& .deoxyrr tx csKthdent and. casual, Bur denmtely ztitr. xyAy. Tiy cunrre pmcoses to impart an almost drimfth-e inAwtie^; -x£ -&y Euaressl. and an attentive student will ger it. The dace i sGw&a ’Xtrrtiied. but not necessarily austere fas a dm: hKpr%ssc.ta d Mr. IJzvis might convey). Humor cam and wriE afhuirad si serrerizte points.
£dyyitsrTt Jcsmeriy entitled “Shakespeare and the Theatre ,<ic ^y Tirjszssir me course this semester will not attempt to xxszscnny Sjaie^eare with the modern absurd playwrights as it <Sd is tky nnt will use only a couple of his works, along •MU’S, t^xy rar ry-Q medieval plays and a play by Ben Jonson, in f-yrya tn rrygrx context from which to look at the meaning of ^xy afosttrd m drama. The main part of the course will then exxrun&e modem “theatre of the absurd’"’: selected plays by ZeEZeS-t- ftmesco. Genet. Arrabal, Grass. Pinter. Albee. Stoppard, fettey.
yha-tattyATioNr The course will be a mixture of lecture and <S3»S2satt3- and students will individually or in teams “lead” rxy cSas daring the semester. '
Za.utx3cs>£r Although Mr. Robinson will delete a large rxzzt&yz g£ Shakespearean plays from the list previously used, ky v^l add Quite a few other plays and. therefore, the reading fcg<5 ^riS.jspt differ substantially (approximately 30 plays). ALL (A ^nysy ^nsft are in paperback editions, and many times 2 or 3 (A them will be in the same edition; hence the. student will not &zwe tG purchase 30. paperbacks. In addition to the plays, Marrin Etdln’s critical study The Theatre of the Absurd (re^ vised tspdated edirion, 1969) will be required reading. -
OacAjriZATiON: Afr. Robinson expects from the student i/hard nroAf miagmation, willingness, to explore, and to speak Up, even if absurdly?' There will be reports for discussion. 2 or 3 relatively snort papers, arid a final paper or examination. 'f^Jere mz-f be an option to substitute one “creative w;ork,” e.g.
pfey, for one of the papers • and . Mr. Robinson may also ark all students to keep a running “un-common-place-book” or **absurd journal.”	.
THE SCHOLASTIC
Comments: The workload for this course is quite difficult, but the student seriously interested in getting deeply involved in this often fascinating realm of literature would certainly benefit from Mr. Robinson’s knowledge of that area. His enthusiasm for teaching-can be somewhat clouded by the dryness of his lectures, and his rigorous academic style can mislead one into thinking him. unapproachable. Neither of these is the case. He is excited about his work, and always open to ’ suggestions and private discussion. The success of this class will be measured by the student’s degree of readiness to work hard and creatively. '	•
Raymond Schoen
English 449
Milton
Content: This course will focus on a close study of Milton’s works, with special attention given to Paradise Lost and the minor poetry. The Aeneid will also be read as a prologue to the study of Paradise Lost along with small bits of prose where they clarify a poem. The aims of the course will be: to discover Milton’s poetic techniques and main themes, and to acquaint the student with different methods of approaching his poetry and poetry in general.
Presentation: The class will proceed by discussion with only very rare lectures.
’ Readings: The required texts are: John Milton, Complete Poems and Major Prose, ed.-Merritt Y. Hughes (Odyssey Press, 1957) $8.75; and, -Aeneid, trans. Patric Dickinson (New American Library, 1961), Mentor Classic MT348, $.75.
Organization: There will be four short papers (2-3 pages), and one longer one (6-8 pages) plus a final exam which will give the student an opportunity to express his thoughts on the course material.
Comments: Mr. Schoen brings to the study of Milton a sound knowledge of the material and a genuine enthusiasm for the poetry. These qualities, coupled with this responsiveness to students, enable the course to succeed on the level of information and enjoyment. -
Eugene Brzenk
English 466
The Two Cultures
Content: This course examines the controversy, most recently conducted by C. P. Snow and F. R. Leavis, which has engaged leading intellectual critics of America and the United Kingdom. Mr. Brzenk will trace the history of the confrontation between the - sciences and . the humanities beginning with the Renaissance Quarrel of the Ancients and the Moderns; the emphasis will be on 19th-century concepts of culture focusing on; Bentham, Coleridge, Mill, Carlyle, Arnold, and Huxley.
- Presentation: Mr., Brzenk’s lectures are usually informal and require a' minimum of note-taking,. but an important. part of the class often comes from class discussions. As in the past, students have given oral reports of a particular aspect of the course which was not studied in class. The individual research is, perhaps, the most important aspect of the course and is always worthwhile.;	' ...
Readings: Basic texts include: Raymond Williams, Culture and Society;. John. Stuart Mill, On Bentham and Coleridge; Matthew Arnold, Culture and Anarchy; Thomas Carlyle, Past and Present. Subjects for papers and discussion will also include the Strangers and Brothers novels of C; P. Snow, the criticism of F. R. Leavis, novels like Charles Dickens’ Hard Times or. the philosophical writings of Bacon, Hobbes and/or Hume, depending upon the individual student’s interests. \	.
. Organization: The course will be conducted as a seminar, and students will write a term paper, of about 15 pages plus several shorter assignments, which can take the form of class presentations. There will be . a midsemester and a final. The student is encouraged to read on his own and with few secondary : references to use as a crutch. Final grade is based on papers, oral work, and finals.
April 25, 1972
Comments: Mr. Brzenk received his masters at Iowa at its Writer’s Workshop (along with Flannery O’Conner) and hopes to conduct the fiction writing class along the way of close dis. cussion of a student’s work so that individuals have experience in . writing and in criticism. Mr. Brzenk’s other course will incorporate his concentrated lectures with class discussion. Most find him and his courses worthwhile and interesting.
Carvel Collins
English 482	’
Melville
Content: The object of the Melville seminar is simply to look at one author, Herman Melville, in an attempt to understand both the author and the man. Unlike a survey course which tends to “skim” over the best of the best, some care will be taken in tracing the literary and psychological development of the author. All facets of the author’s character will be discovered during the class discussions. Melville’s relationship with Hawthorne, much hinted at in previous seminars, will be expanded to provide added flavor to the course. There are no prerequisites for the class other than a working knowledge of serious literature.
Presentation: The course is strictly discussion; the more participation, the better the class.	'
Readings: The seminar will cover, on the average, one book per week with added attention to Moby Dick. A selection of Melville’s poetry and some of Hawthorne’s short stories will be available in the form of handouts. A vast quantity of reference works will be on reserve at the library for further individual study. Typee (Northwestern University Press paperback), Red-burn (Doubleday Anchor Book No. Al 18), White-Jacket (Rinehart Classic No. 132), Moby-Dick (Bobbs-Merrill Library of Literature No. LL5), Pierre, or The Ambiguities (Signet Classic No. CT271), Great Short Works of Herman Melville (Harper & Row, No. P3094).
Organization: There will be one term paper, of approximately 1500 words, due near the end of .the semester. An oral report to be given in class on one particular work is.required of all members of the class. There will be no tests or quizzes. The final grade is determined by the oral report, the term paper, and class participation. Participation is by far the most important. .
Comments: Mr. Collins can only be described as a researcher’s researcher. His knowledge of the subject matter is overwhelming. The course will be successful if the student keeps certain goals in mind, not the least of which is obtaining insights into himself as both reader and serious critic. The class discussions either make or break the class. Mr. Collins will keep the conversational ball rolling with his amusing anecdotes and valuable insights, but it is up to the students to provide the impetus for an interesting course. . Due to popular demand, Mr. . Collins has agreed to teach two sections of his Melville seminar this coming semester.
J. D. Garvick
English 488.	.
Hemingway
/Content: The course will concern itself with an examination of all, or nearly all, of the works of Hemingway, including the . posthumous and unsuccessful ones. (Students, however, will not read Torrents of Spring, which Garvick, in imitation of Samuel Johnson, described as “trivial, gross, and dull.”) It will consider, among others, the following questions: To what extent and in what terms is Hemingway a stoic—Catholic or otherwise? What was his opinion of God? What understanding did he have of the human condition? What was the Hemingway code of ethical behavior? He will provide, as material integral to the course, some historical background to the Hurtgan Forest campaign of Fall 1944. He will examine the nature of Hemingway’s stoicism by considering that author as part of a tradition also embracing Epictetus and Camus.
25
What is sought is a radical understanding of this author, not merely a liberal (i.e., easy) academic, one. The only prerequisite, Mr. Garvick observed Ernestly, is that students be prepared to be “receptacles for truth.”
Presentation: Mr. Garvick will occasionally permit dia-- logues, but his usual style-will be lecture. The .larger the class, the more predominant will be this latter mode—usually to the amusement and enlightenment of the class members. There will be frequent dittoed handouts, together with use of the blackboard to rivet attention upon the several quotations (from highly diverse sources) to which he will refer in the course of the period. “The presentation of the course will be not unlike Patton’s presentation of armored warfare in the Lorraine campaign.”
Readings: Nearly all the.works of Hemingway, certainly all the major ones, 'in separate editions; Camus, The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays; Epictetus, the Enchiridion or the Moral Discourses; frequent dittoed handouts in class; readings in outside criticism on reserve.
Organization: A substantial paper and. a final, in-class examination. And, of course, much Hemingway.
Comments: -This course is a new offering; Mr. Garvick is rather eager to teach this material.
will make possible a tour of the Lawrencian landscape without fatiguing dissipation.	■ - .	.	-.
Readings: Due partially to fluctuations in . the publishing world, the. definitive reading, list is not yet available. However, Sons and Lovers, Women in- Love, and Lady Ch.atterly’s Lover will represent-the novel genre. St:,Mawr and The Man .Who Died will receive. attention, along with four, other shorter novels. A volume of selected poetry, and a collection, of selected essays will also be examined, as will Etruscan Places, one of Lawrence’s “travel”.. books. A symposium is planned for . which one half the class will read one . volume of the short stories and the other half another.	.. ..	.
Organization: Prior to the final examination, Mr. Guiterrez plans to implement certain “pedagogic innovations” as opportunities for creative-evaluation -of student progress in a manner amicable to the nature , of the material and reverent to the author. Not yet able to. declare what forms these opportunities will take, he observes- that quizzes. and • oral examination, sympathetically conducted in a manner designed to stimulate further inquiry, are possible alternatives. The genuine interest of the class, he hopes, will facilitate imaginative and more-than-service-able evaluation. .	. .	- -
John Matthias Modem British Poetry English 490
Content: The basics, including an introduction to prosody, a demonstration of musical effects, and discussions concerning the problems of of aesthetic judgement. The focus of the course will be on the following poets: W. B. Yeats, Wilfred Owen, David Jones, T. S. Eliot, Ezra Pound, D. H. Lawrence, W. H. Auden, Dylan Thomas, and Ted Hughes. The course will conclude with a study of the establishment poetry of the ’5O’s, of poetry as an . aspect of pop-culture (in Liverpool), and of the work of certain contempory poets continuing the “dominant international modernist tradition in Britain.”
Presentation: Though primarily a lecture course, Mr. Matthias makes great use of any relevant audio-visual material - available, and leaves plenty of time for class - discussion. The amount of, reading is gigantic," but is balanced by there being only two required papers—-one long paper, and a take-home final.
Readings: John-Matthias, 23 Modern British Poets; Sanders, Nelson & Rosenthal, Chief Modern Poets of Britain and America, Volume 1; Poets of Britain-, Robin Skelton, Poetry of the Thirties; David Jones, In Parenthesis; T. S>. Eliot, The Waste' Land and, Other. Poems; Ezra Pound Selected Poems; D. H. Lawrence, Selected Poems; W. H. Auden,-The Orators;Harvey Gross, Sound and Form in Modern Poetry.
Thomas Werge
English 571	"
Early American Literature
Content: A - study of. American literature from the New England Puritans to Thomas Paine and Charles Brockden Brown. The emphasis .will be on the ideas, styles and preoccupations of the New England mind- during the Seventeenth Century and as they influence, and r are influenced by, Eighteenth-Century rationalism. Although the Quaker piety of Woolman’s Journal and the rational moralism of Franklin’s Autobiography suggest the complexity of American. literature. and thought in the eighteenth century, they also articulate a dialectic and continuity that has characterized American literature- from its beginnings. If time allows, the course .will .examine, briefly several of the ways in which the New England - and. early American tradition influenced. and was used by such later American authors as Hawthorne, Emerson and Melville. .
Presentation : The course is a mixture of lecture and discussion where professor and students are seated in a circle.
Readings : Perry - Miller, ed., The American . Puritans (Doubleday); Taylor, The Poetical Works of Edward Taylor
(Princeton); Cotton Mather, Selections ' (Hafner); Wollman, John, Journal and A Plea for the. Poor; (Corinth); Franklin, Autobiography (Yale);. iPairie, Thomas Paine: Representative -- Selection (Hill Wang);: Charles Brocken. Brown, Wieland (Doubleday); Perry Miller, Errand into the Wilderness (Harper).
Comments: Besides;being a Very dedicated and brilliant Organization: Mr. Werge requires,^ five-page papers teacher, Mri Matthias is a practicing poet-which - means that ’ ?nd a brief.presentation before the class. The papers are critical he takes poetry as something a bit more serious than a rainy-day' -	nature,<demandmg._ close-.qna^	texts
hobby. There is a great.deal to read, in fact, to cover it all,	Jhe toP\cs are somewhat limiting, but generally challenging; not
you’ll have to eat, sleep, and-breathe poetry.- And if you take	busy-work;:but exercises -in critical and imaginative writing,
this course, you might want to take the second-semester version, ’ Jhere “ also affinal examination. Th^ truly apocalyptic, (499) .Contemporary Poetry, although this is not.required.?As a demanding.a synthesis of primary;and;secondary textua Lmatenal, V i__________________-	.	•	- r 1,	\	. as .well as-a firm-grasp of the significant lecture/discussion
whole, tins courses composes a comprehensive view of the poetry -	•- .	-	• -
of the twentieth century and provides a very clear picture of the materia .	... 7-	' • ?-;	. . ,
modem .poetic condition..? ... -	.?. ? .. 1 -. : -. ■	. Comments : .This course deals with Mr. Werge’s particular
-	.....	.	area of interest in literature, and, in philosophy, the meaning of
the American ;experience andr the sources .of prevailing patterns of thought in American literature? and philosophy. Ultimately, ;. the course is about* the? peculiar. American "cultural experience - that, beganiwith the-rPuritan “errand into the wilderness” and . thatyfinds its5end in philosophical and'literary.apocalyptic vision.-, It;is highly.;dernandingliri;timejand.efforty is based upon a . -? thorough^and cohimurial; search -for the,significance of-the early..
.American'. expenence::; Recommended :hig	to -.anyone- with .a
?■- serious;'Interest:.in: American . culture . philosophy,and literary.
.response: to reality:-,5
■; Mr.;Werge,? himself,..isj.ajodse;and /open jteacher—one of. a.' ^special,'.batch?of?tyoung;?scholarly, and, exuberant -.English' pro-.' . fessors.--He.iknpws.ithis' material .well .and is] becoming-increasingly adept at the art; of'teaching. Nevertheless;; the quality. of- the ] class- , room experience;, depends ?to. a] large-exterit on-the ,seriousness of
Donald Guiterrez
English-494	-?
D. H. Lawrence^
Content: All the varied genre, and modes in whichD. H. . Lawrence found expression will ? be "considered; .in - the ? new English? 494, designed to. proceed as' a “semi-seminar.”? As one of 'the foremost subjectivists of the century,-Lawrence yet sought to reconcile the subjective to the external. .Through-examination ? of ?ar wide variety of Lawrence’s works, riot qrily.i is? justice done ’; =; the';man, but also an appreciation of his^ peculiar, method- is felt • from varyirig perspectives? ; Atterition;; to this .- adaptable unity ■
26
THE SCHOLASTIC
. the students’ response to the texts (many of which are extremely difficult). At times the.course seems too structured; but this is usually due. to the students’ lack of familiarity with the material. Also, the. course deals with cultural, philosophical, and theological ideas, as well as with literary forms; this presents a problem to those students who are less .at home with interdisciplinary studies.
. But with a lot of effort on the .part of the students, Mr. Werge can make ' this. course work. - One generally, leaves the final examination with a sense of genuine intellectual accomplishment and of an appreciation of his own complicated cultural heritage.
Edward Kline -	.
English-510
Computer Applications in Linguistics and Literary Stylistics .
Content: This course attempts to give the student an introductory understanding of computer technology and its applications - to humanistic. assignments. The student is introduced to techniques of data processing via the. time-sharing and batch modes. The course includes an introduction to structural lin. guistics and model programming, or flow-charting. There are lectures on past applications of the computer to projects in the humanities, and. especially to literary investigations. . There are no prerequisites to the course.
Presentation: A mixture of lecture and discussion.
Readings: An Introduction to Linguistics, R. G. Geist, 1970;
Linguistics and Literary Style, Donald C. Freeman, 1970; Pro’ ceedings of the IBM Data Conference on the Humanities, 1970.
Organization: One oral report. Four papers, 3-4 pages each. Two exams consisting of both objective and subjective questions. The exams will be given in class. .Weekly assignments will be done on the computer. Papers, and exams count equally toward the final grade.	.
: Comments : All the . students spoken to were pleased with Mr. Kline’s courses. Some think that any course Mr.' Kline teaches would, be. interesting. Students .find that Mr. Kline fulfills to the letter the plans and promises about his .courses which ' he makes in course descriptions and on the .first day of class. Students, end the semester thinking that they have learned a lot. The content, of his lectures is solid, and the lectures and the plan of the semester, are well organized. , The lecture style is highly animated and entertaining. Mr. Kline is good at moderating discussion and at assisting discussion .when ~ students give class reports. .His grading policy came under - criticism from - some " students; they think that his criterion for.grading sometimes is . hard to understand - and that the grading itself is. sometimes arbitrary and erratic. Mr. Kline .is always prompt .in .returning . materials submitted for grading. Students consider, the work-• load not too difficult, though one has to work- steadily throughout the semester because .of the weekly assignments.
John Huber
English'516 / ■. .	. . ■ .	.
Theories of Rhetoric	.
' Content: This course will'be a survey of some, major, works of rhetorical theory in each period: classical, medieval, renais; sance and modern. Mr. Huber intends to divide-the. course into.
.	three.major, sections. The first will concern-the discussions of. the
readings on classical rhetoric—Plato’s attack on rhetoric, Aris-
. totle’s logical ^technique, and : Cicero’s .and .‘Quintilian’s formulae . of ’.'Invention (the art ’of discovery),’ Disposition (the art of. :	< arrangement), and;,Style.., The second part of the course,will be .
-a'-more rapid;survey .of„ the, development of .rhetoric/with;.more .. : . lectures and student reports/Time, spent on this section depends r on how much time the.students wish to.spenduinThe" third, part, ■ the. application of all this . to the .practice of. criticism.
-	Presentation/Class? discussion will be a? major feature of
the., course. Students will work4 on; frequent, short (2;page). .	; working papers inspired by problems^discovered' in the. readings.
; These papers will become the fdundatiqn-of many, of-the.discus--;-sions. .	' .	.->V"7- 7/7’.-?	’
April 25, 1972
Readings: Readings from Plato, Aristotle, Cicero and Quintilian will be.done by all.. Individuals may create their own reading lists from Augustine, Geoffrey.; of Vinsauf, Erasmus, Ramus, Puttenham, Blair, Campbell, Whately, I. AL Richards and Kenneth Burke, or—within reason?—anyone else. /	;	-
■ Organization :.. Aside . from the frequent short working papers there will be a mid-term, final exam, and a term paper. ’ Although the work load appears heavy, keep in mind that the individual will, many times be pursuing an area of his own interest. The exams will be concerned with a. general understanding of the concepts discussed in class. ,	...
Comments : The course is for graduate students and curious undergraduates; it assumes no previous acquaintance with the subject and indeed assumes no final answer to the Platonic charge that rhetoric isn’t worth it, after all.	.
Ernest. Sandeen
English 577
American Poetry to 1900
. Content:This course is a study of the poems and of the poets’ ideas on poetry which together make up the American poetic tradition to the end of the Nineteenth. Century. The course will be historically oriented as the poetry will be viewed in the context of the times. An interest in poetry is assumed, along with some knowledge of how it works.
. Emphasis will be on Whitman, Dickinson, and Emerson. Other poets considered are: Bradstreet and Taylor (briefly), Poe, Bryant, Longfellow, Whittier, Very, Thoreau, Melville, Tuckerman, Crane, and Robinson.
Presentation: The course will be approximately half discussion and half lecture. There will not be much use of audio-, visual aids. ...
Readings: Three texts will be used: American Poetry, ed. Allen, Rideout, and Robinson; Walt Whitman, Leaves of Grass, and Emily. Dickinson, Final Harvest. The student will be expected to read selections from about fifteen books held on reserve.
Organization: There will be two ten-page papers and from two to. three, two-page papers. .
Comments: This is the first time the course has-been offered at Notre Dame in four years.
J. D. Garvick	■
English 589	.
T. S. Eliot and the Tradition	.
Content: The course is concerned wtih an intense study of the complete poetical works of Eliot, together with consideration of several of his important critical essays and a few of his plays. The inquiry will be pursued against the backdrop of the larger “tradition” within which Eliot considered himself to be oriented —which ’ includes Donne, Baudelaire, Camus, Borges, Samuel Johnson, Beckett, Conrad, Chesterton, and, in Eliot’s later years, .Jesus. One of. the crucial questions explored, central to most-of Eliot’s work and critical theory, is the relationship between “Tradition and the Individual Talent.” The aforementioned-writers will be explored insofar as they shed important . light upon or were part of the source material drawn upon by
Eliot in his poetical works. There will be an especially keen . concentration upon The .Waste Land and Four Quartets; nothing, however,, will, escape .Garvick’s, scrutiny. - Beethoven, the .. Fugs,. and Debussy, among others, will be introduced where . -pertinent.-. ?■•'■/ ' V ■ .' /- .	. - ■ - '•	-- /’ - /
.	... The course was.previously offered on.the400 level; this sem-
ester’s . version .will, be “so much more elegant, much more in-telligeht” because of its more advanced listing.? Central concern: “Shall I at least, set my lands-in- order?” .	.
. 7’ Presentation: Primarily.lecture.- However, the energy and /. - range of at Garvick “lecture” must be experienced to be believed.
; . His technique closely parallels Eliot’s poetic technique of “radical ' juxtapositioh” ; in his'.. association of only seemingly unrelated .. authors and/or concepts. . He will play’Eliot’s own readings of his ..major .poems, arid offer his own dramatic interpretations of others. b ;	.	..	.	.
27
Readings: Eliot, Selected Poems, Four Quartets, Murder in a Cathedral, The Cocktail Party," Christianity and Culture; Borges, Labyrinths; Angel Flores, ed., An Anthology of French Poetry from Nerval to Valery in English Translation; Jung, Memories, Dreams, Reflections; Chesterton, The Man Who Was Thursday; poetry of Donne; Baudelaire, Fleurs du Mal; S. Johnson, Rasselas; others according to individual needs arid interests. There will be many, many dittoed handouts; also, there will be optional (but highly recommended) readings in Eliot’s critical theory on reserve. Greatly helpful is Bl C. Southam’s A Guide to the Selected Poems of T. S. Eliot.
Organization: A single paper and “enlightened social behavior.” Depending on class size, the course may be conducted evenings in Mr. Garvick’s living room. \	1
Comments: There is a methodi to this, man’s seeming madness. His enthusiasm for the material is literally infectious. One will become totally: immersed in Eliot arid will almost begin to breathe in strong-stress metre and discuss the objective correlative at breakfast. At least, that was the experience of this reviewer. The range of his associative capacity is manifest, daily, yet his,passionate love of Eliot will serve to carry the student along with him on his frequent labyrinthine explorations.
Government
Paul Bartholomew Government 340 American Government
Content: This course is intended to familiarize the student with the structures and workings of American Government. It does just this. There is a minimum of theoretical background thrown in, but it is basically the mechanics of the system which are presented and studied. The bases for the study of these mechanics are both the Constitution and laws of the government and some of the major Supreme Court decisions. The course is one of the four basic requirements for Government majors and there are no prerequisites.	,
Presentation: This course is basically the lecture type. Mr. Bartholomew’s lectures are very well organized, although this fact might not be immediately evident because of his off-the-cuff style. Some find the lectures dry, but they move at a sustained pace though not so rapidly that note-taking is difficult Questions are welcome and replies are usually to the point, but discussions of any length seldom develop, due either to the nature of the material or Professor Bartholomew’s way of presenting it or both.	,
Readings: There is quite a bit of required reading for this course. The text, Government by the People by Burns arid Peltason ($9.95) is rather large and nearly all of it is covered. It is not the most interesting text in the world, as it seems very reminiscent of high school texts on American Government. In addition to the text, the student is required to read selected articles from each week’s U.S. News and ; World Report which are on reserve in the Library. About 50 Supreme Court cases are also covered. These may be read in. full in the Library, but it is much' easier and much quicker to use Bartholomew’s Summaries of Leading Cases - on the Constitution.
Organization : The course requires four, 5-10 page research
reports . which are very straightforward and require little imagination; These Jare graded on a T-10 scale and are usually, not difficult. riThe quizzes are another story./Contrary to what their . .	.	, - ,	..
name would indicate, these are extensive exams, (not cumulative) mterpre ation o e rea mgs. which; require a great deal of preparation/especially memoriza- :	- x < -V
tion. The four reports are worth.the' same as two exams arid/ . rV r " -at*	V
together with the;three quizzes, make up 75% of. the grade.. The Gerhart /J\ieniCyCr \ :z remaining;25% comes from a. cumulative final. . . / -</ / *	GovCrnmeiiC 342
Comment: The aim of this course is to teach;the/student:	i* V' V; ri ririr	ri.
: the ri structures ' and workings of American / Government, and	x 01 ItlCal i\1 flCOEy ;	\
whatever else can be said of the course, it seems to do a. good; . V ri :rif-'ri/ job of:that. /Many students dislike Mr.y Bartholomew’s dry’ style, / but others find him easy to follow and very, much'to: the point; <ri /Mr. Bartholomew’s knowledge of/ his subject area is ri unexcelled. ' He is one of the eminent authorities in his field/ and most , of ' his students are impressed -by/ h is kno wl edge, ri Many? obj ec t to histests, which require the student to~ regurgitate/roteanswers; but, nonetheless, preparation forthem requires that the student * learn his r material: Quizzes from pas t ;years are' helpful ri in ri* narrowing / down the /subject/matterrifor	•
tholomew. does not bbjec t tof thef studeriPs: perusal of past tests
and realizes that the student cannot rely solely on these past quizzes.	.	.
This course is difficult, and since it is a requirement, it probably provokes more gripes than it ordinarily would. But if the student enters it with an'open mind, there is much to be appreciated about the course..
George Williams.
Government 341
International Relations :
Content: Mr. Williams’ primary aim in this course is to aid the student in learning to order information" so that it is meaningful, and can be conveyed to others; Thus, the basic goal of this course is to add coherence to facts. The course is broken into three segments: an examination of the formation and activities of developing nations; a/treatment of arms arid deterrence; a consideration of international organizations.
Presentaton: A lecture and a 75 minute discussion are held each week.	.	- ~	.
Readings: The readings are Deutsch; The Analysis of International. Relations; Ruston, A World of Nations, Problems of Political Modernization; Kennedy,'Thirteen Days; Art and Waltz, The Use of Force, International Politics and Foreign Policy; Claude, Swords into Plowshares; George, Woodrow Wilson and Colonel House. There are also several readings on reserve.
Organization: There are three 75 minute tests which are long essay, and cover‘ material in the readings. A final is also given. / j -	\	~
Comment: The course is well structured with very good readings. Lectures are designed to convey general principle, rather than a large amount, of facts. It is difficult to take notes during Mr. Williams’ lectures.. However, since the lectures are designed
to give an overview, notes are not absolutely necessary.
Tests are fair and demand,knowledge and understanding of / the readings. Grades reflect the student’s understanding and
’ Content : Mr. Niemeyer’s' course, is a study of basic-political . thought with.;the m	oh concepts ; of the highest
good/ history/ the state off nature,: and the nature, of man’s po-litical interaction’ as posited by various Western thinkers. Primary . importance J isplaced Von Plato, Aristotle, and / Augustine/' with subsequent / analysis of Aquinas, Machiavelli,r Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau,! Burke,: arid/ Mill; There are no prerequisites for the course,/ although/prior; acquaintance with Plato’s Republic is . helpful. -The course, is a; requirement for, and generally limited
J to, government majors.
THE SCHOLASTIC
_ Presentation: The basic structure of the course is two lectures per; week by Mr. Niemeyer and a discussion period mod.. erated by the T. A. The lectures, while covering a considerable amount of material, are concise,. well organized, arid well presented. : Adherence to. a., basic analytical- - structure which - is flexible enough to incorporate the various political thinkers discussed, allows the student to easily follow. the development of the lectures, thereby accentuating, the value of the smaller group , , discussions with the T.A.
' Readings: The readings are as follows: Henry Frankfort, Before Philosophy; Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics and The. Politics; Augustine, City of. God; Hobbes, Leviathan. Although the amount of reading is not excessive, the material is demanding and most compleriientary to the lectures when done meticulously.
Organization: Weekly half-page papers reflecting - the student’s comprehension of the reading material are required, as well as two one . and one half-page term papers. The brevity of these papers is disillusioning, for an explicit and concise understanding, of the topic assigned is needed to correlate the relevant material into very little space. There are two tests (mid-term and-final) which are demanding but very fair. Em-, phasis for the final grade is placed on the tests and term papers, but individual participation in the group discussions and the weekly papers also are determining factors.
Comments: Criticism of the course seems to be twofold. First, students bemoan the- lack of relevancy of the course, but relevancy is subjective and not the ultimate criterion. Anyone willing to honestly apply himself will find the readings from these primary sources very rewarding. The high quality of Mr. Niemeyer’s lectures adds profound insight as well as providing a viable complement for the overall balance-of the course. Secondly, Mr. Niemeyer has been criticized for often injecting a note of conservative dogmatism into his approach. His conversation is well founded with an expansive, scholarly base and. anyone wishing to question this approach should be well prepared to substantiate himself with sound backing. The course can provide for. the thoughtful a valuable exposure to well structured, tightly knit reflections. on political-thought by one .of America’s foremost conservative political theoreticians.
Edward Goerner .
Government	.
Literature and Politics of Albert Camus .
- Content: This course is an. intensive study of the plays, novels,, short stories, and philosophical and political essays of Albert Camus. The attempt is to focus equally on both strains of Camus’ thought—the philosophical and the artistic—and, hopefully, to discover the points at which they converge.' Camus’, position as a member, of. the Resistance and his dealings with Jean Paul Sartre and other Marxist intellectuals establish him as a focal figure in modern political philosophy. His relationship with Frangois. Mauriac and other members of the French Literary . Renaissance implies additional aesthetic considerations. -
; Presentation: This course proceeds by student presentation and seminar discussion. The class meets once a week for three . hours. The quality of any particular meeting varies widely according to the, quality of the presentation, class receptivity, weather conditions, etc., etc. Mr. Goerner has a special talent for organiz-’ ing discussions and though his comments may be sparse arid in-.
.	. frequent .they are always• well-informed and -very much to the
point. • - • -	~	;
,	’ Readings: The texts, all:by Camus and required oh an aver-
. age of one per class meeting, include: The Stranger; The Plague;
. The Rebel; The Myth of Sisyphus; Caligula; State of Siege; The < . Misunderstanding; The Just Assassins; Exile-'and the Kingdom . ■ (a-collection of'short stories); Resistance -Rebellion’and Death;
and'The Fall. Mr. Goerner would also like to include The Note-■ books of Albert Camus if an' English addition is available. Though -not required, students are encouraged to read the texts in French and everything except The Notebooks is available in the ■ two . - volume edition published by Pleiade. The English editions are all available in reasonably priced paperbacks. Mr. Goerner notes that the Pleiade edition is far less expensive in France than it is in this ■ country and suggests that any students who might be travelling
in Europe this summer procure it there. ",	'J"-
April 25,1972	/
. Organization: Each student is expected to present a orie-half hour, class presentation on one of the texts. Assignments are made at the first class meeting. This presentation is then, submitted to Mr. Goerner in the form of a paper approximately ten pages in length. ..	.
Comments: -Mr.: Goerner’s knowledge of Camus is absolutely first-rate and, what is more important, he has a feel for the method of thought that shapes all of Camus’ writings. Mr. . Goerner’s seminar style is; to ask leading questions and probe individual responses before offering his own reflections and formulations on the material. This style, combined with the nature of; seminar courses, makes Literature and Politics of Albert Camus a poor choice for anyone seeking a knowledge of Goerner’s thought as reflected in his Comparative Governments, courses- A seminar requires patience. In the case of a Goerner seminar this is a patience well rewarded. The course is very much an experimental one, and differs greatly from lecture courses by distributing the burden of responsibility for its outcome equally on students and professor.
Edward Goerner
Government 401
Democracy and Its Critics
Content: This course consists in a close, critical reading of-some of. the major texts in political philosophy. In the past the emphasis has been on Hobbes and Rousseau. This fall Mr. Goerner is including the tradition represented by Aristotle, Maritain, and Simon.
Presentation : Mr. Goerner plans to combine lecture and discussion.	-
Readings: The texts are all classics and it’s easy to find second-hand copies. The reading load is light, with emphasis on quality and not quantity. It will probably be necessary to read them more than once. The texts are: Aristolte, Politics, Bk. Ill, c. 9-18, Bk. IV, c. 3-10, Bk. VI, c. 1-4; Hobbes, Leviathan; Locke, Second Treatise of Civil Government; Rousseau, Social Contract; Maritain, Man. and the State; Simon, Philosophy of Democratic Government.
Organization: One term paper—topic to be chosen in consultation with instructor. A mid-term and a final—both demanding essay tests.	.
Comments: The texts are all excellent and repay the close reading given them in this course. Mr. Goerner’s intellectual integrity and the breadth of his philosophic knowledge are a happy combination for elucidating, and drawing connections among the books , read. And his intellectual honesty is what is behind two criticisms of the course—first, that the professor at times lost the students in raising the implications of certain fine points, and second, the tendency to raise many questions, rather than to look for answers. But most of the time, Mr. Goerner’s insights are deep,, and often brilliant, which, combined with his ability to express them, insures that this will be a demanding and first-rate course.	...
Alfons Beitzinger	,
Government 405	.
Political Science of Plato
Government 407	\
Political Philosophy of Plato .
Content : Mr. Beitzinger emphasizes that his courses are basically analytical. He provides an exposition and interpretation of the constructsmf these philosophers, along with the invaluable aid of Ahis < personal analysis. ■ While there are no specific prerequisites; -’Mr.-.Niemeyer’s Political Theory (Govt. 342) would . prove beneficial.' .	.
' - Presentation: Ideally, the courses would assume the form - 'of a free-flowing discussion of the theoretical constructs presented.
Since the courses are designed to provide the student with an : : immediate^'inspection into the total. thought of Aristotle and ;	?	—	29
Plato; the classes more often are the lecture-type format. Mr. Beitzinger is readily open for. and encourages, questions or comments. The courses never proceed so rapidly that a student cannot obtain a complete understanding of each topic. There is ample time devoted to summary and review. In the past, the professor has been noted for his apropos comments on the status quo of American politics. Dialogue or rebuttal concerning these comments is accepted.
Readings: The texts of these courses include the principal works of both men: Plato, Republic, Apology, Creto, Phaedra, Gorgias and one or two more, dialogues: Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics and Politics. All the works are available in paperback, the probable cost being S10.
Organization: There are usually three tests per semester, including the final. A paper may or may not be assigned, depending upon the make-up of the class and the sincerity of the students. The tests are worth 33%, 25% if the paper is included in the final grade. The tests are of the essay variety and are given in class. The tests are vers- fair but rigorous: and. as indicated, more than sufficient time is allotted for review.
Comment: The professor brings a number of years of expertise into these two courses: he has studied and taught these Greek philosophers for a large portion of his academic career. As such, he possesses the capacity to provide the student with an incisive presentation of the fundamental thought of both Plato and Aristotle. His courses are consistently well-structured, well-prepared, and intellectually straightforward. In addition to being concerned with the formal and technical aspects of his courses, Mr. Beitzinger is available to students desiring “extraclass" discussion. One final note, while Mr. Beitzinger encourages open, class dialogue and argumentation, the student must be wary of his own ideological predispositions.
Walter Nicgorski Government 413
The American Founding ' . -
Content: The title for this course is appropriate. The time period covered is that of 1776-1789, between the Declaration and the Ratification. However, this is not-a history’ course. According to Mr. Nicgorski’s 1971 syllabus, this course “provides the occasion and hopefully the stimulation for understanding the political theories that guided the fundamental formative acts of American political life.” Some attention is given to “formative acts” prior to 1776.
Presentation: The method of teaching is that of “sit-down lecture,” i.e., Mr. Nicgorski lectures while sitting down thereby encouraging questions both on particular points and on general considerations. “Effective participation” is one of the “minimal requirements for completing the course.”
Readings: There is a handful of hand-outs. One-third of the readings come from the Reserved Books. Required readings which need to be purchased are: Farrand, The Records of the Federal Convention of 1787 (Vol. 1) and Eidelberg, The Philosophy of the American Constitution. In 1971, a book on The Antifederalists edited by Kenyon was used. Mr. Nicgorski' will probably decide to use another edited work. Also, with the demise, of the course “Political Order” there will be fewer students with a ■ background in The Federalist Papers; hence, there will be reading assignments in this book. ,	.
Organization: Since class participation is necessary, so also is class attendance. In 1971, students were permitted-three cuts, with leeway given by the professor. There-is a, mid-term and a final. In addition, one must submit a “major paper” (15 pp?) on one of the founders or submit a major critical essay analyzing and evaluating Tugwell’s and the, Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions’ proposed new U.S. Constitution. -	- . -
Comments: Reading assignments and class “attendance: are essential (both.for grade. and knowledge) -because; the course purposes in-class understanding and critical . evaluation. . The effectiveness of Mr. Nicgorski is not challenged. Of'course, the effectiveness of the entire course depends also upon the-caliber of the students (usually government majors,) --J-;:5-..?;?;??.--’
The readings are moderate and the secondary sources are by significant scholars. They consist of short- and long-essays.: .
Two years ago, Mr. Nicgorski attempted to cover two volumes ,
30
of Farrand’s Records. In 1971, the course was to be evenly divided between pre-convention, convention, and post-convention. However, the first half was spent on pre-convention and therefore little in-class evaluation of .the'Antifederalists was possible. This defect was not serious since all the classes were rewarding.
If you are not inclined to reflect on America’s “formative acts” then you will find the course uninteresting and the classes . dry’. If you do seek such reflection then study under Mr. Nicgorski.
Gerhart Niemeyer .	.
Government 415
Eastern Political Thought .
Content: This course focuses on the thought of China from Confucian times through the eleventh century. Although comparisons with Western thought are inevitable and welcomed, the main thrust is to understand Chinese thought on its own terms as far as is possible without having a command of the Chinese language.	-
Presentation : The course is run as ‘ a seminar- with each student being responsible for delivering a papier on the day’s readings with discussion of the paper and the readings following.
Readings: The readings are: DeBary, Sources of Chinese Tradition; B. Watson, Chuang Tzu-Basic Writings; B. Watson, Han Fei Tzu-Basic Writings; B. Watson, Hsun Tzu-Basic Writings; B. Watson, Mo Tzu-Basic Writings; Ssu-ma Ch’ien, Records . of the Historian; Chu Hsi, Reflections on Things at Hand; Wang Yang Ming, Instructions for Practical Living.
Organization: Each student is required to rewrite two of the papers he delivers to the class in light of the class discussion and the thought thereby engendered. A final examination is also required.	.	. -
Comment: From the point of view of the undergraduate, the value of the course is greatly enhanced because of the graduate students’ taking the same course. The caliber of the discussions usually' reached a higher level than customarily experienced in completely undergraduate courses. There was some division of opinion concerning the overall evaluation of the course among the students ranging from ecstatic to completely disgruntled; but that is, perhaps, to be expected in a course which requires as much attention and industry’ as this one. Mr. Niemeyer’s depth of thought and apt comparisons with Western, especially Greek, thought cannot be questioned, however. Those with a sincere interest in the material and a willingness to work are strongly urged to take this course and make their own evaluation.
Gerhart Niemeyer ■	\	.
Government 409
Modern Political Ideologies ■
Content: .As the-title suggests,, this course is a study of ideology, defined by Mr. Niemeyer as a “perverted idea system.” Communism, and Fascism, the prevelant,ideologies of our day, are studied through;an.attempt to trace their intellectual.roots in medieval and Enlightenment political, speculations. Mr. Niemeyer hopes to have his students experience in themselves the moral and spiritual disorder that;characterizes ideological systems. This course'is designed , to lead into the spring semester sequel on' the reconstruction of‘political'theory; Students will find that having -had Mr. Niemeyer’s course in'basic political theory will prove . helpful in the sequel/	:	......
. ' .Presentation: This depends on the size of the class. If small, Mr. NiemeyerNvill-use'student;reports of 20-25 minutes as the basis for. discussion? If.-larger,/ the/class/will have to consist ' entirely of discussion?-, .sMr?;Niemeyer?is-. an- excellent seminar . teacher; his .comments; on - student, reports/ and 'observations are : fair, but mercilessly incisive. He demands (and often: obtains) a high degree /.of,-. intellectual '/accuracy and precision? from, his - classes. : -. / ; , /. :	■	: :	?._ .	'
- ■;?;Readings /-The- readings (all /Paperback); are:' Norman Cohn, The Pursuit; of'the' Millenium	R." -Talmon, T he-Origins .
of Totalitarian Democracy; John Stuart .Mill, .Auguste Comte and '- Positivism;:': Herbert-..Marcuse, One 4 Dimensional Man;
THE SCHOLASTIC
Albert Camus, The Rebel; either The Prophets of Paris or The -New World of Henri. Saint-Simon (both by Frank E. Manuel); Mr. Niemeyer, Communist Ideology; and (tentatively) Grant, Ideologies. If available, Mr. Niemeyer'will also use The Medieval Manichee. .Total cost: approximately §18-20.	.
Organization : There are two exams, a midterm and a final. . Both are highly demanding, and call for thorough knowledge of the material. There is in addition one critical book report, in which the student has a choice from among three or four books assigned by Mr. Niemeyer. The emphasis in these is on critical insight; .mere regurgitation of the text will, not suffice. While class discussion is not. per se graded, it plays some role in Mr. Niemeyer’s final evaluation. Grading is exceptionally rigorous.
Comments: This course is a superb educational experience in every respect. The serious student will find himself conducting not merely an intellectual exercise, but an examination of the sources of order within his own soul and within society as a whole. As such, the course can become agonizingly relevant. Mr. Niemeyer tolerates no slipshod thinking; however, he is open to all honest and intelligent questions. Certainly, no one with an interest in political theory should pass up this course, and any government major will find it rewarding. One caution: this is a difficult course, and a decent (let alone good) grade will require quite a bit of work.	'	. .	'
John Roos
Government 421
The Congress
Content: As the title of the course implies, the subject matter is the United States Congress. The course attempts to acquaint the student with- the basic structure of the institution, its theoreti-• cal basis,, and with various theories as to the manner in which it-functions, with the view toward understanding its historical role in the U.S. ■ Government as well as its strengths and weaknesses.
Presentation: This course has, primarily, a lecture format although Mr. Roos does encourage discussion when the appropriate opportunity arises.
Readings : There will be a total of five or six books required which will include the following: Ripley, Power in the Senate; Lowi, The End of Liberalism; The Federalist Papers; Galoway, A History of the U.S. House of Representatives.
Organization: There are two tests and a ten to fifteen page paper required.
Comment: The course is characterized by excellent readings . and interesting subject matter but has suffered from two defects; Mr. Roos’ lectures, at times, reflect a tension between organization and a tendency to ramble, either of which is quite enjoyable and. informative but which do not work well together. The students in the course have tended to be inert and seemingly . uninterested in working or in understanding the subject matter. This second defect is doubly unfortunate. Not only is there much to be gained from the rigorous analysis of the readings , and enthusiasm for the subject matter which Mr. Roos brings to bear, but it seems to be the general concensus that the fault lies in the students and. not in the instructor or subject matter. This is an excellent course which is being reduced to a good course by the . unresponsiveness of the students. Those sincerely interested in the workings of the U.S. Congress are advised to take this course.
Peri Arnold
Government 429
Group Politics
Government 437
American Bureaucracy
GOVERNMENT 429	,.V.
, .	Content : The internal governance of private interest groups
and the resulting claims that they place on the body politic are -	the central foci of this-course. . The empirical and theoretical.
■	investigation of this subject area requires a study of the pluralist.
model which describes interest groups and their-actions and, in .
April 25, 1972
doing so, make various normative claims about their legitimacy. The , result is a development ' of factual evidence about the politics of groups into a coherent theoretical framework that can . be compared to the justifications for these groups and the claims that they . place on the public arena. There are no prerequisites and Mr. Arnold welcomes. students of varying majors.	'
Presentation: This course is taught through lectures which are. usually attention-holding and are often touched with an incisive wit. Since few students have much factual knowledge or theoretical background in this area of investigation, there maybe little class participation during the early part of the course. But anyone who is willing to conceptualize at a fairly deep level will find that Mr. Arnold is courteous and quite willing to discuss questions and challenges at length. Although many students may find solace in his definitely leftward asides, the course transcends much of the common liberal/conservative confrontation and radical cliches will receive a cold reception.
Readings: The required books are: William Connolly, The Bias of Pluralism; Robert Engler, The Politics of Oil; Grant McConnell, Private Power and American Democracy; Robert Michels, Political Parties; C. Wright Mills, The Power Elite; Mancur Olsen, The Logic of Collective Action; and Robert Dahl, Who Governs which cost a total of about $20. There will also be a few articles on reserve in the library. The reading load is moderately heavy although the books are not particularly difficult.
Organization: There are two tests, a mid-term and a final, of the in-class variety. The final is cumulative in the sense that it requires a working knowledge of the ideas presented in the first half of the semester. Tests, although they do not require much brute memorization of facts, call for a thorough understanding of the main themes of the course. There is a major paper (about 15 pages) which gives the student an opportunity to apply the ideas of the course to the practical situation of a particular organized group. This project is intended to involve a good- deal of investigatory work and precision of thought. The paper and tests are counted equally in determining the final mark.
Comments: The objective of this course is not simply to provide one with facts about group politics. The readings and lectures do a thorough job of discrediting, practically and theoretically, interest group politics and small constituency types of pluralism. In the process, Mr. Arnold is very effective in tying together organizational theory and the ideas of voluntarism, progressivism and orthodoxy. But he fails to offer any cohesive alternative. Also, Mr. Arnold, in his first semester teaching the course, seemed to rely too heavily on his readings for factual material and direction for the course. On the whole, .however, this course is a good one in that it answers these questions: Who benefits from our political system and how do they justify it?
GOVERNMENT 437
. Content: This course is intended to be a general survey of the rise of the-Federal bureaucracy, its politics and relationships to other governmental institutions, and, finally, an investigation of problems in the contemporary bureaucracy. In- attempting to avoid .a monolithic view of bureaucracy, the course will deal, in part, with the political and historical factors leading to the genesis and: rise to power of various agencies. As as result, American Bureaucracy seeks to develop ideas about the reasons for the establishment of Federal agencies, their nature and the manner in which they interact. There are no prerequisites.
, Presentation: Mr. Arnold’s lectures, which tend to follow the readings,', are interesting, well organized and sometimes humorous. As a result, he is able to make dry material more acceptable. Although Mr. Arnold is open to questions, the lack of background in this subject area on the part of students tends to preclude extended dialogues or class discussions.
Readings: The required books are Corson and Paul, Men Near the Top; Davis and Dolbeare, Little Groups of Neighbors; Herbert Kaufman, The Forest Rangers; Lewis Kohlbeier, The Regulators; Gabriel Kolko, The Triumph of Conservatism; Harold -Seidman, Politics, Position and Power; and Peter Well, American Bureaucracy. Together with a number of case reprints yet to be decided upon, total cost of the reading material will.be' in the neighborhood of $20. In addition, there will be • ■ extensive reserve readings. -The reading load is moderately heavy , and the works are sometimes tedious, although the cases
31
present interesting examples of the ideas important to the course.
Organization; There will be two in-class tests of the essay type which will emphasize an understanding of the major ideas of the course rather than an accumulation of facts. Good notes are a definite asset. There will be a short paper, probably around six pages, on a topic to be decided upon at a later date. Each test will count 40% and the paper 20% in determining the final mark.	.
Comments; In the past, students have remarked that the course is too intensive and disciplined and the readings too dry' for the undergraduate level. However, a new emphasis on a survey of the subject area and changes in the reading list may deal with these problems. A more substantive criticism is that Mr. Arnold tends to become top-heavy with theory in certain areas. But he recognizes the need to develop empirical observations into coherent systems if academic inquiry and, moreover, facts are to be useful. In general, American Bureaucracy is a good course because it recognizes the need to theorize about the nature and characteristics of various Federal bureaucracies before they can be shaped and guided, and fulfills this need effectively.	.
Paul Bartholomew Government 431 American Constitutional Law.
Content: American Constitutional Law deals with the Constitution of the United States and the interpretation and structure of its contents. The ruling case law regarding the structure and powers of government is discussed with an eye on the points of law illuminated in the Supreme Court’s decisions and the. reasons for those decisions. Mr. Bartholomew hopes to inculcate in each student the dual-ability to speak and write concisely and precisely, and the further ability to recognize and pull out the important points of a presented argument. The prerequisite for this course is American Government 340. The course is limited to Government majors. A, class size of two dozen can be expected if the trend begun last semester continues.
Presentation: For those with memories of American Government, little need be said about Mr. Bartholomew’s controlling lecture and discussion style. .In, this course where the lectures generally follow the case book-text, he delivers his remarks in a crisp and methodical manner that encourages discussion by his students. Mr. Bartholomew prefers this -varied, presentation and has, in past years, even gone to such lengths as omitting details of a particular case under consideration to see if his. students are being attentive. He clearly relishes the subject matter of this, course and expects his students to attempt to reciprocate his . interest with their own. "■	;	■.	. ’	-
- Readings: A single text, Ruling American Constitutional ■ Law ($3.95), authored by Bartholomew," is; used throughout the course. It is divided up into nine interrelated sections, arid ‘con-‘ tains both major and; corollary cases that fully cover- thel, field of. American. Constitutional Law. Remarks' by the. author are included at the end of/each section which'aid'in .making clear. the difficult points’and restrictions in the particular case areas.
Also, occasionally, throughout the semester, Mr. - Bartholomew ' passes out additional light material, mostly historical in. nature, In addition, the small volume Constitution:' Leading Cases : ($2.95),' also authored by Bartholomew, is recommended for quickreference. ?.	/	_ .
Organization:-The; work load in this course is s light in volume/but. heavy in content. Mr. Barthdlomew.' expects that, at each session every. student will have digested the. material"to be discussed, briefing the cases as a learning aid whenever possible.' -.
. Coricerning the written requirements, a short “riiini7essay”- bn one of the sitting justices can be expected as can a midterm examination and a-final, both'written in class.. Half of the final^examina-’ ; tion takes the form of a review of-the rules and 'rationales of ’ , -Ariierican Coristitutional “Law as discussed :during-the semester. “ This;paper, prepared prior to the final,test date, is lioinsur-:, mountable barrier for the student who has kept “himself abreast of the progress of the class. In fact the preparation of the paper was termed .by many to be adequate study for the-final examination: Percentage-wise, two-thirds of the final grade is determined
32
by the mid-term examination, the .“mini-essay” and class participation, with the remaining third coming from the final examination. .	, /	- ■	■	-	' ■ : - . ,	” •
Comments: The course in-American Constitutional Law is one that should be seriously considered by those concerned with a possible. legal education in the future. Mr. Bartholomew brings to his position a wealth of knowledge and experience that is clearly .adequate.'for all those “who feel, the urge'to test his understanding with their own: For those interested, it is a worthwhile course and experience that should not be missed. -
Raymond Cour, C.S.C.
Government 434	.
Supreme Court History	.
Content: This course, offers the student a brief account-of the role of the United States Supreme/Court in American history'. Lectures and readings focus on the Court’s three main historical periods: the struggle to establish the supremacy of national over state government; the era of economic protectionism; and the current judicial emphasis on civil liberties. The only prerequisite; for., the class is. an introductory course in American history or American government. “	. .
Presentation: Father Cour’s, presentation consists of a . lecture on the assigned topic for the day, interrupted by questions and comments.- from the - class.	. .
Readings: - The basic,text is the fourth, edition of Kelly and Harbison’s standard, The American Constitution. Also required are: McCloskey, The American Supreme Court; Cardozo, Nature of. the Judicial Process; Levy, American Constitutional Law (Essays); Jackson, The Supreme Court in the American System of'Government; and a judicial biography, to be selected by the student from a list prepared by the instructor. Approximate cost of the; books is $15.	>	.
Organization: - Two fairly demanding in-class essay tests and a final, all of, which require both a comprehensive knowledge of the subject matter, and the ability to interpret and compare various judicial trends.. The student must also write a term paper and a.short book report on the judicial biography. Topics for the terrii papers are to be'chosen in consultation with Father Cour; length is not ■ specified, - save that it must be'such as to “adequately cover the subject.”	-
Comments : -The traditional complaint about this course is that the instructor’s lecture style does hot do justice to the material. To be sure,-Father Cour is very soft-spoken,'sometimes approaching a monotone,, but he is also a scholar with a fine grasp of constitutional law and history; with a little concentration, any interested student will benefit' from the lectures.
The books are excellent; they are of moderate.length, informative, and, most importantly,/ well-written—a quality that goes far to make ..their reading more enjoyable.'As mentioned-before,' the tests are lengthy and challenging, but; not impossible. Anyone ' who puts his time and effort into the class will be rewarded with a.deeper understanding* of . the subject, and with a grade that ., will not playhavocwith his GPA. /	. -	...
/ • In .conclusion, this course is certainly worthwhile for.one who.
, is ,interested in-Americari; government, for. it will give him a new perspective on . the branch of thei federal government that is at . the same, time the weakest, yet in.some ways, the strongest;of the three branches. ’It will also show him how political events have shaped, the Supreme’s Court’s decisions;in the past, how this process continues up. to his day, “and; the.-ramifications it has for the future.	* >--:/<>•<'{ ;//	' "• '
Wesley Daley ■ s.-.;:'. r .W	■Government 439	/ y
Afro-American U.S. Politics 7
. . Content : Mr. Daley commences with a discussion of Southern Negro politics and shifts to the: scene of Northern Negro politics, drawing comparisons* between the’two. Mr. Daley also proceeds to examine'the relationship between Negro and white politics, ■ focusing.- on. the distinguishing "and' overlapping- features of the two -phenoinenon,. their separateness and interdependence.
Presentation:. Mr. Daley allocates most of the class time
THE SCHOLASTIC
lecturing on the reading-assignments. ........ '
Readings: The syllabus includes: James Q. Wilson, Negro Politics: Search-for Leadership; Harry Bailey, Negro Politics in America; Matthews and Pro thro, Negroes and New Southern Politics; and Harry Holloway, Politics of the Southern Negro.
Organization: Course work entails the assigned text;readings; a midterm and final exam; about 3-4 quizzes during the . semester; and a term paper roughly 10 pages in length. The work load is not overbearing. The .tests examine the student’s comprehensive grasp -of the material rather than requiring regurgitation of specific details. • .	.	-	.
; Comments: While ' the - texts assigned appear to -be dated, . being published in-the 1960’s, the readings and the lectures have proven interesting. Although Mr. Daley at times appears myopic, he does take an interest in his students and makes himself available for assistance and discussion outside of class. The lectures
are and
can
attention-holding but tend to become tedious. The-readings lectures overlap to a great extent, so that the course content be adequately grasped through the readings.
D. Kommers
Government 443
German. Politics, East and West
Content: Essentially, the course examines the constitutional system, governmental structure, party organization, political . processes, political economy, political culture, and foreign policies of East and West Germany. Attention will be drawn on the strategic position of both nations in central Europe.	.
Comments: This is a new course fall. Mr. Kommers will be returning from a year of intensive study of the German political scene. He has cultivated an interest in German politics for many years, and after this experience abroad, Mr. Kommers should contribute a wealth of information to any course he teaches on this country.	.	-
. If past American government courses taught by Mr. .Kommers are any indication, this course should likewise be rigorous, with extensive readings and an all-important term paper. This paper,, which usually includes a conference-defense session with Mr.. Kommers, will probably constitute one-third of the final grade, with a mid-term and a final exam counting for the remainder.. Anyone signing up for. German Politics should be enthused and , prepared for work.
Christopher .Osakwe , Government 445	.
Government and Politics in Africa
• Content: This course concerns itself with the following five . aspects of government and politics in Africa: political institutions
in Africa p African political ideologies, including the concepts of
- imperialism, colonialism, pan-Africanism, apartheid, African
. socialism, etc.; writings.by leading political idealogues in African
today,-such as Nkrumah, Jomo Kenyatta, Nyeere, etc.; African Law,-including-comparative constitutional law of African States, political institutions, party systems, and the role of mass organiza-
. tio'ns in African politics; and the role of the military in African politics. The course is concerned with a post-independence study
; ..of. Africa,1 that" is, from the late 1950’s to the present. Colonial, history" is "discussed only• as it affects recent constitutional and
; .political development-Dr. Osakwe suggests that as a prerequisite . . those who • consider taking the: course divest themselves of any ■ ethnocentric values they might;harbor.................
... J--^Presentation: Size permitting, the format of the class will
. be lecture-seminar. A preliminary lecture consisting of . primarily
/ historical background-is provided;by Mr. Osakwe, which is then ' . followed by a student report on the reading for that day. After
. ■ th'at, a graduate-type seminar is conducted. ’• '	- -7' ■' .
■	- - Readings: Not presently available. :	' / :'/ '. "
Organization : There are no examinations: .One 10-15 .page . final term paper is required, based upon either topics provided by . Mr.* Osakwe or. topics suggested -:by. the student : (provided they -. - are relevant to class material). Each student-is required-to pre- '
April 25, 1972
. sent one oral report during the semester on the reading for a given day. Active participation in the seminar is required. All three requirements contribute equally to the final grade. Regular . attendance and adequate preparation for. each class is expected.
Comments: Mr. Osakwe has been exposed to American, Western European, and Soviet universities. He has attended Moscow State University in the U.S.S.R., termed the “Soviet Harvard.” Extensive reading will be essential in this course. Much can be gained if much is put in.
George; .Brinkley Government 449 Soviet; Government
Content: The,course is broken down into six sections: the historical background of Russian politics and government, and the causes - and.events of the Russian Revolution; the political philosophy of Marx, Lenin, and Staling policy-making and the structure, of the Soviet State and Communist Party; Soviet society and culture e.g. laws, courts, police, education, religion; the Soviet Economy; recent developments and future trends. The course is open to non-majors and majors alike with no prerequisites.	.
Presentation: Mr. Brinkley lectures with only an occasional glance at: his outline. His knowledge of the subject, sense of humor, and ability as a lecturer make for interesting and lively classes. Extensive note-taking is required, but the lectures are well-ordered and easy to follow. Mr. Brinkley welcomes questions and his answers reflect his mastery of the subject.
Readings: Professor Brinkley expects a significant amount of reading for the course. He assigns about five paperbacks and also wants the student to do additional outside reading. An extensive syllabus is distributed covering the six sections of the course, and the student is expected to do some reading in each of these sections. The student must submit a reading list with each test and a cumulative list of his readings at the end of the semester. Students considered the work load as average.
Organization: Since Mr. Brinkley would prefer to see the student spending his time reading on the subject there are no papers required. There are three tests and a final, each counting equally and each covering one-fourth of the course. These tests are essays with general questions which give the student a chance to exhibit all he knows about each area. The student should be prepared to take the tests in such a way that the complete essay is clear, critical, exact, and thorough. .
Comment: Any comprehension of the world situation certainly must depend on an understanding of the Soviet philosophy and system of government. This course will give the student a good understanding of how Russian historical development influences the present system, what the Marxist Leninist view of the state entails, and how policy is made in the Soviet system. This study of Soviet government also helps the student better his understanding our American view of government. All of the students interviewed highly praised Mr. Brinkley both as a teacher and as an individual. All definitely recommended the
course for both majors and non-majors. Almost all take again for additional courses. The only recommendation is he spend more time discussing contemporary problems.
him that
George. Williams .
Government 459
Sources of Foreign Policy
, /Content: Sources of Foreign Policy as an academic venture is an attempt to acquaint students with the active
ad-role
/ attitudes, and psychology play in politics. Mr. Williams intends td‘ let the students explore the connection between the psychology ; of political leaders and public policy, and plans to place special emphasis on public and private attitudes on foreign policy issues. The seminar discussions will progress from the study of individual politicians to the formation of public opinion, and on to national ideologies and “modal” belief systems. Students will review work bh the “authoritarian personality,” political culture,
33
propaganda, and if sufficient interest arid time allow, give attention to the writings of Erik Erikson as well. Prerequisites for this course would seem to be a basic interest in the material to be covered and a disposition to go at its study in earnest.
. Presentation: This course will be taught as a seminar, probably with small enrollment. Mr. William’s interest is in the student becoming'- involved and enlivened by associating with the material and thus he hopes to keep the sessions. as discussion-oriented as the students and. the material allow. .	.
Readings: A textbook, Personality and Politics} Problems of Evidence, Inference and Conceptualization, authored by Greenstein, will be used in addition to at least these two short volumes: Isiah Berlin, Hedgehog. and the Fox; and Alexander George, Woodrow Wilson and Colonel House. Much of the reading will be taken from journal articles put on reserve in the library. ■
. Organization: Besides the class-by-class. reading, one can expect a written self-analysis and two short essays to be required as well as a probable final examination. .
Comments : Students are warned that what is learned in this seminar might have little bearing on .what they have studied . in other government courses, and the instructor feels himself to be operating on the fringe of the traditional sphere of political science. But he feels, nonetheless, that this is an important field which enjoys growing awareness at other leading colleges and it should have its presentation here as well.- Realizing now, after the fall semester when, the course was first offered, that students have virtually little or no backgrourid in psychological and personality theory arid systematic analysis on the “micro-political level,” Mr. Williams intends on being additionally flexible with regards to the students and their difficulties with the subject material. For-those acquainted with him from other courses, his enthusiasm for both the subject material and the individual student remains. If one is interested in what this course has to -offer and is disposed to do the work required, a very worthwhile learning experience will be enjoyed.	.
Peter Moody
Government 455
Government and: Politics of Asia
Government 457	. ; •. -
The Communist Movement in Asia.
GOVERNMENT 455
Content: This course covers three countries which are considered ■ part - of* the .“Chinese, culture area,” that' is,- China (including Taiwan),- Japan, and Korea.; Although the course will con tain, some theoretical consideratioris, the principal focus . will, be of. an analytical ’ nature. The course, will concentrate - on these., nations’- .move .toward ..modernization,; the- concomitant impact of/such. a;drive on the traditional political structures,, and: the search for new forms of political' order.; '
Presentation: As: yetlthis. has -riot, been determined • the . approach will= depend ;upon the class size and student. reaction to Mr. Moody’s present format.. MbstTikely, the class, will consist1 of informal lectures with ample opportunity for : discussion on any point1 treated in:the/readirigs;or, lectures.	:
' , Readings: The ,readings arer-Pirig-to and Tarig. Tsdu, China -in .Crisis, Vol. I, Books 1/ 2; RobertlA.’ Scalapino arid Masumi -Junnosuke, Parties and Politics- in CommentaryCJdpdn;-^ Tsuheishi, Japanese Political Style;, Gregory,;Henderson, JCdrea: , The Politics of . the Vortex; These : readings " complement the class lectures and .iriust be done. Total cost of the /Books', is-
less than $20.	.	; ^" 7
/ Organization: There will be a. midterm and a final," taken iri class. Tri addition, each student .must prepare three analytic . book reviews on'books .bearing, interest, however'remotely,-with , ...... .	...	----, ----------------—----- .
the subject matter of the course. These books’cannot ;be ’the a.moderate re^
. -required reading. Aterm paper maybe done -in lieu, of' the three Organization: There; ■will?.'be>a'7mid-tem^
reviews, provided the paper’s subject , is relevant to the course perhaps an oral; exam. The written, examinations . will (each) and approved by Mr. Moody. The tests .are of-a. general-essay Cconsist of an objective arid an essay section. Lecture notes and textual/material are- given equal consideratiori. While; accurate •
required readings. These tests -require ; both, a/comprehensive ; iridicators/bf/the depth of ;the. student’s . knowledge; «lhe^ tests- : ■ understanding, of the concepts presented and a‘grasp of the	' have; been/criticized in . the past . fof :;,theirrimirioderate; length.
material in the readings. Such exains; are' graded very fairly . The writing -requirement, two/three.^five-pa^	?
. required reading. A term paper may'be done.in lieu, of the three reviews, provided the paper’s subject, is relevant to the course
’ ..type, dealirig with the central points, of the: lectures arid the required-^readings. These tests -require ; both, a “comprehensive
and should present no great difficulty to the conscientious student. Each book review averages 10% of the final grade, as is the liberally graded mark for class 'participation.; The midterm is worth roughly 25% and the final.35%. ;	.
GOVERNMENT 457	.	. <	.
Content: Marxist theory originally developed in the context of Western-Europe while that area was; undergoing the industrial revolution. The .original theory-predicted-that a revolution would result from this industrialization. Marxist politicians, however, have been most successful in the underdeveloped parts of the world, where-the industrialization tends to follow the. “revolution.” This course examines the way; in'which Marxist politicians in Asia have adapted, dr failed to adapt, their theories to the environment in - which they must work and also treats the consequences of; these adaptations. >	.
Presentation and Organization: Basically the same as Government 455.	’ . '	'	. -
Readings: The readings include: Robert Scalapino, The Communist Revolution in Asia; Douglas Pike, Viet Cong; Robert Thompson, Defeating Communist Insurgency; and Donald Za-goria,- Vietnam-Triangle. The cost of the .books is approximately $15.	;	. r-
Comment:-Mr. Moody possesses a great-deal of knowledge concerning Asian affairs, and politics in general. When such ex- . pertise is combined with his lively, informal style of lecturing, the result is a valuable educational experience. ,His courses are well-structured but not rigid to the extent that he is reluctant to digress for. the■ benefit of his students. He not only invites questions and comments during class but also, respects what his students have to contribute. Mr. Moody is readily available outside of class and is always inclined_to.spend extra hours.assisting his students.. If there be any “drawbacks”. to the courses, it is the extensive amount of outside reading required..
Stephen Kertesz
Government 475	;	-
Diplomacy in the Atomic Age
Content: The history of diplomacy,;its past successes and failures, along with a detailed analysis of more recent diplomatic techniques, provides the subject matter-for this upper-divisional government; course., - In the early , weeks of the semester, Mr. Kertesz will review, the’ 'growth of. traditional'.diplomacy in the . West, beginning in Greece, and Rome, extending down through . the Age of Classical Diplomacy, and into modern times. The lat-. ter part of the. course concerns study of the organizational ineans by which'.diplomacy-is conducted in the nuclear age, specifically, the- way in .which multi-lateral- diplomacy facilitates the. interna- tional exchange of 'ideas iri; the U.N.,NATO, and the. European . - Community. The. Professor intends to.place particular emphasis . on-the ways, in which diplomacy can be used in the search for peace in the;T970s.7 : ;	- J.	' '
Presentation :'; The .course, will consist primarily, of lectures, - - although-Mr. Kertesz';,welcomes-and; even; encourages class dis? . cussiori.-.-In.fact, each classjoperis/with. -.Mr.. Kertesz answering ' .-' questions submitted. beforehand/by/the . students. The lectures ' religiously-follow.-the;Professor’s own book,'.The Quest forPedCe -■. Through' Diplomacy, and;- at- times, border on redundancy; In-termittently;Mr. ..Kertesz>will ask- students questions, not. only to, test their knowledge,; but? also to ascertain who is there,; and . who isn’t'./Excessive/absenteeism-Js/frownediupon/ .	, v -
■ ?; .-Readings As;suggested - above, the "matrix of the course is . :-The .Quest; for .Peace iThrpughjDiprom^	works will. in-.
■ '. elude:,..Callieres;; On.-i/ze-jManner^oJCHegotiating With Princes; } CWicplsoh;: Diplomacy} ;The_ Ugly-;Russian;-Lederer and Burdick,;TheHJgly fAmerican,--and Goldwin; Readings in World
■ Pblitics.Cperiddic- handouts will.‘constitute the remainder- of .what '
34
THE SCHOLASTIC
10 to 15 page term paper, is rather heavy; however, deadlines are not - rigidly adhered to, and the ‘ general nature of the topics provides the’student with ..freedom to express his own opinion on the matter at hand. ■ The final grade will reflect: the overall - performance, in the course, no special emphasis being placed upon any one facet of it.	.
' Comment:- Mr. .Kertesz brings considerable expertise and . experience to bear upon his analysis of modern diplomatic trends.
This, coupled with his sincere concern for the students as individuals, makes the course a worthwhile undertaking for-those genuinely interested in the subject material. One caveat should be sounded, however. Students rapidly . discover that some aspects of; the course. (e.g. studying the structural nuances of the organizations within the' European Community) are indeed soporific. Therefore, it would be advantageous for those thinking about taking the course, to peruse The Quest for Peace Through Diplomacy to validate their'interest in this particular field.
Pomerleau	■
Government 453	.	.
France: Politics and Society	.
Content: A study of the political culture and ideological conflicts, political structures and policy orientations that have shaped modern France. Prerequisite is Government 343.
Pomerleau
Government 463. . .	.	.
France: Foreign Policy and
International Affairs .	,,
Content: A study of the basic features of French foreign policy and foreign relations, noting the domestic sources of foreign policy in the Fourth and Fifth Republics and the French position on such questions as the EEC, NATO, Africa and the Atlantic area. Prerequisite’is Government 341.	.	.	-
Wesley Daley ■ .	.
Government 469	.
Selected Problems of Foreign Governments
-Content: - Studies of selected problems .of foreign govern. mentsand politics, with an emphasis on comparative political in. stitutions. Crosslisted with Black Studies..	.
Christopher Osakwe .	.	.	. • .	.
Government 478	.
: International Problems . . ;	•	. .. /
.. Content: jThis course ^concerns itself with-the following six . . ..aspects of-Soviet foreign policy: political and ideological, inter-. - pretationsof Soviet.foreign policy;-Soviet-intelligence operations;’
' . the politics :of.; the Soviet-Union an Africaand how, this is’tied . . into overall Soviet foreign policy strategies; Soviet foreign .policy . in-specific areas, such as the Middle .East; Soviet: foreign policy 'within international organizations; and a general survey of Soviet
, foreign fpolicy , as regards east-west relations.- Theoretically, the 7	~ J-take-off.point-of the.course is theUommunist Manifesto of. 1848;
.	practically/ the. course" begins :.witlU1917. Strictly speaking," from
:	r9r7;1929?there existed;no defined Soviet foreign: policy, hence.
. J ’ this is: mostly historical, analysis.-; The policies of Stalin/Khrush-
. -	= chev/sandJ the;- present * Soviet Hroika .are examined. The course-
concludes with)speculative foreign policy—-especially• interesting.
' A. ■this’ coming semester in view^of) Nixon’s, visits to Ghina and the *	U.S.S.R. -The 6nly?unofficial prerequisite; for.' the course -is .that
_	the student be willing. to'dd:a.gbod .deal of reading.* ' .-'S
-. ~ Presentation : The .format sof."the class" is best described: as \ lecture-seminar. A preliminary i lecture consisting - primarily: of, historical, background is provided by Mr.\ Osakwe, which is then -
April 25. 1972
followed by a student report on the reading for that day.* Afterwards, a graduate-type seminar is conducted.
; Readings : 'There are ,three-primary, texts for the course: ■ Adam'B. Ulam, Expansion and Coexistence, ($4.95)Alvin Z. Rubinstein, The' Foreign Policy of the Soviet, Union ($5.95); . -Zbigniew-Brzezinski, The Soviet Bloc. There are 15-20 supplementary texts.- All-.texts are on reserve at'the ND Library,; but the student is expected to purchase the three primary texts and . the text which he. reports on.
' Organization : There are no examinations- One 10-15 page final term paper is required, based upon topics provided by Dr. Osakwe—student suggestions for topics, if relevant to the course material,' are permissible. Each student , is required to present one oral report during the semester on the reading for a given day. Active participation in the seminar is required. All three requirements contribute equally to the final grade. Regular attendance and adequate preparation for each class is expected. ' Comments: Mr. Osakwe has been exposed to American, Western ■ European, and Soviet universities. He has attended Moscow State University in the U.S.S.R., termed the “Soviet Harvard;” He selectively merges all three types of experiences into a viable and cohesive learning atmosphere. The presence of graduate students in the class enhances the undergraduates’ opportunity to obtain knowledge ordinarily not found in a class of this sort. Yet, you only get what you put into a course such as this. The reading is essential;
Theodore Ivanus
Government 481	.
International Communism
Content: This is a one semester course dealing with the nature of communism and its historical development in the world. The first half of the course consists of an intensive study of the theoretical, and practical aspects of communism up to the Second World War. The - second half focuses on the origin of communist polycentrism and its effects in different areas of the world. The purpose of the course is to give students not only a good knowledge of communist theory, but also an understanding of how communism, works, and what role it plays in the world situation. Some previous knowledge of Marxist theory and Lenin’s writings is helpful, but not essential. The class consists mostly of seniors and a few grad students.
Presentation: Classes consist mostly of lectures with some class discussion of assigned books. Mr. Ivanus’ lectures are usually. quite interesting and contain a wealth of material. There.is only one drawback to this course—since the class meets only once a week, class lasts two and one half hours. However, there is usually a five or ten minute break in the middle of the class. A great amount-and variety, of topics are covered in each period^ but Mr.; Ivanus knows how to tie everything together and keep the student interested. . .
, .-f. Readings:* The reading list for next year is not yet known. Mr. Ivanus chooses a wide ^variety, of books on communism and tries to present more than one way of interpreting theory. All of the books are well2 written and fairly interesting. The books relating to particular areas of the world provide the student with the - necessary background! In addition, mimeographed articles are passed^ out in class from time to time. At times the reading assignments tend to-be quite long, but ample time is provided
: to catch up ; All texts are available on. reserve.	:
.	. Organization: There is a midterm and a final examination,
both ..of which cover an enormous amount of material." Each • .student ...will: bej.required, to read about five books and write a bibliographic, essay-discussing their, content. One or two .of these books will befof-the-student’s own choosing.' Mr. Ivanus is a fair grader and the tests: are a good-exercise in evaluating one’s . grasp, ofthe subject., .f ;	,
';Comments:.This-is not an easy course; but if the student is . really, interested ih..the)subject, it.is a very rewarding experience.
- ^Mr.'ffyanu's ds *'an. excellent teach er.: He tries to know each of his ; students.persohally, and is- always willing to help with personal or academic ; problems. By the end of the course the student has almuch -.better understanding-of; the-.international situation and Kqwjrtoranalyze it? Noother course gives a more complete
-- ' analysis "of- communism as a world force.
’ U'	’	-	35
History
L. Leon Bernard History 321 France 1500-1789
Content: History 321 is a survey course which emphasizes the social and cultural development of France within the 289 years covered in this semester. There are no prerequisites for the course, but this is the first part of a year-long study of France from-1500-1815. However, there is no required continuation — each semester can be taken independently.
Presentation: Mr. .Bernard encourages discussion but relies mainly on a lecture format. .He plans to have extensive slide showings. \
Readings: Neale, Age of Catherine de Medici; Wedgewood, Richelieu; Wolf, Louis XIV; Havens, Age of Ideas; Ford3 Robe and Sword. There will also be three or four works which have not yet been selected.	.	.
Organization: There will be two tests (each worth 20% of grade) and a final (30%). In addition, there will be a required term paper approximately ten pages in length (30%).
Comments: Mr. Bernard begins the semester as if the students have no historical background. This style is helpful for nonmajors, but may be tedious for those who have a.background knowledge of the period: The lectures also tend to repeat the material covered in the readings. However, Mr. Bernard knows the period well and is an interesting speaker. His most valuable asset is the concern, he shows for his students.; Mr. Bernard demonstrates a true concern for the learning experience of each individual, even though the classes are large.
James A. Corbett
History 333	.	. . .
History of the Middle Ages I
Organization: There- will be two in-class exams and a term paper required for the.course; each:of the exams and the paper will count/one-third of the course’grade. Each exam consists of. a number of objective questions and. one or two essay questions; the objective .section usually includes some very rigorous questions, but their difficulty is'considered in the grading of the exam. -The essays generally -deal-with an important part of the material covered, and require substantiation from the required readings. The term paper demands research from outside sources, primary ones if possible, and Mr. Corbett insists that topics be sufficiently' narrow in scope for detailed ’ treatment. Most of the term papers in past years have ranged from ten to twenty typewritten pages. . /	- / “
Comments: Mr. Corbett’s primary goal is to let the student discover the creative spirit of the medieval world-and its relevance to the~. present; in this course, he/succeeds fairly well in. that task. Some students feel that there is an overemphasis of Church history in; the course, and. these people often .find the course tedious and uninteresting. Yet it must be remembered that the Church was much closer to the ordinary person in the Middle Ages than was the state, and in fact,; the Church was greatly intertwined in government with the secular authorities; thus-much of the history of the Middle Ages deals with the Church. Mr. Corbett’s lecturing .style is straightforward and somewhat dry; therefore, one must, have genuine enthusiasm for the subject to benefit from-these" lectures. This is also the case concerning the readings in the course which are sometimes wearisome, but on the whole, very good, especially the works by'Bloch and Heer. > Students, both-history majors and - nonmajors, should consider whether, they r really desire to learn about the Middle; Ages before they enter -the course; if they don’t have this desire, then'they will probably find the course boring. If this historical -period/ has interest for a student, he should. find the. course to be a good experience and ; should receive a good grade for a reasonable, but hot too time-consuming: effort. Mr. Corbett is a very fair grader and gives the students plenty of-time to do the readings; ’ ;	",
Content: This course deals with political, economic and social developments: in the European and Arabian worlds from the fall of the Roman. Empire until approximately 1150. There is a continuation of. this course in the spring semester which
carries this study through the: fifteenth century.- In both'semesters Mr. i Corbett/plans to emphasize the creative spirit of the Middle Ages regarding the development of constitutional govern-	_	.
ment, the adaptation of the Catholic Church to a, changing / Content society, the development of rational thought in the . western	’
world and important ideas in art and architecture. .Maj torical events covered in/the Tall semester include the rise and decline of the Carolingian Empire, fthe Moslem and/Viking invasions off Europe and the first stages, of the investiture corn troversy.	/ ' ,	J/T ‘
~ c Presentation : Z Mr. . Corbett /presents- • this ; course in a ♦ lecture . format, and. encourages: questions ,at; any AimeAin the ? class. Sometimes there are class:/discussions oh ' articles in the Sullivan book mentioned /below,/ oh days for which the articles7
* are to be read. A;/: ■/;-'/./?/?.-.?
k /Readings:-The following/books,/all
- are required for the . course: < ISdussard,^	l °f -
. : Charlemagne;;/Sullivan; t Critical >Tssues^ in\ History:JfThe Middle ?
Ages; ? Bloch, Feudal Society;^ietn^	Church / and; /
State;: 1050-1300;^ Pirenne, xEcori^	of.
Medieval }Europe; Heef; The-Medieval; Wpfld;^	;
: tory - of:; Political ^Thought: :TKe:\Middlex^
Historical zAtlas.: However,/bnlyJBqussard’sbook/musC Kejread ; | in; its entirety duririg/the first semester ; the/readirigdq^
semester iT; not particularly KeavyA A^	/
■ - tioned / books ’ other -than Boussard’s/will. be /used/ifiK the /spring,;?/
students; taking both’ semester /courses/are /spared/"fromX great/ 4 - overall expense. *' / - / 7/. >/;
-36-' • /	//	J////
James .Ward ■?	-
History 323 7	...
19th Geritury-France
____________/:*; An7 examination. of France/ between the . years 1789 and 19.14 occupies This course. Emphasisisplaced upon a fairly, .detailed. knowledge of the period,- yet trivia ? are not required. Dr. Ward : insists - only/vthat the/ student. /read the readings. .Therefore,’- the, prime.; prerequisite for this4 course is. that; the student-be; able ito^ think? Though the “course usually attracts; junior/and?senior/history’ majors, .-'sophomores are in
. abundance.?//;'?■/	: /■ -/k-	■- ’•
T//Presentation :>I)r./W	class alter-
nates/between'^	adroitly eposes.- leading
questions) /and/informative illustrated J talks? Before discussions , _ ini class, which talways%cbncern {readings^ short ? quizzes are given. / The readings /and /quizzes ?prepaf e; the?s tudent for the mid-term -1 - and /the: final ;/bqth/ tests/are/eminently fair:and well-phrased. *? / ; ^Readings :<	be /called; a /“text,” ;. Paul
; Gagnon’s; Franc eySinceZl 789 / is /used Jin / the? course, wi th abou 1, /seven;; additional Jwor^^^	. gaining Ja?slight -
; amount??pf?Jnsjghf/j^^	• •
* 1 \	Organ iz ation :/ One’s /finaFgrade/ consists /of /grades; received
: - ’. onz/the^mid^^	40 %) &e^	2and z the- final
> (40 %	- •, ;
/	/^dj/this kcoujse,//^	/contribute.:/The -
// readings^pr ese^	/? fnaterial and the/ q uizzes /help/J fixij the
: 1; jhaterial? in/theMstudents’~5 minds^afterM these Jt^o,/the ?s^	/
/ / dnds fhimself?prep^	^discuss/? FinallyJDr./Ward ; is t a /lively} „
i '	" A-: / /	The Scholastic
. atmosphere, in the class is friendly and questions are encouraged. An -overhead projector is used for maps and important. data. The lectures follow the general outline in Mr. Smelser’s manual of American Colonial History.	...	-	,
' Readings: The basic texts are Alden’s The American Revo' lution, and Smelser’s American. Colonial and Revolutionary History (second edition). - The supplementary readings are Colburn’s The Colonial Experience: Readings in Early American History; Hawke’s .US. Colonial -History, Readings and Documents; Walsh’s The. Mind and Spirit of Early America; and Morison’s Sources and .Documents ' Illustrating the American Revolution (second edition). The readings .are very good and the student is required to read only those parts of the books related to the course.' .	..	.	.	-.
. Organization/ The student is required to do at least four one-page book analyses; one on Alden’s text. The other three may be taken from the bibliographies in Smelser’s manual..The due dates are spread evenly throughout , the semester. There is also a mid-term, and a final, usually objective. Material is taken . especially from the lecture notes and also the readings. The. tests cover the material-in depth and are quite difficult- The final exam is worth 50% of the grade.	'	.
Comments: American Revolution I is an excellent course. Mr. Smelser, possesses an astounding amount of knowledge and in addition takes an active interest in his students. He is a well organized and interesting lecturer, and his dry wit does much to keep the subject lively.. Those who want only a high grade should not take this course, but for those interested in a profitable, learning experience the course is a must.	.
Vincent P. DeSantis
History 396/596	.
The Diplomatic History bf the United States II
Content: This course deals with the foreign policy of the United States in the twentieth century—from;the end of the Spanish—American War to the present. It will treat such matters as the Open Door Policy, American Intervention in World War I and World War II, the Big Stick and Good Neighbor Policies in Latin America, the Cold War and Peaceful Coexistence, Vietnam, and American Diplomacy in a Nuclear Age.	.	:
Presentation : This course will be one of the few courses in the History Department limited in size. Mr. DeSantis plans to have approximately 25 students enrolled in this course for the purpose of stimulating class participation. This will include discussion of common reading and class reports as well as lectures by Mri DeSantis. '	-	-
Readings: The. principal text for undergraduates will be A History of_ United States Foreign ’ Policy by Julius-W. Pratt. Other readings will; come from a variety of books and articles such as Ross Gregory,-The Origins of-AmericanTntervention in the First World War; Herbert Feis, The Road to Pearl Harbor; and Walter La Feber, America, Russia, and the Cold War, 19451966.	;	-
■ Organization: There will be two.one-hour examinations in class and a. final: examination. In addition to these tests, Mr. DeSantis may have each student complete several one-page, book •analyses based on a prepared form. At.this time, however, he is uncertain about this last requirement and, thus, he is equally . uncertain as to exactly..how the student’s grade will be determined.' • . .
- Comments : Mr. DeSantis has desired to teach a course with a small enrollment for a long time and finally appears to have . gotten his'wish. Seminars do not usually figure in semester offerings, in the History Department for. the simple fact that Notre Dame , has more history majors than Schlitz has gusto. Sheer . numbers prohibit the seminar-type approach, but it is exactly in this , type of format that the strengths of certain teachers are brought out. I feel that Mr. DeSantis is one of these teachers.
- ; He is a very thorough historian whose capabilities have been limited somewhat this semester by the zoo-like atmosphere of 150 ... students in a hothouse Nieuwland Science Hall. His somewhat dry - lecture-manner will be aided greatly in a seminar where he will be free to “let himself go” on certain topics, rather than whip
: ’. through a survey-type course.. He has proven to be easily acces-, sible to students seeking his help and this fact enhances his worth , as a teacher arid his course as an educational experience.
' / ■"	~	- • / .	~	37
talker; his :class does .not conduce sleep. History majors,, naturally, . interest ' themselves most in this- subject. Non-majors suffer-no more disadvantage here, however, than in any other readings' course.' -	...	.	.	-
Bernard Norling.
. History 349	.	.
History of Europe 1870-1920	.
Content: This course-consists of a general survey of European history from the Franco-Prussian War to the' Versailles treaty.' While cultural and intellectual, histoiy are by no means ignored, the course stresses, the political, diplomatic, and military developments of the period. Mr. Norling has no particular historical or philosophical axe .to grind; he has quoted with approval the definition of. history as “just one damn thing after another.” .	. ■	,
Presentation: Mr. Norling is undoubtedly one of the . finest lecturers.on this campus. He spices his lucid, well-organized presentations .with historical anecdotes , as well as with his inimitable reflections on the .current scene. Questions are always welcomed enthusiastically, and Mr. Norling takes great pains to -separate his own “editorializing” from the course material.
Readings.- The reading load is exceptionally heavy, even for a . history course.' The books .are chosen with great care, however, and student response is generally favorable. Next semester the list (all paperback) will include Barbara Tuchman’s The Proud Tower; George Dangerfield’s The Strange Death of Liberal England; Alistair Horne’s The Price of Glory; Stefan Zweig’s The World of Yesterday; N. J. P. Taylor’s biography of Bismarck; Remak’s Origins of World War I, Nicholas and . Alexandra; Thibault’s Jean Barois (a novel); and a collection . of readings called An Age of Controversy, of which only a small part is used in this course, and . most of the rest in the 1920- ’.1972 course taught in the spring semester. There may be one • or two other books. Total cost: approximately $20-$25.	-
• ’ Organization :. Reading quizzes are given on each of the -books, averaging about one every week and a half. These tend to. be essay or short answer, but .occasionally Mr. Norling will throw out something of a more objective nature. Students may elect.to do a report on the assigned book as a.substitute for the
. quiz. .There are two exams, a midterm and a final. Material for these usually comes, from the. lectures, and normally represents a combination of multiple choice and essay questions. Grading, though rigorous, is eminently fair. •	.	, - ■
. Comments: Mr. Norling offers a number of courses in , modern European history, and this is one of his best. -Doubtless
Notre; Dame’s most colorful, conservative, and an .open and un' abashed believer in original siri, Mr. Norling has shaken-more than one student’s faith in human nature by the insouciant . pessimism he brings to the study of history. No one, however, should be put off from this, course because of Mr. Norling’s ebullient anti-liberlism. The period under study is immensely fascinating; the - readings are excellent, and the teaching on a , par with the best this University offers. No history major should . pass , up the chance'to experience Mf. Norling, and government majors will also ■ find particular profit in this course.-Anyone .
. with : an interest in history;; however, cannot fail to enrich his educational'experience at -Notre ■ Dame by .taking this course..
Marshall Smelser C .	. .
: History 363 - <	:
;	S .. = ~. ... . : . :
. -rife Content;-; American Revolution I- is an . in-depth study of. : v the- period beginning in. l763-with the Great-War: for- Empire-
. andconcludesintheperiod between'the; surrenders of .Burgoyne-.-..'/and Cornwallis. The second.semester,of this course continues to . ■.«; >:the\ election .of.- Washington -in = 1789.' Although ■; the; class is; made . -C	up;5largely, of jiinior -and senior, history majors/ there is .rio -pre- ,
=	requisite for the course except an interest-in the period. Y'Y.	t
?; j /Presentation/This is sprimarily a: lecture; course. Mr. Smel-. - ser ’ has a-thofough knowledge of . this period/in/history./The
April 25, 1972	?	: - :	\
Carole Moore
History 365
Women in American History
Content: This course will investigate the social role and public image of women. It , will allow students to examine the hazards and possibilities, the shortcomings and the accomplishments of previous experiments in the restructuring of family institutions-and sexual roles. If will study both the variety and the continuity of women’s historical experience. This is the first time the course has been offered.
Presentation: Lectures will be given twice a week and will provide the necessary historical and social background to each period, including information regarding family structure,: child-rearing practices, women’s economic function and legal position. '. The third hour of the week will be devoted to discussion period and students will analyze and discuss relevant cultural documents as assigned each week.
Organization: Each member of the class will choose one of the weekly lecture topics as the subject of a paper. Students will also lead discussion of their chosen topic in the weekly seminar. In the paper, the student should generalize about the prevailing image and status of women and should then suggest the origin, social uses, and underlying weaknesses of these ideas about the position of women. The paper should be between 10-15 pages with appropriate footnote arid bibliographic ■ citations. In addition to the paper, leading of one discussion/ and, participation, there will be an hour-long midterm and a. final exam of the essay type.
The tentative weekly lecture/discussion topics are. as follows: Introduction/General Survey; Women in Pre-Industrial America; the Cult of Domesticity, 1830-1860; Women and the Frontier; Women’s Suffrage Movements; Education of Women;. Social Feminism and Progressive America; the Twenties: Emancipation?; the Thirties and the Effect of the Depression; the War, or the Short Career of Rosie the Riveter; Home After the War; Minority Women in America; and the New Feminism. ' '
Samuel Shapiro
History 367
Black American History
Content: Afro-American History: The Slavery Era deals
with the history of Africans in-the New. World from the origin of the slave trade in the 1440’s to the-abolition of slavery in the 19th century. Mr., Shapiro covers a variety of.to pics and authors, wishing to present a more objective picture of the black man’s heritage. '	’	'	.	.	/ /. ’	, / >/.. . /	, .
Presentation : .The course; is taught in lecture form, with many handouts accompany the'talks. There is time to ask ques-tions ■ and discussion ^sessions; Outside /class, there/are weekly movies and periodical lectures at. which attendance is mandatory. The movies are shown at-, several times to assure that all will be
able to attend.' - - <	‘ .. / /	. -	:	*	-=	-
. ’Readings: The following'books’are required:.; maps of: Amer- / ica and Africa; Wiedner- A: History .of .South Africa South-of the' Sahara . ($2.75); Curtin:/Africa:. Remembered’ ($2i95); . Degler: Neither Black nor : White- ($2.95); Russell: The Free Negro In Virginias ($2.00)'; NarrativeTof■the---Life', of'Frederick Douglas i (50 cents); George;Jackson: Soledad:Brotheri. ($l;50) or Eldridge Cleaver::’Sdulyon-Ice or:TheTAutobiography. of-Mal- -. colmX ($1.50):Olmstea.d::TheS[ave:StatesBeforethe:Civil ■.
War ($1;65) ; Botkin:.LujjA/y Burden Down($2.95); Rozwenc: . Slavery as~d Cause- of-the Civil War -($2:25) ;IIigg^nsgn:yArmy.,:
Life in a Black Regiment ($1.50); Elkins: 7Slavery ($1:50).:	;
Organization:, The work of. the course consists of common / readings arid short written comments are expected to be; handed " in'weekly. Regular attendance,at lectures,.’films,- and other-fpresen-tations of the Black Studies Department is aiso required. There will be a final examination. - -
Comments: There.is.iriore work-'than average'iri:this course/',/ but it rates good enough that no one should'shyawayfrom,Mr/: Shapiro’s Afro-Airierican History sequence. The exams. Have/be'enr?
38	'	;
strenuous in the past, but are not a significant part of the grade.. The weekly papers'are intended to be of a critical nature, not. too long; the reader’s reaction to the work is what is expected.-Discussion was often cut off sharply in the past, but discussion ses- -sions are being set up .this semester.- If you sign up for this course expect colorful lectures, fairly well organized, and plenty of op-
. portunity to. delve into the history of Black America.
Vincent P. DeSantis
History’373/573	...
The Gilded Age
" Content: This course' deals roughly with the period from 1877-1900, known as the “Gilded Age.”. This last quarter of the . nineteenth century saw the. evolution of modern America as we know it. The course will deaf with such themes as the rise of industrialism and. urbanism, the. last West, the advance of the organized West, the impact of: immigration, the plight of .the farmer and the Negro, the intellectual and cultural life of the gilded age, and the'emergence of the United States as a world power. 'There are no prerequisite's to the course.•
Presentation: The course, will be limited in size. It will include lectures, discussions of common reading. materialsj reports in class, etc. There may'be several one-page book analyses based on a prepared form.. .
Readings: The course has not been offered by Mr..DeSantis for some, time and the reading list , has not yet been drawn up. The readings'will come from a variety of books and articles such as H. Wayne Morgan’s (ed.) The Gilded,Age; Lewis Mumford, The Brown Decades; and Hoogenboom (ed.) The Gilded Age. There will, most likely, not'be a principal text.
Organization: There will be two one-hour examinations and the final examination. Dh DeSantis’s exams are usually essay in nature and require thought. There'may. be several one page book analyses based on a prepared form. :	.
Comments : Mr. DeSantis’ knowledge, of American history has enormous depth. The Gilded-Age represents his area of greatest expertise. The period considered here is relativly small and the treatment will be exhaustive. ,	"
The course.will be limited to about 25 students. This will have a substantial .'effect upon Mr? DeSantis’ teaching style, permitting more , discussions, 'persona? contact and less. reliance on strict, lecture; (His American Politics; course this semester has suffered from overpdpularity, with close to 200 students.)
Mr. DeSantis’ lectures are well prepared, diverse, interesting and fairly easy; to’ take notes’ from.He is also a personable ap-proachable_man, very amenable to. meeting with students outside - class. To anyone with 'an interest-:in modern .America and her emergence;in history?the’course should prove,of-value.	/ ‘
Samuel Shapiro	;J
History. 390 /• /// v ‘ v < : -X' ;
Mexico ancl Mexican-American History.
' • Content.; -This ? course /is'*- a-’wide-ranging, examination of Mexico-arid -Mexican-American- history, from-the earliest civiliza-
. tions < to ; the '’present:day/ Althoughapproached fromthe tradi-tional historical-perspective^this f course also/emphasizes the art, music, literature an'ddifestyle of the people jof,Mexico. Central, in this examination* is:-the.fascinating"blend of races from the.New and Old /Wdrlds//a/rare/phendmenbn; in? the . Northern ..Hemi-
-. sphere; Points ■ of'historical' emphasis; will: include the early ciil- ■ tural formations,r.U.Si-Mexican relations/ the’ 19th-century rulers
: Santa Ana,- Juarez/ the;Diaz,' the Mexican Revolution, contempo-raXX	tite problems of the /Chicano people..
t?’PRESE_NTATidN:.-/..Thefe will be free give' and take if the class .-sizeyremains; as'Small: as'iti has-been in the past. Lecture- will be -/-tfie/usualjformat? but .there is a good possibility of one or more field./ttips;“'during; the- semester. Also. included is a dinner at the
./professor’s-home..complete with Mexican food and tequilla. ■■ some. adjustmerit possible, the reading/ list
will/cqntaii/:X	■ Aztecs' of Mexico- (Vaillant);
’ Gbnque^	(del : Castillo); The- .Manila Galleon
.XThe Scholastic
(Schurz) ‘. The Labyrinth of Solitude (Paz); Two Years Before the .Mast (Dana)- The Mexican. War (Singletary); The Caste War of' Yucatan(Reed); Mexican Politics During the Juarez Regime; Mexico in Pictures (Hall);.North From Mexico (McWil-liam) . In addition there will be a wealth of handouts, magazines, etc., to supplement the reading list. .	.	" - . '
- Organization : The.. main ingredients here will. be a book report, mid-term and final. Strict' grading percentage procedures do not worry the Professor but it may .be assumed that they are. rated somewhat equally. .	,	’	'
Comments : The. Professor’s knowledge of the subject matter is thorough and. his style is engaging. The material covered , is voluminous and could prove tedious if the area of study does not interest the student.. However this consideration, the great variety of that material and the excellent reading list will provide the . serious student with an excellent view of Mexico and her people.
J. Philip Gleason History 377 American Immigration
Content: This course offers; a brief survey of the patterns of migration, settlement and adjustment to American life by the successive waves of immigrants from colonial times to the present. This course is followed by, and is a pre-requisite for, a second semester course which will focus on selected problems in immigration history. The course is new at Notre Dame.
Presentation: It will be basically a lecture course, although questions and class discussion are invited.:	.	.
Readings: Jones, American • Immigration; Hansen, Atlantic
. Migration; , Handlin, Boston’s Immigrants; Handlin, The Up- - . rooted; Higham, Strangers in the Land; Gahan, The Rise of David. Levinsky; Glazer and Moynihan, Beyond the Melting Pot.
Organization: There will be three one-hour examinations
. and a final over lecture material and readings. A 10-15 page term paper dealing with some aspect of a . specific ethnic group’s experience is. also required.
Frederick B. Pike	,
History 385/585	. .	.	. y-
Spain and Spanish America, 1469-1700
‘ Content : Dealing with Spain and its colonial expansion into the New World, the course stresses the inter-relationship between events in the Iberian peninsula'and America. In addition, it emphasizes: race relations in Spanish America and the rise of religious, ' social, economic, . cultural, - and political institutions and traditions that have continued to exercise an important influence in-the Hispanic world to the-present time. For history majors the . course may. be counted for credit in the Latin American or Euro7 .
- pean field. -	;	. -	- ;	-	,
. Presentation : A lecture approach is employed and questions
. are welcomed. Regular use is made of maps. Mr. Pike also hands
out mimeographed, outlines...and bibliographies of-his. lectures.' These are a helpful extra.' . ,, -
? ,Readings :. Two paperbacks are' used.as basic, textbooks: J. H., .
.. -Parry, Imperial' Spain -.(Mentor: $0.95) and’Charles Gibson;
J-Spain in America^(Harper: $1.95). Tn addition .the student .is. .
J ‘ expected.‘to read approximately seven paperbacks, two of-them-' assigned, , the others selected by the student from, titles suggested by the instructor. .	..... . • ■	.. , .	‘
.	Organization : Two book reports of approximately, four- pages
•- - each;are;-required.. .There is a midterm and a finaL examination, ■ .. / both.'bfythem take-homes. The . tests .are .difficulty and. require a- . ;. . good .knowledge of the. material. One’s grade is based .heavily on. -: the two tests.'4'4'.-'-<4 - .•	:.
44-Comment':. This.is:an excellent course.-Mr. Pike’s lectures are -
. very jgood—well prepared, interesting,,.and spiced, with a lively
- ys.wit.'-Mr; Pike is an enthusiastic scholar., and teacher. His? ex-...	-	-
/	; pertise and personal experience enable him to convey the . flavor < John’Buchan,-S,/^	Maurice.Ashley, and.Jack Hexter.
of Spanish and Latin American culture and history, as well as . TheyreXdings,. if.all,complete^ require a good deal of time,
i - the.fine.and not-so-fine points of information. The course serves but often are not included in examinations. The students should h ■. well/either.. as an introduction' or- to provide- greater depth - for 4^	on the tests. The
; 4 those already somewhat familiar with the field. Among those who textbooks will be considered on the tests. The textbook should
have, taken it-there is general agreement.that it is well worth the workrequired.	.
Thomas Blantz, C.S.C.	.	: : .
. ■ History-401: f. - - . . .	. .	. y
New Deal Era	..
. Content : This course deals with the basic historical interpretations of the New Deal Era. The subject matter is placed -in the. broader context of .American history by interpretations of- the period that brought about the New Deal (the age .of normalcy-—the" 1920’s) and by interpretations of the results of the New Deal in the ’40s and ’50s. The main thrust of the course concerns the interpretations by historians and by F.D.R.’s contemporaries of the methods and goals of the New Deal itself, and of the personality of Roosevelt and the New Dealers. Every effort is made to include the broad spectrum of historical inter-pretation—from those who saw the New Deal as a radical departure from traditional American values to those who viewed it as a highly conservative effort to save an unworthy capitalistic system. .	,	.	.
‘ Presentation : The course is designed to be .a seminar on - the New Deal. Father Blantz generally starts class with some introductory remarks on the week’s topic, and attempts to guide the discussion in the direction of that topic with his personal
insights into the discussion. However, the contributions of each of the students are the essence of the course. The very purpose and design of this seminar is the sharing of insight and'considered opinions of the students on the various New Deal interpretations presented in the readings.
Readings: There is one book of required reading in this course each week, averaging 250-300 pages. These books form ’ the basis for the/discussions and therefore must be read with care. The books used last semester include: Only Yesterday, _ Fredrick Lewis Allen; The Age of Roosevelt (three volumes), Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.; The Great Crash, J. K. Galbraith; An Encore for Reform, Otis L. Graham; The New Deal: What Was It?, edited by Morton Keller; Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal, William E. Leuchtenburg; The Future of American Politics, Samuel Lubell; and The Crucial Decade and After, Eric Goldman. These .books'may be purchased, at the bookstore for around $20. One or. two copies are placed on reserve, but due to the.length of the assignments, it may be preferable to
purchase the books outright. ...
Organization: Three tests,.or two tests and a paper (all counting. equally toward the . final grade) are used by Father Blantz to evaluate each student’s progress in the course. Due to the seminar • nature of the course, class participation is also considered heavily. The tests require a sound, basic knowledge of the historical events of the New Deal as presented in class and in the readings. They’ are. not; however, exercises in rote memorization, for. Father- Blantz .challenges . each student to-develop his own interpretation of. the various aspects of the New. Deal based on; this required knowledge.
Robert Burns History 432 ..-i --. Stuart England.
. . - Contents.:' “Stuart <England” will study- the; political and social history of,= England from . 1603 ,tp 1714. The events and ’ problems of-the'.'period will-be examined, .using the :varied . approaches of. lectures, discussions,'readings, tests-and papers.
Presentation The course statement promises the inclusion • of; discussions to supplement, and clarify, the lecture materials. Audio-visual materials,.profitably, included in Mr. .Burns’ other . sections, may be utilized similarly , in “Stuart England.”
\ 4 Readings: The basic ...textyis Tudor and Stuart Britain,
147,1-1714.'. Supplementary readings.will be. chosen from G. P. Gooch, -Lawrence _Stone, David. Matthew, . C. V. Wedgewood,
: The readings,'if all.completed,<;will require a good deal of time, . but often are not included in examinations. The students should
April 25, 1972
39
serve the student in the reading of the supplementary readings.
Organization: There will be two examinations and a final, all in class. The best questions are either broad questions about a particular period of study or questions about particular problems. They are fair- and graded fairly. A problem-oriented term paper is required. This usually involved the study of a collection of materials in the reserve book room and the adoption of one side or the other on the problem with which the materials deal. It is usually a good exercise in historical study and criticism. The examinations and paper are weighted evenly.
Comments: “Stuart England” should be a course suited to Mr. Burns’ style. The use of a standard text is a valuable aid in understanding the lectures when they depart from a chrono
logical order or assume too much. The supplementary readings are more valuable with the background supplied by the text. It is emphasized that the students should ask which: readings will be covered by tests. The body of supplementary material is too large for a careless budgeting of time.
More difficult than the course materials is the enigmatic character of Mn Burns. Previous course descriptions have noted the one-sided manner with which he approaches the course. The seeming reluctance of Mr. Burris to reveal the other facets of his personality may prove disappointing to some. Students may be able to resolve the mechanical problems of the course without Mr. Burns’ involvement, but his involvement would improve the course appreciably.	~	/
Languages
Robert Vacca
Greek 111	- ' - ’
Elementary Greek :	_
Content: This five credit course is an introduction to classical Greek. Mr., Vacca says:
1)	I try to get away from textbooks and into a real text— Plato—~as quickly as possible. On the average the class starts Plato in the tenth week. -,	,	,
2)	I try to hold memorization to a minimum:
a) by stresssing phonetic changes and morphemic analysis b) by developing a conceptual grasp of grammatical theory.
3)	I try to teach something about Greek civilization as well as the Greek language.
4)	Although Plato is the main author, other material in the period from Homer to the New Testament is also presented.
Presentation: The grammatical period is spent largely in lectures from both a descriptive and historical viewpoint. Once the class begins translating, there are assigned readings in Greek on MWF. TTh have no assignments, but are for-discussions about other authors.	.
Readings: Chase and Phillips, A New Introduction to Greek; Goodwin and Gulick, Greek Grammar; Liddell and Scott, Greek Lexicon; a Greek text of Plato (Oxford Classical texts). Total cost about $30, but the books cover both semesters. There are also numerous dittos distributed covering the exta-aneous matter.	\	.
Organization: In addition to the regular translation; there . is a variable number of tests. “The number of tests is in inverse proportion to the size of. the class. In general; Greek has fewer tests; than other language, courses.”	: . -	\
Comments: "Greek is, undeniably,. a difficult language., Tt does, however, repay whatever effort is put into it. Robert Vacca , is at home teaching Greek, and his enthusiasm is a: considerable bolster against exasperation with a language7 which is definitely not like English. Mr. Vacca is precisely the kind of teacher" the Greek language needs: one who understands it thoroughly and who can generate and maintain interest in it. The Greek language got a bad reputation frorri tyrannical dons in Victorian~ times, and it is a shame. Mr. Vacca’s course always undergoes la moderate attrition at the end of the first semester ; of those who remain, a large number take Intermediate Greek from him. Stu-, dents of Greek are regarded as a precious commodity, and are therefore given as much attention and assistance-as they desire. . Students occasionally wish they had a firmer grasp of the principles and particulars of Greek grammar, but it seems to: be something which has to soak ini Arid the early translating gives a sense of achievement, a good thing indeed in a language that occasionally seems to be out to get you: Mr. Vacca likes to talk of it as a wrestling match, with the language responding* to a little manhandling. -	: '	-	’
40
Laurence Broestl, C.S:C.. German 341	•
Prose Masterpieces
Content: This course deals with selections from all peirods of German literature. The course will begin with Eschenbach, go through the Romanticists, and finish with ^recent authors. Father Broestl wants to shed light on some modern'problems and sees the selections as relevant to this theme. Discussion and reading will be in German. The prerequisite is two years of German, and “no sophomores need apply.” ?
Presentation: The presentation will be a combination of lecture and discussion]' Little use of audio-visual equipment is seen; perhaps a flick or two;] /	-
Readings: Some small Reclam, books will be used, as well as materials from periodicals. The forecast is one hundred pages per week, but then Reclam books are small. . f
Organization: Father Broestl wants this to be mainly a dis-. cussion course; papers .will number at most three. The grade will be 75% based on participation and:25% bn a Schlussprufung. .
Comments: Father. Bfoestl’s style is colloquial. He injects humor into his classes, which have.been.described as “fun.” In the past his classes.have not overemphasized brain work; they may. be enjoyed, but especially if the work. assigned has been done. .	~	\	.	x .
J. William Hunt - .	:
' Greek 400 .	/ '	: ‘	" ‘	' 7 '
Greek Glassies in Translation :	.
Content: This course offers a background study in the tradition and* understanding of original sources, for different Humanities majors. Among7 the authors studied will I be the Fathers of 'Philosophy, Criticism, Tragedy, History and-Epic. The Greeks authors are treated in a manner which ties them together, and each readirig tends to further enhance the next. Hopefully, the student will develop an understanding’ of the development of Greek culture as it is revealed in literature and - also an understanding of the Western debt to Greek culture?
Presentation: The course will be a balance of lecture and discussion, with emphasis on lecture. Mr. Hunt may bring hand- . outs arid outside sources into the discussions.
Readings: Homer, Illiad; Aeschylus, the Orestia; Sophocles, Antigone; Eurpides; the Medea; Aristophanes, the Birds; Plato, Phaedo^ Crito and Apology; Thucydides, Peloponnesian Wars; Aristotle, Poetics, Secondary works and commentaries are • not required.	f;
Organization: The one demand which Mr. Hunt makes of the student is that he read the material closely. There will probably be two papers, a short onerin mid-semester rind a longer one at the end on topics of the student’s choice. In addition to
The Scholastic
these papers, 50% of the grade.will be based on a. final exam. The exam may be take-home, but will definitely be essay.
Randolph Klawiter
German 400	. .
Scientific 'German ..
Content: Twenty minutes of the class period will be devoted to grammar. The rest;of the time will be spent translating German scientific essays into English. The object is for the student to learn to read and understand scientific German. All the readings will be from this, our twentieth century, and most will be from the last twenty exciting years. Prerequsite for the course is one year of German.
Presentation : The class will likely , be directed by Mr. Klawiter with students participating briefly in response = to . his . questions.	.
Reading: Readings will come from Deutsche. Ue'bungen (a grammar) and a German scientific reader. .
Organization: The class works three times on pre-assigned selections. There will be a. quiz perhaps once every two weeks on material directly from the texts. There-will also be a final.
Comments: This-will perhaps be more traditional than a literature. course, and hence students may get less a chance to experience Mr. Klawiter as a person.
Joseph A. Gatto
Russian 435	.
Russian Literature 1
. Content : By using Russian literary texts translated into English, the course aims at surveying Russian literature from its early times to the end of the 19 th century. Emphasis is placed on the major authors of the last century: Pushkin, Lermontov, Turgenev, Gogol, Dostoevsky, and Tolstoy. Prerequisite being avid interest and some familiarity with Russian literature.
Presentation: TheTectures are usually good, based on the teacher’s own research. Responsibility is placed upon the students, however, to make the course successful. They are encouraged at all times to contribute personal insights. The atmosphere is quite relaxed, with Mr. Gatto providing the unifying force between lectures, discussions, and the assigned . texts.	'
, Readings: The texts are good, specially chosen from each of Russian literary history. They range from manuscript excerpts and short stories to major novel—e.g. Brothers Karamozov. About . eight books constitute the reading with sufficient time alloted for. each assignment. There are no papers dr exams.: Instead, groups of students choose an author and give a minor seminar on the man and his works. A two-fold aim is thereby achieved:
. the student reads and becomes acquainted with the major works of the authors, but becomes deeply involved with one particular writer. Student responsibility extends to a personal grade
. evaluation at the-.conclusion of the course. •	-
Comments: This writer enjoyed the relaxed atmosphere.of the class and the congenial personality of the teacher, .as well as the learning - experience gained from the 'other members of the ..class. She would recommend, this class to anyone who has ever “turned chicken” at the sight of a Russian novel.: .	.
Aleksis Rubulis	.
Russian 445	-
Literature in Russian I	:	.
Content: This coursers the first part of a two semester chronological'survey of Russian literature’and literary movements. Mr. Rubulis: lectures in Russian and it is suggested that the student have at least two years off Russian language courses behind -him. It is possible to take this course with less than the suggested language study if the student is fairly'proficient, in
April 25, 1972
the language. Stress is placed not only upon factual material, but also upon expanding the student’s vocabulary. Mr. Rubulis . uses English only when the class does not understand a particular point he is trying to make.	.
Presentation: This course consists entirely of lectures which are all well prepared. Usually Mr. Rubulis will give a short biography of a writer and then the class will read a selection of his works in Russian and traslate them. Mr. Rubulis also gives an interpretation of the work and encourages class discussion. From time to time short illustrated films on a selection are shown in class.
Readings: There is no book for this class. All the reading selections are mimeographed and passed out to the class. In addition, Mr. Rubulis passes out a book on the lives of various Russian writers which the student may keep for reference. The readings vary greatly in style. Some are fairly easy to read, while others which are written in archaic Russian can be read only in class. A considerable amount of time is spent on Pushkin and last year The Captain’s Daughter was read in its entirety. For the most part the readings are well chosen and quite interesting. ■ .	.
Organization: There are three tests including the final. They consist of two or three essay questions and, if possible, quotes from four or five selections read for which the student ■ must identify the work and author. The essays are to be written in Russian, but the student is allowed to use some English if he runs into trouble. The tests stress the major ideas of the particular writers and the student is encouraged to present his own views on a work as long as he backs up his comments. Mr. Rubulis is a very fair grader.	<■
Comments : This course is well worth taking for the student who has a serious interest in Russian literature. Mr. Rubulis is most willing to help his students- learn Russian and gain an appreciation of Russian literature. The amount of Russian spoken in the course depends upon the background of the students in the class. If possible, Mr. Rubulis would like to have discussions with the class in Russian. The classes are uually quite interesting and the teacher’s enthusiasm for. the subject often rubs off on his students.
J. W. Hunt
Comparative Literature 450
Classical and Renaissance Epic
Content: By a literary analysis of the major epics of Greece, Italy and England—as well as through a reading of some related heroic poems—the student is introduced to the epic “genre” and acquainted with the distinct but related voices of some of its principal poets. Although many of the themes treated recur and evolve throughout the poems to be read, equal stress will be given to the meaning of each poem in itself as an organic structure. In general, understanding of the problems that are treated in epic poetry, understanding of the epic tradition, and understanding of the epic dimension of thought and expression: All . this should grow during the course as a by-product of the successive readings from Homer to Milton. There are no language prerequisites, although a knowledge of either Greek, Latin or Italian would enhance the student’s investigation.
Presentation: This course is both lecture and discussion, with the emphasis clearly on discussion. The class is small, allowing Mr. Hunt to converse informally and to dwell as long on each text as is needed.
Readings: The course concentrates on four major authors: Homer’s Iliad and Odyssey, Virgil’s Aeneid, Dante’s Divine Comedy, and Milton’s Paradise Lost. As much as time allows, three shorter works will be read: Gilgamesh, Beowulf and the Song of Roland. Mr. Hunt is famous for his numerous handouts: anything and everything which will add to the understanding of the material. He has many secondary texts and commentaries which are helpful and recommended, but not required.
Organization : Mr. Hunt has only one demand of the student at the beginning of the course: very close reading of the text. Two papers will be asked for during the course, a short paper in the middle and a longer, ten page, paper at the end. There is a comprehensive essay exam at the end of the course, and may be take-home. The topic for the papers is left up to the
41
student, as long as they are based on the course material. The grade is based about 50% on the test and 50% on the papers. Comments:Mr. Hunt’s classroom manner effectively com-
Comparative Literature 400
municates his interest both in the student’s ideas and in the Seminar in Comparative Methods and student himself. He introduces a vast array of outside material,	;
in order to enrich the: dimension of - the discussions. When he Criticism .	.	,	: /
comes upon a sufficiently interesting point in class, he will explore and elaborate until, either it is wholly exposed or he is out of breath. The student quickly learns that it Js to his own advantage to sit and listen whenever the professor has the urge, to lecture. Mr. Hunt’s treatment of both the material and the
student combine in this course , to add a rich dimension to the T ,	-
study of epic poetry.	/ / ,.	txattO//
We feel that the following outline, which describes the Program in Comparative Literature, may be of interest to some students. The program is located in the Modern Language ’Department and will begin operation next fall.'The courses listed in the outline may be evaluated in another section of the booklet. Several of them are not available during the fall semester!	.
Program in Comparative Literature
This program is designed to clarify central problems common to different national traditions, and to formalize cross-cultural work toward definition of literature as a'unified discipline. The aim of the program is to develop beyond competence in one literature a capacity to deal with periods across national lines
and with genres throughout their evolution, relating literature in the process to different arts and to other Humanities areas. The sequence requires 10 advanced courses and;a reading knowledge
J. William Hunt /
of one foreign language. One introductory seminar is .shared by . ConiDarativC Literature 450
all students, and one related Humanities, course is later chosen	~j ri' /	~
individually outside literature. Within this later framework “ the .Classical	Epic
student organizes with approval eight courses, to fit his special .
interest; four in any-single literature selected from Modern and
Classical Languages or English, and four in Comparative Literature chosen from those described below.,-These are open also as electives without language' prerequisites to all: Humanities majors.	. ;	/ ;.	,
J. William. Hunt . and Staff
Theory of literature and methods of comparative study approached thorugh primary and critical works. Fall semester.
Comparative Literature 435 /
Russian Literature oftthe 19th Century
A study of writers from Puskin to Tolstoy with ; attention to English and Continental influences upon them. Fall semester. .
Joseph Gatto
Comparative Literature: 436	.
Russian and Soviet Literature of the 20th
Century - 4 . 4;, . 4 . : : /	. /
A. study of writers-from Chekhov to Solzhenitsyn surveying pre-revolutionary European; trends in Russia and laterSocialist Realism. Spring semester. ~ ‘	_
Developmental-analysis of; the epic genre defining its methods and purpose?" Principal /readings7 in Homer, Virgil, Dante and Milton. Fall;semester. , '	- // //-	: ,
COURSES
Aleksis Rubulis -	44/4 4	4/'’ -4
Comparative Literature. 337. .//44 4/';' ,/
East European Literature ' > J j- 4 . \	- ' '
A "study :of'r the principal''literary/ schools, movements4and writers . in East-Central - Europe / and / their f conflicts . with ; both . Eastern and Western: cultures. Fall semester/ \ / b \
Aleksis Rubulis !>.	.-;/4/44 4/
Comparative dbite^
Literature of - the; Sovibt Republics
A study of . the 4 princip^
writers among the Soviet nationalities ■ and 'an/^aminatio^ prehistoric Caucasian heroic/ epics/ /; ?? " r //ft*/S / / //>’// f /;
■Joseph; Gatto / '
Comparative Literature 35.1;//: 4////;4/;/ Major Characters in ^Literature f/f////!
Study , of Electra, Tristan, T'ausC and fDon Juan; as Ithemes evolving^ through different national literatures. Fall semester./
J.; Wilham.;Huht/:/"4/	? . 4
. Comparative Literature 452	4
; The/Nature!^	.	- .
/Inductive survey; of /the tragic/genre exploring its nature and significance. Readings ?frpnv-Classical, a Renaissance, /Neo-classical and Modern periods.4	/
.. Klaus“Larizin^r	j.4 . . ..
Comparative Literature '459// 4/4 / American-European Literary Relations . . .. .
r /A4comparative/seminar^	cultural ::
1 relations; from/the 19 th; century; tolhe. present. Also listed, under /American Studies/ Spring semester/ / ;- / >	4 \ 4 '
RandolphKlawiter 7
.The Age; of Enlightenment//!/: ■ 44///44/4
4 An investigation of/ the . deistic cqncep^^ yman// society/ \ religion and aesthetics/? in /18th-centa'^England,^France/and ; Germany. Fall semester^-. / /	//- //—., 4 -
TheScholastic
Randolph Klawiter Comparative Literature 495 .
European Romanticism
An inquiry into the philosophical principles of the Romantic movement * through analogous: national literatures of Europe from 17 70 tol840. Falls ernes ter//	. :	-
Randolph Klawiter Comparative Literature 485 Renaissance Humanism '
A study of the sources, goals and aspirations of 15th century Humanism and its subsequent relations with the 16th-century Reformation. Fall semester.
Further course for the major of a. Comparative Literature nature listed here will be found described .under English: 311' (The Existential Novel), 312 (The Education^ Novel), 324 (The Criminalin Literature), 333 (The City as Symbol), 396 (Modern European Fiction), 405 (Comparative'Seminar), 410/(Age of the Hero),-422 (Comedy), 432 (West-European Medieval _ Literature, and 540 (Satura: The Book as World).
Francis Lazenby
Classics 450
Greek and Roman Mythology
Content: The professor hopes to cover the main. Greek myths and' highlights of the Roman myths and - conclude the course with a discussion of the mysteries and Mythra. The material is not approached thematically, but factually and from a standpoint of relative importance.. The Greek world generated niany interesting myths with influence on. the Western world in artand literature. It would be impossible during the time avail-, able to, elaborate on the recurrences of various myths in Western culture, therefore the emphasis is placed on a factual study of the -myths/themselves. Greek mythology predominates, as often Roman mythology war either:reworked history or captive Greek ; mythology There is no . language \requirement or other pre-/ requisites and the course is open to students from all colleges. *
4 Presentation: By the nature of the material,? the course . is taught in a lecture situation. However, Mr. Lazenby becomes familiar with, each student by name, and Vis/always willing to . ' answer/questions. There is a chance that ’the course/will be . : taught in two sections, so that each class will have 15-20 students./ /	_ . _	- /	/ / . //. ’	' .	1 -
/Readings:; The basic text for/the course is ClassicalMyth-* blogy /by/Morford and ‘ Lenardon. The reading is by nd means difficult, although there is much information to be remembered.
t , Organization: There will be five announced quizzes which // will account for two-thirds of the grade. Although this is more
' ./work/forthe professor, this/makes it easier for the student," as . 'the'material does not pile; up too heavily before a quiz. The re/ /. maining/thifd of the grade is .based on an objective final .exam.
/" The questions'are comprehensive, "aimed1, at the student’s gen-. ’ / -?eraL knowledge of mytliolbgy./ For example/ the professor would, / /and each student is Table to speak in every: class,1 there will be no
? /. ' final/ / If :not,' an - oral - final is/given; >' A paper which/ covers : sevefab: works .is also -expected/and/is/due; at the end ofthe .
: ' / course?/Gradesmainly on/the; paper and discussion, //.' with/the 7oraL. final,- when necessary/ being used a to /see~ if the * { // / f studehtchas read the material. Forex ample, the professor iwilL-. : ./ / ask for-parallels between" myths rather than; the morej particular ‘// / type: of {question asked in the quizzes?;
\./-///CommentsGreek;-and Roman'mythology^^ recurs/ /// / .in our everyday v use of languageandin - o uf - con tact {with; art/and v:
; literature./ The presentation of the material; is/ more/than? ade/ L //- /quate/an^^	is never .to^quicHy/pace&j/^
- / certainly; accohiplishes what he {intends: to/do/:< / g /' / // - /// >/?
V/A	/	?	/ "
Francis' Lazenby Classical'Archaeology
, Classics -455
.Content: This course is designed as an introduction to the science of archaeology through the study of the art and architecture of ancient Greece. Through an analysis of education, food,-clothing, religion, household arrangements and political institutions, one gains an understanding of everyday life in the days of Homer, Plato, and Aristotle. The course begins at Homer’s Troy, moves to Crete, Mycenae, and Delphi, and ends at the Acropolis is Athens.
Presentation: The presentation consists mostly of visual material selected from Mr. Lazenby’s extensive slide collection. All the slides are exceptionally good. Due to the visual nature . of the course, regular attendance is highly recommended.
. Readings: There is only one text, The Greek Stones Speak by McKendrick (95c).	„
Organization : The final grade is determined by three quizzes (more than ample preparation is given), one informal, oral report, and a final.	...
; :Comments: Mr. Lazenby is,a very enthusiastic mentor who is more than willing to field any and all questions from the class. He is abreast of-the most recent literature in his field, and has an intimate knowledge of everything that goes on in tlass. Lectures are supplemented with artifacts displayed from Mr. Lazen-by’s personal collection. No previous knowledge of Greek or Latin is required. « - .
Walter M. Langford
Spanish 465
Latin AmericanShort Story
Content: This course is most highly recommended as being most useful for students who have a background in Spanish beyond the level of elementary or intermediate Spanish at Notre Dame, or their equivalents. The course will be conducted in Spanish, but is primarily a reading course, and, therefore, reasonable; proficiency is expected. Greater attention will be paid .to the reading and individual analysis of each story than to any/analysis within a literary historical framework. There will, of course, be some mention of broad categories such as periods, major stylistic schools, principal authors, etc., but emphasis will . be en the further learning of Spanish.
Presentation : Classes will be a combination of lecture and , discussion. Mr.. Langford’s clarity and deliberateness in speaking. should make the job of following his lectures not overwhelming for someone with a familiarity with spoken Spanish. Discussions will center around stories read in common or reports of stories by students which are not read in common.
Readings There will be one text common to the class, an anthology t of - short stories probably in the three to five-dollar price range. Other collections and anthologies will be on reserve in the library from which the student will get the remainder of his readings. .
Organization: Participation in class discussion and one-page analyses of the stories read, will be the chief factors in , grade determination,1 and a final .paper of from six to ten pages will also be.required, developing an analysis of the work of one . author,. period -or country, or comparing and contrasting _ the outputs of two authors, periods or countries, for example. Very few-.and very brief quizzes will be based on any historical, or critical information on the literature studied which might be given!in lectured The same sort of material will be the content of r affinal examination which will be of minimal value in theffinal ? grade determination./ Most valuable for success in the course , / will/be a < constant reading effort.-
/ // Comments : Mr. Langford balances his course between a ./language ^course, and . a literature course. It tends toward a // preoccupation withSpanishin the classroom. Langford’s lecture /- is/avaluable vocabulary lesson. Literature is experienced chiefly
/ in/the/readings themselves and1 the student’s critical instinct can //best/be? ven ted in the analyses of stories. Well-placed, questions ■ . can trigger an answer full of interesting data and opinion and
/	43
are worth asking, given Langford’s extensive background in Hispanic culture.
Robert Vacca Greek 464 Archaic Greek
Content.- “The course deals with the literature of Archaic
Randolph Klawiter
Contemporary Literature 495
Romanticism	:V
Content: Selections by the Romanticists of England, Germany, France and Italy will be offered here. Mr. Klawiter hopes the readings will give -insight into.> theological, philosophical, aesthetic, historical, and psychological questions. Ideally, the students will develop their own principles based on what they have
Greece (8th-5th centuries B.C.)—Homer to; Herodotus. I am	.	......	.
• chiefly interested in bringing out the religious,'political,-, and . read. This class, will be conducted/in English, but language, moral ideas that are the.foundation of classical Greek. civiliza- . - majors are welcome.; . " -	‘
Presentation: This will.be less Mr. Klawiter’s responsibility
than the students’. While he may, open a topic; or ask: probing
tion. The historical context of the literature will be-supplied by supplementary lectures.”	.
Presentation.’ The course will be largely lecture-with-■ questions, with occasional discussions. It is completely in English.	'
Readings: Homer, Iliad and Odyssey; Hesiod, Poems; Lattimore, Greek Lyrics; Pindar, Odes; Aeschylus, Persians, and Eleven Against Thebes; Herodotus, The Persian Wars; Burnet, Early Greek Philosophy; Kirk, Homer- and the Epic; Finley,. The World of Odysseus; Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy./All in paperback, total cost about $20.00. Recommended readings will be oin reserve. . . ■	. -	■	- -	-
Organization: a) Three take home essay tests, all on the same question, b) A paper—maybe;—of fifteen pages. “If I assign one, it would be on the same subject as the test questions, enabling the student to pull together and make an organized statement of his work throughout the semester.”
Comments.’ Robert Vacca is a good teacher. His massive knowledge of Greek is apparent in his lectures, and the excite- . ment with which he teaches is commonly, infectious. . It is a pleasure to watch a teacher who actively enjoys being in the classroom. While it is not accurate to say that all his students become deeply involved in his courses; a- surprisingly high . percentage take and enjoy more than one of his courses. Mr. Vacca makes himself very available for extraneous discussion , with those who want it. The Greek mentality is especially accessible to us children of America, and this-course,,by virtue
questions, the students will carry the ball from there. If you’re afraid of using your oral, talents, this may not be for you. The class will meet one night a week.." -	-
Readings:: One of the texts will-be Romanticism (Harper & Row). The other readings will be taken from a bibliography on Romanticism.	, - .	J.
. Organization:. The student .will be expected to report on three books from; the bibliography. These won’t be short one-page book reports, but to some extent probing reflections on the. works. .. The student will, show what; he’s worth through class participation. A final will be .given which will.be a thinking, learning experience and not an exercise of memory. .	.
Comments :, Mr. Klawiter is .demanding; if a student knows something, he will elicit it. Though he knows Romanticism thor. oughly,-he does not;lord it over his students. If the students are willing, to. do' their share, with Mf. Klawiter’s guidance, they will know what Romanticism is all about.
Klaus Lanzinger ;
German 495
Contemporary German Prose
of its considerable.-ability to give the student a background iri Greek thought, is valuable.	-
Sister Sophronia Cariveau
Modern Language 493
Dostoevsky ■/	. .
Content: The fountainhead period of "German literature since. Goethe" is thethematic point of reference for Mr- Lan. . zinger’s development of the emerging .German novel. The course stresses the synthesis of the diffuse European litefaiy movements. - and countermbvemerits of the/late 18th and early ,19th cen’ furies. Mr. Lanzinger. moves from the intricate bourgeois realism of Thomas Mann to the naturalistic strain led by Gerhard Hauptman and Arno Holz, to the neo-romanticism of Herman Hesse, the psychological realism of /Arthur Schnitzler and the surrealistic and dadaistic tendencies in Franz Kafka. .	--
Readings: Primary readings include Mann’s Buddenbrooks, . Hesse’s Das 'GlasperlenspieT(Magister. Ludi), and Kafka’s Der - Pro'zess, with secondary emphasis upon intermediary authors to . complete the" picture./The "primary readings of the course are capacious .novels,-but Mr./Lanzinger breaks down the. reading assignmerits into reasonable episodes. ;	’/”’-*	.
Organization: Course requirements are two papers in German, 5-8 pages, and.midterm andfinal exams. Classes usually do hot exceed; 20 and Mr. Lanzinger’s charismatic old7world disposition makes him easily accessible1 to students.	'
. ’ Content: The course is basically concerned with the main works of Dostoevsky,. his life, and his philosophy. By: using: outside sources, Sister Sophie also brings in many Russian critics and. their/opinions of Dostoevsky which broadens one’s under-.
' standing of,both the.author-and.rhis works. There.are no pre-/ requisites for this/course.’ ? < , -	, - / , . '.■	■ ’
Presentation:; Sister Sophie combines both lecture and class discussion in/a' very 'skilled manner?-. The "emphasis"is placed on discussion, with, lectures being, used; only to/introduce works and / to clarify certain ;pbitns. These discussions are directed, by . / Sister -Sophie in/such a way; that; the/student?delves.into the -many various/aspects, of .Dostoevsky.:' By/asking' pointed philosophical questions, she/ehcoufages/thefstudent .to/take- a .deeper look into the works and thereby, gain a? betier/understanding of ' both the man and: his?worL (.; ////-///;/////.-•-.. . .	.
Klaus Lanzinger : . / ... .
German V ' Contemporary German;
- • V. Content.- The; development of the German novel from. 1900 ; tol 920-will be. the;; topic of-this y course. The period.will be ■ experienced; through readings and discussions of as few . works. ;Mr./Lanzinger' wants'- to- demonstrate the development of tthe
-. Readings: “White. Knight,’’/-“The-ChristmanTree and the . Wedding,’’ “The, Gentle/-Preacher,” and“The Dream/ of the, . Ridiculous Man” in Best Short Stories of - Dostoevsky, House/of- , - the-Dead, Notes'from, the 'Underground,'Crime and -Punishment,-
The Idiot; The Possessed, and The Brothers Karamazov. The student is given ample time to do these various readings. /. ' .-//-/,	„ - .	.	.
._ -Organization: The student is expected to .keep up with the. . '.international novel before the Great-War by way of; the; Ger-.. -readings and participate in. the discussions. If the class is small,* , man/novel. An advanced German or literature.1 survey course, each student is able to speak in every class, there will-be. no in German is the.prerequisite. It’s hoped that the course will;.
. final. If ;.not, an oral-final is given. A paper which covers 1 consist mostly of juniors and seniors, with many an.- Alt-Inns-/ several works is also expected- and is due at the end of the brucker. The class will be conducted auf Deutsch..-._?/ ;/■ course. Grades are based-.mainly.on the paper and discussion, < -//Presentation.’ .The class-will meet once a. week, together .with the oral, final, when necessary, being used to see if the stu-: / and,once a week in two sections. The first session-in the.week dent has read,the material.- / . .	//	:	/. .. - will likely be a lecture; the smaller sections will rely more on
44 '	.	.	The Scholastic
discussion. Mr. Lanzinger. usually gets right to the point he’s attempting to make. Perhaps, three of four themes will be discussed in a period.	\	: *'r - ;-
„ Readings: ' Selections will betakenfromThomasMann3 Buddenbrocks; Herman Hesse, Glassperlenspiel; Franz r Kafka, Prozess; and Schnitzler, Novellen.7 About seventy pages will, be read each week. ■	'	* . ' '	/	/	/.
Organization/ There will be two 4r5 page papers to be done, in German/ concerning literary themes from the works. Mr. Lanzinger . expects students to come up with some good,
personal/irisights, based on their reflections on the works read. There will /also be two objective, comprehensive exams. These usually consist of twenty or so short-answer questions. The papers/will be given somewhat more weight than the exams.
/ Comments: Students don’t have trouble keeping up with assignments in this course. Though Mr. Lanzinger has some firm/ideas about literature, he is open to new and different views. He expects these to crop up in the essays. Mr. Lanzinger is not overly demanding; you will get out of the course what you put into it.
Music
Sister Robertia Urban
Music 210	.
Introduction to Music	, .
Content : This is primarily a course in music appreciation. The aspects of musical shape are considered in terms of sound, texture, timbre, rhythm, harmony, theme and motif. The overall . musical shape arid structure is examined through the works of. Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Shubert, Stravinsky, Bartok and others. The airii of the course is to convey to the student what he should listen for in a piece of music as well as how to listen for it; to acquire some appreciation of music and, ultimately, to enable the student to make a critical appraisal'of a musical work7. One change'which is ; to be introduced next semester is with , regard to the number of credits for the course, which are to be . raised to three.	-	\
* Presentation: Because it is an appreciation course, the . format of’the classes emphasizes the listening aspects. There are some brief supplementary commentaries made by Sister Robertia. ;
Readings: The text for this course is Listening to Music, Crocker and Bassert ($9.95).	n
Organization: Work outside the class includes attendance at , five programs and a short paper on each. Most of the classwork is of a listening nature. The lectures, when given, are designed: to supplement the text as well as to guide the student toward a more complete understanding ;of music while listening to its performance. ;	\	\	:
Comment: This course is designed to give the student a background in music appreciation. It is for those who have little or no such background or understanding of the various aspects / of riiusical sound and structure. The work load is not demanding. The text used is not always complete in its presentation of the material, but this deficiency is more than adequately_compen-sated for by Sister Roberta’s commentaries. The course attempts to give a good foundation in music appreciation from the point 7 of view of musical sound and is directly applied to, and derived „ from the works of music which the average person could reason-/ ably expect to contact throughout his life. The atmosphere in . class is informal and relaxed and consequently a good deal of . material is covered. I found the course valuable in that it enabled .me to participate with greater understanding in the experience of music—both in concert and^recorded performances.	.
. 'Daniel'Pedtk'eA < } / / ., -A . . - --■Music-212 . ■	""‘A-<?	’
7 Classical/Masters	..
- " ~ A-,	'*	i-’ A	: *’• ' *5 t	7- - .	A *„
/ Content: Thiscourse concerns itself with the classical period / ; of music history, and witKthe symphonic material written during this period. Ten symphonies are covered: J three by Haydn,' three ? by Mozart,, three by? Beethoven "and one .by Brahms. The'class attempts to provide the students, who-have either limited or no
April 25,1972	..
musical- background with the ideas, structures, styles and techniques which embody this particular musical genre.
Presentation: The format of the course is basically lecture. The first two weeks of the class are devoted to an explanation of . the basic principles of music, as well as a survey of music history leadirig up to the- classical period. During the rest of the semester, the various symphonies are discussed individually and played in class.
Readings : There are no required readings for this course^
' Organization : There are three tests plus a final exam, with the major emphasis placed on the final. The tests involve the playing of any given section of a particular symphony, which the student is expected to identify, as well as name the composer and answer certain other questions. There are a number of short identification quizzes given throughout .the semester. The student is also: required to turn in a notebook at the end of the semester for evaluation.
.Comments: Mr. Pedtke does a commendable job of explaining the ideas behind, and the structures of, classical music in layman’s terms. Little outside work is required of the student, although it is highly recommended that he prepare for the tests by listening to the symphonies in the audio-center of the library. The student is not expected, and should not expect to leave the course with a firm understanding of music theory. The course, however, provides enough comprehensible information about symphonic structure to give one an appreciative ear for classical music.
. Father -Patrick Maloney	...
Music? 213	-	•
Introduction to Opera
Content :;;In this course, the student is exposed to the literature of operatic music from its beginnings in the Baroque period to the twentieth century, with an emphasis being placed on the opera of the . nineteenth century. Father Maloney attempts to provide the context in which the drama, as well as the music, of opera as an artistic genre may be experienced by the student. In addition, he seeks to convey a better understanding of the human voice as a musical instrument. This is accomplished through a comparative analysis of several interpretations of the same work, . in order that, at the course’s conclusion, the student may be able to evaluate the performance, as well as the content, of a particular openu It is an attempt to give a historical, as well as an artistic and critical, perspective of what can be expected in the world T of opera. Although no particular musical background is required, at least a basic desire to discover the meaning of opera - is assumed.
Presentation: The major emphasis in the course is on listening. Lectures are designed to supplement the readings, as well as to stimulate and guide class discussion.
Readings: There are two required texts for this course: Opera as Drama—a critical work by Joseph Kennan ($1.95);
45
traces the similarities, of these pieces to those of a more classical variety: In this ,way. the student is led to a greater understanding of the structure and operation of'music. With the background obtained from. this, course, a. student might wish to continue his. exploration of the world of music.	-
Presentation: This is a lecture course. ' ■	,
Readings: There are no required texts. The material for the class is presented entirely from .Mr. Biondo’s personal manuscripts. ; Organization:; Mr,- Biondo’s lectures.provide the structural nucleus around which the course is built. These are both informal and informative. .Each-day he reviews the material covered in the' previous class. In. this. way. a cumulative'review is built up over the course of the semester. There are three tests given during the. semester,/for all of which there is ample preparation, in class. Assignments are given' each/day .in order for. the student to focus on . what he has learned , and to'teach him how to apply that . knowledge to specific; musical situations. .
.	. Comment :This is an, excellent-course for people, who. have
little previous familiarity- with music and who .would like a greater, understanding of its/techniques and basic formulas. The purpose of the- course is to foster a-.greater enjoyment of music through greater-awareness .of its operations. The ever-increasing
. enrollment testifies .to the success and enjoyment derived from it.
Father Patrick Maloney .	.
Music 253 :	’ :	\	"
Vocal Music, and Techniques
■ Content: This course is given, cyclically/by the. Department of Music, and is offered subject to .'the number bf students en-
. rolled. -It is primarily1; designed /for- music-education majors, though it may = possibly be taken by general education ..majors who might plan to teach . music. At least a minimum under- . standing of music theory is required. The direction of this course, is toward the development of- a familiarity with elementary school -textbooks of music.-These, will be examined and evaluated from' the point' of view of their adaptability to the classroom situation and: ability to teach, music on the elementary-level. The four current, schools, of . thought jwhich will receive primary emphasis
- are: the Montessori/the.Carl Orff, the Kbdaly and the Dalcroze methods.' .	;	.	’ , '/ . ■’ . ' '	.	.
. Presentation:. The/material, of”the/course' is to bfe divided arid given -primarily/'seminar treatment;	,
Readings,: The ;texts/which. are;to/be-studied, in'.this course ■ will: be1 determined, upon the 'release' of /summer-fall, publication . , lists.-. There, will/also be/as .much . reading of books and periodicals in the field of music education' as is possible. ; /. /".-/	., :
.Organization: ; There/are/.to /be/several -specific, topical seminar:/assignments.,- These- will . involve short papers on the readings/and; texts, examined,/as well;.as short; reports'on., the -visits to classrooms in the Soufh/Bend school system, which are planned./These-assignments/will constitute the test prograrri.for the course and are not, therefore, essentially designed in terms of -a’questibn-answer.Tdrmat/	-;:'7/ ' /	... //',.' /
/ Sister Robertia Urban /
Music 242 -	'
-History of Music	/ /	-	' K
-	/	- --/■ ■- ’ -J1* * V - c - * "z '' -	' ■>- _	* -> ■
-Content: This/section of . Music/History, is the/first part, of a two-semester study of the ’evolutiori of. music. Because it is iri-. tended to present.a deeper analysis of the History of Music, this course is .primarily designed for riiusic. majors, though/non-majors with at least some background in music arid with a desire to .ex- . ; plpre the’field somewhat more deeply, niay also fake, the course./
A-.musical background ■ of some kind is' necessary/ for the first / semester because the material presented during the first semester is generally less familiar to the student. It’ is an attempt to examine the evolution of music front its primitive-forms up to about the. time of J,. S. Bach; In the course of the first semester, the theories, styles and structures of music which were to evolve into the music ; of the Classical and .Romantic/ periods are thoroughly, examined-: and related to the developments of the other art forms. .	_ /
.	The Scholastic
and Opera. Themes and Plots—a handbook of synopses by Rudolf Fellmen ($2.25).	,	.
Organization: The usual assignments for this course are the listening to and criticism of one or two operas from a personal point of view, taking into account the historical, dramatic, musical and performance aspects of the work (s). This is the bulk of the outside work required.In addition,:much outside listening is suggested and encouraged with the intention of broadening and intensifying the understanding of opera.. The. number- of . tests varies from semester to semester and are used primarily for. the student to focus on his own exploration of the materials with which he has come into contact. This involves a familiarity, with . the readings and lectures, but also allows for any knowledge or experience of opera which the student develops on his own. .
Comment: Opera is a part of . the world of music—and of drama—which is sometimes overlooked. Father Maloney, who is himself a singer, brings to the course an extensive background and thorough understanding of the material. Although the required workload is not particularly heavy, a student taking this 'course is expected to apply'himself as much J as'possible to the exploration of opera as a complete artistic genre. The entire presentation and organization of the course is directed toward the individual student response to the literature of opera presented,- and, ultimately, the value of the course and the intensity of the experience of opera is determined by the student. The material is presented thoroughly and in an effective combination of listening, lectures and discussion. For those who are looking for as complete an exposure to the literature of opera, as an introductory course will allow—and who are willing to give as much . of themselves as necessary—this course can be rewarding and is recommended as such.	.	.
Charles A. Biondo	J ;	. .
Music 232 .
Basic Harmony
Content: The Basic Harmony course might be considered a continuation of the material presented in the Fundamentals of Music course. As the Harmony course is somewhat more in depth —presenting a basic study of modulation and chromatic harmony —a familiarity with the material presented in the Fundamentals . course is assumed.	'	'/--';	;-/'--	■
Presentation: This is a lecture course.	?	.	.
Readings: The text for this course is.-Walter. Piston’s
Harmony.	' '	'	;	’ ■ -• ' -. • '
Organization : The course is structured around Mr. Biondo’s . lectures and a. discussion of the material presented.. Assignments are given to increase the student’s ability to work.with, music, arid increase his familiarity with it.- . Tests are. given • periodically through the semester, primarily as a gauge to determine the,depth . of familiarity with the subject matter. : ;.'/;	/ ...
Comment: Despite its more technical aspects, /this/course/ is for non-majors. It does not go into the depth of .music , analysis as a major course, but the material necessary to; a*-furtheriurider-standing of music is presented in an enjoyable and fascinating manner. A student who completed the work for this course would ’ find himself: in a position to. give.a basic analysis, of-a.'work r of music and could, if he. chose to do so, go on to study; music and its theory in greater detail. . Mr. Bipndo stimulates -a greater appreciation of an interest in music.by revealing its basic:concepts.
Charles A. Biondo >?'?// .>
Music 230 ? . d - ;
Fundamentals, of Music
Content: As the name suggests, this course ;is?a/study. of:the/ most fundamental aspects of music theory. It'.is,a course for,non^ majors who have virtually no- previous", background/ iri music' theory and who wish to study music a bif more deeply; than a, simple appreciation course. The emphasis is on/, the functional aspects of theory. Mr. Biondo -presents/the/ important . harmonic formulas which serve as, the.-basis for/further study.-He begins with more modem styles of music familiar to the students, and
46
Presentation : The format of this class is primarily lecture and listening. In addition, slides are used to relate music to the art, sculpture and architecture of* the period under consideration.
Readings: The textbook for this course is A History of Western Music, by D. J. Grout ($9.50). In addition there is some’recommended outside reading from ■ related books, source materials from the periods involved, and an outside examination of the music itself.	, .	. .
Organization: There will be quizzes about every seven classes. These are designed to make the factual knowledge, presented in class relevant and applicable to particular situations. To, show—through the music—the history of music is the basic aim. In addition, either a term paper or a performance project and a final exam are required.
Comments:. This course provides the student with an intensive exposure to the development of music in Western civilization. . The emphasis is. always on the performance of the music itself— . how it sounds to the listener—and not .merely on what music • theorists had to say about it: The study of how and why certain qualities of sound were developed, and how they influenced later developments is the foundation for the course. Perhaps the early development of - musics' from. ’ the time of the ancient Greeks, through . the Medieval . and Renaissance periods, is not something . which would be of interest to everyone. For those people—both majors and non-majors—who are interested, however, the course provides the background . necessary for a’ more complete understanding of the. later developments of music.' Because of the intensity of the course,’the work load, is somewhat'heavier, though not impossible—mid always rewarding.
Sister . Robertia Urban
Music 243
History of Music
Content: This section of Music History is designed primarily for the non-major, and its content has been revised since its presentation last fall. Next semester, the course will not present a study of the early developments of music, but will begin with the late Baroque (Bach and Handel) and extend to the early Modern period (Debussey and the Impressionists). In addition, the Classical (Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven) and Romantic (in which the forms and styles, rather than individual composers will be emphasized) periods will be studied. The emphasis of the course is to establish a historical perspective of music in relation to the other arts. ’	■	’
Presentaton: The format of the course is a combination of listening to examples of music from the various periods, as well as discussion and lectures.
Readings: The text for this-course is Music in History by McKinney and Anderson and may be purchased in the bookstore for $9.95. In addition, suggested bibliographies of outside reading and listening will be given out. .
Organization : -Several-short papers comparing composers and works within a given period are required. In addition, two more detailed, though not necessarily more lengthy, papers comparing two periods or. the development of a period are assigned. There is also some required outside listening based on class material. There will be a test on each period as it is finished in class. These tests will be given during class time. There will also be one .take-home test of a listening nature. There will be a final exam at the conclusion of the course. Where possible, a performance-project is encouraged in place of one of the more important papers. The grading system breaks down, more or less, to 1/3 emphasis each on class participation, papers and final .. exam—^though this' system is varied slightly each semester.
Comment: Originally, this course had been the first part of a two-semester format, and it traced musical development up to the time of Bach. However, because of its non-major emphasis, the development of ancient and Renaissance music has been , dropped. This, I think, is a wise choice on the part of the Department of Music. The musical development from the time of . Bach is usually of greater value and interest for non-majors. In addition, the study of early music can be somewhat difficult without, an understanding of theory previously acquired. As it is, the course attempts to convey an understanding of music in the context? of cultural and artistic development as a whole. Its analysis of music is rather more historical than a general music appreciation course. Sister Robertia attempts to convey the perspective in . which music is seen as a reflection of the entire culture of the civilization of a period. It is an excellent course for those seeking this approach to the world of music.
47
April 25,1972
Philosophy
John Fitzgerald Philosophy 231 Philosophy of Man
Content: The course aims to examine fundamental issues about human behavior and ethics. Both the nature. of ethics and the nature and requirements of man will be examined in various works of literature. _ The first part of the course will be concerned with metaethical questions about the nature of systems and morals in themselves and will draw heavily on “contemporary” readings. The second part, which deals with the nature of man, will probably cover a wider spectrum of historical works. .	.
Presentation: Usually consists of lecture on the texts with discussion encouraged. Mr. Fitzgerald gets extremely abstract at times and student questions will tie the presentation down to the text a little more.	*
Readings: Will include selections from Russel, Ayer, Moore, Hare, and Ried for the first section and Plato, Smart, Broad, and Harding for the second. Pandora’s should carry a lot of these used.	,	.
Organization: Two short papers dealing with concepts in ethics, objective quizzes for each section and a final.
Comments: This is an elective course primarily for Sophomores and Juniors. No previous philosophy background is required so the course should be a representative survey and should be aimed more at ideas and themes than. peculiarities of various thinkers. . The lectures tend to be pretty dry so the more discussion the books generate the better. Mr.. Fitzgerald will be able to answer any, question, thrown at him and with a lot of comments and questions the course should be a good one. /
Joseph Evans .	.< i	. .
Philosophy 275 '	? ■//-.’■	-	'
Basic Concepts of Political Philosophy -
Content: This course begins with a reading of Antonine de. Exupery’s The Little Prince, Josef: Pieper’s Leisure, the Basis, of .Culture and Plato’s Apology and Crito, and proceeds to a discussion of basic concepts of political philosophy suchj asman’s vocation as a “see-er,” the nature of the ‘philosophical act,’ of the ‘aesthetic act/ of the ‘religious act’ as modes of ‘transcending , the workaday world’; man’s need for community; nature of political community; relationship between man and the body politic; the political ,common good; authority; unity and diversity, in political life; organized international political community; rights and duties; problem of private property; problem of capital punishment; the ambivalence of man and of human history.
Presentation: The course is a mixture of both lecture and discussion. Mr. Evans’ highly distinctive lectures cover quantitatively little “material.” He chooses his words with painstaking precision and repeats the fundamental ideas of the course again and again and again. A bright student could just about memorize the entire course word for word; The discussions are generated from questions asked during the lectures.	"	;	,
Readings: Plato:Apology, Crito, and the Republic; Aristotle: Politics, Bk. I, Ethics, Bk. VIII; Antonine de Saint-Exupery: The Little Prince; Josef Pieper: Leisure, the Basis of Culture; R; F. Capon: The Supper of the Lamb; Emanuel:Mounier: Personalism; Jacques Mari tain: The Social and Political Philosophy of Jacques Maritain; Man and the State; Yves Simon: Philosophy of Democratic Government; Robert Maclver: The Web of Government; Aldous Huxley: Grey Eminence; Gerard Manley Hopkins:
48	.	-
Selected Poems; Pope John: Pacem in Terris; Pope Paul: Popu-lorum Progression
Organizations , Students are. expected to participate in three in-class “serious writing engagements.” The grade is; based on these and the final exam/Mr. Evans usually asks the students to answer very broad, open-ended questions which demanded understanding and integration of the lectures and readings. For ex, ample: “Germs of insight found, in the Little Prince open out unto full-blown ideas in some of our other readings. Discuss.”
Comments : One professor in the philosophy department recently remarked that this course is popular less because of the content than because , of the quality of life of the professor. Indeed, most students do seem less interested in political philosophy than in listening to a man who is able to “pierce the dome of the workaday .world.’/ . ;	'
Those students who themselves are able to do the same thing usually are wildly enthusiastic about the course and consider it one of the few good courses taught in the university. Those students ;who simply, want to “learn the stuff ’ and do well on the exams generally find the course boring and repetitious. In this writer’s opinion, the, course should be taken by any serious student.	, *	-	, :	"	,
Kenneth Goodpaster : .
Philosophy 273	. } ,	.
Ethics . ; . ,	_
, Content:. Thcthrustof this one-semester course is an attempt to come to grips critically and simultaneously with problems of moral philosophy on z at least three levels. The first level of problems.is connected with„ the:main forms of ethical theory (Mill-Utilitarianism,- Kant-Deontology, Hobbes-Egoism, ... Stace-Relativism, etc.y./Secondly, problems connected with the meaning and justification of\ethical judgments and principles will be J dealt; with(free;.will,/naturalism;; intuitionism, noncognitivism, etc.). On ^the thirdflevel,-concrete moraL problems facing contemporary man - (abortion, sexuality,; human rights, war, death, etc.) are to be handled.. Professor Goodpaster’s main concern/is I to merge/the' demands of theoretical rigor inherent in a study of / ethics and the. relevance; of these rigors in a contemporary atmo-sphere.Thiscourse isopen Jo all undergraduate students. t
% Presentation:/Professor Goodpaster has formulated an am-bitiqus program; with success depending in large measure upon . "the . willingness pF the student to participate, question, challenge and study. The format bf thecourse, will be a blend of lecture, , teacher-led discussion, and student-led, discussion. After a brief introductory period, /the class/: organization will be structured around lecture-discussions/ on topics relating to levels one and . two,. two class periods per week, with the. third class meeting . devoted ^td student-led discussion focusing on the third level. _
Readings: The basic texts are:;P. W. Taylor’s Problems of . Moral Philosophy, second; edition,/W. K. Frankeria’s Ethics, and J. Rachels’ Moral Problems. The /readings in .Frankena arid Taylor provide the basis for lectures, and student discussion primarily, revolves around- the ethical problems raised by Rachels.
\The assignment load is approximately 50-75 pages per week, ~ some weeks more and somevless./The combined cost of the
' required texts is in the vicinity of $15. -- : \ J - ‘	: <
Organization: There will be two in-class exams during the course, a * mid-term arid a comprehensive final, both of which require a working knowledge and comprehension of the readings and lectures, along with- the/student’s independent insights.. . -Professor Goodpaster hopes, as the^seinester progresses, that the student’s abilities to understand arid apply-the material covered will increase, making a term project (7-10 page paper) a
The Scholastic
serious, disciplined discussion of a contemporary moral problem. Each student will also be required to formulate an outline to be implemented when he directs one of the student discussion periods. The final grade is based on all aspects of the course, with the exam and paper grades weighing heavily. Also counted are Professor Goodpaster’s evaluations of each student, including . class discussion, participation and similar intangibles.
Comments: Professor Goodpaster both enjoys and takes his field of philosophy seriously. At times the. texts: collapse, into readings. of philosophical vernacular, but the structure of the course .necessitates the presentation and understanding of theoretical concepts. . Discussion grows out of an understanding of the material, and is invaluable for comprehending the problems of moral philosophy presented.. Non-majors should not be intimidated by the difficulties imposed by the material, for Professor Goodpaster’s expertise compensates for some of the readings. The intention behind why one wishes to register for this course is critical, for the readings and understanding necessarily, accompanying them show true intentions quickly. If you intend to take this* course merely to fulfill a philosophy requirement, carefully reconsider your motives.
A. Robert Caponigri , Philosophy 279
Aesthetics and Principles of Art Criticism .
Content: The chief purpose of this course is to help the student form sound principles and habits in. the evaluation of works of art in painting, in music, in sculpture, and in the verbal arts. The philosophical principles of art will therefore be dealt with as forming the basis for critical practice.
Readings: Authors in aesthetics to be consulted- will be Baumgartner, Vico, Hegel, Croce, Northrup, Fry . etc. These will not be read as inert texts, however, but will be consulted . with respect to the problems which will be posed. Such readings will illuminate problems which arise from the direct confrontation with works of art..	.	.	.
,	. Organization: There .will be gallery vists, musical audition
sessions, poetry and prose readings which will be selected with special consideration of . the kinds of critical problems . they pose.	.	.	■	.
Ralph M. Mclnemy
Philosophy 402
Ancient and Medieval Philosophy	. .
Content: This is a survey of the Ancient and. Medieval periods touching on major figures, problems and writings.. The aim is to give..the student a first hand acquaintance with the rise and development of .philosophy, among the Greeks, especially . .Plato and Aristotle,.and its-continuation in the Christian. era with such men as Augustine, Bonaventure and Aquinas. The subject matter concerns the ideas and people out of which Western Civilization comes. .	.	.	.
. Presentation.’ Although it is a . lecture course, questions are.readily-accepted.. The amount of information to be covered, -with-which many in the class have had little or no experience, . - discourages. intensive questioning.-.Mr. Mclnerny found that most--questions were directed by -Philosophy majors. regarding their work, on the paper they had been assigned. He felt this to be a good indication to-non-majors in. the course of what . interests might be generated. .	.	.	.
.. Readings: The books to be bought for this course are three: Greek Philosophy: Thales to- Aristotle, edited by Reginald Allen,: $3.45; Medieval Philosophy, edited by John F. Wippe and . Allan B. Wolter, O.F.M., $3.95; -"and From the Beginnings of V Philosophy to Plotinus, by Ralph M.- Mclnerny, $5.95. The last book is an addition to the, readings required for this course . when it was last offered. Previously the reading burden was -. not great. 'The way in which it was divided allowed for adequate time, with consistent effort, ro finish as the course required.
: Organization: For non-majors the course has a midterm and final exam. It is likely that the midterm will be a take
home, however, the final will be given in class as specified by the exam schedule. For majors, in addition to a midterm and final exam, which will be designed differently from the nonmajor’s, an expository paper of 2500 words is required on an important and well-defined doctrine of an important ancient or medieval philosopher. Regarding the midterm and final, study guides are distributed to aid exam preparation. The exams are primarily to discover the extent to which one has acquainted himself with the course content. The course grade is determined by the two exams and, for majors the single paper, each obtaining equal emphasis.
Comments: The nature of a survey course requires that there remains much to be. considered. However, the course is an invitation for the student to expand upon the experience. The success of this course is determined by the way in which the subject matter is presented. Mr. Mclnemy expresses an interest and facility with the information he presents. Mr. Mclnemy shifts rapidly from topic to topic and expands upon particular problems. This creates a certain disjointedness which sometimes bothers people who prefer a more orderly presentation. Consequently, both majors and non-majors occasionally feel inadequately prepared for the course. However this sense of inadequacy is often a necessary prelude to discovering the depth of philosophy. The feelings of inadequacy and difficulty result from the course’s presentation. The passing, often cursory treatment of the material eventually reveals an integrated historical perspective. The perspective creates an awareness ‘of the material’s importance and is then pursued to greater completion. If the student allows himself to become sensitive to Mr. Mclnerny’s perspective upon philosophy, the course can be the occasion of personal growth. And, finally, as that growth takes place, its relationship to the subject matter encourages the student to continue the exploration of the material and the growth on his own.
Eman McMullin, C.S.G. Philosophy 286 Ways of Knowing
* Content: Father McMullin taught this courseabout ten years ago in the General Progarm and called it his all-time favorite course. It has been updated since then, but the format is basically the same. He is going to evaluate different disciplines and compare the various ways that knowledge is attained in these disciplines. He will cover Natural Science, Theology, History, literary criticism, and Mathematics. The methods of discovery and justification for proofs in the different fields will be seriously considered. Father feels this course is geared for people who are well into their major already and invites people not only in philosophy but in other majors as well to broaden the viewpoint in the class. Father wants to put things together in the different ways of knowing.
Readings : There will be no textbook for the course, but ditto-ed articles will be distributed by the instructor. A bibliography with books pertaining to the subject matter will also be handed out. .
Organization: This will be a seminar type course and there will be one major paper and a final exam. Each student will also be required to do a report in conjunction with the paper.
Sheilah Brennan
345 Philosophy
Existentialism	..
! ’ - Content: In ■ this course insights will be presented from three existentialist- view points, as seen in the philosophies of Kierkegaard, Sartre, and Marcel. The course deals with what it means to be a human individual; what is involved in human freedom and responsibility. Human interrelationships and the individual before God are also themes considered. There are ■ no prerequisites.
Presentation: The format of the course consists mostly of lectures. In the lectures the readings are clarified and a solid
April 25, 1972
49
feeling for. existentialism is conveyed. Miss Brennan welcomes and encourages questions and discussion. -
Readings; Readings concentrate on the main principles of existentialism in selections from A Kierkegaard Anthology, Sartre’s Being and Nothingness and’ Barrett’s Irrational- Man. Students will also read Sartre’s Nausea and Marcel’s'The Philosophy of Existentialism. The weekly readings are not overly long, but are often dense. Together these paperbacks cost under $9.00.
Organization: There will be a combination of three in-class exams or short papers, perhaps two exams and a paper, plus a final exam.	:
Comments.' Dr. Brennan handles the subject with a deep knowledge and a fine ability to express the heart of existentialist philosophy. Her lectures make difficult concepts clear and manageable to the students. Miss Brennan’s enthusiasm for teaching and her real concern for her students will be evident to anyone who takes her course. .	.
Joseph Bobik
Philosophy 353
Existence of God
Content.- This course is being offered for the first time next semester. It deals with arguments for and against the existence of God. The approach will be mostly . a historical one, with the later part of the course covering, contemporary philosophers and their views. Professor Bobik plans to divide the course into four sections with the first covering arguments for the existence of God, the second covering arguments against the existence of God, the third covering. the view that his existence can neither be proven nor disproven, and the fourth section covering the point of view of those who say that God’s existence is intuited rather than inferred.. ,
Presentation.' The course is a mixture of'both lecture and discussion with more emphasis on lecture. Professor Bobik’s lectures will mainly cover the reading assignments and. the arguments found in them.	.
Readings.' The readings for the first section - arguments for the existence of God—will come from Plato, Aristotle, Anselm, and Aquinas. The readings for. the , second • section on arguments against the existence of God will come from Hume who will argue from the problem of* evil, and Scriven, who will point out the fallacies of the arguments for the7 existence of God and come to the conclusion that He doesn’t exist.. The readings for the third section will be from Kant and Ayer. The last ^section will have ' readings' from various . contemporary philosophers with empiricist backgrounds; . <	.
Organization.' There will.be three or four.tests,.antoptional paper, and no final. Professor Bobik’s tests. consist of a wide range, of questions on-the-subject matter with the ,student having the choice of picking two or three questions out of a possible ten or twelve to answer. All tests are essay type question tests. .
. Comments/. This will be a new course next year so there are.no past'experiences on anyone’s part with it. Professor Bobik is the Assistant Chairman of the Philosophy Department and thus will be dedicated to making the course a good one. . ;
Biswambhar Pahi	.
Philosophy 359	,
Indian Philosophy	:
Content.- This course concerns itself with different Hindu systems in Indian philosophy along with a short study of Buddhism towards the end of the semester. The purpose is to provide the interested student with a basis in Eastern thought not only philosophically but morally and religiously as well. Mr. Pahi divides his course into different sections, each expressing different themes of Indian study. The course starts out with a study of the Vedas and Upanisads. These contain ancient religious writings and myths and show the advancement of man’s spiritual horizons. The next section of the course covers ■ the.Bhagavad Gita which is a book discussing morality, and how life should be lived. Included in this section are several yoga
50	•
systems. The third section of the, course covers the Carvaka which includes within’ itself a theory on knowledge. The next section covers one of the. oldest systems, the Samkhya-Yoga system. > Included in this .section are doctrines on the. self, causation, and yoga. The-'fifth sectionison the Ny ay a Vaisesika system which , includes thoughts on . knowledge, the self, and God. The last section of studyris on-Buddhism.	,
Presentation: The-course is. mostly a lecture course with discussion ’ and questions ' each.- occupying a fair share of the classes. Mr. Pahi takes the time to write a great deal of . material on the board so. thus notes taken in. the course, are usually some of the most- complete on campus. Handouts are also distributed to the students. These handouts carry a short synopsis of the-lectures and they, are given out for each system studied. Professor Pahi’s accent presents a minor problem at first but after a while the student-gets used to it. Besides, as mentioned earlier, he. writes a great deal of what he is talking about on the board.,	. v
Readings:, Therer are two main books used in the course, A Sourcebook 'in Indian Philosophy by Radhakrishnan, ■ and Oriental Philosophies by Kohler. There are. also, assigned outside readings on reserve iri> the library. On the whole, time spent reading for the course is a little less than what is spent for most other courses.: as Professor Pahi’s lectures contain- most. of what the student will learn. .
Organization; There is a midterm and a final. There are two themelike papers (3 or 4 pages) and one paper about ten pages in length. The longer paper can be replaced with an in class report by. the more adventurous student. Professor Pahi does not care for short answer tests.
. Coments: This, is ’ a good course for those who are a little
-- wary of philosophy courses' in- general because the material is a little bit easier-to understand and the main points given are interesting - and covered well. At times Professor Pahi spends more .'time-than is required on certain topics and it tends to make .some classes seem repetitive. Those interested in covering subjects by analysis will enjoy this course because Professor Pahi likes to apply analytic methods to selected topics. The philosophy majors who have taken this course all-seemed toTike.it well because: one tends to retain a lot'of the information that is covered in..class. This last-point'indicates that this is a good
. . course to take if you plan to study anything else , that has an Eastern influence. Professor Pahi is a good natured man and is always available for the students who need a little extra help.
. He is understanding if. you are late. in. handing in a paper and he has a genuine enthusiasm for -the. subject matter.
Herbert Johnston . .	. .
Philosophy 371 7 / ' j
Business Ethics .-
Content: Mr. Johnston feels his-job as a teacher of business students is to make them conscious of the existence of moral problems within business situations, to provide them with the . moral principles to apply to those problems, and to give them practice-in making such applications.- All three of these aims ■ can be combined. Each of them can best be achieved in com-biriation with the other. By analyzing actual business cases, the student is made aware of these-moral problems and the decisions applicable in these areas.	A; _ ‘ . =
Presentation: The course depends on the involvement of the . student to a large extent. The lectures are aimed at informing and enlightening the students on the principles found in the readings. The voluntary student-led discussions are the basis of • the class participation. The amount one gets from" the1 class depends to a great extent on what he puts into it. ,
Readings: A text, "Ethos and the Executive” by C., C. Walton along with a case book were the basis for all readings in the class. The amount of reading is not taxing. In order for the -cases to be intelligently discussed the reading: should be completed before the class. .	. -	'	- :
- Organization; Mr. Johnston prepares a very exact syllabus _ for the student with reading assignment and discussion topics listed; There, are two tests and a final, all being given equal con-.sideration. Class participation: as. discussion leader and in general .questions, and comments is.considered very important. .
The Scholastic
Comment: Business Ethics is a good course but it has a great deal of undeveloped potential. This is usually the result of a lack of. student participation in cases the student can’t identify with or ones that seem too idealistic. .The discussions are' therefore, in some cases, superficial. Major points are sometimes-hard to pick before the tests. The work load is not heavy , and Mr. Johnston will try to initiate clas participation, but the ultimate benefit one can get from the course depends on ones ability to see if and how the discussions relate to everyday life.
Charles Weiher, C.S.G.
Philosophy 386
Perceiving and Thinking 7
. Content.- This course is being offered for the first time in Fall ’72. Although there are no specific prerequisites for this course, Fr. Weiher assumes that the student has had at least a general introduction to philosophical thought. Even though the course deals with quite a specific topic in philosophy, the scope of philosophy of knowledge is so broad that it touches on practically every area, and Fr. Weiher wants to emphasize that, consequently, this course will not be a very highly technical one. The course is basically described as one . in “reading and discussion” with occasional “informal lectures”. Fr. Weiher expects the students to come to class with readings done in . preparation for discussion. He hopes to consider the question of what knowledge is and to discuss areas such as the nature of perceiving, sense data theory, skepticism and phenomenalism, and the existence of mental entities. He sees the course as basically an effort at correlation, with emphasis on the symbolic na. ture of thinking and perceiving.	r. -
. Readings: Readings have not yet been finally selected. There will probably be four paperbacks required, with a reading load of perhaps 40 pages per week.	'
Organization.-. Regular class attendance is expected. There will be four or five. tests of the takehome variety required of the' students, the last of which is the final examination. For each test, Fr.; Weiher expects approximately 3 pages in response to a problem which he selects on topics covered in the course. The.' final grade is based on these tests, and a students participation in class discussion will favorably influence his grade in borderline cases.
Biswambhar Pahi
Philosophy 431
Introductory. Symbolic ?Logic V-
' Content.- . This course aims at a rigorous introduction to mathematical logic; and though there are no formal prerequisites, (i.e. the presentation assumes no previous knowledge) the amount and complexity of material to.: be covered necessitates that the course proceed; at .a pace .which one without - either a firm mathematical background (math major or minor), or, at least one previous • logic: course would find most demanding. In fact, those without such prior preparation would do well to avoid Philosophy 431. ' -	. ,	’
.	•7‘Mr.'.-Pahi intendstocoversettheory, truth functional theory,.
. natural deduction techniques (a. rigorous:, but intuitively acces-
■. sible- method of proof whose advantage is' its heuristic quality which -. makes > logical proofs somewhat easier to develop than does the. method of standard axiomatic, treatments), application : of the;fnaturar deduction.;technique- to' propositional calculus and quantification theory,- semantic tableau. method of statement decidability, semantics of . logical quantification, with con-sidefation. of the. Post Completeness Theorem for Propositional Calculus, and, filially Gddel’s Completeness Theorem for Predicate Calculus with equality. - ‘As is indicated above, this. course . is designed primarily • for;- mathematics or philosophy - majors
(and philosophy graduate students) . In the past, students, with ; . strong interest in computing science have also found Dri Pahi’s
course rewarding. ...	'
Presentation: The coufse is: almost entirely; lecture; but Mr. Pahi earnestly solicits, questions. He. concentrates on elicit
April 25, 1972
ing. student understanding—as opposed to covering a predetermined block, of material.	.
Readings: No texts are required as Mr. Pahi provides the " class with an extensive set of prepared notes. However, students are referred.to Richmond H. Thomason’s Symbolic Logic: An . introduction, .as well as to various materials on reserve.
Organization.- Weekly homework problems, one writing assignment dealing with one or more papers on reserve, one paper dealing with some specific topic in logic not treated in class (in the past, students have written on topics as diverse as Deontic logic, the ontological consequences of certain theorems from contemporary logical sysems, and mathematical aspects of logic), one midsemester and one final exam combine to , determine the course grade. Mr. Pahi intends the writing assignments to offer each student the possibility of exploring some specific area of logic in which the students finds himself particularly interested.
Comments: Dr. Pahi has taught this course for a number of years. Or rather, one should say, he has been developing this course for a number of years; for changes in organization and presentation have been extensive. At this point Dr. Pahi feels more satisfied with these structures than he has in the past; and this statisfaction serves to indicate that students will . discover a course most capable of attaining its specified goals. Students, taking his class will also quickly realize that this continual reevaluation of the presentation of his material is only one of many indications of Dr. Pahi’s genuine concern for the progress of his students. Class lectures are thoroughly and care-fuly prepared (an infrequent student comment is that he at times proceeds too slowly over matters which his students already comprehend), and he is eminently accessible outside of class. Students who posess the requisite interest and ability are strongly advised to consider Philosophy 431.
A. Robert Caponigri
Philosophy 389
Philosophy of History
Contents: This course will begin with the consideration of the manner in which the philosophical problem of history has suggested itself to various thinkers at various times: i.e. from the problems of writing history, from the effort to characterize man’s specific mode of existence, from the nature and course of institutions, etc. Hence, it will be seen that the’philosophy of history is no single thing but a cluster of interrelated problems. The effort will be directed to determining what this cluster of problems have in common and what might be expected from the resolution of them. Both the holistic, hermeneutic, and analytic approaches to these problems will be considered.	.
. Readings: Illustrative texts will be selected from a variety of authors: the Greek historians; St. Augustine; Renaissance thinkers: Machiavelli, etc; and the modems: Hegel, etc. The selections will be taken for the most part from Nash (ed.) Ideas of= History, 2 vols._ paperback, Dutton. What is aimed at specifically for the . student is sophistication in evaluating historical claims. . ;	.
Kenneth Sayre	\
Philosophy 403	;;
Plato A	/
7 Content: Mr. Sayre hopes to “do a little serious reading of Plato” with his students. This course is his personal favorite and his knowledge of Plato is extensive. Mr. Sayre will concentrate on selected early and middle dialogues with an eye . to both depth and sensitivity in reading and a critical response.
. Presentation.- The class will be organized along standard , lecture lines. Each selection should be read prior to the class in which is will be discussed, where a general presentation of the'material by Mr. Sayre will be mixed with student questions.
. Mr..-Sayre’s. class presentation is usually well-organized but -informal.	‘
51
Readings: One book, the Collected Works of Plato, Hamilton and Cairns, ed., about $10.00. Readings. should cover the-Apology/ Crito, Phaedo, Euthyphro, Ion, Protagorus, Meno and selections from the Republic;	;	.
Organization: One paper, midterm and final, weighted about equally.	.	- -	,	;
Comments: Although the course does not presume any previous background in Plato, it would'be good to be sure of an interest in the material to be covered.-.If’you have:the interest, Mr. Sayre’s expertise will make the: course an enjoyable one. The exams are tough but fair and the'material is usually explained in detail, particularly if questions are asked.
Kenneth Goodpaster Philosophy 423 Ethics
Content: This course has been offered before at du Lac, but it will be the first time for Mr. Goodpaster. -In essence, therefore, a new professor means a new course. Structure .will .be similar to Ethics 273, but-this more advanced section will be-more theoretical, and deal with more particulars. Offered, for philosophy majors, some of the topics to be discussed will be relativism, egoism, utilitarianism, deontology, free will, and justification of ethics and moral problems.	.	.
Readings: Mr. Goodpaster is fairly uncertain about the text and course materials, but will surely implement W; J. Frankena’s Ethics, and recommended readings are S. Gorovitz’s Mill: Utilitarianism, R. P.. Wolff’s Kant: Foundations of Metaphysics . of Morals ($1.95), and G. J. Warnock’s Contemporary Moral Philosophy.	/	‘	^
Organization: Many aspects of the course-have yet to be • decided, but many of the basic themes from Philosophy 273 will come into play in a much more detailed manner; The work load will be more rigorous, and more will be expected from the student More emphasis will be placed upon philosophical theory’ treated in a more sophisticated fashion rather than on application in handling the subject material. Students 'will be left to apply particulars on a personal'and individual basis.
Vaughn R. McKim	- \	'
Philosophy 443	. ;	; ■
Analytic Philosophy ? J . / \
. Content:. This course.presents an introductory survey of a major current in 20th ,Century’.philosophical thought. (Some would regard the Analytic movement as the most important con-
temporary philosophical orientation.) Paramount'is the question of the role played by language ’in the formulation and solution , of philosophical perplexities. The subject is treated historically with emphasis on the work of certain prominent philosophers. . However, such a presentation necessarily, becomes thematic for
' the sake of coherence. So the.student receives.a balanced view . of both principal individual contributions and the: more general overriding, concerns - characteristic of the tradition. There’ are nonspecific prerequisites; but students with little orTno philosophical background would be advised to look 'elsewhere. '- (The ' course is generally composed mostly of philosophy majors and . , even a number of philosophy graduate students; but it also
has attracted a substantial number of non-majors who have ? , done well.)	:
Presentation: The imposing amount of material to be cov- . . ered and the introductory nature of the course demand that it be f mostly lecture. Mr. McKim’s presentation is of a high intellec- . tual level but he bends all efforts to elucidate his often abstruse ' subject matter. He usually succeeds, and, always encourages • , questions when an explanation seems to have missed the mark.
Readings:.Required are mostly papers contained in The Lin-guisticTurn, ed. by R._ Rorty; Philosophy in the 20th Century Vol. II, ed. by H; O;:Aiken -,Th£ Blue and.the Brown Books, by Ludwig Wittgenstein, and material/, oh. reserve. Secondary .
sources to be consulted include One Hundred Years of Philosophy,'by J. Passmore. (All sources, to be purchased are’available in paperback and total cost should not exceed-$15.00.) One is not expected to read all of-the selections in each work; but the reading assignments'are rather demanding.	.
/ 'Organization: i Two papers and two exams comprise: the written load. Each is weighed equally in determining the final, grade./As should be expected,- tests emphasize factual content, rather than -interpretation. (Exams , cover both lectures and readings.) , : .	-	. -■	• '
Comments: As noted above this course attempts to organize
a vast amount of material into a form which can be assimilated in one semester. This necessitates a rapid pace which renders con-tihuing preparation on the part of the student mandatory. One
cannot merely attend class and.catch up with the reading before each exam. The reading load is tod heavy and one who has failed to previously' do the assigned papers .will simply not find himself able to take advantage of the lecture. Mr. McKim maintains . a difficult balance between breadth and depth of treatment. The
result is demanding but satisfying., The course is recommended for anyone with sufficient experience who manifests an interest in serious philosophy.	.	’	.
. Cornelius. Delaney	;
Philosophy 429	.	.	:	.
Philosophy of History
. Content:, This course is being offered for the first time in fall ’72. There are no specific prerequisites. Mr. Delaney plans’to concentrate on two major areas of the philosophy of history.in this course. First, there will be an examination of the speculative philosophy , of history. -Here the course will concentrate oii. such ' considerations as, - “What type of . questions - might one be able to make-about .historical events and’develop--, ment?” Secondly, the course will consider the more, recently . developed area, of critical philosophy of history.. Here Mr.
Delaney hopes to consider more critical questions such as ‘,‘What does it mearrto make statements about the history of man?” . Mr. Delaney. hopes for . participation from his students in seminar discussions in the class. He sees this. as, an’integral part of , their coming, to understand the-speculative, and critical philoso-
phies of history. ''/-T r :;-//-	.	." ’ :	.	-
Readings: Required readings, have not, yet been selected, .‘ but Mr. Delaney, anticipates having two-basic'texts from which readings will be taken. One of these will be an anthology of the philosophy of/history and. the . other more of ah introductory -text.	.	-
. Organization: There will probably be a mid-term and a ' final examination, and, one; research, paper (approx. 10-15pp.) .; required for the course. The final grade will reflect the student’s performance on .the two tests and. the paper, along, with some consideration,of his participation/in the class discussions. .
Ernan McMullin, C.S.C.	J
Philosophy 434	’
Philosophy of Science ;	.. ; ; .
/, »Content: - Father. McMullin'. is/teaching this course this
/. semester with'Mr/Gutting, but will handle it alo'ne next semes. ter./Tt’.will be'quitedifferent.Thecourse will be? divided into 1 two parts;f:First; he will cover problems in contemporary- methods
. --’ofi science;"looking- at :the nature.pi explanation,-discovery,-and ’ . - proof;/'This .is a very lively area and will cover more/than half .
1 of . the semester?/'Secondly, he. will consider problems that arise.
from/ some scientific theories for philosophy.? As ‘examples;’he /will/examine the quantum theory in contemporary-physics7 and
relate it to the conception of causation^ Evolutionary ( biology. and the nature of ,man and problems in contemporary psychology, will also be posed as pertinent questions to the contemporary philosopher. This will be an excellent course for upperclassmen in-science and philosphy.. , -	- '	' - ‘	' ■ ’ ’ / ' •'
/ Readings: Ditto-ed articles will be distributed. - .
’ Organization : Primarily a lecture type course, but discussion will be encouraged.- There will be three short papers and a final.
52
The Scholastic
Ellen Ryan
Psychology 341	.	- .
Statistical'Experiments I	.	,
Content: This course is required for all.Psychology majors. It is aimed at giving the student a working knowledge of statistics used in evaluting experimental data. The content of the course is highly -mathematical. ■ However, a large background in math isn’t required and more emphasis is placed bn theory than actual calculation.	.
Presentation: The course consists of two lectures and one lab per week. The labs involve a review session and a quiz. In the class lectures Mrs. Ryan uses an overhead projector a great ' deal. Questions are welcome.	. „ ,
- Readings : Fundamental Statistics for Psychology by Robert McCall is the only text used in the course. ($8.95)
Organization : There are three exams given during the semester. These are not meant to be cumulative but, because of the type of material, - they usually are. The weekly quizzes are meant to prepare the student for the tests and are used\to raise a student’s grade.
Comments : Mrs. Ryan is a very good lecturer. She tries to , illuminate material that would otherwise be very confusing. She takes a personal interests in her students and is readily available for consultation. The course is for psychology majors only because of the difficulty of its material.	’
Peter J. Naus
Psychology 473E
Seminar in Social..Gerontology
Content: The course.studies the social aspects of the aging process .through a social-psychological approach. This is not a survey, course. Mr. Naus selects certain topic areas and covers them in detail. The major areas are ecology-of the aged,, which considers living arrangements, neighborhood influences, and the effect of urban influences; the establishment of Social Services, their" needs, evaluation, and development; and preparation for old age.	,.	* / ,
Presentation: There are three formats used in the class. Most classes' are lectures by Mr. Naus. SeveraT classes are devoted to student: group presentations, while there , are about five lecture-discussions with guest speakers. \ \
Readings: One text book is required, Busse & Pfeiffer, Behavior and Adaptation in Late Life. There are also about a dozen handouts during the semester. -	\	.
Organization: There are two.essay-type tests. Participation in a group presentation is required. Also, a carefully prepared paper, the length i of which Mr. Naiis prefers not . to specify, is expected. The student is required to spend about two hours per week visiting the elderly in nursing homes, or to serve as an inter-; viewer in a survey of the elderly.	/
/. ^.Comments: The subject matter is dry, and the lectures . contain many unanswered questions because of the < dearth - of J: heeded research in7 gerontology. The lectures and the visits to the nursing home amply demonstrate the needs and concerns of this forgotten minority group. Mr. Naus is very enthusiastic , about the subject, and shows exceptional respect and concent for student comments and questions. His enthusiasm and concern for the course and the individual student help to offset the dryness of the subject. Thus, it is a valuable experience for those with an interest in the elderly.
April 25, 1972
Psychology
John G. Borkowski Psychology342 Experimental Psychology II
.Content: This course introduces the student to the scientific methodology of psychology. Emphasis is on the design and report of. experiments in the context of major psychological 7 areas. These include learning (animal and human), memory, transfer, scaling, measurement and personality. Mr. Borkowski hopes to convey an appreciation of research and show its relevancy to applied psychology. Statistics is a pre-requisite.
Presentation: Although this is primarily a lecture course, discussions are encouraged. Mr. Borkowski is always open for questions or opposing points of view.
Readings: Underwood’s Experimental Psychology will no longer be the, required text. Anderson and Borkowski’s text (chap. 1-8) will be substituted in the form of handouts for which , there will be a minimal charge. Vernon’s Motivating Children and another undetermined paperback will be required, as will various _ articles in the reserved bookroom of the library.
Organization: The grade is determined by four in-class exams (15% each) and four lab reports (10% each). The lab reports must be written according to the APA style manual and usually require much time and effort.
Comments : Anyone hopeful of continuing in psychology will find this course and Mr. Borkowski’s teaching style both stimulating and worthwhile. With a little effort on the part of the student, it can even be enjoyable.
Chris Anderson
Psychology 483
Seminar in Learning and Motivation
Content: Mr. Anderson, in keeping true to his previous seminars, will attempt to integrate and compare the scientific rigor of the learning and motivation psychologists with the experiential approaches of phenomenological and humanistic psychologists. In the learning seminar, Mr. Anderson will use the philosophy , of science and the history of learning as starting points. These will lead to a more extensive coverage in the areas of classical and operant conditioning. Students will be exposed to, the theories of such learning giants as Pavlov, Thorndike, Watson, and Hull. Mr. Anderson will also expose certain theoretical and practical aspects of the learning process. The motivation seminar will deal with such concepts as “instinct,” “drive,” “aversive motivation,” “frustration,” “conflict,” “perceptual aspects,” and “needs.” Mr. Anderson will then delve into behavior dynamics which will consist of reviewing the different motivational theories such as the dynamic, the associative, the drive and incentive theories, social, and the existential approaches. . The influence of learning theory on abnormal psychology will also be considered. The student can expect a rigorous exposure to these two critical areas in the science of psychology.
: There are no prequisites except a desire to expose oneself to the rigors of learning theory. Some knowledge of psychology and experimental method may come in handy but this is not necessary. Mr. Anderson welcomes students who represent other academic disciplines even though the course is traditionally an “upper” division” course composed of juniors and seniors.
Presentations: Mr. Anderson possesses a “high-powered” style which, along with the interesting and provocative subject
53
matter, will provide for a stimulating seminar. He will not hesitate to use overhead projectors and videotape recorders in order to focus on the material. If all fails to stimulate the student, Mr. Anderson’s wit, which ranges from the sly to the outrageous, will pick up the slack. He . seeks open discussion of the subject matter and rightfully expects a good return from his students.	.
Readings: The readings for this course are somewhat vague at the present but may consist of Frank Logan’s Learning and Motivation as a primer in this area. A more intensive text in learning theory will probably be used in the seminar along with a number of outside readings, usually journal articles. The student should also be prepared to take extensive class notes.
Organization : There will probably be three required examinations which are multiple choice in texture and difficult in essence. Mr. Anderson will use a “token” point system which will award points for review papers, outside research projects and other worthwhile endeavors. The token point system combined with the points earned on tests will compose the final grade. There is no curve in the final judgement but his point system is fairly liberal.
Comments: One problem which may arise in this seminar would be the ability of the instructor to thoroughly analyze both areas in one meager semester. However, Mr. Anderson will try to arrange the material so as to refrain from overwhelming the student. He does not expect superhuman efforts from his students, but he does expect a sincere effort to grasp the basic concepts of learning and motivation. He also expects his students to be bold enough to question and to contribute to the general intellectual atmosphere of the seminar.
Thomas Whitman
Psychology 473A
Seminar in Behavior Modification
_ Content: “Behavior . modification, also called behavior therapy, is a general term referring to the systematic application of scientifically established principles of learning to the area of human behavior disorders. Just as psychoanalysis represents the wave of the past in the attempt to explain and ameliorate psychological problems, so behavior modification represents the wave of the future” (from professor’s syllabus). Mr. Whitman’s overriding purpose is to develop a basic appreciation for the ’ learning theorist’s views of behavior development, and to present a panoramic, detailed survey of the concepts, techniques and related research that is behavior modification. .Of utmost importance's an analysis and evaluation of the efficacy of extant clinical and educational techniques. Simply,' should we allow some systems (eg/penal, educational, therapeutic) to continue, to operate as they do?	,	:
Presentation: Although this course is predominantly lecture, class size (25-30), professorial encouragement and provocative subject matter stimulate discussion. Each of Mr. Whitman’s lectures is orderly, succinct and includes a' substantial measure of material. Presentation of recently published, related material is emphasized. He uses one movie, and a tape recording of an; actual therapeutic procedure. Don’t cut.	-
Readings: A tentative list of readings is Control of Human Behavior^ VoL II by Ulrich, Stachnik and Mabry ($5.75), B. F. Skinner’s Science and Human Behavior ($3.45), and Jerome Frank’s Persuasion and Healing ($1.95), supplemented by. 8-10 outside reserve articles. A well-defined schedule provided at the outset shows reasonable amounts of time between major readings. \ Organization: The general format of the course depends to a good degree on student suggestions from class evaluation. At present, short, weekly quizzes are given on the readings. An inclass midterm covers lectures, text and outside readings cumulatively. The final, too, is in-class, including material from the ? midterm forawrd. Combined, the weekly quizzes are equivalent . in point value to each of the two major exams. Questions on all tests are generally short-answer essay (2-3 sentences), non-subjective,. and demand a thorough, detailed knowledge of the subject matter. Insofar as it can be objectively evaluated, classroom discussion provides another .means of earning points. Additional options include doing a written research project on a?
subject of choice, or a clinical project at Northern Indiana . Children’s Hospital with a retarded child. For those with any long term plans in the field of psychology, herein lies a significant opportunity. Mr. Whitman would,like to see graduate student supervision of a structared practicum at the Hospital next year in order to provide a more organized and effective program.
Comment: This course presents a clear statement of this behavioral approach to? man, develops a facility in using the learning ’ theorist’s language and concepts, and generates an interest in diagnosing behavior disorders in terms of their environmental contingencies; The broad span of topics presented ' is the result of Mr. Whitman’s own enthusiasm for this area of psychology. Such diverse topics as eradication of smoking behavior, education of the mental retardate, and gerontology are pursued and thoroughly analyzed. With each new subject being couched in .learning theory, the student readily becomes ac-custbmed to and rather adept at the use of learning terms and concepts. Mr. Whitman’s lecture style is that of a scientist—calculated, empirical and fluent. Interested students are encouraged to contact Mr. Whitman for additional information.
Gerald Giantonio 1
Psychology 474E
Seminar on Human Sexuality
, Content: The purpose of this course is to give the student knowledge concerning human sexuality, an area that is considered taboo and plagued by myth in our culture. It also gives the student a chance to take a stand on the sex issues confronting us today, such as abortion, homosexuality, pre-marital intercourse, and pornography. The hopeful result of the course is to enable the • student to eliminate all his ideas of sexual taboo and to give, him the ability to communicate his feelings on these matters to others.. This course is open to all undergraduates.
Presentation: Giantonio makes a great effort to enhance discussion. He usually opens . with a brief presentation of fact and then allows discussion for\the remainder of the class. Guest speakers areTrequently incorporated into the course.
Readings:'The texts are Human Sexuality by James McCary and The Student .Guide to Sex on Campus. Additional readings are copied and passed out in class.
Organization: Grading is based on three papers of 3-5 pages in, length.	.
” Comments: Mr. Giantonio is well suited tb teach this course in that" his knowledge in the area is good. However, he will be the, first' to point out that his knowledge is insufficient in dealing
. with issues such as abortion. .He emphasizes the importance of the individual coming to terms with himself. This is a good stimulant for discussion. In order to insure no one-sidedness in
, the. discussions, Mr. Giantonio tries to keep the male-female ratio, low.- A student, male or female, can easily find oneself lost in the discussion due to the large size of the class; By and large, the student will find the class thought provoking.
Gerald Giantonio	'
Psychology 580
Physiological Psychology .
Content: The basic purpose of the course is to acquaint , the student with physiological and neurophysiological processes.
'The course serves as a preparation for an optional, in-depth , second semester course in physiological psychology. The course material can be broken down into three fairly broad headings: a * comprehensive review of neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, en-
, docrinology. In all of these areas, the physiological aspects are studied as they pertain to observable behavior.
Presentation: This is a straight lecture course. There are . no seminars, presentations or laboratories involved.
Readings: The textbook is Milner’s text Physiological Psy~ chology (price $14.00) which is the same book that was used in last year’s fall term. Mr. Giantonio also hands out a fairly extensive collection - of readings which complement the textbook.
. These readings are drawn from other textbooks and from. the
The Scholastic
periodicals. The readings from the periodicals are generally review and summary articles.
Organization: The final grade is established by averaging three equally weighted tests taken during the semester. There are no required papers in this course. The nature of the tests vary; they involve multiple choice, essay, identification and short answer questions. As Mr.-Giantonio candidly tells his students, "If you really understand the class notes, and if you have done the readings and understand them, you’re in good shape.” The tests are comprehensive, they are demanding and they do relate both to the lectures and to the readings.
Comments : If a lecture course is to be successful, its success depends, in large measure, on the relative skill of the lecturer.
Dr. Giantonio is a skilled and highly informed lecturer. The course preparation is obvious and his enthusiasm can easily be measured by his rapidly increasing pace of presentation of material as his interest grows. This may well be one of the drawbacks for some students: the course moves! However, in compensation, there is good rapport between the teacher and students. Mr. Giantonio responds well both to questions and to requests for a diminished pace.
The material of this course is interesting fare, but it is not recommended for those looking for an easy, final elective. The combination of interesting material and enthusiastic presentation generates a course that is invaluable for anyone interested in behavioral physiology.
Theology
Maury Amen Theology 200 Shamanism
Content: Shamanism, to use Mircea Eliade’s definition, is a technique of ecstacy. A shaman is one who works with the supernatural by being both priest and doctor—a kind of medicine man. The course will use Eliade’s writings on shamanism as a point of departure for a specific consideration of the religious practices of the North American Indian medicine man.
Readings: Mircea Eliade, Shamanism^ Archaic Techniques of Ecstasy3 Rites and Symbols of Initiation; Joseph Campbell, The Hero With a Thousand Faces; John G. Neihardt, Black Elk Speaks^ The Twilight of the Sioux; Weston La Barre, The Ghost Dance; Joseph Epes Brown, The Sacred Pipe, Black Elk’s Account of the Seven Rites of the Oglala Sioux; Carlos Gas-tanada, The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge; A Separate Reality; Jerome Rothenburg, Shaking the Pumpkin3 Traditional Poetry of the North American Indians; Frank Waters, Masked Gods: Navaho and Pueblo Ceremonialism. These books are expensive.
Organization: Each student will be asked to research one specific instance of Shamanism among the North American Indian tribes. Final examination will be essay-type. Class size: 40.	> -	■
Comment: Fr. Amen is far more comfortable and effective working with a relatively small group of students. He discusses and initiates discussion within such a situation fairly easily and one comes away from such. discussions with a sense of opportunity, encountered and available. I would recommend this course to any one genuinely interested in understanding through a personal encounter with a religious experience, one’s own interest and involvement in the religious experiences of the American Indian.
Rev. Jean LaPorte
Theology 208
Teilhard de Chardin
Content: The course is intended as an introduction to the works of Teilhard de Chardin; strong, emphasis is placed on The Phenomenon of Man as well as other essays selected by Abbe LaPorte.
~ Readings: Mimeographed essays will be handed out at the j beginning of the semester, comprising approximately 120 pages. It is also recommended that students read The Phenomenon j of Man.
*	- Presentation :1 There are two sections to the course; one
|	taught in French, one in English. A working knowledge of both
written and oral French is a prerequisite for the French section.
\ April 25, 1972
Father LaPorte encourages discussion and often has students prepare a class presentation on parts of the readings. The class is conducted in an informal, relaxed atmosphere.
Organization: Approximately twenty-one one-page papers are required, in answer to a question at the end of each reading section. The final is a short (3-page) paper along the same lines.
Comments : Abbe LaPorte is a very warm-hearted teacher who is very much interested in his students. His lectures are clear and easy to follow, though perhaps too simplistic.- Not terribly demanding, the course and Abbe LaPorte come highly recommended. '[Mosty but not all, of the students in the French section are returning Angers people.)
Stanley Hauerwas
Theology 217
Political Ethics
Content: The computer title of Mr. Hauerwas’ course is Political Ethics. He mentioned in class that the actual title may well be “Christian Social Ethics in a Democratic Society.” His' basic premise for this course is that modern Christians are trying to assert that God is a God who has a wider concern than that of the individual soul; he is the God over all social institutions as well, and is alive and active in his redeeming of this world. A question important for each individual is what is the relationship between his personal values and his involvement, voluntary or not, in social institutions. Mr. Hauerwas presents this question to his class not so much as a “thought-provoker” but as a very real, very pressing problem. Political Ethics is an attempt not to give the answer but to consider the problem and some proposed solutions academically.
" The course is presented in two sections. The first deals with various theological approaches to Christian social ethics. These are: The Catholic Tradition (encyclicals), The Realist Position (R. Niebuhr), The Christological Position (D. Bonhoeffer) and the Sectarian Position (J. H. Yoder). Although these are not exhaustive they cover the field quite adequately. The second half of the course is taken up with, broadly speaking, modem society in terms of political science and sociology. The interests of this half are varied: pluralism, technology, race, community, civil disorder, violence, radicalism.
Presentation: This course is presented in lecture form. Mr. Hauerwas is an able lecturer and is always well prepared. He is concise and is adept at getting to the crux of an issue. His daily presentation is generally a relaxed (that is, well-interspersed with comments and quips that develop and elucidate the topic) reading of written lectures. These are usually critiques and explanations of the readings, which should be read before the lecture. Mr. Hauerwas welcomes questions, comments and discussion in class and is willing to argue topics—if they are argued well and if they are relevant to class consideration.
55
Readings: This reading list is long, demanding and generally worthwhile. Some of the books of the latter half of the course are eliminated and others are abridged to facilitate reading. Papal Encyclicals (3-5), R. Niebuhr, Man’s Nature and His Communities; D. Bonhoeffer, Ethics; J. H. Yoder, The Christian Witness to the State; R. Dahl, After the Revolution; R. Niebuhr, The Children of Light and the Children of Darkness; Murray, IPk Hold These Truths; Riot Commission Report; The Port Huron Statement; A. Gish, The New Left, and Christian Radicalism; Reich, The Greening of America; Slater, The Pursuit of Loneliness; Nisbet, The Quest for Community; H. Arendt, On Violence; Berger and Neuhaur, Movement and Revolution; R. Potter, War and Moral Discourse; Malcom X, Autobiography; J. Hough, Black Power and White Protestantism.
Organization: Little activity is expected (generally rightly so) of the student. There are two tests—a midterm and a final— and a 15-page paper. The tests are difficult and demanding, yet very good estimates of a student’s knowledge of the subject.
■ They are both essay form. The topic of the paper is left to the student, with some advice from Mr. Hauerwas. Of the two, the paper is. more important. Mr. Hauerwas feels that a student should choose a topic he is really interested in and that he should learn from his work on the paper. Thus, the grading is 60% paper, and 40% the two tests.
Comments: Political Ethics is an extremely worthwhile course. Its emphasis provides one with some fresh, views of society, government, and their problems in the modern world. The most beneficial aspect of the course may be that by listening to Mr. Hauerwas’ lectures, one might learn to ask the “right questions.” Getting to the heart of the matter skillfully is an art he is quite adept at. One may learn much by being exposed to such skill.	■
The readings are many, and it may well be that some could be eliminated from consideration. Mr. Hauerwas hopes to cover quite a lot of material and in the main he succeeds. However, some, topics seem to.be considered enough to wet one’s appetite but are finished before more thought can be given to them. The first half of the course is the only “blatant” theology. Some may wish for more theology and less political science and sociology. However, Mr. Hauerwas wishes to make his course more generally appealing (that is, to more than just theology majors) and succeeds.	:	"
Mr. Hauerwas’ style of lecturing is explosive and to some intimidating (though it is not meant to be). Advice to students in his class:. ask questions, discuss and comment; these are welcome and the results are generally worthwhile. ..	’
This is not an easy course; it is not meant to be. It demands interest and work and only those willing, to contribute these should take it. .	-	.
Robert J. Nogosek, C.S.C. i f . Theology 213	:	:
Marxist-Christian Dialogue
Content: Attention in the course will be given to acquiring a basic understanding of Marxism-Leninism, especially through comparison and contrast with Christian principles and values. Through-reflection on the material the student will be encouraged to develop skills in identifying and clarifying his own values, whatever they might be and to do some thinking about the future of world civilization. This understanding of Marxism will then be considered for the challenges and the. questions that.it poses to the Christian mind.	- .	.
Readings: The reading list of Nicolas Berdyaev, The Origin of Russian -Communism, $1.75; Reinhold Niebuhr, Children of -Light and Children of Darkness; Giulio Girardi, Marxism- and Christianity, $5.95, or on .two-hour reserve; Peter Riga, Church of. the .Poor,, a Commentary on the Development of Peoples, $2.95. .	.	•	. .	\	.
Organization:. The only examination will be the final, which, will-'cover the material contained in the required reading. In place of the exam the student may opt for a half-hour oral exam. After the books by Bardyaev, Niebuhr and Girardi. there will be a=.required paper of 7 to 8 pages. Class participation . and attendance will be very important. Graduating seniors with at least a B average from the three papers and class par-
56
ticipation are excused from the final exam. The grade will be derived as follows: the three papers 50%; class performance 25%; and the final 25%. .	_	.	~ .
Fr. Biallas .
Theology 240.	.
Theology of Revolution
Content: Fr. Biallas’ aim is to amplify the student’s personal dimension and. give the student an; attitude of fresh awareness, new sensitivity to himself,’ nature, to others and to God by examing various existentialists ' and humanists. He tries to take off certain blinders; Some of the men taught include Feurbach, Nietzsche and Kierkegaard.
Presentation: Fr. Biallas has a sincere, easy-going, enthusiastic lecture style and explains the topic thoroughly. . He is definitely a most interesting lecturer. He is spontaneous and values class discussion and questions highly. He has an ability to explain very complex. concepts.'; He usually lectures the first fifty minutes of the class and leaves the last 15 minutes open for criticism and discussion.’ .
..Readings: The reading list will probably include The Portable Nietzsche; Bonhoffer, Letters and Papers from Prison; Kierkegaard, Sickness unto Deathand/or Fear and Trembling; Dostoyevsky, Notes from the. Underground and The Grand Inquisitor. The cost does not exceed $10.00. Some of these may be resold. The reading load per week is not excessive though it is essential to the course. ■ .	,
Organization: Fr. Biallas assigns two 7-10-page papers and a 10-page take-home final. Grades are based on the papers, class participation and 'the final. Fr. Biallas is not a harsh marker. '	~	'	..	'	.
Comment: . Fr. Biallas encourages intelligent discussions; His enthusiasm is apparent and his interest is contagious. His lectures are' Well prepared and- cohesive. This course comes recommended. Most of the students,- when asked whether they would take- another course from Fr.Biallas, replied in the affirmative. r .	■	• •	•	•	•
Joseph Blenkinsopp	.
Theology 301	, .
Hebrew Scriptures ;
Content: “As the title of this course suggests, the principal aim. will be to acquire some insight, into and acquaintance with the Hebrew Scriptures.” - This course -is. a requirement for- theology majors. Much of , the past interest of the course has been . . in Genesis, Deuteronomy and Exbdus. Dr. Blenkinsopp presents techniques of ..the Torm-critical method of investigating-scripture, an overview of the historicaF setting: of the :periods and an introduction. to the. thoughts and-world of biblical Judaism. In the past, the general approach of the course has been problematic. However, Dr. Blenkinsopp wishes to approach the texts this semester more thematically, examining the progressive thought 6F the .Old.Testament about sin, death, evil, etc. -	-
Presentation: The course is generally lectures on the various Biblical texts and related topics. Dr. Blenkinsopp ‘ is a quite -good lecturer’and' is very exact in his presentations. He hopes to generate discussion in the class and encourages questions, often by asking some himself. He is usually able to answer the queries or,. if not, is able: to refer a student to a source which can answer them.
. . ..:Readings: The readings are.not overly, demanding and are generally worthwhile;. Aside from, obviously, the Hebrew Scriptures of the Old Testament, two very short history books are to’be read: W.-F. Albright, The Biblical Period from Abraham to Ezra and E. L. Ehrlich, A Concise History of Israel. G. von Rad’s commentary, Genesis, and P. Ricoeur’s Symbolism of Evil . will also be used. . Recommended readings are many and are extremely helpful: T. Meek, Hebrew Origins; A. Alt, Essays in Old Testament History and Religion; W. Harrelson, From Fertility Cult to Worship. Students are encouraged to purchase and read a. good introduction to the Old Testament: O. Eissfeldt,' E. Sellin & G. Fohrer, A. Weiser, Bl Andesron. Dr. Blenkinsopp
The Scholastic
recommends books in his lectures that are pertinent to the topics being discussed. Certain short readings are required from the supplementary readings as preparation for lectures. .	- ' .
Organization : There are two tests—a midterm and a final. They are a combination of objective (names and some dates) and essay forms. Neither is * overly taxing but' each is a good estimate of a student’s knowledge of the subject. A term paper is also to be written: length: not less than 3,000 words and not more than ’5,000 words. This is intended as an opportunity to develop some interest of your own and will .have an important part in final evaluation.
Comment: Hebrew Scriptures is an interesting, enjoyable arid worthwhile course. Although it is a requirement' for the major, it is certainly not “beyond” any non-major. In fact, it may be extremely exciting for him to examine Scripture in a way he seldom hears. It is often the first exposure to Scripture the major has also—all are in the same boat.
Mr. Blenkinsopp is extremely personable and makes the course enjoyable. He is not the task-master as soine mistakenly think nor is the course impossibly demanding. He certainly knows his subject and chances are good that when a student finishes Hebrew Scriptures, he will know something of it.	.
Girardot
Theology 246
Far Eastern Religion
. Content: China and Japan have a rich spectrum of religious ideologies, some of them (Confucianism, Taoism, Shinto) indigenous in origin, others (especially Buddhism) introduced from outside but so profoundly. merged with the Chinese and Japanese cultures as to present fascinating examples of religious syncretism. This is a new course. Mr. Girardot is presently completing his doctoral work in Atlanta, Georgia. .	.
Wilken
Theology 248
Christianity and Pagans
Content: This is a new course. The original title for this course was “Pagan Resistance to Christianity,”, though “Christians and Pagans” was more congenial to the computer. Instead of the usual approach to early Christian history “from within,” this course will consider early Christianity from the viewpoint, precisely, of the pagan resistance to the encroachments of the growing and expanding Christian movement.	’	-
Robert J. Nogosek, C.S.C. ;
Theology 250
Theology of C. S. Lewis
- Content: Father Nogosek offers this course for the first time in the Fall Semester 1972. He offers an introductory, study and evaluation . of the theological: implications of the fiction of C.’ S. Lewis, as well as ' several of his theological , essays. His. remarkable insight into people and Christian, life treats such themes as mystery, faith, love, joy, pain, evil and redemption. Selections are front the best of his. space fiction, fairy tales, fantasies' and theological essays. .	.	. .
Presentation : Lectures will be delivered whose aim is to elicit questions for discussion. ■	.' ,	:	-
Readings: Out of the Silent Planet, Perelandra, Till We Have Faces, The Screwtape Letters, The Great Divorce, Mere Christianity, The Four Loves'; four of the classic stories from the collection about'the Kingdom of Narnia which explain many of life’s mysteries in Lewis’ uniquely tender way (for boys and girls ’ of every age over. nine). Lewis authored each selection. They are available in paperback editions. This listing is the reading rriaterial -for lectures, discussions and papers. ' ;	'
Organization: Class participation (25%), three*papers reflecting the student’s tastes for the literature (50%), and a final examination (25%) constitute the grade.
April 25, 1972
William Storey
Theology 303	.
Church Evolution
Content: Church Evolution I is the first half of an entire year of Church history. It is a chronological and topical survey of the historical evolution of the Church, emphasizing its theological, liturgical and structural developments. This first semester covers material from the beginnings of the early Church (Jerusalem, et al.) into the Middle Ages (1250-1300 A.D., approx.). The emphasis of the lectures is upon the historical facts of the Church’s past. This, of necessity, involves the theology of the times, the politics, the social structure, literary achievements, wars, language, etc. It would be best to say that the lecture portion of Church Evolution involves a “chronological survey,” to which the topical is affixed at appropriate times. The seminar portion of this course is more topical. Church Evolution is a required major’s course.
■ Presentation: The class meetings are exclusively lecture, although questions and comments are welcomed and are offered occasionally. The lectures are generally historical, generally factual with some historically interpretative comments and elucidations added. Dr. Storey is a good lecturer and is generally quite easy to listen to. The seminars are meant to be discussions of the readings of each particular week. Their format involves the reading of a number of papers written on the readings and discussion arising out of these papers. These seminars are once a week, generally in the evening and are from two to three and a half hours long.
Reading: There are two or three history texts, each covering different time periods. Each is extremely good. Two used are: H. Chadwick, The Early Church, and R. W. Southern, Western Society and the Church in the Middle Ages. To get the most out of this course, these two books are indispensible.
Each week a book is assigned to be read for the seminar discussions. These are chosen topically within the chronological framework of the periods. They are, for the most part, primary sources. Those used in the past were: C. H. Dodd, The Founder of Christianity; Eusebius, The History of the Church and Early Christian Writings; T. Merton, The Wisdom of the Desert; Augustine’s Confessions; Bede, A History of the English Church and People—The Song of Roland; Z. Oldenburg, Destiny of Fire; The Little Flowers of St. Francis; H. Wasdel, Peter Abelard; St. Bonaventure, The Mind’s Road to God.
Organization: No tests. A book is to be read and a short paper (3-5 pages) to be written on the book each week. These are discussed at the weekly seminars.
Comments: Church Evolution is certainly not an easy course but like many demanding courses, is well worth the effort put , forth. One can certainly learn some Church history—if he listens to the lectures and does the readings. This in itself is quite an accomplishment. One is given the opportunity in Mr. Storey’s lectures, but even more in the discussion and thought of the seminars, to learn something of Christianity’s struggle to remain Christian. Each age encountered this problem in a different way. In the readings and seminars, one is given the opportunity to consider these ways. And, .inevitably, this consideration of other ages speaks to the individual in his time.. The Christian, and sometimes non-Ghristian, witness of different times comments upon the present and each individual’s . encounter with the problem is this present. Answers are not provided. Paths are searched out; sometimes they are pointed out. To experience these things is very worthwhile.
Of course, not all is milk and honey—Mr. Storey covers quite a bit of material (quite well) and it is often overwhelming. It often appears that what has to be said on a topic is unending. Lethargy in the lectures is common, not because of Mr. Storey’s delivery and style, but because of the immense amount of information presented in each lecture. Likewise, one gets tired eventually of reading and writing each week. Dread of the coming week (and book and paper) occur occasionally.
57
Presentaton: Depending on the. size of the class, Fr. Mitchel/ will incorporate - questions at any time during the class, or perhapsset day (once a week?) - for discussion; otherwise, the basic format} will be lecture. r
/ Readings: The required.textsrfor/the course will be: A. G. Dickens, The English Reformation;. A. C. Dickens" ahcTDqrothy Carr, eds./ The [Reformation in,England; and H. G./Alexander, Religion in England—1558-1662. Dickens is probably the . fore” .most historian, of/the/Anglican/R^eformation, and .his .text will . .	' be of. great Value; the text: edited1 by Ms. Carr and Dickens is
some latter-day mystics, - especially <the chief . English mystics a book of primary, sources; and,Alexander will supply continuity „r j- 4. .u	for.the/secpndrhalf of the course.. In addition/Ff. Mitchell will
have numerous Volumes ;on reserve,/^ (or most) ’ being, primary sources,"from/Erasmus and More/to Ridley arid Cranmer. , A bibliography .willbe 'prepared/at the beginning of the -course, pertaining to these arid/bther texts'and "sources, both on reserve and • ori the shelves. oL the/library. Cost ‘of texts: - about $7.00.'
Organization: /Again,; much yvill depend upon the size of ’the class. .Cohceining/exams^tiie class will have the choice of a . final exam: or, two; hourly exams ~ during the J course of the. semes- .
ter.. Two research papers will be expected (8-10 pages/ of iriore substantial scope and . depth:? A list of topics for papers will be available: at the beginning of the sernester, for which utilization of' the/readings/ on reserve will be? essential, if not minimal/ Fr. Mitchell does not plan on assigning topics which can be covered" by the assigned texts alone.? If’the class is small enough, perhaps one of these: papers' would be presented by the student (once a week); as a-seminar of? sorts,; to be followed, of course, by discussion on the paper./But if the class Js too large to facilitater discussion? of this kind, or to get every student to present. /his/or her ' paper,?then< they -will be. of the ordinary (iV.<to/be~ handed in)/ki^^	; /	- - ;	/	?
William Storey Theology 417	\
Western Mysticism
Content: This course will introduce students to the strong mystical tradition in'the Wes tern. Church, that, , at least, parallels mystical experience and theology} in the; Eastern s Churches : and
some oriental religions. Through < a study of, the experience of
of the fourteenth century, Mr. Storey' proposes to show the
similarity between this tradition and its biblical/counterparts, that is, its biblical roots, since the Bible itself is a record of several forms of experimental knowledge of_ God. He plans to . deal with these English mystics because they stand . out sig-
nificantly among other Catholic mystics; they are more accessible to us since they wrote largely in English and are , closely related to us culturally; and, not least of all, he knows them best. .
* The course will set the authors within the framework of the - medieval Church, eliciting what is common to them within the Catholic tradition. - It will seek to . analyze the experience and teaching of each of the mystics and introduce the/students both to the .possibility and the availability of the experimental knowl-
dr one
edge of God. , :	, :	\	/- ,
Presentation : The class will meet three times weekly centering around a format of both lecture and .close analysis and discussion, of the mystical writings themselves.r, The size of the class will probably determine the frequency/of discussions.
Readings: The readings consist of The Basic Writings of Richard Rolle; The Anonymous Cloud of Unknowing; Lady . Julian of Norwich, Revelations of r Divine Love; Walter Hilton, The Ladder of Perfection and The Book of Margery Kempe J Some general introductory material on mysticism may also be included. ,	/ /	- ; '	:	.	\ /
Organizatioin : The student will write, a four- to, five-page evaluative paper on each. of the mystics treated. /The final grade will be based upon these and/general participation in class discussion. . -	. // :	\ -/ /.	'
Comments : - This course has not been offered4' before, but indications' are that it will be conducted in . a manner similar to his Church Evolution course. This means 'ample time for discussion of the readings and - a satisfying personal grasp of the material.?/At; the same time that the student: may; find the . opportunity to know Mr. Storey on a rewarding individual basis, . he will also, discover inhim a truly academic approach, which is certainly necessary to theological study and this study in particular. -//./,;	\	\
Leonel Mitchell / . ? T
Theology .421.	/<- // .. V-/. /// ? • ’
The Anglican ^Reformation/ : '< > - /	.	<
if not
Content: This is a one-semester course (no prerequisites). r. ; . /; / ^ ■ / in the/history/^	ReformationHn/England, /from the /split / pc V
between Pope Clement VII/and .Krig Henry VIIT iri<1529,: to Vjirar Ol the Restoration of/ Charles/li; as Iking in/1662} /The/emphasis of the chronology/ will probably/be ori the /former half of : the continuum,^ with the accessibri of /Elizabeth I being the/pivotal historical event./Nevertheless,--^ Mitchell?wishes to: stress /the / importance of the ;secbnd half/ofthe chronology for a true uri-derstanding of the Anglican Church which resulted. Fr. Mitchell - basic approach will be to demonstrate that, from 1529 to T 6^ the emphasis .was against tile Church of Rome; and Hrorh 1601 / to 1662, the emphasis was against the presbyterian•/(Puritan) -
_ Comments: /This course is new to Noire Dame, arid so is Er. Mitchell;/who is: finish inghisfirst year here after teaching at . General Episcopal Theological Seminary in New. York. He
- has taught oneother undergraduate /course here: The Meaning of Worship ’(fall, 71) , which /wasVan introduction to the texts and rituals' of the Christian liturgy. : In this course, Fr. Mitchell proved his Vast knowledge of this topic. The’ Anglican Reformation is something which\(obviously) interests Fr. Mitchell ‘very . much, arid he ihas; been/ ah excellent teacher of subjects which . interest him,J although he/ ordinarily, takes some :time in each class, to “warm up,33as it were, usually/finishing the period on the - high^no te.g He: is enthusiastic and warm; his office is always
: . open toistudents.}The.course should prove interesting to history ~ majors/"(to: gain} a-new/perspective" on -the' Reformation other .
thanfthe/spe	Luther and/the Germans); it would be
" valuable} for English Jmajprs /interested in .Elizabethan and early-J 17 th-cen tury / literature,^ to ./gain; the contextual: perspective in = which;.these works Jwere/produced; and . it/would be a valuable \ elective Jor theplp^maj^^	development of
, Tfotestant : (Puritan) J theology which parried J over into / the ' ' United StatesJ/{ahd for the liturgical' developments which gave//
/ birth-to?tke vHigh/Chur<ffir /’ / 3/ - ' --/ - -
ThedlogyM20
Taoism"
influerice; arid that the’ Via Media,; the/catholic/nqri-Romari Church/ofEngland, was-the ^result. "/ - 3 VV/^//
-aContentj^O^^	traditipns .of China,
Taoh;mifimls/h^	of Lao ;Tzu
and/qfr Chuang	in accordance/with
tfie VWay’k^	4ri/theV'structure of /the? Cosmos, ;
with/its?,pola^^^	concentration (yin) / and\expression,
(yang)f?§ThisJisJaGnew/;,cd^^	presently com- .
pletmg^his/doctoral/work in; Atlanta;. Georgia./ '? ~ r - .	\ ’
Sr

V VS





58
The Scholastic
business
Edwin Ar ano wski . Accounting 261 < Basic Accounting
' / Content: Mr. Aranbwski offers : an introduction * to the terminology and 'techniques’ involved in the- basic accounting processes. Designed for honbusiness majors, the course is a one
. ’ semester/overview ' of - general principles. There are no pre- ; requisites.	-	' // -,	-	-/	-	\ \ :	'
. Presentation: Classtimeis devoted mainly to lectures, but ’ there1 is ample opportunity for the student to, ask questions and ,
- to have problems worked. If need be, Mr.; Aranowski can rely	j t	rp - .
bn his vast experience as a -CPA-to make his point clear. , /; TCuCrHl inCOHie 1RXCS :	_
'Readings: The basic text is Pyle and White, Fundamental ' / T -	; /	. ^	/	-
./.Accounting Principles, FifthEd. Also helpful is Pyle and Her- Content: Federal Jncome Taxes: The major objective of < mahson, Programmed Learning Aid For Elementary Accounting.	, the course is to create a general understanding of the tax laws.
The; combined ;cost" of these is approximately $13. \	-	The student is exposed to the Federal Income Tax Code and its
/ Organization: The student is expected to read one chapter -. per class period in preparation for three in-class non-cumulative -
' /tests. The final counts as 25% of the grade and itiscomprehen-
psive/ Tests may be short answer or problems, depending oh the /material* covered. Mr. Aranbwski requires: class attendance and
* is a fair’though rigid grader? :	; \ v * - */..	'
/ “ / Comments: Though Mr? Aranowski is a skillcd accountant _ and highly qualified ^teacher, an entertaining lecturer he is not. -\ His* well-prepared talks are fact filled though ofteff dulL to /the
//point of being boring/ Rarely is new material presented in-class, A though many examples are clarified and expanded here.: / - -V
Raymond Powell s . Accounting 334 j . Cost Control 2^ ,...
: t ‘ / Content :' Mr. Powellrseeks / to '/convey / to; his ' students the . /// importance arid the > intricacies/of cost"accounting. /The/ course
instills confidence^ in/th e student /as; Kef learns/to - handle: various ?/ // price' and J cost stra tegies Hri/rclation/to * a - firm’spb^
// '/ ciples t of /accounting ~ is'/h/preferi^	/ // /3 / ? //:
J /?/?/?	fassigns/daily homework1'and ’Te-
ip / views *:this -material?!n' the/ next "period. / He also assignsioptional / //; pqral ^questions,/ which? a/student/ mayp/wislT fo -prepare: 'Powell/ ; / occasionally makes 4 useof -videotape. machines: and : electronic
- April 25.'1972	/ •
calculators in his class.	_
’ - /Readings: Horngren, Cost Accounting, and handouts.
./ Organization: There are 3-4. tests and a final. One of diese tests will be the morning Thanksgiving vacation begins. Attendance and homework comprise 10% of the grade, with test grades making up the balance.	.
/ Comments: Mr. Powell comes to class with a professional outlook towards accounting. Many students are enthused about his course, thus, competition is keen. -
James Dincolo
Accounting 476
applicability to corporations and individuals. The emphasis is placed on general concepts rather than minute technicalities. The
, course is a requirement for accounting majors. Therefore it will be composed primarily of seniors who are lucky enough to / have their last name begin with the letter M thru Z., in the . fall semester. .
; / Presentation: Mr. Dincolo is extremely knowledgeable in the subject matter? Because of this he is able to put highly tech: nical aspects oftaxes into relatively easy terms. His insertion , of very interesting anecdotes makes comparably dry material more " palpable. Materials discussed in class are highly correlated with / the assigned readings and to the test material.	'
' / Readings.* The text used last semester was the 1972 Federal Tax Course.- This will probably be updated. The approximate , cost is/twelve dollars. The readings themselves are long and highly sophisticated.
\ Organization: There are weekly homework assignments / conipbsed of approximately ten problems which are often dittoed ;. and handed out before-the assignment is due. There are three examinations which determine the final grade. The exams cover only/m	in class but often are too long for the
//time^	? : .	_ ,	'	.
Comments:./This is definitely not a course on how to save fmoneylthrbugh. tax tricks. It- is a course on the Federal tax code^ahd/the mechanics of tax work. It can be considered val liable to . any/business-oriented -s tuden t or one con templatmg la^schoql/The student gets out of the course whatever he puts Into t it/which - is left completely up. to the student.
59
George Viger Finance 371 Insurance
Donn Novotny
Business 340	.
Introduction to Computers and Programming
Content: Business 340 is. a business oriented computer
, Content: ? Mr.. Viger’s course is a very good introduction to and survey-of .the field of insurance. It.is a course which could prove very, helpful to the'student later on in life when he faces the, difficulty of choosing different types' of policies for all kinds? of insurance. '; All? types; of- insurance are discussed to a great degree within; the? course. Insurance is a Finance elective - and most of the students; in-the class are business majors, but the course - is open .-to all students.' . ~	' ’	. .	. '	'
Presentation:’ Professor :Viger spends'most of the' class period lecturing, but? questions are always .welcome. The subject matter - at times can be dry, but the professor adds his . own . charm arid humor, to make' thingsmore bearable. .
Readings: General-Insurance.	.	.
. Organization: There, are.five or.six tests given throughout the semester/- all of about the . 'same length and weight. The tests , deal with/material from the-book and .‘the notes from class. Class attendance .is riot mandatory, but is strongly suggested in order to do well in thecourse. . There are no papers or projects. .
. Comments:. Mr? Viger’s tests are rather difficult and the student must ..put, in sorrie' time if he expects to do well. All in all the course is ver? worthwhile'.and well, worth taking for one’s own benefit. ;	. '	? ?.	? .	.
- ■ Content.' ' This? course is essentially afsuryey- examining, the mechanicsof: investment, t particularly? ? in ??the>? stocky market Topics':cbvefed will.includestocks, bonds, mutiiaf fund,-.security .
■ analysis, portfolio management,? etc. ‘ z?
•	■. ////Presentation:?'-The/plans / for/next/sem^	.
’ completed: due?td a? restructuring ? of :the? course?^Preliminary -? jplans /call? fofydivisionjofThefsectidhTlyetweem	’non?- ;
. business /studehts/with/the/approacK^^	-group’s back- T
•	. ground. " Current • pla,ns;s call* fpr/Mr.? Tarfagher,??whp?: is 1 teaching; ?
- the:: course? this ? semester/?to 'teacHThe? section/geared\ for/the ; , ' -? rion-business students.?? vi?’/	??•'
course open only, to business.majors. This:course prepares the student to utilize computer systems at ND and elseware. Mr. Novonty sees- that .'.this' course -may' be . integrated with other	...	.
classes inBusiness for the solving of complex problems. Topics Paul CoHWRV *	? •
covered in the course include: introduction to COBOL .pro- ,. ?	- , ,■	.	.
gramming; problem solving; comprehensive COBOL program- PinanCC 231.	/
ming; tape. input and output;. direct-access input and output; Business Finalice ’	.
hardware coricepts; operating .systems and job control language; .	.?	,	.	.	'	:	.	;?	'	.
' and terminal utilization. There' are no': prerequisites for-this ,T -■ ,	, ' - ' -.	. -	' . .
course	..	.	.	Content:, Mr?Conway’s course is a very good introduction .
' Readings: The texts are: Mike Murach, lienee Research	lo thc field of business finance. The student studies, the field of
Association Standard COBOL $7.95; and .the IBM s/370	corporate finance and; all its related subjects. The best-descripOperating System ANS COBOL $4.50.	'	tion of the course is related by the Professor: “Following the
Organization: Grades- are based ori three exams and on ?- current trend of approaching enterprise finance from the internal, approximately. 8-12. computer, assignments. '	- .	. ? Problem-solving point of view, this course is designed to explore
; - Comments:' Mr. '.Novonty presents his course .'well. Knowl-. the- descriptive,- theqfetical?-. and analytical materials , necessary edge -of. the COBOL system is valuable, since it is the/most . for a/basic-understrinding of business finance. . The, Professor
. extensively used system in industry. ? , 7? T . v \ uses two texts and-a .workbook;: yyhich is purchased at the. stu-- :	' ? :’•	' - ' -. :	'dent’s .option,/geared at/helping; the stiident more fully under-
t?„„„	-	a a i i ’	<	stand the problems, he will face in the business world. Thecourse
Tyraghc^onway and Arnukl	z .	the. class
Finance 370 : ;	?’? '.	.?■ .	?. ?' ?' Will-be.busmessfrifajqfs, but the course is:open to.all students.'
\ -p ?•	• -I T T	f	-	. PRESENTATiON.-; .-Mr?.-.Conway is a very- good lecturer and
xlinCipleS-Ot-investments „	: -•.	j	does,:a good' job of:relating?the course to the.student. ;Most of
........... ................................. .the period ;is';spent?on'.lec?turihg/ahd,problerii-solying both'from .
. .the; fex/arid/wqrkbobk.i’ClassJdiscus^ and conversation and-'
: demonstratiori nnd/ analysis of /cases?:are, techniquesused, in the / class/tq/generat?efinte^^	-dd/-?; . . ;?-	;
,\/ /REAbfNG/J?j/iReadings-i include / Kent, Corporate^ Financial '■'Manageme^	Casesjn ’Managerial Finance; Robin-.
.. sdri;fan<I-}Johhson;tiSelf-Cw	in Finance,’ ?(Op-- -
?’tiori'al)?';?arid-'other:sug^	/T. ?: ? . . ; /. = .
'/Organization / Three full-period/exaihinatibnst.and- atfinal.
•-are?f^v'enTduring^’tEe?semes^ /There: are?alsd- written ’case ’as- ' .s.igrimerit/?due??thrqugh6ut;the seineste'r5at; specified dates. /There ? /is:no,;rigid? formula; for :?the?fihal?:grade?. The-final grade repre- , .sehtslithe/^^^ perlqririahce ?of: the .student. Although- attend-f; ance/ is'/not /'mandatory.;it is / necessary-.-, to ; attend: regularly z in ? /order/fto/rra all /the benefits; qf;;the; course,' as<,a? portion, of: the ? ,
Readings: ? Not? yet ?deteriniried. ? y .	.y? '.?. \
. Organization:?; Iri?the:p^t'Mr.;Fhrragher|has?requifed;?tw6 , short/papefsj/five>pages?/iri?a^	’to^ three?'exams.
. Exariis are, short? esay,?requiring /application of the?subjectfmatter; Messers? ?,Conway /and ’Arnold' haveinotf taughtf^^ criufse? pre?, viouslyryt:/;.	_
- - 1 CoMMENTs:>Principfes inyestments:is>HigKl£'r&^ :to"anyqne =with.ihe d^ireito
VworldffjMostistadents find-;tiie coin’se.nise^^
take^it iJagain({4No^	^should/fincl?fthe d course
; very;intesting;andrnot'too difficult?.	. <
test^material conies ? from : the class- riotes.%:	. \
Conway’s?;course -is? a/vefy./gqod -base? for.
any \fafufe?.business’student;? The jxourse:isf well jcori^ aimedy at .helping ?the/student.?attain:~:al complete?’know .the.subjecV matter.' jThe-student■mustyputFsome-'timeyin^phi the subjectctb: do.?well? ;Mr: Conway/is /very/fair; inf his,gradirig? arid is?always};willirig-?tb / help; the. . student. y.The ysubjecCjmatter is covered Jvery. throughly and the; course >is?,well-worth - taking..? y
TheScholastic -
John L. Houck
Management 488
Innovation and Technology Management
Content.- A case course that is designed to help the stu- dent understand, and deal effectively with, change and stability in the future. A long-range “macro” forecast of social, technological and business.factors is attempted, followed by an analysis of. how,a business firm can make .it', "fit” with the changes that . will likely occur.
Presentation: The course is a seminar-type of .course that places equal responsibility on the student and teacher for the t discussions that take.place in the classroom. The. course begins and takes for its central theme the.question of which road busi. ness and society should take in the. United States, be it a Maximuni Technological Growth, or a complete emphasis on.Humanistic and Personalistic Growth. . All areas in between these two .poles are. explored, in the discussions that take place in class. These discussions are-usually excellent because-of the wide range of,opinions* that are-present, with the members of the;class. -
.. Readings : A • person could go through .the semester without reading one thing in this .course-but .he would riot add .much of
. anything to the discussions. Books that are'suggested are. the -following: Greening of American, Pursuit of Loneliness;The -
Salvatore Bella Management 373	,
Union Management Relations
Content: The foci of this course is on the history of labor unions, and their impact in our society. Collective bargaining and the political , implications behind labor agreements are explored. Contemporary union disputes are also considered.
Presentation: The course is not rigidly structured—it is part lecture arid part discussion. Mr. Bella welcomes student comments’that rnay-clarify his own. lectures. He also uses exten- . sive handouts to supplement his.lectures.
, . Readings: A hew text is being considered for the fall.
. / Organization: Mr. Bella gives two examinations on the lecture, handout, and text material. The exams will constitute
' 60%. of the grade? Two papers,-which require individual creative thinking, are required.- The papers constitute 40% of the grade, and;no outside texts are to be used for their composition. Class participation makes. up the final 10%. Mr. Bella also takes note of the student’s improvement in the course.	.
/ Comment: . Mr? Bella is well versed in the field of labor relations. ’ He respects the’, student1 s point of view, and his lectures make the course profitable.	.
Age of Aquarious; Daedalus: Toward the Year 2000, the Making . of a Counter-Culture; and-others.along the same, line. -/Students / are allowed and encouraged. to -bring up' ideas from: any other - .
; books, that, they: have read outside, oL class, and and use. these ? ideas as the basis of, or additions to . the discussions.' - ?. .
Organization:. The student is expected to read some of the above-mentioned, books and contribute to the discussions in class. .The teacherin no way tries to force any of this on the student - but instead relies on the person-to? motivate. himself, to do some reading and contributing in class./ The grade - is based . mostly . ..
' on! the quality?of the comrnents that a’person .makes in. class.. / .	,. , , .......	,	.
. Attendance is riot required but a .large percentage; of thej-class Management 475
’. is always on hand. This only shows how. enjoyable :the. class is. ’.	? *'	" ';	-
Grading.policyisvery easy/Oneor two short “position papers”' ’	bM'IIiagem .
/arei.done/durihg<dhe/semester./There:are_np, .tests or lengthly, ' /.papers thatjhaverio.-be done/./	. ,■,= //
; . ?' .Comments:, . For .this • writer, Mr.. Houck’s .-Innovation and?, / Technology -Management-, class .is the best .class that--he has had ; /hererat/N^	easy .organization/of .the/class?gives?
=" : the->student/time t’o: examine some of his’/own . ideas - and. .let’s . y? him pursue things, completely outside of the* course?;If?a. person ? //takes; an active^rqle. in .the classroom ^proceedings^ .heAcpmef out.-?
of the class, with a: much better ideafof how? he,/as a? future ? business .man, is going?to- treat, the rest; of/society: with?his.; busi-J?.
?‘?ness.?. Aside/from;'that,jit-gives: the; student great exposure, to a • - /.wide i range/of - ideas .-ariddpinions/.that ^spf rowfully.; are/greatly? ,
-.lacking,on this campus., For/the?business!student,?it’syan/excel//.
??lent?way. to escape fromsome-oLthe traditionalideas, faught?iri-< ?.? the/business college and makes one/bfoadeh/his,;horizons.’	?’
? the.non-biisiness student; ,it: isystill,;ari?excellent;^	;is de-?/?
/ finitely; recommended -■ if rohe': is able -■ to :getinto/the..'cdurse,?a~s/ / /usually ..closes early?/ ??/ j . -f *?;--:///. ■ ?'/y.?/?
Matt Starcevich;
?/?/ Content:? The -course ..will cover four major areas:, man, pqwer; planning; selection;,and < placement; training and develop-:/ment; arid wages, and salary? The, course’s, approach will be the ’applicationof theory to practical; situations in a straightforward ; manner.-s-This course . is.,, requiredfor all management. majors. .
.'Prerequisite ;is?thePrinciple.,of'Management. . .	.
.?/?^Presentation:/ This? course, is. basically- lecture, but Mr.
Starcevich} welcomes/discussion and questions.
./^J^adings:/Audio-yisualyaids will be employed. The text;
/ has;not yet been chosen. ?	. ?	...	.; ., /
///-Organization:, One-paper will be assigned and, anin-class . -mid-term-and filial; will determine the grade. Tests are generally /reviews ?of: readings and lectures. .. Class participation is also; fin-;
portant.;;--. ji	'
../Comments: An understanding oE personnel management can . only-.berari/aid .toa business; major .who will find ..his . livelihood ..
in an organization? ■’/// r.C ..	. * ■- '	'?
April 25,1972
61
-
engineering
I
Architectural Staff.
-Architecture 144 Design Theory
Patrick. -Horsbriigh -and-Enrico Plati . Architecture 541'	- ;
Introduction: to. Environic Design
‘ Content: Open>to juniors Jr seniors and graduate students, . this course is ah introduction to the concept oLenvironic condi-. tions as thc discipline which must .influence design. “Emphasizing
, Content: The purpose of this course is to introduce, the student to the basic principles of the creative design process and to develop in him an understanding of the forces which direct it. .	„	_
It also begins to introduce the student to the professional aspects the need^to; comprehend the; environmental materials, factors and of/the practice of/Architecture? Another, purpose of the course 1 . forces upon 6vhich?human conditions depend. Organized society, is to orient the student, to the changing needs which he will on any scalp/.depends upon the\betterrunderstanding of environic . have to cope J with as a professional architect.Therearenopre- - disciplines/upon which (location, material and design depend.. A requisites for this course, but this is hot to say^that the topics ~ revised; ^	erivirohic ^values based. upon ecological
covered in the course are of common knowledge./ A- major part.	. factors?is essential?if/any improvement of the;urban and natural
of the coursers discussion and.reaction to the/subject matter. It is scene-isrt® ^ achieved.”; a: > //*: 1 7	; k ;
a course designed to develop in. the .student an aesthetic attitude. /	Presentation J and, r Organization: Similar to Ecologyof :
toward architecture. /	. Cities,:Arch.552. : >	-
. ? Presentation: This course,-is'presented<in	lecture-discus-
sion format/with an, emphasis placed upon visual aids. During / the .semester, a broad range, of topics are discussed., *The/studenC is exposed to. each/member of' the'Architectural, staff in these . lectures. Discussion ?is 7 emphasized? because? the students/ are .
encouraged to develop an. understanding of thq/thought processes which are required in design. ;.	.	7“ * A?	A
Readings : Because* of the natufe/qf this course/ nd particular :
. . books are required; However, bqdks J are placed' on reserve in the library/for. the studentsto refer? to/for ^rther/information. , ; 1 y > J Organization : Approximately /8 papers of 2t or 3 (pages, are? required/duririgThe/course of the. semester. The topics; are chosen , by5 the student,; but are to be related to /the; previously completed ; . lecture /series. 7 Each paper is x graded / separately /with7 the final semester fgrade: being the average of all of the papers. Ulustra-' tions are asked to be “ turned in with each paper/ and these . should; demonstrate an: application of the topic to /real /arch-: itecture. Creativity is' an- important attribute for an?architect,-/ and ( these, drawings help ?to develop .sucha; quality7inythe/ student. (	. y' _ ./ , . r
^ Comments : The Architectural; staff does; a?vefyy^qqd job /of providing1 a series of5 lectures 'which - introduce -the student/-to? the, field? of architecture. / The professors encourage questioning.: and discussion, and- try to answer all of the questions /wi^puf/lje-comings toor technical for/freshman? All? of tlie members fof> the staffyare? licensed architects. -Therefore/* theyrpresent/a -realistic' view, of the; architectural: profession to the student?
62	? A./ / - • A? A 7 -'A /< 7yy/A
Pat:rick;®orsbr^	f -
Architecture: 552 7	: /	;
/Ecdlp^’oTCitie^	'./ ;	. A. . / . :
' ~	A ? '. / *--- ,,	■ "A '
j’ v	<;“The\ci^	all 'other. forms of lifean; 7
> \aesthetic//ofApurpbse’^^	influences /of location, ’
people andl funtd^	consideration is the context -
7 of /the/city/in'tirne^	;/?'7	7 7 f ; 1/
7 ? ? 7/^	as/a^ living organism y(biopolis)
introducesilthe/cit^	vicissitudesr of //
; the/inanimate/fabric, how,-laws/of , :. Kqlogical/ lif e; * in /origin, structure, and growth.'	> < f‘/S;: ' -
47/ - Thercourse -is: open to all majors and is urged:for; those who ': / seck an awareness of urban conditions. r *7	/ X
// //Presentation :/ Horsbrugh’s lectures - are * informal and? pre-’ / ? . sented /with, a thoroughness that fully»commands/one’s z attention; / -/He5 encourages students to ask/questions/whicfi-fusually/resultun , 7 '/interesting discussions with a *. diversity f allowed, with students^ of > / different/ majors; Lecture is complemented /with* use of ‘/slides . / = and/varidus literature. : 7 - <7; 75 ? ? 7/ 7a - - 7/ /'/ '"' ?
, / ? I ^Readings : -A: varied and well chosen book c list- is provided Awith/a/range. of ,reading/fdrT:&	law,
^sociology, history and city planning. A short (1-2 pages) paper is
?	The Scholastic
John Lucey
Mechanical Engineering 213 Nuclear Energy .
asked from each reading expressing the reaction of the student. Books are available from the libraries. No text required.
. ' -Organization: The seminar meets once a week, for three . hours. Students are required. to select and review a city well known.to them for presentation and analysis. A written review is to be submitted in support of the verbal presentation. Grade is based on the paper and class participation. .	,	.	•
-- Comments: Mr. Horsbrugh is open to all intelligent viewpoints. The . course depends-largely on the individual student
. who must incorporate Mr. Horsbrugh’s - lectures and class dis-
. cussion with, individual research: As Mr. Horsburgh gives excellence he likewise demands it from- his-students; He has proven to be a great aid and companion. \	-
Charles. Ingram • -	; . .
Aerospace Engineering 213	7
Space Technology—	.	.
Applications and. Effects on: Society - j 7..
Content: This course is designed to acquaint the non. technical student with an overview of the sources and uses, both current and potential, of nuclear energy. Topics covered include applications of radioisotopes, biological effects of radiation, principle applications and safety of nuclear reactors, application and effects of nuclear explosives, nuclear fusion, and future prospects. There are no pre-requisites, as such, and this course is open to all students.
. Presentations: Mr. Lucey’s lectures were very well prepared, interesting, and supplemented with several movies dealing with different aspects of nuclear energy.
Readings: The text is Sourcebook on Atomic Energy by Glasstone and costs about $14.00. Mr. Lucey also will hand out.
- several booklets ■ from the A.E.C.’s “Understanding the Atom” series.
. Organization: There are 2 one-hour tests, together worth .1/3 of the final grade: one paper which should be a critical review of some; aspect of nuclear energy about 10 pages long, worth 1/3 of the final grade, and a 2-hour final worth 1/3 of the final grade.
Comments:-Mr. Lucey’s classroom style is very easy going and informal. He. presents some very technical material in a manner that can be.understood by almost any student. There are . two separate grading scales, one for science and engineering majors and another for arts and letters students. '	.	- '
Tenney, Echelbarger, McFarland and Singer “
; 7 . Content:;. (New Course) The material in. this1 course is 7 Civil/Engineering 213 ..	. :	. . '-7:
5 ..designed to .be non-matheiriatical/ih nature. According’ to the.	t? '•	-	/	-	.'7
.. ~ . erigineerin'g department,-the. purpose of the'eburse-is;to. “provide -. Ivian; and X1IS JfinvirOnTnent .	.	-.	-
' ; a/survey?of the.,space- sciences,: to describe; irij the appropriate
. scontext some’of the;progress that has-been fnade and its-impacf: ,	on / society,/ to .indicate ..the -lihes along which .further investiga-
2 .\tipns,-areF being-considered.”/Tentatively-, the- topics .to’ be dis-7- - ciissed/include: 1): The Universe and .Solar System,'. 2) - History ...	.of/.Space; Exploration, 3).\ Justification - of the Space Program,
;4).'7Applicatio>ns ■ 'of<Space;:Techriqlogy'. -. It- is expected ;that . / 2 today’s engineering prograrris will be critically viewed in juxta- • .'/. .tpositibn with social./ahd-ecorioinic programs, that is, in relation 4 -,7, -to ’ the returns of .such /.programs - to - society, . For those persons ; who are[ not/technically’driehted, ;tfie course’should give them. 7/\/nsight-jd; engineering .'method arid, philosophy.; . J’ -.;-, .
/ ■/Presentation : ;Lecture-discussiori .orientated.; Audio-visual
Caids’;in’forms;.bEslides arid .films;- “ 2 ;. ‘;'2 2^ 2.^ /-•'i •(:“Readings:: Expected, to-cqnsist of contemporary. lf^ ‘•■/socid-techriical-- interest/ arid,/readings Jrom . various technical, magazines.
. ^.' '..Organization: Short papers;/jne*examy7^
•> -project’•(depending ori studentMnfefest)jrdesi^ed;^^
; /of‘ engineering to .the outsider;; -Class/discussion/to/Be,fpf;< con-;
: -. siderable’importance. -	-	7
April.25, 1972	-	• ?	-7- ■ 7
- ■ Content; Desigried for non-erigineering majors. • Involves the . study of, the relation of man to his environment, with emphasis upontheproper.controloftheenvironment by scientific and engineering methods. Topics.include environmental problems m air, water, and land, and systems approach to environment.;
2 Presentation : . Lecture-discussion. format, planned but. informal.'Field trips within the South Bend area. ; .
' 7 /Reapings :/N6 .required texts, some suggested readings. \ ,-	Two exams, one-final, one term paper. A
; choice allowed .between objective or subjective exams. . •
'Comments: Excellent course.for everyone interested in the / enyifqnmeriEj arid /associated. problems such as pollution. A S difficulty; encountered by	is in gearing the.course to
/suit the/diverse backgrounds of the individual students who. ;.represerit/a. wide	the student body. Technically,
?Jthel jkbfe	more than- competent, and appear to enjoy
74caching:the course.	.
63
science
Biology
Ralph .Tliorson ; Biology 401, 401L' General Parasitology
. Ralph Thorson . Biology. 201;
- Generai;Biology .
Content :The animalparasites of man and related hosts, _ the pathology, caused by these par^ites;{epidemiology5; life cycles, prophylactic and therapetuic control are considered? Prerequisites . are either Bio. 141-142 (majors only) or Biol. 201-202 (general biology).	^//	7? ?	;
PRESENTATiON: Threc one-hour lectures and one three-hour lab a week with open discussion, f Visual materials are presented \ periodically.: / ////'" ?/// J//:?/	/;?••/ : 7 7
Readings : Faust; Beaver/ and Jung, Animal 2 A gents^ and
, Victors-of	Disease; ■ Cable,
Manual of. Parasitology. ’ ? : y -	\ i ;S //;* - ;/ /; /: 7 7 “
Organization : Two lecture tests land * a; final are; given in : class, in addition to two Tab'test's .requiring^identification of /unknowns. All tests are weighted equally;;	/■/- ’
7 Comment: ;Mr. Thorson believes ar^udent ^
thorough' education for; his ? mdney^and ;he?worW	7
. goal. He has a^tol^'grasp/of thefsubject/reinforced? by. field	,
: in Southeast Asia and the; Mideast, aJ 1 of/which: makes a lecture;? 50 well-spent minutes. Emphasis in lafijs on/foe	and ~;
identification of parasites i^	i.e?x blood,yfeces ?
and body tissues. ; 7-; ,'J	'■	' ■ '•/

t ' 7 Content: /Introduction’ toTiving- organisms/ with . .emphasis onbiologicalprinciplesand; processes/ This is a'two semester
- course;/Prerequisite. ;i^	;	:7 .? / /
7; Presentation ://nire	one three-hour	.
. lab per wdek^with7;qpen\;discuss^	Gucst lecturcrs	/
.7 (biolo^/depar&ent^ faculty)/a^	Living
7 material J? slides; find 7;^	"observed- and
; used in the Tabs/ / 7 77 r?/ / 7?" 7/^; 7 "7-	" Jy	/ 7 ’/ -
, f/ Readings : /A;	wtextbook5 will; be used .
/ nextJy^eai/;^^^
. -7jsource?-7/7/;^//‘/777\:7\7/7:	;
/7 OkGANizATiON A?;Three' tests
; weekl^;and^andTns>(30%^^	'
> ulatixrt/em^	recently/covered ^material.’ f ;	?
7. 7/^	is e^	course? ;Mr? 7:
7 TVqrsq^^	demanding)^	guests/;
add /variety,/diff erent, viewpoints?and ' personal expertise to this *	;
//parttof The; course; TC labs areJgopd andfimproye/every y ;
;? . A/wide/^ of Topics, including' genetics,. physiology/, repro-. 7?
? : d^	and anatomy are considered. After "this/course .
/most students have a firm grasp of what biology entails/-
-	the tests composed by Mr. Thorsen are tricky and / /
. ambiguous, and require diat the student memorize, the text, in- 7> eluding bibliography andfootnotes. .The professor holds only a; . -/nomihal respect for students. .If a student approaches him/with ; , .
<. a question concerning ; exams or a disagreement about - a /test / /--: . answer,\ he receives a hostile reception.
:	/	The Scholastic
■ 64
Chemistry
Jeremiah Freeman77	•'
Chemistry 223-224	. .	. . .	-
Elementary Organic Chemistry I and JI;;
Content: The course’s^ aim is to choose topics that are of primary importance in organic chemistry now and for the foreseeable future. It. touches upon. such areas as basic organic compounds, their properties and stereochemistry, and their relative importancek in this worlds The course is intended mainly for the pre-professional students?and some science concentrators. Prerequisites are Chern 115 and Chern 116.
Presentation: The course consists of.lectures supplemented by handout notes summarizing what Mr. Freeman feels are the more pertinent points in the readings. Weekly review sessions are at the disposal of anyone interested.	.	.
Readings: The text for the course is Organic Chemistry by Allinger, Caua, De Jongh, Johnson, Lebel, and Stevens ($15.95), which can be supplemented, with the former text by Morrison and Boyd, although this is up to the student’s discretion.
Daniel.Pasto
Chemistry 235-6
Organic Chemistry L and II .
Content; Intended for Chemistry maj'ors and.concentrates, . the two semester course covers the whole spectrum of orangic chemistry, from its historical origins in the early 1800’s through the modern instruments of today. The first semester introduces the student to' nomeclature,-structure, and basic chemistry of organic compounds. The second semester takes off from there. The emphasis is on the synthesis and chemistry of functional groups,. most of which were introduced in the first semester.
: The; main thrust in both courses is toward the recognition of what to do when faced with a synthesis problem. Rote memorization is but, the student must be able to think the* problem . out.' Pre-requisites; Chemistry1 115 and 116. - -	-
\ ;Presentation: The course is a straight lecture course while questions" are welcomed if 'there is any point that is; unclear. :A voluntary problem session is held weekly for those who feel the need for extra help.’ ? 7 ' -' f	'	/ —
: ? Readings : ( The text presently in use is - a manuscript of which, Mr? Pasto is a co-aiithqri The book, is purchased through the professor at the? beginning of the fall semester for "five’’dollars.
?’?’• Organization;'The1 student is expected to-perform well on the three hourly exams, problem sets, and final.; All things weigh
. into? the; final ‘grade.V Problem sets for 20%, the hourly tests for -60%*arid\the-finaKfo	" ?	7 ' / ' ■
* Comments: This course is required of all Chern, majors and concentrates, but two semesters with Mr. Pasto" is not: all that
; bad. A rigorous course is offered but Mf?_ Pasto is not unreasonable-in his assignments'and is’veryflexible -in working out due
: datesc and: test? dates.- hMr: Pasto is available: for - help?arid cori-sultatiori. but he leaves it/up?t6the student to seek" him out? A 7 very personable man,- Mr. ‘Pasto’s ;course reflects his interest? arid ’ concern ? for the 'student? ' < 7 '	:	~	/* - ? -;-
7 - ’	- V- “A /> ;? ~	v	? - - -
; ’-r - 7*7, J' 7 -	_ - 7"’ 'A AAA t	? -r 7 7 ' '7 7 .• -7 *
Maurice Schwartz A??;??? A ,; J 7 ; 7 7 Ghemistry. 321.777?: - -	> -7 A r7.
Physical. ChemEi^? ??	?:
*, 7/- '* -	'	- ‘ -7 1 v w .yc A v ’ ?’ - z.s'-' • '	* - ".	'	1 -
7 Content; The course is desigend to .give a rather^ cojnpre-herisive. view of physical^ chemistry? and is- focused on the mole-cular/aspects of thermodynamics viand quantum theory. \TTie subjects covered thoroughly-are quantum mechanics, the Schroe-dinger equation, statistical . mechanics^?- and -. thermodynamics.
April 25/1972
This course is in the chemistry major sequence, and most students are either majors or, concentrators in chemistry, with a few Physics and grad students? Prerequisites are Chern 116, Phys 116, and Math 116.
Presentation: The course consists mostly of lectures which are oriented to a derivation of the equations of physical chemistry from first principles. A weekly session with a grad student is available for problem-solving and other difficulties.
Readings: The text(s) for this course will be either Physical Chemistry, by Eggers, Gregory, Halsey, and Rabinovitch ($14.95) or Molecular Thermodynamics, by Dickerson (?), and Quantum Mechanics, by Hanna (?). The text is often supplemented by handouts and references from other texts and irionographs. ‘This outside reading is encouraged but not a requirement.
Organization: Four somewhat difficult, thought-provoking tests.are administered throughout the semester. They are generally oriented toward the lectures, and include some derivations. “Plug-in” questions are non-existent. The difficult final exam is most important: if one does better on it than the average of his tests, it counts 2/3 of the grade; otherwise it counts 1/3.
Comments: This is a difficult course, but as Dr. Schwartz says in the first class, it is more coherent at the end of the semester than during. This is because the material is very much interconnected, and it is hard to realize this while considering only one section in depth. The greatest drawback to the course has been eliminated: it will be taught at 11:00 rather than 8:00. Some mathematical complexities beyond first year calculus are encountered during the semester; these can be overcome by going to the problem sessions. Some of the best things in the course iriaterial are the derviations of the orbital shapes from first principles, and seeing hoi;/ Thermodynamics can be applied to systems to derive most of the “Laws” of Physical Cheinistry (Nernst equation, Osmotic Pressure* etc.).
Rudolph Bottei
Chemistry. 333 .	;
Analytical: Chemistry
A Content; The course is a survey of chemical and instru-mentaL methods of analysis as applied to inorganic, organic, and occasionally biochemical systems. The instrumental techniques covered include an introduction to electroanalytical methods, absorption and emission spectrochemical methods, and separation techniques. Hopefully, the student will be exposed to a sufficient number of techniques so that when he encounters a new analytical problem, he can intelligently select the best method of analysis. Chemistry 333L accompanies the lecture course, but is not required? The lab consists of instrumental methods of ana-- lysis illustrating material covered in Chern. 333. Experiments include: precipitimetric and complexometric titrations, electrogravimetry, coulometry, polarography, multicomponent spectrophotometry, flame photometry, gas chromatography, infrared spectrophotometry.
Presentation: Chern. 333 is primarily a lecture course, there is not. enough time for discussion. Students have been known to leave Mr. Bottei’s lectures with writers-cramp, as he is an extremely fast lecturer. , A fair amount of the course is presented using an over-head projector. Students are given ditto sheets for most of the material.
Readings: Douglas Skoog and Donald West: Fundamentals of Analytical Chemistry, cost $15.00.
; Organization: The grade breakdown in the lecture course " is: 3-4 hour exams, 45%; final exam, 25%; 8-9 short quizzes, 25%; and homework 5%. Grades are.based in the lab on the accuracy of the unknown determinations and the lab reports required of .the instrumental experiments.
_ Comments: Mr. Bottei teaches with the philosophy that “the more the student studies, the more he will learn”. Consequently, students taking “analyt” face an impressive work
65
load. Exams are of greater than average difficulty, but curved fairly. The lab is a worthwhile experience, with the chief goal being to “develop good lab technique”. This part of the course suffers from an oyer-emphasis on your accuracy in the unknown determinations. Mr. Bottei’s knowledge of analytical chemistry, his enthusiasm, and availability for consultation are excellent. It is a proven fact that if the student wants to learn analytical chemistry, he will learn it from Mr. Bottei.
Roger Bretthauer
Chemistry 420
Principles of Biochemistry
Content: The major areas covered in this course are . proteins, enzymes, metabolic synthesis and breakdown of proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates, and structure and function of nucleotides. The major metabolic pathways and cycles are studied in detail, with emphasis upon those processes occurring in the human body and higher animals. Organic chemistry and general chemistry are prerequisites for this course and it is advisable to have a background in biology.
Presentation.- Biochemistry is a lecture course which meets three times a week. The readings in the textbook parallel the lectures. Mr. Bretthauer covers a great deal of material in the lectures and presents information and insight not available in the textbook. Relevant questions are answered during the lectures. An optional workshop is offered two? afternoons a week to aid students in working problems and to clear up any difficulties encountered in the lecture material.
Readings : The textbook for the course is Biochemistry by Lehninger. Although the price is high ($17.95), the book is excellent and presents the material in a straightforward manner with many helpful illustrations.
Organization: There are two hour exams, and a non-cumlative final exam. Short quizzes which may or may not be given each week also count together as one hour exam. Problem sets are not assigned but are strongly recommended. The course requires a great deal of memorization but the exams are designed to test primarily the students ability to apply concepts presented in the course.
Comments: There is no getting around the fact that this course requires, a great deal of work. The course.is very fast-paced. At times the student is held responsible for material not covered in the lectures, but is explained in the. book. This course gives the student a good foundation in the fundamentals of biochemistry.	.
Gerald Goe	-
Chemistry 431
Structural Organic Chemistry
Content.- Structural Organic Chemistry is a course for senior chemistry majors and concentrators' who are . interested in learning the principles of structural elucidation in organic chemistry. The course consists primarily of an explanation of instrumental techniques which can be used in determining the unknown structure of an organic compound. In this way, background information is presented which is useful in solving not only assigned problems but actual situations which arise in the laboratory. Topics covered include a discussion of IR, UV, NMR, mass spectrometry and optical rotatory dispersion.
Presentation.- Mr. Goe bases his lectures for the most part on outside material while using the text as a supplementary source. In addition, time can be taken to discuss questions about the lecture material or the solution of problems.
Readings." The textbook used, Organic Structure Determination, is written by Pasto and Johnson (price $14.00). Other •books which the student may find helpful in solving structural problems are found in the science library at Nieuwland- Some handouts are also, given to illustrate lecture topics.
Organization.- There are two exams consisting of an in
66
class mid-term and a take-home final. There are also approximately 45 problems assigned in groups of 5-8 throughout the semester.. Both ..the exams and the problems test the student’s ability to interpret instrumental data in deducing chemical structures. " Some of the problems tend to be fairly difficult. The course grade is arrived; at by the following scale: mid-term — 25%, problem sets —.35%, and the final — 40%. Along with the course there is a separate two credit hour lab which demonstrates the use of many of the techniques discussed in lecture. Registering for the lab, however, is not mandatory.
Comments.- This course is recommended for.all chemistry majors and is especially suited to those students, either major or concentrator, who might be going on in chemistry and have occasion to encounter structural analysis in the laboratory or industry. While the amount of:time spent on working problems can often be extensive, perhaps., more time-consuming than is warranted by a.two credit hour course, the educational experienced gained is well worth the effort.' In addition to acquiring a proficient understanding of the use of instrumentation, other skills such as searching chemical literature for information and taking a more logcial approach to. solving chemical problems tend to develop. Also - Mr. Goe, because of his lecture style, makes the course very worthwhile;
Hayes, Casteilirio,- Pierce and Thomas Chemistry. 439L
Advanced: Physical Chemistry Laboratory
Content: The object of the course is to familiarize the student with the theory and practice of techniques used in Advanced Physical Chemistry. Consequently, the subject matter is a group of 4 to 5 distinctly different experiments in Physical Chemistry, using very sophisticated instrumentation. These will include Molecular - Spectroscopy of Iodine, Electron Paramagnetic Resonance, .Microwave Spectrum of COS, Laser Flash Photolysis of Pyrene, Stopped-Flow Kinetics, Ultracentrifugation, . and possibly a Light-Scattering and/or . Molecular Beam Experiment. As these titles might indicate,. the student is expected to have some, familiarity . with the principles of Physical Chemistry; most students are .at least in their second semester of the lecture course and have taken the 322 Lab.
Presentation: The course is divided into two-week periods, each of which is . spent on a given apparatus. The first hour or two of such a period consists of a lecture-explanation of the apparatus and principles involved in the study. Almost all the rest of the. time is spent working in the laboratory. . ,.
Readings: There are no texts in this course. There are, however, several assigned readings during the semester; these are either major works discussing the particular technique (e.g. EPR) or . original articles in the literature. These readings . average 2 per experiment, and are very helpful for the subsequent , write-up. .
Organization.- Between 4 and 6 experiments will be performed by each student. All require a lab report, which is fairly extensive. • No tests or quizzes are given. The lab reports and the student’s performance in the laboratory help to, determine the grade.	.	.
Comments: There are a number of really great things about this lab. The student/teacher ratio is very low: last semester it was 4/6! As a result, much personal attention is gained. The professors are available almost anytime, and they encourage visits by confused students. This is where most of the theory becomes clear, by discussing it with the professor after performing the experiment. The experiments themselves are impressive—:all are done on research equipment, so (unlike some other labs) they always work, and excellent results are obtained (e.g. =0.5 ppt in the ionization potential of I2). The equipment is first-rate, and sometimes unique (e.g. the 800 Mwatt laser). Unlike the 322 lab, one works at a comfortable pace, and there is little restriction on hours spent in the laboratory, with less oh the deadlines for reports. The reports themselves are difficult and require some care and work in preparation. This is . not, an “easy” lab, but the opportunities to work with these instruments and professors should not be overlooked by those interested in physical or experimental chemistry.
The Scholastic
M. Schwartz and L. Pierce
Chemistry 445
Modem Physical Chemistry I	.
Content: The course is designed to be an intermediate level treatment of quantum mechanics, quantum chemistry and molecular spectroscopy. Some of the topics covered in detail are explicit solution of the Schroedinger equation, angular wavefunctions, hydrogenic atoms, and perturbation and variational theories. Electronic structure and molecular spectroscopy will also be covered. The course is intended for senior chemistry majors and first year graduate students who desire a deeper
treatment of theoretical chemistry than Chern. 322 offers. Prerequisites are Chem. 322, and math through calculus, although vector calculus and matrix algebra will be of use. Most additional math will be covered as needed.
Readings: The text for the course will most probably be Karplus and Porter Atoms and Molecules. Coverage of certain topics will be supplemented with handouts.
Organization.* This is a new course, and the organization is still somewhat uncertain. Mr. Schwartz will teach the first half of the course, the quantum mechanics, and Mr. Pierce the second half, the molecular spectroscopy. Heavy emphasis will be placed on a number (25-30 per half) of non-trivial problems to be worked by the student. The number and nature of examinations is as yet uncertain.
Geology
Erhard Winkler
Geology 459
Natural Resources in Modem Society
Content: The goalof ‘‘Natural Resources” is to present a basic but total, up-to-date view of the environment in which we live. It is Mr. Winkler’s belief that if the student can first understand how the balance of the Earth’s resources should naturally exist, then compares this knowledge to observed effects of man-induced alterations, that he will then be more able to get a true picture of the ecological state of the world today, and possibly get some insights into how the world might be in the future. There are no prerequisites for the course, however some understanding of elementary chemistry would be beneficial. The selected subject matter is always geared for a general audience of all classes and intents and consists mainly of information every informed citizen should know.
Presentation: This course is made up almost entirely of lectures which are normally accompanied by either slides, overhead projections, handouts, or occasional movies. Graphs play an important. part in being able to understand much of the scientific data used, so Mr. Winkler incorporates a secondary course in graph reading along with the normal course material.
“ Readings: The texts include two paperbacks; one, Earth’s Resources by Brian J. Skinner, (Prentice Hall, 1969, $3.75) and the other, The Biosphere, which is a collection of articles from the: September, 1970 issue of Scientific American magazine (Freeman, 1970, $3.25). These texts serve as background references to the. basic geological and ecological processes , of nature. But in order to see man’s part in the up-setting of these processes and in order to stay as current as possible, articles from valid sources such as Science, Nature, and Time magazines are also utilized.	.	-	,	,
, \ Organization: The grade, for the course is based on a compiling of scores from weekly quizzes, two. exams, and one paper. The brief weekly quizzes (5-10 short-answer questions) count -heavily in :a student’s final mark, and are graded on a curve which is based on the combined points of all the quizzes. The midytenn and final exams each, cover half the semester’s work and contain only the material covered in lecture. The paper’s topic; and length are left entirely , up to the student as long as they remain reasonably within the scope of. the class. ~	.
, . Comments : In. our modern ecology-crazed society it . is easy to become confused with regards to the true state of our environment. \ By giving. specific definitions for words such as pollution, ecology .and environment, and by explaining exactly what our natural resources are,, the course tends to orientate a . person so that he can judge for himself the validity of much of the ecological data presented by our modern media.. This skill would obviously be of at least some value to a person no .matter what field of study he is interested in.	-
. Mr. Winkler’s own enthusiasm for the course adds much to his presentation which is usually very interesting. v His exams and quizzes sometimes contain ambiguous questions which-often
cause dissatisfaction among the students, but the fact that all tests are always curved means that the proper grade will usually be arrived at.
Raymond Gutshick
Geology 454
Introduction to Oceanography
. Content: Oceanography is an integration of the sciences of Chemistry, Physics, Biology, and Geology. Introduction to Oceanography, a course directed toward Marine Geology, is designed to reflect this integration.
Subject material includes the JOIDES Deep Sea Drilling Project, from which major concepts are developing concerning the orgin of ocean basins. Environments of deposition related to mineral resource deposits and pollution are also studied.
Course prerequisites are first year Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, and Geology. Enrollment is limited to science and engineering majors, who have a good science background.
Presentation: Geology 454 is predominately a lecture course supplemented with slides and overhead projections. Along with material from the text, Mr. Gutshick lectures on new discoveries and data taken from current publications. Handout sheets are discussed in class. Ten to twelve movies which are shown outside of class, are scheduled at the students’ convenience.
. Readings: The text is Introduction to Oceanography by D. A. Ross. Four to five articles are assigned each week for outside reading. These articles are included in six pages of
. references compiled by Mr Gutshick for students interested in further research. All assigned articles are placed on reserve in the Geology Library.
Organization: Geology 454 is offered every other year. It . contains two one-hour examinations, a 'final exam, and unan-„ nounced quizzes. Examinations require a general knowledge of subject material, as well as practical application of this material to oceanographic problems.
Three or four “do it yourself’ laboratory projects are assigned. Projects entail map work, observations of ocean flora and fauna, some problem solving, and short research papers. . /A field trip to Lake Michigan will be taken to examine oceanographic related studies utilizing the resources afforded :by Lake Michigan. The trip will be scheduled according to weather conditions. A $5 transportation fee will be charged.
. Comments: Introduction to Oceanography touches all aspects of oceanography—biological, chemical, physical, and geological. Though prerequisites have not been strictly adheared to,. a good science background is necessary. Special emphasis should be placed on the Geology pre-requisite. This course leans heavily toward Marine Geology, and a strong background in Geology would benefit a student taking this course.
Lecture material does not lend itself to notetaking and memorization. General knowledge and application, rather than specifics, are stressed throughout the course, and in examinations.
April 25, 1972
67
t
Mathematics
Alan Howard	. ...
Mathematics .205	;
Elemerits .of Calculus III. ..
Ronald Goldstein . i . .	:	;
Mathematics.: 2.12/' L :	. . .	..
Gomputer Programming arid Problem Solving
Content: ‘This; course covers selected topics in plane an- ' Content;This ./course deals with modern/ problem solving alytic ‘geometry’ infinite, series/, functions of :several G variables	techniques3 in applied mathematics. More specifically, the areas
and partial/ differentiation. /This course is in Gthe . Math 205 that will be covered are linear programming, game thory, classical series and is a requirement for arts and letters pre-med students. ; optimization /methods/ Kuhn-Tucker Theory, and dynamic
Presentation: The course is all lecture. ; : /	_ /^programming. 7 While there are no/prerequisites, some previous
- Readings: Thetext this year was Calculus and Andlytic /. /experience in computer programming would prove to be most Geometry by Bresch and Ogilvy.~ It is likely, though/ that the helpfuh Mr. Goldstein is more concerned with methods of sqlu-text next year will be different. Tj7//:-^^:7 ? / ' r 7/ . 7 tion than with/the actual programming that is involved;/ How-
Organization: Normally there are three or four.tests aiida	ever, he will,devote some time to go over the basics of PL/I arid
final. Mr. Howard sometimes gives extra credit assignments. /	FORM AC.	~	/	/ >	' 7“ ! ; 7	_
Comments: This; is ra good/ course Tor<a nori-sciencestudent/ Presentation: A large class, would /necessitate a lecture who wants to . take a math course .which is’not on the/ upper format for the course. If The class is. small, /each student may divisionlevel. r . r / " /;	:/ /// 7/_	77 :; G . be asked/to give a presentation/ of some aspect 'of the material
•	' ' v ^7	/ 7/’/ 7/gT-g//.-;;/z T/' ’/'"	■ covered. • ,	// G	‘	' A	.
:	/	/‘Readings: The text used is Nonlinear and Dynamic Program- s
“ J1 "/?/ / . v / j/J g^7/7';/g/7/7-* // / / ming by Hadley. Recommended books are AGuide to PL/IAyy .
7	g .	/ G; / / : T/ 7	Pollack and Sterling and Introduction to Operations Research
z 7 T’/^CS;	7;//7 Tg; g,//';/'/;^,	- by Kaufman arid Faure. '	7 . - •/g-/. • '	; ~;./ -
/ *	^gTT^/;/-/T//7 ^/;G/77rGA-/77 - gg 7 7,/^	.	/ Organization: Depending on the size of the class, and how
/ *;>	I//’? 6 7.^	' /y^ G< t - it progresses, there may be* a test sometime during the semester. <
1	/ /	7//7/C	?/ A( / /7	/ The\ assignments will probable form the bulk of the grade,
. /I1 ' r 7?/;//7'7 7/777^	although some form of final exam can be expected. ‘	/
/	Comments: This is a course in problem solving using the
‘ 7 /g;G" 7’^ 77 - - ;/7	// 7> / gg 777G=r; 7	7///./ 7 7; 7 / computer; it is not a course in computer programming. The
?/ /: /	XGA/G g	: computer is used merely as a tool for working out the compute-
/	„• tipns that are involved with the problem solving methods covered
' 7 T// /C ~	: in the course. Mr. Goldstein is an interesting and humorous
/	fellow arid-a student should get to know him. His lectures tend .
to deal with generalities,thusleaving the details to be worked
~	—	- — - ~	s^jent. The material is interesting, and theis course
provides an .excellent opportunity to discover The contribution that applied riiathematics is making to bur society.
The Scholastic
7?.
68.
Patrick Ryan
Mathematics 211	;
Computer Programming I -
Content: This, is an introductory course in computer programming and problem solving using PL/I batch. Emphasis is . placed on practical applications of the theory presented in the . classroom. Integration, Gaussian elimination, the Gauss-Seidel method of solving systems of linear equations and linear , programming are ■ among the topics covered. There are no pre-_ requisites for this course. This course is required for niath. concentrators.	.
Presentation: The class lectures are the most important ' part of the course because they present fundamentals of computer operation'. Homework problems are given in class, thus, it is important to attend class regularly.
Readings : Last semester, Mr. Goldstein used APL/ 360: An -Interactive Approach by Gilman and Rose ($6.95) and Elementary ' Computer Applications by Barrodale, Roberts and Ehle ($5.95). This semester,‘as APL was not available, Mr. Ryan sub-stitiited -Modem Programming: PL/I by Mullish ($5.95). A Guide to PL/I by Pollack and Sterling ($7.00). was also suggested; this semester.	,
Organization : The student’s grade is determined by his . performance on the homework assignments, quizzes and a final - project which the student selects after consultation with Mr. ■ Ryan. There are normally one quiz and one assignment a week. This semester two teaching assistants were available for con-sultatibn if. a student was having trouble. .	,	? ,
Comments: This is an excellent course for the student who wants to learn something about the black boxes on the first floor of. the Math Building. There has been quite a problem. this semester with the new system (an IBM 370-155 with TSO— Notre Dame is the first place in the country to.have this system) which has a distressing tendency to turn itself;off.- However, these problems should be solved by the fall. Also/ it is very easy . to spend too much time on this course. The classes are seventy five minutes long—which is too long for a math class. .
Mathematics 235
Calculus III Enriched
Content: This course is intended to give the student a better understanding of the theoretical basis of the topics covered - in sophomore calculus without spending a lot of time on rigorous . proofs. The topics covered include vectors and parametric equations, partial differentiation, multiple integration and infinite series. The professor may, at his discretion, add any topics he considers important but this is not normally done first semester. In approach, Math 235 falls somewhere between the drill of problem solving of Math 225 and the emphasis on pure theory of Math 265. The prerequisite is Math 126. This course is not • a requirement for any major and is composed, for the most part, of .physics majors and math concentrators.
Presentation: As is the case with most math courses, the : classes are lectures with most of the time spent proving theorems. The professor teaching the course also conducts a problem session that meets once a week.	*
Readings: The textbook is Thomas’ Calculus and Analytic Geometry ($13.85), which is the book used by Math 125 and 225.	• .	.
Organization : In all likelihood, the professor will assign . written homework, possibly on a daily basis. Last semester, the final grade was based on three tests (20% each), daily homework ■ (10%) and the final (30%).
Comments : The success of the course depends upon the professor teaching it. However, the math department has in the past selected excellent teachers for this course. The caliber of the students is usually high in Math 235. This course serves as a good preparation for Math 236 (linear algebra and differential equations), which is significantly different from Math 226. If . you were bored by Math 126 but do not want to get into a . ’ strictly proof-oriented course, this course is recommended. Perhaps, the addition of vector analysis could improve the course. . A good knowledge of vector analysis is of theoretical importance and also of practical knowledge to anyone taking Physics 247 or Physics 247M.	.
April 25, 1972
Mathematics 221 Linear Algebra
Mathematics 265
Honors Calculus III
Content: .Mr. Huckleberry, who - taught this course last semester, considers its major .topic the theory and mechanics of matrices. The course also covers some fundamental.' concepts progressing to the study of algebraic structures, including .vector spaces,, linear;- transformations, ? linear dependence' and bases. Since this, course introduces subjects which open a new avenue . of study, for the. math student, Mr. Huckleberry wants to convey . a complete understanding.of the basic mechanical and theoretical ■ concepts of linear algebra. This course is a requirement for sophomore math, concentrators; There, are no prerequisites. ’. . Presentation:. This is.aTecture course.'. The professor.enu-merates the basic ideas in the book and provides insight into their
Content:' This;course-includes- series and sequences, series and sequences, of; functions, vector, calculus,: the implicit and inverse; function.theorems and. integration up to Stokes’ Theorem. Beyond that,’the professor may do what he wants.. For. example, lastyearDr. Phan,; devoted-'.the-' entire year to the- above' topics while, this year, Dr. Chapin covered those topics first semester and . taught: differential ? geometry;second; semester. . Prerequisite ’ for ' . this course is MathT36,.-164 ;or ..166., - A-knowledge -of-linear . algebra or a, concurrent course) in linear algebra is very helpful, ; but not absolutely essential. ,: Math;265. is required for sophomore math. majors :.who make up>the'bulk of. the. course. -, ,.	-
. Presentation:- ’There are -three lectures-and'one, tutorial . session-' a-week./The -lectures.-are. usually, devoted, to examining ' -theorems. and examples.while ;the. tutorial .session. is for problem solving.;’ -	_ ■'
a more-or less regular basis. •
„ Comments : Students who enjoy math will find ,thisr an interesting and profitable course. : This course ;is also recommended to'students whb5think that calculus is all there, is-to-math. -
mechanical and theoretical aspects. ’	:
. Readings : The book used this year was Elements of Linear Algebra.by Moore ($9.95)....	<
■ 1 Organization: This year, there were two tests and a final, each of. which thoroughly tested the-student’s comprehension of the . material. The final was comprehensive and similar, to the . other; tests.- Mr.-.Huckleberry.-had his-students keep-their;home-work.in a notebook that was turned.in. at the .end of the semester. He also .expected his students tosee him in his office on' .	___ __ . ,	..	___A ____________________
’	’ " ‘	...	The tests,emphasize;'th^	concepts.' although; problems,are
; not-. excludejL/The; weighting/qf:^	depends;.upon the
. professor,/ although/, hqmew^	for: 10%' to .
; 20%- of (the..grade. ’	;	' . > .	’
.	Commentsf vWlnle;^^	for; the;honors .
... math J program, ;phys^	t pre-med/'.majors.';and ' even; a
G.P. ;majqr have;..takenr	course and,ld^	(these -
. are.. nonhally^. studem^iwhojhad { honors math; {freshman /year). -
. . The.professors.who haye taugKt' this course have been very.helpful, ‘ .
- and {popular/witli ‘ the; students?;-The/book^'isT	good, .;
J . although; most qf?iti^	problems? do not have the answers..
-. .^'Yhich/is:frustrating	sure.'.'you- are?doing the - ‘
f. problem^/cbrrectiy.-/This/course Jis? {recommended to sciencestu- / _• .dentaj.T/thej/liaye^	/background) and if they .
are {willing; to spend. time‘jin {it?- H:you;want, more theory, than is - ; taught'jirMatii’’-225,ibut;ji(/^	theoretical course, )
'	" Readings : The book is usually Calculus of: Vector Functions ..
by. Williamson,/Crowelland Trotter. Spivak’s Calculus-is helpful
. in series; and; sequences./., , ,	» . ' : L - -, . .. .	■ . .
..Organizati^^^	are "{normally two or. three .tests’ and .
a.final;;-Last yearT)ri,,Phan^^^in;class; this year Dr.
Chapin gave. .take'homertestsZ,(openg.booky and open .notes).
you';’ should >probablyStake: MatK n235‘ v	-c"	'*??*{ •'’ri'-' -
i":

70.
The Scholastic
:*4
Norman Haaser	.	\	'
Mathematics 517 ... J	Mathematics 365
Numerical Methods ;	.	, Honors Analysis I ,	. .	. J .
Content: As the. title suggests, this course'is devoted to the . . Content:. This is a..more rigorous treatment-of differential formulation and use of numerical techniques for solving mathe-	equations:than Math 325. This course first covers	the.existence,
matical and engineering related problems. These techniques are	uniqueness and techniques of solutions of differential equations
then used on the .computer to solve the problems.'. Initially; the.	and then covers . the same concepts for systems of differential
concept of the iterative technique is stressed heavily; which is an-	equations. ..Math 266 is the prerequisite. A. knowledge of linear
ideal way to show the student the close relationship mathematics - algebra, including canonical forms,-is very helpful.	This is a re; can have with'the computer^ After this, relation is shown, the . quirement for junior math majors. ..	.	...
course delves into topics such-as the theory of polynomial ap-	Presentation : Three lectures a week. This year, Mr. Otter
. proximation, interpolation polynomials and - numerical.,integra- • occasionally .promoted discussion by asking'the class whether" a ' tioh. .The intent, of" the course is. .to infuse in the'student tech-' - certain,claim'-was true, and, • if it. was not, what was needed to .
niques-of solving problems which can be adapted to the cbm- . verify-.it.’ ', :	- :	, - • '	' : - T .
piiter"and thereby save time.. Prerequisites for this course2 are Readings: The readings will depend upon the professor who . sophomore calculus and some computer background. The major-' . teaches the. course. This year Mir. Otter used Ordinary Differ-ity.of the students were.engineering-or physics graduate students.	entiaV Equations by- Brauer and. Nohel ($14.95) and suggested
. Presentation: Numerical Methods is taught -in a lecture ... Ordinary Differential Equations by Birkhoff and Rota for refer. format. As the ^spirit’ of" the course demands that the student ’ ence.	.	.? • "	?	.'
. have a good comprehension of the material, questions are always , Organization: In most upper division math courses, there invited. -	~	.	.	... , are two tests and.a final.- Homework normally counts for part of
= ' Readings: The text used this year was Analysis of Numerical	the grade) This (year Mr. Otter’s tests consisted of two parts,
. Methods by Isaacson and Keller ($11.95):A. useful, reference	one .doneiin class, the other a one hour take home (closed
.. is Intermediate Analysis by-Haaser. and..Sullivan. Mr. ' Haaser . -book). One	section of• the test was	based on definitions and .
also gives out a good number of handouts.which provide useful	proofs while	and other part consisted of problems.
: supplementary material to the lectures. .	:	. . . Comments : > This course is recommended to the science
Organization: Assignments, are ’given once every. three	; student who	wants a rigorous course	in differential equations.
, 'weeks. These assignments require a very thorough understand;	- However, because this course’ assumes	the student has no back-
ing of the material and, together with the oral final, constitute the ground (other than integration) in differential equations and - basis for grades.	/	?	. .	, T ' because it spends a, lot' of time on existence and uniqueness,
5 ./Comments: Surprisingly, the work load does not.over-	certain topics covered in Math . 325, such as the Laplace trans-.
r burden an undergraduate, considering ..that this. is a graduate	form, may not be covered.	.
f /math-course. “As.;theilevel-’of.mathematical rigor is-quite high," a/ .	’
student contemplating taking this;course\shoiild- feel at home/:. ," ’	:	. . . .	.	-	.	:
/, .with some .mathematical theory. Mr?Haaser. has effected a tight ) ■	. -	\.	.	.
organization in the course structure and disseminates , the theory ' .	. ?..
. . with ease? Thus,'the pace of the course, is rapid.. He .also seems . .	• .	.	:	.	’?
_ ’.’ to. care whether the student is learning the actual methods in-. , :.	.	. T .	. ’	1.	:
- Ivdlved.' Understanding, of the theory provides a great insight into ‘ .. -.	:
’ why-/the methods work but is not totally-essential for. the actual ... . ■ . .?■.	. ■ ? ', ■' v' . :	:	.	■ . . . .
; computer programs. The main criterion for the person con- :	..	?X.;?	..	?	.	.
sidering this course is whether he is willing to make a genuine	. X .	’. X
Teffort to assimilate and master the techniques. .. f .-.T;.-
April 25, 1972	’ / /	..	-	'(-? - : . ? ’’	~ -	. C 71
Mathematics 324 Math Statistics
ground of differential. equation theory taught in Math 226. -
Topics covered will include series solutions to variable coefficient
Content: The first of the course is spent	on-Elementary	linear - equations, . linear..-systems, boundary - value problems,
Probability and the second half on Statistics. Probability spaces,	Laplace transforms, and hopefully approaches to nonlinear dif-
elementary laws of probability, random variables	and probability . ferential equations. Basic linear algebra will be reviewed during
’	.	the course.Mr. Mast-will assume the student understands exact
theorems are introduced in the probability half. Sampling and testing techniques are discussed in the statistics section.. At least one year of calculus is a prerequisite. . -	"	' ’
' Presentation: The course uses a lecture format but ample opportunity exists to answer questions concerning theory or the problem sets. ..	'
Readings:, The required text this year was An Introduction , -to Mathematical Statistics by.Brunk. : ,	’
Organization: iOne problem set, consisting of five or six problems, was assigned each-week. -There were three tests and a final. The tests may be taken home. While the tests involve. - problems, definitions and understanding- of certain concepts are covered onthe final. .Homework,' the -final' and. each- test are given equal weight for the final grade. All this may change, if Mr. McIntyre does riot teach this course next year. .
Comments: The course was successful in that a basic iinder-' standing of probability and , statistics was achieved. . Since the statistics half of the course follows the probability half; it tends to get rushed at the end of the semester. The student does achieve, however, a working knowledge of statistics so that he can study with little difficulty .the topics not covered.. The text , used was not very readable, and hopefully will be replaced.	,
Mathematics 325 - •	-	.. . ■	. .
Ordinary Differential Equations .	;
Content: The ^course covers the theory of ordinary differential equations, and is. normally taught by Mr. Mast. . In the past, . the. student was not. assumed to have much previous
knowledge of differential equations. However, this year Mr. Mast will assume that the students have had at least the back-
equations, .first order differential equations and linear equations of the constant coefficients (including nonhomogeneous). This course is required, for junior physics majors, who iriake up -bulk of the course. The emphasis of the course is placed on “understanding - the. material.” That is, the students are not expected to work-out rigorous proofs, nor are they expected to grind out solutions.to problems like variable coefficient problems.
Presentation:. Lecture is the method of teaching. Lectures in class often include digressioris from the’book to show, for example, the applicability; of certain theories to quantum mechanics or three body problems. Occasional questions are asked by Mr. .Mast to stir up interest:	......	.
. Readings: The text.is Elementary Differ.ential Equations and Boundary,; Value, Problems by. Boyce and . Diprema ($ 12.95). Outside readings in. related topics not covered in. the text will be required.for. the take home .test. ■ . .	.	-
Organization : Last serhester, two one-hour tests were, given in class .in addition to one take home test. Outside research was required to do. the, problems on the take. home. A final was also given. ' Homework - was given but . did not count , towards the . graded. .V,\	'	'■	. -	-
Comments : This .course would prove worthwhile for the student seeking.a nonrigorous understanding of the basic theory of -.. differential equations. The work.load is reasonable, but the .pace of the course is a little slow as Mr. Mast sometimes spends too much^time’ on a given - topic. Mr. Mast is very personable , and - concerned 'about his’students. However, this lectures often drag ’ and his ability to hold iriterest isTiiriited. This course is recom- . mended.-Tor,, science -majors -who have no (requirement in differential equations; \ 7	’ ; -	..
72
The Scholastic
Physics
- Cornelius; Browne ...	Paul Kenney
Physics 247C	Physics 203
General Physics III	Physics .of Urban arid Environmental Problems
-- 'Content: A rigorous treatment of electricity and magnetism, . Content: Urban and environmental problems, chosen for special relativity, propagation of electomagnetic waves and a	.	their amenability to scientific study; are presented through case
brief survey of modern physics including energy quantization,	Histories. Each * case consists of the appropriate political, legal,
? the Schroedinger Equation and atomic structure. - Prerequisites	social, and economic background to the problem, the relevant
are Physics 126 and: Math. 126. This course is .required for	,	physics, the necessary data, and a number of mainly quantitative
chemistry majors and science* math majors. The- sequel is questions. The introduction of physics into the discussions is Physics 248C.	'	motivated by the contribution that physics can make to rigorous
Presentation:- First semester, there are three lectures and	presentations and analyses of the problems. Prerequisite for the
one demonstration lecture a week. The demonstration lecture is	course is1 any of the one-year science courses normally taken in
simulates a lab with the; professor carrying out-the experiment	the freshman year to fulfill the university science requirement,
and the class watching. "	; /	-	This is a completely new course.
\ Readings: Physics. II by Halliday and Resnick ($9.50), Presentation: The course will be primarily lecture, though \ The Feynman Lecture Series, Vol. 2 ($9.95) and Introduction	there is ample room for discussion. The exact details will depend
< to Special Relativity ^ Resnick($4.25)are used/ J -	/upon the number and composition of the students.
::	..Organization: Four /‘Black Tuesdays’1- and a final. > Al-\ Readings? There is no required text, though background
though this ris listed as a departmental course, this is the ,only ; . readings-These will be taken from
7 section,/ and Mr. Browne is: very* easy to persuade to delay- a - periodicals and varied sources.
. * test a:week or, so./These tests are quite a: bit more theoretical 3	/	7/7 r . \
, ? (and more-difficult) than thq tests in Physics 126. Occasionally,	// 77-	/ .	.
_ . /here is an essay question on. the testwhere1 the student is asked \ t x 1 . , :	- .
„ “to explain the ^principles behind one of the experiments- carried ? ? >	J -	.	;
outinthedemonstrationlecture(previoustopicsincludethe	. A ;	3	‘	-
/ > Faraday Ice Pail Experiment and the Michelson-Morley Experi- - / -	.	7	\	- .	,	. ? '
/ /ment). *	; •;' / // ?7'~ 7 r J" 7/'/ 7 .	7'1?	//	■	.	7; J7 < " '/ ;
7?/ ComiENTs: /7ThIs7 is.nqt an easy cbm^	S	/ .	-	?	\
; >7 /-least; bit of /rouble in Treshjnan physics, thiscourseisprobably	'	/	7	- 7 J - / ' J
/// ; /notToi/you./^	‘	- ; :	L	;	\ V :	-
: } /yoh will see/that/it/is extremely;worthwhile./*Eyery<year Mr. 7'^/*-^’7/7’7////”" 7 3 z -	/	'	- , -
of ;^7~ 7^ ]/7c^//7//7/; ;? / r ' V 7-. 7 : 7 /	/ ,/
:///?/ the/students i are on dean’s 'list/ {and announces 7that/ this us: the r 7 > //	/^7 ”:	< * 7 ' -/ V J <
7/7 7 - \ most impressive class; list; he has ever seen?, Mr.; Browrie is more ’ - / ? : / : // J: 7 *7 / _ /7\ r -	:	*	- 7 7 : /	/
:777-7/7/than7willihg	-<7^ - 7
; * //./l/ome ;entertam^	7?7; 7 /	7	\ ~ J ,	7
.7/7/ ;; at-M.I.T. and the Notre; Pame,power7system. This course is7/ 7 7 ~7 ;7 . /	: recommended 7 to ~ students 7 who - have a good aptitude" for/math ? ?? 7/7 7 ’ 7 \	7 - 7 ’	-	'	/ — 7 ' ’~
?and7 physics. 7/7	//////7//1C/7 7~ ~	7 - ' \J /	’’ - - .'	/■ - ''
APRIL 25, 1972	' '	7//;? 7-/;'/7//^////7';	’7	7%
Walter Johnson
Physics 247M
Electricity and Magnetism
hours of lecture, one hour\for problem-sessions, and one hour of laboratory-demonstrations. The. lectures concentrate on the derivations: of the important principles of electricity and magnetism.The1 weekly demonstrations .allow the student to observe the applications of ~ theory with various . devices and electrical equipment. Problem sets are .worked_ out by the students and
Content: -This four-credit course , offers a . more intensive professor during ihe.weekly problem-session.
treatment of topics which are covered in the second year of	r j • <1. % 11 ’ c • tf 1 tt
1	• mil-	- j - j r x j	\	Readings: The textbook used is the Berkley Series Vol. II on
general physics. This course is designed for students in the	x . ...	C r> n
Physics Majors program and for other qualified .students ; in Electricity and Magnetism, „ by Purcell.	.	-	.
science and engineering. It examines, develops, and utilizes a mathematical approach to principles of electrical and magnetic
phenomena of the propagation of electromagnetic waves. The objective is for the student to obtain a thorough understanding
.Organization: /There- are four quizzes and a final; exam worth 60% and.30%zof the grade respectively. These tests focus _ upon the student’s understanding and applying principles of electricity and magnetism.. The ability to modify, transform, or derive physical relationships for a specific situations is also; required. The final T0% is the professor’s evaluation of;the student’sperformance, and:contribution during the problem-sessions.
Comments :; Mr.JohnsonMs an excellent instructor. His lectures are. well-prepared and delivered in a-succinct and methodicalfashion.Hehas a mastery , of his material that few science .
of electromagnetic phenomena from a theoretical perspective. This approach focuses upon electrostatics, charge conservation, steady currents, charge/invariance, vector fields, Lorentz transformations of coordinates, electromagnetic induction and the electrical and magnetic polarization of matter. The student’s mathematical equipment is extended 'by adding the . tools of vector calculus: gradient, divergence, curl/: and/ the Laplacian - . professors have. The 7 course is a rigorous / one, however. The tests operator. These are introduced into the course as they are heeded.	'
The prerequisites are GeneralPhysics I and II and two semesters of calculus. :	\	; M <	/	- * _
Presentation: -The course is organized into three areas: two -
are fairly difficult, But .Mri Johnson .is.interested in eliciting the . major principles- on exams .rather /than upon parroting back equations.: In general this "com^	student to the
type; of reasoning necessary1 for physics. \	.

74:
The Scholastic
Sperry Darden	.
Physics 302 . : ..
Introduction to Modern Physics
Walter Johnson and Norman Haaser
// Content: Thisis a'one semester course in modern physics intended primarily for preprofessional and engineering students' -	,	_ .	.
who have, had'a year ;of/calculus, chemistry and physics. The / JriiySlCS	C .
course, will vary -depending on the makeup of Computer Programming and D the class, topics which .may be included are: an introduction' \ a \	°	.
.. to the special , theory of relativity, relativistic dynamics, elemen- Numerical Methods for Physicists	,	*-
tary concepts of quantum theory, the Schrodinger equation, the -7/ J \	;
structure of the hydrogen atom, many-electron atoms, atomic / " / Content: This is a course, in computer programming nf spectra including x-rays, nuclear structure and reactions, and FORTRAN IV and numerical methods for physical problems, a brief introduction to molecular and solid state physics.	. The programs will be run in batch process on the IBM 370,
. : Readings: A text has not yet been chosen for,the course.	though the terminals may be used if there is interest and
/ Organization: During; the semester;therb will’ be two one-	FORTRAN is implemented on TSO. The purposes of the course
hour tests and a final examination. Assignments bf two or three are to introduce students to digital computing equipment, nu-problems may be given periodically. -	.	, . :	; ? merical calculations, and techniques for solving physical prob-
\	*' J • . A -	A - .	„ /.	/	//'	_ A / ' lems, and to provide practice programming and analysis of
Brij Khorana ;	7	~	/A.	-	, problems of intermediate mechanics, electricity, and magnetism,
pi * •	201	~\ The area of numerical analysis includes the consideration of the
1	//’ A”*	/ / theory. of methods polynomial approximations, numerical inte-
Introduction to Molecular Biophysics ///	\ gration and differentiation, solutions of differential equations,
.	/'/-'/A;/.//// 7 /	-	:	elementary methods for solving partial differential equations,
- and functional equations. The applications that will be used
for senior preproftssional students' but is -also open .to students . in^olve	oft®.n ““entered by physicists. A
in other departments who have adequate bac^^	..-two-year calculus-based _course in general, physics,, and Calculus
and /chemistry.7 /Topics J to„ be. treated include the physics/bf / nerve,:muscle, and eye; molecular/basis of nerve conduction, A.
- muscle contraction,/and/vision;. physics of/biological measure- .
-- ments and ^instrumentation/ and the effects of ironizing radiation on/biological molecules.- Prerequisites7 include: one year A: each of calculus/, physics/1 and/chemistry^	:// // // ,'/ "’;A7 ;
, ‘ Presentation/ Presentation’is exclusively lecture and {closely; .
* -follows the material Tn the texts. :	/ / / / / / : ’ -■ /^ A/ .J
//{Readings:7The required-text is Setlow &’ Pollard, Molecular \1 Biophysics, ($ 15.50) ;/while Ackerman, t Biophysical Science^ is ' . . suggested /and" used occasionally in the lectures. _ { A /A/A :	Organization: / The student is expected1 to* complete/ a
moderate homework/assignment r at the end of each/chapter /< which is to be handed-in.'and graded. /There will be a mid-term ’ and a final, and. the grade breakdown will be approximately /
, as follows: homework 40%, midsterm 30%, final.30%//A/shprt / .
7.	paper (about 7 pages) may be required, and will b^e fconsidered; ■	various	The.first	indude an
. part of the homework for grading purposes. The. tes^	to mmi and computer operation. The
and draw heavily on the homework problems. .	.	7 .	...... 0	0	'
, Comments: The lectures are, orderly and to the point ? though they rarely include material not covered in «■ the; texts.
IV are prerequisites. The course is intended for junior and senior /physics majors and concentrates, though others may take it.
„ Presentation: The course /will be co-taught by Mssr. Johnson and Haaser. There are two 75 minute classes per week, of which. Mr. Haaser will lecture about half of the class period and Mr. Johnson will take the other half. Mr. Haaser f will lecture on the theory of numerical analysis and techniques;
while Mr. Johnson will treat programming, computer opera-/ tion, and applications of numerical methods to physical problems.- Mr. Johnson’s period will not be just lecture; some class discussion and problem sessions are important. A tour of the IBM 370 is also planned.	-
Readings: The texts tentatively are IBM 370 FORTRAN Programmers3 Guide and Numerical Methods by W. Jennings. Readings from Kopal and Collatz may also be given. -1 /Organization: The semester is organized into sections that
Mr. Khorana is not a dynamic lecturer; he does not attempt to be/ The course is only one year old here, and its content is still in a state bf flux. This year, prerequisites have been estab-iished so as to make the	course	accessible to preprofessional stu. dents, and the range of	topics	treated should make the course
,	especially appealing to	them.	Unlike last year, no second
1	semester sequel to the -	course	will - be offered. Mr. Khorana
'	intends to cover the full	range	of topics treated last year, how-
majority of the course will deal with numerical analysis and its applications. Assignments will be made at the end of each topic. Although no semester tests are proposed, there will be required one large scale physics problem on the computer as a term paper. A final exam, probably a take-home, will be given at the end of the semester. As this is a new course, the details may be changed during the course of the semester. .
; ever, in less depth. This course should be a solid introduction tb the rapidly emerging field of experimental biophysics. ,
April 25, 1972 .
75
Walter Tomasch
Physics 345
(General Physics III A)
Atomic Phvsics
J
Content: This course is primarily intended to be an introductory course in atomic structure usually taken by junior Physics majors. Mr. Tomasch plans to spend a brief time covering relativity and giving a historical background of the old quantum theory before getting into the Shroedinger theory of quantum mechanics. The major part of the course will be concentrated on the development of wave mechanics and its application to the one electron atom, multi-electron atoms, and simple chemical bonding. A knowledge of two years of the majors sequence in physics and math is assumed as a prerequisite.
Presentation: This course is a lecture course.
Readings: There is a fifty-fifty chance that Mr. Tomasch will retain the use of the text used in the past, Fundamentals of Modern Physics by Eisberg, which sells for $13.95. He feels, however, that this text is too detailed and is considering a change.
Organization: The student's grade is determined by three “Black Tuesday” type !/• hour exams and a final. All are weighed equally. The several problem sets assigned during the semester will be used in the determination of the final grade if Mr. Tomasch feels sufficient information as to the student’s ability can be drawn from them. The problem sets could become as important as one test. The tests draw primarily from the class notes, are challenging, and are aimed at testing the student’s understanding of the fundamentals of quantum mechanics.
Comments: Although last year's course fell short in the amount of material Mr. Tomasch had hoped to cover, he promises to spend less time on background material such as relativity and more on atomic structure. His lecture notes, which prove very valuable in studying for the tests, are well organized and of more depth than the readings. His lectures offer much more depth and emphasis on understanding than the text and are thus a very valuable part of the course. The only failing of Mr. Tomasch’s lectures is that they are sometimes quite difficult to hear, for he lectures in a very soft voice. His grading of exams is somewhat critical and he usually encourages doing the problems in a particular way. Overall, this course is an excellent introduction to quantum mechanics as applied to the atom and provides a firm conceptual foundation.
76
The Scholastic
&50LT (5 R(S(M6	m BIG CDRPORAT!^
(U	BReXK -THF LAW AkJP
thf /wm. m 6ft m/ M ir-
TO PROTECT
m crmuals BR^Ar me law W ^T AWA1/ WITH (T-
A/JP SUPPORT ORfWATS
7H5 &W & FALLWO	50 PRCS^CUTF
STOCKS, RS1U0 OKJFMPLW-	ORIMlMtS !
m CRIMP M
April 25, 1972
77
epilogue
; Words, words/words? Hamlet, Act II/s.2,4^ 196	\ :rV*
' This year witnesses another attempt to give direction to the Course Evaluation Booklet. We have kept the same format— Contents Presentation, Readings, Organization, Comment, but we have tried to change the general approach taken by students
. in' evaluating courses. Most of our effort was directed at re-“ structuring the Comment section. As you all know, comments in former issues have been flights of literary fancy, vindictive or praiseworthy statements about professors, or just plain mediocre. Many past comments could be summed up as follows: Prof. X J is a good guy, his course is a valuable educational experience, , and a student shouldn’t leave ND without taking it.
. : We feel that critical comments pointing out strengths and weaknesses of a professor and his course create the best evalua- , ; tions. We realize that one student’s words of love or hate of a .
course don’t provide much information for his fellows. We urged x our evaluators to give specific reasons and examples in their
. w critiques. Conversations with other students who had taken a J particular course was suggested as a means of balancing one’s
/ comments. However, we had to rely upon our evaluators. We ' / couldn’t keep a close watch on the 200 or so students writing for \us.~ In light of our expectations and limitations, you judge the
, ^ success or failure of our Booklet. _	, . „	\
' /Special thanks to our student: department . chairmen who ;
.' collected evaluations, to the old and new editorial boards of the : ? - Scholastic for proofreading, to Jim Palenchar, ex-CEB editor, r; for advice, and to Mike Lonier for layout. We; appreciate \ the / / hard work and help of Ed Sanna,; Gene, Georgeand the staff at 7
- 7Ave Maria Press. .	'	J .;
. J .	.	.	fanto : [
The SCHOLASTIC is looking for a dynamic, energetic and patient madman to fill the position of Circulation Manager.
Salary negotiable.
Contact Greg Stidham at 7569 or 1807.
exhibition and sale original graphics purchases may be charged
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY
GREAT HALL TUES., APR. 25-10 A.M. to 4 P.M.
CHAGALL, BASKIN, ROUAULT, DAUMIER AND MANY OTHERS
ARRANGED BY FERDINAND ROTEN GALLERIES BALTIMORE, MARYLAND