.­
/ NOTRE DAME IN THE WHITE HOUSE EXPLORING THE HISTORY OF NOTRE DAME'S MASCOT 
. 
{ --' • ---::, -=-­



games ::,:,rizes ,free .fci cad dances music djs bciciths 
clubs ,free .fcicid 
£ront 
&.t~d 

Rol£' 

Trhat 


cc,ca-ccila '11.'V:?I 

;/'
'11.'H.D:J,
(...,~.,-.,_( 
are 






~·· ;~· _, . 
_;:·· ... 

..:', .. ,..1 ..···.;,: 
.~.,,. . 
05 
0 C T O B E R 
7 
---·-·------~•-, . 
It used to be a little doggie, now it's j a little green man. A look at the history of Notre Dame's mascot. 

(~amelot Restored 
10 
'\, by_Kimbf!_rly Blackwell. 
The West Wings Martin Sheen plays 
the presidenf-and an ND fan. 
f"' -. -. ~~ -· • ...... ----.. -. ,. · 1 
{( Try Walking m Her Shoes . 
12
1
\ .· by Kara Zuaro 
'~--• • __...,J_ 
l
COVER:A new faculty group works tofurtherequal treatmentforwomen at'Notre Dame · 
i:? : ... -:-•-:-:-· .. .·: 
(! Full-ContactSpirit . I' by Brendan Barker _
I . 
l Kicking Off a New Era 
Ji byGerard Meskill 
ii 
_.-_ J! ·For Your Viewing Pleasure 
· 11 byBrigid Sweeney 
I! 
Ii Rewriting Shakespeare · ·Ji li by Carri(!] Sweenei · . 
'I 
11 . 
it Years and Years of Glee \, by Carrie Sweeney· 
l 21 
22 25 26 28 
I 
·s'..•==--,=~••"--':. -~--=~-~ -·:c,.... -----~ 
j 

___t_h_e_d_e_p_a_r_tm_e_n_ts_______________-+------____,..-----;1~!® 1------1 
From the Editor ND Notebook Campas Watch· Splinters 

2  Out of Bounds  
4  Week in Distortion  
18  Calendar  
19  Final Word  

29 ! .)) 30 
Design by Mike Griffin ~ 
31 
•Photos by Kate Fost~r N and Nolan· Orfield --1­
32 


Vol. 142, No. 4 • 5 OCTOBER 2000 
Editor in Chief James J. Pastore Jr. 

Managing Editor Associate Editor Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie Caspersen, editor 
Agatha Noble, assistant 
Campus Life Tina E. Zurcher, editor 
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, assistant 

Kimberly A. Blackwell, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor 
Jessica L Daues, assistant 

Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 

Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
Design Matthew B. Barr, editor 
Jessica Chamberlain 
Erin Dowe, Mary Huigens 
Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Nolan D. Orfield, assistant 
Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor 
Michael delaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 
Jennifer L. Wahoske 
Distribution Angela Polsinelli, manager 
Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager 
Online Brian Scofield, manager 

Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of 
Scholastic magazine is Copyright © 2000. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Adam Aroian is the official office whipping boy. To be published in the next issue; letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. AH letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription rate, including the annual football review, is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in. Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the. student body. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 


·The British are not particularly well-known for their hospitality. 
•. . While this may be a gross generalization -it is certainly nottrue 
· of every Englishman -my professors in London delighted in pointing out the differences between the young, brash States and the regal, established. country of England. Of course, most of the comments were made with tongue firmly implanted in cheek. But even those remarks meant as criticisms ofthe American way oflife wereblunted by the overwhelming presence ofAmericans inthe classroom. With 120 ofmy fellow classmates in the Notre Dame London Program, it was easy .to maintain a level of comfort in the classroom similar to South Bend standards. 
When we ventured outside of the classroom and into the pubs and clubs 
.of London, however, the mood shifted. We raised eyebrows and attracted notice wherever we went. Try as we might, we simply couldn't blend in enough to avoid the notice of London natives. Although I doubt any ofus wanted to completely shed our American identities and values, it would have been nice to walk into a pub without attracting at least a few unfriendly looks. 
During one of our outings to a less touristy bar, some Londoners took notice of us and invited us to join their gathering. We followed them downstairs and into a party for British medical students. We peppered them with questions about life in London, the English university system and the best clubs to visit for a nightout. They were more than cordial, answering our questions and giving us advice on how to get the most out of our time in England. During our conversation, one ofthe medical students made his way over to our group and looked on disapprovingly. Finally, he questioned us, "You know this is a private party, don't you?" He teetered on unsober feet and waited for an answer. The students who invited us downstairs intervened and explained that we were their guests. Not completely satisfied with this answer, the man launched some choice words about Americans at us before others from the party calmed himdown and pulled him away. Although things ultimately turned out fine, the knowledge that at least some people didn't want us around made us uncomfortable. 
Here at Notre Dame, it is no secretthat some groups feel uncomfortable· or even unwelcome on campus. While OUTreach ND and GALA-ND/ SMC have beenperhaps the most-discussed groups recently, there are other groups that have had an uneasy relationships with the university. One of these groups -women faculty members -have formed a new organiza­tion aimed at supporting women and advocating equal rights at Notre Dame. In this issue, Scholastic's Kara Zuaro takes a look at the issues surrounding the formation of the group and the nature of the university's attitude toward women professors. Check out her cover story that starts on page 12. 
/~
r ·Jim Pastore 
Editor inChief 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


TRY THE TASTE THE WHOLE COUNTRY LOVES. America's all aboui big, so America loves the delicious WHOPPER~ How could you not love a big, beefy burger, with gigantic amounts of delicious, flame-broiled taste? So if you're feeling patriotic-and really hungry-come and get one. 
The Huddle LaFortune Student Center 
HAVE IT YOUR WAY~ 


cd review ten questions judgment calls news listening in domelights years ago 
Ahoy, there! Story by Colleen Barrett 
Art by Carol Wolf

Web sites help students cast their votes 
Malicious television commercials, heated debates, catchy campaign slo­gans, passionate kisses between Al and Tip­per ... yes, along with turkey and pumpkin pie, November means election time. The presidential race is tight this year, and every vote will count on November 7. Absentee ballots and the Internet have re­moved all excuses for neglecting one's civic duties. In this Information Age, it's easier than ever to stay informed and to partici­pate. Students who are registered to vote in their home states but who will be in Indiana on election day are eligible to apply for either an absentee ballot or an early ballot. The Web site www.myabsenteeballot.com details each state's qualifications and im­portant deadlines. It also has the necessary forms and up-to-date contact information for state, county and local election offices. Students who haven't yet registered to vote may do so atwww.voter.com. This site 
·major who's got. thefunky 
..· 
also offers many additional features. There is extensive coverage ofcampaigns ranging from the presidential race to the congres-. .., • .. 
~ ' ·. ~>
sional and gubernatorial contests in all 50 7..u5-00 r,a states. Candidates' stances on political issues big and small are also listed. All four presidential candidates host official Web sites. Al Gore is at www.algore.com, George W. Bush head­quarters is www.georgebush.com, Ralph Nader hangs out at www.votenader.com and Pat Buchanan loiters at www .buchanan .org. Many other candidates also have Web · · \ sites. 
Those looking for information other than the official propaganda should check out the Web sites for their favorite organi­zations, from PETA to the Christian Coalition. 
With a point, click and a drag, you can have an effect on the course of America's politics for the next four years. So hop to the nearest keyboard before it's too late! D 

>> 
A native Texan who sheds his cowboy bootsfor band practice only, the head drum major of the Notre Dame Marching Band shares his thoughts on Polish sausage, the Flintstones and the Texas A&M band. 
Have you ever fallen over doing that funny run the drum majors do? 
In tryouts my freshman year, I fell and twisted my ankle. I landed on the Astroturf and bounced right back up and kept going. I didn't even feel the ankle because the adrenalin was pumping so much. It was by far the most embarrassing moment of my life, because all 300 members of the band were watching me. 
What does it take to be a drum major? 
You need a good leadership presence and a strong knowledge of music. The previous drum majors teach you everything else. I really didn't know much of what I had to do before becoming a drum major. 
Do people sometimes offer you free stuff when they see you going around campus in your uniform? _ 
Not really, but I have had people offer me up to $1,000 if they could put on the uni­form. I haven't taken them up on it. 


What is all that equipment you use called? 
The hats are "shakoes," and no, I don't have any idea what that means or how to spell it. This baton-type thing is called a mace. 
Puzzle 

label: Minty Fresh release date: June 6, 2000 Story by Kara zuaro 





judgmentcalIs 
(D < •·· i;lllc~llief j 
Nothing builds school pride like reinforcing stereotypes. 
CD\::':.o~·.~;Pickled·b~~t~;-l 
.~<:.:~_:'~:_;·-... -,: ·;._-_:/;{_/ :.-~---"-;'_ ::·> '._ ~. ·,-.::'.. 
South Dining Hall's latest attempt to support vegetarians. Yum. 
Left tum , 

.<; 'arrows':: 
but can't we use our own judgment, too? 

8 SYRw~ekelld j 
Two nights, 27 dances and more Britney Spears than we can handle in a year. 
Tahiti 80's Puzzle is the sonic equiva­lent to the lemon-drop cocktail at Club LaSalle. Sip from a cool martini glass, rim dipped in sugar, and bask in the serendipi­tous discovery ofa posh little jazz club right 
here in South Bend. Or just listen to bittersweet lyrics and lounge-meets­disco melodies of Puz­zle, the debut LP from a French quartet with a name inspired by a sou­

venir from a past Ha­waiian holiday and a sound that hails back to the tunes of the British Invasion. Either way, it seems like kismet. 
Xavier Boyer, Mederic Gontier, Sylvain Marchand and Pedro Resende ofTahiti 80 cannot escape comparisons to the lustful French pop star Serge Gainsbourg, but they claim that their biggest influences come from the era of the Beatles, the Zombies and the Kinks. Lead vocalist Boyer dedicates one track, "Mr. Davies," to Ray Davies, his idol and the Kinks' lead singer. This idolatry, nevertheless, comes with a hint of envy. "He gives me complexes," Boyer croons, "Because he's considered a songwriter/ And I'm not at this time." 

Tahiti 80 cites Olivia Tremor Control as one ofits indie-rock influences. It's not just Boyer's shy Euro accent that connects Ta­hiti 80 to English-as-second-language label mates the Cardigans. The two bands also share the services ofSwedish producer Tore Johansson. 
The only problem with Puzzle is that, much like a $6 lemon drop on a tight booze budget, it seems to end far too soon. It's a stylishbackdropifyou'remeetingfordrinks, but if you're looking to host a whole cock­tail party, you'll need to build up your French pop soundtrack. So add a shot oflvy, the New York-based trio led by Parisian dream girl Dominique Durand, top with a twist of Pop Romantique, a compilation of French pop classics covered by indie-rock favorites, and serve shaken, not stirred. D 
>> 

What did you think of the Texas .A&M 
band? 
Well, I've always bad ... respect ... for the A&M band, but I'm an Orangeblood. My whole family went to UT, so I've been raised to despise the Aggies. They're still a very solid and, well, a unique band. 
Have you ever spilled something on your bright white uniform just before game time? 
If I did, I'd be dead. No spills yet, but I almost got some mustard on it from my Polish sausage. I always have someone get me a Polish sausage during the game, because it's just part ofthe game experience. But I guess mustard would just blend in with the gold cords. 


Being from Texas, what's your take on 
Bush? 
I have a positive opinion about Bush; he's done a good job since he's been governor. But I don't follow politics much. 
· Do you have a 10-gallon hat? 
No, but I do have twc:i cowboy hats, and I wear one ofthem for pep rallies. I didn't wear one at the rally I spoke at, because I thought!' d have trouble getting people to take me seri­ously, but I do usually wear one for them. It's sort ofa band custom to dress kind ofoff-the­

Pebbles or Bam-Bam? 
Barn-Barn, definitely! That was actually my nickname for my roommate the past couple years, because when he got angry he liked to break things. He didn't know his own strength. I was always fearful he'd pickmeup and break me ... he's a pretty strong guy. 
What was the worst date you've ever been on? 
Oh, one time I invited a girl for dinner and a movie. It was a blind date. When I picked her up at her house, the first thing she said to me was, "I'mMormon, so I can't marry you -but we can still go out on this date, I guess." That was pretty frightening. 



iJ 


;;:.;,--. 
<..-:: 
,,,. 
. . 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 

The nice folks at Card Services know how little you people sleep, even on schdol nights. 
Number of student IDs swiped at Reckers between Saturday, 9/16/00, and Sunday, 9/17/00 (following the Purdue game): 
12:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.: 456 
2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m.: 157 
Number swiped between Wednesday, 9/20/00, and Thursday, 9/21/00 (an average weeknight): 
12:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.: 418 
2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m.: 19 
Follow the bouncing ball .... 
Frustrated after a few bad dates, staff members ofthe November 22, 1957 issue of The Notre Dame Scholastic composed this song to improve the morale of "all the troops": 
I'm so young and you' re so cold, 
Oh St. Mm)1's we've been told, 
We have heard just what they say, 
Better Irish stay away. 
Grads have told us what to do, 
How to duck the barbs from you, Oh please, stay away St. Mmy's. 
To those mixers Friday night, 
With our collars too darn tight, 
We see you right by the post, 
Can't tell which we like the most, 
After waltzing 'round the floor, 

I 
We get a handshake at the door, 
Oh please, stay away St. Ma,y's.

i '.! 
l My, how times change ....
I 
-Sarah Childress 
. ---;:~ 
"My brain cells are safer on a Saturday night than in the hour spent in Core class." 
-student 





43Years Ago 

Sing Along 


JEFFREYNEWCAMP 
You know everyone's ready [for the games] and it's keeping them going. You're the ambassador -the Mr. 
ND -and you gotta be that every day," says Mike Brown; Notre Dame's Lepre­chaun. 
Brown, a member of the varsity cheerleading squad, devotes more than 30 hours per week to practicing his motions and cheers. His one goal is to keep the students' spirit high. 

Each football game, Brown can be seen jumping around the sidelines to encourage Notre Dame cheers. "The student body can't see us in down moments," he says. "We're just encouraging them more." If people see the Leprechaun reacting negatively to op­ponents' gains, then the overall spirit de­clines. People look to the Leprechaun to bring them up, especially intimes oftrial. In this sense, the Leprechaun embodies every­thing it means to be a cheerleader. 
The Leprechaun also serves as a national figurehead for Notre Dame. He can be seen at nearly all of Notre Dame's varsity sport­ing events and is in the national spotlight at parades and benefits. 
Dr. Brian Stark, the Leprechaun in 1987, explains, "Some of the stuff I did had noth­ing to do with sports. I went up to Chicago for a United Way meeting to get people fired up for the event. Another time, I was invited to San Diego, Chicago, Rochester and St. Louis to be in parades." 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 7 
CLASHMORE MIKE . 
COURTESY OF SPORTS INFORMATION 
NOTRE DAME'S original mascot, the Irish terrier, poses with head coach Ara Parseghian and his team. "Clash more Mike" was the final terrier before the institution of the Leprechaun as the official mascot. 
Despite the Leprechaun's current promi­nence, it was not always the mascot for Irish teams. For years, Notre Dame teams were represented by a succession oflrish terriers. Charles Otis of Cleveland donated the first terrier, Brick Top Shuan-Rhu, and presented it to Knute Rockne the week of the 1930 Notre Dame-Pennsylvania game. Nick­named "the Daredevil," the Irish terrier earned the reputation of being loyal and spirited -an accurate mascot for Notre Dame. Both male and female dogs were mascots, and sometimes the mascot had a companion terrier. Some terriers had their own names, but "Clashmore Mike" seemed to be the most common. The dogs lived in the stadium and were cared for by the groundskeepers. The terrier mascots were so popular that they usually had their own column in football game programs in the 1930s and '40s. They even had a book written about them in 1949, Mascot Mike of Notre Dame. 
In the mid-1960s, the Leprechaun re­placed the terrier as the mascot for Notre Dame. Two-time national championship 
8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 


coach Ara Parseghian could not recall the reason behind the change. "The LeP,rechaun is very visible during the course of the game and is a symbol of the Fighting Irish," he says. "Clashmore Mike was only there on opening day when we took pic­tures and when we came out of the tunnel. I can't remember if we even took him on the road with us." Stark believes the Lep­rechaun is an improvement over the old mascot. "The dog was never going to rep­resent the deep dedication of the student body for the school, for its institution. The Leprechaun represents the university and student body's true dedication and fervent love of itself." 
While Stark was at Notre Dame, there was only one Leprechaun who performed at a variety of sporting events. Now, to ensure that all sports can have the Leprechaun present, the university has divided the posi­tion into two. Mike Brown, the varsity Lep­rechaun, performs at football and men's basketball games and at pep rallies. CJ Lanktree, the Olympic Leprechaun, per­forms at men's and women's soccer, volley­ball and women's basketball games. "When one ofus can't do a game, the other can step in," Lanktree says. 
"We do the same basic cheers, and the two squads are pretty compatible," Brown adds. 
And what about the costume? Brown mentions that both he and Lanktree have two suits, complete with Leprechaun ties, green hats and Adidas tennis shoes. Lepre­chauns are permitted to wear the suit to any community service or school-related func­tions but not to personal activities. 
To earn the right to wear the famed suit, candidates must complete a difficult tryout that involves two to· three weeks of practic­ing with the cheerleading squad. The selec­tion process is quite rigorous and begins in early April. 
The first part ofthe process includes writ­ing a one-page essay and attending a formal interview. The selection panel normally consists of an athletic department member, an alumnus, an administrator, a staff mem­ber, a former Leprechaun and the cheer coach. 

Leprechaun hopefuls must then perform at a mock pep rally. Brown says that it was difficult to get the students pumped up atthe mock pep rally because there was not a game to look forward to. After the rally, each candidate must act in two role-playing situations: one with a microphone and one without. The last two phases of the Lepre­chaun selection are a mock media interview and the Irish Jig. 
Lanktree and Brown have both been the Leprechaun for two years, although they have _to try out every year. Current Lepre­chauns are not given preference over other students, but they do have the advantage of being familiar with the selection process. There has never been a female Leprechaun because the Leprechaun traditionally has a beard. Both Brown and Lanktree, however, agree that a female would be quite capable ofperforming the duties of the Leprechaun and encourage any interested student to try out. 
No matter who walks onto the field in the green suit, the fans react; the Leprechaun brings hope to the field. "When you're on a high, the natural response of the student body is to be ecstatic," Parseghian says. "When things aren't going so well, the en­thusiasm is not at the height as if you were going for the national championship." The Leprechaun helps increase the frequency and the duration of those highs. Those who wear the green suit love the responsibility of keeping the students pumped up. "You get out there, and the crowd goes nuts," Brown says. "You go numb." 
"For one game, I rememb~r the ride up, the tailgaters, the morning performances with the alumni club, but from the second the game started, I don't remember any­thing because of all the adrenalin," Stark says. "It's a really numbing experience to be the Leprechaun. The memories I have are lifetime memories."­
Being the Leprechaun also provides the opportunity to make personal connections with Notre Dame fans, as the Leprechaun answers hundreds ofletters from all around the world. Brown's favorite letters have been from Dick Vitale and Regis Philbin, but his most interesting letter came from a yo.orig girl who wrote: "Ijust love a man in uniform. Could you write me back?" Lanktree once received a letter from a fam­ily that included Little League trading cards of the family's kids. 
Stark remembers a particularly moving experience he had as the Leprechaun. "I received a letter from a woman in Albany, N.Y. She took a picture of me with her husband at the Air Force game. She wrote me a letter telling me the picture didn't come out and asked me to send a picture so she could frame it. I sent her a Christmas card withanotherpicture."Later, the family returned Stark's kindness. "I applied to medi,cal school in Albany and needed a place to stay during the interview," Stark says. "I ended up staying with the family and learned how the woman's husband was a prisoner ofwar in World War II. Stories of Notre Dame football with fellow P0Ws helped him survive the time." 
Brown and Lanktree enjoy the many ben­efits of being the Leprechaun. "It's on my resume," says Brown. "Being the Lepre­chaun strengthens my love for Notre Dame. I'm so proud to be a student here." Lanktree echoes Brown's comments: "Being the Lep­rechaun has completely changed my ND experience. It has strengthened my love for the school." 
Lanktree says that he loves his position as Leprechaun. "I have everything that Notre Dame strives for, and I attempt to embody that." 
Despite all of the benefits, the posi-r tion presents a num­ber of challenges. Neither Brown nor Lanktreeis on schol­arship for his posi­tion. Additionally, a Leprechaun must participate for three years on the cheer squad in order to at­tain a monogram, while many sports give monograms for playing only one year-or even one play. The service component can also take the Leprechaun away from his family during breaks. "Instead of eating with my family on Thanksgiving last year, I serve~ dinner to 500 homeless [people] at Coney Island," Lanktree says. "Travel's a benefit, but also an obligation." 
Opposing fans can also prove less than friendly. Stark remembers a bad experience he had in Michigan. "I was on my way to the game through the parking lot, and some drunk fans began beating up on me. My dad was 50 years old atthe time and jacked one ofthe guys up." Another time, Stark needed to get stitches after trying to defend the school's shamrock from being stolen at a game. "The culprits were Air Force cadets," he says. 
Stark embodies the mindset ofthe Lepre­chaun. "Coming to Notre Dame was differ­ent [from high school]," he says, "it was a different game in a hell-of-a-lot bigger ballpark.You could not effect change or the common good as easily as before." He says that he could not justify leaving Notre Dame with so much while having given back so little. "Myfunny-lookingbeard,Irishdrink­ing habits and hard-core desire to always see Notre Dame win were clues from God Himself," adds Stark. "I tried out for the Leprechaun with the hope that through that character, I could make a difference." 
Being the Leprechaun is difficult and is not always glamorous. For many, however, the Leprechaun symbolizes all the good that Notre Dame embodies. At game's end, Brown can be seen joining arms with the varsity cheer squad to sing the alma mater. Brown says, "In the end, no schools are as valiant in what they stand for as Notre Dame. Being both a student and the Lepre­chaun has taught me that." 0 
CURRENT Leprechaun Mike Brown joins two student managers on the sideline to perform the traditional Irish jig alongside the marching band during the Nebraska football game. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 



KATE FOSTER 
TRY WALKING IN 





SHOES 
An in-depth look at what it's like to be a female faculty member at Notre Dame 
KARAZUARO
Oneofthe things students don'tknow is that this university, he.cause it's private, is able to operate in pri­vacy about a great many things," Jill Godmilow, professor offilm, television and theater, says~ "State universities, funded with taxpayers' money, have to have what's called 'suQshine.' Rules for tenure are pub­lished, people's raises are published, people's salaries are published, and every­body gets used to it and there's less hanky­panky and there's less manipulation. At Notre Dame, it's probably one ofthe worst cases. Everything is private." Godmilow is the coordinator ofWATCH, a one-year-old, independent, voluntary or­ganization of Notre Dame women faculty. (It is not an acronym). According to WATCH's mission statement, the group was formed "because many faculty at Notre Dame report a 'chilly climate' for women, and because official university committees are limited in scope." 
"Notre Dame simply does not value gen­der and women'·s studies, but UNO is fol­

. lowing something of a trend in religiously affiliated universities," says Suzanne Marilley, a government professor who was denied tenure at Notre Dame. She now teaches at Capital University in Columbus, Ohio. Some women at Notre Dame, however, do not feel uncomfortable with the climate for women on campus. "In my whole pro­fessional life, as well as when I was here, I haveneverfeltdiscrimination ... I've never felt unwelcome," says Dean Carolyn Woo, one ofthe 17 women professors among the 90 in the Mendoza ,College of Business. "There are more benefits to being a woman than there are costs -when I perform, I stand out inore than a man." College of Engineering Dean Frank Incropera oversees a department in which 4 of the 92 professors are women. "I don't think any of our women faculty feel unwel­come or unappreciated," he says. "They are valued. I'd be surprised ifthere were prob­
12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 



lems or issues and would want to know about them." 
Certainly, there is nothing cut-and-dried about the issue. Dian Murray serves as the associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, where 97 of the 345 professors are women. Murray recognizes the concerns of women faculty as "a very interlocking and complex problem." 
Part of the complexity arises from Notre Dame's historical relationship with women.­In 1972, the university first admitted female undergraduate students. "Notre Dame felt it was important to integrate the student body," explains Teresa Ghilarducci, associate pro­fessorofeconomics. "Women in the univer­sity meant increased SAT scores and GP As, because there was a wider range of students to pick from. Now there is nearly a 50/50 split of men and women in the student body." 
The amount of women professors has increased at a much slower rate. According to the Annual Report ofthe Academic Affir­mative Action Committee, "Across the four colleges and the schools of law and archi­tecture, 63 new teaching-and-research fac­ulty were hired [in the 1998-99 academic year]. Of that number, 20 are women." The report notes the appointment of Patricia O'Hara as the first woman dean ofthe Law School "sends a positive message to the academic community that Notre Dame is a welcome place for female faculty and stu­dents."The report also commends the Col­lege of Arts and Letters and the College of Engineering for the steps they have taken. 
Despite these gains, however, the num­bers indicate that Notre Dame has a long way to go. Overall, the amount ofwomen on the faculty increased from 25.3 to 26.2 per­cent between 1997-98 and 1998-99 -an increase of just under one percent. "We have woeful numbers in business, engineer­ing and the sciences," Ghilarducci says. "We are nowhere near where we should be in our numbers of women faculty." The numberof women professors at Notre Dame continues to lag -sometimes by a signifi­cant margin -the number of women avail­able in each discipline across the nation. The percentage of women with doctorates in a given field is consistently greater than the percentage of women present in the corresponding departments at Notre Dame. 

Valerie Sayers, professor of English, wants this fixed. "In our department, it's getting to the point where almost 60 percent of the faculty available to hire are women," she says. "Even though our English depart­ment is seen as this very progressive depart­ment with all these women, we're still way under that number. This is partly because you always have to play catch-up. It was all male before, so it's understandably going to take a couple of generations to pick up and get to be at the spot where 60 percent of the Ph.D.s are female and 60 percent of the faculty is female, but you see those numbers and it just makes you want to weep. We are so far behind. It's really shameful." 
The number of women in positions of power poses another issue. The statistics show that male professors generally make up the top ranks of each department and college, while women tend to be clustered toward the bottom. "Stacking the top [with white men] means that we hire women and minorities," says history professor Kathleen Biddick, "but we don't allow that to transfer any issue of power, and the culture doesn't change." 
The Committee on Affirmative Action, formed to address issues ofrace and gender, is looking to balance the numbers. Joan Brennecke, the first tenured female profes­sor in engineering, was a member of the committee from 1996 to 1999. "The com­mittee took a very proactive role in identify­ing potential candidates and going out and seeking them instead ofjust expecting them to come to us," Brennecke explains. "The process helped the university as a whole take tremendous steps forward by pushing and prodding each departmentto work harder and think more creatively about increasing the number of women -bufit is not some­thing that is going to be fixed immediately." 
Sayers, who also served on the commit­tee, agrees. "I think it's doing good work," she says. "It makes wonderful recommen­dations every year. The problem is with the energy to follow-up, but one of the things it has recommended, and that was put into place, is that every college have an affirma­tive-action person. In Arts and Letters, ev­ery department has a person like that, who is actually supposed to engage the depart­ments very actively and say, 'Well, what are 


GENDER DIVIDE 

TOTAL MALE I FEMALE COMPOSITION FOR 1998-99 AT NOTRE DAME 
MEN WOMEN 

l::roTA,L'.f\EG0L.Ar=r\:}.;, y:~::: /?4-~·o/o:;c,;',:••· gey::7&o J;;,;q;i,,if'),;j f;TEJ\C,8iN~AND'.RES~ARCM~·\b:':_:,·•·2'.)-g,.~;•:·~ff~o¾:•;l;•;,fop:;;l:;;:,J;:,r'.::'.;~:,\;·.1·~:o,6(d~,;::;g::•'§,@~;7j 
t 
;1 

1•'$R,ECIAL RROF.ES'S!ONAI:' --... :·,.·:. 2~ ·_; ·'·sa.s%<:;~:. :' :'-·.:,, )_._; ,.-41):r~. :£:~~;:vHs-:;u:,,;}1 :I 
I 1: I

hci~~-$A8'¢H;'.:,+l~:/;'.•:yy i•g:.,h:;\w 3?-'.i>:~\\)>~~:~o/~;;-t!::. :t:··•••ViZ%1v~;;i·,:.:11·:1c%S:fi'•\?:s,w1,;:•:;,1 Ht.i_~R*J3Xik:?!i:N•;!,(;!~~:;:F.}'.<;'.~:~W(~; •.·:t;;:E:?.:4.e:a%}}>;'::S~'l);'.••·•~":0"' .••.5?_:2°/o"/.·•t..:)'..•~:;··.:£] 
i i 

INFORMATION COURTESY OF THE OFFICE OF THE PROVOST 
i! ' 
1; 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 



you doing? What efforts are you making?' " 
Though the university Committee on Af­
firmative Action is working to resolve gen­
der problems, some women faculty have 
decided to take action on their own. The Women's Caucus, consisting of all of the 
women in the history department, was 
formed to deliver a report on gender to an 
external group examining the department. 
This critical report addresses the impact of gender on faculty and student life and rec­
ommends steps to remedy the gender-re­
lated problems. Biddick believes that the 
gender report voiced some issues that are 
essential to making progress. "This is very painful for our department," she continues. "It was like a boil, but we lanced it." 

While the report addressed only the con­cerns of the history department, the Com­ii'I mission on Institutions ofHigher Education 
. ' 
i 
I of the North Central Association of Col­
leges and Schools evaluates the entire uni­
versity every 10 years. An accreditation report produced during the 1993-94 evalu­
ation advised: "The university should de­


velop and implement a plan for filling the 
projected new 150 faculty positions that is 
sensitive and responsive to ethnicity and gender concerns. The absence ofsuch a plan 
oran affirmative-action office questions the 
seriousness of the university commitment 
to increasingfaculty diversity. Specific plans 
need to be developed to attract female and minority faculty." The Women's Caucus report sees this recommendation as a "challenge because so 
many university policies are not gender­
friendly: for example, there is no university policy on parental leaves, no adoption of a 
gay-lesbian nondiscrimination clause, no 
policy on spousal hiring, little institutional 
support for the hiring of non-academic 
spouses, medical insurance policies which exempt reproductive issues including con­
traception, and astudenthealth service with­
out a gynecologist on its permanent staff." 
The Women's Caucus is not alone in its push to develop an affirmative-action plan. On December 7, 1999, WATCH asked the 
Faculty Senate to call upon the administra­
tion to develop such a plan, to publish the 
new the plan in the Notre Dame Report, and to report on its implementation by May 
2000. 
The Faculty Senate passed the resolution, 
but some say they've seen little action. "As far as I know, the university is notrespond­ing," Godmilow says. "It's doing things slowly, like molasses." 

The university's slow response is one of the factors that led to the formation of WATCH. Godmilow recalls a potluck din­ner about a year ago. "We were kvetching about what keeps on happening to women at Notre Dame," she says. "I said what was probably on everyone's mind, 'We need a volunteer, unofficial, activist women's or­ganization on this campus to protect our­selves.' And everybody agreed." 
Although WATCH started among a small group of friends, it quickly picked up 100 members from all ranks and colleges at university. Members understand the value ofan informal, social network. "We choose to meet off-campus in our homes," Godmilow says. "You get to know your colleagues as people who grow plants and chat, and people have told me that's a pretty important aspect. Socially, there are ways in which men collaborate on campus, say, 'Let's go play golf and talk about your thesis,' and that tends to exclude women." 
According to some, this exclusion of women is probably not a conscious action, but merely a simple oversight. When asked what the engineering department has done to make women feel more welcomed, Dean Incropera replied, "I can't say we do any­thing special, but I believe we treat them in a collegiate fashion." It is clear however, that this failure to do "anything special" has affected some women. Sayers says that when she served on the university's affirmative­action committee, "We asked women what they felt they were left out of and the an­swers were really interesting. Some people said, 'They go to breakfast and nobody ever thought to ask me to breakfast,' or, 'They play sports together,' and those were just the social informal networks." 
Even Dean Woo acknowledges the pres­ence ofmale bonding on campus. "What do 

PROFESSORS FOR HIRE 
FEMALE AVAILABILITY AND COMPOSITION, 1998-99 
FEMALE ACTUAL ARTS AND LETTERS AVAILABILITY WOMEN 


BUSINESS 
ENGINEERING 


SCIENCE 
[' MATHEMATICS ( 


INFORMATION COURTESY OF THE OFFICE OF THE PROVOST 
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

Of the 63 new teaching-and-research faculty hired this past year, 2Qwere women. The College of Arts and Letters added 13, females out of the 34 new hires. While the College of Engineering's female f~culty percentage, 4.. 2°/ ,is still less than the national 
0 

average of it is the highest representation of women in the history of the college. 8°/o 
INFORMATION COURTESY OF THE ACADEMIC AFFIRMATIVE ACTION COMMITTEE 
guys do well?" she asks. "They organize golf and baseball games. If you don't play either, you'd feel excluded." 
Murray echoes Woo' s comments: "I think sometimes women feel isolated -espe­cially women in the senior ranks because there are even fewer of them," she says. 
Provost Nathan Hatch also recognizes that the university needs to take steps to make its women faculty more comfortable: "We need to make it a more hospitable place for women," he says. -One of the core ideals of WATCH is simply to provide a friendly network for women on campus. The group encompasses a large and diverse group of women with varying perspectives on feminism and the university at large. For this reason, not ev­ery member may agree with or participate in everything the group says or does. "We found a way to be an organization where WATCH could send a letter and it doesn't mean that everybody in WATCH has read every paragraph and agreed to every line," Godmilow says. 
Ghilarducci believes the group will pro­vide benefits· for the entire university. "WATCH is organized to promote the qual­ity ofeducation here," she says. By making the university a more comfortable place for women, the group hopes to provide a wider range of applicants from which the univer­sity can hire faculty. Just as the 50/50 split of men and women in the student body accounted for higher standards in scholar­ship, equality in gender on the professorial level should, theoretically, have the same result. 
Ghilarducci believes that the university should aim for 33 percent of the faculty to be women. "We need to hire disproportionate numbers of women," she says. "In Arts and Letters, well over 50 percent of new hires should be female, or you don't get 30 percent offaculty to be women. I'm not talking about differentials in promotions. You getyournum­bers when interviewing eight women and two men." Ghilarducci hopes that the university will encourage this process by rewarding de­partments that hire more women. 

Once the women are hired, WATCH plans to aid them in the tenure process. "Mentoring happens informally anyway," Godmilow says, "but WATCH sets out to institutional­ize that, to make senior faculty available to junior faculty help them through the tenure process." According to members of WATCH, the burden of the administrative work that comes with the graduate student advisor position should not get in the way of a woman's tenure. "Every graduate student in the department comes to this person when they have a problem, and the position is almost always given to a junior female fac­ulty, even though the provost has written officially that junior faculty should not be given large departmental responsibilities because they're trying to write a book, they're trying to develop courses, and they' re trying to get articles published for tenure," Godmilow says. WATCH assures junior faculty members that they're not obligated to take the position. 
Appointment to a university committee is another time constraint that some say par­ticularly affects women. "If there's a uni~ versity committee on something, there's got to be one woman on it, right?" asks Godrnilow. "Well, that woman comes out of a much smaller pool than the men do, so we end up on more committees than men. And it's hard for most women to turn down an appointment because they feel they should be there to speak from a certain place that's not getting represented." 
If a woman is denied tenure, there is an appeal procedure which dates back to the legal action taken by English professor Dolores Frese in the early '80s. "All in all, it was a very bad working environment for women at that time," Frese recalls. "They had been hiring women on faculty for over 10 years, but none of these women were good enough for tenure. They found some­thing wrong with each and every one of them." When Frese's request to be consid­ered for tenure was denied, she filed a class­action lawsuit under Title VII, which pro­hibits employee discrimination based on gender. "Eighty-some women joined the suit. Just weeks before the trial, we settled out ofcourt," Frese recalls. "The settlement agreement included provisions for women who felt they had been unfairly treated and that gender bias had played a part. Basi­cally, it set up an appeal procedure. Without this provision, each woman after me would. have had to go through the exact same procedure from the start and that would be a lot of wasted time and energy." 
Even when women successfully receive tenure at the university today, salary inequi­ties still pose a concern. On June 13, 2000, WATCH wrote a letter to the provost about this issue. The letter proposed establishing a permanent, elected faculty committee to oversee the salary-setting process, and mak­ing all salaries public knowledge. "Open­ness and accountability have many salubri­ous benefits," it reads. "Good faculty are rewarded; faculty know the criteria by which they are being evaluated; the process is viewed as legitimate; there is an appeals process; and lawsuits are avoided." 
"Obviously, our goal is to have salaries that are fair and equitable, and hopefully we 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 
have the mechanisma in place to do that review," Hatch says. 
Aside from the letter, WATCH is plan­ning what Godmilow refers to as "the year of disclosure, where we volunteer our own salaries and maybe set up a Web site.· andjust try to collect 20, 40, 50 or even 70 percent of the salaries of the university." So far, 60 percent of WATCH members have opted to reveal their salaries to the rest of the group. 
Ghilarducci explains, "What sunshine does is have instant accounting for chang­ing standard and favoritism, which tends to boil down to sexism." According to Ghilarducci, the biggest challenge will be "to convince men that it's in their best interest [to reveal their salaries].'' 
WATCH isn't sure how much support it will get from the faculty during its year of disclosure, but Godmilow is not discouraged. 'These are the kind of things we can do, and we won't win every one," she says. "I don't know if we'll ever force the administration to publish salaries, but through the work onit, the consciousness-raising that changes the cli­mate, maybe you get half." 
Along with its pragmatic goals, WATCH functions as a support network. Meeting topics are developed by members. "One of 

STRONG WORDS 

DEPARTMENTAL REPORT RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT GENDER ISSUES 
Some important facts according to the Department of History G~nder Report: 
» "Two faculty were denied tenure or renew in 1998-99 and 199-2000, respectively. Both were women." 
» "The impact of male predominance at the senior level means that the dominant political voice in the department is male." 
» "While there is plenty of goodwill on all sides, this goodwill somehow never gets translated into actual hires ... Goodwill notwithstanding, the reality is that the gender imbalance in our department has gotten worse." 
» "Our graduate program is also marked by gender imbalance. Of the 54 students presently studying for the Ph.D., 18 are women and 36 are men . . . Our department has also failed in recruiting female undergraduate students to the major." 





Changing landscape 
Since 1972, female students have become an· integral part ofthe university 
KATIECASPERSEN 

Since co-education began at Notre Dame, each decade has brought new challenges to the women of the university. From their initial admittance to Notre Dame in 1972 to today's ongoing gender issues, women have worked to rewrite many traditions. The percentage of women has grown from eight percent to 46 percent over the last 27 years. Women have distinguished them­selves in many areas. In 1999 alone, five Notre Dame women were awarded Fulbright Grants for graduate study and teaching abroad. Even within traditionally male-dominated majors, women are making their presence known. Women comprise 138 ofthe College ofEngineering's 660 students, a higher female-to-male ratio than the field's national average. Also, nearly 46 percent of Notre Dame's math majors are women. Such majors as gender studies -a multidisciplinary program that focuses on the past three decades of groundbreaking work in women's studies, feminist theory ·and the new gender studies ­have developed, bringing new perspectives to the university community. This major involves over 70 women and .men faculty members from nearly every department in the College of Arts and Letters. Itoffers 65 courses per year-ahuge numberin comparison to other programs. Although the majority of gender studies majors are female, the number ofmale participants continues to rise. 
The female presence at Notre Dame has also made quite an impact on athletics. The women's swimming, basketball and track teams have risen to national prominence, and the women's soccer team is currently No. 1 in the nation. · 
While working to establish themselves academically and ath­letically, female students have also worked to become a part ofother campus traditions. They haveenteiedstudentgovernmentandROTC, but even today-as seen by the recent controversial admittance ofa woman into the Irish Guard-gender relations are still an issue. And although many women have participated in student government, there has never been a female student-body president. 
"Lots of women aren't running and losing, they're just not running," said presidential candidate Michelle Costello in a Sep­
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 


the faculty wrote me and e-mail to say she had a little incident," Godmilow says. "She was finding herself named on various stu­dents; Web sites and talked about as a 'babe.' She didn't know how to handle herself in class, whether to acknowledge it, talk about it in class, or pretend it didn't exist, so she was asking for help .... It's certainly an issue of sexual harassment." 
One member suggested WATCH invite a speaker from the American Association of University Women to speak atNotreDame on the topic of sexual harassment. "So we're going to co-sponsor two big presentations this semester with a woman from AAUW," Godmilow says, "one for students and one for faculty, and we're co-sponsoring with the Women's Resource Center and gender stud­ies [department] exactly because we shouldn't be so isolated from the students and the uni­versity." 
Since many of the barriers women face are difficult to pinpoint, WATCH must branch out in different directions and face each situation separately. "There could be times-we haven't had one of these yet ­where some kind of disobedience or some kind of civilian action, let's say, is called for," Godmilow says. "We're not about to blow up the dome or anything -although I've thought ofit. But that's just me." 

Ofcourse, there is a very good chance that women will not need to take radical action in this campus. Many faculty members ­particularly women in powerful positions -have been supportive of the concerns that women faculty have expressed. "Just having Carol Mooney very active in the provost's office, just having women in positions where they decide how money and fellowships are divided up, having Jean Porter running the Faculty Senate ­this is probably why WATCH started up last year," Godmilow says. "There were some people to work with who could ac­tually help us and it's been able to affect some change." 
Professor James Mc Kenna, another mem­ber of the committee on affirmative action, says, "Not just the committee but all of the faculty have taken ownership of the impor­tance of increasing female faculty and I am very proud. It's not just university-driven; it's a faculty-driven process ....Of course, one will always need to be proactive in this area -when you rest your laurels is when you lose numbers." 
"In some ways," Hatch says, "it's con­tinuingto live out what we profess to make sure we do away with barriers to equity and fairness -in this case, barriers to women." 
Despite the many complaints about the treat­ment of gender issues at Notre Dame, there seems to be a great deal of optimism that the university can and will, with group and indi­vidual efforts, make progress. Though Biddick has taught at other, arguably more progressive schools including the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of California at Santa Cruz and Los Angeles, she does not seem eager to trade in her Notre Dame expe­rience for another. "It's been interesting being here because it's so quirky and gender-em­battled. I've been lucky. I've been here for 17 years, and I love my students. They're great." 
Godmilow also draws inspiration from her students. "It's important for students to know that faculty-who may seem to be in another world or seem like different kind of human being -are struggling," she says. "There's struggle everywhere-sometimes around gender, sometimes around race, sometimes around all kinds ofthings, and to have a publicly functioning group ofwomen here who appreciate this place and their jobs but who thinks there's a lot of work to be done on it, theoretically, anyway, could inspire all kinds of action, student level and faculty level. Dreamy, but I guess in some 
Iway it's my operation principle." D 
tember 1998 Scholastic. "They're not interested." 
"Students pay attention to what other students say, and women tend to hear that they can't possibly win," says Ava Preacher, Arts and Letters associate dean and faculty representative on the Cam­pus Life Council. "The women who are really good and successful naturally won't do things that are self-defeating." 
Dorm life is also affected by many gender issues. Single-sex dorms are often cited as the source of many gender problems on campus, and some claim that enforcement ofrules within the dorms illuminates unequal treatment of the sexes. 
"I think there's definitely a double-standard when it comes to dorm-life," says senior Katherine Utz. "Ifyou live in a guys' dorm, you can get away with a lot, while in a girls' dorm, you have a security guard knocking at your door." 
Most argue that strides have been made over the past three decades, but as many feel that there is still work to be done. One group that hopes to continue to address the issue is the Women of Notre Dame. 
Launched in March 2000, the Women of Notre Dame is a new program in the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. Its purpose is to raise the awareness of the important contributions of Notre Dame's women students, alumni, faculty, administrators and supporters. It has started a network of interested alumnae of the College of Arts and Letters to serve as mentors for students and as resources for faculty. So far, the response has been remarkable. 

An alumnus remembers his experience at Notre Dame in 1972: "[Women] were not wanted here," he says. "Ifyou asked most men at the time, they would have said that letting women into the university was a big mistake. Of course, now I can't say the same thing, but it was a very hard time for women to enter the campus." · 
Now, there appears to be enthusiasm regarding future opportu­nities to make the campus more welcoming to women, and to ensure that Notre Dame's traditions embrace both genders. 0 

NEW FACES 
A SNAPSHOT OF THE MALE/FEMALE STUDENT RATIO OVER THE YEARS 
Year  Men  Women  
1972  92%  8%  
1973  77%  23%  
1990  63%  37%  
1998  54%  46%  

INFORMATION COURTESY OF INSTITUTIONAL RESEARCH 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 

. -. . --~----------­
---~---~-~--­


TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER. l@ND.EDU Glpplets 
Theproblem with parties is that, even­tually, you have to go home (atleastin theory). The Gipp knows that this is some­



(_))_ll1/2l(s • 
times a lot trickier than it sounds. One 
Keenan resident managed to find his way 



back to the dorm, but couldn't quite navi­gate his way to the bathroom. He wound up relieving himselfon the floor. Unfortunately, the residents of the room woke up when they heard the sound of running water and caught the un-sober youth in the act. 
A Pangborn sophomore revealed a• 
little more than she wanted to during the Purdue game. Hoisted high above the student section to do push-ups, she began to feel a draft and figured her button had opened. No such luck. One of the guys supporting her had been a bit overzealous and accidentally ripped the crotch out ofher pants. Needless to say, she refrained from doing any more push-ups for the rest of the game. 
Just how stressed are engineers? Some • 
were spotted launching old computer monitors off the roof of Cushing and into South Quad, giggling with glee as they smashed into a thousand pieces. Who says technology hasn't improved our lives? 0 

C: 
fC 
< 
m 
!:j 
m 

",(ek~

h?a,c~ 
The Gipp's back after a tough bye­week of avoiding the cops at Washington Street and holding his own big-house Olympics. Ifyou missed out on this weekend's festivities, don'tfeel bad because the Gipp's got the goods. Nudity, urine, fruit and more fruit -it's all in this edition, so let's get to it. 
Organic Fruit 
There's nothing funny about organic chemistry-unless, ofcourse, a guy shows up with a singing telegram for the professor. Apparently, the poor saps taking orgo were treated to quite a spectacle last week, when the banana-suit-clad man interrupted the class to announce that he had a message. The guy in the fruit suit broke out into a sing-songy birthday greeting sent courtesy oftheprofs daughter. When itwas over, the professor tried to get back to the serious business of cataclysmic-cyclic chain reac­tions -or whatever it is they do in orgo (hey, the Gipp' s never had to suffer through the class). He couldn't stifle his laughter long enough, however, to get on with the lecture. Then the class got what Coach Davie deserves: an early dismissal. 
Is that aBanana in Your Pants? 
There's nothing funny about organic chemistry -unless, of course, a guy de­cides to strip in front of the class. Appar­ently, the poor saps taking orgo were treated to quite a spectacle when one student de­cided to end his Notre Dame career with a bang. About 10 minutes into the class, he burst into the room, ran to the stage at the front of the lecture hall and announced it was his last class at ND. With that, heripped offa pairoftear-away pants and took offhis shirt to reveal ... well, the Gipp thinks you can see for yourself. Stripped down to undies and a bra, the chemist-turned-exhibitionist 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 

danced around for a while and then paused. "Who's hungry?" he asked, pulling two muffins out ofhis bra and throwing them to the class. He finished his farewell perfor­mance by promptly reaching into his crotch, producing a banana and two kiwis, and throw­ing them to the class as well. After this fiasco was over and the class had calmed down, the professor could only mutter, "Fridays just keep getting weirder around here." 
Ultimate Frisbee 

It seems that stripping isn't reservedjust for organic chemistry class. Some girls at Turtle Creek decided to have a sleepover (don't get too excited -they weren't the ones who stripped). Their male neighbors· found out about the gathering and decided to have a little fun. In the early morning hours, they went outside to play Frisbee in front of the girls' apartment ... p.aked. Un­fortunately, the boys' efforts failed to get the attention of the girls, who had already gone to sleep for the night. One quick­witted fellow came up with an ingenious solution: throw the Frisbee against the win­dow to make some noise. That way, the girls will wake up, come outside and get an . eyeful of nudity. The boy launched the disc at the window and got his wish: there was plenty ofnoise as the glass shattered and the Frisbee sailed into the house. The guys scrambled to pull on their boxers before the rest of the neighbors got an eyeful, too. 
Our Frisbee-tossing friends would have fit right in at the two-piece party that took place over the weekend. The rules of the party: only two pieces of clothing allowed. As expected, many people showed up in boxers and T-shirts or stripped down to their bra and panties. Others, however, were more creative, including one guy who covered him­self with the barest ofessentials: a rubber band and a sock. Banana anyone? 





Sei:µor midfielder Anne Makinen of Helinski, Finland is one of the three captains of this year's No. 1 women's soccer team. Since her freshman year, the three-time All-American has been rec­ognized for her abilities numerous times. She has already played a pivotal role for this year's team, including scoring both goals in Notre Dame's 2­0 win over the University of Tulsa. 

. 

~--~-------------­
I chose to come to Notre Dame because: I was recruited while in Florida practicing at the Adidas Soc­cer Academy. When I visited, the people were really nice, and I felt really-comfortable here. 
The hardest thing about being an 
athlete is: there need to be more hours in a day! 
My favorite aspect of soccer is: all of them. There are so many aspects ­speed, endurance, skills, brains-you need all of them to play. It is the greatest sport! 
To prepare for a game I: don't even think about it. It makes me nervous. I have no real routine. Relax, eat right, get a good night's sleep. No tricks. 
The biggest challenge for the soccer team this year is: staying mentally ready to play through the middle part of the season to the end. 

The most disappointing game was: 
when we lost to UConn in the semifi­nals my freshman year after having an awesome season. 
My most memorable experience is: last year's finals, even though I was injured. 
Playing with the Finnish national soccer team was: a great experience. I was able to play with the best players in the world and to represent my coun­try. 
What I miss most about Finland is: my family and friends. 
In the spare time that I have I: relax, watch movies and go out. I also like hiking, camping and other outdoor ac­tivities when I am at home. 
After my senior year I: don't know what I am going to do. Right now all things are open. I am taking it one day at a time and enjoying it. 
-Jennifer Morgan 

Football (2-2) 
Key Stat: Notre Dame has not beaten Michigan State in the last four ­contests. Prime-Time Performer: 
Julius Jones rushed for 126 yards and two touchdowns in the 27-21 Irish defeat in East Lansing. Next Game: Notre Dame hosts the Stanford Cardinal Saturday at 1 :30 p.m. EST. 

Women's Soccer (11-0) 
Key Stat: The No. 1 Irish have outscored opponents 38-4 this season. 
Prime-Time Performer: 
All-American Anne Makinen scored her team-leading ninth goal in the 2-0 victory over Rutgers on Sunday. Next Game: Notre Dame visits Georgetown on Friday for the contest at 
3:00 p.m. EST. . 


Men's Soccer (3-5-1) 
Key Stat: The Irish won for the first time since September 19. Prime-Time Performer: 
Freshman Justin Detter scored both of Notre Dame's goals in its 2-1 victory over Northwestern on Tuesday. 

Next Game: 
Providence hosts the Irish on Sunday at 1:OO 
p.m. EST. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 19 

-----~~-------~ ------­



1957 -. . -:_ ­\'
,· 
by Jessica Daues 


FROZEN MOMENTS 

Notre Dame earns its reputation for toppling No. 1 teams in a last­minute win over Oklahoma. 

NOTRE DAME: 7 UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA: 0 

Throughout its history, Notre Dame has had many not-so-stellar football seasons, but the 1956 
season might be the worst in school history. The team had compiled a meager 2-8 record, defeating only Iowa and North Carolina. Irish hopes for the 1957 season did not look much brighter. "We will have more experience than a year ago but still lack the depth so necessary to play the type of schedule attempted by Notre Dame every year," said Irish Coach 
sport: football opponent: Stanford where: Notre Dame Stadium when: Saturday 1 :30 p.m. 
Terry Brennan at the beginning of the season. -"All in all, it is not a year to be making predictions." 
Notre Dame opened its season on September 26 against Purdue, defeating the Boilermakers 12-0. The Irish then went on to defeat Indiana 26-0, Army 23­21 and Pittsburgh 13-7. Notre Dame rose to fifth in the national polls and looked next to beat Navy at home. Navy, how­ever, had other plans and defeated the Irish 20-6. Michigan State handed Notre Dame its second loss, scoring 34 points to the Irish's six. 

Next, Notre Dame faced the virtually __ unbeatable University of Oklahoma. The Sooners had not lost a game since 1953, when Notre Dame defeated them 28-21. Since then, Oklahoma had won 47 straight games, including the past two national championships. When Notre Dame met Oklahoma during the 1956 season, the Sooners had pounded the Irish 40-0 at Notre Dame Stadium. The Sooners were heavily favored to hand Notre Dame another loss, this time at Oklahoma Memorial Stadium. 
In fact, many Sooner fans were so confident of their team's imminent victory that they traveled to South Bend for the sole purpose of taunting Notre Dame students. From Tuesday until Thursday the week before the game, "groups of about 50 or 60 Oklahoma fans · marched through the quads, drinking beer and chanting, 'Notre Dame is too weak to break the Sooner streak,' " said F. Richard Ciccone '61. The students jeered ,back and shouted profanities in attempt to save face, but the students "didn't have a lot of vocal confidence," said Ciccone. "Oklahoma was considered invincible." 
Notre Dame entered the game against Oklahoma as 19-point underdogs. The Irish and the Sooners battled fruitlessly back and forth throughout the game, and by the end of the third quarter the score was still 0-0. Three minutes into the fourth quarter, the Irish found themselves with the ball on their own 20-yard line. Notre Dame worked its way up to the Oklahoma three-yard line. On fourth down, quarterback Bob Williams faked the ball to the middle and then threw to halfback Dick Lynch, scoring the first touchdown of the game. The extra point was good, and the Irish led 7-0. 
With only 3:50 left in the game, the Sooners attempted to even the score and brought the ball as far as the Irish 36. But Williams extinguished all Sooner hopes with an interception in the Irish end zone. The Irish then held the ball to run down the clock. The Irish had defeated Okla­homa 7-0, ending the Sooner winning streak and pulling off one of the biggest upsets in Notre Dame history. 
Soonerfans were stunned. "They stood in the stands for a long time," Joe Bride of The Notre Dame Scholastic reported. "Most of them had never seen their heroes lose. They stamped their feet nervously, punched each other to see ifit was true, and even cried a little." The Oklahoma locker room was just as quiet as the reality of defeat slowly hit the team. 
The scene in the Notre Dame locker room was quiet as well. ''There was no thought of rejoicing until the three Hail Marys were said," Bride wrote. Then Coach Brennan stood up. '~I can't thank you enough," he said. "You know what this victory means to me, to you and to Notre Dame. I'll never be able to forget this game or this team." Only then did the team start celebrating. 
The Irish lost their next game to Iowa but defeated Southern California and Southern Methodist in the last two games of the season, compiling a season record of 7-3 -much improved over last season's 2-8 campaign. The highlight of the season by far, however, was Notre Dame's stunning upset of Oklahoma. . 

While Coach Davie Despite the questions Back at home after a tough continues the musical­surrounding the starting road loss in East Lansing, quarterbacks party, solid quarterback position, the the Irish rise above the defense and the legs of Irish capitalize on quarterback questions to Julius Jones carry the Standford's own quarter­come away with a solid, Irish, and they secure a back troubles, scoring 24 24-10 victory. 20-13 victory over the points and holding the Cardinal. Cardinal to 17. 
-Gerard Meskill -Jessica Daues -Jim Pastore Sports· Editor Assistant Sports Editor Editor in Chief 
20 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 




Full-Contact Spirit 
Students' passion for football spills over to interhall play 
BRENDANBARKER
Saying that Notre Dame is synony­mous with football is like saying that the Dome is gold -everyone knows it, whether or not they've been here for a game. Butthe mystique ofNotre Dame football extends far beyond gold helmets and the stadium. The passion for football at Notre Dame can also be seen on Stepan and McGlinn fields, where· students gather for the phenomenon known as interhall football. Interhall is unlike any other intramural program in the country. The service acad­emies are the only other schools in the country that even offer an organized intramural foot­ball program that plays the game in full pads with real officials. "Kids really like to make itorganized," says Knott Hall wide receiver/ safety Jonathan Smith. "We have a lot of complicated offenses and defenses." "Many students played football in high school," says Rich O'Leary, director ofclub sports. "That enables the game to be played at a higher level." Legendary coach Knute Rockne believed that football had a positive impact on Notre Dame students, so 80 years ago he founded the men's interhall program. Although the basics have not changed much since Rockne's time, other aspects of interhall have.· For the first 60 years, the teams played 
w 
~ 
w 
> 
<,: 
rn
::; 


with old helmets and pads handed down from the varsity team. This practice changed when helmet manufacturers began to put expiration dates on helmets. This meant that most ofthe helmets that were already in use had long since expired. In a November 1968 story in The Notre Dame Scholastic, one coach noted that the face masks would bend on contact. Much of the other equipment was also past its prime, and, because itcame from the varisty team, it was already beaten up. RecSports furnished all-new equipment in the '80s and continues to cover the cost of equipment each year, although this year a $20 fee was instituted for the first time. 
The referees and rules also have been fine­tuned. In the mid-'70s, interhall began using high-schoolreferees-insteadofNotreDame students-to call the games'. Shortly thereaf­ter, high-school rules were officially adopted. This was not a dramatic difference, but it improved compatibility with the officials. 
Despite these changes, the players' inten­sity remains. "The enthusiasm of the dorms has always been at a high level," says Tom Kelly, an associate athletic director. "[Stu­dents] are extremely competitive. For some kids, this is their last chance to play competi:. tive football, so they're really serious about it." 
Notre Dame's interhall-football world was shaken up again in the '70s, when women were first admitted to Notre Dame and an interhall football program was established for them. The women's league was created as -and still is-a flag-football program. In the program's early stages, women played 11-on-11 with full-contact blocking. "The women's game was extremely physical," O'Leary recalls. "We needed to lessen the physical aspect of the game." 
To do so, the official rules offlag football were adopted, which outlawed full-contact blocking and pared down the players on the field to eight per team. Current Pangborn Hall captain Erin Piroutek says that although it continues to be "very competitive," the women's game is somewhat limited. "It's very hard to develop a running game," she says, as screen blocks are the only legal kind available to the women now. 
While the women may not have the tradi­tion that the men do, they are not lacking in intensity. "The girls are very aggressive," Kelly says, noting the need to tone down the contact in their league. 
Despite the differences in the leagues, both men and women agree: when you play interhall, you 'replayingfora chance to play the championship game at Notre Dame sta­dium. "Every little boy can dream of play­ing football for Notre Dame," Piroutek says, "butwith interhall, girls can aspire to play in that stadium as well." Smith, who played in the championship game last year, also real­izes the unique opportunity this presents. "It's every kid's dream to run out of·that tunnel into the stadium," he says. "Even though there aren't 80,000 people there, it's still an amazing experience." 
The interhall program has gained national notoriety, having been featured on ESPN and NBC as well as inSports Illustrated and USA Today. The time, effort and cost of running such a full-scale football program as interhall is extraordinary. 
Kelly remembers talking to an official at an Ivy League school about the end of its football intramurals. When told that there was simply a lack ofinterest, Kelly replied, "Ifthey evertried to shut down ourinterhall program, the students would probably march on the Main Building." And for those stu­dents out there every Sunday, running and hitting their way towards college football's greatest venue, they would not have it any other way. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 




~"""' 

•·, ;;'I,•... 
,·~ .~..hn~:-@;P.P ·e,.., a e .,. . , . 
,.• ...._,...( '' ~ ~ ~ 1lt'~ i ~ -.. ~.;:. • ,· -f ,,. , -'.-• ~ • , .. 1 
--~-t~.reins~amiast'diff.icult?: ::("< -~ 
4

.:;->·~,:,~ .~{:fl\:v1•1 ~./}: ~ \~:·~~~'+: :,: ~~t:7,}· ~~•~!1;
~· ~.,., 

. ~ .. .c1 rcu lil'Jstance.s.w.,~ •..;,"t< ,_.... .,~ ...•. 
". 1 \:V •· ·-1f.' _-,·";•'"I;'.-\·· ~:,,.--1,,i.,_:. •'.'r'~ 's'•,,,:•~•,,t,;;.,.;,,1,)',',i-'41
·' . ' • '' t ~. ·, ' 1'' •• ';-{•,' \ 

'"''t' •~--·.
' ~ -::· ..r-~\::.. :·, ~ j ;: .; '·..~~•~;.;:~~..~·· • i"r::_:·, .•,f:
>,. •' ,.. , . ; ',.... .... .. •i.-~, .. ff 't'..~;fi ... 

I' PHOTOS COURTESY OF SPORTS INFORMATION 
f!
ii' 
I'' 
There are som~ things for which o~e for the Big East Championship every year 11J cannot possibly prepare. Case m and compete for a National Champion­point: the January death of Mike ship." 
Ii Berticelli, the beloved men's head These championships go hand-in-hand. soccer coach for the last 10 years. Assistant With two top-five teams among its ranks­Coach Chris Apple hardly had time to catch No. 3 ConnecticutandNo.4SaintJohn's­his breath before duty drew him back into the Big East is arguably the strongest con­the world of soccer -and he found himself ference in men's soccer. To compete for a the next skipper of the soccer helm just two Big East Championship is also to compete months later. for the NCAA title. The appointment was bittersweet. Prior to coming to Notre Dame, Apple "It's the greatest opportunity I've ever spent one year playing professional soccer had in my life professionally, [but] under in Germany. This experience helped Apple the worst possible circumstances," says recruit two key players from that country: Apple, a four-year Notre Dame veteran. Erich Braun and Andreas Forstner. Though "To lose a friend, to lose a head coach, and his familiarity with German was helpful, then from that to have an unbelievable op­Apple notes that his was notthe sole influ­portunity . . . there are very polar things ence in the players' decision to come to going on there." Notre Dame. After the shock subsided, Apple says that "Those guys are here as much because of one of his first priorities was to assume· the Notre Dame as because of me," he says. same lofty goals that Berticelli set for the "Notre Dame is one of those schools that its Irish. such a great place that people want to come "Our goal is to be nationally competi­here." tive," Apple says. "We want to compete Braun agrees. "It definitely was very im­
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

portant that he spoke German, since my English wasn't too good a year ago," he says. "When Coach Apple came over to recruit us, I had heard of this university, about Notre Dame, but I definitely couldn't imagine. He came over and told us every­thing; he showed us a little video. At the beginning I came [to Notre Dame] because of soccer, and once I saw this place I was like, 'All right, this is where I want to stay and make my. degree.' " 
After his stint in Europe, Apple spent one year as an assistant coach at Harvard before serving as the head coach at North Carolina Wesleyan for two years, where he compiled a 12-20-1 record in Division III play. 
Apple admits that ambition might have pushed him: into the head slot before he was ready. "I was young; I was eager. I wanted to be a head coach, probably prematurely at that point, but I wanted to have my own team and run my own program." 
Now, Apple has his own program once again -this time on the center stage of Division I collegiate sports. Refined by the wisdom of Berticelli, his response to the challenge earned the immediate respect of his players. 



"I think he's doing a really good job," says senior midfielder. Reggie McKnight. "The public evaluates athletics strictly by wins and losses, but there is so much more that goes into being a coach or a player. Even ifour record doesn't reflect it, we've been very successful. We're doing a lot of things and a lot ofit has to do with [Apple]." 
Apple has been starting his talented younger players. The starting roster con­tained three freshmen and four sophomores at the beginning of the year. This left just four positions for upperclassmen, and one of these, senior midfielder Griffin Howard, made his first career start. 
In short, Apple's opening-day roster was devoid of experience. But, according to an old Native American saying, "A boy re­mains a boy until a man is needed." The young, inexperienced Irish demonstrated this, starting out this season by shutting New Mexico out 2-0 and advancing to the final ofthe UNL V Fila/Snickers Rebel Clas­si~. Sophomore goalkeeper Greg Tait made 

Notre Dame's emotion was evident on the field as the Irish dominated the offen­sive game. They held a 26-7 shot advantage, including a lopsided 16-1 advantage in the second half. However, great teams find ways to win -though firing only seven shots against the Irish, Bradley netted three of thefi?-. Notre Dame, despite showering the Bradley net with a flurry of shots,. only managed one goal, scored by Howard. "We certainly had our chances tonight," said Apple after the game, "but I think we need to create more dangerous scoring chances." 
Afterthis tough loss to one of the nation's best soccer teams, the Irish moved north and east to battle Boston College in the Big East opener. Unfortunately, the Irish fell behind early and never recovered. The Eagles walked off with a 2-0 victory; Notre Dame had lost two straight. 
This defeat dropped the team to 1-2-1. The Irish did manage to win two out of their next three games, but then they dropped a tough game 1-0 to Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame had the opportunity to re­deem itself two days later, but vengeance would not come easy: the No. 2 Connecti­cut Huskies opposed them on the other and Howard tallied his fourth score a minute later, giving the Irish the lead. However, the Irish game went downhill from there. Pitts­burgh scored twice more and secured a 3-2 victory. 
Yet again, the Irish peak quickly sagged into a valley. 
"We're in a bit ofa roller-coaster season," says senior fullback Dustin Pridmore. "We're at the position now where we can go either one way or the other. We can give up, call it quits and play out the rest ofthe games not caring much what happens, or we can get our focus back, start playing well again and really end up having a strong season." 
Coach Apple agrees with Pridmore. 
"Our No. 1 goal coming into this season was to put ourselves in a position at the end of the year where (a), we can make the playoffs, and (b), we're peaking, and we're still in a position to do both of those things. I still think we have high goals, and I expect to achieve them." 
With just eight games left on the schedule -almost all of them conference games ­Notre Dame has little time to waste ifApple is correct. . 
"it's the greatest opportunity I've ever had in my life professionally, [but] under the worst possible circumstances." 
his first collegiate start, notching five saves and the shutout, while freshman Devon Prescod and Howard scored the Irish goals in their collegiate debuts. 
In the final, Notre Dame's underclassmen claimedthe spotlight for the second straight game. Neither team managed to solve the other's defense, and tµe contest ended tied 0-0. Tait was named the MVP of the tourna­ment, recording two straight shutouts over 210 minutes of work. Forstner, a sopho­more, was declared the tournament's most outstanding defensive player. 
The Irish bade Las Vegas farewell up­lifted by a successful season start. However, the return to South Bend rekindled the emo­tions ofJanuary. No. 21 Bradley was slated for the Irish home opener in a game dedi­cated to Berticelli. 
"[Berticelli] was working with us for so long," Howard says. "To look and see he was not there ... it was a pretty emotional time." 
. 

-coach chris apple 
side of Alumni Field. In their best-played game of the year, the Irish held Connecti­cut scoreless on only six shots through the first 80 minutes of very physical play ­the game saw forty-seven fouls and five yellow cards. However, the final 10 min­utes broke 26 hearts. Connecticut netted a late goal and avoided a huge upset, win­ning 1-0. 
Despite the tough loss, the Irish were not disappointed with their performance. "We felt bad in that they scored so late in the game," Tait says, "however, we felt confi­dent in how we played the game, holding our own against such a highly ranked oppo­nent." 
But Notre Dame was not done playing highly ranked opponents; the Irish hosted No. 15 Pittsburgh later that week. Although the game began ominously-the Panthers' first goal came just 5 :39 into the contest­the Irish rallied in the second half. Braun tied the game with his first goal of the year, 

~-~--~--­



. I 
>I'' 
2000-2001 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

· oodnight 
(j)~ 
(Good Morning 

:)ufid) 
by Ann-Marie MacDonald 
A comedy of alchemic proportions 
Directed by Wendy Arons 
Wednesday, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. S .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday, Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 
Now It Comes With A List Of Ingredients. 
A short new report from your water supplier will tell you what's in your tap water. Look for your report and read it. When it comes to your drinking water, the most important ingredient is you. 
Drinking Water. Know What's In It For You.

&EPA Call your water supplier or the Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 1-800-426-4791. Or visit www.epa.gov/safewater/ 




ForYourViewing Pleasure 
A look at some flicks to catch overfall break 
BRIGIDSWEENEY
Idon't do very well with movies, a prob­lem I blame entirely on my mother. This is a woman who pronounced Good Will Hunting "ridiculous" and, upon exiting the theater after Life is Beautiful, rolled her eyes and said, "I just don't understand all the fuss." In fact, the only two movies she has ever actually admitted to liking are The King and I and, logically, Enemy of the State. Sadly, I seem to have inherited her weird aversion to cinematic efforts. My friends refuse to watch movies with me because I tend to pick one offensive aspect of an actor's appearance and fixate on it for the entire film. In I Know What You Did Last Summer, I couldn't quite deal with the fact that Jennifer Love Hewitt's character wore tapered jeans. Similarly, You've Got Mail posed a huge problem for me because of ~1eg Ryan's eyebrows. Even worse, I con­stantly lean over to the person next to me and whisper, "Wait ... I don't get it. What just happened? I missed something ...." This is most likely because my attention had been directed at some actor's eyebrows in­stead of the plot. But, inexplicably, I keep trying. I figure if I watch enough movies, I'll eventually find The One that I absolutely love. In that spirit of perseverance, here are a few films to check out over fall break: Meet the Parents -In this comedy due out October 6, Ben Stiller reprises his There's Something About Mary role of an earnest, well-meaning guy who gets entangled in all sorts of ridiculous predicaments while try­ing to win the girl. Already saddled with the unfortunate last name of Focker, Stiller's character, Greg, runs into much larger prob­lems when he heads to the New York home of his girlfriend Pam's family to pop the question. Inside the picturesque home, he finds an apparently perfect family. Greg soon realizes, however, that all is not per­fect. His future father-in-law, Jack Byrnes (RobertDeNiro ), an ex-CIA agent posing as a retired florist, is condescending, overly protective and not endowed with a particu­larly developed sense of humor. He also happens to be trained in mortal combat and has access to everyone's movie rental his­tory. While valiantly attempting to make a good impression, Greg suffers disasterupon dis~ster. 

The quirks of this movie (Greg also hap­pens to be a male nurse who has a penchant for milking anything with nipples; Pam's ex-boyfriend is a very religious multimil­lionaire who refers to Jesus as "the big J.C.") should appeal to the same people who enjoyed There's Something About Ma,y and the Farrelly brothers' other films. Un­less there's a character who wears unattrac­tive tapered jeans, Meet the Parents looks like a good bet for stupid-but-funny jokes. 

BONDING Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller spend quality time in 
fail to attract the girl, Fraser's character again turns to the devil for the "surprising solution." A random point ofinterest: Satan is played by none other than Elizabeth Hurley. 
Due out October 20, Bedazzled could go either way. The ridiculous results of the wishes might provide a lot ofcomic material -or they could flop badly. The previews emphasize the evil sexiness ofHurley, which will most likely get old quickly to anyone who is not an adolescent boy. While the idea of selling one's soul to the devil seems rather trite, the idea of a female Satan could 
prove too curious to re­sist. 
The Contender -In the tradition of political thrillers such as All the President's Men, The Contender goes into Washington and deals with seedy cover-ups and complicated power­plays. The story begins when the sitting vice president dies and Sena­tor Laine Hanson (Joan Allen) is nominated as the first female to fill the office. When sordid de­tails of her past come to light, Hanson's personal life, in addition fo her po­litical future, are threat­ened. The film introduces moral questions evoca­tive of the Clinton scan­dal, such as the debate 

Meet the Parents, which is due out on October 6. 
Bedazzled -A remake of the 1967 ro­mantic comedy, Bedazzled features a sui­cidal technical adviser (Brendan Fraser) who sells his soul to the devil in order to' be granted seven wishes that will make the object of his obsession notice him. Things become complicated when each wish doesn't produce exactly the intended results. For instance, his wish to become rich and pow­erful turns him into a Latino drug lord (seeing Brendan Fraser playing a Latino drug lord seems reason enough to me to run to the theater). When his wishes obviously over public versus pri­
vate life and the idea of presidential legacies. 
The Contenderfeatures an impressive cast, including Gary Oldman as an evil Republi­can resolved to thwart Hanson's career; Jeff Bridges as a casual, beloved president; and Christian Slater as a young House member who crosses party lines to sit against Hanson. Due out October 20, it has "big movie" buzz written all over it. 
And there you have it. I recommend going crazy and seeing all three. If you're still not satisfied, you can always run to Blockbuster for Enemy ofthe State. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 

~-~-~-~--.......-~L~~ -'---~----------------­

Most people don't leave produc tions of Romeo and Juliet or Othello with grins on their faces -witnessing double suicides and murders isn't all that conducive to a cheerful atti­tude. However, on Wednesday, October 4 through Sunday, October 8, Washington Hall will present two ofShakespeare's most famous tragedies with a rather unusual slant -namely, as comedies. Goodnight Desdemona (Good Morning Juliet) tells an imaginative tale ofConstance, a Shakespearean scholar desperate to prove a unique doctoral thesis -namely, that Othello and Romeo and Juliet are rewrites of earlier comedies that have since been lost. Facing the scorn of her academic col­leagues and ready to give up, she is myste­riously transported back to the :ryliddle Ages of Othello and the Elizabethan period of Romeo and Juliet. She interacts with the characters, altering their romances and the plots of the famous plays while finding proof for her thesis and insights into her own love life as well. The comedy by Ann-Marie MacDonald premiered in Canada 1988 and has since been performed over 40 times and earned several awards. The play marks the directorial debut of Wendy Arons, a Film, Television and The­ater professor. Arons suggested Goodnight Desdemona to the board that selects Wash­ington Hall's plays in response to their request for a comedy. 
The cast obviously approves of the se­lection. Senior Katie Sise, who plays Juliet, explains that the script's appeal is in its unique interpretations of well-known characters. "The first time I read the script, I fell in love with the characters," she says. "Romeo, Juliet, Othello and Desdemona maintain many characteristics of Shakespeare's work, yet we have the oppor­tunity to observe them in a new light and as Shakespeare I'm sure had not originally intended them to be. I love what the play­wright has done, because I think the audi­ence will really enjoy the comedy of these once-tragic characters." 
The play also explores the "what if' ques­tions that inevitably arise at the fatal ends of Othello and Romeo and Juliet. "When Constance enters the world of Romeo and Juliet, she manages to save them from their tragic deaths." Sise explains, "what you might not suspect is how rotten the two young lovers feel about each other after spending their first night together and real­izing they are stuck, married to each other for• the rest of their lives." 
In light of their considerable experience, the five-person cast didn't have a problem reinterpreting ap author as revered as 


M E 

Shakespeare. Sise is a film, television and theatermajorand, as she explains, has "been involved in many shows, ranging from more traditional plays like Macbeth, to more ex­perimental theater performed in the lab at Washington Hall." 
Other cast members honed their Shakespearean skills this summer, as junior Liz Cenova (Desdemona) and senior J.J. Area (Romeo) both participated in Notre Dame's first Summer Shakespeare Festival this past August. "I've enjoyed this play a lot because I'm really interested in Shakespeare, especially after this summer," Cenova says. "I used a lot of the skills I acquired from the festival." The two also had a chance to meet Arons during the summer festival. "She dropped by our dis­cussions this summer, and you could just tell she seemed really interested in Shakespeare," states Cenova. "I think she really enjoys the comedy aspect of the play, too." 
Sise has also appreciated Arons' enthusi­asm for the play. "Working with Wendy was great because as actors we could all trust her, and this is probably the single most important thing when you are working with a director," she says. "She pushed us to explore our creative abilities." 
This admiration is mutual. Arons claims the castis the main reason her first directingjob at Notre Dame has proceeded smoothly. "In a lot of ways, this play was easier than I expected, in large part because the cast is so talenttd, and they worked so hard," she says. "They always gave 150 percent and made my job very easy. Most of what's in the play is theirs, and during most rehearsals I just kept saying, 'Yeah, keep that, do more of that.'" 

The cast has rehearsed for approximately 30 hours each week since the end of Au­gust, every day except Saturdays. Mem­bers have cemented their friendships along with their lines. The ludicrous situations that arise in the plot-including a take on the famous balcony scene that involves Juliet, dressed as a man, calling up to Constance to profess her love -made the long hours bearable. 
The backdrop design for all this action was a task that fell to set designer Bruce Auerbach. Arons worked with him to high­light the surreal aspect of Constance's journey back in time and to create scenes that effectively convey that her adven­tures are influenced by her real-life expe­nences. 
"The idea behind the set is that when Constance tumbles into the Shakespearean world, it's a world that her memories and her experiences help form," Arons explains. "It's a journey into Constance's psyche as much as into Shakespeare, so the set isn't too realistic. We really focused on the idea of making it a collage ofimages from other well­known Shakespeare productions. There are a lot of fun playing spaces and neat entrances, with different levels and platforms. There's kind of a combination of stone turret castles and Elizabethan things going on." 
The set's attempt to connect the Shakespearean world to Constance's world is supported by the characters. "The whole play is taking place in my mind," explains senior Kathy Koch, who plays Constance. 
"The idea is that the characters are por­trayed as I picture them." 
Constance's impressions ofpeople in her life are transposed onto the Shakespearean characters she meets in the play. Mark Scheibmeir, who plays Othello, also plays Professor Knight, a colleague of Constance's in her "real life" whose nega­tive characteristics later appear in Othello. Similarly, Cenova plays Desdemona and Ramona, the woman who is going to marry Professor Knight, and whose bold manner is also evidenced in Desdemona. Finally, Sise plays both Juliet, who is infatuated with Constance, and a student of Constance who compliments her earlier in the play. 
These subtleties are what Koch hopes the audience will appreciate. "There are so many little things in this play that I don't know if audiences will get, but that we are so aware of after going through the script so many countless times," she says. "For ex­ample, some of the script is written in iambic pentameter [the meter in which Shakespeare wrote his plays], which is not easy to do. The script is just so good and clever." 
"There are definitely a lot of don't miss parts of our production," Sise adds. "We have Romeo and Juliet dressing in drag to win the affections ofConstance, whom they both believe to be a man, and Desdemona entering the world of Romeo and Juliet and trying to bring Constance back home with her. There'll be pyrotechnics, fabulous cos­tumes -altogether a fun show." 
And, altogether not exactly what you'd expect in a Shakespearean tragedy. 0 


Years and Years of Glee 
The Glee Club celebrates a long history ofsinging and brotherhood 
! 
I 
1 
l !'. 
CARRIESWEENEY 

Notre Dame's Glee Club originated in 1915 with 12members who liked to sing and figured they'd be better off doing so together. Eighty-five years later, the group, which now consists of 75 singers, has emerged as one of the premier collegiate all-male a capella groups in the nation. The idea behind collegiate glee clubs sprung from a tradition in Europe. In the Middle Ages, travelers stopped at inns along ing events and Christmas carols in tradi­tional rounds to the dorms during Decem­ber. The club performs more than 100 con­certs each year and has traveled from coast to coast, singing in venues ranging from small churches to large concert halls. It will travel this fall to the Southeast to perform in Georgia and Florida; later in the year, it will head to Texas. 
To celebrate this growth and distinguished history, the members of the Glee Club be­gan hosting reunions in 1977 -about one every three years -for the group's 2,000 
alumni. This year, the festivi­

I 
ties will kick off with a concert 
1: 
at 8 p.m. at Stepan Center on Friday, October 6. "It will be a great chance to have all the guys back together singing again," says junior Peter Bell, who is coordinating the re­union. "The current group will sing the first half, and the alumni will sing the second half. We're doing our standard repertoire, which every mem­ber from the 1940s and on 
knows." 

That repertoire includes "Ave Maria," the Notre Dame victory march and the alma mater, as well as lesser-known songs such as "Ride the Chariot," "Got a Mind," and "Notre Dame, We Hail Thee," the Glee Club's alma mater. The story behind the writing ofthis song is a com­ponent of the club's lore. The club, having just been informed that it would not be allowed to perform the university's alma mater at its upcoming show, de­pended on the improvisational skills of a frantic singer who penned the song on the bus ride 
INTERGENERATIONAL Young and old sing together 
to the concert. 
during Glee Club reunions. 

The returning alumni will their journeys to sing songs that almost honor the club's history rich with such sto­everyone knew. These songs were a form of ries as these on Saturday morning. As is oral history as well as entertainment. traditional before every home game, the 
:1 Today, the Glee Club studies vocal tech­club will perform at 11 :30 a.m., two hours nique and various musical styles. Its reper­before the start of the Stanford game. toire includes the national anthem at sport-However, instea_d of singing in the JACC 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
as usual, the club will perform near the library's reflecting pool. "We're hoping it will be a nice day and we'll get a lot of students to tum out," Bell says. "As usual, we'11 be singing the fight song of everyone we've played so far this year, starting with Texas A&M, up to Stanford, and then we play our songs." After their performance, the past Glee Club members will head to the game with tickets reserved by the Alumni Association. 
Later that night, Bell has planned a ban­quet at the Marriott, which will feature speeches by past and present leaders of the club. David Clark Isele, club conductor from 1973 to 1979, and Carl Stam, conduc­tor from 1981 to 1991, will speak, as will Daniel Stowe, the current conduction ofthe club. Also speaking will be Helen Pedtke, the wife ofthe late Daniel Pedtke, the club's influential director from 1938 to 1973. "Helen still comes to our concerts and has the club over to her house for barbecues," Bell says. "She'll also be hosting a tailgater for the returning alums before the football game on Saturday morning." 
The club has also made great strides un­der Stowe. Its-members have recorded three CDs, including From the Heart (1995), Music from the Basilica (1996) and Under the Dome (1999). "Under the Dome made past CDs we'd done sound like they were recorded in the bathroom or something," Bell says. It was so good, in fact, that Stowe decided to re-master From the Heart to make it sound equally professional. 
To draw their weekend of nostalgia to a close on a more somber note, on Sunday morning there will be a memorial Mass in the Keenan-Stanford Hall chapel for Father Robert Griffin, a former Stanford rector and Glee Club chaplain who passed away last October. The group will dedicate a tree that was planted outside ofStanford last year to the man they affectionately knew as "Griff." 
The weekend promises to be emotional for the 190 alumni who have registered to attend. "We have one alum coming from the class of 1940, so we'll have representa­tives from 60 years," Bell says. "It's going to be a great way to really focus on where we've come from and what we've done. We have a great history to celebrate." D 









God Bless Ame,rica 
Because it's clear that Canada has it beat 
JOEHOWARTH
Ladies and gentlemen of America, I write to you today in hopes that my full conviction and sincerity will en­lighten you with the goodness and truth with which I, fortunately, have been blessed. I must humbly apologize that here, in my senior year, I have already let many semes­ters pass without sharing it with each and every person. In truth, I hesitated as all must hesitate before waking his friends from a dogmatic slumber. I was not willing to drink the cup of hemlock prescribed to those who doubt the gods of the city, especially yours, the most powerful city. Today, I will drink the cup. I will drink Canadians live in igloos and need to use snow shoes for more than six months of the year! Stop believing that Canada is really as clean and perfect as everyone who has ever been there finds out! Only by destroying the old stereotypes will new ones be created: new and proper generalizations about Canada. 

Today I also feel the need to ·address the continued American neutrality to what is internationally regarded as the greatest coun­try in the world. It simply makes no sense. Perhaps Canada does not have a well-sup­plied, -sized or -educated military. Perhaps Canadians do not have the choice of what 
brilliance of others any longer! See for the first time that the greatest country in the world is right beside you! I ask you America, where has all your brilliance gone? I will tell you. It has been replaced by the hilariously catchy tunes of the Barenaked Ladies and the heart-warming ballads of the century's greatest female singer, Celine Dion. Itis the Canadians who top your charts. Your bril­liance has been replaced by the well-en­dowed beauty queen of your sex-crazed culture, Pamela Anderson, who spreads her­self across your media like milk spilled on the kitchen floor. Ithas been replaced by the schwinging schwing ofthe cutest and crazi­est king ofclassy comedy, Mike Myers, who will continue to 

despite the consequences, in 
make you laugh until the end of hopes that the truth about my time. American brilliance has beloved country, a land flowing been replaced by Canadian bril­with moose and hockey, will be liance. Clearly, you must learn told for infinite generations to that until you respect the Cana­come. dian people and culture as a 
I come before you today be­superior race and system, shame cause I, and all my fellow Cana­will continue to rain upon your dians, are sick of being stereo­land . 
typed. . With all due respect, as both 
Today I want every American pioneers and oldest siblings to know the truth. Today Ameri­have learned, the first to create cans must learn that although the path always ends up with there are over one million uses of the most scratches and bruises. the word "eh" in the Canadian Canadahonors you in your lead­language, we do not use it in ership, America, your brave po­every sentence, and we can litical experiment and your cul­proudly say it only appears in our tural identity. constitution 14 times. I want ev­Nevertheless, Canada winces ery American to know that we do at the wounds that continue to officially love and respect all 10 bloodyyourcountry. What you of our provinces, despite what invented, we then perfected. may seem a constant battle to rid What you once lead, we fol­ourselves of Quebec. But, most lowed, but improved every 
importantly, I want every Ameri­can to know that despite the recent push in our northern territories to have the Cana­dian government officially recognize the marriage of man and penguin, it is still illegal. Look at your own history, America. You know ofthe damaging effects ofpreju­dices and stereotypes. It is only when you toss away the painful and destructive asso­ciations so pervasive in your culture that our nations will be united in friendship and understanding. Stop believing that all Cana­dians are sweet people! Stop believing that 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 

doctor to go to or what operation or medica­tion they will receive. Perhaps the weather in Canada prohibits us from going outside for five months of the year. But America, I ask you, are you as happy as Canada is? What is happier than legalized drinking at 19, religious devotion to the greatest sport on ice or absolutely no international recog­nition -and therefore, no international responsibility-in foreign affairs? Ameri­can ethnocentrism has plagued your county too long. Do not let it blind you to the 
step ofthe way. Today, I thank you, America, for teachiI:ig us much, but ask that now, for your own benefit and for the benefit of the entire world: respect your northern neighbor, love your north­ern neighbor and learn from your northern neighbor. A new empire has risen in the West, and that empire's name is Canada. The people are called Canadians, and the leader, well, his name doesn't really mat­ter, since you probably couldn'tpronounce it anyway, 'cause it's French. Still, he's pretty cool. D 



v7 
~ 
{t,,' ,, .~







,, a1•1~ns1 
1 

> {)ii} ~..;J,,,:,P ~ ·, ,-,,, .r. /Ii. U-1==1~ 
_ '. :f/J~~-J•.·':.:j~_;{:::;:irJ1:;?ij~~~6&2~&'.:~6~20Q9~:c•··•·.. •.•··, ·,.•,..... 
lectures
This summer! wentto the dentist's ;.:.. La@r.;;..111111!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!-. 
• Thu 05 "300 Years of German-American History: A office to have a cavity filled. ..------· . 
LookBack, A Look Forward," 11:30 AM, 20th Century A routine procedure . . . or so Gallery, Snite. 
thought, until my dentist • Fri 06 "Elshtain' s Maternal Thinking -How Mater­grapevined in and broke into nal and with What Political Implications?" 12:30 PM, the first few dance steps fea­307 Brownson Hall. 

tured in the video for Britney • Sat 14 Members of the Committee on Notre Dame's Spears' "Sometimes," which Position on the Ordination of Women: "Religion and was being piped ·in over th Intellectuals," 7:30 PM, Faculty Lounge, Hesburghoffice's PA system. Itwas as ifhe Library.

had just been watching Sisq Shakedown on looped replay whil 
cinema
sampling the laughing gas. "Man 

• Fri 06 All About My Mother, 9:00 PM, Snite. 
I'm in the wrong profession," • Mon 09 Trust, 7:00 PM, Snite. 

he said as he gazed into my • Tue 10 Burnt By the Sun, 8:00 PM, Montgomery mouth. 

Theater, LaFortune. 
Later I found out that the • Mon 23 Out ofthe Past, 7:00 PM, Snite. 

hygenist had told him about m • Tue 24 Life is Beautiful, 8:00 PM, Montgomery overwhelming fear of needles Theatre, LaFortune. 

and he thought dancing around might lighten things up. And as 
the arts
much as it shocked me, it did 

• Thu 05 thru Sat 07 Good Night Desdemona, Good 
make me feel a little better. 

Morning Juliet, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 
There is something to be said about flailing one's appendages about in an 
• Sim 08 Good Night Desdemona, Good Morning 
attempt to keep time with the music, especially when one knows that one Juliet, 2:30 PM, Washington Hall. 
will never, ever be able to keep time with the music. Itis the ability to laugh • Sun 08 Maria Stablein, piano, 2:00 PM, Snite. 
at oneself elevated to an art form. Why not take fall break to muster your courage and come back and take a rumba, tango or swing class? The ND 
student life
Swing Club's Web site advertised that "skill and coordination" are not • Tue 10 Rumba Lessons, 8:30 PM 301 Rocknerequired. And if you'd rather go for Latin dancing, remember what Al Memorial. · Pacino said in Scent ofa Woman: "The tango is the easiest dance: if you • Mon23 Intermediate East Coast Swing Lessons, 9:30 make a mistake and get tangled up, you just tango on." 
PM, 219 Rockne Memorial. 
-Cristin Fenzel 

• Tue 24 Rumba/Intro to Tango Lessons, 8:30 PM, 301 Rockne Memorial. 

• 
Fri 06 Cross Country: Notre Dame Invitational; 4: 15 PM. • Tue 17 Hockey: ND vs. Wayne State, 6:05 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Fri 06 Soccer: ND women at Georgetown, 3:00 PM. • Tue 17 Soccer: ND men at Georgetown, 3:30 PM. 

• 
Sat 07 Football: ND vs. Stanford, 1 :30 PM. • Wed 18 Soccer: ND women at Yale, 6:00 PM. 

• 
Sat 07 Volleyball: ND at West Virginia, 1 :00 PM. • Wed 18 Volleyball: ND at Michigan, 6:00 PM. 

• 
Sun 08 Volleyball: ND at Pittsburgh, 1:00 PM. •Fri 20 Volleyball: ND vs. Rutgers, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Sun 08 Soccer: ND women at Villanova, 12:00 PM. • Fri 20 Soccer: ND men at Villanova, 3:00 PM. 

• 
Sun 08 Soccer: ND men at Providence, 1 :00 PM. • Fri 20 and Sat 21 Hockey: ND vs. Northeastern, 6:05 PM, 

• 
Wed 11 Volleyball: ND at Illinois State, 7:00 PM. Joyce Center. 

• 
Fri 13 Soccer: ND. women vs. Boston College, 7:30 PM, • Sat 21 Soccer: ND women at Connecticut, 12:00 PM. Alumni Field. • Sun 22 Volleyball: ND vs. Seton Hall, 2:00 PM, Joyce 

• 
Sat 14Soccer: ND men vs. St. John's, 7:30 PM, Alumni Field. Center. 

• 
Sun 15 Soccer: ND women at Syracuse, 12:00 PM. • Tue 24 Soccer: ND women at Michigan, 2:00 PM. 


Mike Brown, a

J 
senior management 

r 
information

! 
systems major, is

i I originally from 
i 
Milwaukee. He

I lives in O'Neill 
t 
I Hall and has been 
I 
l the Leprechaun for the past two years. 
I 
I I 
,I 
' 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 

1. 
by Mike Brown 

Unmasked Spirit 
April 9, 1999, 4:35 p.m. Sitting in a closed room with a panel of six judges made up ofthe director ofthe Alumni Association, an Academic Services representative, two cheerleading coaches, and a former Lepre­chaim. Question: "Michael, what would you think ifwe told you that next year we were going to put a 'head' on the Leprechaun? Most schools have mascots with large costume heads, and we are one ofthe small number who don't. What would you think about that?" Answer: "Well,first ofall, 1think putting a head on the Leprechaun would hurt the university more than it would affect me. One ofthe things that makes the Leprechaun position so special is that it is one that is made personable by not requiring someone to wear a head. " For the past year and a half, I've had the opportu­nity to serve as the University of Notre Dame's mascot, the Leprechaun. One ofthe things that makes being the mascot for this university so special is that 1don't have to wear a huge costume with a big mascot head. There are lots ofpractical advantages. While wearing a big costume doesn't sound like a bad idea for the late home games in Novembe1~ I'm truly thankful I don't have to wear something like that in 
the early part ofthe sea­
son. 
I am also able to show 
my spirit and love for the 
university not only 
through various gestures 
and energetic motions 
during games, but also 
by being able to speak 

directly to fans and express that spirit and love in actual words. I get a chance to meet and interact with fans from all over the world and establish somewhat of a personal relationship with them. I do more than just jump and dance around during the games. I actually communicate with fans by saying, "How are you feeling? Are you fired up?" or, "Ican'thearyou!" There are some fans that I talk to at every home and away game. There are some fans that I've seen this year whom I met last season. I've been told that some children watch me throughout the entire athletic event, and that when they cannot find me because I'm on the opposite side of the stadium or arena, or taking a water break, they panic and ask, "Where's Michael?" Bucky Badger, the Nittany Lion and Purdue Pete are not able to establish relationships such as these with their schools' fan base. 
With my face right there in front ofthe crowd, I also 
have the chance to show how emotionally engaged I 
am in whatever I'm doing. Most mascots can be 
thinking about other things during the games, or 
looking off into la-la land, and still look as though 
they are focused and cheering for their team. 
Interviews with the media are an additional bonus 
that comes with not having to wear a head since I 
don't have to worry about a costume that makes it 
difficult for me to speak on camera. Reporters often 
ask how many push-ups I plan on doing or ifl think we'll 
bounce back from our quarterback situation. I simply 
reply, "I'mgoing to do 1,000 push-ups because our team 
is going to score 1,000 points, and don't worry about the 
quarterback situation, I' 11just eat me Lucky Charms and 
play quarterback myself!" 
Additionally, the networking that stems from be­
ing a "headless" mascot is amazing. I've met Dick 
Vitale, Regis Philbin, Joe Montana and Tiger Woods. 
Everyone knows the Leprechaun. No matter where I am, 
in the dining halls, classrooms, intheSouthBendcommu­
nity, throughout the country and even throughout the world, 
people know me as the symbol of Notre Dame. 
Two weeks ago, I spoke with Michigan State's 
mascot, Sparty, concerning the idea of the mascot being symbolic of the university. He said that 99 percent of the student body does not know he is Sparty. The only people who know he is one of the people who dress up in the mascot costume are his close friends and family members. He said this is one thing that makes him and other mascots who wear big heads so special: people rarely know who . is really underneath all of that equipment and padding. This is positive because people can focus on the actual mascot as embodying school spirit as a whole rather than the individual wearing the 
costume. 
The same does not hold true for Notre Dame's 
Leprechaun. As mascot, I may be seen a symbol of 
the ideals and spirit ofthis university. But the fact that 
I am also a regular student and everyone knows it 
enhances this. Even the regular students here could. 
be considered "high profile." Many of them gradu­
ated in the top five percent of their high-school 
classes and are involved in positions of leadership, 
athletic teams or student organizations. Moreover, as 
students, we live. together, eat together and study 
together. We work together, just like the teams we 
cheer on. In this way, my real face therein front of the 
crowd makes me a more real symbol of the univer­
sity: I am but one representative of the students who 
in fact embody the true spirit of Notre Dame. D 
Don't worry about the quarterback situation, I'll just eat me Lucky Charms and play quarterback myself! 







