Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 20, 1883.	No. 19-
Joan at Court.
The slow dawn opens wide, the morning air Is fresh about tire folds.—Oh, why did God, Creator grave, omnipotent, all-wise, Single out me, among ten thousand maids, To leave the quiet ways of womankind?
Had He no knight, with nerves of steel, and heart Hard as unriven flint, to work His will, To free our land and smite the foes of France? The honors of the Court are mine, and gold;
I move among them, holding back the jests That break behind in slanders. I look round And see the infinite foul violence, The envy and the greed, the lurking smiles Of those that hate but tremble, and I know The cloud is gathering that will break, one day, And sweep me to destruction. Gracious Lord! Give back the valleys of my green Lorraine; Give back the hopes, the flocks, the horse I loved Before I knew this shameful thing, a court!
Yet, ah, my shrinking soul! can I forget The cries that haunted all those woodland ways, From ravaged homes and desecrated shrines, Till all my blood was fire, and in the night The stars danced thick before me, and I heard Voiced like the trumpet of the risen world:
“ France, wanton-lost, a virgin may redeem! ” “ Take, Lord! ” I cried: “ my love, my life, my soul— But save mv country! ”
Then the Knight of God, His high Saint Michael, with Saint Catharine came To tell me many things; where lay the sword Wherewith Martel drove back the infidel.
The rest, the midnight Loire, the stormy ride By castled hill and barren moor, the strife, Orleans and Rheims, are like a broken dream. And Life will yet be as another dream. Have mercy on Thy handmaid, Son of God!
Marion Muir.
Colorado.	,
Its Past, Present, and Future.
[A. Lecture delivered before the Faculty and students, Wednesday evening, Jan. io, 1883, by Rev. J. A. Zahm C. S. C., Prof, of Physical Science.]	•
Gentlemen:—Since my'return from the West I have frequently been requested to give some account of what I saw and learned during my jour-
neyings among the mountains and over the plains of Colorado, Arizona, New and Old Mexico, and to state my impressions of the places I visited. I have hesitated, and delayed to comply with this request for several reasons, chief among which were my inability to do justice to the subject, and the fact that I would be going over ground that had been so thoroughly explored and illustrated, that I would only be repeating what others have said and written, and that, too, without their eloquence or powers of description. Yet I had hoped all along, and still promise myself that pleasure, to share with you a part of the enjoyment that was mine in-the study and contemplation of what are decidedly some of the most interesting features of this Continent. This, however, I expect to do, not by what I • may say or write, but rather • by what I may be able to show. I refer to that wonderful means of seeing and studying whatever is beautiful or sublime in nature or art—the modern stereopticon—an instrument in which all the resources of the optician’s ingenuity, and the photographer’s art are so completely utilized that we can have pictured and. magnified before us, what we should otherwise never have an opportunity of viewing. I have "already made arrangements for the necessary views and transparencies, and, unless I am disappointed, I trust soon to be able to give you at least an idea of what the traveller sees in the Far West and Southwest; until then I will have to beg you to be satisfied with a verbal account—dry though it be—of a part of the Territory over which I travelled. For the present I wish to speak to you '
ABOUT COLORADO,
reserving for some future occasion—if you should wish to know them—my impressions of other parts of the Territories southland west and of that country now attracting so much attention everywhere—our sister Republic-^—Old Mexico. '
I choose Colorado for several reasons. Although it has been the theme, especially within the last few years, of so many articles in newspapers and magazines, it is not known as it should be, and as it deserves to be known; if the truth were told, there are more features of general interest in Colorado than can be seen in any other State in the Union. This fact alone should make every American student desirous of knowing more about the conditions and resources of what is now one of the most promising and interesting parts of the New
290
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
T._S
World. For beauty, grandeur, and magnificence of scenery of every variety, Colorado offers all the most exacting- artist could desire; for mineral wealth, not only in the ores of gold and silver, but in those of iron, and lead, and copper, the Centennial State is
WITHOUT A RIVAL.
And then, too, her immense coal fields, which are just beginning to be known and developed, and her rich pastures and farming lands, which are so little heard of outside of the borders of the State, they are worth knowing something about. It likewise possesses a special interest, such as probably no other State can offer, for the scientist, geologist, mineralogist, the civil and the mining engineer. Her rock formations, rich in the remains of the Fauna and Flora that graced her plains and valleys ages ago; her caves and mines, filled with rare and beautiful crystals, and ores of every kind; her canons and mountain ranges, and passes through which, and over which, the iron horse moves in triumph, cause Colorado to stand forth unique in a number of attractions that cannot be witnessed elsewhere. These reasons, I think, you will admit, are enough to warrant me in speaking of Colorado in preference to some of the other States or Territories that I visited and examined with scarcely less care and interest.
UTE SPRINGS.
One of the first things to impress the traveller after spending a few days in Colorado is the great extent of her territory. She has an area of
.	104,500 SQUARE MILES,
and, next after Texas and California, is the largest state in the Union. She is larger than New York, Pennsyl vania, Delaware'and New Jersey taken together. She could contain within her borders all the six states of New England, and have room for Indiana besides. The whole of Great Britain might be placed within her limits, and the reservations of the « noble red man ” would be left in-: tact. She has territory enough for a large empire,
and, indeed, many of the great empires of the world’s history were far less in area, and not superior in natural advantages to Colorado.
The State has three natural divisions, viz: the plains, the,first part reached by the tourist fiom the east, the foot-hills and the mountain range with its wonderful parks. The plains which embrace about one-third of the territory of the State, are for the most part arid and sandy, except along the numerous water-courses, where there is an abundance of rich pasture. But, although this part of the country is so dry, and apparently so incapable of producing anything whatever, it can by irrigation, be rendered very productive, as the soil immediately underlying the slight stratum of sand is rich and fertile. Among the objects of interest to the tourist from the East in this part of the state are communities of prairie dogs—which are here found by the thousand; the huge jack rabbits, that may be seen skipping about in every direction, and various kinds of larger wild animals which, however, since the advent of railroads, are not seen as frequently as formerly. The average height of the plains above sea-level is about six-thousand feet. That part of the plains, however, called the “ divide,” which separates the waters of the South Platte and the Ar- kansas, reaches an altitude of 7,500 feet. It is between Colorado Springs and Denver, and branches out from the foot-hills a little north of Pike’s Peak. Leaving Leavenworth, for instance, and taking the grand trunk line of the West—the richly-equipped Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe— there is a gradual incline upwards over the rich grazing lands and productive grain fields of Kansas’, until Pueblo is reached, when one finds himself 4,714 feet above the sea-level; or, starting from Omaha over the plains of Nebraska by the enterprising Chicago, Burlington & Quincy rail
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC.
291
road—the only through line from the “ Lakes to the Rockies ”—there is the same upward slope until on reaching Denver, one finds himself nearly a mile above sea-level—more exactlv, 5,275 feet. To the traveller, however, this rise is so gradual as to be imperceptible, except’ by the presence of a lighter, dryer, and more bracing atmosphere. To anyone who contemplates
TRAVELLING AMONG THE MOUNTAINS
I should recommend, if he have any curiosity to know the altitudes of the different places he may visit, a pocket aneroid. I can speak from experience in this matter, for'I was fortunate enough to have with me during my trip one of Mason & Short’s best instruments. I found it, in every instance, to tally very closely with observations taken bj’ the government and local surveyors. It is as convenient as a watch, and affords an amount of satisfaction which should make it a sine qua non to eveiy one who wishes to examine, even slightly, the country over which he passes.
The foot-hills between the mountains and the plains, have an average altitude of 8,000 feet and extend parallel with the mountain range from the northern to the southern part of the State. , They may be considered as the first step to the lofty peaks that tower behind and above them. The main range of mountains passes very nearly through the centre of the State from the north to the south, and along the summit of the range is the great continental divide, on one side of which the waters flow towards the Atlantic and on the other towards the Pacific. The Rocky Mountains attain their greatest elevation in Colorado, several hun-dred peaks being over 13,000 feet and more than a score of them oyer 14,000 feet in height. With probably two or three exceptions in the Sierra Nevada the highest peaks in the United States are found in Colorado. It is popularly supposed that Pike’s Peak is the highest, but there are many much higher, although none that are grander or more imposing. According to official measurements, Pike’s Peak is 14,147 feet high, while Sierra Blanca, according to Hayden, the loftiest peak in Colorado, towers to a height of 14,464 feet, more than twice the altitude of the highest mountain of the Apalachian system. Indeed there are many towns in Colorado whose altitude is greater by some thousands of feet than the loftiest summits of the Alleghanies, or of the Green or White Mountain groups. Mount Washington, the highest point in New England, for instance, is only 6,288 feet high, while Silverton, Kokomo and Breckenridge all have an altitude of 9,000 feet, and Leadville and Oro City are considerably over 10,000 feet above sea level.
In the mountain regions of Europe and of the eastern part of the United States, vegetation stops at an elevation of about 5,000 feet; and in the Alps the line of perpetual snow does not rise higher than 7’5°° feet. But in Colorado timber line extends up to between 11,000 and 12,000 feet, and as far as my observation goes,—and I saw all the higher peaks,—there is not a single peak in the
State that can be said to be covered with eternal snow. There are, if you will, little patches of snow here and there in some of the deep ravines or crevasses on the mountain sides that the summer’s sun does not entirely melt, but I do not think there is a single mountain top in the whole of Colorado that is not laid bare some time during the summer. Not only this, but it becomes warm enough, even at such altitudes, to permit the growth of vegetation. Some of the most delicate flowers I ever saw, and numbers of specimens of which I gathered myself, I found on the highest point of Pike’s Peak. Hardy little beauties they were, growing among the rocks, apparently from them, in close proximity to a mass of snow that yet lingered as a reminder of winter that had long passed. Nor was this an odd or stray bunch of flowerets that I chanced to find. From the Signal Service Station, which is built on the highest point of the peak, down to timber line, which, according to my aneroid, is about 11,500 feet, I found fully a score of species of the most beautiful flowers and of the .most delicate of blue, yellow, white and red. Nor were they found only after a long, careful search, but were scattered in rich profusion, often in large beds, in striking contrast to the piles of snow sometimes near by them, all along the trail. One will not, indeed, find there among the mountains of Colorado what constitutes such an interesting feature of the Alps—glaciers—although there is evidence on every side that at some recent geological age they were not only large, but numerous.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
Mother.*
beauty
radiant light of
A mother’s hopes are holy, and are planted in the spring of life within her heart. Their tendrils cling around the purest fibres of her soul, and earth has nothing great or beautiful which they embrace not, while the topmost buds of the tree of her love kiss in their heaven.
Mother! Plow simple yet how sweet the word! What heart whose beats respond not to the tender eloquence of its sound; whose inmost depths throb not with thoughts of mother’s love? ’ The little child, just toddling on the verge of life’s long, weary journey, first learns to lisp the sweet name of mother. The sensitive heart of youth, well nigh crushed and broken bv the rude contact with the jostling, busy world, turns fondly to a mother’s heart for consolation and sympathy. Manhood’s noblest part is crowned with the remembrance of a mother’s love. When, from the lofty throne of State, the ruler bends to press the kiss of love and happiness on his mother’s cheek, the mighty heart of God responds with joy at His handiwork.
The soldier on the field of battle, the dead and
* A tribute of love, written on the anniversary of my mother’s death, Jan. n, ’83.
292	the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dying piled in confused and bloody masses around him, bows his head to drop a tear at the sound of “ Mother! ” feebly murmured by the parched lips of his comrade, and ere the life-tide ebbs from the shattered form, stoops to bestow some act of kindness—some deed of love upon the dying man at his feet, for “ mother’s ” sake.
The hardened criminal in his lonely cell, caring naught for God or man, bows his head with shame, and the blush of guilt suffuses his face at the mention of his mother’s name. She whose noble life of sacrifice and toil, from early dawn till night, had been devoted to the Christian training of her child. The thoughts fill his mind, and the past comes vividly before him like a panorama unfolded bjr angel’s hands. His soul melts within him. The tears course down the furrows of his cheeks, and his heart cries aloud in its remorse, “Mother, forgive me!”
What love, indeed, like a mother’s love? .
The past may bury within its bosom the forms, the memories of youth, but not of a mother. Age may creep upon us-, and tint with snowy whiteness the raven hair of youth. With pitiable feebleness the light, elastic step of youth be changed to tottering age,—but the memory of a mother’s love in all its freshness, beauty, sweetness, still remains as a precious jewel to light the darkness of declining years.
The heart ever reserves within its deepest recesses a shrine holy and sacred for mother’s memory. The prayers she taught our infant lips to say; the advice she gave to hot, impetuous youth; the sweet consolation she bestowed upon the sor-sowful heart of her sensitive child, on memory’s page are holier, wiser, sweeter fai- than'all others. Her holy counsels seem to come adown the pathway of years, from long ago, to guide the erring footsteps or doubting heart of her precious boy. Fairer than all others, memory treasures her face. Sweeter, more gentle her voice, which seems to come from the far-a-way-land to chide us when we err; to cheer us when, faint and weary of life’s endless struggle, we close our eyes to think and weep.
What love so tender, or true as a mother’s love! What sacrifices like to those a mother daily makes for her children!
Friends,’brothers, sisters, all may forsake the erring one. Not so the mother. Her love ever finds some excuse, some good quality, some redeeming trait in her wayward child. No pain, no suffering, no sacrifice—not even of life, itself—is too great for a mother’s love.	.
She condoles with her child in affliction, and rests not till she has soothed it. She weeps at its sorrow; joys in its joys; bears with it the burden of the crosses of . life, and, like the bright star of Bethlehem, leads the soul of her-child to the throne of J esus, whose love alone exceeds a m other’s. Her “love is strong as death,” and her “ charity is not provoked to anger, is' patient, beareth all things, endureth all things, is kind, seeketh not her own.” • ■	"	-
.	William H. Arnold, ’83.
Scientific Notes.
—Copper wires transmitting electricity of high electro-motive force become brittle after a while.
—Mr. Brush, of arc-lighting fame, on Dec. 20th exhibited in New York a new form of accumulator, or storage battery, which is practically indestructible.	'
—A new cure-all is phinic acid, a preparation of	j
carbolic acid. It is the discovery of Dr. Declat, a French physician, who is a firm believer in the	;
germ theory of disease.	:
—The remarkable durability of mortar in Italy, .
a fact which is well known, is attributed by the ’ J London Builder to the practice of allowing the lime to remain in a pit, covered with water, for two years before it is used, whereas in England lime is slaked and used the same day.
—It is reported that Congress has made a grant for the establishment of an Ethnological Bureau, at Washington, in connection with the Smithsonian Institute. There is an array of young phdologists engaged in collecting materials for the Bureau, and three oY four volumes are already in press.
—An ingenious invention has lately been patented in Germany for the use of the travelling public especially. It consists of a book whose leaves are of perfumed toilet soap. One leaf is sufficient for one washing of the hands, and after tearing out this leaf the little book can be returned dry to the pocket.
—A company of scientists has been formed in	,
Paris, called the Nile Society, which proposes to explore and study the entire Valley of the Nile, much more minutely than has ever been done be- • fore, with hopes of adding materially to the world’s knowledge of that interesting region, in all branches of science.
—The latest suggestion in regard to electrical improvements’ comes to us from Paris, where a clockmaker has connected a small strike with each branch of the electrical annunciators now so universally used in our hotels, etc. By this arrangement a bell strikes the hours and quarters in each room of the building in unison with a central time- • piece.	...
—The Congress of Austrian Archaeologists, in session at Salzburg, was the scene of an interesting discussion of the.human jawbone, in which the	'
proportions of a giant were found associated with the teeth of a child, which was dug out at Stam-	J
berg, in Moravia, from under a formation containing, bones of a reindeer, snow-owl, cave-bear, and other Arctic animals.
—Another medicine has been added to the Pharmacopoeia Medica, by Prof. See, of Paris, which . resembles digitalis in its beneficial effects, with	1
none of the dangerous tendencies of the latter. It	‘J
is alkaloid of the. common lily-of-the-valley, and	I
has. been named convallerine, fronr the botanical	|
name of the flower^ Convallaria inajalis. It acts	.	|
upon - the heart, decreasing miraculously the 'num-	.	/
THE NOTRE DANIE SCHOLASTIC.
293*
her of beats to the minute. Mothers of sentimental young ladies will please take noticed
—A curious fish, new to science, has been discovered by the officers on board the Travailleur, in their deep-sea soundings off the coast of Africa, at a depth of 7,000 feet. According to the description of it read at the last’ meeting of that august body, the Academic des Sciences, Paris, it is black, with a tapering, rudimentary body and an “amazing mouth,” with a pouch like a pelican’s, from which the little stranger takes its name. In short, the fish consists of a mouth and a small tail.
—Mr. John Trowbridge, and Mr. Charles B. Penrose, of the Physical Laboratory, Harvard, have been making experiments on “the Thomson effect,” which shows that an electric current, passing through a piece of metal, the ends of which are kept at different temperatures, carries heat with it in a direction depending on the character of the metal and the direction of the current. The above observers have included nickel and carbon in their tests. For nickel they find that the Thomson effect is negative, and for ordinary graphite it is the same. In trying whether magnetism produced any effect, the experimenters .obtained only negative results.
—Mr. Francis Galton, F. R. S., to whom the scientific world is already indebted for several novel methods of research, lately brought before the Anthropological Institute some apparatus for measuring the relative delicacy of muscular sense. This apparatus consists of a box containing trays of small weight, arranged in sequence, and numbered one, two, three, etc. The person whose muscular sense has to be tested is told to arrange . a given set of weights in their true order of heavi-ncss, and his powers are measured by his success in doing so. Thus, one man will appreciate a difference between numbers one and three, while another, more obtuse, will only find a difference of weight between, say, numbers one and five. Mr. Galton mentioned some general results of this system which are interesting. Men were found, for instance, to discriminate better than women, and men of intellectual attainments better than those not in the habit of employing their brains much. Again, women of morbid sensitiveness were found by this apparatus to be by no means . remarkable for their success in discrimination.
:	This curious system of comparison of weights ap-
pears, therefore, to be a test, to some extent, of intellectual capacity, and in its results is somewhat r	similar to a clever apparatus shown some years
back at the South Kensington Scientific Exhibition. In this latter apparatus, if we remember rightly, the rush of blood to the brain could be approximately calculated during a mental effort. It therefore became possible to indicate, during the mental translation of a passage from one language to another, whether the person tested was familiar with the original tongue, or, had merely a , school knowledge of ■ it. In the first case the mental effort would- be small,' but in- the. latter very much the reverse.—London Graphic. ’
—One of the most common adulterations of cof- -fee is the chicory root ^cichorium intybus'), orwild endive, which is generally considered harmless to health, while it improves (?) the coffee.. Dr.Hos- . kins, of Boston, as well as the celebrated Dr. Has-sail, of England, who had made a special study of alimentary articles and their adulteration, prove that the assumptions of harmlessness to health . and improvement of the coffee are both false. '. Dr. Hoskins says: “If chicory were an improve- * ment when mixed with coffee, it ought to be good — by itself; but anyone who has tasted the bitter, , muddy, and nauseating infusion of this root is aware that only when mixed and partially dis- * guised with coffee can it be drank at all. . . . Be- . j tween the two articles, there is no analogy what- . : ever; but chicory has active properties of its own which are markedly injurious.” It is the opinion of Dr. Beer, the eminent oculist of Vienna, that the continual use of chicory seriously affects the nervous system, and gives rise to blindness from amaurosis. Prof. .Johnston, of England, whose views, Dr. Hassall says, appear more favorable tJian the facts warrant, concedes the following evil effects to chicory:- “When taken unmixed, this substance is to many, while they are unaccustomed to it, not only disagreeable, but nauseous in a high . degree. Taken in moderate quantities,, these - ingredients of chicory are probably not injurious to . health, but by prolonged and frequent use they produce heartburn, cramp in the stomach, loss of appetite, acidity in the mouth, constipation, .with intermittent diarrhoea,, weakness of the limbs, . tremblings, sleeplessness, a drunken cloudiness of ' the senses,” etc., etc. (Surely those mentioned ought to be enough to satisfy any reader without the “etceteras.”) Dr.Hoskins adds that “ many cases are given in which the use of chicory, either alone or mixed with coffee, produced heaviness, . headache, and diarrhoea.” It seems to us the sale of chicory, and the villainous baking-powders, .. which are so destructive to health, should be pro-•hibited by law.	.	-
College Gossip.	/	: X
—A subscription canvass for a reading-room is-. ;Ys? making at Harvard.	'	’	: - f
—Mr. Ruskin will be invited to fill again the . j-A chair of fine arts at Oxford University, vacated . -If by Mr. Richmond. ■	.	: TJ-
—The Temperance Association of Ann Arbor . ?J has arranged for a course of scientific lectures bn ~ alcoholic stimulants.	-	. • T.
—It. is reported that Mr. Charles O’Gonor, of lyif New York, will take-Mr. Holmes’s place in the	J Y
Law School.—Harvard Herald.	'"'-J?
—Maynooth College, in Ireland, is the largest. . - . "T ecclesiastical college in the world. It has now .. J? more than 500 students, candidates for the priest- . . hood. .	- . .	• _	j .
—Miss M. C. Thomas, of Baltimore, Md., has yylf won at the University of Zurich the degree of flf
294
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
doctor of philosophy, “summa cum laude,” the highest honor ever granted there.
o	o
—Harvard’s Total Abstinence Society has 50 members. Her students number 1,500.—Ex.
At Notre Dame we have but 434 students, yet our Total Abstinence Society has too members.
—The English, Cambridge and Oxford Univer-sities have an income of $1,000,000 each, and each student’s expenses for the six months of the academic year amount to from six hundred to one thousand dollars.— Vidette-Reporter.
—The required class rhetorical work at Yale is one essay and rhetoric in the Freshman year, eight essays in the Sophomore year, four or five written debates in the Junior year, and four or five written exercises and ofl-hand speeches in the Senior year.— Oberlin Reviezv.
—The seal of Harvard College, with its inscription in Latin, “For Christ and the Church,” is printed on a prospectus of the Veterinary School, which is soon to open. “ If Harvard can introduce Christianity into the horse business,” says a student’s letter. “ disbelief in miracles will be at an end.”
—On the day of the Immaculate Conception the Pope made his will. While in good health he wished to be ready for all eventualities. The testament has been consigned to the Deacon of the College of Apostolic Proto-Notaries, and it is said that the Pope has left a great part of his property in furtherance of education.—London. Daily Ncvjs.
—The new college at Cambridge University, in England, Selwyn College, bids fair to be as brilliant a success at Cambridge as Keble has been at Oxford. Only sixty students can be accommodated so far, as the £38,000 originally subscribed did not suffice to build more than the first block. Selwyn is the first new college added to the University during the present century.
—The Chicago School Board favors the abolition of the study of grammar for the younger pupils, and the substitution of oral language lessons. The teachers believe that rules of grammar are soon forgotten, and that in reading and writing correctly one seldom stops to think of technicali-. ties. Their idea is that children should first be led to speak good English intuitively, leaving the rules for later years.
—“ Marmion ” has been voted out of the Ontario public schools as an immoral poem. Probably a book-publisher in that region, who had a lot of copies he desired to sell, contrived to influence the school authorities.—Frank Leslie's nitistrated Newspaper.
Just as likely as not. As a reformation is begun, Thompson’s “ Seasons ” might follow suit— it is rather high-seasoned mental pabulum for school-boys and school-girls.
—Williamsburg, once the seat of learning, • wealth, fashion, and social position of Virginia, seems to be fast going to decay. The college has entirely gone down. Last year there was onty one student—this year none. The president has a splendid residence just out of. town, and the buildings are quiet and lonely-looking, and seem to
hide within their -walls much of wisdom; but this is all that is left of the once proud seat of learning —William and Mary College.
—It is stated that, for the first time in the history of Yale College, more than one-half the members of the Sophomore Class, are professing Christians. Unless it be allowable for professing Christians to. indulge in the time-honored custom, the Sophomore minority must be terribly overworked hazing Freshmen. The Faculty of Yale should look into this matter, and see if something cannot
7	o
be done for the amelioration of the young gentle-___________________________	J 00
men’s hard lot.—Roston Transcript.
—A Hartford Courant correspondent, whom the Harvard Herald says rumor claims as a student of the Annex, writes of the Harvard Professors:
“ As for the Professors, men so learned as to inspire awe and reverence for so much knowledge, they do not look as if they had occupied luxurious suites of rooms in their college days. One room, with bare floor, a chair, table, and pegs in the wall for clothes, is more likely to have been their lodging. How much time and money did they spend over aesthetic decorations and the extravagance of spreading themselves over a suite of three or four rooms, with soft rugs, easy-chairs, and all sorts of expensive things in the way of bric-h-brac, collected at home and abroad? Some of the professors are as fashionably clad as a farmer who has never even seen a city-cut garment. Professor —— passed my window this morning, taking a walk, for he did not learn the antics of the gymnasium in his college days, and still holds to the old-time constitutional in the open air. He dresses so plainly, and with so little regard to modern style, that he looks positively quaint. Another equally learned professor, whom I met the other day, dresses also very plainly and unfashionably. Their manners are so unaffected and simple, with all their learning, and not in the least like the ‘airs’ of the students they teach. The Freshmen have the grandest airs, and are the busiest boys in college. They are always overwhelmed with ‘ positive engagements,’ and they ‘ have but a moment to stay, you know,’ when they make calls. One cannot imagine these charming, simple-mannered, unfashionably-dressed Professors ever having been ‘airy’ young Freshmen; and it is just as impossible to fancy these young students evergrowing large enough to become charming, simple-mannered professors, wearing old-fashioned clothes.”
Exchanges.
—We are glad to sec that the editors of The Philosophian have—practically, at least—rescinded the resolution to discontinue the Exchange department of their paper. They have acted wisely. The editorial on “ Time,” and what there, is of the sketch of heroic “ Philip Kearney ” are well written.
—The Exchange-editor of The University Magazine says, “ Anybody with brains enough to stay in college can get off some sort of an essay, but few and far between are the men that can write a story, even a poor one.” Oh dear no! poor stories .are the rule, admitting of but few exceptions. Poor stories are plentiful as blackberries in August. The college papers are full of them. '. If the writers can’t do any better in the story line they would do well to try—the essay or something else. Some of the stories in the Uni-, versify Magazine, and those in The Crimson and a few other papers^ relieve the monotony of trash,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
295
it is true, but they have too many weak imitators.
—The La Salle limes is a paper which, from what we can learn, the people of La Salle needed very much, and should generously patronize. If the Mendota Reporter is to be believed, one of the other papers at La Salle. “ only needs appropriate pictures to place it on a par with the lowest publications in the land. It is a disgrace to its editor, a disgrace to La Salle and the democratic party that supports it. The paper should be suppressed, and the editor tarred and feathered and run into the woods.” This is pretty strong language, and, if true, the Times has started opportunely and has a mission to fulfil for'which its editor has evidently both talent and the will. The Times is neutral in politics. It is published by M. O’Conor. We have not been made acquainted with the editor’s name, and do not know whether he is one of the many students of Notre Dame that have entered upon the editorial career; but whoever he is, he possesses journalistic talent of the first order.
— The Paper World for January is, like the preceding numbers, brim-full of interesting matter. A long, and to the business man assuredly interesting, sketch of “ The Bradstreet Company,” the American confrere of the British “Lloyds,” opens the number, and occupies over six pages. “Paper and the Printing Press” is a well-written sketch of a prominent printing-press manufacturer, but the sketch is not complete; we know that Mr. Potter was at one time connected with our friend Mr. Cottrell, also famous in this line of business.
Gossip and Gatherings”—from all parts—is just the thing, we suppose, for paper-makers and dealers, but of no interest to us. Not so, however, “The Book World,” in which many new titles are met. One thing is noticeable lately in the beau-, tifully-displayed and illustrated advertisements in The Paper World—that these are worded with a view to foreign patronage, from which we would infer this splendid trade magazine has a large circulation abroad as well as at home.
—The editors of The ILiiiEs Colleo-c Record o	o
braced up before the holidays, gave “ a long pull, a strong pull, and a pull all together,” and got out a splendid holiday number of their paper. There are 24 pages of reading-matter, printed on rose-tinted paper. “ Louisburg,” the prize poem, is a splendid specimen of rhymed heroic verse, and with the beautiful “Lux bona! Stella Dei ” in Latin, and “ Le 31 Xbre, 1882-1 ih. 3-45” French, forms a pleasing diversion among the large number of English prose essays. Among the latter, “ Reminiscences of Oxford ” and “ Cris-pus—A Sketch,” are pleasaiit reading. Everything in the pages of the King's College Record is characterized by a high and pure tone that is not often met with in many of the so-called college papers. Were it not for the line at the head of the reading-matter announcing that papers are published at this, that, or the other “ college,” one might easily imagine they were edited by some “ smart ” young jnen about town. The representative from King's is always a welcome visitor.
—The Student's Journal for December continues the stereographic exhibit of ancient systems of stenography, giving both the alphabet and samples of writing in the contracted style. Prosser’s and Harwin’s (1800) are exhibited in this number. In a criticism on Anderson’s so-called “History of Shorthand,” Anderson’s and Gabelsberger’s (German) systems are contrasted with the Pitman phonography, decidedly in favor of Pitman, as in the latter system three letters are an equivalent to one of Gabelsberger’s or Anderson’s. Mr. Graham gives a continuation of his Reporter’s List and the “ Lady of the Lake ” in stenography. In an editorial on “ One Style and One Slope Clamors,” Mr. Graham says: “My experience of thirty or more years in teaching Phonography is, that it is always a disadvantage to the pupil to take him into the full reporting style before he is practically familiar with the corresponding style.” A remark with which any sensible and unprejudiced person must agree. A correspondent takes a fling at Mr. Longley’s “Eclectic” and terms it a ‘'‘humbug,” but if he knows much about phonography he must feel in his bones that there is no humbiig in it. Some of the correspondents of the Student's Journal are, to judge by their disparaging remarks of other modifications of Pitman than the so-called “ Standard,” veiy queer fish.
— The Berkclcyan is one of the snappiest of our college exchanges. “ Olla,” who wants to die—poor fellow! what can be the matter with him? under a jovial appearance he probably imagines he hides a disappointed heart—says “no one dare deny that there is an inexhausted supply of latent energy lying somewhere around” in Berkeley College. We think Olla is right. Not that, taking into consideration the broad pages of The Berkeleyan, the Occident, and the Eighty-Five, there has not been effort enough made to bring out this stored-up energy, but, unfortunately, the “ latent energy ” is often brought out tail fore-_________	o«	o
most. Take, for instance, the hog-wash stories and the machine-made “ poetry ” that have often graced (?) the pages of The Berkel cyan during the early part of the past year. In the words of one of Berkeley’s machine poets, which we had just credited by mistake to The ’ Varsity, in whose columns we found them without credit,
“ Of all the curious things of time, Cranky metre and cranky rhyme, Aimless reaching for the sublime, The worst is college poetry.
“ Pointless doggerel, misused slang, Odes to Bacchus, with beery twang, •	. .
Oh! for a club with which to bang
The author of college poetry.”
But the hog-wash stories are, thank goodness! a thing of the past. During the last two months The Berkeley an has turned over a new leaf, and kept it turned, the consequence of which is that The Berkeleyan has become, to us at least, one of the most welcome of exchanges. Berkeley’s, talent is not. all latent. We congratulate the out-going board of editors on their success, and hope the new board will follow their example.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WJK WE SOME.
Notre Dame, January 20, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Six-teexth vear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; arid, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
•If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will .confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, . early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Iri this number we give the first instalment of Father Zahm’s Lecture on Colorado. We commend its perusal to all our readers. It will be found both Interesting and instructive; describing in detail, the wonderful resources of a country, which, but.a few years ago, was part and parcel of the great Western wilds, and has since become. the “El Dorado” of the West. The descriptions of the geological structure, the mineral resources and mining facilities of this Centennial State, are the result of personal observation and experience.
—The regular semi-annual examinations begin next Friday, They will, of course, be conducted with the usual thoroughness and exactness; but this fact should excite no childish fear or anxiety in .the mind of anyone. It is unnecessary to say that these examinations have but a single object in view, viz., to ascertain "what the student knozvs^ and how he Has. profited by the instructions received during the past session. The authorities will thereby be enabled to determine his dxa’ct standing in his classes, and, at the i sami time^ remind him of his deficiencies, shbfild such exist. Thus, a
twofold beneficial effect is produced: the deserving are still further encouraged in their good work, and the delinquents have pointed out to them faults which, perhaps, they had overlooked, but which thejr have abundant opportunities to correct before the year closes. All, then, should enter with spirit and earnestness into the work of preparation during the few days that yet remain. They majr rest assured that, whatever the outcome next week, their labor will not be fruitless.
—In our local columns, last week, an item ap-	j
peared, describing a scene which took place in	।
the Minim’s Hall. Our little friends were called | upon to spell a number of words which an educa- । tional magazine set forth as incorrectly spelled by	I
the advanced scholars of a certain school. The	;
proficiency displayed by the Minims was, indeed, 1 worthy of note, and may well serve as an example to many of their older brothers in the College. , It should be remembered that the questions proposed were answered without a moment’s thought, _ whereas the misspellings mentioned in the magazine were in letters and other written compositions written in some of the best public schools near Boston. They are referred to by Richard Grant White, in an article in the North American Rc-viezv, where he says: “ Then, when the letters and compositions were brought in, the ingenuity in bad spelling seems incredible. Unless the different j misspellings of the word ‘ scholar,’ for instance, were given, as in this volume they arc, who would ' believe that they would be some 230 in number? Then, again, 65 different spellings are enumerated of the word ‘depot’; 108 of the common word ‘whose,’ and 58 of ‘which.’ Out of 1,122 pupils, who used the adverb ‘ too,’ in the narrative, S59, or nearly 77 per cent, of the whole, spelled the word incorrectly.” And only three out of 80 of the little Minims misspelled any of these words, given on the instant. They deserved the oranges, which they received as a reward for their proficiency.
—A number of the Eastern college papers are canvassing the project of an Intercollegiate Press Association—a very good thing in its way, if properly managed, so far as mutual intercourse between college editors is concerned, but which it is easy to see would be barren of other practical results. The absence of all contending elements would at least leave its meetings free from the strong partisan spirit, and the consequent bickering and । hard feelings and general dissatisfaction, that have invariably attended the meetings of the so-called Intercollegiate Oratorical Associations in the West.
But what seems strange on the part of some of < those—especially here iri the West—who write in favor of the Press Association, is the fact that they have either dropped the Exchange department from their papers or have allowed it to dwindle’to a skeleton. ~ They write in favor of ball games, rowing matches,^ete., but, are practically averse to . a friendly criticism dr'interchange of opinion in k
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
297
college papers. As if the main feature in college life were athletic sports, and not literary or scientific pursuits! If the truth were known, it might be that some of the colleges in question have but very little athletic life at home, whether, on the campus or on the water. (As a rule, students at Notre Dame who indulge in athletic sports take the lead also in literary contests.) Many, sensible but short-sighted people, have become disgusted with the Exchange department in college papers: (i) because some, after the fashion of school-boys rather than of college men, think such a department a place for indiscriminate cutting and slashing of other papers, and that the province of an Exchange editor is fault-finding, and that only;.or, (2) because such a department reflects no credit on their own paper: through a lack of energy or of ability, they do not get the praise they do not deserve, but evidently greatly desire, so they raise the cry of “Policy”! and drop the Exchange department altogether. These primary school-boys, who by some freak of fortune have stepped into the control of college papers, seem not to be aware that of the manifold weaknesses of man the one that comes oftenestto the surface is the want of common sense,—of knowing when to speak, what to say, and when to keep silent; as the German poet has it—
“Von mannigfachen Menschensclrwachen, Liisst die am oftesten sich seh’n, Dass viele Leute nicht zu sprechen, Und auch zu schweigen nicht versteh’n.”
Semi-Annual Examination, Commencing' Friday, ’ January 26, 1833.
Committees of Examination.
Classical Board—Rev. T.E.. Walsh, presiding; Rev. N. J. Stoffel, Secretary; Rev. S. Fitte, Rev. J. O’Brien; Prof. Lyons, Prof. Edwards, Prof. Unsworth, Prof. Hoynes.
Scientific Board—Rev. J. A. Zahm, presiding; Prof. Devoto, Secretary; Prof. Stace, Prof. McSwccny; Mr. E. Arnold.
Commercial Board—Rev. J. M. Toohey, presiding; Bro. Marcellinus, Secretary; Prof. Lyons, Prof. McCormack; Bro. Philip Neri.
Senior Preparatory Board—Rev. J. O’Hanlon, presiding; Mr. J. Burke, Secretary; Mr. J. Irman, Mi. Campbell; Bro. Remigius, Bro. Emmanuel, Bro. Luke, Bro. Anselm. ’
Junior Preparatory Board—Rev. Thos. McNamara, presiding; Mr.J. Sullivan, Secretary; Bro. Alexander, Bro. Leander, Bro. Thomas Aquinas, Bro. Paul.
Board of Modern Languages—Rev. N.J. Stoffel, presiding; Mr. J. Irman, Secretary; Mr. Van Roosmalen, Mr. Tillman; Bro. Philip Neri, Bro. Anselm.
Board of Fine Arts and Special Branches —Rev. T E. Walsh, presiding; Bro. Basil, Secretary; Bro. Leopold, Bro. Stanislaus, Bro. Celestine, Bro. Anselm; Prof Paul.	'
Personal.
—J. C. Langenderfer, of ’72, is doing well in San Francisco, Cal.	’
— P. J. Dougherty, of ’79, is a distinguished attorney at Nassau City, Iowa.
—T. F. McGrath and J. Fenlon Blaine, both of ’74, were among the most welcome visitors during the past week.	.
—Charles L. Sailor, of ’76, in partnership with his brother George, is doin'? a thriving- business, at Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Frank Wittelberger (Com’l), of ’76, is Chief Book-keeper in his father’s extensive establishment, at Detroit, Mich.	'	'
—John A. Gibbons, of ’79, sends greetings to his friends at Notre Dame. Johnnie is an earnest disciple of Esculapius.
—James H. Ward, of ’73; is actively engaged in Law, and, at the same time, is carrying on a good real estate business in Chicago.
—P. L. Garrity (Com’l), of ’59, the well-known wholesale tobacconist of Chicago, has removed his store to the corner of Dearborn and Monroe Sts.
—W. M. Howland, of ’67, is one of the most prosperous and respected business-men o'f Denver, Col. He wishes to be remembered to all his friends of Auld Lang Syne. .
—Thomas Flanagan, of ’54,' is one of the most eminent and successful lawyers in Southern Louisiana. He says that ere long he will visit the old haunts of his college days. Notre Dame has no truer son than Lawyer Flanagan.
—C. W. Schwenk (Com’l), of ’70, is the tried and trusted Pullman Palace Car conductor on the C. B. and Q. Railway between Denver and the Missouri River. He has many pleasant recollections of Alma Mater. The Colorado students are indebted to him for many acts of kindness.
—An item appeared in these columns, a few weeks ago, stating that Dr. C. J. Lundy, of ’71,. was holding under advisement the acceptance of .a professorship in the University of Michigan. We were misinformed. The Doctor is perfectly content with his present position and extensive practice.
—J. E. Knight, of ’79, son to the Hon. W. J. Knight, of Dubuque, is now attorney at law, and has a large practice in his father’s firm. James is as genial and even still more hearty than of yore. He is daily growing more robust, and is already only 6 feet 7 inches in height. Unless we. are mistaken, this erudite young gentleman will prove no small antagonist to his colleagues in the profession. James has the best wishes of all his old friends at Notre Dame. *	'	-
—Rev. D. J. Hagerty, C. S. C., of ’75, is now the efficient and popular Rector of St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend. His many friends at Notre . Dame are glad to hear of the success which attends his zeal and devotion in the direction of his
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
congregation. The following, from the South-EendRegister, speaks for itself:
“ St. Patrick’s Church enjoys the proud distinction, among churches, of being out of debt, and not only out of debt, but with a surplus of over $2,000 in the treasury. This flattering condition is due to the good management displayed by the pastor, Rev. D. J. Hagerty, in his administration of the affairs of the church, and to the deep interest manifested by the congregation. This surplus of $2,000 is a gain of $1,200 over a year ago, and will form a portion of the fund to be expended in the erection of a new church. The site of the new building has not been decided upon, but it will not be located on Division street, on account of the railroad making it inconvenient of access for weddings and funerals. . We congratulate Father Hagerty and his congregation on the prosperity of their church.”
' Local Items.
—Spondoogles!
—Pere Kerman.
—“ We will squash it.”
—“ The end is not yet.”	‘
—Snow for the million!
—Now for the examination!	.
—“I have fallen into an ambuscade.”
—The examinations will begin on the 26th.
—The ice-boat has been placed on dry-dock.
—The*“Chinese jokes” are a grand success.
—The A. E. is a pronounced success as a vocalist.
—Mr. Seahorn was “left” in a late number of the Tribune.
—Grand Musical and Literary Soiree this (Saturday) evening.
—The burros have at last been found, and “ Thil ” rejoiceth.
—The Band has reorganized, and is now in a flourishing condition.
—Some say that the “darlings” are getting jealous of the “ pets.”
—Mike will soon begin his course of lectures on Parliamentary Law.
—The Law students are making active preparations for a Moot Court.
—The mid-winter * series of sociables by the Crescent Club began last week.
—The “Emperor” was in quest of pears,, but the poor fellow was badly “ left.”
—We are glad to see our kind Prefect, B. Luke, able to resume the duties of, his office.
—The Philopatrians, it is said, will soon appear in a tragedy written especially for them.
—Cecil thinks those Florida oranges Father General sent were the best he ever tasted.
'—On dit that there .will be another grand vocal and instrumental concert early in February.
—Prof. Lyons will celebrate the Silver Jubilee of , his professorship early in the coming session.
—The captain of the ice-boat “Breakneck” is lookingfor the Fresliy who stole the sails of his boat.	.	.
—Another dormitory should be formed, to be occupied by the few loud sleepers of the Senior department.
—The skaters were out in full force last week. On dit that our astrologer took part in the invigorating exercise.
* . * ■
—The Minims and Juniors have succeeded in clearing off certain portions of the lake, and greatly enjoy the skating.
—The members of the Crescent Club arc indebted to James Marlette, of Vicksburg, for a new patent coffee-heater.
—The Junior and Minim Rolls of Honor were down pretty fine, last week. “ The way of the transgressor is hard.”
—Many of the Seniors “took a tumble” this week, the “ King of Spain ” going down gracefully last Tuesday morning.
—Our aesthetic young men, who “ took the town by storm,” are now the happy (?) possessors of heavy colds in consequence.
—The nimrods went rabbit hunting on Thursday of last week, and, after roaming the country, returned with a single rabbit and a blue-jay!
—Three new Minims have arrived: Masters Frank Noonan, of Golden, Col., Harry Doherty, of Crawfordsville, Ind., and Charlie Fix, of Chicago.
—The Director of the Lcmonnier Library returns thanks to a distinguished journalist for an admirable copy of the “ Life of Admiral Dahlgren.”
—Mr. Frank Palmer, the gentlemanly agent of the Wabash & St. Louis R.R., has the thanks of the students who travelled by his line, for many courtesies extended.	.
—We regret the departure xof Mr. Raphael Becerra, of Vera Cruz, who has been summoned home by the illness of his mother and sister. We hope that he will be soon again in our midst.
—The Junior Prefects and members of the Junior reading-room return thanks to Daniel Taylor, Jacob Hetz, and Ben Rothschild, for favors received during the past week; also to B. Albert and Tos. Kelly.
—Prof. J. F. Edwards returns thanks for contributions to the Cabinet of Curios, received from the following: D. Taylor, J. Fendrich, G. De Haven, C. Cavaroc, J. Dwenger, J. Ohnick, and J. Flynn.
—On last Tuesday, the St. Cecilians and Junior Euglossians gave a soiree, complimentary to their Prefect, B. Leander. The Crescent Club Orchestra kindly ’assisted in furnishing the music, and a very enjoyable time was had.
—To-morrow, Septuagesima Sunday, Missa Parvulorum will be sung. Vespers, p. 42. From this Sunday till Easter, exclusively, Laus tibi, Domino, Rex ceternce gloria is sung, instead of Alleluia, after Deus in adjutoriwn.
—Now is the time for sleighing, and good use is made of it. Some fifty or sixty Seniors rolled into three large sleighs, last Thursday afternoon,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
299
and skimmed along to Mishawaka, via South Bend. They had a grand old time.
—President Walsh has the best thanks of. the Minims for two hours extra “ rec.” on Tiiesday, but they hope the Scholastic will “tell it not in Guth ” for fear the Juniors would hear of it.
(No, we won’t say anything about it.—Ed.)
—The accomplished architect of the “New Notre Dame,” Mr. W. Edbrookc, visited the College lately, with complete plans for Science Hall, a full description of which will be given in a future number. Work on the building will begin early in the spring.
—When Dick came into the printing-office, one dav last week, our friend John remarked: “ See! Dick is looking after pi (e).” After making this observation, which, to say the least, was extremely outrageous and entirely unprovoked, John dis-creetlv withdrew.
—Rev. P. Kollop, C. S. C., has returned from New Orleans, where for some months he had been Assistant Pastor of the Church of the Sacred Heart. We regret that the Rev. gentleman is in ill health, but we hope that the change of climate will prove beneficial.
—Prof. Ackermann is busily engaged in decorating the Greek lecture-room. Several tablets bearing Greek inscriptions and designs of a classic character are’among the many beauties which will appear upon the Avails. The whole is under the direction of the Professor of Greek.
—The 4th regular meeting of the Thespian Association was held Jan. 14th. Speeches were delivered by Messrs. Burns, T. F. Clarke and J. P. O’Neill, after which the members took part in a verv interesting extempore debate. The meeting closed with an address from the President.
—The seventh regular meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, Jan. 14th. The following were appointed as essayists for the next meeting: Masters H. Foote, Jos. Courtney and Geo. Schaefer. After a few remarks from the President, the meeting adjourned.
—The Juniors are fitting up in grand style another reception-room. Considerable taste has been displayed in the arrangement of the furniture, pictures, objects of vertu, etc., etc. The room is 70 feet in length by 40 in width, and will be of great service for reunions and other festive gatherings, o	•
—The Right Rev. Bishop of Ft. Wayne has lately sent to Notre Dame a genuine Titian,^representing the daughter of Herodias carrying the head of St. John the Baptist. It will soon be placed on exhibition in a room specially prepared. Due notice will be given when arrangements are perfected.
—The usual January scare frightened the babies. Now, we await the accompaniments of the January thaw. Our astrologer, however, has predicted that during this month there will not be any such mutation in the compact consistency of the surface of
our globe—at least in this part of the country :-— which, the same is a relief.
—Rev. J. O’Keefe, C. S. C., the genial and worthy President of Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wis., spent a day at the College," this week, and was -warmly greeted by his many friends. ’ We are glad to learn of the unprecedented success which has attended his management of Sacred Heart College. Ad multos annos!
—The sanctuary boys, accompanied by Rev. T. McNamara and their worthy director, Mr. J. Sullivan, enjoyed a grand sleigh-ride to the Farm, last Thursday, and were hospitably entertained by the good denizens of the locality. The return home was by way of Mishawaka, where the excursionists were cordially received by Father Oechtering, to whom thev return thanks.
—The eleventh regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held, on Jan. 15th. Master B. Lindsey read a composition on “New Arts”; Rene Papin, an original poem, the “ Minims of Notre Dame”; F. Otis, on “Newfoundland Dogs.” J. J. McGrath had a composition on “Silver”; J. Kraus read an essay on “Cincinnati.” Otto Sommer delivered a German declamation. Master D. Prindiville was admitted to membership.
—The ' Scholastic Annual.—E’ este o titulo de uma excellente publica^ao annual do Professor J. A. Lyons, da Universidade de Notre Dame, Indiana, e faz honra ao illustre autor. Como uma obra typographica nitida, e como todas as sahidas do prelo da Universidade.- Honra a empreza que a excutou. O Annual vem repleto de informa^ao util para todos. O prep.o e apenas 25 cents, e por isso todos os leitores Inglezes deviam possuir um exemplar.—O Jornal de Hoticias.
—The officers of the local T. A. U. went to Chicago on last Wednesday, in response'to an invitation to attend the Lecture of Rt. Rev. Bishop Ireland. The party consisted of Rev. T. E. Walsh, Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; Ferdinand Kuhn, Vice-President; H. Noble, Secretary, and Charles Porter, Vice-President of the Junior Branch. They were treated with marked considera-ation by the officers of the Society under whose auspices the lecture was given. After the.lecture they attended a reception at the rooms of the Irish-American Club, and were heartily welcomed by Messrs. Hynes, Finertv- and O’Rourc, officers of the Club.	"
—The report of Father General’s visit* to the Minims, which appeared in' last week’s Scholastic, was read by the princes with great pleasure, especially that portion of it which said that he . was going to give them a bushel of apples. On being told.that it was all a mistake about the apples, their faces lengthened to an alanning extent; but .this disappointment was of short duration, for they were soon told that it was a bushel of oranges, not apples, Father General meant. It was amusing to notice how quickly the long' faces resumed their usual bright appearance. Their joy, which
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was too much for words, found expression in such loud and prolonged applause that Father General might easily have heard it in the presbytery. When the bushel of oranges arrived in the studyhall the Minims said “They knew that Father General would not give such a common treat as apples.” A delegation of the jrinces waited on him to thank him for his gift, and to invite him to come and examine them again whenever he would have any free time. The oranges, and similar tokens of affection, make the Minims believe that when they are called his “pets” it is no empty, name.
—On Monday evening, the St. Cecilians tendered a reception to B.'Leander, chief Prefect of the Junior department. It was the tenth anniversary of his installation as Prefect, and it was made the occasion of great rejoicing. Many friends assembled to congratulate the worthy Prefect upon his “ Tin Jubilee”; among the guests were President Walsh, the genial Director of the Cecilians, all the veteran prefects, members of the Faculty, and others. Choice music was discoursed by B. Anselm, assisted by Master Schott. .In the midst of the festivities, Master A. Browne stepped forward and read an address, which we give below. Then, Masters D. Taylor, M. Foote, W. Dolan, C. Porter, and W. Jeannot, in behalf of the Association, presented their Prefect with some mementos of the day, in the shape of bijouteries of tin, and a large and elegantly-bound album. President Walsh spoke briefly, congratulating the good Prefect and commending the devotion of his youthful charges. After social converse and more music, all retired. The following is the address:
Dear Brother:—
We, Cecilians of eighty-three, Rememb’ring ’tis your jubilee, (Your tin one, too,) at Notre Dame, You’ve on our gratitude a claim
* For kindly acts to each and all, To sprightly students great and small. Your temper oft we’ve sorely tried,
. Yet it has ever been your pride To treat us kindly ; and.above All things you’ve tried to win our love. Your kindly look and smiling face (In which good humor we can trace), The genial mildness of your rule. All make us think we’re not at school, But under mamma’s fost’ring care, Still breathing home’s enliv’ning air. Accept these gifts we offer you!	•
They show, at least, our hearts are time
. * And grateful. ’Mong the lot you’ll sec A cup. wherewith to sip your tea,
. Or coffee, if you like that better;
• A tin-plate, too, for toast and butter. An album where a friendly face
. " May find its most befitting place, And other little odds and ends
. With which to entertain your friends. The tilings are useful, one and ail, . Though some are tin, and very small.
We wish a long and happy life • May be your lot, unknown to" strife! .	' • And hope that you may live to se'e
A joyous, silver jubilee!
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SEXIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Anderson, Arnold, Austin, Black, W. Bailey, Bowers, Brady, Bolton, E. Burke, V. Burke. Comerford, T. Carroll, Cleary, T. Clarke, G- Clarke, A. Coghlin, Conway, Celia, Campbell, Clements, Claffey, Cole, M. Donohue, Delgado, Eisenhauer, Eaton, Fogerty, T. Flynn, E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Fitzgerrell. Farrell, Freeze, . Gall, Grever, Golonski, Grange, Garrett, Guthrie, Godfrey, Gooley, Grout, Harris, Johnston, Kleiber, Kane, Kolars, Kimmell, Kuhn, Kavanagh, Jas. Kelly, Larkin, Molloy, W. J. McCarthy, McErlaine, Marlett, Mullen, S. Murdock, C. Murdock, McIntyre, Magoffin, Morse, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Martin, Nelson, Noble, O’Dea, Orchard. O’Neill, Otis, O’Brien, Paquette, Pour, Parrott, Pillars, Peery, Quinn, Ratterman, Rodgers, Ruger, W. Ryan, Stull, Scholfield, Spencer, Simms, Stover, C. Smith, Solon, Saviers, G. Smith, Thompson, Terrazas, Twohig, Veale, Whalen, Witwer, Warner, Wheatley, Yrisairi, Zahm, Zaehnle.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, ,Ackhoff, Brice, Browne, Bacon, Bush, Coover, Jos. Courtney, Chirhart, Droste, Dolan, Dunn. Darling, Eisenhauer, M. Foote, Fendrich, Fishel, Foster, Goldsmith, Grothaus, Gerlach, Hibbeler, Hess,* Halligan, Kahman. Kerndt, Kengel, Livingston. McCawley. Mug, Mason, McGordon, J. McCartney, Nester, D. O’Connor, M. O’Connor, Peery, Porter, Rhodus, Rothschild, J. Ryan, Schott, Schillo., Stark, Shannon, Taggart, Taylor, Waggoner, Wallace Weber, Howard, Hickey,* Waixel, Schaeffer, Jeannot,* Zeigler.	’
* Omitted last week by mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackermann, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Coad, Chirhart, Dirksmeyer, Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Doherty, Fix, Huestis. Hynes, Harris, Hewitt, Johnson, A. Kelly, Krause, Kellner, Kane, Keeffe, Luther, Landen-wich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lare, McNaughton, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, J. J. McGrath, McGordon, McPhee, McGuire, Morrison, Moss, Masi, Metz, Nester, Noonan, B. Otis, F. Otis, Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Roberts, Rebori, Roper, Spencer, Stange, Sommer, Schmitz, Studebaker, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss, Shicker, Stewart, Thomas, Whitney, Warner, AV. Walsh, E. Walsh. Wright, Welch, Wallace, L. Young, C. Young.
. Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.] .	.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. A. Browne, Dickerson, C. Porter, Eaton, Kolars, Donahoe, E. Otis, Johnston, Quinn, Solon, Conway, •Browne, Zahm, Malloy, Craig, Arnold, Fitzgerald, Fleming, W. Bailey, O’Neill, Larkin, Farrell, Gray, Ewing, Steele, McIntyre, W. J McCarthy, Kuhn, C. Murdock, T. Clarke, AV. O’Connor, Anderson, E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Bolton, Cleary H. Porter, AAr. H. McCarthy, G. Clarke, H. Smith. .	“	-
For the Dome.
A Child of Mary....................’...........  $500.00
A. Reed’& Sons; of “R.eed’s Temple of Music,”
’ . Chicago, Ill...................’........... 100.00
Rev. Cornelius Delahunty...................-...... 12,00
-Mrs. Ida Dolan, Indianola, Nebraska............... 5.00
A Child of Mary........A.........i................. 5-OQ
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JTlary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Danie University.
i ?	—At High Mass, on the Feast of the Holy
। J	Name of Jesus, a touching sermon was delivered
I •	on the “ Origin, Power, and Mission of that Sacred
Name,” which, coming from heaven, brought sal-h’i	vation and grace to man.
J	—The approaching examination is now the ab-
J	sorbing topic of conversation, and many wish they
had remained at St. Mary’s during the holidays, among those who calmly continued study—music, drawing, fancy-work, and plenty of healthful !1 ■ recreation.
g	—The holiday sports seeni not to have inter-
|	fered with the spirit of emulation which prevailed
1	in the different classes of the Junior department,
I	the aim of each being to merit ioo in all her stud-
I	ies. The Misses Mdshier and Van Horn gained
|	the desired mark the past week, while many others
I	stood 99 and 98.
|	—Many thanks to Rev. Father Zahm, C. S. C.,
1	who entertained the pupils with an account of his
travels through the-West, and especially his recent visit to Colorado. We understand the interesting I	Lecture will be published, therefore refrain from
trying to reproduce any of the graphic and glow-।	' ing descriptions of the Western Eldorado. .
•	—On the 10th, the long-desired sleigh-ride to
Mishawaka was enjoyed by the Seniors. Photographs, of course, were taken, in groups, a large amount of candv demolished, etc. Returning ‘	• through South Bend, visiting St. Joseph’s Acad-
■	. emy, they arrived home just in time for a good
j	supper, bright and joyous as the Juniors, who, a
few days before, had made a car excursion to
'	Niles.	'
—At the Academic reunion, Sunday, 14th inst., ,	• The St. Mary’s Chimes was read, in presence
of Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers Shor-tis and Saulnier. The articles were varied, grave, '	sprightly, and witty; all of them appropriate to the
holiday season. It is pleasant to record that No. 2 (Vol. VIII) was up to the piquant fitch of pastpealing “ Chimes.” The paper was edited by Misses V. Barlow, H. Keenan, C. Ginz," E. Slattery, I. Gove, and K. Harrigan.
Woman.
One of the sacred spheres within which God has appointed true woman to exercise her sway is the ’	home of the Christian family, such as the Creator
wills it to be; whether it be the home of the power:	ful and wealthy, or of the poor and lowly. There
is nothing' God holds more dear than the home, where' the father’s ever watchful care, untiring labor, and enlightened love, aims at creating-a little Eden; where his children may attain to the perfec-.	tion of children of God; in which a mother’s
i • unfailing and all-embracing tenderness will be like
the light and warmth of the sun in the heavens, : the source of life and joy to her little ones, and to all wno may come under her influence. .
The paramount duty of a true mother is the solid education of her children, teaching them and shielding them from the false maxims of the world; leading them to the sublime duties of religion; taking care that no pernicious reading shall stain their souls or feed the propensity to idleness and wicked passions. She is the one to form their taste, not alone in knowledge, useful and ornamental, but even to give them a taste for simple, innocent pleasures and for simplicity in dress according to their position in social life. It is impossible, in our limits, to enlarge on the duties of a woman regarding her children, or the demands of society; these would fill a volume; but home-bred courtesy, which goes so far to make home happy, must not be overlooked, for in that sweet discipline takes its root. How much we have lost of that inborn Christian courtesy of our Catholic ancestors, and their religious salutations and forms of greeting— like straws on the surface of popular manners, but significant of deep faith and neighborly charity.
There are many duties almost ignored in our dav by the mistress of a Christian household: the obligatory care over her servants, who have the right to expect from her a motherly care in sickness and health, instruction and edification, because they are a trust for which she is accountable to God.
Woman, being the helpmate of man, should cultivate her talents. She should study science far enough to be companionable, and make her husband appreciate the value of a true home-friend. She must not only seek to be his literary companion, but she must study his. inclinations, and make this knowledge subservient to his happiness.
There are other homes, laborious homes, where from earliest dawn till late at night, the mother has to labor without cessation or repose, to help the ill-paid husband, avoiding debts, keeping the children at school, and providing decent raiment and substantial food, which is often divided with poorer neighbors. Such mothers believe that God’s eye is ever on themselves and their dear little ones; that the holy angels are counting every hour and minute of their loving toil, every beat of theii- generous hearts, and ascend at night to lay the record before Him who said: “ Blessed are the foo'r,for theirs is the kingdom of heaven!™
In the Old Testament, many noble types of virtuous, self-devoted women prefigured the true woman of Christianity. Turning to the New Testament, we are filled with amazement at the total and sudden transformation worked by the truths of the Gospel when preached by St.' Paul at Corinth, a city so corrupt as to be odious even to the pagan Romans. Its soil seemed incapable of producing a single example of heavenly modesty before the people learned of Jesus and His holy Mother. With faith, all the virtues spread from house to house, till the Infant Church there assembled a society of angelic men and women. St. Clement. praised the Corinthians'for their piety and hospitality. Souls accustomed to ..keep God before their
302
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
eyes cannot fail to be pious, in its truest sense of the word. Therefore women in all ages, in the cloister as well as in the courts of kings, in every walk of life, have lived in the performance of acts of devotedness, of prudence, and of courageous sacrifice.
O woman of the 19th century! if vou only knew how great your power to make true men of your husbands and your sons,—true women of your daughters, to be, when you arc gone to your reward, mothers praised and blessed by all who know them! No matter how rich or poor the home, it may become a place of sweet rest if you fulfil the sacred obligations which bind you as a Christian mother, causing you to closely imitate the Woman ■par excellence ; that blessed Woman whose maidenhood had scarce begun when the Divine purpose was unfolded, and her share in the “ Work of Ages” was foreshown. How truly her life mirrored that of Jesus, so beautifully described by Rosetti:
“ Unto God’s will she brought deep respect,
Profound simplicity of intellect,
And supreme patience. From her mother’s knee Faithful and hopeful, wise in charity;
Strong in grave peace, in pity circumspect.
So held she through her girlhood, as it were,
An angel-watered lilv that near God grows and is quiet.”
'	M. E.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Adderly, Beal, Black, Clifford, Cox, Chirhart, Comerford, Donnelly, Daily, Dickson, L. English, B. English, Fox, Fendrich, Gove, Ginz, Hoag, Heckard, Hagan, Hunt, Keenan, Knott, B. King, J. King, M. King, Laffer, Lancaster, Legnard, Lape, Mohl, Madole, McCoy, Mohl, Murphy, C. McKenna, Newton, Owens, O’Brien, Quinlan, A. Ryan, V. Reilly, Richardson, Rul-ison, Sullivan, Semmes, E. Slattery, T. Slattery, Sawyer, Stackerl, Schmauss, Taylor, Van Patten, Walsh, Wallace, Williams. 2d Tablet—Misses Adams, Barlow, Bathrick, Babcock, Clarke, Campbell, Call, Castanedo, Dillon, Dunn, Durphy, Donahue, Danforth, Dolan, Eldridge, Feehan, Gallagher, Harrigan, Hunter, Johnson, Leydon, Munger, McCarten, O’Connell, Picks, Pampell, J. Reilly, Ramsey, M. H. Ryan, Shickey, Schull, Spotwood, Todd, Wiley, Wright, Wood.	’
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Best, Coogan, Considine, Chaves, Dignan, N. Donnelly, Grist, T. Haney, B. Haney, Halsey, Luna, Nevius, Mary Otis, Richmond, Shephard. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Dillon, A. Duffield, Fisk, Hetz, _ Hibben, Malboeuf, Otero, Spangler, Sullivan, Wallace.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Barry, Chapin, M. Ducey, J. English, Lindsey, McKennon, McGrath, Otis, Paul, Saw-. yer, Schmauss, G. Wallace.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses A. Dillon, Wiley, Fox, Clarke, A. Ryan, Feehan, Wright.
ist Senior Class—Miss Johnson.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Gove, Keenan, Mohl, Semmes, Ginz, Lancaster, Dunn, V. Barlow, V. Reilly, J. Duffield, Spangler.
3D Sr. Class—Misses McCoy, Daily, O’Brien, Dignan, L. Wallace. ’
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Chirhart, Coogan, Shephard, McCarten, Adams, M. Dillon, J. King, Newton, T. McKenna, Morgan, Considine,
2D Prep. Class—:Misses Moshier, Van Horn, Rodgers, Schmidt, Richmond, Schull, McGrath, Dolan, Ewing, Spotwood.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses Mary Otis, Campau, M. Coyne, Best,- Chaves, Sullivan, Alexander, Sawyer.
ist Junior Class—Misses Burtis, Barry, J. English, A. Schmauss, Paul, M. Ducey, Chapin, Lindsey, McGrath, McKennon, G. Wallace.
•	FRENCH.
ist Class—Misses C. Lancaster, M. Feehan,
2D Div.—Misses J. Reilly, Morgan,
2D Class—Misses Barlow, M. Clarke, Fox, Semmes, Leydon.
3d Class—Misses Call, C. Donnelly, Sullivan, Beal, A. Ryan, Shickey.
4TH Class—Misses Dunn, Rulison, Crawford.
2D Div.—Misses Adderly, Bathrick, E. Wallace.
5TH Class—Misses Campau, Robinson, Paul.
GERMAN.
ist Class—Misses A. Dillon, E. Mohl, C. Ginz.
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Todd, Keenan, Picks, Unger, Chirhart, Fehr.
3D Class—Misses Wallace, M. Ryan, L. Considine, Coogan, McGrath.
4TH Class—Misses B. Johnson, O’Brien, Daily, Sawyer, Richardson. Schull, Williams, McCarten, Harris, Adams.
The Oldest Piano.
The oldest piano (it is supposed) in the United States, now to be seen in the suburbs of New York city, not far from Harlem Bridge, is an adventurous relic, and interesting- from its historic association. It belonged to the beautiful Mary Phillips (whose hand George Washington once sought, but who became the wife of Col. Roger Morris, a gallant royalist of revolutionary memory), being-imported for her from Paris by her father, in 1754. At the close of the Revolutionary War, Colonel Morris’s property was confiscated, and when he and his family removed to England, the piano, after a twenty-four year’s residence in America, went across the Atlantic with them. In 1812, Mrs. Morris returned to America a widow, and the piano was set up once more in the old New York mansion, then owned and occupied by Stephen Jummel and his wife. Madame Jummel, who, after the death of her husband, became the wife of Aaron Burr, inherited the piano, and used to loan it for the great musical concerts of the day. The beautiful old instrument did duty at the first appearance of Malibran, in 1834, and of Jenny Lind at Castle Garden, in 1847. It was then the property of Madame McArvey (who paid $150 for it), and subsequently travelled across the ocean again to the McArvey baronial mansion in the city of Limerick. ' In 1854, it returned to New York for the last time, where it will doubtless end its days. A correspondent of the iVeto York Star says: “ The piano is known as an ‘ upright,’ and was manufactured at Paris by the predecessors of the present firm of Messrs. Plevel Wolff & Co., in 1754. . It. is made of ebony, and is beautifully finished in all its parts. Those who have a desire to see probably the oldest piano in existence, one that for fully 128 years has received 'better usage than any other, can, within a short time, have their curiosity gratified by visiting the Metropolitan Museum of Art.”—Youth's Companion.
■ THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3°3
i
*
Kimball Organs.
It has become necessary for us to greatly enlarge our manufacturing facilities, and
O	O'
it is probable that during the coming year our factory will turn out over one-tiuelfth of the entire production of
PARLOR and CABINET ORGANS
on the American Continent, which demonstrates beyond a doubt the superiority of the Instruments manufactured by us.
We are sole agents for the W. W. Kimball Pianos, Hallet & Davis and W. P. Emerson Pianos.
Address,
W. W. KIMBALL,
CHICAGO, ILL.
Or.
S. D. ROBERSON,
General Agent, SOUTH BEND.
The Minim Department.
Michigan Central Railway
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and ■wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, -who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.	•
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
G. F. HEVIUS,
■ DENTIST.	"
Office—101 Michigan, cor.; of Washington St., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
In order to prevent irregular dentition and premature decay of Children’s Teeth, frequent examinations are indispensable. The Doctor will make no charge to Parents who desire to know the condition of their children’s teeth.
Time Table-Noy. 11>. 1^79,
	•Mail	•DayExpress.	•Kai. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - • Mich City -Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - -‘r. Detroit - -	7 00 a. rn 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 •• 6 48 “	9 00 a m 11 13 “ 12 15 p.m 1 4t> - 4 05 6 30 “	4 00 p.n. 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50	515 p m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “•	910 pm 1130 “ 1248 am 228 “ 5 00 S 00
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ lackson - - -“ Kalamazoo-“ Niles	 “ Mich. City - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 60 a. m 10 20 ‘ 1 15 p. m 3 05 “ 4 30 u 6 50 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 »• 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50a.m 6 50 - 8 08 “ 10 35 “	>950 pm. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 4 15 530 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 138 a.m 830 “■ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and Sou 111 Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 73 p.m
“ N. Dame—8 52 “	6 15
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	7 15 “
♦GOING SOUTH. .
Lv Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m.. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted. O. W. Ruggles,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A.. Chicago, ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Mieh. . .	G. L. Kixiott. Agent, South Bend, Ind. •.
3°4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
00
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DANE, IND.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS, ' MEDICINE,	‘
■	SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution. In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected. ' New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address	.
Rev. T. K. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
FOR TUITION PURPOSES, THE DENVER Scientific Museum
’	CAN FURNISH A FULL FINE OF
Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARATIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative for Zoological Specimens for sale.
Address
RUDOLPH BORCHERDT, eol-83	DENVER, COL.
L S. & JI. S. Railway.
On and after Monday, Jan. i, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at .Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express,-over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
6.35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives 2t Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.35 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
8.02 a.m Accommodation. Arrives at Eaporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a.m; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.