
PlS(;E-QyiSl-SE;VtfV^<rAv'3' Vlvt-QX^SP^AST^O^IlVf^/S*
Vol. XXXII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, January 14, 1S99.
Nb.‘ 15. ,
r
q e
her
Afterwards.
JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99.
A/^REY was the dawn when the bugle blew Xv<P And the bird songs rang out clear:
CFV.Wet was the grass with the June-day dew That drenched the soldiers marching through To death with a gladsome cheer.
Grey was the land ’neath the noon-day sun Where drifted the battle smoke;
Wet was the grass when the day was done, For the thread of many a life was spun—
Ah! comrade, why do you choke?
Wine-red the sunset glowed in the sky, Wine-red.is the field of fight;
Wet is your cheek where the tear drops lie;
Soft on the air the sad words die, “Comrades, a long good night!”
Shelley’s “Prometheus Unbound.”
MICHAEL OSWALD.
scattered parts of the old tragedy, but he. • . conceived in his own imagination an original form into which he moulded his drama, embel- . lishing it with the most exquisite lyrics. Nor did he adhere closely to the interpretation ■ z /Eschylus gave to the old myth concerning .
Prometheus, according to which the Titan was .
HELLEY during his life in Italy fell in love with the Greek poet and especially with ZEschylus, the father of Greek tragedy. Among the
numerous, works of ZEschylus
is the famous trilogy embodying the crime, punishment and atonement of Prometheus. Only the second , of these plays, “ Prometheus .Bound,” has been preserved. Of the third,
in the . end reconciled with Zeus; far from . simply wishing to restore the lost , drama of J iEschylus, Shelley was not satisfied with this weak catastrophe. “I was averse,” he says, -“from a catastrophe so feeble as that, of / reconciling the champion'with the oppressor , of mankind. The moral interest of the fable, which is so powerfully sustained by the suffer-ings and endurance of Prometheus, would bd f annihilated if we could conceive of him as unsaying his high language and quailing before . -his successful and perfidious adversary/’ - / ..J;
Like /Eschylus, Shelley'.placed the interest . of his play in the strong passions of gods and. ' demigods. The coloring of language and the . tone of thought are entirely his own, though . his strength of expression he has in common ; -with ZEschylus. The poem was written in :the last years of Shelley’s life, among the.pictur- = esque scenes of Italy, wheie he listened to his inspiring Muse “upon the mountainous / ruins of the Baths -of Caracalla, among? the . ? flowerv glades and thickets of. odoriferous ? blossoming trees, which are extended in ever- . winding labyrinths, upon its? immense plat- i .forms and dizzy arches suspended in the air.”/ “Prometheus Unbound” is one of his last and best works, abounding in: charming imagery/ / sustained poetic diction and deep sentiment. .
It is hard to appreciate fully the “ Prome- ; . theus Unbound” at a first reading. The poet’s . / imagination soars at times so .high that the / Y
£
“ Prometheus Unbound,” a few fragments are still extant, while the first, ‘/Prometheus the Fire-Bearer,” is entirely lost. Shelley seems -to have discovered the intellectual spring of Aischylus’ mind, and from this the English . thought becomes unintelligible. In order/to
poet drew'a hew creation of the “Prometheus understand the poem clearlywemust read it Unbound.” He not?only put life into the’ several times,/-onceto admire Thd:music; ofe:


^4"

-•^Sggg?
270	NOTRE DAME
the language, again to know the story, and a third time to unite and appreciate both. A sufficient knowledge of the myth on which the play rests will help to make some of the descriptions and dialogues easiei- and more interesting.	.	-
We should read Shelley only when mind and body are at ease and disposed to dream but not to sleep. The enchantment “Prometheus Unbound” has for the modern reader is chiefly found in the power of its descriptions and in the melody of its lyrics. Shelley did not know the human heart as Shakspere did, nor could he probe so deeply into the mysteries of nature as Wordsworth; but he knew how to clothe his thoughts in the most brilliant garb of poetry. Like the skylark he could soar on . high,.and from the clouds sing his sweetest songs. His works are not so deeply intellectual as they are visionary. This is especially the case in the “ Prometheus Unbound.” In this play the poet’s imagination is often too keen and abstract to render the meaning easy, even where his language is most concrete.
The opening of the “ Prometheus Unbound” is intensely tragical, just as the entire “ Prometheus Bound ” of ^Eschylus, in which. the victim of Jupiter’s wrath is dragged by Cratos and Ria to a wild region of Scythia where Hephaestos ■ nails him to a rock near the sea; then on account of stubbornness against his oppressor, Prometheus, in the midst of . thunder and lightning, is hurled into the . bowels of the earth together with the rock to which he was fastened. “Three thousand years of sleep-unsheltered hours ” elapsed, and at length the rock appeared again with Prometheus near the Indian Caucasus. -
Here Shelley begins his drama. The scene is a wind-swept, cliff looking out over the sea. Morning slowly-breaks. Prometheus is discovered	;
“Nailed to a wall of eagle-baffling mountain, Black, wintry, dead, unmeasured, without herb, - r-. Insect, or beast, or hope, or sound of life.” He. is still stubborn, defiant and revengeful, as is Satan in-Milton’s “ Paradise Lost.” His knowledge that Jupiter is soon to be cast “ from the throne makes him bold. Well might he say:	-	- • 1	-
■ ’ “AlLis not lost;.the-unconquerable will , f And study of revenge,: immortal hate . -
- . .. .. .And courage never to.submit or.yield, .	.
-.	: And .what is .else not- to be overcome; • ':
; L ; x.' That glory never shall-.his wrath'or .might . r,	td.bqw arid'sue for grace.
‘ "Withsuppliantknee, and deify his power.” ;	.
SCHOLASTIC.
In spite of. his oppressor, he endures the intense torments that wring these words from his lips:	-
“Ah me, alas! pain, pain ever, forever!
No change; no pause, no hope! Yet I endure!
The crawling glaciers pierce me with the spears Of their moon freezing crystals; the bright chains Eat with their burning cold into my bones.
Heaven’s winged hound, polluting from thy [Jupiter’s] lips His beak in poison not his own, tears up .
My heart; and shapeless sights come wandering by, Mocking me....
And yet to me is welcome day- and night.”
Throughout this scene Prometheus assumes two distinct phases of character. Full of defiance against Jupiter, who excites him to the most passionate outbursts of hate and revenge, he is also in love with Asia, the daughter of Oceanus.	■
The chained Titan is, moreover, calm and gentle toward Ione and Panthea, the sisters of Asia, and the Earth, his mother, from whom he seeks syrnpathy. In the dialogue with the Earth he expresses the anguish of his heart:
" Obscurely through my brain, like shadows dim, Sweep awful thoughts, rapid and thick. I feel Faint, like one mingled in entwining love;
Yet ’tis not pleasure.”	'
How different is the expression of his feelings when he summons up from Tartarus the Phantasm of Jupiter, and puts this curse in its mouth:
“Fiend, I defy thee with a calm fixed mind!
‘ All that thou canst inflict, I bid thee do;
Foul tyrant both of gods and human kind, One only being shalt thou not subdue.
Rain, then, thy plague upon me here.
Scarcely has the Phantasm of Jupiter uttered this curse in the name of Prometheus, than the latter becomes softened for an instant even toward his oppressor. He says:
“It doth repent me; words are.quick and vain: . Grief for awhile is blind, and so was mine. I wish no living thing.to suffer pain.”
^When, however, the angry Jupiter sends his messenger, Mercury, and the Furies to torment the unfortunate victim, Prometheus quickly rises again into his fiery and spirited mood, strengthened by the thought that the revenge of the Supreme soon must
" Sweep through vacant “shades .	_
.. As rainy, wind through the abandoned gate
Of a fallen palace.”	.
To the Furies he replies:	'
.	“ L laugh your, power, and his who sent you here
: To lowest scorn.” .	.	...	.
After this terrible assault, the violent passions, of Prometheus are again gradually calmed


NOTRE - DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
until we find him toward the end of this act steeped in love, longing to see- his “sweet’’ Asia. The Earth bids a Chorus of Spirits ascend from their caves to comfort him. Their messages of hope and final victory over Jupiter are beautiful examples of lyrics—melodious and charming. Especially exquisite is the characterization of Panthea and Ione in this act. Their occasional interruptions are sparkles of gentleness that soften the harsh tone of many speeches of the hero. At the close of this act Panthea goes in search of her sister, Asia.
The second act opens with a short soliloquy of Asia. Panthea enters and relates to her sister the condition of Prometheus, urging Asia to come to him. _When Asia hears the oft-repeated Echo, “ Follow, follow,” she consents to go with her sister. She says:
"Come, sweet Panthea, link thy. hand in mine, ’ And follow, ere the voices fade away.”
Asia and Panthea then pass through a wild
foi'est which resounds with the soft music the spirits of the woods.
“The path through which that lovely twain Have passed by cedar, pine, and yew, And each dark tree that ever grew, Is curtained out from heaven’s wide blue;
Nor sun, nor moon, nor wind, nor rain, - Can pierce its interwoven bowers, • Nor aught, save where some cloud of dew, Drifted along the earth-creeping breeze, Between the trunks of the hoar trees, -Hangs each a pearl in the pale flowers
- OE the green laurel, blown anew, ‘ And bends, and then fades silently, One frail and fair anemone.” .
of
Q	*
Finally the two Oceanids come to the cave of Demagorgon, who is about to ascend to heaven to hurl the despot into Tartarus. Asia in her long speech to Demagorgon, enumerates the cruelties of Jupiter. toward Prometheus, and eulogizes the latter for the great giftshe bestowed on mankind. The Spirit of the Hour then takes Panthea and Asia in its chariot. The car passes within a cloud on the top of a snow-decked mountain. One of the most beautiful and delicate passages of the entire play throws its splendor on this -poetic soaring j of fancy and genius. When the Spirit, of the « Hour approaches the throne of Jupiter, Asia breaks out into this sublime lyric, strain, addressed to the voice singing in the air: ■
“My soul is an-enchanted boat,	'	.
Which, like a sleeping swan, doth float •
. Upon the silver waves.of thy sweet singing;
'	And thine doth like an angel sit' ’ ' .	.
< Beside the helm, conducting it,
' . \ Whilst, all the winds with "melody are ringing. luseems to float, ever, forever, .-	-	. '
Upon that many-winding river '	: \
Between mountains, woods, abysses, - • y . A Paradise of wildernesses!	:
Till, like one in slumber bound,	.	.
Borne to the Ocean, I float down, around, -	•
Into a sea profound of ever-spreading sound. .
"Meanwhile thy spirit lifts its pinions
In music’s most serene dominions;	..
Catching the winds that fan that happy heaven.
And we sail on, away, afar, • .	:	.
Without a course, without a star, A
But by the instinct of sweet music driven; .	. .
Till through Elysian garden islets	■
By thee, most beautiful of pilots, '	. r
Where never mortal pinnace glided,	• - :
The boat of my desire is guided:	-	/ -
Realms where the air we breathe is love,	;
Which in the winds on the waves doth move, Harmonizing this earth with what we feel above.
■ • “We have passed Age’s icy caves,	.
Arid Manhood’s dark and tossing waves, And Youth’s smooth ocean, smiling to betray:
Beyond the glassy gulfs we flee
■ Of shadow-peopled Infancy, .
Through Death' and Birth to a diviner day;
A paradise of vaulted bowers	■
Lit by downward-gazing flowers, And watery paths that wind between ‘ Wildernesses calm and green,	’
Peopled by shapes too bright to see,.	.	.
And rest, having beheld; sotmewhat like thee; . Which walk upon the sea, and chant melodiously!” The third act represents the dethronement of . Jupiter and Prometheus’ restoration to liberty. When the Chariot of the Hour has arrived in heaven, where all the deities are 7 assembled, Demagorgon fearlessly- approaches Jupiter and casts him from his usurped seat. . A little connecting scene follows, in which Apollo informs Ocean of the calamity that < took place in heaven. Meanwhile, the Spirit y of the Hour brings Panthea and Asia to Prometheus. Prometheus is set free by Hercules. .
Here the play is at its highest point. Till now the intensity of passion and interest-have been steadily rising. In the fourth act the story ' begins again to dwindle away into :the vague J myth from which it sprang. The first three acts are like a violent, storm, full of sudden / flashes of lightning and loud, thunder-claps; whereas the fourth act. is like a beautiful auroral light seen on a peaceful evening.when, all storms have abated. This act is chiefly a . : rejoicing hymn in which we have a brilliant; display of Shelley’s purely poetic power. His 7 imagination soars upward until the reader is ' lost in the ether of fancy and in an atmosphere : of obscurity. The scene represents a forest near the. cave of Prometheus. Panthea .and A Ione are sleeping. . They are awakened




NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
the song of the Spirits that rejoice over the tyrant’s fall and the liberty of the benefactor of mankind. .
The words of the chorus and semi-chorus of Spirits that follow are beautiful for their
“’Tis the deep music of the rolling world Kindling within the strings of the waved air ALolian modulations.”
The long dialogue between the Earth and the Moon is somewhat abstruse. When Pan' thea sees the. vision of the Earth and of the Moon, she exclaims:
,	“ But see where, through two openings in the forest
Which hanging branches over-canopy And where two runnels of a rivulet, Between the close moss, violet inwoven, Have made their path of melody, like sisters Who part with sighs that they may meet in smiles, Turning their dear disunion to an isle Of lovely grief, a wood of sweet, sad thought, Two visions of strange radiance float upon The ocean like enchantment of strong sound, Which flows intenser, keener, deeper yet Under the ground and through the windless air.”
:	As this short description is most concrete
and graphic, yet somewhat difficult to grasp fully at first sight, so also is the language of. the Earth and the Moon. Each line is burdened with suggestive thoughts. At first reading, however, we see only a small portion of the true, poetic flashes of genius that try to evade all analysis by dazzling our minds. But when we study this little passage, and read it over and over again,, and know its bearing upon the whole play, it reveals a . thousand thoughts. The finely-wrought fig' ures, similes and oxymorons, are so full of suggestions that the same description could not be told in other words without injury. Noword. could be added or taken away without seriously affecting it. As Shakspere has . given us in eighty-five lines a better and more distinct characterization of Cordelia than another: writer might give in eighty-five hundred Jf- lines, so Shelley has' painted this picture, with ^ twelve strokes of his’ pen, whereas, a weak writer might waste twelve pages to produce f? the same effect. '	-	.	::
. . . The richness of the sound, the ease of tile
L . rhy thm, the sweetness of- the air, and; the .rdelicacy of the similes of these lyrics are a .. source.of delight to the reader or hearer. All	_	L _____________ ____________y ..
.r:our thoughts in. this act arc bent upon-these imagination combined with great vigor of ^charming songs. We think no longer of Pro- expression. His poetry seems to; be rather ^.metheus. Hoyveyer, thatall this lyric flow is - spontaneous than . artificial. It. bursts at once . : intended . to reflect upon theinterest ..of the into a. blazej and gives fire anti energy to the -•-first three acts is indicated clearly, in a ^number, .".language .-IhatK expresses-.-his ^sentiments.’ He
of passages, ’especially when Demagorgon appears at the end of the play and announces that the tyrant is dragged captive through the deep, and that
a
I
J
a
“ Love, from its awful throne of patient power In the wise heart, from the last giddy hour Of dread endurance, from the slippery, steep, And narrow verge of crag-like agony, springs And folds over the world its healing wings.”
Throughout the entire play Shelley sustains highly poetic diction. He also pleases the
mind of the reader by the frequent change of metre, passing from dramatic to lyric forms. He produces the same effect by contrasting the deep and fiery passions of Prometheus with the tender and graceful pathos of the Ocean ids. Moreover, the dramatic situation changes with each act. In the first act the action is wild and passionate. Some of the defiant speeches of Prometheus are purposely harsh and tuneless to imitate his convulsive pain. In the second and third act the action becomes less intense, but it is mingled with strange visions until Jupiter is dethroned. The fourth act is characterized by the lofty flights of the imagination into regions whither the ordinary'reader can not follow. Even those that can follow Shellev in this bold soaring are often dazzled by the poetic light that shines about them.
The verse of the “Prometheus Unbound” is mostly dashing and forcible. The lyrics are marvels of poetic beauty. Shelley has painted wonderful pictures of' the mountains, lakes, rivers and forests, along which Panthea and Asia walk. He has harmoniously interwoven the old Attic myth of Prometheus with his own conceptions, and has softened by his lyrical strains all that would otherwise show too hideous in the scenes. He pleases by the accuracy of details more than by the massive grandeur of his thoughts. It is not the object of this paper to criticise him as a man or a free thinker, but as the author of “ Prometheus Unbound.” Though the philosophical merit of his poems is small and his religious opinions have made him odious, still the elegance of his style, the exquisite descriptions with which his ideas are illustrated, and the finished grace

■ I
J
of his versification have made’ him perhaps , the most charmingJpoet of the nineteenth century. He displays richness and fertility of ,
r-	C--


NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
273
wrote with an unfettered hand and gave full scope to his daring fancy. Instinctively he blended together natural beauty and artistic form, literary skill and poetic inspiration, and all the higher qualities of workmanship. In places he is obscure, but it is the sublimity of imagination that makes him subject to this defect. Moreover, .he often writes inelaborate figures—a characteristic of the poetic mind. Though too rich for many readers, he is the most enchanting poet to one that is endowed with a lively fancy. The “ Prometheus Unbound ” is like an immense ode, whose music is ever varying,—smiling and defiant, joyful and sad, tranquil and passionate, spirited and solemn, tender and sublime. Every page is spiced with an indefinable charm, and brightened by the frequent recurrence of beautiful lines and striking images.
Poetic Force.
JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, ’99.
-Every poem as such must have certain qualities. Poetry must be essentially imaginative, concrete and emotional, and this is generally more easily felt than understood. Often we can instinctively tell whether a piece is poetry ' or only verse, but it is not- so simple a thing to say why this is true. There is perhaps more difficulty still to point out what means are likely to produce poetry.
It is certainly out of the way to lay down . rules for writing. Poets will naturally break forth into inspirations. Yet there are ways instinctively followed’by poetic thought, which may be traced out to understand more perfectly why one thing is poetry and another verse.
In the first place-we may have noticed that certain writers strike us as more forcibly than others. There is in their work a certain strength that “comes from the heart and goes to the heart.” This can not be merely emphasis of thought put upon important or contrasted words. We should here be brought into-the domain of elocution. Poetic force is less tangible. “It has its origin,” according.to Mr. Sherman, “ in the enthusiasm or unction • of the writer, called forth at the near approach < of an ideal, and its end is to attain "the sympathy of -the reader.” Accordingly, it is_ a
variable : quantity, because it. depends, to a .great, extent upon.the disposition or prejudices .	,
of the one to whom the subject is proposed, scared out of their profanity.
The ideal of force seems to be the sublime. If an author can carry away the emotions of . his reader and put him into an ecstasy of . wonder and sympathy, the highest point has been attained that can be desired by any art. ! Sublimity, subjectively considered, also varies - ‘ with the disposition of the reader. As there is but one step between the sublime and the • ’ ridiculous, we must enter , into the spirit of such a passage and dispose ourselves for it; . . otherwise we may consider even the genuine as mere rant and bombast. This is, however, our own fault, and seems rather io prove real art than to disprove it.
I have often heard that Byron’s “Address to the Ocean” is considered sublime, yet I have at times read it and considered it nothing very extraordinary. This happens because, on account of some old prejudice, 1 could not get into the spirit of the piece. It has taken a long time to lay aside these feelings of ill-will towards the author, but after much thought I have learned to appreciate him more. .
I think that a great deal of this prejudice against great works comes from the fact that children in schools are too early made acquainted with what is beyond their sphere, of appreciation. We sometimes find in school readers for children of ten, or even eight years, the poetry of some of our greatest authors. These works are read over and over again ad 'nauseam; finally, they are perhaps memorized till the child can sing them like a phonograph. No one admits that children appreciate what -they learn. That would be foolish to think., . Those that put these, poems in the readers certainly do so with the intention of making . . the child early acquainted—at least mechan- , ically—with what we esteem greatest in litera- . ture, that appreciation might. grow with age. -The intention is excellent and commendable; but it is generallv noticed that there results o	*	*
the effect of creating disgust and prejudice against what is so hard to understand. These feelings last long and are with . difficulty put ' * ~ away. There , are other, works beside the sublime and the artistically beautiful that might -be put into a school reader with more profit.' -If the ghosts of some of their, great poets were allowed, to return to earth and behold . that their best productions are treated like ... nursery-rimes, I think, that they would not feel repaid for their* efforts. Unlike Eliseus, . they would not blame the children, but they .

would doubtless prefer that teachers be slightly

NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
Varsity Verse.
Foiled Again.
TO MY VIOLIN.
□UR magic soul when softly touched awakes, And music sweeter than the South wind’s sigh Or Eden’s holy choir of Angels, breaks
Upon my soul impassioned deep, and I,
By your weird sounds of death and southern clime, Or northern martial music full and grand, ’ With love bow down at your celestial shrine, And offer incense with a willing hand.
Your soul vibrates for all; that lyric sound Which leaves its signet on the hearts of kings, Or twines in mystic spirals round and round Their palace walls,—that very song you sing Unto the peasant. Sweet and full and great,
Your soft vibrations soothe the heart’s deep dole; The merry songsters strive to imitate
That sweet libation from your God-like soul.
TWILIGHT.
The sky from golden sheen to crimson, turns, And shadows gather deep at ebb of day;
The twilight faint in mellow softness burns With gentle gleam, then melts and dies away.
On earth a solemn silence quickly falls, And sadness holds o’er every soul its sway;
. The dreamy past or fancy’s charm enthralls With magic spell, as sinks the dying day.
’	V. D.
GLOOM AND GLEAM.
I.
The sun its golden rays to rest has taken; The air is stained and fading dark.
■ The angels to their silent choir awaken, And lo! appears the twinkling spark. , Evening has begun. •	,
'	.	11.
. The grey and chilly mists of night are lifting; The hoary brow of dawn appears.
Behold! the golden crescent early sifting Its myriad beams through nature's tears.
■	Morning has begun.
NOCTURN.	■	-
‘I’m a musician, Madame," he said, ‘Thirsty, cold and in want of bread,—
Nothing to eat for a day or more, .
For a piece of pie I’ll play a score.” „ The woman smiled a cheerful smile, ‘Truly,” she said, “you have no guile,—
Now to the woodshed go a-hoppin’, And I’ll gladly listen to your Chopin.”
J- J- M.
. .	WAR. HEROES.
. I.	.	.
“Oh! I’ll be-a great fighter,”
Said a blossoming youth in his teens;
“I’ll get command of a lighter, -And write for- the magazines.” , *
-	11.	-. ■	;
In olden times they fought for. smiles, . . From those within the moats," ’
But now. to :war they go with wiles,. .	.
To get the people’s votes. J. J. M. his loneliness.
JAMES F. _M U R P II Y, ’9 9.
“Sixty years old to-day,” muttered Jim Clark as he finished washing his supper dishes and sat down by the fire to have a smoke.
Bachelor Jim, as the neighbors called him, had lived in this little shanty for over twenty years. His sole companion during the greater part of this time was a shaggy looking dog. It was Christmas night; and as he sat there quietly smoking and thinking of his past life, he grew- somewhat sad. Jip had nestled at his master’s feet for a nap. The wind whistled through the leafless trees, and' blew-the falling snow against the rattling window panes. Jim buttoned up his coat and settled back in his . chair to continue his reverie.
The logs in the ingle creaked and cracked, and the flames danced merrily about as if mocking him in his loneliness. His thoughts travelled back over many years of his life, and he imagined himself once more in his native land. He was sitting in a room filled with people. The music began. Gay couples were gliding over the floor. His arm stole gently around his mavourneen. Only a few minutes before she accepted his proposal. No happier man could be found in the house that night. He paid little if any attention to his surroundings.- His thoughts were of the future. He pictured to himself the many long years of happiness that were in store for him. Visions of a cozy thatched cottage on a green sward overlooking the sea, passed before his mind. .
. While the turf blazed in the grate, he could hear the soft notes of her mellow voice filling the little home with the joy of a contented heart, as she went carefully about performing her domestic duties. • He .could not tell her what he felt in his heart, but nevertheless she saw and knew, and he was happy. Shortly his betrothed espied a flower lying on a table nearby. .
“Would he get it for her?”	.
“ Certainly.” \	’
He leaned over to reach it. His chair
. slipped from under him and he came to the floor with a crash—instantly transferred, from the ideal to the real. His dog, startled by
' -the noise,, sprang to. his feet. The logs in the ingle .creaked and cracked, and the flames danced merrily about as if mocking him in



NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
275

The Word “Great’’ Has Something to Say.
Via Dolorosa.

THOMAS J. GRAHAM.
JAMES J. TRAHEY, 99.

Our once peaceful home in the Unabridged Section, is now in the throes of fratricidal strife. We no longer live in the quiet comradeship that we used to enjoy, and all my brothers and sisters say that I am the cause of all the trouble. I may be, but I beg of you not to judge too hastily until you have heard my story.
I came into the English language many, many years ago, having been torn from my Dutch and German homes, where I was known as “groot” in the former and “gross” in the latter. For many years I have borne without a murmur, all manner of usage, but now 1 feel it my duty to protest, and to protest vigorously..
This English language makes me feel weary. A poor, unassuming word like I am, can be, and is brought into such horrible usage. I am neither vain nor haughty, so I do not mind who handles .me as long as I am handled in the right manner.
I am sometimes proud of my associates, especially when I am placed before my brother “Man,” or before my sister “Mind.” I love to be in close companionship with “ Opportunities.” There are hundreds of other combinations of my brothers and sisters in which I do my little, all to make things sound imposing.
Herein lies the difficulty. I absolutely retuse ,to be used in any manner akin to “Slang.” In spite.of my honorable old age, some people •want me to associate with the class of plebeians to which “Nit” and others belong.
Terrible is my anger when, a Notre Dame Junior, after puffing a cigarette, says, as he . exhales the smoke: “Oh! but it’s‘great’”; or when some young sport says, after an enjoyable event: “ Oh! we had a ‘ great ’ time.”
These are only a few of the ways in which I am misused. It is “ great” here and “ great” there until I grow sick at heart at the sound of my own name. My brothers and sisters tell me that I am too aristocratic and blue blooded, simply because I rebel at having my name associated with those of the “ Slang” family.
Now I beg that the readers of this will look at my side of the case, and see if I am .not in the right. While I recognize the^constitution of this country, I claim the right to. choose my associates; and until I am in'full possession of that right, .! will keep the Unabridged Section in a constant turmoil. -	-
S KNOCK, O Lord! but none there is to deign-. Uplift the veil that hides Thee from my sight Alas! is this the dark and starless night ?
Amid whose shadows I must grope, who fain Would mount steep crags or tread the narrow lane . For one short hour on Zion’s sacred height, . Where Thou, the font of wisdom’s crystal light And well-spring of eternal life, doth reign. ,
A voice replies: “Forbear, impatient child! .
What claim hast thou to enter here or sing -My praise, till I be pleased to ope the gate ' And bid thee welcome home? If wise and. mild, -
Receive with love this answer of thy King, ‘ Whose will’is done, if thou but stand and wait.”

A Monologue by a Postage Stamp.
SEDGWICK. HIGHSTONE.
My birthplace was the capital of the United States, the famous city of Washington; but my sojourn there was very brief,'as I was "soon forwarded, together with an innumerable num -ber of my kinsmen, to a post office in Denver,.' Colorado. On reaching our destination.'we were counted by the stamp clerk and placed in a narrow drawer beneath the stamp window;
Day after day, my companions decreased in" number; and I dreaded to hear voices above me, for I knew this indicated the' removal of more of my companions. I grew morbid and melancholy, and often desired to cry out for some kind person to purchase me; and at last my wish was to be granted.	.
One day I heard, a gentle voice say, “Five two’s, please;” then the- drawer was quickly-opened, and I thought the clerk would'pass me by, but no, I was taken out with four other stamps and given to the possessor of that melodious voice, a lady of-grace and remark-1 able beauty.	-	z .
I saw my four companions one after another moistened by the lady’s sweet lips, and adjusted in the right-hand corner of four pink-tinted envelopes. “Oh! how stupid of me,’’ she said,-“I thought I had five letters, but I’ll save, this: extra stamp and write a-letter to dear old John.” I was then placed in a delicately-chased; stamp box and thrown into'her shopping"bag^ She left the office and entered her carriage.", “To the library,”-was her order; and in a





NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
few minutes the carriage drew up along the curb before the library, and she alighted with feminine grace stared at by a crowd of street urchins, who stood on the pavement admiring the two spirited black horses caparisoned in - silver. She was deeply engaged in reading a . critique in one of the late magazines on the father of English poetry, Chaucer, when she was interrupted by a young lady friend, who requested the loan of a postage stamp; thereupon my lady opened the stamp box and kindly gave me to her friend.
. I was moistened by the pressure of her friend’s lips—how it infused me with joy—and placed on a white linen envelope, which bore in the upper left hand corner the motto' “Facta non Verba.” I was deposited in a mail box, and it grieved me somewhat to be separated from this beautiful damsel; but I soon cast aside my despondency; for what did this patrician young lady care for a postage stamp of the plebeian order?
. I remained in this receptacle several hours; but towards evening I was removed by the mail carrier, and transported to the post office. Here I was treated with the utmost cruelty and barbarity; in fact, had I been an anarchist in the domain of the Czar, no greater punishment -would have been inflicted upon me. I was beaten several times with a hammer, capped with a rubber stamp which seemed . to be wielded by some modern Achilles. After this process had been completed, a great transformation was visible in my appearance: my brilliant pink coat was blemished- by ~ streaks of mottled black, and the profile of

Washington, which had hitherto appeared upon my surface, was now scarcely discernible.
_ I was placed in a mail-bag, and after several
. days’ journey—which was very monotonous vanguard of ‘
: to nie—I reached the destination which my “!	_
address indicated.	-	at her. Apparently she had not as yet seen
. .The recipient of the letter was a handsome '.him, but the moment his eyes fell upon
< young gentleman, of fine :physique and aristo- her, she shuddered. Looking upat him, she
. cratic bearing, who, after reading the perfumed stopped.and turned pale. At this the onlookers pages of the delicately written epistle, tore were greatly surprised. ;	J
me off and kissed me, soliloquizing to himself:	Then this unknown man, in an attempt to
. “ Ah! her fair lips have been in contact with smile, displayed a row of teeth, like those of a this bit of paper, therefore I shall cherish it wolf-hound. His>victim’s eyes were mow fixed for its associations.” So I now dwell in great ‘	......
i splendor in this young man’s mansion, sur-/ rounded by all the luxuries that wealth can ;
\/^procure.k Of -mynumerous kinsmen that left . ....	_.	,	________
^A^^lnn^n;:wifh .me:?I haye?heardl^nothing closerc andkclbserkas/?;if^irresistibly attracted.'.
pksince we separated in Denver. I fear that’only ;The^Aime;was: enormous, and it them haye?been-sp fortunate:as L ? was ?in?yajnkthbt: thee gripman? sounded his .?
. To Chicago.
HARRY V. CRUMLEY.
■The Vine Street entrance to the Arcade is located in the business, portion of Cincinnati, . and is always crowded by persons waiting for a car, or by those for whom the show-windows have a fascination. On .the. particular day which I have in mind, a young lady, with a mass of golden hair, and a music roll under her arm, was the centre of attraction. She was very pretty, neatly dressed in a cycling costume, and many were the envious glances, cast at her by others of her sex, who were less liberally endowed by nature.	.
About a block up the street in front of Billingheimer’s saloon, another person was the centre of attraction. He was a tall man with large black eyes and a coarse beard which . appeared to have been dyed. He wore a black silk, hat, patent leather shoes and a Prince Albert coat. Those that were attracted by. this man could be heard to remark, “How much like Svengali he appears.” He certainly resembled this much-hated person, both in features and action. .	.
He stood apart from the rest and appeared not to’ notice the curiosity he was exciting. As the Carew Building clock struck three, he.started down Vine Street toward the river. Those-.that were watching him followed, for they expected he would cause some excitement. He.did, but not of.the kind they had anticipated. .	.
The girl .with the music roll had evidently

tired of waiting for the car; for she was coming down the street and had already met the _	'	' “ Svengali’s ” troops. Suddenly
“ Svengali ’’.shot a glance of his maniacal eyes
on him with: a glossy stare, and her face had -lost alkits natural color. He started to move around in a kind of ring, and the. girl followed. ; Roundhand round .they circled,, the girl coming



NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*Tl

gong. The policeman, seeing this great mass of people, loosened his club and hastened to . . disperse them. But he was human, as most policemen are, and he soon , opened his mouth and gazed on with the rest.
The circle was now very, small. Suddenly a ; . pair of hando shot, out and began gesticulating , in every conceivable way. The girl gasped and. sank half way to-the ground. The smile, or rather the grin, on “Svengali’s” face was fiendish.	'	'
The crowd thought that it had gone far o	o
enough, and soon a threatening murmur arose. ..Some called on the police to stop it. -They, however, showed no inclination to -bother “Svengali.” Cries of “mob him” were started, and the crowd swayed forward. Then “ Svengali” made one quick pass with his hands and . the girl straightened up. Her music roll was open, and the crowd sent up a disappointed
groan, as they read: “Take the Big Four to Chicago.”
A. Story by a Bass.
ROBERT A. KROST.
“ I have been living for many years,” said the Bass to the Sunfish, “ but I never was insulted before as I was this morning. As you know, I am rather proud of my fine shape and my superiority over other fish.
“Well, this morning I was quietly swimming along the banks of the lake, when I saw a fine frog dangling over my mouth. I said
to . myself, this frog may be all right, and again, he may be fastened to a hook. But no matter, I. will try him. I then made a quick
dash for him. As I might have known'before, . I swallowed a hook. But this, however, did.
not bother me, as I had often done it before; and in my conceit I did not think there was any fisherman who could 'pull my six pounds of muscle out of the water.
“I was mistaken, however; for although I twisted. myself around a stake at the bottom
, of the lake, after a game fight T was hauled . to the. surface. Well, thought?!, my end ’has
come. What >was my surprise to seedin'.the . fisherman’s face a look of disgust, and I heard him say: ‘This fish is so large it must be a dog fish’; and with this.he threw me back in
the lake, more injured in pride than in body. . Gibson, mow
just, think to be taken for? a dog -fish! But Both magazines ,camd?;to? us early,-but as we \ then there is one. consolation, he was a Chicago Issued no Scholastic last week, previous men. amateur fisherman.	■ ? .. ' ..tion was impossible.
Books - and Magazines.

Longman’s “ Ship” Literary Readers—Books I., IL, III. New York: Longmans, Green and Co. . ’ ” . The multiplication of school readers is the?
surest sign that educators are alive to> the importance of the “reading” class and to the necessity of supplying children with readers . that are instructive, entertaining and suited.to ' - - - * , -their comprehension. In the three numbers of the “ Ship ”series the compiler takes children ? by the hand and-teaches them to be carefully j observant of the things around them; and when he has directed their attention to note. . keenly every detail of domestic animals arid; ?? the common things in nature, he pauses in his work of instruction to tell them a story with a good wholesome moral, not obtruded . but skilfully insinuated. Children are soon -.

X‘
51
surfeited by “ goody-goody ” stories, but they like tales of courage and sacrifice and manly
virtues told in a manly way. This the compiler has admirably succeeded in doing. . .
Since the “Readers” are titled literary, one : naturally looks to find more of the lessons taken from the works of authors who have won repute for, pure English. It is. to be regretted that selections from Ruskin’s charming fairy tale, “ The King of the Golden Rivef,’r and from other stories like it, could not have *, found a place in the series. Only one of Longfellow’s, and only one of Eugene Field’s , poems are used.	.	'. '
—"A Klondike-Picnic,” the story'of a day :
spent near the sea-shore not far from Philadelphia is from the pen of Eleanor C. Donnelly,
The story takes its name.from the place where the .picnic is held, while, several letters read during the day from the original Klondike serve to transport the would-be gold-seekers in spirit to the land:of Alaska; The book is ,? published by Benziger Bros., New York. - .
:—Among the; most. pleasing and attractive
Christmas magazines that have reached us are / Harper's and the Ladies' Home Journal.. Both ?? are neatly arrayed in Christmas covers, and present?a vet y attractive appearance. The interior .contains reading matter well in keeping with the bright and comely covers that :: enclose it...The only thing to. be?missed from ; Harper s are the; beautiful ?drawings .of Mr?'

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, January 14, 1899.
putilisfjrti c6rrn 5aturtiag burins JTcmi Eime at &. 13. Snifaersitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Terms, $1.50 -per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97; THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98; JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99; EUGENE A. DELANEY, ’99;
JAMES J. TRAHEY, ’99;
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99;
JOSEPH F. DUANE, ’99; LOUIS C. M. REED, I900; THOMAS J. DILLON, I900;
SHERMAN E. STEELE, ’97; RAYMOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98; JOHN J. DOWD, ’99; EDWARD C. BROWN, ’99; MAT. A. SCHUMACHER, ’99; JULIUS A. NIEUIVLAND, ’99; LOUIS T. WEADOCK, ’99; FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY,’OO ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, 19OO
F. X. MCCOLLUM,
H. P. BARRY, HENRY S. FINK,
Reporters.
—The Scholastic bids the old students a welcome, and is glad to hear that they all
report a happy vacation. The newcomers will do'well to introduce themselves to the place as soon as possible and get started at their work. All we need to do is to put a little oil on the machinery and everything will be running smoothly in a few days.
—Juniors, Sophomores and Freshmen, hats off and bow low to the worthy Seniors, for their hour of triumph is near at hand. They have run the course at a good pace and are starting bn the home stretch with a winning; lead. Gentlemen of the class of ninety-nine, this is your year, and the eyes of the University are upon you. Brush your gowns and'get ready for the finish. We hope these closing days of
; your college life will be the most successful early. We are not going-to coax anyone, for and happy of your University career, and that we do not wish men to run unless they have the each may receive the promised sheep-skin when old college spirit to do it of their own accord the June-day arrives.	' arid for the glory of .Notre Dame. Let us
..	■	have a hundred candidates for the ball team
:	. ’	and as many more for. the track team. The
<	—-Yes, of course, you had a very nice. time, captains and coaches will help you as much
' r Old Santa Claus was good to you, the “ gov- as they can, while the managers will make s : . ernor” was exceedingly generous, arid^all in things - as comfortable and convenient as j all, it was a happy vacation. But then, do not possible.	]
sit down and tell us about it like this. Get a pen and write something about your visit and give the old Scholastic a little help. That clever joke you made’ use of when you presented her with that handsome Christmas gift would read very well in print; and that little story you . were just telling about that New Year’s party would amuse our good readers very much. We might have enjoyed ourselves more if we had been with you that night that you were .with the boys; but then, you have not forgotten what that jolly, good-natured fellow told you. Just let us have a few snatches of his stories—it doesn’t take much to fill a column,—and our subscribers all will bless you for your thoughtfulness. Come, now, let every one of you that has anything interesting to tell sit down and write, for our contribution box is empty and we have no waste-basket.
—There is no time for talking now; we must start earnest work. We have to win the track and field championship this spring, and, moreover, we must be with the first teams in baseball. Last year we worked in the old, •smoky gymnasium where the men had to fall over each other to find room to practise, and yet we came out successful. With our new
gymnasium we have opportunities to train our athletes such as no other college in the West has. Everything is in readiness now if the men themselves are ready. Therefore, let every man that has the interest of old Notre Dame at heart wake up and push things along. We want baseball candidates and track team candidates. We want three hundred energetic and active men to try for the teams. We want a Varsity nine and a reserve team;-we want runners, jumpers, pole vaulters and hurdlers. Every; man at the University can help the work along by getting a suit and training.- Remember that Captain. Macdonald and Captain Powers are the most impartial of men, and that the most worthy candidate is sure to win. Come out right away and start
i
NGTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i I
The Flower.
A flower may be defined as that part of a plant to which the organs of reproduction are confined. Many think that the colored leaf-like expanses, called the sepals and the petals of our ordinary flowers, are the principal parts. These, as a -matter of fact, are no more essential than is a coat or a pair of shoes to the nature of man. Hence, it often happens that 'many mistakes are made in determining what part of a plant is its flower.-
The essential parts of every flower are the organs of reproduction, and in many cases there is nothing present besides these. This is a general rule in plants that have no leaves at all. When a plant is differentiated into leafy stem and roots, the parts of a flower are modified leaves, and the flower itself is a shortened branch. An idea of the nature and origin of an ordinary ' perfect and regular flower can be had by imagining a stem shortened so that the leaves stand near each other and have changed their color and shape to suit a new purpose. The topmost leaves of this stem will then arrange themselves to form a covering for the one or more cells that arise from the leaf margins and now become ovule-sacs. The next envelope of leaves will fold in apically at its two margins and develop a similar covering for the pollen-grains that arise after the same manner of the ovule-sacs. After these stamens come the petals. These modified leaves retain their original shapes to some extent, but they are generally colored other than green.
The sepals are next in order. They are green in typical flowers, and their resemblance to foliage leaves is very marked. These are the. four parts common to a perfect regular flower; any one of these, however, may be absent. In fact, the nature of the flower is not lost as long as only one, either stamens or pistils, is present.	,
After the sepals there may be one or.more other sets- of envelopes, but these are not considered parts of the flower proper. These are bracts. They bear the nearest relation to leaves. In many cases we may be able to trace . the gradual evolution of pistil; and stamen from the common foliage leaf. In the fern family reproductive cells are borne on common leaves. . We may take as a good example of this evolution the common water lily. .	.
279 x'7
The floral parts that may be called sepals are .. :X green outside and white inside. Their shape is oval and bears some resemblance to the /XA leaves which are round. The petals are numer- . ’XvX-ous, and those next to the sepals have not 7 entirelv lost their green color on their outer- <-A;X sufrace. Then, as we pass from one set of ; XA petals to the following, there - is a gradual	a7
transition into the stamens. In fact, the last.	Xx
petals are long and slender, colored like stamens, yellow,’ and some even have sterile ^-\A.'; anthers.	. .	.	. X
As already mentioned, one or more of the	;X;?
parts of a flower maybe absent, and different'	;<A>
circumstances, as manner of growth, or niode ;	. '
of securing fertilization, may change the forms	.	A\X
of the various parts. This gives rise to the	.	:	; -
variety of form and beauty that we find.	X;
Form, color, smell and size, are only accidents,	,-.X;
and help the essential parts in securing fertilization. If the flower is showy in color, sweet x'X of smell, or both combined, we may conclude : X-that insects are the agents of cross-fertilization.	. 7.
If on the contrary the flower is small and riot 7X easily seen and devoid of smell or attractive A . A-colors, the plant depends, as a rule, upon the'	/
wind to carry its pollen. However, when great	-
abundance of pollen is produced, the wind	J
almost invariably is the agent of fertilization.	;	7 .
Sometimes the shortening of the flower	f
necessary to its development is accompanied	. -
by the shortening of the common axis of a A; number of flowers. The result is a compound	.
flower or the head of florets. In general these .	' .
individual florets resemble simple flowers. - \ 7 Sometimes, however, the parts of the corolla, which are always grown together in compound	7 ?
flowers, grow only on one side forming a	A - .
long blade like a single petal. It is really, a ' . - A growing together of several petals. We have -	. '
a good example in the chrysanthemum, some . asters, and the daisy.	.	-
The study of the flower, is one of the most . . . : useful means of obtaining a habit of observa- ; X tion. It forces us both to observe minutely -	<
and to reason carefully. It is only after study- _ \ X ihg flowers for some time that we begin to X find how difficult it is to tell the parts of .a 7-:X flower, their origin and their nature. Shape - ; 7 A and form have, little value in classification;	; A XX
nature and origin are the important considera-	. ’ XX
tions. ..The flower, as a rule, determines- the .. .;aA7 class of a plant. Realism is here most strictly - 7’.X-X required, while nominalism is artificial and . . AAA1X unsatisfactory. -	' ■	-	A A7;XX
.	. x. j. ..	;	. j.

280
WERE DAME SCtiGEASne:
Mr. Hummer’s Success
-Every old student will be pleased to learn of the success of Mr. John S. Hummer (LL. B., ’90, Litt. B., ’92), recently appointed Master in Chancery. After his. graduation, Mr. Hummer entered the law office of Judge. Prendergast in Chicago,where he worked until two years ago when he began business for himself. His thorough knowledge of legal principles and careful attention to business soon won him a large practice. He has worked in every field of law except practising in the criminal courts. The Chicago Lazo Journal, in speaking of his appointment, says:
“The members of the Chicago Barirecognize that Judge Dunne made a most judicious selection in appointing Mr._ Hummer a Master in Chancery for the circuit court, which appointment was not only unsolicited but unexpected by the deserving recipient.”
Mr. Hummer is a highly esteemed- and loyal son of Notre Dame, and holds the office of President of the Notre Dame University Association. We predict a bright future for him, and trust that he will be as successful in his new field of labor as he was at the University.
Our New Musical Director.
Our friends that love music will be pleased to learn that the new director of the Music Department- has arrived. We are going to start the new year with bright prospects for a good season in this department. Mr. James J. McLaughlin, Jr., is the gentleman that will be our director. Mr. McLaughlin comes from the city of culture—Boston,—and has made a thorough study of music in the conservatory at that place. He has been associated with many of the leading musicians of the country, and was a student under such men as G. W. Chadwick, Director of the New England Conservatory, Carl Fmlten, Ferruccio Busoni, ' Edwin Klahre, Frank E. Morse, George E. Whiting and J. Wallace Goodrich. > ■?_ -
5 He has given special attention to the study of vocal culture, and will give a great amount of his time to furthering that branch of music i at Notre Dame. The choir will be furnished with a large repertoire of first class church music and .started to work at it immediately. The first rehearsal of the.-year was. held last J J Wednesday evening, and the members are all : enthusiastic and anxious - to work withf the . director in making the choir as good as y J possible.	.‘yJ-X:yyy^ A
. 7 -^Mr^McEaugM^ will have ? chargeyof the = \ 5 - band, orefiestri a
&;	University.y y H hasydone .corisideraBle work
along these lines, and his thorough course in harmony, counterpoint and composition will make him capable of bringing these organizations up to a high standard. Though a first-class pianist and organist, the new director will perhaps spend little time on these branches as his other duties are so numerous as to require nearly all his attention.
There will be a change in.the class of music j played here. Up to this time we have had a ] great deal of popular music with only a touch 1 of the classical. We may now expect the | reverse— a great deal of classical with a
- smaller assortment of; popular, airs. There can be no doubt regarding the wisdom of this change. The repertoire of college music should not be confined to the riff-raff trash that is whistled and sung by. every street -walker. Moreover, there is nothing in this class of music that would justify a professor in giving it his attention. Any person that has: . 1 any small-amount of talenf can. pick this up 1 for .himself. We shall -have some popular 1 music,’of course,yfor the sake of variety, but	1
no attention willy be given to teaching it.	a
Mr. McLaughlin is not familiar enough with a ; the students’ ability:to say definitely what his	1
. plans for the future are. He hopes above all,	a
however, to receive- the hearty co-operation of a all the students, toward - organizing accusing a
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
28 r
good glee club. This ought to interest every one at the University. We need a good chorus here to sing at our entertainments and to have concerts on the campus as well as in the opera house. We: have been sadly, wanting in this so far. Now let every one that can sing join with the director and give us a rollicking good glee club, and let us hear some of those jolly songs for which college organizations are noted. The director will do his share, and, with the co-operation of the students, will give us some good music in the near future.
Exchanges.
.To glance at the magazine from the Univer- ‘
sity of Minnesota, one would not imagine that it was a college publication. In every way it has the appearance of a general magazine, and a very good one at that. The illustrations are well selected and often very beautiful, and the
prose and verse
Many of the exchanges have
are of a high standard, o
* -
Christmas numbers of the arrived since our last issue;
but as the Yule-tide is now past and gone it is late to give each special mention, and ' we content ourselves with complimenting generally the very successful effort of our contemporaries in placing before their readers beautiful and interesting Christmas numbers.
In the Holy Cross Purple for December we
notice a contribution that recalls to-mind The one °f the strongest in Ohio. /
—Mr. William Ellwanger, a former; Notre
Blahah letters that frequently appeared in our last year’s local columns. We do not like to -
.t>-h n >>	- .1 n .7 ness circles. of; Dubuque. He is Secretary bf
Bill Brown letter in the Purple Commercial Men’s Organization.and.hdids.
r	r	1 1 v -	-	-	-	.-	O-,	’ _	_	-
say that this
is an imitation of our famous Blahah commu-
several other important positions. ; -	. ?
.	—Mr. Frank Ward O’Malley, student’95—98,
to remark that it is a very .weak imitation, has made a very successful start at the. Phila-, The Blahah letters were humorous, but the Bill delphia Academy of Fine Arts. His work: was so superior to the average that he has been rapidly promoted, and now is drawing .from
, nications, for if we did, truth would force us
~ Brown effusion — well, Bill may be a very J decent fellow; and. a good Christian, but:he is hot a humdrist. '	.
- - ' . ~ . , < ' . -- . •
Things of this sort, to be clever must be spontaneous; they can not be ground out as	Father Evers when at Notre Dame
one grinds out a column, of.exchanges. Speak- was a great Greek scholar and also a success-ing of -exchanges,; the Purple lacks-an exchange ful musician. He was for some time the leader —	.	. ----- of the University Band, and the band in his
column, and we would suggest that the Editor _ recall Mr. Brown from Dakota, and put him , to work at writing- exchanges. Bill" would ; make ah ideal exchange man, and the letter
day was famous. Father Evers was very popular while at college, and since, then he has always kept in . touch with Notre. Dame, and:
...	he has many friends here, all of whom are
from Deadwood would not be missed. If the happy to learn of;his new and more important Purple will not follow our advice in this matter, appointment.
but persists in publishing letters from Bill,we J beg to make another suggestion, namely, that, the letters be placed, as were our. Blahah, in the locaLor funny column instead of being set, in the first form wedged in between essays on the Greek Tragedy and ballades on the Deep .Blue Sea. If this change is made even the uninitiated may appreciate that Bill intends to be funny, and they, will no longer take,him seriously as now they are; apt to do.
But we fear that we are beginning to say -mean things. We hasten to apologize toBill, and to explain to him that class has. just started, and as yet our spirit'has not been calmed by our usual study of Equity and. other kindred soul-taming subjects. . '-P'Pp
V
Personal.
—Mr?and Mrs. Samuel W. Akins, of;Denver were among the holiday visitors at Notre Dame.	.	J C
—Rev. D. A. Tighe, Pastor of Holy .-Angels’; Church, Chicago, is fast recovering from, a severe attack of the grippe. '	: r ” ?
— Mr. John Stanton.of Berlin, Ohio, a former Notre "Dame student, was.a visitor at the University for several days of last;week? ,
— Rev. President Morrissey , will .deliver a sermon tomorrow at the Hdly.Name Cathedral in Chicago, the occasion being’the celebration of. the Feast of the Holy Name. . /
—Thomas Ewing Steele, A. B. ’84, has formed a partnership with the Hon. Ulric Sloane, a distinguished lawyer of Ohio. A Columbus newspaper speaks of the ilew firm as being
Dame man, is becoming; prominent inthe busi
life. '
—Rev. Luke Evers, A. B. ’79, has been appointed Pastor of St. Andrew’s Church, -New



■-t-f


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Mr. Studebaker’s Gift.
The University was recently the recipient of a very appreciable present, the gift of Mr. J. M. Studebaker of South Bend. The following letter, that accompanied the articles in question, will best explain the value and nature of them.
South Bend, Dec. 23, 1898.
Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C.,
President University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:—I am today sending you as a present to the Museum of the University a cabinet of specimens of natural woods, fifty-eight different kinds procured by me :while on my visit a year or two since to South America, woods native to the Argentine Republic; and twenty-seven different kinds in duplicate specimens of , woods native to our own state of Indiana. I think that you will be interested in these specimens, and I beg your acceptance of them, in the hope that they will serve a profitable purpose for inspection on the part of the students of the University.	•	.
' The South American specimens were presented to me by Senor Dr. Don E. S. Zebalios, of Buenos Ayres, ex-Minister to the United States from the Argentine Republic. I felt highly complimented by the gift to myself; but the purpose of my friend in bestowing it will Jie more fully realized, I am satisfied, by placing the specimens with the University than if retained as a private collection.
Sincerely yours,	'
J.	-M. Studebaker.
These specimens are all nearly the same size, nicely planed and varnished. They can be found in the Museum at Science Hall, where each specimen hangs in the cabinet just as presented. Mr. Studebaker has the thanks of • the University for his kindness.
Local Items.
-	. —Long faces .are all the rage-this week:
. ;	. —Lost.—A fountain pen. Finder please
’ leave it at the Ave Maria office?
_	. —Wonder when the new fireman at Sorin
.	" Hall will come out to the smoking-room and
? dance for/the boys.	;
; .	—Shane is a believer in co-education.. So
ty much so that his room in Sorin Hall is. facing
/ ? . the Academy.	,	\ .	;	: ?
? ;	--’A-We failed to give: one man. a cigar last
*	. Tuesday, and since that day no one has called
‘	.. to wish us a. Happy New Year. <_
:	./ —Lottie is; back; Judgingfrom the smile
.	.	that lights up his countenance, his lot has been
;? / /	a pleasant one this vacation. .	A ' ;
. ?? / A-The new Gymnasium is filled'with a crowd .	of hard workers every afternoon. We may
Aty A	look for some good athletic exhibitions soon.
—When you have time call over at Murphy’s room and ask him to let you see his Christmas present. It is a statuesque novelty.	’
—After. Sweeney returned from Chicago he took an inventory of all his possessions. His coat and his integrity to heaven were all he possessed.
—It might be noted that the Xmas holidays are welcomed by everyone. They fill the heart with joy and, correspondingly, the pocketbook with wind.
—The Columbian Society will hold its first meeting next Thursday evening. All members are requested to be present. New officers will . . be elected and matters of business straightened up.
—The man that has the audacity to wager with a fellow biped, that he will finish first in a ten-mile race and then hire a horse and buggy to make the trip, is only fit for strategy ' and spoils.
—Baer says he never knew that there was so wide a gulf between Dives and Lazarus until he . spent his last dollar in Chicago. Verily, he believes that the dollar is an Archimedean lever that was to move the universe.
—Returning students modestly assert that they "were obliged to travel long distances without good accommodation, and that the fatigue naturally accounts for the young moon under each eye. Of course, we were born yesterday. /	.	.
—Several students formerly, of Brownson Hall, have gone over to live with the Sorin crowd. Baab is among them. He says he has many-kind reminiscences of his sojourn at Brownson, and will never'lose his love for the place.	.
—Farley has a prize story. The title is “ Meet me at the Stile.” It is a great favorite among students of our sister institution. "	.
Cyrano de Bergerac?—Yes, I’ve read it. Everyone but the rustic has it. Even E. C. Brown has a copy in cheap binding.
—Rumor has it that Notre Dame will present a laurelwreath to the winning team in the coming track meet. This would be appropriate. During the days of .Roman greatness and Grecian glory, their athletes fought desperately to win the crown of laurel. .
—The arrangement and construction-of the crib in the church is excellent. The matter was .in the hands of; Bro. Albert, C. S. C., who is an artist and knows how to arrange things nicely. He was assisted in his work by Masters Strong, Giffin and McNamee of St. Edward’s Hall. A 1	; ......	- -	■	'
Yockeyiwas/telling his friends that Escanaba is one of the most flourishing centres ; in the neighborhood of Wak-c-chauck. He reports a two story block to be in process of ? building/and^	Squire- Bluegrass has an- J
nexed a iwingg^ chicken /establishment, i

-g r - A
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
—It is perfectly legitimate to speak of the good times you had during vacation, but there is a limit to all such descanting. Not a few people seem to think that the climax of this Christmas romance should be reached only when their auditors have succumbed to the magic of Morpheus.
—The track team ran to the red mill the other morning. Manager Eggeman rode behind them in a carriage and wore a, smile on his face as much as to say: “Oh! but it’s a' cinch to be at the head of this thing’’.” He had a good horse but, for all that, Crunican ran all the way to the mill and back before John could .get his horse turned.around the pine tree in front of Sorin Hall.
—The holidays at Notre Dame were passed in good cheer. Few students, whose pleasure it was to be under the protection of the Golden Dome during this festive season, have anything but the very best reports of the pleasurable times they enjoyed. Christmas was peaceful, quiet, serene. Perfectly in unison with the spirit of the great day, and tending to turn the troubled heart in the direction of the allmerciful Babe..	.	.
—O’Riley and Crumley came back together. They struck a “rube” on the train that was easy. He let them show him a farm down near Elkhart where they used to work, gave them his seat in the car and was as courteous as his rustic nature would permit him to be.
• He left the train at Mishawaka. Recent reports Wynne saw everything there was to see in
, indicate that Crumley’s diamond shirt stud and O’Riley’s Waterbury ticker left the train about the same time. A close study of this narrative provokes the old saying that there are none so easy but you will find others easier.
—The Philopatrians held the opening exercises for the session of ’99 last Wednesday evening. Father Morrissey was elected Honorary President; Father Cavanaugh, Critic; Bro Cyprian, President; Bro Alexander Promoter ; Prof. McLaughlin, Musical Director; W. W. Bellinger,Tsi Vice President; Alexander A. McDonald, 2d Vice-President; Daniel O’Connell, Treasurer; Henry Fink, Recording Secretary; James Morgan, Historian; Joseph Clyne, and George Moxley, Censors; Vincent Brennan, Sergeant-at-Arms. Before the meet, ing adjourned, Messrs. Schoonover, Van Dyke and Sherlock were admitted as-members.
—Another proof that our friends in South' Bend are not so hospitable as they might.be is the. pathetic and heart-rending story told
by a .certain good-looking, well-mannered Powers. I said tried? Yes, he'tried; but he young man of Sorin Hall. With all due dignity just stood there: and threw, the ball back.; he was making his way through our neighbor- O’Shaughnessy was a mistake in the field, ing city, falling over not more than every Baab will take his place -next .week ; > and third person, when, in accordance, with , time- Tommy Dwyer, who had a reputation in the honored custom, he found it necessary to East, will be given another chance as sub-“ have another.” . He proceeded to the walnut stitute. If he can not do well in that position, colored slab, put down a nickel1 and.tried to John Byrne will don Mr. Dwyer’s uniform, make the bar-keeper understand. The red- Brucker and Pulskamp are; out for positions,
nosed. man behind the counter had money. . enough, and rejected the nickel — likewise^ . rejected our friend. This is “the firsht time . in hish.life that he wash ever refushed a drink.” < ' Surely this is an outrage on our honorable society, and the matter should be investigated . / at once.	‘
—Some of the boys saw a great many funny things'while they were away for the holidays. “Shag,” the First, erstwhile manager-of-the ball team, went to Chicago. He paid a nickel ; to ride the street car and see the Van Bufen street tunnel. The car was loaded when they A got at the lowest point, so in order to make the work lighter on the trolley pole, “Shag” kindly consented to get out and walk up hill, _ giving the car an occasional push now and then, to help it along. Eggeman saw “Uncle< L Tom’s Cabin” three nights in succession. The first two times he cried all during, the per- . formance, but the last time he thought it was a kind of chestnut. Halee saw “ Kerry Cow.” -He says Joe Murphy is the greatest singer on the stage today, and when he thinks of that famous song, “A Handful of Mud from the -Wagon Wheel,” a tear slowly wends its way across his rosy chin. Weadock saw the man with the big nose at the Chicago Museum. Brucker saw a five dollar bill on a counter; the proprietor saw Brucker and: Brucker saw the judge the next morning. Ahrens saw two trains go through his town in one day. .
Covington, Ky., except where his money went. Hartung saw his girl. Reed saw a fellow that looked like Baldy Dwyer; Powers saw his finish and came back to the University.
—Indoor baseball started with a slap,jamb and a rush last Thursday, when Sorin Hall walloped the Brownson team 48 to 15. .It was • the first time in the history of athletics that. Sorin Hall ever won a game of anything, but they did it this time, and are disporting themselves with becoming dignity. McDonald . pitched for the Brownson team—with all due respect to the gentleman who can play football to make a person.dizzy and can play ' baseball with a hard ball, but he essayed to . pitch in this game, and we did not do much to him (rather they didn’t do much). He was easy picking on the Brownson team. Guerra and Morales played a star game, and it would A be a wise move to retain these two men and secure seven new ones. Sorin Hall was some- ? what handicapped also. Gibson tried to catch ) ..

trK'.
284	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and will give some of the team a chance to - -
hustle or get out of the way.
—An entertainment for the benefit of the Never Tumble League will be held in the Sorin smoking room next week. The league has been on the verge of collapse on account of the scarcity of balls, and it is intended that the proceeds of the entertainment will secure a permanent fund for their purchase. Secretary Cornell has arranged the following program, and gives positive assurance that it will be carried out to the letter: ,
(No. i.) An Exhibition game of Handball— three hours duration—Yockey vs. Grady. Umpire, Corcoran; Linesman and scorer, Egge-man.
(Note.—The outcome of this game will determine the Presidency of the League.)
(No.2.) Solo—“Get Your Money’s Worth.” Willing Warbler O’Brien.—Accompanied on
the fiddle by John Mullen.
(Note.—The audience is requested to join in the chorus singing in Minor g so as not to drown the voice of the star.
(No. 3.)—Characters from real life in Pantomime statuesque Tableaux (Red light effect.) Mr. Fennessey.........Impersonating a man
Mr. Ball D. Dwyer..............An Athlete
Mr. Nash...........................A	Sport
Mr. M. Ikey Powers......;.........A Singer
Mr. Duperi er...................An Orator	•
Mr. Reed........................A Student
Mr, Weadock.....................A Lawyer	.
Mr. Haley...................... A Musician
(No. 4). Debate.—Subject, Resolved: “Shall we teach the young men how to shoot, or should the game of craps be expurgated from the roster of American sports? Affirmative, ‘ Mr. Medley of Kentucky; negative, Mr. S.
Brucker of Germany..
The decision will be ad referendum the audience. Those that pay at the door will be entitled to two votes. Those voting for the affirmative shall hold up their right hand, for the negative, the left hand. Mr. Medley shall not be limited as to time. Mr. Brucker may speak , twenty minutes or less. .	'
(No. 5.) Chorus by the Never Tumbles.-“ Please get off the alley and give us a show,”— refrain of “ Home, Sweet Home.”
The entertainment will not consume more than nine hours and the audience is requested to stand quietly and applaud with the hands only.	.	- .
. —When the grateful residents ;of Sorin Hall presented MrJ O’Brien with the. customary
. .Christmas purse shortly before vacation, they little knew, that they were enjoying.that honor and privilege for the last., time.; And they little knew, too, that .that purse 'would indirectly be the cause of one of the tightest, . most determined and deplorable freeze-ups that Sorin - Hall:.’has ever;.undergone, arid, to use the words of Cyrano, Jr,, in the
Tinies, “ She has undergone one or two.” Not one grain of steam found its way into the steam-pipes during the entire vacation. Icicles formed and were reformed on McGinnis’ warm collection of cigarette pictures, and swear-words in frozen syllables could be found all over John Byrnes’ room. Even the bed springs in the hall froze up, and St. John O’Sullivan, who attempted to deliver a temperance lecture at the Salvation Army headquarters, was called a hard drinker and other disrespectful names on account of his illuminated nose. Arce went about crying and blowing on his fingers to keep warm, and Raymond looked so cold and benumbed that people down, town called him a “Frost.” Medley made a paiT of ear-muffles out of two striped horse-blankets and fastened them under his chin with a trunk strap. Mullen led the orchestra at the Auditorium most of the time, and on New Year’s Day he parted his hair in the middle and furnished violin music at several “ Pink Teas.” Consequently, lie did not have, that cold, left-out feeling. Kraus tacked burlaps and asbestos very neatly on the inside of a soap-box and slept comfortably p’nights. B. Dwyer was mislaid after • the first night’s freeze, but he has again reported at the University. He froze his ears standing in front of the Y. M. C. A. one night, but is otherwise uninjured. McGinnis, thoroughly chilled, went down to see “The Belle . of New York” as an antidote, and he reports a very warm time. Baldy’s head won for him the best seat in the house that night. McCollum and Duperier attended several summer picnics and ice-cream socials. They also gave box-parties at the theatre and smoked cigarettes. In fact, they were real devilish. The ladies never tired of hearing of Mac’s gallantry at the High School he attended, and Dupe always listened very attentively and wished that he had gone to the High School too. Powers and Gippie started .on a trip to Chicago and Fort Wayne. They got as far as Chicago and then came. back. Big John had intended to show them a little Fort Wayne life, but they preferred Sorin Hall;
But to return to-the atmospheric conditions .of Sorin Hall. One day Mr. O’Brien, winner of the sweepstakes, came back. He doesn’t know how he got back,-but at any rate he made- his Yeturn1 known by.nearly blowing up the house. Everyone was given a terrible shock and inuch coal gas. The flues were blown out, and Arce hasn’t? been able to find his eyebrows since the. accident. The cold then set in/ and - .the- students again set out. They . have all; returned by; this time, however, and McGinnis^ reports a pleasant interview with Professor Doctor D. H. Cornstalk, a D. D., who lives down the road. The first anriiversary of the Christmas. Freeze will be held during the next Christmas vacation. i'