Pay one-third in June ♦..
Pay one-third in July . . . Pay one-third in August.
As a Notre Dame man, your charge account is always open at the Campus Shop. Get what you need, when you need it, and charge it the Campus Shop way: pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . and one-third in August. No interest or carrying charge, of course.
HEADQUARTERS: FOR AMERICA'S FINEST CLOTHING
The Campus Shop’s buyers search the world markets to bring you the finest clothing obtainable in the styles that Notre Dame men like best. Whether you need a suit, topcoat, sportswear of furnishing, you’ll find it . here, by America’s finest makers . . . and in sizes to fit you!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
wary 15, 1960
On Campos
MotShulinan
{Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
HAIL TO THE DEAN!
Today let us examine that much maligned, widely misunderstood, grossly overworked, wholly dedicated campus figure —the dean.
The dean (from the Latin deanere—to expel) is not, as many think, primarily a disciplinary officer. He is a counselor and guide, a haven and refuge for the troubled student. The dean (from the Greek deanos—toskewer) is characterized chiefly by sympathy, wisdom, patience, forbearance, and a fondness for homely pleasures like barn-raisings, gruel, spelldowns, and Marlboro Cigarettes. The dean (from the German deangemacht—to poop a party) is fond of Marlboros for the same reason that all men of good will are fond of Marlboros—because Marlboro is an honest cigarette. Those better makin’s are honestly better, honestly aged to the peak of perfection, honestly blended for the best of all possible flavors. The filter honestly filters. Marlboro honestly comes in two different containers —a soft pack which is honestly soft, and a flip-top box which honestly flips. You too will flip when next you try an honest Marlboro, which, one honestly hopes, will be soon.
But I digress. We were learning how a dean helps undergraduates. To illustrate, let us take a typical case from the files of Dean S_____of the University of Y.____ (Oh, why be so mysterious? The dean’s name is Sigafoos and the University is Yutah.)
Wise, kindly Dean Sigafoos was visited one day by a freshman named Walter Aguincourt who came to ask permission to marry one Emma Blenheim, his dormitory laundress. To the dean the marriage seemed ill-advised, for Walter was only 18 and Emma was 91. Walter agreed, but. said he felt obligated to go through with it because Emma had invested her life savings in a transparent rain hood to protect her from the mist at Niagara Falls where they planned to spend'their
We don’t say that Marlboro is the dean of filter cigarettes, but it’s sure at the head of the class. Try some—or if you prefer mildness without filters, try popular Philip Morris, from the same makers. -
4
honeymoon. What use, asked Walter, would the poor woman have for a rain hood in Yutah? The wise, kindly dean pondered briefly and came up with an answer: let Walter punch holes in the back of Emma’s steam iron; with steam billowing back at the old lady, she would find a rain hood very useful—possibly even essential.
Whimpering with gratitude, Walter kissed the dean’s Phi Beta Kappa key and hastened away to follow his advice which, it pleasures me to report, solved matters brilliantly.
Today Emma is a happy woman—singing lustily, wearing her rain hood, eating soft-center chocolates, and ironing clothes —twice as happy, to be candid, than if she had married Walter... . And Walter? He is happy too. Freed from his liaison with Emma, he married a girl much nearer his own age—Agnes Yucca, 72. Walter is now the proud father—step
father, to be perfectly accurate—of three fine healthy boys from Agnes’ first marriage—Everett, 38; Willem,-43; and Irving, 55—and when Walter puts the boys in Eton collars and takes them for a stroll in the park on Sunday afternoons, you may be sure there is not a dry eye in Yutah.... And Dean Sigafoos? He too is happy—happy to spend long, tiring days in his little office, giving counsel without stint and without complaint, doing his bit to set the young, uncertain feet of his charges on the path to a brighter tomorrow.
© I960 Max Shulman

NO AGREEMENT
Editor:
Many of us on the faculty have long suspected Father Hesburgh of being more than one man, considering the amount of work he gets done. We were gratified to have the Scholastic’s verification in a news headline (Dec. 11) which reads: FATHER HESBURGH GIVE ATOMS FOR PEACE TALK.
Louis Hasley Dept, of English
{ED: The above mentioned mistake ivas an oversight by our proofs reader. __er. . . proof readers.)
ILL TIMED?
Editor:
One of the most difficult events to plan on a social calendar is one which depends on the weather for its success. Such an event is the Winter Carnival at SMC, and it will be unfortunate if there is no winter weather to go with it. Even more unfortunate, however, is the selection of the date. One certainly i can do nothing about the weather, but ■ to plan a gala event such as this at a 1 time when most students’ minds are a long way from social conquests seems to me to be very poor planning.
Finals are a time of the year which most students dread and usually begin preparing for at least a week ahead of ; time. Having the Winter Carnival on • January 15 and 16 could be considered 1 a “last fling” before beginning serious | work; but wouldn’t it have been better if those in charge had planned it just ‘ a few weeks later when few students t could have any pressing academic wor- I ries? Then, I am sure, it would have । been a pleasant affair for all concerned, 1 especially for that minority who must i of necessity pass it up altogether be- j cause of the Graduate Record Exam scheduled for January 16.	j
I hope future Sophomore classes at SMC will watch the academic calendar closer when planning their part of the social calendar.
James L. Koiopus 208 Fisher	i
c
{ED: It would seem that St. Mary’s carnival authorities are unaware of Notre Dame’s calendar, which is most amazing.)
(Continued on page 25)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is _ printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.

The Scholastic
fi

The Notre Dame
A y Is"
Vol. 101 No. 12
JANUARY 15, 1960
.•wl

q


£


y
t.
q.

Founded 1867
editor-in-chief I x'X'A < : i; RONALD BLUBAUGH
' ' - ' '	”” A J - c ' « ,	' „	\	. V ' -
associate editors ??Af A: A- E. (TED) THOMPSON
CHARLES TAUSCHE
/news editor and staff
? ROY RUBELI A' Wade Clark Arthur Graham :	:
- Thomas Weiss Aq
features editor and staff \
CHARLES RIECK A. :
’ Francis Smith .'A- •/ ,; - Thomas Sullivan ' ‘ William Sweeney
WilliamVeeder sports editor and staff. ■ THOMAS ROSE q> , William Cary ? q . ;
■ J. (Jay) Kilroy , copy editor and staff .
? WALTER RUDGE q - '. / George Casey
' Peter Geniesse A'?’AA - q .Thomas Morciniak f
art editor	A A
JERRY FLORENT
photographer A A \ WALTER DALY,Jr A
business manager and staff
ROBERT HORN . Joseph Finnigan A ;
circulation manager A ? / LAWRENCE LEACH



•Xl
j
moderator . •’	- xXAqqqq
•q REV. CHARLES'CAREY, ycijg
news reporters ;AA
Philip, Larrabee q.-" John Ohaiq J AThomas Schelereth . William Sparks ; A Michael Woods q
■q q

AN UNVERIFIED “SCORECARD”: Monsignor Charles Hugo Doyle’s analysis of “Catholic Liberals” (as he so sportingly terms them) in the Religious Bulletin of January 6 caused a large initial stir around the campus. But it is obvioulton reflection that in referring to those who are “Liberals,” with respect to matters of faith and holy doctrine, Msgr. Doyle has slashed at all those who do any thinking on their own. He refers to the “Liberal” as “critical of the actions and the ordinances of the bishops.” The Monsignor has placed every action of a bishop above reproach in vil-lifyingthe “Liberal” here; this is certainly an untenable position historically if nothing else. The Middle Ages knew many a reproach-warranting practice on the part of many of the clergy. He says that the “Liberal” will have special ridicule for certain venerable beliefs, but what allows him to say that all those who ridicule these beliefs are “Liberals” and that all “Liberals” hold these beliefs in ridicule? And his most startling statement is his opening sentence in which he states that the “Liberal” “is usually a pseudo-intellectual.” This statement is as defensible as the statement that most women are made out of mud.
The Monsignor has viciously denounced change and advancement in religious thought by equating the “Liberal” with everything pernicious in a believer. It is true that there are some people who fulfill all the conditions the Monsignor has laid down, but the labelling of these people categorically as “Liberal” is without foundation. At the end of the “scorecard” Monsignor Doyle has signed his name. This is the only reliable line in his statement.
TO AND FROM: In recent weeks there have been some disconcerting reports circulating around campus as to discrepancies in the methods and records of transportation services offered by certain area clubs at vacation times. This is most unfortunate. One of the unifying elements in many of Notre Dame’s area clubs is their program of thrifty rides back home during vacations. Many clubs would lose huge numbers of members if such activities were taken out of their hands. If these activities are to continue under their present and coi-rect jurisdiction (that is, the area clubs), then it is the duty of the members of these clubs to elect responsible officers to attend business meetings when such activities are discussed and to demand regular financial reports. It is hoped that something can be done before more drastic measures must be taken and the clubs lose control of these activities. Let us not allow a good thing to be spoiled by such a small minority.
OF DOUBTFUL LOYALTY?: Some while ago the University of Notre Dame accepted funds for government scholarships which required loyalty oaths by recipient students. The explanation given for the acceptance of the funds included a note to the effect that while the University does not agree with the loyalty oath provision to the scholarships, it considers the student aid involved too great to warrant refusal of the funds. We concur wholeheartedly. There has been some criticism of the University for its stand on the matter, and some have even suggested a sacrifice of principles for the sake of scholarship money. They insist that one is either in favor of the oath and the accompanying aid or opposed to it. This is not the case at all. Certainly a loyalty oath is most displeasing, in this case particularly so when students are singled out along with a few other groups and are required to profess their loyalty to the country. But in itself the oath is not so obnoxious; certainly no student would refuse to take one voluntarily if even no money were involved. The point is not whether students are loyal, but that Congress implies they might not be. But Congress is mistaken; students’ loyalty is no more questionable than farmers, officers of subsidized airlines or recipients of social security payments. A loyalty oath is not needed, let us make that clear. But its requirement does not constitute a reason to refuse urgently needed scholarship aid.
sports reporters ; Thomas Barthel
A John Bechtold ; ’’AA : Richard Corso .' Jerry Hewitt GeorgeVoris
adsalesmen
« Ar i^a«fS8dl.lotu^-
5
J
J
FROM THE ‘ELASTIC’: Anyone who has ever participated in extra-curricular activities knows of the tremendous difficulties that can be encountered in making any kind of a change. Plagued by limited funds (not to mention limited time), major projects can soon become major discouragements. And, when things start to go hard, there is always ridicule to contend with. Unfortunately, radio station WSND has been bothered by this kind of a situation all year. First it was the steel strike and then several engineering miscalculations. Channel II has been on and off and is now being interferred with by Channel I. Some of the halls can’t pick it up and all in all, for all their effort our student broadcasters have had more hardship than happiness with their new project. However, when one realizes the magnitude of their project it becomes a little hard to mock them. They have begun from “scratch” and are in the process of building a whole new station. Surely, for all their effort we can at least show them the courtesy of waiting in patience. To our competitors, “good luck.”
—B. T. & T.
fromSHEAFFERS
FOR STUDENTS
I	Contents
|	At the Theaters ........  19	News Briefs ..........    13	I
| Back Page----------------. 26 Odds and Ends...............	23 i
|	Campus Scene ____________  9	L. David Otte____________ 11	|
|	Commentary --------------- 5	Repercussions ...........  4	|
|	Critical Horizons ......  15	Sports Picture .........  21	I
1	Escape .................   7	Time Out _______________  22	I
This is year chance ti start writiag wit* a new Sheaffer Cartridge fantail pea at a hig sarieg!
SALE STARTING JANUARY 18 at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Before you choose among
STUDENT TOURS OF EUROPE SUMMER 1960 you must COMPARE X.. U.SJLSX ST
AMONG OUR MORE THAN 30 TOURS
SELECTION
PRICES & TOUR LENGTHS
VALUE
TEACHER TOURS
•	RUSSIA, ROLAND * WtSlBM EUROM
•	ISRAH A WESTON EUKK
•	NORTH, CBtTRAL A SOUTNBM EUROM
•	FESTIVALS Off ART A BRISK
•	"RW CARMT" LUXURY TOUR
•	VOUSWAOm “DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF” TOUR
•	DAUPfNNE “MtIVE-IT-YOURSaff” TOUR
•	OLYMMC TOUR—RETURN VIA 707 JET
•	EUROM VIA THE SOUTH ATLANTK
•	EUROM A LATM AMStKA STUDY TOURS
•	EUROM A “OSERAMMERGAU” PASSION HAY
From 34-82 days |eas-peckod wMi wxcHwmmiH Only $7** to $1H5. Try to beet these cost par day Agarwal
U.S.N.S.A. STUDENT TOURS ARE AU-INCLUSIVE. They htdode rawed trip treee-Atloatic treaiportetlsn, soatap, excaraleep, opera, theatre, ceecarts, aedels with Kmfomoob sMmOomPb# offflior eatertebwaeat.
USJISA aaw alm Tata Tav aad Teacher Tav vaanvs. Sead for Mais.
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL, INC.*
20 Weat 38* Street • New Yer* IS, N. Y. OXford 5-3070
"A non-profit corporation ramie U. S. tfodoUt from cooH-fo-toott.
U. S. N. S. A. — 20 Weat 38* Street, New York 18, N. V.
Gentferaen:
Neese send full descriptive inforaration and itineraries of U.S.N.S.A. teen, asm
nnnam
6
The Scholastic
jt have an apple,
♦
sonny?
by D. JIM AUSUM
T AM NOT generally one to criticize American business, because the Lord knows that it has been business which has made our country what it is today; the most powerful, most just, and most wonderful country in the world. Nevertheless, there are times when I feel that someone has to blow the whistle. I refer to the Dec. 11 issue of the Notre Dame Scholastic, in which on page ten is an advertisement for job openings. The qualifications are somewhat stringent — you must be between the ages of twenty and twenty-six, you must be single, your weight must be between one hundred five and one hundred thirty-five pounds, and your height must fall within the limits of five feet three and five feet eight.
If you are able to meet these qualifications, I assume you will be able to get the job, but my point is this. Obviously, students of engineering, of science, and of commerce would not be interested, since they are already deluged with better offers; but I am afraid that some of the arts and letters students, being both jobless and penniless, might be tempted to go ahead and apply. Well I want it known that I do not approve of Notre Dame graduates working as stewardesses for American or any other airline. What is more, I considei- it extremely low of this company to even propose such a thing. You men have not come to trade school, you know, you have come here for the sake of knowledge, and for a company to tempt you with filthy (ugghh) cash is entirely comparable to something else I once heard about. Something about some woman eating an apple, I think it was. And now that I think of it, this might even smack of payola. What have you to say, R.B.?
AND HOW WAS YOUR VACATION?
Much more recently than I like to think about, I was given the opportunity to come back to this University one week early from Christmas vacation. Surpris
ingly, I found the campus alive with activity. For example, I remember one day very clearly when a leaf fell from the tree in front of Sorin Hall. Why, I’d have talked about it for days, if I could have found anyone to talk to; instead, I kept a diary of the whole time, so that the rest of you wouldn’t have to miss the fun. I call it Walden, after the way I felt.
Mon., Dec. 28, 1959
I have come back to school, an ish not sush a bad ol plashe at that. Why, here I am in my roooom, an thereshe my bed over there. No, ish over there. No, ish making circlesh aroun’ me. I’m glad I’m not on it cause I’d get dizzy. I think I’ll sleep in the sink.
Tues., Dec. 29, 1959. Morning
I don’t feel very well. When I woke up, I thought I was paralyzed, but then I realized that I was still in the sink. I’m certainly glad I’ve already been born — I’d hate to have to go through much of that again. I just looked at my supply of money, and I think I’d better go see if I can find a professor to hit for a loan.
Afternoon
Well, now I know how professors really earn their living. I ran into one of mine, and he sold me a pencil. He looks well in dark glasses, but I don’t like his dog.
Wed., Dec. 30, 1959
Now I don’t have any money at all, because I ran into another professor. I don’t really need an embroidered sampler, but he said his wife made it. Besides, he was using the same dog. I think those guys must have a union. I’m getting a little bit hungry, but I can’t think of anything here to eat, except maybe some... no, I don’t want to do that. I’m not that hungry yet, and besides I have to wash.
Thursday, Dec. 31, 1959. Morning
It’s the last day of the year, and I’m
not quite as hungry. That Dial soap is not too bad if you wash it down with after shave lotion. I wish I hadn’t drunk all of the lotion though, I wanted some for tonight. I feel stronger today and I have thought of a way to keep from starving. I’ll try the plan this afternoon.
Evening
It worked! I found my prof sitting in the gutter in front of the pool hall, and I told him that he could probably find a lot of sympathy if he went inside and tried to sell his pencils there. He had a little trouble getting up, but finally he went in, and while he was gone I stole his dog. I have him back in the room now.
Saturday, Jan. 2, 1960
I regret to say that I can’t remember anything about the first day of the new year. I found some cans of Sterno, and the dog and I had a party. I feel a little bad about having to eat him, but he’s still passed out, and he has such a smile on his face that I don’t really think he’ll mind too much. I don’t have any way to cook him, but I think I’ll give him some more Sterno. By tomorrow, he should be pretty well stewed.
STONED DOGS DO NOT
A DINNER MAKE
Sunday, Jan. 3, 1960
I just got a telephone call from my prof, and he has invited me over for dinner. He says he feels bad about taking all of my money, and he knows when he’s been outsmarted.
»	Evening
There is no justice in this world. I went over to dinner at his house, and it was very good. The prof and I are friends. But when I came back, the dog was gone. AU that was left was a little thank you card, signed “Ziggy.” The pity of it is that by the time they serve the dog, I will have graduated.
January 15, 1960
7
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW!
Shirts Expertly Laundered RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
KODL
OUR COVER: Pity this week's cover artist. With deadline time fast approaching, he is still undecided on a cover idea, and thus is forced to depict himself at deadline time still undecided on a cover idea. It is indeed unfortunate that the rare wit and superb suggestions of those passers-by did not serve to inspire Gerry Wellington to some masterpiece of artistic beauty. Instead, he has given us a view of the SCHOLASTIC artist, as always, hard at work.
U3/YISNV TGDM
KROSSWORD
No. 1
ACROSS
DOWN
L There’s nothing to it
5. Course in figures
9.	Manners minus Mrs.
10.	It’s an earthy plot
11.	Those long black stockings
12.	Binge, dam it!
13.	Luscious Scandinavian import
15. Arrival (abbr.)
17. Sputnik path
19. Political cliques
21. You need a real ________: Kools
26.	Waker-upper
27.	They go around in the movies
28.	Kind of pitcher
30.	Betsy, Barney, Harold, etc.
31.	Part of USSR
33.	Links blast-off spot
34.	Kind of naut
37. Long-short-short foot
39. Kind of security for Goldilocks
41. Early, in Brooklyn
44.	Greek letter
45.	He’s a confused lion
46.	Joint where skirts hang out
47.	Kind of sack
48.	Religious group
49.	Benedict’s first name
1._____Cliburn
2.	Alone, without
3.	Kind of revenue
4.	Profs bastion
5.	Alma and her family
6.	Bitter
7.	Like not being asked to a Prom
8.	There’s one for every him
14.	Loud talker or Oklahoman
15.	Slightly open
16.	A Harry Golden invention?
18. Where you appreciate Kools
20. Ribbed fabric
22.	Adlai’s initials
23.	Outcome of a bird’s nest
24.	Clubthatshould be happy
25.	Sum’s infinitive
29._____around, instrumen tally
30.	Late date
32. Kools have Menthol_________
34.	Gals don’t give ’em right
35.	She came to Cordura
36.	Gladys is, mostly
38. Scandinavian joke?
40. Goddess of Dawn
42.	It’s for kicks
43.	Proposal acceptance
5
10
12
19
26
28
34
39
47
15
ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?"
20
29
21
30
33
38
46
49
61960. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
k®l
When your throat tells you its time for a change, you need a real change
YOU NEED THE
" KGDL°

MILD MENTHOL
8
The Scholastic
Campul Scout
NIXON VOTED ‘PATRIOT OF THE YEAR’
I
Vice Pres, to Address
Senior Day Gathering *
by CHARLES TAUSCHE
Richard Milhous Nixon, Vice President of the United States has been chosen to be the recipient of the 1960 “Patriot of the Year Award” from the ‘ University of Notre Dame. An overwhelming choice of the senior class at * the polls a few months ago, this year’s award winner was one of five candidates nominated for the honor.
Nixon, holding a position once described as the “most anonymous job in the world,” has catapulted to national * and international prominence since taking office as Vice President seven years * ago. His trips to other parts of the world have attracted a great deal of publicity.
His actions in the normal operation of the government, however, make him the 5 most active Vice President in the nation’s history. Aside from his service * on special Presidential committees, he has had an active role in the formulation of governmental policy.
Justice and integrity. “The Patriot of * the Year Award,” won last year by American rocket expert Wernher von Braun, was established in 1954 as part
VICE PRESIDENT NIXON
A Political Version of “Keeping Up With the Kennedys”
of the annual Washington Day exercises held at the University since their institution by the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, founder of Notre Dame. The award is presented each year to an American who has contributed to his country’s welfare in his own particular capacity and whose whole life and career “exemplify the American ideals of justice, personal integrity and service to country.” Public servants, members of the armed forces and public office holders predominate not only among previous award winners, but in the list of nominations presented this year.
Nixon will arrive on Tuesday, February 23, at 8 p.m. While final arrangements for his visit have not been completed, it is certain that in addition to his address at the annual convocation in the Drill Hall he will be a guest at a dinner for senior student leaders given by the president of the University. At the Drill Hall Nixon will be given the citation and the senior class will present a flag to the University.
The significance of the upcoming visit cannot be overlooked. Only a few weeks ago Nixon’s (then) only rival to the Republican party nomination, Governor Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller of New York, visited the same campus where he addressed an audience to determine possible voting strength in the upcoming Republican convention. Shortly afterwards he announced his withdrawal from the race. Now, less than a month later an apparently unopposed candi
date for the same nomination is making the same trip to the campus.
Great opportunity. Certainly the University is most fortunate to be able, in an election year, to see and hear some of the most influential and prospectively powerful men in the country. As potential or- actual voters it is even more important that students have an opportunity to see a man of Nixon’s importance at first hand. As they observe the events of this coming summer and fall perhaps they will be able to make use of the experience gained here on campus.
The Nixon visit, however, must he viewed from another aspect. The fact that the students of the most renowned Catholic university in the country have bestowed on the Vice President this honor is not without political consequences which transcend the campus atmosphere. The question of Catholics in public office in this country, particularly the presidency, has become rather pronounced in the past few years. It appears quite likely that the influence of religion in politics is about to be tested in the conventions and at the polls. While this particular influence is certainly not as strong as in former year's, its actual impact on election results is still questionable.
Viewing the fact that a Catholic candidate for the presidency or vice presidency on the Democratic slate is quite within the realm of possibility, it is consequently more significant that the only apparent candidate for the other party’s nomination to the highest office in the country, although not of that religion, has been selected by the students of the University of Notre Dame as “The Patriot of the Year.” This point will undoubtedly be noted in the press and will thus be presented to the voting public. It could have as diverse effect as the number of voters who read it.
Non-official. It should be made clear that the award is not an official act of the University, and is instead a free choice of the senior class. Nevertheless, the fact that the Vice President will address the student body and receive the honor will be interpreted outside the school with varying political implications.
In 1956 the same award was given to Senator John Kennedy of Massachusetts, another prominent candidate for the presidency. It would be most interesting indeed if the 1960 presidential candidates from both parties are recipients of the awards. It would reflect most favorably on the school that it is thus associated with the men in whose hands our country’s future policy will lie. Regardless of future political events, the Washington Day exercises of 1960 take on added dimension and true significance.
January 15, 1960
9
Dr. Rossini Named Dean of Science College; Leaves Carnegie Tech to Assume Post Here
DR. FREDERICK ROSSINI
Assumes Science Dean Position
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini of the Carnegie Institute of Technology will be the new dean of the University’s College of Science and associate dean of the science Graduate School. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., university president, announced that the appointment will become effective September 1.
Rossini currently is a Silliman professor and presently heading the department of chemistry as well as directing the Chemical and Petroleum Research Laboratory at the Carnegie Institute, located in Pittsburgh, Pa. On arriving at Notre Dame he will succeed Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of Notre Dame’s science school since 1943. Baldinger, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty for more than 30 years, will continue to serve at the University as associate dean, professor of chemistry and counseloi- to the University’s pre-medical students.
Prolific writer. In 1938 Rossini became associated with the National Bureau of Standards, a job he was to hold for 22 years. By 1936 he was the chief of its section of thermo-chemistry and hydrocarbons. It was during this time that Rossini began the scientific writing that has put his name as author or coauthor on eight books and approximately 200 scientific papers.
The leadership that Professor Rossini has exercised in scientific affairs, both in this country and abroad, is well known. From 1955 to 1958 he served as chairman of the National Research Council’s division of chemistry and chemical technology.
Along with Father Hesburgh, Rossini is a member of the Policy Advisory Board for the Argonne National Laboratory, Lemont, Ill., and also serves on the Scientific Advisory Council for the Rock Island Arsenal of the U. S. Army
Ordnance Corps. He has also been a member of the National Science Foundation’s Advisory Panel for Chemistry and its divisional committee for the mathematical, physical and engineering sciences.
Professional honor. Among Professor Rossini’s professional honors is the Hil-lebrand Award of the Chemical Society of Washington, presented in 1934 for his work on the thermo-chemistry of hydrocarbons. He received the U. S. Department of Commerce Gold Medal Exceptional Service Award in 1950, and last year he received the annual Pittsburgh Award of the American Chemical Society section there.
A native of Monongahela, Pa., Rossini received an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering and a master of science degree from Carnegie Tech in 1925 and 1926, respectively. He was awarded a doctorate in chemistry by the University of California in 1928 and delivered the annual P. C. Reilly lectures in chemistry at Notre Dame in 1949. He has also lectured at Western Reserve University, Howard University, the Catholic University of America and at many professional society meetings.
Well degreed. Notre Dame’s College of Science has more than doubled its enrollment during Dr. Baldinger’s tenure as dean. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1929, Baldinger received the annual Lay Faculty Award for distinguished service to the University in 1950. He holds two undergraduate degrees from Western Reseiwe University, Cleveland, as well as a masters’ degree and doctorate awarded by Notre Dame in 1931 and 1933, respectively. He became acting dean of the College of Science in 1942 and was named dean the following year.
DR. LAWRENCE BALDINGER Hands Over Science Post
Repairs Started on Telescope With $1000 University Grant
Work was begun over the Christmas holidays on the repair and cleaning of the telescope which usually stands on , the roof of Nieuwland Science Hall. A grant of $1000 was appropriated by the University for the project which should be completed in about two months.
As a result of the telescope’s repair a class in astronomy may be offered by the College of Science within the next two years.	,
Rev. James L. Shilts, who has been working on the project foi’ the past year, reports that the six-inch refracting telescope must be cleaned, have some mechanism repaired, and broken parts replaced. The lens, which is the heart of the instrument, is in very good condition.	.
The entire telescope today consists of parts of a telescope given to the University in 1866 by Napoleon III and parts made in Cleveland in 1891.
Shaul Receives Rhodes 4 For Studies at Oxford U.
Denny Shaul, last year’s student body president, has been awarded one of 32 Rhodes Scholarships open annually to students in U. S. colleges and universities. He was one of four selected by a District Committee which met in Chi- * cago over the Christmas vacation.
Students from only 18 colleges in the ■« U. S. received Rhodes Scholarships this year. Shaul was the first student at Notre Dame to receive the scholarship since Donald Sniegowski was awarded < one in 1956.
Applicants for the scholarship must submit records of their grades as well as a paper telling of their academic history, * reasons for applying and future scholastic intentions. Those of the original ap- > plicants selected, appear before a State Committee and then before the District ■ Committee. Scholarships are granted on the basis of literary and scholastic ability, qualities of character, leadership i and fondness for and success in sports. *1
Winners of the scholarship receive a I two-year grant to study at the Uni- M versity of Oxford. An annual stipend I of $2100 is sufficient to cover tuition and j board during the 26 weeks of the school .term, as well as living expenses during vacation periods. The scholarship may be renewed for a third year if the ap- * plicant is considered worthy.
Shaul is a senior history major from * Wolverhampton, England and was one | of the organizers of the recently insti- * tuted political clubs. He intends to study philosophy, politics and economics while at Oxford.
Shaul tentatively plans to return to * the United States after his two-year stay at Oxford and attend law school. * Recently, the scholarship winner has been speaking at numerous colleges and universities on the Vienna Youth Festival.
10
The Scholastic
j Fr. McAvoy to Relinquish Head History Post; f Numerous Activities Thought to Force Move
| Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., will I > step down from his post as head of the History Department, it was learned from i' | unofficial sources this week. Because of ; the fact that official University news channels have not yet disclosed full
I details, the Scholastic was unable to ascertain if Father McAvoy’s tenure > will end with this semester or the end * of the year. His successor has not yet been appointed.
i * Active editor. Father McAvoy’s numerous other commitments and activities are considered to be the motive for relinquishing his post with the history department. Since 1942, Father has been . managing editor of the Review of J Politics; due to the illness of Professor M. A. Fitzsimmons, editor of the Review, ; Father McAvoy has also been taking , over many of the editor’s duties. In his [	capacity as managing editor, Father
; McAvoy handles production chores for ;	the Review, including such things as
; > circulation. He was also acting editor of the publication during 1955.
* In addition, Father McAvoy has long held the post of University archivist, and has done much research in collecting material for the Notre Dame Ar. chives’ microfilm collection of docu-j ments on the history of the Catholic l * Church in America. Many of the docu-' ments were gathered by Father McAvoy » in the course of his travels in Europe beginning in 1951.
Father McAvoy, who is vice president of the American Catholic Historical Ass’ sociation, has penned such books as The
Four New Directors Elected
4 To N.D.'s Alumni Association
Four new directors of The Notre Dame Alumni Association were installed at a campus meeting of the Association’s 1 twelve-man board yesterday. The newly । * elected directors were chosen for three I years in nation-wide balloting among I * Notre Dame’s 27,000 alumni.
They are Maurice Carroll, ’19, St. Louis, Mo.; George Connor, ’48, Chicago, Ill.; William P. Mahoney, Jr., ’39, Phoenix, Ai-iz.; Harry Mehre, ’22, Atlanta, Ga. Connor and Mehre, won football monograms at Notre Dame * while Mahoney was captain and later coach (1938-40) of the University’s I track team. A
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., addressed the association at a dinner : yesterday at 7 p.m. at the Morris Inn. '•* They also heard reports by other University officials on the school’s admis-t. sions, placement, development and athle-■ tic programs.
A highlight of the meeting was the :	election of new officers of the Association
for 1960.
FATHER THOMAS McAVOY Steps Down in History Department
Great Crisis in American Catholic History: 1895-1900 and The Catholic Church in Indiana.
Frequent contributions of articles on American Church History have been made by Father McAvoy. His more recently published articles include “The American Catholic Minority after the Americanist Crisis,” which appeared in the Image of Man, an anthology of best articles from the Review of Politics, and “Bishop John Lancaster Spalding and the Catholic Minority,” published in the January, 1959, issue of the Review of Politics.
Card. Cushing to Honor Three with Scholarships
Next September freshmen from the Archdiocese of Boston will have the opportunity to be awarded one of three new University of Notre Dame scholarships named for His Eminence Richard Cardinal Cushing. Two of the full-tuition scholarships will be underwritten by Cardinal Cushing himself, and the other has been established in his honor by the Notre Dame club of Boston. All three will provide tuition for four years of undergraduate study at Notre Dame.
Establishment of the three Cardinal Cushing scholarships was announced at the Boston observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday.
Scholarship winners will be selected by the University’s Committee on Scholarships on the basis of superior scholastic performance, personal character, promise of leadership and financial need. Applications may be obtained from the University Committee on Scholarships.
J., jbauid Otte
BLUE MONDAY
Things were slow and tedious at, this past Senate meting, but we’ll say it was just a Blue Monday.	-
Disappointingly, the Senate took a dive this week, and plunged to a trying low for the year. After four yawn-filled and amply-worded hours had passed, and only two issues had been decided, the group called it quits. It was* a good idea; things hadn’t gone too well.
Most importantly, the NFCCS dues question arose again this week. The motion presented by John Clark and Bill Shecklei* asked for the approval of the “independent collection” of the fifty cents per student yearly NFCCS dues. It also moved the okay for the registration day’s collection of a quarter for the other half of this school year’s dues. (A quarter was collected at last fall’s registration.)
Those in favor talked of how worthwhile the NFCCS is, how badly they need money to become even better, how vital the group is to the lay apostolate, and how they actually are benefitting the students. Those against stressed the organizational set-up, the lack of tangible results, the money already given, and the numerous programs that spread the resources too thinly. The bona fide arguments were sound and well-presented.
A 12-10 roll call vote defeated the motion, at least for now.
Father Bernard, who had sat through all the pro and con, pointed out an elusive but vital aspect that had not been mentioned. The NFCCS had been denied the chance to try to get another quarter from the students. If given a chance, the response could be a bellwether. He said that it had already been decided to support the NFCCS, and the same with the NSA, but it was now a matter of degree, and the students should determine this. Father Bernard’s was the most concise and penetrating comment of the lot.
The appropriation of the Distinguished 'Speaker Funds was also tedious. Money was okayed for Harold Gardiner, SJ. who spoke here Wednesday. The contracting of Robert M. Hutchins to speak * next October was also allowed, but only after a swarm of considerations. In addition, Professor William D’Antonio was given permission to arrange the symposium “Power and American Democracy” for next November.
Always thinking ahead, the Senate announced that spring elections will he held Thursday, April 7, and nominations will open from March 25 and close April 1. Circle your calendars now.
January 15, 1960
11
Lottery Registration Set For Mardi Gras Tickets
Procedures to be followed to apply for a bid for the Mardi Gras Ball, which will feature the Buddy Morrow orchestra, were announced this week by the Mardi Gras committee.
“La Nuit Enchantee,” the Mardi Gras Ball, will be held in the North Dining Hall on Feb. 26 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Because of the limited number of tickets available, tickets will be guaranteed only to those who sell ten raffle books.
Fox- the sale of the remaining tickets the new lottery system will be used, insuring everyone an equal chance to obtain a bid. Students may apply by Alling out an IBM card in the lobbies of their respective Dining Halls on Feb. 4 between 1:30 and 5, or 7 and 9 p.m. and also on Feb. 5 between 1:30 and 5 p.m. Off-campus students should apply in the South Dining Hall. Everyone desiring to apply must appear in person and present his ID card.
Early drawing. The drawing will be held at 5:30 on Feb. 5 and lists of those names drawn will be published as soon as possible in the Huddle, the Dining halls and the Mardi Gras office in the LaFortune Student Center.
Those eligible for bids will be able to buy them for $5 in the Drill Hall on Feb. 11 between 7 and 9 p.m. These students may also arrange accommodations for their dates and buy tickets for the Dukes of Dixieland Concert (Feb. 27) at the same time. Others may purchase Concert tickets at a future date.
Initiating the University’s biggest social week end, the Mardi Gras Ball will feature Buddy Morrow and his “Night Train” orchestra. Soft lights and a bubbling fountain will help to provide the mood for “La Nuit Enchantee.” The climax of the first evening will be reached when the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University crowns the Mardi Gras Queen.
BUDDY MORROW “Night Train” Coming
'Tiger at Hie Gates' Scheduled for Feb. Run; Called One of the Most Shocking Plays of Era
A play that many critics in New York, London and Paris declared to be “one of the most shocking of our time,” is scheduled for presentation by the University Theater running Feb. 11-13 and 18-20. It is Tiger at the Gates, written by the French playwright Jean Gi-raudoux and adapted into English by Christopher Fry.
Inevitable war. The shocking quality of the play was not due to any mere moral grounds, but to its ironic comment on the future of humanity. Its theme is that despite all efforts of men of peace and good will, wars are inevitable.
In the form of an allegory about the characters of Helen, Paris, Hector and Ulysses of the Homeric legend, the play when first presented in France in 1935 was satirically entitled The Trojan War Will Not Take Place, and was a warning to those who still vividly remembered World War I, that a more frightful World War II was sure to come. Within four years the author’s dismaying prophesy was tragically fulfilled.
Despite the seriousness of the play’s
To Show Latin Drawings In University's Galleries
An exhibition of 34 drawings by leading artists from 11 Latin-American countries will be on view at the University of Notre Dame galleries in O’Shaughnessy Hall through Jan. 31.
The show was organized by Jose Gomez Sicre of the Pan-American Union and is now on a nation-wide tour under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Including almost every contemporary trend in international art, the exhibition was first presented at the Pan American Union in Washington, D. C.
The drawings are executed in charcoal, pen and ink, brush and ink, felt point, silver point and quill pen. Among the artists represented are Fuino Ra-mayo and Jose Luis Cuevas of Mexico; Alejandro Obregon and Eduardo Ramirez of Colombia; Amelia Pelaez, Wil-fredo Lam. and Cundo Bermudez of Cuba; Aidemir Martins of Brazil; Raquel Forner and Florinda Testa of Argentina.
TOP TEN
St. Edward’s ....$432....$ 1380....31.4 % Breen-Phillips $532....$2580—20.6 % Stanford ....$565....$2910.... 19.5 %
Keenan ......$593—$3090... 19.2%
Farley ......$602....$3160... 19.1 %
Pangborn ____$400.—$2200.... 18.2 %
Zahm ........$572—$3320—17.3%
Dillon ______$737....$4440—16.6 %
Morrissey ___$550—$3800— 14.9 %
Alumni ......$460. ...$3300... 13.9%
theme, its tone is comic as it debunks the classic figures of the Trojan War. < Its action is laid in the king’s palace in Troy when Hector, returning trium- < . phantly from a minor war, finds his country on the verge of embroilment in a major war with the Greeks because his brother Paris has abducted Helen. To Hector this fabulous beauty may have a face that launched a thousand * ships, but she also has the petty spirit of thousands of chippies. A war over * such a shallow, kittenish girl seems a senseless disaster that he must try to prevent.
He shows Helen and Paris that their romance is as bogus as that of a pair of modern movie actors who only go out ", together in order to be mentioned in gossip columns. Helen allows herself to be 4 4 persuaded to go back to Greece, and Paris with similar casualness agrees to let her go.
Patriots? But this is only Hector’s first and easiest hurdle to peace. He » must also cope with various loud-mouths among his countrymen who talk glibly f of national honor, glory, pride — the super-patriots who love wars but will themselves never have to fight. And he must also cope with aggressive bullies among the Greeks, like Ajax.
Finally, however, Hector has a states- * manly meeting with the leader of the Greeks, the courageous and intelligent •* Ulysses, who doesn’t think peace is possible, but is willing to try to achieve it. The two men prove theii’ greatness by reconciling their differences. They agree that the Trojan War Will Not Take Place.
But, as every schoolboy knows, it did take place, after all. The best intentions * of the great-hearted leaders to achieve peace are frustrated by the Tiger at the * Gates, which some commentators interpreted as being the irresponsibility of fools, or perhaps man’s fate, or unchangeable destiny.
The production of Tiger at the Gates in New York won it the New York Dra- * ma Critics’ Circle Award as the best play of the season of foreign author- *■ ship, and also stirred up a storm of controversy among those contending ’ that in a time when warfare can be nuclear’ and suicidal, a third, cataclysmic World War can be avoided, and those who contended that just as Giraudoux’s K play was truly prophetic in 1935, so it will always be true about the inevita- * bility of wars, whether atomic or not.
In The University Theater’s production, John Smith plays Hector; Elizabeth Young and Michael Ehrenreich have the roles of the shallow lovers, Helen and Paris; Mary Armbruster and 4 Diane Crowley will be seen as Andromache and Casandra; and David Me- * Donald will portray Ulysses. Other prominent roles are filled by Carol Finn as Hecuba, Richard Kavanaugh as De-mokos, and William Barth as Priam.
12
The Scholastic
i 'Bengal Bouts' to Get Under Way March 28; ' Expect Competition to Draw Former Kings
!l With the sound of the opening bell on the evening of March 28, the twenty' ninth edition of the Notre Dame Bengal
* Bouts will get underway in the Field House. The semi-final and final rounds will be staged on the nights of March
'	30 and April 1. Billed as the “top
campus attraction of the year,” the Ben-gals have regularly been a spring hight light at Notre Dame. The profits of the I bouts are regularly donated to the Holy * Cross Missions in East Pakistan, India.
' Higher goal. Hoping to reach a goal of $4,000 for this missionary effort, Campus Council 1477 of the Knights of Columbus, which sponsors the bouts, !" have selected Joe Hilger, a senior from | Columbus, Ind. to promote the coming * tourney.
1	. Since late October, Hilger has had
r 30 to 50 Knights working on the project, which will not be fully completed until the end of the school year. The com. mittee has followed the format of previ-r out tournies in preparing this year’s ;	three-day boxing show. It has drawn up
n * a fight card of ten weight divisions, H ranging from a 127-lb. class to a heavyweight class, and will award individual trophies in each of the divisions. Be'	sides these awards, two additional tro-
[	phies will be given. To the fighter that
shows the most sportsmanship in the bouts will go the Sportsmanship Award, 1 * donated by “The Huddle.” The Father Ryan Trophy will be presented to the outstanding boxer in the preliminaries who does not reach the semi-finals. It / is donated by a friend of Notre Dame and the late Fr. Ryan.
The history of the bouts actually begins in 1931 when the Scholastic sponsored a one-night tournament in what is 4 now the fencing room of the Fieldhouse. The proceeds were sent on to the Holy , Cross Fathers in India. The K. of C.
Council here on campus took over in 1946 and expanded the project to its present-day scope.
v
One, two, three. Ever since those v beginning days of 1931, Mr. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano, the coach and in-j, structor of this year’s fighters, has been connected with the bouts, officially or unofficially. Except for three years during the second World War, when he was in A the Navy, “Nappy” has been as much a part of the Bengal Bouts as the ring » and equipment used by the fighters. Also traditional as “Nappy” to the Bengals is his threefold program to get his boys . . . “in good shape, teach ’em the fundamentals, and then see to it that they’re as evenly matched as possible.” Each fight in the Bengals consists of three two-minute rounds, Dr. Jerome * Crowley, the University physician, will be on hand for all the fights and the . referee is instructed to stop any fight when it seems a fighter can be hit at will.
“NAPPY” NAPOLITANO
Coach of Bengals since 1931
Last year’s finalists who are eligible for this year’s competition are: Mike Morrow, Bill McCoy, Sam Haffey, Pat Arnoult, Pat Hagood, Bill “Red” Mack, Joe Anderson, Leo Krzywkowski, Bob Pietrzak and Ken Adamson.
SI praise. Several years ago Sports Illustrated ran an article hailing the Bengal Bouts as one of the best examples of amateur boxing it had witnessed. This is a fact that has been authenticated by the growth of a tradition in fighters, the spectators, and in the Knights who work on its organization and promotion.
Those Knights responsible for this year’s bouts are: Dave Cormier, assistant promoter; Joe Finster, public relations; Tom Kroner, secretary; Ed McKeown, business manager; Dan Fusco, assistant business manager; Dick Gelson, banquet; Roger Jenkins, trophies; Armand Bobrick, Carl Hall, Dick Howell, concessions; Tom Sleeper and Tom Miller, programs; Ken Murphy, publicity and Chris Monahan, alumni relations. Tickets will be handled by Tom Moynahan, John Juliano, John Ferdinand and Art Barille.
—Tom Schlereth
TWO WEEKS LEFT
Foreign students at Notre Dame are reminded that all aliens living in the United States on January 1 are required by law to register by January 31. They may fulfill this obligation by obtaining an address report card at any U. S. post office, (including the Notre Dame branch), filling it out, and handing it in person to a postal clerk. The card must not be mailed.
NEWS BRIEFS
Three specialized study groups sponsored by the departments of chemistry, business administration and communication arts will hold sessions at Notre Dame during the summer months this year.
Supported by a National Science Foundation grant of $64,400, the science institute, extending from June 18 to August 3, will consist of two separate study programs under the direction of Dr. Emil T. Hofman, assistant professor of chemistry. The basic institute program includes a complete and independent six-credit teacher training course of two lectures daily and two four-hour laboratory sessions each week.
An extended institute program will be offered to about 35 teachers who completed the basic teacher training program at a similar institute held here last year. Applicants for the program must make application to Professor Emil Hoffman of the department of Chemistry by February 16.
A total of eight graduate business courses tailored specifically to the needs of members of religious communities will be offered by the College of Commerce during its 1960 summer session from June 17 to August 2. The courses are part of the Master of Business Administration Program, six-year-old brain child of the Commerce School, which is designed to provide advanced professional training for teachers of business subjects and administrators of Catholic hospitals and other institutions.
Brochures describing the Master of Business Administration Program are available from Dr. William F. Eagan, Director, Commerce Summer Graduate Program,- Box 86, Notre Dame, Ind.
Two series of summer Workshops in Writing will be sponsored this year by the department of communication arts.
Designed primarily for those handling communications problems in schools, the three-week workshops will be held June 20 to July 8 and July 11 to 29.
Such workshops as “Teaching Students How to Write for the School Paper and Yearbook,” by Professor James Withey; “Scriptwriting,” “Printing and Engraving,” and “Designing the School Paper and Yearbook” by Professor Edward Fischer; and “Teaching Literature,” by Professor Robert Christin will be offered. Additional information on Notre Dame’s Workshops in Writing may be obtained from Professor Thomas J. Stritch.
Thirteen members of the University of Notre Dame faculty and administration have been appointed to a planning committee for the new campus library.
The planning committee will evaluate faculty suggestions and make recommendations on the character and functions of the projected library to the University administration.
Notre Dame alumni are being asked to underwrite one-half the cost of the building, estimated at six millon dollars. Nonalumni friends and benefactors are expected to contribute an equal amount for the library: An architect will be engaged in the near future. It is hoped that the architect’s plans will be completed and that construction may begin before the end of 1960.
January 15, 1960
13
Phone for the road
These days more Americans are going places than ever before, and we’re doing our best to keep up with them.
Our best is a new, ultracompact mobile telephone system provided by our subsidiary, Automatic Electric.
This development moves the telephone right in beside the driver. Ibu can make calls—or get them—on the highway just as though you were sitting at home.
This mobile telephone service is yours to enjoy right now in many of our exchange areas. And it will soon be available in the other communities served by General Telephone in 31 states.
This is a typical example of how we use research—not only to meet today’s communications needs, but to answer tomorrow’s.

Ai
GENERAL
® TELEPHONE & ELECTRON LOS
\mn»J
Al
14
The Scholastic
G^iiical eMvujonA
WIWRISTS
by TOM SHAFFER
“Vox populi vox Dei.” ’
T1 HAT’s Latin, but despite that (Latin always upsets people), the state Capitol of a prosperous fanning state displays it in marble ovex- the main door. It means, “The voice of the people is the voice of God,” and is attributed, I think, to Rousseau. The idea wasn’t of any importance to the people of this particular state until ten or twelve years ago when one of the party conventions voted to campaign for the abolition of winter.
A spokesman announced to the press that, in his pai-ty’s opinion, the whole ice-and-snow, chains-on-your-tires, sub-zero nonsense had outlived its usefulness. They advocated: (1) no temperatures below 50°F. any time; (2) no ice, (3) no snow, (4) no December, January or February. (Three new months were to be named, after former governors and were to be extensions of a moderate November.)
Some division of opinion arose over the matter; there was, in fact, enough of a controversy that no one even remembers the original names of the parties involved. They are historically known as the Nine-Monthers (or League for Torrid Tropical Temperature) and the Winterists (a shortened form of Society for the Defense of the Sanctity of the Calender). Their campaigns were well financed by interested corporations (citrus fruit growers on one side; beach wear manufacturers on the other).
The Winterists’ position was admittedly easier; the conservative always has easy going at first, because he has tradition to rely on. Winterist candidates gave TV talks amidst swirling artificial snow, with ice skaters all around them and jolly old snowmen tacitly applauding every robust defense of cold. Songs about winter wonderlands, sleigh bells, evergreens and fishing through the ice were standard devices.
Winterist strategy went so far as to construe the Nine-Monther platform as being essentially an attack by pragmatism upon (1) Christmas and (2) the Gregorian calendar. An advertising agency suggested this misrepresentation — and falsehood it clearly was since Nine-Monthers sought to eliminate only cold and, as a necessary incident of that, winter. At any rate the agency thought that picturing the Nine-Monthers as radicals would stir up antagonism from proponents of Christmas, since all right-thinking people believe in Christmas (even if they haven’t any idea of what it means) and from Catholics, since Pope Gregory VIII, a Catholic, established the present-day calendar. Religious issues are usually hot, but this one was relatively safe since most Protestants, Jews and othei- Americans may be supposed to believe in twelve months a year.
Like the idealistic liberals they were the Nine-Monthers ignored the emotional attack and stayed to the simple data of human experience: cold is, after all, worse than warm; and if people want to be warm, well, the voice of the people is the voice of God. They didn’t pretend to be saying what the voice of God was; they merely wanted to find out what it was. What better way than a democratic election?
The Nine-Monthers had volumes of statistics to show higher incidences of broken bones in winter, strained muscles from putting on car chains and heart attacks from shoveling snow. They imported hula girls; they showed, by expert agricultural evidence, how, with winter gone, you could grow bananas even in Minnesota. They had giant posters showing a doctor—or, at any rate, somebody in a white coat—pointing thumbs down at a snowball, and a dentist, with one of those combination mirrors and ice picks they use, who said that extreme cold contributed to bad breath.
To placate Catholics, who were aroused over possible corruption of the Gregorian calendar, Nine-Monthers had a cardinal-archbishop say that Pope Gregory himself wouldn’t have minded abolishing winter if he had only known about the voice of the people being the voice of God. Just for good measure, the leader of the state Council of Churches said the same of Martin Luther, Ulrich Zwingli and the Archbishop of Canterbury.
There was a certain amount of pressure group tactics involved in the campaign; one outfit, a blind for snow tire manufacturers, called itself the Right-to-Freeze-if-you-Want-to Committee.
The case looked particularly good for the Nine-Monthers, despite a giant ice-skating party thrown by the Winterists on election-eve, at which free hot chocolate and other, more volatile warmers-up, were distributed.. When the ballots were counted, Nine-Monthers had captured all the key offices in the state, the minority in the legislature being divided between Winterists (who came to sessions on skis) and a moderate party which advocated abolition only of sub-zero temperatures.
The Nine-Monthers took office in January. In secret sessions, the leadership found itself in quite a quandary since,
even though the voice of the people, and presumably the voice of God, was clear, no one knew exactly how to implement it. A lame public announcement was made to the effect that winter wouldn’t be abolished until the next year.
The next year came and it was just about as cold as usual; the Nine-Monthers claimed legal difficulties and temporized for another year. Finally, the summer before the next election, a statute passed both houses of the legislature outlawing winter and temperatures below 40° (a concession, this last, since the platform set a minimum of 50°), and the governor signed it.
The motto, vox populi, vox Dei, was outlined in gilt letters to commemorate the occasion and faithful Nine-Monthers erected a pile of discarded snow shovels on the lawn in front of the Governor’s Mansion.
Fortunately for tradition — if tradition is fortunate — the state Supreme court niled on the statute the day of the year’s first sign of snow (which melted as soon as it fell since the temperature that day was a comfortably legal 41°). The suit contesting the statute had been brought by the owner of a floor furnace factory.
The court said that abolition of winter deprived the complainant of property without due process of law; the abolition statute was unconstitutional.
The Nine-Monthers were soundly defeated in the next election. There was some grumbling about the court’s following sociology instead of law, but nothing was ever done about it.
January 15, 1960
15
THE SETTING OF CLASSICAL LOGIC
by IVO THOMAS, O.P.
WHAT IS CLASSICAL LOGIC?
■|7 R. ALBERT MENNE (Logik und Existenz, 1954, Anm. 34) has proposed the following distinction: classical logic — the formal logic founded by Aristotle, developed by the medieval scholastics among others, and then transmitted during several centuries with little essential change; traditional logic — those presentations of logic which, along with portions of the classical logic, contain also epistemological, psychological, and methodological treatises and doctrines. The distinction is evidently not hard and fast, for there are numerous methodological considerations in Aristotle’s Organon, metaphysical discussions are not wholly lacking in the medieval logicians, and traditional logic as defined above is admitted to contain the classical logic to a varying extent. Indeed Fr. Menne himself at once proceeds to speak of ‘the classical, traditional, “old” logic’ in contrast to contemporary logistic. But it is clear that he wishes to delimit a core of purely formal logic which began with Aristotle, from accretions properly belonging to other disciplines which from the time of Kant onward came increasingly to claim the name of logic, often to the complete exclusion of any formal treatment. We ourselves should prefer to make a further distinction between formal logic as it was creatively developed by the medievals through the 15th century, and that restricted, debased and largely sterile variety of it which took its rise towards the end of that period under the influence of humanists and rhetoricians, and has survived here and there into our own day. It is to this last that we shall give the name ‘classical logic,’ in contrast to the variously called modern, mathematical or symbolic logic which is the only true heir of any creative periods in the past history of purely formal logic.
BEGINNINGS OF LOGIC
The claim of Aristotle made at the close of the De Sophis-ticis Elenchis that before him nothing existed at all in logic, that ‘on the subject of reasoning we had nothing else of an earlier date to speak of at all, but were kept at work for a long time in experimental researches,’ seems to be substantially justified. We can, of course, find earlier instances of logical laws in use, sometimes stated with a certain appreciation of universal form, but evidence of previous systematic isolation of and research into logical form, or of the construction of any formal system, is lacking. What was this creation of Aristotle’s? Its central and most developed part was what we know as the ‘syllogistic,’ which comprises two theories, viz., categorical and modal syllogistic. The former is concerned with logical consequences of combinations of such propositional forms as ‘All a is b,’ ‘Some a is b,’ the latter extends the types of forms considered by associating with them the qualifications ‘necessary’ and ‘possible.’ It is disputed whether the laws of the syllogistic are in general implicative forms, which become conditional sentences when the variables are replaced by suitable terms from ordinary language, or whether they are not rather generalized schemes of valid inference. A definite answer in either direction would miss the point that Aristotle did not explicitly make the distinction, so that if we could consult him on the matter he would perhaps have had to pause for thought and make an option. The two systems to which the two interpretations give rise would in any case have a certain recognizable community of structure. What is certain is that Aristotle employed variables to exhibit generality, and based his system on axioms which,
moreover, he showed himself capable of revising in the in- <| terests of brevity. These were two great inventions which remain part of the primitive capital of logicians. They were by no means perfect as they came from their inventor, but great inventions are seldom incapable of improvement in their original state. Conspicuously lacking were recognition of the distinction between real and apparent variables, and of the part which rules of operation must have in any formal sys-tern. To be classed with this last defect is the absence of a logic of propositions, for this could be presented as a system of rules, of a kind which is needed for performing in an accurate and systematic way the operations which are employed in developing the syllogistic. Propositional logic, in isolation from syllogistic or other applications, was developed by the Stoics (2nd Century B.C.) and would be to some extent re-	‘
discovered in the Middle Ages. Hints of this exist in Aris-	j
totle, as also of, inter alia,, a logic of relations, a domain which,	n
unlike the others we have mentioned, has as yet been by no	I
means fully explored.	.
MEDIEVAL DEVELOPMENTS	I
From the time of Abelard (12th century) on, logic was f very enthusiastically investigated in the medieval schools. Besides their inheritance from the ancient world, in which respect we must add the influence of Boethius to that of Aristotle, they developed also distinctive treatises and methods of their own, principally concerned with semantic considerations. In analyzing one such work, the De Suppositionibus of St. Vincent Ferrer O.P. (written in 1372), we remarked some years ago that ‘we have found modern logical interests touched on in quite a number of places, conspicuously in connection with the existential import of universal propositions, different kinds * of existence, propositions referring to themselves, numerical predicates, use and mention of terms, syllogistic and other kinds of argument, analysis and reconstruction of various kinds of propositions.’ By that time it is obvious that syllogistic investigations had taken a back place, though the regular practice of lecturing on the Organon in the schools ensured the continuance of detailed commentaries in that field. But such characteristic works as the Pemtilis Logica of Albertu-cius, the De Puritate Artis Logicae of Walter Burleigh, the Summa Totius Logicae of William of Ockham, (all in the 14th century), or the vast Logica Magna of Paul of Venice (15th century) give the syllogistic a very subordinate place.
DECAY IN THE RENAISSANCE
Writing about 1460, the humanist scholar John Argyropu-los says in his Dialectica ad Petrum de Medicis (Monte Cas- * sino, 1943) that while he well knows that Aristotle had shown that the last two of his first figure moods of syllogism could * be reduced to (or as we should say, derived from) the first two, this is rather a difficult matter and he will pass over it. Further on, in alluding to the doctrine of supposition of terms, he says that this is a long business to explain and contributes almost nothing to proficiency in oratory (ad usum oratorium affert pene nihil). These remarks are very significant. In the * first place, the reductions referred to would nowadays be considered a matter of quite trivial ease, and were certainly *■ clearly enough understood by any competent logician of the time. Yet here is a man writing a handbook of logic who professes himself unable to deal with the matter readily. From the same humanistic background, at about the same
16
The Scholastic
time, we might quote the remark of Rudolph Agricola in his De Inventione Dialectica that it is not much trouble to acquire an exact and thorough knowledge of the ‘topics/ since they readily occur to the mind and are too obvious to require learning. Yet in fact (as Dr. Otto Bird has brought to our attention) the topical tradition was quite a rich and compli-t cated one and comprised a substantial portion of medieval logic. There is, indeed, abundant and explicit evidence that * these humanists, while continuing to write on logic, had abandoned such good standards as were available to them. The second quoted remark of Argyropulos shows how rhetorical interests predominated in their minds. The classical logic, as we have defined this, was taking shape.
>- TEXTBOOKS OLD AND NEW
The media of logical exposition have in all periods com* prised commentaries, textbooks and special treatises. The textbook has been especially characteristic of the classical logic owing to the general practice of making some logical study a prerequisite of training in philosophy. It is our belief that the early establishment of this tradition, directed to min-
Father Thomas graduated with 1st Class Honors in “Greats” from Queen’s College, Oxford, and since his ordination in 1940 as a Dominican he has taught logic and theology, with his present position as visiting professor at Notre Dame beginning in 1958. He has recently completed the forthcoming English edition of J. M. Bochenski’s Formale Logik.
* imal requirements at an elementary level, has not on the whole assisted the development of logic. Commentators, , whether of the Greek, medieval, renaissance or modern periods have made valuable contributions to our understanding of the text of Aristotle, and to a lesser degree to the advancement of the science. Stoic treatises, all lost to us, medieval and modem ones, have achieved real progress, sometimes reflected in textbooks, as was the case with the widely used 13th cent tury Summttlae, and as can be said of various textbooks of modem logic. But in the classical period, textbooks became y narrow in vision, repetitive, and often careless and lacking in understanding on the authors’ part, so that classical logic, as chiefly represented by them, has acquired a bad name among those whose tradition stems from the logical renaissance effected by Boole, Schroeder, Frege and others in the latter half of the 19th century.
SOME FAIR SAMPLES
A typical cross-section is provided by a survey of the books available to, and likely to be read by an Oxford undergraduate towards the end of the 17th century. In the correspondence contained in the two volumes of The Flemings in Oxford (J. R. Magrath, Oxford Hist. Soc. XLIV, LXII) we
January 15, 1960
find Henry Fleming taking with him. to college in 1678 Prae-cepta Doctrinae Logicae by J. Stierius, Tractatus quidam Logid de Praedicabilibus et Praedicamentis by E. Brerewood, Logicae Artis Compendium by R. Sanderson, a manuscript Compendium of Logick presumably compiled by his father who retained some interest in the subject from his own student days, Aditus ad Logicam by Samuel Smith, and Dr. Newton’s English Academy. In the course of his first year he bought ‘Logicks’ by Crakanthorp Smiglesius, and Masius, to which in the next year he added Isendoom’s Logick and Scribler’s Topicks. Sanderson provided the principal medium of instruction, as we see from a letter dated Sept. 28, 1678: ‘My tutor reads to me once for ye most part every day, and sometimes twice, in Sanderson’s logick wich book is all he reads to me as yet, where in I have read two of ye first books, and part of ye third. . . . My cousin Henry. . . . Mr. Dixon reads ye same book to him yt he reads to me but not soe often.’ This book, first issued in 1615, went through at least twelve editions, the last appearing in 1841. With this long run we may compare that of the still more famous Artis Logicae Compendium by Henry Aldrich which was printed at least twenty times from 1691 through 1862. The Sanderson is a relatively favorable example of its kind, being almost completely free from the Ramist and rhetorical influences which had in many quarters thinned the classical logic almost out of its already tenuous existence. There is some treatment of the medieval contributions (and who is to say how compendious a compendium should be?), but the syllogistic is, as in this whole tradition, central, and, again as in this whole tradition, impei-fectly dealt with. The deduction of the number of figures is botched, and the moods incompletely listed. Moreover there are asserted to exist some moods which on Sanderson’s definitions have no right to existence under pain of inconsistency. The Stoic logic is asserted to be ‘nothing, else than a chaos of precepts or rather of examples of sophistic catches’ — but greater men than Sanderson fell under this misapprehension until the most recent times. Of the other printed books of formal logic among those listed, the Smith (8th edn. 1667) bases its syllogistic on rhetorical canons which have nothing to do with logic and is even more incomplete. Newton’s The English Academy was one of the first books of logic to appear in English since the pioneers, Wilson’s The Rule of Reason (1551) and Blundeville’s The Art of Logicke (1599). To the logical mind, its description of the syllogistic is simply incomprehensible. The Isendoom (1654), an importation from the Low Countries, does the syllogistic rather better (as by the end of 720 pages it should!) and even ventures beyond the three-term syllogism into the sorites. But this is treated with such lack of generality that he allows only those which do not have a particular proposition in the second or third place, or a particular negative anywhere. The Stierius (1667) is a book entirely composed of bracketed schemes in the Ramist tradition, the kind of (unreliable) scheme of the year’s work which a diligent but slightly befuddled student might make the day before his examination. The Crakanthorp (1621, 1641, 1670, 1677) is a book of the same type as Sanderson’s, but how hopelessly unauthoritative is shown by the remark: ‘How many different moods of syllogism there are, it is difficult to define.’
TWO SCHOLASTICS
We have made no estimate of the value of the topical books in Fleming’s library, but a word may be said on the two items from continental scholasticism. Diadacus Masius was a Spanish Dominican. Fleming’s book may have been the Dialectica, unknown to us, or his commentary on the Organon, in reality a brief paraphrase followed by some disputed questions (1592). The discussions show considerable reading in the authors of the past, but an explicit rejection of much medieval logic with a consequent narrowing of interest. The psychologism which became a marked feature of the classical tradition is also in evidence. Martin Smiglecius was a Polish Jesuit, whose Logica received his superior’s approbation in 1616, was first published at Ingolstadt in 1618, and came to be printed in Oxford a number of times during the century. It consists of immensely long discussions in which there are certainly points of interest, but the attitude is in general metaphysical rather than logical and stems from rather a different background to that which we have been discussing.
17
Pigskin Reverie
THE general structure of a student forum is this: Two more or less distinguished faculty members give their views on opposite sides of the evening’s topic after which the discussion is given over to those attending. Last Sunday night’s student forum took this form and followed it with a dulling and deathly accuracy.
The topic was, “Are Big-Time Football and High Academic Standards Compatible,” with Professor Willis Nutting defending the negative and Professor Edward Cronin defending the affirmative.
After qualifying the term football to the special kind played here, i.e., clean; wholesome; fun for all; Professor Nutting showed how, in his opinion, the intellectual and moral values traceable to football were out of keeping with the sole purpose of the academic community: the training of intellects. He blamed football for setting up a system of “approvals” of athletes which should be reserved for distinguished students and further indicted football for placing an “un-Christian” emphasis on victory for its own sake.
Professor Cronin came next and after 15 minutes of telling why he didn’t want to speak anyway, presented a talk which is best described as: “Athletes I have known, liked, thought
were Christian gentlemen, enjoyed watching perform and I am not anti-intellectual even though I may sound that way.”
Finally the crux of the issue was arrived at, “What about all the money and prestige that the University gets out of football.”
Dr. Nutting allowed again that it is not prestige or money that a university should seek and Dr. Cronin pointed out that man is composed of a body and soul — a very interesting fact if he can prove it.
The debate, somehow having reached the floor, in a number of senses, was finally discarded completely and things deteriorated from their unelevated original state to bedlam. People were turning to other- people and saying things like, “Gee, I like football! don’t you?” To which othei’ people were snarling, “No. I liked Dr. Nutting ’cause I had him in class and it was interesting and he gave me a four.”
Then a student with an obviously anti-climactic turn of mind stood up and to the consternation of all present gave his ‘personal resume’ of the entire debate. Seeing no apparent end to the fight I began to leave but as I was walking out I heard some rather heated talk about “putting on the gloves” and now I found that the entire body are “suiting up.” Both sides have met and decided on a system of rules for the contest to be held in the stadium on the first warm Saturday. The game when played looks surprisingly like football and I anxiously await the outcome (final score).
Tom Sullivan
4
XlsLASfeW
Not Yet Begun
Z^NCE again the Student Senate is to be commended for its fine choice of speaker for the second of its series of Distinguished Lectures. It was recently said of the Wednesday night guest that “no one has made more sense out of the problem of literature and morality, art and prudence than Father Harold Gardiner.” In a talk on censorship in the Engineering auditorium, the prolific literary editor of America magazine attempted to make sense out of the muddle most Catholics find themselves in regarding what the Church does and does not say about freedom and repression in the media of cultural exchange. The speaker offered no new thought on the perplexing theoretical aspects of art and morality, but he defined, in what might have been the class lecture of a catechism teacher, the postive laws we are required to obey. Those of the audience who were familiar with the customary restrictions must have been disappointed as they left the auditorium with many questions unanswered.
After informing us that he would speak in his own name, and not in that of the Church, Father Gardiner forgot this distinction and rehearsed what the Church’s censorship rales demand of her members. Concentrating in this first part mostly on canon law and the portentous-sounding Index Libro-rum Prohibitorum, Father attempted to lighten the burden of prohibition by indicating that 2500 of the some 4000 titles on the Index are irrelevant to our normal purposes, and that pel-mission to read these is always forthcoming for a proper reason. Since many Catholics treat rather lightly of these injunctions, Father’s stress on the strictness of the positive law and its independence of personal interpretation was appropriate.
Opinion, rather than law, flavored the second half of the lecture, which dealt with censorship in the civil community. The wishes of the Church, as expressed in the Bishops’ Statement of 1957, are that censorship be exercised by a legal civil authority, rather than by religious groups, and that the restrictions be as few as possible. The problem of censorship becomes, in the end, not a religious but a civic question.
The whole keynote of this last section of the speech was to me something like failure — according to Father Gardiner, the Church really has no solution to the problem outside of hope. It is not that we are to sit back in comfortable passivity and await the inevitable good results, and yet disturb
ing words like “cautious,” “prudent,” “well-balanced” crept into the final comments on our proper attitude toward censorship. Why cannot we discover more positive and dynamic ways of attacking the problem of morality in literature and movies — why must Father Gardiner speak grudgingly of a writer like Graham Greene who “might be all right for some people, but others. . . .”? It seems that we might go much farther by emphasizing the positive and healthy aspects of art, the greater truth for which the novelist writes, and by forcefully attacking pulp and obscenity when it is glorified as an end in itself. And finally, why, if we are convinced mind and heart of the all-embracing truth and power of our faith, must we hide behind a meaningless defense like, “Why this is no Catholic or Christian point of view, it is only human. . .
Obviously there is much work to be done in this field. The individuals or groups who try to prevent the sale of obscene literature by visiting bookstores and newsstands are doing an excellent thing, but as far as the theoretical side of the problem goes, the Church has no solution. Her members have a sort of vacillating fear of that Truth which it is their duty, to broadcast and apply to every segment of life, including art. More than anything else, Father Gardiner’s talk highlighted the need for fresh, constructive, liberal Catholic thought on a problem as permanent as human existence.
Jerry Kriegshauser
4
AT THE GALLERY . . . JANUARY
WEST GALLERY:
“Contemporary Drawings from Latin America." Thirty-four drawings by artists from eleven countries.
EAST GALLERIES:
New acquisitions to the permanent collection acquired during 1959.
19th- and 20th-century paintings from the University Collection.
An exhibition of the Best from the Permanent Collection.
Jlelpful Jlinti
Freshman
;» Religion
•	w HEN a freshman starts college he
™ is often overwhelmed by the amount ' of study hours he must put into his week. Frantically he begins to arrange . his schedule. At least Religion, he I thinks, should be easy. He knows the 7	basic doctrines well. Often too late he
,	realizes that more is expected of him.
i » What he has to do is to develop an un-1 derstanding of divine truth that is on a par with other college disciplines. College theology aims at sounding the depths of Sacred Doctrine, enabling students to discuss their faith intelligently.
* Only thus will they be able to cherish their faith. And only a faith that is un> derstood and loved can sustain a man in ; a world that daily challenges his beliefs. i	Any program of college theology that
i fails in this is not producing an edu-i	cated laity.
A sure way to keep oneself from : A plunging more deeply into revealed truth is to approach college theology as a rei, hashing of well-known formulas. The ! student of theology searches the source of dogmatic definitions as carefully as i a physicist tests a hypothesis. An educated Catholic can discuss the relevancy of his faith to present problems with at * least the same assurance as a historian tackles a situation from a historical : > perspective. Some students are far from articulate in matters of faith. They have tied themselves to answers which were sufficient fox- younger minds but ‘i which need elaboration and development ' if they are to satisfy mature minds. ' Not all freshmen can look back on twelve years of Religion in parochial and high school. Nor is the lack of sufficient foundation an impossible handi-* cap, as some suppose. Every student will have to work to achieve the goals t set by college theology. Some will have to apply greater effort but no one can coast easily to success.
Theology is a science based on faith * in divine revelation. The freshman course 12A was set up to introduce the > student to the sources of that science, . the Word of God as it is found in Divine ft Tradition and Sacred Scripture. Here :	the student is given a vision of the plan
of God as it unfolds historically from creation to the attainment of heaven. He goes back to the ancient days and peoples to hear again the words and feel v the impact of a divine message. He fol-t	lows the	course of God’s treatment of
/	man, not	merely as a history but as ex-
■ periencing an encounter with God. Only 1	when he	has grasped something of the
i	progress	of God’s plan can he speak au-
/ thoritatively of his own role in continuing the plan to restore all things in ' * Christ. Faith then comes to	mean not
1	merely an acceptance of dogma but a
i	personal commitment to know	God’s will
■	and to do it.
[	(Continued on page 20)
:	January 15, 1960
I
AT THE THEATER/
My doctor was right: a vacation was what I needed. So off I went to a lot of parties and a lot of fun. Then it was time to return/ so here I am once again chained to the typewriter.
Held over at the Avon Art (until Jan. 21) is a duo of box-office hits. First is Island of Levant which, as I heard, concerns a nudist colony. But, just in case it is based on the only novel ever written by Immanuel Kant, that is all that will be said about it. Then there is Doctor at Sea, a British comedy so funny I’ve-seen it twice. (Occasionally I go to the movies, see?) It stars Dirk Bogarde as a ship doctor who is prone to seasickness, Brigitte Bardot as a sweet young thing who keeps hex- clothes on and James Robertson Justice as the bellowing walrus of a ship captain. Sur-prisingly enough, BB fits well into the Bogarde-Robertson Justice comedy duet.
When Al Capp started drawing his little cax-toons 25 years ago, he couldn’t have thought that they would get to be almost a necessity in millions of American homes. With Li’I Abner now brought to the screen (Colfax, Jan. 14-27) after a profitable sojourn on Broadway, Capp’s offering of neurosis fox- the many reaches new horizons. Melvin Frank and Norman Panama have taken bits here and there of some'of the funniest of Capp and have come up with a barrelful of sick humor. Peter Palmer repeats his Broadway title role, Leslie Parrish is seen as Daisy Mae, and reliably hilarious Stubby Kaye returns as Marryin’ Sam. There is quite a commotion when Stupefyin’ Jones, as played by Julie Newmar (our White Owl Award recipient of the week), prances on screen, and the effect is not dissipated for a long time. The story is usual Capp: the town of Dogpatch is decreed the most useless place in the nation, and therefore the ideal place fox- A-bomb tests.
Last Saturday night, the Granada had what was probably its first completely full house (including balcony) since they had The Ten Commandments two years ago. The occasion was the sneak preview of Never So Few, the movie that unites Fr-ank Sinatra and Gina Doll-obx-igida. From the likes of it, nobody left the theater wanting to have his money refunded on the spot. Never So Few (another of the ones I have seen) tux-ned out to be a thoroughly entex-taining story centering about guex-rilla warfare in North Bux-ma during WW II. Sinatx-a wanders quite a bit off the battlefield and into Gina’s ar-ms, but who can blame him? Petex- Lawford plays a funny, inept Ax-my doctox- who is vix-tually conscripted by Sinatra. Steve McQueen is a young actox- who shows promise as he plays Bill Ringa, a man who gets his way anywhere anytime. He and Dean Jones provide most of the comic relief in the movie. Richard Johnson is very good as the British officer inordinately proud of the fact that his monocle cannot be knocked off by even a sharp blow. Paul Henreid and Bx-ian Donlevy appear- briefly, and in not-too-well defined characters, but nevertheless they add color to the plot. In general, this choice for MOVIE OF THE WEEK has many atributes which will make its run (Jan. 14-27) longer than planned.
Absolutely unprecedented. Never before anything like it, especially in a town like South Bend. Third week of continued success. Such is Operation Petticoat, scheduled to run through January 20 at the State. The success is something it deserves, for it is really a box-office champion. Cary Grant and Tony Curtis have never been funnier and, believe me, they have tried. The story concerns a submarine and its crew caught up in the hit-and-run Pacific warfare of WW II. Cary Grant is the captain who decides, after his ship has been sunk once, that she can still fight. Accordingly, he refloats the sub and starts extensive repairs. In comes Tony Curtis, a sort of society attache to an admiral’s party-giving wife, to aid in the repairs. What he can do is get anything, absolutely anything, the sub needs to get under way again. He even steals a wall off a colonel’s office to provide sheet metal for the ship. Finally they are rolling again, though every now and then No. 1 engine gives out a mighty belch of black smoke. They rescue five nurses who had been stranded on an island and are forced to accommodate them in the regular quarters, and you can imagine the inconvenience. At least one calamity occurs per featured player, but by far the best performances are given by Grant, Crgtis, Joan O’Brien, and Arthur O’Connell. The scene in which Curtis steals a pig from a farm to have a New Year’s party with is perhaps the funniest scene ever filmed.
Tony Wong
ARMY-NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel*s Surplus Sales
R.O.T.C. BRASS AND
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. c/o Travel Sales Division
Please send me complete information about 1960 Student Tours of Europe.
Name..........................................•>
MArem..............,.............................
City....................Zone....State............
MILITARY SUPPLIES
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
GO WHILE THE GOING IS GOOD on a 1960 American Express Student Tour! Right now, while you can still look forward to a long summer vacation, may be your once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see, enjoy and study Europe. And the “going is always good” on an American Express Student Tour... where experts arrange everything perfectly for your travel convenience. Tours are comprised of small groups, conducted by distinguished leaders from prominent colleges. Itineraries can include England ... Belgium... Holland... Germany... Austria.-.. Switzerland . . . Italy . . . The Rivieras . . . and France. Ample time allowed for full sight-seeing and leisure, too.
Choose from: 10 interesting, educational Student Tours . . . from 14 to 54 days ... by sea and air ... from $765 and up. Member: Institute.of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service. Or simply mail the coupon.
Freshman Religion
(Continued from page 19)
The first element of faith’s commitment is to accept the Word of God precisely as it was given to men. This involves knowing the history and language ’’ of the people to whom God spoke. The Bible speaks in terms of a garden, of t water, of rebirth. Vivid and concrete, these words are alive with meaning and ' touch the reality of grace as no theologian has ever done. All further clarification of the notion of grace is based on these and similar terms.	x
Next, the Bible was not written at one time nor by one man. It is a library of * many books whose mode of expression will differ according to the ability and background of its respective authors. Some will use sacred parable, others use history or poetry. To read the Bible intelligently one must know how it was 4 written. Hence the student must become familial- with the fruit of modern biblical research which sheds so much light on the literary forms used by the ancients.
The student will naturally be terrified at the prospect of digesting the staggering amount of detail, both historical and * , doctrinal, in the freshman course. He need not despair. The syllabus has been prepared especially to guide him through such a maze. Using the syllabus, the 1 student will mark every historical point at which God advances his people in doctrine and morals by means of new revelation. God is preparing his people. * He takes the initiative and man responds to his call. The progressive line of * promise and fulfillment is the thread on which the student ties significant detail.
In this way the student can be selective in his choice of detail, as selective as ■ the Bible itself. For the biblical narrative has no other purpose than that of the course itself: to know the will of God and to accomplish it.
Rev. Frederick Barr, C.S.C. ►
Holy Cross Brothers teaching youth work farming clerical work done by B r O t h f‘ r S are । n great need todar io the U S and foreign missions
For information and literature write:
BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
Klims LIBRARY ui BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
The Scholastic
PidaUB
ST. FRANCIS HOOPSTERS INVADE IRISH COURT
* Green Five Seeks to Extend Three-Game Winning Streak
Tomorrow in the Fieldhouse the eagers meet one of the leading small * college teams in the country when they , host the Frankies of St. Francis of
Loretto, Pa. Tip off time is 2 p.m.
The Frankies, under the able tutelage of Skip Hughes, have compiled a 7-2 record this year. In their last outing they topped the century mark in burying Carnegie Tech, 102-78.
6-8 center. Leading the Pennsylvania • team will be Wilbur (Tree Top) Trosch.
The 6-8 pivot averaged 19.7 points a game last year. He gets top-flight assistance from another standout senior in ' *	6-5 Joe Alston. Alston hit at a 15.3
rate last year. Other Frankies who A should give the Irish a good battle are 6-4 senior Bobby Jones and 6-1 junior > Tom Muriceak. The Frankies have a real sophomore sensation in 6-2 Ed i	Winters, who is reputed to be a ball-
।	handling wizard. Another top newcomer
is Cal Towler.
1 Since the last publication of the ? Scholastic the basketball team has defeated Loyola and Purdue, lost consecutive games to Indiana and North Carolina and conquered Butler and De-, troit. This gives the eagers a 9-3 standing with the season half over.
On Friday, December 19, the Jordanmen walloped Loyola 77-55 in the -• friendly confines of the Fieldhouse.
Loyola could do little right this night 4 and the outcome of the game was never
JOHN DEARIE Soph scores 30 against DePaul
in serious doubt. Clarence Red, the Rambler ace, was considerably below form although he did lead the rebounders with 16. Mike Graney was the offensive leader as the Irish once again showed a balanced offense. Karl Roesler, the 6-7 soph from Fort Wayne, turned in a brilliant performance in a relief role as he tallied 14 points.
Next came the Hoosier Classic for the surging Irishmen. They carried their winning streak to six games as they defeated Purdue in the opening game, 82-79. Graney was the big man for the Irish as he tallied 31 points to tie Purdue’s sensational sophomore, Terry Dischinger, for individual honors. Both of these players grabbed the majority of the rebounds for their respective teams.
In the title game, the Irish took a 37-32 halftime lead over Indiana as the alert Irish defense • held the mammoth Walt Bellamy scoreless. In the second half, the Hurryin’ Hoosiers, paced by Jerry Bass’s 21 markers, wore down the Irish with their fast break tactics to capture the decision and the championship by a 71-60 margin. Once again the Irish ringleader was Captain Graney. The muscular pivot man tallied 21 points to tie Bass for individual honors.
Graney shackled. After the Christmas holidays, the Irish resumed play with a 75-65 loss to the talented Tarheels of North Carolina in a game played at Charlotte, N. C. The Tarheels put on spurts in both halves to ice the decision. Graney was limited to six points, his season low. Emmett McCarthy took up the slack with 14 points and John Dearie equaled this total. The loss was the second straight for the Irish after their six consecutive wins and gave them a 7-3 slate as they returned home to the Fieldhouse to open a two-game homestand against Butler and Detroit.
The Butler Bulldogs were no particular problem to the hoopsters. With high scoring Kenny Pennington limited to six points by the ever-improving Irish defense, the Irish waltzed to an easy 76-51 win. Graney led the way with 22 tallies, one more than high school teammate Bob Bradtke. The hooking of Graney and jump shooting of Bradtke were’ just the right tonic to snap the Irish two-game losing streak.
Impressive win. Last Saturday the hoopsters were primed for a supreme effort and they rewarded their legion of followers with a 75-63 win over nationally ranked Detroit, a win that was more decisive than the score indicated. With about three minutes left and the Irish ahead by 19 points, Coach Johnny Jordan put in his reserves. Going into this game the Titans had been averaging 94 points. The stout Irish defense held the Motor City five to exactly 31 points
GRANEY AND DEBUSSCHERE Detroit star scores in close
less than their average in dealing the Titans their third loss of the season as against ten wins.
Spurred on by the deafening roar of the student body, the Jordanmen raced to an early 15-5 lead. Detroit tried to close the gap, twice coming to within one point of the Irish. But aided by the fine all-around play of McCarthy and Sophomore Dearie, the Irish steadily drew away from the handed Titans to the delight of the near capacity crowd. McCarthy and Dearie played their finest of the year in this game which was also the team’s finest. McCarthy finished the day with 25 points and Dearie had 22. Dave DeBusschere led the Titans with 21 points, although he was held well in check most of the game.
Rival independent DePaul fell before the Irish 73-70 last Tuesday in a close game which was saved for Notre Dame by the clutch shooting of Graney and McCarthy in the closing minutes. But the star of the game was the sophomore Dearie who poured through 30 points to keep the Irish ahead most of the game. The threesome of Dearie^ Graney, and McCarthy accounted for 65 of the Jcrdanmen’s 73 points.
Notre Dame led all through the game until Paul Ruddy made two free throws with 1:21 left to put DePaul in front 68-67. But in the final minutes baskets by McCarthy and Graney gave the Irish their tenth victory of the year. The loss was the third straight for Ray Meyer’s Chicago eagers.
January 15, 1960
21
TIMEOUT
Coach Johnny Jordan’s new defense has proved to be one of the most successful innovations he has introduced in his nine-year tenure as Notre Dame basketball coach. Basically the defense is a zone but it remains flexible enough to take advantage of the ball-hawking abilities of Bill Crosby. While designed specifically to clog up the inside as a protection against big opposition centers and the driving lay-ups of a give-and-go offense, the omnipresence of Crosby along the outside periphery has prevented the enemy guards from riddling the hoop from the outside.
Last Saturday against Detroit the Irish held a team which had been averaging over 90 points per game, second best offensive team in the country, to a mere 63 points. Through the Detroit game the Jordanmen have held the opposition to an average of 63.5 points per game. This figure is far below the national average and represents a steady improvement in, the stinginess of Jordan’s teams. In 1957 the Notre Dame eagers allowed 75.0 points per game to be recorded against them. In 1958 this figure was reduced to 70.6. Last year it was 68.6. All this has been accomplished in the face of a national trend toward higher scoring.
Of course part of this can be explained by the deliberate style of attack which the Irish employ. This gives the opposition fewer shots and thus fewer points than would be the case if Notre Dame played the racehorse style which Branch McCracken uses at Indiana. But this year the defensive performance cannot be wholly explained in this manner. There has been an amazing number of intercepted passes and blocked shots. Ordinarily in a man-for-man when this is the case, there is a correspondingly large number of easy baskets resulting from defensive mistakes and losing gambles. In a man-for-man in which one player is personally responsible for the activities of a certain member of the opposition, the value of a player with quick hands like Crosby or with fine jumping ability like Captain Mike Graney is limited primarily to the defense of one member of the other team. The Jordan zone reduces the damage of an individual error and increases the value of an outstanding defender. If it can be said that the 1959-60 Irish eagers are doing better than expected so far, this is due in large measure to the judicious use of defensive talent by Coach Jordan.
The one sad note of last Saturday’s Detroit game is the loss of Bob Bradtke with a wrenched knee. Bradtke was just beginning to hit his shooting peak. Bradtke’s loss leaves Jordan with an important decision. He must decide where to play Bill Crosby on offense. He will probably move him to one side and bring in either Don McGann or Bill Noonan to play outside or he may keep him on top to take advantage of his passing ability.
The poised performance of sophomore John Dearie has been extremely helpful. Dearie, possessing very quick moves for a big man and a sure pair of hands, has taken over for the virus-weakened John Tully in such a superb manner that Dearie’s starting berth now seems to be permanent. Armand Reo and Karl Roesler have also proven themselves in battle and lend strength to the Irish bench as well as hope to future Notre Dame success.
Right now the Jordanmen are busy fighting their way through the jungle part of their schedule. The victory over Detroit was a big one. With St. Francis, Detroit and Bradley still left to go before exams, the next week will be crucial.
THE KUHARICH CRISIS
Rumors continue to float around concerning the future of Joe Kuharich. The Chicago papers have quoted a “reliable source” in Washington as saying that “he is sure that Kuharich will accept a position with the Los Angeles Rams.” Kuharich has stated that the reports warrant no comment. Other rumors of fantastic salary offers to Kuharich by the money-laden Rams have come in from unidentified sources. I have no idea whether any of these rumors have any basis in fact and I will not try to guess as to their truth. But there is one aspect of the situation which is quite clear. If it should happen that Kuharich quits, whether he goes back to professional football or not, Notre Dame will have a difficult time in finding another first-rate coach to accept the vacated job. It would certainly be an added inducement to Kuharich’s staying on here at Notre Dame if the NCAA rules committee voted to reinstall two-platoon football. Kuharich has been an outspoken advocate of the return to two-platoon system and considers the present system a handicap to his coaching methods. But unfortunately it doesn’t look as though the measure will be approved. Perhaps when Father Joyce and Kuharich return from the Miami meetings there will be some definite statements on the question. — T. R.
ND Fencers Journey to Fenn; Buffalo Poses Strong Threat
■ After a long lay off, the Notre Dame fencing team swings back into action this afternoon in a meet with Fenn University in Cleveland, Ohio.	i
Tomorrow the Irish swordsmen will travel to Buffalo, N. Y., for a meet with f Buffalo University and Syracuse University. In Coach Walter Langford’s estimation, Buffalo poses the strongest threat. He feels that they will be one of the strongest squads his aggregation has had to face this season.	x
Buffalo will provide the first real test to determine the strength of this year’s v fencing team. In an early season opener in December, the Irish defeated Indiana Tech and Western Reserve in a dual meet. Since then they have been inactive.
Langford is faced with the problem of * overcoming the loss of the first five men in the sabre event and the first three A: men in the epee along with the number three man in the foil due to graduation last year.
The fencing schedule for the rest of
the year is as follows:
Jan. 30—Air Force Academy and Mich- < igan State
Feb. 6—Iowa and Indiana
Feb. 13—Wayne State and Chicago
Feb. 19—Detroit at Detroit	•
Feb. 20—Michigan State, Ohio State at
East Lansing
Feb. 27—Illinois and Wisconsin at Champaign	*
April 1 and 2—NCAA Championships at Champaign	<
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
NYU over Army Bowling Green over Miami (Ohio)
California over Washington
Dayton over Memphis State	,
Notre Dame over St. Francis (Pa.)
DePaul over Valparaiso	L .
St. Louis over Drake	'
LaSalle over Georgetown Iowa over Purdue St. Joseph's (Pa.) over Muhlenberg
Ohio State over Northwestern s North Carolina over Virginia	,
Navy over Manhattan	*
Southern California over Oregon	-
State Kentucky over Tennessee . Illinois over Michigan State Minnesota over Michigan	4 '
Butler over Indiana State	,
Wake Forest over North Carolina V1
State	.	t
Louisville over Xavier
Mississippi over Mississippi State Georgia Tech over Vanderbilt
GAME OF THE WEEK	v
West Virginia over Villanova	,
UPSET OF THE WEEK K
Bradley over Cincinnati -LAST WEEK 19 right, four wrong, 82.6 per cent
22
The Scholastic
SOUTHERN HOSPITALITY
Notre Dame students:
We at the Newman Club of the University of Kentucky would like to call your attention to the Ken-tucky-Notre Dame basketball game of February 13. After the game, the University Newman Club is sponsoring an all campus Mardi Gras dance. We would like to invite all Notre Dame students attending the game to attend the 7 dance. Housing will be provided by the Newman Club members if those interested will contact us in time to make the necessary plans.
We sincerely hope that many of you will be able to visit us.
Phyllis Lilly
*	Corresponding Sec’y.
U. of K. Newman Club
A .......................................
Basketball Quints Begin Quest for Campus Title
Once again the Interhall and Interclub *> basketball leagues have been organized and are now in action. Dr. Napolitano * closed the entries January 6.
The Interhall circuit, run by Dick Chapura will be composed of 35 teams divided into six leagues, identified by color names as follows: Red, White, Blue, Green, Gold and Black. The 4 Chapura circuit started on Tuesday, January 12, and should finish regular t season play around February 19. The sophomore and junior halls seem to be best represented, with Lyons and Pang-born each having five teams entered, while Dillon and Zahm have four apiece. The defending champion from last year, Howard, does not have a team entered this season.
1 “Skip” Sullivan is in charge of the Interclub league, which is also divided * into six leagues, encompassing 36 teams.
Sullivan’s activity will start on Wednesday, January 13, and should wind up about March 5. Interclub games will be played on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday nights.
' All three of the Notre Dame ROTC units have teams entered, with the am-► bitious Air Force having entered three squads. The Metropolitan Club is the defending champion and will have to play good ball to keep up with a host of promising teams, including such newcomers on the list this year as the Le-* high Valley Club and the Italian Club.
The Knights of Columbus and Mono* gram Clubs have chosen not to enter teams this season.
At the end of regular season play, a tournament between the two divisions will be held, to determine the 1960 Notre Dame Intramural Basketball Champion.
The tournament will be a round-robin, with the winners of the two divisions, * plus two teams picked at large from each league, making a total of six teams competing for the campus-wide championship. The date of the tournament is undecided as of yet.
Irish Wrestlers Lose; Next Meet at Chicago
Notre Dame’s wrestling team suffered its second defeat of the year by losing to Western Michigan at Kalamazoo December 17, two days before vacation. The matmen’s next meet is with the University of Chicago on Saturday, January 30, at Chicago.
Western Michigan toppled the Irish by a score of 17-10. However, Jerry Sachsel, Notre Dame 123-pounder, continued his phenomenal dual meet record of never being defeated in three years of college competition. Sachsel won by default, extending his record to 23 straight victories.
Western Michigan’s Light and Bechner got their team on the road to victory by defeating Dick Nielsen and Larry Bunchek of Notre Dame in the 130- and 137-pound divisions respectively.
The Irish retaliated with Dick Sapp defeating Gene Downie in the 147-pound division. But in the 157- and 167-pound divisions Notre Dame was less successful. Bill Forester defeated Irish Sophomore John Chumetski in the 157-pound division, while 167-pounder Dennis Keelan defeated Notre Dame senior Gene McFadden in a very close match.
Richard Olmstead of Western Michigan fought to a draw with Irish football player Jim Kane in the 177-pound division.
Heavyweight William Shaw defeated Sophomore Tom Slater of Notre Dame to complete the victory for Western Michigan.
This defeat evened the Irish grap-plers’ record at 2-2.
SOPHOMORE SURPRISE
John Dearie wheels past Detroit’s North.
ODDS and ENDS
John Dearie, starting his second game for the varsity basketball team, scored a career high of 22 points last Saturday as the Irish walloped Detroit, 75-63. John baffled the Titans with his tricky manuevers under the hoop and outscored his more publicized rival from Detroit, Dave De-Busschere, 23-21, and also picked off 15 rebounds. Another soph, Armond Reo, did a good job as the replacement of Captain Mike Graney. He scored seven points, grabbed seven rebounds, and did a fine job of guarding the gifted DeBusschere. Two of his baskets came on tip ins. . . .
Bob Scholtz, Monty Stickles and his sidekick, George Izo, were the Notre Dame representatives in the recent East-West Shrine game. George connected with Iowa’s Don Norton on a 52-yard touchdown play and in general did a fine job at laaaiag the East offense while he was in the game. However, the West and Don Meredith were too much as they rallied for two touchdowns in the last three minutes for a well-deserved 21-14 win. . . .
Did you know? That Michigan State’s oldest rival on its 1960 basketball schedule is Notre Dame, the rivalry dating back to 1908. That Michigan State produced five All-Americans in 1959: Dean Look, football; John Green, basketball; Joe Selinger, ice hockey; and Cecil Heron and Erich Streder, soccer. Also, polo was a varsity sport at Michigan State in 1938. Hmm . . .
Not often docs a team shoot 54% and still lose. But that is the fate which befell Indiana in their game at Ohio State last Saturday. The Bucks won the game in the last five seconds on Larry Siegfried’s only basket of the game. The Hoosiers now are 0-3 in the conference and Ohio State is 2-0. .. .
Mike Graney has raised his shooting average this year to a highly respectable 41.5% as of the Detroit game. 'Mike also is the team leader in total points, rebounds, points per game and is second in fouls committed. His totals include 212 points for a 19.6 average. He has plucked 159 rebounds and has committed 32 fouls. The Irish as a team are averaging 37.7% from the field and 63.8% from the charity stripe. They have averaged 71.9 points a game while limiting their opponents to a meager 63.5. . . .
Notre Dame’s lifetime basketball record against Detroit reads as such: 28 wins and only one loss. On Dec. 1, 1955, the Titans accomplished the feat with a 77-71 win at Detroit. The Titans will have another shot at the Irish when our boys travel to Detroit for the return match on Jan. 19. . . .
Jerry West of West Virginia met his Waterloo when he met up with some old friends from the University of California. The second meeting of the two teams that reached the finals of the NCAA tourney last year took place at Los Angeles during the recent Western Tournament. Once again the two teams met in the final game and once again Cal won, this time by-a 65-45. West was held to eight points, his college low.

99 ->
Swim Team Members Sponsor Water Show; Plan Exhibitions Saturday and Sunday Nights
Notre Dame’s swimming team, one of the least publicized sports activities on campus, will exhibit its prowess tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool when it presents its first annual water show. The public is invited to attend either this performance or the one on Sunday night, also scheduled for 8:30 p.m.
Joint effort. The water show is being sponsored by the combined efforts of the Irish swimming team and the Dolphin Club which was established here on campus last March. The swimming team, now in its second year of intercollegiate competition, and the Dolphin Club hope to create new interest in the water sports here at Notre Dame.
Jim Carroll, a senior diver on the Irish swim team, is the director of this year’s show. Carroll is working in association with Paul Chestnut, also a diver on the swimming team and president of the Dolphin Club.
The swimming team members will be featured in such performances as regular fancy diving, comedy diving and relay racing. Also planned for the program is a water ballet.
Tomorrow at 2 p.m. in the Rockne Pool, the Irish swimmers host a powerful Northwestern squad in a meet which promises to be highly competitive. The Wildcats were defeated last Saturday by the highly touted Loyola team. However, it was the Wildcat’s first meet of the season and they were very impres
PAUL CHESTNUT AND JIM CARROLL PRACTICE DIVING STUNT
The two senior Irish divers head the water sh.ow planning committee.
sive in several events, especially the relays and diving.
Coach Dennis Stark has done an outstanding job with the Irish in their second year of intercollegiate competition. Combining pre-water conditioning exercises with calisthenics at the beginning of the year, Stark had the team in peak physical condition by the time the regular season rolled around.
Coach Stark’s squad has done very well despite heavy losses from last year’s squad due to graduation. Senior Gene Jordan and junior Paul Zika are two new backstrokers who have done well. Sophomore Dave Witchger and junior Steve Sauer have filled their respective posts quite well also. Jim Grever and Ray Stefani have provided excellent balance in the distance events.
Junior captain. The captain of this year’s squad is Gene Witchger, a junior. Witchger is the top sprinter for the Irish tankmen. However, he gets more than enough help in this event from Chris Lund, Joe Meany and Mike Kane. The local swimmers are also strong in the butterfly, Tony Haske being the unchallenged leader. And once again the Irish have a one-two diving punch that has proven extremely tough in competition. Chestnut and Carroll are the leaders for the Irish in this event.
Notre Dame’s freshmen swimmers have also looked very impressive. In instructing these first-year men, Coach Stark has been assisted by Dick Katis.
New Magazine to Accept Student Fiction Writings
Material for the future issues of The Dial is now being accepted by the editor, ' James Silberman, at 461 Park Avenue r South New York 16, N. Y.
The new Dial, unlike the magazine of the “Twenties” from which it inherits its name, will publish only fiction. It will seek stories and novels-in-progress from both unknown and established writers. The magazine, which will come out four times a year, has already pub- < lished its first issue.
In this initial issue there is a story «> written by Richard Power, and entitled “The Rebels.” Power is now in his second year of graduate study at the Writer’s Workshop of the State University of Iowa. He has also had a play produced by the Abbey Theater.	<1
This new magazine will be made available to the public through bookstores at $1.50 a copy, or by subscription at $5 a year.
Philosophy Scholars to Hold 'A Symposium on Explanation' 1
Outstanding scholars of philosophy from Notre Dame and other univer- ■ sities will take part in “A Symposium on Explanation” to be held today and tomorrow. The symposium, which is ■ sponsored by the Notre Dame’s department of philosophy, will be held in the O’Shaughnessy Hall art gallery.
Participants will explore the main * modes of explanation in the various branches of knowledge. Papers will be presented on explanation in physical science, psychology, history and metaphysics. Following each paper will be a discussion period.
Prof. N. R. Hanson of Indiana Uni- * versity will speak on “Explanation in Physical Science” at the opening symposium session today at 3:30 p.m. Prof. John J. Fitzgerald of Notre Dame will serve as discussion chairman, assisted by Profs. Otto Bird and Milton Fisk, , also of the University.	j
“Explanation in Psychology” will be * the subject of Prof. Alden L. Fisher of ; St. Louis University at the second session today at 8 p.m.
Four Notre Dame faculty members will participate in a symposium session tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on “Explanation i in History.” Kenneth M. Sayre will be j the speaker. Dr. A. R. Caponigri will *! lead the discussion aided by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Philip Hughes and Prof. Frederick VI J. Crosson.
The final meeting of the symposium will be tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. with a paper on “Explanation in Metaphysics” by Prof. Charles DeKononck of Laval < University, Quebec. Rev. Ivo Thomas, O.P., of Notre Dame, will be the discussion leader, assisted by Prof. William * A. Earle of Northwestern University and Prof. Harry A. Earle of Northwestern University and Prof. Harry A. Nielsen of Notre Dame.
24
The Scholastic
*
' I
1
F
; *
I
*
!:
A
t
I
) i
i.
i
I
4
REVIEW FOR FINALS THE SMART, EASY WAY BARNES & NOBLE OUTLINE SERIES
•
* ANCIENT HISTORY * HISTORY OF THE MIDDLE AGES * HISTORY OF EUROPE 1800 -1848 * HISTORY OF EUROPE SINCE 1815 * U. S. HISTORY TO 1865
*	U. S. HISTORY SINCE 1865
*	BIOLOGY
*	CHEMISTRY ♦ CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS PROBLEMS
*	MARKETING * FRENCH, GERMAN, SPANISH GRAMMAR
•
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on - the - campus
ivia jft°* uo 0fr9
ONSM
uo U0A3 si || ’Aouo} jnoA tp|D3 U3A3 Aoui 4| *4! Aoi -uo 4q6itu nox wojj oisnui 4snl 04 uajsij i.uoq
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
SERIOUS COMMENT
Editor:
I would like to make a comment on the content of Father Boarman’s Religious Bulletin and especially on the recent article by Msgr. Charles Hugo Doyle, “Scorecard on Catholic Liberals.” Father, are you serious?
Paul O’Bryan 344 Lyons CRITICISM
Editor:
As a former editor of the Football Revieiv (’54), I would like to congratulate you on the best issue that I have ever seen. This blanket endorsement takes in approximately 15 years since each staff checks to see what has been done in the past. And, of course, each editor thinks that he has done the best job in history.
I believe you and your staff deserve the plaudits because you concentrated on good action pictures, and developed outstanding feature stories — such as the coaches’ week and the outlook for 1960. The continuity in youi' game stories, which were very well written on the whole, was excellent. The ability to handle the routine, such as the “men behind the scenes,” in a manner to interest the reader is the test of a good staff, and yours came through with flying colors. Your photographers are to be congratulated on a fine group of game shots.
I know that you have already noted at least 10 things that would be changed if you had a chance, but take it from me, your issue was tops. Knowing the work and sweat that goes into a review issue, I want to salute you and your staff for a job well done. I just wish someone had taken the time to send me a note after our issue went out ... it might have made the job seem worthwhile !
Paul Fullmer, ’55 Elmhurst, Illinois
Editor:
To the twenty-four members of the Scholastic staff, congratulations on the first class slap in the face administered to Mr. Robert O’Brien and the Notre Dame Marching Band in the Notre Dame Scholastic Football Review, Dec. 4, 1959.
Of course, the band does so little to help boost student morale in a 5-5 football season, that I do not wonder you didn’t give them even one line in your forty-nine page football review. They really don’t need your recognition, since everybody else knows they’re the greatest volunteer University band in the whole country.
(Rev.) R. G. Simonitsch, (C.S.C.), ’36
University of Portland
(ED: A two-page article on ND’s band appeared in the Oct. 23 edition of the Scholastic.)
^kWTURBOW
ypPTOMKTwrr
OPTICAL REPAIRS
I CONTACT LENSES ]
I INQUIRIES INVITED | EYES EXAMINED
PHONE CE 4-5737 207 W. WASHINGTON—OLIVER HOTEL
SIMERI’S CAFE
Daily Special
ITALIAN BREAD SANDWICHES HAM — SAUSAGE — BEEF 50c
•	SPAGHETTI
•	RAVIOLI
•	PIZZA • SEAFOODS
Friday Special
FROG LEGS
$1.50
•
410 N. Hill St.
South Bend, Indkma CE 3-0677
HaveaWlUDofFUN!
WORLD TRAVEL
January 15, 1960
25
our greatest fear
by TED THOMPSON
Ted Thompson, associate editor of the Scholastic, reports on the National Collegiate Press Convention that he and two other Scholastic representatives attended last fall.
Instead of a factual, day-by-day report, he has chosen to expand on a question that he introduced in a floor discussion following the opening address. The question reduces to what is the most important problem facing contemporary America. Is it the menace of Soviet Russia as the speaker stated in his talk? Or is it something else?
HESTER HUNTLEY, the noted television news analyst, had just finished a lengthy summary of the significance of the Premier Khrushchev’s visit to this country. Consequently he made the Russian political leader the subject of his opening address to the National Association of Collegiate Press in New York last November.
It was not the address but the subsequent questioning of Mr. Huntley that provoked the emergence of a question as to what is the most important problem facing the people of the United States today. Originally Mr. Huntley held that Communist Russia was the most perilous threat to the United States. Later though, he modified his stand when pressed by questions into conceding that at least as important is the apparent decline in American morals, especially in the past 20 years.
A MORAL TASK
The question is a portentous one; for the answer must guide the concern of the American people in one direction or the other. If the most serious problem is the danger posed by Communist Russia and some of her avowed aims, the nation’s first concern must be to halt this Asiatic power in her aims. If on the other hand the primary danger to the country is internal — the disintegration of the once-strong moral fiber of its citizens, while not neglecting Russia, the people of this country must devote themselves to .the task of moral regeneration, must 1’ededicate themselves to the spirit of working together for the common good of all.
In the years since the U. S. entered World War II as an active participant, and this is a significant occurrence, there has been a sharp rise in individualistic action indicating a corruption of the morals and values of the society. One need not look specifically at the
pages of the nation’s newspapers and observe the enormous amount of coverage given to startling murders, kidnappings, and brutal sex crimes. One finds them on the front of almost every newspaper, usually with long continuations further back in the paper.
The earmarks of this drop in moral character can be found in other places than just in the eye-catching crimes of a few, though. Perhaps the most distressing aspect of this rapid decline is the forsaking of Christ’s command to love one’s neighbor and the resulting materialistic orientation of one’s life. How much effect the global conflict of the ’40’s has had to propel this decline is questionable, but the 15 years since its close have witnessed an equating of security with money in the bank, of love with sexual love, and work with pay. The most important aspect of a life’s work in the minds of too many is not how rewarding and self-satisfying the work, but how much it will pay, both originally and over the span of 20 or so years.
Money and social reputation have become the norms for conduct in both the aesthetic and ethical realms of the individual’s existence. With more leisure time than ever in the history of the nation, the Americans are finding more ways to waste time rather than putting the time to good use.
Americans of all ages are scattering to varying activities at all times of day and night. Very little of the leisure time is spent as a group. Factors such as the telephone and the automobile (more recently two to a home), which makes other people and places easily accessible, have dissected the family to the point where many families see other members only at meals and sometimes not even then. These people, especially the young people, then join groups of friends their own age incessantly. The tie with people of other ages has been broken. Each age group feels it is separate from the others, and communication between different age groups becomes increasingly difficult.
The old saying that “Charity begins at home” is receiving little application since Americans are seldom at home. Maybe this is the reason for the spreading lack of charity on the part of the people; it certainly contributes.
One may also point to the conquest of money in the American scheme of values. Both things and shockingly, even people, have acquired money-values which dominate the opinion of many about them. The worth of an individual
is determined by dollars and cents and not by the intrinsic character the man possesses. Such a materialistic tendency, which is creeping faster and further into the judgments of people, precludes much love or charity on the part of the one making the judgment.
What is there to love? The person becomes his income, his social standing. q How does one extend charity to money or position? One can extend charity only V to a person or persons. If the American people have forgotten that their neighbors, in the broad sense of the term, are people, it is easy to see why the lack of charity on the part of many has increased so noticeably.	<
GRADUAL DISEASE	*
This lack has worked its way insidi- ‘ ously into the home, too, of all places. ! Even the home, the bulwark of Christian ' life against the cancerous diffusion of materialistic ideals (if materialism has A any ideals), has been struck by the one disease which can destroy it if given the opportunity — the gradual decrease of charity to the point where it has become dangerous. Living together as the members of a family do is not easy, and « the sacrifice of each for the happiness of all is what enables the family to' maintain its balance during the incessant trials and problems that confront ~ it. If charity leaves the home, the spirit of the family leaves it too; and, if char- ft ity cannot be found in the home, one need not bother to search for it in the world around him.
Americans, as well as all other people of the free world must recognize the place of love and charity in the lives of -men. The degradation of American moral life by its loss of these virtues *' and the introduction of their replacements — a false sense of security, a I / money-valued social orientation, and an incorrect emphasis on the value of the individual, an emphasis which refuses to recognize his responsibilities to those around him — have weakened the people to where they may well be easy prey V) for Communist aggression.	, >
If the traditional American devotion i to love, liberty, and the pursuit of hap- , piness has degenerated into a desire for I sexual love, license, and the pursuit of > wealth, as it may have, the American * people had better turn their attention inward, not outward. They had better < determine that what they are defending ; is worth sacrificing lives for before they i attempt to pass Russia in missiles, for- • eign aid, and constructive propaganda. ’
ATTENTION:
The business staff of the SCHOLASTIC needs a Sophomore.
Those interested should apply at 323 Sorin Hall.
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves... try Old Spice Smooth Shave!	JOO
each
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Skin diver, Don Pinder, is as much at home in the water as he is on land. His “office” — the Florida Keys. His job — recovering sunken treasure for museums. His cigarette
— Camels. “I’ve tried other brands, but then I found I was smoking more — because none of them gave me the satisfaction I get from a Camel every time I light up.”
IF you're smoking more now-but enjoying it less...
have a real cigarette-have a CAMEL
R- J- Remolds Tobacco Company. Winston-Salem. N. C.
If your present cigarette doesn’t give you the satisfaction you want — change to Camels. Really enjoy smoking again. The Camel blend of costly Turkish
and domestic tobaccos has never been equalled for rich taste . . . mildness . . . for real satisfaction. The best tobacco makes the best smoke
6.