
Instant Message with "AbsolutPourman" 
AbsolutPourman 
Last message received at: 8:29:57 PM Your buddy is typing. 
AbsolutPourman (8:29:57 PM): sup m-dawg yo? see the game last nite?? MoilklnTheTrunk (8:30:01 PM): No... messin with these tuition numbers ... AbsolutPourman (8:30:32 PM): r they gonna be highr? MonklnTheTrunk (8:30:50 PM): not a lot.... LOL!!@ AbsolutPourman (8:31:43 PM): GTG b/c party in keyO tonite •.. MonldnTheTrunk (8:31:51 PM): aiight 
l·~·J ~,B.,...IZ~IY~I 'I=! IA GIA GI G !Linlc I I ©..![}:] 
cya L8r•••meetin 2morrow@ 9, K? 



>>· Let There Be Peace on Ea:rth by Alisa Finelli 12 >> ND Cribs by Nick Kolman-Mandie 24 >> Restaurant Review by Beth Murphy 28 >> Glee Clubbin' on the West Coast by Sean Dudley 29 
From the Editor . . . . • • • . 2 Week in Distortion . . • . . 34 ND Notebook •••••••• 4 Calendar • • • • • • . . . . . 35 Campus Watch . . . . • • . 23 Final Word . • • • • . •. • . 36 Splin_ters . . . . . . . . . . . 30 


Humble Beginnings
Icreated my first great joke years ago at the age of 9. It went something 
like this: "What did the rabbit say to his boss on payday?" "Give me my weekly celery!" Not funny? It's a little complicated; I should explain. The primary joke is 

the substitution of celery for salary. Normally, workers ask for their salary, but a rabbit worker that has a natural affinity for vegetables might conceiv­ably ask for celery instead. Sure, there are some problems, because salary refers to one's total annual payment, whereas the rabbit would be more likely to ask for his biweekly paycheck. But this overlooks the real comic genius -this is a talking rabbit. Not only do rabbits not talk, but they also tend nono enter the workforce. So that's pretty funny. 
After a decade or so ofpractice, I haven't gotten much better. Luckily for you, our staff is a bit more talented. On that note, welcome to Sarcastic, Scholastic's annual satirical issue. Herein we question the truths that the look for Dome's spin squad has been spoonfeeding us since day one. We've got the ISSUE 12 411 on student elections, the real plans for South Bend's future and a new 
on 
APRl5 plan to save money on campus. Lookno further than the middle eight pages ofthis issue to see how SUB is cutting expenses, explore the hiring process for the next university president, and read about a classy place for a great date. We bring you the true facts at our expense, your expense, but mostly at the expense of the administration. ' So can you handle the truth? Maybe, but I'm unconvinced. After all, you didn't think the rabbit joke was funny. 
Farewell, Fearless Leader 

Every issue of Scholastic for the past year has been set loose under the watchful eye ofMattKillen, our previous editor in chie£ As this issue goes to press and the sun rises over campus, we hope he is sound asleep. That, or finishing his senior thesis, which he neglected for the past 8 months. Either way, good luck, Matt. Scholastic thanks you and all the seniors for your help -you will be missed. 
~~½ 
Ryan Greenberg, Editor 

Vol. 145, No. 11 • 25 MAR 2004 
SCHOLa8TIC 
Editor In Chief 
Ryan Greenberg 
Managing Editor 
Sean Dudley 
Executive Editor 

·: 
Jim Ryan 
News 
Tom Tiberio 
Campus Life 
Lauren Wilcox. editor 
Katie Solan, assistant 
Sports 
Christopher Meskill, editor 
Entertainment 
Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments 
Mike Healy, editor 
Design 
Nell Ryan David Redenbaugh 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor 
Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief 
JenniferWadkins, assistant AnnaSchmall 
Darlene Luebbert 
Distribution 
Phil Hall, manager 
Business Jessie Potish, manager 
Online 
JimmyAtkinson, manager 

-\ 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Q11asi Semper Viet11r11S Vroe Quasi Crns Moritr1111S 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine Is copyright 

_, 
2004 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved. No 
contents of this magazine, either In whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume 

·.__ 
liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All 

: : _ correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafor<une Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 
5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue. Infesting the young ·-, 
minds faster than bacteria.All letters must Include the 
writer"s name, address and phone number.All letters 
must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request 
in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more 
than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year.Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or 

_ date. Copies of the annual football review are available _­
at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on request. 

:,; 
The opinions expressed in Scholasdc magazine are not 

_ necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the --· student body. 
2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
25 MARCH 2004 



Afraid you 're not worthy? 

Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. founder of the University of Notre Dame at age 29. 
So was he. 


Be Not Afraid! 



THE 
JIMRYAN 
Chad Kohorst admits that he has an obsession, but he wouldn't classify it as unhealthy. The M.B.A. stu­dent and avid basketball fan spearheaded a successful campaign to create 1,000 nick­names for Tom Timmermans, the 6'11" senior center hailing from Driehuis, The Netherlands. Kohorst chose Timmermans because he is a fan favorite, and because he lends himself to having many nicknames. "He's big, and he's Dutch," Kohorst says, "and you can play off his name and his playing style with nicknames." Among Kohorst's favorite nicknames are "The Clutch Dutchman," "The Holland Globetrotter" and, simply, "Showtime." The project began last year when Ko­horst and his friend Steve Dillenburger, a 2 003 graduate ofthe university, created a t-shirt that included 50 nicknames for Timmermans. Kohorst says that after making the t-shirts, the two wanted to 

D D 
TEN QUESTIO~S .• ·• 


come up with a new list of original Tim­mermans nicknames. Someone suggested that they go for 100. "That was setting the sights a little low," Kohorst says. "We wanted 1,000." 
Originally, Kohorst, Dillenburger and a handful of their friends generated the nicknames. However, through his ·· sports humor website, Kohorst was able to promote the project and invite suggestions from the entire Notre Dame community. With the help of their sugges­tions, Kohorst was able to exceed his goal; the website currently lists 1,033 nicknames. 
Kohorst says Timmermans seems to enjoy the attention from his fans because he is not the type ofplayer that receives a tremendous amount of media attention. In a recent interview on www.und.com, 
Timmermans expressed his love for the 50 nicknames t-shirt that Kohorst gave him last year, as well as his appreciation for the 1000 nicknames project. 
Kohorst would like to immortalize the 1,000 nicknames like he did with the t-shirt for the first 50 nicknames; however, there are logistical difficulties to fitting 1000 nicknames on at-shirt. Instead, Kohorst has created a poster that includes all 1,000 nick­names. 
Kohorst is unsure whether or not he will un­dertake another project of such proportions. "We're waiting for another Tom Timmermans," he says. 
"We don't know if that will ever hap­pen." 
To view Kohorst's list of 1,000 nick­names, visit http://www.nd.edu/-ckohorstl nicknames.htnz. . 
Mike Nagy is an assistant manager 

Ten Questions 
at Beacon Bowl, a bowling alley on 

with the guy who takes your shoes 
Lincolnway East in South Bend. The 
lanes are a popular site for dorm dances 
and black light rock 'n' roll bowling on 
weekend nights. Nagy is an accomplished 
bowler himself, and he left his former job 
after a number ofyears there so he could 
have ftm and get paid at the same time. 
When he's not busy with work, he gets his 
bowl on, and recently he got his interview 
on with Scholastic. 
How long has Beacon Bowl been open? 
I've been here one season, and Beacon Bowl has been open since the 1950s. 


What's yourfavorite part of managing the alley? 
The people, the customers. You get to meet a lot of new people here. Plus, [bowling] is my love. I walked out of a job that was a grind, and this is a bunch of fun. The only drawback is I hear pins falling constantly. 
lfyoucouldn'tmanageBeaconBowl,where would you want to be working? I would probably be working back in hu­man resources in manufacturing. That's what I used to do. 
Who is the mostinteresting person you have met here? 
25 MARCH 2004 


get.drunk and go to class. 's a great idea! 
. "Going to the· dentist is ;riot like confes~ion. It's been a long time since my last visit and bad things have happened." · · · · · -Spanish professor 
"If lightning struck the Dome, that would be domestic violence:' -overheard student 
"In a certain respect, I resemble beer since I am from Germany:' · · -philosophy professor 
I28 Years Ago A sense of history ... As you are all no doubt aware, the year 1976 was dominated by civic events and celebrations of our great nation's Bicentennial. Thus, it is only fitting that in this, America's bi­plus 28-centennial, we take a moment to reflect on the effects this occasion had on the Notre Dame Community. From Scholastic, Mar. 5, 1976: 
"Indeed, the Bicentennial Year is an ir­relevance, a nonevent or ghostly paradigm ofcelebration which even desperate energies ofcommerce, intellect or politics cannot call into meaningful existence [. ..} In that case, the Bicentennial Year with its attendant 'fes­tivals' becomes an obscene performance 71!ith Americans as participating pornographers." 
"Now here's a picture of a dike. No, that's Mia: She's not the dike, the dike is behind her:' · -geology professor, showing photos·ofvai-iousnatural formations 
Aubrey Sauer. She's a senior at Adams High School. She carries a 23 7 [bowling] average. As a bowler myself, I can say she's probably light years ahead of anyone her age. 
There's a Chippewa Bowl jacketin your office. Did you steal itfrom them, orare you in cahoots? 
I rolled a 299 game there. They give out jackets as awards for great games. And ai:.e we in cahoots? The answer is yes. [Beacon Bowl] is owned by the same company. 
Bar brawls happen in everycityacrossthe country.Whenwasthelast Beacon Brawl? 
Thanksgiving night [there was] a small fight on the concourse. We've been pretty clean here this year, though. 
From your interactions with them here,what do you thinkof Notre Dame students? Apart from a few incidents, they have been great. I enjoy having the lock-ins. It's great that ND kids have a place to come. I love ND. For being an IU grad, that's not bad, right? 
What's the most effective bowling technique:throughthelegs,granny-style or left-handed? 
Left-handed. We joke that left-handers 
So, as you can see, the Bicentennial was a year-long party happily enjoyed and celebrated by everyone ... eve1yone. 
-Mike Healy 

have the advantage all night long. The left side stays healthier [in bowling leagues]. Everyone else is wearing down the oil on the right side. 
Whichwouldyouratherbe:aprobowler,a pro-bowler(NFL) ora pro baller(NBA)? 
Basketball [player], just because of the money and less hits. I don't hit the ground too easy anymore. 
Who'sthebetterbowler:Fred Flinstone, JohnGoodman in"TheBig Lebowski" or John Goodman as Fred Flinstone? 
In the Big Lebowski. That's one of my favorite movies. -Sean Dudley 
25 MARCH 2004 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 

"'f 
t 
IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 

MEN'S NIT 
We're playing in the postseason, and we have a chance to win it all. Hopefully we'll snag the trophy, cut down the nets, and proudly shout, "We're number 66!" 

NCAA BRACKETS 
No matter how hard you study ESPN and pretend to know the in's and out's of every 13 seed, two of your Final Four teams are knocked out by the end of the second round. And you're out I 0 bucks. 

NO-MEAT FRIDAYS 
Sometimes you really need dining 
hall swiss steak. Oh wait, no you 
don't. Ever. 

SPRING BREAK TANS 
Getting skin cancer never looked 
so good. Too bad it's still sweatshirt 
and jeans weather. 

TUITION HIKE 
It's only a seven percent increase, they say.True, but seven percent of $34,000 is still a whole lot of money! Now my parents will never give me that new car. 
IDomeLights COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY 

NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 

1:-:'¢..~v~r: Yoli,r)l;:ye~fan·~, pr~y-·::>~/.::j 
A future in which Jessica and Nick rule over 
JJ 
humanity is dangerously close. 
IRYANGREENE 


Reality television to the right. J Lo getting hurt garners more headlines than, to the left. Boy bands behind. Does an well,justaboutanything. Oh, whataworld! equally bleak future lie before us? Judg-To think young, innocent, perfect Britney ing from America's current favorites in is trying desperately to recuperate from a television and music, let's just say things minor knee injury (gasp!) that has forced don't look good. her to cancel several tour dates (eek!). Of 
Consider the boob tube's biggest offer-course the presses should have been stopped ings. "True-TV'' shows like The Apprentice, for such weighty matters. Sigh. FearFactorandAmericanldolhaveAmerica Even old mainstays are a mess. Every­in a stranglehold ofvapid, shallow inanity. one knows Ozzy, the one-time rock 'n' roll Week after week, producers fill the trough king of darkness, has become a mumbling with the festering swill __________ dotard, beloved by television 
of Trump-worshiping, Shows like Arrested audiences everywhere. And testicle-devouring, Tom Jones lives in a world crap-crooning point-Development continue to of shocking denial, delud­
lessness. And the view-prove there's still some ing himself into believing he ingpubliclinesrightup spark of wit in mankind. remains a sexbomb for every and guzzles it down. _________ woman in America. 
Too harsh? Hardly. Lest you believe that all In recent entertainment news, ABC has . hope is lost, there is a silver lining to these granted Nick Lachey and Jessica Simp-dark clouds. For all the terrible choices in son, this generation's greatest argument television and music today, there are still a for staying in school, their very own TV few bastions ofhumor and talent out there. special. Thaaat's right, get set for The Nick Shows like Fox's comedy ArrestedDevelop­and Jessica Variety Hour, featuring such . ment, revolving around the wacky hi-jinx spectacular talents as Babyface, Kenny of a level-headed businessman in a family Rogers and, uh... Kermit the Frog. As of brainless, rich fools, continue to prove ifher new line of edible beauty products there's still some spark of wit in mankind. (mystifying, isn't it?) wasn't bad enough, · And bands like Jet and The Kings ofLeon Jessica and her cretinous tool ofa husband are doing their best to keep rock alive (or to are all set to knock the American public bring it back to life, as the case may be). IQ down a few more pegs, while paving As long as there are a few people in the way for a possible sitcom also onABC. television and music fighting to raise the Ifthat doesn't spell disaster for the future entertainment industry out of the · fetid of humanity, I don't know what does. mire of reality television and mindless 
The music scene is almost as depressing. pop, there is a chance that what ails us 
Rap rules the world. Tripe like Toxic and now will all just be an unpleasant memory. 
Milkshake can be heard from every bath-So cross your fingers, folks. And ignore 
room radio on campus. And Britney Spears' Nick and Jessica. They're idiots. . 
Source: Notre Dame campus map & website 
Notre Dame has often been referred to as "The Bubble:' in the sense that it seems to be an almost entirely self-contained community that adequately fulfills the needs of all who live there. This is, in fact, quite an apt description, as Notre Dame is very likely the most self-sufficient college campus in the nation.Yet, surprisingly, many students remain ignorant of some of its finer parts. Bearing that in mind, here are some statistics t9 impress potential dates at parties: 
111: Number of buildings on campus 24% of buildings are used for residential purposes 
55.8: Ratio of people to buildings on campus IO: Number ofATMs on campus 12,6% of buildings are used for athletics 12: Number of restaurants on campus 
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 25 MARCH 2004 
Jle <:JJeparlmenl of !ltomance Lnruares and~teraluresprou/4presenls . .. 


'EL RETABLO DE LAS MARAVILLAS  "'NON TUTTI I LADRI VENGONO  
and 'EL VIEJO CELoso  PER NUOCERE"  
Two comic entremeses by Miguel de Cervantes,  Afarse by Dario Fo, presented in Italian  
presented in Spanish  Fri.April2 at7:30 pm  
April2,3 and4 at7:30 pm  Sat.April 3at 2pm and 7:30 pm  
Jordan Auditorium,  Sun. April 4at3pm  
Mendoza College ofBusiness  Washington Hall Lab Theatre  

Ticketsfor allpetformances $5, available at the door or in 343 o'shaughnessy Hall. A detailed synopsis in English will be provided in thf program. 
Let's be honest here,NDTV is the show No one is talkinfirout. 
BE THE F ST.* 

NEW EPISODE Look for anall­
·Checkout 
TUESDAY MARCH 30th-Random 
our website at. 
11 P.M. Channel 3 Show April 
'WWMl 'itfo.:fa(.',fret·
1,.-\,' ON'• •1_,,.".!~,-••• ~,r-, •'-•'•~~----•••••••',,, 
Re-airs on April 1st & 8th 5 P.M. 
20th 

* This may entail talking to yourself for a while. 
i) 
I,
!1 
ii 
1,
I.
ii 
11 
,,~ 
RYANGREENBERG 
For most students, stress means read­. ing, homework and exams. Students . studying abroad often have a different understanding: stress means booking cheap flights and having enough film. But for stu­dents abroad on Mar. 11, 2004, typical stress faded and was replaced by terror. Early that morning, IO bombs ex­ploded at various locations on a Madrid communter train. Two hundred civilians were killed, 1,400 wounded. Dr. Tom Bogenschild, director of Inter­national and Off Campus Programs, heard about the bombing at 5 :45 a.m. He thought immediately of the hundreds of going abroad in the future. 
"There are risks in studying abroad," Bogenschild says. "There are risks being alive in the 21st century. On balance, the benefits ofgoing abroad far outweigh the risks by a huge factor." 
Tom Smith, a first year seminarian at Moreau, agrees. "What you can learn from another culture definitely counters the dangers of studying abroad," he says. Smith was studying in Toledo when the Sept. 11 attacks took place. To ensure stu­dent safety, the university in Toledo asked students to keep a low profile. "We were advised not to speak English in public or to act or dress like Americans," says Smith. 

Notre Dame students studying "· .. thebenefitsofgoingabroad 
in nine European countries. This 
prematurely for any reason, personal or semester, 40 of those students are in far outweigh the risks by a security related. Bogenschild only re­
Toledo,Spain,aboutanhoursouth huge factor." calls around 10 withdrawals in the past 
of Madrid. 
As details about the bomb­ing emerged, Bogenschild was optimistic. He recalls thinking, "It would be unlikely that one of our students would be on a com­muter train of that nature at that time in the morning." 
When events occur in which student safety is a concern, the Office of Inter­national Studies resorts to a two-part response: It tries to account for students studying near the affected area, and it provides information to parents, media and other interested parties. Shortly af­ter the bombing, an International Stud­ies administrator visiting Spain called the Fundacion -the school Notre Dame students attend in Toledo -and confirmed that all of the students were safe. By 11:30 a.m., Bogenschild posted a security update on the International Study Programs' web site. 
Beyond students' immediate safety in the aftermath, a number oflarger ques­tions arose from the bombings in Madrid about the dangers of studying abroad, provisions for student safety, and the effect these events may have on students in various locations.Julia Douthwaite, As­sistant Provost for International Studies, explains that the university draws on di­versified information sources so that they don't have to rely solely on information from the U.S. State Department. The uni­versity is also a member of the SAFETI Consortium, a loose organization of uni­versities that share information on health and safety issues for students abroad. 
When the information indicates serious danger for students, Bogenschild will make a recommendation to suspend a program. The Jerusalem program, which began in 1985, has been suspended twice, from 1991 to 1992 and from 2000 to the present. 
Despite tensions abroad, very few 
students have left their overseas sites 

five or six years. "Sometimes parents -Dr. Tom Bogenschil_d, want us to bring their son or daughter home," he says. "We can't force anyone 
director of International and 
to do anything. They are adults; they 

Off Campus Programs 
make their own choices." 
After Sept. 11, the department recog­nized that a primary difficulty in disaster situations is communication. "After that point, we began to supply cell phones in many of our European programs," Bo­genschild says. Current implementation is somewhat irregular; some European programs require cell phones while oth­ers don't. In London, Austria and France, students receive phone-hardware free of charge. Other programs provide financial help for purchasing phones, while others make students foot the bill. Financial constraints and varying levels of Notre Dame's involvement in each program contribute to such disparities. 
Safety concerns for students in study abroad programs aren't new; they existed even prior to Sept. 11. The Office ofln­ternational Studies maintains a watch on various interests worldwide. It subscribes to a daily intelligence report that monitors worldwide-news and assesses threat levels 
Students planning to study in Spain next year seem undeterred by the recent terrorist strike in Madrid. "I'm a little ap­prehensive, but still excited about going," sophomore Amy Yahn says. 
"I'll exercise extreme caution," sopho­more Katie Laird says, "but you can'tre­ally predict these things. You can't live life always thinking something bad is going to happen." 
If numbers are any indicator, security concerns have had little impact on stu­dents going abroad. Each year roughly 1,000 students spend time studying far away from campus. In 2003, Notre Dame ranked third in the percentage ofstudents studying abroad in an Institute for Inter­national Education study. 
Bogenschild, for one, is pleased with students' resilience. "Part ofthe problem in today's world is we don't have enough people who understand international is­sues. It's one thing to read about an issue, it's another thing to experience it." D 

8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
25 MARCH 2004 

••••••••• 0 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
University Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, & •• ••• 

-.,;,...'-/~ .· ~..-, .·...·· ,, . ' Bisexual Students 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
• GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web sitej"or student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/--scglsn/ 
··························••e1••·••e1••··········•• ••••••• 

Notre Dame )isability Awareness Week 
March 22-26, 2004 

Autism Lecture by Patricia Stacey 
Thursday, March 25th 7 p.m. at DeBartolo 101 
Patricia Stacey is a Creative Writing Professor, former editorial staff member of the Atlantic Monthly and author of the book, The Boy Who Loved Windows, Opening the Heart and Mind of a Child Threatened withAutikm. 
Stacey utilized intensive play therapy sessions fo teach her son with autism how to communicate. 
www.nd:edu/~bbuddies Sponsors: Best Buddies, Junior Class Council, Howard Hall, Center for Social Concerns . 



i ~ 
i ! 
i l 
i' 
i 
I 
1 
I 
I 
-;_~~:_:: 
}:_&)'
,,:,, 
;~~! 
--,···'•--'F~ ~";~Iii~~,=
•J -~J-~ ! ;i-''' ,.,_ ' ' • ,,· ·-/· ··--~·--;<•.. ,;Le. 
,·,.t;1a.g1JL ·,.9f'.L~:~..: ~r. ·s;·~ -~c.fi,l~)li~g ~,lf.~-.-~t-~~~~-s~~:;;~~; /~,: ,,!...::."'-"'"-""b-"-'="""'-=~-~_,,_~1...f..c~.~,,_~~-;-"'·~'--"t"-'~-1::==t~:i:.£~11~~:'ii~:;;r(;£;::~~:.:::-:~:-·t~~?~~;~:/}ftr~i;~tf·;~· •• ·.,:; ,, t~~?'-~· ,. !4,,
... ~> 
TOMTIBERIO 
They call themselves the South Bend Old Boys, and on a weekly basis these Notre Dame rugby players rally to ruck, maul and scrum­down, like any other college rugby player. The Old Boys started in the fall of 2000, and the name on their uniform reads "Old Boys temporary," a play on Ireland's former national rugby jerseys, which read "Irish Permanent" across the chest. It is also an optimis­tic response to their current situation, which they hope will not last. The Old Boys is not an officially recognized sport at Notre Dame. The Old Boys' ultimate goal is for their jerseys to read, "Irish," because for those players passionate about the game, not playing for the university means not winning for Notre Dame. Now, after 10 years, to the month, they want another chance to represent Notre Dame. However, the reputation ofthe former rugby club still is working against the Old Boys. Although rugby was once a popular sport on campus, repeated disciplinary problems over a number of years· led to the team's disbandment in 1994. In 
10 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
recent years, rugby players at Notre Dame have been working to clean up their act. Under the leadership of players like junior Max Walters, the team has come a long way. They practice twice a week with the locally organized men's club, the South Bend· Blues. They also compete against such big-name teams as Michigan, Ball State and Vanderbilt. 
Anyone even slightly familiar with rugby knows that the game and those individuals involved carry with them a certain reputation. Rugby is a brutal sport played by fierce competitors with no pads. 
But there is another aspect of the game that takes place off the field 


25 MARCH 2004 

-post-game partying. After the game, teams who fought violently on the field come together to eat, sing and partake in other traditions unique to rugby. Players from opposing teams compli­ment each other on hits made during the game and a sense of camaraderie arises among all ofthe players, no mat­ter their team affiliation. 
It is this same comradeship, on which rugby prides itself, that seems to be keeping the university from recogniz­ing rugby as a club sport again. 
"The general idea is that the culture surrounding the rugby team, and rugby as a sport, was pretty negative and lead to the behavior that they saw demonstrated back at the time when the club was fold-
But ruggers like Walters are tired of waiting. As far as the Old Boys are concerned, the past is the past and the future is now. 
However, unlike when players are put in the Sin Bin, rugby's equivalent to the penalty box in hockey, the length oftime for this disbandment was unspecified. Since none of the players from the 1994 team still attend Notre Dame, there is some speculation that rugby, whether as a sport or a culture, is not something the University wants to advocate. 
Walters says the behavior associated with the '94 team is atypical, however, and to label the current team with the same stigma is without reason. While he admits that post-game revelries do 
It's not just a waiting out a cycle of students. It's a waiting out of the key personnel in the administration and club sport areas. 
-Brian Coughlin, 
director of Student Activities 
ed," says director ofStudent Activities at 
Notre Dame Brian Coughlin. 
Coughlin explains that the club spon­sorship process starts and ends· with him. Although he was not involved in the disbandment of the original rugby club (he took his current position in 2001), Coughlin says it is still fresh in the . minds of those who decided to eliminate 
the rugby team in the mid '90's. 
Coughlin also says that those who 
play rugby today are victims ofbad tim­
ing. "It's not just a waiting out a cycle of 
students," he says, "it's a waiting out of 
the key personnel in the administration 
and club sport areas." 
Associate Vice President of Student 
Affairs Bill Kirk, who is believed to 
have played an active role in the elimi­
nation process, declined opportunities 
to comment for this story. 
take place, he considers that activity tame and their label of drunken brawls to be stereotypes. 
Currently, the Old Boys are com­pletely self-run. They have no advisor, no coach and, without student activi­ties fees, are entirely self-funded. They even had to self-officiate their last match against Central Michigan when the referee did not show. 
Additionally, the Old Boys are hard­pressed as far as recruitment is con­cerned. Because they are prohibited from using flyers to advertise, most of their recruitment is done by word of mouth.' They also make use of campus publications. Recently they ran a full­page ad in The Observer which read, "Want to Play Rugby?" 
Because they are not recognized by the university, several problems arise. 
Most prominent, they cannot compete at the national level. 
"My ultimate goal is to be able to compete for a national championship," Walters says. 
Without official club status, they also are restricted from scheduling games at on campus locations like the Stepan on McGlinn fields. Instead, their home games are played at various parks in the South Bend area. 
Huddled together, the Old Boys be­gin every match and end every practice with the same cheer, "Tiocfaidh Ar La" 

HIGH FLYIN' ACTION Students on the rugby team have intense practices twice a week. They frequently have games on Saturdays. 
(pronounced "Chuck-hig awr law"), a Gaelic phrase meaning "our day will come." 
The chance that their day will arrive anytime soon is unlikely. Club propos­als are accepted once a year, and their next chance will be in Jan. 2005, when proposals are reviewed. 
But the Old Boys remain hopeful that they soon will gain official rec­ognition. 
Until then, the current "Old Boys temporary" jerseys will have to do. D 
25 MARCH 2004 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 11 

Let There be Peace on Earth 
Notre Dame's annual peace conference is the work of passionate student organizers 

ALISAFINELLI 
In just a few days, several dedicated Notre Dame• students will at last be able to experience the end result of months of planning and organizing. This Friday and Saturday, Notre Dame will host its annual Undergraduate Peace Conference. For the planning committee, the conference will mark the significant accomplishment of achieving their goal to further the message ofpeace. Over ten-years-old, the conference has always been unique in that un­dergraduate students run it. It began in the late '80s as an opportunity for Peace Studies students to present and share their research papers. Today, conference participation has reached a much larger scale -students and peace advocates from across the nation and around the world travel to Notre Dame to exchange their ideas. 
"The goal of "We really made the conference 
an effort to reach
is to explore what causes 
out to people of all
violence and how we can disciplines. You cannot 
contribute to improving have peaceful and 
conditions to achieve just societies without peace," says 
engineers [...] without
Alice Pen­nington, a 
doctors, without
sophomore working on 
lawyers, without 
the commit­
tee. With a historians, without broad range of presentations Wr.1ters." by two key-
Nadia Stefko 
note speakers, undergradu­
to discuss their thoughts and reactions Because all aspects of the conference in small group settings. are planned and organized by the student The students on the planning com­committee, its members have devoted a mittee had complete control over the significant amount of time to it. "The 
content and format  biggest challenge  
of the conference, so they were able create  The students'  is that, since it's completely stu­ 
their own theme for it. The committee  commitment to the  dent-run, there's no full-time per­ 
focused  on  mak­ conference has been  son working on  
ing the conference pertinent to a wider audience and ap­plying the issue of  sustained by a shared "raw passion for the  this. We're all try­ing to do it in ad­. . dition to classes," Stefka says.  
peace to various in ­tellectual fields. "We  pursuit of peace and  However, the students' com­ 

really made an effort 
justice,"
to reach out to people of all disciplines," senior co-chair Nadia Stefka says. "You cannot have peaceful and just societies without engineers [ ... ] without doctors, 
without lawyers, with­
out historians, without writers." 

Among the 35 present­ers are representatives from Take Ten, the Poor People's Economic Hu-· man Rights Campaign, Sustained Dialogue and the Children's Defense Fund. The two keynote speakers will be Mari­claire Acosta on Friday night and Elvia Alvarado on Saturday afternoon. Junior co-chair Monica J acirZablah explained that this year's confer­ence will address issues concerning peace but not necessarily related 
to war. "That's where 
our keynote speakers 
come in, because they 

ate and graduate students, attendees are both human rights activists and they of the conference will gain a greater are both from developing countries. The understanding of peace from several problems they face are rooted in other different angles. They will also be able things [than war]." 
mitment to the 
conference has 
been sustained by a shared "raw passion for the pursuit of peace and justice," as Stefka puts it. JacirZablah's interest in peace studies developed while she was living in El Sal­vador for eight years during the country's civil war. "I've seen firsthand what war can do to people," she says. "Knowing what [war] causes, I really think that something should be done to stop it or to try to improve the relations between people." She feels the conference can ap­proach this goal by working to change the opinions ofpeople little by little. 
The student-run aspect of the confer­ence has made itunique and, on the whole, stronger. George Lopez, the director of Policy Studies and Senior Fellow at the Kroc Institute, was involved in the formu~ lation of the conference. He believes the quality ofthe conference stems from the fact that it is run by students only. "There is less ego, less academic haughtiness and more shared discussion," he says. 
"The difference lies in empowerment," Stefka says. She hopes the conference will "challenge the idea that [ ... ] you have to be a part of some formal institution or you have to have a certain degree to be able to initiate or put together something like this. This is grassroots organizing at its finest." . 

12 SCHOLASTIC 
25 MARCH 2004 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! 

Sign Up on the Internet NOW @ www. LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in your 2005 Dome Yearbook! 
WHO:  Class of 2005  
WHEN:  Pictures taken  
until April 2  
WHERE:  LaFortune 108  
WHY:  To be in the 2005  
Dome  

Remember to Sign Up Today! 
WWW. 

LaurenStudios.com 

ACTIVITIES OFFICE
STUDE 
O)~~[ill 
The Student Activities Office is seeking student ,employees for the 2004-2005 academic year. 


Positions include: -LaFortune Building Manager 

NEXT YEAR's BEST
-24 HourLounge Monitor 
CAMPUS JOBS ARE

-Information Desk & Box Office 
AVAILABLE NOW;..

-ND Cake Service Attendant -Billiards Hall Attendant 
DON'T WAIT UNTIL

-LaFortune Ballroom Monitor 
/T's TOO LATE! 

-Stepan Center Manager -Facilities Assistant -Program Assistant APPLICATION DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31. 
APPLY ON-LINE ON THE SAO WEBSITE AT: 


1 '. 

! 
···11I 
I 

Now accepting applications. for the 2004-2005 academic year. Apply r:dthe web~He below 

,' .......  ··;•~Po;:....-­ .... _,  .  -~ir..-u•~I._,.... .......,. • 0,C ,, '?"=> ;.,;_r-:-~,·~~·~·:: ..  -· ~ . . _.,. ;_.. __ ._ ,,... ...... ,0-i:L...J ...  
-~.  ~ ~ .'-... .. t  "''"-"':..-..._, r••-.. .u;• • ),• .. : : ' , ! ..,,'"""''iiil,......,,.. ·"'  --.;.l:.,,,.._..,;; •. ...,t'f J  -~·.-,•·; ~:;/f -F : ..  

t t 

IMobile Home Carroll Hall uses matching funds to relocate 
F 
GERNYBRADSHAW year it was a giant Twister board. My administration wanted to do something or years Carroll Hall has been that would benefit every resident, every called the only off campus dorm. day." No more -after approval from Although the relocation is not with­the Office of Residence Life __::t_l!.Q..... <11!t.i!~ pr~l>.l~n::i,s, re_sidents are staying 
Housing, Carroll Hall 1: completed its move to 4. · · · South Quad earlier this :_i~
t:.:,.._•:· 
week. Its new home, i;: .. '.lilt perpendicular to Hayes-l{R I i1: Healy, is 3 minutes away 't · · •·. from DeBartolo, less than one-fifth the pre­vious time. 
Carroll used $2,000 in matching funds -mon­ies offered annually by ORHL for capital improvements -to pay for the move. Over the weekend, resi­dents rented U-Hauls, disassembled the dorm, and reassembled it brick by brick on South Quad. · 
Hall president George Giovanni says, "Two years ago we bought new couches [with matching funds], last pos1t1ve. One resident says, "Yeah, some of the rewiring was tricky and our Internet connection.is on-and-off now, but that's nothing new." 
Some are already considering the impact Carroll's move will have on other dorms. 
Physics professor Bruce Fa_ren­heimer explains, "Alumni Hall has long claimed to be 'the center of the universe;' The nature of the universe is that it really doesn't have any center. However, if one considers the matter from an anthropomorphic standpoint, taking 'center' to mean 'convenient 
access to campus,' Carroll is the new center of the universe." 
The new location is also rekindling some old flames. Junior Laura Weaver re­calls, "I had a crusli on this guy freshmen ye;r, but when I found out he was from Carroll I knew the long-distance relationship 
wouldn't work. But now he's hot and close-by." Giovanni is unsure what the future holds for dorm improvements. "I 
· guess we could flood South Quad so we'd have lakefront property again. I don't know." 
Carroll is offering 150 bikes for sale this coming Monday. . 

ITen Questions with the most offensive dog .in the world 
· 
1 Tri~~ph;.the I 
Insult Comic 
Following his recent controversial visit to Toronto, the politically incorrect mutt provocateur Triumph the Insult Comic Dog, from Late Night with Conan O'Brien, g;raced the campus ofthe Univer~'ty of 
Notre Dame last week and offered his take on things here and in South Bend. He turns 
5 0 years old (in dog years) later this week. 
How did you convince Conan to let you take time off work to come here? Who? Oh, that guy? What's the big deal with him anyway? I let him host my show is what I have to say about that guy.Just re­member that I call the shots around there. And just to let you in on a little secret, his hair is not red, you know, down there. 
What is your favorite part of the university? 
I really enjoy those water fountains in DeBartolo Hall. I found the one next to the main doorwaymakes for a great bidet after I take a big crap on the stairs. 
If you were a student here, what would your major be? 
I am interested in that PLS crap. What does that stand for again? Program of Landfill Sewage? Loud Snobs? Lard Spines? 
There has been a lot of controversy surroundingyourrecentvisittoToronto. How do you respond to your Canadian audience? 
You mean those misplaced Euro queens? I say they all complain too much. And their crap stinks even worse than mine. So they can all go back to France, my 
25 MARCH 2004 




,,<, D NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT BICENTENNIALLY 
[•.•· R.E!ality\.-.&.~s<:le>!iie t91-t'.e>me 
New reality show will scour the nation in search of Notre Dame's next president. 


loe1N10NAJE .JEBK
The Univeristy of Notre Dame an­nounced Wednesday that it will join forces with prominent reality TV pro­ducer Lars Baretta to shoot a new show that will determine the university's next president. The show, called The President, will pit 16 contestants against each other as they vie for the top spot at the university. The winner, who will be announced in the show's finale, will take over for currentuniversitypresident Dunk Killjoy at the end ofhis term. "We're thrilled to be joining forces with television's premiere reality show producer to bring America some world-class enter­tainment," says Mitt Scoring, university spokesperson. "Oh, and if we actually find someone who's decent at the job, I guess that's good, too." Each week, a candidate will be dismissed by Killjoy and his assistants, Fr. Hank Rich­guyand, controversially, Fr. Tom Skilly, who willreturn to campus to help with the show. Though Skilly initially resisted the offer after an unpleasant run-in with a campus candid­camera show two years ago, producers lured him back to campus with the promise of extensive face time during each episode. The assistants will help Killjoy make his decision at the end of every episode. The episode's losing team will be called to "the Rectory," where Killjoy will fire one unlucky candidate. 
The show's 16 contestants will face off each week in increasingly more demanding tasks that will allow Killjoy and company to rate their skills at president-ing. Scheduled tasks will range from who can deliver the most disjointed and awkward speeches to who can best alienate prospective applicants through poorly-conceived commercials. "We're looking for the least personable human being out there," Scoring adds. 
In order to fit the new show, the tradi­tional requirements for president will be changed. Candidates will no longer need to be Holy Cross priests with doctorate degrees. Instead, producers say that they will focus on "sexy" 20-somethings and "type-N' personalities that will spark drama and controversy. Many non-Catholics and at least one homosexual are expected to be among the show's contestants. 
Although Killjoy insists that the final decision each week is up to him, insiders say that he is just a figurehead and will be told what to do. "He should be used to that," Scoring says. . 
I 43 Minutes Ago
It The sun was shining ... 
ometimes it feels like the weather

S
never changes. Looking out the 

window, it's nothing but grey clouds and some light rain. This hasn't always been the case, however. Forty-three minutes ago, the weather was appar­ently drastically different. From away messages posted by then-students who lived in Farley Hall: 
"I can't believe that it's sunny! We've haven't seen the sun in, like, ages. 1'111 put­ting myflip-flops on and going outside! Leave a message ..." 
"Spring's here! I'm taking niy Foucault reading out onto the quad!" 
Flip-flops? The sun? Foucault? Sounds good to me, ladies. Just let me get my driving gloves and we can hop into my model-T, grandma. Three o'clock must have been some wild times. Maybe then we can go to a box social or a soda shop! 
-Orville Hacksworth 

favorite country in the world. For me to poop on! 
Have you visited any other college campuses? 
On my way here, I stopped in Ann Arbor. What a [censored]! 
WhathasbeenyourfavoriteSouth Bend hangout during your visit? 
This place has hangouts? Man, this town is such a load ofintolerable waste. Have you been outside lately? No, seriously though, this town must think that we are in Com­munist Russia, what with the pitiful neigh­borhoods and the arctic winters. 
· Have you met any ofthe other dogs on campus? 
I met this one [ censored] outside of that [censored] next to [censored] with the [censored]. Yeah, I showed her a good time. Nice piece of [censored]. When those [censored] showed up, we didn't even [censored]. 
Wouldyoumindcleaningupthelanguage, please? 
[Censored]. 
What do you think of the food in the dining halls? 
First of all, you should all know that I eat dog food, so my standards are not very high. But the dining hall experience was one I will never forget. I was treated to the specials in the back where the chefs eat. The entrees there were fantastic. For me to poop on! I have never eaten like that in my life. 
Have you marked any territory on our campus as of yet? I declared Zahm Hall in the name of Triumph just last night as a matter of fact. I heard that that hack Regis used to live there. 
How would you feel about an I I th question? Wait. That was the 11th question. Wouldn't that mean you would have to ask me a 12th question now? 
I think you just asked me the 12th question. 
And that's a statement. For me to poop on! -George P. Pig 
25 MARCH 2004 
SARCASTICNOTEBOOK 17 


ri--e::M·; •• 


· VOL.-36-24-36 ·. ' . . · . · ·. . . ,· .. 
. ' ; . 
Headlining \ Accoladed 
By Jason Blair Staff Fabricator 
The Offender received second place at the Ameri­can Collegiate Headline Awards last weekend. ACHA Judge Randall Kolman says, "The Offender displayed a consistent ability to capture the subtle nuiances of news articles while leaving some fun for the reader's imagination." 
Kolman was particularly impressed by The Offender's September 2003 headline, "Entire Band Squeezes into Michigan." He says, "The headline leads the reader to believe that the article will be rather unremarkable. The Notre Dame Band can obviously fit into the state of Michigan." He con­tinues, "But when the reader discovers that the 300 person band fit into approximately 250 seats in Michigan Stadium, he or she actually finds the article somewhat interesting. Thus, the expecta­tion that the headline sets for the article is easily srpassed, making the article appear that much bet­ter." 
The Offender finished behind only West Harbor School of Oceq11ography's Daily Bubble, which won tp.e competition on tqe strength of headlines suc;h ~~. "Wiclow~d Profesor Finds Other Fish in 
the Sea.n 
· ... · . -/fHURS:bAY 'SM 
\. ' . ' ~ 

Nothing Happens a Meeting 
By Brat Pozer 
Keen Grasp on the Obvious 

Student Council members n 
LaFortune Hall yesterday onl 
absolutely nothing. 
Several issues were on the 
terday's meeting; however, c 
were unable to progress past th 
previous meeting's minutes. 
"It was wierd," said Cavanai 
Colleen O'Fitzpatrick. "We we 
hours, but we talked about, like 
"We meant to talk about stm 
restructuring," said Student 
Tribby Hallaloa. "But we kin 

up talking about our favorite e 
jeld." 
All was not lost, however, fi bers. "Well," says O'Fitzpa schedule another meeting for n 

,~=OINT OF VIEW Wearing of Pants is Sinful 
While it is obvious that the heathens who showed support for the Gay-Straight on Thursday will bum for eternity in a pit more fiery than the orange of their t-: equally disturbed by another heinous trend that has failed to sear at the.univers consciousness. That trend is the wearing ofpants. A brief perusal ofthe Book of Genesis proves my point. Before their fall, Adam and Eve were free from the licentious leggings. It was only after they ate from the tree of knowledge that the pair was shackled with their garments of depravity. Furthermore, has everyone forgotten that it is impossible for our Lord God Almighty, the intangible being that He is, to wear pants? I hope that, for the sake of all your eternal souls, you follow the example of our Master and free yourselves from the trou of transgresssion. 
Yours in Christ and nudism, Chaz Beans Canon Law School Professor 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU EAT FOR LUNCh 

Anne Nienaber  Katie Harrison  Summer Lovejoy  ._  The Blac~  
Freshman  Freshman  Freshman  Freshm  
Howard  Howard  Howard  Howar  
"Spicy sea nug­ "I can't believe  "I'm on a hun­ "I ate his  
gests dipped in  there's no meat  ger strike until  with a sic  
fat free ranch. "  in the dining  they publish  Java bean;  
hallsI Jesus  TCEs."  a nice Chi,  
didn't die for  
vegetariansI"  
-­- . --­---~----•-.------c.,.___ ..,..., .....  


IE 

ependent on University Resources 
RCH 25, 2004 ": SOME OF THE NE\y'STHAT'S FIT TO J:>RI­
t 
Let for 4 hours in y to accomplish 
docket for yes­ouncil members e approval of the 
1gh Hall Senator re there for, like, ,, nothing." ient government Body President d of got caught :pisodes of Sein­
or council mem­trick, "We did .ext week." 




OIT Announces Campus­wide Dungeons and Dragons Toumame11t 
By LOWONDA TOTEMPOLE 
Staff How-the-hell-did-I-get-stuck-with-this-beat Writer 
Citing students' complete lack ofinterest in the work that it performs, 
the Office ofInformation Technologies announced yesterday that they 
will host a campus-wide Dungeons and Dragons tournament to raise 
awareness ofthe department. 
OIT Director Milford Poindexter explains the· department's 
motivations. "Despite the compelling newspaper articles and e-mails 
that students receive on a weekly basis, most students still see us as the 
jerks_ who take their computers for 2 months and charge them $150 to 
remove a virus," he says. "We want to show them that we really do 
know how to mix it up and have a good time." 
Poindexter says the tournament was inspired by the success of 
Flipside's board game night last semester. Other games were considered · for the tournament, including Magic: The Gathering and Stratego, but the Department finally decided upon Dungeons and Dragons because "it kicks the most ass." Poindexter adds that the department would have preferred to use Deluxe Dungeons and Dragons, which is "far 
superior" to regular Dungeons and Dragons, but the department is strapped for funds after installing three new beta servers in the off-campus capacitator. .----..., · 
The 65 person, single elimination tournament will run from the end ofMarch to the beginning ofApril. "It's unlike any other tournament I have everseen,"Poindextersays. Whenaskediftheformatwas inspired by the NCAA basketball tournament, he replied, "What's that?" 
Poindexter hopes that the tournament will change the students' perceptions ofOIT from smug nerds to cool and fun-loving guys. "I don't know why students get so offended when I scoff at them for not knowing how to reroute their IMAP in order to prevent RAM dissolution," Poindexter says. "But I want students to see me outside of my work and realize that I really am a supercool person to hang out with." 
Poindexter also hopes that after the tournament will encourage students to "stop giving hlinwedgies." He says under his breath, "You would think things would change after high school." 
What do ;O~l think of the u~ive~·sitis r~~e~~-d~~isi;ri to .· disregard student opini~n when·drafting.·tiew:_pol_icy? 
,_ . ; ,. Vot~ by 51 p.m. Friday at our Web site: '·. · -: : '· ··.' ,'>\ · , 
• ' , • .I ' -_ 1 -~ ? • ,, ' •• ' --• • • • 

NDSP says 
killer 

Sha~iqua Pe~ 
is Ja~

Freshman Howard 
Isee DANGER/page 91 "Brady Quinn. " 
Correction: In yesterday's Offender, there was an ar­ticle with no facts. But the lack of facts wasn't really our fault. The Offender la­ments that the error was noticed. 

l<t:'/$arc6si'(,c~:of>] 
RichCandidateLosesCovetedRich-StudentVote 
Lieberol Ticket Fails to Carry Campus's Largest Constituency 
JUSTICEMACDONALD 
Gerald Lieberol, a student of ex­treme wealth and privilege, lost Tuesday's student body presiden­tial election due to a failure to carry the campus's large rich-student constituency, exit polls revealed. Students were not surprised. Sorin sophomore Herbert O'Reilly, a member of the wealthy class which comprises 90% of the school's popula­tion, expressed satisfaction at Tuesday's results: "Gerald Lieberol just didn't re­late to common people like myself," says O'Reilly, whose father is CEO ofOmni­GlobalTechnoDyne, Inc. and earns $13 million a year. "Our student government is too valuable to leave in the hands ofthe elite. I needed someone who speaks my language." 
Other students shared O'Reilly's opin­
ion. "This election was just too important 
to leave in the hands of a wealthy few," 
says Knott Junior Preston Q. Williamson 
III, who, like 7,318 of his fellow students, 
finances his education through his par­
ents' opulence. 
Lieberol, whose family gained its bil­
lion dollar fortune by slaughtering baby 
seals and turning their lard into a renew­
able energy source, was not happy with 
the results. "What the hell is this?" he 
said, after the results were announced. "I 
bought this election fair and square." 
Experts and political scientists struggled to explain the results. "I don't understand it. Lieberol based his entire campaign mes­. sage on his wealth and family connections, something that should have resonated on a campus populated by people in similar positions," says professor Joseph Lott-
Bellesiles, scratching his head and staring vacantly out the window as students pass by on Segway transports -a high-end mode of personal transportation among the nation's pecunious individuals. "Per­haps the student body is noth1ng but a ball ofelaborate self-contradictions." 
Others were quick to point out Li­eberol's platform as the key to his down­fall. "Lieberol advocated that all paths be widened to accommodate his [high-end sport utility vehicle] Hummer," says senior Shelley Ringwald, heiress to the Ringwald liquor-based cosmetics empire. "How can he expect to relate to students like that?" 
Ringwald adds: "Everybody knows the Hummer is so five minutes ago. He would have resonated much better with us if he had focused on the Lincoln Navigator." 
. 

Students Urged to Eat, Drink, Be Merry 
Students reap benefits ofAssociate Vice President Shrill Smirk's puppy love 
JENNIFERLOVE-HEWITTY referring specifically to those parts of to do so. All alcohol and drugs -le­the rulebook legislating parietals, sex, gal and illegal -are now permissibleThe world is not ending. Vatican alcohol, drugs and the honor policy. on campus, with special registration III: Return ofthe Lovemaking did So how are these changes going ·required for keg-parties and raves not just come out in a church to affect students? "For real, yo;, do so that correct information may be near you. The Pope did not give a dis-whatever the 'h' you want," Smirk obtained for campus announcements pensation for smokin' the reefer. No, says. "Learn how to chill and quit yer to be left on_ dorm telephones' voice­the cause of the sudden in-.----:--:.---;----,;-------;----,,---,:------.-----=--,;----, mail. The honor policy also crease ofsex, drugs and rock I had such. a good night last night has been completely blacked 'n' roll on the Notre Dame out, with students now free to campus is much simpler: -man, was it good -that I've been steal from the Internet at will Shrill Smirk, associate vice . f k' , . h l -in fact, Smirk has penciled president for Residence Life, JUSt rea in crossing OUt W O e Sec-in a few sites that he has busted got himself a woman. t · f d L 11 d students for using in the past.' il Smirk explains: "I heard ions O __'!!:__ ac a . ay.·--~-----···-··---·•··--· So how are students react-students asking, 'where is • ·_. _;;_Shrill$mil'.'k,_assoeiCJ:t~vicepresident:1 ing? the love?' and, well, I found ..::.:. ...-• . ___ , ...· . ._· ... •. .·...•.• : . ·for Residehce. Lifej "·Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait: out: right he-ah, baby! Ow, ·-----~~~--------·----·-·····--· · · what?" junior Karly Corkerill 
ow!" says. As a result ofSmirk's recent new per­worryin', for starters. Pshh." "So wait, once we start doing some­spective on life, he has been making Students are no longer banned from thing at Notre Dame, it's tradition, radical changes to university policy. the opposite sex's residence hall at any right?" freshman Mikey Quinn asks. 
"Yeah, I had such a good night last time of the day or night, and should, "So they can never change it back, night -man, was it good -that I've as Smirk has scribbled in the margin right?" . . . been just freakin' crossing out whole next to a pornographic sketch, "Get. That's right, Mikey. That's right. . 
sections of dztLac all day," he says, It. On!" whenever they feel compelled 
20 SARCASTICNEWS 
25 MARCH 2004 


Classic Food, Classy Setting 
McDonald's: Luxury dining with reasonably priced food 
THEHAMBURGLER 
Another weekend, another excuse to eat out. But are all the usual choices looking a little too famil­iar? Don't let that get you down, because there's a little known area restaurant that offers the perfect combination of good times, great food and fresh atmosphere: McDonald's. Founded by and named after Mortimer "Ronald" McDonald III -a gourmet chef and closet rodeo clown from the 1950s -McDonald's brings the sights and smells of classic American cuisine together with the class and luxury of the Four Seasons in a formula that can only be described as utopian. The experience begins even before you enter the building. The Golden Arches -McDonald's unique, M-shaped logo -warmly beckon you into the coziest of establishments. Instantly, you are buf­feted by succulent smells of beef, chicken and potatoes that will make your mouth water. 
Plenty of booths and free-standing tables in:vite you to kick back and relax in the finest fiberglass furniture money can buy. Chances are you'll be able to grab one ofthe many window seats, each with a magnificent view of the restaurant's fabulous wrap-around parking lot. 
Of course, the best part of any trip to McDonald's is the food. Featuring one of the most expansive menus in the world, the irresistible choices range from the juicy Crispy Chicken Sandwich to the blissfully savory Big Mac, the signature dish. 
The options are endless. Want some top-of-the-line, Grade-D beef? Have a cheeseburger. Want some more beef? Have a double cheeseburger. And ifthat's not enough beef for you, go for the triple cheeseburger! 
And for you health ("·-McDon~id•;·­nuts, there's 
' ' a little of everything: l I Location You can en­
[ , ~iv~ mihnut~s_1'.romd anyld jjoy a number point int e c1v1 12e wor ! 
of salads. }·;:. 
,Prices ­
The choice 
'' 
Full meals ranging from 

is clear: Mc­$0.99to $3.99 j Donald's on i
Hours

Grape Road 
Qpen • Late Daily! 

in Misha­
Reservations accepted; (

waka is the 
i shirt & tieorevening gown!only place l required.' , for taritaliz-
I , 
•,v_____ . ----··-···------'·· 

ing tastes and limitless luxury. So the next time you're craving a piece of heaven on earth, head to McDonald's. It's McDelicious. . . 
Root of all Evil Discovered 
Excuse my French? Not anymore. 
FYER Z. MISSILES 
France has been hiding behind the cloak of military inferiority and claims of a "fragile" culture for hundreds of years, luring Americans 
. into submission with aesthetically pleas­ing snares like croissants, perfume and Impressionism. But a crack team of American anthropologists, sociologists, philosophers, ornithologists, ontologists and Republicans (AAS-POOR) finally have stumbled upon a piece of informa­tion that France has been able to cover up -until now: France is unequivocally the root,' source and cultivator of all that is evil and unholy in the world. 
Take South Bend weather, for example. On, the outside, it appears as though things like the rotation of the earth, jet streams, atmospheric pressure, the water cycle and weathermen and -women are responsible for creating "weather." But that's just what those evil little conniv­ers want you to believe. Ever hear of the Chaos Theory and the "butterfly ef­
2s MARCH 2004 
&;., feet"? Well, AAS-POOR lf,Y·-· had. After some in-depth :/2 investigative work, these tt· scientists found thou-,-· ·· sands and thousands of ~"'" -• 
/ ...· . .-~:--'.° .-•.·. _.-~--_.;,:x._:·· 

French butterflies just rt() .•' .. i / · " 
carelessly flapping away! tY\ .:./· f' t /J::"1;\ -. And French people, tc.~-·-· '•t?·•·i~•.: ,.,. •:.:.v.,, 
lk. b "f h" ' -~-...... ·•':P)V>.;
wa mg y as 1 not mg , r7;•'; ,(}<'.·" :::,:~ 
.. . ·r:;:~; 

out of the ordinary were happening! The fact is, the French have at least three decent-sized gar­dens-full of butterflies per town! Wondering where that freak rain­storm came from? Why the temperature some­
-,·· · · · '' 
times gets warmer after CHIRAC The hated Frenchman is the sun sets? Why ND reportedly to blame for everything. 
sees a fortnight's worth of nice days per year? You better believe it: France's fault. 
Don't think screwy weather is so significant? Fair enough. How about sexual promiscuity, then? This was one of the first links that AAS-POOR discov­ered. Lingerie, affair, mistress, cuckold, menage-a-trois, orgy, "Huh, huh, huh!": The very history of these words entering the English language proves that France is definitely responsible for America's problem with wild, rampant sex and the loss of the sanctity of marriage. How could we do something we didn't have a name for, after all? 
So next time you French-kiss someone 

and they slobber on you, or you eat some French fries and get fatter, or you face discipline because of duLac, you'll know who to blame: France, the root ofall that is evil since 486 A.D. . 
SARCASTICNEWS 21 



Phasing Out South Bend 
University plan calls for destruction of surrounding community 
I:,· 
i. 


THEMAN 
ust a stone's throw"J.way from campus, a run-.down bar rubs elbows with another 
J
run-down bar. Down the street, rows of 
mediocre chain restaurants dominate 
the landscape. This is South Bend, a 
community that, since the university's 
founding over 150 years ago, has grown 
and coexisted with Notre Dame. 
As oftoday, that relationship is over. In a 
surprising follow-up to the announcement 
ofits planned "college town" development 
project, university administration has an­
nounced that Notre Dame will begin 
phasing out South Bend and other nearby 
communities, effective immediately. 
According to early reports, this new as­
pect of the university's much-touted IO­
year plan will involve the forced removal 
ofall South Bend residents and businesses, 
and possibly the demolition of all existing 
vestiges of the community surrounding 
Notre Dame. 
"We feel it's [darned] time to make a 
clean break," says James Lifeboat, vice 
president for Business Operations, the 
office overseeing both the college town 
development and community extermina­
tion projects. "We're looking at a bright 
future with a brand-new college town 
in the area. So what do we need the old 
town for when we'll have a shiny new 
one?" 
While plans to develop the new college 
town, which will combine commercial and 
residential space just south of campus, have 
been well publicized, Lifeboat remains 
close-mouthed about the logistics ofphas­
ing out the pre-existing community. 
"We're still looking at a few options," 
Lifeboat says. "Just don't worry about it; 
what matters is that we get it done, not 
how we do it." 
Though details ofthe university's plans 
are scarce, speculation runs rampant. One 
possibility, according to a university of­
ficial who prefers to remain anonymous, 
involves buying up all the property around 
the school. 
"Basically, Notre Dame'H just buy up 
everything in a 5-or IO-mile radius," 
says Captain Whispery Whispertons, 
as he prefers to be called. "Money is no 
22 SARCASTICNEWS 
object. What do you think that juicy tu­ition hike is for? Another [ darned] caddy for Monk?" 
According to Captain Whispertons, the university will stop at nothing to force out residents and businesses that are reluctant to uproot their lives and head out oftown. "We can be very persuasive," he crypti­cally insists, before cackling maniacally and refusing further comment. 
Other possibilities purportedly remain available as well. These include physically relocating the buildings of South Bend using large hot-air balloons, as well as driving out residents by converting all 
undeveloped, univer­sity-owned property into festering garbage dumps. 
Father Monk Mal­foy, university presi­dent, offers another option for clearing out South Bend. "Not to get any­body's hopes up, but I've got a little pull with the Big Man, if you know what I mean," Malfoy says , 

while suggestively GLORIOUS WASTELAND Notre Dame's first step in phasing out the pointing upward and town is to raze everything in sight. 
poking listeners in the ribs. "We're ne­gotiating something along the lines of the Great Flood, but on a slightly smaller scale. Ifyou know what I mean." 
The reasoning behind the surprising shift in the university's IO-year plan is layered and complicated. According to Lifeboat, the aim is simply to streamline the surrounding community in prepara­tion for the new college town project. 
"We're not interested in a lot of healthy competition with the businesses that we... er, I mean, that independent contractors and the like, over which we have no con­trol whatsoever, will be putting in our new development," Lifeboat says. "Our college town is going to be the best [ darned] col­lege town in the country, and we don't want the [ darned] locals mucking it up." 
Bill Jirk, associate vice president of the Office of Residence Life and Housing, offers a different viewpoint. "Frankly, I think students are enjoying themselves too much, and this South Bend place is a leading contributor to that," Jirk says. "It's got these, these movie houses and drinking establishments and things. We don't need these things at Notre Dame." 

Other officials agree. "This is killing two birds with one stone," Malfoy says. "We get rid of the bad influences on our students while offering them a plethora ofnew entertainment options, like Cath­olic book stores, Catholic poster stores, Catholic music stores and a Starbucks or two." 
The university's announcement has sparked mixed reactions from students and South Bend residents. 

"I think it's a great idea," says senior Joe Nardino. "It's about time someone did something about this. Wait, what are we talking about again?" 
"They can't do that," insists South Bend resident Phyliss Glass, 58. "That's not fair! They can't just ... why those ... grrr!" 
While debate rages, the future of South Bend hangs in the balance. Ifthe university gets its way, the surrounding community will be naught but a memory in a few short years. But Notre Dame's push for big changes might not end there, according to Lifeboat. 
"If we pull this off, who knows what might happen? Today, South Bend. To­morrow, the world! Bwahahahaha!" D 
25 MARCH 2004 



It's been a while, Gipplings. But never fear, the dear ole Gipp is here! And he can just feel the warm spring air on the horizon. Any day now ... 
.:::. 
Water Bed 
Not too long ago, our subject, a fresh­man who we will call "Fred," decided to throw a party with his roommate, who we will refer to as "Squirts." Apparently, de­spite being underage, the two youngsters managed to imbibe quite a bit of liquor, thereby becoming reasonably inebriated. After the disorderliness in the room had subsided, Fred was "too far gone," as our tipster politely put it, to clean his room and instead thought to indulge in a snooze on his air mattress. Later in the evening, Fred awoke t~ find his buddy Squirts on top of him. Apparently, Squirts was at least slightly more drunk than Fred. Af­ter throwing Squirts off ofhim, Fred left to call in his.RA. When the two of them returned to the room, a rather substantial yellow puddle had mysteriously formed on Fred's mattress. Only then did Fred notice his own back had also become part of Squirts' marked territory. 
Say Cheese! 
Our next tale takes place in a certain male dormitory. Rumor has it that "swinging before the ring" does, in fact, sometimes take place on this very campus. So, ifyou're apprehensive about that type of thing, this story may not be for you. The scene: a typical Friday night shindig, complete with beer pong and a few choice girls from across the street. A good recipe for the Gipper so far. Anyway, our party's . host decided after a while to retreat into the other room with one of the ladies. Little did he know that the lock on the door of this room had been taped by his cronies so they could sneak in during the act and snap a few photos for the next day's entertainment. They entered a few minutes after the host, expecting to find 
him nearing first base. However, much to their surprise, he was already on his way home. Alas, things only went downhill from here for our protagonist. Only a few minutes later, he was no longer able to hold down his liquor, passed out and left the girl to be walked home by her friends. Inthe morning, he awoke to find a photo it." Well, the Gipp hadn't thought about it until now, but now he's a little curious as to why Leslie would deny such things so adamantly. Anyway, let's get on with the story. After Leslie discovered her girl-friend in the bed beside her, she harmlessly fell back asleep and woke up two hours later to her bedmate asking 

of himself and his lady friend as his new desktop background. 
Sleepless in South Bend 

This story might make you think twice about locking your door at night, even ifyou have a security monitor vigi­lantly patrolling 24-hour lounges and telling boys to keep both feet on the floor. After a late night out, our subject, "Leslie;'' climbed into bed only to wake up four hours later with another body -another female body -cuddling up beside her. Leslie, very defensive about the entire incident, claimed: "She was fully clothed ... No, this was not a one­night stand, and no, there was no mess­ing around, so don't even think about for her shoes. Leslie was now horrified to find out that the girl next to her was not her roommate nor anyone else she knew, for that matter, but rather a total stranger. It turned out that the young woman apparently does not even attend Notre Dame, but is a student at Val­paraiso. And to top it off, the mystery guest had no clue where she was, nor did she know anyone in Leslie's hall. How she got into the dorm, let alone into Leslie's bed, has yet to be answered . 
That's all for now, Gipplings. The Gipp is growing old and tired, so please send in more tips. Surely there is more than crazy drunkenness going on around here, right? Anyone? . 
25 MARCH 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 23 



TIGHT QUARTERS Paradise is not without its price.To create the spacious common rooms, each resident's bed was crammed into a small side room. 
one of the common room's couches for a time. The double, by comparison, seems luxurious. 
The residents -Garcia, Brian James, Jeff Schaffer, Ian Ross, Trey Rodriguez, 

Dave DeBoer and Mike Knapp-find sol­ace and breathing space away from their cramped living quarters in the round, open common room. "The room has taken quite a lot of different shapes this year," says James. "We've had a lot of stuff taken away." James refers in part to their two confiscated tables, one of ·which was a decorated beer-pong table and Quint heirloom. According to one visitor, the room is "either so messy it's not even funny or completely spotless." 
A huge Miller Light Racing banner, perhaps more suitable on the side of a barn or NASCAR stadium, wraps around the top of the wall under the ceiling of the common room. At the front ofthe room lies the entertainment center and three· refrigerators. The couches, though not in prime condition, serve their purpose as places to plop down with an unobstructed view of i:he TV. 
The residents of the Quint are always sophomores who choose their successors from the freshman class. Criteria for res­idency is minimal. "We try to pick guys that will make the room fun," says Dave DeBoer. The residents stay close even after moving out, resulting in a loosely frat-ish group which spans several years. With such a selection process, a sense of tradition naturally follows, and there are several hand-me-downs that currently adorn the Quint's walls. Perhaps the oldest is an antique framed picture of Father Sorin hung above one ofthe door frames. Juxtaposed with a giant Natty Light banner, Sorin looks out of place yet possesses an austere air. The aforementioned Natty Light ban­ner will be handed down, as will "The Quint" sign hang­ing outside the door and a street sign: "Parking for Quint Members Only." 
Despite the gran­diose architecture, tall windows and lofty ceiling beams, Quint visitors can expect a simple and moderately comfortable place to crash. Just make sure your feet are the only things on the floor-the carpet,James warns, "has been through hell." . Soap opera story lines. Scandalous characters. Extravagant 17th-cen­tury costumes. These are just a few ofthe performance methods the French, Italian and Spanish language departments at Notre Dame use for students to prac­tice a foreign language in an engaging and unique way. French Theatre Production and French Through Acting are two courses that em­phasize an unorthodox way for French students to expand their proficiency in the language by incorporating it into acting. "The classes are designed in order to improve one's language skills or approach a foreign language in a radically different way than students would normally in a classroom," says Paul McDowell, the Associate Professional Specialist in the Department of Romance Languages & Literatures. McDowell introduced both language/ acting courses'into the French curriculum when he was hired at Notre Dame in the fall of 1991. The method of learning a language through a performance medium is unique to Notre Dame and is not prac­ticed at many other universities. "I was ecstatic to have the opportu­nity to create courses that not only fit my strengths, but also satisfied student desires for something different," McDow­ell says. "These are American students doing something that is just not done elsewhere." The French Theatre Production class meets in the fall to put together and prac­tice a play, which the students perform semester. The class is a one credit, pass or fail course that many students have en­joyed enough to take two years in a row. 



"The French play is a chance for stu­dents to approach a play the way it was meant to be approached, which is to perform it and not just read the dry text. It's a very different undertaking to teach theater compared to teaching novels and short stories," McDowell says. 
In the past, selected plays have been comedies written by 17th-century play­wrights. 
In January, students performed Les Femmes Savantes (The Wise Women) by Moliere. Turnout for the production was overwhelming, with a full house for the Friday and Saturday night per­formances. 
"The students bring back to life, in the original tongue, texts that are over 350 years old and make the audience laugh and understand a nuanced language," McDowell says. "I choose plays in verse with well established intonation and syl­lable count." 
"It helped with my pronunciation and it is nice to do something where we are able to speak French several times a week," junior Liz McCorry says. 
French students ofany level may enroll in the French Theatre Production class, but usually it is comprised ofjuniors and seniors, many of whom have studied abroad in Angers, France. 
"French Theatre Production has been a tremendous success for 13 years. Almost always the performances are standing room only," McDowell says. 

perform in ways they themselves never thought possible when they signed up for the class," he says. "The stage fright and lack ofexperience with students who have never acted before vanishes because they take on another character's identity." 
A second course offered by the French department is called French Through Acting, which is more ofa conversational than acting course. At the beginning of the semester students design their own characters that live together in a fic­tional apartment building. Throughout the course, students create eight differ­ent scenes where the characters interact with each other as though they were in a soap opera. 
"It follows the same premise of the French Theatre Production class, that by taking on the character of someone else you can liberate yourself of your American baggage, which is a bad accent or poor intonation, and take on multiple personalities," McDowell says. 
Throughout the course students learn French gestures that make sense to a typi­cal French person. The students are also able to develop their own scenes. 
"I decided to take French Through Acting because I felt good about my French grammar and writing skills but not as comfortable with speaking French. It did boost my confidence in speaking," freshman Anne Marie Giangiulio says. "It really takes that language to another level." 
The Italian and Spanish departments offer courses similar to the French The­atre Production class. This is the third 
26 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 25 MARCH 2004 
-. .

. ------~---,.__--=--~-------.' . .,,. t•---,.. .
~ • 


year for the Italian Theatre Workshop class and the first year for the Spanish Theater Workshop class. 
Italian professors Laura Colangelo and Colleen Ryan-Scheutz are directing the Italian Theatre Workshop performance, which will take place Apr. 2-4 in Wash­ington Hall. The Italian course starts at the beginning ofJanuary and meets like a normal class on Tuesdays and Thurs­days for rehearsals. Toward the end of the course before the performance, stu­dents attend more frequent and longer rehearsals. 
"It's basically a language immersion experience rather than a class. The idea is to do something that is real and com­municative and to do it well," Colangelo 
says. 
Everyyear the Italian course performs a modern show. This year the performance is called Non Tutti iLadri Vengono perNzto­cere (Not All Thieves Come to do Harm). 
"At the rehearsals we start off with a warm-up, which includes vocal exercises, language games and grammar things. We do pre-and post-tests in Italian to measure exactly what ways students im­proved," Colangelo says. 
"The performance class is a unique approach to learning language which, b(;!cause itinvolves full immersion, should be excellent. for a student's comprehen­sion skills and oral proficiency," junior John Welsh says. "Anyone serious about developing a mastery of the language should consider participating in some way. I know I'll be back next year." 
Even in its first year, the Spanish Theater Workshop class, also known as Taller de Teatro Espanol, received enough interested students to perform two different plays with separate casts. The two productions are El Retablo de las Maravillas (The Altar of Wonders) and El Viejo Celoso (Old Jealousy). At the begin­ning of the semester students auditioned for various parts and have been rehearsing ever since. 
"We begin with warm-ups and then go through phases of reading the script, understanding the text, blocking out mqvements, working on the acting and getting our props set," says Kelly Kings­bury, Spanish professor and the director of the plays. 
"The plays are in classical Spanish. The language is difficult from that standpoint because students have to pronounce an archaic language that contains words Stu­
25 MARCH 2004 
dents otherwise wouldn't have a chance to learn," Kingsbury says. 
Students enrolled m the course have many different experience levels -some have only taken one semester of intensive language, while others are native speakers. 
"It's nice, because with a play you have a variety of roles in terms of difficulty level. You can give tougher roles to more advanced stu­dents, and everyone gets a lot out of it," Kingsbury says. 
"I really wanted to im­prove my Spanish because in class I don't speak as much as I like to, so the acting helps me practice my Spanish. It helps you pronounce words better and learn a lot more vo­cabulary," freshman Kris­tina Leszczak says. 

I SEE ITALIAN PEOPLE Sophomores Stephen Garbitelli and "It brings practicality to Theresa Davey dream of sold-out crowds for their Italian class' play languages that sometimes isn't there in a regular class," freshman their fellow actors." Andy Lawton says. The Spanish Theater Workshop will "It's really amazing the leaps and be performing the plays Apr. 2-4 in bounds students make. They are working the Jordan Auditorium, located in the with the language on two different levels," Mendo.za College of Business. There Kingsbury says. "They are looking at a will be English summaries of the plays text and figuring out how to take this available at the performances, so even language in front of them and interpret people who have no experience with a it for an audience. Then they also need foreign language are encouraged to at­to use the language to communicate with tend. . 

•-:' • f ' ------­
---~-~------------­

Fit For an Emperor 
Mikado offers Japanese cuisine with a family feel 
BETHMURPHY 
It's not much to look at from the out­side, but ifyou're driving north along Route 31 and notice a big, blue sign that reads, "Mikado," we suggestyou pull over. Owned byYingMin Chen, who in­troduces herself to customers simply as "Chen," Mikado opened onJune 1, 2000 and has been going strong ever since. 
"Mikado" is the former title for an emperor ofJapan and is a common name for Japanese restaurants throughout the United States. Our own Mikado in South Bend is very much a family business, as Chen's husband is the head chefand their 5-year-old daughter, Carmen, can often be found doodling at the sushi bar. Chen and herfriendly waitresses are halfofwhat make comingtoMikado so much fun. The other half, ofcourse, is the food. 
"We've got everything," says Chen: "sushi, noodles, chicken, steak, salmon... everything!" Indeed, the menu offers a wealth of dining options, and the most popular item is none other than the deli­cious teriyaki chicken. Ifyou love darker meat we highly recommend the sukiyaki steak -thinly sliced steak drenched in a mix of teriyaki and soy sauces, spiced with onions for extra flavor. This "Din­ner Box" item is 
you'll be happy to know that the menu also includes such items as octo­pus, barbequed eel and a wide assortment of tasty, fresh sushi. 
Most dinners come with a choice of Miso or mushroom soup as well as a side salad. The Miso soup is fantastic, and the salad is even better. When asked abouther special salad dressing, Chen's lips were sealed. "It's a house dressing," she says. "Good, isn't it?" Good? It's great. 
Openspace combined with red andwhite paperlanterns create the perfectdinner at­mosphere, located onlyminutes from cam­pus. Ifyou want to lookatsomething other than your date while eating, try sitting at the Teppanyaki table. The chefcooks right in front ofyou, making for a very interest­ing dining experience. In fact, Mikado is 



a great place to eat served with two for almost any occa­spring rolls and a sion. Party types are side ofgreen beans varied throughout that are so good the entire restaurant, they would make from couples on dates any fussy child eat and families eating all his veggies. If out to rowdy Notre you're looking for Dame girls celebrat­a more authentic ing a birthday with Japanese dish, some Sapporo beer Chen suggests and hot sake. the "Tonkatsu Sake, a Japanese platter," a choice rice wine, is an im­of lightly fried portant part of the pork or chicken Mikado experience accompanied by a for many diners, special spicy dip­thanks to the art ping sauce. Ifyou of "sake bombing." pride yourself on Chen loves this tradi­being a more ad­tion and says she gets venturous eater, a kick out of the pa­trons who come to partake in the "game." According to one ofthe waitresses, it was students who invented the game, which involves placing a shot of hot sake on chop-sticks, ."-·-____ _ over a half-( Mikado filled glass of 
' beer -a true test of one's Location balancing 402 Dixieway North skills. Then (Rte: 31) the group / 

Prices 
yells a cheer i· Dinner range from and, on the · $6 to $16 · 
same count, Weekend Hours slams the table Friday & Saturday with their fists ' 11 :30 a.m. -10:30 p.m. 
so that the hot IReservations and credit sake drops cards accepted. into the cold L ····--__ _ ___ __ _ 
beer, which and is drunk immediately. "It's a lot of fun," one waitress gushes. 
One slight warning: take it easy on the sake. A single serving is enough to fill four shot glasses, and the cost of sake, plus theJapanese imported beer necessary for sake bombing, is where your wallet could take ahit-about $10. But despite this one cautionary, there is little not to love aboutMikado. Portions are generous and prices are reasonable at thisJapanese steakhouse. So grab your friends, come hungry and thirsty, and head to Mikado. Chen is waiting for you, all smiles. D 


28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 MARCH 2004 



r 
Glee Clubbin~ on the West Coast 
Spring break tour features beautifu_l music, great locations ... and a feminine touch? 
SEAN DUDLEY 
The guys in the Notre Dame Glee Club love singing together, no mat­ter where they are. This past spring break, they sang on buses, in pubs, on stages, in churches and even on the streets of Se­attle. As much a vacation as itwas a concert tour, their trip to the Pacific Northwest was the ideal spring break for a group striving to be a brotherhood in song. The spring tour featured stops in Van­couver, Seattle, Portland, Sacramento, San Jose and San Francisco. "We hung out a lot in the cities and looked at the sites we had never seen before," says Paul Sifuentes, a junior member ofthe Club. John Paul Andree, a freshman mem­ber of the Club, loved the camaraderie fostered on the trip. "Having a chance to get to know everybody was awesome," he says. Sifuentes' favorite part ofthe tour was a Friday night outing to a pub inVancouver, he says. "We sang some songs in the bar, and Dan [Stowe] came by later. That's the pinnacle. I can hang out with them and sing with them." Stowe, the director of the Glee Club, says the opportunity to tour together did as much for the musical performance ofthe Club as it did for the social bonding ofthe guys. "They're such close friends already," he says. "The better they cohere person­ally, the better a choir they'll be, too." Andree agrees. "Everyone bonded, and that adds to the singing," he says, "because you have more of a stake in it when you want everybody to do well." Sifuentes, too, has noticed the sound of the group improving -and he likes what he hears. "The level of singing is just wonderful," he says. "We are getting better and better singers in the Club." One ofthe benefits ofthe improvement, Sifuentes adds, is that the Club was able to add more complex pieces to their concert repertoire, thanks also to the contribu­tions ofjuniors Lauren Price, a soprano, and cellist Noelle Thorn. Both music majors, -Price and Thorn set a milestone this spring as the first women ever to tour with the almost 90-year-old Club. 
25 MARCH 2004 SCH.OLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 
.L 

UNITY IN HARMONY The Glee Club's spring concert, which they took on tour and performed last Thursday and Friday in Washington Hall, showed off their musical cohesiveness and wide range of talent. 
Thorn and Price say they were a little nervous about traveling with the Club but that their fears were quickly assuaged. "[The guys] were definitely a lot more gentlemanly than I had expected," Price says. "I felt kinda like the favorite sister or cousin: somebody you could tease, but who you would still treat with respect." 
"I couldn't have asked for anything better," says Thorn, who felt her cello and Price's voice were great additions to the music on tour. "And I'm glad to have a few new guy friends." 
The women joined the Club again last Thursday and Friday nights at Washing­ton Hall to perform the spring concert for NotreDame audiences. The program fea­tured an eclectic collection ofmusic. The Club sang classical pieces throughout the first half ofthe concert, and in the second half they ventured into spirituals, Broad­way tunes and even some pop music. Two smaller a capella groups within the Club, Axis ofOctave and The Undertones, sang Michael Jackson's "Thriller" and Foun­tains ofWayne's "Stacy's Mom." 
Senior Tim O'Malley, who was un­able to tour with the Club but sang in the concerts at Washington Hall, says tour audiences must have loved their performances. "The whole concert, start to finish, is the best concert we've ever done," he says. 
Sifuentes says the Glee Club received a lot of positive feedback from the audi­ences outWest. "Theysat back to kind of reflect on the music" during the first half ofthe concert, he says, and "they bopped their heads" to the second half. The Club gave the concert six times during their eight-day tour, performing mostly in churches and_ auditoriums. 
Stowe is extremely pleased with the Club's execution during the trip. "It was one of our best tours in terms of musical selection and performance," he says. "It was very successful." 
The music is the most important part of the Glee Club's tours, Sifuentes says. ''vVe're musical ambassadors for the university," he says. "It's cheesy, but it's true." The crowds, which usually included a number ofalumni, would get the most excited when the Club would sing the Victory March at the end of performances, according to Sifuentes. "We bring some ofthat game-day Saturday [at­mosphere] to them." 
The Glee Club, which has traveled to China and Europe in the past, is planning a tour in the Caribbean next summer. "It's for us, too," Sifuentes admits. "It's great to see the world." D 
I 
I I 
! 




I Underthe Scope AthleticsandAssault-TheFineLine
I by Christopher Meskill -cmeskill@nd.edu 
The 21st century has been plagued with many stories of the violent be­havior of athletes. It is understood that emotions rage during fierce athletic competition. However, a line ·must be drawn between cheap shots and criminal actions. Some sports analysts proclaim that the "law of the land" in sporting arenas are rules and regulations not tied to the American justice system. Why should this be the case? Participation in athletics should not provide an individual with special privileges or immunity against the law; what is intolerable off ofthe field should be intolerable on the field, as well. 
As recently as Mar. 8, hockey rule books reigned supreme over civil law, when Vancouver Canuck Todd Bertuzzi broke Colorado Avalanche player Steve Moore's neck. Bertuzzi was penalized by the commissioner ofhockey but not by the American court system. Bertuzzi crossed the line where violence in ath­letics becomes criminal. Checking and even fighting are accepted parts ofhockey, but what Bertuzzi exhibited on the ice that night "wasn't hockey," as NHL's top lawyer, Bill Daly, said in a press conference. The blind-sided cheap shot was intentional and po­tentially could have paralyzed or even killed Moore. 
Hockey is not the only sport to blame for the recent trend ofcriminal violence in athletics. Even traditionally less vio­lent sports have had incidents that bor­der on criminal. In July 2001, a minor league baseball game was interrupted when hitter Izzy Alcantara of the Paw­tucket Red Sox delivered a Bruce Lee­style kick to the face of catcher Jeremy Salazar of the Scranton Wilkes-Barre Red Barons. Alcantara then charged the mound to attack the pitcher, Blas Cede­no. Alcantara's only punishment was a six-game suspension and removal from that year's All-Star game. The last time I checked, ifsomeone karate-kicked one 
.--------------------------· pended from 
The viewing public is being told  the university and one was  
that athletes ... are protected  expelled, but they faced  
from the American legal system.  disciplinary action only  

person in the face and then proceeded to pummel another, that person would receive a fine, if not jail time, as well as a criminal record to taint his name. What message is being sent by the ac­ceptance of this type of behavior? 
The viewing public is being told that athletes have free rein and are protected from the American legal system. Young athletes have responded to the example that their professional role models have set. Since 1997, University of Colorado football players have been accused of seven counts ofrape, including the case of Katie Hnida, a female place-kicker who has since transferred to the Uni­versity of New Mexico. At the time, Colorado's head football coach Gary Barnett dismissed the accusations, from the uni­

versity. The woman, however, was charged with prostitution, attempted extortion and filing fictitious reports. 
I wonder where collegiate athletes could have gotten the idea that they are allowed to do as they please. Ask Todd Bertuzzi or perhaps Izzy Alcantara. And maybe Kobe Bryant could shed some light on what is and is not rape. 
Let's face it: athletes have been al­lowed to get away with everything but murder (right, OJ.?), receiving few convictions and usually facing only minimum punishments. Criminal behavior must be recognized and pun­ished, no matter if it is committed on or off a playing field. . calling the situation merely "a bump in the road." 
The problem does not end there. Ear­lier this year, five St. John's basketball players broke team curfew on a trip to Pittsburgh and went to a strip club. The players picked up a 38-year-old pros­titute, then refused to pay her for the "entertainment" she provided. She im­mediately declared that she was raped. Four of the involved players were sus­
ALLTHESTATS 
you need to know 
Fencing: FromThursday, Mar.25 through Sunday, Mar. 28, the Fighting Irish fencing squad will defend their national title at the NCAA Championship at Brandeis University. Eleven Irish fencers qualified for the tournament, one short of the maximum. However, the competition will be steep, as rival Penn State and up-and-coming Ohio State both met the twelve-fencer limit. On the women's side, the Irish squad is led by junior foilist and two-time defending national champion Alicja Kryczalo; junior foilist Andrea Ament, who placed 3rd at last year's championship and 2nd in 2002;, and senior epee Kerry Walton, the 2002 women's epee champion. On the men's side, Notre Dame will be led by junior 

30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 MARCH 2004 


Junior Selim Nurudeen' has hurdled his way into the Notre Dame record 








books, breaking the school's 60-meter hurdle rec~rd three times in this past indoor season. Nurudeen has won three Big East hurdling titles in his I Our Calls Notre Dame career and at one point this season rose to 6th in the nation I Baseball in the 60-meter hurdles, with a time of 7.75 seconds.The track-star from 
OPPONENT:WESTVIRGINIA 

Friendswood, Texas, who went to nationals for the first time this year, 
WHERE: MORGANTOWN.WV

reflects on the past indoor season and the upcoming outdoor season. 
WHEN: MAR. 27, I :00 P.M. 

What did you enjoy most atout the indoor season? The best thing about the indoor season is that while it is cold outside, you are indoors. You don't 
The No. 8 Fighting Irish have the 

have to worryabout the elements affecting your race. During the outdoor 
> 
clear advantage in this game. Notre 
season, you have to worryabout the wind factor, whether it is working for or 
Dame boasts a team batting average 

against you. In indoor, it's just you and your race. And, being a hurdler, my 
that is 30 points higher than West 

race is a littl,e shorter,which always makes it alittle easier. 
Virginia's, and the Irish almost double 

WestVirginia in RBIs.The middle of What are your goals for the outdoor season? My main goal is to go fo na­
the Irish lineup has averaged more 

tionals and become an All-American. I would really like to do something there, 
than one RBI per game. Look for because after indoor, I feel I got tl1e exposure !needed. HI continue to improve 
Matt Edwards, Matt Macri, and Greg at the rate I'm improving, I'd like to see what I could do at the world trials. 
Lopez to smash the ball off of weak 

Mountaineer pitching, as Notre What doyou enjoy most about track and :field? Everything! I love ev­
Dame wins this one 7-2. erything about traclc and field. I love the competition, I love the practice. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL But the best thing is getting up and being mentally prepared for your race 
SPORTS EDITOR and knowing what you have to do -knowing that you are ready to compete 
with the best. · 
How do youprepareyourselffor atrackmeet?· Besides hurdling the furniture in the hotel, the thing that really helps me is that I visualize my race. If I can't visualize it, I keep trying until I can. That's what really gets me confident. KEY TO THE GAME:
> TakeYour Base 
What is your most memorable moment as a Notre Dame athlete? It The Irish need to be patient and get would probably be this year at the indoor BigEast meet.I ran my best time, on base early.The Irish bat 130 points broke the meet record, and that's when I realized that this might all be com­higher when they have a man on ing together. I think that I'm starting to make an impact. base and succeed 55 percent of the 


' ' time when attempting to advance the · Who is your favorite athlete? I have two. In terms oftrack, it has to be Alan runner.A calm, diligent offense will Johnson. He's a hurdle technician, and I got to meet him at the Mt. Sac relays frustrate a team that is as down on its last year. Ifyou watch him, his form is so intricate, and he runs the perfect luck as WestVirginia. If the Irish can race. When meeting him, he was just a really humble person. However, Mi-make the Mountaineers nervous, they .. chaelJordanisn't too far off. I bought his book, and he is just a phenomenal will get good pitches to hit. athlete mentally. I look at his attitude and try to tr:,mslate it to track. 
foilist Derek Snyder, who finished 5th Valeria Providenza, Angela Vincent, midfielder Abby Owen led the team in at last year's championship; junior epee Patrick Ghattas and Matt Stearns. these two games with five goals and two and-2003 runner-up Michal Sobieraj; and assists. Currently undefeated, the team fifth-year foilist Forest Walton, who has Women's Lacrosse (5-0): has achieved its highest ranking in its placed 9th and 14th during his career at Over the past week, Notre Dame eight-year history. Notre Dame looks Notre Dame.The Irish also have a strong has moved up to third in the national to continue its winning ways in a home showing in their freshman class, with five rankings with wins over No. 2 Duke and · game against Virginia Tech on Friday at qualifing. for the tournament.These fresh No. 6 James Madison. Named Big East 7:00 p.m. D faces are epee Amy Orlando and sabres co-offensive player of the week, senior 
25 MARCH 2004 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 31 


ing in the No. 1 spot but finally settlingin theNo. 2. With a 24-15 record against tough opponents, Salas peaked at No. 65 before finishing ranked 98th in the nation and sixth in the Midwest. Salas' junior season had a number ofhighlights, including a second place finish in the Ohio State Prince Cup and a blue flight championship in the Eck Classic. Salas also competed well in doubles matches, pairing almost exclusively with then­freshman Lauren Connelly. The duo went 17-9 and notched two upsets in the NCAA team tournament over the No. 15 and No. 3 doubles teams from Missouri and Vanderbilt, respectively. 
"Junior year was again a transition year for me," Salas reflects, "because I had played so weU the previous year that there was a lot ofpressure that I had to come out and be a consistent winner, and now I was playingatahigher level, in the No. 1 and 2 positions. I just had to get used to playing at an entirely different level." 
Coming into her senior year, Salas had a fall preseason rank of64th in the nation 
she desired. 
"I had never really sat outin my life, and not playing in the lineup really motivated me a lot," Salas says. "I went home over that sum­mer and worked on some things and came back and was so hungry to play. I went into every practice saying, 'Iwantto make the lineup; I want to play."' 
And play she did. Salas was untouchable in the middle of the Irish lineup during her sopho­more year, compiling a 24-3 dual-match record -tying the Notre Dame record -as well as having a 31-6 overall singles record. Salas also led the team in doubles wins with· 26. By February, Salas had broken into the national rankings, reaching No. 123. With a combined 57-18 record her sophomore year, Salas earned team MVP honors. In her junior year, she moved to 

___ the top ofthe lineup, often start-
CHRISMESKILL 
In autumn of her freshman year, Alicia Salas encountered something for the first time in her tennis career -a bench. Salas, a tennis star at Cherry Creek· High School in Englewood, Colo., described her high school stint as being "the big fish in the small pond." However, reality struck Salas when she did not start for the Fighting Irish her first year. Highly motivated, Salas worked on all aspects ofher game over the next three years, eventually gain­ing her current No. 14 ranking in the nation, and becoming one of the best tennis players in Notre Dame history. Despite her transitional freshman year, Salas showed great potential, compiling an 11-3 singles record and an 11-8 dou­bles record. Even in her college debu~, Salas showed that she had the ability to be elite when she reached the final in the Maryland Invitational. Nonetheless, Salas was still not an everyday player, as 
32 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
Queen of Aces 
Senior co-captain of the tennis team Alicia Salas has climbed from benchwarmer to star· 
in singles and 3 7th in doubles with Lauren 
Connelly. She was selected as co-captain 
ofthe Irish with senior Caylan Leslie. Sa­
las also went into the fall season with the 
eighth highest singles winning percentage 
in Notre Dame history at .740 (71-25). . 
On Sept. 25, 2003, Salas opened her 
senior year at the Adidas.Invitational in 
Peachtree, Ga. With wins ~ver Kristin 
Cargill of Duke and Ashley Robards of 
Tennessee, Salas advanced to the semi­
finals. However, No. 8 Alexis Gordon of. 
Florida was too much for Salas to handle, 
eliminating the Irish captainin three sets. 
Likewise, the Salas/Connelly tandem 
fell in the semifinals to Florida's Jennifer 
Magley and Zerene Reyes. 
On Oct. 7, Salas returned to singles ac­tion at the Riviera Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA) Women's All-1\meri­can Championship in Pacific Palisades, Calif. Besting No. 85 Ashley Schellhas of Vanderbilt and No. 33 Alix Lacelarie of Clemscm, Salas advanced to face No. 3 9 -MeganMuth ofWtlliam &Mary. In only two sets, Salas defeated her ranked foe and advanced to the field of32. However, Salas was topped by No. 27 Tammy Encina of Tennessee. Nonetheless, Salas' three wins in the tournament automatically qualified ·· her for the All-American Championship, a goal she had set at the beginning of the 
season. 
"Just making the All-American Cham­
pionship was .really special for me," Salas 
says, "because it was something that I 
always aspired to do but never thought 
I'd have a chance to." 
Still the underdog in the All-American 
Championship, Salas continued to prevail, 
taking down No. 29 Diann~ Hollands of 
Arizona in the first round. However, Salas 
did not advance past the second round 
where No. 7 Daria Panova of Oregon 
eliminated her from the tournament. 
At the ITAMidwest Championship on 
Oct. 26, Salas made quick work ofher first 
round opponent, beating her in straight 
sets. On the following day, Salas dropped 
both Elizabeth. Exon of Michigan and 
No. 42 Jessica Rush of Northwestern 
to advance to the finals. However, No. 4 
25 MARCH 2004 



l i 
I 
ii 
Ii! I 
l 
l 
: 
' 
i 
' 
ANGER MANAGEMENT Salas is driven by an intense passion for the game, which explains her total dedication ... and her winning record. 
says. "I had lost to Tammy Encina earlier in the fall, so it was nice to come back and win that match in the spring." 
Recently, the Irish broke their three­game losing streak with a home win over No. 47 Iowa. Salas won both the singles match and the doubles match as the Irish went on to win, 6-1. This improved Salas 
· to 22-8 on the combined fall and spring seasons, and it moved her to 13th in the national rankings. Salas looks to lead the No. 21 Fighting Irish throughout the rest of the dual season and into the postseason. With high hopes for the Big East Cham­pionship, Salas says: "It's an exciting envi­ronment; the fans really get into it. It can be hard at times, but also motivating at others. We have always been able to play well there and come though." 
Salas is also looking forward to an excit­ing summer oftennis after she graduates. Salas was one of10 collegiate tennis play­ers selected to tour China as a member ofthe Intercollegiate Tennis Association All-Star team. In the fall, Salas will at­tend the University of Colorado Dental School, a fitting occupational choice for someone who has had so much to smile about during her impressive tennis career at Notre Dame. . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 33 

Christelle Grier ofNorthwestern simply outplayed Salas in the championship, beating her in two sets. Nonetheless, Salas qualified for the National Indoor Championship. 
On Nov. 6, Salas had a first round rematch against No. 8 Alexis Gordon of Florida in the National Indoor Champion­ship at the University of Michigan. Despite the change 
battle. On the next day, Salas fell to Sasha Podkolzina of California in the consolation bracket, ending Salas' fall season. Still, Salas' im­pressive 12-6 record in the No. 1 position on the team earned her a spring preseason singles rank of 14th, and helped elevate her team to 21st in the nation. 
"I just have to go out there and keep playing the way I've been playing," Salas says about the upcoming spring schedule. "I've been pretty relaxed, and I'm just going to put everything out of my mind and have fun with it; that's what has been working so far. I haven't felt a whole lot of pressure or anxious or nervous because I am looking at it as my last season, and I want to go out and make the best of it because this is my last opportunity." 
On Jan. 29, 2004, Salas was certainly able to clear her head in the Irish's season ­opening dual match at No. 34 Michigan. 
· Despite Notre Dame's ineffectiveness against the Wolverines, Salas played two great matches. In singles action, Salas defeated No. 37 Elizabeth Exon, as she had when they faced each other in the 
· October ITA Midwest Championship. Then, Salas and· Connelly picked up where the autumn season left off, adding a doubles win for the Irish. Nev­ertheless, Notre Dame lost to Michigan, 4-3. 
The Irish then went on to win 

their next two home matches against . No. 48 Ohio State and No. 64 Wiscon­sin. Salas remained undefeated during the spring season, winning a singles match against Ohio State as well as a singles and a doubles match against Wisconsin. Her win in a singles match against Wiscon­sin's Katie McGaffigan was payback for the last time the two met. In the 2002 NCAA Tour-
of venue, the "I just have to go outthere nament, itwas result was the McGaffigan
and k~ep playing the way
same with who ended Gordon de­Salas' dream
I'vebeenplaying....I'mjust
feating Salas season, dur­in a three-set going to have fun with it." ing which she 
had posted a school-record 24 wins. 
On Feb. 13, 2004, multiple streaks ended at No. 14 Virgin:ia Common­wealth. The Rams were handed their first home-court defeat in almost five years at the hands of the Fighting Irish. However, VCU's Olga Borisova ended Salas' undefeated streak this spring with a two set victory over the Irish co-cap­tain. Salas did not exit empty-handed though, as she combined with partner Connelly to win a doubles match. 
Although Salas lost for the first time this season in Richmond, Va., Notre Dame's winning streak continued. Over a two-week span, beginning on Valentine's Day, Notre Dame notched four more dual-match wins. The Irish topped Boston College, No. 69 Virginia Tech, No. 20 BYU, and No. 26 Indiana. Through these four games, Salas posted a 3-1 singles record, including a match­clinching victory over BYU's No. 43 Barbara Zahnova. 
The Irish then went on their worst skid ofthe season at the beginning ofMarch. In 10 days, the Irish lost three consecutive matches to No. 17 Illinois, No. 6 Duke, and No. 36 Tennessee. However, Salas gave a good effort in keeping the team motivated by playing her best all season. Salas defeated No. 14 Jennifer McGaf­figan of Illinois, No. 5 Amanda Johnson of Duke, and No. 24 Tammy Encina of Tennessee. 
Despite this rough patch, Salas looks at the positive side ofthe situation. "I think [those] were my best matches this season, against Amanda Johnson from Duke and Tammy Encina from Tennessee," Salas 


From the Window to the Walls 
When partying becomes a grind 
MIKEHEALY 
0 vercrowding is a very real prob­lem in the world today. Surg­ing human populations have 
led to unprecedented expansion in all parts of the world. Once quiet suburbs are bustling now with activity due to urban sprawl. Formerly useless states, such as Wyoming, now are providing us with mid-major Division I football teams and vice presidents. Heck, we have so many people now that we apparently ·a person you've already said hello to while her chest is unavoidably ground into your side. This festive overpopula­tion is especially problematic in dorm parties, where the close quarters and lack of tenable ventilation cause ev­eryone to begin sweating like 50 Cent during. a grammar exam, leading to an unmistakably poignant scent that can only be described as a mix ofwarm beer, body odor, copper and feet. 
The greatest difficulty presented 
are terrible, sometimes violent danc­ers to mask our inadequacies. But for whatever reason, these grinding parties . (which sound like something a butcher would do on a Saturday night) have reached a very high level of popular­ity at this institution. While this may seem lamentable in the sense that ithas eliminated the arts of conversation and rocking-out from most gatherings, it actually can make for some very enter­taining observations. For instance, take the guy who is grinding on a girl and keeps moving in to 

need two Dakotas. 
kiss her despite the fact that 
While these trends in she obviously is not having population increase may any ofit. Just watch and try have escaped the notice to guess which part of her of most ofyou (seriously, body the next attempt will there really are two Da­be deflected to: The neck! kotas, you can look it The forehead! The fun can up), there is one area in go on for hours. which this omnipresent Another interesting speci­augmentation ofhuman­men usually found at these ity directly affects each parties is the guy who main­and every one of you: tains the grinding motion as partying. Stop by any he goes out and waits for a dorm, or, to a lesser ex­refill at the keg, despite the tent, Turtle Creek on any fact that there are no girls weekend night (perhaps near him. Perhaps he is try­even a Thursday for the ing to lure some unsuspect­real madmen out there) ing females with his animal and try to find a party eroticism, or maybe he is just in which you can stretch practicing for when he re­
out your arms without inadvertently touching someone in a way that would get your hands cut offin some parts ofthe world. These parties are often so ridiculously crowded that just getting from the cen­ter of the room to an exit can take as long as 10 minutes. This may not seem like a long time, but keep in mind that when you see that girl that you vaguely know from Econ class and give a polite "Hello," you will not be able to go mer­rily on your way. The immovable mass ofhumanity in the crowd will force you to stand there in awkward silence with by this overcrowding, however, is the devolution of many potentially enjoy­able gatherings into mindless fit-2 0 0­people-into-a-room-turn-up-the-rap­
turns to the party. The only 
thing that can be known for sure is this: As entertaining as the 'Air­Grinder' may be, he is like someone with superpowers in the sense that he possesses the ability to do great evil, as well as good, 

song-of-the-day-to-a-painful-volume-by making those around him very, very 
everyone-else-is-starting-to-smell­too-so-it's-ok grindfests. Perhaps I'm just out oftouch with today's youth, but I cannot for the life ofme see the allure ofthis mindless grinding. I don't know ifit is somehow a symbolic, mime-like defiance of DuLac, or simply a clever device invented by those who (like me) uncomfortable. 
Thus, keeping all this in mind, hopefully next weekend will bring some enjoyable, spacious parties where we can all share a few laughs and a few drinks like gentlemen (how classy does that sound?) before we go back to the daily ... grind? D 


Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
25 MARCH 2004 





EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Laser Tag! 
Friday, Mar. 26, 7:00 p.m.-1 :00 a.m. at Stepan Center. ($5 participation fee) 
Come and test your sharpshooting skills in a thrilling 
world where light can destroy and nothing is as 
it seems. Those who arrive early will have more 
opportunities to play, so they will be able to hone 
their skills right away and prey on the unsuspecting 
stragglers. 
AMBITIOUS 

Science Careers as Vocations 
Sunday, Mar. 28, 4:00 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns' multi-purpose room. A panel ofalumni will be on hand to discuss viable career paths that will integrate faith and social concerns into a successful lifestyle. 
DistinguishedLectureSerieswithMichael O'Sullivan 
Monday, Mar. 29, 12:45 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. Michael O'Sullivan shares his insights on "Engineering Careers in the Energy Industry." 
NOSTALGIC 

Special Airing of NDTV 
Thursday, Mar. 25, 5:00 p:m. on cable channel 3. A special episode ofNDTV that features highlights from the entire 2002-2003 broadcast season. 
SPICY 
Sabrosura 

Saturday, Mar. 27, 7:00 p.m. at St. Mary's O'Laughlin auditorium. Enjoy delicious Latin-American cuisine while learning about another culture. Free transportation from Library circle at 6:00 p.m. 
SPIRITUAL 

No Greater Love Retreat Friday, Mar. 26, 1:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse study lounge. No Greater Love provides a unique mix of prayer, music, and faith as part of an experience of faith renewal. 

A SUBMIT your event for 
A 
Scholastic's Coming Distractions. 
E-mail your submissions to Mike Healy at ehealy@nd.edu 
25 MARCH 2004 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 
,/ 
,·. -~~·-·--·•· 

' 
1; Dear Notre Dame
,:I 
;.·'\
1. 
It has been my pleasure to serve you in stu­dent government these past three years as a class officer, student body vice president and ultimately student body president. After becoming acquainted and making friends with the many different people here, I can say that I have truly enjoyed the experience. Therefore, I thank each and every one of you for giving me the opportunity, year after year, to serve you in a variety of capacities, particularly as your student body president. The experiences I have had, the people I have met, and the lessons I have learned have been tremendous. I hope that you all feel that stu­dent government has positively affected your lives. Know that the student government will continue to operate with the principal goal of putting students first. In working to fulfill student government's mission to improve stu­dent life, I have learned many different things while in office. The two :! most important lessons that I've learned this :\ year are the importance
j 
One of the biggest challenges currently facing the student government is the lack of student support for the many in.itiatives spearheaded by student government each year. 
I 
Jeremy Lao served as the student body vice­president under Pat Hallahan and assumed the office ofpresident when Hallahan ,;raduated at the end of the fall 2003 semester. Despite having a name similar to J.Lo, his body is not insuredfor millions ofdollars. 
ofassertiveness and that 
nothing is ever certain. 

Don't expect things to happen: Assumptions are dangerous conclusions to make. Be prepared for the unexpected and be open to entering into new situations. I assumed last year that I still would be the student body vice president at this time; however, my life took an unanticipated turn, and I have had to adapt to a new role with new responsibilities and obligations. Ithas been challenging to acclimate myself to the role of student body president, but the task has been worth every minute ofmy time and every ounce of my efforts. 
Understand that assertiveness is vital to achievement. Never take no for an answer, even when ·it seems that all of your methods and resources have been exhausted. Be strong in your stance and articulate it as effectively as 
by Jeremy J. Lao 

possible. Always question authority, but know that if you remain professional in the process and utilize the appropriate avenues, you may experience greater success. I have learned that 
conflict and controversy, when used correctly, 
can be instruments for change. Know who your 
friends are. They are your support system, and 
if you ·surround yourself ~ith them, you will 
be able to move forward with what you want 
to do. 
I believe that the student body is capable of initiating positive changes in the Notre Dame community. Therefore, I encourage all ofyou to spend your time here questioning and challeng­ing the authoritative systems that are in place, whether they be future student governments, the administration or professors. In order to constantly improve the university's community, a process of continuous self-evaluation must take place, and the student body is responsible for fulfilling this obligation. 
One ofthe biggest challenges currently facing 
the student government is the lack of student 
support for the many initiatives spearheaded by student government each year. I call each member of the student body to use the gifts, talents and potential each of you have· as stu­dents to assist future student governments in 
the affectation of change on this campus ·and 
in the greater South Bend community. I will be leaving the office of the president as a junior, thus bringing a close to my direct 
involvement in student government. However, 
I am thrilled at the opportunity to explore the 
many diverse communities ofthe university and 
learn how, through these groups, I can effect change on this campus. I urge you to do the same. Members ofthe student body, this is your 
university. Make it into a place you are proud 
to call your own. 
Yours in Notre Dame, 
Jeremy J. Lao 
Student Body President 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
25 MARCH 2004 


START HERE• .13 . PLACES. 

If you know business and accounting, you can get ajob anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, 
-•·comrriunication, arid leadership :... are .always in demand. In some of the·coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
American Institute of Certlfieci Public.Accountants and Indiana CPA Society... 
SUB Presents the 1st Annual Laugh Your Pants Off Weekend 




