THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	OCTOBER 22, 1943	NO. 15
Sports writers view the mighty Irish "T” in action
DOBBS NEW • REVOLUTIONARY • SIMPLIFIED
F
NAVAL OFFICER’S CAP
SlAllisn
EGULATION in every respect, yet revolutionary in a great many respects. So easy to change covers that you can almost do it blindfolded. Dobbs quality, styling and workmanship, of course. Check the exclusive features and you’ll know why the Sea-Master is a tremendous improvement over any other naval cap made.
. EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
REMOVABLE GROMMET
Exclusive feature for quick changing of covers
GUIDE HOOK
For easy insertion of grommet
"SELF-STARTER"
centering pin to determine exact point for placing cover
MODERN
GILBERT'S
Oka Mm
813 - 817 S. Michigan St.
In South Bend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert’s

Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years $4.00
Collected Poems of
Charles L. O’Donnell $2.50
SERVICE MEN
You are always
HE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
. . . at the Bookstore
at the Navy Canteen
Buy WITH CONFIDENCE
at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
Make the Navy Canteen Your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole.......Managing	Editor
Bill Carey.............Sports	Editor
Dick Ames...............Campus	Editor
James Schaeffer_________Admin.	Editor
John Mattmiller.........Circulation
Charles Renaud....Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey..Faculty Advisor
Features
The Week____________jWm. Talbot and
(James Cunningham
Pressbox Splinters..........Bill Waddington
N.R.O.T.C______.„H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina
Marines’----------------Lou Riepenhoff
Members of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published 30 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall,or 121 Administration Bldg., -Notre Dame, Indiana.
- Staff meetings in the’ Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.	•	,
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 79
OCTOBER 22, 1943
NO. 15
100th Commencement Ends Semester
Gov. Kelly of Michigan to Speak; Over 200 to Receive Degrees.
Notre Dame’s 100th commencement, long awaited but greatly curtailed due to the war, will be held on Friday, Oct. 29.
War has modified its original scope severely, but in its present plans are the symbol and the implications that were to mark the formal closing of the University’s centenary year.
This 100th commencement will be the last formal commencement for the duration. Those coming after this Class of 1944—which numbers 209 on the program but an indefinitely smaller group than those who will be present to receive their degree—will be awarded degrees in convocations at the close of each of the three war-year semesters now embodied in the calendar year.
Hon. Harry F. Kelly, governor of Michigan, alumnus of Notre Dame of the Class of 1917, veteran of World War I, former president of the Notre Dame alumni association, will
deliver the Commencement address at 3 o’clock Friday afternoon, in Washington Hall.	.	’
The baccalaureate Mass will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church at 9 o’clock on Friday morning.
Most Rev. William P. O’Connor, D.D., Ph.D., bishop of Superior, Wis., will preach the baccalaureate sermon. Bishop .O’Connor, consecrated in 1942, is a veteran chaplain of World War I, a member of the faculty of St; Francis Seminary in Milwaukee for many years, and a former president of the American Catholic Philosophical Association. The Mass-will be celebrated by Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., bishop of Fort Wayne. The flag presented to the University by the Class of 1944 will be blessed at the Mass.
A special feature of this historic commencement; echoing the original scope, will be in the. reading of a letter from His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, to the University on the occasion of
its centenary. Notre Dame was one of the stops made by the present pope when he visited this country as Cardinal Pacelli and it has remained close to his heart.
Leo T. Crowley, recently appointed as foreign economic administrator after a brilliant record in business and public affairs, will be among those to be honored at this historic commencement with the honorary doctorate of laws. Bishop O’Connor and Governor Kelly will likewise be so honored.
Mr. Crowley, long recognized in the Middle West as a business leader through his several enterprises in Madison ' and the State of Wisconsin, achieved outstanding national stature as chairman of the board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and hihs new post gives him added honors of world scope and significance. Mr. Crowley is a
Knight of St. Gregory and an outstanding American Catholic layman.
The war -will be evident in the absence of many of those receiving degrees, and in the presence of a number of graduates in the uniform of the services, especially the V-12 pro- . grams on the Notre Dame campus. The summer school, which did not hold a commencement during the summer, will also award its degrees, largely in the graduate field, on Oct. 29.	.
All of the extra-formal ceremonies have been dispensed in the interest of the war program. Alumni reunions, once an integral part of commencement, have been suspended for the duration. Only the immediate families of the graduates will be in attendance.	.
CANDIDATES FOR UNDERGRADUATE . DEGREES
Bachelor of Arts
John Walsh Anhut, Detroit. Mich.
George Andrew Bariseillo. Bradley Beach. N. J.
Norman John Barry, Chicago, Ill.
Sister Mary Camela Blust, R.S.M. Grand Rapids, Mich.
Dominic Francis Boetto, Joliet, Ill.	-
William Edward Boss, Franklin, O.
James Michael Brennan, Wyoming, Ohio
James Charles Clark. Hamilton. O.
John Francis Coaker, Chicago. UI.
Sister Mary Colomba Coleman, R.S.M., Grand Rapids, Mich.
Raymond Francis Conmy. Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
Stratte Peter Coorlas, Chicago, Ill.
John James Corcoran. Geneva, N. Y.
Sister M. Dorothy Deuling. R.S.M., Grand Rapids, Mich.
Edward Vann Otey Drinkard, Lynchburg. Va.
Brother Germain Faddoul. C.S.C., Sisterville, W.Va.
Robert John Firth, Brooklyn, N. Y.	-
Arthur William Feltes. South Bend. Ind.
Francis Daniel Garibaldi, Hoboken, N. J.
Bernard James Ghiglieri, Toluca, Ill.
James Patrick Gibbons, Long Island, N. Y.
William Rea Gwinn. Flossmoor, Ill.
George Herman Hegner, Sewickley, Pa.
Hal Edward Hunter, New Madrid, Mo. .
William Patrick Hussey, Chicago, Ill.
Walter Francis Jones, Anderson, Ind.
James Lyle Joyce, Tucapau, S. C.
Gerald Anthony Kamm, Mishawaka, Ind.
John James Kearney, Woodside. N. Y.
William James Kenny, Chicago, Ill..’
Victor Martin Kimmel, Wayland, N. Y.	.
Joseph Francis Lanigan, Newton Centre, Mass. Paul Anthony Larson, Indianapolis, Ind.
Harry David Lavery. Jacksonville,- Ill. . -.
Sister M. Bennet Lentner, R.S.M., Grand Rapids, Mich.
John Albein Lynch, Detroit, Mich. ’
Patrick Lawrence McDermott, McKees Rock, Fa.
Graham William McGowan, Burlington. Vt. -Mark Thomas McHugh, East Chicago, Ind.
Sister Mary Nolasco McPhillips, R.S.M., Grand
Rapids, Mich.	"
Edward Francis Monahan, Whitman, Mass. .
Thomas Joseph O’Connor. Springfield, Ill.
William Charles O’Connor, Peeksville, N. Y. , John Francis O’Hara, Westmont, N. J.- . .	-
James George Phillipoff, South Bend. Ind.
Eugene Walter Pilawski, Chicago, UI. •	.
Vail Walter Pischke, South Bend, Ind.
Robert Paul Reilly, New York City, N. Y. ’
John Joseph Riley, Aurora, Ill. - • \
* « • - ' —
Quirico Mani Saint George, Chicago. III.
William Frederick Schroeder, Flushing, N. Y.\-Daniel Francis Stevens, Long Island, N. Y. •.'	.
James George Sullivan, Chicago, Ill. •	' -
John Francis Sullivan,' New Ybrk*City - / ’ ' ~ William Francis Talbot, Louisville, Ky.
Richard Allan Terry, Lincoln, Nebr.
John Francis Thornton. Chicago, III.
John Sutton Tuckey, Elkhart Ind.
Nicholas Joseph Villarosa, Montclair, N. J.
John Joseph Walsh, Marquette, Mich.
Stephen Joseph Weigel, Danielson, Conn.
William Joseph Welsh, Weatherly, Pa.	‘
John Campbell Woelfle. Lynbrook, N. Y.
Degree of Bachelor of Fine Arts
Robert Munro Beck. Toledo. 0.
William Edward Binet, Grand Rapids, Minn.
William John Schikel, Ithaca, N. Y.
Degree of Bachelor of Music Education
Sister Mary Dolores McIntyre, R.S.M., Grand Mich.
Bachelor of Science in Physical Education
John Francis Treacy, Freeport, N. Y.
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
Degree of Bachelor of Science -
Brother Benignus Beutter, C.S.C., South Bend, Ind. John Joseph Beyerle, Shaker Heights, 0.
John Joseph Bishop, Davenport, Iowa John Clayton Clyne, Muncie, Ind. Kenneth Albert Forbes, Des Plaines, UI. Richard Paul Frierott, Minster, Ohio James Conlon Kessell, Des Moines, Iowa .
: Brother Johann Kochendorfer, C.S.C., South Bend, Ind.	-
Brother Andre Leehtenberg, C.S.C., Quincy, Ill. John Thomas Mangan, Forest City, Iowa . Albert Patrick McGuire, Clarksburg, W. Va. . Felix Augustus McFarland, Shadyside. O. John Edmund McSweeney, Baltimore, Md. Robert Armstrong Nelson, Auburn, N. Y. John Joseph O'Neill, New Haven, Conn. Daniel Joseph Rourke, Greenwich, N.'.Y.	•
Richard Edward Sullivan, Binghamton, N. Y. •
'	Bachelor of Science in Chemistry
’ Robert Joseph Byrnes, Elizabeth, N.- J. James Michael Constantin, Chicago, .III. - -	_
John Martin Kuhn,. Evanston, Ill.
Paul William O'Connell. Newark, N...Y.	, .. -
Charles’ Francis Raley, Wilmington, Del. '	-
Mandell Stanley Ziegler, South Bend, Ind. . -
■	. . : Bachelor of Science in Physics -
Robert Sarnow Witte. Chicago, Ill.	’
■	- COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
’ - ’ Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering . >
’ Bernard Francis' Bowling, Louisville,1 Ky.'’^"" - Lawrence John Tierney,’ West Roxbury, Mass.
- Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering
Joseph Paul Arens, Oak Park, III.
Louis Gustave Dhoore. South Bend, Ind.
Robert Thomas Duffy, Chicago, III.
Milton Joseph Flyke. Oak Park, DI.
Norman Bray Haaser, Wethersfield, Conn.
John Justin Jaeger. Geneva, UI.
George Raymond Kinney, Buffalo, N. Y.
Robert Clement Kohl, Denver, Colo.
Leo Joseph Lardie, Niagara Falls, N. Y.
James Jerome Mahoney, Kalamazoo, Mich.
John Joseph Martin, South Bend, Ind.
William Francis O’Brien, Lynbrook. N. Y.
Raymond James Platt, Chicago, Ill.
Daniel Joseph Sullivan. Detroit. Mich.
John Robert Thumm, Aurora, III.
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering
Walter Louis Brehmer, South Bend, Ind.
Charles Matthias Kelly, Akron, 0.
George Daniel Powers, South Bend, Ind.
Daniel Jerome ■ Tomcik. Cleveland, 0.
James Bernard Treacy, South Bend, Ind.
Edward Charles Watters, Marion, 0.
-Bachelor of Architecture
John Joseph Andres, Hastings-on-the-Hudson, N.Y. John Gabriel O’Connell, Bridgeport, Conn.
Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering
Richard Fredric Benning, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Robert John Biegen, Great Neck, N. Y.
Joseph Emil Christen, Dormont, Pa.
- Cyril George Desmet. Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.
Earl Rudolph Englert, Louisville, Ky.
Joseph Brendan Farrell. New York City .
Thomas Angelo' Ferrari, Schenley, Pa.
James Ambrose Finneran, Floral Park, N. Y.
William Patrick Fitzgerald, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Richard Walsh Kelly, Terre Haute, Ind.
August. Joseph Legeay, Paducah, Ky.
. Gerardo Joseph Lombardi, Brighton, Mass.
Charles Kokenge McGill, Cincinnati, 0.
- Joseph Cornelius McManus, Charleston, S. C. Norman Francis Mueller, St. Louis, Mo. , Julian Searcy Nichol, Paducah, Ky.
• Thomas Francis O’Brien, Suffern, N. Y.
' .William Grogan O’Connell, Rutland, Vt.
Joseph Leo Simons, Philadelphia, Pa.
- William Donald Wolke, Montclair, N. J.
- Bachelor of Science in Metallurgy
Richard John Gietzen, Grand Rapids. Mich.
John Gerard Jeakle. Detroit, Mich. ■
Robert William Raff, Oak Park, III. .
. Howard John Schmitt, LaPorte, Ind.
William Tillman Snyder, Bowling Green, 0.
Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering
John Turbeville Battaile, Memphis, Tenn.
Keith Glenmore Brady, South Bend, Ind. -Robert James Burke, New York City, N. Y. -William Joseph Eaton, Great Neck, N. Y.........;
.	(Continued on page 18) -
6
Student Book Exchange Operating in Law Building
The student book exchange, sponsored by CAS, opened yesterday in room 10 of the Main Building. The nonprofit exchange will be open daily from 2 to 5 p.m. Students turning in books will be given a receipt which may be exchanged for cash or other books at the beginning of next semester. Those who are not returning may mail in their receipts and cash will be promptly forwarded to them. According to Bob Reynolds, new CAS president, this system is necessary because the non-profit project will have no funds available until the sale of books by the exchange begins during the first week of November.
Scene of Great Lakes
Game Has Been Changed
It was officially announced last week that the Notre Dame-Great Lakes football contest scheduled to be played on Thanksgiving Day in Comiskey Park, Chicago, will be transferred to the Great Lakes Naval Training Station and the date to Saturday, Nov. 27.
The change was necessitated by a Navy ruling prohibiting- play in an out’ side field other than the home stadium of the opponent. Admittance will be restricted by Navy order to the personnel of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station. All others, including Navy and Marine trainees from Notre Dame, will ' be excluded.
Dean Konop Represents
N.D. at Swygert Ceremonies
Thomas F. Konop, LL.B., deanemeritus of the College of Law, repre! sented the University at the induction , of one of Notre Dame’s outstanding I graduates, Luther M. Swygert, of Ham* mond, Ind., into the high office of judge ! of the United States district court for I northern Indiana, held Wednesday afternoon in the federal building in Ham-j . mond.	„
Dean-emeritus Konop, who also holds the rank as professor of law at the ‘ University, was dean of the College of . Law at Notre Dame during the time Mr. Swygert was a student in that college and has been succeeded by the present dean, Clarence E. Manion.
'	Mr. Swygert, who . until his recent
presidential appointment was assistant j United States attorney for northern ■ Indiana, received an LL.B, degree at Notre Dame in 1927. Prior to his grad; nation he was circulation manager of The Notre- Dame Lawyer, publication of the College of Law in 1926, and busi-
ness manager of the same publication in 1927. As a resident of Hammond, Mr. Swygert is a former president of the Notre Dame club of the Calumet District.
Art Department Closes for Duration; Lack Students
It has been announced by University authorities that the Art Department, under the direction of the Rev. John
Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C.
Bednar, C.S.C., has been forced by lack of students to suspend activity for the duration.
Instruction in drawing, painting and sculpture will continue to be taught, however, to architectural students who will continue theii- studies.
Cosgrove Speaks on
"Organized Propaganda"
Carefully planned and often skilfully executed propaganda, Gerald E. Cosgrove, Department of Journalism, faculty member and associate editor of the South Bend Tribune, told a representative of the Scholastic this week, has reached the greatest volume in all human history. “This is partly due to the war,” he said, “but propaganda as an organized ‘industry’ on a large scale antedated the present international conflict. The propagation of ideas by special interests is, of course, an old phenomenon. Modern methods of transportation and communication have facilitated its expansion and it has been ‘refined’ in many important respects by adoption of scientific techniques.”
Mr. Cosgrove, who teaches the course on “Propaganda and the Press,” expressed the opinion that much propaganda is practically ineffective because the propagandists assume erroneously that “the masses” will, in effect, swallow anything. He expressed substantial agreement with Peter Drucker, who has written that “propaganda only converts those who already believe and only appeals to people if it answers an existing need or allays an existing fear.”
“The apparently never-ending ava
lanche of propaganda, however, in peace time as well as war time,” Mr. Cosgrove said, “suggests that familiarity with the signs and symbols of organized propaganda is necessary for personal comfort and immediate intelligent reaction. Fortunately, the methods of professional propagandists have been stripped of mystery; and we may even derive some entertainment from analyzing their handiwork. As a rule their purposes may be at least sensed if we apply ourselves to study of their technique.”	.
Notre Dame Professors
At Social Science Meet
Professors Wesley C. Bender and Edmund A. Smith of the Department of Business Administration of the University, will attend the annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences to be held in the Claypool Hotel at Indianapolis on Thursday, Oct. 21. Both professors will participate in fie discussion on “Post-war Reconstruction through Planning.”
Currently, Mr. Smith is Academy vice-president and member of the Executive and Program Committees. President of the organization in 1942, Mr. Bender is one of its directors.
Indiana’s leading universities and colleges in addition to many government departments are represented in the Academy.	,
Keenan, Wisconsin Star, Former Interhalier at Ni D.
Pre-game write-ups of the Notre , Dame-Wisconsin massacre pointed out that center Joe Keenan of the Badgers was a former footballer from Notre Dame. Local coaches and faithful followers of every-day happenings at Cartier Field shook their heads in doubt. No Joe Keenan ever played for Notre . Dame.
It was discovered, however, just last week just who mysteryman Keenan was, and the extent of his experience. Joe was one of the hardy heroes of Interhail football who exhibited their wares on Cartier Field Sunday mornings in the years before the war. He . was a second string pivotman for DilIon Hall.
Since that time, two years ago, Joe has shed much weight and now is down . to a slim 215 pounds of muscle. He with ex-Notre Dame Ray Dooney were the outstanding pair in the Wisconsin line-, up. Both are Naval Aviation - Cadets / taking special courses at the Madison < school.	J . : ;	.
-- ' / -
thermore, in this crucial hour of examinations, when men sinking in a bewildering sea grasp at even a frail straw, nothing is too insignificant to put before the minds of those who wreak such havoc on the minds of .others. Thus, without further ado, we remind the faculty that WE WORE OUT THE STEPS OF THE LIBRARY.
TOP OF THE WEEK
Caps, Gowns, and Navy Orders.
THE I00TH CLASS LOOKS BACK
It was just three years ago last month, wide-eyed and thirsty for knowledge, we dragged our bags into the new south campus halls. “Moose” Piepul was the big gun that fall and he pulled Elmer’s last team through a rugged schedule. Following the games we would gobble the Saturday night steaks and give the team a big cheer after grace. It was still the lush days of white table cloths and overflowing milk pitchers. That spring we freshmen watched the Seniors and their guests march from a candle-light supper in the west dining hall to the gaily decorated Rockne where they danced to music by Dick Jurgens.' We looked forward to the night when we would wear* white tie and tails at a similar affair.
That summer we spent at a lake or in the hometown. We came back in the fall to the “Sophomore quad” and moved into Morrissey, Lyons and Badin. Came our debut at the cotillicn with Jimmy Joy playing at the old Palais Royale. It was the day after that Frank Leahy’s undefeated whipped Illinois 49 to 14, and the famous “88” cheer was born.
Most of us were on week-ends, or in the halls reading Sunday papers, when the news came. The nation went to war and Notre Dame with it. We spent Christmas vacation finding out that we wouldn’t be eligible for V-7 for months. The spring flowed with rumors. And most of them came true. Father O’Donnell announced the Navy school apd an accelerated program. In April of 1942 then came the great migration and we evacuated our halls to the Navy. The era of the private rooms disappeared.
The summer semester started with milk in bottles, no table cloths, and too few waiters. We enjoyed the lakes, got acquainted with South Bend girls, and joined reserves, or talked the board into a 2A. In the fall of ’42 we saw the team lose twice and score- two upsets over great service teams. E.R.C. rumors almost buried the' campus and destroyed
8
any desire for study. Heavy snows came and we combined with the Seniors to throw the last great formal for the duration. The E.R.C. even outlasted the melting snow but finally in the spring of this year our class was cut to 1/3. The extra week-off in June was while away without gas or buddies. We returned in July to a very business-like, no-holiday schedule; some of us in uniform, but all of us surrounded by them. Even Founder’s Day passed last week without notice; gone was the free day and the banquet. We are Notre Dame’s 100th Class and we have seen her change more than the 99 before us.
FACULTY PLEASE NOTE
Of all times to call attention to significant facts — this is the proper time for the following observation. It is edifying; in fact, it is nothing short of amazing. We don’t know where else it has occurred; we have never even heard of the feat’s being duplicated at all. We hesitate to bring this before the public; we have been hoping that someone else would bring this to the fore. But no one has, to date. And it is now in danger of being passed over, forgotten, probably denied altogether in a short time. Fur-
One more display of temper and off you go to St. Mary's!
COMPARISONS
We have heard a great deal, in recent years, about this fellow, Don Ameche, who invented the telephone. At the present time, we’re getting a hogshead of information, plus an amazing demonstration from time to time, about one Angelo Bertelli who is referred to as “the one man living who is doing most to popularize the Springfield Rifle.”
ORCHIDS TO
The crowd that managed the V-12 Dance, last week in the Navy Drill Hall. Everything went smoothly except the Indiana weatherman. St. Mary’s turned out to the last witch — a feat that will probably never be duplicated again, regardless of global difficulties. Brave men, these Navy mates. Aye, Aye, Sir.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK:
You Can’t Enjoy the Exam without A Bluebook.
Dave Wood Helps Relieve Barber-shop;
Faculty, Students, Servicemen are Patrons
t	--------------
Down on lower Third Avenue, in the ' middle of New York’s famous Bowery, are scattered flourishing little shops — ; trademarks of that section. These shops are the colleges where student barbers get their practice, shops made famous by their five-cent shaves, their ten-cent haircuts, and free sticking plaster.
f	And on the fourth floor of St. Ed-
ward’s Hall, unheralded by the standard
I barber’s pole, is a room reminiscent of the Bowery’s trademark. There, busily at work, and quite his-own boss, teacher, and assistant, is-Dave Wood, the mad barber of the'campus.
With the local barber shop crowded to capacity, my own funds very low, and the length of my hair approaching the poet stage, I decided to try out this fel-/ low who had been interrupting the Fred Waring program each night with the infernal buzzing of his electric dippers.
I made up my mind that I didn’t have too much to lose either way, so I took the brave attitude of the scientist who gives all for the good of posterity, trusted my-‘ self to Dave’s mercies, and waited for him to turn the switch.
Soon hail' began to fall in cascades on all sides. I felt little drafts of air rushing in as the hair was clipped away, along with what I thought was a piece of my ear. For twenty minutes Dave dug away at his work, cutting, shearing, trimming (he cleans behind the ears free); then he announced that it was all over. My jawsWopped when I saw myself in the mirror. I had not only pulled through ' the crisis, but had actually improved.
:	Immediately I became interested in
Dave’s work and began firing questions.
According to him, it all started when he was 14 and used to cut friends’ hair to spite them. He was-the meanie of the neighborhood and his scissors were respected for miles around. He became so interested in this practical joking that frequent practice soon made him an expert and, realizing the worth of the hobby, he began charging for his services.
Dave enjoyed the extra movies and • candy which he was able to afford above his normal allowance, so he kept cutting hair for anyone who was courageous enough to “sit for him.” This trade sharpened his technique and he soon be. came a connoisseur of the fine art of “hairdressing” as he likes to call it.
Wood is a 21-year-old junior in the college of engineering and hails from Franklin, Conn. His college “lolly-pop”
money is earned by cutting the hair of priests and students. All seem to be pleased with his work, because they keep coming back. As a matter of fact, many of the fellows who frequent the campus and downtown barbershops come to Dave right after for a touch-up job, which he does gladly.
Most popular are his “rush jobs,” the servicemen’s special. Many have been the demerits which Dave has helped the boys avoid with one deft sweep of his electric clippers, a Sears and Roebuck special.
Dave says he would be happy if he could find a month or so in which to take a refresher course at one of the Bowery’s most rugged shops to train himself for the hard job he faces daily. Another thing which Dave would enjoy is learning to cut gurls’ hair. It is his ambition to turn out a coiffure or two for the St. Mary’s girls that will be at least half human-looking. Dave says it would take another Charles of Marshall Field’s, to be able to do anything with some of their hairdos. And he ought to know.
With this information, and content with the neat appearance of his work and the moderate price he charges (for which, incidentally, I tossed him and won) I felt I should pass on this information on to the student body. If most are like myself, with little to lose either way, pay Dave a visit. He might be able to help you. But please don’t come during Fred Waring’s program.
4* This is the last issue of the SCHO- 4» 4* LASTIC for the semester. The first ❖ 4» issue next semester will appear on ❖ ❖ Nov. 12. Plans are being made for ❖ ❖ an all V-12 staff to edit a section de- ❖
4* voted exclusively to servicemen. The ❖ 4° Nov. 12 issue will be the first under ❖ ❖ this new arrangement.	4*
4* The SCHOLASTIC needs reporters ❖ 4° for next semester. All interested civ- ❖ ❖ ilian students and trainees are re- ❖ 4* quested to volunteer their services. ❖
4> ❖ 4* ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ 4* ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
English Catholic Leader to
Discuss "Beveridge Plan"
The “Beveridge Plan” will be the subject of a lecture to be given by Rev. Leo O’Hea, S.J., in the auditorium of the Engineering Building on Monday, Oct. 25 at 8 p.m. The lecture is sponsored by the Indiana People and Freedom Group, and the admission is free.
Father O’Hea is a Catholic leader of England in the application of the Papal Encyclicals to Modem Social Problems. He is a well-known speaker and writer, and an active member of many social efforts.' At present he is head - of the Catholic Workers College of Oxford, — a unique institution attended by workers of all ages. He is the editor of the Christian Democrat, a member of the Executive Committee of the Sword of the Spirit movement, and honorary sec-, retary of the Catholic Guild of Oxford.
The Beveridge Plan represents a recent comprehensive effort towards abolishment of want through generalized social insurance. It is supported in England by many members of Parliament and has aroused world-wide discussion and controversy. Father O’Hea is well qualified to speak on the subject. Because the Beveridge Plan has influenced new measures of social security in this country, the lecture should be interesting and timely.	-
James A. McCarthy, instructor in civil engineering at the University, is chairman of the local organization.
Knights of Coumbus Initiate
44 Students and Trainees
On Sunday, Oct. 18, 44 Notre Dame students and trainees received their second and third degrees in the Knights of Columbus. The degrees were given in the St. Joseph Catholic school of South Bend. Degrees were also given to residents of South Bend and Mishawaka.
The following are the new knighted brothers of the Notre Dame council: Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Clifton Mc-Parland, John McAndrews, Francis Moore, Philip Martin, William Martin, William Dunn, David Wood, Paul Wood, Robert Raney, James Gilker, John Freeman, James Clarke, John Kelly, Frank Cacciapaglia, Robert Martin, William Lenert, Bernard Popham, Richard Deeb, Robert Snyder, Jack Lawler, Richard Heyl, William Lawless, Michael Kiely, William Sweeney, Robert Quinn, William Daily, Joseph Duffey, Edward Deisler, Robert Heffinger, James Hauer, John Con-ron,' Anthony Machado, Rene Otero, John Hildebrandt, Laurence Lynch, Richard Digan, William McAndrew, George Min-ges, Joseph Faust, Carl Dickinson, John Cullen, Paul Mooney, and Louis Hoying..
9.
Mighty Irish "T" to Face Greatly Improved lllini Eleven in Stadium Tomorrow
BY BILL CAREY
Sports Editor, Notre Dame "Scholastic"
The purring power of the Notre Dame “T” formation will explode tomorrow against the University of Illinois. In the second home game of the current season, Frank Leahy’s lads will lace the visitors from Urbana with the same crackling whip that has been heard ’round the nation in past weeks.
The eve of this contest in 1942 found the lllini an undefeated powerhouse and Notre Dame a bruised battler. The Fighting Irish upset Ray Eliot’s wagon, and toppled his club, from the ranks of the holy, holy. Inspired by the strength of revenge the Orange and Blue will strive to make the Sunday headlines by the upset of the year. A thrice unbeaten unit, they will attempt to outpoint the Hercules of the Midwest—the Achilles of the October gridiron world.
lllini Improved, Boast Deadly Attack
Illinois prospects early in the season were dismal. Service calls had swept clean a roster that was so talented and versatile that talk of a possible National Champ was whispered by faithful followers. Marine and Navy transfers snatched the lads right out of Urbana and deposited them all over the Mid-west. Purdue, current leader of the Big Ten, is sparked by six Illinois Marines.
Affable mentor, Ray Eliot, looked over an early fall squad that had an abundance of weight and ability, but little experience. The first competitive
test was a 23-0 shutout at the hands of a rugged Camp Grant eleven, comprised of ex-college and professional hearties. The Illinois attack had been smothered by the 20 pound advantage per man the soldiers boasted in the line.
Out of this defeat, however, arose a sure-fingered, crisp attack flaring from a “T” formation, a la Eliot. The Fighting lllini—for that they were—scored thrice against the Iowa Seahawks, thrice against the loaded Purdue eleven, four- times against Wisconsin, six times against a stubborn Pitt Panther. Their fiery youth was evident in the variance and swiftness of their offense. Behind a weighty line two Eddies — Bray and McGovern — scampered through opposing secondaries on 60 and 70 yard jaunts. Jackrabbit McGovern was the country’s leading collegiate point-getter in 1942 when he carried the mail for Rose Polytechnic Institute in Terre Haute, Ind. This year with teammate Bray he has continued , his scoring ways.
Notre Dame Hailed as Nation's Best
Notre Dame will enter the game hailed by critics as the top team in the nation for the third straight week. The massacre at Madison further entrenched the green and gold in the lead-off spot. Though the starting lineup toiled but a quarter, all efforts to keep the score within reasonable limits failed. The game served as little more than a formal scrimmage that gave the reserves some valuable game material. The N.D. signal callers were under definite orders not to open up, and eight six-pointers were scored by elementary football. Irish passers hurled but six tosses, hitting the basket on four of them. Even the quarterback sneak averaged five yards per try. Irish backs made ready use of the inadequate Badger defense to bolster their already sky-high ground gaining efforts.
Irish Offense Should Prove Too Strong
The buggywhip attack of the Irish Tee-i-oters — Bertelli, Miller, Rykovich and Mello — should bludgeon Illinois into submission. This quartet has led Notre Dame to its 45 point average per game in four contests. It has been their
Irish Backs Will be on theM
wizardry and mystic ball handling that * t has made a Notre Dame team in posses- b sion of the ball a better- than even bet o to score. They are the most devastating offensive threat in football today.
s
With an impregnable line up front, play caller Bertelli has been able to confidentially lead the team in a diversified attack. Combining a running and passing game he has shattered every defense devised to pile up the “T.” . Against Illinois, Irish followers may see Bert taking to the air with surprising consistency. Little Joe Mocha of Pitt
completed
12 out of 14 passes against ,
g
i 0 n a
.	a
•’	I
g
5	a
Probable Start
Notre
Dome
Posilic
Limont
(190)
White (212) ...
Signaigo (205)
Coleman (200)
1
Czarobski (212) Zilly (192) ...... Bertelli (175) ... Miller (190)...... Rykovich (190) Mello (188) .....
r;
R.H.
r
io
eMove Again Tomorrow
I the Eliotmen in the second half of their basketball game last Saturday. Mocha, , only a freshman, is no Bertelli.
Perhaps the greatest credit for the success of Notre Dame to date must be given to a truly outstanding line. These Seven Steel Ramrods — Limont, White, Signaigo, Coleman, Filley, Czar-obski and Zilly — smashed to fragments the mighty Michigan myth. Not a single Wisconsin back averaged even a yard per crack at this concrete dike. Ray Dooney, the best runner the Badgers had to offer, totaled three yards j all afternoon — 60 percent of the whole
irting Lineup
lion	Illinois
i
E. _______________ (190) Morris
I.________________(204) Perez
3.		 (181) Serpico
L_______________... (190) Kane
G.___________ (195) Gerometta
L ________________ (217) Frost
E_______________ (170) Widner
L____________(180) Greenwood
Si.__________:____ (155) Bray
H._______	(173) Tohn
L ________________ (190) Sajnaj
Fighting lllini Expect a Tough But Not Hopeless Battle in Tomorrow's Game
BY BILL SCHMELZLE
Sports Editor, “Daily lllini"
Champaign, III., Oct. 21.—Unlimber that Fine Italian Hand, Mr. Bertelli, ’cause you’re in for a field day Saturday.
It took only 30 minutes for Joe Mocha, your Polish counterpart from Pittsburgh, to demonstrate that the lllini pass defense is as leaky as the walls in Sorin Sub when he threw 12 strikes in 14 pitches as Illinois outran the Panthers, 33 to 25, last weekend. His second half aerial spree turned an lllini rout into an ordinary win. You, Mr. Slingshot, can have things your own way this week. Only, please . . . remember your ethics. Temperance is the Guiding Hand of life.
And to you, Mr. Miller . . . the words come easy. Romp at will, be it right end, right tackle, or the ol’ No. 2 hole. But hark to your laurels in the secondary, because our pair, of Eddies — Bray and McGovern — are as fleet afoot as you, and your “37” will be merely a pest-like magnet. And when you’re on defense, Creight, you will trail our Eddies to the end zone at least thrice, so make up your mind to it. They are the bellcow of an attack which has averaged- four touchdowns a game against the Seahawks, Purdue, Wisconsin, and Pitt. They can do it again.
Mr. Rykovich: You, too, can score as you please. Forgive the formalities, Julie, but 188 miles makes The New Grange seem oh, so far away. Anyway . . . we miss you at Bidwell’s.
team’s ground offense. These green jerseyed huskies so rushed the passers up at Madison that they completed only three out of 21 efforts. The downfield blocking of the N.D. line is the finest seen in many years. Coaches Ed Krause, Hughie Devore and Wally Ziemba are to be congratulated on their star-studded product. It may rank with the best ever to have dug a cleat in Cartier Field. .
Illinois tomorrow will hurl a tricky offense, a pair of light-footed backs and a cartload of spirit at the dreadnaught Frank Leahy has developed. Brawn and polish should triumph over courage in another high scoring win for the Irish.
And until a brighter day when Memorial stadium is again a haven of champions . . . keep up your grand job for the Irish. Play that kind of game that Ray and Tony and Ralph and Jus want you to. The Huff gym clientele asked our six marines at Purdue to give all they had. They did ... 40 points worth.
Messrs. Filley, Mello, Limont, White, Coleman, Perko, Zilly, Yonakor . . . lay those pistols down. You fellows will win . Saturday. Maybe by a big score, maybe not. But whatever happens, you’ll know you’ve been in a ball game. They aren’t calling this 1943 Orange and Blue eleven the Fighting lllini for nothing. Eliot’s kids have come a long way since they stepped out of knickers and learned to play football two months ago. So when you glare at Widner, Joop, Gerometta, Kane, Curry, Serpico, Frost, Morris, Greenwood, Sajnaj (Yea, Notre Dame), and the two Eddies • . . . remember they’re still Fighting lllini.
Oh, yes . . . Mr. Leahy: Eliot has concentrated on pass defense most of this week. He has taught his tackles how to tackle, his guards how to guard. Ray has drilled his boys on the ancient “X double X” play in an effort to counteract some of that gunshot “T.” In fact, he’s told them everything they must do to beat Notre Dame . . . stop Bertelli . . . pile up Miller . . . box in Rykovich . . . buggywhip Mello . . . mow down Filley, Coleman, White, et al. . . .
And they may do it. . . .
II
Art Dept. Holds Annual Students' Exhibit;
Work of High Quality Displayed at Library
The most casual observer cannot help but notice the several large provocative posters distributed around the campus this week announcing the Art Department’s Annual Exhibit of students’ work. If he were to cross the campus to the University
Library to return the books he borrowed several months back before packing up for home he would notice two impressive pieces of sculpture standing on the Library steps. The one is a statue of St. Francis of Assisi executed by Brother Loyola, C.S.C., with all the sensitive feeling and sureness of design of the professional sculptor. Brother Loyola’s experience, h o w -ever, covers the short span of only two summer sessions of six weeks each. Flanking the St. Francis garden piece (it is intended for the Du-jarie grounds) - is another example of sculpture of high merit, a drinking fountain created by Mr. William Schickel, graduating senior in the Art Department. The three reliefs on this work cannot receive too much praise. We are inclined to believe that the great English sculptor, Eric Gill, would have been delightfully pleased to see such prom
ise in so young a sculptor. To set himself a practical problem Mr. Schickel
conceived the idea of executing a drinking fountain to accommodate three people, and for a definite site he selected the gravel rectangle in front of the Post Office. He even selected the color of the cast stone to harmonize with the buff brick work of that building. For his theme Mr. Schickel selected "Woman at the Well,” and lastly, “Christ Washing the Feet of the Apostles.”
Inside the Wightman Galleries other sculpture pieces and ceramics, fulfill the high promise of aesthetic pleasure suggested by the sculpture on the Library steps: a six-foot ceramics relief of “Our Lady of the Lake” in orange and turquoise glaze; a fine portrait of Father Bernard Lange, C.S.C., numerous plaques and small sculpture in the round — all executed under the direction of Mr. Eugene Kormendi. Numerous portrait drawings and landscape sketches fill in the wall spaces back of the ceramics and sculpture, executed by the students of both the Art Depart-
Life Size Terra Cotta Head of Christ, by Mr. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C.
ment and Architecture Department. It should be made clear that while the
Art Department is sponsoring the exhibit many of the drawings and sculpture works exhibited are the products of the Architecture students who are required to take drawing and modelling in the Art Department as part of their training.	-
A separate gallery is devoted to oil paintings and water-colors. The visitor will find them so distinctly creative and ingenious, even though he had very little museum experience, that he will be able to detect the separate personalities responsible for them without having to resort to the name plates attached to them. These drawings and paintings have been executed under the direction of Father John Bednar, C.S.C., not under his compelling dictation, remember, for the last thing Father Bednar would do, would be to impose his own methods and manners on the unsuspecting student.
The exhibit will continue until the end of November so as to. afford the
students of the closing semester as well as those of the coming semester to see the art work of their fellow students.
You’re missing much if you excuse yourself from a visit to the Students’ Exhibit on the plea of being too busy preparing for the examination. Those who have seen it already have nothing but the highest praise for the work displayed. Mr. Robert Beck, graduating senior, has done some excellent, strong portraits and landscapes; Mr. Schickel has shown himself as capable in drawing and painting as in sculpture; Mr. Armstrong, architect student, has done some splendid heads in pencil, sharing honors in this field with Mr. Braveman, also of the Architecture Department. Mr. Vincent Fagan’s class of architects have produced some stunning pencil sketches of the campus, the outstanding ones drawn by Mr. Braveman and Mr. Schroeder. And could you be capable of detecting which oil paintings were done by the art student who is color blind?
Professor O'Malley Speaks at Wrangler Banquet
By Paul Wood
The final meeting of the Wranglers was held Monday evening at the Hoffman Hotel. Since this was the traditional closing banquet, there was no paper presented by the members.
After the members who are leaving gave their farewell talks, Mr. Frank O’Malley, faculty moderator of the Wranglers, addressed the club on modern literature, and especially literature dealing with the war.
Departing members included J. C. R. Clark, graduating; Bill Talbot, graduating; and Jim O’Dea. Bill Lawless," New York, was unanimously elected president of the club for a second term. Henry Adams, Indiana, was elected secretary, replacing Jim O’Dea.
Prof. Sullivan's Second Book to Appear in November
Richard Sullivan, associate professor of English at the University, has written a new novel, entitled The Da/rk Continent, which will be published Nov. 19 by Doubleday, Doran and Co.
No advance information is as yet available about the content or outline of the book, but those who have experienced his honest, intelligent first novel, Slimmer After Summer, issued last year, will await Mr. Sullivan’s newest work with interest.
In addition to his novels, Mr. Sullivan has written and had published a number of short stories, several of which were exceptionally well received.
12
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
With the conclusion of tomorrow’s
game, one-half of the present grid sea
son will have been concluded. Last
year’s point total at this time amounted
to 68, but when that sum is compared with the 181 amassed in four encounters to date, it seems very meager. The point difference may give good indication of the relative ■■■ strength of the two
Bill Waddington squads but one can’t help remembering the 27-0 and 28-0 drubbings that the ’42 team gave to Stanford and the Seahawks on successive weekends. A better
and more cunning mastery of the “T” is oui' answer to any and all queries emanating from the’fans who are spellbound more and more as “the powerhouse” piles on amazing feats week after week. For those who have been unable to witness all the contests, the radio, newspaper descriptions and photographs have been the second best mediums conveying the superb team play of the Irish that has thwarted the fond dreams of Pitt, Georgia Tech, Michigan, and Wisconsin. The way the line opens holes and the magnificence of coordination in the backfield is practically revolutionary in the realm of the “T” — save the Bears. Anything that has been said by writers foreign to South Bend can never be taken as an exaggeration because our lads have" really got it! Remorsefully, we announce that after tomorrow’s contest, there will be only one other home event. I’m sure that from the youngest football aspirant in'America all the way to the arm-chair rooter of gathered years is somewhat stunned at what is being done at the South Bend University. Those who lived during the golden reign of Rockne must estimate this club with the “greats” which “Rock” tutored to national fame. And “Rock” wouid be proud of this club today. There’s no doubt about the spirit nor the aggressiveness. If the fruits of triumph continue to pour’ down on the boys from the Golden Dome it will only be just reward. They make the thought of perpetual motion seem out-dated. Elgin watch precision becomes outmoded, and machine-made perfection must now confess its faults.
Paging all America: “Yes, sir, we’ve got it!”
Infrequent Upliftings
Listening to an airlane report of the N.D.-Badger game last week, we could detect the approximate gain per play on the part of the Irish. When a big advance was evident, it was possible to hear a pin drop in Randall Field. But when there was a loud cheer, then we knew that the boys made only two or three yards on the play. Ordinarily, spectatorial outbursts on the part of the home crowd take place only when the invading team gets caught behind the line or fumbles. But Badger fans had to blow-off steam some time, didn’t they? Two and three yard gains were as close to miscues as N.D. could get; hence, Wisconsin hilarity.
Get-Away Thoughts
How I envy the boys who live in Cleveland and the civilians who hold forth in Manhattan. There are a couple of games on the schedule that I’d give up sleeping to see. Over the ten-day tenure a lot can happen to change the course of things, but all will turn out to be grievings for the Navy and Army Academies. Sure, Navy’s strong but the only real club they’ve played has been Duke in which they eked out a one-point margin. Army hasn’t met anything that even fills a description of “competition.” They may get their ears pinned back when they meet Penn the day we’re beating Navy. Still in all, if N.D. overcomes these giants of the East, two more obstacles will have been eliminated in the road to national fame and title. Here’s hoping I can come back with a smile on my face and dough in my pocket.
We’re wondering what the experts are going to spot Illinois on the nationwide pools tomorrow. I’d hate to see the prognostics lose their shirts by getting too free with points. Ray Eliot’s club started without a returning letterman. Beaten successively by Camp Grant, Seahawks, and Purdue, the boys from Champaign have bounced back in recent weeks by upsetting Wisconsin and taking an eight-point advantage over Pitt in a two-sided scoring spree. Last year, when the Fighting Irish met Illinois, they put the thorns in the side of an undefeated Illini club at the time. It isn’t very likely that the reverse will
happen tomorrow but they’ll be gunning-for us. I’ll be cheap about the whole thing and give our lads only a three Td advantage.
Predictions for tomorrow: Notre Dame over Illinois Michigan over Minnesota Purdue over Iowa Northwestern over Ohio State Indiana over Wisconsin Great Lakes over Marquette Army over Yale Navy over Georgia Tech Southern Cal over College of Pacific Pennsylvania over Columbia
Sportswriters Comment on Wisconsin Massacre
The following are some of the comments made by sportswriters after viewing the Notre Dame game last Saturday, in which the Natoin’s Number One team overwhelmed Wisconsin:
Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune:
“The same old sun shone down on the same old turf. The players still were clad in cardinal and green. But any other similarity to last year’s game was purely accidental. . . .”
James S. Kearns, Chicago Sun:
“This rout, worst in Wisconsin gridiron history, took shape from the very opening of the game and not even for a fleeting second thereafter did the performance bear the slightest resemblance to a contest. . . .”
Wayne K. Otto, Chicago Herald-
American:
“American’s No. I gridiron powerhouse, which is synonymous with Notre Dame, today sprinted, plunged and passed its way to an overwhelming victory over the green Badgers from Wisconsin, 50 to 0, and stunned 18,000 wind-chilled fans with its amazing potency.”	-
Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune:
“Only 18,000 fans braved the chilly weather to watch the Irish get some practice, although, truth to tell, Hie regulars get a much better workout on Cartier Field when they scrimmage their own third or fourth team.”
Associated Press:
“Mighty Notre Dame, the team with the high priorities on touchdowns, first downs, and yards gained by rushing, put these items together for another victory today as it processed game _ Wisconsin. . .
Tommy Devine, United Press:
“Notre Dame mixed mercy with magic today as it rolled to its fourth consecutive triumph by burying helpless Wisconsin, 50 to 0.”
13
WE’RE ONE OF THE FEW
UNIFORMS FROM #40

can fah e uatil
Having discovered long ago that, in uniforms too, there’s no substitute for fine custom tailoring, we skillfully adapt regulation correctness to your personal proportions. We fashion every detail of your figure, in our own workrooms, to a uniform that’s your clothing double! That’s just one reason why you’ll find Browning King apparel definitely superior although it may not always be the lowest-priced. Our long experience with fabrics and our faithful cutting-to-measure in our own workrooms are the ultimate assurance of your complete satisfaction.
FIFTH AVENUE • NEW YORK 215 W. WASHINGTON STREET SOUTH REND, INDIANA
We also carry a complete line of regulation accessories and furnishings
14
Champions of the West;
Irish To Swing East
By Bill Carey
Champions of the West, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, will inaugurate their invasion of the East when they face Navy a week from tomorrow at Cleveland. On the following Saturday, in the game that may well decide the National Championship, the Irish will camp on the doorsteps of Manhattan, within range of the guns of West Point, and await the challenge of an Army team that has easily brushed aside competition.
The games should draw well over 150,COO people to watch the three top football teams in the land battle for supremacy. The Middies are undefeated, and number among their victims North Carolina Pre-Flight, Cornell, mighty Duke, and Penn State. Coached by Captain J. E. Whelchel, U.S.N., the Annapolis products are a well-rounded eleven that breaks out in a rash of scoring- at the least opportunity. Led by passer Hamberg- they have riddled opposing defenses and are looking forward' to the Notre Dame game. On a par with Army it is the biggest game on the Navy schedule.
The football eyes and ears of America will be trained on Yankee Stadium, New York, on the 6th of November for the Notre Dame-Army game. Should the Cadets get by powerful Pennsylvania the week before, and Notre Dame successfully hurdle Illinois tomorrow and Navy next week, the contest will be the game to decide a National King. Coached by ex-Dartmouth mentor, Earl H. Blaik, Army has steamrollered all opposition along the Atlantic. Unscored upon in four games, they have tallied 172 big points. A horde of Cadet backs, flying from a new “T” formation, have pranced to prominence behind a line that does not yet know the humiliation of dishonor. Three deep in every position Blaik has not been forced to unveil his complicated bag of tricks. Back Glenn Davis, an antelope from Los Angeles, is leading the Coast with seven touchdowns. Aiding and abetting him in this larceny of points have been George Maxon, George Troxell, Johnnie Minor, Bob Woods and Tom Lombardo. It is hoped by Army authorities that Doug Kenna, heralded ball toter, who has been sidelined all season, will be fit for action for the Notre Dame tilt. The Cadet line is backboned by a number of veterans who saw action last year. They will be led by tackle Merritt, an outstanding candidate for All-American.
It has been said by many that this
1943 Notre Dame team is the strongest eleven to represent the Golden Dome since the years of Rockne’s great undefeated elevens. In the course of the next three weeks we can judge more accurately just how true this statement is. Wins over Illinois, Navy and in particular the Army powerhouse will put the Irish high up on the pigskin pedestal.
Irish Continue March;
Humble Wisconsin, 50-0
By Al Bisbee
The storm of the Irish scoring tornado has left another wreck in its wake, as the green- and gold-jerseyed pile-drivers from South Bend pulverized the Wisconsin defense last Saturday to the total of 50 easily-gained points. At Camp Randall Stadium, 18,000 spectators saw the home team go down fighting before an opponent which completely outclassed and outplayed the scoreless Badgers in all phases of the game.
It was pleasant “revenge” for the vexing 7-7 tie which was the result last year of the flashy footwork of Elroy Hirsch and an alert Wisconsin team capitalizing on Irish fumbles. . However, neither of those elements were present last Saturday. Before three minutes of playing time had elapsed, Rykovich crossed the tallystripe for the first marker. Less than five minutes later, the scoreboard showed another change as Mello’s plunge climaxed a 52-yard drive down the field. Three minutes after that, a third T.D. was racked up by shifty Creighty Miller.
Even the second, third, and fourth strings continued to pour it on the hapless Wisconsin squad, until at the final gun a fat 50 beamed down from the Notre Dame side of the ledger.
During the 18 minutes they were in, the regulars ran 22 plays from scrimmage, and scored five touchdowns. The whole afternoon the Badgers made only three first downs, all on passes against the reserve secondary. They gained a total of five yards by rushing; the Irish, 292. His ranks, depleted by service calls and transfers, Harry Stuhl-dreher, of Four Horsemen fame, has done his best to whip up a representative team, but whatever- they lacked in ability, the Badgers at least showed fight and spirit till the end. The Madison outfit was captained in the game by Ray Dooney, frosh player at N.D. last fall. He was easily the opponents’ best back.
Notre Dame scored three times in the
first period, once in the second, twice in the third, and twice in the fourth, while Wisconsin invaded Irish territory only twice all afternoon. The Leahy-coached players completed four out of six passes, due principally to the precision marksmanship of the Springfield. Rifle. Creighty Miller, of the Notre Dame Millers, accounted for much yardage, averaging better than 10 a try, while Mello followed with 41 yards in 7 runs. The whole three or four teams that were fielded looked good, against Wisconsin, and every man on the travelling squad got a chance to eat his chunk of Badger meat.
N.D.	Statistics Wisconsin
19______First Downs 3
292-------Net yards rushing 5
104-------Net yards passing--------------------39
- 6-------Forward passes attempted_____________21
4------Forward passes completed_____________ 3
75------Yards gained by interception_________11
27------Punts, average yards_________________38
62------Yards kicks returned________________145
3------Bail lost on fumbles_________________ 1
75-----Yards penalized_____________________ 26
Irish Cross-Country Team Defeats Loyola, Wisconsin
By Joe Fahey
The Notre Dame cross-country team defeated two midwestern foes when they trampled Loyola University of Chicago and the University of Wisconsin.
The first meet scheduled for Chicago October 15 was transferred to Notre Dame’s 3.5 mile course because of the ban prohibiting V-12 trainees from the Windy City. The Irish harriers turned in an outstanding performance by pushing their entire seven-man team home before Loyola could break the tape. Frank Martin, Mike Kiley, and Wyman Kunzler finished in a dead heat with a time of 19:30. The other two who finished in scoring position were Roger DeWolfe and Harry Hill. They were hard pressed by their teammates, Stros-cheim and Walsh, who completed the rout with seven straight finishes. The final score of the event was 15-50, a shutout for the Irish.
The second win of the season preluded the Rambler’s football victory over Wisconsin. The Badgers put up a game fight and were able to place, third, fifth, and eighth. Again, however, Frank Martin led the field over the 3.2-mile course with a speedy 14:57. Just 37 seconds later Walt Brehmer, who was unable to finish the Loyola meet because of an injury, crossed the line. He was followed by John Mann of Wisconsin. Kunzler placed fourth, and Wisconsin took fifth honors to make the final score read 23-33.
Next Saturday the team will face
15
Custom-Tailored Naval Officers Uniforms
When you purchase your Officer's Uniforms you will select a tailor in whom you have confidence. You will expect smart style, correct fit and service under all conditions of wear. You will also require delivery in ample time with a guarantee of satisfaction, whether your assignment be salt or fresh water. This quality, service and guarantee you’ll expect at reasonable cost.	.
Ed. V. Price & Co. — "largest tailors in the world of good made-to-order clothes"—meet all-service requirements. Our uniforms are worn by officers in all parts of the world, on land, on sea, and in the air.
Our trademark. “Ye Jolly Little Tailor” is as familiar a sight today as it has been for nearly fifty years. It guarantees to you absolute satisfaction NO MATTER WHERE YOUR STATION.
Our Uniforms are fine in style, quality and fit.
Ye Jolly Little Tailor
Our prices are moderate because we tailor and sell direct to you.
That we do render satisfaction is evidenced by the fact that a gratifying percentage of the last class graduating, from Notre Dame was uniformed by Ed. V. Price & Co., without a single disappointment.
Sf/t suggest that you drop into our store this next week-end or ship's tailor 148 Morrissey Hall week days. An inspection of our Uniforms will convince .you.
117 West LaSalle St., South Bend, Indiana (Opposite the Hoffman Hotel)	4-0220
General office and shops: 327 W. Van Buren St. Chicago Ship's Tailor: 148 Morrissey Hall
Officially.‘Appointed Ship's Tailor for U. S. N. R. Notre Dame Midshipmen School
16
Illinois who will accompany their football squad. The Illini are expected to present a strong team and it should prove a worthy test for Doc Handy’s squad.
The remainder of the fall schedule has been released as follows:
Oct. 30, Loyola Invitational at Chicago.
Nov. 6, Indiana State Meet at Purdue.
Nov. 13, National Servicemen’s Meet at Chicago.
Nov. 20, National Championships at East Lansing.
N.R.O.T.C. Gridders Drop Game to Lawrence, 10-6
By Jack Houghteling •
The Notre Dame N.R.O.T.C. football team dropped a close 10-6 decision to the Lawrence College Vikings, Saturday afternoon, Oct. 16, at Appleton, Wis., before 2,500 fans. Bolstered by six marines and one V-12 player, the Irish team held a 6-3 lead until late in the fourth quarter* when a desperate Viking passing attack swept the northern team to victory.
The Lawrence passing was the sole means of offense as the N.R.O.T.C. line, led by tackle Dan Hecht, refused to yield. The Irish Cadets made several threatening drives but fumbles and interceptions brought the Notre Dame marches to an end short of the Vikes’ goal line.
The 1942 Midwest Conference champs scored first blood in the opening quarter when their passing bogged down . on the N.R.O.T.C. 14-yard line and Jack Kibbe, right half, booted a field goal for a 3-0 Lawrence lead.
Ed Ghigliotti put the Irish ahead when he scored from the Viking 3-yard line on a “quarterback sneak.” The stage had been set for the Notre Dame touchdown when Dan Hecht tackled the Lawrence safety man, Robert Dionne, on the 5-yard line and caused him to fumble. Two plays later the Irish had scored. The attempted point after touchdown was blocked.
The N.R.O.T.C. stayed in front until deep into the final period and the Vikings passes once more began to click. Don Guepe, 154-pound halfback, hit Harlan Hesselman twice, to move the ball from the Notre Dame 35-yard line to the 5. On the second play Guepe skirted left end for the game winning touchdown. Jack Kibbe once more put his toe to work and added the extra point.
The Irish Cadets moved to the air
lanes in the closing minutes but after several first downs their drive was stopped on the Lawrence 35-yard line by the clock.
The N.R.O.T.C. will conclude its three-game schedule Saturday, Nov. 13, against the Culver Military Academy cadets at Culver, Ind., in a little “Army-Navy” game. The Culver team battled the Purdue “B” squad to a 0-0 deadlock last Saturday and will undoubtedly be “up” for the Notre Dame game.
The lineups:
IN THE ARMED FORCES?
SAFEGUARD YOUR MONEY
There’s one sure way to safeguard your cash, and that is with AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES. You not only have spendable money, but in addition SAFE MONEY, for if lost or stolen, their value is refunded in full.	*
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75<f for each $100. Minimum cost of 40c for $10 to $50. For sale at banks and Railway Express Offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES
listen in tn CHEQUE YOUR MUSIC • Station WEHR
Popular Vacal and Orchestral Hits » 890 on Your Dial
TUESDAY and FRIDAY—9:15 P. M.
it- l. ' --- _	=■■=.=■ ...	...	■:— — - —:--:-:
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO.BEND R. R.
Lawrence	. ND. NJLO.T.C.
Junion _____________L.E____________~ - Mahar
McGehey_____________L.T.______________' Hecht
Daub________________L.G  __________- .... Dewey
Shanahan______________O______________Metzler
Storzer ------------R.G________:___ Johnson
DeBeer _____________  BT	 Kramer
Hesselman____________R-F............ Venning
Ubbelohde QB______________________________________________ Ghigliotti Dionne____________________________LB._Porkoney
Ertman_______________RH_____________ Finelli
Brown---------------FB.________________ Prola
Lawrence 3 0 ■ 0 7—10
Notre Dame N.R.O.T.C.   0	6	0	0— 6
Touchdowns—N.R.O.T.C., Ghigliotti; Lawrence, Guepe; Field Goals—Lawrence, Kihhe. Point after touchdown—Lawrence, Kihhe.
50U[hnsehor[
17
Bob Gludowatz Hits Again;
Predicts Win Over Illinois
Four times in a row is almost too much for anyone, but Bob Gludowatz (that name is almost famous now) did it again last week. His forecast of 55-0 was the closest, even though Richard Deebs was getting lukewarm with a forecast of 55-7.
So far Bob has predicted with amazing accuracy. He guessed the score of the Pitt game as 34-0, only one touchdown off; the Tech game prediction was 34-7 and the score, 55-13; the Michigan prediction, 34-19, the score, 35-12; the Wisconsin prediction, 55-0, the game ending 50-0. That’s what we call guessing!
With all due respects for the brave guessers who have appeared in this column, we ask Bob Gludowatz to predict the finals of the Illinois, Navy, and Army games, thereby seeking quality, rather than quantity.
Bob Gludowatz, who is a sophomore from Detroit, Mich., forecasts: “There’s no doubt in my mind that Notre Dame will be voted the number-one team in
the country at the end of the season. In fact, I’ll even go so far as to say that no team will come within 20 points of the Irish.
“They won’t have much trouble with Illinois and should win by about 47-6. Illinois will probably score once, but not more than once.
“Army and Navy are fairly strong, but I’ll call the Navy game a 35-0 Notre Dame victory, and the Army game a 34-6 Notre Dame victory.”
We hope he’s right again!
CANDIDATES FOR DEGREES (Continued from page 6)
Hal lard Lewis Foester, EI Paso, Texas Robert Elmer Gardner, Eggertsville, N. Y. Robert Franeis Hallein, West Springfield, Mass. Arthur Charles Ley, Chicago, Ill.
James Francis O’Brien, Avoca, Pa.
Daniel Edward Waterbury, Oriskany, N. Y. James Douglas Wilson, Wilmette, Ill.
COLLEGE OF LAW Degree of Bachelor of Laws
John Richard Baty, Kansas City, Mo. Warren Anthony Deahl, South Bend, Ind. James Frederick McVay, Bradford, Pa.
Charles Edward Murray, Waupun, Wis.
William Sheridan Spangler, Britt, la.
Michael Anothny Stepovich, Fairbanks, Alaska
'	Degree of Juris Doctor
Bernard Francis Grainey. Helena, Mont.
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE Bachelor of Philosophy in Commerce
John Anthony Buczkowski, South Bend, Ind. James Vincent Cunningham, Chicago, Ill. James Joseph Malone, Toledo, O.
John Gerald Nilles, Fargo, N. Dak. John Stephen Watters, New Orleans, La. Arelio Mare Zoilo, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Bachelor of Science in Commerce
Guido Andrew Alexander, Columbus, 0. Edward Richard Altendorf, West Bend. Wis. Richard Roeder Borgess, Toledo, O.
John Francis Boyle, West Hempstead, N. Y. John Harvey Bright, Rutherford. N. J. Benito Emmett Brunetti, Uniontown, Pa. Anselm Severine Burkart, South Bend, Ind. Walter Peter Christman, Green Bay, Wis. Herbert Francis Clark, Park Ridge, Ill. Edward Joseph Dowling, Pelham Manor, N. Y. John Thomas Doyle, Lakewood, O.
Hurley Hughes Engstrom, Alexandria, La. Galant Vincent Funk, Muncie, Ind.
Gerald Paul Gaffney, New York City John Adam Griffin, Chicago, Ill.
Warren George Hayes. Springfield. O. Austin Gerard Jones, Brooklyn, N. Y. Eugene Michael Kelley, Indianapolis, Ind. Thomas Eugene Kerrigan, Youngstown, O. Paul Leo Lally, Milford, Mass.
Have a “Coke”=Come in and sit down
1
I “Coke”= Coca Cola
| It’s natural for popular names J to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear
- Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
... from St, John’s to Schenectady
Friendly greetings like the Come in and sit down of the Newfoundland fisherman and the Have a “Coke’* of the American soldier are understood everywhere. Around the world Coca-Cola stands for the pause that Threshes—the universal high-sign between strangers.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Coca-Cola Bottling Company of South Bend
-the global
high-sign
18
James Frederick Landgren, Chicago, Ill. Patrick Richard Maschke, Tyrone, Pa. Richard Louis Mason, Muskegon, Mich. Thomas David McGuire, Fowler, Ind. Robert Craig McKahan, Wilmette, Ill.
Thomas Edward McLaughlin, Oil City, Pa. John Herbert Morris, Detroit, Mich.
William Cleve Mulligan, Cleveland Heights, O. John Martin Murray, South Bend, Ind.
Joseph Albert Neufeld, Green Bay, Wise. William Augustine O’Connor, Harrisburg, Pa. Joseph Thomas O’Reilly, Fort Wayne, Ind.
John Cahill O’Rourke, Chicago, III.
Edgar- Allen Pessemier, Seattle, Wash.
Morgan Jerome Quinn. Washington, D. C. Raymond Stephen Quinn, Rochester, N. Y. Leo Edward Renner, Pontiac, Ill.
Thomas John Rolfs. West Bend, Wise.
James Michael Shields, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Edward Charles Steiner, Dayton, 0.
Theodore Thaddeus Toole, Garden City, N. Y. John Joseph Van Benten, Beech Grove, Ind. Clayton Harry Van Buren, Chicago, Ill.
Floyd Julian Vincent, Lake Charles, La. George Robert Wendt, Chicego, Ill.
Bachelor of Science in Foreign Commerce
John Clayton Baum, Forest Hills, N. Y. Robert Leonard Carpenter, Fall River, Mass. Daniel Francis Casey, East Orange, N. J. Edward Joseph Keelan, Dedham, Mass. William Thomas White, Somerville, Mass.
. Master of Science
Hyman Jacob Cohen, West New York, N. J. Sister M. Angela Donahue, R.S.M., Latrobe, Pa.
Rev. Regis Enright, C.P., St. Louis, Mo.
Brother Reginald Juszczak, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Sister M. Joan King, S.N.D., Fostoria, Ohio
Sister M. Joela Patelski, F.O.S.F., Wyandotte, Mich.
Sister Sarah Francis Ryan, S.N.D. de N., Reading, Ohio
Sister M. Francis Borgia Stauder, S.S.N.D., Washington, Mo.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Badin Hall
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE W. G. BOGAHDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP___TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
’ FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
ADVANCED DEGREES
Doctor of Philosophy
Lawrence Arthur Auspos, Portland, Oregon
Master of Arts
Sister M. Teresita Austin, R.S.M., Ludington, Mich. Sister Regina Grace Barnes, O.P., Detroit, Mich. Rev. Ignatius Paul Bechtold, C.P., Chicago, Ill.
Sister M Therese Blum, O.S.F., Aurora, Ill
Sister M. Angelique Bujold, O.P., Grand Rapids, Mich.	’
Amedee Dugas, Breaux Bridge, La.
Orville Robert Foster, South Bend, Ind.
Rev. John Joseph Frawley, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Mother M. Angela Griffin, O.S.U., Great Falls, Mont.
Sister M. Jean Louise Hall, O.P., Detroit, Mich.
Sister M. Elaine Handel, S.N.D., Cleveland, O.
Sister Elvira Hansborough, S.C., Cincinnati, O.
Sister M. Lorena Heidrick, S.S.J., Concordia, Kans.
Sister M. Laura Heschmeyer, S.S.J., Wichita, Kans. Alvan P'eter Heuring, Cedar-Falls, Iowa
Sister M. Columba Higgins, S.L., Colo. Springs, Colo.	.
Sister M. Judith Hock, O.S.B., Latonia, Ky.
Sister Agnes Lanctot, C.S.J., Crookston, Minn.
Rheo Sylvester Marchand, Windsor, Ontario, Can. Sister M. Walter McGlynn. S.S.J., Nazareth, Mich. Sister M. Raphael McLaughlin, S.S.J., Nazareth, Mich.
Sister M. Remigia Napolska, F.O.S.F., Plymouth, Mich.
Sister Therese O’Hearn, S.N.D. de N., Cincinnati, Ohio
Sister M. Feliciana Pfirrmann, C.PP.S., Minster, . Ohio
Sister M. Placidus Rigdon, S.L., Bernalillo, N.M.
Sister M. Bernildis Roggenburk, S.N.D., Toledo, O.
Sister M. Olympia Root. S.S.J., Detroit, Mich.
Philip Elwood Ryan, Arlington, Va. .
Sister M. Celeste Schreck, O.S.B., Covington, Ky.
Harold John Schumerth, Algoma, Wis.
Sister M. Lorenzo Sonderman, S.C., Cleveland, 0.
Sister M. Clement Stueve, C.PP.S., .Dayton, O.
Sister M. Vincent Thoemmes, S.N.D., Toledo, O.
Sister M. Judith Ward, B.V.M., Chicago, Ill. ' Sister M. Justine Webster, S.C.N., Louisville, Ky. Sister M. James Wirth, R.S.M., Memphis, Tenn.
NOTRE DAME RINGS are now to be had.
See our N. D. Ladies' Ring also.
Greeting Cards Souvenirs Stationery
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. * PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg1.	South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY . X-Rays and Consultation
.Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-6661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton. M.D.
19
At Mate, AdUefc Co.
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORMS, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50
NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SEE THE NEW SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers $1850
tt itoes*?fit M^t £ETdt/
M‘X ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan, at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
*------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------