

Editorial 
More Money -More Activities? 
Perhaps the most prevalent student complaint at.Notre Dame is the lack of things to do _ on campus. Each year, student leaders make bold statements concerning their plans for solving the social life problem and each year the situation remains relatively unchanged: Several recent developments concerning the student activity fee, however, seem to indicate that this year may be different. 
At the most recent meeting of the Board of Trustees, the trustees approved an increase in the student activity fee from $35 to $55. The result is that the many student organizations and activities ,vill rece i.ve $385,000 to. spend this year, an increase of $140,000. A budget committee ·consisting of several student leaders and Director of Stu­dent Activities Joni Neal then met to discuss the allotment of these funds. While the addi­tional money itself is not yet cause for celcbrntion, the budget committee's decisionSare a 

• step ,in the right direction. · · · ·· · · · · · 
. .· .·_··, The stud(!nts' c~n for goo'd IllUSic was answered '.with a large partof the. fe6 
increase~.The Musical EntertainII1(!n t C:0II1missi611 o[ .th(! s~~den t Activi tie$ Board now ~as 
.. · ••·.,•·•••a _.$5-0,000 bu~get, _more••thah twice .what it .received l~st,year, Plans _·h,ayebeen inadeto· --~revamp WVFI.the ·. belcag,·c red student radio· station;•· and. $35,000 ·.has· been :budgeted ,as an > initial payment for the renovation of the statio11:s eqtiipillent. .· . •· .... .· · ·._·. . 
.. . . . . The . ~ther. main be,neficiaiies are the classes.:Wotking with hudg~ts of OI11y $3,,109' 
· . <last year, the sophomore, junior and senior classes now have approximately $10,000 each .. . ·. The freshman class, whichjs funded partially by the _Freshman. Year of Studies Office, has been givell$1,500. The remainder ofthe increase went tpthe assorted clubs on 
· campus, with most clubs· receiving.jncreased budgets. . . . . . . 
This thoughtful budgeting of the studentactivity fees shotildbc applauded as an . . exceUerit first move. But improving the social situation on campus· will take more· than · · this. The burden is now on the leaders of the various student organizations. In the past, 
their response to complaints about the social life has been that they lacked the money needed to arrange popular events.·This is no longer an acceptable answer. The money has . been provided and it has been allotted in an wise manner. It's time for some action . 
.-Scholastic 

-
Contents 
Volume 128, No. I Scholastic September 11, 1986 

Cover Stories 




4/Here Come The Wol\'erines by Larry Burke 
Lou Holtz Will Get A Chance To Sec What His Irish Arc Made Of When No.3 Michigan Invades Notre Dame Stadium Saturday 
9/Making The Grade by Mike Chmiel 
Proposition 48 Took Its Toll On Colleges And Universities Nationwide And Notre Dame Was No Exception 
14/Putting It All Together by Trish Sullivan 
Individual Success Is Nothing New For Tim Brown But The Star Flanker Wants To Help The Irish Grab Some Team Glory In '86 
Departments News Student Life 
3/Week In Distortion:  18/Dividing Up A Larger Pie  22/Notre Dame Football:  
Freshman Follies  The Moving Force  
12/Coming Distractions  
17/Music: New Day Rising  
21/0n Other Campuses:  
Getting Ahead At Pennsylvania  
24/Final Word: A Message From  
The Regular Guys  

r 

Letters 
Editor-in-Chief Maher Mouasher 
General Manager Phil Coghlan 
Design Editor Alex Peltzer 
Managing Editor Keith Harrison Jr. 
Production Manager Matthew Bradley 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Matt Dolan/Advertising Mike Hoban/Delivery 

Editorial 
Larry Burke/Sports Cathy Coffey/Departments Frank Lipo/News Greg Miller/News Bob Winn/Student Life 

Layout 
Jim Doerfler Anne Ranaghan Susan Serrato 
Art & Photography 
Sharon Dow Ginny Les Mychal Schultz 
The opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless oth­erwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­right 0 1986 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without 
permission. 



Fill 

This Space 

This is where letters to the editor appear. 
If you have an opinion about something in Scholastic Drop us a line clo Scholastic letters LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 
Letters to the editor must be typed and must include the 1uthor·, name, address, and phone number. 





Freshman Follies 
by Mike Keegan 

Toward the end of August, the Notre· Dame campus comes alive with the strong spirits and warm personalities of students, ready to start the new academic year. Mixed in with those already molded in the Notre Dame tradition, there comes approximately 2,000 naive nobo­dies in search of a dream. These nobodies are commonly referred to as "frosh." Of course, no one will openly state that he was naive as a freshman, but he probably was. Recounting the simple events that occurred during one's first week of school wiil prove that most, if not all of us, knew no more about college life than what was por­trayed in "Animal House." Noth­ing could be further from the truth... 
Everyone, at one time or another, exaggerates a story, .but none are as notorious for doing so as the frosh. Remember your first conversations with your room­mates? It probably progressed something like this: 
" I heard that during freshman initiation everyone has to drink ten beers!" 
Your roommate responds: "Yeah, but that's no problem. I don't even get buzzed after ten beers. It takes me at least three sixes before I start feeling the effects, man." 

A New Generation Of Domers 
Have Same 


01' Characteristics 
You, of course, say: "I know what you mean. Just the other night, four of my friends and I went out and bought a case apiece. We probably finished them in about two hours. I was barely even buzzed, but my friends were ripped. I guess I have the best tolerance. I've always been a big drinker." 
Your roommate automatically responds: "I reµiember a buddy of mine and I finished a quarter keg in a night." 
At this point, you know he's lying, but so are you. But instead of ending the conversation, you have to increase your beer drink­ing total or else you're a loser. So you say: "I hope everyone else is as big a beer drinker as I am." 
In connection with exaggerated stories, how about these classic freshman "I heard" statements that .spread like wildfire and, of course, that every frosh believes. 
"I heard that the swimming test was two miles long." 
"I heard that Saint Mary's girls are only here to lure unsuspecting Notre Dame males into marriage, aspiring to the ever-competitive MRS degree." Note: This theory is soon dismissed by almost all Notre Dame male upperclassmen. "I heard that each hall has keg parties every weekend." Advertising com­plete ignorance of the Alcohol ~olicy, in the great frosh tradition. 
"I heard that everybody except for the Gipper is up for possible 
appointment as the next president of Notre Dame." Neither Lou 
Holtz  nor  Father Ted  were  avail­ 
able for comment.  
The  best  example  of  frosh  

naivete concerns the Freshman "<logbook." Remember receiving that letter in the mail marked "vitally important to your social life?" It requested that you send a picture of yourself and list your top three extracurricular interests. By not responding, one was assumed to be either ugly or one of those cloned robots manufac­tured by the Photo Not Available Corp. In either case, no response meant no SYR dates which translated to "No one loves you except your computer terminal." You may as well have just taped 
the nosepiece of your glasses. 
If a guy sent a picture, he prob­ably thought of himself as being a suave and debonair guy; a girl might have thought of herself as somewhat cute. Well, in either instance, he or she was wrong. After extensive facial reconstruc­tion by the printer, everyone was ugly anyway, so they should never have bothered to send the picture in the first place. 
After approximately nine months of trials and tribulations, the frosh becomes a prodigious member of the Notre Dame com­munity. He becomes involved in many activities, such as writing articles on the ever-pressing issue of the advancement of the every­day frosh. 
September 11, 1986 
Sports 


Here Come The Wolverines
/ 
by Larry Burke 

Lou Holtz Will Get A Chance To See What His Irish Are Made Of When No. 3 Michigan Invades Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. 

When Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan talked to Lou Holtz about the head football coaching · job last November, the first thing he did was read Holtz the '86 schedule. The list included Alabama, Air 
Force, SMU, Penn State, LSU and USC, as well as Saturday's opponent, No. 3 Michigan. But Holtz wasn't as intimidated by the opposition as he was interested in the challenge. His philosophy is, "If we want to be the best, we've 
Scholastic 



Sports 
got to beat the best -and Michigan may the best team in the country." 
So arc the Irish good enough to beat Michigan? "I really don't know how good we can be this year," admitted Holtz. "But I do know we've made a commitment to these seniors to do whatever is necessary to allow them to finish their careers on a winning note. I don't know how this team will react to adversity. I don't know what will happen the first time we turn the ball over. We're all going to make mistakes, and I hope other people realize that." 

The problem is, when you're playing a team like Bo Schembechlcr's Wolverines, you can't afford to make too many mistakes. "There are a lot of plusses and minuses to opening with a powerhouse like Michi­gan," Holtz said. "It's obviously a big challenge to play a team of that caliber the first week. So this will be a great yardstick for us, a great way to measure just where we are. 
"All we've done is work as hard as we can and do as many things as we can to try to make us a better football team," he added. "But I don't know how much confidence our players will have. We can sit here and say we're going to be good. But how much con(idence will our players have when we go out there for the first snap against Michigan? I can't answer that." 
Fighting Irish fans have been waiting for that answer since Holtz took over as head coach last Nov. 
27. It will come Saturday against a Wolverine team that returns 18 starters from the '85 team that fin­ished 10-1-1, including a season­opening 20-12 victory over Notre Dame and a 27-23 Fiesta Bowl win over Nebraska. The Wolverines, No. 2 last year, are near the top of everyone's early-season poll for '86. 
On the other side of the coin, for unranked Notre Dame, this year marks the first time the Irish haven't appeared in the Associated Press preseason poll since 1964, Ara Parsegian's first season. The Wolverines and the Irish find themselves in nearly reversed roles from last season, when Notre Dame went to Ann Arbor as No. 13 and Michigan was unranked. 
"Realistically, we're not a top 20 team right now," Holtz said. "We're coming off a losing (5-6) season in which we lost our last three games by a combined score of 104 to 20. We've got some talent and some ability, but we've also got our share of problems and question marks." Clearly, an Irish famine could mean a Wolverine feast Saturday, as Holtz is well aware. 
"Michigan is your basic national champion contender," he said. "They've got nine seniors starting on a defensive unit that led the nation in scoring defense and only gave up eight touch­downs all last season. They've got a great quarterback in Jim Har­baugh, a great tailback in Jamie Morris. They return every single player who carried the ball last year and six of their top seven receivers. That's what we're up against." 
But the Wolverines have more than just experience going ..ffr them. "I've told our players that Michigan takes care of the funda­mentals, the blocking and the tackling, as well as any team they're going to see," Holtz said. "I'm sure Bo has some concerns about his team, but from our viewpoint it's just such a veteran squad. Harbaugh is so talented. He never gives you the bad play and he's ultra-successful on third down. You go up and down the lineup and you don't see places where they don't have proven players. 
"Any time you play a team like Michigan, you're going to have to keep your mistakes at a minimum," Holtz added. "You can't have lost yardage plays or turnovers that are going to put your defense in bad position. If Michigan is going to put together 80-yard drives and beat us, that's one thing. But we don't want to help them out along the way and make it easier." 
That's exactly what the Irish did in last year's clash with Michi­gan, when Notre Dame's Alonzo Jefferson misjudged the second half kickoff. He stepped back, then moved up and the ball bounced out of his arms. Michigan's Dieter Heren recovered on the Notre Dame 15­yard line while Jefferson suffered a season-ending knee injury. The Wolverines needed just three plays to take a 10-9 lead as Harbaugh snuck into the endzone untouched on a 10-yard quarterback draw. 
The Irish are still without Jefferson, as they are without Allen Pinkett, and without four of last year's starters on the offensive line as well. So instead of depend­ing so much on the tailback­oriented I-formation, Holtz fig­ures to utilize a wide variety of formations --including the option and the wishbone. 
"I didn't have any pre­conceived notions about what we would do offensively," Holtz said. "But, because of the question marks regarding our offensive line and our tailback and fullback positions, I didn't feel our person­nel was conducive to running out of the I all the time. Peop_le always ask me about the option, and it's part of our package. But you won't see a steady diet of it because it's not a major part of the offense." 

September 11, 1986 


Sports 

Yet receivers remain a strong point in the Irish offense for '86. Holtz has a corps of big-play wideouts that includes seniors Alvin Miller and Milt Jackson and juniors Tim Brown and Reggie Ward. There are two experienced tight ends in senior Joel Williams and sophomore Andy Heck. 
There is also a veteran in the quarterback spot -senior Steve Beuerlein, who needs to throw for 96 yards and attempt 19 passes to become Notre Dame's career leader in those categories. "I've been very impressed with Beuer­lein this fall," Holtz said. "He has done everyting we've asked of him. He's got as good an arm as I've seen, and he's probably done a better job of handling some of the option plays than I thought he would." But Beuerlein and com­pany will have to be at their best 
to move the ball against a Michi­
gan defense that didn't allow more 
than 17 points in a regular season 
game all last year. 

Up front, Michigan boasts a pair of all-Big Ten players in tackle Mark Messner, the Fiesta Bowl MVP, and Bill Harris at mid­dle guard. Mike Reinhold, David Folkertsma and Jack Walker add depth on the defensive line. Andy Moeller, last season's leading tackler, is back, but Michigan lost three of four starters at linebacker. Stepping in to fill the voids will be Todd Shulte, Andree McIntyre and J.J. Grant on the inside, and Heren and Steve Thibert on the 
outside. 
The Wolverine secondary is solid with senior cornerback Gar­land Rivers and veteran safties Ivan Hicks, Tony Gant, and Doug Mallory. Rivers has started every game the last two years and led the secondary in tackles last season. Hicks' was the '85 team leader in interceptions with five. 

was able to resume workouts. Holtz deemed it unlikely that D'Juan would be able to make much of a contribution this season because of injury problems, which is why he moved 6-2, 208-pound freshman Braxton Banks from fullback to tailback late last week. The Irish still have some experi­ence at the fullback spot with senior Pernell Taylor and junior Frank Starns, last year's starter who is coming back from a broken 
lower  leg  bone  suffered  last  
spring.  
Guard  Shawn  Heffern  is  the  

only returning starter on an Irish offensive line that features seniors in all five starting spots. The tackles are Byron Spruell, a con­verted defensive tackle, and Tom Rehder, last season's starting tight end. Tom Freeman holds down the other spot, and converted guard Tom McHugh is pushing the more experienced Chuck Lanza at center. Keeping the starters healthy will be a priority, because the young second team line already includes three freshmen. 
"I don't know what we'll do, but we'll find a way to move the football," Holtz promised, "I just hope it'll be forward. I don't know how consistent we can be running the ball, and I don't believe you can throw it every down, either. We need to be able to control the ball to some extent simply to avoid putting our defense in bad posi­tion too many times during a game." 
Holtz admits that former Ohio State head coach Woody Hayes had as much influence on him as any­one. "I don't think you can win by throwing the ball 40 or 50 times a game," said the Irish coach. "Last year of the top 23 rushing teams in the nation, 17 went to bowl games and one was on probation. Of the top 22 passing teams in the nation, six werit to bowl games and three 
If the Irish hope to grind out some yards on the ground against Michigan, they will need big con­tributions from a young group of tailbacks. Sophomore Mark Green, a wide receiver last year, is back at tailback and has looked good in preseason drills, as has freshman Anthony Johnson. The problem is that neither has any tailback experience on the college level. 
But  with  both  Hiawatha  and  
D'Juan  Francisco  bothered  by  
preseason  mJ uries,  Green  and  

Johnson have gotten plenty of work in practice. Hiawatha, who already had knee problems, tore a ligament in his left thumb in a scrimmage two weeks ago. But he was fitted with a special cast ancl were looking for new coaches at the end of the year." 
Notre Dame's defense, on the other hand, was far too generous to opposing offenses last year, according to Holtz. That's why the Irish coach brought in former 
Continued on Page 8 
Scholastic 


Sports 
ad)tcfif~~pse9st~ctf s 
.· i-PP8 ctfrqc:ifo1;::1· '\;tf¢r:igth:p~~gr~:fu:{:?/···· .. 



, :,i,11mi~~~11~i~ 
.ense.ofJ1uniClP· : < .i~11er--rotrf 2im~1Iit... ,, 
..........;i~funnyflll go1n'g;t
'·':>· .:··:.,.: .. ·:-. 

~!t~~ .tol~r·••ii.n>gt~~tif~}'. 
e; iisifthe to\\'¢r•CV(!ryctaytq/i1 

··~;~in¥·•.~.~.s~~~.~?1H§W±:ht8i·t;••·· 
,., .......·.·.,.............,._ ~=~ft:/}i·:··•

Qrj:,.... ,~'.irn~ge:.•·•. :•··· ... 
V;{• "l;hopc people don't think Vf ,,.,. not &cr'y smarttand I'm not \ 1cry : 
'. Jisp a ··c~f affiic@:I with§ c9ril 
.-...--.-• •c. , :::..: .::. 
,).::.(:_i}}\\:
tfi'.:Iii,)t:·_·_:·::.: -, ,·, ._.,.:. -:,·;·_,,.,;.··~·:::::, 
.es~~soh p~li~;:J1\hivl[:t~«ti;1p4}:;~f.:p~·•··•· ..... ; >.> 

September I I, 1986 



Sports 

Continued from page 6 
Pittsburgh head coach Foge Fazio as defensive coordinator. "You can go back and look at films of the Michigan or Air Force or USC or LSU games last year and see a pretty good Notre Dame defensive team," he said. "And we've got a lot of people back from that defense. But we also gave up as many passing yards during the season as any Notre Dame team ever." 
The first thing to do in attack­ing that problem was to improve the pass rush. Holtz gave it some quickness by moving Robert 'Banks, a two-year starter at out­side linebacker, to defensive tackle.. Nose tackle Mike Griffin, sidelined last season with a broken ankle, is ba·ck, as is 6-9 tackle W~lly Kleine. "I think guys like Bariks and Wally Kleine can really be impact players for us," Holtz said. "But whatever we do, we've got to create more pressure on the other guys' quarterback." 
This week that's Harbaugh, the nation's most efficient passer last season and the first Big Ten player to achieve that distinction. His '85 numbers for passing yards (1,976), completions ( 145), and touchdown passes (18) all set Michigan season records. His primary ta._ ~ figures to be former Wolverine basketball player and ·split end Paul Jokisch, the team's . top returning receiver with 37 catches for a team-high 681 yards last year. 
At flanker, the Wolverines can choose between junior Erik Campbell, the '85 starter before suffering an injury against Notre Dame, and sophomore John Kole­sar, who stepped in when Camp­bell went down. The tight end spot is in the hands of sophomore Jeff Brown, who caught only one pass las~-season. 
The Wolverines have plenty of running to complement their pass­ing. Besides Morris, who became the 13th 1,000-yard rusher in Michigan history last year, there's Gerald White, who can play both tailback and fullback, and Thomas Wilcher, coming back well from a knee injury.. 
The Wolverines lose Clay Miller and Bob Tabachino from the offensive line. But returning are junior John Vitale, junior Mike Husar, who shifts from guard to tackle, and junior John Elliot, who moves from quick tackle to strong tackle. Michigan lost guard Mark Hammerstein to an '85 knee injury but ·still have Andy Borkowski and Dave Herrick at center. "My big­gest concern is the offensive line, and whether or not it will measure up," said Schembechler. "We've got no depth there, and that's a problem. Losing Hammerstein hurt us." 
The Irish linebacking corps features captain Mike Kovaleski at one inside spot, along with either Ron Weissenhofer or Wes Pritchett. On the outside Cedric Figaro is entrenched at one slot, while either Dave Butler or Darrell Gordon will start at the other. 
The secondary includes senior cornerbacks Troy Wilson and Marv Spence, and strong saftics Brandy Wells and George Streeter. If free safety Steve Lawrence can get back to full speed after his spring knee problems, it · would obviously be a big help. Until then, Mike Haywood will work in that spot. 


Schembechler thinks that the Notre Dame team can provide his team with a good challenge. And the two coaches know each other well. Holtz spent his last two years in the Big Ten as head coach at Minnesota, during which time his 
Golden  Gophers  lost  to  
Schembechler's  Wolverines  by  
scores of 31-7 and 48-7.  

"The biggest problem is the unknown," said Schembechler. "Given that we know their per­sonnel, and we know Lou Holtz because we've coached against him the last two years. But this is a dif­ferent situation -there's a new defensive coordinator and you know Notre Dame will try new things. The more veterans we can play, the better, because of the different looks and formations we'll see. But from a scouting standpoint, the advantage is to Notre Dame." But it remains to be seen whether or not that will be enough. 
Scholastic 




Sports 


Ma ing The GradebyMikeChmie/ 
Proposition 48 Took Its Toll On Colleges And Universities Nationwide. And Notre Dame Was No Exception 
ony Rice remembers it wasTtough right from the start. "On my first day here, I  ~ ~~j  
went to the gate to watch them  
practice, and I had to leave  
because the more I watched the more I wanted to get out there and  l,)  
participate," he recalled. Rice, a Parade All-American and one of  i '  
the nation's most sought-after high  
school quarterbacks last spring, is  
 
enrolled as a freshman at Notre  
Dame but will not be a part of the  
Irish football squad this fall.  
Rice is one of three highly­ 
touted Notre Dame recruits who  
arc prohibited from practicing and  
playing until the fall of 1987  
because of a set of new NCAA  
rules known as Proposition 48.  
"Just not being a part of the team  
is tough," according to John  
Foley, a Parade All-America line­ 
backer at Chicago's St. Rita High  
School last year. He also will not  
be playing football this year.  
"They're out practicing and talk­ 
ing about what they did, and it  
really bothers me," Foley added.  
Proposition 48 (or bylaw 5-1  The new academic rules, which  Proposition 48 has created a  
(j), now that it has become official  went into effect Aug. 1, were  scenario that some consdier harsh.  
NCAA legislation) has sidelined  passed three years ago by NCAA  Imagine doing something for a  
Rice, Foley, and Notre Dame's top  university presidents disturbed by  number of years and doing it well  
basketball recruit, 6-9 forward  growing reports of student­ to the point that you were recog­ 
Keith Robinson. The legislation  athletes entering college without  nized as being among the best in  
provides a set of guidelines - basic reading and writing skills.  your class. Further imagine that  
including minimum grade point  Notre Dame was one of the schools  you would soon be able to exhibit  
averages and standard. test scores  that adamantly supported passage  your skills· at a national level.  
and a required high school curri­ of the legislation, which has now  Right before you would be able to  
culum. Incoming athletes must  claimed a year of eligibilty from  prove yourself, however, new  
meet these guidelines to be eligible  three of the school's top freshman  rules come into play that bar you  
to play in their freshman year.  athletes.  from being able to show or, to a  

September 11, 1986 

Sports 


large extent, even develop your skill for a year. Can you relinquish a desire to practice your skill and de-emphasize this part of your life for a year's time? 
This decision is becoming a fact 

of life for almost one out every 10 college football recruits. More than 150 major college football recruits, including . at least 34 "blue-chippers," are being side­lined this fall because of failure to meet the NCAA's minimum academic standards, according to a . recent Associated Press survey of 
Division I-A schools. 
The ineligible blue-chip players represent 8.6 percent of the nation's 395 top prospects, accord­ing to the survey. For the first time in their lives, these gifted athletes arc facing a closed door to their lockerrooms. 
In order ·to be eligible this fall, a freshman must have completed a curriculum of 11 required high school courses with a GPA of at least 1.8 (on a 4.0 scale), and have met the NCAA's minimum scores for either the Scholastic Aptitude Test or the American College Test. The required test scores range from 660-740 on the SAT and from 13 to 17 on the ACT, depending on the student's high school GPA. 
Before Proposition 48, the NCAA's only requirement was a 
2.0 GPA -there were no specific course requirements :and SA'f and ACT scores weren't even con­sidered. This year, students who failed to meet any one of the new NCAA standards found themselves sidelined. 
Being sidelined in this case, however, is a bit more severe than being red-shirted or being placed on an injured reserve list. With this ineligibility, the athlete can­not take part in, or even attend, practice sessions or team meetings unless those sessions are open to the public. 
Likewise, the athlete cannot receive any athletic equipment or other benefits until the suspension has been completed. In addition to being sidelined for a year, these athletes also lose a year of eligibil­ity unless they choose to give up their scholarship and pay their own way in their freshman year. 
"The fact that they have Propo­sition 48 is a good thing overall for college a thlctics," N otrc Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan said. He said he believes the new legislation will encourage young people to take the right courses in 


high school and become better prepared for taking standardized tests and standing up to the rigors of college academics. 
"The impact will be a positive one, but it won't be felt for a very long time," Corrigan said. "I don't think it's had much impact yet. The only impact it's had is that it's brought a lot of publicity to those people who did not .make the SAT or take the.right courses. It's kept us from having two very fine foot­ball players and one basketball player eligible to play. I feel bad for them because all three arc great people and this singles them out. But Proposition 48 wasn't put in for schools like Notre Dame. We've never had a problem with academics. It was put in for schools that graduate only IO, I5, or 20 percent of their athletes." 
Irish head football coach Lou Holtz thought the impact would be f cit sooner -but not necessarily on the college level. "I think it's going to have an immediate and important effect," Holtz said. "And I think that effect is going to be greater on the high school level than at the colleges. Sure you're going to sec some freshmen 
have to sit out a year. But that's going to cause the high school ath­letes, administrators, and coun­selors to realize that this thing is for real. Now the high schools arc going to have to bctttcr prepare their students for this type of test­ing." 
Despite being unable to play, Rice, Foley, and Robinson have been able to accept their status as a fact of !ife. All three realize that in not being able to play this year, they have more time to adjust to the difficulties of academic life at the college level. For the first time since grammar school, each can co~centrate his efforts on academ­ics without running to make an afternoon workout or a Saturday morning team meeting. 
" In a way, it's helping me out a lot," explained Rice, who accumu­lated more than 7,000 yards in total offense at South Carolina's Woodruff High School. "I've been hearing that freshman year is the hardest year of college, and I want to hit the books real fast before it gets hold of me. I have more time to meet people, go to the library, and study on my own." 
Scholastic 
Sports 


Robinson concurred. "It was good for me," he said, "because I needed to sit out that first year anyway so that I could get settled down with my academics. I have much more time academically to work on my classes." 
While staying in good academic shape, the three also will be able to stay in good physical condition on a personal level. For Rice, Foley, and Robinson, individual workout programs at the Rockne Memorial Building and participation in recreational sports have come to replace late nights on the practice field or in the gym. 
"When I get through with my classes, I know I can't go out there and practice, so I go ou·t to the Rock and lift weights," explained Rice, a Dillon Hall resident. "Dil­lon has an intcrhall football team, and I throw with them. I'm able to help them out and practice my 
September 11, 1986 throwing." The Big Red would undoubtedly welcome Rice's ser­vices in intcrhall play, but scholar­ship athletes arc prohibited from such participation. 
While Foley and Robinson employ their talents in differcnt sports, they arc sharing similar workout techniques this year. Both arc basing their conditioning programs on weight !if ting and basketball at the Rock. "It might be good for me because my body's kind of beat up," Foley said of his hiatus from the football field. "It could use a rest." 
Besides providing these Irish athletes with more time to study and a chance to take more of a lei­sure attitude towards sports for a year, their ineligibility also is motivating them to do well in the classroom. It is providing them with a desire to lend evidence to those who criticize standardized tests as a means of judging a student's academic ability. 
In each of the three Notre Dame cases, the applicant success­fully made it through the Univer­sity admissions process and met the NCAA standards in terms of GPA and course requirements. Their only failures came in terms of achieving the required SAT or ACT scores. Robinson, for exam­ple, had a 3.0 GPA in high school, but reportedly failed to meet the NCAA standards after taking the SAT once and the ACT twice. 
"I'm coming here for an educa­tion," said Foley, who was one of Sports Illustratcd's "Top 10 Ineli­gible Freshmen." "It goes educa­tion, then football. I'm just not good at testing like that. I'm a good student and I'm doing well so far. I'm going to get a degree from here and put it in everyone's face because it's not easy to get a degree from Notre Dame. It's not given away like it is at a lot of other colleges." 
Rice, whose low SAT scores were a source of controversy on the Notre Dame campus last spring, was intent on getting off to 


a good academic start this fall. So he enrolled in an introductory summer seminar supported by the Freshman Year of Studies Depart­ment in order to better prepare himself for college. But because 
of his low SAT scores it was too late to save his eligibilty. "I feel like I have something to prove to everyone on this campus," Rice said, "because SAT scores don't . 
mean anything." 
Criticism of standardized tests has centered around unequal edu­cational opportunities across the board and the possible unfairness of placing such great importance on one test. 
In the use of these scores by Proposition 48, cnt1c1sm also centers on the idea that SAT and ACT scores arc private informa­tion and cannot legally be released to the general public without the consent on the student. Collegiate athletes, however, arc being denied this privacy when it is made public that they cannot play because of low scores. "Like a lot of others, they had a deficiency," explained Corrigan. 
· l l 


la\\Y 
,c Brazil" lrg Auditorium :30 pro$ l.50 
ingcr" 
:ring Auditorium 11:30 pro $1.50 

Sports 


Scholastic 



Sports 

Putting It AH Together 
by Trish Sul/ii .1 11 

Individual Success Is Nothing New For Tim Brown But The Star Flanker Wants To Help The Irish Grab Some Team Glory In '86 
As early as last spring, when he was getting his first look at the Notre Dame team he inherited, Head Coach Lou Holtz could sec that flanker Tim Brown was a special player. And Holtz, a coach who knows that the best way to make an offensc work is to make good use of the players you have, realized right away Brown was the kind of player that he had to utilize as much as possible. "The only way teams arc going to stop us from getting the ball to Tim Brown," Holtz promised then, "is to intercept the snap from center." So what is the lifcstylc like for such a "big name" athlete at Notre Dame? Well, in his free time, Tim Brown --the football player and headline grabber --sleeps and watches basketball on television. "I'm a big basketball fan," said the junior. "I grew up watching Notre Dame basketball on TV back home. And whenever games arc on TV, I try not tci miss them. Other than that, my free time is taken up with sleeping. After practices or on road trips, I just tell people to wake me up for the important stuff." Brown's teams in the campus Bookstore Basketball Tournament weren't sleepers for the past two years, though. Each time .his squad has advanced to the tourney's prestigious final four. But this Dallas, Texas, native isn't playing the wrong sport -he's merely showing his versatility and aptitude in all athletics. 
·The team concept is something that Brown learned about early in !ife. "In my area, joining teams was the only thing to do if you were a good kid," he recalled. "The only alternative was gangs. My mother told me that if I kept busy, I wouldn't have the time to get into trouble and hang around with the bad guys." The "bad guys" were redefined for Brown when he began actively competing in high school athletics. They were the opposing team, and Brown offered no mercy. 
The all-around athlete has com­peted in football, basketball and track. He also served as sports edi­tor for his high school newspaper. "It was a lot of fun writing the stories," he said. "except when I had to write something about myself. Sometimes I wouldn't put a byline on a story, but everybody still knew I had written it. They knew who the sports editor was." 
Keeping track of Brown on the field is a lot tougher. In football alone he has played five diffcrent positions: running back, wingback, free safety, quarterback and, of course, wide receiver. But oddly enough, his favorite assignment was at tailback -the position he really doesn't want to play now. "Back in high school, the defcn­sive linemen were big, but slow," Brown explained. "I was quick enough ·to get away from them. When you come to college it's a diffcrcnt story. Now they are not only big and strong, but almost as quick as you arc. I told Coach (Holtz) that I'd play wherever he felt I could help the team the most. But I didn't want to sec TB (tail­back) next to TB (Tim Brown) all the time." Holtz replied that with all the action Brown would be see­ing, TB might stand for tired body. 
But Brown welcomes the extra workload, and has nothing but admiration for Holtz. "We didn't know whether another coach could come in here and make us play better," Brown said. "But now we go out there and play to win, that's the attitude (Holtz) established right away, that he is in charge. He gets out there and shows you what to do. He'll go out and catch passes. He's a great teacher." 
Although Brown has achieved success on the individual level, his teams' accomplishments have often left much to be desired. When he was asked on a question­naire if he had ever been a member of an undcfcatcd team, Brown wrote an emphatic "NO!." In his three years of varsity 


September 11, 1986 
15 





Sports 



football at Dallas' Woodrow Wilson 
High School, the team finished 1­
9, 2-8 and 1-8-1. So adversity 
between the yardlines was nothing 
new for Brown when he entered 
Notre Dame. "A lot of· people 
questioned why I was going to 
Notre Dame at the time," recalled 
the Cavanaugh Hall resident. "The 
program was a little .shaky. And 
when I got here I was surrounded 
by guys who had never lost a game 
in their lives. So when we were 3­
4 (in the first seven games of the 
'84 season) and people were com­
plaining, I felt like, 'Gosh, I've 
never even won three games in my 
life."' 
Brown also faced some adver­sity off the field in his rookie sea­son, the kind of adversity that all college freshmen feel at one time or another -homesickness. He isn't shy about admitting how tough it was to say good-bye to his family. The second youngest of six chil­dren, Brown is very family­oriented and the adjustment to college life was a tough one. To compound the situation, he found himself called upon for starting duty in the '84 opener agains~ Pur­due and the outcome of his first play, like the game itself, was not positive. He fumbled the opening kickoff, which gave the Boiler­makers the early momentum in a game they went on to win, 23-21. 
"I don't usually get real ner­vous before a game," he said. "I'm more the calm type in the locker­room. Buthere I was, in the mid.: dlc of 72,000 screaming fans. I felt like they were all in my back ,· pocket. Before coming here I had never played in front of more than 200 people. I still can't believe I fumbled the ball. Sometimes it's like a nightmare. But my team­mates were really good about it. I came off the field hanging my head and (senior free safety) Joe Johnson comes over and shakes me and says, 'You've got three more years to prove yourself. Shake this orie off."' Over the past two sea­sons Brown has done exactly that. He rebounded well from his early miscue and finished as the team's 


second-leading receiver in '84, while getting more playing time than any other freshman. Last year he led all Irish receivers with 25 receptions for 397 yards and three touchdowns. But the crowds are something that still amaze him. "I'm still in awe of the number of people in the stands for our games, because I just wasn't used to that. Once when we were in the huddle when I was a freshman, and I stood there watching the crowd do the wave, (quarterback) Steve Beuerlein grabbed me and said, 'Tim, we're here to play."' 
This year it figures to be the crowd watching Brown, and not the other way around. A definite All-America candidate, Brown earned the Hering Award as out­standing offensive performer dur­ing '86 spring drills. He also earned offensive MVP in the Blue-Gold game after scoring a touchdown on a 64-yard run and adding 105 yards on punt and kickoff returns. Says Holtz of Brown, who was recently voted the fifth best collegiate receiver in a poll by The Sporting News, "He can do so many things for you that it's amazing." 

Brown already knows that the job ahead of him this season is a tough one, but this talented speed­ster is ready for it. And he'll have some help in the receiving corps. "I hope teams plan on ~topping Tim Brown, because then they will have to dealwith the likes of Reg­gie Ward, Alvin Miller and Mark Green. Any pressure that is on me is self-imposed. Each week you have to face it like just another· game and you have your job to do. Hopefully, I'll be able to do that job well for the team again this year." 
When the '86 football season opens Saturday, you won't find Tim Brown sleeping in. And if opponents know what's good for them, they won't be caught nap­ping either. Otherwise they may find themselves watching the back of number 81. 
· Scholastic 



New Day Rising 

incc this column will be my soapbox of sorts during the 

next year, I suppose it would be appropriate to explain a little about who I am and what I'll be writing about. First of all, this space will be dedicated to a dis­cussion of.music and an examina­tion of bands, issues, people and organizations that affcct it. Now, as for the kind of music you'll be reading about, that is a matter into which I need to delve further, so let's begin delving, shall we? 
It would not be fair to hide the fact that I'm one of the two nasties currently editing Noise, a "fan­zine" here at N.D. that covers a variety of underground bands. If you've seen it on the floor of the dining ha1ls or elsewhere, you probably have figured out that we don't write too much about Huey Lewis or Quiet Riot. We try to present the bands we think are making the most vital music today -stuff that says something about our lives, that makes us laugh, that 

sometimes punches us right in the solar plexus and simply confronts us. 
In addition to the music, I like being part of the "underground" scene because of the people I meet. In general, they are far more several major-labe! artists who produce music that affccts me; Bruce Springsteen is probably the 
best example. So remember, all you punk rockers out there, that a rad haircut docs not a good group make. If I think anybody is worth discussing, then I'll do it, regard­

. less of his or her stature. 
. Part of the reason, however, why my tastes do gravitate towar.d "unknown" bands like Camper Van Beethoven and the Nip 

I don't exactly find it rewarding listening to Heart's "Never" or any· empty Phil Collins ballad for the 50th time; give me "Take the Skinheads Bowling" or "Talk About Cars" anytime. 
open-minded and questioning than•­your ordinary Joe. For example, you've got kids, maybe 16 or 17 years old, who have done more thinking about the world and phi­losophical issues like the existence of God, suicide anci society's laws than probably half of the grown adults in this country. Also, it feels good to realize you are help­ing a band whose music means a lot to you, when you give them a positive review which causes some body else to buy their record. 
But the underground is not everything to me. I will not talk your car off about any old group simply because their style of music resides in the domain known as "underground." There still are Drivers is because I hear the main­stream stuff all the time: on the radio, in my dorm, everywhere. So I don't exactly find it reward­ing listening to Heart's "Never" or any empty Phil Collins ballad for the 50th time; give me "Take the Sk-inheads Bowling" or "Talk About Cars" anytime. My point, I guess, is this: I listen to the stuff I· condemn before I condemn it. I 
doubt all of you can say the sam·e. 
Well, thanks for sitting through this first session. I've got no defin­ite plans for the future, but I hope evc"rything I write will be reason­ably funny and a wee bit per­suasive. Barring any major catas­trophes (like being trapped under a car with Wham! blasting in my car), I'll sec you next week. 
17



September 11, I 986 


News 


Dividing, Up A Larger Pie 
By Keith Harriso11 Jr. 

A Fresh Start For WVFI-AM And More Live Musical Entertainment On Campus Are Among Possible Benefits From A $20 Increase In The Notre Dame Student Activity Fee. 
When the Notre Dame football team steps onto the field on Saturday, junior Frank Mastro will step into the press. box to broadcast the game for WVFI, the campus AM radio station. Mastro, the station sports director, said that although he enjoys announcing the games, there is one problem: WVFI cannot be heard in most dorms because of ineffec­tive broadcasting equipment. Mastro is aware of the irony. "This is my third year working for a radio station that I've never been able to hear," he said. 
increased by approximately 57 percent when the activity fee was raised from $35 to $55 last spring by the Board of Trustees. The activity f ce, which all students arc ·required to pay, funds student clubs and organizations, govern­mental bodies, activities groups and special programs and events. A budget committee met last spring to discuss how these funds should be distributed and the Stu­dent Senate approved the committee's recommendations in August. Included in the recom­mendations are substantial 


"It's just too bad that more people can't listen to us," said Mastro. But all that will change in January, when station renovations will be complete and WVFI will broadcast to every dorm at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Univer­sity officials claim. 
The renovation of WVFI is one of the most striking items in this year's $385,000 student activity rec budget, a budget which was increases for the classes and the Musical Entertainment Commis­sion of the Student Activities Board, as well as the funds for renovating WVFI. 
Renovating the radio station is expected to cost between .$70,000 and $100,000, according to Joni Neal, director of student activities. This year's budget will pay for $35,000 of that cost, with the remainder of the bill to be paid off by similar allotments in the next two years. "I think everybody realized that WVFI could be a great student service if it could only be heard," said Neal, who represented clubs and organiza­tions at the budget meeting. Neal said the University is now in the process of taking bids for the work and hopes to have the station reno­vated by next semester. 
"They're practically going to create a new station," said WVFI station manager Sheila McDaniel. "Right now we've got equipment that is 20 to 25 years old and doesn't work well. By next semes­ter we're supposed to have a new transmitter and new coaxial cables installed so we can be heard." WVFI operates on a carrier current system, in which its broadcast sig­nal is transmitted along under­ground cables rather than through the air. The new cables will have more insulation than the present ones, many of which no longer work, McDaniel said. When the renovations are complete, WVFI will broadcast to every Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dorm. "We've been working for this for a long time. We're really glad to see the money come through," McDaniel said. 
Another major change in this year's budget is the $50,000 allo­
18 
Scholastic 


News 

catcd to the Musical Entertain­ment Commission of the SAB, which last year received $20,000. Commissioner J.A. Lacy said the size of the increase surprised him. "Originally we thought our budget would be a little smaller, so we were concentrating on bringing smaller, lesser-known bands to campus," he said. "Now we can try to do more." 
Lacy said he wants to bring one or two major rock concerts to campus this year, although he did acknowledge several possible stumbling blocks. "A lot of times the people who book bands say that we're located halfway between Chicago and Indianapolis, so anyone here who wants to see a major band would just travel to either of those cities for the show," Lacy said. Finding a place to have the concert presents another possible problem. Con­tracts with the ACC are difficult to obtain and fairly expensive, while Stepan Center's acoustical problems make it "a terrible place to have a concert," Lacy said. 
The biggest reason why top rock acts probably will not become regular f ca tu res on campus, how­ever, continues to be a lack of money, according to Neal. "Stu­dents have to realize how much money it takes to bring a major act to Notre Dame," she said. "For instance, when Billy Joel came here three years ago, his price was $108,000 -and that didn't include equipment or publicity. A $50,000 budget will probably bring in more smaller acts, but it isn't going to bring in the Billy Joels or the Bob Segers." 
Lacy is planning other events as well. His committee will be work­ing with the Progressive Music Club to bring in several lesser­known bands. A Spring Concert Series will spotlight regional bands like Duke Tomatoe performing free concerts the quad, Lacy said. The committee also is looking for campus bands which would be interested in playing on the quads. 
In addition, Lacy said he plans to :1 have music videos shown in the LaFortune Student Center once it is fully reopened. "We'll get video­tapes filled with music videos, like MTV," Lacy said. "The tapes will play a certain amount of time each day in LaFortune." 
The act1v1ty budget also includes a substantial increase in funding for the classes, as the sophomore, junior and senior classes each received $9,667, com­pared to last year's $3,700. The freshman class, which receives funds from the Freshman Year of Studies office, received $1,500 this year. The additional money for the classes, however, does not neces­sarily mean that the classes will be organizing more events than in the past, according to Dave Miklos, senior class president. 
" There probably won't be that many more events than in the past, because the classes have been run­ning a lot of events the last few years," Miklos said. "Instead, I think the quality of the events will improve. Also, there will be more publicity for the events, which will hopefully make them better by getting more people to come out and participate." 
The classes used to be grouped with clubs and organizations when the budget was allotted, Neal said. The classes, clubs and organiza­tions then split 20 percent of the total budget, while the other 80 percent was distributed among the student government organizations, the SAB and other miscellaneous activities. But as the classes began to play a larger role in organizing social events, it became apparent that the amount of money avail­able in the 20 percent bracket of the budget was restraining the classes, according to Neal. This led to the decision to move them into the 80 percent bracket, which enabled t_he budget committee to 
September 11, 1986 
News 


give the classes more money. 
·I'll be very interested to see what the classes do with this extra money, because they have really done a good job in recent years with a lot less," Neal said. "Now they've got $10,000 to work with. I'm really expecting a lot." 
One organization which took a substantial cut in the amount of money it rl",eived in this year's budget is ,:udent government. ~tudent g ,vcrnmL ,l, which wcludes the Senate and the Stu­dent Body President's administra­tion, received more. than $100,000 last year. This year only $72,350 was allotted to student govern­ment. "They asked for a decrease," Neal said. ••They're redefining their role." 
:., •.udent g•overnment last year 
trH.:d to organize social events in 
addition to performing its other 
duties, according to John Gar­
diner, District 2 student senator. 
"This year we want to reduce the 
emphasis on social programming, 
because there are already enough 
a venues for planning activities," 
Gardiner said. "The job of the 
Senate is first to pass an activity 
fee budget, which was done in 
August, and second to discuss 
campus issues and make recom­
mendations on them." 
Gardiner added that senators 
might act on their own to coordi­
nate social activities within their 
districts. ••This doesn't exclude us 
from planning social events indivi­
dually, but I do think it's impor­
tant that we concentrate on tack­
ling issues this year," he said. 
Whether or not an increased 
activity fee is needed had been a 
widely debated topic in student 
government in recent years. Two 
years ago the senate rejected a 
proposal which would have asked 
the Board of Trustees to increase 
the fee. Last year, the Senate did 
not get to vote on the matter. 
20 


Instead, former Student Body President Bill Healy's administra­tion presented an increase proposal to the board without first seeking senate approval. 
" That is my only objection to the fee increase," said District I Senator Brian i-Iolst. "I think the students should have been more involved with the decision-making process. It should have been voted on in the senate," he said. "On the whole, though, I think the increase was a good idea." 
Neal said having student government and the SAB under the University's Unit Budget Con­trol system was a big influence on her decision to support the activity fee increase. "Joining Unit Budget Control really gives the budget a lot of accountability, because the University will make sure the bookkeeping is always very good,'' Neal said. 
Comparing Notre Dame's activity fee with other universities shows that the increase was needed, according to Neal. "We 
looked at a lot of schools, and of the ones which make allocations similar to ours, the activity fee ranged from $75 to $120,'' she said. Although those figures are still higher than Notre Dame's new $55 activity fee, Neal said there is no plan to increase the activity fee in the next few years. "The money in the budget now is adequate. What we have to do now is wait and see how well the groups use it," she said. 
Students are also responsible for seeing that the money is used wisely, Neal said. "Students have to put pressure on the leaders of these groups," Neal said. "They have to tell the leaders what kinds of activities they want and then ask for some results. It is impor­tant, though, to remember how expensive it is to bring in major entertainment acts." 
Meanwhile, Frank Mastro keeps working at WVFI, patiently waiting for January 17. That is the day the West Virginia basketball team hits the court to face Digger Phelps' squad at the ACC. Also, it probably will be the first sports event which Mastro will announce for WVFI which will reach every dorm on campus. "I'm really look­ing forward to it,'' Mastro said. "We work hard here, and it'll be nice to see something come from the fruits of that labor. It will be good to get noticed." 
Scholastic 


Getting Ahead at Pennsylvania 

September 11, 1986 
Stud'3nt Life 



Notre, Dame Football= 
The Moving Force hy Scan Nea/011 
As the first signs of fall des­cend on South Bend, Indi­ana, an old, tradition-filled spirit rises on the campus of Notre Dame, welcoming the first home football game of the new season. 
However, heightened enthusiasm for Irish football is not the only effect felt at this time of year. The community as a. whole experiences a surge in demand -­demand for hotel rooms, restau­rants, souvenirs, tailgating sup­plies, and most importantly, tick­ets. 
The effect is most pronounced in the office of Mike Bobinski, Ticket Manager. "Alumni, faculty, and student response has increased tremendously this year," noted Bobinski. Although 28,000 alumni were offcrcd tickets this year, 1,500 phone calls still managed to reach the office in search of tick­ets for the season opener. 
In addition, media response has

I 
been overwhelming for this first game. There is not enough room in 
22 

The Expected Lou Holtz Era 
Ushers In A New 
Excitement On Campus 
the press box to accommodate the 550 requests for seats. As Bobinski pointed out, the media response to Lou Holtz's first game "has been greater than any other game in the history of Notre Dame football." 
For those lucky.enough to have tickets, tailgating seems to be a favorite pre-game activity. If the Field Saturday mornings. The par­ties may be more subdued, but they are still there. 

On the local level, the numerous alumni, subway alumni, and media have booked up all hotels and motels in the area. As one hotel worker put it, "it is not uncommon for someone to have to 

tailgater was not invented at a Notre Dame football game, it seems to have been perfected here. Fans arrive in all manner of vehi­cle from campervan to Cadillac to celebrate the upcoming game. 
Nor arc students divorced from this pre-game phenomenon. Prohibiting kegs and dorm spon­sored tailgaters has not reduced the number of students on Green take a room as far as 50 miles out­side of South Bend during a home football game weekend." As if to reinforce this statement, fans reserved the Marriott's 300 rooms the same day the game date was announced. Three months ago, Holiday Inn booked all of its 228 rooms for this weekend. 
Local restaurants will also be effected by the masses. Tip-
Scholastic 



Student Life 


pecanoe Place, a favorite of games. The Association distributes parents and alumni, will increase a list of the weekend's activities to its staff 25 to 50% and open up an the area hotels. Traditionally, the additional floor to compensate for Association has maintained a hos­the many reservations they have pitality center, screened both received, although a hostess noted "Notre Dame in Review". and that many students and their "Wake Up the Echoes" videos, parents never show for their reser­organized a closed session of vations. Jeremiah Sweeney's, Alcholics Anonymous, staged both another favorite, expects to fill to Shenanigans and Glee Club per­capacity and is not taking reserva­formances, served free coffee tions for Saturday dinner. after the game, and provided 
Meanwhile, back on campus the information and addresses to visit­Alumni Association is preparing ing alumni. All of this occurs for the Michigan game weekend in inside the ACC Hockey Arena much the same way as other home before and after the game. 

@arlot'o 
istora te 
Cocktails -Wine -Beer Open Tues -Sat.
Pasta of All Kinds 
Veal 4-11 p.m. 
Manicotti 
Fettuccine Al Fredo 
Pizza 

1707 South Bend Ave. (I mile east of ND) 277-0578 
Chuck Lennon, Executive Director of the Alumni Associa­tion expects an increase in the number using the services. "Nor­

mally  we  have 2,000  at the ACC  
before the game and  1,000 after­ 
wards.  This year  we  expect  even  

more as more people find out about us and interest in Lou Holtz increases the numbers. If no one has coined the phrase yet, I would say you turn up the volts wi.th Holtz." · 
Another group is involved in vast preparations for the 

pilgrimage to Notre Dame. Notre Dame Security will be out direct­ing traffic and maintaining order throughout the weekend. 
In summary, campus life during home football weekends is a buzz of activity. Irish football encom­passes much more than the actual game, although this provides the focus for all of the activity. Tak­ing into account all of the security operations, the events sponsored by the alumni, the effects on local businesses, tailgating hysteria, and the media response, the spirit of Notre Dame football seems to be the single force behind it all. 



23

September 11, 1986 


AMessage From the Regular Guys 
Well guys, been wondering what's up with the Student Government? Hmmmmm; let's sec, you may or may not have heard that the Board of Trustees approved a student activities fee increase in their spring meeting. "What is my money being spent on?" you ask. Good question. 
!' 
Most of the new money is being channelled into the Student Activities Board (SAB). They're the ones who bring all the movies, shows and concerts to campus. With great leadership and increased funds the SAB is sure to be running events that arc slightly bigger, and monumentally better, than ever before. In short -mad­cap fun is on the way. 
How about the radio station? Sadly, if you spin the old dial down towards WVFI while some clown two dorms away is blow drying his hair -forget it -silent night. Why? Lousy equipment. Soooo, about a truckload of dinero has been budgeted for capital improvements for WVFI. Sure, these improvements take time, but within a year or so WVFI ought to be a major media source on campus. 
Funding for campus clubs and organizations has been increased to an unprecedented level. And a great new service, overseen by the 
Hall Presidents' Council, will soon be starting up: a late night shuttle providing a safe ride home from 

, Student Body President 
And Vice President Discuss The Year To Come 
"the bars." Crazy college hijinks without fear of injury -now that's our style! 
What about the Student Senate? Well, being new to the Student Government scene, we don't know much about the past Student Sen­ates. What we do know is that this year's Senate is comprised of a group of enthusiastic and ener­getic individuals prepared to do rather than talk about doing. Among the priority issues on the Senate agenda this year are such topics as parietals, the establish­ment of merit scholarships, coed 


housing at Notre Dame, and a greater flexibility in the hours that LaFortune will be available to stu­dents. 
Where are we now? As you probably know, the constructor guys haven't finished constructing over in La Fortune. Eventually (soon?!) we'll be located on the second floor, but for now we work out of the broom closet that will be the record store. We call it the batcave. Although our facilities (and of course, our faculties) have 
by Mike Switek and Don Montanaro 
been limited at best -we're work­
ing hard anyway. We ran the "Zany Crcwcuts on the Quad" thing and managed to raise $400 for charity (the International Spe­cial Olympics to be exact). Many of you may be wondering what happened to the "Campout on the Quad." Sounded like a great idea? Yeah, we thought so too. Well, we got our first administration-style rejection for that one. It seems that in all our planning we forgot to figure how destructive thousands of students having fun can be to some freshly groomed GRASS. Oh well. We've got some even cooler ideas, so hang with us. 
Oh hey, by the way -we've got word from Coach Holtz. It seems that at other universities the students are waiting in the stadium to "greet" the opposition when they take the field for pre-game warm-ups. The word is that this can be quite intimidating. We fig­ure that if we want to protect our image as a crowd to be reckoned with, we better start showing up a little earlier. The pledge from th~ coach and the team is this: if we show up an hour before game, they'll give us a reason to tailgate with a passion later on. 
So, believe it or not, we're working pretty hard and doing the best we can. We're still new at this stuff and willing to learn, so we want to invite everyone to come by just to talk to us. We may not have any hair, but we're still Reg­ular Guys. We've ascended from the couch, so can you. 
Scholastic 
-~---­
-

.,,,-· ' = ~---~--....., -,----."' ,-,-'/ -,-,,-,,,"-D',,, '"I' '" ~ --~~-• , ' f' 






. I t your ad be seen~.
\\ ~____,----...__________~ -'. ; ~1 (_~\ ) -]\)I~
', (~ ~ )f', /~ \)
V ll___~. "-J 
In The Scholastic 

Attenzione -------Attenzione 
All those who signed up at Activities Night and anyone else interested in working for Scholastic: Come to the following meetings 


8:30pm Sept 15th at 118 Nieuwland Hall 
7pm Sept 15th at 118 Nieuwland Hall 

.Dividing 
Pie 








