OUR FAMOUS MAKE SUITS, TOPCOATS
AND SPORT COATS ... AT SAVINGS OF ONE-FOURTH AND ONE-THIRD....
SAVE up to one-third now on our famous name suits (including Corduroy suits), topcoats and sport coats. This is your opportunity to select from The Campus Shop’s quality men’s wear at substantial savings. And, you can charge your clothing needs the Campus Shop way.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
Get your clothing needs now during the Campus Shop
Quality Sale and save up to one-third . . . charge it the	W
Campus Shop way! Pay one-third in June, one-third in	: . -XA
July, and one-third in August. No interest or carrying
charge, of course. Use this convenient way to make all of	f	X W c
your clothing purchases.	f
On Campus WShdman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
WORDS: THEIR CAUSE AND CURE
Today let us take up the subject of etymology (or entomology, as it is sometimes called) which is the study of word origins (or insects, as they are sometimes called).
Where are word origins (insects) to be found? Well sir, sometimes words are proper names that have passed into the language. Take, for instance, the words used in electricity: ampere was named after its discoverer, the Frenchman Andre Marie Ampere (1775-1836); similarly ohm was named after the German G. S. Ohm (1781-1854), watt after the Scot James Watt (1736-1819), and bulb after the American Fred C. Bulb (1843-1912).
There is, incidentally, quite a poignant little story about Mr. Bulb. Until Bulb’s invention, all illumination was provided by gas, which was named after its inventor Milton T. Gas who, strange to tell, had been Bulb’s roommate at Cal Tech! In fact, strange to tell, the third man sharing the room with Bulb and Gas was also one whose name burns bright in the annals of illumination—Walter Candle!
The three roommates were inseparable companions in college. After graduation all three did research in the problem of artificial light, which at this time did not exist. All America used to go to bed with the chickens. In fact, many Americans were chickens.
Well sir, the three comrades—Bulb, Gas, and Candle-promised to be friends
forever when they left school, but success, alas, spoiled all that. First Candle invented the candle, got rich, and forgot his old friends. Then Gas invented gas, got rich, bankrupted Candle, and forgot his old friends. Then Bulb invented the bulb, got rich, bankrupted Gas, and forgot his old friends.
Candle and Gas, bitter and impoverished at the age respectively of 75 and 71, went to sea as respectively the world’s oldest and second oldest cabin boy. Bulb, rich and grand, also went to sea, but he
* * *
Another peaceful smoke from the makers of Marlboro is the brand-new unfiltered king-size Philip Morris Commander. Try one soon and find out how welcome you’ll be aboard.
4
went in style—as a first-class passenger on luxury liners.
Well sir, strange to tell, all three were aboard the ill-fated Lusitania when she was sunk in the North Atlantic. And, strange to tell, when they were swimming for their lives after the shipwreck, all three clambered aboard the same dinghy.
Well sir, chastened and made wiser by their brush with death, they fell into each other’s arms and wept and exchanged forgiveness and became fast friends all over again.
For three years they drifted in the dinghy, shaking hands and singing the Cal Tech rouser all the while. Then, at long last, they spied a passing liner and were taken aboard.
They remained fast friends for the rest of their days, which, I regret to report, were not many, because the liner which picked them up was the Titanic.
What a pity that Marlboros were not invented during the lifetimes of Bulb, Gas,
and Candle! Had there been Marlboros, these three friends never would have grown apart because they would have known how much, despite their differences, they still had in common. I mean to say that Marlboros can be lit by candle, by gas, or by electricity, and no matter how you light them, you always get a full-flavored smoke, a filter cigarette with an unfiltered taste that makes anyone—in-cludingBulb,Gas, and Candle—settle back and forget anger and strife and smile the sweet smile of friendship on all who pass!
© 1961 Max Shulman
EXCELLENCE REQUITTED	F
Editor:	I;
In reading the article titled “The| Progress of Student Government,” I was,B to say the least, amazed to find that was said to have cited the fact of a “re-^ cent reclassification of Notre Dame” the Ford Foundation as evidence of th<O need of a student evaluation of the Uni-?; versity. I did not make this statements and I am most indignant that it was'g-attributed to me.
In the first place the statement itself-! is untrue. After investigating this-matter — for there was rumor of such';, a “reclassification” circulating on campus-— I find that it can only refer to a recentE. study by Professor Bernard Berelson ofg Columbia University. This study, finan^J ced by the Carnegie Corporation, dealt? with graduate schools, not with univer-t sities in general. Furthermore, Notreh Dame, ranked with some twenty-five|? other fine universities, appeared in the|; third category, but it must be noted that? the first two categories contained a totalg of but twenty-two schools and almost^ two hundred were considered in the^ study. Certainly Notre Dame should^ consider this a commendation rather thargj any sort of “demotion.”
In the second place allow me to points out that the evaluation program, run by® the Student Senate, is working closely^ with both faculty and administration. It^ is directed to constructive suggestion^ and has no place for the “devil’s ad-€ vocate” attitude you attributed to it.
Thomas Colleton £
(Ed. Note: Our sincere apologies td^ all. We erred in stating that the source & of the quote was Mr. Colleton.)	g
LETTERS — Please address all let-g ters to the editor to Room 320,| Walsh Hall. All letters, to be print-| ed must be signed; names will be| withheld when requested. |
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class ® mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special i postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The I magazine is a member of the Catholic School | Press Association and the Associated Collegiate f Press. It is represented for National Advertising | by National Advertising Service and by Don S Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly | during the school year, except during vacation | and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is | printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip- | tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all i manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre | Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be- » comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. I
The Scholastic

SSiESiF /
| The Notre Dome

3.
4
k?
I


S-
S-
«■

f

VO /> ;/.///

Vol. 102 No. 15
FEBRUARY 24, 1961
Founded .1867
editor-in-chief //
CHARLES RIECK
associate editor
: ROY RUBELI
news editor .
; THOMAS WEISS John McCabe
features editor ? . / ;
• THOMAS SULLIVAN ■ / / Thomas Hoobler..
sports editor 7r
• JAMES KILROY c WUiiam. Car^j /’ John Bechtold
editor //; 7/7-7/;
THOAAAS AURCINIAK ; - Philip; Larrabee //v7
art editor ./>/l
THOMASHANSEN
photographer // ./■-/ {•
WALTER DALY, Jr.
business manager / V
JOSEPH FINNIGAN /'" Robert Buckley -7/
circulation manager;
JAMES HICKEY
moderator
REV1 GEORGE BERNARD
news staff <//. //// , 7/Joseph/Cgspb^ /7./ Frank Cuiffo 77 // /■:Lawrence Kavanaugh 7 ■/' James Oliver '? Thomas Scheuring ?
Steve Stapp •.	'
' Steve Stuecheli >’ '
Robert Chiappinelli Thomas AValsh ' ’ i Terry Wplkenstor^t
* ®i
[/•S
/I

‘J

3
3
4

4

3
3

M

!
ALL ABOARD: While going to press we have learned that the Student Government is preparing to dispatch a campus-wide questionnaire regarding a possible chartered plane to Europe — for the summer of 1962. Arrangements for such a venture must begin in August of the preceding year, and thus last year’s lethargy is felt this year. And, because of the early deadline, a reliable, estimate must be made this spring for next summer’s charter. It is hoped that students will take the straw poll seriously, to prevent turning the project into an inflated flop. But, if enough students respond to a plan that will save approximately 50% of European transportation expenses, the venture may develop into one of Student Government’s most valuable projects.
STUDENT OR DEPARTMENT? It would appear that, like the poor, the problems of registration are always with us. We have been exposed to a number of reactions around campus since our comments two weeks ago regarding the benefits resulting from publication of instructors’ names in the schedule of classes. Three types of criticism were heard.
First was the problem of professorial employment. It was felt by one department head that he would have heavy explaining to do to the several very unpopular members of his staff when they were suddenly gifted with empty classrooms. This objection perhaps overlooks two things. First, it is doubtful that a vast majority of students would steer away from such professors, considering academic apathy and class conflicts. Secondly, other sections for the same course would be of limited size, forcing sizeable classes upon those teachers.
Another problem raised was the attractiveness of the “brilliant” teacher, the show-off of no great substance. This reply ignores one desired result of education — the ability to recognize intelligence in others, which can be achieved in no finer way than simple observation. Without the opportunity to become disillusioned with intellectual fool’s-gold, that “clever genius” of a teacher is frozen into a far-distant ideal, distorting one’s awareness that genuine wisdom is oftentimes dull and brutally harsh.
Thirdly is the problem of practicality. Published assignments can, of course, only be tentative, and changes are not to be marvelled at. But, as the head of one large and overtaxed service department admitted, only 25% of his courses would need revision — a number most students would accept as normal. Further, a supplement could be issued at registration in the event of these large revisions.
One thing that may permanently hinder such publications before fall semesters, is the unsettled nature of most departments at the beginning of the academic year. However, this argument does not seem applicable to the spring semester booklet.
GRADING PROFS: Under the direction of the Joint Engineering Council the recently installed chapter of the national engineering honor society, Tau Beta Pi, has been carrying out a student evaluation of the various engineering professors. The suivey is designed to determine teaching ability rather than popularity and the confidential results will be made available to the individual teachers and department heads. As long as these findings are used with care and discretion and considered as no more than general guides they can be of great help to everyone con-ceimed. A program such as this can spur- the apathetic and jar the complacent as well as provide praise for the worthy. We only wish that this project would be extended to the other colleges with the full cooperation of the various Deans and be set up on a permanent basis of once every two or three years.
PRICES: To date, the history of the Morris Civic Auditorium has been a short but successful one. It has brought some of the finest performers to South Bend and
thereby provided a significant and important complement to the facilities of this University. To the large group of New Yorkers it has been like having a bit of the Great White Way downtown. Unfortunately, the
prices have sometimes approximated those of Broadway, and by the time bus or cab fare is included the expense is greater than an evening in the big city. As a remedy may we suggest that Student Government attempt to arrange a scale of prices similar to the one established for the Brubeck concert which will soon be presented at the Auditoi-ium. And for even greater campus participation in these events perhaps tickets could be sold in the Bookstore or through the facilities of the campus travel agency.
— R&R
Rodin's Record Club
1 Free For Every 10 Purchased
ALBUMS & SINGLES JOIN TODAY

N ABICHT CAFETERIA
★ 1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria
FREE PARKING
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
IBM
WILL INTERVIEW MARCH
2
Candidates for Bachelors or Masters Degrees are invited to discuss opportunities in:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager . IBM Corporation, Dept. 882 .■ 618-620 North Michigan Street
South Bend 1, Ind. CE 2-8251
IBM
A A^H ▼ ■ You naturally have a better chance to grow’ with a growth company.
Engineering and Science Systems Engineering and Sales
This is a unique opportunity to find out about the many career opportunities at IBM. The IBM representative can discuss with you typical jobs, various training programs, chances for advanced education, financial rewards, and company benefits—all important factors that affect your future.
SOME FACTS ABOUT IBM
An Unusual Growth Story: IBM has had one of the exceptional growth rates in industry. It has been a planned growth, based on ideas and products having an almost infinite application in our modern economy.
Diverse and Important Products: IBM develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of products in the data processing field. IBM computers and allied products play a vital
role in the operations of business, industry, science, and government.
Across-the-Country Operations: Laboratory and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie and Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vermont; Lexington, Ky.; San Jose, Calif.; Bethesda, Md.; and Rochester, Minn. Headquarters is located in New York City with sales and service offices in 198 major cities throughout the United States.
' The Accent is on the Individual: No matter what type of work a person does at IBM, he , is given all the responsibility he is able to - handle, and all the support he needs to do his job. Advancement is by merit.
The areas in which IBM is engaged have an unlimited future. This is your opportunity to find out what that future has to offer you.
Call or stop in at your placement office to arrange an appointment with the IBM representative for the date above. If you cannot attend an interview, write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:
6
The Scholastic
I
ANNUAL U-M CONFERENCE FEATURES ADDRESS BY ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Main Speaker Holleman to Stress Industrial Peace;
• Labor, Management Undergo Scanning of Conclave
by TOM SCHEURING
Notre Dame will hold its ninth annual Union-Management Conference in Washington Hall today.
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., conference director, said the problem of foreign competition will be included in a morning panel discussion on “New jApproaches to Collective Bargaining.” Tearce Davis, chairman of the department of economics at the Illinois Institute of Technology, will serve as chairman of the discussion which will also include the subjects of job displacements and retraining programs for displaced workers.
HOLLEMAN SPEAKS BEFORE 500
The panelists include William J. eilly, International Harvester Co.,
Chicago; Alfred L. Wickman, of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union, Denver; Clark Frame, Westinghouse Electric Co., Pittsburgh; Norman Matthews, United Automobile Workers Union, Detroit; Roy A. Dingman, A. 0. Smith Corp., Milwaukee, and Peter Henle, AFL-CIO Headquarters, Washington, D. C.
George E. Strong, general counsel of •the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, will preside over an afternoon panel discussion on “Preventive Medicine for Grievances.” Panelists will include John H. Lind, Standard Oil Co. (Indiana), Chicago; Joseph P. Molony, United Steelworkers of America, Buffalo; E. E. Boam, Continental Can Co., New York City, and P. L. Siemiller, International Association of Machinists, ^Chicago.
" Other-speakers, are William G. Caples, vice president' of industrial ' relations, Inland Steel Co., Chicago, and Louis F. Buckley, regional director of the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, New York City. More than 500 Midwest industrial executives and labor leaders are expected to attend the one-day conference which began at 9:30 a.m.
The main speaker will be Assistant Secretary of Labor, Jerry Holleman, •who will address the conference on “Industrial Peace — A Three-Fold Responsibility.”
Holleman, formerly president of the Texas State AFL-CIO and now serving under Secretary of Labor, Arthur J. Goldberg, is expected to favor a strong White House role in labor-management affairs. Like his immediate superior, Holleman has firmly announced his opposition to federal court injunctions a against striking unions, and has equally
February 24, 1961
supported the movement toward “clean” unions and higher wages. On major strikes the labor department has advised the Kennedy administration policy of strong executive intervention early in the dispute. Further it advocates good-sized, though as yet undetermined, pay raises to boost the nation’s purchasing power and energize business.
CORRUPTION IN UNIONS
In the field of labor management problems, the Assistant Secretary urges the new administration to set up a “national council of labor-management advisors.” This council, as outlined by the labor department, would consist of public, labor and management representatives. It would draft programs for achieving full production and full employment, among other things.
In enforcing the Landrum-Griffin Act, the department is expected to work closely with Attorney-General Robert Kennedy in the gradual process of eliminating such corruption as may be uncovered in the several unions under investigation.
Hold Orientation Talks In Commerce College
Sophomores in the College of Commerce will be given an opportunity during March to gain information about the four departments from which they may choose their major. There will also be a chance for interested freshmen to learn about the Management Science Program, which is begun during the sophomore year.
This orientation program will consist of two parts. The first will be a panel -discussion composed of a chairman and " two to four seniors in the department. The aim of each department will be to select students that have a diversity of interest. Each member of the panel will have entirely different plans and reflect different views of what is to be gained from the department. After each panel discussion, a question and answer session will be held.
The session for those interested in accounting will be held at 7:15 p.m. on the night of March 2. The finance group will meet at 7:30 pan. on March 6, all other groups meet at 7:15 pan. Individuals interested in marketing management will meet on March 9. March 12 is the date set for the explanation of the Management Science course to freshmen. The final session will be held March 16 for the business organization management group.
Foundation Donors Boost Gifts, Grants
An increase of over $2,000,000 in gifts and grants for the University of Notre Dame during 1960 was recorded by Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation. Included in the over-all figure of $5,719,651 are gifts from alumni, friends, corporations, governmental and nongovernmental sources.
In particular, the Ford Foundation in an initial grant has donated some $1,075,000 as part of its new Special Program in Education. Another gift by this organization of $6 million, remitted on the basis of one dollar for every two received by the University up to June 30, 1963, was also offered under its regular program.
The alumni section of this year-end report noted that the actual graduates had contributed $625,169, as opposed to the $43,591 from the subway alums. Nonalumni sources, including approximately 500 corporations and founda-
REV. JOHN H. WILSON, C.S.C.
Vive la Ford Foundation.
tions, added over $3 million to the total.
For the second consecutive year the class of 1928 led all other alumni groups with contributors totalling about $70,000, while the class of 1949 had Hie largest number of donors, 478, also for the second year.
The U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, and the U. S. Army, Navy and Air Force were the principal supporters of research during 1960 with grants of $2 million.
On an individual basis, Notre Dame collected 368 gifts of $1,000 or more, and of these 77 were for sums greater than $5,000. Breaking'down this figure by states, Father Wilson noted the Illinois alumni led all others with $141,606 in financial aid from the largest number of contributors, 1481.
7
JAY WHITNEY, GUY POWERS AND RICHARD MEECE Consistent victory on home court.
Meece Directs Ninth Annual Debate Tourney; Teams to Clash for Schiller, Bolger Trophies
Under the general chairmanship of Richard Meece, the Ninth Annual University of Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament will be held in the LaFortune Student Center next Friday and Saturday, March 3 and 4. The teams will be competing for the Richard D. Schiller Trophy which is awarded permanently to the winner. This team will also retain possession of the Studebaker-Packard Corporation Traveling Trophy. In addition, the name of the winning school will be added to the Rev. William A. Bolger Trophy, which is retained at Notre Dame.
MAY BE TELEVISED
The topic of this year’s tournament is: Resolved — That the United States should adopt a program of compulsory health insurance for all citizens. The Contestants will debate both affirmative and negative sides of this controversial question, so every team will be thoroughly versed on all aspects of the resolution. As in past years, the debates will display some of the finest argumentation and oration in college debating.
Martin K. Gordon, publicity chairman as well as a member of the Notre Dame Debate Team, in association with Richard Meece, have been working on an arrangement with WNDU-TV to
GRAD STUDENT FUND
The John A. Morrissey Memorial Fund is now being made available to graduate students. The directors of the Rivco Foundation of Chicago stated that the ever-pressing needs of graduate students deserved help from the fund.	' ■
televise the last round of the tournament. As in previous years, the debate finals will be broadcast over WSND radio.
Notre Dame’s prospects for this oncoming tourney look very promising. The team has already proved itself at Miami University and vai-ious other intercollegiate debate tournaments.
There will be four awards presented to the winning teams. To the championship team will go the Richard Schiller Trophy and a place on the William A. Bolger Trophy. Second, third, and fourth place teams will be awarded a thirty-five-inch permanent trophy. First-place Speaker Awards will be given on the basis of a speakers argumentation and delivery in the preliminary rounds. The first place speaker will receive a desk set for his own personal use, while second through tenth place speakers will receive certificates of excellence. To acquire any of the awards mentioned would indeed be both an accomplishment and an honor.
General Chairman Richard Meece cordially invites the entire student body as well as all interested residents of South Bend to attend all or any of the rounds of the tournament.
LUNCHEON AT MORRIS INN
The majority of preliminary rounds will be held in the LaFortune Student Center. A luncheon will be held in the Morris Inn Saturday at 12:00 noon. The announcement of the teams that will be debating in the quarter-finals will be made at this time. Both the semi-final and the - final round will be held in the Engineering Auditorium, and awards will be distributed there immediately after the final round.
Joint Symposium Studies University Responsibility
On the week end of March 3 and 4, the Carnegie Foundation, the University, and the International Commission of Student Government are sponsoiung a symposium entitled “The Responsibility of the American University Toward World Under-staning and Co-operation.”
The symposium schedule includes stu-^ dent workshops meeting Friday and Saturday mornings and evening reports based on the morning discussions.
High points of the activities are the addresses given both days at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. Speaking Friday afternoon will be James Perkins, Vice-President of the Carnegie Corporation; Donald J. Shank, Executive Vice-President of the Institute on International Education will give the evening address.
Saturday afternoon George N. Shuster,™ Assistant to the President Hesburgh, will speak to the group, and the evening lecture will be delivered by David McDonald, President of the United Steelworkers of America. Professor A. Robert Caponigri, of the philosophy department, will give a concluding address at 8:30 p.m. ..Saturday.
All the speeches will be given in the Engineering Auditorium.
ENGUSH AND ADVERTISING
Mr. Samuel Y. Hyde, New York advertising executive, will speak on “The English Course — Training Ground for Industrial Advertising’’ at 3 p.m., Friday, March 3, in Room 208 of the Engineering Bldg.
Architect Daly Speaks Before Local AIA Chapter Students*
Leo Daly, noted architect and president of his architectural firm, spoke to the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Institute of Architects on “Architecture, From Churches to Missile Stations” Tuesday, Feb. 21.
In 1939 Mr. Daly graduated from the Catholic University of America with the degree of Bachelor of Architecture.^ He joined his father’s firm the same™ year and was named vice-president upon incorporation in 1948. Four years later he became president upon his father’s death. Mr. Daly is a licensed architect in most states.
Two years ago, the Leo A. Daly Company, with offices in Omaha, St. Louis, Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles, was ranked fifth in the nation among architect-engineer firms.
FOR CHRISTIAN CULTURE *
A Lilly Endowment Lecture, given as a part of the Program for Christian Culture, will be presented by Philip Scharper in St. Mary’s Little Theatre on February 27, at 7:30 p.m. Faculty and students have been invited to attend this program entitled, “The American Experiment and the Catholic Experience.”
8
The Scholastic
Butlers to Address Seniors During Institute; Discuss Partner Viewpoint in Married Life
/bit
; Mr. and Mrs. James Butler, Chicago residents and married ten years, will speak in Washington Hall on Wednesday, March 1, at 7:30 p.m. in the second ^Marriage Institute lecture.
A business administration major at Syracuse University, Mr. Butler is sales manager of the Walter E. Selch Co. in Chicago. His wife majored in journalism and English at Syracuse.
Both Butlers are very active in Catholic Action. For several years they worked with Father Putz in the Christian Family Movement. They edited The New Life published by the C.F.M. and were instrumental in founding sev-^eral projects of the C.F.M. Authors of the “Christian Attitudes” and “Young ' Married” Cana Conferences, they are , now engaged in special service speaking for the Cana Conferences in Chicago.
The Reverend Arthur- Meloche, lecturer at the University of Detroit on ; Marriage Theology, will present “An Image of the Trinity in Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex” on March 8. “The Doctor’s Viewpoint” will be given March 15 by ^Dr. Louis Leone, who has spoken at the w Institute for a number of years. Notre Dame’s Dr. and Mrs. Robert Christin will conclude the series with “Success in Marriage” on March 22. Each lecture, beginning at 7:30 in Washington Hall, is to be followed by a free-ranging :	question and answer period.
i Students attending all of the five , lectures will receive the Marriage Ini stitute Certificate. This certificate is ; often accepted as satisfaction of the
• obligation to attend parochial Pre-Cana
MR. AND MRS. JAMES BUTLER
Exemplify Catholic family life for Marriage Institute.
Conferences in dioceses requiring such instruction.
The joint Religion Department -Senior Class project was initiated in 1955, and culminated in seven successful and well received lectures. The Institute has since become an annual event and is considered one of the most important items on the senior calendar.
Schedule Bridge Competition At La Fortune Student Center
This year Notre Dame and more than 150 other colleges and universities throughout the country will participate in the 1961 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament. All play will be by mail and conducted by the individual campuses in a single session. Notre Dame, J. P. Turley director of campus tournament competition, has scheduled their play for February 26 at 1:30 p.m. in the Student Center.
Campus, regional and national winners will be selected at the tournament’s Committee headquarters. These prizes will include dual trophies, one for the winning North-South pair, and one for the East-West partnership. Four individual national winners will receive smaller cups for his permanent possession, plus an appropriate certificate.
Some 2,453 students representing 153 colleges in 48 states competed last year in this contest. Notre Dame students Dave Joyce and Bob Nennet placed third nationally, while Ed Arnold and Neil Butler finished fifth.
The Passing of a Budget
Tuesday night the Senate passed the spring budget. The meeting was short and although a quorum was present,
attendance was poor. There was little humor or debate. The study of medieval mathematics would probably have proved more stirring than Tuesday’s Senate meeting.
Details of the budg
et had been worked out in a cabinet
meeting on Sunday. Tim Hinchey, Senate financial secretary, took his place behind the rostrum and elaborated on the budget for the body. A few questions were raised and the entire budget was passed in about 20 minutes. The money anticipated from the Mardi Gras for the Student Government Fund was not included in this budget. -
Most notable about the budget, was the $1,425 allocated to the Academic Commission. A number of prominent lecturers are being invited to the campus this semester; among those expected are Bruce Catton and William Buckley. In doing this the Academic Commission is fulfilling a need which has long been neglected.
Funds for the Blue Circle, the classes, the colleges, student government commissions, and national affiliations were also approved.
John Keegan, SBP, reported: A footbridge is to be constructed across the Dixie Highway in order to insure the safety of the students. Student government has set up a Public Relations Committee to work with the South Bend City Council in order to improve the relationship between Notre Dame and South Bend.
Senators received a paper outlining the progress made with the “Peace Corps” at Notre Dame. Father Hes-burgh has proposed the establishment of a radio station in some portion of Chile where there is a need for one. The project is moving fast and a pilot plan may be worked out this spring. Ideas and enthusiasm from the students are needed.
February 24, 1961
Who's Who
Anthony Chessick	john Engler
Gregory Gehred John Flanigan John Flynn
Robert Battista, from Oak Park, Mich., is the drum major of the Marching Band. He is the executive officer and f: drum major of the AROTC Band and a Herodotian.
John Burns was the Pep Rally chairman. He is a YCS member, Vice-chairman of the Blue Circle, and was the chairman of Help Week.	t;
John Cahalan, a Dean’s List student, is the Blue Circle3(.J Membership Committee and the Academic Freshmen Orien- ' tation Committee Chairman. He is an Associate Editor of j. The Juggler and a member of the Bookmen, the AB Advisory K Council, and the Washington Day Exercise Committee. He is on the Academic Commission and chairman of the Artist Series and Student-Faculty Relations Committee.	g’4
Dennis Cantwell of Saint Louis was the Assistant Chair- f J man of the 1960 Science Open House. He is the Science Senator, Vice-President of the Aesculapian Club, and is on the fe ;! Dean’s List.	t ?
Anthony Chessick, Dean’s List student, is the Station^ Manager of WSND and a member of Nu Delta Epsilon. He is a regular in the NROTC and participated in the Engineer- j ing Open House. He received the Junior Engineer of the | Year award.	?
John Clark, Student Body Treasurer, 1959-60, is a mem- | ber of the AB Advisory Board and Social Commissioner. He | is also a stay senator.	|
Rudolph Ehrensing is a member of the Fencing
Team

and on the Dean’s List. The New President of YCS.
John Engler from Tenafly, N. J., Wranglers and Associate Editor of
Orleans resident
is the President
is
of
the Juggler. He is
the
the on

Rudolph Ehrensing Thomas Geil Joel Haggard
the Dean’s List, and a member of the Bookmen, NFCCS, and the Literary Study Committee.
John Flanigan is the Editor-in-chief of the Dome. He is a member of the Student Affairs and Public Relations Commission.
John Flynn is the vice-chairman of AIEE and executive officei- of Midshipmen, NROTC battalion. He is a member of the NROTC Drill Team, and chairman of the Blue Circle Welcome Committee.
Gregory Gehred was the chairman of the 1961 Regional Committee of Student Chapters of AICE, is a member of the senior staff of the Technical Review; Joint Engineering Council; National Science Foundation Program for Under-
graduate Reserve.
Thomas Geil of Royal Oak, Michigan has attained
the
Commerce Dean’s List, and the National presidency of the NFCCS. He is also a member of the campus unit of the NROTC.
i
Patrick Hart Richard Hendricks John Kelly
John Keegan

The Scholastic ft
10

of 1961
Jerome Kriegshauser Andrew Lawlor
Robert Lund
Thomas Medland
Joel Haggard has been active throughout his four years on the Debate Team, Joint Engineering Council, and Young Republicans Club. Presently he is Sorin Hall Senator, Chair-■ man of the Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament, president of the ASME, and membei- of Tau Kappa Alpha.
Patrick Hart was the Chairman of Christmas Caroling ' win 1959, and Secretary of the Sophomore Class in 1958. Now he holds the prominent position of Blue Circle Chairman.
Richard Hendricks of the Blue Circle, Student Govera-ment, and various social commissions, is a science major j	from Moline, Illinois. In addition he served as 1959 Mardi
s	Gras Concert Chairman, 1958 Sophomore Spring Dance
j Chairman, and Vice-Chairman of “Shangri-La.”
• John Kealy has in four years achieved membership in 5 The Bookmen, the Dean’s List, and the Monogram Club, j On the Navy Battalion Staff of the NROTC, he has found ■ additional time to merit the American Sons of the Revolu-: £ tion medal.
John Keegan is best known and most occupied with the :	important office of Student Body President.
Jerome Kriegshauser, a Dean’s List student from Glendale, Missouri, is president of The Bookmen, membei- of The Wranglers, and on the editorial board of the Juggler.
1 Andrew Lawlor is a member of the Blue Circle, and past :	University and Sophomore Academic Commissioner.
< Robert Lund is noted for his work on The Wranglers, ;	Swimming Team, Student Senate and Jazz Festival Com!	mittee. A Dean’s List student, he is a past Hall President
‘ Q and Junior Class President, and National Chairman of the NF CCS Literary Study Group.
, Thomas Medland is Cadet Commander of the AFROTC, Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, associate editor of the Tech Review. Member of the JEC and ASME, he was awarded the 1960 Studebaker Certificate for the AFROTC.
Thomas Musial of South Bend is Program Director of WSND-Channel II, and on the Drama Discussion Group, i James O’Rourke is a member of The Wranglers, Blue I Circle, AB Advisory Board, and NFCCS, while accumulating A a Dean’s List average.
'• Tracy Osborne, Secretary-Treasurer of the Blue Circle, member of the Glee Club, Junior Prom Committee, and Aesculapians, is enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters and hails from Omaha, Nebraska.
Guy Powers, a Dean’s List student, member of the Debate Team, and The Wranglers, is from Forest Hills, New York.
Donald Ralph from Bethesda, Maryland has attained (Continued on page 20)
James O’Rourke Tracy Osborne Donald Ralph
Donald Rice Charles Rieck • Thomas Ryan
Garry Scheuring Ronald Sampson Michael Smith
February 24, 1961
o
BEST BUYS IN BOOKS
BANTAM BOOKS
Brave New World Revisited Aldous Huxley
•
Once There Was A War The Red Pony
John Steinbeck
Pig Boats
Theodore Roscoe
FEBBO'S
CE 3-0578 ★
224 E. LA SALLE ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Famous for Pizza, Spaghetti and Ravioli
ARMY - NAVY
AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
GENDEL'S SURPLUS SALES SPECIAL—A Used Alpacca Lined Parka—Only $7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
INFORMATION PLEASE ALMANAC $1.35
THE CATHOUC ALMANAC $2.75
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
Special Price $5.85
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
MSU Stages Mock U.N. Session at East Lansing
“The role of students in international affairs and the world of the future” was the main topic for discussion last week end, as students from all over North America met at Michigan State to hold a mock United Nations meeting. The event was jointly sponsored by$ Michigan State and by the United Nations, and its primary purpose was to acquaint students with some of the economic and social problems of the world.
The student government’s International Commission was able to sponsor contingents from Notre Dame that represented three foreign countries. Representing Spain were Jaime Fuster, Bill Vivado and John Clark; representing^ Cameroon were John Makanju, Pat-* Powers and Jim Dolan; and speaking for Mexico were Joe Simoni, Jaime Fuster and Bill Dellekamp.	।
Officials from the U.N. were on hand to take in the proceedings, and they heard our delegations make some origi-
nal proposals and suggestions general group.
IFe all make mistakes..
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly typed papers begin with Corrasahle! You can rub out typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’s that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasahle. Saves
time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrasahle in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin in handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasahle.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper

EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASS, ♦•••a**
to
the
g
s

c


I
12
The Scholastic i
The Steam Tunnels
Mark Golden is a sophomore pre-med living in Cavanaugh Hall. He received his B.M.H. (Bachelor of Medieval History) from Harper Institute of Liturgy in 1956, and applied to Notre Dame for admission to the Medieval Institute. ^Since his background was somewhat sparse, the Administration recommended that he spend a semester as Preparatory to Medieval Studies. In order to fit this classification on an IBM card, one secretary unthinkingly abbreviated it Pre-Med, and Mark found himself taking courses in inorganic chemistry and general zoology. Mark soon realized the futility of trying to have his classification changed; after ^all, who was he, a student and not ^really yet a Notre Dame man, to challenge the IBM machine? So he investigated the possibilities and lined himself tip a $70,000 a year practice in his home town of Perlis, Massachusetts, and he has calculated that he makes more in a summer as an autopsy assistant than he would in several years as an historian of medieval liturgy.
Deep in his heart, however, still re-^mains a fond love for moldy documents, ^which he translates as a hobby in between embryology lab periods.
The following is one of his recent efforts :
And it came to pass that during this period the procurator of the aforementioned province in the western lands, newly appointed of the Emperor, and desirous of justifying his elevation, be-®gan a most intensive study of the circumstances attending the weekly public games. These, in the previous reign, though well-attended, had proved often tedious and unsatisfactory. This central part of the project, of course, was sound, but the interlocutors were often seemingly ill-prepared and the arrangements for seating and dispersing of bread were found unwieldy and uncomfortable. Thus the new procurator, Orambanus by name, decided to insti-9 tute immediate reforms in circumstances. A well-trained staff was implemented to facilitate seating arrangements, and these same men, preferably stoic in disposition, would supervise a new plan for the dispersal of bread which would shift the irremediable congestion from the distributing table itself, where it interfered with proper thanksgiving, to the back parts of the coliseum, where an interval of waiting might be conducive to expectation of
February 24, 1961
by MARK GOLDEN
the feast and consequently make more thorough preparation possible.
Furthermore, this same Orambanus chose more carefully the interlocutors, supervising their oratorical preparation and varying their approaches and personalities in order to appeal more to the general body of citizens. The results of these reforms were indeed quite satisfactory, ? except in one instance; that was the Christian problem.
Not only Orambanus but also his predecessors had had to face this problem in one form or other. Greater and greater numbers of Christians in a variety of different sects had begun the practice of holding their services on Sunday, the day set aside for the games, and consequently they had not attended very often. In several places around the province they would congregate for their rites, admitting anyone who was interested in their particular form of service and offering specially designed programs appealing to certain segments of the population.
It had been the policy of previous procurators to ignore this practice, on the theory that the group was small and not worth the stir which would necessarily follow any form of purge. In fact some of them had even considered the situation advantageous, since it in a way alleviated the crowded conditions in the coliseum. By the time Orambanus acceded to his position, however, the group had grown to at least noticeable proportions and the situation could no longer easily be overlooked. The procurator had honestly felt that the groups had arisen wholly due to the previous unsatisfactory conditions at the games, and that since his reforms had achieved so much success in eliminating the causes of dissatisfaction, they would naturally return to the coliseum of their own accord. But it soon became evident that there was more to the situation than was apparent.
The groups remained outside the civilian populace and increased their activities, both in numbers and in intensity. Orambanus began to fear genuinely that the movement would tend to hamper seriously the operation of his province and destroy its essential unity by their nonattendance at its weekly central function. With all these fac-,tors in mind, he formulated and pronounced his solemn dictum: all operations conflicting with the games should be effectively curtailed — attendance at the games would be compulsory.
Immediately there arose great consternation among the Christians. Their acknowledged leaders petitioned the procurator for an appointment, and having received it after several unsuccessful attempts, they pleaded their case with much fervor. They explained that their organizations depended upon the Sunday service for their very essential principles and to be forced to attend the central functions would severely cripple the basic structures of their sects. Up to this point Orambanus had not been fully aware of the implications of this movement, but having found their purposes and the importance that they placed on their own practices in opposition to those of the general public, he acted even more vehemently in enforcing their suppression.
Unfortunately he had underestimated their potential as well as the extent of their devotion to their newly-developed principles. The Christians went underground. They constructed throughout central area of the province a wide network of caves and tunnels, including larger subterranean rooms in which they continued to hold their services in disregard of the edict of the procurator.
Their effort however was to little avail. No sooner had they completed their project than the procurator received word of the operation from the mouth of an informer, and through diligent search he was able to locate one of the entrances. Simply by diverting a portion of the major river of the area, he was able to wash out and capture all of those offenders who were not drowned in the inundation. The leaders were tried and exiled along with their followers and the movement soon died out completely, much to the satisfaction of Orambanus, whose programs were now working out close to perfection.
After the water had subsided, the procurator toured the extent of the tunnel network and was impressed by the possibilities his engineers pointed out to him which arose from its location and construction. With suitable reinforcements, the tunnels were transformed into a great sewage disposal unit which was acclaimed throughout the Empire as the most successful public works program of that time.
Mr. Golden is a firm believer in the _ principle that history, like his - first ' " year calculus course, repeats itself.
13
JOHN OLIVER
CRITIC
Symphonic concerts in which the literature ranges from Mozart and Haydn to Strauss and Britten can easily prove to be dangerous undertakings, particularly when virtuosity and subtlety are essential requirements for the success of the works involved. A case in point is the South Bend Symphony’s third concert of the current season which included the works of the aforementioned
at the galleries
This article initiates a weekly series of short discussions on individual works of art which are in the permanent collection of the University of Notre Dame Art Gallery. The University Art Gallery acquires works chiefly through the generous gifts of Friends and Alumni, and is fortunately blessed with an unusually high quality collection for an educational institution. The work discussed each week will be on exhibition in the Gallery at the time this article appears in the Scholastic.
Portrait of a Nobleman by Jan An-thonisz van Ravesteyn (Dutch, circa 1572-1657). Ravesteyn is one of those artists commonly referred to as “The Little Dutch Masters,” this name being used to distinguish the majority of 17th century Dutch painters from such great names as Rembrandt and Hals. The label is by no means derogatory since Vermeer, Terborch and Steen also belong to it. The separation is used mainly to somewhat categorize the more than 4000 competent men who painted in Holland between 1600 and 1660. Ravesteyn is one of the most careful and exacting portraitists of the period. His style was influenced by Miereveld (who is also represented in the University Collection) and by Jacob Delff the Elder. He lived and worked at The Hague where he helped to form the new painter’s guild.
The Notre Dame portrait is particularly interesting because of its mastery of handling; it is considered by experts to be Ravesteyn’s masterpiece, superior to the more than thirty single and group portraits by him on exhibition in Europe’s famed Mauritshuis Museum in The Hague. The subject is presented in a formal, three-quarter length standing
14
Q 1
composers and the guest appearance of Lisa Della Casa.
While Benjamin Britten’s Variations and Fugue on a theme by Purcell (commonly known as The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra) shows off an orchestra’s individual choirs and soloists, it also demands an orchestra that is first rate and a conductor that will hold it together as a piece of music and not just as a technical exposition of the orches'^ tra’s different parts. The Symphony’s reading, though occasionally wayward in tempi choices, sufficiently exposed the composer’s intentions and gave the audience a chance to examine closely the individual sections of the orchestra. The woodwinds and lower strings maintained their excellent standards throughout the afternoon, but were especially pleasing here where the writing lends itself to instrumental beauties.	.
Later in the program the SymphonjV approached Haydn’s “Clock Symphony” {Symphony in D Major, No. 101) and reminded us of how difficult it is to do
pose. The aristocratic figure wears the , elaborate costume of the time with his | tall black hat resting on a table to the | right of the picture. In the upper left | comer appears his coat-of-arms, and in gj the upper right are the words “Sua 36 ano 1619”, which means that the gentle- fe. man was 36 years old in 1619 when the F portrait was painted. The work was | done in thin layers of oil glaze on a3| wooden panel, the usual material used li by the 17th century Dutch artist.	&
The painting was given to the Uni- | versity Art Gallery by Mr. Stuart M. Kaplan of Chicago in November, 1957. ^4
On exhibition in the Art Gallery, Gallery “C”, in O’Shaughnessy Hall. I1
James Key Reeve

Haydn really well. The first and last movements charmed as they were intended to, but the middle movements left much to be desired. The second movement, in which the clock-like rhythm alternates between the woodwinds and strings, requires finesse and a delicate balance between the subtle pulsation and the flowing melodic line Haydn wove into it. The best thing about this move-•nent was the precision with which the orchestra tackled it, though this virtue’s holding power is hardly enough for the music involved.
Whereas the second movement was hammered, the third was simply tedious (even in its precision) and brought to mind the fact that Haydn probably has more enemies than friends among today’s concertgoers. The fault assuredly is not with Haydn.
a When one thinks of Mozart and wStrauss, one generally conceives them as composers on opposite ends of the German musical tradition. The common characteristics they share are most often overlooked. When an artist with the penetrating, stylistic insight of Lisa Della Casa points them up they can hardly be ignored. The works she performed at the Symphony’s conceit were the two arias from Mozart’s Marriage of Figaro, “Porgi Amor” and “Dove •Sono,” and the Four Last Songs of Strauss (Richard). They compensated considerably for other lacks in the program and gave conductor Hames the chance to do what he does best—accompany.
Miss Della Casa, striking to begin with, possesses a voice that might be described as part of the German tradition. It is by no means opulent or silken, but rather steely in tone and at •times almost harsh. That she turns this into an asset is further proof of her artistry.
Her approach to singing is drawn from a close consideration of musical line. She manages to wed text and inflection, idea and phrase with an expertness that is so thoroughly a part of her singing it goes almost unnoticed as a separate entity. If all singers pursued ®the art with the intelligence and accomplished simplicity this artist does, we might discover that composers of songs and arias are concerned with saying something after all and not just intent on displaying a voice.
Praise must go to the orchestra and conductor on these numbers also. Whether it is the communicative fire of a guest artist or simply more intense concentration on the part of the Sym-_ phony is hard to say, but they inevitably • play better with the soloist. They take on unity and a completeness that makes their potentialities as a Symphony-sans-soloist almost painful, in that they just can’t seem to go it alone. If the phrasing we heard coming from the woodwinds in the Mozart arias, for example, was allowed to filter through the ensemble’s own numbers on occasion, the audience could probably be spared the brutality of the routine exposition they must usually undergo.
At the Theaters
This week: a couple of hold-overs, two simple things, and one abomination. They will be covered in that order.
Naturally, Ben-Hzir is still holed up in the Colfax, and it might be able to extricate itself by the beginning of the month. Oh, yes, this is the picture that won ten Academy Awards.
Now, on to Hong Kong. First off, though, I should apologize about mixing Nancy Kwan up with Antony Armstrong-Jones. Another young lady in The World of Suzie Wong, Jacqui Chan, should have been credited with this mistake. So solly.
The movie itself, in its second week at the Granada, has nothing new to offer except Miss Kwan’s presence. We can’t say the characters are standard, but the plot smells at times like a badly rehatched melodrama. The only character who isn’t too pat is Suzie Wong’s, and partial credit for this goes to Miss Kwan. William Holden has a one-track mind for painting, and from this is derived his look of patient suffering during the love scenes. He never explains this fully. Michael Wilding is a henpecked lush and nothing more, too like many types seen of late on the screen. When you see his wife come on screen, you know who she is and what she does at a glance. She scowls. Sylvia Syms, in the part of an English girl hopelessly in love with an adamant Holden, is very simply a snob. And so on.
It is a surprise when, now and then, the movie lights up with true humor. Miss Kwan has a couple of lines in this chore, and one of them is the best of the whole show. This and the photography save the picture from being a complete flop. By now, those of you who have seen it are probably screaming bloody murder or writing letters to the editor. Let me say that, with all its faults, The World of Suzie Wong is likable. You can’t help liking it, even if you try.
For those of you who want to look forward to something, let me say that definitely the Granada’s next two shows will be The Grass is Greener and Where the Boys Are. Those two titles could form one sentence.
The State has stepped off The Marriage-Go Round and right smack into The Village of the Damned. This ditty is termed a bit of “science horror,” and they could be right. It seems that this whole town in England went to sleep for a day and when it woke up all its women were expecting something. The babies, all born prematurely on the same day (it figures in science fiction), exhibit very strange characteristics and start doing away with their “parents.” Nothing more than an ingenious, if stupid, method of a superior race from outer space to take over the United Kingdom (what’s left of it). Very droll.
George Sanders stars in this thing, supported by Barbara Shelley and others. It runs all of 78 minutes and is still, at this writing, generally unrecommended.
As a co-feature, the State is offering another masterpiece by the King of Sentimental Family Shows, Walt Disney. Called Ten Who Dared, it is thinly based on Major John Wesley Power’s journal of the charting of the Colorado River. But history has never stopped Disney before, and it doesn’t fare well this time either. The movie is very entertaining, as Disney movies go, but its substance resembles an overripe banana.
February 24, 1961
15
Complete Optical Service . . .
• EYES EXAMINED
• GLASSES FITTED
Broken Glasses Repaired
Fast Service—“Bring the Pieces” o
BURKE
WANTED:
The Scholastic is seeking Ad Salesmen.
Opportunities for advancement.
See JOE FINNIGAN
220 Alumni
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . .. JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton * Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St	IMS. Bldg.
OPTOMETRIST 228 S. Michigan
CMctaBrtScNM
Vaseline
HAIR TONIC
cts Dry Scaly ■> lacwebaairjtt

T
keep a head of the game!
Gentlemen preferred by blondes, brunettes, and redheads prefer ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. That’s because most men use water with their hair tonic — and ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is specially made to use with water! The 100% pure grooming oil in ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces the oil that water removes from your-hair. In the bottle and on your hair, the difference is clearly there! Just a little ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic does a lot!
bioUGM POND’S INI .
it’s clear X
..... saw Mlttas Hail, tfta Natl ra Way
it’s clean..,it’s	♦
VASELINE HAIR TONIC
•VASELINE' |$ A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH.POND'S INC-	j
——— _ _ _ _ -	,
AVAILABLE AT	!
I
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE J
-----------------------------------------------------$
16
The Scholastic
Record-breaking Irish Engage North Central
Sufficiently rested after last Friday’s trip to St. Louis, Notre Dame’s swim team tries for its second consecutive victory tomorrow when it hosts a strong North Central College team in the etockne Memorial Pool. Starting time for the dual meet is 2 p.m.
Tomorrow’s encounter will be the
fourth between the two schools; North Central has won the previous three. And the 1961 contingent is just as capable. Coach Dennis Stark stated that the visitors have two Olympic perfown-ers and a former high school All-American to lead their watermen.
i Dick Blick, a gold medal winner, and « ^tuben Roca from Cuba are the two / | Wllympians who promise to provide
I rugged competition for the Irish throughout the afternoon. Adding to the Notre Dame worries is the presence of Byron Ware, the high school AllAmerican mentioned above, and the team’s most rapidly-improving swimmer.
In last Friday’s meet against Washington in St. Louis, the Irish swam brilliantly as they registered a 60-35 ►. Victory. Included in the Green’s vic" tories were three pool records, three team records and a tie of a fourth | team mark.
| The 400-yard medley team demont strated a top performance as they swam a to both a team and pool mark. Jim H Grever, Dave Witchger, Tony Haske | and Frank Dinger were the men re-| sponsible for Notre Dame’s fine showing in this event.
» | £ Another record-breaker for the Irish ' | swimmers at St. Louis was sophomore, I	John Clark. Clark covered the 220-
r	yard freestyle with apparent ease; yet,
he tied a team mark while setting a pool record. Senior Bill Cronin was just as effective in the 440-yard freestyle as he set both team and pool records.
On Monday, February 13, the Notre Dame swimmers experienced their .toughest competition of the season as they fell to a very fine Wisconsin unit at Madison, 73-32. There were only two bright spots in the Irish performance. Haske set a new varsity record in the 200-yard butterfly event with a time of 2:22.2. Witchger was the only other winner for the Irish as he streaked to win in the 200-yard breaststroke.
_______± jyiw,y|y!g;*gfa>vfu»ty-«
THE SABRE, FOIL AND EPEE
Notre Dame’s upstart fencing team, hoping to forget last Saturday’s double defeat at Columbus, O., hosts two capable visiting contingents, Illinois and Wisconsin, tonight in the Fieldhouse at 7:30 p.m.
Walter Langford’s team will rely heavily on John Donlon in epee, Tom Dwyer in the foil, and Larry Keough in the sabre event to overcome their Big Ten foes.
ND CAGERS FACE VENGEFUL DEPAUL; CLOSE SEASON AGAINST CREIGHTON
Tomorrow evening Notre Dame’s hoop-sters tangle with NIT-bound De Paul at the latter’s fieldhouse in Chicago. The Blue Demons will be finishing up the most trying part of their schedule tomorrow; a period in which they provided St. Bonaventure, the country’s second ranked team, with a 78-69 scare.
Howie Carl, of course, will once more be Notre Dame’s biggest problem, but all the Blue Demons will be up for this
JOHN MATTHEWS
Sophomore guard surprise
“revenge game” as they attempt to even up their slate with the Irish at 1-1.
Senior forward, Jim Flemming, has gone on a late season surge which has transformed him into the team’s leading rebounder; his scoring average is now ten points a game.
Sophomore M. C. Thompson, the team’s second leading scorer and rebounder, will occupy the other forward post, flanking, along with Flemming, 6-9 pivotman Bill Debes. Debes gave Johnny Jordan’s boys a rugged go before fouling out in the South Bend encounter.
Senior Billy Haig will once again be making a constant nuisance of himself in the backcourt. Haig, a perpetual hustler, is always right on top of the ball.
CREIGHTON HERE
After the De Paul skirmish, the Irish will return home to close their season Wednesday against Coach Red McManus’ unsuccessful Creighton club. Before the season started, all predictions stated that Creighton was headed for a good year, but an automobile accident which took the life of their fine captain, Dick Hartman, crushed those hopes.
Hartman, a rugged 6-8, 250-pound center, had shot his way to a 18.6 scoring average and had rebounded his way into the national prominence last year. His unfortuate death left 6-4 junior Carl Silvestrini as the “big man,” and he has done an outstanding job. Through the team’s first 19 games (Creighton hast won only five), Silvestrini set a 13.9 scoring pace and grabbed just under ten rebounds an evening. He recently gained recognition as the “best hook shot” to visit Providence all season.
Deadeye Chuck Officer, sporting a 16.6 average, will be patrolling the backcourt region. A couple of men who joined the squad at mid-year are expected to be of the most assistance to Silvestrini and Officer. Jim Swassing, a 6-3 sophomore, can play either forward or guard, while 6-1 Clinton Bedford, hitting at a 9.3 gait in his few appearances, is expected to pair with Officer in the backcourt.
Despite its poor record, Creighton han played some good ball, as evidenced by its 97-89 overtime loss to Canisius, also a conqueror of Notre Dame.
PORTLAND BATTLE
Last Saturday afternoon the Green streaked to an 80-49 victory over Portland University. The Irish, unpredictable throughout the 1960-61 campaign, uncorked their seldom-seen fast break for numerous baskets and the ultimate victory.
Eddie Schnurr, collaborator with John Matthews on several fast breaks, led the scoring parade with 17 points. Bill Crosby, playing a great game, chipped in with 16 points and at least five of his “I don’t believe it!!!” passes. Completing the well-balanced scoring sheet were Armand Reo and John Dearie with 14 each, Matthews with eight, Ray Vales with four, Karl Roesler with three and Denny Walljasper and John Andreoli with two each.
The visitors’ 6-9 center, Bill Garner, scored 22 points and delighted the audience, but not his opponents, by ramming several shots right back at their shoot-' ers.
—Bob Chiappinelli
NO MOTOR, PLEASE
The Sailing Club will continue to hold a Sailing Seminar, each Thursday night at 7:30. For those who have not been acquainted with the Seminars previously, they are run by the club officers for those interested in learning the rudiments of good sailing. So for smooth sailing, - it’s the Sailing Seminar each Thursday, evening at 7:30.	.
February 24, 1961
Sturdy Young Men
by
BILL CARY
The nights of March 13, 15 and 17 will end a month of hard work, sweat and toil for a sturdy group of young men who this year will be fighting in the 30th Annual Bengal Bouts sponsored by the Knights of Columbus. These boys, under the wise direction of Dominick Napolitano, demonstrate amateur boxing in its finest light.
Over 100 boys are currently in training for the Bouts. Some are lads who have boxed in outside competition such as C.Y.O. tournaments. Others have been champs in previous Bengal competition; this list includes Sam Haffey, Ross Franco and Tim Reardon. Many are boys who have never before engaged in organized competition. However, one fact is true of all — each knows that, come fight night, he will be in the ring doing his best.
CROWD PLEASERS
Many of last year’s fighters who were such crowd pleasers are returning to the ring wars. Two seniors, Sam Haffey and Ross Franco, rank as the top men in the 147-pound class. In one of the better matches on last year’s card, Haffey held on to get the decision over the sturdy Franco in a thriller. With both boys fighting in the same weight class again, there is a good chance for a replay of last year’s championship battle.
At 157-pounds, Tim Reardon will be defending his laurels. It was Reardon who last year proved that he was one of the classiest fighters in the tournament — he was head and shoulders above his competition. The southpaw swatter should benefit from a year’ of
RIGHT: Sam Haffey, a solid puncher in the 157-pound class, shows a strong right fist to his opponent. LEFT: Arnold Leporati demonstrates the art of self-defense at its best.
experience and once again will be the man to watch in his weight division.
Two other crowd pleasers whose rugged skill pleased the galleries last year-return in the form of the fighting Brennan boys. Tom, a senior, defeated Tim, a sophomore, in their meeting last year. Both showed a willingness to mix it up and as a result were well received by the crowd.
Bob Biolchini returns in the 167-pound class to defend his title. This will be Bob’s second year of Bengal competition. Biolchini showed poise in winning last year and should fare even better in the 1961 competition.
HEAVYWEIGHT DUEL
A real favorite of the crowd returns in the person of Barry Leone. The “Badin Bear” and footballer Gene Viola were matched in a vicious battle last year with Viola getting the nod in a very close decision. Leone eventually went on to win the junior heavyweight crown. He is a real fighter who delights in standing toe to toe and battling it out with his opponent.
Still another returning champ is 130-pound titlist Mike Morrow. Morrow, a junior, showed a good deal of speed and a quick left jab in winning last year.
At least one football player is entered in the 1961 Bengal Bouts. He is Jim Sherlock, a sophomore from Chicago who won his monogram playing end for the Fighting Irish this year.
These are some of the big names, fighters from former years, who are returning to fight in the Bengal Bouts. Most of them have won championships at one time or another. They are the ones whom the crowd will be coming to see.
But the fans will also be coming to see the unknown fighters who may be the new champions when the fighting is completed. This is what makes the Bengal Bouts the great attraction which it is.
Central Collegiate Meet Staged Here Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s promising track team swept nine of twelve first places en route to a 64-39 win over Marquette’s cindermen last Friday night in the Fieldhouse. The highlights: six seconds and two third places for the Irish, and a new meet record in the pole vault.
The Green gained a one-two finish irO the shot put when Mike Giacinto got off a winning heave of 48'2%" and Pete Kirk edged out Gerry Schindler of Marquette. Notre Dame annexed two additional firsts in the field events, with Dick Monjeau clearing the bar at 6' 1” for a first in the high jump, and Cocaptain Jerry Fitzpatrick leading the broad jumpers with a bound of 22' 9".
The climax of the evening’s competition came in the pole vault, with the—. Warriors’ Bob Verbich setting a new^ meet record with a vault of 14' 6". Verbich failed to clear 14' 8" in an attempt to break the existing Fieldhouse mark of 14' 6%". Frank Froelke took a second for Notre Dame with a 13' 8" jump, and Mike Terry added a third in the Irish cause.
A one-two-three sweep in the two mile run crowned Notre Dame’s efforts in the track events, with Tom Dempsey, Bill^ Yaley, and Bob Latsko finishing in that# order. Time: 9:32.4. Jim Sheeler won both the high and low hurdles for the Irish, winning the lows in :07.1 and negotiating the 60-yard course of the highs in :07.6. John Mulrooney captured second in the highs. Steve Schwartz and Dan Rorke were the lone Irish scorers in the 440 and 880-yard runs, respectively. The places: first and second, with Schwartz winning in :50.8. Ron Gregory won the mile in 4:12.1 with'^ Dennis Johnston taking second. Fitzpatrick tied for first in the 60-yard dash.
Bradley, Detroit, Marquette, Drake, Wheaton, Loyola, Wayne State and Western Michigan invade the Field- j house tomorrow for the Central Col-legiate Conference Meet.
DICK MONJEAU	j
Over for victory	!
Of The Scholastic
18
Meet Walter Langford
by JIM WYRSCH
p Coach and Professor are two inclusive terms which characterize Walter Langford’s continuing contribution to Notre Dame. As Professor he gained the top Notre Dame post in his field, having been, until recently, head of the University’s Modern Language Department. Presently he is an instructor of Spanish and an authority on Latin American civilization and culture. As Coach he has had enviable success in two fields, tennis (a life-time record of 95-26-1) and fencing (a 145-29 score for 14 seasons, and presently in his 15th campaign).
A WRITTEN EXPLANATION
Coach Langford explained his
• WALTER LANGFORD
success in a recent issue of Mentor, a periodical for the coaching profession. He coaches principally because he “enjoys” it. He enjoys the “candidates who . . . (are) pliable, attentive, eager, anxious to work, and determined to correct faults.” He enjoys the “heart-warming and soulfilling satisfaction of seeing his pupil progress daily and visibly.” But even more he “savours the appreciation and gratitude of the young fencer who experiences the thrill of this daily development.” Above all Langford enjoys the “family spirit” that exists among the team and the coach. Indeed the “heart of team spirit is . . . the matter of close association between coach and player.” He has had notable success in both instilling this team spirit (Charles Callahan, Notre Dame’s sports publicity director, reports that Langford’s teams have “tremendous spirit”) and then funnelling the enthusiasm to promote myriad victories.
Langford was the Irish tennis tutor from 1940 to 1953. During his first two years the
Cincinnati, Miami Host Irish; Rutkowski Wins At Wheaton
Notre Dame’s wrestling team faces two difficult road encounters over the week end against Cincinnati tonight and Miami of Ohio tomorrow. Both the Bobcats and the Redskins are much improved and Irish coach Tom Fallon feels these matches will be good tests for his grapplers. Last week end, Miami easily defeated a powerful Western Michigan squad, victors over the Irish earlier' this season.
Notre Dame finished fifth in the Wheaton Invitational tournament held last week end at Wheaton, Ill. The tourney featured some of the top grapplers in the Midwest and was won by host Wheaton.
Grabbing individual honors for Notre Dame was sophomore Ed Rutkowski, who won the heavyweight crown. Footballer Rutkowski defeated Bob Salada of Lake Forest College, 4-1, for the title. Earlier in the day, the Irish heavyweight defeated Gary Bass of MacMurray to advance into the finals. Fallon was impressed by the outstanding performance of the inexperienced Rutkowski, who was appearing in only his second competitive match.
One of Notre Dame’s most consistent performers, Dick Martin, won a referee’s decision in over-time to take third place in the 123-pound class.
netmen won two Indiana state championships. In 1942 and 1948, they were undefeated. In 1944 the Irish tied for the NCAA championship with Texas and Miami. Charles Samson, Irish captain that year, lost to the later-famous Pancho Segura of Miami for the singles title. Perhaps the peak years were 1947 and 1948. Paced by the Evert Brothers, Jim and Jerry, Notre Dame accomplished an 8-0 record in 1947 and 8-1 in 1948. They also won the Central Intercollegiate Tournament both years.
FENCING SUCCESS
The other beneficiary of Langford’s fine coaching is the Irish fencing team. He guided the 1940-43 teams, and resumed instructing the fencers again in 1951, in which capacity he now serves to the delight of all connected with that sport. In the last five years his teams have not finished lower than eighth in the NCAA championships. Don Tadrowski was the NCAA champion in epee for 1957, and Denis Hemmerle, second in epee for 1957, Gerry Finney, fourth in foil for 1958, Ron Farrow, third in epee for 1958, and Jim Russomano, fourth in foil for 1958, sixth in 1959, are others who have performed well in the NCAA championships. But even more important । is the fact that all of these boys were developed from scratch. Coach Langford says that “practically every fencer had to be started as an absolute beginner and developed in college. It is rare to find a college fencer with any decent previous training. . . We have had only six high school fencers enroll at Notre Dame in twenty-four seasons.”
Walter Langford graduated from Notre Dame in 1930 with a BA degree. He completed his formal education at the Universidad Nacional de Mexico, Mexico City, in 1937. He was appointed to the faculty in 1931. And since that time, Mr. Walter Langford’s contributions to both the sports and academic world have been both welcomed and valuable.
C4»r CALLS ’EM
Tomorrow
Loyola over Air Force Bradley over Tulsa LaSalle over Canisius Cincinnati over North Texas State Dayton over Eastern Kentucky DePaul over Notre Dame St. John’s over Fordham Villanova over Temple Indiana over Illinois Kansas over Nebraska Kentucky over Alabama Louisville over Marquette Purdue over Michigan State Navy over Army Ohio State over Wisconsin Southern Cal over Oregon State Providence over Boston College St. Louis over Wichita St. Joseph's over Muhlenberg St. Bonaventure over Niagara Wake Forest over South Carolina Utah over Utah State
West Virginia over George Washington
Game of the Week North Carolina over Duke
Upset of the Week
Minnesota over Iowa
Last Week’s Results
22 right, five wrong; 81.5 per cent
Totals to Date
98 right, 27 wrong; 78.4 per cent
19
^February 24, 1961
I)
Who's Who
(Continued from page 11)
a Dean’s List average, AB Advisory Board, and All-America Tennis Team for two consecutive years.
Donald Rice is Student Body VicePresident, member of the Blue Circle, AICE, and winner of the Union Carbide Scholarship.
Charles Rieck has maintained a Dean’s List average while fulfilling his duties as Editor-in-Chief of The Scholastic, and member of The Wranglers.
Thomas Ryan is a Blue Circle member, vice-President of the Senior Class, and former Election Committee Chairman.
Ronald Sampson of Davenport, Iowa, has won distinction as Dean’s List student, winner of the Naval Institute Award, and member of Nu Delta Epsilon.
Garry Scheuring is editor of the Tech Review, and Vice-President of the American Rocket Society.
Michael Smith is on the Dean’s List, and is a member of The Wranglers and Bookmen. On the editorial board of the Juggler, he has worked on the Director’s Committee of the YCS.
John Tully, member of the International Relations Club, Monogram Club, and a Dean’s List student, is also President of Walsh Hall.
Anthony Vierling is a Blue Circle member, President of Tau Beta Pi, De-
THE
DAVE BRUBECK QUARTET featuring PAUL DESMOND
SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1961	8:00 P.M.
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM, SO. BEND, IND.
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM RODIN’S RECORD SHOP
ADMISSIONS:	$4.60 ORCHESTRA
Tax Included	$3.50 MAIN FLOOR, MEZZ., 1st BAL.
$2.40 2nd & 3rd BALCONY
STUDENT DISCOUNT OF $.50 PER TICKET AVAILABLE AT MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM UNTIL SATURDAY. MARCH 4
20
A PUBLIC LECTURE
. . . will be given by Professor Eric Heller, author of THE DISINHERITED MIND, on the subject of “Faust — Salvation or Damnation?” at 8:30 p.m. on February 24 in the Art Gallery of O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Sponsored by the Arts and Letters Advisory Council
bate Clubber, and staff member of the Tech Review.
Christopher Watters is presently editor of the Juggler.
Jay Whitney, is President of the Debate Team, winner of the National Science Foundation Grant for Undergraduate Research, President of Tau Kappa Alpha, Notre Dame Chapter, Washington Day Exercise Committeeman, winner of the Chicago Tribune Award for Naval Science, 1959, and a Dean’s List student.
New Orleans
(Continued from page 22) practical circumstances in the twentieth century and therefore were missing the whole point of Christianity? Or perhaps we had “blind spots” in our charity and Christianity — not a unique situation in our secular world with its double conscience. The first possibility is a terrible indictment but most probably applies* to many; but the second possibility is most probably the more accurate explanation in general. In either case Catholics have not been educated on the race issue in the classroom and from the pulpit. The sermon is the only effective means of reaching all Catholics but, as is generally true of sermons, they only contain at best vague generalities concerning social justice and charity. The layman is expected to see the relevance meaning of these general principles ir^^ complex twentieth century life and to apply them to his own situation in the world. He is seldom able to accomplish this adequately for he has not been trained in this type of relevant thinking. The prejudiced man with his closed mind is still less liable to make the proper connection. The prejudiced white man thinks of the sermon’s justice and charity in relation to other white men. Also many priests were ignorant on the mean-0 ing of Christianity in the racial situation. 'Those that were educated on integration from a religious aspect were often afraid to preach integration due to social pressure that would result and because they were unable to answer the objections to integration requiring knowledge in such areas as genetics, anthropology and medicine.
The bishops seem to have realized that segregation was unjust and uncharitably but nowhere do we find evidence or traces’* of an effective comprehensive educational attack on segregation. It does not seem that any planned method of education was used on a large scale to change this practice that daily inflicted psychological and economic damage and cost the lives of countless bodies and souls. Perhaps this was existentially impossible. Archbishop Janssens in establishing the^ special churches for Negro worship wasij trying to alleviate the effects of a bad situation. But what about the cause of this of the bad situation? Even today there exists no systematic education program on the city scale in the Catholic schools or churches to convert the prejudiced. The traditional customs and social thought of a people, built on generations of repetition, will not be changed by an occasional pastoral letter, words from a few teachers here and there, and a rare allusion to the subject from the pulpit.
The Church, in not leading the school ' | integration, has failed in its responsibility for moral leadership and missed a tremendous opportunity. Instead it has let itself be carried along by outside influences both for segregation and integration. The Church has been in the middle, not an effective opponent of segregation and not an effective champion of integration. Too often the Church has been in this position else-
The Scholastic^
where in other fields of social justice and charity such as labor.
WHERE TO NOW
The Catholic schools at this writing still are segregated with integration promised. An attempt to integrate many particular parish schools at this time would perhaps not accomplish the desired ^nd, wrecking the educational process there. This possibility is in large part ; due to the climate generated by the poorly managed and ill chosen attempt to integrate two public schools. Also there has long since been little chance of integrating quietly. However there are parishes where, with careful planning and preparation of those involved, integration could take place relatively smoothly. All over the archdiocese there should be begun a drive to throughly ^ ducate the clergy, religious, and laity on integration and the answers to the ' objections of it — all according to a । systematic, comprehensive plan utilizing all the means of education that the Church has at its disposal.
What of the Catholics who will leave the Church because of integration? Should they halt integration if a reasonable attempt has been made to basically educate them on this matter? I think -not. The great number of Negroes who •nave fallen or strayed from the Church because of scandalous segregation will more than make up for the few who actually do leave. But the real answer to this question of course lies not in numbers of members. It is a matter of principle. The Church cannot stifle or adulterate herself no matter how many of her members desire this. The Church in New Orleans is doing no favor to any ^of its members in maintaining completely •segregated grade and high schools.
It should be kept in mind that the situation in New Orleans is very, very complex and judgments should be made with much care and reserve. The pressures against the Church and its archbishop are tremendous both from within and without and are not publically known. It also should be kept in mind that much of what has been said about New Orleans &can also be said to a lesser degree about a city such as Chicago.
(Ed. Note: The opinions expressed on this page are not necessarily those of the editorial staff or University Administration.)
Classified Advertising •
EARN $135 weekly during summer traveling overseas. MUST BE U.S. CITIZEN. Complete details furnished. Send $1.00 Lansing Information Service, Dept. E-17, Box 74, New York 61, N.Y.
BLOCK BROS.
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS.
Gift-wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
MILTON
from Paradise Lost, The Beautiful World, line 1
DOING IT THE HARD WAY
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S
SHAMPOO
somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control. Keep your hair and scalp really clean, dandruff-free!


February 24, 1961
new orleans> catholic city?
What source foi* the trouble in New Orleans over integration? The Catholic Church preaches Christian love for one another; 55% of the white population of my city is Catholic and 25% of the Negro population in the city is also. Why all the trouble over integration? Can’t it be said of Catholics, “See how they love one another.”?
DIFFICULT QUESTIONS
While we’re asking questions let’s ask a few more: If 90% of the Negroes in Louisiana were Catholic in 1800, why are only 25% Catholic in New Orleans and 16% in the archdiocese of New Orleans at the present time? Why hasn’t the Catholic school system, which is as large as the public school system and considered better, been integrated? Why are Negro Catholic doctors not allowed in the Catholic doctors association? Why do Negroes have a difficult time being admitted to Catholic white hospitals? Why are whites and Negroes separated in some Churches in rural parishes; why do they go to communion on different halves of the communion rail? Why do Catholic Laymen form an organization to petition Rome against their archbishop, who preaches that segregation is sinful? Why are some of the foremost leaders of the segregation movement Catholic college graduates? And why, in the middle of the twentieth century, are Catholics shaking their heads in bewilderment upon hearing that segregation is morally wrong?
In the days of slavery in the archdiocese, the Negro had a better place in the Church than might be expected, and in some respects better than he has today. Most of the slaves followed the religion of their masters, who were mainly French and Spanish, and therefore Catholic. However the adults definitely had to be instructed before being baptized. This work of providing for the Negro spiritually was carried on quite well by the Capuchin Missionaries during the French control of Louisiana and carried on by others later. The clergy insisted that the baptized slaves have the rights of Christian marriage and Christian burial, and the rights of hearing Mass and resting on Sundays. Up until Hie Civil War the records of the old parish churches show an increasing
22
number of baptisms, marriages, and funerals of slaves. Men of high standing and women of the ‘best families would stand as godparents for Negro adults who were baptized on Holy Saturday or the Vigil of Pentecost.
After the Civil Wai- the Negro found himself greeted with coldness and hostility by the white congregation. At times no pews were made available to him. Many justly felt unwanted and despised by their “brothers in Christ.” This was the beginning of the great falling away from the Church by Negroes to Protestantism, which was making a concerted drive for the Negroes in Louisiana at the time. The situation became worse as time passed so that in 1888 Archbishop Janssens decided to erect a church that would be designed primarily to meet the spiritual needs of the Negroes who would rather attend it then the “white parish.” This plan had been opposed in the past by both Negroes and clergy, but at this time was put into effect in spite of much opposition. The archbishop made it quite clear that no Negro was obliged to attend and was certainly free to attend his own parish. During all this period the French congregations were not hostile to the Negroes and welcomed them as members of their congregations. This however was the beginning of the special churches to care for the needs of the Negroes; at present they number thirteen out of a total of 68 churches in the city. They have bettered a bad situation; but not half of the Negroes who should be Catholic, either because of Catholic baptism or Catholic ancestry, are practicing the Faith. I will come back to these special churches later.
When the present archbishop took his position over twenty years ago he ordered the removal of the segregation signs from the churches that had them. Many times prior to 1954 the archbishop had urged racial justice and charity and had achieved a minimum amount of integration in a few respects. In 1956 the archbishop declared in a pastoral letter that segregation was morally sinful. Around this time he also stated that the Catholic schools would soon be integrated. This was changed in following years to “as soon as the public schools integrate.” ■ -
Until 1956 there had been CatholicJ integration organizations. One of them/ the Commission on Human Rights of the Catholic Committee of the South, consisting of laymen and clergy, had been in existence since 1939, and had stepped up its activity very much in the period of 1954-1956. There was also an organization in Catholic colleges that was quite active. However in 1956 the White Citizens Council moved into full scale action, and after a year of threats, vandalism, intimidation, and legislation, these inte^ gration groups lay in ineffective sham" bles. In 1956 also, a group of 100 Catholic laymen, more white than Negro, met and established a plan for Catholic school integration which they submitted to the archbishop. This plan was then assigned to a clerical committee which was ineffectual in carrying the plan further. At the same time another group of laymen petitioned Rome against the archbishop’s opposition to segregation. Their petition was ignored and they werd® finally ordered to disband under threat i of excommunication. Since 1956 the archbishop has been under illegal threats of state legislation against the Catholic schools if they were to integrate.
SCHISM OR SCANDAL?
At present the large majority o^ Catholics are opposed in varying degrees j to the integration of their schools. The parents of one parochial school met to make plans to conduct their own school if it was integrated. Many of the clergy fear that integration will cause many white Catholics to leave the Church. In the words of one of the racist leaders who is a ‘Catholic,’ “The Church has seen schism in the past and she is liable I to see it in the	future.”	I
-	O
The present	situation	is	clearly	the1
failure of Catholic education. When inte- j gration was finally strongly advocated by the Church, most Catholics were bewildered by this “new morality.” This situation may have just brought to the surface that Catholics in New Orleans did not realize what Christian Charity . was essentially. -Perhaps we did not | realize what it meant to love men in our |
' (Continued on page 20)	I
The Scholastic }
New additions to the family!
The two new telephones in the bassinet are the result of a perfect marriage of research and design.' They illustrate the way Gen Tel constantly strives to make the telephone an ever more convenient and helpful service of modern life.
$

The Starlite* phone in the foreground is a new “compact”-only half the size of a standard desk phone. Its PANELESCENT® (electroluminescent) dial glows in the dark for easy dialing, and can be turned up to serve as a night light.
The Space-Maker* phone can be hung anywhere— on posts and in tight corners. Both dial and handset can be adjusted to fit the space and the convenience of the user.
These new and modern phones for the home were developed by our subsidiary, Automatic Electric, largest supplier of telephone equipment to America’s Independent telephone industry.
They are but two examples of how General Telephone & Electronics works to improve equipment
and advance communications for the industry and national defense —both abroad.
home, for here and
•Trad* Mark
GENERAL	,__,
TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO C0_ WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
WlNSTONJMreSGQODJtea^a/e^^wW



Its what's up front that counts
FILTER-BLEND up front, is the big taste difference, and only Winston has it! Rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially processed for full flavor in filter smoking. That’s what makes Winston America’s best-selling filter cigarette. Make your next pack Winston!
p°n XV'1Llefi-ER PI^0R