The Notre Dame Scholastic
875
1'.

[A

NOTES ON LIVING
Last night we were in a motion picture theatre. The place was crowded with all kinds of people; men in evening clothes sat by men in working clothes. All were intent upon something that was far removed from the ordinary schedule of their lives— and all were interested. Then the screen went dark, the curtains closed, the house flared with light, and a suddenly assembled orchestra started to play. They went through one trivial piece and then a placard announced the next number—March Slav.
... A good many years ago a Russian writer wrote a book in which he pictured a young man going-through the world with but one word in his mind—a word that glowed like all the jewels in the world, a word that burned like all the enormous noons that ever have been—Love. The young man was known to his friends as Prince Muishkin—but his creator-called him The Idiot.
The music began. Quite slowly the whole crowded house fell away into nothingness. We were alone. The music swelled up into roses of sound.
On ... on ... o my soul.
And from the far corners of the horizon, Prince Muishkin, grown into a giant, came walking. He strode over the earth, looking down on those below. And the eyes that looked down were those which had looked into eyes that had fired twelve men into flames. God is rising in the hearts of mankind.
The music leapt up in clusters of white roses. The air grew leaden with the smoke of the flames of flowers; the smoke cleared away; the shouts of people filled the air with clenched fistfuls of swords; but still walking through it all and looking down on it all was The Idiot.
And Ghandi was marching to the sea.
Again we saw the theatre. A few seats away from us a young couple held hands. Another time we would have laughed, but this time . . . And still over it all, as the music shattered the air, walked The Idiot.
And Ghandi was marching to the sea.
The music stopped. A river of applause flowed around the shoes of The Idiot. He smiled—and walked over the horizon into the red forest of the sunset. The “movie” started, and the people settled down to enjoy
themselves . .
—M. H. L.
S
~ the
Notre Dame 5cholast ic
Ui see- Quasi- Semper-VictttFus«Vlve~Quasj.CTas-Moriluria
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Joseph B. Reedy..... J. Archer Hurley. .. Walter Lancford.... William Knapp....... Ramon G. Smith......
Paul J. Edward
Hallinan. ..
E. Brennan.
........Managing.Editor .Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor ........The.......Week ........The College Parade ........Music and Drama ........Campus	Clubs ........Features.Editor ........Script.Editor
James Collins Howard Webster Austin Boyle John Motz
William J. Magarral Harry A. Sylvester.
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Neil Hurley George Allan
Richard J. O’Donnell John Pick
James Kearney
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
Jr.
Harrington Chester M.
Cleve Carey Henry B. Asman
BUSINESS STAFF
J. Noon,
Lawrence Dunda. William Karl James Carmody
Leslie Raddatz
F. Granger Weil James E. McFeely. Jr.
Local Circulation Manager
Ashman....Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick N. Davis.........Local Advertising Manager James L. Rizer. .:.........Foreign	Advertising Manager
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
Vol. LXIII
MAY 16, 1930
No. 28
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece _____________________________ Tim Benitz Is Named President of S. A. C__ K. C. Picnic Held at Hudson Lake, Indiana_ Coming Events____________________________________
High School Orators in Contest Tonight----’_ A Man You Know—William C. Karl------------ The Wink---------------------------------- The Week—J. Archer Hurley----------------- Editor’s Page------------------------------------
Badin: Home of the Weak and Mighty—Ray Connors--- Baseball Team Wins Over- Wildcats—James E. McFeely Tracksters Win Over Spartans Easily—Henry B. Asman. Golfers Trounce Loyola Linksmen—John A. Kiener--- Tennis Team Drubs Gophers—William J. Magarral---- Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester-- On Down the Line---------------------------------
876
877
878
879
881
884
885
886
887
888
892
892
893
893
901
904
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office. Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.

The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
IMS
876
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THDEADT OVED EADTH
The Notre Dame Scholastic
877
Tim Benitz Is Named President of S. A. C.
McDevitt announces BUSINESS STAFF' APPOINTMENTS
Harley McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, has recently announced the names of the men who
Harley McDevitt
have been appointed members of the business staffs of the various University publications for the coming year. They are as follows: Scholastic — Local advertising manager, James H. Rorke, a junior in the College of Commerce, from Brooklyn, New York; foreign advertising manager, James L. Rizer, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Towanda, Pennsylvania; local circulation manager, John R. Blanda, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Passaic, New Jersey; and foreign circulation manager, Andrew McGuan, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, from Baraboo, Wisconsin. Juggler—Local advertising manager, Edward W. Mehren, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Chicago, Illinois; foreign advertising manager, John W. Zaback, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Cleveland, Ohio; and circulation manager, Joseph A. Wilk, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Adams, Massachusetts. Dome—Local advertising manager, Clarence Futter, a junior in the College of Commerce, from Mishawaka, Indiana; and foreign advertising manager, Edmund Britz, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, from Chicago, Ill.
PHELAN AND HURLEY GET
WRANGLER OFFICES
FOR NEXT YEAR
John Edward Phelan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected, last Tuesday evening, to the presidency of the Wranglers’ Club for next year. Mr. Phelan has been a member of the club for two years, serving the past one in the capacity of secretary. He is also a member of the varsity debating team, and for the past two years he has acted in the office of debating coach in the interhall contests. He succeeds Mr. James Walsh, who is graduating in June.
Neil C. Hurley, of Oak Park, Ill., a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected to fill the position of secretary, vacated by Mr. Phelan. Mr. Hurley has been a member of the society for the past year, serving on the membership and initiation committees, and also on the Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest committee.
The new administration will hold a banquet for the graduating members on May 24. Messrs. Stanton, Walsh, Houlihan, and Keegan will be honored upon this occasion.
MASSEY ELECTED HEAD OF.
NEW JERSEY CLUB
Robert A. Massey, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was reelected president of the New Jersey Club at the elections held Tuesday night in the Law Building. Massey won over William Gadek, a junior in the College of Science, by four votes. In the ballotting for the vice-presidency, Gadek won over William Blind, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. Gadek will succeed James F. Dilley, who is graduating in June.
William C. Karl, a member of the Scholastic staff and recently elected to the Spectators, was elected treasurer to succeed Richard T. Connelly. Don Sullivan, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, succeeded Gadek as secretary.
The Club will hold its usual spring dance some time in June. President Massey picked the various committees for the dance at the last meeting of the current year, held last night in the Law Building.
Hotly Contested Contest Sees South Bend Man Win
Connelly Elected Secretary; Esposito io Be Treasurer.
Monday evening the S. A. C. election of officers was held in the North
room of the Library.
Tim Benitz
Great interest and rivalry was shown in the elections, with each of the factions attempting to secure the selection of its candid ates. The meeting was attended b y seventeen of the eighteen members of the S. A. C.
Tim Benitz of South Bend, a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president. He has been a member of the S. A. C. for the past year. The secretary is John F. Connolly, a Sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. The recently named S. A. C. representative from the College of Science, Louis Esposito, a Junior, was selected as treasurer.
Robert Hellrung, the retiring president, said that the S. A. C., as well as the Blue Circle, to which each of the members of the council names two members, will have an unusual amount of work this coming- year. With five home games, the dedication of the stadium during the Navy game, and the general celebrations of homecoming, as well as the student trip to Pittsburgh, they will need effective and efficient officers. Because of these things, he said, its problems will take on an added complexity which may be solved only through tact and diplomacy.
WILLIAMS ADDRESSES BOY GUIDANCE MEN
Dr. Herbert Williams, Regional Director of the Big Brother Federation of America, addressed the Boy Guidance students last Thursday on the philosophy of Big Brother work. He also met with the Sociology students who are majoring in Probation Work and discussed the duties of the Probation Officer.
878
The Notre Dame Scholastic
K. of C. Picnic Held at Hudson Lake, Indiana
Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus held its annual picnic yesterday at Hudson Lake, Indiana. Nearly two hundred Knights availed themselves of the opportunity, and enjoyed the program outlined for them by the picnic’s chairman, Walt Scholand. The picnic was enjoyed by all those who attended and the consensus of opinion is that this year’s outing easily surpassed those of other years.
The picnickers left the Notre Dame Post Office at ten and twelve o’clock and were transported to the lake in Greyhound busses. Upon arriving there they were served with a luncheon which'consisted of sandwiches, pie and coffee.
Two o’clock found several ball games in progress on the athletic field, which was in excellent shape. Two-thirty found the picnickers answering the call of Grand Knight Jack Chevigny, and the chairman, Walt Scholand, who announced the first of the races which w’ere run off during the afternoon.
The Crab Race was the first announced, and the agility of Tommy Kenneally placed him among the favorites to take the event. Then came the Peanut Race wherein many noses were scratched as the contestants edged their objects nearer the finish line. The Three-legged Dash found many of the local Knights tripping their way on to the goal. The Sack Race furnished many laughs for the spectators. The Race of All Fours found many riders thrown to the turf but they quickly responded to the call of the Pie-eating Contest. Bill Miller and Marty Travers ate the most pie and it looked like a dead finish until an unknown broke through the barriers. The Base-running Contest found many fast men and was closely contested.
The feature races of the afternoon were then announced. The discus throw found the boys vainly trying to heave their pieces of cardboard to new meet records. The climax of the afternoon was reached when the Horse and Rider contest for the Treasurer’s prize was announced. It found many spills but the boys rallied to stage an exciting event. The event preceded the Dash which was the final race of the afternoon. .
With the termination of the Irish-Dutch baseball game the picnickers went in to their dinner which was served in the Hudson Lake Casino. Chicken was portioned out in large quantities and the Knights enjoyed their share thoroughly. At the completion of the dinner Toastmaster McGreal called for the attention of the men and the winners of the events were awarded their prizes.
Jack Cannon was presented with a gift from the Council for his commendable services as Warden during the past year. He responded with a few words of thanks and expressed his regret of having to conclude his career at Notre Dame.
The Council’s Chaplain, the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., was then presented with a desk set as a token of appreciation for his invaluable aid to the Council during the past year. His address was followed by the presentation of a watch to Grand Knight, Jack Chevigny.
Chevigny’s address was listened to with much attention by the members of the Council who attended the picnic. He spoke about the year’s activities and called attention to the notable strides made by the Council during the past year. He pointed out how this year has been a most successful and enjoyable one because more has been added to the Knight’s building fund than in previous years. He expressed his regrets at having to conclude the year, as this picnic was the last gathering of the Council.
With a few words from the departing officers, and those seniors of the Council who are to be graduated in June, the departure for school was announced. The closing announcement of the year was made which summoned the Council to a meeting this Friday night, in the Council’s Chambers, May 16.
Friday, May 16, will be the last meeting of the year; it will be the scene of the elction of next year’s officers.
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB
ELECTS HABING
William? Habing, a junior in the College of Commerce, was named president of the Indianapolis Club for the ensuing year, at the election bf the club, Wednesday evening, in Badin “Rec” room.
MAY “ALUMNUS” RE-
LEASED TODAY
The May issue of the “Notre Dame Alumnus” is on the press and will soon be released for distribution. A few of the articles which appear in this month’s issue are concerned with the following subjects: the death of the Honorable William P. Breen, the annual convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, the annual convention of the American Alumni Council, the work of Reverend Henry Kemper in Kerrville, Texas, and the Universal Notre Dame Night.
The first article is concerned with the death of Honorable William P. Breen. It was this alumnus who gave the Breen Medal, for many years, to the winners of the oratorical contest, and who bequeathed to the University approximately $200,000.
A page is devoted to telling the alumni readers about the work of Reverend Henry Kemper, C.S.C. Father Kemper belongs to the University class of 1905; when physicians told him that tuberculosis would overcome him, he went to Kerrville, Texas, where he established what is now known as Notre Dame Institute. It has been some twenty years since the physicians made their prophecy, and Father Kemper has done a great piece of work in that length of time.
An account is given of the proceedings of the Universal Notre Dame Night which was held on April 21. The address which was given by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, is printed in this issue.
The editorial for this month is about an ever important and ever popular topic—money. We are reminded that Columbia University, in addition to being the largest university in the United States is also one of the wealthiest. Its assets and income bearing assets exceed by far its liabilities and its financial needs. The editor believes that this fact is significant in that it is representative of a national trend in education. Education is now a business. It is a business which may be likened to other members of the business world in that it has the same claims to support and organization.
The remainder of the May issue deals with news of the alumni clubs and personal news of individual alumni.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
879
>— ---------------------------*
Coming Events
♦— ----------------------------A
FRIDAY, May 16—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.— Rocky Mountain Club meeting, Court Room, Law Building, 8 p. m.
SATURDAY, May 17—Movies, “The Wagon Master,” Washington Hall, 6:40, 8:15 p. m.—Track, Indiana State Intercollegiate meet, Cartier Field, 1:00 p. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern at Evanston.—Interhall Indoor Baseball, 12:40, 12:50 a. m., 1:00, 1:10, 1:20 1:30 p. m. (For complete schedule see page 897 of this issue).—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Loyola University, University courts, 2:00 p. m.—LaRaza Club banquet, Oliver Hotel, 6:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, May 18—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00; High Mass at 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Minnesota, University courts, 2:00 p. m.
MONDAY, May 19—Spectators’ banquet, Rose Marie Tea Room, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, May 20—Scribblers’ banquet, Oliver Hotel, 6:30 p. m.— Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State at East Lansing.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Bradley, University courts, 2:00 p. m.—Last day for handing in senior theses.
WEDNESDAY, May 21—Services, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, May 22—Rocky Mountain Club banquet, Oliver Hotel, 6:30 p. m.—Last day for junior and sophomore pre-registration in the College of Arts and Letters.
FRIDAY, May 23—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Luther at Decorah, Iowa.
BISHOP VISITS CAMPUS
The Right Reverend William J. Hafey, D.D., bishop of the diocese of Raleigh, North Carolina, was a visitor on the campus last Monday. Bishop Hafey was very much impressed by the campus.
MONOGRAM CLUB WILL RECEIVE NEW MEMBERS
AT BANQUET
The Monogram Club will hold a banquet Sunday evening in the Faculty Dining Room honoring the new members of the organization who have won their letters in the spring sports. Clarence Donovan, president of the club, will preside as toast master.
The new members of the organization include: Wilson, Little, Abernathy, Howery, Cronin, Rigney, Cummings, McCormick, Bradley, Mortenson, Nichols and Managers Kegowicz, Kennedy and O’Marah of the track squad.
The baseball monogram men are: Nolan, Askew, O’Keefe, Palt, Mahoney and Sullivan. DeCook, Busch, Newbold, Crowe, Gavin, Kizer, and Manager Con Carey are the basketball men to be inducted into the Club.
EDUCATIONAL CONFRATERNITY TO MEET
MONDAY
The newly organized Education Confraternity, an organization composed of students in the University majoring and having an interest in Education will hold a meeting Monday evening, May 19, in the Journalism Room of the University Library. The new constitution of the organization will be formally adopted and election of officers for the next year will take place at this meeting. The membership is still open and all juniors majoring in Education are invited to attend this meeting, the final gathering for the year.
MULLEN, BOISVERT AND McCABE WIN SCRIBBLER
PRIZES
At a meeting of the Scribblers last Tuesday evening the results of their recent short story contest were announced; first place, “First Day” by Mr. Cyril Mullen; second place, “Crazy” by Victor Boisvert, C.S.C.; and third place, “Breakfast,” by Mr. Joseph McCabe.
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. addressed the club on the relation of Catholic philosophy to literature. The discussion that followed brought out some points on the subject of tragedy.
❖--------------------------------*
Gleanings
♦--------------------------------❖
Many class reunions are being planned for Commencement week. Meetings, golf tournaments and smokers form the greater part of the reunions.
* * *
News comes to us that our faithful managing editor of last year, Dave Saxon, has announced his intentions of entering the state of marital bliss. Dave is at present writing for the South Bend Tribune.
. * * *
It seems that the Senior Ball is always a mecca for alumni of the vicinity of the University, for many informal class reunions were held in the portals of the Palais Royale Friday.
* * *
Professor David Weir of the College of Commerce was recently honored by the University Club of South Bend, being elected its president for the ensuing year.
* * *
Joe Sullivan, ’29, was the base arbiter of the . Iowa baseball game last Saturday. Joe had a good chance to watch the movements of his little brother Bill; varsity first sacker.
O’DONNELL ELECTED TO
PRESIDENCY OF PITT CLUB
Richard J. O’Donnell, Scribbler, Spectator, and member of the Scholastic staff, was elected to the presidency of the Pittsburgh Club at a banquet held last Monday at the Rose Marie Tea Room. Jceeph O’Rourke was elected vice-president, Jerry Wilson was elected secretary, and William Magarall was re-elected treasurer.
NOTICE I
All candidates for an M. A. degree must be measured for cap and gown by Dan Sullivan in Sorin Hall, before Monday, May 19.
Caps and gowns will be distributed to all graduates in the old Carroll Hall refectory, between the hours of 9: CO and 5:30, on Frid? z, May 30.
880
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MUSIC AND DRAMA
♦---------------------------i
From the preliminary announcements for Journey's End, it seems that those who have seen it are going to accept a lovely southern drawl (not so much drawl, however, as southern) for a good old sharp cockney. However, Trotter, good old Trotter, should be a howling success in the University production.
As for the rest of the drama . . . well and well! Come around for Commencement and see some of the neat dramas. When the boy whose family has six or eight Rolls-Royce jobs comes around in a flea-bitten Durant; or the chap whose family sailed on the Europa comes around with a lot of bags bearing unmistakable signs of having travelled on the Hudson River Day Line. There’s drama . . . The College Boy; or Neither Fool, Fife, nor Fiddle.
We had really ■ meant to write a swell (to quote Mr. William Rose Benet) farewell in the best tradition of the campus literati, but at the present writing the critic is feeling non campus menti and will talk about some good records. At Elbel’s, of course.
There’s an album of Wagner’s, for instance, that shows up Debussy for a plagiarist. There’s an. album of Friml for those who consider Victor Herbert the salvation of music (saved from Bach and Beethoven) and Mr. Friml very nicely plays the piano for this album.
Then there is jazz. There’s George Olsen playing “I Don’t Need Atmosphere” and “Home Is Heaven, Heaven Is Home.” Those who claim that jazz is not music can come over to Sorin and listen. George Olsen is doing the songs from “High Society Blues” and they are good.
And there is Gus Arnheim doing his very best by “Dancing to Save Your Sole,” and until you have heard the vocal trio with an obbligato of tap dancing and violin you aren’t in it.
Coming out today we have Rudy Vallee doing “I Still Remember” and “I Never- Dreamt.” These are as good as anything Vallee has done since Maine awarded him an “M” for popularizing the “Stein Song.” A good example of something for nothing. Then there’s an Amos ’n’ Andy record for those who believe the only thing keeping the country going is a team known as Correll and Godsen.
Miss Grace Hayes sings “My Lover’ ’and “I Like to Do Things For
You.” Grace out-Helens Helen Morgan in the first. And we are glad she got first crack at the other because Helen Kane will release a record of it next week. Not to mention Reisman. Watch for next week’s Reisman record and one by Duke Ellington.
GLEE CLUB SINGS IN SOUTH BEND
The University Glee Club made its first appearance since returning from its eastern tour during the Easter holidays when it presented an informal concert for the Sisters and Nurses of St. Joseph Hospital, in South Bend, last Sunday evening. Director Joseph J. Casasanta led his singers through an entire program of songs.
The Glee Club will give its last concert of the year in Washington Hall on Saturday evening, May 31. The Baccalaureate Mass will be sung by the men in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday, June 1, after which the organization will disband until next fall.
1929-30 BRINGS MANY NEW BOOKS TO LIBRARY
Last Tuesday, Mr. Paul R. Byrne, University librarian, announced the latest gift to the library here. This consists of five boxes of books from the personal library of Monsignor James Coyle, LL.D. ’10, of Taunton, Mass. The books deal with general material.
Monsignor Coyle’s gift is merely the latest of many gifts to the Library during the past year. A few weeks ago the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., received eighty books from the Yale University Press on the subject of economics. These are now in the University Library. The books that Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., collected in Brownson Hall are also there. These last are especially rich in religious biography.
The Library has also purchased the Annals de la Propagation de la Foi, 1822-1880. These include letters of the missionaries in this country from 1822 to 1886, to the headquarters of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith in France. Since the first diocese in this country was established in 1815, the letters are an authoritative source for a study of Church history in the United States.
NOTICE!
College of Arts and Letters Attention of students who have not yet pre-registered for classes:
Notice is hereby given that all present sophomores and juniors who have not as yet preregistered for classes for the first semester of next year- are given until May 22 to do so. After that date (unless this office is notified to the contrary) it shall be assumed that they are not returning to the University, and their names will be given to the Registrar.
.Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean.
❖-------------------------------
Following is a list of new books now available at the Library:
Biography—Rev. H. F. Blunt, Great Penitents; G. K. Chesterton, The Thing; John Cournos, A Modern Plutarch; T. C. Smith, The Life and Letters of John Abram Garfield.
European History—M. J. Bonn, The Crisis of European Democracy; J. F. Kenney, The Sources for the Early History of Ireland; C. E. Maxwell, A Short History of Ireland; Andre Siegfried, France, a Study in Nationality.
American History—D. P. Elder, California the Beautiful; Rexford Newcomb, The Old Mission Churches and Historic Houses of California; E. S. Osgood, The Day of the Cattleman.
Physical Education—Graham Bickley, Handbook of Athletics for Coaches and Players; S. C. Staley, Marching Tactics.
Business and Industry—L. A. Boet-tinger, Employee Welfare Work; A. E. Galster, The Labor Movement in the Shoe Industry.
Science—G. A. Bliss, Calculus of Variations; D. R. Curtis, Analytic Functions of a Complex Variable; David Hilbert, The Foundations of Geometry; J. E. Kirkwood, Northern Rocky Mountain Trees and Shrubs; N. I. Lobachevskii, Geometric Researches on the Theory of Parallels.
Medicine—Joseph Collins, Insomnia; J. J. Walsh, Laughter and Health; W. A. White, Insanity and the Criminal Law.
Technology—F. A. Parkhurst, Applied Methods of Scientific Management.
Bibliography—W. M. Corse, Bearing Metals and Bearings; Emma Fel-. senthal, Readable Books in Any Subject.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	881
High School Orators In Contest Tonight ........... .........................
Wranglers Annual Meet to Bring Together Eight High Schools
r
f	This evening, through the work of
j the Wranglers Club, the honorary forensic society of the University, Notre Dame will have the privilege of hearing the best of the high school orators of Northern Indiana. In an s, invitational contest, in which only the .• best schools were tendered invitations, ,	the eight best in this part of the state
|	will compete tonight at 7:30 in
Washington Hall.
I South Bend High School, winner of I ths trophy last year, will be present L to defend its title. However, for-[ midable competition is going to be given by a few of the down-state schools. Chairman of the affair, John * ’ Houlihan, is emphatic in stating that l only the best of the orators have 1 been admitted to the finals this evening, which assures those who attend that each man will be a splendid speaker.
The Club is anticipating a large crowd to witness the event, inasmuch as a great deal of talent will be oh display for all of those students interested in oratory and speaking.
Judges for the event include Mr. Colbrenner of the Department of Education and Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the ‘ University. A Master of Ceremonies has not yet been decided upon, but the committee states that there are several men under consideration.
The awards will include a handsome cup, donated by the Wranglers, to the school winning the contest. Three individual medals will further’ be presented to those speakers that finish highest in the meet. Mr. Frank Noll, in charge of the awards, has procured only the finest possible, in order to assure the contestants that the Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest is well worth their time and labor.
Mr. John Wilson will officiate during the course of the contest at Washington Hall, together with the other members of the Committee. Mr. Neil Hurley has taken care of the Publicity for the contest, as his special function as a member of the special committee in charge of the event.
“The contest this year,” states Mr.
CASASANTA RELEASES
BAND SCHEDULE
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the School of Music, has announced the schedule which the musical organizations, under his direction, will follow during Commencement Week. The schedule is as follows:
Friday, May 30: Band for Military Mass, 9:15 a. m.; Band Concert on the Quadrangle, 6:30 p. m.; Orchestra for the Play, 8:00 p. m.
Saturday, May 31: Orchestra for the Class Exercises, 9:00 a. m.; Glee Club concert, 8:00 p. m.
Sunday, June 1: Glee Club for Baccalaureate Mass, 8:30 a. m.; Band for Flag Raising, 10:15 a. m.; Band for Commencement Proper, 3:45 p. m.
Director Casasanta emphasized the fact that Central Standard Time will prevail in all instances.
LAY FACULTY MEMBERS IN
DINNER DANCE
Members of the Lay Faculty of the University were guests at a party and dinner-dance last Monday evening, May 12, in the faculty dining-hall. The dance was sponsored and arranged by the Lay Faculty Club.
The election of officers for the Faculty Club was held during the evening. The voting gave Mr. William Benitz the presidency, and Mr. Raymond Schubmehl was elected secretary-treasurer.
isiiitittttciiHiititittiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiMiiimimiinnttitHitiiiiittti
Houlihan, “has all the earmarks of surpassing any of the other previous oratorical contests sponsored by the Wranglers. If interest among high schools of the state, choice of talent, and co-operation on the part of the committee are any indication, it will undoubtedly be even more than that.”
This is the third annual contest which has been undertaken by the Wranglers, each one proving so successful that another was almost a necessity. It is considered one of the biggest forensic achievements of the year, by a Northern Indiana high school, to win this event, so stiff is the competition.
The Club is anticipating a good turnout, in view of the fact that the event is one of the best affairs on this year’s forensic calendar.
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS MAKE SELECTION OF
OFFICIAL RING
After four hours of viewing displays exhibited by six leading jewelry manufacturers of the country, a committee, meeting Monday afternoon, chose the ring, with minor changes, exhibited by Thomas Harrington, representative of the Charles H. Elliott Co., of Philadelphia, as the official University of Notre Dame ring.
The newly adopted gold ring, to sell for §19, is designed on one side with the university seal featuring the eagles, the coat of arms, the Cross, anchors, and a crown. Either the Administration Building or the Dome will be cast on the other side. Centered in the ring will be an oval sapphire surrounded in its gold casting with the words, “University of Notre Dame.” The placing of the names of the six major schools of the university on the two shanks of the ring is being contemplated.
It is to be of a military design similar to those worn at West Point, Annapolis, Georgia Tech, Vanderbilt, Tulane, Pittsburgh, and Georgetown, and is to weigh 14 pennyweight. It will be made of 10 carat gold.
The ring will, from now on, be recognized as the official class insignia. The student who becomes eligible to wear this ring must have successfully completed the first semester of his junior year.
Robert Hellrung, president of the S. A. C., announced Monday night that the rings will be displayed on the campus before the first of June. Approximately 550 rings should be sold each year. This yearly order will rank in volume as the largest university or college ring order in the country.
The committe determining the final selection consisted of Raymond Reardon, president of the senior class. Vernon Knox, president of the junior class, James Collins, president of the sophomore class, William Hanifin, president of the freshman class, Jack-son Sigler, the senior Off-Campus representative to the S. A. C., Robert Hellrung, president of the S. A. C., Jack Keefe, secretary of the council, and Harold Duke, treasurer in the same organization.
882
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“JOURNEY’S END” TO BE STAGED WEEK FROM
SUNDAY
Professor Frank Kelly, Director of the University Theater, has definitely announced the dates of the two showings cf “Journey’s End,” by the University Players, as the twenty-fifth and thirtieth of this month. This first performance of the noted war play is to be presented for the benefit of those students who wall be unable to see the same cast enact it at Commencement time, when they will put it on for the graduates and alumni the Friday before Commencement.
Mr. Kelly has also announced the names of those who will definitely take part in the play. This cast will include: Walter Stanton, Norman Hartzer, John Nowery, William Sherman, Carl Christianson, Roger Beirne, Virgilius Phillips, and Al Doyle. Many of these men are familiar to the student body, and, from their present performances, in the rehearsals which have been going on for the past few weeks, we feel that they will excel themselves in this new and modern play.
PHYS. ED. CLUB HOLDS
ANNUAL DINNER
MEETING
An event outstanding among Notre Dame clubs was the annual dinner meeting of the Phys. Ed. Club at the Morningside Hotel on May 6, 1930. Although the Club is only in its infancy the meeting was well attended. The purpose of this Club is the promotion of professional spirit in physical education.
Mr. William Coyne, of the Speech Department, was toastmaster for the occasion. The other speakers were Mr. John Connelly, professor of Philosophy; Mr George Cooper, professor of Biology; Mr. James Masterson, head of the Department of Physical Education, and Mr. John Scannell, director of freshman physical education and club adviser. The retiring president, Mr. Peter Moroni, had a few words of encouragement for the members and wished the Club great success in the future.
Tire distribution of club charms and the election of officers for the year 1930-31 brought the meeting to an end. The following men were elected to office: President, James Griffin; Vice-President, J. Regis Kuhn; Secretary, Edward O’Neil, and Treasurer, William Taylor.
“JUGGLER” ENDS SUCCESSFUL YEAR WITH BANQUET
Last Monday evening a Juggler banquet was held in the dining room of the Progress Club in South Bend. Both editorial and business staff members were in attendance. The dinner marked the first time this year that the two groups have met together. It came at the close of what is regarded as the Jziggler’s most successful year.
John L. Nano vic, retiring editor, thanked the staff members for their work during his editorship. He urged those staying on to co-operate as well next year, with Jack Dempsey, and maintain the Juggler’s high rating among college comic magazines. Mr. Dempsey spoke briefly and told of a plan for summer work which will be outlined later to the returning art and editorial men.
Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager, announced the appointment of Edward Mehren and John Zaback as local and foreign advertising managers, respectively. Joseph A. Wilk was made circulation manager. All of the men on the business staff will return next year.
James J. Walsh, Louis Hasley, Lionel Theissen, and Ted Ryan, retiring staff members, spoke briefly to conclude the banquet. Mr. Frank DeGroot of the Hibbard Printing Company, the man responsible for the fine makeup of the Juggler, which has been copied by other college comics, was also present at the banquet-.
MONOGRAM CLUB GIVES
FORMAL DANCE
A combination of good music, a splendid ballroom, and a lack of superfluous decoration schemes made the Monogram Ball one of the most notable of the year’s fine dances. Some hundred couples' danced last Tuesday evening, until twelve, to the music of the justly popular “Jugglers,” playing at the Progress Club in South Bend.
Joe Abbott, captain of the track team, who made such a success of The Absurdities, had charge of the arrangements for the party, and succeeded in making the affair attractive through its very simplicity.
The programs were of blue and gold with the monogram of the club engraved on them.
r
| Engineering Notes
i%______________________________
Nominations and elections of officers for the Notre Dame Engineers’ Club were held last week in the North Basement of the Library. The following were unanimously elected: President, Paul M. Enright, (civil engineering); Vice-President, Wm. C. Karl, (mechanical engineering); Secretary, Harold J. Stelzer, (civil engineering); Treasurer, Daniel J. Egan, (electrical engineering); Junior Secretary, John W. Hamilton, (chemical engineering). Short talks were given by each of the newly elected officers.
A very successful smoker was held by the local student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers last Wednesday evening in Walsh Hall Basement. The efforts of Schmied, Perry and Co., musicians, were favorably received by those present as were the vocal selections rendered by Ted Hibbs. A vaudeville 1 act by John Perone proved to be very amusing if applause may be taken as an indication of sentiment. Various comments on the activity of the club during the past year were made by the members of the electrical engineering faculty.
Nomination and election of officers were held before the commencement of the program.
With the aid of several architects and alien engineers hastily pressed into service, the senior civil engineers managed to vanquish the senior electrical engineers in a hard fought contest of indoor baseball played last week, the final score being 9-8.
After a short business Wednesday, the elections of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers were held with the following results: President, Joseph O’Hara; Vice-President, Wm. Karl; Secretary, Maurice Mulrey; Treasurer, Wm. Lyons, Jr.; Secretary, Frank Murray.
NOTICE SENIORS! !
Larry Cronin, chairman of the program committee, states that, the commencement pro-	J
grams have arrived and that	|
they should be obtained as soon	j
as possible from the men with	I
whom the various orders were	I
placed.	1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
883
LAST NUMBER OF “SCRIP” ON THE PRESS
Plans for the last issue of Scrip for the scholastic year have been completed. The number will be placed on sale about May 20. An interesting poem in this number is “Aftermath,” by Charles Carey, C.S.C., which won first place in the Scribblers’ poetry contest. “Milkweed Near the River,” the poem by John Bednar, winning second place in the contest, has already appeared in Scrip. “Caedmon,” a poem by Richard Sullivan which appears in this number, was mentioned favorably by the judges.
The three prize-winning stories in the Scribblers’ short-story contest have all been published in Scrip. “First Day,” the story by Cyril Mullin winning first place in the contest, appeared in the April number of Scrip; “Crazy,” a story by Victor Boisvert, C.S.C., which won second place, appeared in the February number; “Breakfast,” the story by Joseph McCabe winning third place, appeared in the February number; and “Respect,” a story by Louis Brennan which was favorably mentioned, appeared in the December number.
Four short stories are included in this number of Scrip. “For a Few Pennies,” by Victor Boisvert, C.S.C., is the story of a woman drudging her life away, a powerful tale of frustration and depression. “I Don’t Know,” by Louis Brennan, is a well-told tale centering about an automobile wreck. “Black Narcissus,” by Charles Carey, C.S.C., is a good character-study. “Going to Aunt Hilda’s,” by John Gibbons, is a whimsical tale of a boy’s experiences while traveling.
Cyril Mullin contributes a long essay to this number, entitled “Conrad and Crane—Their Treatment of Fear.” He is also the author of “Impulse,” a poem in free verse. The frontispiece for this number has not as yet been chosen.
VILLAGERS WILL HOLD DINNER DANCE
Plans are now under way for the annual dinner dance of the Villagers Club which will be held on May 28, at the South Bend Country Club. The affair this year looms as one of the best held in the history of the Club, due to its present financial system. Jack Shively, president of the Club, and Louis Chapleau are arranging the details for the party. The officers of the Club for next year will also be announced at this time.
I
| College of Law Notes i%i
The current Lawyer is off the press and ready for distribution. The feature article of the issue is a proposed solution for the enforcement of the prohibition laws, written by Dean Konop of the Law School, and entitled “Proposed Legislation for the Enforcement of Prohibition.”
Frank Dinan, who was graduated from the College of Law last year, has recently passed the state bar examination in Michigan.
This is the last week in which students may pre-register in the College of Law.
❖--------------------------------
I
Chemistry Notes |
i ❖--------------------------------*
A farewell banquet was given the senior members of the Chemists’ Club on Tuesday of last week, at the Morningside Apartments. Professor Daniel Hull of the Physics Department acted in the capacity of toastmaster introducing the speakers in his unusual interesting manner. Professors Froning, Mahin and Wenzke gave short talks on various topics of interest to the club which were followed by parting messages delivered by the seniors.
The principal speaker, at a meeting of the American Society for Steel Treating held last evening in Chemistry Hall, was Mr. Kingsberry of the Bendix Brake Company.
As this was the last meeting of the school year, final arrangements were made for the picnic which is to be held on May 17.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE HOLDS FINAL
MEETING
The final meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science was held Monday Evening in Science Hall, with president Edward T. Yorke presiding.
James Deely, a senior, presented a paper on “Blood Pressure” and Robert Jackson, also a senior, spoke on “The History of Symbols and Formulas in Chemistry.”
The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., advisor of the organization, made a few remarks of a congratulatory nature to those members who are leaving the club through graduation.
SENIOR BALL WEEK-END CALLED “GREAT”
What must pass for the most successful Senior Ball week-end ever to take place at 'Notre Dame was enjoyed by the seniors and their guests last week. The Ball itself, under the capable direction of Ray Reardon, Frank Dailey, and their legion of assistants, will be remembered as one of the best in the school’s history.
The Oriental decorations of Jerry Parker were vividly arresting, and in complete good taste. The music— Coon-Sanders. Nothing more need be said. Their rendition of Walter Phil-lipp’s and Jack Folk’s ballad; “Reminisce,” made an especial hit with the class and its guests. Favors and programs were adjudged .the utmost in charm by all those present. The tea dance at the Chain-OyLakes Country Club on Saturday afternoon was also enjoyable. The week-end was concluded, as usual, with a special Mass on Sunday morning in the Morrissey Hall Chapel, and a breakfast in the Faculty Dining Hall.
VALUES AND FUTURES DIS-
CUSSED BY SPECTATORS
Speaking on “A Scale of Values,” Mr. Louis Hasley provoked much discussion among the Spectators in theii-final regular meeting of the year, held last night in the Journalism room of the Library.
Mr. Hasley spoke of spiritual and cultural values and pointed out the necessity of the formulation of such a scale for anyone wishing to see life whole and to see it clearly.
Mr. Murray Hickey Ley spoke on the future of literature, music, and the drama. He pointed out that the individual is of paramount importance in modern fiction, and he said that although the War has caused many to bid goodbye to all that, nonetheless certain contemporary events justify the abandonment of such a position.
Discussion was heated after both topics, and the last meeting was pronounced a decided success.
ROCKNE CHIEF SPEAKER AT MANAGERS’ BANQUET
The managerial appointments for next year will be announced by Coach Knute K. Rockne at the annual Student Managers’ banquet held in the Faculty dining hall this evening. Rockne will be the principal speaker of the evening and at the same time will make the appointments for the coming year.
884
The Notre Dame Scholastic
-----------------------------*
! A Man You Know
।
*------------------------------*
In the vanguard of this machine age we find, of course, its pioneers, the metallurgists and the mining engineers. Compared to the number
Dr. Knowles B. Smith
engaged in other professions, mining engineers are few indeed, and it follows that the leaders in the field are fewer yet. The Notre Dame engineering faculty is so fortunate as to have listed among its members an expert mining engineer—a leader in his profession. It is with pleasure that we introduce to the students, Dr Knowles B. Smith, head of the department of Mining Engineering.
Dr. Smith was born in South Bend, and attended the South Bend public grade and high schools. It was the influence of his high school science teacher which first stimulated his interest in metallurgy. This influence still dominated him upon graduation, and he accordingly entered the Michigan College of Mining and Technology, at Houghton, Michigan, one of the leading institutions of its kind in the country. He received the degree of B.S. in 1901, and the professional degree of E.M. in 1902. During this period of one year he was instructor in mineralogy at the College.
His first taste of practical experience was obtained in geological exploration of northern Minnesota for the United States Steel Corporation.
Since that time he has explored most of the large mining districts of this country, such as Michigan, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico, and Montana, as well as Ontario, Canada. While, in Arizona Dr. Smith was engaged as consulting mining engineer and geologist for a number of mining companies interested in gold, silver, and copper deposits. After being engaged in this capacity from 1901 to 1902, he came to Notre Dame where he has served since that time as head of the mining engineering department. Determined to obtain higher honors, he completed his requirements for the Ph.D. degree at Notre Dame, in 1918.
One of the important positions which Dr. Smith is filling at the present time is that of State Conservation Commissioner, to which he was appointed last summer by Governor Leslie. He is also intimately connected with the work which the National Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education has been sponsoring on the campus for the past few years.
Dr. Smith, it seems to us, possesses the qualification for an ideal educator. Coupled with a well-grounded theeoretical training in one- of the best mining engineering colleges in the country, we find a wealth of practical experience. Having a knowledge of every phase of the field, he is able in a most efficacious manner, to transmit to his students a knowledge of those fundamentals of mining engineering which are so necessary for the successful fulfillment of responsible positions. Mine surveying, mining engineering, general geology and ore dressing are some of the subjects which he is, at present, teaching. His advice is still sought by those actively engaged in practice, a criterion of his value as a consulting engineer.
A few moments with this quiet and unassuming person are ample time to discover that he is filled with a knowledge of his subject, and a glance at the laboratories in the basement of Chemistry Hall will disclose the result of his activity in building up and improving his particular department.
His former students point to his teaching as the primary cause of their success. Such tribute is the highest which a student may pay to teacher, and it is without hesitancy that we declare such tribute rightfully bestowed.
PROF. ZABEL TO TEACH IN SUMMER SCHOOL
Graduate students at Notre Dame, who are planning on attending the summer school this year, will be interested to know that Professor Morton A. Zabel, of Loyola University, Chicago, is to be a member of the English faculty during the summer session. Professor Zabel, a teacher at Loyola, is also an associate editor of Poetry, the well-known American magazine treating of poets and their work.
Zabel is to teach two graduate courses, Literary Criticism and Contemporary Poetry, this summer. The course in literary criticism, 42s, is a study of the history and principles of literary theory and interpretation: Aristotle and the classical beginnings; Horace and the concept of poetry; the criticism of the Renaissance period in Italy, France, and England; Boilean and French classicism; Pope and English classicism; the Romantic point of view; modern criticism; Wordsworth, Sainte-Beuve, Arnold, Joubert, Coleridge, the Germans, and others; criticism in contemporary litreature and its ancestry in the schools of the past; presentday critics and their methods. The course is open only to the graduate students with English as their major who are having this summer their first session of graduate study.
The course in contemporary poetry is a study of the transition from nineteenth-century concepts and practices to the contemporary. The reaction in France—the Parnassians, the Symbolists, Gautier, and their followers; the reaction in England; the new movement in America—Emily Dickinson, Whitman, and the leaders of 1912. Contemporary English and American poetry will be studied in its characteristic aspect, its new subject-matter, and its new forms. The poets of the Catholic revival will be given special attention. The decade 1910-1920 will be surveyed for its liberalizing and revitalizing tendencies—Masefield and the Georgians, Sandberg, Masters, Lindsay, and the Americans, the Imagists, and others; the decade 1920-1930 will be seen largely as an extension- of and, in turn, as a reaction against the first motives of rediscovery—Eliot, Crane, MacLeish, the Sitwells, Louise Bogan, and others. The course is open only to graduate students majoring in English who are having their second or third session of graduate study this summer.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
885
This is the official POST BALL NUMBER OF THE WINK.	— o—
The very latest news that we have is that twenty-five men of Lyons Hall are suffering from a tremendous eyestrain, due to some long distance viewing about nine o’clock last Sunday morning.	—o—
Wild Orchid has gracefully given us our Scotch joke for the week. This one concerns a dear old Scot who insisted on buying fire insurance instead of tornado insurance because, as he said, one cannot start a tornado. We’ve been up to the Mayos concerning this Scottish complex but it seems that there is absolutely no cure for it.
THE RULE OF LIFE
- Let me plod my way each weary day And come at night to rest;
Let me do each task my own best way And calmly meet each test.
Let each passing hour mark some good done, Each moment be a jewel;
Till that last eternal peace is won
By that one noble rule.	—WAZMUS.
We’ve been wondering how the seniors feel since the Ball; now that they have to wear their own clothes for a change.	—o—
We just heard that the doctors injected the isolated germ from Rock’s leg into three rabbits. The first two died and the third one became afflicted with a leg like Rock. If these medical men had any brains at all they would have experimented with a few more rabbits and they may have succeeded in getting another Rockne.
REMINISCE
Now that the Ball is over And the world’s at peace, Many a hea/rt avill be breaking Noiv that the brawl has ceased. . Many a heart will be broken; Many a girl be alone.
But let’s hope they’ll all be happy: Marie, Louise and Joan.
Now that the Ball is over	.
And we’ve seen the last, Many a heart will be aching Now that the brawl is past. Many a chap will be owing Noiv that we’ve said goodbye, But let’s hope they’ll all be happy: Just Jack and Tom and Ty.
THE WINK is hereby warning all smokers that there is not a cough in the. first carload, but one of our testers started on the second carload and immediately concocted a serious case of whooping cough.
THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUES
Our old friend Cameo has just purchased an X-ray machine and his first experiment was with a senior’s brain after the Ball. The X-ray machine is a high grade machine and consequently we feel quite sure that the above is a correct representation of just what this senior’s head contained. We refrain from mentioning the name of the man who submitted to this experiment because being a rather bashful soul, he requested us to omit his name. The above space may also be used to draw pictures on during eight o’clock classes. Please submit all results to The Wink and the best will be given a leather bound issue of the Juggler.
—o—
One of the seniors couldn’t quite figure out what had happened to Sanders on Saturday afternoon at the Tea Dance. Coon was there with a couple of his brothers, but good old Joe was nowhere to be found.
News Item: The seniors and their guests thoroughly enjoyed the Tea served them on Saturday afternoon. They all agreed that it was of a very high grade. In case that some of the underclassmen do not understand this, please inquire of any senior who attended the Tea Dance and we are sure that a lengthy explanation will be given.
We were really quite surprised at Coon-Sanders and the Nighthawks last Friday night. They actually neglected to play the Alma Mater of the University of Hong Kong. We must admit though, that that is the only one that they missed.
And then there’s the one about the student who was asked to say something in Greece and he answered “Athens.” We know thats’ no good but we have to fill up space, because most likely there will not be enough advertisements this week to take The Wink out.
—o—
We wanted to make this number of The Wink at least half way decent, but it seems that Ted, Lou, Nan, Pat and Jack all went to the Ball and this is the result, because we went ourselves and—well go to the Ball yourselves spme day and see what happens.	‘
886
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OME isolated patent-leather chairs are hiding in corners of campus rooms with their depths still unknown to you. And a few weeks from now many of us will be losing the opporunity to use these chairs forever. Most disconserting thought, isn’t it? That even one comfortable chair, or a long distance set should have escaped your attention! But that isn’t all—what of the owners of those chairs? Even Sam Richards when he left was not on speaking terms with an occasional student, though the completeness of his list hasn’t been approached since the days when registration was under four hundred. Just a little over two weeks left in which to strengthen oui- ties with Notre Dame, and then the dyspeptic existence of self-support. The worst thing about the new life will be getting up without being called by a roommate. Why ,not alarm clocks for graduation presents?
| UESDAY night to the Monogram Formal which was a neat affair, there being no want of beauty oi' high spirits. Everyone was known to everyone else, and most friendly and anxious for acquaintance withal. I, playing the part of lone wolf, did notice from the balcony that the women are in all truth lengthening their gowns. Upon which I bethought that this was a most commendable thing as it will give work to many weavers and clothiers who have been petitioning of the government for help these last years. Thomas Bradley, well met, proving again his worth by allowing a dance with his lass, whom I did judge the fairest bud in that garden. Prince of Gadgeteers, the late Robert Eggeman, arriving as I returned to the janitor his telephone book, he did assist me into another’s hat, which caused some confusion, and unseemly titterings and remarks on fur caps from unkind bystanders. So to a hamburger at the Kewpie, and a late bed, where I did dream of an onion large as the Dome, from which Hungarians and other wild peoples were feeding their wives and children.
EN of today differ from their shameless ancestors chiefly in that contemporaries poke about in their mouths with toothbrushes, and don a different morality with every new shirt. Human nature is as down-gived as ever; it is but the color and cloth of the hose that startle. Even as you and I so Hamlet wore his socks—though he had the advantage of three centuries, being in love, and the greater renown of full length hose. The Blossom Festival at Benton Harbor was a reminder of the May Day, the May Pole, and the May Queen of that old world—but only a reminder. Humanity still cries for a circus to quench the monotony of bread. But our circus begins to take on the staleness of bread. Every float in the Blossom Parade was either a monstrous floral trademark, or had emblazoned on its side the name of some maker of soap or pitchforks. Our festivals are scarred with a fester, generating and discharging the pus of gold. And more, gentlemen, for when once a spade is sunk in muck the bottom is hard to reach, the blossoms of the Blossom Festival were paper. Paper flowers! Their hothouse a sweatshop, and their dew more salt than crystal. This is the realistic American conception of a festival. We will excuse ourselves and our generation by hoping that a realist is only a near-sighted idealist who has lost his spectacles.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
887
THANE YCIJ! ■
, Before the last issue to be placed in the hands of the entire student body makes its appearance, the Editor wishes to thank publicly, those who have so kindly assisted him in the weekly publication of the “Scholastic” throughout the school year.
To the news gatherers he-extends his sincere and really heart-felt thanks. The majority of them saw nothing but their names appear, under the general head, “News Staff,” in the masthead; no title theirs, no singling out for attention their lot. And yet, week after week, they have brought in that which has made publication possible—the news.
And so, at the risk of being considered effusive and maudlin, he again thanks them—thanks them, as he has said, out of sincere and heart-felt gratitude.
To Mr. T. Vincent McIntire and to Mr. McIntire’s assistant, Mr. Joseph Reedy, he would say that he always felt a sense of security when he realized that they were behind him—especially in the matter of social affairs!
He thanks Mr. Archer Hurley for his consistent delivery of consistently entertaining “Weeks”; he thanks Mr. Walter Langford for his ever-refreshing “College Parades” ; he thanks Mr. Ramon Smith for his reliable performance on what was probably the hardest job of all—“Campus Clubs.”
To Mr. Paul Hallinan go his thanks for some of the cleverest features he has read, and also, to Mr. Hallinan, go his wishes for a successful year with the “Dome.”
To Mr. William Knapp he would say, “cleverly and dulcetly done”; and to Mr. Edward E. Brennan he extends the thanks that are the lot of the most consistently alert grammar-scanner he has ever known.
To Mr. John Bergan the editor extends his deepest gratitude, knowing, however, that gratitude is rather poor reward for Mr. Bergan’s consistent performance.
Of Mr. John Kiener he can truthfully say that he had to worry less about his department than any other. “Sports” were always on hand.
To Mr. Harley McDevitt, to Mr. Fred Davis, and to the other members of the Business Staff he extends thanks for consistently reliable cooperation.
Lastly but not least, he wishes to thank Father Carroll for his kind attentions; and to Mr. Rauch and Mr. Hines of the lay faculty he would say, “had it not been for your favours, many things that came off well would have gone wrong.”
In conclusion he wishes, from “way down deep,” a successful year to his successor and former right-hand man, Mr. Emil L. Telfel. The game is over; let the new player play!	—M. H. L.
A METICAL Mil
When the Glee Club stands up and sings an especially smooth number—as, for example, “K Old Nassau” or “Sea Song”—one thinks with resentment of the pseudo-voices that bawl, rasp, clamor, whine, and bellow up and down the corridors of every hall on the campus. A defect is easier to forgive or overlook in a group. But—without causing the chests and heads of Professor Casasanta’s song-boys to swell too grandly—we advance the opinion that there are few defects in that group.
The success of the recent campus concert leads us to believe that many more programs could be presented in Washington Hall. At present, it is necessary to forgive the surprise of Ohio State and Cornell collegians who, having asked “How’s the Notre Dame Glee Club this season?,” are answered, “Well, I’ve only heard them once, but . . . .”
Music, having charms to soothe, etc., is a healthy antidote for the great national—or is it local ?—diversion of “gripe, gripe, let’s start the griping.” A few more concerts by the band, the glee club, or the “Jugglers,” would alleviate the monotony of that “last-down-ten-to-go” feeling, so common in May.
A national trip for the Glee Club has the good effect of casting the University’s name to soothing winds; a good schedule “at home” would be worthwhile. It was bad enough to have the football team at large in the autumn; must the choristers sing only in foreign parts ?	—P. J. H.
Page SS8—The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Rev. James Connerton, C. S. C., Rector
•1


UDDLED in a group of buildings, some more lofty and beautiful, but none more secure is Badin—resembling a staid, complacent old individual who refuses to be nonplussed by younger and more energetic newcomers. Spread out over what seems to be a vast area, Badin .has flung out its protecting arms to ward off any inroads made by the pseudo-aristocratic newcomers. The venerability of Badin . supersedes any claim of aesthetic value which the younger halls might make.
Every day the horde of hungry students pass the old brick structure on their way to the dining halls. The hurrying groups take it in with a glance and dismiss it at the same time, yet so has it been ever since —well, since the days when Sorin was considered a new hall, for Badin dates back to the same period. The time of Badin’s birth was longer ago than “’way back when-------.” The old Badin, however, was much dif
Reverend Theodore Badin, whose picture hangs in Badin Hall.
ferent, even as to name. It was St. Joseph’s to the peg-topped boys, and it remained St. Joseph’s until 1917, when the hall underwent a metamorphosis, and emerged an entirely different building, both in shape and purpose. For it was in 1917 that St. Joe’s hall sprouted the new wings, which now make up the largest part of the building. Before, that the hall was merely the part that now connects the two wings. A narrow porch—so narrow that it barely extended beyond the sides of the doorway— gave access to the hall. On the roof was an imposing cupola, and over the doorway was a niche to hold the statue of the saint in whose honor the hall was named.
The first floor was given over to the rector’s office and the study hall for the whole building. On the second floor was the dormitory, for Badin, in those days, also boasted a tented tribe. It was in those surroundings that was born the congenial attitude towards fellow-students that has always characterized Badin. The elusive charm of the place, plus the unwritten law demanding cordiality, has somehow passed down from generation to generation, and despite the changing types of students still remains.
St. Joe Hall was the abode for “working” students — and this could have been applied both figuratively and literally. Although it was known as “students’ hall,” "because of the uncanny proficiency of the inmates in attaining honors, yet St. Joe sheltered the majority of the students
of board and tuition by waiting at tai during meals. The conditions of admissi are: (1) The payment of two hundr dollars a year on the first of August, a

work their way through school. A catalogue of 1890 states that St. Joseph’s hall w a s reserved for those who “defray o n e -half the cost
Badin—once a dorm, later a cafe
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 889
JNNORS
Satisfactory service as a waiter.” ;o hundred dollars, incidentally, took re of such matters as board, room, tui-n, laundry, and the mending of clothes.
>w a popular .residence hall.
It was hinted to this writer that in those days it was not uncommon for Brother Florian, C.S.C., the rector, to intercede for ’the residents when they happened to get into scrapes. Brother Florian was, from all
indications, a real disciplinarian and a real friend of the men. His intercession on behalf of the residents indicates that he must have taken an active interest in the welfare of his charges. The old brother was followed, as rector, by the Reverend John Devers, C.S.C., the Reverend Walter Lavin, C.S.C., the Reverend Reverend James Gallagan, C.S.C., and the Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C.
The influx of students just before the war made it necessary to enlarge the residential quarters, and the possibilities of St. Joseph’s Hall were seen by the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at that time president of the University. The changes were made from the dormitory style to the present plan. The new hall—for it was practically rebuilt—was named in honor of the Reverend Theodore Badin, the first priest to be ordained in the United States. Father Badin, before the coming of Father Sorin, had bought the land, then call-	______ ______
ed St. Marie _ '
des Lacs. He later changed the name to Notre Dame du Lac. In honor of this pioneer missionary the hall was duly dedicated.
At that time the University refectory was unable to supply all. of the students with meals, due to the limited space in the refectory below the Main building. A restaurant was installed on the ground floor
Badin . . staid, settled . .
Per. Paul Doherty, C. S. C., Prefect
of Badin. This cafeteria in itself was the source of a great many stories and traditions during later years until the advent of the new dining halls.
All that, however, is history. The Badin of today is of more interest to the students. The priests in the hall today are the Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C., the rector, the Reverend Paul R. Doherty, C.S.C.; and the Reverend Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., the prefects. Having no “sub” (although I understand freshmen are directed to the Badin “sub” in their first few days at school), Badin has none of the traditions ordinarily associated with the famous Sorin basement.
Housing many prominent campus figures, Badin represents, in its own estimation, the peak of democracy, where the famed meet the ordinary on equal terms.
890
The Notre Dame Scholastic
They are always breaking loose with something new down in Texas. It may be anything from the election of a woman governor to the disgrace of going Republican, but always it’s something unusual. Now comes the University of Texas with the world’s first political serenader. About this time of the year the Texans have their annual spring election, and considerable effort is expended by the various parties to place their nominees in office. On the eve of this year’s election one party devised a novel scheme for furthering its interests. In the middle of the night, after all respectable students had duly retired, these politicians drove a car up in front of some co-ed dorms and had one of the plotters begin the proceedings with a bagpipe solo. In a trice the windows of the dorms were crowded with interested co-eds. Down in the street they saw a barker appear in the spot lights of the car and call for attention. He wore a tall silk hat and a swallow-tail coat. He also carried a cane, which he spun gracefully in the air as he discoursed volubly on the wondrous qualities of Dr. So-and-so’s medicated bear fat. Soon his ravings turned from patent medicine to the animals in the side-shows. Proceeding from one imaginary cage to another, he presented in turn and with dramatic flourishes the spade-footed calliopion, the world-famous side-hill dodger, the amazing rhinostopobbican, and the fuzzy whiffinpoof. The only thing his show lacked seemed to be a wild hootinanny. This rather serious drawback was somewhat offset by the presence of a very queer bird who flies backwards because he doesn’t care where he is going and because he wants to see where he has been. As a grand finale the energetic barker introduced his most freakish specimen, which turned out to be a certain campus politician. Then the barker closed down his show and went home for the night, leaving his scathing remarks about politicians ringing in the ears of his co-ed audience.
“Love Elected New President of Strollers,” says Ohio State Lantern. Not a very inappropriate selection, we say. Love and strollers have long been rather closely connected, according to reliable information.
The Oklahoma Daily of a week or two ago contains much comment regarding the interscholastic meet sponsored by the university. One of the high •school entrants was awarded the distinction of inaugurating the straw hat season in Norman. In defense of his new straw hat the young man said: “Oh, we wear them the whole year ’round in Durant.” A young instructor of the university was mistaken once for the head of the art department and again for just a mere high school contestant. Two members of the high school band from Stillwater declared themselves as being of the opinion that the Oklahoma co-eds were “plenty okay.” One bus driver who was bedecked in a black suit with gold trimmings was everywhere mistaken for a band leader.	-	.
These beautiful moon-lit ’nights of glorious spring are having their effect upon the Franklin College students. Hardly does twilight draw on any more before some organization on the campus goes into a huddle and comes out in serenade formation. The Tri Delta sorority started it, and nobody knows who is going to end it, unless it will be the valiant and uniformed custodians of the peace. At present not a night goes by but what some fraternity takes it upon itself to congregate outside the girls’ dormitory and produce what it later characterizes as “one of the neatest little serenades of the season.” Well, as our esteemed friend Leo (down here at 1 Riverside Drive) said the other night after gazing long and yearningly at a perfect Indiana moon, “Gee, these sure are rheumatic nights, ain’t they?” For some reason or other, or perhaps for no good reason at all, the favorite song of Franklin’s “rheumatic” young swains has been “Sing You Sinners.”
—o—
Another report from Ohio State has it that swearing has been abolished by a “Purity League” at the university. This organization is composed of some 30 members of the track team who have sworn off swearing as a result of several complaints which were made about their language.
.	—o—
The effect of these “rheumatic” nights evidently extends all the way out into Colorado, for this serenading practice seems to be popular also at the University of Denver. The procedure out there, however, is reversed, for it is the coeds who officiate at Denver. The Gamma Phi co-eds recently inaugurated the serenading season by descending en masse (also in flivvers) on the blushing fraternity men. They warbled in the key of B flat—sometimes very flat— as well as in other keys, mostly indistinguishable. After expressing their feelings vocally, the co-eds rode off into the night to yodel elsewhere.
—o—
A water battle in one of the dormitories at Harvard recently led to bigger things, for this little skirmish quickly expanded into a free-for-all around the Crimson goal posts, which were rather close at hand. When 40 policemen arrived to quell the riot they found themselves confronted by 1500 students clad in pajamas and armed with bottles, buckets, sponges, fruit, and eggs of a highly disputed age. Before quiet was restored two freshmen had been removed to the college infirmary, scores of other students had been bumped and bruised, and even the police had not been overlooked in the exchange of missiles and things.
According to the Oregon Barometer, college is just like a washing machine. You get but of it what you put in— but you’d never recognize it.
' - »
The Notre Dame Scholastic
891
Now that all the world has gotten over the election craze (or has it?) and the campus has quieted down somewhat, the Campus Club Editor, like a burial squad on the battlefield, comes out to count the dead and gather in the wounded. Not that the campus battles were anything nearly so sanguinary, but we have certainly not thrust in our head (we have only one head unfortunately) when anything like an election was going on. We seriously suspect that the Club Presidents are still suffering from the same malady also, because not only must financial reports be handed in to the S. A. C., but Dome pictures must be paid for, too.
—o—
We are sorry that the following could find no place in the news section of this week’s Scholastic. We are grieved as well, that the Campus Club Page does not offer the same sort of publicity that the news section does. Possibly that is because of the lack of headlines. We live and learn, but right now “we” are living more than learning,— much to the regret, no doubt, of the men who “patronize” us.
—o—
The METROPOLITAN CLUB is to be complimented on the selection made of 1931 officers. Ed Cunningham was chosen as President, Louis Esposito as Vice-President, George Cullinan as Secretary, and Johnny Burns was chosen to guard the treasury. The farewell banquet of the Club, given in honor of the departing seniors was held last evening in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. Joe Abbott and Joe Lordi were the guests of honor. The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. and Dean McCarthy of the College of Commerce were among the speakers. Summer dance plans were discussed.
A very nice letter that we received a day or so ago from the Secretary of the BOSTON CLUB reminds us to announce that most of the views handed in by the clubs for the Dome section may be secured if the officers will call, individually or collectively, at Science Hall. They will stand a much better chance of getting their pictures if the sun is shining. ■
The DETROIT CLUB showed rare judgment by electing some of the best men in the club. Robert Neydon, who acted as Secretary the last half of this year now takes up his duties as President. Fran Beaupre was elected VicePresident. Ken McLeod was chosen Secretary, and Walt DeBaene will act as Treasurer. Besides elections, the Club discussed a summer dance to be held in August, and the members have also an Alumni Frolic of some kind or other to look forward to in June.
The WEST VIRGINIA CLUB met last Sunday and elected John Emmert, President foi* the coming year. Ray Jorden was elected Vice-President and Edmund Sargue and Bill Ackermann will act as Secretary and Treasurer, respectively.
There are still some other clubs on the campus that have not as yet informed us of the results of their elections. I do know that there are still some clubs that have not held elections. The CALUMET CLUB, for instance, has presented a lot of rumor as to deep dark politics at work. The ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB offers only promises. Elections in the latter club will be held Friday night in the Law Building at 8:00 p. m. The President of the Club tells us that if it was not for various philanthropists, the Club could not exist. One such is furnishing refreshments this evening for the club members.	,
Last Wednesday evening, we were cordially invited to a smoker given by the A. I. E. E. in the K. of C. Council Chambers in Walsh Hall. We were astounded at the progress made by the local institute this year. Over twice as many attended meetings this year than last. Over twice as many papers were read. Over twice as many visiting speakers addressed the club, if such it may be called. Certainly it is one of the most successful on the campus.
Just before this page went to press, we received word that Joseph R. Schroeder was elected President of the MINNESOTA CLUB. He succeeds John D. Yelland who is graduating in June. Clarence Kaplan was elected VicePresident. Gerald Conway came out ahead in the balloting for the office of Secretary and James Hinicker was chosen Treasurer.
The BUFFALO CLUB elected Francis Hansell, President; Paul Haag was named Vice-President; Anthony Brick, Secretary and John Travers, Treasurer. The Club is to hold a summer party June 5.
—o—	'
William Alvarez-Morphy of Mexico City was chosen by the La Raza Club to head that organization next year. Ralph Garza will act as Vice-President; Rene Dunand was elected Treasurer and Antonio R. Diaz was re-elected for the office of Secretary. A banquet will be held May 17 at the Oliver Hotel.
892
The Notre Dame Scholastic
si’Orjs
Baseball Team Wins Over Wildcats, 10-6 ,
Trackmen Swamp Spartans—Golfers Trounce Loyola—Baseballers Trim Iowa and Netters Win Over Gophers, Concluding Successful Week of Sports
Notre Dame’s athletic teams turned in what was probably the best showing ever made when they were victorious in every contest played over the week-end. The baseball team drubbed Northwestern last Tuesday, 10 to 6, to conclude the week’s fireworks. The newly-born golfers won their initial match with Loyola, 18 to 3, and the racqueters eased out a 5-4 win over Minnesota. Coach Nicholson’s track-sters walloped Michigan State and the ball club trounced Iowa last Saturday.
IN a colorless game that saw a great number of bobbles committed by both sides, the Notre Dame ball tossers bested the Northwestern squad on Cartier Field Tuesday afternoon, the score standing at 10-6 when the officials called the game on account of the heavy rain that fell at that time. Most of the contest was played under adverse weather conditions, several innings in the middle of the game being played in a good sized shower that made efficient handling of the ball difficult.
The home guard broke into the scoring column in the second inning by an onslaught of four runs garnered off Stearns, Northwestern hurler. In the fourth frame the Purple batters got to work with the stick, scoring four runs to cause a tie, only to see it broken when the Fighting Irish came to bat in the last half of the inning to score three runs and take the lead again. Northwestern gained a run on the Notre Dame squad when the former tallied two runs and the latter pushed across a run in the fifth. Adding insult to injury, the local nine lambasted Crizevsky’s offerings to score two more runs in the sixth inning.
Sullivan singled through second base to start the big second inning
for Notre Dame. He scored on Moran’s hit along the third base line, Moran going to third on the throw-in. Moran scored on Mahoney’s sacrifice. Lordi and Mannix were walked, Lordi advancing, to get at Francis but his single sent Lordi across the plate and saw Mannix resting-on third base. Francis took second on a bad throw to the plate to catch Lordi, and then O’Keefe’s grounder was muffed by Schuett, allowing Mannix to score. Francis was caught off second base, ending the inning.
A series of hits and several bad bounces which aided the Northwestern cause pushed across four runs to tie the score in the fourth before the Notre Dame men finally ended the spree. Coming right back at the Wildcats, the Fighting Irish opened up with a stinging double by Lordi, and Heenan, pinchhitting for Mannix, was hit by a pitched ball. The rain began to come down in torrents at this stage of the game and the pitcher made a wild throw, advancing Lordi and Heenan one base each. Francis singled between third base and the shortstop position to score Lordi, and advance Heenan. O’Keefe came through with a blow that startled the Northwestern second baseman, the ball bouncing past him while Heenan and Francis streaked for the home plate with two more markers.
Dilley mounted the slab for the home lads in the fifth inning and was greeted by three hits that meant two runs before his cohorts could snuff out the rally. Feehery saw life at first in the sixth frame when Dempsey - booted the ball, and advanced the total distance to home plate by a series of overthrows, probably caused by the heavy rain that began to fall and slow up the players’ movements.
Francis opened the seventh for Notre Dame with a smashing double to deep center. O’Keefe singled to left to score Francis, and advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt from Palermo’s bat. Feehery flied out to Prange, and Sullivan walked. Moran then singled to left, scoring O’Keefe from second. That ended the scoring for the afternoon. Dilley then saw to it that the Wildcats did no further scoring in either the seventh or the eighth. The Northwestern turn at bat ended the game in the eighth when a heavy rain halted activities.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME B R H
Francis, If 5 2 3
O’Keefe, 3b 5 1 2
Palermo, ss 4 0 1
Feehery, rf 4 11
Sullivan, lb 3 1 1
Moran, cf	4 11
Askew, 2b	10	0
Mahoney, 3b	2 0	0
Lordi, c	12	1
Mannix, p 0	2	0
Dilley, p	2	0	0
"Heenan	0	0	0
Totals	31	10 10
NORTHWESTERN B R	H
Rojan, c 4 0 1
Dempsey, ss 4 0 2
Eyler, If	10	0
Kadison, If 4 0 1
Hanley, rf 4 12
Oliphant, lb 3 2 1
Schwartz, 2b 3 1 1
Prange, cf 4 11
Schnett, 3b 4 0 1
Stearns, p	10	0
Crizevsky, p 3 1 1
Totals 35 6 11
"Batted for Mannix in fourth.
Score by innings:	RHE
Northwestern .........000	420	00— 6	11	6
Notre Dame............040	312	Ox—10	10	5
Errors—Francis, O’Keefe, Palermo, Sullivan, Mahoney, Schwartz, Schnett 2, Crizevsky 3. Two-base hits—Feehery, Kadison, Schwartz. Three-base hit—Rojan. Sacrifice hits—Paler
mo, Mahoney, Rojan, Schwartz. Double plays
—Palermo to Sullivan. Bases on balls—off
Mannix, 3; off Dilley, 1; off Stearnes, 2 ; off Crizevsky, 1. Stolen bases—Francis. Wild pitch—Crizevsky. Hit by pitcher—Heenan, Moran and Lordi. Umpires—Stahr and St. John.
TRACKSTERS WIN EASILY
OACH John P. Nicholson’s Blue and Gold thinlies showed too much strength in the dashes,
hurdles, and field events against Michigan State last Saturday afternoon at Lansing, and romped off with
c
The Notre Dame Scholastic
893
an 89 to 37 triumph over the Spartans.
With Ken Boagni excused from the meet to obtain some much needed rest for the State championship run tomorrow, the sprinting duties fell upon McCormick and Nichols. Bill won the century and took second in the 220, while Johnny dashed home ahead in the 220 and pulled up third in the 100.
Notre Dame scored sweeps in both the 440 and the discus throw. Captain Joe Abbott set a new meet record in winning the quarter-mile in :49.5, and was followed to the tape by Alex Wilson and Kuhn. Nordy Hoffman also set a new record in the discus with a toss of 139 feet. Rigney and Shaeffer, his two teammates, took second and third places, respectively.
Roy Bailie was robbed of a record when the officials refused to recognize his time of :23.9 in the low hurdles because of the wind, which was blowing at the runner’s back. Roy also placed second to Johnny O’Brien in the high hurdles. Johnny finished third in the lows.
Rigney surprised with a jump of 22 feet 10 /2 inches to win the broad jump and set a new meet record for the event. Paul Enright was close behind and made it one-two for Notre Dame. Carl Cronin and McDonald scored eight points for Notre Dame in the javelin.
Chamberlain, State’s great distance man, ran a beautiful race in the mile Saturday to tie the meet record in 4:24.2. He was pressed all of the way, however, and the fact that Howery, in third place, was timed in 4:25.5 shows how close the race really was. Brant Little covered the halfmile distance in 1:58.1 to win rather easily over Swanson and Hackney of the Spartans.
Summary:
100-YARD DASH—Won by McCormick (ND) ; Russow (S), second; Nichols (ND), third. Time :09.9.
MILE RUN—Won by Chamberlin (S) ; Fullerton (S), second; Howery (ND), third. Time 4:24.2.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Nichols (ND) ; McCormick (ND), second; Russow (S), third. Time :21.6.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by O’Brien (ND) ; Bailie (ND), second; Russell (S), third. Time :15.L
440-YARD DASH—Won by Abbott /ND) ; Wilson (ND), second; Kuhn (ND), third. Time :49.5.	- .
TWO MILE RUN—Won, by Brown (S) ; Chamberlain (S), second; Biggins (ND), third. Time 9:48.6.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Bailie (ND) : Russell (S), second; O’Brien (ND), third. Time :23.9.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Little. (ND) ; Swanson (S), second; Hackney (S), third. Time 1:58.‘B.
SHOT PUT—Won by Mortenson (ND) ; Hoffman (ND), second; Dill (S), third. Distance 40 feet, 3-8 inch.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Abernathy (ND) and Darling (ND), tied; Bayless and Cole, tied for second. Height a feet, 10 7-8 inches.
POLE VAULT—Won by Johnson (ND) and Olsen (S), tied; Field and Grove (S), tied for second. Height 12 feet, 6 inches.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Hoffman (ND) ; Rigney (ND), second; Shaeffer (ND), third. Distance 139 feet.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Rigney (ND) ; Enright (ND), second: Gibbs (S), third. Distance 22 feet, 10 1-2 inches.
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Cronin (ND) ; McDonald (ND), second: Russell (S), third. Distance 152 feet. 8 1-2 inches.
GOLFERS TROUNCE LOY-
OLA LINESMEN, 18-3
Displaying beautiful form in all their matches, the Notre Dame mashie wielclers triumphed over Loyola of. Chicago in the opening collegiate contest on the William J. Burke University golf course last Saturday. The final score was 18 to 3 in favor of the home team, the visitors being held to three points in singles, and being shut-out in the doubles.
The outstanding individual performances were those turned in by Captain Larry Moller, Russ and Fran Beaupre, all of Notre Dame. Fran Beaupre shot a spectacular 33 on the second nine in the singles play in the morning. He was somewhat offcolor going out and turned in a medal score of 76.	'
Eighteen birdies and one eagle, the latter made by Moller on the 10th, were chalked up by the Notre Dame linksmen in the day’s matches. Moller’s eagle came on the 472-yard hole when his iron second skippered within a foot of the cup and he easily holed out for an eagle 3.
Captain D’Esposito of Loyola, and his brother Julian were the best performers for the invaders. They could not stem, however, the tide of victory inasmuch as the Blue and Gold mashie wielders were finding the course well to their liking.
Larry Moller drew great bursts of applause from the gallery, which numbered easily two hundred, with his tremendous drives, averaging more than 300 yards for the day’s work. Moller resorted to his mashie or mashie niblick on the long par five holes when playing his seconds.
The best ball was a 69 of Moller
and Fran Beaupre in which they won their double match.
The scores:
Larry Moller, 76, defeated J. D’Esposito, 82, 2 to 0.
F. Beaupre. 76, defeated J. D'Esposito. 81, 2 to 1.
W. Redmond, 78, defeated Shanahan, 86. 3 to 0.
R. Beaupre, 79, defeated Ludwig. 81, 2 to 1.
Moller and F. Beaupre. 74-77. defeated J.
D’Esposito, 81-80. 3 to 0.	‘
R. Beaupre and O’Shea, 79 each, defeated J.
D’Esposito. 85 each, 3 to 0.
BEST CARDS
Par— Out ....................444 ’543 445—37
In ..................543 443 535—36
F. Beaupre--
Out ...................ooq	ao4	u4o—1—13
In ..................452	442	435—33
L. Moller— '
Out .................435	543	455—38
In ..................354	444	534—36
F. Beaupre—
Out .................435	443	546—38
In ..................533	564	544—39
R. Beaupre—
Out .................344	554	454—37
In ..................544	453	545—39
TENNIS TEAM DRUBS
• GOPHERS, 5-4
The Gopher racquet wielders invaded the local stronghold last Monday and went down to defeat in a closely contested meet. It was not until the final doubles engagement that the meet was decided. After eight matches had been played, six singles and two doubles, it was found that each had split with three vic-toris in the singles and one in the doubles. The final doubles play assured Notre Dame a 5-4 advantage, and the match after Kendall and M. P. O’Brien’s vanquished Hanson and Scherer of Minnesota 6-3 6-4.
The results:.
SINGLES
Yutzy (M) defeated Capt. O’Brien, 6-4, 6-1. Heleniak (M) defeated Pique, 6-1, 6-0.
Bailey (ND) defeated Morgan, 4-6. 7-5, 6-2. Reaume (ND) defeated Wolff. 6-1, 6-2.
M. M. O’Brien (ND) defeated Johnston, 2-6, 6-3, 7-5.
Hanson (M) defeated M. J. O’Brien, 6-4, 6-4.
DOUBLES
Bailey and J. O’Brien (ND) defeated Yutzy and Morgan, 6-3, 9-7.
Wolff and Heleniak (M) defeated Pique and Reaume. 6-1, 6-3.
Kendall and M. J. O’Brien (ND) defeated Hanson and Scherer, 6-3, 6-4.
IOWA NINE LOSES TO KEOGANITES
George Keogan’s baseball team miraculously recovered from a ninthinning rally last Saturday and took a 5 to 4 decision from the Iowa Hawk-
894
The Notre Dame Scholastic
eyes. Lefty Lisicki, on the mound for the victors, apparently not up to form, withstood a three-run rally in the third and then breezed along under the barrage of ten hits until the ninth when his forces weakened. Meanwhile his mates had accumulated two each in the fourth and sixth with a single counter in the fifth.
Hildreth, Iowa shortstopper, singled to open the ninth, Chance’s grounder which was meant for a double play was messed by Palermo. Reedquist batted for Mitchell and was walked. Moran let Koser’s fly trickle through his fingers, Hildreth scoring. Lisicki was yanked and Mannix took up the burden. Chance was caught stealing, Lordi to O’Keefe, and Kenny was called out on strikes. The bases were loaded as Stebbins walked to first unassisted. Mowery ended the suspense, flying high to O’Keefe.
Notre Dame garnered in the fourth. After Sullivan and Mahoney had singled, Nolan sent them ahead with a pretty bunt and Lordi drove a single through the box, scoring both Sullivan and Mahoney. O’Keefe and Moran singled in the fifth, Feehery sacrificed them ahead and O’Keefe trampled across on an infield out. The two in the sixth came as Francis singled, went to third when Ingram threw wild over first, and scored when the throw-in escaped Chance, the catcher. Joe Lordi was safe when the left fielder dropped his smash, then stole second, and scored when Palermo singled.
Box score:
IOWA			H	NOTRE DAME B R			II
	B	it					
Koser, rf	5	1	2	Palermo, ss	4	0	1
Kenny, 2b	5	1	0	O’Keefe, 2b	3	1	2
.Stebbins, lb	4	0	2	Moran, If	4	0	1
Mowrey, cf	5	0	1	Feehery, rf	2	0	0
Rath, If	4	0	9	Sullivan, lb	4	1	1
Nelson, 3b	4	0	1	Mahoney, 3b	4	1	1
Hildreth, ss	4	1	1	Nolan, If	1	0	1
Chance, c	2	1	1	Francis, If	2	1	1
Ingram, p	1	0	0	Lordi, c	4	1	2
Mitchell, p	1	0	0	Lisicki, p	3	0	0
Reedquist	0	0	0	Mannix, p	0	0	0
	—	——.	—		—	——	
Totals	35	4	10	Totals	31	• 5	10
Reedquist batted for Mitchell in the ninth.
Score by innings:	rhe
Iowa ................003 000 001—4 10 3
Notre Dame ...........000 212 OOx—5 10 2
Two-base hit—Nolan. Three-base hit—Rath. Sacrifice hits—Feehery, Nolan, Lisicki, Ingram. Stolen bases—Moran 2, Lordi 2, Koser. Double play—Kenny to Hildreth to Stebbins. Hits-^off Lisicki, 10 in 8 1-3 innings; Mannix none in 2-3 inning; Ingram, 6 in 4 innings; Mitchell, 4 in 5 innings. Struck- out—by Lisicki, 3;'Mannix, 1; Ingram, 1; Mitchell, 1. Bases on balls—off Lisicki, 2; Mannix, 1; Ingram, 2. Passed • ball—Mannix. Hitch by pitcher—Kenny by Lisicki. Winning' pitcher —Lisicki. Left on bases—Notre Dame, 7; Iowa, 9. Umpires—Stahr and Sullivan.
ELEVEN TEAMS SEEK
STATE TITLE HERE
TOMORROW
Captain Joe Abbott and his Notre Dame track team will be hosts tomorrow afternoon to the cream of Indiana’s thinly-clads in the annual State Championship meet to be run off this year on Cartier Field.
Eleven teams, including Notre Dame, have signified their intentions of entering men in the meet, and each team boasts of at least one or two individual stars while some of them are expected to send exceptionally well-balanced squads.
Coach Nicholson’s men ranked as the pre-meet favorite over Indiana and Purdue, as a result of the Fighting Irish victory over the Hoosiers two months ago. Indiana is expected to put up a real fight to retain the crown they won last year, however, and the fact that they have been working long and hard toward that end was clearly shown last week when they swamped Purdue and Chicago in a triangular meet.
The visiting “individual star” list will probably be headed by Orval Martin of Purdue, Joe Sivak and Bert Nelson of Butler, and Leas and Hatfield of Indiana. Martin, unbeaten in three years of college competition, will, without a doubt, be forced to the limit to keep his record clean this week. It is not known definitely whether he will run the half-mile or the mile, but whichever it is, he will r have to dispose of Sivak and Brant Little, as well as some others of lesser note, in order to take his crown y-back to Lafayette.
Roy Bailie should retain his low hurdle title without a great deal of -trouble, but the rivalry between Johnny O’Brien and Hatfield will bring forth a great race. The sprints are rather an unknown quantity, but Boagni, McCormick, and Nichols should give Notre Dame her share of points.	• i-
Indiana has shown her greatest strength in the distances, and, together with Notre Dame, should be best in the field events.
The entire meet will be run on Saturday afternoon, with preliminaries
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
PEP—flavor—health! You get them all in Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes.
You can’t beat the matchless flavor that only these better bran flakes have. The quick energy of their crunchy whole wheat. And the healthfulness of their bran—just enough to be mildly laxative.
Ask that Kellogg’s Pep Bran . Flakes be served at your fraternity or campus restaurant.
BRAN FLAKES


The Notre Dame Scholastic'
895
in the dashes and hurdles only. The schedule calls for the following fifteen events: 100-and 220-yard dashes, 120-yard high hurdles, 220-yard low hurdles, 440-yard dash, half-mile, mile, two-mile, pole vault, shot put, high jump, broad jump, discus throw, javelin throw, and one-mile relay.
The entries include Indiana, Purdue, Butler, DePauw, Indiana State Normal, Ball State Teachers, Rose Poly Tech, Evansville Normal, Earlham, Franklin, and Notre Dame.
FRESHMAN COPS INTERHALL TRACK TOGA
The cinder-burners from Freshman Hall romped away with the outdoor interhall track meet held last Monday afternoon, accumulating a total of 51 points, slightly more than twice the number scored by their nearest competitor Brownson with 25 points. The other halls placed as follows: Howard and Morrissey, 9; Off-Campus, 7; St. Edward’s 5; Carroll, 3.
Freshman scored firsts in six of the thirteen events, Brownson three, Morrissey, Badin, Off-Campus, and St. Edward’s, one apiece. .Brantford of Freshman was leading scorer, with a total of eleven points which he garnered by virtue of a first in the discus, and seconds in both the shot put and javelin. His teammate, Le-Jeaune, was next in line with eight points as a result of winning the shot

Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
3
Your good deed for today
Grantland Rice—»—«—Famous Sports Champions^*-Coca-Cola Orchestra Every Wednesday 10:30 to 11 pm. Eastern Daylight Saving Time —Coast to Coast NBC Network—«—»—
9 MILLION A D^y-IT
Pause
that refreshes
No matter how busy you are—how hard you work or play—don’t forget you owe yourself that refreshing pause ■with Coca-Cola. You can always find a minute, here and there, and you don’t have to look far or wait long for Coca-Cola. A pure drink of natural flavors—always ready for you— ice-cold—around the corner from anywhere. Along with millions of people every day, you’ll mid in Coca-Cola’s wholesome refreshment a delightful way to well-being.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-6
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
896
The Notre Dame Scholastic
put and taking second to Brantford in the discus.
The summaries:
100-YARD DASH—Won by Kelly (Fr.) : Dilling (Br.), second: Scholl (Mon-.), third. Time :10.3.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Duke (Br.) ; Hoyt (How.), second; Otte (Off-C.), third. Time 4:52.
HALF MILE RUN—Won by Gilfoil (St. Ed.) : Troy (Fr.), second; O’Meara (Br.), third. Time 2:08.
SHOT PUT—Won by Lejeune (Fr.) ; Brantfort (Fr.), second; Boudini (How.), third. Distance 40 feet. 8 inches.
QUARTER MILE RUN—Won by McBeth (Fr.) ; Schricte (Fr.), second; Duke (Br.), third. Time :55.4.
HIGH HURDLES—Won by Pooden (Off-C.) ; Corcoran (How.), second: Boesplog (Fr.), third. Time :11.5.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Dilling (Br.) ; Gough (Car.), second; Schricte (Fr.), third. Distance 19 feet, 11 inches.
LOW HURDLES—Won by Hennefin (Br.) ; Schricte (Fr.), second; Corcoran (How.), third. Time 13 seconds.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Kelley (Fr.) ; Schroll (Morr.). second; Egan (Br.), third. Time :24.4.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Hughes (Fr.) ; Mullins (Sorin), second; Malone (Fr.), third. Height 5 feet. 6 inches.
POLE VAULT—Won by Rohrbach (Badin) ; Terry (Br.), second; Lennartz (Br.), third. Height, 11 feet, 214 inches.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Brantfort (Fr.) ; Lejeune (Fr.), second; Lezowski (How.), third. Distance 123 feet, 5 inches.
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Goensslen (Morr.) ; Brantfort (Fr.), second; Sabo (Off-C.), third. Distance 152 feet.
SOPHOMORE HEADS LIST OF PLAYGROUND
BALL TEAMS
Winning out over Freshman Hall by the narrow score of 1 to 0, the Sophomore Horsemen continued their streak of victories and lengthened the same to five games without a single loss so far this season. Both teams were deadlocked for the honor, position before the game and the narrow losing margin dropped the yearlings from the top rung. Freshman rests in second place with Howard close behind them in third. Walsh, Brown
son, and Morrissey are tied for fourth place with each team winning three and having two losses to their account.
STANDINGS OF TEAMS
(Including game of May 11)
G W
Sophomore ..............5	5
Freshman ...............5	4
Howard .................4	3
Walsh ..................5	3
Brownson ...............5	3
Morrissey ..............5	3
St. Edward’s ...........4	2
Badin ..................5	2
Corby ..................5	2
Sorin ..................4	1
Carroll ................4	1
Off-Campus .............5	1
Lyons ..................4	0
L PCT.
0	1.000
1	.800
1	.750
2	.600
2	.600
2	.600
2	.500
3	.400
3	.400
3	.250
3	.250
4	.200
4	.000
RESULTS SUNDAY MAY 11
Carroll 9, Off-Campus 0 (forfeit). Morrissey 7, Lyons 5.
St. Edward’s 11, Walsh 9.
Sophomore 1, Freshman 0.
Brownson 9, Sorin 0 (forfeit). Badin 9, Corby 0 (forfeit).
fo’1 ^Nunn-Bush
KLINGEL’S MEN’S SHOES 112 N. Main St. - Oliver Theatre
DR. J. M. SINGLER
DR. E. A. PROBST
Dentists
405 Associates Building Phone 3-1254
SAWYER’S RAIS WEAR
YORKTOWN COAT
The Yorktown Coat is the latest addition to the Frog Brand family. This smart wet-weather coat has a convertible military collar—radian shoulders and is a serviceable garment light in weight & flexible.
A genuine oiled Frog Brand Slicker is the leading wet-weather protection for college men and women.
See these garments at your dealers’.
H.M. SAWYER & SON
East Cambridge :: :: Mass.
■k
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers
The Notre Dame Scholastic
897
HOWARD, WALSH, BADIN LEAD INTERHALL LEAGUE
Three teams, Howard, Walsh, and Badin, continue to carry on in the interhall golf tournament, defeating their opponents in all of the games. Six other teams are deadlocked for fourth place and Sorin, Freshman, and Lyons continue to grace the cellai- position without having won a single contest so far.
In the matches played last Sat-urady, Howard scored the most decisive win when they trounced St. Edward’s 7 to 0. Sophomore and Freshman, Walsh and Corby, played tight matches, Sophomore and Walsh winning out by the score of 4 to 3.
The result of the matches played are as follows:
Sophomore 4, Freshman 3.
Howard 7, St. Edward’s 0. .
Walsh 4, Gorby 3.
Badin 5, Off-Campus 2.
Morrissey 4, Lyons 3.
Carroll 1, Sorin 0 (forfeit).
STANDINGS
W L PCT.
Howard ......................2	0	1.000
Walsh ......................2
Badin ......................2
St. Edward’s ...............1
Corby ......................1
Off-Campus .................1
Morrissey ..................1
Sophomore ..................1
Carroll ....................1
Sorin ......................0
Freshman ...................0
Lyons ......................0
0	1.000
0	1.000
1	.500
1	.500
1	.500
1	.500
1	.500
1	.500
2	.000
2	.000
2	.000
MATCHES SATURDAY, MAY 17
12:40—Howard vs. Badin.
12:50—Wash vs. Off-Campus.
1:00—Sophomore vs. St. Edward’s.
1:10—Carroll vs. St. Edward’s.
1:20—Corby vs. Lyons.
1:30—Sorin vs. Freshman.
O trong muscles and nerves of iron don’t come from just will power and exercise. “The best all ’round athlete” of the senior class will be the man who keeps a close watch on his vitamins.
Shredded Wheat saves those who are out for athletic honors, a heap of time and worry. Shredded Wheat con-
Best All ’Round Athlete”
tains in a most easily digestible form all the vitamins, proteins, mineral salts and carbohydrates necessary. In ■ training and out, eat a bowl of Shredded Wheat every morning with plenty of whole milk as thousands of other successful athletes do.
NET MEN PLAY LOYOLA TOMORROW
The Notre Dame netters, under the supervision of Gene J. Kennedy, will meet the Loyola racqueters tomorrow in a match which was postponed from earlier in the month because of adverse weather conditions.
Matches today marked the close of the second annual Central Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament sponsored jointly by Notre Dame and the Chicago Town and Tennis Club. These matches began last Wednesday afternoon and continued through yesterday and today. A total of fifteen teams were entered in the matches, including several Big Ten schools, and the cream of the college performers of the West and Middle West was fighting for the C. I. T. title this year.
QaiiaBaaaaaiaaaBaiaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaitiaaaiaaaiaaMiitiaiiaiaaiaaiaaaaataaaaiaiiiaiaaaaaaaaaiaaaiiiaiiaaaiaaaiasiaaatQ i I Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers i , Biiiiiiiaiaiiaiaaaiiaiiiiiitiaiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiaaiaiiiiiiaaiiiiiiiatiiiiiiaiaaiaaaiiaiaiiiiaaiiaiittiiaiiiiitaiaiiiiiaiaaiiaiitiniiaitiaaiaaaaitiai^J
898
The Notre Dame Scholastic
George Arliss will hold you breathless as he portrays—The suave Eastern Potentate cloaked with the veneer of civilization—The Monarch and Despot in his mountain kingdom.
Warner Bros. Present
GEGRGE ARLISS
in His Greatest Role
“THE GREEN GODDESS”
With ALICE JOYCE—RALPH FORBES ------------Also--
Sound Vodvil Fox Movietone News
STARTS SUNDAY thru WEDN’SDAY
1000	M J J	1000
Seats 25c	Seats 25c
See the whole show
You don’t have to worry about missing any of the show when you attend the theater in Chicago if you take the South Shore Line back to South Bend.
Convenient after-theater service is provided by fast, comfortable trains leaving Randolph St. at 11:15 p. m. and 12:00 midnight, arriving in South Bend at 1:15 a. m. and 2:10 a. m.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND
RAILROAD
A Paramount-Publix Theatre
Straw Hats
1
Now Ready $2.00, $3.00 and $5.00
HAT STORE
118 N. MI CHI GAN ST.
Ash to see the NEW CUB PANAMAS and LEGHORNS
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
Suits Pressed (while you wait)..$ .40
Cleaned and Pressed.,..............75
Shoes Fixed (while you wait) Half Soles ..................  1.00
Heels  .................      .50
Hats Blocked (while you wait) Panama Straw.....................75
Sailor Straw   ............   .50
Shoes Shined...................10
“Modernly Equipped Shoe Shine Parlor”
“Special Dressing rooms”
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
899
Dodge	Dodge
The Green Front
751-3 South Michigan Street
Phone 3-1724
Dependable transportation at the lowest prices. See us before buying your ticket home. We will save you money and furnish you with a much pleasanter way of getting where you are going.
Operated by
DeRhodes-Yerrick Motor Co.
BASEBALL TEAM MEETS ILLINOIS AND NORTHWESTERN
Sufficiently cheered by the pair of wins turned in by his boys in the last two games, Coach George Keogan led his baseball team to Urbana, Illinois yesterday where the diamond nine will meet Illinois this afternoon. Keogan is especially anxious to win this set-to inasmuch as it will give Notre Dame its fourth consecutive
BATTING AVERAGES
(Including game of May 13)
Romanin, p. Nolan, If. ... Palermo, ss. . Francis, If. . O’Keefe, 2b. Sullivan, lb. Palt, p........ Mahoney, 3 b Lisicki, p. .. Mannix, p. . Askew, 2b. .. Moran, cf. .. Lordi, c....... Feehery, rf. . Dilley, p. ... Lomasny, If. Duffy, 2b. ...
1 0
0
Totals
AB . . 2 .. 9 ..36 -.27 -.39 ..37 ..11 . .20 .. 8 .. 4 ..13 ..36 -.32 . .36 .. 7 .. 1 .. 1
H
1
4
14
10
11
10
5
9
1
3
8
6
PCT. .500 .444 .389 .370 .305 .297 .273 .250 .250 .250 .231 .222 .188 .167 .143 .000 .000
319
86
.270
win over a Big Ten school, having defeated Wisconsin, Iowa, and Northwestern already this season. A return game with Northwestern is to be played tomorrow, at Evanston, Ill.	'
A pair of lefthanders, Palt and Lisicki, will probably be chosen to hurl the games today and tomorrow. Keogan used two righthanders against the Wildcats last Tuesday and is sure to cross them with a port-sider tomorrow.
The unofficial batting averages show that the team batting as a whole has taken on new life and increased somewhat. Last week, the team batting totaled .259 whereas at the present time the sluggers have increased the team average to .270. There are now five hitters among the .300 class, with only three of the five being classed as regulars. Palermo continues to lead the regulars with a .389 average, Harry Francis stepping into the next position with .370.
O’SHEA AND BRADLEY IN TITLE PLAY MONDAY
Louie O’Shea and Art Bradley will match drives Monday afternoon at 3:00 p. m. in the first 18-hole round of their 36-hole match play to deter
mine the individual varsity champion. O’Shea defeated Russ Beaupre in the semi-finals 1 up, and Bradley trounced Ray Totten 2 and 1.
The results of the quarter and semi-final rounds are as follows:
QUARTER-FINALS
Louie O’Shea defeated Larry Moller, 1 up, 37 holes.
Art Bradley defeated Fran Beaupre. 1 up.
Ray Totten defeated Bill Redmond, 7 and 5.
Russ Beaupre defeated Mike Halligan, 3 and 2.
SEMI-FINALS
O'Shea defeated Russ Beaupre. I up. Bradley defeated Totten, 2 and 1.
______________________________.J.
1930 BASEBALL SCHEDULE
April 14—N. D. 12, Armour Tech 4
April 21—N. D. 5-0, Florida -4-1
April 23—N. D. 3, Georgia Tech 1
April 24—N. D. 5, Georgia Tech 3
April 25—Fort Benning 6, N. D. 5
April 26—Fort Benning 9, N. D. 5
April 30—rN. D. 5, Wisconsin 3
May 3—Michigan State 3, N. D. 2
May 10—Iowa 4, N. D. 5
May 13—N. D. 10. Northwestern 6
May 16—Illinois at Urbana
May 17—Northwestern at Evanston
May 20—Bradley at Notre Dame
May 23—Luther at Decorah, Iowa
May 24—Iowa at Iowa City
May 26—Michigan State at N. D.
May 30—Wisconsin at Notre Dame
May 31—Navy at Notre Dame
♦----;--------------------------------+
900
The Notre Dame Scholastic
fOLFAY
THBATM VW
PARAMOUNT-PUBLIX THEATRE
A LACE
SUNDAY thru TUESDAY
“Under a
I wish to take this opportunity of thanking you men for your splendid patronage during the school year, and to you men graduating—Good Luck—Come see us often. “JACK.”
COMING SUNDAY FOR 3 DAYS
Moon”
A Warner Bros, all-talking, all-technicolor, all singing, outdoor production with . . .
FRANK FAY RAQUEL TORRES MYRNA LOY
—Added—
VITAPHONE SOUND VODVIL PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS
WEDNESDAY thru SAT.
THE RITZ
With
Joan Bennett
Lillian Tishman
—Added—
VITAPHONE SOUND VODVIL PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS
The Picture We’ve All Been Waiting For.
“PUTTIN’ ON
Harry Richman in the United Artist Production
COMM
HOME OF GOOD SOUND
The World’s Most Popular Radio Artist The Only Artist-Announcer From Station WLS, Chicago
IN PERSON
Idol of Millions of Radio Fans
Other Big Ads of RKO Vaudvilie
--------ON THE SCREEN--------
A 100 Percent Laugh-Comedy-Funfest
WILLIAM COLLIER, JR. PAULINE STARKE “A Royal Romance”
COMMENCING WEDNESDAY, MAY 21
The College Picture that is Different.—You’ll Thrill.— You’ll Marvel.—You’ll Wonder!
“The Hide Out”
With
JAMES MURRAY
---A BIG BILL OF VAUDEVILLE--
Come as late as 9:30 daylight saving time, or 8:30 your time, and see a complete show.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
901
-------------------------
Splinters from the Press Box
❖---------------------------------
For the first time since 1926, Harvard met Yale on the field of sport, or rather on the water of sport, when the 150-pound crews from both institutions met in a race over the Henley distance at Derby, Conn. Possibly this is the beginning of amicable relations between the two schools once more. At least they afforded each other company in their misery, as the Yale lightweights took the measure of both of them.
Verlyn Smith, young jockey from the South, although only fourteen, won more than one hundred races before his age was known, and he was barred because of the age limit rule, which provides that a jockey must be at least sixteen.
Two records, of long duration in their field, went by the boards last Saturday. North Carolina, undefeated on the track in seven years, bowed to Princeton, and Union, undefeated during the six years that Harold Anson Bruce has been track coach, lost
to Lafayette by a small margin of seven points.
Tomorrow will bring an array of track talent to Cartier, but possibly the outstanding performer will be Orval Martin of Purdue. The United States has been singularly weak in the distance events in the last three Olympics, and the solons of track have xbeen casting about to try to develop more distance men. Martin is one of the most promising prospects in years. His time in the middle-distance and distance events compares favorably with the best in the country. His advantage lies, however, in the fact that he is comparatively new in track and has not been running so long that he is well-nigh burnt out. It is safe to say that Martin ran but a short while in high school, if at all. One of the curses of oui- athletic system today lies in the running of youngsters, under eighteen, in distance and middledistance events.
On the other hand, a distinct majority of the distance and middle-distance men who made good in college never ran in high school. One does not have to go far to find examples. Captain Abbott, Wilson, Little, and both of the Quigleys never ran in
high school. Romig, Larrivee and our own Charlie Judge are other examples. Off-hand, we can think of only two really great distance men in recent years who ran in high school: Bill Cox and Gus Moore, negro A. A. U. cross country champion. And Cox was practically burned out his last two years in college, in the whole stretch of two years running only one race that was out of the ordinary, and dropping his titles to men whom he had previously beaten. Distance and middle-distance running in high school is a real evil in the athletic world.
Young Jack Thompson wrested the crown away from Jackie Fields in Detroit last Friday but not without suffering very much damage. Crawling out of the ring, Thompson was a physical wreck. Bleeding from the nose, mouth and seemingly from the eyes, he was acclaimed the new champion of his division. But later he suffered internally from the terrific mauling Fields imposed upon him, showing that there is a lot gone out of the colored champion. It takes but one really tough fight to ruin the average battler, and one may believe that Thompson has had his.
II..mil.mm...mu..mu...mu...mmmmmmmmmi....mmimmmmmmiiimm....mu..mmmmi...tiiummi.mmmmmmii...
RA NAD
WARNER BAXTER in “The Arizona Kid”
The West of Colorful Border Bandits and Ladies Who Know About Men’s Hearts.
STARTS SATURDAY
-COMING--
“The Cuckoos”
“So This Is London”
“Born Reckless”
“Song of The Flame”
902
The Notre Dame Scholastic
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material •
patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
A Better Optometric Service
You can rest assured that when glasses are prescribed by us they are of modern style combined with the finest of materials and workmanship.
LEMCNTREE’S
OPTOMETRISTS
222^ S. Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Over 25 years of service to humanity.
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
GOLF TOGS
Half Price
TOM WYE SWEATERS, coat style or pull-over.....$2.95 to $4.85
KNICKERS, linen or wool.$1.95 to $4 MEN’S DRESS OXFORDS.....$2.95 to $6
TOWERS FISHBRAND SLICKERS Green-Yellow or Black
$7.50 values
Baseball News—■
For a complete report of all games, at home or abroad, follow the sports section of
THE
NEWS- TIMES

HMCfiate


The Notre Dame Scholastic
903
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
First National
Bank
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
The Home of Quality
204 NORTH MICHIGAN ST.
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
^4 Dandy Wrist Watch
$9.95
A fine movement in a white finish case with flexible band
have a complete line of mesh bags and compaEis
South Bend Watch Co.
Retail Store
904
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Good tobacco
in a pipe
That’s what you want!
WHY do you hunt high and low and everywhere, when all the time here is good tobacco waiting to be smoked in your pipe? Why not discover Edgeworth and be done .with your hunting?
Light a pipeful of Edgeworth. Roll on your tongue the full-bodied smoke that never bites and is always cool. Taste the Edgeworth flavor—the flavor that never changes. Learn for yourself why Edgeworth is the choice of so many critical smokers all around the world.
You simply must meet Edgeworth somehow. Buy a can of it, or borrow some, or let us send you several pipefuls, free, just to taste. Use first the" coupon and then restraint until the postman comes with the Edgeworth. You’ll bless the day, for good tobacco in a pipe is what you want.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms— “Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15p pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
| LARUS & BRO. CO.
1 100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
{ I'll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try
I it in a good pipe.
k
1 Kame
I
| --------------------------------
I
। Town and
k	Now let the Edgeworth come! V21
1 I I I I I I 1 I I I I I I I I I .1
♦------------------------------
❖ | On Down the Line | ❖---------------------------------o
... You can say what you want about the Kentucky Derby tomorrow . . . But our HERMIE hit it right when he said that we’d have our own little Derby on Cartier tomorrow . . . what with LITTLE, MARTIN, SIV-AK, CLAPHAM, and LEAS, all vie-ing for the mile toga . . . The first nine games of the current season, JOHNNY MORRISON, Brooklyn hurler, served as a relief pitcher in six . . . Umpires in the American League will work three to the game this season . . . Twenty-five years ago one man worked a game alone . . .
—o—
. . . Darkness brought a halt to a baseball game in New Bern, N. C. in the second inning . . . one of the teams had amassed the amazing lead of 62 runs . . . the losing nine used three pitchers but could not stem the tide of hits and runs . . . WADE MEADOWS, JR., grandson of U. S. Senator F. M. SIMMONS, led the fiesta with four home runs . . . Membership in the average golf club in England may be had for a sum of from 5 to 10 pounds, while in the United States it is several times that much . . .
—o—
. . . One-eyed CONNELLY, the original gate-crasher, has swallowed his pride and finally asked for a pass . . . the ticket takers at Wrigley Field, Los Angeles, were too tough for the king of crashers ... he petitioned the club for a season ducat after he had been given the “bum’s rush” several times . . . ROLAND DAVIS, only 14, the son of the Meadville Country Club greenkeeper, became a golf pro recently at the municipal course of Warren, Ohio . . . Tomorrow will tell whether or not the Chicago White Sox can break the Saturday game since the season started ... in fact their last Saturday victory was over the Giants in a training game, March 8 . . .
. . . JACK DEMPSEY, tells us, according to WILLIAM F. CAREY, president of Madison Square Garden Corporation, that MAX SCHMEL-ING, will defeat JACK SHARKEY in their forthcoming battle for the heavyweight title . . . Illinois is having a tough time keeping catchers .. . WALTER BRINN was recently banned for having played the restricted number of years ... A bit earlier this year PHIL ENGVALL was removed because he had earned enough credits in 31-2 years to 4 > graduate ...
LINKSMEN PLAY DETROIT, THREE YEARS UNDEFEATED
With the decisive win over Loyola hammered in their drivers, the Notre Dame golfers will meet the University of Detroit linksmen tomorrow in an attempt to break the latter’s undefeated record for the past three years. The match to be played at the beautiful Oakland Hills course near Birmingham, Michigan, will bring together some of the finest golfers in the country.
The Detroit team, runner-up in the National Intercollegiates held last year at Deal, N. J., will meet tough opposition when they match shots with the Blue and Gold outfit which is determined to win. Detroit holds victories over Loyola, whom Notre Dame defeated last Saturday, and Georgetown, on which team is Morris McCarthy, one of the country’s finest collegiate golfers.
Fordham Law School
Woolworth Building, New York Co-Educational
Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar Room 2870
Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
905
906
The Notre Dame Scholastic
O SOCIETY BRAND
You get extraordinary quality and 'value in	'■
STANWEAR SUITS
bySociety ^ranb
Stanwears are much better than most suits at this price
Smarter. Finer fabrics—richer patterns. They’re high-grade, double-service worsted—and exclusive.
And they’re ever so much better tailored. Society Brand’s workmanship is faultless. All this means that the values are better, too. -
25^ off
All College Jewelry Pennants Blankets
ADLER BROTHERS
IT’S THE CUT OF YOUR CLOTHES THAT COUNTS
aaafisa
>
The Notre Dame Scholastic
907

FLORSHEIM SHOE
It’S a fine art to make a shoe good looking and thoroughly comfortable at the same time. Florsheim craftsmen are masters of that art. The Florsheim Shoe gives you the utmost in comfort and style, and long wear besides!

$1O
ADLER BROTHERS
908
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BLACK CLIN IN PCOLC
J
