^he SNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
rXXXXXXXXXXZXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXY< m	k
M	M
8	College Parade	8
M	BY RICHARD MURPHY	H
H____________________________________M
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney.
Ralph Abell....—
__Editor-in-chief Associate Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole___________________________..Managing Editor
Harold Berliner and John McKeon....Asst. Managing Editors Bill Waddington..............................    Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty.......................  '.Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett_______________The Green Banner
Dick Murphy.............................    College	Parade
Al Lesmez______________________________Man About Campus
News Staff
Frank Keenan..._____.__________________________:..News Editor
Al Lesmez.......... ..________.._____________—Campus Editor
Edward Madden__________________________Administration Editor
John Keleher	Vernon Mikkelson	Joe Plante
J.	D. Usina	James McCarthy	Bill Thompson
Steve Loyacano H. G. Gilligan . Mike Canair Paul Smith
Features
Al Broten ...__________________________.._________Editor
■ Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen H. F. Ziegler
James Paris	Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner	Harry Tanner	Charles Veenstra
.Harold M. Nelson
Smarts Staff
Bill Carey..... Editor James H. Howard Jim Fennelly	Jack Houghteling
Joe Murnane	Paul Brennan	David Scheider
John Power	Jim Regan	Joe Fahey
Staff Photographers
Al Shaefer	Charles Renaud	- Joe Haller
Circulation
John Matmiller___...J......______...._________....... Manager
Reverend Charles' M. Carey, C.S.C..„.............Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor , of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national adyertis-ing by National Advertising Service, Inc.; 420 Madison Avenue,'New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE' SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
2
HO HUM!!!
Four Marines were playing bridge in a hut on Wake Island. Suddenly another leatherneck burst into the room and shouted: “The Japs are landing a force of about 200 men on the beach!”
The four bridge playing marines looked at one another. Finally one said: “I’ll go. I’m dummy this hand.”
Student Life
AH! SPRING!
The temperature has soared to new heights this winter at the University of Minnesota. In fact, the Minnesota Daily informs us that it has been so warm that the students felt that it would be out of sort to hold,their annual mid-winter swingabout. So instead the students held the Spring Frolic dance. The committees decided • that spring has arrived a, little early, but not without fanfare.
WHY GIRLS DID NOT ATTEND
THE CASEY SEMI-FORMAL
Father was sick ......................... 34
Mother was sick ........................... 48
Grandfather was sick ...........,........ 13
Attended Northwestern Junior Prom ....... 11
Attended high school prom ...............240
Still don’t know why ....................240
“Just wait till Charley gets home!” ..... 1
❖
SOMETHING NEW HAS BEEN ADDED
The young bride placed the turkey carefully on the table for Thanksgiving dinner.
“This my dear, is my first roast turkey,” she exclaimed.
Her husband looked with admiration. “Marvelous, daring,” he said, then added, “and how wonderfully you’ve stuffed it.”
“Stuffed it?” she said. “Why dearest, this one wasn’t - hollow,”	—Student Life
JUNK JEWELRY FOR TRADE
Students of Northwestern University have just completed a drive to collect all old jewelry on the campus — so the Northwestern Daily tells us. Any kind of colored metallic, plastic, or wooden jewelry was accepted. The jewelry will be sent to fighting areas where it will be given to soldiers to trade with the natives.
SOUNDS WE LOVE TO HEAR
“Hello, old boy, here’s that five I owe you!” / .
“There will be no assignment for next time — class ex-cused!”
“Oh, dearest, do you. really mean it?”
... ■ “Amen!"	’	~~
“Let’s walk instead.”	.
“Yes.”	.- '/ ~
, .	(Continued on Page 20)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	•
'	at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 80	FEBRUARY 4, 1944	NO. 11
K.	C. Semi-Formal Tonight
BY AL LESMEZ
All the planning, the preparation, the feverish activity, and the anticipation of the past few weeks will come to a climax in just a few hours as the civilian Semi-Formal becomes an actuality. The Indiana Club will play host to the 250 “civies” accompanied by their guests, at 9 p.m. this evening, who come for an evening of enjoyment. And according to plans, it promises to be real enjoyment.
Not being satisfied with leaving anything undone, or overlooked, the committeemen have been busy for the past weeks ironing out all the minute details of this dance. They are proud that they can say that everything is in readiness.
Will Back and his orchestra will provide the music, which is of a style along the lines of Freddie Martin. This orchestra features three excellent vocalists, namely Maurie Jackson, tenor; Jerry Gabriel, baritone; and Eunice Clark. Although these three do much solo work, they also feature in plenty of trio music. Recent engagements of Will Back include the Stevens Hotel, the Edgewater ■ Beach Hotel, the Medinah Club, and the Drake Hotel; he has just completed a lengthy engagement at the ‘Paradise Ballroom in Chicago.
Frances Cummings
The ticket salesmen announced early during the week that according to all indications, the dance would be a complete sellout. The 250 limit put on the number of dance - goers restricts the crowd on the dancing floor, thus making it more comfortable for all concerned.
There have been many eye-filling evidences that a great number of dates have been “imported” for the dance, most important of which has been the very pretty sights seen walking around the campus, or window-shopping downtown. It is going to be a gala night for the “civies,” and those who are old timers enough to remember the really big dances put on by the students of “the old days,” will have nostalgic memories of tails, white ties, and soft music.
Guest of Chairman Joseph Murnane will be Miss Frances Cummings, of Barat College, Lake Forest, Ill. The guest of Chairman Benjamin Mammina will be Miss Virginia Dreibelbis, of South Bend. .	.
It was announced by the various committees that in keeping with the forthcoming holiday, the theme for the dance will be Valentine’s Day. In accordance with this theme, the predominating color will be red, as will be evidenced on the programs and the wall decorations.
The program committee has done some excellent work, and compliments are due to Richard Sadowski for his active chairmanship. The programs will be attractively bound in a red jacket, and will be well worth keeping in remembrance of the good time had at the dance.
With the announcement that the dance will be a sellout, compliments must be accorded the ticket committee, and its chairman Jack Kelly, who has done such a good job of putting the “bids” on the market. Theirs has been one of the hard- . est jobs. Their success makes the dance a financial triumph. Some of the members of this committee who have excelled in the fine art of salesmanship are Vincent Cushing, Jack Lyons, Michael Kiely, Frank McDonald; Richard Deeb, Phillip Martin, William Carnahan, and Miguel Vila. But the committee
claims that the dance sold itself, which is a note of interest for future dance planners in the semesters to come.
When the couples begin arriving, they will note the novel manner in which the hall has been arranged. If they feel like
Virginia Dreibelbis Priddy
thanking the decoration committee, they can thank chairman Patrick Rega, and the two men who have donated so liberally of their time, ideas, and work— Ray Cusick and Gerold Greeland.
The patron committee is headed by Felix McPartland and John Davis. Grand Knight’Francis J. Magnella will be one of the guests of honor.
As long as acknowledgements are in order, much credit must be heaped on the shoulders of Richard Murphy, chairman of the publicity committee, along with its members, Emmett Hassett, Vail Pischke, and Louis Borgi.
The dance will start promptly at 9 p.m. and close at 1 aan., with a 2 aan. “punch-in” deadline at the halls. The week-end promises to be a great success, especially with the regular Co-Hop on Saturday night, and perhaps a movie during the afternoon. A quiet Sunday, with Mass on Campus should round out an enjoyable and a complete week-end.
3
The Week
BY HARRY LE BIEN AND TOM GAINES
Rudy Kusmich: “What bags under my eyes? That’s just eyebrow shadow!”
Mel Gelber: “My father is in the middle ages.”
DA CHUMPS—ER, CHAMPS
TOP OF THE WEEK
Pay day!
V-12 KNIGHTS IN A BARROOM or
(One Day Closer to Victory)
Being a chronic history of a Saturday, as spent by the typical V-12 trainee:
6:00 Bell rings
6:10 Bell rings
6:14 Stretch
6:15 Arrive at Drill Hall
6:17 Four-forty
6:18 Two-twenty
6:30 Back to hall
6:50 Stretch and get up
7:05 In line for chow
7:50 Start to eat chow
7:51 Finish chow
7:52 Burp
8:00 First class
8:50 Bell rings
8:51 Stretch and get up
9:00 Back to room
9:10 Consider studying physics
9:45 Start to study physics
9:46 Complete study of physics
10:00 Next class
10:05 Closed-book test in math
10:45 Close book
12:00 Start to go on leave
12:02 See name on marching list
12:05 Down at V-12 office pleading with Lieutenant Collins
13:00 Report for first hour of marching
14:00 Time marches on
14:30 Trainee does likewise
15:00 Wondei’ who’s kissing her how
15:30 End of march
15:31 End of march
17:00 Sit down to study
17:30 Put cards away
18:00 Downtown
18:30 Whistle at blonde
18:45 Steak on eye
19:00 Sweeney’s
19:15 Chief in front door
19:16 Seaman out back .door
19:30 Movie
23:30 Pick up glove.
23:31 Girl’s hand in glove
23:45 Steak on other eye -
23:50 Meet girl from Bendix
24:00 What a girl!
03:00 Back to the Station
03:30 Hit the sack
03:31 Hie!'
4
PIQUE OF THE WEEK
In an effort to affirm his arguments on George Bernard Shaw’s socialistic tendencies, Frank Shroder burst into a Zahm coffee clotch room filled with some of the more muscle-bound and mind-free athletes of Notre Dame with the poser, “Do any of you guys know of George Bernard Shaw?”
Tom Sheehan blandly looked up from his book and said: “Sure thing. . . . His racket is the donation of the spiritual in the things of sense — literature to you.”
RUMOR OF THE WEEK
Demerits are going to be put on a curve!
GOBSERVATIONS
We take our buttons off to the Red Cross ladies of Ye Oide Sewing Corner at the Servicemen’s Center. At the slightest manifestation of the detachment of one of the circular fasteners which tends to disdain its state of adjoining the adjacent borders of the serviceman’s outer garment, these two sympathetic ladies are quick to lend a therapeutic hand to remedy the existing situation.
They also sew on buttons.
Under the “things we still can’t believe” department, trainees are shaking their heads over two bottles of milk in the morning, the warm weather, and steak dinners on Sunday. If this keeps up there won’t be anything left to gripe .about!	.	,
PINPOINT POISINALITIES
Joe Gall: “The theory of exchange as I understand it, is not very well understood.”
Black Jack Neagle: “Gee, I thought the clean plate club had something to do with false teeth.”
Joe Gentile: “I was supposed to get a hot WAC, but got a cold WAVE instead.”
Chief {bachelor) Blenker: “In my opinion, the chief cause of divorce is marriage.”
We take our shoes off to Company H, of the Navy V-12’s. Last week they earned the dubious honor of Demerit Champs as, collectively, this enterprising little group received more demerits than any two other companies. At Chief Jevolekian’s little tea party at the Drill Hall last Saturday, the Company H delegation was by far the largest.
MUSTER
ANNOUNCEMENT
“On Sunday, the 13th of Feb., there will be a tea dance given by a group of St. Mary’s College young ladies between 1500 to 1730.” (We knew they were old . . . but egad.)
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Insurance, laundry, bonds, sweat suits.
Harvard's Dean Pound to Deliver Lecture Series
Roscoe Pound, dean-emeritus of the Harvard law school, Cambridge, Mass., will return to the campus of the Univer-sity of Notre Dame to deliver a series of lectures Feb. 14, 15, 16 and 17.
Treating the general subject of “Growth and Development of the Legal Profession," Dean Pound will break down the material into various subdivisions for his four lectures.	4
The lectures, presented under the aus-pices of the College of Law at Notre Dame, will be open to the public. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the College of Law at Notre Dame, will preside at each of the lectures.
Dean Pound, who was dean of the • Harvard Law School from 1916 to 1936 and is the author of several widely known books on legal subjects, delivered a series of lectures at Notre Dame in January, 1942, in which he discussed “The Revival of Natural Law.” This series, well received by both the Notre Dame student body and the general pub-lie, was. reprinted in a succeeding issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, published by members of the College of Law.
The second appearance of Dean Pound on the Notre Dame campus came in Jan- 4 uary, 1943, when he discussed the “50 Years Growth of American Law.”	-<
Breen Medalist Finalists Chosen; Seven Men to Compete for Prize on Feb. 8
BY EDWARD H. MADDEN	'
Preliminary eliminations in the Breen Oratorical contest were held in room 327 Main Building on Jan. 26, 27, and 28 at ‘	4:15 p.m.
* Pvt. John Lynch and Seaman Eugene Diamond were the successful contestants who survived the Jan. 26 elimination. Inasmuch as a tie resulted in the Jan. 27 elimination, three speakers qualified. They are Richard Murphy, Richard Pearse,'and Mark McGrath, C.S.C. Completing the preliminaries on Jan. 28, John Van Walulear, C.S.C., and John Walsh, C.S.C., weathered their compe-tion and emerged victors.
These seven men, having won in their respective elimination groups, will par' ticipate in the final contest on Feb. 8 at 4:15 p.m. in Washington Hall. The win’ ner of this encounter will be mythically crowned as Notre Dame’s champion or-rator; and he will be presented with the
/ "Scholastic" Seeks New Editors	.
and Writers for Coming Semesters
The Scholastic, now completely recovered from the recent fire, and well established in its new editorial offices on the “zero” deck of Walsh Hall, this week issued a call for editors and writers for the coming semester.
According to Father Charles Carey, faculty advisor, many changes in personnel are contemplated by reason of seniority, no less than the fact that several members of the present staff will be leaving the campus at the end of the present semester, thus creating a noticeable vacancy in the present board of editors.
Although the Scholastic has made a practice of advancing men on the merit of past services and ability, the. campus news-weekly is constantly on the alert for latent talent, no less than for the budding journalist. And while it has long been the policy of the magazine to seek help from the Department of Journalism,' offering those majors a practical outlet for their particular work, the majority of members of the staff are drawn from all other departments of the University. Father Carey offered no explanation for this strange phenomenon, merely commenting that many of those, who should make it their business to take advantage of such a practical outlet, were missing
Breen medal, awarded through means of a foundation established by Breen, an alumnus of Notre Dame.
Following is a list of the contestants in all three eliminations: William J. Carey, Glenn R. Boorman, C.S.C., James A; Cassidy, John L. Cawley, Melvyn P. Tomber, Arthur M. Diamond, John Lynch and E. Diamond.
Robert Schiel, C.S.C., William Dunn, John Misz, James McCourt, Robert H. O’Toole, Murphy, McGrath, and Pearse.
Richard Timm, C.S.C., Edward O’Connor, C.S.C., Joseph Dahms, Rome Hartman, Steven Marras, Van Walulear, and Walsh.
All of the orations are original and pertain to no set subject. Consequently, the speakers, having a wide field from which.to choose, have produced highly variegated results.	'
a golden opportunity to familiarize themselves with the problems of newspaper reporting and feature writing.
Throughout the past semester, the Scholastic has had to contend with many difficulties. These difficulties, however, have been ironed out to a remarkable degree. The staff has operated with a harmony characteristic of the best traditions of the past. Both the Navy V-12 and the Marine elements, no less than the V-7 contingent, have combined with the remaining civilians to present to their reading public a readable periodical that is enjoyed and appreciated. The interest of the .University officials, to' gether with the Navy and Marine personnel, has been remarkable and encouraging. Because of this favorable reaction, the Scholastic feels that it occupies a worthwhile and even necessary part in campus life. Thus, the magazine and its editors plan to continue on, as in the . past, regardless of the financial losses that have accrued in recent months.
Although Father Carey issued a call for next semester editors and writers, he made it evident that he was interested only in those men who would survive their initial enthusiasm, and show themselves dependable in carrying out assignments. At the same time, he was warm
in his praise of those who had weathered the trials of recent weeks occasioned by the recent fire and its attendant inconveniences. “A man must be able to meet a deadline,” said Father Carey, “or we cannot use him. The presses cannot wait for any individual, no matter who he is.”
Editor’s Note: All applicants for portions on the SCHOLASTIC staff, including reporters and feature writers, should send their applications to the Publication^ Office, Box 185. The new staff will be announced in the Feb. 18th issue.
University Service Flag Now Contemplated
According to plans now being formulated by the Alumni Association of the University, a large service flag depicting the number of Notre Dame men in the armed forces will soon fly in a conspicuous spot on the campus.
The proposed flag will be much in the design of those adopted by other universities throughout the country in an effort to remember alumni. The emblem will be so arranged that the number depicted on the flag will be a removable number— that it may be changed periodically, and thus brought up to date. According to Mr. James E. Armstrong, a design for the Notre Dame flag, incorporating Notre Dame insignia, is now being con. sidered. It is estimated that more than 5,500 Notre Dame men are now in the service of their country, all branches of the service considered. Those who have died in active service will, of course, be remembered with gold stars in a conspicuous manner.
The proposed flag was brought to the attention of the University and its alumni by the Scholastic some time ago, through its promotion manager, Robert Lonergan, now of the Chicago Tribune. Since that time, the idea has gained momentum, and will soon become a reality. The new flag will in no way detract from the emblem now hanging in Sacred Heart Church, enumerating only those from the campus who have died in the service of their country. Nor will the flag contain names, as does the plaque in the vestibule of the Church. For a long time it has been felt that some outdoor emblem, large in size and conspicuous in its position, would be appropriate, not only in telling the story of the glorious past, but likewise serve as a constant reminder of the serious responsibility now incumbent upon the present generation of Notre Dame men.
Details on the progress of this latest patriotic project on campus will appear in a later issue of the Scholastic.
5
Savoyards Prepare for Opening Night
and there is an all season American troupe in Boston.
When the show opened Jan. 22, 1887, the title was “Ruddygore.” English people, however, couldn’t bear such uncouth language, so the “y” was changed to “i” and that made it all right. The show in Washington Hall will be exactly the same as its London premiere. This first production ran for 288 consecutive performances. Although the play is 67 years old, the words are still suitable and up to date, so that not a line needs to be changed or deleted.
The show is so full of robust humor, horseplay and fun, that the players have been getting as much enjoyment from proceedings as the audience is expected to receive.
The dances in particular will be very nicely done. The “Gavotte,” presented as finale to the first act. is a highly complicated series of steps, twirls, and jumps, making a truly fine effect as a whole.	c
- Gilbert-Sullivan's "Ruddigore" Begins Local Run Wednesday; Lasts Four Days
BY HAROLD BERLINER
Publicity Director
On Wednesday night, at 8:30, the long awaited Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, Ruddigore, will be presented to the pub, lie. The first performance will be for the benefit of the V-12 students. The following night, Thursday, will be reserved for y the Faculty, Civilians, and the Marines. • Friday will be exclusively for the Mid-< shipmen, and the last night will be open to the invited guests.
. Since the selection of the cast late in December, Mr. Cecil Birder, director of the Notre Dame Savoyards, and the * group itself has spared no effort to make the production a successful one. With ’	’ time out only on Saturdays and Sundays,
' the cast has had rehearsals every day since Jan. 3.
Although one of the finest of Gilbert and Sullivan light operas, “Ruddigore” is seldom produced because of production k difficulties. The story is gay and fantastic, with a light touch of the supernat-. ural, and affords scope for every kind of acting, singing and dancing.
Several of the cast have had experi-■z ence in past Gilbert and Sullivan operettas. Barney Slater, a Sorin Hall junior, has had parts in “Pinafore” and “Pa. tience.” Joan Michel has played four other roles, and June Duley has even appeared in her “Ruddigore” part of Mad Margaret previously.
The complete cast of characters is as . follows:
Robert Oakapple — George Bastyr; Richard Dauntless — Bernard Slater; Despard Murgatroyd — Richard Ames; Old Adam—Robert O’Toole; Rose Maybud—Joan Michel; Mad Margaret—June Duley; Dame Hannah—Agnes Haney; Zorah—Dorothy Czarnecki.
Ghosts: First Baronet—Thomas Bremer; Sixth Baronet—Raymond Clark; Twelfth Baronet — Morris Wagner; Eighteenth Baronet —James Murtagh; Twentieth Baronet — James Crowley; Twenty-first Baronet—Gene Peciulis.
Chorus of Gentlemen and Ancestors • are: Thomas Bergin, Joseph Dahms, Bernard Duclos, Albert Fisk, William Graham, Richard Pearse, John F. Homan, James Maguire, Benjamin Mam-mina, Richard Markiewicz, John McKeon, . Philip Meyers, Paul Pandolfi, Charles Powers, Francis Repillado, Jerrold Ruskin, Clarence Slyngstad, William Spillane, Paul Taggett and Gerald Welch.
Professional Bridesmaids: Helen Jac-qua. Patricia Czolgosy, Lois Hodgins, Benita Guthrie, Marie Manuszak, Barbara Kaiserman, Eleanor Przybyzz, Marylin Nelson, and Shirley Witkowski.
Since the Gilbert and Sullivan operettas were produced in the Savoy theatre in the 1880’s, they have never lost their popularity, or modern flavor..
The original D’Oyly Carte Company still produces the same shows in London,
Fr. Cavanaugh Gives Retreat
- By Edward H. Madden
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., will journey to Webster College, a Catholic girls’ school located in Webster Grove, Missouri, to conduct a “retreat” on Feb. 2, 3, and 4. Webster Grove is a suburb of St. Louis. .
A “retreat” is a period of religious education designed to orientate individuals-when entering a new situation entirely foreign to past experience. Consequently, the reason for holding retreats at colleges and universities is exceedingly apropos, because young people of formative years are entering an absolute change in atmosphere and environment. When hundreds of complete strangers replace old, substantial friends, when a host of new ideas bombard a young man or a young woman into near mental paralysis, it then becomes necessary for such institutions as a retreat to allow eager but neglected young souls to overtake and to keep in step with eager young minds. Father Cavanaugh will conduct four conferences a day during the retreat for the girls at Webster.
Father Cavanaugh is well equipped for. such work, due, in part, to his past preparation and service. He received his Ph.D. in 1930 from the Gregorian University at Rome. He was prefect of religion at the University of Notre Dame from 1933 to 1938, was assistant provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross from 1938 to 1940, and became vice-president of Notre Dame in 1940.
In addition to his manifold duties as vice-president of a large university,. Father Cavanaugh still retains his assistant provincialship of the Holy Cross Congregation.	’
7
gxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx? a THE GREEN BANNER I
M	BY JIM CASEY AND "BUZZ" HASSETT	M
PxTYXYXXXTXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX.n
DANCE DIRECTIONS
Gentlemen, you’ve anticipated a student dance sanctioned by the University for a long time. The brawl begins at 9:00 o’clock. A well-planned evening is a successful evening. May we volunteer our assistance in checking over a few of the details which are of major importance if your evening is to be a pleasurable one. You have two o’clock permissions, so don’t forget to sign out and please, even though you’re in the habit of keeping earlier hours, don’t be too weary (we said weary), to sign in. You have your dance bid in a handy place? Swell, no tickee no dancee. In the event that you’re one of the lucky few who have a car, don’t neglect to have it registered with the Prefect of Discipline. It may prove embarrassing if you don’t. On the other hand, if your car is a stolen one it may prove risky if you do. Now then, the corsage. If you failed to send flowers and she seems resentful, place the blame on your roommate. Be angry. Create a scene. Above all, don’t admit your stinginess. In the event that you have a date with your roommate’s sister, we can be of no further assistance. Chum(p), you’re on ' your own. . . . The financial situation is a personal matter. If the check failed to materialize in today’s mail, it isn’t necessary to pilfer any poor boxes. There isn’t a pawn shop in town that won’t honor a Notre Dame ring. . . . Another monetary angle worthy of consideration is the money belt of Brother Conan (the Bookstore financier). It is reported that his income tax could provide food for the entire student body for the next five years — perhaps longer, if they continued eating in the campus dining halls.... Gentlemen, I believe we’ve covered the more important trifles in preparing you for tonight’s social event. Simply because the dance is semi-formal doesn’t mean that you can wear a “T” shirt; and above all, your shoes and stockings should be mates. . . . Well, everything seems quite in order and we hope that you didn’t neglect to provide yourself with a “date.” ’
A SOUTH BEND SCENE—
“Gee Moitle, grab a squint at dem two boids over by Walgreens yet. . . . Dey must think it’s summer time. . . . I wish it was. ... They got white ‘n’
tan shoes on. . . . Mable it’s a new fad. Ya think so Moitle? . . . Hey kid, they’re lookin’ over by us. . . . Smile nice. . . . Show ’em da china closet. . . . Maybe ya better not grin too nice. ... I forgot about dem chipped teeth of yourn. . . . Oh, yah think maybe they’re a couple of Collich guys, huh? . . . They don’t look so smart. . . . Maybe they are though. . . . They ain’t payin’ no notice wid us. . . . Ya, they do look kinda young. ... Ya, that’s it, they’re only a couple of young punks. . . . Why they don’t even know we’re existent. . . . Let’s go by Sweeney’s. . . . Yah, got any more gum . . . thanks. . . . Yah, that’s ah peachy idea. . . . Yah better put away that plant button, Moitle. . . . We’ll end up payin’ for our own beers. . . . The guys will know we got dough if en yah wear it. . . . Naw they can’t be collich guys from out by Nota Dame. . . . They don’t look so fulla brains. . . . Maybe they were, though. . . . They paid no ’tention with us?”
GOSSIP, GOSSIP, AND MORE GOSSIP
St. Mary’s will turn out in full force for the dance tonight. . . . Could it be that Dick Ames deserted the Navy? . . . tut tut, lad . . . they call that treason. . . . The freshman dance was definitely called off. . . . Yankee Stadium was being used that weekend. . . . Tom Halligan is protecting Joan Yeager from the wolves these days. . . . Drank Mag-nella has so many dates for the dance, that we are all wondering who he will bring. ... Oh that lucky girl! . . . Thank you Mr. Ford. Those steaks last Sunday were delicious. We all enjoyed them thoroughly. ...
Naval V-12 at Notre Dame
HERE AND THERE
Most original performance of the past week was, undoubtedly, the entrance of John Caron at the basketball game, with an armload of pulchritude. We are now anxiously awaiting the NROTC hop; he ought to be at his best in that atmosphere. ... To get back to that basketball game, we regret that more visiting teams do not imitate Valpo by bringing along a cheering- section. Interesting cheer leaders, eh what? But scallions to the lug who threw the orange out on the court! Any more of that sort of thing and we’ll send our dynamic Walt Kennedy after him. . . . And just why have not all those people been out to a game long before this? And now what do they think of Jim Costin who obviously sold them down the river with his dire prediction regarding the final score? Anyway, for the first time this year we played to standing room only — thanks to the Costin publicity.
SPECTACLES
Sonia and her ice show may have their merits; but they’re small potatoes compared to those KOTC artists who, with a generous sprinkling of St. Mary’s atmosphere, went gaily over the ice on Sunday afternoon last. Whoever suspected that Don Claeys was capable of so much life? Who, furthermore, would have dreamed that St. Mary’s harbored such rugged individuals! The ones whom we met are definitely the outdoor type. We should like to go into particulars; but it is getting late, and we 'must be off to the K. of C. affair to see what the fortunes of war have reserved for this civilian attempt at gaiety. We’ll tell you all about it next week.
WALGREEN'S WHOPPERS
1st Lawyer: Do you have a license to practice before the bar?
2nd Lawyer: Listen, when I get in front of a bar, I don’t practice.
6.
Lt. Comm. A. R. Pierson Transferred from University; Succeeded by Capt. Finney
BY SEAMAN ED MIKKELSON
Moving with typical war-time abruptness, the Bureau of Naval Personnel made a sudden change in Notre Dame’s V-12 administration set-up last week. Lieutenant-Commander A. R. Pierson, Jr., executive oificer of the unit, was separated from the Naval Training Station here at 1300, 31 January, and ordered to the headquarters of the 8th Naval District to await an assignment at sea. The vacancy caused by Commander Pierson’s transfer is being filled temporarily by Captain John W. Finney, Officer-in-Charge of the Ma’ rine Detachment here. Captain Finney has had experience as a Navy ofiicer inasmuch as he served in that branch of the service during the first World War.
Commander Pierson, who was graduated from the Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1923, and commissioned an ensign, was first assigned to the battleship U.S.S. West Virginia on which he served until resigning from the Navy in 1924. He remained in the Naval Reserve until 1932 at which time he resigned his commission. In 1941, immediately following Pearl Harbor, Commander Pierson reentered the Navy as a Lieutenant-Commander and was assigned as Executive Officer of the N.R.O.T.C. unit at Duke University in April, 1942. Relieved at Duke on June 1, 1943, he was assigned as Commanding Ofiicer to set up the V-12 unit at Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., and from there proceeded to Notre Dame on October 25th to assume his new duties as Executive Officer of the nation’s largest V-12 unit.
During Commander Pierson’s brief three months here at Notre Dame a number of changes and innovations have been wrought in the administration of Notre Dame’s V-12 unit. Last fall a new regimental set-up was introduced, consisting of two battalions of seamen and a third battalion of marines. At that time the first Captain’s inspection of the regiment was held. Also introduced into the local program have been such innovations as the Saturday overnights, choice of Wednesday or Thursday aftel-noon liberty, and various recreational events, among them the V-12 bi-weekly variety shows, “Nights and Daze.”
Commander Pierson is married and. has two daughters who are freshmen at Duke University, as well as a five
month-old son. He has made his home in Atlanta, Ga., since 1924, and during the time of his detachment from the Navy, had a very successful investment business career in that city.
On the eve of his departure, Commander Pierson issued a farewell notice to all his V-12 associates, stating:
“I want to assure you all that my association with you has been most pleasant, and I thank you every one for your loyalty, cooperation, and HARD WORK. You have made possible a very effective V-12 program which is going to be of great value to our country and to the Navy.
“I cannot help stressing again the importance of getting across to the trainees that they are under orders just -like you and me, and when the Navy Department decides the Navy needs them somewhere else, the Bureau sends out the papers as I know. If only it can be impressed upon these trainees— that by not doing their best they are letting down then- family, their country, and their Navy—everyone will be the gainer.
“Let me repeat that I hate to leave, but, as is true for all men in the Navy uniform, it is not for us to choose but to serve to the best of our ability in the duty assigned. Good luck—not good bye but an revoir; and may we meet again soon.”
Law Club Banquet
Law Club president, Hal Hunter, announced, this week, that the annual banquet of the Law Club will take place at the Indiana club on the evening of Feb. 7. One of the features of the banquet will be those rare delicacies, the ever-popular steaks. ,
Dean Manion has .promised his usual guest speaker of high intellectual standard, and of high esteem in the profession of law. The Law Club banquets have become tradition in the Law School, as they enable the professors and students to get together in an evening of real good fellowship as only lawyers can do.
Attorney Hunter promises to all fond possessors of $2.40 a fine meal and a very enjoyable evening.
Glee Club Gives Concerts;
Peciulis, Witt are Stars
Last Tuesday, almost unannounced, the Notre Dame Glee Club presented an excellent concert under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of
- ~ Music.
The program was balanced to satisfy the varied tastes of the audience. After
the “Star Spangled Banner” had opened the concert officially, the Glee Club sang “Jesu Christe,” “Hallelujah,” and “Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring.” Next there was a group of two songs by baritone Gene Peciulis, of Baltimore, Md. He sang “It is Enough” from Elijah, and Nichavo.
The Glee Club appeared again to sing six songs, some of which were most masterfully rendered. Among the favorites in this group were: “Why Don’t You Try,” “The Drum,” “Were You There,” and “March from Babes in Toyland.”
One of the most entertaining numbers of the evening was the marvelous piano playing of John Witt, junior from South Bend. His presentation of “Ballad in A Flat” by Chopin and “Waltz in E minor” by the same composer were the showstealers. 1
To close the program, the Glee Club presented another group of spirited songs, some of which were “This is My Country,” “Anchors Aweigh,” “Marine Hymn,” Mr. Pedtke’s “Notre Dame, we Hail Thee,” and the “Victory March.”
The concert was enjoyed by all, but many , more would have gone had the story been given proper publicity. The Scholastic regrets that it was unable to get the facts in time for last week’s issue.—By Al Lesmez
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS SERVE AS CHAPLAINS
*»* - There are 22 priests from the United *!* States Province of the Congregation ❖ of Holy Cross now serving as chap-••• Iains in the armed forces of this country. Many of these men were ♦♦♦ associated at one time or another ❖ with Notre Dame. They are serving ❖ on all fronts, and many of them have seen strenuous and dangerous ac-❖ tion. In addition to these men actu-❖ ally in uniform, Notre Dame's former ❖ president, John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., ♦♦♦ D.D., is Auxiliary Bishop of the Army-
Navy Diocese. His secretary is the ❖ Rev. Harry Stegman, C.S.C.
8
Saint Mary's War Bonds Buy 'Jeep';
Inspire Civilian Students to Follow Example
BY BILL
(Editor’s note: The following article will undoubtedly draw letters of protest from alumni all over the world. For the - Scholastic, for the first time, is commending St. Mary’s. This is contrary to the publication’s staunchest tradition — in fact, its only tradition. Yet the girls across the highivay have done a fine task — one that we feel should be imitated by the Notre Dame civilian students. Hence we are here instigating a war bond campaign, and^ using St. Mary’s as the impetzis.)
At the beginning of last semester a small group of St. Mary’s students, under the direction of Jeanne Foristel and Mary Lou Stone, took it upon themselves to promote a War Bond Drive that would endure the entire semester.
It was a difficult task for the committee had to fix a quota, gam the students’ interest, and most important, hold that interest. With this in view the committee announced that the quota was §1160.00, the price of an army jeep, and set the time limit to end at the closing of the semester.
However, by the time of the midsemester examinations fears were overcome as it was announced that the quota had been met.
With such a beginning, the students decided not to stop their savings, but rather to continue and, in fact, to increase the momentum of the drive. They did this by fixing the next quota for
St. Mary's girls and their jeep
CARNAHAN
§2000.00, the price of an amphibious jeep.
Originally Miss Foristel and her cohorts decided to make no appeals outside the school, nox- to accept endowment from any external source. However, two students, Joan Loughery and Mary Ellen Monckton, approached her with the offer of a §1000 war bond each. Seeing that the cause was such a worthy one, coupled with the fact that the intention was equally worthy, the committee added this contribution to the fund. On January 18th the money was turned over to the Army and the jeep was ordered. At present the girls at St. Mary’s are well into their drive for the third jeep.
The amazing success of this campaign was due to local talent programs, and similar presentations which the girls sponsored. The price of admission to each of these shows was a specified number of war savings stamps. Next Friday night they are putting on another local talent show, and on Washington’s Birthday they are going to have a party, using war savings as the central theme. Occasionally they have moving pictures to which they previously charged no admission, but to which they now pay dearly. In fact, everything’ is costing the girls something in the form of a war stamp, or a bond.
’ These girls are to be commended for the fine work they did in putting this project over; the student body of our
neighboring college is to be commended also for the interest and effort it put into the task that lay before them.
But commendation is not enough for a matter such as his. We can, and must, acknowledge this fine work by materializing their interest and spirit into a drive of our own! The civilian population at Notre Dame is slightly more than that>of St. Mary’s. Therefore we were not outnumbered. The Navy and the Marines stationed here have also set an example for the civilian body to follow. The least that can be done is to buy War Bonds or stamps, not in individual purchases, but in a mass drive of the whole civilian body. Surely if St. Mary’s can buy a jeep — an amphibious jeep, at that, — the “civies” at Notre Dame should be able to buy- a whole plane or at least a tank.
The , Scholastic suggests that students ask parents to divert a portion of the family war bond quota—to the end that the bond be purchased at Notre Dame in the name of the student. .
The employees of the University held a meeting last week and pledged a part of their salaries to the 4th War Loan Drive. The campus trainees contribute -a portion of their pay each month. A civilian fund will put the University unanimously behind the nation-wide bond campaign.
Saturday Co-Hop Seeks More Service Attendance
By Gene Moore,
Since the servicemen’s attendance at the Co-hops has been rather low lately, it is thought necessary to explain the whole Co-hop setup once again. The sponsors supply refreshment, music, and girls. They can’t guarantee that the . punch will flatten the dancers, but it quenches thirst. The music is smooth or hot, as desired. And the girls are provided.	.
Many men who were here last summer probably remember the dances sponsored by the parishes, in town for a different branch of the service each week. It is the function of, the Co-hop to blend these other frolics into one grand civilian, Marine, and Navy get-together. All are invited to drop in and have g good time.
Last Saturday evening there was a little misunderstanding with regard to admission. Contrary to what the ticket man said then, all servicemen are permitted to attend these dances. The parties involved in the dispute have been contacted, and everything has been settled.
9
THE SNOOPER
Snooped, Edited and Written by: THE SNOOPER
Mr. Louis Matevich (Co. E, 251 Dillon) one day last week tried to eliminate some of dear old Notre Dame’s shrubbery. A very luscious maiden was tripping lightly toward the Main Building, when Matevich espied her. She was one of these maidens with a magnetic personality, because Lou just couldn’t keep his eyes off of her. He kept walking his way, wtih his eyes glued on her, and before he knew it, he was stumbling over the beauteous (in the summer) shrubbery. He came within an inch of sprawling awkwardly upon the ground, and nearly broke his neck.
The newest mark of attempted genius on this campus comes from James J. Murtagh (Co. K, 151 Zahm). He laid awake nights trying to devise a way by which to escape the 0610 muster. After many sleepless nights, his mind gave birth to a theory. Alas, it turned out that the poor lad’s idea was absolutely nothing more than a theory, for when he experimented with it, it failed — miserably. He raised himself up to window level at 0610 one morning and awaited his turn to call out his number; when his turn arrived he called his number from the window. He didn’t “pull the wool” over anyone’s eyes though —■ just look at the demerit list: 10 demerits for calling muster number from window.
Mr. Emerald Jones (Co. B, 377 Dillon) has been bitten — by the love bug. He hasn’t asked his “heartthrob” for a date yet, but he will get up the nerve soon — I am told. He swoons romantically, at the sound of her name. "He calls her “Tondaleo.” However, you. fellows won’t recognize her by.that name; the name you know her by is “Hedy La Munche.” The. Queen of Notre Dame’s dining hall.
Mr.. Harold (Floor Show Nellie) Nel-
son (Co. B, 271 Dillon) has great talents as a vaudeville performer. A week ago Saturday night, he visited the Indiana Cafe. While the orchestra was playing for the pleasure of the patrons, “Nellie” raced to the center of the floor and put on a wonderful floor show. He danced and sang — well, you might call it that. There is only one. flaw in his talents: it takes him two weeks to recuperate.
Mr. Eugene R. Johnson (Co. C, 222 Dillon) hopes that when he gets his commission, he will be stationed in India. He has already started training for his duty there. He is practicing sitting on spikes and nails, and soon hopes to be -reclining upon a bed of them. The other night on “Zero” deck, he saw a nail in a board on the counter and sat on it three different times — as a starter. Don’t be surprised to walk into his room some day and find a bed of'spikes spread upon the deck.
Frankenstein has invaded this campus! Well, a reasonable facsimile, in the persons of Mr. “Jerry” Swarner and Mr. Palmer Amundsen. The two collaborated their horrifying qualities and literally chased Mr. Herschel E. Jones, Jr. (Co. C, 222 Dillon) out of the building! These terrifying creatures have, it is rumored, gone burs. . . . ah, Asiatic!
The poor blonde telephone operator. She is really puzzled and at her rope’s end to find the reason so many men have asked her of late, “Have you ever been to Honolulu?”
NROTC Honors Jackie
Buesing, Ruthann Baker
Plans are nearing completion for the fourth Naval Ball to be held next Friday evening, Feb. 11, at the Palais Royale in downtown South Bend.
Guest of Honor at the traditional Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps dance will be Miss Jackie Buesing of St. Mary’s College and San Benito, Texas. She will 'be escorted by Battalion Commander Charles M. Urruela. The Queen of the Ball will be Miss Ruthann Baker of Chicago, Ill., who is to be the guest of William W. Wicks, general chairman.
“That Amazing Man of Music Land,” ■ Buddy Franklin and his 13-piece outfit, will provide music from 2100 to 0100. Franklin’s orchestra features the.comely - Harriet Collins as. vocalist and - has - an - added attraction the “Sweethearts of the
Strings”; Yvonne, Hope and Sylvia. .
New to the Midwest, Franklin plays a very danceable style of music and last fall had an extended run at the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago. He is currently at the Chase hotel in St. Louis.
Decorations chairman, Eugene Moore, has stated that the decorations will be “strictly nautical” in keeping with Naval Ball tradition. The entire Palais Royale will be transformed into the U. S. S. Notre Dame and the usual signal flags will be in abundance.
The “Officer of the Deck” will grant permission to all couples to “come aboard” and will '“log” them in on the “quarterdeck.” Couples will then go “forward” to the “forecastle,” entrance to which will be gained through “hatchways.” The dance floor has been proclaimed the “forecastle” for the evening.
Just inside the “hatchway” will be the receiving line with Captain J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commanding officei* of the unit, at the head. Commander H. B. Butcher, USNR, executive officer and ’ other ranking officers of the unit will be in the reception line.
Several bits of entertainment are
planned for the evening and a few sur
prises for the four members of the unit who will receive their commissions at the end of the present semester. These four are: Urruela, Jack P. Lawler, John C. O’Rourke, and Thomas R. Shellworth.
Invitations have been sent to South Bend friends of the Naval ROTC and to officers assigned to the station.
NOTRE DAME GRAD WINS SILVER STAR
❖ Lieut. John P. Montverde, a Notre ❖ ❖ Dame graduate of 1937. has been ❖ ❖ awarded the Silver Star for gallantry ❖ ❖ in' action. Lieut. Montverde com- ❖ ❖ manded a tank which saw action in ♦♦♦ ❖ both Africa and Italy. Last October. ❖ ❖ while engaged in battle in Italy, ❖ . ❖ Montverde's tank was disabled by ❖ enemy anti-tank fire, and the crew ❖ was forced to abandon it. One of the ❖ ❖ crewmen's clothes caught fire and ❖ ■ he began to run toward the enemy ❖
❖ line in panic. In the face of heavy ❖ <$* enemy machine gun fire. Lieut. Mont- *«* verde overtook the man, extinguished ❖
❖ the flames, and led him to safety.
10
Seven More Deaths Raise Total Notre Dame War Dead to Eighty-two
I Marine Murmurs I
E	By Private Knoc-E Toff	=

The huge, already over - burdened red, white and gold service flag, draped from a pillar in the sanctuary of Sacred Heart Church, received another heavy weight as seven more gold stars were added recently. Seven more Notre Dame men have given their lives in this all-out war and have brought the total number of former-student casualties to 82.
As reported in the Notre Dame Religious Bulletin, the following men have been reported killed in action: Ensign James R. Hackner, ’42; Lieutenant Oliver K. McMahon, ex. ’38; Tech. Corp. Lester Hoch, ex. ’39; Lieutenant Jacob Paul Sevcik, ex. ’33; Lieutenant Com
K.
mander Wells Worth Carroll, ex. ’16; Captain John J. McCloskey, ex. ’36; and Lieutenant John Powers, ’41.
A passenger on the exchange ship Gripsholm brought the news of the death of Lieutenant Sevcik of Klamath Falls, Ore. He and his two-year-old son died in a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines. Lieut. Sevcik, a mining engineer with a private firm on the islands, had enlisted in the engineers and was with Gen. Douglas MacArthur on Bataan. His wife is still a Japanese prisoner at the Santa Tomas University camp near Manila.
Lieut. Commander Carroll of New York, who had left Notre Dame to take part in World War I, died from injuries received when the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Lisome Bay was torpedoed off Makin Island on Nov. 24. At his own insistence Commander Carroll was placed on active duty after serving in the office of the Naval Advisor to the W.P.B. A news despatch- stated: “Although wounded from shoulder to hip, he assisted other wounded until he was forced by enlisted men to leave the ship. Later, a doctor, swimming from one wounded man to another to render first aid, endeavored to save the officer’s life but his loss of blood was. too great.”
Captain McCloskey, a former Phila
delphian, also sacrificed his life to save two fellow Army officers. A newspaper account gives the story of his crash near Guadalcanal on Nov. 22: “Captain McCloskey, a fighter pilot, was returning from a mission when his motors failed. Seeing that he could not make his home base, he nose-dived his plane into the water in such a way that he, and not the the other two occupants of the plane, suffered the strongest impact.”
Lieutenant Powers, of Ingalls, Ind., died Jan. 4th in India, leaving a baby daughter he had never seen. . Ensign Hackner of La Crosse, Wis., was reported killed in the Mediterranean area. Lieutenant McMahon of Rockville Center, N. Y., lost his life in a plane crash in the Southwest Pacific last fall, while Corporal Hoch, of Fort Wayne, Ind., was killed in action in Italy.
Also reported missing in action was Wayne O’Connor, ex. ’43, of Sioux Falls, S. Dak. Charles Allen Zitnik, ex.. ’44, of Chicago, is a German prisoner, as is Lieutenant Ray Eichenlaub, Jr., ex. ’42, whose plane was shot down Oct. 5 near ■ the Voltumo River. -
Dance Proposed by
A.I.CH.E. at Meeting
Last Monday the Notre Dame Chapter of the A.I.C.H.E. held its tri-weekly meeting in room 213 of Chemistry Hall. More than 40 members were present at .the conference.
After a brief business session, with further discussion on the proposed dance to be given early next summer, the meeting was turned over by Raymond V. Smith, chairman of the club, to Dr. Hinton, the guest speaker for the occasion. Dr. Hinton delivered a talk, which has been popular at recent . meetings about the campus and the city ■ of South Bend, on gas, warfare. Dr. Hinton briefed over a few personal. expert- . ences from World War I, and discussed the effects, antidotes, and preventions ■ in dealing with the various war gases.
He also showed pictures, illustrating his speech. *	■	.	-
Proceedings concluded with refreshments in the Unit Operations Laboratory. The next regular meeting will be . held about three -weeks hence. Bulletins will be posted concerning time and place.
You, Bums, who are leaving for San Diego and want some straight dope on battle conditions in the Philippines, can get it from a reliable source. Brother Coleman (Boathouse) fought in the Spanish-American War and will tell you all the details in his inimitable way.
“Shure this is not a war at all, at all!”
Then there were the two V-12’s who ran’ all over the Hoffmann Hotel looking for the escalators. ...	■
This week, Mishawaka had the “privilege” of meeting the marines. In the words’ of one of the green zuitsuiters, Pvt. I. C. Curves. “What girls, what food,—1. A lass, where was I— - Hmmm —where was I- . . ..”	-
The clash heard around the campus Saturday at 1147.5 was the result of a “to the rear march” in the middle of a manual of arms movement. “Lay that rifle down, Mack, lay that rifle down." Wasn’t too bad though. Only two men were maimed for life. .
- ' «► .
GRIPE OF THE YEAR
Physics test 1400 Friday, February 25, 1944. (Last day of tests.) Oh, well, I wanted to stand up all the way home any way.	’ , -	.. .
.Ah, now ’tis February and we’re wondering what commando trick .she’s learning. (How can we break that one, Sarg.?) .	.
’ Pvt. Geezmo B.. Futtled anticipated his first liberty and Beer — beer, the soothing ingredient that , would do wonders to his . cracked, dust-coated throat. Confidentially Mo hadn’t drank much of the. stuff. He’d heard about its-won-(Continued on Page 19)	-
Know Your Navy
(This is the first of a series of articles concerning the highlights and sidelights of the United States Navy called from the notes of Lieut. (J.G.) Collins.
—Edward Madden)
Our great Navy, which is now fighting a global war on a dozen fronts, had its feeble beginnings more than 160 years ago. Unlike the highly organized and efficient Force which today is lending its strength in a war for survival, the hastily assembled Navy, which fought in America’s war for independence, in those early years, consisted of:
1.	Ships collected by the Continental Congress.
2.	The navies of the several states.
3.	Privately owned craft—privateers preying upon British commerce.
This make-shift organization had three principal missions to perform:
1.	To transport munitions for the ill-equipped Continental Army.
2.	To raid.enemy communications and commerce.
3.	To support the military operations on shore.
After our alliance with France in 1778, the powerful French Navy assumed the major responsibility for-guarding our supplies and supporting our military operations. But, in spite of the fact that we depended in great measure upon the French, our forces served commendably, and several American Naval heroes emerged from the Revolutionary War. Of these, none stands higher than John Paul Jones who gave us many of the traditions which characterize our Service today. It was he who engaged and defeated the first frigate of the “Invincible Royal Navy,” thus lending inspiration for our own infant Navy. It was he, also, who introduced the practice of extending generosity to foe when our arms are victorious, which stems from the Bon
Homme Richard-Serapis action. Upon this occasion, the Captain of the Serapis presented his sword to Jones and said: “I cannot, Sir, but feel much mortification at the idea of surrendering my sword to a man who fought with a rope around his neck.” Whereupon, Jones returned the sword and graciously replied: “You have fought gallantly, Sir, and I hope your king will give you a better ship.”
In spite of the fact that Congress liquidated this hastily improvised Navy, great traditions had been established and they were soon to become the foundation of our permanent Service. By the end of 1785, all ships had been sold or given away, leaving the United States, under the Articles of Confederation, with neither a Navy nor a naval program.
Meanwhile, plundering of our merchant shipping in the Mediterranean by the Barbary Pirates made the need for a Navy imperative. But, it was not until 1794 that Congress at last acted and provided for the construction, under the supervision of the War Department, of six frigates for the purpose of protection against the Pirates. Fortunately, Congress allocated the task of designing these vessels to a ship-building genius, Joshua Humphreys, a Philadelphia Quaker. These frigates, including the Constitution and the Constellation, became world famous, and later provided the models for European naval constructors. The act, calling for the construction of these ships, made it clear that this was an emergency measure and that Congress had no intention of inaugurating a permanent Navy. Indeed, the people feared the thought of a Navy at that time because of the prevailing-belief that such a force was dangerous to the liberties of a republic. Although Congress had not so planned it, the fact remains that this law marks the beginning of our permanent United States Navy.
During the years 1789-1798, the administration of naval affairs was in the hands of the War Department, but, in 1798, a Navy Department was established. Almost as important as the creation of this separate department was President Adams’ choice of its first secretary, Benjamin Stoddert, an energetic executive and competent administrator. Under his wise leadership, the Navy expanded rapidly.
About this time, an all-important decision was made by Congress. It passed an Act for the Better Government of the Navy of the United States, embodying a set of regulations taken almost word for word from the rules g'overn-ing the Royal Navy. In short, the disci
pline and traditions of the British Service, the best in the world, were then adopted as the standards of our own.
We should pause here for a moment to consider what naval ships were like in those days. In the first place, ships were ships and their classification into warcraft and merchant craft served to distinguish purpose and not type. All ships were essentially the same. Of course, ironclads were unknown, sails were the only means of propulsion, and smooth-bored guns for hurling solid shot were used. Fighting proceeded at close range. In fact, in 1801, Admiral Nelson objected to sights on guns on the ground that ships in combat should always be at sufficiently close quarters so as to make “missing” impossible.
"Scholastic" Finds New
Home in Walsh Hall
By Paul Smith
Last week the once orphaned Scholastic found refuge and permanent quarters in the basement of Walsh Hall. You may recall that nearly three months ago the whole campus was aroused with the burning of the old Ave Maria building, and with that building went the home of the Scholastic.
Since that time, one quarter of a year ago, the Scholastic has published seven issues from the B-X room in the Main Building. However, this room is so very small that the various departments were forced to operate under a severe handicap. The new office, once used by the Dome, the University year-book, will greatly facilitate the handling and the editing of the Scholastic, and more centrally located, will be more convenient for reporters.
The Scholastic’s new home, however, does not solve all of its problems, for there still remains the tremendous task of repairing and classifying hundreds of cuts which were damaged in the fire. Although it is hoped that this will be accomplished soon, the task is progressing none too rapidly. But if Bob O’Toole, the managing editor, works diligently under the very capable guidance of Harry Berliner, in charge of arrangements, there is some assurance that the project will be completed without too long a delay.
12
Notre Dame Sports
Irish Cagers to Meet Highly-Rated De Paul Quintet in Chicago Stadium Tomorrow
BY JIM FENNELLY
Tomorrow night the Chicago Stadium will again be the scene of Notre Dame court play as the Irish meet De Paul University in the feature game of the evening. This will mark the third attempt of the Irish to gain a triumph in the Madison St. Arena, having- dropped two previous encounters there, both to Northwestern. It will also be the 14th game of the season for the Blue and Gold, an unlucky number, as the Irish have yet to win an even game, the first, third, fifth, seventh, ninth, eleventh, and thirteenth ending as victories. If this game jinx holds up, the Blue Demons will have avenged last year’s defeat.
Ray Meyer, who last season was voted coach of the year, is the guiding genius behind the razzle dazzle offense of De Paul. Meyer was a former assistant
Irish fight toppled skyscraping Valparaiso
coach at Notre Dame, under the late George Keogan. He is at present enjoying one of his most successful seasons. The winning coach in 14 contests, he has resorted to the crying towel only twice. The Demons had won 13 straight before dropping a thriller to the veteran “Giants” of Valparaiso University 65-57. While still in this slump the Hilltoppers of Marquette took De Paul into camp, but the Demons have since gotten back on the victory wagon with a win over Purdue University, 39-37. At the season’s start they were touted as the team of the year, the dark horse in the race for the National Championship, and despite the two defeats still stand out as the class of the Middle West.
The big guns in the DePaul team have been “Big Mike” Mikan, high scoring
center, and forward Dick Triptow. Mikan was voted the outstanding center at the N.C.A.A. meet, and is so feared by rival coaches that they usually have two men guarding him. Still he manages to score well in the double figures in every contest, and has an average of nearly 20 points per game. At present he holds the Stadium scoring record of 27 points, and also the Buffalo Memorial Auditorium record of 26 points. Triptow was hailed by New York sport writers as the best performer to appear in New York since the immortal Hank Luisetti of Stanford ran wild on Gotham courts.
De Paul’s claim to national recognition has plenty of foundation, for it has played teams from all sections of the country and defeated most of them. In New York the Demons defeated the Blackbirds of Long Island University 59-38 at Madison Square Garden, where they established a new money gate, exceeding the old mark by a thousand dollars. They also claim victories over St. Joseph’s of Philadelphia 64-56; Nebraska University, 55-15; Glenview Naval Station, 41-36, and Arkansas University; 59-30.
The Irish come up for this game without the services of Carl Loyd, fire brand forward who has sparked most of the Irish wins this season. Loyd was recently inducted into the navy, and is at present stationed at Great Lakes. He may be playing against his former teammates in the two “Lakes-Irish” contests coming up in the near future. More than likely John Kelly, who has impressed all with his fine play in the last two games, will be moved up to forward, and Johnny Lujack will be reinstated in his old guard slot. Mark Todorovich at center, Bernie Rutledge at guard, and Leo Klier at the other forward position will round out the Irish attack.
Since both coaches are Notre Dame men, this game will also mark the first basketball reunion of the Chicago Alum-
❖	PING PONG TOURNAMENT ❖ ❖	IMPORTANT	❖
C* In order to accommodate all late ❖ entrants, the closing date has been ❖ ❖ extended until 6 pun. tonight, (Feb. ❖ ❖ 4)i Contestants and pairings will be & listed in Brownson Rec on Saturday
❖	morning. Please note your opponent ❖ ❖ and arrange with him for the time of ❖ ❖ your match. The first round must be •£• ❖ completed by Thursday. 8 pan. Feb. ❖ ❖ 10. Each match is limited to one-half ❖ ❖ hour playing time.
❖	—The Committee ❖
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
13
ni club this year. A section will be reserved for the Alumni and the Notre
guard to the bench on personals were the scoring ace, Leo Klier and hard
Dame cheering
section.
De Paul
Dean, f Stump, f Mikan, c Triptow, g Kachan, g
Notre Dame
Kelly, f Klier, f Todorovich, c Rutledge, g Lujack, g
working Johnny sonal fouls were Irish.
Lineups:
Marquette (SO)
B
Kallenberger.f 5
Prado, f
Sadowski, f
9
Lujack. Nineteen perregistered against the
Notre
Dame (43)
Navy Cadets Topple Irish Reserves and K. of P
By Jack Houghteling
Marquette Trims Irish in
Return Contest, 60 to 43
It was the 12th game for the Notre Dame quintet, and of course a defeat in their “win odd and lose even games” season, as the Marquette eagers revenged an earlier setback and decisively trimmed the Irish, 60-43, in Milwaukee last Saturday night.
The score displayed the Hilltoppers’ superiority over the Irish which more than balanced the loss to the green and gold in the Notre Dame fieldhouse .when the Irish were playing an “odd number” contest, and “couldn’t” lose.
Engel, f Downey, Weisner, Chandler, Falls, g
C
Poizing, g
Piontek, g
0
5
1
1 0
0
1
Westerdahl, g 0
Totals 22
Leo Klier, Notre Dame’s high scorer, who paced the losers with 11 points, was minus his running mate at the forward post, Carl Loyd, and the loss was noticeable. Coach Krause alternated four men at the vacated post and apparently had little success in finding a suitable replacement.	‘
Eddie Sadowski, a recent transfer to the Hilltopper campus from DePauw pre-flight, paced the Marquette club with 17 points.
Marquette virtually scored at will in the first six minutes of the tilt as. it stormed into a 12 to 4 lead. Center Mark Todorovich was first to connect for the Irish as they started to click on the scoring proposition midway in the first half. A “fightin’ Irish” trio of Klier, Kelley and Rutledge kept the scorekeeper busy as they narrowed Marquette’s lead to 17-15. However, the local club stepped into a 25-21 advantage as the halftime gun sounded.	I
F
' 5
1
3
0
1
1
3
0
1 0
1
16
o i
2 1
1 0
4 0 0
2 0
11
Klier, f Kelly, f Kaufmann, Sheehan, f Gleason, f Todorovich, Trump, c Rutledge, s Lujack. g Pierce, g
Totals
Free throws missed — Marquette:
f
c
B 5
3 0
0 0
1 0
5
2
3
19
F
1
0
0
0
0 .
1
0
0
2
5
4
2 0
0
0
3
0
4
4
2
19
Kallenberger
3, Prado 2, Sadowski, Downey, Chandler 3. Notre Dame: Klier 2, Kelley 2. Todorovich, Lujack.
Officials—Jack Travnicek and Carl Johnson.
Notre Dame Turns Back
Bunker Hill Navy, 65-55
The Irish of Notre Dame kept their record of winning one and then losing one intact tonight, when they defeated a weak Bunker Hill Navy squad 65 to 55.
The fieldhouse looked bare after the , jam-packed house of a week ago. It seems the larger the house the better Irish will play, for they were far below their high of last week. Both teams looked like they were playing their first game of the season instead of being over the half-way mark. They were -wild -with their shots, and their guarding was very poor. Both teams handled the ball well; though.
John Kelly handed in 18 tallies to lead the scoring for the evening, Mike Todorovich gathered 16 points out of the wind to take second honors, while Doc Wright led the boys from Peru with 15 points. ,
Bunker Hill was well trained at the free throw circle for out of 13 shots they ’ only missed four. Meanwhile the bad .
boy . of the Irish team, Bernie Rutledge N.R.O.T.C., 50; Knights of Pythias, 45 failed to have one personal called on	.	.
him all night. What’s more he looked . -Rallying in the final five minutes of
'	play, the NROTC overcame a three-point
The Irish never got underway in the second half and the Hilltoppers spurted to a commanding 35-21 lead before Rutledge registered for the Notre Dame five. Another Marquette scoring spree later in the game put it in an overwhelming -53-33 lead. ..	;
Klier added five points for Notre Dame in the one-sided second half and ■ Pierce, a guard; bagged eight of Notre Dame’s last ten points..	.	.
Fouls counted heavy against the Irish again. Rutledge left the Marquette contest via. the foul route for his. eighth time in 12 contests. Following the stellar
.14	■
The N.R.O.T.C. won two close, hard-fought basketball games last week when . they edged out the.Notre Dame reserves .34-33 in the preliminary to the Valparaiso game and defeated the South Bend Knights of Pythias 50-45 on Friday, Jan. 28.	.
N.R.O.T.C., 34; Notre Dame Reserves, 33
A free throw by Al Wade with 30 seconds left to play, provided the winning margin for the Irish cadets over the “B” squad after Harry Gilligan had dropped in a push shot to knot the score at 33-all.
The navy team started fast, taking an 8-2 lead on baskets by Tony Earley, Frank Beaudine and a pair by Wade. They managed to hold this lead until late in the first half when McLaughlin scored a bucket to put the reserves ahead 19-17 at the intermission.
Play in the second half see-sawed back and forth. The Irish cadets took a 27-23 lead only to see the reserves creep up to a 27-27 tie. Moments later, the navy . team led 31-27.but with Kennedy, Carlin and Lambers connecting, the varsity spurted to a 33-31 lead with two minutes remaining. It was here that Gilligan and Wade came through with the winning baskets.
Wade and Kennedy shared scoring honors, each making* 10 points. Gilligan ’ followed, with nine points—all in the second half.
to be the best man on the floor all during the game. ‘	,
Notre Dame (65) , ’ . B F		P	- * Bunker . Hill (55)		
			B	E	' p
Klier, f -	5 ',0	3	Small, f	'4 -	0	2
Kelly, f	; S 2	2	Wright, f	7	1	.2
Todorovich,	: c 6	4	3	Miasak, c	.3	,1’	2
Lujack, s	. 4; i	2	Harley, e	1	.0	0
' Rutledge, g	4	0 .	. 0	Farmer, g	0 _	'2.	. 0
Fierce, f	°. °	. 0	Thurnblad, g 4-	5	.1
. Smith, c . -	0	0;-	0	Prewitt, g	4 .	0	; 3
_ Dumont, g	0	0	1	. . —	—	—
. Trump, c	•' , 0. 0	0	Totals ;	23 '	9	10
Gleason, g	o o-	6			
Kivisto,'. f •_	- 2	0	0		5'_	
‘ Totals	■29 7	11			
• ■ Officials:	Nick Ke?	rr.s	and Clrn Adams		
. deficit to score a 50-45 victory over the
; South Bend Knights of Pythias. It was the second win for the Notre Dame team over the:Knights as the Irish cadets had taken the; measure of the South Bend squad last December, 49-29.
. Harry Gilligan’s 14 points were high \ for the evening while Martens recorded - 11 for the Knights. Three members of
. the Irish cadets squad, Al Wade, Tony Earley and Frank Beaudine, racked up 10 points as did Demark of the visitors. ’
- The NROTC led through most of the first half, but in the closing moments
j.
the Knights moved into a 25-22 lead. They maintained this margin at the outset of the second half except for a few minutes when a basket. by John Zwicker and a pair of free throws by Frank Beaudine put the ,navy squad ahead 32-31.
This lead was short-lived and the Knights went back to a 35-32 advantage. With five minutes left in the ball game, the South Bend team was still three points ahead, 43-40. The Irish cadets rallied at this point and with buckets by Tony Earley, Harry Gilligan, Beaudine arid two by Wade they surged ahead 50-43. Nevins’ bucket in the closing seconds of play narrowed the score to its final count of 50-45.
N. R. O. T. C. Rifles
Making Good Record
With an outstanding record of 20 victories against but two defeats, the members of the Notre Dame’ Naval R.O.T.C. rifle team go into their last two weeks of competition.
Matches with the University of Washington’s N.R.O.T.C. as well as with Tulane University will finish off the 194344. season.
Captain Al Guard, whose team ranks with the best of the nation’s Naval R.O.T.C. outfits, pointed out that national matches will be fixed to conclude the season. By March 19th, the Hearst •Trophy Match must be fired and the team plans to participate in the national R.O.T.C. matches.
Last week the team added three more wins to their string, defeating UCLA, University of Michigan, and Northwestern University. Since the start of the season only Tufts College and Oklahoma University have been able to better the N.D. sharpshooters.
NROTC is Edged Out in Collegiate Game
By Jack Houghteling
- A seven point rally falling shy, the NROTC dropped a 27-25 decision to Concordia College last Saturday night at Ft. Wayne before 1,000-fans. The defeat snapped a three game win streak of the Irish cadets and gives the squad a season record of six victories and three defeats. .	• ’ .
.After assuming a short-lived 4-0 lead, the navy team fell behind and trailed through the remainder* of the game. With seven minutes left to play, the
Concordia Maroons held a 27-18 lead but at this point Gene Moore dropped in a free throw to start the Notre Dame rally. Al Wade followed this with a long shot from the side to reduce the score
to 27-21. The scoring ceased for a time but with four minutes remaining John Zwicker hit a lay-up for two more points. Harry Gilligan added two points with a push shot and the Irish cadets had brought the score to 27-25.
With a minute and a half remaining, the play became hectic as the Navy team stole the ball three times but was unable to score. The game ended with a pair of shots by Wade and Cy Kelly.
Wade was high-point man for the game with 10 points and Fiege was high for Concordia with eight points.
. The lineups:							
N.R.O.T.C.	(25) B	F	p	Concordia (27) B F P			
Gilligan, f -	2	1	1	Fiege, f	4	0	0
Wade, f-c	5	0	1	Trautmann,	f 0	0	0
La Berge, f	1	0	0	Zeile, f	1	0	0
Merrill, f	0	0	1	Smith, c	1	0	2
Zwicker, c	2	0	1	Schumacker,	g 0	1	1
Beaudine, g	1	0	1	Theim, g	2	0	0
Hurd, g	0	0	0	Firchau, g	0	1	1
Moore, g	0	2	2	Felton, g	3	0	0
Kelly, g	- 0	0	0	Fritz, g .	0	0	0
Frailey, g	0	0	0		—	—	—
Totals	11	3	7	Totals	11	5	4
Officials: Jenkins, Dmckamiller.
Half score: Concordia, 22, NROTC 15.
Mile Relay Team at Madison Square Garden Tomorrow
By Joe Fahey	.■
The University of Notre Dame Varsity Track squad has entered their one-mile realy team in the Milrose Games at Madison Square Garden, New York City. This meet is annually one of the highlights of the indoor season and will be held tomorrow night before a full ; house. The Irish will also be represented , in the half-mile by Ralph Pohland, hard running V-12 transfer froriir Minnesota. Pohland holds the Big Ten championship in this distance and will-be a favorite to capture the laurels in .New York. He is also one of the members of the relay team : together . with - Fred Jones,.. “Ace” Purcell, , and Dave Murphy. The first two are civilians but the
Navy claims Murphy. Londergan is also a possible starter on the team of which he was a member last year but a sore muscle makes him a doubtful starter. Speaking of last year’s team, it is worthy to note that they literally ran away with the honors in their section by clocking a 3:25.3 mile. Austin Jones, Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta and Don Londergan made up this feather-footed quartet.	.
The lead-off man on this year’s team is Freshman Dave Murphy who is a veteran of the Chicago Prep School League. He hands the baton to Fred Jones, a first-year civilian from Miami, Fla., who in turn passes it on to “Ace” Purcell of Long Island, N. Y. The star anchor man is Ralph Pohland, holder of the Western Conference half-mile record, 1:54.3.
The team will entrain, for New York this afternoon and are expected back Monday morning. Accompanying the team will be Chief Petty Officer Tom Quinn who will compete in the two-mile event. He will run against two former Notre Darners, Ensign Ollie Hunter and Army private Bill Leonard. Hunter, now athletic officer at the Columbia Midshipmen’s school holds the all-time Notre Dame indoor record of 9:01 and also -the fieldhouse mark, both times cracking efforts of the immortal Greg Rice. Leonard, a frosh sensation and monogram winner in 1943, has won five of his six indoor starts this season.
While the fortunate mile relay is pounding around the Manhattan saucer their mates will travel, to Milwaukee tomorrow where they will match strides with the University of Marquette. A traditional track . foe the Hilltoppers have always given the Irish stiff competition on the dirt or cinders.
. Notre Dame, already drained of much of its power by ineligibility and deficiency lists will suffer the loss of the four standout middle-distance men running in New York. Pohland, a consistent two-event winner will be missed as well as his mates who are valuable point-getters in dual competition..
- Led by Frank Martin, standout sophomore. distance man who garnered 13 . points against Western Michigan running the half, the one mile and the two .-nule, the Handymen , will be battling against-the odds. Returning to the fold, however, will be shotputter George Sullivan, husky fooballer who heaves the 16-pounder beyond 45 feet. It is hoped that some of the other missing members of the squad will be able to put in an appearance before that time.	'
15 .
Handymen Beat Broncos for First Indoor Victory
By John Power
Notre Danie pranced to its first victory of the Intercollegiate Indoor track season, as they defeated the Broncos of Western Michigan, 62-51, Saturday afternoon in the N.D. fieldhouse. Coming from behind, the Irish finally hit paydirt when Frank Martin, sophomore veteran, romped home the victor in the mile and two-mile runs, and Ralph Poh-land displayed his usual fine form in winning the half-mile.
The Giant Killers from Kalamazoo led by star Dick Radcliife cornered the shot-put event with a toss of 44 feet, 10% inches, while Dick hoarded wins in the 60- and 220-yard dashes as well as second place in the high jump. Individual honors for the day were thus shared with Frank Martin of the “Handy horde” who likewise racked up 13 points in the half, the one-mile and two-mile.
Buster Hogue chalked up victories in the high and broad jump with leaps of 6' 1", and 22' 11", respectively, while Phil Anderson soared to the height of 12' 6" before victory was assured in the pole vault. Handy entries ran one, two, three, in the 880 and two-mile events, as Martin, Roger DeWolffe, and Mike Kiely mobbed the two-mile finish line. Pohland, traveling the 880 route in 1:59.2 was closely followed by Martin and Frank Eck. Hank Murphy, Fred Jones, Bob Purcell and Pohland collaborated for an Irish-land victory in the mile relay, sending Notre Dame off to a flying start in their quest for a third consecutive undefeated season.
SUMMARY
High jump—Won by Hogue. (ND) ; tied. for second and third. Barr and Radcliffe, (WM). Height 6 feet. 1 in.
Shot put—Won by Hill. (WM) ; second. Dunst (WM) ; third. Funk, (WM). Distance, 44 feet, 1014 inches.
One-mile run—Won by Martin (ND); second, Lyons (ND): third. Rice (WM). Time, 4:34.6.
Pole vault—Won by Anderson (ND) ; second, Southern (WM) ; third, Colville (WM). Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
60-yard dash—Radcliffe (WM) ; second, Barr (WM): third. Clifford (ND). Time. 6.4.
60-yard high hurdles—Won by Harris (WM) ; second, Lindahl (ND) ; third, Humphrey (WM). Time, S.5.
440-yard dash—Won by Pittman (WM) : second, Pohland (ND); third,. Purcell (ND). Time, 51.6.
220-yard dash—Won by Radcliffe (WM) ; second,-Murphy (ND); third; Jones (ND). Time, 24.0.	.	.	.
Two-mile run—Won by Martin . (ND) ; second, DeWolfe (ND); third, Kiely (ND). Time. 9:55.0.
Broad jump—Won by Hogue _ (ND) ; second, Barr (WM); third,. Radcliffe (WM). Distance, 21 feet, 11 inches. 1	- .
60-yard low hurdles—Won by Harris (WM) ;
second. Hosbein (ND) ; third, Laurita (ND). Time, 7.7.
SSO-yard run—Won by Pohland (ND) ; second. Martin (ND): third. Eck (ND). Time. 1:59.2.
One-mile relay—Won by Notre Dame (Murphy. Jones. Purcell. Pohland). Second—Western Michigan.
Servicemen's Basketball League in Full Swing
By Jim Regan
The Service Men’s Basketball Playoffs got under way last night with the Marine B team meeting ROTC 1, and ROTO colliding with Marine D. Tonight Marine C plays Navy I, and Navy H plays Marine A. The winners of these games will advance to the quarterfinals. Navy G and Navy K, two of the favorites for the title, reached this round already by means of byes.
The quarterfinals in the upper bracket will be played on Feb. 9 and the lower bracket games on Feb. 10. The two semifinal games will be played on Feb. 11. The old gym will be the scene of the finals on Feb. 14.
Upon completion of their playoffs, the winners of the Overflow League and Interhall League will play for the civilian title. The winner of this game will meet the Service League victor for the championship of the entire campus. All games in the three leagues are being conducted under the supervision of the. physical education department.
Sorin and Brownson
Battle for Interhall’Crown
Breen-Phillips Hall was mathematically eliminated from the Interhall League title race by Sorin Hall last Friday night as they fell before the seniors, 32 to 20, after battling on even terms for the first period. St. Ed’s and Off-Campus had previously been removed from title consideration. The title will now fall to the winner of the Sorin-Brownson game, Tuesday, Feb. 8.
The first period of the game between B-P and Sorin was almost scoreless. When the whistle for the end of the first eight-minute session blew, the score was knotted at 1-all. Sorin started its offensive rolling in the second period and -built up a 14 to 5 lead at half time. In the third quarter they increased their margin to 23 to 8. Although B-P out-scored Sorin in the last quarter they , could not get back in the ball game.
The battle between Sorin and Brown- , son is expected to be keenly contested as each team enters the game with unblemished records in three games. Sorin, is a slight favorite as a result bf their decisive win over Breen-Phillips. Brown-son is highly rated in many circles and may be capable of upsetting the seniors.
Announce Handball and Badminton Pairings
By Jim Regan
Pairings for the handball and badminton tournaments were released last week by the physical education department. All first round matches will be played by Febl 7. The semi-finals are scheduled for Feb. 9 with the finals slated for Feb. 11. Rockne Memorial will be the scene of both of these tournaments.
Pairings for the handball tournament: First round, Sampierre vs. Clark; Wut-tke vs. Dugan; Tully vs. Carroll. Second round: Witucki vs. Dewey; Deiters vs. Gray; Ceisel vs. O’Connor; O’Neill vs. Kelly; Byrne vs. Debitteto; Freeman vs. winner of Tully-Carroll match; Furman vs. winner of Wuttke-Dugan; and James vs. winner of Sampierre-Clark. Among the favorites for the title are James, Furman, Freeman, and O’Connor.
Fifteen men will compete for the badminton title. Among those favored to reach the semi-final round are Galloway, Rhiel, Samson, Griffin and Bennett. Pairings for the first round of this tournament are as follows: Rhiel vs. Sehlart; Glidden vs. Muetterties; Ricker vs. Mueller; Dratz vs. Samson; Griffin vs. Bueh-staber; St. Germain vs. Tully; and Coakley vs. Bennett. Galloway drew a bye into the quarter-final round.
The pairings for the wrestling tournament have not as yet been made but it is planned to have competition in at least five divisions. The opening matches are scheduled to start about Feb. 10, while the finals are expected to be held on Feb. 14. Medals will be awarded to the winners of the badminton and handball tournaments as well as to the winners in each of the wrestling divisions.
Official Playoffs Start in Overflow League
By Jim Regan
After several weeks of competing for the seeded positions in the pairings, the Overflow League started its official playoffs Monday with the Intellectuals advancing to the quarter-final round with a 57-23 win over the Doakers. The scheduled opening game between the Mustangs and Blues was postponed until Sunday by the mutual consent of both teams.
The Tigers, Harps, Civies, LaRaza, and St. Ed’s Angles were the fortunate teams to draw byes into the quarterfinals. The only other first round game found the Stratoliners pitted against the Wildcats last Tuesday but . the result of this game was received too late for this issue. The quarter-final schedule in the upper bracket finds the Harps meeting (Continued on Page 18)
16
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Ray Meyer, protege of the late George
Keogan and presently the coach at DePaul, was at the ringside for the Valpa
raiso tussle, ten days ago. . . . When Coach Ed Krause removed Carl Loyd late in the game so as to receive the applause due him, Ray heaved a great sigh of relief and who can blame him? . . . With our ex-
Bill Waddingion package,of dynamite now making his address at Great Lakes, here’s hoping that
whatever he can do won’t be used against us. . . . George Sullivan’s absence from the shot put event in last Saturday’s meet with Western Michigan came as a result of the government requesting him to be away from the campus taking a Navy V-5 test. . . . Frank Martin ran a total distance of three and one-half miles in last Saturday’s dual clash, taking firsts in the mile and two mile events, and coming back to take a second place behind teammate Ralph Pohland in the 880. . . . We wonder how much extra distance he ran in warming-up? .. . Tomorrow the thin-clads make a jaunt to Milwaukee to take on Marquette. . . . Maybe they can avenge the basketball defeat suffered last Saturday in the Wisconsin city the same way they vindicated the eagers’ misfortune with Western Michigan’s Broncos. . . . Dick Ives, who makes an appearance here with the University of Iowa quintet, Feb. 26, scored 41 points in two contests against Indiana last week at Bloomington. . . . Dick is only 17 and a freshman, but his age and class don’t seem to have much effect on his veteran-like playing. . . .
Purdue, Iowa, and Northwestern are all knotted up for the Big Ten lead, the former two having won six apiece while the Wildcats have won only four, none having lost any. . . ._ Notre Dame seems to have picked on tough customers in the middlewestern league when she decided to play Purdue, Iowa, Northwest- • ern, and Wisconsin, the first three holding down the one, two, three positions in the Conference and Wisconsin being one above the last five. . . . Iowa Pre-; Flight has formed its first boxing team
and Lt. (jg) Dominic Napolitano, former member of the Notre Dame physical education department has taken over the coaching duties. ... The bas-keteers will go for a trip up the lakeshore next Wednesday to take on the ever-popular Great Lakes eagers, but whatever the outcome, the N.D. boys . of 1943 court fame hold the honor of being the first team ever to beat a Lakes team on the latter’s home court.
. . . The Tars play a return role here next Saturday when they bring their tracksters to the N.D. fieldhouse for the first time. . . . Michigan has failed to beat Purdue on the latter’s court at Lafayette in 22 years of cage play. . . . The name Hirsch that appears in the Michigan basketball line-up is the same Elroy “Crazy Legs” Hirsch who acquired grid fame at Wisconsin before being sent to Michigan as a V-12 trainee last July. . . . His experience in the basketball racket is limited, having played less than 25 cage games in high school at Wausau, Wis., and never having been on the squad while attending the Badger- institution. ...
The Notre Dame NROTC basketball team, coached by gridder Jack Zilly, has won eight and lost three in a series of games with teams from South Bend’s AA Municipal League, industrial teams in the vicinity, Concordia college of Fort Wayne, and a pair of tussles with the varsity reserves, the latter two games having wound up in a 50-50 set.
. . . Notre Dame will have the distinction of finishing off the Camp Grant program of competitive athletics when the two teams meet on the Stadium hardcourt March 3. . . . DePaul becomes the opposition tomorrow night in the first game of another weekly double-bill in the Stadium. I . . The stadium em-pressario, Joe Norris, has put- Northwestern on against Minnesota in the second fracas of the evening. ... If all the pre-season comment and early season play were the sole factors in tomorrow evening’s tilt, then the Golden Dome lads would be decided underdogs, but when Valparaiso beat DePaul by six points and the Krausemen in turn beat the Valpo giants by 13 points, that makes the whole story change. . . .
Irish to Meet Dartmouth's
Indians in 1944 Football
For the first time in Notre Dame football history the Fighting Irish will journey this fall to New England, and more specifically to Boston, as the publicity departments at Notre Dame, Ind. and Hanover, N. H. simultaneously last week announced the signing of a two-year football contract between Notre Dame and Dartmouth.
The first, game of the series, marking the first gridiron meeting between the two colleges, will be played in Boston next Oct. 14, and the second game will take place Oct. 13, 1945 in the Notre Dame Stadium. Although the site of the Boston game has not as yet been definitely announced, the probable setting will be Fenway Park, home of the Boston (American League) Red Sox, and scene of many of Coach Frank Leahy’s football triumphs while at Boston College. Due to the fact that Fenway Park has a football seating capacity of only 42,000, it is possible that the game might be staged at the Harvard Stadium, which accommodates 57,000. Harvard, who has dropped intercollegiate varsity football for the duration, plays only an informal schedule. As it will be their home game, however, Dartmouth athletic authorities will select the site.
The signing of the Irish and the Big Green to meet in Boston next fall culminates many years of previously unsuccessful attempts to lure the magic name of Notre Dame to New England, home of many of the school’s most rabid synthetic alumni. Among others, Harvard and, more particularly, Boston College had been mentioned as possible Irish opponents.
The game will return Coach Frank Leahy to the scene of his first coaching triumphs, where his Boston College elevens of 1939 and 1940 lost only one regular season game. His teams also appeared in two post-season bowl contests, losing to Clemson in the Cotton Bowl on New Year’s Day, 1940, and defeating Tennessee in the Sugar Bowl the next year.
For Coach Earl Brown of Dartmouth-it will be the first opportunity to guide his eleven against his alma mater, whom he' represented on the gridiron at end, w-inning All-American honors at that position in 1938. In Brown’s first season at Dartmouth last fall his team lost only one game, a 7-6 decision to Pennsylvania, and was widely acclaimed as one of the nation’s outstanding aggregations. Pre- • viously, Brown had coached in an assistant capacity at Brown University and at Harvard.—Frank Keenan
17
? Notre Dame
I BOOK STORE

S You'll want to
? send Home . . .
the Intellectuals in the second game on Feb. 7 while the Tigers will face the winner, of the Blues-Mustangs game in the opening tilt on the same night. In the lower bracket the Civies play LaRaza while St. Ed’s Angles, the favorites to win the playoffs, will oppose the winner of the Stratoliners-Wildcats encounter on Feb. 8. The semifinal games will be played on Feb. 9 with the finals scheduled for Feb. 11.
LaRaza, Civies, Tigrs and St. Ed’s were the winners of the final games before the playoffs played last week. St. Ed’s defeated the Stratoliners 70 to 22 with Mazza starring with 14 points. In another trouncing, the Tigers led by Terry with 19 points defeated the Doak-ers 61 to 21. LaRaza eked out the Mustangs 24 to 22 in an exciting tilt and the Civies overcame the Stratoliners 24 to 17 in the fourth game.
The final standings of the Overflow League prior to the playoffs:
To Greet
YOUR VALENTINE
LADDER A	W
Tigers ____3
Harps _____3
LaRaza ____2
Mustangs .... 1
Doakers ---0
1
1
1
2
3
PCT. .750 .667 .667 .333 .000
LADDER B W
St. Ed’S ____3
Civies ------2
Wildcats ____2
Blues _____.... 0
Intellectuals 0
Stratoliners 0
0 0
1
1
2
3
PCT. 1.000 1.000 .667 .000 .000 .000

7
y Cards for Everyone
» Pennants
$ Pillows
a . Personalized
J	Stationery
J HOWEVER, y	We don’t got some
K	more Kleenex.
The Notre Dame BOOK STORE BADIN HALL
I Father O'Brien Lectures at Sheil Sociology School
By Seaman Art Wagner
Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien, professor of philosophy of religion at the University, spoke last Friday on “The Church—The Interpreter of the Bible,” at the Sheil school of social studies, C.Y.O. building, Chicago. It was the concluding lecture of a series on the philosophy of religion; it was attended by a large number of adults from all occupations and professions in the. city.
In his lecture, Father O’Brien declared .that the marvelous unity characterizing the Church is due chiefly to her divinely appointed authority in interpreting the Bible and the whole deposit. of divine truths to the Christian world with infallible certainty. He also stated that far from being hostile to the Bible, the Catholic Church is its true Mother; and that she determined which are the . books of religion from the many writings circulated as inspired in the early ages, assembled them within the'covers of a single volume, and shielded them from destruction by the hordes of barbarian invaders that poured into Europe.	.
“The Church gives to the inspired word of God not merely a lip service, but a loyalty which withstood alike the pressure of Henry VIII and of Napoleon Bonaparte, the mightiest monarchs of their day, who sought to coerce into sanctioning divorces forbidden by Holy
If you're looking for "just the right gift" for her this Valentine's Day, George Wyman & Company has the right answer. You'lL find many lovely gifts to choose from ... or, if you want help in suggestions, call on Joan Navarre, Wyman's Personal Shopper. She will be glad to shop for you.
Here are a few Valentine gift suggestions:
' Gay floral print cotton handkerchiefs _____________ 59c
Exotic Eisenberg perfume sticks __________„...$L50
Lovely rayon mesh hose„$l.08
. Smart plastic bags_________$4.98
:Stunning Eisenberg , .Mexican jewelry „„....$6.50 up
Call 3-5101 and ask for Joan Navarre ... or, in the store, ask for her at any counter.
WYMAN’S
-ri
4)
18
Writ — a loyalty of which history knows few, if any, parallels. ‘
“Many are heard to speak of the Bible as if they thought it were simply a single book. In reality it is a whole library, a vast collection of 73 different books, 46 belonging to the Old Testament and 27 to the New. These books were not written at the same time or in one era.
“From Genesis, the first book of the Old Testament, to the Apocalypse of St. John, the last book of the New Testament, there stretches a period of approximately 1500 years. Thus if we were to stand by the bier of Moses, and read the Scriptures then in existence, we would be limited to the first five books of the Old Testament.
“The Church, however, did not discourage the reading of the Bible?” continued Father- O’Brien. “From the early centuries of the Christian era to the present day, the Church has persistently and tirelessly promoted the reading and study of the Bible by both clergy and laity. Quotations from the early Fathers to this effect could be presented almost without end. Thus, referring to the Bible, St. Jerome declares: ‘God gave it to you for you to. read.’ Long before this, St. Polycarp had said to the Philip-pians: ‘I trust that you are well read in Holy Scripture and that naught is hid from you.’ Tertullian, writing in the second century, declares: ‘Look into God’s revelations, examine our Sacred Books, foi- we do not keep them in hiding.’
“Great emphasis,” concluded Father O’Brien, “was placed upon the public reading of the Scriptures in church during the early centuries. Thus, St. Irenaeus takes it for granted that every earnest man diligently reads the Scripture in company with the priests in the church with whom lies apostolic doctrine. That the custom of reading the Scriptures in church was widespread is evident from repeated references to the practice in Conciliar declarations and in the writings of the Fathers.”
National Secretary of
Franciscan Tertiary on Visit
Father Maximus Poppy, O.F.M., national secretary of the Third Order, of. St. Francis will be on campus this weekend visiting the Third Order Fraternity here. -
He will meet with. anyone interested in inquiring , about the Third Order in. a talk Saturday, Feb. 5, 7:00 p.m., Room 3, Law Building basement. Sunday morning, at 11:00, he will hold, a reception for candidates for. admission in Alumni Chapel. ;	. .
Anyone interested in the Third Order is cordially invited to attend.
Marine Detachment Has Drum and Bugle Corps
By John Knutson
The newly organized Marine detachment’s drum and bugle corps has made the last three Saturday reviews of the . detachment of particular interest. The corps is led on the field by Pyt. James Kress. Sgt. Rockwell is the N.C.O. in charge.
The corps is composed of the following men:
Trumpets: Pvts. Twardzick, Canzona, Bolleart, Wallace, Sumner, Lau, Carr, Noble, Danielson.
Snare Drums: Pvts. Davis, Eggbeer, Hayward, Scott, Greenberg.
Base Drums: Pvts. McAndrew and Schultz.
Trombones: Pvts. DeWolf and McMasters.
Baritones: Pvts. Loucks and Nedwidek.
Cymbal: Pvt. Wurzler.
The. conditions under which the men must play are very difficult. The ground is far from level and because of the weather the instruments are effected These two factors are particularly trying to a few of the men who have not had much experience. In spite of the difficulties the corps is doing a fine job.
for
Valentine Gifts for "Her"
PERFUMES , COLOGNES HANDKERCHIEFS JEWELRY GLOVES	C
LINGERIE
MARINE MURMURS (Continued from Page 11)
drous qualities and did a considerable amount of talking about his drinking capacities covering up the fact that he was strictly a milk-toddler back on the farm.
One thing troubled Geezmo though — skirts. All the fellows were talking about it and their great abundance at a place in town. He didn’t dare ask questions about it though. Guys might think he was strictly off the cob or something. (Mo wondered if it was like ghost-sheets.)
Before heading for town Geezmo had a wonderful experience — a shower-bath. Figuring his first expedition to town was a very special occasion Mo shelled out two-bits to the shower committee. The fellows on this committee were swell boys in his estimation — paying a huge sum of money to the University for the use of the showers and then letting him use one for only two-bits.
After slicking his hair down with an abundant quantity of goose grease he went to pick up. two of his buddies from South Dakota, Hayseed and Plowjockey. In due time they found the place and obtained their first bottle of “green death.” First- thing Mo looked for was
' 19
the skirts that supposedly overran the place. Not one could he detect. But females — Geezmo cast a long glance at one he’d swear wasn’t over 35 in a booth with some friends. Much to his surprise she smiled and winked at him. He became jittery as a hare, grabbed the nearest glass at hand on the bar and took a hasty swallow, draining it.
“Why did you drink my shot?” questioned a Dennis Morgan voice at his elbow. But Mo wasn’t interested in anything but drinking as much cool liquid as possible to quench the fire in his throat. When the last few drops of Plowjockey’s and his bottles of beer were down the hatch, he replenished the Scotch for the voice and regained his self-control.
In no time Geezmo’s ego soared. “I’m a marine,” he dickered with himself. “Marines get around and do things. I’m going over and talk to that girl.”
“Hello, handsome,” chimed a honey voice.
“May I sit down?” asked Mo.
“Why, certainly, I just love Marines,” was the reply.
Geezmo felt funnier and funnier. It wasn’t exactly like the first time he smoked or swallowed a pinch of Copen
hagen. Air, that’s what he needed. He lunged forward, fought off the arms enveloping him, dashed through the crowd and made for the nearby alley.
That night Pvt. Futtled dreamt — mostly of beei' which he drank by the barrels until he finally was swimming in it. At this moment he always awakened feeling like a Hop.
(Continued next week)
THE COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 2)
STRICTLY BUSINESS
Employees of the Bureau of Internal Revenue are getting a big kick out of the story about the little boy who wanted $100 very badly and decided to pray for it. He prayed for several weeks with no results; so he wrote a letter to God. The post office finally decided to forward the letter to the White House and it was shown to. President Roosevelt, who chuckled and ordered $5 sent to the boy. The lad was delighted that his earnest prayer had been answered in part
make the perfect
VALENTINE'S DAY REMEMBRANCE
WILLIAMS the Florist will help you make the right selection.
Williams the Florist
West of the Oliver Hotel
Have a Coca-Cola = Let’s be friendly
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
... a way to win a welcome wherever you go
There’s friendliness in the simple phrase Have a “Coke”. It turns strangers into friends. In both hemispheres, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become the high-sign of the good-hearted.
20
at least so he wrote a thank you to God, but added this P.S. “I noticed that you routed your letter through Washington and as usual those Bureaucrats deducted 95 per cent.”
—The St. Bona, Venture
CHUCKLE
Plastic pennies may come to pass Because of the shortage of metals, alas;
But here’s a thought that really tickles— We may yet be taking Wooden nickles!
—Collegian
HOW TO PUNISH HITLER
The Plainsman, weekly publication of the students of Alabama Polytechnic Institute, tells us of the Mississippi paper that is running a contest on how to punish Hitler when we catch him. The paper prints the various replies that are sent in, and it is interesting to note that the most horrible, most gruesome types of torture and punishment are thought up by women. Most of the men writing in would be content with whipping, shooting, burning to death, and boiling in oil. But not the fairer (?) sex; they are for everything from slicing and frying him right on down to whatever your imagination can imagine.
The greatest number of people writing in are for caging Adolph up and exhibiting him over the country as a side show companion to Gargantua. The paper says that it is not running a contest to bring out the evil in people, but to show how the average American really hates the brute. After hearing the recent stories of the Jap atrocities to our fighting men, it would be interesting to see what the American people could drum up for Tojo. It would undoubtedly make the tortures drummed up for Hitler look sissified.
MOTOR TROUBLE
When the clock struck the midnight hour, father came to the head of the stairs and in a rather bold tone of voice said: “Young man, is your self starter out of order tonight?”
“It doesn’t matter,” retorted the young man, “as long as there’s a crank in the house.”
NOT SO DUMB
Flippant students gave these answers to the serious question, “What would you suggest as an invention for the bet-
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
War calls keep Long Distance Unes busy ... That’s ichy your call may be delayed.
21
BRUGGNER'S NEWS CENTER 127 W. Washington St.
for those you want to remember:
MOTHER, DAD, SISTER, BROTHER
... and that girl you sort of go for.
terment of civilization?” put by the Daily Bruin:
1.	An invention with a half bell on it, so that it wakes up one person at a time.
2.	Lubricated peanut butter so that it doesn’t stick to the roof of your mouth.
3.	A revolving fish bowl for tired fish.
4.	Textbooks without print for those who can’t read.
—Indiana Daily Student
JOSIE and JIM'S
flNSy ITALY CAFE
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS PLACE
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
To CHICAGO-and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
SOUTHnSeHOR[
By Palmer E. Amundsen
This week it is my privilege to bring to you Chief Specialist William E. Ijams, who was born on August 9, 1910, in Los Angeles, California.
He attended the Le Counte Junior High School, Hollywood, from which he graduated in 1923, then entering Van Nuys Senior High School. In his junior year, at Van Nuys, he played football at the tackle position, and his senior year at center. In his senior year (1927), he was voted All-Conference center of the Antelope and San Fernando League. During his senior year, he also was on the varsity swimming team. Ijams graduated at the close of the winter semester in 1928.
At the conclusion of his high school education, Ijams moved to Stockton, California, where he purchased a 300-acre asparagus ranch, located in the so-called Delta Lands. He plans to go back , to it after the war.
In 1928, Ijams started his higher education at the College of the Pacific. He attended the terms which were taught between farming seasons. While attending his school, he played one year of freshman football, and four years of varsity ball. In addition, he received letters in track and basketball as a freshman. As a freshman in 1933, the Chief played at the fullback position; in 1930, 1934, and 1936 he played at tackle. In 1935, Ijams assisted Coach Stagg (Amos Alonzo Stagg—the Grand Old Man of football) who is still coaching at the College of the Pacific. In 1933, the Chief was voted All-Conference fullback in the Far-Western Conference. In 1936 (his last year of competition), he was given honorable mention by the Associated Press Staff as an All-American tackle; was voted All-Far-Western Conference tackle. That same year, College of the Pacific was Far-Western Champion. During his senior year, he was assistant coach of the
22
swimming team, and manager of the swimming pool.
In 1931 and 1932, I jams played on the semi-pro team of the Antioch American Legion. While playing this semi-pro ball, the Chief paid all his own expenses in order that he would not be classified professional when he returned to college football.
In all ten years of playing football, Ijams suffered no serious injury. His most serious accident being the loss of
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
CAMPUS CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS
ooo
NOTRE DAME—100 YEARS-$4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF “
CHARLES L. O'DONNELL.$2.50
ooo
At the Bookstore
two teeth, which were kicked out by “Buzz” Bories. “The best back I ever played against,” said Ijams. The game was with the navy battleship — U.S.S. Arizona — football team. Bories is now with the Naval Air Corps, and holds the rank of Lieutenant Commander, U.S.N.
When College of the Pacific first played the University of California, they were defeated only by a score of 7-G, which was not obtained until the last quarter of the game. Also, when Ijams’ alma mater first played the University of Southern California, College of the Pacific was defeated by a mere 6-0 score. For that game, all predictions and bet-making gave a margin of 40 to 90 points for U.S.C. These two games (played the same year) marked the beginning of College of the Pacific’s rise to a position of national recognition.
The year 1938 marked Ijams’ successful completion of the work required for an A.B. degree in Business Administration and Economics, with a minor in Physical Education. Ijams returned to school for graduate work. During this first semester of graduate work, he met, “The light of my life.” The following summer, July 1, 1939, he married this charming co-ed.
The Chief then started to work for the State Relief Association of California. After a short period with the Association, a new opportunity afforded itself with the Department of Agriculture for San Joaquin County. Here he worked until his enlistment into the Navy on October 24, 1941.
The Chief was sent to Norfolk, Virginia, for his specialist training. After completion of his training, he was assigned the duty of training’ recruits for - two months. The Chief was then transferred to the Destroyer Escort School, which had just been established, as a gunnery instructor. He trained nucleus crews in the stripping and reassembling guns from 30 caliber size to 3 inch, 50 caliber. Twice each week he took the crews to the firing range at Damriech, Virginia, for the necessary practice in firing 20 mms. and 1.1s. After completing instruction of several crews, he was assigned to instructing only on the intricate mechanism of the Poloroid Machine-gun trainer. From the Destroyer Escort School, Ijams was transferred to Bainbridge, Maryland. The Chief Specialist School had been moved there, and Ijams was a Company Commander, instructing Chief Specialist candidates. From Bainbridge, Ijams was assigned to the V-12 program here, arriving July 7, 1943.
To you, Chief Ijams — expert football player and self-made man — we take off our hats!
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP.. .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. -
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S. •
623-629 Shetland Bldg.
South Beni. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery, of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661 702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher. M.D.	M. J. Thornton. MJ).
21
she knows I'm choosey
... and so are all Chesterfield smokers. They’ve
caught on to the Milder Better-Tasting cigarette that
really Satisfies ... and nothing else will do.
They expect more smoking pleasure, and Chesterfield
gives it to them every time ... yes, every time, with the
Right Combination of the world's best cigarette tobaccos
CHESTERFIELD