
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address _____________________ 
City State Zip
-----------------------,­
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic t\fagazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.00X __ years=$--­
1 
I 
i 
I 
-

SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE MAY 3, 1990 
COVER 
7 
Press Freedom at Notre Dame 

A history of student publications and the Office of Student 
Affairs Ian Mitchell 
9 
Writing in the Margins 

Notre Dame's publications must not exceed parameters set by the administration Derik Weldon 
12 Protection or Suppression? The Office of Student Affairs is faced with challenging questions about advertising Mike Wieber 
15 
FEATURES The Year of Women 

1990-91 dedicated to improving male-female relations, eliminating stereotypes Kate Manuel 


SPORTS

18 Male/Female Athlete of the Year 
· _ David DiLucia; Karen Robinson picked for annual honor JonPaul Potts 
MAY 3, 1990 
i-· 


INCLUDE THIS AD AND CIRCLE STYLE AND SIZE 
(5, M, L, XL) 

SEND TO: LIFE IN HELL, DEPT. D-3 2219 MAIN ST., #E, SANTA MONICA, CA 9040S Allow J·d wcch delivery. Free coralog with order. 

SCHOLASTIC
2 
.. 


ON OTHER CAMPUSES 


Suckers and Sexism 
The Guerilla Girls take Kansas, while college students in Iowa just keep waiting ..and waiting ... 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
T 
hings have gotten pretty hairy in the battle against sexism and racism in the art world. Wearing rubber gorilla masks, two New York artists spoke to a packed audience of four hundred in a recent lecture at the University of Kansas. An article in that school's paper, The Daily Kansan, said that the artists are both members of the Guerilla Girls, an organization that bills itself as the conscience of the art world. "Our main goal is to open the doors of creative genius, regardless of artists' color, gender or sexual prefer-· ence," said one µiember. The reason for the masks is to retain anonymity in order to draw attention to the issues, and not their personalities. The speakers pointed out that "less than five percent of the artists in the modem art sections at the Metropolitan Museum are women, but eighty-five percent of the nudes there are females." 
Furthermore, if you are sick and tired of an alleged 'male­dominated' world, then perhaps you'd like to update your vocabu­lary. Forall those concerned about an ingrained sexism in the English 

The Guerrilla Girls recently spoke at the University of Kansas. 
language, Ronald Searle' s Non-Sexist Dictionary might provide help The Brown Daily Herald reported recently that the book printed by Ten Speed Press suggests new words for 'male' words, but with a twist. For example, the word 'environment' contains the word 'men,' so it must be bad. Searle suggests using 'environwoment' instead. In the same way. 'excrewoment' would replace 'excrement.' Similar changes would create new words such as 'womango,' 'womenopause,' and 'Womanhattan.' 
Somebody at the University oflowa borrowed from a Kurt Von­negut novel to play a practical joke on about eight hundred class­mates. According to the College Press Service, after seeing a few spray-painted messages on campus sidewalks, some signs posted on telephone poles, and hearing gossip that the "Sacker Foundation" on campus was sponsoring Vonnegut, nearly eight hundred students assembled April 12 at the university's outdoor courtyard to hear the author speak. They waited for about twenty minutes until junior Matt Martin took the stage and told the crowd, "Today the Sacker Founda­tion is the Sucker Foundation, and all of you have fallen incredibly badly for an incredibly bad practical joke." Martin then hopped on his bike and left the stunned crowd, many of whom remained for an additional hour. The scene was reminsicent of one of Vonnegut's books, The Sirens of Titan, which opens with a mob waiting for 'a man and his dog to materialize.' "I think a couple of people were pretty pissed off ... while other people wanted to buy me a drink." 
Kids' play is no longer kid stuff for students at Central Connecticut State University. The Chronicle ofHigher Education reports that a melee broke out between campus police there and nearly two hundred students after a group of them was ordered to stop playing in a mud puddle. The incident has led to an investigation to determine whether the only arrest made was racially motivated .. The ruckus occurred when campus police officers tried to stop students from sliding in a mud puddle. A crowd grew when the police parked their car over the puddle, and students shouted obscenities and threw rocks and bottles. A black student was arrested when he and several others stood on a wall and sang "God Bless America." D 

W E E K I N D I S T O R T .I O N I T I M R O G E R S 


Operation Tetris™ 
The Soviet plan to conquer the United States: it's worse than crack ... 

Ihate the Russians. World peace is a farce and I wholeheartedly support nuclear escalation. Earth Day was a lot offun and a dandy excuse for a picnic andall, but I find the whole concept pretty foolish. The Russians are evil and nasty. The stealth bomber looks cool in air shows, but now it's time for the real thing. If we have to kill cuddly, big-eyed baby seals in order to wipe outthose commies, then sobe it I don'tcare. Just do it. Don't get me wrong, though, I'm not an extremist nut. I believed Nixon when he said he wasn'ta crook, and I think we should give Gary Hartanother chance. I have a perfectly good reason for wanting to kill those furry­hat-wearing, Karl-Marx-beard-sporting Russkies. My reason is Tetris.™ · For those readers who are unfamiliar with Tetris,™ allow me to explain. On the sur­face, Tetris™ may seem like just another annoying word followed by a floating ™, such as Egg McMuffin™ or Toughskins,™ but Tetris™ is· different. Unlike the Egg McMuffin™, orToughskins™, or even The Dome™, Tetris™ is a fiendish plot to under­mine America by providing its college stu­dents with an irresistibly convenient way to Fart Around™. First developed in Russia with computer technology borrowed from unwary Americans, Tetris™ is a video game wherein you try to fit shapes together as they fall on top of each other (not unlike another very popular spatial relations game.) 
At first glance, people usually scoff at such a simple game and say something like, "What a simple game." After a few minutes of actual playing time, however, people start to neglect personal hygiene, and refuse nour­ishment because they interfere with play. Scientists conducted an experiment in which laboratory rats were allowed to play Tetris™ as long as they wanted. The rats immediately 

began a round robin tournament, stopped eating, quit sleeping and eventually, even gave up sex. Thecontrol group was forced to smoke crack, but they still had great sex. In a lengthy report, the scientists concluded: Tetris™ is bad and the Russians are evil. Many communities across our fair land had already learned this first-hand, because Tetris™ houses had begun to sprout up just yards away from college campuses. 
Undistracted by Tetris™, Russian students continue to write clear, mature pieces, while American students such as myself scribble incoherent, juvenile obscenities that get me in trouble with my mother and make profes­sors send me hate mail. I can't tell you how many times I have sat down, fully intending 
· to write about something wholesome and inoffensive, then started a game ofTetris™. Next thing I know, it's two in_ the morning, my personal hygiene is rank, I smell like ragwort, and I'm undernourished. 
So what happens? In my weakened state, overcome by my own noxious fumes, I type in some ill-conceived blather. My unscrupulous editor only fixes a few spelling errors, the next Scholastic™ finds its way into the dining hall, and an angry mob of disgruntled readers harries my room -all because ofTetris™. 
I hOP€?,YOU understand that I am not respon­sible for what I write. If you don't like it, complain to the Russians. They made Tetris™. Don't send me nasty letters .. I just playTetris™. It'slikeadisease. Ineedhelp, not hate mail. . 
Thankstotheencouragementofthe Notre Dame chemistry department, Tim Rogers· · Is studying to become a scatologist. 


4  SCHOLASTIC  
-- - - -----­~ ---­ ----­-- ~  -'  -­•  - - - - ~  - -- ~  ~ -,-­ ~ -~~ L •••.,,-~ ~~:­., -,  , •  

MUSIC/JEFFJOTZ 






Fugazi Cooks 
Before listening to the new Fugazi al­bumRepeater somethingtoldmethat 
the title was going to hold a clue to the 
sound ofthe new release. After hearing the 7" EPThree Songs (released shortly beforeRe­peater )I came up with two ideas. One, drawing from tunes such as "Joe#l", Fugazi is going to experiment with songs and sounds, breaking out ofthe one-tone angst of their first two efforts. The second idea, drawing from such faster songs such as "Break In" hinted thatFugazi might return to their hardcore roots in the classic D.C. god­heads such as Minor Threat, Rites ofSpring, Deadline, and Embrace. 
Being such a multi-faceted and erudite al­ternative musical scholar, I roughly guessed right. Repeater 'packs a wallop all right, eliciting so many comparisons that I have a hard time labeling the "new" Fugazi. Fugazi sounds angrier, more emotional, and perhaps a little condescending. Since Dischord Rec­ords, Fugazi's record label, received an amazing 47,000 advance orders for the al­bum, Ian MacKaye and his friends find themeselves in a bit of a bind. Should they use this newfound fame to become high and preachy like the megabands U2 and R.EM. have done? Well, I think that Fugazi has always come off as a bit preachy. Tolerant, but preachy. 
MacKaye sounds pissed offall right, sens­
ing frustration in the complacency that has 
overwhelmed American society and turned it 
into a bunch of apathetic couch potatoes. 
Fellow vocalist and guitarist Guy Picciotto 
also seems filled with anger; his cries with an 
anger ofdesperation-screaming for change 
among the military spendthrifts in the open­
ing song, ''Turnover" to the cries that envelop 
the alarming seda.teness of "Reprovisional." 
Both MacKaye and Picciotto wrap up Re­
peater with "Shut the Door", an atomic blast 

soaked and dripping in the noisy soup of D.C.'s rich hardcore past 
As for the other members of the band, all seem to be departing in one sense or another from their contributions to Fugazi and Margin Walker. Besides singing, MacKaye and Picciotto also tease the listener with new music styles that were absent from the first releases. Their guitar cuts in and rips your 

Ian Mack.aye of Fugazi cooks up some yummy oatmeal. 
head open, preparing your mind for the Posi­tive Force ideologies that this band eschews. On top of this, MacKaye and Picciotto draw in influences rarely seen in the past, ranging from metal ("Sieve_-Fisted Find," ''Two Beats Off') to a British punk attack ("Re­peater"). On the bass, Joe Lally weaves a coating around the guitars so to make the mind assault a bit more palatable. Drummer Brendan Canty is given much more breathing 
room on Repeater, providing a fail-safe backup beat for the frontmen, but showing that he can stand on his own two feet on "Brendan #1". 
Finally, from a lyrical standpoint,Repeater has proven to be incredibly strong and defi­nitely deserves the award for best though­provoking lyrics to stir up our gray matter (someofyou may "get" that little pun; others, well???) Their all out attack is on those Blue & Gold games of life that have pacified and drugged American society into a bunch of non-questioning, complacent followers. Songs such as "Styrofoam" may appear to be an attempt to jump on the Earth Day corpo­rate bandwagon, but upon closer inspection, the lyrics reveal much more. "Everybody's down/We pulled each other down/There never was a truth to be found/ ... We are all bigots/So filled with hatred/We release our poisons/Like styrofoam." By tying ip the straight-edge/Positive Force dogma ofracial equality with humans' rape of the environ­ment, it tells us that for racism and environ­mental neglect, we all share the burden and 
. we all must pay the price. 
So what does the title ofRepeater hold for the new Fugazi LP? Well, it repeats the common knowledge that these straight-edge boys from D.C. are not to happy with Ameri­can society in the nineties. In these songs, Fugazi yells, screams, cries, buzzes, and asks for change in America in a blatant and obvi-.,
1 ' ' 

ous way. Musically, the album goes beyond !i,, a strict re-hash of the band's hardcore roots. ·i It causes us to think, to explore, to probe. Webster gives only one definition of the word "repeater," but with seven different uses. One use is "one who relates or recites." Another is " .An habitual violator of the · laws." If Repeater is Fugazi's call for questioning of America's leaders and her people, the name, therefore, says it all. D 
. ------­
LC < Jd ---------­

NEWS COMMENTARY 

II 


r1e s 


COMPILED BY IAN MITCHELL 
CAMPUS RAPE UPDATE 
Between the start ofcalendar year 1987 until the last day of 1989, no rapes were reported at Notre· Dame, and only a single attempted rape was reported on February 14 of 1988. The number of incidents on campus has increased in 1990. In March there was a single reported rape attempt, and in the last two weeks there have been four incidents, some classified as assualts rather than attempted rapes. 
On April 15 (Easter Sunday), the at­tempted rape of a Saint Mary's student on Saint Mary's Road occured at 10 p.m. The second incident, which involved a Notre Dame woman, occurred atabout 2 a.m. in the D6 parking lot It was classified as an assualt because the intent of the attacker was not clear, according to Rex Rakow, director of Security. In the third attack, a Saint Mary's student walking along U.S. 31 was assaulted on April 25 at 3: 15 a.m. The student was able to break free and flag down a passing police car, Charles Hurley, assistant director of Security, said in a release. The suspect was chased and apprehended at the intersection of 
U.S. 31 and Angela Boulevard. 
Rakow believes there may be some connection between these three crimes. "I think the first three (occurrences) could have been related, although the victims in the first two were not able to pick out (from a police line-up) the suspect arrested in the third case." In the fourth instance, St. Mary's Security received an anonymous phone call at about 2 a.m. on April 27. The caller said that her roommate had been raped at 9:30 that evening. Rakow had little information about the fourth case, since the victim ofthe alleged rape has not yet come forward .. 
Rakow recommended that students walk in pairs or groups and "be aware of what's going on around them." Rakow also urged students to take advantage of the Safe Walk escort service or to contact Secu­rity for an escort when needed. 

NAME THAT TUNE 
The copyright on the Notre Dame Vic­tory March expired in October of1989. The song, written by John F. Shea and Rev. Michael J. Shea in 1908, may now be per­formed or recorded by anyone without re­questing permission. The copyright had been controlled by a· company in which Paul McCartney was a major investor. According to the Office ofPublic Relations, the Victory March received its first public performance on Easter Sunday of 1909 in the Rotunda of the Adminstration Building. The public rela­tions people keep track of things like this; in fact, their files include the story of a pregnant woman who wrote to the Notre Dame band asking for a copy of the Victory March. It seems she heard the song on TV and was so inspired by it that she had atape of the song played repeatedly during her labor. Rather than having a "loyal son" come marching out, however, she gave birth to a daughter on 
January 6 of this year, after eight hours of labor. The baby could be the first member of Notre Dame's class of 2010. 


ALL HAIL THE KING? 
A glance at Scholastic files: 
Remember last year when Dan Fahey rang for "King" rather than student body president? (Maybe· you recall the catchy slogan on his posters: "Dan will be king.") Well, he and his ministers garnered 15.6% of the vote in their losing effort. The uncrowned Faheymightnothaverealized thatithad been tried before. In the 1972 student body elec­tions, Walsh Hall resident Robert Kersten. also ran for king of Notre Dame. So what, youask? Well,in 1972,his"oligarchyparty" won in an electoral upset. During the 1972­73 school year, Notre Dame was ruled by an unwilling monarch. According·to Scholastic (September 29, 1972): "There have been rumors that Kersten and his cronies are plan­ning an evacuation of the student govern­ment offices. Certainly ,Kersten himself did not want the job. He tried to withdraw on the eve of the election last spring, but was forced to stay because he failed to inform the elec­tion committee in time." 0 




NEWS 

Press 
Freedom at 

Notre 
ame 
A history ofstudent publications and the Office ofStudent Affairs 
BY IAN MITCHELL 
T 
he issue of press freedom at school publications has become one of in­creasing controversy. The Hazel-wood School District v. Kuhlmeir case (decided by the Supreme Court on January 13, 1988) has redefined the relations between the student journalist and the academic institution's administration. The court ruled that schools may act as publishers and control material printed in school-funded student publications . . At Notre Dame, the issue of press free­
. dom has surfaced at least twice in the past five years. In 1986 the student manager of WSND was suspended after she approved the airing of a public service announcement (PSA) advertising a . non-official student organization. (Specifically, Gays and Lesbi­ans at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's.) 
Scholastic examined the controversy involving WSND-FM by running articles written by parties on both sides of the issue. In her explanation, station manager Eileen Ridley wrote (in the April 19, 1986 Scholas­tic) "I realized that this particular PSA, due to its controversial subject matter, might cause some problems if it were broadcast. How­
. ever, I decided that since WSND-FMdefined itself as a public service station it had an obligation to air the announcement" 
Ridely said that she met with then-assis­tant vice president for student affairs Father Francis Cafarelli. She wrote that after she suggested running the PSA with the university's name removed from the an­nouncement, Fr. Cafarelli "responded that 

· The university felt that to allow this PSA to go over the air was to affiliate the Gays and Lesbians' group with the university. Since certain administrators believed the ac-. knowledgement of the group's existence did not fit 'the mission of Notre Dame,' the university's radio station ought not air the group's PSA." Fr. Cafarelli wrote a response to the WSND controversy in the same issue of Scholastic. He explained: "We do not think that it is at all a matter of censorship. It is important to remember that this has to do only with announcements made on the sta­tion. Any publication or station, almost ar a matter of course, selects what items it can and cannot run at any given time for a variety of 
. reasons. A completely limitless policy and practice in this regard is not realistic. An­nouncements of or for specific groups or events are matters quite different from the practice of discussion of issues in the usual formats used by the print and braodcast media." After being forbidden to run the PSA, Ridley resigned, as did the AM station man­ager. The issue at stake seemed to the the conflict between the mission of the univer­sity as a catholic institution and the ability of the station to accept PSA's from all groups. 
MAY 3, 1990 
\ 
-----~-~-­
' -----. ~------­
~ --~" -~ 

NEWS 
Du Lac on 
. . : .. 


Strtdent Media
J 


.The University of Notre Dame recognizes that student media can be valu~ble aidsin establishing and main~ ttainingan atrnosp~ere offree.and re/ · sponsible discussion'. and ofintellec~ tualconcems on the campus. They c:<1n . be a means of bringingstudent con­
.. cemstothe ,mentionofJllefacultyaµd· . ·· ·•· theinstltutiorial authorities and offor~ . mulating student opinion.· Student media should be free of 

•cen~orship .• and advance approvaFpf copy /and• their edhors and managers should be free to dev~lop their owr1 editorial policies and news coverage'. At the·same time, this editorial free~ dom en.t3ils the corollary responsibil­ity tobe govemecl by tl]~ canons ofr~-,: sponsi~le printand broadcast journal­.. ism andallows for the expression,of varioi{s points of view; All student . media are subject to thesame polic!~ ·· >thsatgovem allstude'!t organkati()ns, ..· · ..·.· .·. ·. Eajtors and managers. of. studept . media.which are supported by recog~ 
nizedpniversityboclies.(StudentGQ\T-: 
·.emment, colleges~ qepllrtme11ts,. etc.) •·•.···•· shou141:>eprotycteclfromarbit:J:ru,:Y S!J~;-.. . pension and removal ·because ofstu~ dent,faculty, administrative, orpub!ic: disapproval ofedit9ria1 poHcy Qr.con-, ... tent. pnlyfor proper and stare,cl caus~s. should editors ancf managers be sub­jecttorernoval and ther1 by orderly ~8. 
. · prescribed procedures'. ·.· 
.All student media should carry a .• prom.in¢n t sta~merit that the opinfons < · expressed are not nec:yssarily thos~ of / 
the coilege, University or student body; 
. : . ·-. . ·. ~ 
(Frori1puiac, lfstuMnt Me
Q .... . . .. . ... 



' ~--~-r----~C:.::.--------..:___ --~-.:_-~-~'-,':--~------.-/' 
The administration's position was that ad­vertising was not a matter of editorial free­dom, while Ridley held that PSA's were a form of free speech . 
The second recent controversy involv­ing press freedom at Notre Dame involved Scholastic magazine. The Fall 1986 editon of the Juggler ran a disclaimer reading "Original choice censored by the Office of Student Activities" below a piece ofart work. Scholastic printed a story on the omission, and along with the story, it printed the art work which the Juggler did not run. The Office of Student Activities then closed Scholastic and removed all copies of that issue of the magazine from distribution. After several days of discussion between the editors of Scholastic and Student Activites, an agreement was signed. The agreement stated that.the magazine was to be free of prior approval of copy and that all editorial decisions concerning content remained with the student editors. In addition the agreement said that Scholastic was to keep the office of Student Activities informed "of pertinent issues," and that Scholastic "reaffirms its commitment to responsible journalistic stan­dards." 
Conflict between student freedom and university administrations is not unique to Notre Dame. In a recent case reported by the College Press Service, under pressure from the ACLU, the Catholic University of San Fransisco allowed students to distribute lit­erature advocating legal abortion, even though this position is in conflict with the teachings of the Catholic Church. (Addi­tional views on censorship at Catholic uni­versities are detailed in the sidebar at right.) The conflict between the desire of publica­tions to print what they want and the desire of school adminstrations to prevent the publica­tion of some items is a story being played out nationwide. 
With these events as a backround, Scho­lastic examines the current state of press freedom at Notre Dame. The following ar­ticles look into the relationship between the office of Student Affairs and student publica­tions. The freedom of both the editorial and advertising content of the publications will be examined 0 
----.:.~-• • ~ -~~--=--;·~-..--;:', --~---~ . -:-·-~ ~--~­

Censorship at Catholic Universities 
I~Novembei; Marquette suspended Tribune ~ditor Greg Meyers and ad inan­agerBrian Kristcifek from theirjobs at the paper for aUQwing an ad promoting a pro-choice rally sponsored by the Na­tional Organization for Women~ The students were later reinstated, buta rtcin­student business manager who checks 
·the)icis was firdf .· .. . .... . 
"Thereis noquesti9n thatthey have the right to censor," Meyers said. "Ide­ally, though, students should get to make 
·.·•the decision. That's the mcist. educa­
tional way." ;,; , i/ • • · . Many Catholi2campus officials main­.tainCthey not orgy are welL'Yithin their righis in censoring tlie papers, but are 

... boldly protecti11gtheirreligion. < 
.. "It'.s jU:st·common sensetsaidSister AliceGallin ofthe Association of Catho­lic Colleges and Universities. (Sister GaHin is.··also.·a.Notre DameTrustee.) "You dori't takeids fof things yoridoh' t 
. believe iri. I.doubt that.prcHhoice groups would file an adfrom a pro-life group." ... · < ·· . 
· Loyola's'Kn1pfing.agreed?·"Catholic 

univ~rsiti~s hay~ the pre.rogatirf to . )monitor publications·~hich•l'1ay pro­. mote values c9ntradictory .t() Catholic 
•· values. 'we don't have to advertise or 
·•• .pritz~e:J~:~i,~~:S\\.~dvddates,~gree· that the adminisl:I'ators have.the right to >cerisor the paper§; •.·•···. .·.··•·· ·... ··. . . 
"These· administrators couldn't .. le-. g~ly gbtaw~§wil!ithis i~thetwJr~atas . pµblic ·uniyersity," i11.ote<t. Mc1rk Goodman of/the}Studerit Press· Law Centerin Washingtqn, D.C.. "Sin.ce they'are ata private university,.· they have · 
..· n1oreleeway;Butthatdoesn'trti.yiinthey .· ate morally correct);. 
. . . ;" 
:.... .. . -' ,:. > . >:.. ·:·:·_· 
·/\(From the·Collige Pniss Se~ic:e) · 
SCHOLASTIC 
' ' ­

---·~~ ---~=1--·~-·~· ·~·~::~~· !·~~-~ -;~;~;_~~ :~·j&i: ;-:~\;; 
. '1· 
~ :· 1, 

NEWS 

II






Writ1ng 
I

1n the Margins 
Although they are not censored in the classic sense, Notre Dame's student publications must not exceed parameters set by the administration 
The right of a publisher to Influence the content of their publications makes all of these magazines and newspapers, to some extent, censored. 
BY DERIK WELDON 

Ifonereads through the first amendment to the U.S. Constitution, it appears that censorship, ·the altering or omitting of material deemed harmful to a given organi­zation, does not occur today legally-in the United States in any fo~m. This simply is not the case. In reality, the force ofopinion expressed by any publication's ownership and readership goes a long way toward subtly altering the content of material which the publication sends to press. This is seen by some as quiet censorship. Yet to others, it is simply a way to ensure that a given magazine or newspaper presents stories of wide interest in the most objective, professional manner possible. At Notre Dame, publications that receive funding from the university are in a delicate position. On one hand, the first amendment would seem to prohibit any administrative involvement in determining the types of ar­ticles which run in Scholastic, the Observer, and others that get money from the univer­sity. Yet, in cases involving the rights of student media at private colleges like Notre Dame, courts haye upheld _the rights of the universities, as publishers, to play a role in deciding what is appropriate material for publications on these campuses to print. 
The Student Activities Office at Notre Dame is responsible for much of the admini~tration's involvement with campus media. Adele Lanan, advisor for Scholastic, Dome, Juggler and WVFI said, "As advisor in theOfficeofStudentActivities,I do not do any advanced approval ofcopy, so there is no real way for me to be a censor. The admini­stration knows the position ofan advisor, like myself,andtheyareinagreementwithit. We do not pre-approve copy, that's the editor's job.1'. 
That censorship in its purest form does not occur at Notre Dame seems obvious enough. There are no administrative proofreaders with red pens who obliterate sensitive mate­rial in student publications on a daily basis. 
Yet, indirectly, the campus media still knows it is being watched and scrutinized. Andrew Hilger, former Editor in Chief of Scholastic, said, "Thepeople who are editors 
! 
MAY 3, 1990 · 
~ 
-
' --­

~-----~~·-----~­
----~ --~ . 

NEWS 


on the different campus publications have put in enough time on the job that they can work on their own without the university looking over their shoulder. H's insulting to be told by someone in the administration how to do your job when, in many cases, they aren't trained in journalism enough to pass judgement." 
Matthew agrees. He said, the people in ~d­
ministration £::",,,; ;;c, good about th,:'!: ~~n­dents they aci;,i:;pl into Notre D~rnIJ,,, they should hiliVQ confidence in thr, 
students whr, ,,,,,,., 
the publicatio.rn,::;, ff individuals ori publications ',,:'!'r~i out ofline and ~=:~'rr-: 
inappropriate iiti:a,, terial, the adn::~;':;~ stration sh01ik':i ~,st 

answered. If student editors use proper jour­
nalistic principles and common sense at all 
times, there should be no need for anyone in 
Student Activities to raise an eyebrow be­
cause no censorship is necessary. Yet, what kind ofstudent media does Notre 
Dame have then? It appears that university­funded student publications, through subtle :t1drn:inistration, become their own censors, learning to screen out what is deemed unacceptable by the same adminis­trators who give them the money they need to sur­vive. It may be a publisher's right to do so, but what is the effect on the final printed prod­uct that everyone grabs in the dining hall? 
student body re-Adele Lanan says that Student Activities This question re­sponse to the mate-does not pre-approve copy.· · quires an indirect 
rial teach the editors a lesson. Notre Dame students are capable of self-censorship." 
There does, however, appear to be some common ground between student editors and advisors in Student Activities. Lanan said, "I encourage the editors to use good journalistic principles and, in the case of content, to talk with professionals outside the university and discuss whether a specific piece may put the writers or editors into a libelous situation." 
Good journalistic principles really boil down to being able to put yourself in another's shoes, something an editor must always do when evaluating different mate­rial. Hilger said, "You really have to cater to your reader, so editing is really a matter of common sense. Yet, it's difficult to have the same sensitivities as all the people on campus who read the magazine. An example ofthese difficulties was with the 'Estrogen' article (Scholastic, 2-15-90). The response to let­ting an article like that run is educational. You learn where the campus sensitivities are and what might need toning down in the future." 
With an apparent solidarity struck between campus publications and the administration, it appears that the censorship question is response, so consider the case bf Dialogue magazine. Dialogue is a newcomer to the list of campus publications, but unlike most, it receives no financial backing from the uni­versity. Yet, even though it receives no money from the university, it is not unaf­fected by the Office of Student Activities. 
Schlapp said, "What they really want is for people to get in­volved in media which they [the administration] fos­ter. They do any­thing they can to dis­courage other publi­cations which are outside their finan­cial control. In my case, they went over my head and tried to restrict the distribu­tion of Dialogue." 
The episode which Schlapp re­fers to is a case at the beginning of the year when janitors threw away over 1000 copies ofDialogue, evidently underthe false impression that Dialogue did not have permission to distribute on campus. Further­more, Schlapp was irritated because he was told that the first issue of his new magazine needed to go through Student Activities so that they could judge whether or not its ma­terial was appropriate before distribution could begin. 
Joe Cassidy from Student Activities said, "The orily thing we screen for is material that may step o,utside the mission of the univer­sity." This is in accordance with Du Lac. In addition, Du Lac says that no student publi­cation can be denied the right to orderly distribution unless the material is seen to be in violation of the law. 
On the issue of Dialogue, Cassidy said, "It 
· is okay for you to distribute, but you need to talk with the people at different university facilities to see if they can handle the extra load of publications." It is the approval of building managers that Dialogue lacked, not an approval from Student Activities. 
Misunderstandings between Dialogue and Student Activities aside, an interesting ques­tion remains, one whose answer goes far to­ward showing what the final efforts of stu­dent journalists will read like in their final form. The question is about a concept that many hold dear on campus: academic free­dom. How can the university claim to be in favor ofsuch freedom when it holds the keys to journalist's finances and, in the name of the university's mission, may restrict publi­
-------~cations . it does not support? Addition­ally, what kind of mixed signals is the university sending when administra­tors continue to ob­serve publications while, in other areas, the university has shown a recent soft spotforliberal senti­ment, all in the name of academic free­dom? 
Cassidy defends his department and academic freedom in student media. He said, "We have 


10 


advisors work with student media because we do not have a journalism department. At most schools it is the journalism department that oversees student publications." In­cidently, the American Studies major has a journalism/ communications concentration, but they are phasing it out over the next two years. In the future, those students interested in the print media will still be encouraged to pursue American Studies as the department goes through a reorganizational period. Yet, no American Studies faculty formally advise 
any university-funded publications. 
"We try to look at the opportunity to work on student media atNotreDame as a learning experience in a real world setting," Cassidy said. "If a reporter or editor worked for a major newspaper owned by a conservative, outspoken republican, the employee would certainly need to answer to the owner ifhe or she ran a pro-democrat article. There is as much room for academic freedom in Notre Dame's student media as there is in any real life job." 
Schlapp feels differently. He says, "Stu­dent Activities is working entirely against the stated goal of academic freedom, which originally was meant to expose a wide range of students to a wide range of topics in a forum where issues could be discussed. I favor that goal en­thusiastically, yet they continue to observe campus publications, qui­etly censoring them in the proc­ess. 
"Yet, the reality of academic free­dom at Notre Dame means that Martin Scorsese is now qualified to teach us theology ("Last Temptation of Christ") and we have porno mov­ies at the Snite to teach us about human relation­ships ("Desperate Living"). Wecan­not keep giving in 

to popular, left-wing opinion that only serves to undermine the traditionally conservative, Catholic con­stituency at Notre Dame." 
Even with all the talk of academic freedom buzzing around campus, life does not change much for publications funded by the univer­sity. Although the administration's involve­ment in everyday life at Scholastic, the Ob­server, and others is tenuous at best, their presence can still be felt. Hilger said, "It always needs to be in the back of your mind that the university owns the magazine and can shut it down anytime." 
Content is naturally influenced. The costs and benefits of running any story take on more significance because, not only might a controversial story anger readers, but it also could prompt the administration to shut the publication down entirely. Faced with a watered-down story or no publication at all, the choice is obvious to most editors. Keep the publication, then live with the fact that you approved material with less punch than it had originally. 
With editors afraid to cross the unspoken but ever-present line of good taste drawn by the administration, student readers know what they are getting when they pick up a Scholastic or Observer at the dining hall: a dilute but reasonably professional presenta­tion of news, sports, and features on campus, and not much more. 
Hopefully the content is taken as close to that unspoken line as possible. That way it cannot be any the worse for effort. D 
NEWS 




Protection or 

The Office ofStudent Affairs is faced with challenging questions offreedom ofspeech with respect to advertisements in student publications 
BY MIKE WIEBER 

Where to draw the line-the prob­lem has confronted writers since the days of Bradbury's Fahren­heit 451 and still carries through protests against movies like "The Last Temptation of Christ." Even here at Notre Dame, the ad­ministration and fellow students put constant pressure on the publications to be both infor­mative and thorough without risking libel. Most recently, advertisements for alcohol and gays and lesbian support groups have come under fire. According to DuLac, promotion by campus media of events or organizations that have alcohol as their main focus is prohibited. Recently, however, inconsistencies in the policy have come to light. In particular, The Alumni-Senior Club, known to students as Senior Bar, seems to be a bit of an anomaly. "Since The Alumni-Senior Club is spon­sored by Lhe university, it is allowed to adver­tise," said Father Peter Rocca, an assistant directorof student affairs. He is quick to note that the club is not allowed to advertise alco­
Rocca defends the club, saying that the university views it as a place where respon­sible drinking is promoted. "It's like a pri­vate club, one sponsored by the university," said Rocca. He also felt that it would be silly for the university to operate a club and not allow publications to advertise its existence. 
In regard to bars operated locally, Rocca feels that there is inconsistency between their rightto advertise and the university's alcohol policy. He takes the university's policy one step further. "To advertise a band at a bar goes against the alcohol policy," said Rocca. 
This policy, however, has not been en­forced. Joe Cassidy, director of student ac­tivities which is, in tum, a branch ofthe office of student affairs, currently allows publica­tions the right to run advertisements for bands playing at local bars. He denies that the policy has been loosened. "I don't know that the policy has changed. We allow campus bands to promote themselves," said Cassidy. 
Cassidy does not have input into the actual decisions regarding policy formation. He sees his job as an enforcer of the rules. 
Tony Porcelli, advertising manager for advertising bands at local bars and bearing the approval stamp of the office of student activities. Cassidy, who originally refused to allow any mention of bars in the magazine, backed down. "Joe Cassidy basically said, 'You got me.'. It was also inconsistent be­cause The Observer [Notre Dame's daily newspaper] was allowed to run these promo­tions," said Porcelli. 
The administration's policy toward The Observer presents another apparent inequal­ity between publications. The daily is not governed by the same body as the other campus . media-Scholastic, The Dome, WSND, and WVFI. The latter faff under the direct supervision of the office of student activities. The Observer on the other hand falls under Roland Smith, the executive as­sistant to the president. 
Rocca traces this divergence back to the 1960s when the daily was founded as an independent publication. He said that in order t~ maintain its separation from author­ity, it was placed under the executive assistant's office and is thus not subject to any direct action by the Office of Student 


hol, although currently campus publications · Scholastic Magazine, thinks that these incon­Affairs. can publish band appearances as well as sistencies are unfair to local businesses. He The issue of independence does provide a events such as "Club Cup Night." collected fliers that appeared around campus bit of a paradox nonetheless. Rocca notes 
.. 


NEWS 

that this "independent" pub­lication receives free office space and is ·financed iargely through an "Ob­server Fee" charged to stu­dents as part of their annual tuition. 
This separation has al­lowed The Observer the privilege of not being sub­ject to sanctions by the of­fice of student affairs, who, in the spring of 1987, closed Scholastic down for several weeks in response to a con­troversy surrounding a pic­ture called both artistic and pornographic. 
As a result, when the daily began publishing advertise­ments in its accent and per­sonals sections promoting bands at local bars no formal action was taken. The ad­ministration never issued a public response so The Ob­
server has been allowed to continue publish­ing such promotions throughout the semes­ter. 
Both Cassidy and Rocca noted, however, that these policies will be reviewed over the summer so that a consistent opinion can be issued. "We will be reviewing [these ads] over the summer to see how they fit into the policy," said Cassidy. 
Although the policy regarding advertise­ments for bars is still open for discussion, Rocca clarified the administration's position on The Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's. "There was a decision by the vice president of student affairs saying that GLND/SMC may not advertise themselves as such because they are not an approved organization," said Rocca. 
Rocca noted that the name of the group seemed to imply that all gays and lesbians were members of the organization, but that there are many who do not wish to be associ­ated with the group. 
He clearly affirmed that the university will allow groups of gays and lesbians to adver­tise as long as no formal name is given. For example, he said the Office of Student Af­fairs would not have had a problem with the 
2 % of Americans Ballroom Dance. 
5% of Americans Golf. 
6% of Americans Ilowl. 
6% of Americans Hunt. 
7% of Americans Jog. 
10% of Americans arc Gay. 
Who's Abnormal? 
If you're gay, you're bound to hear a good number of people say that you're "abnormal." "Homosexuality is wrong be­cause it's abnonnal." 
Why? 
Being gay isn't "against the laws or nature." Biologists have found homosexual behavior in all higher strata of the animal kingdom. 
Being gay isn't some aberration 
· that occurs from a demented childhood or a sleazy scduc1ion and recruitment or a low sclr­image or never scoring with 1hc opposite sex. It's just one of na­ture's 'o'ariations on a Iheme, like left-handedness. 
America's 25,000,000 gay ci[i­zens (and Notre Dame's 1000) don't ask for 100 much.... Just for people to realize tha1, first of all, we have a right to exist. (Can you believe some people don't even admit that?) And that we are the same people as every­one else and deserve to be treat­ed as such. Acccp1cd, under­stood, respected. Not ham1ssed, persecuted, and dis­criminated against. And that we're not "abnonnal." 

Post.Office Dax 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
or c~U J.-met {183. 2561 or Ml kc (2SJ·20t5) 

The administration frowns on ads by Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. 
ties if they want them," Rocca said. 
The support group will continue to be pre­vented from running formal advertisements in the campus media. Moreover, publica­tions which have continued to advertise the group are to be facing penalties. Adele Lanan, an assistant director ofstudent activi­ties, has recommended to Scholastic that it not print the advertisements. 
Andy Hilger, former editor in chief of Scholastic, felt that the policy left his hands were tied. "From the perspective of an editor, it's a very delicate situation. You know you should run an ad and it should be an inalien­able right. Unfortunately, ata private institu­tion, that's not necessarily the case," Hilger said. 
Alison Cocks, editor in chief of The Ob­server, denies any knowledge offorthcoming repercussions. She said that, to date, no one from Smith's office nor the Office ofStudent Affairs has threatened the daily in response to the ads. In fact, she noted that no formal contact has been made by either office at all. 
"They told nothing to us," said Cocks. 

Underneath their foolish cosiumcs is sheer bigo­try. Dangerous homo­phobic bigotry. 1l1e Ku Klux Klan is waging .t campaign of rear :ind hate against gay people, jus1 as it has agoinst blacks. And now they w.int you on their side. 
Will you join them? Chant "Kill the F:tgs" wilhlhem? 
Or arc you like millions of other decent Ameri­cans who believe th.ti they should "live and lcl live"? 
We hope so, because cvcrypnc's civil rights depend on you. Help us fight bigotry and ha­ired ... 
... and tell them that the goy people you know act normal and don't wear dresses. 
Wri1corc11lu1formorcinfoml.l• 
tion on homo1u1ulity or wh~t our 
groupoffcn. 

rosi OHlce Bo:o. 194 Notre o .. me, IN 46SS6 
"[Scholastic] was the first to let us know." She added that sh.e will be upset with th_e office of the execu­tive assistant if other publications have been alerted to the forthcoming pena!­ties before she per­sonally was. 
In regard to the media governed by student affairs, Rocca expects .no significant changes in coming months. "I think we will con­tinue in the same di­rection. . . I don't sense any radical changes," he said. 

infamous ads, which ran throughout the semester in The Ob­server, had they simply published a contact's name rather than give the impression that the group was recog­nized by the university. 
DuLac for­bids advertis­ing on campus by groups that are not for-
Some People Thinks Gays are Crazy and Like to Wear Dresses 

Who's Crazy? 


mally recognized by the university. 
Rocca added that, despite rumor over the years, the university will provide places to meet for groups of people like the Gays and Lesbians as long as they do not try to suggest that they are a formally recognized university organization.· "They can get university facili-
For the advertising manager, the new vice president of student affairs, Patricia O'Hara, is the one hope that policy may change. "The change could have a positive effect if some­one more open-minded takes over," said Porcelli. "It's ethically wrong to make these exceptions." 







Attention: Student Clubs and Organizations 
Scholastic is sending out a summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen 
If you are interested in advertising in this issue, please con­tact Tony Porcelli as soon as possible at 239-7569 or stop by the Scholastic Office, 303 La Fortune Student Center 
Let those freshmen know you are out there--advertise in Scholastic! 
14 


FEATURES 

'The Year of 





Women' 
1990-91 school year dedicated to improving male­female relations, eliminating stereotypes 
F 
BY KATE MANUEL 
reshman Rosalinda Reyes' govern­
ment class was discussing a hypo­

thetical situation: the president of the United States, who just happened to be a female, had to establish contact with a hostile country. Reyes was dismayed to discover that a large number of male students in her class not only questioned what a female would do in this situation, but also whether it was possible to ever have a female president. 
"The whole discussion was really stupid. I was surprised to see guys still thinking like that and expressing such thoughts. The thing that I've seen here is that males have a stereotype of women; that women are infe­rior in certain respects and that there are things men can do better. This stereotype is not as bad at Notre Dame (as it is at other universities) but I didn't expect to see it here," said Reyes. 

Now Reyes, a member of the Year of Women Committee, is looking forward to challenging such stereotypes of females and said, "I'd like for the males ofcampus to see that there are females who are just as power­ful and leadership-oriented as the men are. I'd like to see a different male view toward what females can do." 
Like Reyes, Dr. Eileen Kolman, recently appointed Dean of the Freshman Year and chair of the Year ofWomen Committee, also hopes fu challenge some stereotypes during the Year of Women. However, she also sees the Year as addressing more than just male misconceptions of what females can and should do. Kolman and her fellow committee members hope to achieve four broad goals during the Year of Women, specifically bringing women to campus who have made significant accomplishments to their chosen fields, pointing out that changing roles also bring choices for females, getting the men on 

FEATURES 
campus to realize that male roles will change as female roles change, and stimulating dis­cussion on what the situation is for men and women at Notre Dame. 
Kolman points to the importance of bringing ac­complished, pro­fessional women to campus by saying, "if you want to go into journalism, you should be able to see someone like Jane Pauley and know what is possible." 
Reyes sup­
ports this goal of 
demonstrating

J-. 
what women have accom­

plished, and said, " It will bring the focus to women and what we can accomplish. By showing what we can do, it will try to show the males that it is not so much that we can't do this or that;-that it's just a matterofgiving us· a chance." 
Secondly, the Year of Women will, ac­cording to Kolman, "point out that women's roles in society are changing and therefore, undergraduate women have more options than those of ten years ago, and definitely more than those of twenty years ago. With those options come choices, however. This way undergraduate females can see the choices that other women have made and ask therr{selves 'Can you have it all and have it simultaneously?"' 
· "Women's roles are changing so much in society that we need a Year of Women to focus on these changing,roles," agrees Lynn Ramsey, a freshman who is on the Year of Women Committee. 
· Kolman hopes, thirdly, that the Year of Women will "involve the men on campus in thinking about how the changing roles of women are affecting men's roles, male and female roles are tied together. People get a message when they look to their parents. We want to suggest that with the way things are going in society things will be very different from what they were for our parents." 


Carol Seager, Director of University Health Services also sees male undergradu­ate and graduate students as vital to the Year of Women. "We want the student body to have a better understanding between males and females of their roles at the university; a sense ofNotre Dame students as Notre Dame students. We want to reach some level of parity so they feel they are on equal ground. We want to make sure that we do not spend a year talking only to females. We want to help both males and females have better relation­ships. 
Finally, Kolman believes that the commit­tee should stimulate discussion on "how it is for men and women at Notre Dame: Is it the way we'd like it to be? Is it the way we'd expected ittobe?" She added, "If the Yearof Women gets people to think about the issue 
Photo courtesy of ND Office of Public Relations 

of men and women, especially men and women here at Notre Dame, and how things are changing, it will have been successful." 
The undergraduate students who are serv­ing on the Year of Women Committee all point to male-female relations on campus as the primary reason for involving males in Year of Women activities. Ramsey said, "I feel that female-male relations here are kind ofstrained and thatthis might help in increas­ing understanding of male-female roles in relationships." 
"What we are trying to do is focus on the male undergrad and getting the male under­grad more aware of relationship, academic, career, and personal areas. The men ask me -'I don't get it, why do you need a year?' ­and that in itself is a reason. We want to get men more attuned to women at Notre Dame, the choices, careers, and decisions they'll face," said Julie Wright, a sophomore in the College of Business Administration who serves on the Year of Women Committee. 
Ted Stumpf, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters who is the only male under-
SCHOLASTIC 

FEATURES 

graduate on the Year of Women Committee, agrees with Kolman, Seager, Ramsey, and Wright in hoping that the Year of Women helps male undergraduates rethink their atti­tudes toward women. Stumpf said, "Basi­cally my role-what I would like to see as an undergrad male-is for the committee to reach out and educate the undergrad, espe­cially the undergrad male. I think the women around here are pushed into a back seat role simply because they are women. I'd like to see the undergrad male gain a little more respect for women. The obvious attitude is the stereotype that comes from the attitudes of many and that a lot of people still believe. I've lived with quite a few people who have thought this and had no second thoughts. I started the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's rela­tions committee last fall and I hope there will be a tie in. Ifwe improve the attitude toward and the value of women, it will be easier to help the relations between the two groups of women." 
Although it is the 1990-91 academic year that has been officially declared the Year of Women here at Notre Dame, the idea of devoting a year to the study of female issues is not a new one, according to Kolman. "When Fr. Malloy .first came into the office of president, he was interested in using the 'Year of' concept to focus on certain issues. The Year of Women was one of the topics that Malloy had in mind. Another impetus for having a Year of Women was the Faculty Senate Committee on Women; a lot of the female members of that committee told us that women's issues needed to be looked at at a campus level. The Year of Women came from at least those two directions at the same time." 
Kolman feels that the Year of Women, even though it follows both the Year of Cul­tural Diversity and the Year of the Family, will bear little relation to its predecessors. She said, "While the years have a parallel in being called the 'Year of,' the topics are so different. With the Year ofCultural Diversity you could literally do entertainment, like the Chinese Opera. It lent itself to creativity. The Year of the Family was the most difficult of the three to be creative with. For most stu­dents, their families are not here, and they are focusing on developing themselves as sepa­rate from, but still related to, their families. With the Year of Women there is some pos­sibility for creativity. Obviously there will be lectures. But people will ask, 'Can't you do something more creative?"' 

While no specific activities for the Year of Women have been announced yet, Kolman expects to see lectures, performing artists, and discussions about male-female expecta­tions. TheSniteMuseum ofArtis planning to devote a day in January, 1991, to women artists, and the Music Department has sched­uled performances by the three female artists who performed chamber music this year and by a female soprano faculty member. The committee is still in the process of brain­storming, but the primary function of the organization is stimulation not coordination, according to Kolman who said she prefers to initiate ideas rather than plan the smaller details. 
The Year of Women Committee is com­posed of members nominated by student government and various campus groups; it tries to include members from all sections of the university community. Kolman notes, "We will add more people as we meet and 
-

talk. Some people on the committee now have been added. We want to touch as many segments of the university community as we can. The committee would like to spans.or some things; however, it would like to en­courage other groups on campus to ask them­selves, 'If we normally sponsor a lect~ series, how can we incorporate the Year .of Women?"' 
Kolman is optimistic about the possibili­ties for the Year of Women and does no.t foresee tokenism arising the Year's focus on women. "I'dratherhavea token woman than no woman. I'd rather have a token Year-than no year. It's a place to start. I have no illusion~ that the Year of Women is going to make Notre Dame an inclusive community where men and women are equal and where once the year is over all questions will be answere<;I. definitively and never need to be addressed again. I believe that while Notre Dame is a great university it could be made even better if women and women's contributions were made intrinsic values." 


SPORTS 


MALE ATHLETE OF THE YEAR: 
Courtesy Notre Dame Sports Information 



DAVID DILU 
I 




BY JONPAUL POTTS 

Like the mighty lumberjack Paul Bunyan, marching with axe in hand to fell countless redwoods, Dave DiLucia has ripped through the ranks of collegiate tennis, defeating many a formidable foe along the way. The previous number one ranked player from the University of Georgia, Al Parker, along with the fifth, eleventh, 17th, 20th and 26th ranked players in college tennis have all fallen to DiLucia' s excellent serve and volley game. His prowess earned him Scholastic's Male Athlete of the Year. DiLucia waged quite an impressive sophomore campaign. As of this writing, his singles record stood at 30-11, includ­ing a strong 21-3 for the spring season. He is currently ranked 26th nationally, after achieving his highest national rank of 17th in the Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Tennis ranking a few weeks ago. 
Paired with senior Mike Wallace, Di­Lucia has also risen to a sparkling eighth ranking in doubles. The potent tandem has compiled a 14-3 record and has defeated the numbers two, four, 13 and 17th rated doubles combinations in the nation. 

DiLucia has not only played well but has provided leadership to a bluechip freshman class that has served the men's tennis squad to a 21-4 record and a 17th national ranking. 
"David leads the younger guys on the team," says freshman Mark Schmidt. "He gets us up; he settles us down. We learn a lot from him." 
Even though he's only 20-years old, the Norristown, Pennsylvania native has had quite a tennis career. In addition to his stellar sophomore year, he enjoyed tremen­dous success as a freshman. Voted 1989 :Region IV Volvo Tennis Rookie of the Year, he was one of only three freshmen in the nation to be ranked in the top 50. On the international scene, he reached the third round of the Italian Open and the quarterfi­nals of the Belgian Open in the summer of 1988; All that before he had launched his first serve for Notre Dame. 
It appears that the sky is the limit for DuLucia's future. 


SPORTS 


FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE YEAR: 
Courtesy Sports lnformalion 


K E 
OBINSON 
BY JONPAUL POTTS 

First, she was a freshman phenom. 
Then, a sophomore sensation. 
This past season, however, 

Karen Robinson reached new heights and 
became the leader from the point that 
coach Muffet McGraw was looking for, 
as the women's basketball team posted its 
winning-est season ever at 23-6 overall 
and a perfect 16-0 mark in Midwestern 
Collegiate Conference play. She led the 
squad to the Conference's post season 
championship. For these efforts, Scho­
lastic recognizes her as Notre Dame's . Female Athlete of the Year 
The 5'6" native ofTumersville, New 

Jersey paced the women's team in scar­
ing with 15.6 points per game. She netted her 1000th point during this, her junior year, becoming only the seventh player in the program's history to do so. The three­year starter and co-captain also led the Irish with 137 assists, giving her a total of 420 for her career. All told, Robinson is listed a grand total of 17 times in Notre Dame annals for a variety of assist, steal, free throw shooting and total points rec­ords. 
She received many post season awards this past season. Among them, a spot on the prestigious U.S. Basketball Writer's Association All-District IV team for 1989­90.. She was named MCC Player of the Week for January 26th, 1990, first team All-MCC, MCC Tournament Most Valu­able Player and MCC Player of the Year. Robinson has also participated in two Summer Olympic Festivals. 
This coming season, she will be a marked man, so to speak. As a fourth-year starter and senior co-captain, she will be depended upon to carry a large load and run the offense from the point. 
It remains to be seen whether she'll stay on course and make her senior year her best campaign yet. It will certainly have to be quite an effort, after all, to top her remarkable junior year. . 
.S PO R T·S 


COMPILED BY BRIAN MCMAHON
sp rt 
ek 
The track team will host the Central Colle­

Notre Dame's lacrosse team moved one step 
giate Outdoor Track and Field Championships at 

closer to it's first-ever NCAA tournament berth 
Moose Krause Stadium on May 5 at 2 p.m. The

last weekend with a 14-11 victory over Ohio 
meet will include schools from across the mid­

State on Saturday. The Irish led 8-7 at the half. 

COMING DISTRACTIONS 



LECTURES 

Brown Bag, "From Transition to Consoli­dation: Is There Room for Hope in Latin America?" Carina Perelli and Juan Rial Peitho, Sociedad de Analisis Politico, Montevideo, Uruguay. 12:00 p.m., Rm. 131 Decio. 
"Towards a United European House: Re­lations Between Changes in East and West," Andrei S. Markovitz, Dept. of Political Science, · Boston University. 4:00p.m., Room 131 Decio. 

SPECIAL 

Memorial Mass for Deceased Members and Families, Father Anthony J. Lauck, 
C.S.C. Church of Loretto, Saint Mary's College, 4:45 p.m. 

FI£MS 

"A Clockwork Orange." 8:00 & 10:15 p.m., Cushing Auditorium. Admission $2.00. 

LECTURES 

Humanities Colloquium, "Rational and Casual Explanation in Psychology: Does Cognitive Science Close the Gap?" Steven Horst, Philosophy. 12:00 p.m., Room 131 Decio. 
"Complex Analysis for Real Radon Trans­form," Professor Gennadi M. Henkin, Academy ofScience ofthe USSR, Central Economic and Mathematical Institute, Moscow. 4:30 p.m., Room 226 Math Building. 

FILMS 

"A Dry White Season," Annenberg Audi­torium 7:30 & 9:45p.m., Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
Admission $2.00. 

LASTDAYOF CLASSES!! 
SPECIAL 

Eucharistic Hour of Adoration, Alumni : Hall Chapel, 9:00 a.m. Sponsored by ­Marion Union of Priests. ­"Just Say No" Celebrity Basketball Game, : 7:00p.m., JACC Arena. 
FILMS 

"A Dry White Season," Annenberg Audi-: torium. 7:30&9:45p.m. Sponsored by ND· Communication and Theatre. Admission : $2.00. 



SPECIAL 

Moqel Airplane Pot-O-Gold Show, 
10:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m., JACC Fieldhouse. 

FILMS 

"20,000 Leagues Under the Sea," :2:00 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium. 
Sponsored by the Year of the Family. 




I -• 
I 
i ­
: ­. ­
I ­

Love Your Neighbor As Yourself 
E
nough inconsistency. It's time to face the issues. If Notre Dame truly wants to be a forward-looking institution, it has to start treating students like adults, like full citizens of the United States . 
We can handle the pressure from alcohol ads. The social life in South Bend is slow enough without taking away our right to know what's going on around town. Trying to hide candy from a child only makes him want it all the more. The an­swer is clearly more public discussion about the effects of alcohol, not suppression of the issues. 
In regard to the gays and lesbians, isn't it about time the administration realizes its pastoral role by encouraging support groups for students in their situation? The university bends over backwards to provide support for other minorities. With strong evidence indicating homosexuals do not choose their sexual preference any more than people choose their race, shouldn't more support be available? 
And, finally, journalistic freedom at Notre Dame needs some major revisions. The university uses., its status as a private institution to refuse information regarding various aspects of administrative affairs which are available through public information laws at state institutions. Come on, administrators, what are you trying to hide? 
What this all boils down to is the Golden Rule. Administrators, if you were in our position wouldn't you want to be treated like competent human beings? Students deserve to be treated as adults. What is the purpose of education if not to prepare us for life. Whose shortcoming is itif students can'tface the sometimes cold reality of the world beyond the Dome? 
-Scholastic 





Y
ou can start giving thanks now, as this is probably the last time you will have to look at my mug shot in this magazine, or anywhere else for that matter. Yet in keeping with the tradition of great Departments Editors, I feel com­pelled to say a few words before departing. 
In my first week of high school, I was told by my peer advisors that ahead ofme lie the best four years of my life, and I laughed. But they were right-at the time. At least until I got to college. 
Nobody fed me that line when I arrived ~t Notre Dame, probably because my mere presence implied that I was not that gul­lible. In fact, it seemed as if my professors' singular vocation was disproving the 'best-years-of-your-life' theory. The Dean of Freshman Year Studies told a convoca­tion of newcomers to expect "fifty hours of studying per week, excluding classes." 
"Did he say fifty or fifteen?" was the circulating buzzphrase. · Unfortunately for us, it was the big five-oh. This was the same man who so selfishly laid claim to my every Thursday night for. the following year, as I feverishly crammed for those moronic seven-point quizzes. 
At first glance, it appeared as if my college career was destined to be as enjoy­able as Dante Alighieri's journey through the Inferno. Luckily, my attitudes changed and I avoided the pit ofendless despair and darkness. 
Believe me when I tell you this: life is what you make ofit. Yeah, you've heard it 
FINAL WORD 


Talk About the Weather 
BY CHRIS FILLIO 

a million times and discounted it just the same. Ifyou'renotconvincedofthisfact, it's only because you've never made an effort. 
Everybody always talks about the weather, but no one ever does anything about it. Well, life is like the weather. The burden is upon the individual to make life good. There aren't tiny make-life-good fairies flying around, waiting to help you out of your dilemma. 
•..,•.,,,,c;,,••··•"er1w1te'ns1i,tet1 1·'";,,,t 

Sure, I've had some rough times. I remember one time each year when I'd say to myself, "This is definitely the lowest I've ever been. Ever." Up until 6:30 a.m. typing the Econ paper from hell. Yep, depression of the deepest blue funk. At least until the next time. 
One of my favorite pieces ofparaphernalia on my wall has been a black and white ad of several Olympic sprinters, with the caption reading "It didn't come easy for them either." It certainly didn't come easy for me. Yet reflecting back, I tend to smile more than frown at the many occurrences when! stopped to think, "this is what going to Notre Dame is really all about." 
I probably said it when I saw the Fighting Irish win the Fiesta Bowl, or the hoops squad defeat North Carolina. But I also said it during some more simple times. 
Maybe it was the warm feeling I got from saying "Good morning, Father," to the priests at Corby Hall. It may have crossed my mind while playing intramural sports against some of the best athletes in the country. Perhaps it was a theology class with a professor who attended Oxford with 
C.S. Lewis. Possibly it was an unexpected roommate who turned out to be one of the nicest people you could hope to meet. It could have been early morning mass at Sacred Heart Church, or a late-night stop by the Grotto. 
I think it is this same feeling that I see instilled in the wide, starry eyes of high school students as they tour across the Notre Dame campus, gazing in awe at the Golden Dome or the diverse architecture. While Dante may have gone through the Inferno, it was only the first step en route to the Paradise. It took me four years to comprehend the best things about Notre Dame. It has only taken a few short seconds to realize that the worst thing will be leaving here. 0 
23



:1 
Scholastic desperately seeks: 

' . 
' ­

. ­
' ­



t,t fE tN HS~\.­
10°!:' P.>lNWt~SA'2'f S,R1f> 
QOlE.T, PL.EASE. 
I'fv\ so~R.'::l BUT u.JE (.AN 'T t-\E..LP !:IOU l f=" ~00 OOr-YT \-\AV~ ~ove. 


M':, 1 ~OJ Leo\::.TtQ..E.D. 



OUR. Tts;TS Skow 
I WIS'.-\ I C.OUL-D PASS 
THE COMF><.JTE.R. s1-wwS' t 

I'M S~Q.1:1, BUT 11-\ITTS­
I'M l:l, BUT .'::lOUI<. 
~OT oue POt,\Cl:1. / \ 
tvAM 'T OtJ 11-tE UST. 
¾ 
~ 
CONGRAiU\....ATloiJS Ol'J
f>U:.ASt. "1Q~ 'TO SEE tT 
~OUR. 1-\0P-JOl<.A BL.E..
FR.OM "1\-lE.. COMPA.-.l!:11S 
ME.l\lTtorJ. (9
Potr.:iT at= VlE.W. 
\j 


dS .. 


The Student Union Board Welcoines the 1990-91 Board 
Board Manager -Erin Lavelle Dir. of Programming -Scott Harris Dir. of Relations -Beth Wittman Dir. of Marketing -Triona Byrne 
Controller -Patrick Murray 
Cultural Arts -Caryn Foley, Michelle Janosov Ideas and Issues -Fernando Alessandri, David Florenza 

Movies -Mike Jillson Music Entertainment -Diana Dow, Jeff Kranig Publicity -Heather Bums Services -Laura Lavelle, Kristen Mole Special Events -Kristi Hannam, Pat Smyth 
Assistant Controllers -Anoop Bhasin, Norma Bradby 
Christopher Weismantel Marketing Research -David Calazano Account Executives -John Maher, Judy Spengman Internal Relations Commissioner -Meg Creedon 
Good Luck for a Simply Incredible Year! 












