

.... ~§fe111s
iaM'rence 
d<lticti6ri:
·;;;;;;;;'wfiiy'.:\'' 
Busin 
·stration a Matthew 
······ ······ ·... 

Editorial 

he infamous attempted merger in 1972 of the University of Notre Dame with Saint Mary's College fell through in a sea of pointed fingers. Looking back 
15 years later, it is impossible to tell just what happened in a situation that was confusing at the time. 
But one thing is certain, there's still something m1ssmg in the relationship between the two schools. Granted, it prob­ably wasn't simply because of a mixed-up merger. An editorial in Scholastic before women came to Notre Dame pondered "Will Notre Dame women be considered stuck-up like Saint Mary's girls?" Although the specific student complaints have changed, there's still something of an attitude prob­lem between the two schools. Aside from the petty comments, which aren't neces­sarily meant seriously, other attitudes strain the relationship. Too many Notre Dame stu­dents still condescendingly refer to Saint Mary's students as "little" sisters, instead of recognizing the strengths of both institu­tions. Size and maleness do not necessarily mean a superior attitude is warranted at Notre Dame. 
The student governments at both institu­tions are taking a step in the right direction in trying to shorten the distance between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's through joint social activities and projects. Especially important is Saint Mary's drive towards Notre Dame women, an important step to improve an often bitter relationship. But both governments must take care that this issue is truly dealt with -not pushed aside and used strictly as a political move. The students at both schools have a lot to gain. 
Scholastsc 



Letters 
I( ,,. .\ ,/--··,,\ 
/ ,.-/ i ; .....----------? . 
. 'tff< 
"jr:101"' 


~ 

EVERY SUNDAY 12-4 
BUFFET 
Original & thin crust Pizza Garlic & Cheese bread, soup, salad bar, beverage 

99 

SOUTH BEND 

52929 U.S. 31 /33 

277-5880 
.--i 
1 
\ 
I I 
:I 
I I I 

I COUPON


\-----------------: 
MISHAWAKA 2336 Miracle Lane, 
T&C Shopping Ctr. 

259-2556 
'· 
za. 

--·--------..----i 
COUPON  I  
Medium  :  
PIZZA  :  
Original crust, single  I  
ingredient of your choice .  I  
s5se + tax &  I :  
delivery Expires Sept. 30, 1987 ·  1 I  
Not good with any other offer  I  

Scholastic 

Letters Policy 

Letters to Scholastic must be tv:,ed and iriclude the writer's ~ame, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that arc libelous or obscene by the Ia1.·:s of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spel­ling errors and Scholastic style. Because or space limitations, Scho­
lastic  cannot  print  all  letters  
received.  
Letters  should  be  limited  to  

fewer than 250 words. Address all correspondence to: 
The Editor 
Scholastic 
LaFortune Center 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
September 17, 1987 

Week In Distortion/Mike Keegan 


Leprechaun Championed 

his Saturday, plaid clothed clones will invade Notre Dame for the beginning of another football sea­son. Here, the "dry" campus will become a watering hole for thousands of religious fanatics praying to Touchdown Jesus for a champion­ship season. 
Unless one has already been hiding in the library cramming for finals, one knows of all the recent articles written concerning both Tim Brown's Reisman Trophy chances and Notre Dame's National Championship hopes. One might not know, however, of a recent cowardly Sports Illus­trated article in which our beloved leprechaun was not so fairly treated. In the August 31, 1987, issue, Douglas S. Looney wrote, under the subtitle Worst College Football Mascot, "that goofy, stu­pid leprechaun that leaps to and fro in support of Notre Dame. Even Irish students boo him." 
Obviously Looney did not do his research very well. He first characterizes the leprechaun as "goofy" and "stupid." In address­ing the latter term, last year's leprechaun carried a 4.0 GPA while majoring in Differential Equations for computing the den­sity of Mars, minoring in abstract calculus for Einstein's children, inventing a cure for stage fright and dreaming constantly of Maureen McDonnnell, his working partner. Now Looney Tunes, I ask you, is that a dumb man? Maybe 
you're just jealous that you couldn't have his position near Miss Virginia. 
Granted, on the field the leprechaun had two left hands. And sure he wasn't the most coor­dinated mascot ever. And maybe a few hundred dance lessons could have helped, although I doubt it. And it is obvious that the band should have slowed down when playing Wipe Out so he could keep up. And of course his hat was too 
big for his head. But these are not substantial reasons for calling the leprechaun "goofy." If Notre Dame wari.ted a coordinated, great dancer whose hat fit perfectly on his head,· it could have asked the;: ghost of Fred Astaire to be the leprechaun. 
In addition, it is evident that Mr. Hanna and Barbera never attended a Notre Dame football game last year because the upright gentlemen and ladies of this out­standing learning institution never booed their own mascot. Looney 
· has confused "booing" with "oow­ing." Last year, every time the leprechaun fell on his face the stu­dent body would be so concerned with his health that they would in synchronicity utter an "oow" that meant "oow, we hope he is alright" or "oow, that looked like it hurt" Notre Dame students genuine show of heartfelt concern should be praised, not lambasted. 
Last year's leprechaun may not have been the best mascot in the country, but he did embody the Notre Dame spirit which is more important than any physical talent that he possessed. For his effort and enthusiasm alone, he should not fall victim to an attack by a man who obviously doesn't understand Notre Dame tradition. Notre :Dame is made up of indivi­duals who win and lose together. The leprachaun's effort, although not the greatest, was spirited and enthusiastic, all that Notre Dame asks. 
Anyway, there are far worse mascots in the country. How about the Air Force Academy's space­man who rides around in that jet that never leaves the ground? Sometimes, the average fan would just love to see if that things really flies. Or how about that plastic­head, retired Cornhusker with the blank-eating grin on his face? Now there's a ferocious football mascot for you. Speaking of big­headed mascots, how about Purdue's Boilermaker? By the way, what is a Boilermaker and how can one stop it from slowly swaying it's head "to and fro"? Finally, the Sooner Schooner should go back to the days of the pilgrims before it loses another game for Oklahoma. 
So, Looney Tunes, it is impor­tant to remember two things con­cerning mascots. First, it is not the mascot that determines the success of a school's football pro­gram. And second, our leprechaun will lead us into Notre Dame Sta­dium this weekend where more than just a Spartan will fall from his high horse. Go Irish! II 

Big Stink Unfolds 
Students at Brown University are relieved to finally receive rolled toilet paper 

Installation of rolled toilet paper in dorms and offices on campus this semester finally set Brown University on a roll, reports the Brown Daily Herald. The change took place after a big stink was raised last year over the "onliwon" single, folded sheet T.Ps that students were forced to use. Robert Heerzog, a student who had brought four rolls of blue extra-soft Charmin with him to Brown, said, "I'm just grateful that I no longer have to bring it to the bathroom with me everyday." Brown spends $75,000 each year on toilet paper and this figure is not expected to increase because a case of the rolled paper costs slightly less than a case of the folded pro­duct. However, an increase in volume use is expected to wipe clean those savings. 

Students will be going Straight to Hell 
this weekend at the University of Kansas with the opening of the oddly titled movie. The campus is understandably all fired up over the film as it is billed as "a story of blood, money, guns, coffee, and sexual tension." \ The movie also features many rock bands, such as the Pogues, which in addition to the theme of sexual tension are no doubt familiar to U of K students. The film is produced and directed by Alex Cox. 

Two quarters can now get more than a 
45-minute heat cycle in four laundry rooms on the 
Brown University campus. For 50 cents, one can 
get a lubricated condom, revealed the Brown Daily 
Herald. In preventing unwanted pregnancies, 
Director of Health Education Tobi Simon is trying 
to cover all the bases. He said, "They are there 
because we are trying to make condoms as access­
able to students as possible." Other schools, includ­
ing Colombia University, Smith College, and New 
York University have also installed condom 
machines on campus. Students interviewed seemed 
pleased with the new machines. "They encourage 
respo~sibility and openness about sexuality," said 
student Alexa Albert "It encourages dealing real­
istically with sex." 


Offering to forgive as much as $4,800 
in loans to those who graduate tops Suffolk 
University's new effort to attract and retain stu­
dents, reported the Chronicle of Higher Education. 
The program will allow 20 to 25 freshmen and 
transfer students to borrow up to $1,200 a year. If a 
student graduates, the full amount will be forgiven. 
If a student leaves the university or fails to gradu­
ate, he or she will be required to begin payments on 
the loan within nine months. An initial $25,000 has 
been earmarked for the program. Chris Perry, 
director of financial aid, said she knew of no simi­
lar program at any other college or university. II 
EDITED BY STEVE SPARKS 
September 17, 1987 
THE 
~ 
CONNECflON. 






Through the Years 
The relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has been growing for over a hundred years. 
BY KATHY ELLIS
Before Saint Michael's laundry had carved its niche on the Notre Dame campus. Notre Dame had a different sort of laun­dry service. The Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the order which founded Saint Mary's College, made frequent carriage trips between their com­munity in nearby Bertrand, Michi­gan, and Notre Dame. The purpose 
of these trips was to pick up and deliver laundry washed by the sis­ters in the river. Through the years, the relationship between the two communities remains intact but has grown into a much more vital connection. 
In the early 1800s, Father Theodore Badin purchased land from the United States govern­ment with the intention of build­ing a college on it. Upon his death, the land was then left to Bishop de la Hailandiere of the diocese of Vincennes who, in 1842, transferred the land to Father Edward Sorin. Upon that ground, Sorin. founded the University of Notre Dame du Lac. 
At this same time, the Sisters of Holy Cross established a novitiate just outside the state line, in Ber­trand, Michigan. Sorin had vainly attempted to convince the Bishop of Vincennes to let the Sisters establish their school across the lake from Notre Dame. The Bishop refused his request on the premise that the Sisters of Provi­dence in Terre Haute, Indiana, were sufficiently supplying the sparsely populated state with sis­ters. 
Two successors later, the new Bishop of Vincennes, Right Reverend Maurice de St. Palais, agreed to let Father Sorin bring the Sisters of Holy Cross to Notre Dame. On August 15, 1855, Saint Mary's· Academy and Saint Mary's Novitiate opened for the teacher training of the Sisters of Holy Cross. In 1903, the name was finalized to Saint Mary's College. 

In those early days, the Sisters' main tasks for the University included baking, cooking, and laundry. In return, the University would occasionally provide the acade.my with faculty and exa­miners. These exchanges contin­ued to strengthen the bond between the two schools. Colla­boration continued as the years passed. Research was, and still is, an area of great teamwork with joint teams in many areas, espe­cially in science. Bonds developed, with faculty, students and families in common to both schools. Thus, when Notre Dame began to consider coeducation, the possibility of merging with Saint Mary's seemed a natural road to take. 
In the late 60s, Notre Dame ! 
/ 

started to feel the pressure to 
accept women. Other comparable 
schools, including many of the Ivy 
Leagues were considering the same 
possibilities. The administration 
responded with the appointment 
of two outside academic consul­
tants, Dr. Rosemary Park, profes­
sor of education at UCLA and Dr. 
Lewis B. Mayhew, professor of 
education at Stanford to examine 
the issue of coeducation at Notre 
Dame. 
This Park-Mayhew report sug­gested that Saint Mary's College "join Notre Dame as a seperate and distinctive entity operating within the larger University framework." It was also suggested that Saint Mary's take the name of · "Saint Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame." The intention was to keep the identity of the College while incorporating 
it into the University. 
The first meeting to discuss this proposal took place in Palm Beach, Florida, on March 21, 1971. There was some confusion regarding the discussions and the general impression was that the boards were not prepared to make an announcement of merger discus­sions. Sister Miriam Patrick Coo­ney, Saint Mary's math depart­ment chairman, said, "I, who have spent my life in this institution, learned about the merger from televison." The proceedings pro­gressed very quickly and by the first of Mav, orders came telling 
faculty members to combine corresponding departments. 
There were a number of bene­

fits attached to the proposed 
merger. Finances: were an impor­
tant consideration. The hope was 
that by ending duplication of 

. 

// efforts on both sides of the lake, money would be saved. Also, the trend in education was moving away from single sexed schools. The merger would provide a chance for maturation and broadening of the intellectual and social scope by the combination and interaction of bright men and women. Father Thomas Blantz, then vice president for student affairs, said that "bringing the best you have of both together 

could make a final product that is better than the two individual institutions." 
In her book, A Panorama: 1844-1977; Sister Mary Immacu­late Creek wrote that merger documents were signed by author­ized persons from both institutions on May 14; 1971. In the September 4, 1971, issue of The Observer, then President Father· Theodore Hesburgh was quoted with the fol­lowing at the signing: "The ulti­mate goal of this unification is a single institution with one student body of men and women, one faculty, one president and administration and one board of trustees." 
Proceedings continued with the appointment of then Saint Mary's President Sister M. Alma Peter, to the position· of vice president for 
special projects. Provisions of the
The road connecting the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
September 17, 1987 

merg~r _ were drawn up and included the addition of Saint Mary's trustees, religious and lay, to Notre Dame's two governing bodies, the Fellows and the Board of Trustees. The Fellows were to be increased by the addition of two Sisters of Holy Cross, one Saint Mary's lay trustee and one additional Notre Dame trustee. 
The identity of Saint Mary's College was to be preserved by matriculation of all women under­graduates at Notre Dame through Saint Mary's degrees. These degrees were to be headed: Saint Mary's College of the University of Notre Dame. Additional provi­sions included the integration of administations and the establish­ment of interinstitutional teams to move the integration forward in areas such as academics, student affairs, business and public rela­tions. 
Fears and tensions naturally developed and every measure was taken to combat these problems. "We decided early on in the talks that, certainly among the faculty, no one would lose their job because of the merger," Blantz said. This clarification seemed to reduce tension for the moment. Tenure for faculty members of Saint Mary's was honored. Those faculty members who had not been receiving tenure were to be evaluated by Notre Dame stan­dards. This brought up problems and negative feelings when some of the Saint Mary's faculty did not meet Notre Dame standards. 
By the first of June, academic departments were combined. In some departments, Saint Mary's 
· instructors had to adjust to large lecture classes and the appoint­ment by the University of an assistant to conduct problem ses­sions and grade papers. This immediate size change made adjustment a bit difficult for some Saint Mary's professors who were used to teaching much smaller 
classes. Despite these and other 
conflicts, academic unification 
continued to move along. 
The transition was easier in the 
office of student affairs, accord­
ing to Blantz. "In general, I think 
our talks were going very well. 
There were not many tensions 
because the men and women 
wanted to get together," Blantz 
said. 
However, in the area of finan­
cial matters, all was not well. The 
October 4,1971, issue of The 
Observer reported that Hesburgh 
said financial matters were the 
chief stumbling block of the 
merger. In the October 20 issue, 
then Provost Father James· 
Burtchaell, was reported as saying 
" ... we are right now not sure that 
we can meet our announced timet­
ables of total unification by next summer." In that same issue, Peter was quoted as saying "the merger can't be completed until all the implications on .the financial and legal matters are settled." 
The payment of faculty was another stumbling block. Since no faculty member would lose his job, and everyone would be paid on the same basis, the combination of faculties might prove to be more costly. 
Proceedings continued to zigzag along, until November 30, 1971, when, without consulting faculty or students, the boards of the two schools announced that they had decided to call off the merger. The December I issue of The Observer reported that "it is not possible to accomplish complete unification at this time." This came from a joint statement by Sister Olivette Whalen, C.S.C., then chairman of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees, and Edmund A. Stephan, then chairman of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. Included in this statement was the announce­ment that the University would begin to accept female undergra­duates. In Creek's book, the announcement of going coed was described as a "bombshell." 



At first, blame for the cancella­tion of the merger was placed on the administration of Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's students held several demonstrations and made threats to withhold tuition, transfer or participate in negative recruit­ment. They also took part in letter writing campaigns to university and college officials, alumnae and parents. The student government of Notre Dame also made a state­ment that thev felt that the stu­dents of Saint Mary's had been treated unfairly. 
Specific reasons for the so­called "unmerger" were never released. Rumors surfaced placing the blame on the administration of Saint Mary's. Others placed it on the administration of Notre Dame. In a January 28, 1972, editorial, Scholastic said, "These negotia­tions took place on three levels: between the student bodies, the faculties and the administrations, and that though there were excep­tions, the negotiations were suc­cessful between student bodies and faculties but failed between the administrations." No actual state­ments were given by either 

(. Bringing the best you have of both together could make a final product that is better than the two indivi­dual institutions.'' 
Father Thomas Blantz 
administration in regard to either the reasons for the dissolution of the merger or who instigated that dissolution. 
Today, both schools continue to function well independently and despite the failure of the merger, a strong bond still remains. The connection has grown from a road between Indiana and Michigan traveled by a laundry carriage into a well-worn path linking two com­mumties. Cooney said that the relationship "could be modeled after a family where brothers and sisters get along but have their arguments and, being stuck with each other, enjoy the benefits of being members of the same fam­ily." D 
THE 
~ 

CONNECTION 

All • theID 




Family 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's work to maintain ·the community founded over a century ago. 


BY TONY LANG 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's: to most Ameri­can Catholics, the two names go hand in hand. Even after Notre Dame began admitting women in 1972, com­mon wisdom held that young Catholic men went to Notre Dame and young Catholic women went to Saint Mary's. Despite some pro­found changes in the last decade, the relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's continues to develop. In the early 70s, the two schools did attempt a merger. However, to the dismay of many who were involved, the plan fell through. The reasons for the failure were complex, but according to Saint Mary's President Dr. William Hickey, the loss of autonomy for Saint Mary's was the biggest draw­back. 




"As people began discussing the merger, it soon became clear that the only solution was for the two to combine into one univer­sity, meaning that Saint Mary's would lose much of what it had gained throughout its history," Hickey said. 
The relationship then took on an entirely different character when Notre Dame began admitting women. Many women who had been accepted into Saint Mary's, anticipating a merger between the two schools, were outraged. The two schools had now entered an entirely different stage in their relationship. 
The identity of Notre Dame as a coeducati.::-nal university contin­ues to grow as the number of women undergraduates keeps ris­ing. Saint Mary's is also coeduca­tional, said Hickey, although in a different sense. "Saint Mary's is coeducational in one sense, in that our faculty has approximately 
equal ratio of men to women, 
while Notre Dame has about an 80 
percent male faculty," he said. 
"I think research in the last fif­teen years has shown that a women's college enables a woman to pursue any career she wishes free of the social and academic stereotypes usually found in a college or university," Hickey said. Saint Mary's is proud of its single sex atmosphere. 
One common misconception about the two schools holds that women not accepted into Notre Dame go to Saint Mary's. How­ever, roughly 80 percent of the applicants to Saint Mary's do not apply at Notre Dame, said Hickey. Also, this year's freshmen class at Saint Mary's is the largest in its history, he said. 
Notre Dame president Father Edward "Monk" Malloy said he also sees a unity between the two schools. "It is important to remember that both schools were founded by the Holy Cross order, giving us common religious roots," Malloy said. "The task force on Marriage, Family, and other Life Commitments gives us an oppor­tunity to reflect on the whole gender issue, and on how we ought to be educated in this issue." 
"My hope is that Saint Mary's continues to be the kind of school it wants to be, different from Notre Dame, yet with the same concerns and values," said Malloy. "We are a university and Saint Mary's is a college, each school with different goah:, but we should be able to learn from each other." 
:·:•·:····,·•·•·•~aini:••·;·...····Maty~s•••••':11i§;rnl tcoeducationalr•..·.Jill,A ,jJijeJtii 
}~~~~~~y irl ·thaf: ijtir. 1 
••··•·•.•.•. .• .•.. a.·.·c·.·....' .. ... ··•···•.:• H. ··· ·
·.•· 1: ..· ..u···.·1t·.···y·.•· .. ··· :.:. · '' iO 
I• : as ·.·.•.·.·•.appr:o .. •.. ·-:......'
.. XI

\Qlc?t~ly ,eq1Jc.1I · ratio.· of .,·m~11 ··••··.·!()·.·.··.... lhro~n•;·•· ,,·~Bi.•i:1/!)l\lqtre :O~rne\11l~s•• abour,:J '.••.i...·.a ... ;.>.·...•··· · ...•..o·.·.·..•.·•.·•.•.·• nercent•· .. ~~t~il
........11 ...s... 
Student leaders at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's also said they see the future as a positive 
·one. "When we talk about relations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, you have to keep in mind that it is a community," said Pat Cooke, Notre Dame student body president. "It is not Notre Dame and Saint Mary's working separately, but rather a community working together." Cooke said the two student governments have met and are planning several joint pro­grams. Because both governments are 
September 17, 1987 
11 

" 


so complex, interaction between 
the two is hard to coordinate. "We 
hope to get together a committee 
which will meet once a month or 
bimonthly in one cem:ra.l area to 
discuss the various activities going · 
on on both campuses," said Coo1• · 
"A lot of the same problems tt. 
affect us here at Notre Dame als9 
affect Saint Mary's, and if you can 
get as many people involved as 
possible, then maybe you can 
develop some answers to these 
problems." 
Both schools have student lia­
sons who att::nd student govern­
ment meetings on each others 
campus. Greg Alberton, one of 
Notre Dame's representatives to 
Saint Mary's,• said, "In the past, it 
was usually a Notre Dame or a 
Saint Mary's event which the other 
school merely participated in. We 
would like to see an event which 
the two schoools cosponsor." 
Alberton also stressed the need 
for more communication between 
the two schools. "Right now we 
are working on a plan to set up 
bulletin boards here at Notre 
Dame, which would contain infor­
mation soley relating to Saint 
Mary's events. These would either 
be in each hall or in front of the 
dining halls." 
Eileen Hetterich, Saint Mary's student body president, also said she sees a positive relationship between the two campuses. "I think that there will always be the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity," she said. However, Het­terich said she would like to see more interaction between the women of Notre Dame and those at Saint Mary's. 
"There is always a line drawn in relations between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame when there should not be one," Hetterich said. "A lot of women (at Notre Dame) also want to interact with students at Saint Mary's. When we (Saint Mary's student government) invite the Notre Dame community to a function, we mean both the male and female students." 


Academically, the two schools try to complement one another by providing opportunities not avail­able at the other school. Because Notre Dame has no teacher certifi­cation courses, education majors must be certified at Saint Mary's. Notre Dame students are able to talk to a counselor at Saint Mary's about the courses they need for their teaching certificate, while 
still pursuing their major at Notre Dame, said Dr. Corrine McGui­gan, chairperson of the Saint Mary's education department. 

"We are very pleased with the future of the (education) pro­gram," McGuigan said. "The stu­dents coming from Notre Dame, both male and female, are highly qualified and dedicated to the teaching profession." 
Other departments in the two schools also interact. Theology courses can be taken at either school, a program which many students utilize. The two theatre departments also work closely together, with players from both campuses acting in the same plays, In athletics, the two schools com­bine in sports such as rowing and skiing. 
As Notre Dame accepts more women in order ·to even the ratio of men to women, the relationship between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will continue to evolve. "Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have grown up together over the past century · and a half," said Hickey. "The relationship between the two provides an edu­cational enrichment for students of both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, and we need to keep find­ing ways to improve that relation­ship." II 
Students. Get smart and save$$$ on your class books. All used texts 25% off; all new texts I0% off. Over 30,000 titles in stock. 3-5 day shipping time on text orders. Pandora's Books, 808 Howard at N.D. Ave., 233-2342 
Open 7 days/week 10-5:30 


pandota", book, 

newsnote 


COMP !LED BY JILL COAKLEY AND SUSAN MARHEFKA 
Board of Governance News 
The Saint Mary's board of governance is looking for former students to talk about their careers and how Saint Mary's College helped them achieve their goals for an upcoming alumnae speaker series. Other topics discussed at last week's meeting of the SMC student government included the approval of three new clubs: Campus · Alliance for Rape Elimination, Women in Com­munications and Biology Club. Director of Security and Safety Richard Chlebek addressed the board and suggestions were given for future speakers. The debate about Sunday library hours continued. Complaints that the library should be opened two hours earlier Sun­days have been lodged, but apparently nothing has been done about them so far, said Eileen Hetterich, Saint Mary's student body president. 

Police On the Job 
Off-campus students may claim that there is an increase in crime against them this year, but the South Bend police department says otherwise. In the September 13 issue of the South Bend Tribune, Captain Patrick Cottrell said that statis­tics show no increase in crime against students in comparison to recent years. In the same article, Philip A. Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame security, said he disagreed with the opinion that local police are not doing their best to protect students. Cottrell said that during normal patrols for the east sector, there is a directed patrol which has off­icers driving an established pat­tern, continuously looking for crimes in progress. 
This week at Student 

Senate ... 
At this week's meeting of the Student Senate, discussion centered on the establishment of committees to examine twelve issues considered to be priorities for this year's senate. Topics to be addressed by com­mittees are: NV A student ath­letic facilities, the issue of loco parentis, parking, the revision of du Lac's definition of stu­dent government, the plus/minus grading system, laundry dry cleaning fees, co­ed dorms, the principle of mutuality, academic advisors, annual student surveys, and a comprehensive student govern­ment review. 

Faculty Senate Forms Committees 
The Faculty Senate started its 20th anniversary year at a meeting Monday. New Chair­woman Ellen Weaver made an opening statement setting sen­ate priorities. This year, the senate should strive to take up more important issues, Weavl'!r said. In addition, by talking to other faculty members, "the senate should be a true voice, representative and respected." Formation of the four standing senate committees, faculty affairs, administration, benefits and student affairs, took up the majority of the meeting. 

Malloy and Hickey meet the Pope 
University of Notre Dame President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy and Saint Mary's College President Wil­liam Hickey were in Louisiana last weekend for a speech by Pope John Paul II. The pope delivered a speech on Catholic education Saturday at Xavier College in New Orleans. Malloy 
and Hickey. were among representatives from 235 Catholic colleges and universi­ties who were in New Orleans for the meetini:r 

September 17, 1987 



Three For Par 
A band with Notre Dame roots continues to travel its circuit with hopes of soon getting a major contract 
BY CHRIS DAUER 

'NOP BOP A LU BOP A WOP BAM BOOM! Since Little Richard first shouted that line, Rock n' Roll has 
evo1ved from its primitive form of essentially mindless physical energy into an art form with an intellectual and social conscience. This evolution has been useful and probably necessary. In other words, a rock band today needs a clue to have a prayer -probably a positive step. 
Par 3 played at Notre Dame's Fieldhouse Mall Saturday, Sep­tember 5. Don't. ask about the name; apparently the band at one time used a different name every night, before settling on Par 3. No other explanation was forthcoming since golf images don't exactly abound in their songs. The band consists of Tim, Joe and Jim Keyes and guitarist Scott O'Grady, three of whom graduated from Notre Dame. Since Scholastic last did a piece on Par 3 a few years back, the band has been travelling at a steady clip, careening in their '68 Ford school bus from town to town, burg to burg, hamlet to hamlet, basically all over the place. 
Par 3 originated in 1981, as a "jazz ensemble" at Notre Dame. The jazz label, used to advertise the band, provided an amusing beginning to their show, the open­ing piece being a free form jazz exploration; fortunately, the real show began soon thereafter. 

Par 3 has released a single ­"Let It Go" backed with "Daddy's Little Girl" which is, incidentally, the superior song -and an album which hasn't yet had major label support. Without this support, any 
§ 
~ 
>., 
0 
.., 
sort of release is just whistling in the dark. According to bassist Jim Keyes, they are "close to signing with a major label." 
The major labels, and even the larger independents in the modern era, are flooded with potential acts -it's no easy trick to get even a limited deal. Nevertheless, Par 3 seems determined to continue to play regardless of financial anything can prevent a band from lapsing i~to that sort of metallic quagmire, it's the suggestion of support, and they hope this deter­



mination will eventually pay divi­
dends.I While in the past Par 3 has been 
l 
self-produced, they recently 
formed an association with Rob Stevens, a talented producer whose credits include Herbie Hancock's System and John Lennon's Live in New York. Stevens is a high pro­file producer who should be able to retain the band's edge while providing them with greater acces­sibility. 
The band altered their philoso-· phy in regards to producing their own material because "when you're first startin' out, you want to do everything on your own," explained Jim. "After awhile you start to realize that you can still do what you want with your music but give up some of that control to other people...it's all part of the balance you're tryin' to achieve. Hopefully, the finished product is electric keyboards -provided that this "suggestion" doesn't overwhelm the rest of the band's mix, in which case the music sud­denly sounds like a bar band from • the lounge of a Holiday Inn in Trenton, New Jersey. 
In some ways, the band seems a throwback to the 60s, a charac­teristic which should generally be avoided like the plague. But often it at least indicates an attempt at substance. For Par 3, the results 
September 17, 1987 
are mixed. Attempts at "sub­stance" result at times in either overswinging -"Save Our City" which wisely tells us that "trains are important" -or pretentious­ness -a song called "Transatlantic Charter" is tuneful enough but not exactly clear as to its meaning. 
More often, though, their seri­ousness gives heart to melodic, straightforward rock n' roll. The best example played here was "Checkin' Out the Fashions," a funny song with a lively reggae 

0 
beat about the end of the world. 8
"' 
Or maybe the end of the Love ~ 
Boat. Or both. Regardless, mean-~ 
ingful and fun songs like this will ..., 
ultimately bring this or any band 
succe~s. 

These guys aren't overtly politi­cal -not surprising, as they are peace." Jim repeatedly said peaceful already. Notre Dame grads -but they are "peace" to the "crowd" during the Par 3 is a good band, one that interested in the scene. They aren't 
concert, but it was a funny gesture should do Notre Dame proud.particularly fond of Ollie North 
because the spectators outside Remember the name, whatever it 
because as O'Grady said, "We like were, if anything, excessively means. 111 



Srr£P}'~ N Cour?rs liUMEi:7IA rtzl,.. P'Oll e,WING THE TMICH[®AN Srl-i re Pl!P ,t?All y 

16 Scholastic 
Music/John Mikulak and Scott Selig 



Tinseltown for Toddlers 

uture.  In  the  "Moving up five big notches to  land forbid their children from  
future,  along  with  number  twenty-one,"  says  listening to "those longhairs."  
edible plastic mili­ Casey  Kasem  (whose  grating  
tary  compasses,  presence  defies  the  clock  of  "For  as  long  as  I live and  
twins  with  one  time).  "It's 'C Sharp' by Zowie  breathe,  I  won't  have  any  of  
body and exploding  Bowie.  Zowie  comes  from  a  that new-fangled two note crap  

in my house! Why, if increasingly complex. Music. 
liousepets, life will become 
show business family, being the 
grandpappy heard you playing Going on vacation will be a 
son of 70s pop star-David 
that noise, he'd wash your ears chore; the Vatican will be 
Bowie. This is his second Top 
out with soap so fast you moved to Las Vegas. Music. 
40 hit, following last year's . 
wouldn't even have time to say, Fine tuning your electronic smash hit, 'A Flat."' 
'Wow, groovy."' teeth will be a nightmare; 
Consider record collections

mushroom clouds will become a of the future, with albums con­
Ah-yes. Those will be the sisting of one note each, along status symbol. Music. The "Bat­
days. But enough of our mysti­with compilation albums, such tle of the Network Stars" will cal gabbing ... 
be fought with guns and tanks, 
as "The Boston Symphony plays 
and people will communicate 
the Top 10 notes of 2001."
with subliminal messages. Since this is our first 
But what about music? 

column, we'd like to say a little about it. Pythagoras and WeirdWell, since this is a music 
The music world will enjoy 

Beard concerns itself withcolumn, let's talk about it. As 
this serene and blissful period 
music. We'll be reviewinghinted upon earlier, we have 
of monotonality for a consider­
albums, concerts, campus bandsseen the future -and the future 
able time, until January, 2064. 
and offering our special tidbitsof music. 
That month, four brash young 
of wisdom.
lads from Liverpool will burst Thus: 
upon the American music scene, releasing an album con­
To close with a quote:While society grows 

sisting of songs with two notes! increasingly complex, music, after reaching its peak of sophistication in 1991, under­
Until you enter my bones And 
Hip future kids love this 

become one with my marrow, I
goes a process of extreme sim­
fab four's radical sound, but 
shall walk you no more.
plification. This trend contin­
their parents are scandalized.
ues to the point where all songs Mobs in Alabama and Utah
by 1997 are reduced to one throw compact . discs of this
note. "satanistic abberation" into 
Phillip Plumshire to his pet "bonfires of purity," and 
puppy Rompo (and RompoBillboard's American Top 
parents across this God-fearing 
aquiesced) II40 will consist of forty notes, 
September 17, 1987 






OFFA 


Both Notre Dame and Michigan State jumped out to rousing starts this sea­son. Now, they'll have to face each other. 
BY TERRY LYNCH 
I 
t's been four long years. Blair Kiel was the quarter­back back then. Gerry Faust was the head coach, which makes it seem even longer ago. Outside of a few fifth-year seniors, no present-day undergra­duates stalked the campus during the fall of 1983. How long ago was it? It was so far in the past that the White Sox were heading for a divisional title. So were -just check the standings now -the Phillies and the Dodg­ers. The Orioles, of all teams, would go on to win it all. Four years. Why is this so important? Four years ago, the Notre Dame football team last won its first game of the season, a 52-6 mauling of Purdue in West Lafay­ette. They too had the aid of -can you believe it -seven Boilermaker turnovers. Four years ago, there was all 




NING 

Andrysiak (above) and the Irish got around mighty Michigan with no problem. Tripping up Michigan State and Heisman candidate Lorenzo White (bottom), however, may turn out to be more difficult. 

Joe Vitacco 


Mark Green and the rest of the Irish backfield rarely found any open spaces in the Spartan defense last year. 
the optimism of a 1-0 record and visions of viewing the tacky half­time show at the Orange Bowl -in person. Kind of like this year. But lest you throw caution to the wind and jump on the bandwagon, something happened the next week at home in front of 59,075 fans: Michigan State beat the Irish, 28­23. 
Let's take nothing away from 
what happened last Saturday in 
Ann Arbor. The Irish were as good 
as the Wolverines were bad. But 
there were some detractors, 
including Michigan head coach Bo 
Schembechler. "We're not as bad 
as we looked ... but we looked 
bad!" said Schembcchler. "Notre 
Dame, I think, is probably not as 
good as it looked." 
Still, the only Notre Dame turn­
over -a Terry Andrysiak intercep­
tion at the end of the first half ­
was meaningless, and proved only 
that the Irish could survive the 
kind of gamble that seemed to 
always blow up in the team's face 
last year. 
"It was a very gratifying win," said head coach Lou Holtz after the 26-7 win over Michigan
. . ,
immediately coining the under­statement of the last half decade for most Irish fans. "I'm not surprised with how well we played because I really felt that defen­sively we were going to play awfully, awfully well. It was just a totally complete win for us." 
Indeed, it was the kind of game where head coaches dream about using the redundancy "totally complete" to describe the word "win." It was just that good. But the funny thing about our neigh­boring state to the north is that their mega-universities are not in the business of providing the Notre Dame football team with patsies. In short, the Spartans await. 
"Michigan State is a great foot­ball team," said Tim Brown after the Michigan game. "We watched them beat up on USC on television the other night, so we know we 
0 
8 
i 
tG .. 
,..,0 

have got our work cut out there." 
Even so, Brown said that the Irish have more going for them this year. "Last year at this time, our heads were down and we had come up short. This week, we'll have no trouble getting up for practice." 
However, if you didn't watch the Spartans dismantle their ancient cousins -the Trojans of USC -two weeks ago, maybe you should be reminded of a few basic facts about 'State this year: 
9 Lorenzo White is back, and since it's only his second game of the season, he's healthy. You might remember having seen this guy run for 147 yards against Notre Dame last year, although it was on a whopping 41 carries. He's just as legitimate a Reisman Trophy candidate -provided he stays healthy -as Tim Brown. 
White rushed for 111 yards and 2 TDs on 22 carries against the 

September 17, 1987 Trojans, and since Michigan State switched to the option -"I" offense this year -which was what the Irish followed last year, it means that White gets the ball on sweeps -with blockers in front of him. The idea is that White will then be able to use his excellent cutback ability to baffle opponents long enough for at least five yards. 

8 Just as important as White is the fact that the entire Michigan State offensive line is back -the same line that opened up 207 rush­ing yards versus Notre Dame last year. All seven of them -including the split end -are back. In fact, 17 starters on the offensive and defensive sides of the ball return for 'State, the most of any Notre Dame opponent this season. 
e Like the Irish, the biggest worry that Perles had was whether or not his quarterback could lead his offense. But Bobby McAllister came through against Southern Cal, with numbers (IO of 15 passes for 103 yards) that would eerily forshadow Andrysiak's (11 of 15 passes for 137 yards). McAllister, a junior, was thrust into the lineup for the first time as a freshman against Notre Dame and was har­rassed the entire night by the more experienced Irish. Don't count on McAllister being nearly as bad as he was two years ago. 
0 Greg Montgomery is back. Who? Greg Montgomery? He's · the punter for Michigan State, and yes, he's good enough to earn his own paragraph in a preview about his team. He was an All-American last year, averaging 47.9 yards per kick, and continually pinned 
opponents last year inside their 
20-yard line. Against USC, he 
averaged 52.8 yards per punt on 
five kicks. Montgomery is the 
best you'll find in the college 
ranks, and could probably beat out 
a fair share of pros. 
• Split end Andre Rison, an All-Big 10 selection last year, may let Michigan State fans forget about the graduation loss of receiving phenom Mark Ingram. Rison set team single-season records in pass receptions (54) and pass-reception yardage (966). Speed merchant Willie Bouyer takes over where Ingram left off, and should be just as talented. 


0 Defense. While it lacked late in the season against very unimpos­ing Big 10 powers Indiana and Northwestern, don't be fooled. These guys stuffed the Irish last year -especially on the ground. 'State held Notre Dame's backs to 82 yards rushing -a 2.8 average per run -and were the only team to keep the Irish under 100 yards rushing. 
Only two starters were lost, and returning tackles Mark Nichols (6-2, 252) and Travis Davis (6-2, 258), as well as ends Joe Bergin (6-0, 248) and John Budde (6-3, 230), all fit the mold of the small, quick-footed defensive lineman that wreck havoc on option teams. Senior linebacker Tim Moore is widely regarded as the second coming of Carl Banks by Michigan State fans. 
In the secondary, John Miller and Todd "I intercepted two passes against Notre Dame last year" Krumm are back at safety, while SMU exile Derrick Reed and freshman Lenier Payton fill in at the corners. Look for Holtz to exploit the newcomers on secon­dary with the short passing game he employed against Michigan. 
For the Irish, inJuries have hit fullback Braxston Banks and cornerback Brandy Wells, who both suffered partially torn liga­ments against Michigan and should be out for a month. Outside line­backer Frank Starns is listed as doubtful for Saturday's game, hav­ing suffered a thigh strain in the Michigan game that is expected to keep him out of action for a week to 10 days. 
Ball control will again be the key for the Irish, who kept the ball for almost 40 minutes against the Wolverines. While it was difficult not to keep the ball away from the turnover-happy Wolverines, the Holtz style showed through in the grind-it-out, ball control game in the fourth quarter, which is exactly what Irish fans wanted to see out of Holtz's option­influenced offense. 

~******************************************************** 
Need To Publicize An Event Or Promote Sales? 
Scholastic Has The Lowest Advertising Rates On Campus 
On-Campus Rates: 
$3 .45 per column inch $115 for full inside cover $50 for half inside page 
Discounts for regular customers 

WE DESIGNS ADS, TOO! 
Get The Most For Your Money Let Your Ads Be Seen In Scholastic 
Contact the Scholastic office, third floor LaFortune or call 239-7569 for more information 
********************************************************* 

ort 
SOCCER 
After a stunning 4-3 overtime victory against Indiana on Sun­day, the soccer team has the hot­test record on campus at 5-0. The Irish ended a nine-season losing streak against the Hoosiers with the win and became only the second team since 1975 to score four goals against Indiana. 
Trailing by 2-0, the Irish tied the match with goals from JOE STERNBERG and DANNY STEBBINS. After Indiana went ahead, 3-2, JOHN GUIGNON retied the game on a penalty kick. The Irish played the final 20 minutes of the game at a man disadvantage after PAUL LAVIGNE drew two yellow cards. Athlete of the Week BRUCE "TIGER" McCOURT won the game with a goal 25 seconds into overtime. 
The Irish jumped six places to 
fourth in the Great Lakes region 
with the win, and will take on 
Michigan State tomorrow night 
under the lights at Krause Sta­
dium. The Spartans, 1-1 after a 
6-0 loss to Indiana, beat the Irish 
1-0 last year and have eight star­
ters returning. 
On Sunday, the Irish host 
Northwestern in a match 
scheduled for 2 p.m. The Wild­
cats also return eight starters 
from a team that lost to the Irish 
last year, 4-1. 
The soccer team's 5-0 start is 
the best since 1978, when the 
team rolled to a 10-0 mark, 
which at the time was part of a 


26-game winning streak. Indiana's only other loss was to 2nd-ranked South Carolina by a 3-1 score. 


VOLLEYBALL 
After victories over Michigan and Illinois State, the volleyball team is starting to come around under head coach ART LAM­BERT. Last Thursday, the Irish quickly disposed of the Wolver­ines in under an hour, passing their opponents with a .454 hit­ting percentage. 
On Saturday, however, the Irish fell to 12th-ranked South­ern Cal, 15-10, 15-12, 13-15, 15-7, in an intense match that lasted over two-and-a-half hours in the first round of the Mid­America Classic in Chicago. "Critical errors at critical times really hurt us and cost us a chance to win that match," said Lambert. "We have showed that we can play with anybody in the nation. Now we have to continue to improve and beat some of these teams." The Irish bounced back on Sunday to salvage third place in the tournament with a 15-7, 9­15, 21-19, 15-8 win over Illinois State. MAUREEN SHEA led the team with a .413 hitting percen­tage and 15 kills, while KATHY CUNNINGHAM had a career-high five service aces. ZANETTE BENNETT was named the North Star Confer­ence Player of the Week for the week ending September 6. The team heads to Richmond, 

COMPILED BY TERRY LYNCH 
KY, for the 14th annual EKU Colonel Invitational tomorrow and Saturday. The six-team tournament includes Eastern Kentucky, William and Mary, Rice, Akron and Cincinnati. The Irish will play William and Mary and Eastern Kentucky tomorrow. 

WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
The Irish won the first place trophy at the Detroit Invitational last weekend, beating host Detroit by 10 points to avenge one of their losses from last year. Malcomb Junior College, Cleve­land State, School-Craft Junior College and Highland Park Junior College also finished behind Notre Dame. Athlete of the Week THERESA RICE took first place in the race with a time of 18:49, 45 seconds ahead of the second-place runner from Detroit. Junior TERRY KIBELSTIS followed closely in third place with a 19:36 finish. A scant 1:23 separated Notre Dame's first-and seventh-place finishers. 


MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
The men's cross country team ripped Georgetown last Saturday by a score of 18-41. MIKE O'CONNOR and RON MARKEZICH finished first and second in the race with times of 
26:08 and 26:18. The first four Irish runners to cross the line did so in a time span of 41 seconds. 
PAT KERANS came in fourth at 26:46, MIKE SMORON finished fifth at 26:49 and DAN GARRETT finished sixth at 

26:59. The team will host the National Catholic Invitational on September 25. 

FIELD HOCKEY 

The field hockey team is 0-2-I after the first week of the season, which included a 1-1 tie with Northern Illinois and losses to Kent State (4-0) and Michigan (3-0). MINDY BREEN has Notre Dame's only goal of the season to date. "The offense is going to take time to develop and to gain con­trol in game situations," said head coach JILL LINDENFELD. "Our defense is another matter. I think they're doing an excellent job. They've given up some 
I · goals, but until the offense jells, they'll have to carry tho load and deal with opponents' pressure as best as possible." The team travels to Alma, MI, tomorrow to take on the Alma Scots in a 3:30 p.m. match. Notre Dame beat Alma last year, 4-1. 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 

The tenriis team smashed Northern Illinois on Saturday, 9-0, in a n'latchup of last year's top two North Star Conference teams. CASSADY CAHILL and KIM PACELLA won easy open­ing matches, and the extent of the win was apparent in RESA KELLY's 6-3, 6-1 win in the number six position. The Irish will take on Indiana, Kentucky, Southern Illinois, Nortb.ern Illinois, Illinois, Miami 
September 17. 1987 of Ohio and Ohio in the Midwest Fall Invitational in Bloomington, IN. "Indiana is consistently the ITCA rankings," said head coach MICHELLE GELFMAN. 

SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
The Saint Mary's soccer team has a 1-2 record after splitting two games over the weekend. On Saturday, the Belles lost to Mar­quette, 2-1. Sophomore MOLLY NEEHAN scored on a free kick in Saint Mary's only goal. 
On Sunday, the Belles defeated Wooster, 2-1, on the strength of two goals by junior ELLEN BOYLE. Neehan also aided the cause with two assists. 
Tomorrow the team travels to Ohio to take on Findley, and from there they will travel to Oberlin for a Saturday mate:,,. 

SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 

The tennis team boasts a 4-0 
record after wins over Valparaiso 
(9-0), DePaul (6-3), Hillsdale 
(7-2) and Milwaukee-Wisconsin 
(8-1). Only Hillsdale belongs to 
the NAIA, as does Saint Mary's. 
The other three victories came 
over teams in the NCAA. 
The Belles take on St. Francis 
in Fort Wayne, IN, today before. 
facing Anderson College at home 
tomorrow. 

SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 

The volleyball team has a 3-1 record and will play Defiance College tomorrow. 




Coming Distractions September 17-23 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17 
FILMS: 
"Blind Date" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
LECTURES: 
John Phillips Seminar Former Life Photographer Riley Hall of Art and Design 
9:30 to 11 a.m. Free 
Civil Engineering Seminar Series Dr. ·Asher Brenner Room 258 Engineering Board Room Fitzpatrick Hall 4 p.m. Free 
LIFE Film Series 3-D Night "It Came From Outer Space" 7p.m. "Creature From the Black Lagoon" 
9 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium 
Air Force's "Tops in Blue" JACC Basketball Arena 8p.m. Free 
MASS: 
Mass for Joe McCarthy Keenan Hall Resident Who Passed Away During The Summ~r Sacred Heart Church 
5:15 p.m. 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 
FILMS: 
''Hoosiers'' 
Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 

"Last Tango in Paris" Snite Museum of Art 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. $2 
SPORTS: 
Tennis SMC vs. Anderson Angela Outdoor Tennis Courts 
3 p.m. 
Soccer ND vs. Michigan State Cartier Field 
7:30 p.m. 
LECTURES: 
American Studies Public Lecture Washington Post Columnist Mark Shields Library Auditorium 
3:30 p.m. 
Earth Science Lecture University of Chicago's Dr. J. Sepkoski Department of Earth Science 
Room 101 
CONCERTS: 
IPSO FACTO Stepan Courts Immediately Following Pep Rally Free Admission 

ZEDO AND THE HEDONS During the Tex Mex Picnic Stepan Field 
5:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 
FILMS: 
"Hoosiers" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
ACADEMICS: 
Medical College Admission Test Engineering Auditorium 8 to 3 p.m. 
SPORTS: 
Football ND vs. Michigan State Please Wear Gold 
6:30 p.m. 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 20 
SPORTS: 
Football Official Start for NV A InterhalISeason 
Soccer ND vs. Northwestern Cartier Field 2 p.m. 
CONCERTS: 
SMC Faculty Recital Jeffrey Jacob -pianist Little Theatre 3 p.m. 

Compiled by Mike Farnan 


MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21 
FILMS 
"Grand Illusion" Snite Museum of Art 7 p.m. $2 
"Le Jour Se Leve" Snite Museum of Art 9 p.m. $2 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
FILMS 
"Union Pacific" 
Snite Museum of Art 
7 p.m. 
$2 
"Innocence Unprotected" 
Snite Museum of Art 
9:30 p.m. $2 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23 
OFFICIAL PRESIDENTIAL INNA UGURA TION 
FOR FATHER MALLOY Al',D 
FATHER BEAUCHAMP 
NO CLASSES ll',AURGURAL CEREMONIES: 
Mass JACC 10 a.m. 
Academic Processiion Hesburgh Library Mall 
2:15 p.m. 
Academic Convocation JACC 3 p.m. 
Student Reception Featuring Student Entertainment and Presentation to Father Malloy South Quad 
5:30 p.m. 
FILMS 
"The Money Pit" Enginneering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 

MOVIES: 
University Park West 
"Full Metal Jacket" 
7:15 and 9:30 p.m. "Fourth Protocal" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "House II" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. 
University Park East 
"The Untouchables" 
7 and 9:30 p.m. "No Way Out" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "No Where To Hide" 
7:45 
and 9:45. p.m. "The Barbarians" 

7:45 
and 9:45 p.m. "Bev~rly Hills Cop II" 


7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. "Can't Buy Me Love" 

7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. 


Town and Country 
"Stakeout" 
7:10 and 9:40 p.m. "La Bamba" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Hamburger Hill" 
7:15 and 9:40 p.m.
,.,..,,.,..,.,.,..,.~~ 
Scottsdale "Born in East L.A." 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "Prayer for Dying" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 

September 17, 1987 

SPORTS: 
Baseball: 
Chicago Cubs Wrigley Field Clark and Addison vs. New York Mets September 21 1:20 vs. New York Mets September 22 at 1:20 vs. Philadelphia Phillies September 23 at 1:20 
Chicago White Sox Comiskey Park 35th and Shields vs. Seattle Mariners September 18 at 7 p.m. vs. Seattle Mariners September 19 at 6 p.m. vs. Seattle Mariners September 20 at 1:30 p.m. vs. California Angels September 22 at 7 p.m. 
vs. California Angels September 23 at 7 p.m. 
Football: 
Chicago Bears vs. Tampa Bay Buccaneers September 20 
CONCERTS: 
BEAT FARMERS Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark September 18 at 7:30 p.m. 
THE DB'S Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark September 19 at 7:30 p.m. 
OTIS CLAY AND THE CHICAGO FIRE Biddy Muligan's 7644 N. Sheridan Septernber 18 DONOVAN Biddy Muligan's 7644 N. Sheridan September 19 
THIRD WORLD Park West 322 W. Armitage September 20 at 7:30 and 11 p.m. 

THEATRE: 
"Snow White" Old Orchard Theatre Thru September 30 Wed. at 10 a.m. Sat. at 10:30 a.m. $4 
"Nothing But a Lie" Chicago Theatre Company Parkway Theatre 500 E. 67th September 17 and 18 at 8 p.m. $10 


is now· accepting applications for the position of 
Advertising Manager 
Contact Kathleen McKernan or Catherine Coffey for details at 239-7569 or 239-5029 Applications due by 5 p.m., Friday, September 18 

26 

, . e. , : ' .....
\ 
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address _______________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x years=$ 
September 17, 1987 
Final Word 

Voice of theFightingIrish 
BY KARA O'NEIL AND TIM BIGHAM 



ow many times can you stand to hear "We Built this City" without thinking that maybe th is city 
shouldn't have been built in the 
first place? place? Do you streak 
toward the bathroom upon men­
tion of a one-hour commercial­
free Bon Jovi sweep? Does the 
sound of Casey Kasem's voice 
make you want to punt your radio 
and take the loss? 

Let us introduce ourselves. We 
are the Voice of the Fighting Irish, 
WVFI-AM 640, your alternative 
music radio station exclusively 
serving the Notre Dame/Saint 
Mary's community. WVFI-AM's 
brand new studios and offices can 
be found on the second floor of 
LaFortune Student Center. 

In our programming, WVFI­
AM keeps the lifestyle of our 
listening audience in mind. Tune 
in at the top of every hour for a 
quick rundown of what's going on 
around campus. At the half hour, 
we'll give you a concise weather 
report, and throughout the day, 
our news and sports staff will keep , you up to date on campus happen­ings, as well as local, national and . international news. 
You can call us anytime with 
your requests, and we keep a writ­
ten log of all requests called in, 
which helps us keep in touch with the music our listeners want to . hear. We were quite impressed with both the number of requests we received last semester and the knowledge of progressive music our callers possessed. This proves to us that there is an a udicnce for pr(?gressive alternative music at 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
We know WVFI-AM is not for everyone, and we're not the type of radio station determined to have everyone listening to us. Instead, we want listeners who care enough about what they are hearing to sacrifice the quality of FM stereo. WVFI-AM changed from a hard rock/album-oriented rock format to our current pro­gramming several years ago, At 
that time we were WSND-AM, "the rock tower," and our pro­gramming was not a real alterna­tive to the South Bend radio sta­tions. We changed our call letters along with our format to emphasize our interest in serving the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
When you tune in to WVFI­AM, expect to hear from bands who have a large college following but do not receive much airplay on commercial stations. Bands like The Cure, Echo and the Bunny­men, The Cult, REM and New Order are staples on WVFI-AM because we feel they make valu­able, innovative music and because they cannot be heard any­where else in the South Bend radio market. From the input we've received from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, we conclude that many of you out 
there agree with us, so we will 
continue to play these bands. 
But also expect to hear music from bands with which you are not familiar. College radio is tradi­tionally a breaking ground for unknown bands because of the enthusiastic and open-minded nature of the college radio .audi­ence. On WVFI-AM, you'll hear bands like .Camper Van Beetho­ven, Skinny Puppy, GooGoo Dolls, Trip Shakespeare, That Petrol Emotion, Crazy Backwards Alphabet and The Mighty Lemon Drops. We hope you'll like these bands and want to hear more of them in the future. And we , 

encourage students to call us or I write us a letter to express your opinion of what we're playing, and how we're presenting it. After all, this is your radio station. If you're a fan of heavy metal, oldies and reggae, consult our programming guide for times of special shows to satisfy your musical tastes. 
A financial commitment 

from the University and the efforts of ·our engineering team made a complete renovation possi­ble, and we can now be heard in every dorm on both campuses. Since we are now a much louder voice than in past years, record companies take us more seriously, and the mail campaign conducted by our director of music program­ming has paid off. Over the sum­mer, we received hundreds of pro­motional albums and singles, pro­viding us with a much broader 
base of music to play. 
We invite you to listen to WVFI-AM between 7-1 a.m. on weekdays and 9-l a.m. on week­ends at 640 on the AM dial. We guarantee that our programming will challenge and entertain you. And we promise that we won't play "We Built this City" even once. II 

WHAT IS 
TROUBLE? 
THE. E: X?ERTS E:XPLAltJ. 
T~006l.E IS 6AO. IT MESSES UP !jE.R Ml~O, C.AUS'ES S HC.,.._E:, At.lO i::\1111'10':, S' BIG ~li?\JM~ ADULTS". 
Roue.1..E ~s oi.i Tl-lE U:Aor~G SPA..i1=1tJGS l 
WORLD 'TODA'1 
DP.PT\'11:: 
FQ..ise:. o~ UlS lT\Vc '10 
A STULTIF~ 
OuCATIOo.lA lRONN\c.N 
TROUBU:,. IS Fu,J; E:XC.&.PT 
w~ ~ov 
(:,E"t" C.AV6HT. 
<? 
d)
...., 

\F ~OU ARE CAUC:,~T 
VERY ~DVAt.JtEOTROUBLl 
Oli!o?P1,J(:, 
S N~ll-S' 

A 8A6 oF 
1"1 n.i.e. TEAc.1-le.e's 812.'.El=C.A.S~

ON 11-{E: l=LOOR ½~ 
o---c> 
"i~~OW1rJ(. MAP!.a•)'!AUP

E.vER.'11'1-11r-lG 
'3A1-1-00r1S 
0.-.:,:;:(:J

SA'1'5 

C.Af\J TROUBLE 8E. AVOIOED? 
f"\AAY ~ou~G<ii'E.RS AITEMPT "TO 
P.VOlO 'i20IJ BU:. &~ SE.E.b.iG Re.RJGE 
It-) A SE.P.'1" IN THE REAP-· CoRIJc.12. 
O~ 'TilE. C.t..ASS'ROCM. 
UtJ ~ 02.:n,~t1.1"E.1..'1 hJ RE,ec..rr CEIJTU~ IE~ 
MAN'1 !l0,~02.1.-'lE.S HAVE 136.C.o""-e 
AlllA~ 0~ T~lS Hlt,e•OUT. 
TR~ NC1'r TO L00\<. GUIL-nt 
THIS WI\.\. 1311'1 ~OU°t'IMc 
WMl\.la "°" 1\h,IIC. OF A l.lAlf oui-: 
OE.N~ ~VcR~THttJ &. BL.AM.€. SOr--1.EOtJE 
E.L..SE,. LOOK S11>JC.fl<c., 
STtC..~ TO ~OUR ST'ol2C::i. Doi-J 1T 
FALTER.. LIE L\1::e C.RA-Z.'1, 
C..c...:IFEsc;--L,JITH A> F8,J OE.TAlL..S AS Poss18t.c.. LOOK 
P~TH.E.T\C.. w~-u ,..,.PE'R., BEG FoR. tv\eRC~. SWEAR. l:,ov11..L. ~ E.vEe. 
00 tT AGA1tJ, 

14~l.;:-AS t..E.~P 
::: lt.liJOC.E.i.J"t" 
C 

..... A.. -...,, tsJ\, •• ~ .... zAt-a,l\.mcA" Ale• ..,.,.. ..,.,._ ~ 14\-tA ~-..,.,,__ •·· .... ~ 
Program Guide Instant Request Line
Wfi~ian,64
Fall 1987 9-239-5400 
These are the Voices of the Fighting Irish 

"'4• -A .............. ,..... ·-..,.,.. ... ,.,.. ·-~ .,..._ ..,.,._ .__ .,..,.. .,.,... •·· tsJ\ 




