
Notre Dame's Student Magazine February 25, 1988 

asking 18-ye:ar~old· kids·'.for theit 1 atJtbgraphs'? .... 
, . " ' ., ' ' ' .• ',4 .. 
¾ 

OFF CAMPUS COMMISSIONER/ CLASS OFFICE ELECTIONS 


TUESDAV, MARCH 8 
You Have Been Given The Gift Of Choice .... 
USE IT ON MARCH 8 

AND VOTE 


by Pythagoras & Weird Beard 
6/On Other Campuses edited by Doug Anderson 
22/Coming Distractions compiled by Doug Anderson 

24/Final Word by Tom Doyle and Mike Paese 
News 

8/Confidentiality: Fact or Fiction by Tom Pavlik 

Cover 
12 /One Prime Time Recruiting Network by Bob Gordon 

Sports 
18/Sportsweek compiled by John Monyak 
Cover photo by Joe Vitacco 

Scholutic ia publiDhod vMkly durins Uw Khool year except durins exmm.inalions. UMi i,acation period, at NolN Dame; IN 46558 and printGd at Tho Papen, Inc., MIiford, JN 465"2. The cub,cription rate ia $20.00/year and back iBBuea are available $1.00/copy. Th, opinion ¦ expnamod·ln Scbolactk an thia of the aathon and oditon Dnd do not nt1eea111.rily repreoent th• opinioc,a of tao entire odik>rial board of Bcholutlc or the Univenlty of NotN Dame, ita edminiatntion, faculty or otudent body. Editorial• repruent tho opinion of a 
,.. IIIUl,jority of the cdltoffllll board. ManuKript¦ are welcome. All unoolicited material become the property or Scholutic. Scholutic i¦ ftl)NMlllod nationally by CASS Communicaliom, Inc. 
• 19af Scholutlc -cuine. All rlshta nNrVed. Reproduc:&ion in whole or part without permi11ion ia prohibiled. 


Editorial 
Concur on Confidentiality 

Whether or not confidentiality truly exists within the University Counseling and Health Center, there are serious enough questions among the students that the centers are ren­dered less effective that they could be. Valid student concern stems from the fact that students sent to counseling by a campus authority do, in fact, have their situation discussed with the upper-level administration. 
Fears of cases being discussed with John Goldrick's office cause students to shy away from counseling. And although some point to the center's increased "business" as indicative of a positive program there, the increased number of people treated at the center can be attributed as much to ever­increasing awareness of alcohol and drug problems as to a feeling of student trust with the counseling resources at Notre Dame. Perhaps the center does indeed keep couseling sessions confidential, but if that is the case, a more active effort should be taken to alleviate the common student concern. 
Patrick Utz, director of the Counseling Center, admits that his office must provide Goldrick's office with an evaaluatioon oof cases in which students are sent to the center. That requirement only inhibits students from discussing the extent of their problems. Students undoubtedly would be much more open with the counselors if fear of punishment didn't hang over their heads. Consequently, a more open atmosphere would help the counselors advise the students more effectively. 
Although people are not always willing to discuss prob­lems with the counseling center and confidentiality out of a fear of losing even more of their privacy, there are enough concerns travelling along the student grapevine that it is likely that problems have occurred: students have been punished from "confessions" in therapy. In principle, that is wrong. Furthermore, it fails to help the patiempts by the administra­tion fight any attempt to punish students for rule violations confided in therapy. When it comes to the health and counsel­ing center, Notre Dame should avoid the emphasis on the pun­itive, and truly help its students. That's why health and ccoun­seling services are there in the first place. 
Scholastic 
Scholastic



McKernan Re-Elected Scholastic Editor for 1988-89 
Kathleen McKernan, a junior from Albuquerque, NM, has been re-elected Scholastic editor-in­cliief for 1988-89 by a majority of the editorial board. Her second term will begin on March 31. 
McKernan, an English and American studies major, has been editor-in-chief since April 1987. Immediately before that, she served as news editor at Scholastic. Previously, she was the assistant sports editor. During her freshman Newsweek On Campus. 
year,  she  was  a  sportswriter  for  
The  Observer.  McKernan  is  also  
Notre  Dame's  correspondent  for  

"Scholastic has made great strides m its advertising "The magazine's prestige also has greatly increased on campus due to the effort and commitment of the quality staff we presently have. Next year, I'd like to continue with that progress." 
She said, "Some things will be easier next year with our new typ­setting and layout system. A lot of the staff will be returning as well. We'll be able to give the students the quality publication they deserve." 


SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 


SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 21 7:00pm Jazz Combo Performance 
J.A.C.C. Concourse 8:00pm Josef Skvorecky reading 
J.A.C.C. Concourse Reception following In Monogram Room 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22 12:00pm Conversation with Josef Skvorecky Library Lounge 
8:00pm Marilyn Krysl reading Library Audttorium Receplion following In Library Lounge 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23 12:00pm Conversation with Marilyn Krysl and Elherldgo Knlghl, Library Lounge 
8:00pm Pelor Michaelson and Elherldge Knight reading, Library Auditorium Reception following In Library Lounge 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24 12:00pm Conversation with Peter Michaelson Library Lounge 
8:00pm John Engels reading Library Auditorium Recepllon following In Library Lcur.ige 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25 12:00pm Conversollon with John Engels Library Lounge University 8:00pm Don Hendrie, Jr. reading of 
IJbrory Auditorium Reception following In Library Lounge
Notre 
Dome FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26 8:00am 8reokfast wllh Don Hendrie, Jr. South Dining Holl 
8:00pm Paule Marshell reading Library Auditorium Reception following In Library Lounge 
sponsored by 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27 12:00pm Conversation with Paule Marshall Library Lounge 
Student Union Board 
ALL EVENTS ARE FREE OF CHARGE AND EVERYONE IS WELCOME 



February 25, 1988 
I 
'I 

Week In Distortion/Mike Keegan 





Trains of Thought 
he other night 
now how we got to the next gen­
horses hooves.{That's why moms 
Y-r--1 I had $ome 
feed this to you, so your nails 
eration. What sort of breeding 
f I ' trains of 
will grow strong and healthy.) I 
went on to produce these 
thought. That 
can just see a corral of horses in 
mutants? I can just see Mr. 
happens when 
western Wyoming with ND 
Spock beaming Scotty up and 
you're just 
stamped on their rears destined 
producing Lamar Burton. What a 
_, "'-sitting around 
to become lime jello. 
story that would make. 
and a bunch 
Next, in this logical proces­
Question: If you were in a 
pop in and out of your mind. I 
sion, we come to squirrels. 
room with a two-by-four who 
figured that I'd write them down 
Everyone here at Notre Dame 
would you pummel first-a)[l
because people like Joyce and 
feeds them and they are becom­
obnoxious Cardinals fan, a:n 
Faulkner always received praise 
ing too tame. The other day, one 
obnoxious Bears fan, or a:n 
arid money for doing this. So 
actually ran up to me and started 
obnoxious Giants fan? 
here are some of the workings of 
nibbling on my shoe string. This 
Answer:(Choose only one): (a) all 
my mind. 
has got to stop. No one seems to 
of the abov, (b) Oprah Winfrey,
What do you think Mick 
realize that squirrels are not 
or (c) a and b only. 
Jagger feels like whenever he 
domestic pets like dogs and cats. 
hears Justine Bateman sing Satis­
Squirrels are nothing less than 
Finally a few spur of the
faction, and why do you think he 
furry varmints and don't deserve 
moment thoughts strung together 
ever let her make a movie based 
free food from us. Everyone 
by a stream of unconsciousness.
on his classic song? 

should stop feeding them. The 
As Johnny Domer sat in his win~
Speaking of classic songs, the 

next time one comes up to you 
dow looking at February with its
Olympics were just on and I 

give it a swift kick(there is no 
cold winds and falling snow he
want to know how anyone gets 

use in talking to these varmints. 
realized that Spring Break was
involved with sports like ski 

Physical force is the only way to 
only around the corner. and that
jumping and speed skating? 

grab their attention.) Maybe they 
soon the beaches, beer, bikinis
When I was a little boy, my dad 

will realize they are just wild 
and fun associated with warm
bought me a mitt and signed me 

animals and begin to run from us 
places would revitalize his frozen 
up for Little League. Do some 

like normal squirrels. 
soul while at the same time mak­
fathers actually come home from 
I wonder what Jimmy the 
ing him forget about the South
work one night and say, "Come 

Greek is doing these days? I 
Bend blues which at this time of
here Johnny. Old Dad here just 

heard that he has taken up the 
year acted only as a metaphysical
bought you a luge and signed you 

research and the writing of his­
existence of slush slowly drag­
up for some races down at the 

torically accurate texts. His first 
ging the spirit through the ever
track this weekend."? 

book is entitled, "The Greek 
accumulating doldrums of life
This brings me to jello (How I 

Family Lineage: How the White 
which in and of itself has no real
don't know.) Has anyone noticed 

Farmer Bred The Rabbit With 
meaning in-February because
th_e sky rocketing population of 

the Donkey to Produce the 
February leads from one day to
jello cubes in the dining halls 

Jack-Ass."(I wonder if I'll get 
the next without ever saying
lately? Jello is all over the place. 

fired for saying that.) 
anything or completing a mean­
It's like Monk and Mr. Hickey 
Speaking of breeding, how 
ingful phrase one which begins .
have become buddies with Bill 

about that new series Star Trek: 
and ends but never really fin­
Cosby or something. Did you 

The Next Generation? Sure the 
ishes one that tells us that ...
know that jello is made from 

show's interesting, but I want to 
4 ··Scholastic 
i 
i 
.l 

Music/Pythagoras and Weird Beard 
No Movies, But Here's A Potato 
ince we've been  Ben? Well, this is the music play­ "It's  great  to  have  nothing/Do  
on  probation  ing in the backround. A perfect  things in the nude.fit's sweet to  
due  to  pre-trial  mood-setter for your own home  be  hungry;/lt's  finger  lickin'  
diversion,  off­ seductions.  Available  on  the  good."  
campus treks have become  soundtrack album.  "Girl Can't Help It" by  we- 
us.  Because  of  "In Dreams" by Roy Orbison,  don't-know-who,  from  Pink  
this,  we  have found  new diver­ from  Blue  Velvet.  This  bit­ Flamingos.  Dedicated  to  
sion  in  our  friendly  VCR.  She  tersweet love song is twisted by  everyone's  favorite  300-lbs.  
doesn't bite;  nor  talk back. She  the director to parody traditional  transvestite,  Divine,  this  song  
won't say no, and she lets us sip  American values.  plays  as  he/she  non-chalantly  
some word.  drink without a scolding While watching sick, vile,  "It's a Lovely Life" by Rick Wakeman from Crimes of Pas­'  defecates lawn.  on  someone's  front  
and  esoteric  movies,  we've  sion.  Like  the song above,  .this  
discovered  many  unique  songs  one  juxtaposes the ideal middle  
buried  amongst  the  violence,  class dream with an absurd cari­ 
angst, and just plain debauchery of these flicks. Here are a few of  cature of that dream.  "Voodoo"  by  Sufrealism,  
these ditties:  "Bedazzled"  by  Peter  Cook,  from  Sophia's  Embryo.  Keep  
from  Bedazzled.  In  the  role  of  your  eye  out  for  this  newly­ 
"It's All Too Much" by the Beatles, from Yellow Submarine. This is one of the Beatles' most obscure songs, but also one of their most psychedelic rockers. Dig the sitars, man, run back­wards through filters.  the modern-day Lucifer, Peter Cook drones this anti-love song, singing such lines as, "I don't love you/Go away./I'm self­contained/You fill me with Iner­tia." So much for romance.  produced flick. Lines such as, "Hate me for what I am/Hate me for what I'm not/Do you feel used?" make the film more real than it already isn't. Must be seen to be disbelieved. . If you get a chance, give these  
"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life" by Monty Python, from Life of Brian. A good song to cheer you up on those cloudy South Bend days. Its nihilistic, fatalistic theme is enough to make the biggest Scrooge chortle  "Puberty Love" by Donny Desmond, from Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. In a voice that would make a tenor in a boy's choir screech, Donny wails about the traumas of adolescence. "Theme from Sweet Movie"  films a viewing, and listen for these songs. We end with our individual decrees: Pythagoras: Three men floating in porridge/First man dies/Second man dies Third man dies./All is quiet, thick, and stagnant.  
in amusement.  by  anonymous,  from  Sweet  Weird  Beard:  If  bats  had  
"Sunporch Cha-Cha" by an orchestra, from The Graduate.  Movie. This song attempts to encapsulate the true meaning of this movie, from defecation con­ wings, then mind.  ....  Oh, wait. Never  
Remember the scene where Mrs. Robinson begins her seduction of  tests to the perils of food orgies. The lyrics speak for themselves:  Pythagoras and Weird Beard are John Mikulak .and Scott Selig,  
respectively.  


February 25, 1988 
Asking pledges to wear burlap 
underwear isn't hazing, say two members of Kappa Sigma fraternity at underwear isn't hazing, say two Southwest Texas State University. According to the Holy Cross Crusader, all twenty-five Kappa Sigma pledges "volunteered" to wear the garments because it was a fraternity tradition. One pledge was arrested after he refused to explain why he was in a field at 3 a.m., wearing burlap underwear and covered with motor oil. He was charged under a new state law requiring anyone with knowledge of a hazing incident to report it. The university is also in".'estigating the hazing charges . 
.. Lustful coeds a danger" reads a headline 
in the Holy Cross Crusader to the report, men as well as women can be victims of date rape. Sixteen percent of college-age men have been coerced into sex, which con­firms research completed by Playboy in 1983, The big­gest surprise of the study, however, is that it found that sixteen percent of college age men needed to be coerced into sex. 

Eastman Kodak and the Fuji Film Com­
pany are waging a battle on the campus of the Roches­ter Institute of Technology. The Japanese-based Fuji company recently announced a scholarship for photog­raphy students at the school, an announcement that did not sit well with the Rochester-based Kodak. Kodak is a major donor to the institute, and the two companies indirectly clashed last fall when the University of Rochester "disenrolled" a Fu.ii employee. Kodak 
expressed concern that the Fuji employee would learn corporate secrets while sharing classes with some 90 Kodak employees. According to the College Press Ser­vice, a Fuji spokesman insists that the company chose RIT "because of its reputation, not because it was in Rochester." 
While campus officials refused to zap the messages immediately, UW vice Provost for Computing Helmut Golde said, "I'm planning to follow up on it. I don't condone that kind of thing." The offending messages, reports the College Press Service, are in a computer file called CAN, which as designed for "uninhibited" messages and jokes and "exchanges of software ideas," explained Academic Computing Ser­vices Acting Director Steve Hallstrom, "but they weren't intended as a vehicle for free expression." 


Caught With Their 
Students at Southwest Texas State dismay of 

Scholastic 


Pants Down 
participate in hazing activities to the their superiors 

"Honor Code Suggested" and "New Dorms Being Built" sound familiar? No, it's not the latest edition of any Notre Dame publication. The head­lines belong to The Villanovan of Villanova University. Evidently, the university is planning to build two new dorms and carefully regard an honor code to combat "the problem of cheating and academic dishonesty among the Villanova student body." Other sources claim that Villanova is planning on building its own dome and starting a true caliber football team. 
The University of Iowa will not publish an edition of a national lesbian magazine because it con­tains phototgraphs of nude women, although such a ban may violate Iowa's human rights policy forbidding discrimination against gays. Despite Iowa's Human Rights Committee recommeded to print the magazine "irrespective of content", interim president Richard Remington plans to uphold the printing ban until a further investigation is completed. According to the College Press Service, there are no plans yet for distri­bution, either. 

The dining halls and cafeteria at the Cal­
ifornia Institute of Institute of Technology were reo­pened last week after being shut down following a sud­den outbreak of a flu-like illness among some 100 stu­dents on the campus. The students reported nausea, vomiting, stomach cramps, and other symptoms to the campus health center, but tests by the Pasadena City Health Department ruled out food poisoning or bacteria in the institute's drinking water. Most of the sick stu­dents had eaten in the dining halls. According to the Chronicle of Higher Education, health officials theor­ized that the illnesses had been caused by a gastrointes­tinal virus and authorized the dining halls and cafeteria to reopen after being closed for one week. 

A professor is trying to start a campaign 
to push color jokes and messages off the University of Washington's campuswide computer bulletin board. "Jokes of sexual, personal, and racial violence have no place in a university, and I intend to stop it," associate Professor David Hodge warned. 
EDITED BY DOUG ANDERSON 







n · tialit 


F: tor Fi ti 
Students and administrators have different views on what access the University has to Health & Counseling Center records 
BY TOM PAVLIK 

H ow far do the arms of the Notre Dame administration reach? The prevalent student attitude is that they reach at least as far as the Univer­sity Counseling and Health Centers. Whether true or not, this attitude shapes the way students respond to the health services pro­vided by the University. For many students, fear of punishment from the administra­tion may affect their decision to seek help for "sensitive" problems. "If I had a friend experiencing an alcohol overdose, drug overdose or serious side-effects from either, I would take him to St. Joseph Medical Center or Memorial Hos­pital, without hesitation. I feel that such information would have a less likely chance of reaching the Office of Student Affairs (from there)," said Sean Lyden, a junior .. from Grace Hall. Student concern extends to the Counseling Center as well. "I would have serious reservations concerning whether or not I would 


Students fear administrative intervention in the Counseling and Health Centers 


recommend that a friend go to the Counseling Center if it dealt with a problem that might result in his expulsion (from the University) or some other punishment," said a Sorin Hall senior who refused to be identified. 
Lyden, as well as other students, feels that there is a chance that information concerning the causes of their friends' problems will not be kept within the walls of the Student Health Center. 
"I've been here three years and I have never had the administra­tion ask me to do that (turn over information)," said Carol Seager, Director of the Student Health Center, in response to student con­cerns. Seager said that in some situations, "Other people know before that person walks through the door (that he/ she has a prob­lem). There may have been some behavior· that transpired in the dorm or elsewhere on campus. But, we have never given out information like that nor have we been asked. It's never been a 
Before a student enters counsel­ing, he or she must sign a consent form. In it, the Center's policy of confidentiality is explained. The policy is "in keeping with federal and state law, and the ethical stan­dards of the American Psychologi­cal Association, which requires us to keep confidential everything you tell us in counseling," said Dr. Patrick Utz, Director of the University Counseling Center. 
There are two exceptions to this law: "either when the patient requests _that the counselor reveal information to others, or when there is imminent danger of seri­ous harm to yourself or others, a counselor may reveal that infor­mation to prevent that harm," said Utz. 
If the counselor, through nor-

February 25, 1988 
'r, ,­
) ', 1,. -~-)~•-:,,: wt,'-,t~' ~ci...-. N='-"'LJ -ifil,.i:::' ,::i!,J.1~ 
mal clinical procedures, feels that obtained through counseling will there is a duty to warn someone in be forwarded to the proper order to prevent any harm, the authority as part of their evalua­opposite principle of confidential­tion. "In that situation, I don't ity is in effect and the counselor is want to say that we don't have a obligated to inform the proper direct line to (John) Goldrick's individuals or agencies. (Associate Vice-President for "It is a grey area. You have Residence Life) office, because 
.. ··1,1··pra~ii<:,, ,.univer~~tie~:, • , ... ~aye·•.. t(j·:•.·•de~..1·j~Itn•·.·.•tne·....·.·•~..en.1;:;.··•·•~io11, •. !~af<it ·.. is·.. •· P~¥i.ng./.t~~/•···



buclget.forthe(cour:a~elir,ig) <. 

s~.""~.c:e.•.. and·····••y-.e~.···I•is.JU.ra.~.'e
..•.•.toi•..•·.·· 

·ave ittc:essJo.the ir1f9r~-•· 
·., •..... ,· 

or. }:~]i;i~ki uiz. ·&irectJr,

··•.r.:n.I/.r.>•...•.·•·•i< r·•··• 
· . U.ni"~~sitt.f9un~e.lir1~ ··• · 
·· ··•·············•···•·; •.¢~nt~r..<····· · · · 
some people who interpret it we do," said Utz. 
broadly and some who interpret it Utz pointed out that in most 
more narrowly," said Utz. When circumstances in which the student 
no danger exists, he said, "Our seeks assistance voluntarily, the 
principle is not to inform; that is counselor is not the only person 
the law. If we inform, we are, in aware cif the problem. 
fact, liable to be sued." "We are not the only ones, in 
If students are manditorily sent such cases, that know about it. 
to the Counseling Center by the For example, if a student were 
Office of Student Affairs, they are found to be drinking or drunk, 
informed that all information 
. . . -. --­



they may be referred to us for help. We may find out in the inter­nal form that the student has also been experimenting in drugs. That doesn't mean it can't be found out from other sources at not feel that it has adversely effected the number of students using the Center. "The number of students using the University Counseling Center in the fall semester was 415," he said, almost double what it was five years ago. 

"In practice, universities have to deal with the tension that it is paying the budget for the (coun­seling) service and yet is unable to have access to the information," said Utz. 
The University Counseling Center is going to begin discus­sions in the near future with the Office of Student Affairs concern­ing · patient confidentiality, said Utz. "I am not able to elaborate further on these talks." 


the very same time. In other words, the rectors, R.A.'s or secu­rity," said Utz. 
"In a good percentage of the students we are perceived as a quality service. We are here to serve them. If there are students who are out there that are uncom­fortable because we are a part of an administrative system, then I think they should go to a place where that discomfort does not exist. We would not be able to help them clinically either if they sit there and think we are going to turn them in," he continued. Utz acknowleged that this apprehen­sion does exist in students. He did 

LIMITED AREA FREE DELIVERY 271-0Stnl  
7"  18"  
1-!1,T!O .•.......... ; .....•. $2.61  3.94  5.09  
(nam.t•rkey & sala~i) !':JRKSY •••••.•••....••...•• $2. 61  3.94  5.09  
T~RKEY  BR .•..•........... $2.99  4.39  5.09  
HU{•.•••.•••.••. : ••.•.•.•• $ 2 • 89  4. l 3  5.09  
1 ':NA .••••••.•••...•••..•• $ 2 . 89  4 .·13  5.09  
RJAST  BEEF ...•...........$2.99  4. 39  5.09  
Si.LAMI ...................$2. 99  4.39  5.09  
C~RN  BEEF., ..............$2.89  4. 13  5.09  
HtATBALL .•..••.........•. $2.89  4., 3  5.09  
CARDOSA .................. $ 2. 99  4.39  5.09  
(meatballs w/cheese  
mushrooms  & onions)  
REAL  ITALIAN ............. $2.99  4. 3'3  5.09  
(cap9ocola,?rociutto  
&  genoa  salami)  
COHBHlATION •....•........ $2'99  4.39  
(ham,turkey  &  roast  beef)  
PIZZA  SUB ...••........... $2.89  4, 13  5.09  
(salami,peperoni,mushrooms  
onions,red sauce w/melted cheese) REUBEN •••........•••... :.$2.89  4.13  5.09.  
(corn  beef ,sour  kraut,thousand  island  
dressing w/melted swiss cheese) PEPERONI COSMO •..•••...•. $2. 89 (heated peperoni & cheese w/all  4.13  5.09  " z  
the fixings) VEGETARIAN SUB ...•.•...•. $2.89  4, 13  5.09  
(3 diff. types of cheese's all the vegetables)  with  "' ,,.: z..,  
:,::  
C  

MUSHROOMS ...••...••...•••... $. 4 7 .ao 1. 27 X-MEAT ..................•...$. 47 .80 1. 27 :<-CHEESE .•.................. $. 28 .47 .80 :<-VEGETABLES .•...••...•..... $.28 .47 .80 X-MAYQ ......••...••.....•... $.05 . 10 . l 5 COSMO (heated) ...•...•...... $.10 • 10 • 10 . 
"' CJ ..J 
1/l 

POTATO SALAD •....••.....•........•......•... $.89 .10 COLE SLAW ...••...•, •...••...••...•••....•.. . $.89 .10 POTATO CHIPS •....•.......................... S. 69 . 39 SOUP ................•..........••...•.......$1. 25 TASTYKAKE CUPKAKES (imported from Phila. ) ... $.50 PICKLES (whole o~ half) ........•........•... S.45 .55 
SALADS .C VEGETARIAN SALAD •...•....... $2.15 CARNIVOROUS SALAD •..•..•.... $2.15 EASTERN STYLE 
TRY OUR 6 FT. PARTY SUBS ONLY $45.95 


SUBS :,.: 
"WE USE HORMEL PRODUCTS" 
Whole Whul or Wh!t1 

NOW HIRING 
.,,
.,, 
C°' 
~ .... 
... :,
..
,, 

.,, 
i ­
>t
... 
i ,,. 
.. II 
-"' -II
.. 
~-:a: 



Live the Tradition 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN THE 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY AND CAMPUS LIFE 
---------------------------------------------------------. -------------------------------­

" 
i 
Please send years of Scholastic to: i 
Name --------------------­
Address _____________________ 
City ___________State ___Zip _____ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x years=$ 
i ! 
11 


(DaJ~ ~QUOO~ lf000~ D3l3fBQ(!JOUUaJl3 




·rn~UW(!JQC3 
..We're selling academ­For the ics and a chance to play for a national champion­
second 

ship. If they don't want straight that, then we don't want them. We're looking for


year, Lou 

players that want to come Holtz' to Notre Dame," states Vinny Cerrato, Notre


football 

Dame's football recruitingprograni has coordinator par excellence. 
landed the Cerrato, a 29-year-old assistant of Irish head coach Lou Holtz with nation's a reputation years ahead of his age and still growing, has neverfinest high underestimated the responsibility of his job. He determines if a kid


school class. 

BY BOB GORDON
Here's how he does it 

• Cerrato's devotion to video has drawn high ratings. 

has the ability to play footbali for Notre Dame. Then, with athletic scholarship in tow, he goes out to sell the high school athlete on Notre Dame. Sound simple? It's not, even if Cerrato makes it seem so. 
"You can't win if you don't have great players," Cerrato explains. "Once you get the great players, you've got to have great coaches. Coaches and players are what win." 
While half of that equation may have been missing in the early '80's, Holtz appears today to have the football program headed in the right direction. And Cerrato has kept up his end, providing Holtz with his second straight bumper crop of the nation's most talented high school prospects. Those two classes, which many experts tabbed the best two groups in the nation, have given Cerrato status as the best recruiter in the busi­ness. 
"There's no doubt that we have several incoming freshmen that will make a major contribu­tion to our football team next year," admitted Holtz, who in 1987 used freshmen Ricky Watters, Tony Brooks, Kent Gra­ham, Todd Lyght, Andre Jones, as well as several others, in key roles. 
In a sense, Cerrato is the man who supplies Holtz the nutrition to form a healthy, competitive_ team. 
Without a prosperous recruiting coordinator, Holtz and the hearty appetites of Notre Dame fans would go hungry. And Cerrato does it with the same verve that made him a starting quarterback at Iowa State in the late 70's and a Holtz. assistant since 1983. The Flushing, N.Y., native has the hos­pitality of Andy Griffith, the looks of Tad Martin and the sin­cerity of Walter Cronkite. He shoots from the hip in search of 
February 25, 1988 
· ....· 


the next George Gipp, and it is a search takes him across the coun­try in this never ending process. 
In fact, the quest for next year's high school seniors has already begun. On February 10, Cerrato sent out letters to the players he feels are the best Irish prospects. To determine the "qual­ified", he watches more video tapes on his VCR than a dirty old man. Through the taped footage of the various high school games, 

I Cerrato is able to target which
li 
prep stars he wants to pursue. 
Although Cerrato wants players with the talent to wake up the echoes, they also must have the maturity to wake up for class and march onward to graduation. This is nothing new, of course. Former Irish head coach Dan Devine once asserted ·that of the nation's top 


Vinny's Video Store special­izes in high school football films. There are hundreds in all, one for every player Notre Dame wants. 

100 players, he could only go after down the field," explained Bell. After he brings in the "blue half of them because of Notre "He starts with about 1,500 possi­chippers" in December; Cerrato Dame's lofty admission standards. bles in February, cuts that down to then calls in the latter portion of 
Notre Dame's graduation rate, perenially in the high 90 percent area, backs up the claim. 
"I'd say out of the top 100 players, we can only go after 30 to 40 of them because of academics," Cerrato noted. "It depends where they come. from, because some parts of the country are better academically. But, for example, we can't take any Proposition 48 players (those who were unable to score either a 700 on the SAT or a 15 on the ACT)." Two recruits from Holtz' first class in 1986, quarterback Tony Rice and line­backer John Foley, sat out their entire freshman campaigns because of the NCAA regulation. 
Taylor Bell, noted sports 

writer and authority on high school athletics, recently hailed Cerrato in the Chicago Sun-Times, calling him "the best recruiting coordinator in the country." · 
"He's the best at narrowing around 300 by May. And by December he's got the 50 that he will pursue. He's the nation's best from an organizational stand­point." 

Cerrato combs the country in November to make contact with his prospective recruits. He flies at night, often putting in 14-hour days meeting with the high school gridders. Fueled by his youthful zeal, Cerrato also hits up to five schools in one day and covers I, 500 miles in a 24-hour span. "I've got a lot of frequent flyer tickets and a lot of Marriott points," jokes Cerrato. 
In December, Cerrato brings the top choices on his wish list to South Bend for a campus visit. "If you bring a kid in during December, you'd better want him badly," Cerrato noted. "Out of our December visits, I got 13 (sig­nees) out of 23. So we did pretty well." 



\I\l~~~t*lg>\~)J,f~¢\.!~~ifC!Jitt 
~<llj~~"l'!~j·:• .~.m~·~:, ~~jt~~,~­
·lrle .:... ••.starts .. ::.i:..;with :.,..••. :about 
l~~j§;tt'JiJ~i~[l~~~:; .'"i:


Mif*ID~l~tf~·~iti
1Aii~11sy.i•••trj~~~m§~~1111r~r$•:gp
th~iil:5 tfi~fl:ifi~fiwinHr l1H­
so~~tf 



illi1~~!,;:1,.,,;,r!l1i11
§Mt!:M-illim~~;r~P8.1'1:~rr·.::·:! ' 
his wish list during January and early February. The recruiting game then gets a little trickier because he only has a certain number of scholarships to offer. According to NCAA rules, a school can have only 85 players on football scholarship overall and a maximum of 25 for any given 

' . --­
. -~ ---•---'--~~--~---­



year. Cerrato had 23 scholarships to offer this year. 
The prospect is limited to five paid visits. If he wants to explore additional universities, he has to foot the bill. 
"When (athletes) come here," Cerrato said, "we sell Notre Dame: the tradition, the exposure, the academics, the opportunity after graduation, the alumni, sell-out crowds, the chance to play big time college football." 
Since most of the recruits don't commit until days, or even hours, before the national signing day, Cerrato likens the uncertainty of his work to a "chess match". "What you do is try to bring the guys you really want in first (the December guests), and you try to find out what they're thinking," Cerrato reasoned. "If a (January/February guest) wants to commit you try to hold him off until you find out about (the December guests)." 
Not only does Cerrato search for the most qualified players, he also must watch the number he brings in at a certain position. He can't, for example, bring in five quarterbacks in one recruiting 

· class. Although that event indeed occurred under the previous staff, it produced catastrophic results. 
During December the Irish coaching staff breaks down into geographic locations, each coach concentrating on about 10 players in his assigned area. The assistant makes visits to the players home, attends his school's basketball games and keeps in contact with phone calls. 
"When we go into a player's home, we sell the kid and the parents on Notre Dame. Our coaching staff does a great job. I have as much confidence in those guys as anybody in America," Cerrato said. "We try to sell them 
A large board in one of the football offices provides Cerrato with the names of his targets. 
on a 40-year plan, not a four-year 
vacation." 
"At a lot of schools, once they're done playing football, it's 'bring in the next shipment'. They ·don't care. At Notre Dame, once they graduate, that's when the alumni, the Notre Dame network, really takes over. It helps them get jobs with all the connections they have --that's what makes Notre 
Dame different from the rest." 
Cerrato often stresses the 
more diverse alumni network over 
those of state schools. Powerful 
and national in scope, it often 
becomes the deciding factor for a 
player who wants to have a career 
outside of football. USA Today 
Prep Player of the Year Derek 
Brown was Cerrato's top recruit 
and a firm believer in the alumni 
factor. 
"Derek told me, 'I chose 
Notre Dame because if I go to (the 
University of) Florida, I have to 
live in Florida. If I go to Miami, 
I've got to live in Florida,"' Cer­
rato pointed out. "'But if I go to 
Notre Dame,' he said, 'they've got 
great alumni in that state, plus 
they've got 49 other states I can go 
to. My options are wide open."' 
Former Marquette basketball 
coach Al McGuire said when he'd 
recruit players he didn't just sell 
the kid, but more importantly sell 
the person he thought was going to 
help, or perhaps make, the player's 
decision of which school to attend. 
That person could range from a 
relative, to a girlfriend, to the 
player's high school coach. 
"You try to find out who that 
key person is," . Cerrato agreed. 
"You've got to find out who you 
really need to hit on. Coach Holtz 


\ 
has done a survey at every place he's been at so far. Except for Notre Dame's (recruits), the per­son who was helping with the decision was usually the high school coach. But at Notre Dame, the parents were pretty much deciding where the kid was going to go." 
When it comes to recruiting, high school coaches don't neces­sarily operate fair and square. But Cerrato knows it comes with the territory. 
"You have to know which high school coaches are going to help you," he said. "If he's on your side you want to use him as much as you can. If he's not going to help you, then you don't spend much time with him. One time a coach told me if I wanted to see the kid play, I had to pay to watch practice. That only happened one time, and I just left." 
Illegal inducements are the unethical side of the process. Although Notre Dame has never received as much as a parking ticket from the NCAA, other schools going after the same talent have used cars and money to land a top recruit. SMU, for example, found this method costly. They received the "death penalty", a suspension of their football pro­gram for two years. 
"There's some illegal recruit­ing going. But you can see it com­ing before it happens with the type ofi kid you're dealing with. You try to tell the kid academics are the reason he's attending school. You make your pitch on that. If he's still going to take the money, hey, good luck. See ya," said Cerrato with a wave. 
Recruiters from other schools, meanwhile, will toss dirt on the Dome when trying to talk a player out of considering Notre Dame. "The negative recruiting is really bad," Cerrato noted. "There's a lot 
February 25, 1988 
of negative. things said about Notre Dame. They say, 'they have all great players there, you'll never play there.' They try to scare the kid." 
Coupled with these problems, Cerrato also had to battle Notre Dame's inherent weaknesses. "Dis­tance is a problem for a lot of the kids. And the weather is a problem for some of the kids, especially those from Texas, California and Florida," he said. 
Despite these weaknesses, Cerrato wooed what many talent scouts are calling this year's number-one recruiting class in the country. The class is loaded with skilled position players and players with speed to burn, an Irish soft spot last year. 
Cerrato, however, sidesteps rating his '88 harvest. "It wouldn't be fair to make judgements on them," he said. "When they come here for freshmen week, they'll find out what their role is at that time." 

But that, after all, is not Cerrato's concern. When August rolls around, and those freshman players are learning their roles, he will be in his usual spot, tucked away in his office and parked in front of his VCR, watching films of the next potential Irish football star. 
He's the man responsible for putting capable bodies inside Notre Dame jerseys. If you've got the head to cut it in the classroom and the heart to cut it on the field, Vinny Cerrato's got your number.II 





WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
The Irish women's basketball team stands at 17-6 after defeating Cleveland State and Marquette last week. 
The Irish play three games this week, beginning with Valparaiso tonight at Valparaiso. The Irish will return home Sunday to face DePaul in the regular season finale at the JACC at 2 p.m., and then travel to Chicago to take on Illinois-Chicago on Wednesday. 


Against Cleveland State the Irish outclassed the Vikings, tak­ing an early 18-4 lead and never looking back to win 87-69. Irish forward HEIDI BUNEK's 28 points put her over the 1000-point mark for her career. Teammates SANDY BOTHAM and KRISS! DAVIS added 14 and 10 points, respectively. 
The Marquette victory proved to be more difficult as the Irish had to come from behind to win 79-69. Trailing 36-33 at the half, 

!· · Notre Dame scored 11 unanswered points to start the second half and take the lead for good. LISA KUHNS scored a career high 22 points including 6 three-pointers. 


HOCKEY 
The Irish hockey team (23-4-2) suffered a disappointing week, falling twice to ACHA leader Michigan-Dearborn, 3-1 and 6-4. The losses brought an end to Notre Dame's 14-game winning streak. 
The team will face Lake Forest 
18 
this weekend in a battle for second place in the ACHA. The two teams will meet twice, once on Friday at Lake Forest, and then again on Saturday at the JACC at 7:30 p.m.. 
Against Michigan-Dearborn on Friday night, Notre Dame outshot its opponents 38-19 but could manage only a MATT HANZEL goal. 
Saturday night proved similarly successful as Michigan-Dearborn opened up an early 3-0 lead and then managed to hold on despite goals from TOM MOONEY, TOM 
FITZGERALD,  MIKE  
McNEILL,  and  BRIAN  
MONTGOMERY.  



MEN'S SWIMMING 
The men's swimming team (13-3) claimed the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Champion­ship this past week for the second time in three years. 
The team takes the week off before hosting the Midwest Independent Invitational Cham­pionships on March 3-5 in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Irish won the Midwestern Collegiates, easily defeating their closest competitor (Evansville) by 232 points. BRIAN RINI won the tournament's most valuable parti­cipant award (see Athlete of the Week). DAVE THOMAN finished first in the 100-and 200-yard backstroke. BILL JACKOBOICE and PAUL GODFREY won the 100-and 200-yard butterfly events, respectively. TOM PENN also won the 100-yard free-style. 


WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
The Notre Dame women's 

swimming team (9-7) also took the 
Midwestern Collegiate Conference 
Championships last week. The 
team now travels to Chicago to 
compete in the Midwest Indepen­
dent Invitational Championships 
tomorrow through Sunday. 
The Irish had to come from 

behind to defeat Evansville. Out­
standing individual performances 
were turned in by CHRISTY 
MOSTON who took firsts in the . 
100-yard backstroke and the 200 
and 400-yard individual medley, 
and by BECKY WOOD who won 
both the 100-and 200-yard 
breaststroke events. In diving, 
KAY RICHTER won both the 
one-and three-meter diving 
events. 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
The women's tennis team (5-3) 

split a pair of matches this past 
week, losing to Wisconsin, 8-1, 
and defeating Furman, 9-0. 
The Irish will host their second 

home dual match this season . against Colorado today at 4:30 p.m. in the Eck Pavilion. This weekend 
the team travels to Champaign, IL 
to take on Miami of Ohio and Illi­
nois on Feb. 27th and 28th. 
Only Irish ·. ace CeCe Cahill 

managed to win against Wisconsin, 
as she defeated Chris Gilles, 6-1, 
7-5..· 

WOMEN'S FENCING 
The women's fencing team will 

travel to Detroit to compete in the Great Lakes Championships on Saturday, Feb. 27. The Irish will be expecting some tough competi­tion from Wayne State, the only team to beat them this season. Irish captain Molly Sullivan will be fencing in Europe this weekend and will miss the tournament. 

MEN'S FENCING 

The men's fencing team will compete in the Great Lakes Cham­pionships on Saturday, Feb. 27 at Detroit, ML The squad's toughest competition is expected to come from Wayne State and Detroit. 

TRACK 

The Irish track team finished fourth in the recent Indiana Inter­collegiate meet. The Irish will next host the Alex Wilson invita­tional track meet on Saturday, Feb. 27 at the Meyo track. 
At Indiana last week, the Irish got IC4A qualifying times from GLENN WATSON in the 55­meter high hurdles and MIKE ROGAN in the 800-meter run. Also turning in fine efforts were DAN GARRETT and RON MARKEZICH, who finished first and second respectively in the 3000-meter run. 

WRESTLING 

The Notre Dame wrestling team will try to regroup against Mar­quette in Milwaukee on Saturday after losing two competitions this past weekend. 
On Friday, the team lost to Central Michigan 27-12. Record­ing victories for the Irish were DAVE SMITH at 126 pounds, JERRY DURSO at 134, and 
.:.-:if/I>··:: :::·''.'}/}::,·::':-·n_r: ;'--.;:Jr:·;:·-·' ,_,.\Ii'.::'·_::_:: :JP;: ·,·J-i:~ ': 




~~~IS~~;MCl§1t8N!.. 


··•>•g;·••; "t,l; :·..••. . /> •.JM~st.oF, ••... <··•·· .a i·•·•freshIIJ.an'.from 
r~1.iti11y, •II.,. a.11-.ct 
a membe~ oL the 
•':w,6meh'.s :s-Y>1ffil. ~}11g + • ··. ·itf~Ill; 
~.elpei:i t~e·•.·• Ir~sp
win .tlie confer-· 

···>·>•·· ,.·•··•·•·····•··•.•••··•·••····J}e¥c;(!•· <i>·••<·.. ) .. ••··•••••
~lialllpifWShip• last i\\'e~~··•by•• "'.iri., 11Jr1!5n•··• tp.rer& /y~erit~;;•.•··· ~Ili:i:;pl::i,?~n
~.rA?Hd jn a[?1trthJJll}~di:iJti9:Rtnei-tlweqp11tit·•P.l~pe Jjfini~h niffittli. :J 00].X~Fi:ii···?lft~yff'IX;}i;~?•stPfl•...•. •?f<? Jhe) 298]/~ff.cl.. j9O-y~fi:i.<irii:iiI!tiua1R:ct1ey; TtfiltS•• (<1ni:i.n ""'Pff>tn(!·•··~.9°+
.X~Ian,?~frls§lfP.~r·••· iri;\:1.Illeet.rec;:gi­
time oLI:03.28. • . . .. . . . . 
·•···•:.·~1~J;· ~tr;eiw~·..···•·
in~g f[pm }J}h.~g-• 
···.. ri111·.•.I~Ms,.9pt?·· 
.~n~ ..•.<1 /Illeml)er qfn·•W.r,•npen's··· 
.s.\\'~.11?-1Rt¥~i tr~Pt, 
was :nameo Jhe ·• ;ri:i()st ..... :valuable,·· 
•·<,••·•··•••·•••·•.)·••··•••••···•••I·•·•••\ f·••·•.·••··•••••••·••·•••.•P~t.tic~.!'?~.r1!

[~ ~iciyt.TStffl}i\}j}oIIegittfe·•· ffiOri~~r; .rr1ee ·>1ffi~NBHA9ns,~i:J?l•·• •r n~.1~,.• ,1~~t\\'re~~11~: .,t:. .Eyrns.yiner·•··1~./.•. R-i11.i Jpo~ifirst\Bl~c~n}nJ;tllej?OO,;,.•····•·~oo.,: ~11<,i ~ 6~H·•sXM1ir~~.8~)'.1:'rOfY~.f1.ts.••. ~.Il1 ~ylp.9d( ~9:}r{ ·p~jpy. ii ~~n ·• ··the 
conference cliarripipn~h~P-••· ,...... 
_.-·-,_.. ··· .. :·.:y•_.--,,·.,,,-;., .. -..,,..·.·.·c.:_-:,__ _' ,·,,·.·:-·--....-, 
MARK GERARDI and TODD TOMAZIC at 167. 
On Saturday, the Irish were beaten by Indiana 30-10. The bright spots for the team were wins by RON WISNIEWSKI, Gerardi, and CHRIS GENESER. 
COMPILED B.Y JOHN MONYAX 
19



Ed Board Positions Described 

Every year about this time, the various student organizations attempt to solidify their staffs for the coming year. And although there's no question that there is an heir apparent for the majority of the top positions, there is still room for people with limited experience, but a lot of enthusiasm, who are new to organizations. 
And Scholastic is no excep­tion. 
Each year, the new editor-in­chief appeals for people to fill the paid editorial positions that graduating seniors have left vacant. However, most of the time the average person has no idea what the jobs entail, so here's an outline of what each editor does to produce Scholastic each week. 
The copy chief edits all the articles that appear in the maga­zine. He should look over every word in every issue. He looks for mistakes in grammar and spel­ling; he also is responsible for maintaining a consistent style in the copy. Since he does have the final say on what appears in the Scholastic he is able to put in lit­tle notes to his friends. But it seems that this article may be the exception. 
The editors of the news, sports and student life depart~ ments must think of story ideas, assign those stories to one of their writers and work with that writer throughout the reporting and writing process. The section editor also does the primary edit­ing for story relevance and com­pleteness. 
The departments editor is responsible for maintaining a stable of columnists to write humor pieces, reviews and com­mentaries. He does the initial editing and is responsible for the calendar section of the magazine.The hours of the departments editor are consider­ably more flexible than any other position at the Scholastic. 
The managing editor oversees the content of all the magazine sections. He does the long-term planning and helps formulate editorial policy. His commitment to the magazine is second only to that of the editor-in-chief, and he has daily responsibilities. 
The executive editor helps formulate editorial policy and assists in the actual production of the magazine before deadlines. He also deals with inaccuracies in the magazine and hastens correc­tions of errors. 
The photography editor and 
graphic arts editor take requests 
from the section editors for story 
illustrations and cover graphics. 
They are also responsible for 
maintaining a staff, work areas 
and supplies, and are expected to 
provide some of their own work 
for publication. 
The production manager 
designs and lays-out the maga­
zine. He must work with the 
section editors on page design 
and work scheduling. In the 
coming year, the production 
manager will be doing the major­
ity of the layout on a desktop 
publishing system. The produc­
tion manager's hours are very 
flexible and subject to change at a moment's notice. Conse­quently, the position demands an individual with a vivacious and sparkling personality. 
The business department of the magazine has a business manager who oversees the advertising, circulation, distribu­tion, billing_ and payroll depart­ments. The business manager also has the opportunity to add this incredibly impressive title to what may be an otherwise mono­tonous resume. 
The advertising manager sells and designs ads and trains his staff. The circulation manager maintains subscription files and ensures an up-to-date list of sub­
scribers.  Another  essential  
resume booster  for  Business  
majors.  

The systems manager main­tains the word processing and typesetting equipment. This coming year the systems manager must have experience with MacIntosh computers and laserprinters, since Scholastic will soon be switching over to such a system. 
Each of the positions mention does involve some monetary reward (however miniscule it may be). These positions require a great deal of time and commitment, as any of the current editors will tell you. But they're also a lot of fun. If you think you may be right for one of these jobs,, or are interested in an assistant or writing position requiring less time, do not hesi­tate to come up to the office, Suite 311 of LaFortune, to pick up an application. 



Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
is accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Production Manager Departments Editor Photography Manager Copy Chief Graphic Arts Manager Systems Manager Sports Editor Advertising Manager News Editor Controller Student Life Editor 
Applications are due by 5 p.m. Friday, March 4 Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate may apply. Contact Kathleen McKernan for information: 
Scholastic Office, 3rd floor Lafortune, 239-7569. 
Help us Carry the load 

February 25, 1988 
' -. -----­

Coming Distractions February 25 -March 2 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2S 
7'fVSIC: 
Senior Cello Recital Elizabeth Gerrish Annenberg Auditorium 
7:00 p.m. 
ACADEMICS: 
Information on the SMC 
London and Rome Summer Program Dr. Anthony Black St. Mary's College Carroll Auditorium 
7:00 p.m. 
N.D. Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series Landow/Snow Program Annenberg Auditorium 7:00 -7:50 p.m. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26 
SPORTS: 
Ice Hockey ND vs. Lake Forest Joyce ACC Ice Arena 
7:30 p.m. 
Basketball Harlem Globetrotters Joyce ACC 
8:00 p.m. 
ACADEMICS: 
Mathematical Colloquium "Simulation of Flow in Naturally Fractured Porous Media" Professor Jim Douglas, Jr., Purdue University Room 214 CCMB 
N.D. Communication and Theatre Spring Film Series "Tempopo" Annenherg Auditorium· 
7:30 & 9:30 p.m. 


Biddy Mulligan's 7644 N. Sheridan Avenue 
February 26-27 "Big Twist & the Mellow Fellows" 
February 28 "Eight to the Bar" 
Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark Avenue 
February 26 "Tic Tah" 
February 27 "Fields of the Nephilim" with "Price of Priesthood" 
Blues Etcetera 1124 W. Belmont 
February 26 "The Eddy Clearwater Blues Band" 
February 27 Blues Harmonica Showdown between Cary Bell and Billy 
Branch 
Park West 322 West Armitage 
February 26 "The Brandos" 
February 27 "The Way Moves" 
February 28 "David Ruffin & Eddie Kendricks" 
Three Penny Theatre 2424 N. Lincoln Avenue 
"The Glass Menagerie" February 26-27 7:30 & 10:00 February 28 2:00, 4:45, 7:30 
Kingston Mines 
2548 N. Halsted 
February 25 "Dion Payton & the 43rd St. Blues Band" 
February 26-27 "Lonnie Brooks and his Louisiana Blues" 

COMPILED BY DOUG ANDERSON 
Sophomore Literary Festival Paule Marshall Library Auditorium 
8:00 p.m. 
SMC Performing Arts Series "Purlie" O'Laughlin Auditorium 
8:00 p.m. 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27 
SPORTS: 
Tennis 
N.D. Men vs. Cincinnati Eck Tennis Pavilion 
9:00 a.m. 
N.D. Men vs. Bowling Green Eck Tennis Pavilion 
1:00 p.m. 
MOVIES: 
University Park West 
"Good Morning Vietnam" 4:30 7:00 9:30 "Shoot to Kill" 
4:30 7:15 9:45 "Hope and Glory" 4::S0 7:00 9:30 
t:nivcrsity Park East 
"Action Jackson" 
5:45 7:45 9:45 "The1Serpent and the Rainbow" 
5:30 7:30 9:30 "Fatal Attraction" 4:30 7:00 9:30 "Cry Freedom" 2:00 5:00 8:00 "Ironweed" 4:15 7:00 9:45 "Planes, Trains and Automobiles" 5:30 7:30 9:30 
Track Alex Wilson Invitational Joyce ACC Fieldhouse 
11:00 a.m. 
Basketball 
N.D. Men vs. Vanderbilt Joyce ACC 
7:00 p.m. 
THE ARTS: 
Faculty Guitar Recital Steven Miller Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
8:00 p.m. 
"Arsenic and Old Lace" Morris Civic Auditorium 

I O O CF.1\TF.R  
"For Keeps"  
5:00  7:00  9:00  
SCOTTSDALE MALL  
"Shoot to Kill"  
4:30  7:15  9:30  
"Action Jackson"  
5:45  7:45  9:45  
TOW!\ A!\D COt:1\TRY  
"Moonstruck"  
5:45  7:45  9:45  
"Three Men anrl a Bahy"  
4:30  7:00  9:30  
"She's Having a Baby" 4:30 7:00 9:30  FORt:M Cl!\EMA  
"The Last Emperor"  
8:15  
"Satisfaction"  
7:40  9:40  
"Broadcast News"  
'1:00  9:30  

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 28 
SPORTS: 
Basketball 
N.D. Women vs. DePaul Joyce ACC 2:00 
THE ARTS: 
Faculty Guitar Recital 
Steven Miller 
Annenberg Auditorium 
4:00 p.m. 
READY THEATER 
"Planes, Trains, and Automobiles" 4:45 9:00 
"Made in Heaven" 7:10 "Three Men and a Baby" 5:00 7:30 9:30 

Final Word 




Goals and Ambitions 
BY TOM DOYLE AND MIKE P AESE 

aking a good thing better!" This phrase is much more than a campaign slo­gan for us, for 
we feel that those words best capture who we are and what we would like to do with the students' government. For those of you who we did not get to speak to personally during the campaign week, we would like to share with you briefly our vision of what we hope is to accomplish with Notre Dame stu­dent government over the next 
two semesters. 
Essentially, we have inherited a sound legacy of effective and dedicated student leadership. Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink have brought credibility and real organization back to student government. They have proven that student government is active on campus, willing to listen to student input and . to be respon­sive to students' desires. Being cognizant of its heritage, we characterize student government 
as "a good thing." 
Student government, by definition, acts as a vehicle that brings to reality those small and great things that need improve­ment in student life. We are dedicated to continuing and expanding those services that make daily life a little easier, while creating for students new and exciting opportunities. 
Clearly student government 
has had a public relations prob­
lem that continues even today. 
To be able to effectively support 
or intelligently criticize any 
organization, one must under­
stand the issues at hand. There­
fore, we propose to use the stu­
dent publications in a weekly 
column, or employ other 
appropriate forums to discuss 
publicly the current events and· 
issues facing student govern­
ment. ·This would not only 
enhance student awareness, but 
would also force the student 
body president and vice 
president to be accountable for 

their actions. A major part of 
this structure would consist of 
equal tinie and space given for 
student response. This would 
allow each of you the opportun­
ity to compliment, to criticize or 
to ask questions about anything 
that we propose. 
Our third and most sweeping goal represents a new and ambi-_ tious mission for student govern­ment. We believe that our office should be the place whe·re politi­cal and social concerns of this campus are vocalized. That is, to bring the kind of leaders and intellectuals to campus that Notre Dame students deserve to excite, to bring forth, and to stand out on the major Catholic and secu­lar issues that the University should represent. We perceive our roles to be consciousness raisers rather than simple "social planners." 

Lastly, and most importantly, we would like to thank those who have worked closely with us through the campaign and the .'!ntire student body for your sup­port; a support we felt not only at the polls, but also in opening your doors and being received with an openness to our ideas as well as with expressions of con­cern and genuine interest in stu­dent government. (expression of genuine interest in student government as well as what we had to say.) 
We sincerely hope that the interest, concern· and enthusiasm expressed by individual students carry over, beyond our election, to the business which we are all about. It is· our hope that your involvement will truly create "a students' government" and allow for the possibility of making a GOOD THING BETTER! lll!I 













