THE NOTRE DAME
JAN. 22, I960
IteKLUHT <abT««M BY W. CtfMNY f AMC*
Dick Petzold discusses tune charges for a customer s telephone installation with an administrative assistant	!
■ i
How to avoid a “dead end” career:
t
read Dick Petzold’s story
While a senior at the University of Maryland, accounting major Richard G. Petzold made some definite decisions about his future. “I wanted to work for an established company,” he says, “but I didn’t want to get lost in a ‘dead end’ j ob.”
Dick joined the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company in Washington, D. C., right after graduating in June, 1956. Following three months of orientation, he became a supervisor in Revenue Accounting, where he continued training in a productive capacity, with 15 people reporting to him. Here, he suggested a number of methods improvements which were adopted.
Far from a “dead end” career, Dick’s took him into many operating areas:
•	to General Accounting, where he handled market research projects, includ-
i i i i ing a Customer Opinion Survey for four	*
Bell System companies...	i
•	to Disbursements Accounting, for	J
IBM-equipment training and, later on, i the supervision of Payroll Deduction	।
procedures...	}
•	to Personnel Relations, where he co- } ordinated a special, four-company “ab-	}
sentee” study and presented findings to i an important, top-level conference...	*
•	to Disbursements Accounting again, i where he is now Supervisor, Labor and	।
Material, with an administrative assistant j and 10 clerks under his guidance.	।
“The telephone company brings out * the best in you,” says Dick. “I’ve devel- i oped new skills, acquired self-reliance,	'
and learned how to supervise and work	|
with people. What’s die opposite of a i ‘dead end’ career? Well, I’ve got it!” *
Dick Petzold earned a B.S. degree in Accounting while in college. He’s one of many young men with varied college backgrounds who are finding rewarding careers with the Bell Telephone Companies. Learn about opportunities for you. See the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus—and read the Bell Telephone booklet in your Placement Office.
I
January 22, 1960
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
// ... IN JUNE
PAY //Q ... IN JULY ... IN AUGUST
NO CARRYING CHARGE
FINE QUALITY SPORT SHIRTS
1/2 PRICE
Stock up now on America’s finest quality sport shirts . . . save exactly one-half! You’ll find solid colors, handsome patterns, brand new styles in sizes to fit all men. Charge it the Campus Shop way.
3
Si
a,
i
a
9


BBS E □no e SOH □
S0 ebb
nImI
O
a
a
A
□Bn □□□
o
i
a
a
s
a

M
BEEBES DDE
a
a
9
BHHHE]
In
v

0
I
N
N
V
I
H
IBB IDE
SHE1H0
1H|S|V
IBDE
S
I
a
V
a
N
n
I

0
O
3
a
H
a
□
tfiMSNVlODH
I zz. I
|	Ancient Editor_______ 21	News Briefs -------- 32	|
i	At the Theaters______ 24	Odds and Ends-------- 28	|
I	Back Page____________ 34	L. David Otte-------- 13	|
f	Campus Scene _______ 11	Our Cover------------ 31	1
I	Commentary __________ 9	Repercussions ------- 8	|
|	Critical Horizons __ 19	G. P. Scarpia-------- 25	f
|	Escape ______________ 7	Sports Picture _____ 27	|
N3DL KROSSWORD	No. 2
ACROSS
DOWN
1. Rugged rock
5. Humiliate
10. Rock Hudson type
IL Rock, Frenchified
12.	Kind of plasm
13.	Principle of living
14.	Kind of joint
15.	Part of the evening or her leg
16.	Ellington’s Prelude to
a_____
17.	Confused nail is indigo
18.	The one girl
19.	They’ve got Menthol Magic
23.	Gosh!
24.	It’s used for raisingeyebrows
26. They’re at the end of Kools
28.	Use this when you run out of ifs and buts
29.	PH pay you later
30.	This can’t be right
33. This makes things easy
37. She likes to be
1.	Careful examination
2.	Rest up; lie down
3.	Skilled worker
4.	Gelett Burgess’s little creatures
5.	War god
6.	So. African general and statesman
7.	When your throat tells you it’s time for
39. He’s not choosy 40. Apple country 41. Bullfight cheer 43. Girl found in Li’l Abner
44.	Father
45.	Jalopy makin’s
46.	Miss Fitzgerald
47.	Wee ones
48	you!
49.	Diploma decoration
Kools
8.	More like unpowdered noses
9.	Boos, razzes,etc.
19.	Big 19
Acrosses are
20.	Like a grad
21.	Floral hula hoop
22.	What to do with 19 Across
25. Toothy types
27. Makes a booboo
30.	Kind of ling
31.	Discjockeysville
32.	Open
34.	What the gal who got away was
35.	Lily-like part of Maria Callas
36.	So. African enclosure
38.	They don’t have Menthol Magic
39.	Mercedes’ last name
42. It ain’t so
5
11
13
15
21
23
37
43
46
49
ARE YOU KGDL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
22
26
29
39
33
27
MILO MENTHOL
K®L
°KGDL
•IWO. Brawn * WUUanuon Tobacco cop.
When ybur throat tells you its time for a change you need a real change
YOU NEED THE
4\
6
The Scholastic
by CHRIS FOLEY
read plato much?
► IVTOT t°° many of us do, aside from philosophy majors, and it is with a view to correcting this situation that the Scholastic this week devotes an entire page to the ancient philosopher, in the hope that this brief encounter will inspire some students to take a more active interest in the wisdom of the an-
r cients. The passage presented here is a fragmentary translation of a section of the Republic, in which Plato sets up his ideal state.
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE
Socrates, the narrator......Cephalus
Glaucon ...............Thrasymachus
Adeimantus .............Polemarchus
And others who are mute auditors.
9
Socrates: But perhaps there is a device which we have not utilized in trying to picture our ideal state.
Adeimantus: Of what device are you speaking, Socrates?
Socrates: Is it not true that the brightest light is seen most clearly on the darkest night, when we may perceive the excellence of the light by the contrast with the darkness?
Adeimantus: That is true.
Socrates: Would it not seem advan-y tageous, therefore, that we construct the reciprocal of our ideal state, that we may see its horrors beside our ideal commonwealth?
Adeimantus: Your idea seems sound, Socrates. Please proceed with your construction of the city of torment.
Socrates: I should think that our first " consideration would be the location of our city. Where would you suggest we place it?
Adeimantus: It is difficult to say where the most hideous weather conditions exist. I should say that we must choose between the stifling heat of the tundra wasteland and the unbearable > cold of the regions to the north.
Socrates: But I have in mind a location which combines the ghastly features of both the regions you mention and creates conditions more gruesome than either.
Adeimantus: What place do you refer to?
Socrates: I am thinking of South Bend, Indiana.
January 22, I960
At this point the company noticeably cringed and Glaucon interjected: Surely, Socrates, you cannot mean what you say. Yozt cannot go to the extreme of placing your city in that the most hideous of the uninhabitable portions of the universe!
Socrates: You forget, Glaucon, that we are constructing a city which will entail the greatest degree of anguish imaginable for its inhabitants. We must spare no detail.
Glaucon: Then we must surely place our city in South Bend, though my soul rebels at so heinous an idea.
Socrates: Next we must agree on the way of life the inhabitants of our city must follow. What would you say are the most commonly enjoyed pleasures of our society?
Adeimantus: I would say drinking, girling, and charioteering.
Socrates: Wise choices, Adeimantus. Can you perceive what place these enjoyments will have in our city of horrors?
Adeimantus: I believe they would be somewhat curtailed.
Socrates: Not quite correct, Adeimantus. They would be positively excluded.
Adeimantus: A harsh judgment, but in keeping with the nature of our city.
THE RULING CLASS
Glaucon: But how will these prohibitions be enforced, Socrates? Those cursed to live in South Bend will certainly seek some outlet, if not suicide.
Socrates: For enforcement of all the miseries in our city I propose the establishment of a class of people especially schooled in the administration of tortures and oppression.
Adeimantus: What shall these fiends be called?
Socrates: I rather imagine that they will be called many things by the inhabitants of our city, but their general name shall be “prefect” and those especially skilled in torment will hold the title “rector.”
Polemarchus: Can you explain some of the devices that will be used to antagonize the cursed souls of your community?
Socrates: I would suggest that all candles be extinguished at an appointed hour in all places of residence, and that the members of our community be
compelled to arise at a certain hour early in the morning for the purpose of signing a sheet to certify that their rest had been interrupted.
Cephalus: You tax my soul by the inhumaneness of your words, Socrates. Will you not even feed your city?
Socrates: I hesitate to approach the matter of food, for my spirit is disgusted by the idea my intellect proposes.
Cephalus: Speak, Socrates, for the pursuit of truth is not easy.
Socrates: Very well. I was thinking of a man who would be most suited to handle the nutrition of our city of damned souls.
Cephalus: Of whom do you speak?
Socrates: I refer to Ziggy of Colon-mis.
Cephalus: You cannot mean the archfiend who is said to have brought half a million barbarians to complete subjugation by feeding them mashed potatoes 17,346 consecutive times?
Socrates: He is the one.
Cephalus: The mere thought of that ogre turns my stomach. Let us leave the subject of food.
ADDED ATTRACTIONS
Socrates: In that case I will introduce my proposal for the creation of another community to make life in the city of torment even more unbearable. This other city will be placed near our city.
Thrasymachus: Who will live there?
Socrates: The inhabitants' will be entirely female, and will thus be of interest to the inhabitants of our tortured dty, from which females have been excluded.
Thrasymachus: Of what type will they be?
Socrates: They will be compelled to pass the most stringent ugly tests we can devise before they will be admitted into membership. If they are able to be obnoxious enough they will certainly add to the anguish we have created for the inhabitants of our city.	~
Cephalus: Socrates, I beg that we end this discussion. It is sadistic beyond aU limits of human decency! Surely you do not believe such a community could ever come into being?
Socrates: At the present time, no. JFii must nonetheless be wary, however, lest such misery become a reality. .
(hi Campos Mk fihulnan
(Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.}
APPAREL OFT PROCLAIMS THE MAN
The hounds of spring are on winter’s traces. Soon we will be shedding our mukluks and union suits and putting on our spring finery. And what does Dame Fashion decree for the coming season?
(Dame Fashion, incidentally, is not, as many people believe, a fictitious character. She was a real Englishwoman who lived in Elizabethan times and, indeed, England is greatly in her debt. During the invasion of the Spanish Armada, Dame Fashion—not yet a Dame but a mere, unlettered country lass named Becky Sharp —during the invasion, I say, of the Spanish Armada, tliis dauntless girl stood on the white cliffs of Dover and turned the tide of battle by rallying the sagging morale of the British fleet with this stirring poem of her own composition:
Don’t be gutless, Men of Britain.
Swing your cutlass, We ain’t quiltin’. Smash the Spanish, Sink their boats, Make ’em vanish, Like a horse makes oats. For Good Queen Bess, Good sirs, you gotta Make a mess Of that Armada.
You won’t fail! Knock ’em flat!
Then we’ll drink ale
And stuff like that.
As a reward for these inspirational verses Queen Elizabeth dubbed her a Dame, made her poet laureate, and gave her the Western Hemisphere except Duluth. But this was not the extent of Dame Fashion’s sendees to queen and country. In 1589 she invented the egg. In 1590, alas, she was arrested for poach
* * *
ing and imprisoned for thirty years in a butt of malmsey. This later became known as Guy Fawkes Day).
But I digress. Let us get back to spring fashions.
Certain to be popular again this year is the cardigan (which, curiously enough, was named after Lord Cardigan, who commanded the English fleet against the Spanish Armada. The sweater is only one product of this fertile Briton’s imagination. He also invented the ball-peen hammer, the gerund, and the molar, without which chewing, as we know it today, would not be possible).
But I digress. The cardigan, I say, will be back, which is cause for rejoicing. Why? Because the cardigan has nice big pockets in which to carry your Marlboro Cigarettes —and that, good buddies, is ample reason
for celebration. Do you think flavor went out when filters came in? If so, you’ve got another smoke coming. I mean Marlboros—all the rich, smooth flavor of prime tobaccos plus a filter that really filters. So slip into your cardigan and hie yourself to your tobacconist for some good Marlboros. They come in soft pack or flip-top box. Cardigans come in pink for girls and blue for boys.
© 1960 Max Shulnxan

POOR CHOICE?	:
Editor:
I know that many of you [students] may be wealthy Republicans. Also, I realize that not all of you take many courses in political science or American history. Maybe you don’t remember those campaigns in California in 1946 and 1950.
However, it still disturbs me that the senior class can vote Mr. Nixon the an- r nual Patriotism Award. Does his record of personal attacks on honorable candidates in California exemplify the , American ideals of justice or personal integrity? Is his own term of “rotgut * thinking,” in his later campaign while Vice-President, exemplify the American ideals of campaign oratory?
Why couldn’t you have chosen President Eisenhower, or Earl Warren or Adlai Stevenson? Instead you choose a f man whose best claim to fame is that he rode to the Vice-Presidency on a great 4 general’s back.
I suppose that the tremendous power of the mass communications media has even left its imprint on your young minds.
Mr. James Clark * 431 Edgewater Blvd. Minneapolis, Minn. 5 (ED: Mr. Nixon was chosen from a * list of distinguished men. It is our opinion that the seniors’ choice was a ( good one.)
SUGGESTION	'
Editor:	*
Reading your list of suggested books for Christmas presents gave me an idea. Why don’t you do the same thing for one of your issues before or at the be- '• ginning of Lent in regard to books for i spiritual reading. I refer to suggested ’ list of spiritual books for the fellows here at Notre Dame. There are certainly * enough priests and lay professors on . campus who would be most competent * to make suggestions. Often fellows wonder what they can do to grow in holiness. Spiritual reading is one of the 1 truly practical answers to this question.
Sincerely,	■
(Rev.) John J. McManmon, C.S.C. "* Breen-Phillips Hall (Continued on page 32)
"l
*
k
If you're a filter smoker, try Marlboros. If you’re a nonfilter smoker, try Philip Morris. If you’re a television watcher try Max Shulman’s “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”— Tuesday nights, CBS.
8
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is _ printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
I Vol. 101 No. 13
JANUARY 22, 1960
f:..-	.
Founded 1867
• editor-in-chief
RONALD BLUBAUGH
'* associate editors
.	E. (TED) THOMPSON
CHARLES TAUSCHE

RESPITE PLEASE: Students having one or more exams today will no doubt feel somewhat unprepared for their tests. The short period from the last class yesterday until the first examination at 8 a.m. this morning is hardly sufficient time in which to study adequately for a final test which could count as much as forty percent of the bulletin grade. It is most unfortunate that more time cannot be allowed between the end of classes for the semester and the final exams. Before the days of modern education, increased student work loads, large classes and the like, when much less emphasis was placed on a single test at the end of the term, all schools abided by the system now in force at this University. However, in recent years most schools have been adopting a plan calling for a study period before the beginning of final tests. This respite varies in time from 3 or 4 days to 3 weeks. Obviously the latter is inconceivable here, but it seems that the cessation of classes at least by the Tuesday before exams is absolutely necessary. Most students are piled knee-deep in term papers and last minute work in the final weeks of the semester, and they desperately need more time to study for finals. Certainly minor monetary considerations should not be placed before the scholastic welfare of the students. It is hoped that the good example of other schools will be followed, and that something will be done in the future to remedy this situation.

I



r


4
?•

5
news editor and staff ROYRUBELI
. Wade Clarke ,. Arthur Graham • .	•
Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff CHARLES RIECK
, Francis Smith Thomas Sullivan . ' William Sweeney .
William Veeder
sports editor and staff THOMAS ROSE ; William Cary J. (Jay) Kilroy
copy editor and staff WALTER RUDGE George Casey .	:
. . Peter Geniesse _ : ‘ • Thomas Marciniak
art editor	<
JERRY FLORENT
photographer 7' . _ WALTER DALY, Jr. ;
business manager and staff ROBERT HORN 7
7	C; '<77
< 7 Joseph Finnigan ,7	;;
circulationmanager ■/' 7'77' LAWRENCE LEACH7- 7.7 7
moderator’ :	57777777
77^
<•	?. . V V "-<• 77"
5ne^rapoi^ 7 7777 77'. 7’^77-PfiJlip/iarrab^';7777^
:;7|7Thqt^	77775^'.
77T^lligm^	"
f ;7 77<
; Jjohn^B^ht^^
* Jerry Hewitt ' (.■ George Varis - Thomas Walsh '
-	A
$

Itichard Ballot
Robert Buckley - m;iuh	.

MORE PLEASURABLE CULTURE: The Informer, the first movie of the 1960 series of films sponsored by the University Film Society was shown last week in the Engineering Auditorium. The film itself was rather enjoyable and was a good indication that the movies to be shown this year will be of good quality. Unfortunately, attendance on the part of the faculty was rather meager. Certainly there was no lack of publicity among the professors, and obviously the change of name from Faculty Film Series to University Film Society did not cause any wholesale defection. Perhaps the real cause of this lack of interest stems from a very obvious fact—the rather poor handling of the showing of movies. The evening performance of the first offering started late in a hot, close auditorium. It was interrupted each time a reel was changed. If the sponsors of the venture are truly interested in presenting the best films to the campus under the best conditions, then it would behoove them to give up some of their profit and offer them in Washington Hall which is completely equipped to handle the showing of films. It is our sincere desire that something will be done, and we are certain that any such improvement will bring a significant increase in the number of subscribers.
A DATE’S A DATE: With the advent of the new lottery system of obtaining dance bids, most of the students desiring to attend the Mardi Gras Ball have had to plan for the evening on a most conditional basis. In fact, we know of one particular situation in which a girl at an Eastern university wrote her Notre Dame boy friend and asked him if there was any reason why all the fellows refused to finally commit themselves for that week end. All this anxiety and uncertainty would have been prevented if the Mardi Gras dance committee could have set an earlier date for the lottery. Unfortunately it seems that this was impossible. Since the dance always has been, in some sense, a reward for those who participate actively in the functions of the Mardi Gras, the committee decided to keep the traditional guarantee of a free bid to anyone who sells ten books. However, this year presents an unusual difficulty. With no records to show how many students would sell ten chance books if they knew that this was the only sure way to get into the dance, the committee could not accurately predict (on the basis of the past) the number of tickets that would be left to the lottery. Therefore, an early distribution date for the bids was ruled out. Rather than ran the chance of having to go back on their promise of free bids to super-salesmen, the chairmen decided to delay the date of the lottery. It’s unfortunate but unpreventable.
SMELLS, TROWELS AND ACCENTS: Unbeknown to the rest of the University, students of Lyons Hall have been suffering through an ordeal of horrifying proportions in the past month. While the busy students in that hall have been attempting to engage in the usual pursuits of student life (which include studying), a horde of painters and plasterers have descended upon the building in an unusual middle-of-the-semester reconditioning campaign. Now certainly no one could complain abouir the University’s attempt to brighten up the interior of Lyons, but some of that hall’s inhabitants are complaining that it is just a bit cold at night when all of the windows are left open to get rid of the smell of paint and turpentine. Not only that but emerging from one’s room only to find that a crew of strange speaking workmen have erected a scaffold around the doorway is most disconcerting, especially if it blocks access to the room. Certainly in this week of impending final exams we should think of our brothers in Lyons and be thankful for our small problems. .
— B.T.&T.
9
yours?
These are the silver wings of a U. S. Air Force Navigator. As a flying officer on the Aerospace team, he has chosen a career of leadership, a career that has meaning, rewards and executive opportunity.
The Aviation Cadet Program is the gateway to this career. To qualify for this rigorous and professional training, a high school diploma is required; however, two or more years of college are highly desirable. Upon completion of the program the Air Force encourages the new officer to earn his degree so he can better handle the responsibilities of his position. This includes full pay and allowances while taking off-duty courses under the Bootstrap education program. The Air Force will pay a substantial part of all tuition costs. After having attained enough credits so that he can complete course work and residence requirements for a college degree in 6 months or less, he is eligible to appljr for temporary duty at the school of his choice.
If you think you have what it takes to earn the silver wings of an Air Force Navigator, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Ask him about Aviation Cadet Navigator training and the benefits which are available to a flying officer in the Air Force. Or fill in and mail this coupon.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the -w- y Aerospace Team. I I
Air Force
I MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY	I
' AVIATION CADET INFORMATION * I DEPT. SCO1	I
■ BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D. C. ■ ■ I am between 19 and 26V2, a citizen J I of the U. S. and a high school graduate I ■ with______years of college. Please ■ I send me detailed information on the I | Air Force Aviation Cadet program. 1
I NAME_____________________ I
j STREET___________________ |
| CITY_____________________ |
I COUNTY____________STATE___ I
REVIEW FOR FINALS
The Smart, Easy Way
BARNES & NOBLE OUTLINE SERIES
*	ELEMENTARY ACCOUNTING
*	ACCOUNTING PROBLEMS WITH ANSWERS
*	AMERICAN COL. & REVOL. HISTORY
*	AMERICAN HISTORY AT A GLANCE
*	HISTORY OF AMERICAN LITERATURE
*	ANCIENT HISTORY
*	ANCIENT. MED. & MODERN HISTORY
*	ART. HISTORY OF
*	GENERAL BIOLOGY
*	BUSINESS LAW
*	THE CALCULUS
*	FIRST YEAR COLLEGE CHEMISTRY
*	HOW TO SOLVE CHEMISTRY PROBLEMS
*	CORPORATION FINANCE
*	PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMICS
*	HISTORY OF EDUCATION
*	ENGINEERING DRAWING
*	ENGLISH LIT.. HIST. TO DRYDEN
*	ENGLISH LIT.. HIST. SINCE MILTON
*	EUROPE. 1500-1848. HISTORY OF
2nd Floor
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-the-campus
*	HISTORY OF EUROPE SINCE 1815
*	FRENCH FOR BEGINNERS
*	FRENCH GRAMMAR
*	GERMAN GRAMMAR
*	MARKETING: AN INTRODUCTION
*	COLLEGE MATHEMATICS
*	HISTORY OF MIDDLE AGES
*	HISTORY OF MUSIC
*	PLOT OUTLINES OF 100 FAMOUS NOVELS
*	PHILOSOPHY: AN INTRODUCTION
*	PHYSICS. FIRST YEAR COLLEGE
*	HISTORY OF RUSSIA
* OUTLINES OF SHAKESPEARE'S PLAYS
*	PRINCIPLES OF SOCIOLOGY
*	SPANISH FOR BEGINNERS
*	SPANISH GRAMMAR
*	SPEECH
*	HISTORY OF UNITED STATES TO 1865
*	HISTORY OF UNITED STATES SINCE 1865
*	ZOOLOGY. GENERAL
10
The Scholastic
FATHER HESBURGH TO OPEN INSTITUTE
YCS Sponsors Talks Weekly During March
Nuptial-bound. Seniors will again be able to take advantage of the Marriage Institute lectures this year, presented by the YCS. This series of weekly lectures will be given with the purpose of showing the Catholic viewpoint on marriage and expressing the duties and obligations acquired by those entering into the marriage contract.
Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will present the opening session on March 2. His topic will be, “Courtship in Marriage.” A week latex- on March 9, Mr. and Mrs. William Lennon, a Chicago couple, will lecture on the topic, “The Two Sides of Marriage.” The Reverend A. H. Meloche will visit the University on March 17. Father- Meloche, the director of the Holy Family Retreat House in Harrow, Ontario, will speak on “Sanity and Sex.”
March 23 will see Dr. and Mrs. Linus Maino from Detroit on our campus. This couple will speak on “Love in Marriage.” Another medical man, Dr. Robert Mc-Creedy, will discuss the doctor’s viewpoint on March 30. Putting the final touch on the marriage lecture seines will be Mr. Robert Christin, English professor here at Notre Dame. He and Mrs. Christin will describe the “Success in Marriage.”
COMMITTEE MEMBERS DOW, DIVNEY AND McFADDEN Helping students down the path to matrimony
Mike Divney, a senior mechanical engineering major from Hartsdale, N. Y., is the chairman for this year's series. Divney, a former public relations director for WSND, has been active in YCS and has participated on various committees throughout his four years at Notre Dame.
Assisting Divney in his numerous duties will be Ken Bourgon, a senioreducation major- from Livonia, Mich. Bourgon will be the ticket chairman. The business manager will be Bob Dow from Binghamton, N. Y. Dow is a senior majoring in mechanical engineering. Eugene McFadden from New York, N. Y., will round out the committee. McFadden, a senior history major, will be the publicity manager for this YCS project.
The Marriage Institute will be guided by the Reverend Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., who will act as moderator. Father Putz is professor of religion here at the University.
Ticket sales will be held from Febx-u-ary 8th through the 12th. A ticket fox-all six lectures, to be held in Washington Hall, may be purchased at a cost of $1 dux-ing this period.
The lectures are open to all seniors and to all others contemplating marriage in the neax- future. The Institute was initiated in 1949 with the view that learning how to live to the fullest as a husband and the fathex- of a family is a very important aspect of education today. It is now considered to be one of the most important events on the senior’s calendar.
University to Construct Rink On Floor of Old Warehouse
The Univex-sity is experimenting with the constx-uction of a small ice skating arena for student use in the vacant area behind Stanford Hall. Work has already begun on the project and may be completed by the end of the month.
The rink will actually be the floor of the old Warehouse Building which was torn down last summer. The concrete floor- of the fonner building has been leveled and slightly enlarged into a rec-tangulax- x-ink.
A layex- of sandy soil has been spread on the floox- to make it level; next to be applied is a layer- of durable plastic which will prevent the three inches of water needed for the ice from seeping into the ground — a problem that had curtailed past efforts at construction of similar student rinks here on campus. A nearby water hydrant will provide the neded water supply for the project.
The freezing of St. Mary’s lake is very undependable and it is hoped that given sufficient cold weather, an artificial rink of this kind would provide some good skating for the student body. If the project works satisfactorily this year, it may be undertaken on a larger scale in the future.	*
Mundelein Benefit Books Waring's 'Stereo Festival'
“Stereo Festival,” a new bix-th in musical and theatrical histox-y will be presented by Fred Waring and his Pennsylvanians at Mundelein College’s annual benefit Feb. 13 at the Civic Opex-a House.
Combining live pex-fox-mances with elaborate $25,000 stereo equipment, the show guarantees the “best seat in the house” fox- main floox- music lovers as well as balcony viewers.
The Wax-ing magic goes fax- afield to capture Russian medleys, Latin tunes and spix-ituals. Included in the program are The Nutcracker Suite, Sabre Dance and Russian Lullaby. From South of the bordex- come Perfidia, Doicn Argentine Way and Malaguena.
Proving the “no limit” of Waring showmanship is an array of scenery, extensive wardx-obe and artistry of choral groups and musicians.
Resex-ved tickets which can be purchased at Marshall Field (Downtown), North Shore Hotel (Evanston), box office of the Civic Opex-a House, and Mundelein College (6363 N. Sheridan Rd.) are pi-iced: main floor, $4.50-4.00; first balcony, $4.00-3.50; upper balcony, $2.50.

11
Initiate New Registration Form This Spring; New Process Promises to Erase Long Lines
Eleven to ope. These are the odds the office of academic affairs has given the ND student body for correctly registering for the spring semester on Feb. 1 and 2. Father Chester Soleta, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs has announced that the University will use a new registration form for the first time next Monday and Tuesday, and the hectic problem of registration should be no more.
Countdown! 11,10... Actually these odds have been derived from a process of elimination and combination which the academic office has been working on over’ the past four years. The student in the fall semester of 1956 had to fill out eleven different forms in order to register. This was improved in the Spring semester of that same year when
FATHER CHESTER SOLETA Modernization and fewer forms
only seven forms were used. In 1957 the number was reduced to four and this year the academic office will require only one form.
Commenting on the new form, Mr. Leo M. Corbaci, administrative assistant to the vice president of academic affairs, said, “I think we have this problem of registration licked. With this new form the students should find the procedure cut and dried. It’s certainly a far cry from those eleven forms back in ’56.”
Six out of one. This one form actually combines all the other* various forms that previously had to be filled out individually. After the form has been filled out by the student, the information on it will be duplicated by a hectograph process and approximately six copies of the form will be sent to the various departments that require them. Formerly an individual card had to be filled out for each department, post office, student directory and the like.
Even though the registration form has been altered, the procedure for registering will remain exactly the same as in the fall semester. Fees and expenses must be settled in the office of student accounts previous to registration. At the Deans’ offices the usual registration packets will be given out and ■will contain the new form, a schedule book, class cards and a tuition certification. In the Drill Hall the procedure will be identical with the one followed in the fall.
One additional station has been added to the list of stops the undergraduate student must make in the Drill Hall. At a specially marked booth, all juniors, sophomores and freshmen will exchange a student government credit card for a discount card. This card will enable ND students to receive discounts from certain South Bend merchants through the Student Discount Service Plan organized by the Student Government. In the future, this card will be given out in the fall of the year.
Any freshman or sophomore who has failed subjects during this past semester will report to his Dean’s office at the specified times.
Modem gadgets. When filling out the new registration form only a ball point pen or a lead pencil should be used since only these will make a suitable impression on the hectograph. The form will then be impressed upon a roll of gelatin treated with glycerin, transferring the necessary information to the gelatin. The necessary number of copies may then be run off the gelatin.
A.E.C. Grant To Benefit Engineering Department
The nuclear engineering courses of the mechanical engineering department will benefit from a recent grant of $36,900 awarded the University by the Atomic Energy Commission.
New equipment will be purchased which will further the educational effort in nuclear engineering. An analog computer, a nuclear reactor simulator and a power plant simulator will enable studies in kinetic and stability problems to be conducted.
A grant of $2,500 was also awarded Dr. Francis H. Raven, assistant professor of mechanical engineering, by the Research Corporation to sponsor studies in the “Synthesis of Kinetic Mechanisms.” Frank D’Souza, a graduate student, was chosen by Dr. Raven to conduct the research.	.
Dr. Raven is also authorizing a textbook on control engineering which is due to be published by McGraw-Hill in May, 1961. The book, Fundamental of Automatic Control Systems, is a pioneer in the subject of controls in that it is primarily designed for students in aeronautical and mechanical engineering and emphasizes the effect of external disturbances on control systems.
Tickets To Go On Sale Feb. 8 For 'Shocking1 French Play
Beginning Monday, Feb. 8, tickets will go on sale for the University Theater’s production Tiger at the Gates. Tickets will be available daily from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. ait the Washington Hall box of- . fice.	r
The play, that many critics have declared to be “one of the most shocking of our time” will be presented in the r usual two series of performances (Thursday, Feb. 11 to Saturday, Feb. 13 and Thursday, Feb. 18 to Saturday, Feb. 20). Each performance will begin at 8:30 p.m.
In the form of an allegory about the characters of Helen, Paris, Hector and Ulysses of the Homeric legend, the play when first presented in France in 1935 was satirically entitled The Trojan War <, Will Not Take Place. Its theme is that despite all efforts of men of peace and ~ good will, wars are inevitable.
To Hold Study Day on Feb. 13 * ; As Part of International Week *
Notre Dame’s chapter of the Young , Christian Students will sponsor an In- ‘ ternational Study Day to be held Satur- i day, February 13, as part of the observance of International Week, to be celebrated by YCS groups all over the * world.
The affair here will open with a High Mass at 11:30 a.m. by Rev. Louis Putz, . C.S.C., chaplain of YCS at Notre Dame.
Afternoon activities will consist of two lectures to be followed by group discussions. Rev. Robert Brooks, O. Praem., will deliver a talk on “The Mys- ' tical Body and the Community,” at 1:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. * Mr. D’Antonio of the sociology depart- , ment will speak at 3:30 p.m. on “The ' World Population Problem.”	t
A social evening including a pizza party, singing and dancing in the Vet-ville Recreation Hall will be the climax of the day.
The cost of the affair will be $1 per * student, and proceeds from the study y day will go to further the work of the International YCS. This work includes such projects as student-run educational programs in Africa, career guidance services in various underdeveloped countries, and leadership training of youth 4 । in the African and Asian countries.	.
The specific purpose of the upcoming study day as explained by the YCS	I
group here is to help students inform	»
themselves of world problems and to en- | courage them to develop intelligent opin- j ions compatible with both the moral theology of the Church and the realities of the world situation.
Students from St. Mary’s, St. Joseph’s . I College at Rensselaer and Marian College at Indianapolis will also attend the study day.
Officers of the Notre Dame YCS are Jerry Murphy, Skip Easterly, Jerry Wolfe, Joe Keyerleber and Mike Corcoran.
12
The Scholastic
Dukes of Dixieland to Present Jazz Concert; Group to Appear During Mardi Gras Festival
J., Otte
One of the main features of Notre Dame’s Mardi Gras week end will be the presentation of a jazz concert by the , well-known Dukes of Dixieland. The concert will be held at one o’clock on Saturday afternoon, Feb. 27, in the Fieldhouse. Approximately 4,000 tickets will be available first to dance bid holders and then on the usual basis of first-come, first-served.
“Wild teenagers.’’ Ten years ago in ' New Orleans, a pair of teenage brothers enlisted some of their neighborhood chums and formed a small band for the sheer pleasure of playing old-time Dixie-< land music. The boys, Frankie and Freddie Assunto, rounded up enough players to form a seven-piece band, rehearsed a few numbers and had no ' trouble walking off with the top honors in a Horace Heidt weekly radio show that was visiting New Orleans on a talent hunt. Thus began an uphill climb for the Dukes of Dixieland that has led to their being ranked one of the most successful groups in the business.
The Dukes have a style stemming ' basically from that of the original Dixieland band, which enjoyed its peak popularity during the early part of the 20th century. Actually, the Dukes are a pert feet illustration of a kind of feed-back in jazz whereby contemporary musicians perform in the humble tradition of Negro song and dance bands on street cor-■ ners years ago.
Where other jazz combos attempt to sound like these song and dance bands of yesteryear, slow, easy-going and even lazy — the Dukes have a more virile style that imparts considerably more * character to whatever they play. Their
THE DUKES OF DIXIELAND
Royal musicians to entertain noble audience
interpretations of songs going back as far as the gay nineties has a kind of modem dynamic quality which places them apart from any other contemporary combo.
Although the Dukes’ kind of playing represents perfect refinement of old-time New Orleans music, there is nothing oldtime about their performance. Every member of the group is a seasoned musician, despite the fact that most of the combo is well under 30 years of age.
One can’t help but get the feeling that the Dukes enjoy making music more than the listener enjoys hearing it, and this is apparent in every tune they play. Just as the old generation survives in its offspring, so the oldest tradition of jazz is being kept alive in a vital form by this handful of young musicians from the land of Dixie.
Also Buddy. Additional top flight entertainment for the week end will be the Buddy Morrow orchestra playing at the Mardi Gras Ball. As in past years the Mardi Gras Carnival will be held in the Navy Drill Hall.
START ON NUMBER THREE
Tryouts for the spring musical, THE MOST HAPPY FELLOW will be held on Sunday, February 7 and Tuesday, February 9. The well-known musical by Frank Loesser will be the third and last student play of this year’s season. Singers, dancers and actors are presently needed for the production. The tryouts will be in Washington Hall at 7 p.m.
Bissideits, Beware
It is a bad thing to be hypercritical, but it is also a bad thing to be blind to imperfections. Extremism of any sort is a difficult, and unrealistic path to follow; being “wishy-washy” is not much better.
The first semester is finished, and it is a good time to review and preview. In regard to the Student Senate, the image re
mains: it is not infallible, but neither is it incorrigible. It will continue to fluctuate as it has been doing, between highs and lows.
The Senate accepted the constitutions of the partisan political groups as well as it could have under the conditions imposed. It created and improved upon the lottery system for the purchase of dance bids on a fair basis. A swarm of budgets, its own included, passed through the group, and a stack of money was distributed in the process. It set up the Jazz Festival, in addition to the Louie Armstrong concert. Attempts to set up to and from downtown transportation during the bus strike were thwarted by South Bend authorities. The Campus Charity Chest funds were appropriated to needy groups all over the world. Planning for the future was done in lining up the Distinguished Speakers Program. A new accounting procedure for graduating class funds was approved. It okayed the SDS (Student Discount Sei-vice) and slated its beginning for second semester. Encouragement was offered to the Mock Convention. The payment of, and the right of collection of, an additional quarter was refused after the NFCCS requested it. They turned down a chance to ask that Frankie’s be placed “off-limits,” a squirrely idea from the beginning. Two very large bonfires were also held under the Senate’s auspices.
It must be remembered that the function of the Senate is ever-absorbing, ever-pyramiding. It automatically continues those projects started in the past, so it cannot be judged on the basis of new and sensational ideas. The above accomplishments make an impressive array for one semester’s activities regardless.
Oh, yes, indeed, the Senate sometimes gets mired in the swamp of politics and legislation of lost causes. It even becomes susceptible to those diseases and vermin the swamp breeds, red tape, verbiage and illogic. But have you ever read a Congressional Digest, or attended a session of the United States Senate or House of Representatives? It’s the system, and it looks good to me, despite its drawbacks.	.
Happy Final Examinations.
t January 22, 1960
13
1960:
WHO’S
Kenneth Adamson Michael Ahern Bruce Babbitt
Thomas Banchoff Ronald Blubaugh
This year’s members of Who’s Who IN AMERICAN COLLEGES and Universities were selected by the secret balloting of a group of juniors in an election conducted by the Blue Circle Honor Society. The electing juniors were determined by the heads of the 13 major campus organizations.
Later in the year the entire national membership of Who’s Who will be published in a single volume, available at libraries across the cotmtry. Listed below are the 34 Notre Dame men tvho have been nominated to a listing in this collegiate Who’s Who.
Michael Brienza	Edward Butler
Richard Corbett Brace Cossachi
KENNETH ADAMSON is a Commerce majoi- from Colorado Springs, Colo. Captain of the Notre Dame football team, Adamson is a cadet commander in the AROTC unit and a member of the Hall President’s Council.
MICHAEL AHERN is the present Program Director of WSND. He was Sports Director of the station his junior year and is a Dean’s List student. Home for Mike is Indianapolis.
BRUCE BABBITT, president of the student body, is a Dean’s List student. Hailing from Flagstaff, Ariz., he has been a hall senator, stay senator and AB senator.
THOMAS BANCHOFF is a Dean’s List student, president of the Wranglers, and Associate Editor of the Juggler. He is also a member of the AB Advisory Council, Bookmen and Third Order of St. Francis, the winner of a GM Scholarship, Woodrow Wilson Fellowship and Borden Prize, he is from Trenton, N.J.
RONALD BLUBAUGH is the editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic. He has done work on the paper for the past three years and also holds down the presidency of the Pacific Northwest club. Blubaugh, who is majoring in economics, is from Portland, Ore.
MICHAEL BRIENZA of Mount Vernon, N. Y., is president of the Physics club and Westchester club. A Dean’s List student, he is also a member of the Joint Engineering Council.
EDWARD BUTLER, student affairs commissioner of the Student Government is from Akron, Ohio. Presently a Blue Circle member, he was president of the junior class.
RICHARD CORBETT presides as president of the senior class. Hailing from Rochester, N. Y., he is on the Dean’s List and a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society.
BRUCE COSSACHI, from Harrison, N. Y., is the drum major of the Marching Band. The leader of the Dixie Ramblers, Cossachi traveled widely throughout Europe on a jazz tour with the Ramblers.
14
The Scholastic
I
iWHO
Richard Juliani William Mapother Pari Marto
’	GERALD GOUDREAU is the head of the debate team
and a company commander in the NROTC. An engineering j	major from Cleveland, Ohio, he is the recipient of a Naval
Institute Award.
*r
HARRY HENNING, JR., recipient of a Meehan Scholarship, is a Dean’s List student and member of the Dean’s :	Honor Seminar. President of the Dixie and Georgia Club, he
is the cadet head of the AFROTC. His home is in Chamblee, i	Ga.
::	JAMES HIRSCHFELD, a Dean’s List student, is from
■'	Champaign, Ill. Jim is vice chairman of the Blue Circle
•	Honor Society, member of the Aesculapians, and Knights of
Columbus.
i	RICHARD JULIANI is on the Hall Presidents Council,
|	a stay senator, member of the Permanent Hall Residence com-
|	mittee, the Knights of Columbus and American Catholic Social
A	Society. A Dean’s List student, he is from Camden, N.J.
WILLIAM MAPOTHER, from Louisville, Ky., is a Dean’s t	List student. He is also secretary-treasurer of Pi Sigma Al-
■	pha, president of the Kentucky club and an organizer of the
‘	Mock Convention.
fPAUL MARTO has been president, treasurer, social chairman and drum captain for the Marching and Varsity Band. Hailing from Little Neck, N. Y., he is Science club secretary, •	a member of the Technical Review staff, and Campus Charity
Chest treasurer.
Emmett McCarthy Hugh McQucta
EMMETT McCARTHY, a member of the varsity basketball team, is from Chicago, Ill. He is a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society and was the general chairman of the Junior Prom. He is on the A. B. Dean’s List.
HUGH McQUEEN, of South Bend, Ind., is a graduate student in metallurgy. He has M.S., B.S., and B.E. degrees and is active in the Grad Student Association, Knights of Columbus and Confraternity of Catholic Doctrine.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, president of the YCS, hails from White Plains, N. Y. He is also active in his Hall Council and the NFCCS group on campus. ’
DAVID J. NAGEL is president of Nu Delta Epsilon, vice president of EGSC, president of NT, and a member of the Technical Review staff. A Dean’s List student, he lives in West Chicago, Ill.

F
JAMES NAUGHTON is a Dean’s List student from Painesville, Ohio. Chairman of the Jazz Festival, he is also a hall senator, a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society and a company commander in the NROTC.
Pat O’Daly
I
January 22, I960
Thomas Scanlon William Schedder
Dennis Shaul
Thomas Shishman
Ronald Sowers
Augusto Spencer
Nefl Stalter
Charles Tausche
JOHN O’BRIEN, who calls Cincinnati, Ohio, home is a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society. A Dean’s List student, he is also active in the AROTC.
PATRICK O’DALY, present editor-in-chief of the Dome, is from Brooklyn, N. Y. A member of the Dome staff for the past four years, he is also a member of the Aesculapian Club.
EDWARD PAULSEN has held positions as president of the Metropolitan club, chairman of the campus Charity Chest, and chairman of the Military Ball and tri-military smoker. A resident of Flushing, N. Y., he is also a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society and the Army drill team.
RICHARD SAPP is business manager of the Technical Review, vice president of the Pittsburgh Club, secretary of the Engineering Open House, Distinguished Military Student of AFROTC, and a member of the Monogram club. A Dean’s List student, he is from Munhall, Pa.
THOMAS SCANLON, a Dean’s List student from Scranton, Pa., is presently the chairman of the Blue Circle Honor Society and has been active on the debate team.
WILLIAM SCHECKLER, executive vice president of NFCCS, is a former treasurer of the Student Senate and a stay senator. A Dean’s List student, he hails from Kenosha, Wise.
DENNIS.SHAUL is a past president of the student body. A resident of Akron, Ohio, he has also been active in the Blue Circle Honor Society and the debate team. Recently, he won a Rhodes Scholarship to study at Oxford.
THOMAS SHISHMAN, who resides in Norfolk, Va., is a secretary of NDE, editor- of the Technical Review, and chairman of the Engineering Open House. A Dean’s List student, he has received a Chemstrand Scholarship.
RONALD SOWERS, vice president of the senior class, hails from Lexington, Mo. He is a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society, a hall senator, and battalion commander in NROTC.
AUGUSTO SPENCER, from Santiago, Chile, is the secretary of the La Raza Club. He is also active in the IRE, of which he is secretary.
NEIL STALTER presently is station manager of WSND. A Dean’s List student, he is from Wilmington, Del. Stalter is also president of the Delaware Valley Club and a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society.
CHARLES TAUSCHE holds the post of associate editor of the Scholastic. A Dean’s List student^ he is also president of the History Club and vice president of the International Relations club. He is from Austin, Minn.
EDWARD THOMPSON is a Dean’s List student from Kirkwood, Mo. He has been sports editor and is now associate editor of the Scholastic, on which he has been active for four years.
JAMES J. YOCH, editor of the Juggler and president of the Bookmen, is from Glendale, Mo. A Dean’s List student, he is a former features editor of the Scholastic and is active in the Wranglers.
The Scholastic
SHELLEY

on Life Savers:
“So sweet, the
sense faints picturing them!”
Want OUT on big car costs?
I UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME PRESS
What America Stands Sot
Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
The issues of American identity and the world’s image of the United States are the chief concern of the articles in this volume. The authors’ evaluation of American institutions, ideas, and purposes should eliminate many of the stereotypes that so often becloud the world’s vision of what America stands for.
Distinguished scholars have contributed to the volume: Jerome J. Kerwin, Chicago; Guy B. Johnson, North Carolina; Don K. Price, Harvard; Karl de Schweinitz, Jr., Northwestern; Clark Kerr, President, California; Charles M. Hardin, Chicago; George N. Shuster, President, Hunter; John Ely Burchard, MXT.; and Stephen D. Kertesz, M. A. Fitzsimons, John T. Frederick, Thomas J. Stritch, and L A. Abell, Notre Dame.
$4.75
For a Gift of Distinction	'
On sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore and aD leading booksellers
Can’t get IN new small cars? :
GET THE BEST OF BOTH: k	_
2. Small car economy and handling ^Go Rambler for 601
Smartest Rambler ever ... beautifully new for ’60! Save on price, gas, resale. Room for six 6-footers. Easier entry, exit. Easier to park. At your Rambler dealer’s now—6 or V-8!
SEE THE NEW STANDARD OF BASIC EXCELLENCE
By Popular Demand! New for *60 1OO-inch wheelbase
UNILEI MEHUI 4 MH SHU
*1844
SwtnWddiwrad prinM ta«ta.Whe..ta Mw
SEE YOUR NEARBY RAMBLER DEALER
January 22, I960
“Variety is the spice of life.” Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT CANTONESE FOODS
•
Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken
Sea Foods
Now!
SIR WALTER RALEIGH in a Pouch!
Keeps Tobacco

Reasonably Priced
ft
MARK'S CAFE
SEN SAI GAI
134 N. Main St.
1VIQ jnoA uo 0^9
QNSM
uo USAS si 41 -Aouo} jnoA 143400 USAS Aoui 4| *41 Aoi -uo 4146101 nox '£-£ IU04 oisnui 4snl 04 ueisji 4.UOQ
FRESHER!
New airproof aluminum foil pouch keeps famous, mild Sir Walter Raleigh 44% fresher than old-fashioned tin cans. Choice Kentucky hurley— extra aged. Get the Blh^ familiar orange-and-black pack with the new pouch inside I
No spills when you -fill... jusi- dip in I
Open the pack-Ouf comes the Pouch!
Sooner or Later— Your favorite Tobacco -
Carries flat in pocket. No bulge. Flexible, top . . . it bends with you.
Tearproof—it's triple laminated. Really durable . . . won't spring a leak.

SIR WALTER RALEIGH
r
->

/■

n
A
4
4-
V)

k
18
The Scholastic
G'uiical
1 AMERICAN
11
'CULTURE
*
- WEEK
-. J <0 STIMULATE thought and to demonstrate the theory -I- that the United States is not just the tail of the kite of European civilization, the Student Council of St. Mary’s Col-P lege has planned an American Culture Week. Chairman Della U McLachlan has announced that the week will begin at 12:40 ‘ (Wednesday, February 10) with a reading of American . poetry in the Reignbeaux. Similar readings will be presented j . each day of the week, representing the work of Walt Whit-J man, Carl Sandburg, and others. Congressman John Brade-’ mas has obtained a tape of Carl Sandburg’s speech to Con, • gress, which will be presented Friday, Feb. 16. Sister Made-< leva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College, will give a convocation to the student body, faculty and visitors.
. Exhibitions of American craftsmanship and artwork will .1 , be displayed daily in various parts of the buildings, offering | such curiosities as early American tools, old dolls, kerosene 2 lamps. Of special interest to the aesthetically inclined, is an ? exhibition of art, depicting the development of American art and thought from early pioneer times to the contemporary period. Experimental films will also be shown during the week. j Wednesday evening, Robert Shaw will conduct his famous
Josh White
Chorale and Orchestra in a performance of Bach’s Mass in B minor. Offering one of the most famous American Chorale groups today, the Robert Shaw concert will certainly be a significant part of this compact suiwey of American achievement. Of further musical interest to everyone is a Friday evening concert of Josh White, the internationally famous folk singer and guitarist, who will develop this beautiful art even further by sharing with us his knowledge of American folk ways and legends. Both of these concerts "will be in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
Josh White, “The Great American Troubadour,” will he featured in a program on February 12 at 8:15 pan. in O’Laughlin auditorium.
The well-known folk singer from Greenville, South Carolina, started his singing career at the age of seven, when he helped a blind evangelist across the street; in return the man. offered to take the child along on his travels.
In the next seven years, Josh White was seen in almost any town between the Atlantic Coast and the Mississippi River. Along this road he saw the life, met the characters,, and heard the stories out of which he was to compose his own songs later.
In 1950 he embarked on a European tour through England, Scotland, Denmark, France, and Italy. Mr. White’s tour was such a success that since then' he has incorporated, a three-month tour of Europe each year into his busy schedule. In addition he has recorded for almost every major record company in America.	.
Bruce Cosacchi will present his Dixie Ramblers, of campus reknown, in the Reignbeaux for an expert demonstration of the unique American art of Dixieland jazz.
(Continued on page 24)
19
January 22, 1960

Catholic
Education
be made more attractive to them and they will be drawn into it. Instead of raising the amount of work, teachers could raise the level of the subject matter they are talking about.
Historically the great centers of education weren’t too concerned whether- students got by without working too hard or not. They were more taken up with the interests of people in the intellectual life and providing something for those who were already interested.
The second aspect of form that does not lend itself very 1 well to the educational process is our present system of measuring college education by courses and credits. The course and credit system is fatal to learning; it puts a quantitative measurement on things which by their very nature are not quanti- r tative. It measures works and not knowledge.
The only way the student presents his accomplishments is by courses and credits. This is so contrary to the nature of the intellect that it is a barrier to intellectual progress. Stu- * dents are willing to sacrifice almost eveiything, including knowledge and any experience no matter how valuable, for the all-important credit.	,
The present system of testing exemplifies the overemphasis ' which is placed on the credit. There doesn’t seem to be any .
by JAMES O’ROURKE
IT DOESN’T seem necessary to offer a justification for selfcriticism. Without it thei’e is no progress, only continuation; no humility, only false pride; no evaluation, only blind opinion. An examination of our University is requisite now as it always should have been and always will be. It is necessary because part of education is learning to self-examine, and because so much is here at stake.
A small part of such an examination was made by a group of Notre Dame students, faculty members, and administrators. All three groups of the academic community were included in order to avoid the one-sidedness that so often characterizes judgments on contemporary situations.
Although the greatest value of this examination lies in the bringing to light of Notre Dame’s deficiencies and problems, it is part of a much more prodigious effort to evaluate the whole of American Catholic higher education. This project has been undertaken by the National Federation of Catholic College Students and it is only because of the Federation’s sponsorship and planning that this study of our academic life has taken place.
THE FORMS OF EDUCATION
Early in the first discussion session a very general but yet crucial problem was raised by Dr. Willis Nutting of the General Program. In dividing education into two aspects, form and matter, (students and teachers comprising the matter and the way the education is conducted, being the form) the question arises, “Does the form of education that we are using really fit the nature of the matter?” Does our present system accommodate and conform to the way the human mind learns? No, it does not appear so, nor is it tending toward such a necessary conformity.
Looking more closely at the problem there seems to be two aspects of form that deserve criticism and demand some kind of change.
The first aspect concerns the effort to raise standards. The phrase “to raise standards” is quite commonly used but what does it mean? What is raised? It seems evident that the raise is being made in the work quota. By making the courses more difficult (in amount of work), it is assumed that the students are becoming better educated. However, the natural student reaction to this, far from being beneficial, is “How do I get around this work? What is the least I can do and still satisfy the professor enough to earn a four?”
Standards can be raised in another way. Instead of pushing students into academic excellence, the intellectual life could
20
concern whether or not a student retains the knowledge he 1 has acquired or if he relates it to anything else. The credit, isolated and meaningless, marches on while the student’s knowledge doesn’t march on at all.	I
An honest examination should be given that tests a student ' not on what courses he has taken but on what he knows. In the present system any knowledge acquired outside of a syllabus is ignored. An exam, occurring near the end of the four y. years, might occupy the greater part of a semester. A few two-hour exams are not enough to get an honest opinion of । what a man knows.
It was remarked that changing to this more Europeantype system would involve not only a change in organization but also a change in the attitudes of both professors and stu- k dents. All of this indeed appears to be very necessary.
*P
THE TWO CULTURES
There seems to be, at present, a split in the cultural world between the sciences and the humanities. This was brought to 4 light in a survey by C. P. Snow in which he interviewed thousands of scientists and humanists asking each group basic questions which pertained to the other group’s area of study. An astounding ignorance was revealed on the part of k both groups, and the intellectual schizophrenia of our society was frightfully apparent.
Can this split in culture be traced back to the University? A look at the present situation here at Notre Dame demands
The Scholastic
) an answer of yes. One only has to notice how both Liberal I Arts and Science students blindly defend their respective areas I of study. Each is “better,” “more significant,” and “more ; worthy of study.”
• As a consequence there is no effort made to establish any I ! relationship between the sciences and the humanities. An example of this is the problem of evolution, where both theology I	and biology have something to say and must be related in
1	order to solve the difficulty. Father James Doll quoted one of
his biology students as writing on a test, “Evolution is against my religion and I will not answer this question.”
H FREEDOM VS. RIGOR
' ' It seems that although Science students enroll in Liberal Arts courses and Liberal Arts students enroll in Science ’ * courses, their antagonistic attitudes militate against a valuable educational experience.
The Liberal Arts students aren’t prepared to profit from .1 the Science courses because they don’t have a correct idea of ' ' what Science is and where it fits in with a Liberal education.
They considei- a Science course to be so different from a Lib-p eral Arts course that it is not a part of but just an adjunct J to their education.
i The Science students appeal- to be equally narrow-minded ’ as they quip, “If I want a Liberal education, I can get it on the side. Anybody can pick up a book and begin reading.” X With this attitude the professors in Liberal Arts are superfluous to learning and the understanding of man is considered an easy task in comparison to the understanding of physical ' nature.
There also seems to be a very distinct dichotomy between :	the two approaches to education: The Science school empha-
sizes rigor and works while the school of Arts and Letters emphasizes freedom and inquiry. Most of the Liberal Arts students feel that a large part of their education consists in reading and thinking outside of class about problems on I p which they will not be tested. On the contrary, Science students, being burdened down with work, don’t seem to have j1' time to develop this habit.
The problem of excessive work loads (which does not exclude the College of Arts and Letters), seems to be another fault of the form of education. Each teacher is competing for the time of the students, and it seems that the teacher who is most vociferous in his demands is the one for whom the student does the most work. This denies the student his , right to evaluate the courses and put in time on what he thinks is important. It stretches him apart and produces an , atmosphere which is directly opposite to that required for integrated knowledge.
THEOLOGY VS. THE INTELLECTUAL LIFE
’ ’’ Besides this “split in cultures” between the sciences and t the humanities there also seems to be a much more damaging and dangerous split between theology and the secular intellectual disciplines. The split itself is fatal to a Catholic in-1	tellectual outlook, but when evidence of it exists at a Catholic
। I	university, it can be said to be fatal to the university’s justi-
fication for existence. A Catholic university exists not to save souls but to do justice to the truth that theology has a place, and a very important one, in the intellectual life of man.
A' St. Thomas Aquinas speaks of theology as “a wisdom above all human wisdoms, not merely in any one order, but absolutely.” If it is above all other wisdoms it ought to occupy the highest place in a Catholic university; but here it I. seems to occupy one of the lowest. It ought to be the most challenging and stimulating discipline, but here it is the least.
* Its professors ought to be the best teachers, the most select group, but here anyone can conduct a theology course. The । students ought to be more concerned with theology than with any other discipline, but as a subject of intellectual interest
4s that poses exciting problems, it is almost dead.	•
' The theology courses seem to be orientated away from the ■ t academic and intellectual atmosphere that is found in other I I courses. Many theological problems are touched upon in phi-1 j losophy and literature, and the students are almost begged
= January 22, 1960
by the teacher to think about them. On the contrary, in the theology course the students are given the answers before the problems and are almost begged not to think about them. A student who inquires and thinks about a theological problem is a “liberal Catholic.” There are many areas of knowledge on which theology has something to say and on which theologians disagree, but these are not even paid lip-service.
“Dogmatism” is a characteristic often attached to Catholic education. In theology it is not the dogmatism of the Deposit of Faith that is responsible but the dogmatism of reason (or the lack of it). A dogmatic and lifeless discipline has no place in a university. The Deposit of Faith is not a discipline but theology is, and “dogmatism” can rightfully be levelled at theology. The dogmatic attitude or method in theology has an effect on the student’s attitude toward the rest of his subjects and results in a general squelching of any spirit of wonder or inquiry.
This study does not in any way pretend to be comprehensive. Only a few of the problems of Catholic higher education, and in particular of Notre Dame, have been brought to light, but it does represent a step toward the kind of intelligent self-criticism that is so necessary for progress.
ANCIENT
EDITOR
50 Years Ago: “On Sunday evening, the Holy Cross Total Abstinence Society held its regular meeting. The program included the Seminary orchestra, a selection by the quartette^ and a debate on prohibition. The Rev. Dr. Iiwing’s remarks at the conclusion of the program were most enthusiastically received. Dr. Irving spoke on the need of total abstinence, and his words of sound advice and counsel made a deep impression on his hearers. After the meeting, several new members were received and signed the pledge to abstain from all intoxicating liquor- for life.”
* * *
70 Years Ago: “Professor Egan’s lecture on Tuesday in the Criticism Class on the suffei-ings and rewards of the literary life must have somewhat cooled the ardor of some clever beginners. He advised them to find a business or profession first that would afford a fixed income, and then to use literature as a staff. ‘It is a good staff,’ he said, ‘for a man who has served his apprenticeship’; and he quoted the sum total of Anthony Trollope’s earnings as five hundred thousand dollars. The young man who can work hard all day and give an hour or so of his leisure to writing will probably succeed — if his fortitude is equal to his talent.”
* * *
90 Years Ago: “St. Mary’s Academy is two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
“The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet its requirements. Magnificent forest trees rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley still stand in native grandeur; the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the quiet seclusion invite reflection and study.”
21
Pluvial Education (PvE)
JOHN L. MELTON
IT is the primary aim of the department to give the student a technical knowledge of pluviology and selftransportation, sufficient to enable him to know when and how to come in out of the rain. For those who choose to continue their studies beyond four semesters, increased opportunity is afforded to develop additional dexterity and rain-recognition techniques.
Registration for freshmen Pluvial Education courses is determined by a placement examination. Students showing an extreme deficiency in rain recognition are assigned to PvE 1; those shownig a notable superiority in rain recognition are assigned to PvE 101. All other students are assigned to PvE 11.
An examination to determine the student’s general proficiency in coming in out of the rain is ordinarily given at the middle of the fourth semester. Satisfactory completion of this examination is required for graduation. Students who show by their failure in the proficiency examination that they do not know when to come in out of the rain must satisfactorily complete, in addition to the above requirements, PvE 103 {Principles of Rain Clothing), and are then eligible to repeat the proficiency examination. A comprehensive examination is required of all Pluvial Education majors.
COURSE DESCRIPTIONS
1.	Rain Recognition I. A course in the essentials of recognizing the symptoms of rain. Ordinarily required of all deficient freshmen.
11.	Introductory Pluviology I. An introduction to the scientific study of coming in out of the rain, designed to promote knowledge of and proficiency in seeking shelter. Emphasis is placed on the mechanics of entry. One hour each week is spent in the demonstration laboratory.
12.	Introductory Pluviology II. A continuation of PvE 11, intended to give the student a practical familiarity with drizzles, mists and showers, and with the conventional methods of obtaining shelter from them. Two lectures and two two-hour laboratory periods each week. Four credit hours.
101.	Theory and Practice of Pluvial Education I. The course includes marching, trotting, running, obstacle-scaling, and door-opening. Emphasis is placed on the more strenuous methods of coming in out of the rain. Required of all Pluvial Education majors.
103.	Principles of Rain Clothing. A no-credit course designed as a continuation of PvE 12; for those students who failed the proficiency examination. Includes a study of various types of rain gear and their relative efficiency.	.
105.	Umbrella for Non-Majors. A study of the nomenclature, care and handling of the common umbrella. Includes practice in opening and closing umbrellas, and their use under normal climatic conditions. One one-hour laboratory period a week. Prerequisite, PvE 103.	.
107. Fundamentals of Foot-Wiping. An elementary course in the principles of foot-wiping. The lectures and discussions are planned so as to develop a familiarity with the basic techniques of cleaning feet. i This course is intended to give the student a clear understanding of the door mat as a basis for elementary «) housekeeping.
111. Ingressive Psychology. In this course, emphasis is placed on the practical application of psychology to problems of coming in out of the rain. The laws of trespass are studied and illustrated in typical rain situations.
113. Rainmanship. The art of staying dry without actually coming in out of the rain. Lectures, discussions, required readings, and reports.
126.	Tests and Measurements. A survey of the x more important standardized methods of measuring rainfall in common use. Special emphasis is placed on 1 the incidence of precipitation on the alluvial plateau of the Iberian Peninsula. Prerequisite, PvE 125.
130.	Medieval Foundations of Pluvial Egression. Emphasis on the foundation of modern concepts of coming in out of the rain by the fusion of Graeco-Roman, Teutonic, and Siamese elements. Emergence of the umbrella and of the mackintosh and trench coat.	.t
131.	Sociology of Rain Problems. A sociological study of the important pluvial problems and practices:	'
distribution of rainfall, the influence of dampness on the individual, rain and absenteeism, the common cold and problems of alcohol.	।
141.	Philosophy of Pluvial Expression. The prin- ' ciples underlying coming in out of the rain, and the 4-relative values of different methods of escaping rain when tested by these principles.
142.	History of Pluviology. A brief survey of pluvial education, theories, institutions and practice during ancient and modern times, with special emphasis on con- I temporary pluviology.
183.	Introduction to Pluvial Literature. A sur- ’ vey of the historical development of literature on rain- . fall, supplemented by readings of selected specimens.
189. Contemporary Pluvial Literature. Structure, device, and idiom in contemporary prose and poetry	1
dealing with rain. New trends and leading writers of	'
the twentieth century, with special emphasis on Maugham and Bromfield.
214. The Pluviaphobe in Contemporary Civiliza- a tion.
225. Special Problems in Rain-Escape.
239 Seminar in Coming in out of the Rain.	'
264. Seminar on The Deluge in Ancient Near- a Eastern Literature.
294. The Aesthetics of Rain-Escape.	I
299. Master’s Thesis. Six Hours’ Credit Upon Acceptance.
We would like to thank die publishers of Modern Age for permission to reprint this article from their fall issue, 1959.
22
The Scholastic
| ‘^7’OUR dreams of romantic foreign travel can now become 1 -I- a reality. Today more students are discovering the low a cost tours offered by student organizations and still others are studying or working in Europe under international student exchange programs. This student exodus to Europe has be-/ come so great that it is attaining recognition in education with J those who want to achieve a more complete background in the J humanities through personal experience.
The National Student Association and the National Feder; ation of Catholic College Students, both non-profit organizations, offer a wide variety of reasonably priced tours and study programs which give you more days in Europe for your money. To be even more alluring, they receive foundation grants which enable them to subsidize some of their programs. Attractively all of these programs also have a high ratio of coeds. (The coed ratio examples I can personally vouch for from being on an NS A tour two summers ago were 27-6, 27-3, ' and 25-1.) Furthermore they understand and trust college students as adults, because on these tours you are given the ’ independence expected of maturity.
European travel has always assumed a certain air of mystery and exclusiveness. But the intriguing and disrupting f problems of world tension also stimulate students to go abroad ’ in order to receive a lesson in international understanding. This mission carries a wide spectrum of potential excitement. Within the serious tone of experience you may see the Pope and receive his blessing; you can witness innumerable art treasures such as the Mona Lisa, Last Supper, and Night-x watch; and you might become an authority on Gothic, Byzantine, Baroque, or Roman styles of architecture. In a more k frolicsome tone of adventure you can enjoy a liter of beer in the Hofbrauhaus, you might choose entertainment with an evening at the Follies Bergere or the Lido in Paris; and you , may sun and swim at the French Riviera. . . admiring the s new fashions in bikinis. On the economical side you have the [ opportunity to purchase many bargains in quality merchandise 4 under a tax-free exemption quota of $500 total value. (For ? example being a pre-med, I bought a Zeiss binoc microscope r- for med school at $310 which would now cost $675 in the U.S.) - Turning now to the actual travel programs, here is a gen-l('L.eral outline of opportunities for student travel in Europe:
Stideit Travel:
EUROPE...I960
by TOM KURT
NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Twenty-three tours, cost varying from $795 to $1480, from 54 to 82 days, including Volkswagen Tours, Renault Dauphine Tour, East-West Tour (to Russia, Poland, and Western Europe), Festivals of Art and Music Tour, Oberammergau Tour, Olympic Games tour, study tours to Austria, Italy, or France, and many general interest tours. Non- -European tours include a Latin-America Tour and Bermuda Tours during Easter.
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF CATHOLIC COLLEGE STUDENTS
Four general interest European tours, cost varying from $697 to $1212, from 43 to 67 days. Tours to Bermuda and Acapulco during Easter.
AMERICAN STUDENT INFORMATION SERVICE
Five work programs combined with short tours (jobs inelude engineering, construction, camp counseling, resorts, etc.), basic cost varies from $419 to $869, total days vary with particular work.
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE EXCHANGE OF STUDENTS OF TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE
Work for engineers and science students in European industry; wages should pay all but transportation expense.
CLASSROOMS ABROAD
Study tours to Spain, France, Germany, or Austria, cost about $1180.
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
One- or two-semester program at the University of Vienna with vacations and part of summer spent touring, one semester $1395 and two semesters $2080.
Most touring agencies will arrange any type of transpor- . tation to and from Europe you would like. Basic tour prices . usually include transatlantic and European transportation plus room and board except where otherwise stipulated. If you don’t take into account the number of days of the tour length and understand this might include the 14-20 days needed for round trip Atlantic crossing, you can easily be- -come confused when comparing tour prices.	-
This is the first year that any organized publicity effort has been made on campus to outline European travel opportunities. We all help pay for Notre Dame’s membership in NSA and NFCCS with our $2.25 Senate fee during September registration. Thus we deserve to be informed of the travel service these agencies maintain in order to take advantage of their non-profit travel dividends. For further student appeal both NSA and NFCCS tours work reciprocally with other national student unions and offer daily contact with European students.
When investigating European travel, you cannot overlook the possibilities of touring about the continent on your own. Although it is now getting late to arrange reservations for (Continued on page 24)	_
•	, 23
January 22, 1960

AT THE THEATERS
Whereas, at this point a regular informative column of the sort described by the title would be useless,
Whereas, of late I have been the subject of heated controversy regarding the purpose of this regular feature, and
Whereas, I consider myself to be a literate being capable of arranging a few letters to look like samples of the English language,
Be it therefore resolved that at present I proceed to explain the deep philosophy behind my character and the raison d’etre of this column.
First and foremost, let me point out that I am not a simple human being, but a composite. Needless to say, Tony Wong is not my real name. Some may take this to mean that I am a bit chicken. This is partly time. Still others will regard it as the right of the author to use a pen name, especially if his own is not picturesque enough. This is also partly time. My faithful readers would be quite disillusioned if I were to give my Christian name as my by-line. I am, therefore, not Oriental, as has been mistakenly implied by several people close to ine.
From a character shrouded in mystery comes to you a weekly movie column which, in the words of one of my critics, “taxes the minds of the readers
in the extreme.” My deepest apologies, Jack. My only intention, aside from informing you what’s showing downtown, is to lighten the burden of your studies with a couple of minutes of light reading. For those who want straight facts, let me say that you would be greatly disappointed to read just a listing of the movies. The press releases in my possession are very colorless. Without some dressing up, they would prove to be extremely dull reading matter.
It has been almost a year since my name started appearing at the bottom of this column, and to this time I had received no adverse criticism (in print). Perhaps this has been an oversight on my part, but I took it for granted that all of you enjoyed the column. Heaven knows how many discontented souls have remained silent during the torture of this past year. But, to quote George Bernard Shaw, “a critic should have no friends. His hand should be against every man’s hand and every man’s should be against his.” This quotation should not be underestimated since Shaw is supposed to be one of the best critics that has ever lived.
He also pointed out that, in the end, no critic’s opinion of a performance kills that performance. It dies of its own incompetence. Some “stars,” of course, thrive without the need of acting simply because they have something more to offer, especially in the field of construction. But even so, when a per
son is only mediocre, and is so complacently, I have no pity for him or her. Thence the White Owls.
My genuine awards, in the form of Movies of the Week, have also caused some comment — mainly unfavorable. I admit only one big “goof” so far this year, and that was But Not for Me. My being grossly misinformed about this movie caused the mistake in the label of approval. But, curiously enough, nobody complained about this. Instead, one . lonely voice rose against my choice of Room at the Top, which lies at the op- < posite end of the scale. Perhaps most of you don’t like this sort of thing, but nevertheless there are some who do enjoy it. I, for one, like some meat on the steak I am served, and do not relish simple little things like Third Man on the Mountain. My fascination for Walt Disney ended abruptly some ten years ago. But one man’s meat is another man’s poison, so let me point out that < what you read in the column is my own personal opinion, and not the polling of spinsters over fifty-seven.
In conclusion, I will say that your letters on this will be very welcome (and I mean that). So send in your letters to , me personally, in care of the Scholastic. What you have to say may prove in- t teresting.
An afterthought: I have no English teacher. They all gave up on me last year.	I
— Tony Wong
Student Travel
(Continued from page 23)
independent travel and study, there is adventure in a summer of free lancing that cannot be discounted. Often direct arrangements can be made with European universities. However, the International Institute of Education serves as a clearing house for those who want information about foreign university summer schools and they also administer some scholarships and fellowships.
Weighing venturesome aspects of independent travel and the relaxation of completely prearranged tour travel can only be submitted to a person’s own judgment. But unless you can speak a language fluently or intend to travel with someone who has the experience of being in Europe previously, it is probably better to choose a tour.
A summer in Europe is a wonderful adventure and you ■wall yeam for another summer like it. However you travel, you will have experiences to nostalgically remember a long time. If you go with a desire and attempt for international understanding, you will have even more to appreciate.
This represents only a scratching on the surface for all travel information available. Drop by 309 Alumni for pamphlets which describe these interesting programs.
24
American Culture	(
(Continued from page 19)	;
In the field of histrionics, Saturday night, Meg Nerad will /• direct the rousing melodrama, The Girl With The Green Eyes, by Clyde Fitch, in O’Laughlin Auditorium, starring Judy Fredo, ' Gene Pisano, and Pat Kelly. There will be vaudeville acts between scenes, in the fashion of the times.	a
Sunday afternoon, a Film Festival will supply movie lovers with a film of an American novel, green-gables style, and the added attraction of penny candy and popcorn.	j
In the pioneering spirit Miss Janetta McNamara, the St.
Mary’s College dance director, and Mr. John Logan, the well- j known poet of the Notre Dame English Department, will I present an evening program of choreography to poetry.	।
We think that American Culture Week is in keeping with A ’ the spirit of the international interest, springing up about 1 us with particular intensity this year. The new world is dis- 0 tinct. It is rare and fresh. It holds clean new things and | brings its vigor to us in all its products: in Mark Twain, in ^1 folk songs, in kerosene lamps, in Grandma Moses. Before we dash off to India or Mozambique, to sing for them, let’s sing for ourselves. Let’s see what we have to offer before we give it away.
The Scholastic
* Saxophone.. .with
, Symphonette
The University Artist Series improves with every hearing. On Friday night it V presented Sigurd Rascher, perhaps the greatest saxophonist in the world, and 1 r the Orchestra of the Per Musica Society, certainly the finest orchestral aggrega-* tion in the South Bend area.
Beginning the program with Corelli’s i Concerto Grosso, Ojnts 6, Number 8, the Per Musica re-established their position as the area’s top symphon-l ette. Their interpretation of this work was both tasteful and precise and the !. concertino was excellent.
One thing is to be noted: in any con-‘ ducting situation on this level, there is normally a tendency to be either very technical and dry, or, on the other ex-treme, quite interpretive and less precise. Dr. Charles A. Biondo, who con-ducted Friday night exemplifies the former almost to the point of being phleg-matic, whereas Rocco Germano (who interpreted the Corelli at Christmas) illustrates the latter. Both are good; a I choice is up to the ear of the listener.
The Schubert Symphony Number Five
; in B flat Major, next on the program, should delight anyone. He develops lit-
4
tle in comparison with other comparable composers, but his themes compensate. The orchestra seemed to enjoy this the most, and the cellos, which played a trifle flat throughout the Corelli, finally intoned on pitch. I think it would be interesting to hear this group do the Schubert Fifth again, to see if they would grow into the soaring qualities I like to hear in the first and last move-
’, ments.
' Sigurd Rascher played after the inter-
mission. His vehicle was a piece that was written for him by the contemporary composer’ Jacques Ibert, Concertino ^ ’ da Camera. He is an artist of great will,
►
I
, A
A
I*
4
I
employing every part of body and mind when he plays. In this piece, which was written, incidentally, in 1934, he executes every difficult technical feat imaginable on his instrament. It requires a range of four octaves, and rapid intonations which are almost impossible to play on a saxophone. As the pitch rises, the instrument’s tone changes color; the higher it goes, the reedier and brighter it becomes. As it goes lower it approaches a bassoon-like quality.
Mr. Rascher, not satisfied with the conventional method of performing encores, announced after the Ibert that he would do a few of them in rapid succession, without leaving the stage. He did seven. The encores, including Corelli, Handel, Mozart and Gershwin, were pleasantly intermingled with European-American patter and a display of wit and charm not often found in the stiff
collared performances of the concert
stage.
AQIJIMS LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
e
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
a
Valentine’s day is the time to deflate super-egos, let down your hair, unstuff shirts or, if you’re the gentle type, wax sentimental. In any case, we make it easy to do something, for our gift and card departments have a world of fun and favors you may select for this sweetheart of the day.
“Notre Dame^
BOOKSTORE
January 22, 1960
25
You can have a crazy French Summer on a sou or two! ’
Here’s how: Sail, sing and dance your way over on a student ship for about $195, one way. Or fly with a student group for $250 to $350, round trip. Study at the fabulous Sorbonne in Paris for just $32. And live in a dorm for as little as $15 a month. Or study French at the College International on the sunny shores of the Riviera for a mere $13.
And spend only $3 a day for room and board there.
Or study France, itself, by traveling hostel-style. t Spend nights in colorful chateaux and days in the famous French provinces. Many museums are free. ’ Many festivals are free. You’ll make deep, exciting friendships and come back, in the Fall, an internationalist. .. and smack on top of your budget. Go!
For folders and information write: Dept C, P.O. Box #221, New York 10, New York. French Government Tourist Office, New York • Chicago « San Francisco ■ Los Angeles * Montreal
26
The Scholastic
Pictol*
JORDANMEN THREATEN RAMPAGING BRAVES
Chicago Stadium Contest ; Draws National Attention i*
, The day of reckoning is here for the Irish eagers. Tonight in the Chicago Stadium the Irish meet possibly their ft toughest foe of the year when they collide with the Bradley Braves, a team ; which comes into the game with a very impressive record. The Braves’ creden-' tials include a 12-1 season record, a . high national ranking and a scintillating ? 91-90 upset win over previously unbeaten Cincinnati last Saturday at
7 Peoria.
Mason leader. Bradley is coached by \ Chuck Osborne, a former star guard at 3 the Peoria school. The Brave offense < is led by the brilliant Bobby Joe Mason. J’ Mason is a 6-2 playmaking virtuoso
from Centralia, Ill. It is his astute generalship which has been mainly respon-
sible for the fine showing of the Braves s this year. His running mate at guard is ' 6-0 senior Mike Owens. It was Owen’s ^ two free throws against Cincinnati
। which were the deciding points in the ' '.’Bradley victory.
Danny Smith, Chet (the Jet) Walker sand Al Saunders comprise a high scor-jing Brave front line. Smith is a 6-4 I senior who was the Brave offensive lead-e er last year but who has been over. shadowed by the much publicized Walker’ ^ this year. Nevertheless the veteran ? Smith is still very dangerous.
' Walker hails from Benton Harbor, Mich. In his first varsity game he broke ft (the Bradley fieldhouse record with 44 | points. This mark was broken last week
BILL CROSBY
Irish defensive standout
ALL ALONE
McCarthy scores on fast break
by Oscar Robertson’s 46 points. Like the “Big 0,” Walker can do everything. He is a 6-6 sophomore who is touted as the finest prospect in Bradley history. In the Cincinnati game he led the Braves with 26 points.
Saunders is a 6-2 junior. He was a starter last year and has been a stick-out this year for the high flying Peori-ans.
Between semesters. The eagers return to the Stadium on January 30 for a tussle with high scoring Illinois. The Illini under Harry Combes have their usual fine team. As usual the Champaign-Urbana boys will use the fast break extensively. They are sparked by Seniors Mannie Jackson and Govoner Vaughn. Jackson sets up the Illinois attack from his guard position. He is a 6-2 senioi’ who is averaging about 18 points this year. High school teammate, Vaughn, has about the same average in his activity from his forward post. .
John Wessels (6-7) handles the center slot in acceptable fashion. The junior graduate of West Rockford High paced the Illini in scoring last season. He hits mostly with hooks with either’ hand. Lou Landt holds down the guard spot opposite Jackson. The 6-3 senior has been a reserve the last two years but appears to have come into his own this season. He is from Chicago Roosevelt High. Rounding out the Illini starting five is another senior, 6-5 Ed Perry. Like Landt, Perry was a reserve the last two years before making his presence felt this year.
Canisius visits. On Monday, February 2, the Irish return to the Fieldhouse to entertain the Griffins ef Canisius. The Griffins have had losing seasons the last two years but seem to have untracked themselves this campaign. The Canisius coach is Bob MacKinnon who is in his first year as the head man.
Stan Rojek, Larry Sarafinas and John Gabbey are front line standouts for the Buffalo school. Rojek (6-2) is the best shot of the trio. Sarafinas is the pivot man and makes good use of his 6-5 frame. The 6-5 Gabbey teams with Rojek at the other forward.
The guard positions are manned by the trio of veterans Ray McGuire (6-0) and Dick McGann (5-11) with help from sophomore Bill Slicks (6-3).
The Black Knights of the Hudson come to Notre Dame on Saturday, February 6. The Anny Cadets will present a formidable lineup paced by 6-5 junior Lee Sager. The Cadets are characterized as being physically strong and rugged defensively. Besides Sager the West Point aggregation features 6-4 Jim Klosek at center and most probably Bob Strauss (6-5) at the forward opposite Sager. The guards are 6-0 Joe Bobula and 5-11 Fred Kaiser. Sager is the man to watch and he is a real dandy. Some consider him the best ever to don the Army gray.
Last Saturday in the Fieldhouse the Irish registered their fourth straight by downing St. Francis, 75-56. The Irish outscored the Frankies 25-8 in the last nine minutes after Joe Aston’s goal had brought the visitors within two points of the Irish at 50-48. Aston paced all scorers with 25 markers, while Emmett McCarthy’s 20 points led the Irish.
MICKEY BEKEUA
Hot hand against St. Francis
January 22, 1960
ODDS and ENDS
In a squad meeting before the recent North Carolina-Wake Forest encounter, Tarheel headmaster Frank McGuire was exhorting his players to forget about the bitter rivalry with the Deacons which had been built up over the years and look at the game as just another “ball game against a real fine team." He asked his boys to play the game as hard as they could and “don't be bitter toward Wake Forest.” He reminded his boys that in North Carolina “everybody is kin” and that “Wake Forest wants to win as much as we do.” When he had completed his dissertation he turned to reserve center Grey Poole and innocently inquired: “Grey, where did your father go to school?” Young Poole hesitated for a while and then replied: “Wake Forest.” . . .
Speaking of the Tarheels, their junior ace York Larese’s 21 free throws in the recent Dixie Classic versus Duke was not a personal record for Mr. Larese. At the State Fair a few years back, York hit 24 straight gratis tosses for eight teddy bears. Fearing that York might put him out of business, the manager had to beg him to cease his tactics because York was becoming an economic liability to the State Fair. . . .
The big man from Indianapolis is in the news again. We speak here of course of the “Big O” of Cincinnati, Oscar Robertson. Oscar scored 46 points in a losing cause against Bradley last Saturday night. The 46 points is not surprising nor is the fact that the Bearcats lost since any faithful reader of the Scholastic should be able to recall to mind the fact that our old friend Tyler, Jr. picked the Braves to win. However, it seems a bit ironical that Robertson should set a new fieldhouse record at Bradley which he did with his 46 point output. Why? Simply because the Braves home court is named appropriately enough Robertson Fieldhouse. . . .
As of today, there are no major undefeated teams in the country. The latest to fall were Cincinnati and Villanova. The Bearcats lost to Bradley 91-90 and West Virginia conquered Villanova 89-81. The win was the 40th straight at home for the Mountaineers and the 31st consecutive time the Braves have left their home court on tiie long end of the score. . . .
DID YOU KNOW? . . . That if Wilt the Stilt keeps up his current pace he will surpass Bob Pettit’s record by about 600 points. . . . That the Jordanmen had their picture taken last week by a San Francisco newspaper in the event that the eagers get an NCAA bid. The finals are being held at the Cow Palace in Frisco this year. . . .
Notre Dame is well represented in the administrative circles of the new AFL. Excoach Frank Lahey made headlines recently when, as general manager of the Los Angeles Chargers, he signed Sid Gillman who had just resigned as head mentor of tiie Rams. It looks like the cross-town feud has already begun. Ed McKeever, Irish head coach in 1944, inked his Boston contract soon after Leahy. He also holds the position erf general manager.
Wilsonmen Set For Upcoming Indoor Season; Nucleus of Ten Veterans Given Help by Sophs *
The 1960 track and field season will begin for Notre Dame on Monday night, February 1, when the Irish play host to the Missouri Tigers in an indoor dual meet in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The meet will be the first of three home indoor meets this year; the others being Purdue, February 5, and Pittsburgh, February 19.
Ten monogram winners. Coach Alex Wilson has ten returning monogram men, plus an outstanding crop of sophomores, ■with which to try improve the 1959 record of four dual meet wins in five starts. In addition, the Irish captured the Big State (Indiana) outdoor meet and finished second in both the indoor and the outdoor Central Collegiate Conference Meets.
The season’s outlook is bright with at least one monogram man at every event except the hurdles, and two sophomores to bolster that event in the persons of Les Traver, a football end, and Mike
RON GREGORY
Should be his best year
Terry. Coach Wilson’s sophs will hold the key to a successful season as they will have to back up the veterans with important second and third place points.
Lost to the 1960 squad through graduation, however, are 1959 Captain and hurdler Steve Dornbach, and javelin thrower Mike Morando. Both of these tracksters hold the existing team records for their respective events.
Leading the returnees will be a pair of juniors who were consistent pointgetters last season for the Irish cindermen, Ron Gregory and Jerry Fitzpatrick. Gregory is a distance runner whose endurance can be shown by the fact that he won both the mile and two-mile runs against Purdue in the Fieldhouse last season, setting a new Fieldhouse record in the latter event with a time of 9:14.6.
He turned in a time of 4:11.4 for the mile in the same meet.
Gregory repeated this double-win feat twice more during the season, against Army and in the Big State Meet at Bloomington, both times outdoors. Gregory also set an indoor mile record of 4:10 in the Fieldhouse against Marquette.
3-event trackman. Fitzpatrick was a consistent triple-winner in the Irish outdoor dual meets last season, taking the 100- and 220-yard dashes and the broad jump.	,
Fitzpatrick’s best times have been :06.3 for the 60; :09.7 for the 100; and :21.6 for the 220. He has gone 23' 10" in the broad jump.
Co-captains Dave Cotton and Tom Reichert will give strength to their respective events; Cotton in the two-mile run.
Other returnees include Chris Monahan and Dan Rorke in the 440- and 880-yard runs. Monahan has turned in a :49.7 quarter mile, while Rorke has run a 1:54.2 half. Both are juniors.
Senior monogram winners Galen Cawley, a miler, Ken Scarborough, a weightman, and Glen Cividin, a pole vaulter will also return for the Irish. Cividin has a 14-foot leap to his credit which gave him a first place tie in the IC4A meet in New York last season.
Junior Dick Monjeau will be back to compete in the broad jump and high jump.
Promising sophs whom Coach Wilson will be counting on are Dick Musial in the dashes, Steve Schwartz in the quar- x ter-mile, Terry Jones and John Garnett in the half-mile, Tom Dempsey in , the distance events and Mike Giacinto in the weights.	x
Missouri, the Irish opening opponent, will field a strong, well-balanced team, according to Coach Wilson. The Tigers defeated Notre Dame in an outdoor* meet last season, 75-56, at Missouri.	'
The Tigers are strong in the hurdles, , with both the number one and two finishers in last year’s meet returning. , Dave Henneken, who won the two-mile by defeating Gregory, and Mike Cochran, a weight man who won both the shot and discus, will also return to face the 4. Irish.
Purdue, whom the Irish face in the ; Fieldhouse just four days after Missouri, will be missing 1958 Big Ten Champion pole vaulter Jim Johnston, who holds the Fieldhouse record of 14' 4U", but will have in his place Dave Mills, a sophomore who competed for the United States in the Pan-American Games held in Chicago early in September. Mills , holds the National Interscholastic record for the 440 with a time of :46.6.	*
George Harvey, a distance man, and Mike Johnson, a pole vaulter, will be back to face Hie Irish again. Both took seconds in their respective events against the Irish last season.
28
The Scholastic
। Interhall Relay Carnival J Planned with Six Events
r
' Mike Morando, director of interhall I athletics, has announced that there will be an interhall relay carnival on Thurs-day, February 11, at 7 p.m.
Each hall wishing to participate should turn in their entries to the interhall • athletic office by Wednesday, February V 10. The office is located on the second floor of the Fieldhouse.
s In the February 11 meet, each.contestant is allowed to participate in only * two events. Track shoes and track “flats” may not be worn.
Morando, director of the meet, will be assisted by members of the varsity a track team who will serve as officials.
The carnival will feature six relay 1 events:
j 1. Shuttle hurdle relay (four men, + each man running 60 yards over five hurdles).
2. 440-yard relay (four men, each man running 110 yards).
' 3. 880-yard medley relay (four men ,£ running 110, 110, 220 and 440 yards).
4.	440-yard football relay (four men, H each man running 110 yards).
5.	880-yard relay (four men, each ; man running 220-yards).
.	6. Shot putt relay (three men com-
bined total distance).
. i Morando also pointed out that qualifiers in the 880-yard relay will run in f the finals as a special event during the jNotre Dame-Pittsburgh varsity meet on (February 19.
I
*Sophomore-studded Matmen 4 Battle Chicago and Wheaton
a Notre Dame’s varsity wrestling team, with an even record of two wins and two posses, will have to wait until January V30 for its first match in 1960. On the ^.;30th, the Irish grapplers travel to Chi-' '^cago for a meet with the University of ^Chicago.
| Coach Tom Fallon’s sophomore-stud-$ |ded squad has been showing continuous |improvement throughout the season. jThus far, the Irish have defeated the ^University of Illinois (Chicago branch) ^jand Wayne State, while losing to Find-
slay and Western Michigan.
On February 5, the Irish travel to * Wheaton, Ill. for a meet with a tradi-' tionally strong Wheaton squad. Last \ year, Wheaton defeated the Irish by a 17-9 score, causing them to end up with a 5-5 record for the season.
c Captain Jerry Sachsel, • still unbeaten f V in dual meet varsity competition, won his 123-pound class against Wheaton last M. year and can be expected to perform L/just as well again this year. He now
• has a 22-0-1 record in three years of ssdual competition. Junior Jim Kane was ^another-home grappler who managed to |come out on top in last year’s match.
Sir---->-> iom
Too Close for Comfort
by GREG ROGERS
Many students left the Fieldhouse last Saturday with more respect for the St. Francis quintet than they had before the game. True, St. Francis had a fail-ball club and despite two disadvantages, they gave the Irish a good ran. The Frankies were playing their second game within 18 hours and to make matters worse for the Pennsylvania squad, they were playing in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Power basketball. Notre Dame basketball is a power game. Coach Jordan’s theory is to try to settle the outcome early in the second half. This can’t be done every game, but this is Jordan’s goal. “If you get them in the first five
BULKY BATTLE
Graney and Trosch muscle it out
minutes of the second half and then apply the crusher, you have no worries towards the end of the game.”
The Irish failed to do this against the Frankies. It seemed that the squad was a bit flat after their triumphs against Detroit and DePaul. St. Francis, admittedly a weaker opponent, sandwiched between two big ones, scared the Irish good before the game was over.
The Irish were fortunate to beat St. Francis. With time out called with ten minutes remaining, the game could have gone either way. It took some fine playing by the squad to win by such a large margin. St. Francis battled hard, despite a loss the night before, and never gave up, even when the Irish finally wanned to the task at hand.
At halftime Jordan deplored the defense and pressed the squad to get the ball underneath to Graney and Dearie on the offense. The squad played better in the second half but the St. Francis squad also played better. Until the Irish
finally exploded, the outcome was in doubt.
Bekelja shines. A bright spot was Mickey Bekelja. Bekelja came off the bench early in the game and scored 16 valuable points and helped on the boards. Graney was effective when he was shooting, which didn’t seem too often. Dearie just had an off day. Emmett McCarthy scored twenty and played his usual alert game. Crosby, despite a gash in his arm, did a good job. The Irish playmaker has improved since the beginning of the season. His feeding of Graney, Dearie and McCarthy brings back visions of Gene Duffy on occasions.
The Irish play Bradley tonight in Chicago. This is the big one. The Peoria club is riding high with its victory over Oscar Robinson and Co. If the Ii-ish can knock them off, a trip to the NCAA will be likely.
This is the comeback year. It has been successful thus fax- and a trip to the NCAA would certainly be a great credit to a team that fell below .500 last year. The Irish cannot afford another lapse like the first 30 minutes against St. Francis again. The stakes are too high and the enemy too tough.
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
TONIGHT
Bradley over Notre Dame Xavier over Loyola
Utah over Brigham Young
TOMORROW
St. John’s over Army
Western Kentucky over Bowling Green
St. Bonaventure over Canisius Cincinnati over Duquesne Louisville over Dayton DePaul over Miami (Ohio) Evansville over Indiana State Georgia Tech over Tennessee Auburn over Georgia Kansas over Iowa State Minnesota over Northwestern Mississippi over Memphis State Missouri over Tulsa Navy over Virginia Tech North Carolina State over Eastern Kentucky
Ohio State over Purdue Villanova over Pennsylvania Penn State over Pittsburgh St. Joseph’s over Providence Washington over Stanford Michigan State over Iowa
JANUARY 30
Notre Dame over Illinois
LAST WEEK
23 right, two wrong, 92 per cent TOTALS TO DATE
42 right, six wrong, 87.5 per cent
29
I
Yahna Leads Discussion on 'Jet Age Unity*; Noted Capital Representative Talks on Travel
Irish Fencers Engage
Spartans and Falcons
“Unity in the Jet Age,” was the principal topic at a symposium on air travel held here last week. The discussions were led by C. M. Yahna, a representative of Capital Airlines. During the course of the two-day talks, many related fields were brought under the scrutiny of the participants.
Discussion centered around the solidification of the ties between the peoples of the earth due to modern communications and modes of travel. With the ad
vent of air transportation, distant places have been drawn near and isolated com
munities are but a few hours or minutes away. Specifically, the speaker noted the shortening of the distance between the cities on the globe and mentioned the closeness that this has resulted in between persons living in entirely separated areas.
In keeping with the symposium’s title, the unity that this shortening of distances has accentuated was demonstrated by the use of specific instances. One example cited in our own country was the closing of the gap between the Midwestern states and the Far West. Modern airlines such as Northwest and United have shortened the distance between Chicago and Portland to a mere six hours. Similarly, air travel times between other principal cities have been greatly reduced.
The leader of the Morris Inn symposium is quite experienced in the field of air transportation. Having worked for both Eastern Airlines and Northwest Orient Airlines before taking a position in Capital’s Chicago office, Yahna knows a wide cross-section of the airline business. In everyday work the speaker
deals directly with the public and therefore has very close association with the customers of Capital. Likewise, Yahna has become intimately connected with
the members of the working press by virtue of such a position.
While here at Notre Dame, the discussion leader had an opportunity to toui' the campus and to meet with several student groups. Among these were the officers of area clubs and the editorial staff of the Scholastic. It was in these private meetings that Yahna had an opportunity to discuss numerous topics of
current importance not necessarily lated with the symposium.
A similar discussion will be held the week end of Januaiy 29-30-31
re-
on at
Chicago’s Madison Park Hotel. Members of the panel will include several students from Midwestern universities. The Chicago talks will tackle the familiar and often abused theme of “togetherness.” Air travel will again be the basis around which the symposium will hinge.
Notre Dame’s fencing team won three impressive victories this past week end on the road against Fenn College, Buffalo University and Syracuse University to remain undefeated this season. The fencer’s next meet is here on January 30 against the Air Force Academy and Michigan State University.
Notre Dame started the triumphant -1 -week end by whipping Fenn College last Friday night at Cleveland, Ohio, 15-12. t i An 8-1 Irish margin in the foil event
was matched as Fenn took sabre by the same count. The issue was settled as
Notre Dame took six of nine epee bouts.
On Saturday, the Irish journeyed to Buffalo, N. Y., where they defeated Buffalo and Syracuse Universities. Syracuse was toppled, 17-10. Buffalo, considered by Coach Walter Langford the finest opponent the Irish have faced this year, was defeated 20-7.
Buffalo led the Irish, 5-4, in sabre, but Notre Dame won the foil and epee events by 8-1 counts for the margin.
Co-Captains Jerry Johnson and Jim Russomano and Senior Ted DeBaene paced the Irish in these matches.
Michigan State University and the Air Force Academy, two of the finest teams on the Irish schedule, invade
(Continued on page 33)
A'
I
-i


4^

Does studying for exams make you want to zzz-zz-zz?
Let safe NoDoz® alert you through study and exams!

If hitting the books ever makes you drowsy, NoDoz is the fast waker* upper you need. NoDoz Stay Awake Tablets deliver an accurate amount of safe stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams. How? With caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant in coffee. But non-habitfomung NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Buy some— and be in good company. Millions of times a year safe NoDoz helps busy people keep alert and awake.
PS-	you need NoDoz, it'll probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.
01
NoDoz, the safe stay awake tablet — available everywhere

4*
30
The Scholastic
OUR COVER: Looks like the tired ol’ senior on our cover this week just couldn’t wade through another line of J EE or Aristotle. At three o’clock in the morning, he has run out of energy, cigarettes and flashlight batteries, and so has decided to try a few minutes of rest. Let’s give this story a happy ending by suggesting that by its close proximity his brain will naturally ab-t sorb the contents of that paper, and that the next morning he will awake, spring to his feet, dash off to class, and make a 6 on his final exam. But since this is the kind of thing that can happen only on a SCHOLASTIC cover, don’t try it. You might sleep right through that final the next morning.
PHONE CALLS to the SCHOLASTIC office will be answered only during office hours on Sunday and Monday nights. At all other times please call the individual departmental editors at their residence halls.
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING. YOUTH WORK farming, clerical work done by Brothers are m great need today in the U S and foreign missions.
For information and literature write: BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY— Tuesday, February 23.
SERVICES
PRINTING AND ENGRAVING OF NAME AND ROTC CARDS—Contact: Paul Radde, 23 Morrissey Hall, or Hudson Craftsmen. 428J4 N. Main.
OPPORTUNITIES
NEED EXTRA MONEY? Easy without leaving your room. Sell Philadelphia candies for Valentine’s Day. Cail CE 4-7531 for details.
All interviews are held at the Placement Office.
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
h
*
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves...try
Old Spice Smooth Shave!
]00
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
January 22, I960	31
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY *
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
*
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St	IMS. Bldg.
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave
HOfUDofFUN!
Repercussions
(Continued from page 8)
CANINE CRITICISM
Editor:
Kiergaard [sic] once said that the press is the dog of the public, a dog which it sicks [sic] on its enemies. The awesome truth of this statement becomes apparent with each succeeding issue of the Scholastic. Yes, Notre Dame has a dog, and a very vile and contemptuous and cynical dog it is. I include the authors of the two articles which appeared on page 18 of last week’s Scholastic among the more infectious mongrels which it has bred. In the fear of flattering them, I hesitate to call them cynics. This would also lead to admission that the policy of the Scholastic is effective.
Perhaps if Mr. Sullivan had remained longer at the Student Forum of January 10, he might have expanded his column and made “Escape.” (Possibly the next forum on Castro will offer him the opportunity to attain the peerless prestige of visiting that page.) Perhaps the football issue did not afford him the opportunity to walk on air and contemplate the sun, but it did give an immensely satisfying view of the paradox in which he finds himself existing. We feel slighted that he did not enhance the meeting with his ambitious wit, or “suit up” and solve the issue before his departure.
John Kevin Walsh 227 Dillon
INTELLECTUAL DECAY?
Editor:
On Thursday night, January 14, at 8:30, CBS-TV presented the discussion program, “CBS Reports,” dealing with birth control and overpopulation and featuring, among others, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of this University.
A fairly large group of Fisher Hall students, being interested in the topic and in Fr. Hesburgh’s participation in it, visited the Pangborn, Howard, and Badin TV lounges in hopes of being able to view the program, as Fisher’s TV set was being repaired.
As it developed, the occupants of the Pangbom and Howard TV lounges were quite vehemently opposed to substituting Fr. Hesburgh for “The Untouchables.” Finally the Badin TV’ers, who -were watching CBS, ushered in the Fisher travelers to front row seats.
It would seem that, in a Catholic university emphasizing academic and intellectual excellence, when the University president appears on a nationwide TV program concerning a grave and important moral issue being presented on a Catholic vs. non-Catholic basis, the student body should be eager to watch such a program en masse. This especially should be true in a hall containing the great majority of the supposedly more intelligent members of the Junior class. Commendations to Badin, shame . on the others.
Jean Beaudoin 206 Fisher .
News Briefs
The Commerce Forum held its annual banquet on Monday, January 11, at Eddie’s. Featured at the dinner was the presentation of the Commerce Forum Award Plac-que to K. Clay Smith, a senior from Indianapolis, for his paper entitled “Effects of White Collar Crime on Our Society.” The 4 Forum also announced its election of officers for the coming semester. Smith, recipient of the award, is the new Vice-President of the Forum; Mike Dalzell is President; Charles Fernald, Recording Secretary; and Pat McIntyre, Corresponding Secretary.	,
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh has added 1 another title to his already long and impressive list of memberships in national and international organizations. On Wednesday, Jan. 13, Father Hesburgh, president of the University, was elected vice-president of the Assn, of American Colleges at its 46th 4 annual conference. The Assn, of American Colleges is headed by President David Lockmill of Ohio Wesleyan University.
Dr. Harold E. Ellithorn, of Notre Dame’s electrical engineering department, has been elected treasurer of the National Electronics A Conference for 1960. The National Conference, is a non-profit organization serv- J ing as a national forum for presentation of technical papers on electronic research, i development and application. Headquarters and site of the NEC conference in 1960 is Chicago.
Navy Chaplain Captain R. R. Marken, . Ninth Naval District Chaplain at Great Lakes, Illinois, will speak to members of the NROTC unit at Notre Dame on February 16 at 4:30 p.m. His talk is titled a “The Navy Goes to Church.” Chaplain Markham has served some 31 years of Naval service. He first entered the Navy in 1918 and was discharged in 1921; after .j completing his studies at Drake University, he re-entered the Navy as a chaplain in the < Naval Reserve. He has served as a Staff and District Chaplain since 1946.
—0—
The Yale Record, the nation’s oldest college magazine, and Air France offer the first nation-wide collegiate tours to Europe, the Near East, and North Africa. The two 55-day itineraries are the “Gallic Gallop” and the “Turkey Trot,” featuring 4 co-ed conviviality during stimulating ten- ' country sight-seeing and recreational tours. All inclusive “bids” are just $1,498 for the “Gallic Gallop” and $2,198 for the “Turkey Trot” on the off-the-beaten path to ten countries. The tour organizers are A & B | Travel Agency, Inc. at New Haven, Con- , necticut. Names at the players, acts, , scenes, and program notes on these unusual travel productions can be secured from your travel agent, your campus representative at die Yale Record, or your nearest Air France office.
The Scholastic
32
THE SCHOLASTIC will not publish for the next two weeks. Next date of issue will be February 12. Deadline for material for this issue is Monday, February 8. SCHOLASTIC office hours are Sunday and Monday evenings from 7:30 to 11:15 p.m. At all other times see the departmental editors in their rooms.
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS “JUST BRING IN THE PIECES”
CONTACT LENSES I _____INQUIRIES INVITED_I
DRKWTURBOW \pPTOMITIUST 207 W. Wash. (Pick-Oliver Hotel)
Phone CE 4-5777
Irish Fencers
(Continued from page 33)
Notre Dame for a meet a week from tomorrow.
The Michigan State Spartans return six lettermen from the 1959 squad. Tentatively listed as the top swordsmen in each of the three classes are veterans Charles Schmitter, Jr., 1960 captain and son of the coach, at epee; last year’s
captain Stephen Arnest, sabre; and Dick Lawless, foil. Charlie Schmitter, former “Fencing Coach of the Year” is the Spartan’s able mentor.
The Air Force Academy lost seven of nine starters from last year’s fine team, but still is rated as one of the top teams in the country. The sabre team will have team Captain Robert Davis as its backbone. Other standouts are John Browning, at epee and left-handed George Hines, at foil. The Falcons also have a fine coach in Nicholas Toth, who was coach of the United States 1956 Olympic fencing team.
ALL MAHERS pertaining to advertising and subscriptions are to bo taken to the office of the business and circulation managers located at the University of Notre Dame Press in the basement of Stanford Hall. Please do not bring such matters to the editorial offices in the Student Center.
Shirts Expertly Londered RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JSfERSON Downtown on the Bus lino
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
SPACE, MISSILE & JET PROJECTS AT DOUGLAS have created outstanding career opportunities for SCIENTISTS and ENGINEERS with or working on advanced degrees
Assignments include
Heat Transfer—relating to missile and space vehicle structures
Servo-Mechanisms—relating to all types of control problems
Electronic Systems—relating to all types of guidance, detection, control and communications
Propulsion — relating to fluidmechanics, thermodynamics, dynamics, internal aerodynamics.
Environmental — relating to air conditioning, pressurization and oxygen systems
the following areas:
Structures —relating to cyclic loads, temperature effects, and the investigation of new materials, methods, products, etc.
Aerodynamics — relating to wind tunnel, research, stability and control
Solid State Physics — relating to metal surfaces and fatigue
Space vehicle and weapon system studies—of all types, involving a vast range of scientific and engineering skills
Get full information at PERSONAL ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23
We urge you to make an appointment to meet our representative through your placement office. If you cannot do so, please write to
C. C. LaVene Staff Assistant to VP Engineering DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY, INC. 3000 Ocean Park Blvd., Santa Monica, California
January 22, 1960 :
Back
peace: a plan
by MICHAEL FRANZ
Michael Franz, author of this week's "“Back Page,” is a senior modem language major from Lakewood, Ohio. He ■is an active member of the International Relations club and has served as a past ■member of the Scholastic staff.
In this article Franz has brought up a possible solution to our most formidable current problem — how to save the world from self-annihilation.
IT HAS become a matter of common knowledge to any reader of the daily newspapers, that mankind is now faced with the terrible possibility of near or total destruction. Atomic energy can be used for the purpose of war and consequent misery or it can be harnessed for peace and the material benefit of mankind. It is clear that modern man, 1960, stands at one of the critical periods of history.
Christian thinkers who have understood the predicament of modem men have urged that he choose the one infallible road to peace — a thorough, deep, and active realization of the message of the Gospel: fraternal love based on love of God. This solution would certainly be the ideal one. It is our opinion, however, that mankind as a whole will probably never reach that degree of moral maturity which is a prerequisite of a lasting and universal peace in the given political order.
In view of the weaknesses of human nature it is extremely doubtful that men will ever approach a true peace through any means which do not take into account these weaknesses and compensate for them. A political order based on national sovereignty has proved unequal to the task of maintaining peace. What is required is a political system capable of protecting man against himself. The remainder of this article will be devoted first to a discussion of the nature and function of a world government, and secondly to the manner in which such an institution might be brought into reality.
POLITICAL ORDER
The Constitution. Since the world government of the future will not be able to profess adherence to any one religion, it will have to be based on a natural, humanistic belief in the dignity of man. It must recognize and guarantee to each citizen of the world every natural freedom and right, including the right of ownership. The enunciation of the rights and freedoms of man must find a clear and detailed elaboration in a written constitution whose interpretation must be entrusted to a sufficiently powerful world court.
Legislation. The founders of the world government must be aware of the fact that the rights of each responsible in
dividual are most vigorously defended by that individual himself. The world government must therefore be democratic or, more precisely, a federal republic. A great world congress composed of representatives of what were once autonomous nations will legislate on all federal problems. Matters of national, regional and local concern will be left to national, regional and local legislatures respectively.
Execution. An elected board of executives will be given sufficient constitutional power to enforce federal law. National presidents and governors will enforce national and regional laws respectively.
Courts. World, national and regional justices will be appointed by the corresponding executive officers.
It is clear that the above sketch follows closely the system of government which has been tided and proved in the United States. Like the American government it must contain a. system of checks and balances among the legislative, judicial and executive branches and between federal, national, regional and local authority. Just as the American federal government is the supreme power within the boundaries of the United States, so the federal government of the world must be the supreme governing power on earth. No national government will be autonomous.
The proposal of anything so doctrinaire as world government inevitably brings the objection that such a proposal is too idealistic and consequently impossible of realization. No one can deny that the obstacles confronting the realization of the ideal are staggering. They are not, however, preclusive. We suggest that there are two general ways in which world government could become a fact. The first way presupposes war; the second demands moral greatness.
If through accident or deliberation the cold war should be sparked into an atomic holocaust the remnants of mankind might well realize the necessity of a system of government which would make another such war impossible. For the future protection of the human race they might mutually agree to form a world government.
In the aftermaths of the First World War men for the first time attempted to establish a system of world-wide international cooperation. History proved the League of Nations to be ineffective. Again after World War II the need for an international organization was realized. The United Nations is an improvement over the League but still lacks necessary authority. Perhaps a third and more terrible war will bring the realization that a true world government is the only way that world peace can be maintained.
The second way in which world government can be realized is through the voluntary cooperation of nations before war breaks out. As the leading democratic country in the world, the United States should assume leadership in the formation of a world democracy. Through the channels of the United Na- 4 tions she should issue to every foreign nation in the world an invitation to merge into a single federal republic in , which each nation would renounce its ’’ own sovereignty in favor of the sovereignty of a common federal government.
GREATEST OBSTACLE
The existence in the world of Communist governments represents probably the greatest single obstacle in the way z ' of the formation of a just world government. In the face of a U. S.-issued in- I > vitation to unity, the Communist governments would be faced with a momen- . « tons decision. The very issuance of an invitation so magnanimously conceived would have dealt them a shocking blow in the war of propaganda. To refuse to A . accept the American proposal might bring upon them much adverse - world 1 1 opinion. To accept the proposal, however, would entail the renunciation, at 4 least the expressed renunciation, of the aims of the Communist Party. It would also entail the surrender of Soviet military forces to international control. When faced with such a dilemma, it is possible that the Communist govern- 4. ments would accept the proposal of unification with the plan of effecting either 1 a peaceful revolution or a coup d’etat in order to fulfill Marx’s prophecy of a O world-wide communistic state.
To prevent such an eventuality, it would be necessary to stipulate in the world government charter that the total population of the new international federal republic should not contain a “Communist percentage” greater than 50%, where “Communist percentage” is defined as being that percentage of the population of the new federal republic which is composed of all citizens living in nations which were formerly under Communist government. This stipulation would be only fair and reasonable in view of the fact that at the present time less than 50% of the world population is subject to a Communist government. To those in the free world who would fear integration into a world government in which the “Communist percentage” might become greater than 50%, the question might well be posed whether human freedom and the right to ownership might not be better defended on the basis of an established international law than, as is now being done, on the basis of a balance of military power.
34

LPARTY-GIVING PRIMER, NO.l
SIX EASY LISTENS WITH CAPITOL RECORDS
8:07 PM There aren’t enough ashtrays. Put out a few more and put on the new album by the Kingston Trio; it should help things get under way without too much trouble. Introduce people. Genially slap a few backs when the banjos in A Worried Man get going. Grin contagiously at the whimsical Unfortunate Miss Bailey. One thing: Be careful with San Miguel. It's a bit sad and, this early, could depress shyer guests if they’re not distracted while it's playing.
8:44 PM Start the Dean Martin. Tentative dancing should begin now. Smile understandingly at late arrivals. The songs, with chorus, are cheerful, easy-going, mostly sentimental. Canadian Sunset is uptempo, diverting. Ones like Baby, It's Cold Outside and I've Got My Love To Keep Me Warm tend to stimulate general sociability and cheer. Dean’s mellow voice suggests a certain glow, too.
9:30 PM Serious dancing gets under way. Extremely hard, short of demolishing the phonograph, to go wrong with this album. Glen Gray and 1960 stars like Pete Candoli, Plas Johnson and Nick Fatool have re-created, in the presence of Capitol's world-of-tomorrow recording equipment, swing classics of the ’40's. Very true to the originals, more or less IN: Kenton’s Intermission Riff, Herman’s Apple Honey, T. Dorsey’s Opus No. 1, nine more. (Ifyou do demolish the phonograph, remove glass tubes first.)
10:10 PM Half time. Encourage consumption of refreshments while all listen to Fiorello! (original cast), the brand-new Broadway smash it's clever-to-know-the-words-and-music from.N.Y. newspaper critics (the “Seven Blocks of Granite”) turned to fine-screen gravel over Fiorello! One of Time's dramassassins said it “brings back an engagingly dynamic [Mayor] La Guardia and his gaudy, high-kicking era with a bang.” Anyone who doesn't appear to be getting a bang out of Fiorello! is asleep, and should be taken home.
10:44 PM Very danceable. The party has been going on for some time and it may be well to turn down some lights to conserve power. Hear what the Shearing Quintet's latin tempos can do for homegrown standards like All Or Nothing At All, Dearly Beloved and It's Easy To Remember. Then there's Afro #4, Mambo Balahu and things that are supposed to sound that way. Be considerate; this is the time when guests will wish to strengthen friendships, consolidate social gains. After all, they’re only human.
11:30 PM Play a couple of the Glen Grays again, then put on the Gleason. If there are older chaperons, they will probably be growing tired and will appreciate being shown to a quiet room where they can read. The Gleason album should be well received. It employs two orchestras (strings and brass), is curiously pleasant, and contains highly romantic Gleason originals plus ballads you know like She’s Funny That Way and Yesterdays. The meaning of the album title (a French phrase) is obscure. Good luck.
Ij VI has found the secret that
I
in a filter cigarette
©1959 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
Yes! UM gives you taste...more taste...more taste by far!
be couldnt oe
IjM’s free-flowing Miracle Tip	other
filters squeeze in. So . . . get the taste of fine tobacco you’ve been missing in filter cigarettes. Enjoy new L&M today!