YOU JUST CAN'T HELP FEELING
AT HOME" IN A
CAMPUS SHOP SPORT COAT
On the .Campus—Notre Dame
HAVE YOU looked at our selection of fine sport coats lately? Why not drop in soon? Ivy styled with natural shoulders, trim lapels, less padding, more comfort. You’ll find a wonderful collection of sparkling new patterns in favorite colors for fall. For real comfort and smart appearance— try one on tomorrow!
^GILBERT'S ^mpusSShop
I
CHARGE IT—
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY 1
JAN
FEB
PAY
No Carrying Charge
At the Campus Shop you will find a complete selection of na-' tionally famous suits, topcoats, sport coats and furnishings . . . and a convenient charge account with which to buy. If you’re on a budget — like most college men are — why not charge what you need the Campus Shop way. Simply get what you need now and pay one-third in January, one-third in March and one-third in April. It’s that simple — and, of course, there is no carrying charge. Use your Campus charge account tomorrow!
DRESS RIGHT — You can't afford not to!
A-
On the campus — Notre Dame
November 15, 1957
On fondue
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! “and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.")
The Notre Dame
Scholastic-
-	;---	1- f
Vol. 99 November 15, 1957 No. 7
THE PARTY WEEKEND: ITS CAUSE AND CURE
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
With the season of party weekends almost upon us, my mail of late has been flooded with queries from young inmates of women’s colleges wishing to know how one conducts one’s self when one has invited a young gentleman for a weekend. This morning, for example, there were more than 30,000 letters, each containing a lock of hair. I gave the hair to a bombsight maker and the lanolin to a dry sheep of my acquaintance, and I turned instantly to the question: How should a young lady deport herself when she has asked a young gentleman to be her guest at a party weekend?
Well, my dear girls, the first thing to remember is that your young gentleman is far from home and frightened. Put him at his ease. You might, for instance, surprise him by having his mother sitting in a rocker on the station platform when he gets off the train.
Next, what kind of corsage should you send your young gentleman? Well, my beloved maidens, orchids are always acceptable.
If you find, my esteemed fillies, that your local florist has run out of stock, do not be dismayed. Make a corsage out of paper. But pick good, stiff, durable paper —twenty dollar bills, for example.
Remember at all times, my fond wenches, to show* your young gentle
man courtesy and consideration. Open doors for him, walk on the traffic side of the path, assist him to the punch bowl, zip his parka, light his Marlboros. (What, you ask, if he doesn’t smoke Marlboros? Ridiculous, my precious nymphs! Of course, he smokes Marlboros! Don’t you? Don’t I? Doesn’t everybody who knows a hawk from a handsaw?? What other cigarette gives you such a lot to like? Such filter? Such flavor? Such flip-top box? No other, my sweet minxes, no other. Marlboro
© Max Shulman, 1957
Every weekend is a party weekend when you smoke Marlboros, whose makers bring you this column throughout the school year.
stands alone, and any man worthy of you, my estimable damsels, is bound to be a Marlboro man.)
If you will follow the simple instructions stated above, my good lasses, you will find that you have turned your young gentleman into a fast and fervent admirer. There is nothing quite like a party weekend to promote romance. I am in mind of a party weekend some years ago at Miss Pomfritt’s Seminary for Genteel Chicks in West Linotype, Ohio. Serafina Sigafoos, a sophomore at this institution, majoring in napkin folding, sent an invitation to a young man named Fafnir Valve, a junior at the Joyce Kilmer School of Forestry, majoring in sap and boles.
Anyhow, Serafina sent an invitation to Fafnir, and he came, and she showered him with kindness and cuff links, and then he went away, and Serafina sat anxiously by the mailbox, wondering whether she would ever hear from him again. Sure enough, two weeks later she got a
letter: “Dear Serafina, Can you let me have fifty bucks? Yours, Fafnir.”
Whimpering with ecstasy, she ran to the bank and withdrew the money and mailed it to him. From then on, she got the same request every week, and as a result, she became very well acquainted with Ralph T. Involute, teller of the West Linotype Bank and Trust Co., and their friendship ripened into love, and today they are happily married and live in Stamen, Oregon, where Ralph is in the extruded molasses game and Serafina is a hydrant.
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, ‘ > Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS ..............News	Editor i
HARRY McKEE .................... Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY .................. Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ............. Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS ................... Photography
LORAN SHEFFER............ Business Manager MIKE KURAS ..............Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN .......... Circulation	Manager,
TOM BANCHOFF .............. Assistant	News
WALT RUDGE ................ Assistant	News
JIM YOCH .................. Assistant	News
STEVE ROAKE ............... Assistant	Copy
JIM SCHUH ................. Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS .............Assistant	Features
TOM LAMONT ............. Assistant	Features
BOB SEDLACK ............ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH ............... Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON .............. Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Art Dechene, Luino Dellosso, Mike Dudgeon, Ron Dvorak, Geremy Kaye, Bob Maruyama, Bob Messinger, Gil Paprocki, Ed Plunkett, Lyn Relph, Charles Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Dave Samudio, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Chris Watters, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Dave Cole, 1 Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.	'
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Bob Pruett.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all mann. scripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year. U L Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3.
Oct. 11;	No. 4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct.	25;	No. 6,
Nov. 8;	No. 7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov.	22;	No. 9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11,	. I
Jan. 17;	No. 12,	Ft*.	7; No. 13,	Feb.	14;	No. 14, ‘ .
Feb. 21;	No. 15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No. 17,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9;
No. 23. May 16; No. 24, May 23.
4
The Scholastic
A MESSAGE TO THE SENIOR
—TOMORROW
ON HIS MIND
Melpar’s sure, swift growth during the past eleven years — we have doubled in size every 24 months — is due, in large part, to the outstanding performance of our engineering staff.
As a leading R & D organization, we are constantly called upon to perform tasks which have never been done before. Thanks to the creative talent which forms the backbone of our organization, we have grown rapidly both in stature and size. Members of our staff have enjoyed similarly rewarding growth.
Performance Determines Advancement. Individual recognition is a fundamental policy at Melpar. Each engineer is advanced on the basis of his performance. The average age of our engineering staff (one of the industry’s youngest) and the rapidity of growth of above-average staff members, are clear indications of what Melpar’s individual recognition policy can mean to you.
Project Teams. As a Melpar staff member you will enjoy the opportunity to participate in entire projects, from conception to completion of prototype. Our project team basis of organization gives you the satisfaction of seeing your own efforts materialize, and helps you acquire experience essential to eventual managerial responsibility.
Fine Living Conditions. Melpar laboratories are located in choice suburban areas near Washington, D. C. and Boston, Massachusetts. These areas were selected because of their proximity to outstanding educational, cultural and research facilities. Fine housing in all price ranges is readily available.
Facilities. Melpar offers complete facilities for creative research and design. Our headquarters laboratory near Washington, D. C. encompasses 265,000 air-conditioned sq. ft., is ultra modem in design and equipped with an eye to both future and present needs.
MELPAR
Representative on Campus
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21
To secure an appointment with the Melpar Representative on these dates, contact your Placement Office today.
BECAUSE OF OUR W/DE D/VERS/HCAT/ON, OPENINGS EXIST IN VIRTUALLY ALL PHASES OF ELECTRONIC RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
• Financial assistance is extended for advanced study at any of the fine universities in the Washington, D. C. and Boston areas • Qualified candidates will be invited to visit Melpar at company expense • For Detailed Information about Openings and Living Conditions, Write to: Technical Personnel Representative
MELPAR Incorporated
A Subsidiary of Westinghouse Air Brake Company 3000 Arlington Boulevard, Falls Church, Virginia
November 15, 1957
know true from false
Men in the know
FALSE
College graduates who make the most money have the fewest children.
False. College graduates have less children than average, but, among all college graduates, those with the highest income have the largest families. This is one instance where the rule of “more money less children” doesn’t hold true.
Three out of four college grads are satisfied with their choice of school in later years.
True. Graduates of all ages polled on ' ; this subject expressed overwhelming satisfaction with the schools they . selected. More than three out of four graduates say they would attend the same school if they had it to do over again.
Coopers, maker of Jockey brand underwear, try to make you forget their products.
True. Jockey brand undergarments are famous for comfort. Their trim fit —no bind or chafe—literally makes you forget you’re wearing them... they’re designed to make you comfortably forget them.
Men on the go
JOCk&U underwear
BRAND "
made only by
ON THE COVER: Joe McDonnell, a senior art major from Detroit, returned to the SCHOLASTIC cover for the third time this year. On this occasion Joe captures a football scene. His inter- । pretation represents a scene which ' I occurs in every football game. The quarterback is back to pass; his blockers have knocked down the opposing lineman who watches in frustration as the ball sails over his prone figure; ' finally down the field the receiver	,
reaches for the ball, his eyes bursting	I
in anticipation of the moment when he I grasps the spheroid and begins his I flight toward the goal line. And what I of the purplish hue? Well it is obvious: King Football who reigns supreme ‘ during the fall decked out in regal , robes. The SCHOLASTIC wishes to extend an acknowledgment to Dick O’Brien, another senior art major, for his fine work on last week’s cover.
Dick, who hails from Barrington, III., , captured in superb style the theme of ‘Time Limit,’ the University theater production which continues its run in Washington hall this week end.
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A. minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Monday of the week of insertion.
SERVICES
TYPING—Prompt service. Reasonable rates. Bradley Secretarial Service, 416 JMS Bldg., 108 N. Main St. Phone CEntral 3-9466.
THESIS and Dissertation Typing Wanted, by an experienced, accurate typist. Reasonable rates. Call ATlantic 9-2826, June Walters, R. R. No. 6 20101 Miller Road.
WASHINGS AND IRONINGS—
Done in my home. 226 S. Notre Dame Avenue.
Phone CE 3-4883,____________________
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS_________________
BENDIX AVIATION Wednesday, November 20.	,
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS, INC. Thursday, Novem-‘ ber 21.
E. I. DUPONT DE NEMOURS & CO., INC. November 18, 19, 20, 21.
MELPAR Thursday, November 21.
GENERAL CHEMICAL DIVISION Monday, No- . vember 18.
MOTOROLA. INC. Monday, November 18.
KEARFOTT COMPANY Tuesday, December 3~ ■'
MAGNAVOX Wednesday, December 4.
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT Monday, December 2, ~
PERSONALS____________________________
ANNOUNCEMENT: Club meeting, ticket sales, lose something? Save time and expense of posting notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy, cheap way with Classified Ads.	,
- -	—	-	= i>
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR
Rasmussen Men’s Shop
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STS.
The Scholastic
ZditoiUdL
censorship
apathy
Each year, the campus publications suffer greatly from the . lack of adequate writers. The reason is not that there L is a lack of good writers but that most of the better writers in the University take no interest in the publications.
There must be a reason for this but the problem at hand is that each year, the editors must go out and practically enlist students to write for the publications. Slowly, throughout the year, the freshmen drop off the staff for some reason or another and by the time the following September rolls around, only a skeleton staff exists. The result is that there is not too much competition for editorial jobs since there are just about enough upperclassmen left to fill the vacated positions. It does not become a matter then of considering the quality of a person seeking a posi-, tion. There is just a hope that there are enough people to fill the positions to put out the publication. This has been the problem of the Scholastic for many years and is also the problem of the Dome and the Juggler.
One of the reasons for this apathy is that freshmen have come out of their high schools with honors and positions < galore and refuse to submit themselves to the “lackey” stage for a year or two. They think that they can jump right off the editorial staffs of high school publications and take over. They have not realized that no matter what you do in this life, one has to start somewhere near the bottom. These past two years, several freshmen have come around ■ in September wondering when they could start writing editorials. When told that they must serve as a reporter T for two years, they walk away disgruntled, never to be heard from again.	-
This student apathy also carries over into other extracurricular activities. Not too many are willing to work in the true spirit of the thing without getting any recognition. The result is that all of the organizations suffer from lack of people who want to do the work.
The student who comes to Notre Dame, and just attends all of his classes, does all of his homework on time | and passes all of his exams, is being robbed. There is some-• thing more to a college education than this.
We have all heard so much talk about the spirit at Notre Dame. It has never been more evident than it has been this week in preparation for the Oklahoma game. But the Notre Dame spirit does not begin and stop on the football field. It extends through every phase of University life. How about you? Do you exemplify the real Notre Dame Spirit?	—J. G.
November 15, 1957
I AST week end members of the Scholastic editorial staff j travelled to New York City for the National Associated Collegiate Press Conference. During the conference the problem of censorship of the college paper came up again and again. And in all the discussions one point was made quite clear: almost all college papers are censored.
Censorship is not simply limited to the Catholic schools as many people so often think. State schools have to answer to the state legislatures. Many schools are controlled by denominational groups which exercise strict control. Some school papers, believe it or not, are even controlled to a degree by the student government. And so almost to a college, censorship of the school paper does exist.	.
Why are college papers censored? In most cases it is not for moral reasons, that is to say the censorship does not involve deletion of pornographic material. It does almost always involve censorship of criticism — whether levelled at the administration, faculty, courses, state legislature, or student government. In most cases the actual censorship is performed by the administration.	'
Who is in the right in a case of censorship? Should the college paper be completely free from censorship — save perhaps that of pornography?
The first question is one that cannot be answered in a general way. It can only be answered in the particular case with the common good of the university community serving as the criteria of judgment. The answer to the second question therefore is an unequivocal NO.
Many college editors feel that freedom of the press means that they can print anything they desire. Such a notion is pure nonsense. An editor has a duty to see not only that what he prints is the truth but also to see what sort of repercussions are involved even if it is the truth. He is not free to print material which would be detrimental to the real common good of the community.
In the university community the common good is the search for truth. But it is in trying to decide how that common good will be served in a particular case that friction over censorship arises. Both sides here have an obligation to talk over the material involved and try to decide what is best. Often college editors fail to consult the administration and therefore do not get information which might	।
throw an entirely different light on whether the truth will be	i
served. On the other hand administrations have an inordinate	|
fear of what they call “bad publicity.” They forget that	i
immediate criticism may serve the truth and thus the better	i
good of the university in the long run. But the real point	i
to be made is that both sides have an obligation to work	!
together in deciding how the best interests of the university	I
community will be served.	—J- S.
’	7 I


1
JOB FACTS FROM DUPONT


BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING THROUGH CHEMISTRY
OPPORTUNITIES AT DU PONT CONTINUE TO GROW
FOR ALL KINDS OF ENGINEERS AND SCIENTISTS
WHERE DO YOU WANT TO WORK?
by
E. H. Cox
Du Pont
Representative
Career opportunities at DuPont are greater today than ever before because of the Company’s continued growth. In 1957. Du Pont’s sales were at the $2 billion level. Four new plants were being built. New research programs were being launched, and new products were moving into the production and marketing stages. All of these developments tend to broaden opportunities at DuPont for the young scientist and engineer.
search and development as well as in plant engineering and production supervision.
Metallurgical engineers conduct studies in metal fatigue and corrosion and engage in fundamental research into the nature and properties of elements.
1
I wouldn’t be entirely realistic if 1 said that you can choose your job location from Du Pont’s 75 plants and 98 laboratories scattered over 26 states. But Du Pont does have jobs open in many of these locations, so there is a good chance that we may be able to match your preferences and qualifications with available openings.
Right now, most of the Du Pont units are east of the Mississippi, but we have plants in Texas and on the Pacific Coast, too. In the past year plants were completed in Michigan, California, Ohio and Georgia. New plants are also under construction in Kansas, Tennessee, Virginia and North Carolina. Perhaps one of these locations has just what you’re looking for in a job.
For a complete list of our plant locations, please write to me at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2494-B Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
ALL KINDS OF ENGINEERS
Students with chemical engineering and chemistry degrees are needed, of course. But the opportunities are equally great for students majoring in many other fields. And the type of work for these men varies greatly. Among other things:
Mechanical engineers work in re-
Civil engineers have many assignments, including design and supervision of the construction of Du Pont plants and laboratories.
Men studying for degrees in electrical, mining, petroleum, industrial and many other specialized fields of engineering will find equally challenging outlets for their talents at Du Pont.
If you’re interested in finding full scope for your ability. Du Pont offers you plenty of opportunity.
Du Pont Training Tailored to Individual
Each of Du Pont’s operating departments has its own training program because each has special requirements. But both formal and informal programs are tailored to the interests and needs of the individual.
Generally, you go to work on an assignment at once and start learning right away. This headstart on responsibility is an important factor in your progress. Based on your qualifications, you’re given one segment of a project to tackle almost immediately. You learn quickly and informally in consultation with your supervisor and other engineers on the same project. This training is supplemented by frequent meetings, seminars, studies of plant operations and procedures.
And since Du Pont is interested in die progress of the individual, your
performance is evaluated at regular intervals by your supervisor. These discussions bring out your strong and weak points and together you work out a program for improvement. This training and evaluation continues year after year as you advance in the Company.
SEND FOR INFORMATION BOOKLET
Booklets on jobs at Du Pont are yours for the asking. Subjects include: mechanical, civil, metallurgical, chemical, electrical, instrumentation and industrial engineers at DuPont; atomic energy, technical sales, research and development. Name the subject that interests you in a letter to DuPont, 2494-B Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
1 "J
s 'Is .X ■J
3
I
8
The Scholastic's
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
I’m a senior. You ask me, “What’s a senior?” A senior is a tired, four year old freshman who knows the way to Joer’s better than the way to Washington Hall. But my definition of my present status is not important; the dreadful possibility that I might graduate in June. For the past three years I have been arguing affirmatively on the inherent superiority of the A.B. man as compared to interhall football players, chow hall queens, deep sea divers, and/or anything from Tasmanian devils to dodo birds. They were extremely serious debates ■with factual references from Mad, The Hong Kong Literary Revieiv, and movies shown at the Palace. My humble part as an A.B. man has been rewarded by a straw vote of approval from the Mouseketeers, and a full page picture of my birthplace in the “Who’s He” section of the Turtle Creek State Teacher’s College Annual. These encouragements, as manifestations of the true sense of values maintained by these august institutions, are in themselves laudable and I am sincerely grateful for them, but they do not solve my graduating problem.
Now you might be tempted to say, “You got problems! Buddy, we all got problems; money problems, dating problems, grade problems, roommate problems, and problems in general.” And I believe you. No kidding, I believe you, but this problem is all our problem. We have to work at it like brother Domers. It’s really serious. The average A.B. senior, as any other senior, is lingering hope with an overdrawn bank account, but he alone has ideas quixotic enough to make Quixote look like a cynic. Nor does he want to graduate; he likes Indiana, St. Mary’s, and Joer’s. He likes his allowance. And neither does
November 15, 1957
the business world want him. They want doers, not thinkers. Nobody wants him, except maybe the Armed Forces and the Salvation Army. He’s useless.
Perhaps some of you are now thinking that if the A.B. man is useless, that is, unless he can also deep sea dive or be a chow hall king, the best solution would be to simply dissolve the college of Liberal Arts. The walls of the O’Shaughnessy Building converted into a new field house complete with marble shooting rings and stage rooms where Freshmen could practice their practical jokes, or the walls could be left up and the building could be used as a sanitarium for ulcered rock n’ rollers and bridge players.
PLEA FOR TRADITION
Although such a solution is of a very commendable nature, I feel that an appeal must be made on the side of tradition. The A.B. college is just like, well, like Sorin Hall, not truly useful but it’s been around so long that something might seem missing without it. Maybe it could even be compared to South Bend—nothing to take seriously, but great to have around as something at which to poke fun. Then there’s also the aspect of what to do with the unemployed profs and the students without a cause.
One possible solution would be to have the A.B. grads substitute for the Russian dog in Sputnik. They could be fattened with pleasure and knowledge, then sacrificed, so to speak, to science. But then there’s the moral implication. Burdening the American scientist with the tremendous task of manufacturing an adequate amount of space satellites seems rather unjust. Besides, a dog is vastly more reliable.
a modest
proposal
I feel that the A.B. man is a trial that must be borne, but something should be done to at least render it impossible for him to cause any disruption in our shining G chromium world. Consider, the ape, tiger, or any other of the unproductive animals. In a cage or guarded sanctuary, it’s amusing to hear them rant and roar. So why not do the same with the A.B. men? Simply make them stay in school the rest of their lives, with week ends and vacations free, providing they wear a leash. Keep them all on campuses, which people could visit as they do zoos, or attend circuses. The rest of the students would also find them to be a pleasant source of amusement when there wasn’t anything serious to be done.
In order to keep these A.B. men occupied, as it is done by placing an old tire or swing in the monkey cages, they could be given various projects according to their so-called talents. For example: English majors could write nursery rhymes for professors’ children. Philosophers who compose letters to parents reasoning why it would be practical to raise their engineering son’s allowance. To add color to the Student Senate ‘ debates, the Political Science majors could be called in, while the Art majors painted pleasant murals in the older residence halls, and so on through the various A.B. programs. They could fulfill the part of the campus jesters for the students of the aristocratic, practical sciences..
Please consider this modest proposal. It would benefit the entire student body, nay, the entire world, and I and the likes of me would never have to graduate. We could live happily ever after. All we desire is perpetual free tuition and a few pennies for an occasional beer.
9
HOW "WEASELS” REPLACE DOGS
TO UNLOCK ANTARCTICA’S SECRETS
ARE the mountains of Antarctica really XX higher than Everest? Will its melting ice eventually flood our cities?Do its frigid 200-mph winds create the world’s weather? Do its gigantic coal deposits mean there’s gold, oil, uranium too?
For 137 years men couldn’t stay in Antarctica long enough to find out. All they had were dogs —and courage. Today, machines do the muscle work so teams of American scientists can stay the year around to unlock Antarctica’s secrets. Jeep-like weasels use electronic "dish-pans” (see illustration) to probe for crevasses that can swallow 20-story buildings. Bulldozers carve roads across frozen seas so giant tractors can haul in 60-ton supply loads.
It’s all the result of Better-ness—the American conviction that nothing’s impossible. And the machines that give you Better-ness depend on Timken® tapered roller bearings. They roll the load—and they’re tapered to take the crunching impact from all directions.
You’ll find Timken bearings virtually eliminating friction, reducing maintenance and keeping machines on the go wherever America’s wheels and shafts turn. By pioneering new markets and uses, we’ve become the world’s biggest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings—and we’re still growing fast.
WANT TO HELP CREATE BETTER-ness? Creating and selling Better-ness offers great rewards. To get full details, send for your free copy of "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company”. Write The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
This is BETTER-ness
TT1IW1T
America is fat' it and B B ■■JB BK B|
lllUllEli
bearings help you get it
See the next Timken Televent hour, "The Innocent Years”, over NBC-TV, Thursday night, November 21st.
The Scholastic

r

Campli Scene
WSND BEAMS
NEW SOUND’
TO CAMPUS
Many Changes Made In Program Schedule
BY WALT RUDGE
4
Last Monday WSND inaugurated its “new sound” in college radio. This “new sound” consists of an entirely new format of programing for the student station. The schedule is aimed at the tastes of the students and has been outlined with their preferences in mind.
“In formulating our new program schedule, we feel that we have achieved a more direct approach in programing to the student,” Jerry Slater, station manager, stated. “We have considered the student’s desires and appeals, his times of study and living habits, and have adapted our new schedule to these needs.”
There will be several major form changes in the weekday program schedule. Previously, the station carried FM music from 6:30 a.m. to noon. Now, it is carrying an early morning show from 7 to 9:30 a.m. entitled the “Morning Man” featuring Pat Michaels. Then at 9:30 a.m. a FM program of semiclassi-cal and mood music will begin and con-
SLATER, AND TOM O’REAGAN
WARREN ALBRIGHT, JERRY
Publicity director, station manager, and program chief—discuss new schedule
tiiT..e until noon. At noon, the regular AM operation begins.
Another new feature, “block programing,” has also been introduced by WSND. “Block programing” consists of two, three, and even four hours of continuous music. The music will be uninterrupted except for news headlines every hour on the hour.
Together with the form changes, several new shows have been added and some of the “old standbys” have been rescheduled.
The very popular “Twelve Thirty Club,” an easy-going relaxing show, featuring pop, standards, and obtrusive jazz, will begin the weekday’s afternoon programing.
At 1 o’clock the “Afternoon Concert” makes its debut. This will be the only time the classical music fans will be able to listen to their favorite works. The program will highlight two longer compositions and one or more shorter works. The show is to emulate a real concert, with John Fazio making appropriate remarks on the music.
Another change
in the program
schedule will be the moving up of the “Dixie Special” from 5:30 to 5:15. The “Special” is beamed to St. Mary’s while
the Notre Dame students are listening to an entirely different set of programs. Rudy Hornish will provide the chatter quips, and campus gossip for the girls across the highway.
Then at 6 p.m., “Invitation to Music” will end the split broadcasting. Light classics and show music will replace the old format of heavy classics. Ed Sul-; livan provides the dinner hour mood for the show. From 7:15 to 8 the schedule will vary from day to day.
Among the shows planned for this time is a special program sponsored by student government entitled “Student Government Speaks.” Jerry Brady, stu-
dent body of campus day night this show.
president, will discuss items interest on the show. Thurs-is the broadcasting date for
On Wednesday at 7:15, a creative program, “Panorama,” will feature original writings and modem musical compositions.
George Van Kula will present his “Editors’ Notebook” on Mondays at 7:30. Van Kula will analyze all the significant news of the week,, especially the campus headlines.
On Thursday a “Co-Ed teams from St. Mary’s and vying against each other the 7:30 spot. Points will
Quiz” with Notre Dame will occupy be awarded
for correct answers and prizes will be given for the high scorers.
“Nothing,” a half hour humor show will be heard at 7:30 on Friday. The show will be the last word in subtle humor and dry wit.
At 8 p.m. Bob Findley ushers in “Requestfully Yours,” an hour of tunes requested by students over the phone, featuring the popular hits of the day.
From 9 until news time at 10:45 p.m. music of all types, varieties, beats and tempos, will be heard.
On the “Gong Rock” show at 9 pan. sophisticated modern music, both swing and modem jazz, will be featured. Then at 10 the familiar “Penthouse” will send its dreamy mood music over the campus and finally at 10:45 the “Lucky Strike Newscast” will bring the day’s broadcasting to a close.
The Saturday and Sunday schedules will provide more continuous music and several unusual programs. On Saturday morning a new show, “Marathon,” will feature the top 100 tunes of the day, with some pop tunes of the past.
On Sunday the station comes on at (Continued on page 31)
November 15, 1957
11
University Names Three New Lay Trustees:
Prominent Businessmen Appointed to Council
The appointment of three new members to the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees was announced last Monday by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
They are William R. Daley, Cleveland financier and industrialist; Joseph I. O’Neill, Jr., Midland, Tex., independent oil operator; and Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., president of the Stepan Chemical Co., Chicago. O’Neil and Stepan are Notre Dame alumni.
The Associate Board of Lay Trustees is composed of 24 nationally prominent businessmen who have the responsibility of holding, investing and administering Notre Dame’s endowment funds. The group holds semiannual meetings on the campus.
Daley is president of Otis and Co., vice-president and treasurer of the Portsmouth Steel Corp., and board chairman of the Cleveland Indians. He has been a member of Notre Dame’s College of Commerce Advisory Council. In 1954 Daley established a $10,000 investment fund with which commerce school students actually purchase stocks and bonds as part of their training in finance. He is a graduate of Western Reserve University and its law school.
O’Neil is a 1937 Notre Dame graduate and served as president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association during 1956. As an undergraduate he was a member of the varsity football and baseball teams. Prior to entering the oil business he was a special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He has been serving as a member of the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council.
Stephan has been a member of the Advisory Council of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters from which he was graduated in 1931. He is a former president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago.
University Theater to Hold 'Pygmalion' Tryouts Nov. 18
The University Theater will hold tryouts next week for the second production of the season, Pygmalion, by George Bernard Shaw. The play which will be presented on Feb. 12-16, is the basis of the musical hit, My Fair Lady.
Individual tryouts will be held in the afternoons on Nov. 18-22. All those interested should check the bulletin board in the back of Washington Hall for specific times. All are invited to these tryouts whether they have previously appeared in University -Theater productions or not. Final open tryouts will be held on Dec. 2 at 7:45 p.m. in Washington Hall.
12
Notre Dame to Host Symposium Dec. 6-8
Notre Dame will host the Fifth Annual Advent Symposium on the week end of Dec. 6-8. This symposium is sponsored by the Catholic Action Study Bureau of the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
At this meeting the leaders in all areas of student activity will examine the meaning of “Student Social Responsibility” and its implications in the field of student leadership. All representatives of apostolic groups, student government personnel, and anyone interested in the student lay apostolate, are invited to participate.
The program will have a series of talks and small group discussions on the various areas of responsibility that a student has because he is a student. Among the speakers this year will be: Lloyd Davis, the executive director of the Chicago Catholic Interracial Council, who will speak on “The Student and World Problems”; The Rev. Walter J. Ong, S.J., of St. Louis University, who will speak on “Catholic Universities and the Intellectual Apostolate”; and John Foley of the CASE, whose topic will be “Christian Student Leadership.”
Following the general discussions, there will be individual workshops.
Fr. Hesburgh Chosen For Civil Rights Board
President Eisenhower recently ap- -pointed Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, ? C.S.C., president of the University of | Notre Dame, a member of the new Civil J Rights Commission.	f
Created by the civil rights law enacted | by Congress last August, the Commis- | sion is authorized to investigate cases ! where citizens have been denied the right | to vote because of their color, race, | religion or national origin. It will also | study denial of protection under the | law in other phases of American life. I
Former Supreme Court Justice Stan- 1 ley F. Reed was named chairman of the six-man Commission and John; A. Hannah, president of Michigan. State University, was designated vice- . chairman. Other Commission members, are J. Ernest Wilkins, assistant secret tary of labor; John S. Battle, former; governor of Virginia; and Dean Robert -G. Storey of the Southern Methodist? University Law School. The appointments are subject to Senate confirma-^ tion when Congress convenes in January?.
Father Hesburgh, a native of Syra-< cuse, N. Y., has been president of Notre; Dame since 1952. By presidential ap-;? pointment he also is a member of the-' National Science Board and the Board., of Visitors of the U. S. Naval Academy;
. The 40-year-old priest returned last'? week from Vienna where he served as'^ permanent Vatican City representative? at the general conference of the Inter??/ national Atomic Energy Agency.
DAN BELLOC
Provides music for ‘Executive Holiday’
Senate Discusses Telephoning of Cheering To Norman For Oklahoma Game Tomorrow
Belloc's Band to Play At 'Executive Holiday'
Dan Belloc, called “the fastest rising dance band leader in the country,” will play at the 1957 Commerce Ball, “Execu-hive Holiday,” next Friday, from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center.
Belloc and his band are all from Chicago, the home of many famous bands, including Benny Goodman’s and Jack Teagarden’s. The group finished an engagement at the Aragon Ballroom in September and then went on tour.
A graduate of De Paul University, with B.A. and M.A. degrees, Belloc has recorded for MGM and Dot records. He collaborated with Lew Douglas to write “Pretend,” which became the number one song on the hit parade. He has recently had articles in “Down Beat” and “Song Hits” magazines.
Belloc, who is musical director of Fraternity Records, recently recorded his first long playing album, “Dapper Dan Swings.”
Bob Massman is committee chairman of the Commerce Ball which also features a Communion Breakfast on Sunday, Nov. 22, as part of the festivities for the dance-goers. A victory dance and the Iowa game complete the social activities for the week end.
HOW TO HANDLE WOMEN!
Miss Susan Rogers, a social psychologist from Chicago, will conduct a question-and-answer session on “How to Handle Womerr” next Thursday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. The Student Senate social commission is sponsoring the affair.
Discussion of a proposal to telephone student cheers to the Oklahoma game was the focal point of the November 6 Student Senate meeting. The cheers were to be broadcast on the field at Norman. The proposal was turned down by the administration.
The Student Senate had tentatively approved the proposal so that it could be submitted to the University Council for approval. There was to be a later meeting for a final discussion if the proposal was approved by the administration.
The idea for the telephoning obviously stemmed from the Navy game at which the cheers from Annapolis blared out at the discretion of the Navy bench. The administration was opposed to Notre Dame adopting the idea on the basis that it was against the spirit of the game. Part of the sport is that some games are played on the opponent’s home grounds without the support of student cheers. It is also felt that
Navy Schedules Exams For NROTC Regulars
The nationwide aptitude test for the Regular Naval ROTC program will be held on Dec. 14, 1957, Capt. Leonard T. Morse, commanding officer of the Navy program at Notre Dame, announced recently.
Established in 1926, the NROTC program which is now in 52 leading colleges and universities in the nation, is aimed at augmenting the U. S. Naval Academy’s production of officers for the Navy.
If selected, a Regular NROTC student will be provided with all tuition, fees, cost of text books, officer-type uniforms, and $50 retainer pay pel- month.
Upon successful completion of specified academic and physical requirements, he will receive either an ensign commission in the Navy or a second Lt. commission in the Marine Corps. Regular NROTC graduates must serve four years on active duty.
All midshipmen are invited to attend a High Mass in memory of the late Commander John H. Bear, USN, which will be celebrated at 9 a.m. Sunday in Sacred Heart Church. Uniform of midshipmen for this Mass will be Dress Blue Bravo.
Commander Bear, who was killed in July this year in an automobile accident near Orlando, Fla., had been the Senior Instructor of the NROTC at Notre Dame during 1948-50. Rev. Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., will be the’ celebrant of the Mass.
this was a tendency towards athletics and emotions controlled by the tui-n of a knob and reduction of a student sph-it to a quality bi-oadcasting system.
Warren Albright gave a report from the Dining Hall committee resulting from an inteiwiew with Mr. Ford, the dining hall manager. Various problems concerning the dining hall were discussed including the cleaning of tables before students had finished eating at that particular table. Mr. Ford said that two chairs had been removed from each table and spoke of the possibility of new tables. The menu was also discussed.
Mr. Ford mentioned a plan to have the old dining hall renovated next summer at a cost of a half-million dollars. He emphasized, however, that this plan was still very much in the talking stage and unconfirmed by the administration.
A report concerning a request from Ottumwa Junior College in Iowa for a donation of books and equipment was made. The college suffered extensive damage in a fire and is in need of aid. The request -was met with over* 300 books from the library and equipment from the chemistry and biology departments.
The petition made at the Oct. 30 meeting, by the Monogram Club to receive the proceeds from the Iowa victory dance was withdrawn by the club. The Senate committee investigating was not in favor of the plan because the proceeds from victory dances are for the student’s benefit via the Senate rather than for any one club. It was felt that the Monogram Club occupied no greater position than any other campus club.
The students of St. Mary’s will again sell tickets this year, but will not be eligible foi- the student’s car. However, extra prizes may be awarded in then-case.
yCS Groups to Hear Report On Lay Apostolate Congress
Vince Geise, editorial director of Fides Publications of Chicago, will report next Sunday afternoon on the World Congress of the Lay Apostolate which he attended in Rome last month.
Geise will speak before YCS groups from Notre Dame, St. Mary’s College, and Holy Cross School of Nursing, and the Christian Family Movement. After his talk the audience will break up into smallex- groups to discuss the question, “Can a Catholic be an Isolationist?”
The meeting will be held at St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, from 3 to 5 p.m.
13
November 15, 1957
Senior Trip
What I’ve Been Trying to Say
by JACK BARTHEL
Ed Hunngate was there.
And so was Stan Rourke and Dick Palm and Doctor John. They were all there for the Senior trip to East Lansing for the Michigan State game.
We all went up there for an escapade with the twelve thousand guys and maybe with the eight thousand girls. But it didn’t turn out like we planned it exactly, if you really want to know. We didn’t escapade with anyone but we had a pretty good time.
Anyhow you all know about the game. I guess you saw all the pictures and read it in the papers and Tyler’s picks of the week and all that stuff, but I’ll tell you what we did while we were there all that week end.
You know, of course,' that we got there kind of late but we did make it to what they up at State call a pep rally. Actually it was like something from Broadway or maybe a road company of Good News, what with the jazz combos and singers and all. No State students. We outnumbered them. I guess television was too good that night.
Now comes the good part. You see these state schools don’t have any priests or chapels or morning checks or religion courses so they have in its place a big dance hall they call the Newman Center.
Anyhow they threw a big mixer for us last Friday night. The girls were all
mixer for us and it was still cold
as
Eleven hoppy Notre Domers and their escort
right. Actually they were St. Mary’s girls with saddle shoes.
I picked me out a nice looking girl. I guess her legs were cold because she had these high black socks on and sweater and all. Anyhow she was good looking so we danced for a while and after the usual hassle of name, rank and serial number, I told her she should
see her family doctor and thanks got some cider.
Next day it was cold as anything raining and snowing and muddy where the devil is Macklin Field?
and
out, and
We went to see the game anyhow although some of the guys from State stayed back in the hall where it was warmer.
Anyhow we made a big tunnel for the team like they always do and the team came running through and we shouted and yelled some until they were all out and then we sat down and yelled some more.
Well the game started and State had a big crowd there after all and they yelled and yelled . . . every time State scored, but other than that they had to content themselves with snowball fights in the stands, and playing with those big blue balloons they buy for the game in case they score.
After the game they had another big
J ■ .
s
Boarding
the bus
put my big yellow


anything out so I
interhall football jersey under my coat ® and tie and it wasn’t so bad after that. fl
We hung in there for a while but a fl mixer’s a mixer and pretty soon we W headed for Lansing to look around. fl And by gosh they’ve got this huge build- fl ing there just like the Dome only with- fl out the gold. We found out from these -fl girls that we were with that this is fl the state capitol and it sure must have % been.	fl
I knew it must have been because all g the other state capitals I’ve been in have one (a dome, that is).
Pretty soon we got tired of Lansing so we went to a place called Deer Head flfl which I enjoyed because it had that S| real he-man Big Ten atmosphere. You SH know Ivy League shirts and Ivy League coats and ties and Stroh’s.
We got in at three o’clock and we flu didn’t have to sign in or take the balloon fi| test and we didn’t get any word from flfl the Dean of Students.	Ml
What I’ve been trying to say all along flN here is that it was a pretty good trip. n| I mean we met some nice, friendly girls M and we got along good with everyone J which is kind of disappointing.	fl
And right here I’d like to compliment a the Strangler Pivonka and Tom Maloney for making the trip what it was. The only dark shadow on the trip was O the loss.
14
The Scholastic
Fault and a football player
by Bob Early
This story was written in the week folloiving last year's loss to Michigan State. It is appropriate now because of the outcome of this year's game.
Since it ivas written last year before the new Eucharist Fast came into effect, the story depends upon the old midnight fasting rule. Also the Huddle mentioned is the old Huddle, the small brick building just north of the Student Center.
“Come on, Har, get up.”
“Uh.”
“Get up. It’s almost seven-fifteen.”
“What! Are you nuts? Lemme sleep, will ya?”
“Remember, now, what you said, last night. We’re all going to Communion together; for the team. Remember what you said.”
“That was last night.”
“What do ya mean that was last night? We were. .
“You guys go ahead. I’ll go over to Howard later on.”
“Aw no ya don’t. We’re all going together. You’re not getting out of it like that.”
He yawned. “Is Dan up yet?”
“Yeah, and so is Jack. Now get up. You’re the last one.”
He lay there for a minute not saying anything.
“Come on, up.”
“Aw okay. What the hell.”
We all went down the hall and into the chapel, Dan, Jack, Tom, Rip, Har and I. We were late; the offertory was just over and old Father McGinley was into the preface; but nobody wanted to go to Mass anyway—just Communion.
The server began the confiteor and we were up the aisle and at the rail, all in one group.
Jack came back and knelt down. “Thanks Lord for permitting me to receive you in Holy Communion. Thanks also for everything you’ve done for me. And . . . please Lord ... let us beat Michigan State today. We’ve lost two
16
already and we need this one. Please Lord help us.”
And Dan came back. “We play Michigan State this afternoon. They’re real good and we haven’t got much. But please God we’re playing under the name of Your Mother. Don’t let her down. Don’t let us let her down. Please God let us win.”
And we all said about the same thing. Then we went to breakfast, leaving Father to say the last gospel by himself.
* * *
The day was dark and cloudy as we walked up the cement steps to our seats. The game began and ended, and now we mingled in the crowd coming down the same cement steps. Michigan State 47; Notre Dame 14. We lost. They say we’ve been beaten worse before, but I don’t believe it.
I watched the team leave the field after the game. They were beaten just like the score read. I saw Morse dazed with
a concussion in the second quarter, and McMullan with a fractured arm, and Gaydos with a pulled tendon in his knee, and Hornung with a mangled thumb, and the rest of them all bruised and tired and beaten. They tried. The ’ score was seven to seven at the half, ; but State just had too much depth. They ; wore us out.	‘
I left the stadium and began to walk '• around. I didn’t want to go back to the £ hall, not just yet. Why? I don’t know. | I just wanted to walk around. I went £ by the dressing room to see if the team f was out yet, then by Cartier Field and | the Drill Hall, the Fieldhouse and the | Dome. I ended up in	the	Huddle.	t
“Yours?”	I
“Coffee with.”	|
She poured it from a fat glass pitcher I into a cardboard cup.	|
“That’ll be ten. . . .	Thank	youuu.” |
I didn’t even put sugar in the coffee, .4 but just walked over to the window. j My arm came to rest on the thin black j counter that lined the room; I looked: 1 out the window. The window, a dirty yellow frame pocked with blistered paint and covered by five long, thin, ugly iron bars. On the outside ledge was a malt -J cup, half full, sticky, and covered with t-j gnats. Right under the window was a i trash can, green and rusted, with push-in ] doors on each side. A crumpled napkin ■ rested on the coke-stained top of the can. J;
A man went by, alone and in a hurry, Three girls came by in tight knit dresses so their figures would show.
The ground was full of tiny bits of 3 paper, candy wrappers and all kinds of 'j trash that comes from a place like the 3 Huddle. The lawn in the background j was completely brown with dead leaves,
i
you been?”
my mouth it just came out.
I was as
I
i 4
?4
as the othei- guys, d’ya mean? They Victory March on
How ’bout that said as I took
don’t even that juke
Charlie
SSoldricfc
surprised “What have the box.”
$ #
“What’cha say guys? game? Good huh?” I off my coat.
“Yeah great. Where

save for two dull white slabs of cement supporting sewer lids. There was a small flower bed, too, but the petals were * wilted and dying.
, Groups of students walked by now and again. Some of them had green derbies on. A lot more wore blue and gold jackets with Notre Dame written across the back. They talked as they lumbered in the drab, grey weather, but I couldn’t hear what they were saying.
I finished the coffee and decided to go back to the hall. The mist was cold, slapping against my face as I walked. I hadn’t noticed it before. Tiny droplets of water splashed outward beneath my bucks with each step. I hurried along with my head down until I ascended the eight crickety wooden steps that led to the front porch of Sorin Hall. I went in and down the corridor with the red linoleum flooi* to room 141. I knew all the guys would be there, and feeling about the same way I did.

“I got some coffee at the Huddle. You know some jerk from Michigan State had the guts to play the Victory March on the juke box in there. I had to leave to keep from punching him in the damn nose.” I don’t know why I said that. It was obviously a lie. But when I opened

“The hell they don’t. I just heard it.” “Yeah, sure ya did.”
“I did, damnit.”
“Aw cut it out will ya?”
“You wanna bet? I just heard it not ten minutes ago.”
“Yeah. Yeah I’ll bet. How much?”
Dan chimed in. “Why do you always do that? You know that’s a damned lie. You’re always telling some far fetched damn story. We know you’re better than us. You don’t have to prove it.”
“Well, I’m glad you finally admit it.” I tried to laugh it off. “I was wondering when you’d find out.”
Nobody said anything else. I guess they could see I was embarrassed, and I was. But I was also mad. I was ready to fight them all. especially Dan, for what he said. Not that I thought he was wrong; I knew he wasn’t. It’s just that he was the one that led the attack against me; and no one ever got him.
There was a long silence. The room was hot and the guvs just lying around. Tom was draped over a chair reading SAGA, Jack was lying on one bed listening to the radio, Rip and Dan were
November 15, 1957
plopped in the bunk beds, and Har was reading a short story by Steinbeck.
“Doggone it. If we could only have kept up the pace. We sure needed that one.”
“What’s our record now, one and three?”
“Yeah.”
“What do ya think we’ll end up with?”
“I think about four- and six.”
“I’ll bet on that,” Tom came to life.
“I’ll bet we don’t win more than three.”
“Okay, how much?”
“Make it easy on yourself.”
Now it was Jack’s turn. “Wait a minute. Let me in on some of that easy money,” and before he knew it old Tom was in over his head. Everybody in the room wanted to bet him.
“Man, some spirit you’ve got,” Dan started it again.
“Who needs spirit when I can take you suckers by betting against it.”
“We’ll see. We’ll see.”
There was a silence again but it was cut short when Larry came in.
“Got four girls and a party lined up for tonight. Any takers?”
“No stuff?”
“Yeah, man, how ’bout that!”
“How’d ya fall into that?”
“Some friends of mine came down for the game.”
“Are they pretty nice?”
“Yeah, all of ’em. They’re high school girls, though.”
“Seniors?”
“Oh yeah. Good girls.”
“Hell, I’ll go.” Old Tom was always the first one to volunteer.
“We can all go. Rip has to work and I’ll take Peggy. Nothing to it.”
Well that settled everything. The game was forgotten and pretty soon we were at 3218 Norwaldo, all six of us.
# • *
The girls weren’t bad at all, and as the time neared midnight everyone was really having a good time. We decided earlier in the evening to play party games to get better acquainted. So we all sat around in a big circle. Each person had a signal, like clapping his hands or making a salute or something like that. Then we all began slapping our thighs as fast as we could. One guy started by giving his signal and then . somebody else’s. Then that person repeated his signal and gave someone else’s, and so on until somebody missed a signal. When you missed, then, you had to chug-'a-lug a glass of beer. Well, that really got things rolling. In fact, it got everybody so well acquainted that the game didn’t last more than an hour before everyone paired up in a corner or someplace, and began discussing on their own.
As I was saying everything was going great when I happened to notice it was nearly twelve o’clock.
“Hey, everybody, better drink up fast; it’s almost midnight, or you won’t be able to go to Communion tomorrow.”
Dan got up off the sofa. His clothes were wrinkled pretty badly and his hair was messed up. He had a queer look on his face like he was angry at what I said, and I thought he was going to start in on me again.
“What do I want to go to Communion for? I went yesterday didn’t I? And what good did it do? Fourty-seven to fourteen! Get out of here will ya?”
/
17
/I
Ferrone, Bain, Dodge Stand Out in ‘Time Limit!’
Power and meaning came out of a play called Time Limit! Wednesday evening in Washington Hall and gripped the imagination of a startled audience. Here is a play that coerces and pleads with us to listen — to listen with a deft ear to the throbbings of men’s minds and hearts that live in the time of hate and war. Two playwrights, Henry Denker and Ralph Berkey ask the questions: How much pressure can a human being endure during war and is a soldier first a man or is he a warrior?
The story concerns men living in a North Korean prison camp, and what happens to one of them who turns traitor. Most of the action occurs in a judge advocate’s office in the United States where the army is trying to decide the action that should be brought against the traitor.
The conflict of the drama of the dignity of man’s life versus the code of a soldier in war remains explicitly unsolved. The end is doubt. Probably we know the right — that of life; but it seems in the situation of war with the immense importance of the army the questions will never be solved. One man (Major Cargrill) finds only disillusionment and preaches a vague humanism in order to extinguish war. It is a difficult play with a cumbersome problem which the authors recognize. The answers lie off-stage, in back of the scenery, most likely in the distant future.
The Washington Hall players answered the challenge of this most difficult play. Time Limit! demands expert dramatic restraint along with the knowledge of minds put to the infinite test. The majority of the actors felt the need and produced a fine play.
Daniel Ferrone as Col. William Edwards, the judge advocate, demonstrates a good dramatic talent here. In the role of a perservering lawyer he supplies a reserve of action that is needed, for his part showed dangers of slipping into the rut of ‘overplay.’
In his first dramatic role, Jerry Dodge filled the part of a tortured young lieutenant with a precise, if not overly so, delivery. His interpretation was be-
1S
THE PRINCIPALS
T/Sgt. Charles Baker.....Dave Shanahan WAC Corporal Jean Evans .Meg Nerad Lt. George Miller ..........Jerry Dodge
Lt. Col. William Edwards .Dan Ferrone General Jos. Connors .......Mike Kennedy Major Harry' Cargill ........Reginald Bain Mrs. Mary Cargill .......Georgia Ann Weber Col. Kim .................Lee Legessie
Lt. Mike Livingston ........Bill Chesson
Written by Henry Denker and Ralph Berkey; Directed by Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C.; Performance coached by Fred W. Syburg: Setting and Lighting by Gilbert Rathburn.
Dan Ferrone the Judge Advocate in ‘Time Limit!’ which opened Wednesday night in Washington Hall will run through this Sunday.
lievable and Dodge brought the character to the pity of the audience. Especially in the drunken scene Dodge exhibited expertly the final collapse of the young man. This is a new medium for him, but he took it well in hand.
Comic relief came in abundant quantities from Sgt. Baker, characterized by Dave Shanahan, remembered for his role in Good News. Shanahan works well
by DAVID L. KUBAL |
in such instances. The sergeant has been typed and for that reason loses a few ‘r laughs, however, Shanahan with a fine q| sense of comic timing uses his material to best advantage. He is also called upon for several dramatic lines which Ss are adequately delivered.
Michael Kennedy, as General Connors, posesses a fine stage knowledge and in- In terprets the old army man who recognizes only the ‘code’ as the correct way of life for a soldier with exactness. Kennedy has a species of professional- ® ism seldom seen on a college stage. It is a pleasure to view such an actor, for ® one is not conscious that he is acting. %
The characterization of Major Harry 35 Gargill, the traitor, was assigned to g Reginald Bain, a veteran of Washington Hall. Gargill is the mouthpiece of the « playwrights, expounding the philosophy w of the play. Mr. Bain developed this sensitive person with a good deal of 3 success. Gargill, an angry man, filled a with a sense of despair over the cruelty I of his fellow man turns away with bitterness and disgust. Bain seemed to 'S feel this, and brought forth a refreshing a character.	w
The wife of the accused man, Georgia gl Ann Weber, suffered intently and realistically but she left the impression of a melodrama with the delivery of sev- JZ eral lines. However, the hopelessness of S the wife’s situation emerged nicely in fl her limited time on stage.
Meg Nerad, the WAC secretary of O Col. Edwards, exhibits a fine native S talent. However, the character of the II tender consultant of the harrassed advo- *3 cate never is completely exploited. Miss QI Nerad’s lines are spoken with a detach- j||| ment at • times that tend to mar her O| performance. Nevertheless, the comedy that she and Shanahan worked was de- S lightful.	||
On the whole the minor roles were « aptly handled except for an occasional 3 illness of over-direction. The changes of f scene from the office to the prison facil- 3 itated with blackouts appeared clumsy, § but were not over-offensive. Aside from M this the unity of the production stays W intact.	13
The Scholastic I
A Campus Crusade in
Christian Liturgy
by JOHN RIPPEY
*
; Every morning at eight o’clock in the i.'	Breen-Phillips Hall chapel a priest
|!	celebrates an annual High Mass. It is
j unusual because of the active participation of the congregation in the Mass '. itself: all sung parts are chanted; at the end of the gospel, the priest, The ||J Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., delivers ’' *	a homily, or sermon explaining how the
, particular Mass of the day gives graces and blessings necessary to lead a Christian life; at the offertory the congregation walks in a procession, each rnern-. * her placing his offering, an unconse-! crated host, on the celebrant’s paten.
The daily High Mass is perhaps the J most public evidence of a Christian liturgy movement on campus. However, Father Mathis, the moving power behind । most liturgy activity on campus, does a ■I * great deal more than celebrate Mass I each day. On Saturday evenings at 1’■	7:15, for example, he conducts a vigil
J service in the basement chapel of Sacred ; I	Heart Church. According to Father
1	Mathis, “A vigil service is the ancient
preparation for Sunday Mass. Sub-• stantially it is what is known as Matins of the Divine Office, or Breviary. The f most important feature of the service is , to hear the Word of God and its inter’	pretation in the unbroken tradition of
'	the Catholic Church.”
! Since 1947 Father Mathis has headed the Notre Dame Liturgy Program of the summer session. The program has Itbrought some of Europe’s best scholars 1,1 to Notre Dame to lecture on the sacred /	liturgy. Among the visiting scholars
।	have been The Rev. Josef Jungmann,
■	S.J., of Innsbruck University, Austria;
The Rev. Balthasar Fischer of the Liturgical Institute, Trier Germany; The I Rev. Louis Bouyer (of the Oratory) of ' the Pontifical Catholic University of •"* Paris; the late Eugenio Zolli of the Biblical Institute, Rome; and Dr. Chris* tine Mohrmann of Nijmegen University, :	Netherlands.
The lectures have been edited and ar-H ranged for publication under Father [ Mathis’ direction by the University of ' Notre Dame Press. At least eleven 'd books will be released in the series with i? the general title Liturgical Studies. A \ book by Father Bouyer, Liturgical Piety, . was the first to be published; three ■j others have followed. Books soon to be :• released are The Psalter as a Christian i
‘ November 15, 1957
Prayer Book by Father Fischer, The Primitive Liturgy by Father Jungmann, and The Prayer Life of the Church by The Rev. Bonifaas Luykx, O.Praem., of the Abbey at Retie, Belgium.
A visitor to Father Mathis’ office in the presbytery behind Sacred Heart Church finds a room filled with books, notebooks, magazines, and papers overflowing bookcases and spilling out on the floor in a secretary’s nightmare. Father Mathis, a small, silver-haired man, sits in a big leather chair, his eyes sparkling. When he talks, his voice commands attention. It constantly changes pitch,
The Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C.
sounding sometimes soft and reserved, at other times loud and almost harsh.
“The Popes of this century have done more than all previous Popes put together to restore participation in communal worship, he explained. “Pope Pius XI celebrated the first Dialogue Mass in 1922. It was never in the tradition of the Church, you know. Its most important function is to get beginners acquainted with the Missal. Would you believe it that when I came to Notre Dame fifty-six years ago there were no English Missals here—or in the United States for that matter.”
“I mustn’t say that I was the first one to do . anything for liturgy at Notre Dame,” Father- said. “The Rev. George Maar, C.S.C., said the first Dialogue Mass when he was rector of Sorin Hall.
When we were seminarians, we didn’t know anything about the liturgy; we thought it was just rubrics—how you | hold your hands and genuflect, and so | on.” Father stopped and laughed out I loud. “I remember that we had a . I Father General teaching us at Holy 8 Cross seminary. He used to play a	g
fiddle when he taught us chant. And	fi
sometimes, when he was tuning it, some g students would jump out the window!” | “I left Notre Dame and worked for	g
the Bengal missions for twenty-five	|
years,” Father said, still smiling. “I was I converted to studying the sacred liturgy I in 1936 when I bumped into a famous | book by Pius Parsch called Das Jahr Des	|
Heiles. And I do mean converted. I was	I
in Washington, D.C., at the time, and I | remember that I read the book for about | an hour and a half, and it was getting i hotter all the time. I found out it was S just the first of three volumes, so I sent I to the publisher for the rest of the set—	|
I couldn’t wait to get them.”	j
“I was kicked out of the Missions after twenty-five years,” Father continued. “It was God’s Providence. I liked, mission work so much that there was no other way for them to get me out. It took an Archbishop to do it, too,” Father added i with more than the usual sparkle in | his eye.	I
“In 1939 I was sent back to Notre | Dame. I started saying Masses in the Main Building—the chapel I used is gone	|
now, and I began talking to students	j
every evening about five o’clock about the	|
next morning’s Mass. So many students	I
came that we kept overflowing chapels	J
until we started using the main altar	$
in Sacred Heart Church. We disturbed	I
a lot of people with our Offertory Pro-	|
cession and what-not and we finally	1
got kicked out of there. I was sent to	1
St. Joseph’s Hospital in 1941; I didn’t	1
get back to Notre Dame until 1953.”	|
“But in 1947,” Father continued, “I | started an undergraduate summer school | in the liturgy, and a year later I changed	|
it into a graduate school. We started	|
with the best men, and we have kept it up.” Father stopped a moment, smiling a little. “And just this year,” he said, with particular emphasis, “we have started a class during the regular ses- ‘ sion. Professor Robert Snow of the University of Illinois teaches it, and it’s called “Monophonic and Polyphonic Chant.” There are three doctor’s of musicology in the class and two students with master’s degrees.”
“Now as far as doing something for the students goes,” Father went on, shifting a little in his chair, “the Daily | High Mass and the vigil service are open to everyone. I’d like to emphasize that the vigil services are every Saturday evening, including football Saturdays.
(Continued on page 31)
19
President Hesburgh Brings Special
Blessing From Pope For Notre Dame
Atoms For Peace
Agency, selection of a permanent headquarters, the programmes and budget for the first year of the Agency, technical problems relevant to advance planning of Agency operations, the establishment of a permanent Agency staff, and so on.

There were 23 members of the Board
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., has recently returned from Vienna, where he attended the first General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency as a representative of Vatican City.
The International Atomic Energy Agency is the first attempt on a worldwide basis to face the challenge and opportunity of the peaceful uses of atomic energy. The concept behind the agency was first set forth by President Eisenhower at the Bermuda 'Summit’ Conference in 1953, when the President supplemented his bold Open Skies Inspection Plan with “Atoms for Peace.”
The phrase caught on immediately. The world had been living under a huge mushrooming cloud of destruction for several years, and it was ready to consider any solution which could bend this tremendous power to peaceful use.
“Atoms for Peace” was received with no small amount of enthusiasm by the General Assembly of the United Nations, which unanimously called for the establishment of the Agency. The United Nations International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy at Geneva in 1955 showed impressively how great, in such a wide field of knowledge, were the opportunities and benefits of a free exchange of scientific information and techniques.
An International Conference on the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency was scheduled for Oct. 1956, at the United Nations building in New York. Eighty-one nations from around the globe were represented. Father Hesburgh and Dr. Marston Morse of the Institute of Advanced Studies at Princeton were appointed by the Holy See as Representatives of Vatican City to the Conference.
In this capacity, Father Hesburgh and Dr. Morse had full power to discuss, approve, and sign for Vatican City. The Statute Conference was pretty nearly an around the clock job during the week, and the beginning of the last school year found Father Hesburgh commuting between New York during the week and Notre Dame on the week ends in an attempt to keep up with his responsibilities.
On Oct. 26, Father Hesburgh and Dr.
20
by DICK SMITH
Morse signed the completed Statute along with the representatives of the other nations. The Statute then had to be ratified by the governments of all the participating countries, including the Congress of the United States.
The Statute states that: “The Agency shall seek to accelerate and enlarge the contribution of atomic energy to peace, health and prosperity throughout the world. It shall ensure, so far as it is able, that assistance provided by it or at its request or under its supervision or control is not used in such a way as to further any military purpose.”
A Preparatory Commission was created to make all necessary preparations for the first session of the General Conference and the first meeting of the Board of Governors of the Agency. Vienna was selected as the locality for the first Conference.
Last May, Father Hesburgh and Mr. Frank Folsom, former president of Radio Corporation of America and now president of the Executive Committee of that company, were appointed by Pius XII as permanent representatives to the IAEA.
Father Hesburgh and Mr. Folsom arrived in Austria with a full schedule ahead of them. Among the problems to
be
resolved were the financing of the
Father Hesburgh, His Holiness Pope Pius XII, Mr. Folsom
of Governors and 57 Nations of the General Conference present. Most of the representatives were Ambassadors and other State Department officials, and
j
members missions nations.
those of
of the Atomic Energy Com- < of the various participating j The largest delegations were I the United States, headed by J
the Honorable Lewis L. Strauss, Chair- . man of the Atomic Energy Commission, j and Russia, under the leadership of f Prof. V. S. Emelyanov, Chief of the | Central Atomic Energy Utilization | Board of the Council of Ministers of the | USSR. Dr. Karl Gruber, Ambassador' g of Austria, to the U. S., was the Presi- | dent of the General Conference.	|
Various geographical and political | blocs were represented, but dissension s was conspicuously at a minimum. Per- a haps the most potentially explosive dis- | cussion was that of the lack of repre- § sentation of Communist China, but it | was resolved to abide by the decision of g the United Nations. All of the decisions F which were voted upon and passed at § the Conference were carried unanimous- S ly, a very impressive tribute to the 3 unity and solidarity of purpose of the 1 Agency.	1
Five official languages were used 1 during the conference; English, Russian, 3 French, Spanish, and Chinese. German 1
was an cause of
acceptable sixth language be- ■ the location of the conference. 5
The Scholastic
A rather unusual situation revealed itself in that the Vatican City delegation was headed by a layman, Mr. Folsom. Father Hesburgh was the only priest at the Conference.
Father Hesburgh was impressed by the genuine sincerity of all the representatives, including those from behind the Iron Curtain. A spirit of friendliness and cooperation was prevalent. The Russian delegation was well qualified and particularly well disciplined; they would arrive on time, in a group, and remain for the final discussions of each committee.
Another point of interest is that while the United States donated the largest amount of fissionable material, some 5000 kilograms of Uranium 235, Russia presented only 50 kilograms, but included a large number of scholarships to help train future scientists.
There is a definite need for more and better education. All the fissionable material in the world is of little value if there is an insufficient number of qualified scientists to use it intelligently and safely. Father Hesburgh is very much interested in this problem. He is currently a member of the General Advisory Board of Argonne National Laboratories, the Board of Directors of the Midwest University Research Association; the National Science Board, and the Institution of International Education. The Central staff of the Agency in Vienna approached Father Hesburgh on the problem of education. They had in mind setting up a committee on education consisting of the Professor Emely-onor, the Head of the USSR Delegation and Father Hesburgh of Vatican City, but unfortunately other pressing problems confronting Father Hesburgh necessitated a postponement of this essential objective.
Informal discussions and relationships like these were effected at receptions such as the one given by the Vatican Delegation.
A Pontifical Mass was held, celebrated by the Archbishop of Vienna, in thanksgiving for the success of the Conference. The Mass was held in St. Charles Church in Vienna, where Napoleon married Marie Therese. Invitations were sent out to all delegations, and on Sunday the Church was filled. The Archbishop Konig of Vienna, read the Gospel of Christ the King in five different languages, with each linguistic group rising as it was read to them. In his sermon the Archbishop stressed the spiritual and moral overtones which the Vatican City lent to this great project. He mentioned the appropriateness of Vienna, an old city rich in history and tradition, having been chosen as the permanent headquarters of this great
November 15, 1957
(L. to R.) Fr. Hesburgh, Hon. Robert McKinney, U.S. representative, Prof. G. Pantaziz of Greece, Mr. I. Ishikawa of Japan, Dr. Karl Gruber, and Mr. M. Theodoropoulos.
organization which was aimed toward the betterment of mankind.
On his return to the United States, Father Hesburgh, and Mr. Folsom stopped in Rome to report to the Holy Father and to the Acting Secretary of State for Vatican City. He was present for the dedication of the new worldwide Papal radio station. The Pope sent back with Father Hesburgh a special blessing for all of the Notre Dame Family; the students, the faculty,
Prof. V. S. Emelyanov, Chief USSR representative, Mrs. Ralph Bunch, Dr. Karl Gruber, President of the Conference, Mr. Frank Folsom, and Dr. Ralph Bunch.
the alumni, and the parents.
Back at Notre Dame at last, there is little time for rest and relaxation for Father Hesburgh. In addition to his many duties and responsibilities, the Notre Dame President was appointed last week by President Eisenhower as a member of the six-man commission provided for by the Civil Rights Bill passed by Congress last August. The task of the Commission is to seek to prevent racial discrimination.
21
MOTOROLA
(Leader in Electronics)
invites you to interview for positions in PHOENIX, ARIZ. RIVERSIDE, CALIF. CHICAGO, ILL.
Our representative will be on your campus November 18 See your placement office to arrange an appointment
IB MOTOROLA
Law Admission Test Scheduled for Feb. 15
The Law School Admission Test, required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools, will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States on the mornings of Feb. 15, April 19, and Aug. 2, 1958. The first test in this series was given last Saturday. During 1956-57 over 12,000 applicants took this test, and their scores were sent to over 100 law schools.
A candidate must make separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the Law School Admission Test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised ordinarily to take either the November, held last Saturday, or the February test, if possible.
The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. It cannot be “crammed” for. Sample questions and information regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a Bulletin of Information.
The Bulletin (in which an application for the test is inserted) should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must be received at least two weeks before the desired testing.
Saturday Night Party Recalls 'Gay Twenties'
Highlighting the fall social season will be the annual “Gay Twenties” party which will take place in the LaFortune Student Center tomorrow evening.
Costumes are requested, but not necessary. The funniest and most original costumes will be awarded prizes as will the one that most depicts “the spirit of the twenties.”
Such tunes as The Charleston, Blackbottom, and Charmaine as played by Gene Bertoncini’s Dixieland Combo will add to the atmosphere of the party. There also may be an impromptu pianist in the Rathskeller to provide entertainment.	£*4
In the afternoon there will be a direct telecast from Norman, Okla, of the Irish-Sooner contest. The doors will open at 1:30 p.m. and tickets may be purchased there for $.50.	. .
22
The Scholastic
ENGINEERS
Make Your Appointment Now For That Important Career Interview With
MAGNAVOX
ON CAMPUS, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4
There are opportunities at Magnavox in advanced communications equipment, radar, computers, electro-mechanical equipment.
Three attractive locations: Fort Wayne, Indiana, described by Look magazine as “the happiest city in the United States”: Urbana, Illinois, home of the University of Illinois; Los Angeles, California.
PLEASE MAKE ARRANGEMENTS WITH
YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY
THE MAGNAVOX COMPANY
Three Law Students Compete in Tourney
a
Competition in the Moot Court region-als began yesterday in Chicago with । nine schools from this area represented. The winner, who will go to New York for- the national finals in December, will be determined tomorrow.
Ray Tam, Bill Ragan and Dan Very, s who are representing Notre Dame, got their first test yesterday against Mar- t quette. Tam and Ragan will compete as respondents and Very and Ragan will work as petitionists.
The tournament is sponsored by the Young Lawyers Committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. All colleges and universities with 4 law schools in this region have been invited. Illinois, Chicago, Northwestern • and Marquette are the top-seeded teams ; in this tourney.
The judging is based two-thirds on 4 oral argument and one-third on the brief score which consists of a written sum- t, mary of the case to be presented.
ENGINEERS, CLASS OF '58
KEARFOTT
9yros, compass
Is Interviewing on your Campus
DECEMBER 3
for Assistant Project Engineer positions, open to you upon graduation. The work is in the development of precision instruments and controls—in both systems and components.
*
»
MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENT NOW WITH YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE.
These opportunities are right in line with the increasing importance to the young engineer joining a company with a record of steady growth and a reputation for the high calibre of engineering it puts into its products.
TO FIND OUT IN DETAIL WHAT KEARFOTT OFFERS YOU IN:
4
Professional training • Aid for graduate study Project responsibility from inception to production Opportunities for advancement Stability, growth and resources Liberal salary and benefit policies • Living advantages
1
««9*neersfn
...BE SURE TO MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENT NOW WITH YOUR PLACEMENT DIRECTOR, OR WRITE TO:
Robert J. Sperl • Technical Placement Supervisor ’ Engineering Personnel Office
earfott COMPANY, INC.
1500 Main Avenue, Clifton, N. J.
A Subsidiary of General Precision Equipment Corporation
Remoter Gm,.,^
f
24
The Scholastic
Professor True Discusses Need of 'Creative Thinking'
K Dr. G. Herbert True, assistant professor of marketing, participated this past week in the annual meeting of life insurance executives in Chicago. This meeting of the Life Insurance Agency Management Association, which was at 4 the Edgewater Beach Hotel, attracted over 1,000 sales executives.
Dr. True spoke during the Tuesday afternoon session. His subject was “Creative
Thinking and the Need For It Today.” LIAMA is a 40-year old non-profit organization administered by 294 member companies in the United States, Canada and foreign countries for the benefit of policy owners. Through its continuing program of scientific research and study, the association helps companies to extend the benefits of life insurance efficiently and at the lowest possible cost to the public.
Member companies today have 9-5% of the total life insurance in force in the U. S. and Canada.
OAILWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRI*T
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
ENGINEERS
★ MECHANICAL ★ ELECTRONIC * AERONAUTICAL ★ METALLURGICAL ★CIVIL
PRODUCTS DIVISION SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Wednesday, November 20
will be on campus
on the sound basis of diversified engineering and manufacturing.
November 15, 1957
25
Only Viceroy gives you 2Q000 FILTER TRAPS FOR THAT SMOOTHER TASTE
© 1957, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
Look! Viceroy gives you only golden brown tobacco, Deep-Cured through and through for extra smoothness!
Twice as many -filter traps as the other two
largest-selling filter brands!
Compare! Only Viceroy gives you 20,000 filter traps—twice as many as the other two largest-selling filter brands—for that smoother taste!
Plus—finest-quality leaf tobacco, Deep-Cured for extra smoothness!
Get Viceroy! 20,000 filter traps, for the smoothest taste of all!
Actual photomicrograph
of Viceroy filter section. J *
that Viceroys 20,000 filter
many as the ordinary filter!
AN ORDINARY FILTER
Half as many filter traps in
the other two largest-selling
20.000 filter traps... twice as
many... for smoother taste!
Actual photomicrograph
of ordinary filter section.
THE VICEROY FILTER
These simplified drawings show the difference ... show
filter brands! In Viceroy,
traps are actually twice as
VICEROY

'CERO)
26
The Scholastic
9^Uk Seem
IRISH SEEK UPSET WIN OVER OKLAHOMA
Sooners Carry Streak of 47 Straight Wins Into Nationally Televised Contest At Norman
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, still smarting from a 34-6 defeat by Michigan State last Saturday, will attempt to regain their early season winning ways when they meet the University of Oklahoma Sooners at Norman tomorrow.
Oklahoma will be seeking their eighth straight win of the season and their 48th consecutive victory. The Sooners haven’t been beaten since 1953 when they were stopped by Notre Dame, 28-21. Included in their 47 game winning skein was a ।	40-0 trouncing of the Irish last year at
Notre Dame Stadium.
Coach Bud Wilkinson lost 18 lettermen from last year’s national championship squad. Among these were All-Americans Tommy McDonald and Jerry Tubbs. However, last year’s quarterbacks are the men most missed by Wilkinson this year. With the graduation of Jimmy Harris and Jay O’Neal, the Sooners have failed to come up with a top flight quarterback. Their attack has bogged down at times this year- because they were unable to come up with a good t passing offense. In their 21-7 defeat of Texas, they completed only two of 17, and against Colorado they were not able to complete a pass.
This lack of passing is offset by the running of their co-captain and All-
CLENDON THOMAS
Sooner All-American
American candidate, Clendon Thomas. As McDonald’s running mate last year, halfback Thomas led the country in scoring with 18 touchdowns. Thomas is an excellent runner, both inside and outside, and is also a great threat on the run-pass option.
Jakie Sandefer is the other starting halfback. Sandefer was slowed most of last season by a sprained ankle, but averaged 6.6 yards for the 19 times that he carried the ball.
The man that Wilkinson has chosen to
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
NOTRE DAME	OKLAHOMA
Royer .........   LE	  Stiller
Geremia ........ LT......  Searcy
Schaaf ________  LG	  Northcutt
Scholtz ....... C ...... Harrison
Ecuyer......... RG ...... Krisher
Lawrence ....... RT	   Jennings
Stickles ....... RE	   Rector
Williams ......QB _________  Dodd
Reynolds ....... LH	  Sandefer
Lynch .......... RH	   Thomas
Pietrosanta ____ FB	   Morris
KICKOFF—3 p.m. C.S.T.
TV—WNDU-TV.
fill the quarterback post is 187 pound Carl Dodd. Dodd lettered last year- as a halfback, but was switched to the signal calling post last spring.
Rounding out the Sooner backfield will be fullback Dennit Morris. Morris was the fullback on the alternate unit, playing behind Billy Pricer. He averaged 5.9 yards per carry last year but his running is often overshadowed by the brilliant blocking performances that he has come up with.
Oklahoma is well set up front with two All-American candidates bulwarking their line. They are center Bob Harrison and guard Bill Krisher. Harrison is the man Wilkinson picked to fill the graduated Tubb’s position last spring and he has been there since.
Krisher is a 221 pound guard that was named to Sports Illustrated’s AllAmerican eleven last year. Oklahoma
BILL KRISHER
Sooner All-American
sports writers have described him as the Sooner’s finest guard since J. D. Roberts.
Ken Northcutt is the other guard on the forward wall. Northcutt started for the Sooners last year until he suffered a broken leg in the North Carolina game. He is the smallest man on the line at 195, but is also the most versatile.
Doyle Jennings and Byron Searcy are the Oklahoma tackles. Jennings was a guard last year on the alternate eleven. Last year against Notre Dame he blocked Dean Studer’s punt to set up the second Sooner score.
Searcy is one of the ‘‘long, lean” type tackles that Wilkinson turns up every year standing 6-4 and weighing 201.
Don Stiller leads the Oklahoma end corps. Stiller is the other Sooner cocaptain. Last year- he caught five passes for 118 yards and two touchdowns.
Junior Joe Rector is the other wingman for the men from Norman. Although he didn’t letter last year, he won the starting berth with a great defensive game against Pittsburgh in the Sooner’s opener- and has been there since.
The Sooners are primarily a split T ball club but sometimes do shift into the swinging gate formation, a Wilkinson type spread.
This will be the fourth meeting for Notre Dame and Oklahoma, the Irish holding a 2-1 edge in the series. Besides the 1953 win, the Irish edged the Sooners in 1952, 27-21.
November 15, 1957
Swimming Club Expects Keen Competition In Season-Opening Relays Meet at Loyola
Though not yet recognized as a varsity sport at Notre Dame, the University Swim Club opens its third season December 7 in the Loyola Relays. Practice in preparation for the Swim Club’s 13-meet schedule started on October 15. Forty swimmers then reported for practice at the Rockne Memorial pool. Since then, every weekday afternoon, the Club has been holding daily practice sessions, under the direction of Gil Burdick, a Notre Dame physical education swimming instructor. Burdick also coached the team successfully through its first two seasons.
The outlook for the 1957 squad is the brightest yet for the Swim Club. Many capable veterans from the first two teams are working into shape plus a promising crop of talented sophomores and freshmen will be available this winter.
This year’s team will be captained by Dick Nagle, a junior and two year veteran free stylist on the squad. Nagle swims free style in both distance and sprint events for the club. Tom Kennedy, last year’s outstanding swimmer in the 50- and 100-yard sprints, is again expected to lead the team in these events. Other outstanding free stylists are juniors Jim Hilliard and Tom Londrigan and senior Paul Kerwin. Hilliard and Londrigan concentrate on the distance free style events. Two other free stylists expected to be valuable assets to the team are John Murray, a junior, and Tom Casey, a sophomore.
The backstroke contingent is paced by Jim Garrity and Dick Katis, both juniors. Garrity was one of the leading swimmers on the 1956-57 Swim Club
JIM GARRITY Up for some air
team. Katis can also handle free style events.
Breast stroke events this winter will be handled by George May, a junior, Dick Breuner, a senior, and sophomore Gene Jordan. Second year swimmers Dick Dunn and Tom Moran will compete in the butterfly events.
Paul Chestnut, a sophomore, is expected to be the team’ leading diver this year off the one and three meter boards at the Rock pool. Jim Carroll is a very promising freshman diver.
Perhaps the most outstanding freshman is Mike Mahaney. He is a former “high school All-American” and is the freshman 50-yard free style champion. He covered the distance in a fast, 24.2 seconds. Mahaney can also perform in the butterfly events. Gene Wichger is another freshman free stylist who did well in the Freshman Meet. His time for the 50-yard free style event was 24.3. Chris Lund and Bill Cronin are other freshman hopefuls working hard for spots on the team. And John Fagan is a promising first year butterflyist.
Father Pelton, C.S.C., is again the moderator of this winter’s Swim Club. Pat Clark, a freshman, is volunteering his services as manager for the team. Handling the publicity for the Swim Club is Jim Hilliard, a junior who lives in Sorin Hall.
1957-58 SWIM CLUB SCHEDULE
Dec. 7 Loyola Relays Chicago Dec. 14 Central Michigan Here Jan. 11 Kent State Univ. Here Jan. 13 Central Michigan There Jan. 16 Univ, of Chicago Here Feb. 8 Ohio University There Feb. 11 Western Illinois Here Feb. 14 Bowling Green There Feb. 15 Western Michigan There Feb. 18 Loyola University Here Feb. 22 North Central Here Feb. 23 Tentative Home Meet Mar. 1 Midwest Invitational
Harriers Win State Meet; Whip Indiana, Others
Last Friday Notre Dame’s crosscountry team outdistanced nine rival squads in the annual Indiana Big State Meet at Indianapolis. The Irish compiled 27 points as against the second place Indiana total of 41 points. This was a much wider margin than the 2530 score by which the Irish defeated Indiana in a dual meet earlier this fall. The other smaller schools were left far behind in the point totals.
Notre Dame runners took six out of
the first eleven places in the Big State meet. Ed Monnelly of Notre Dame again led the pack, Dave Cotton was third, Dale VandenBerg, Irish captain, '* finished sixth, John Burns placed eighth, Mike Haverty was ninth, and Vic Dillon came in eleventh. Indiana placed in the fourth, fifth, and tenth slots while one lone Wabash runner placed second to Monnelly.
Coach Alex Wilson, commenting on “ the meet said: “It was the best the team has looked all year.” Then he went 1 further to add that it was the best team he has ever coached. He is confident that they will make a good showing in the tougher competition ahead.
Other schools running in the meet d' besides Notre Dame and Indiana were Indiana Central, Indiana State, Han- 4 over, De Pauw, Butler, Valparaiso and Earlham.
Stanford Tops Keenan 4 In Key Interhall Tilt ‘
The halfway point of the Interhall football season was climaxed by Stanford’s 14-0 victory over previously undefeated Keenan, last Sunday. The win gave coach Ed O’Donnel’s Stanford club undisputed possession of first place in 1 the East section of the league.
Breen-Phillips, coached by Bill Berber, used a good passing attack to whip winless St. Ed’s, 12-6 and move into a second place tie with Dick Murphy’s Keenan. Farley came up with its first ■win of the season by dumping Zahm, ♦ 6-0. Cavanaugh drew a bye.
In the big game in the West division, Badin upset previously unbeaten and preseason favorite Off-Campus 7-0. First place Alumni dealt winless Lyons its fourth straight loss, 7-0. Second place Morrissey, coached by Dave Vories, rolled to an easy triumph over Howard in preparation for Sunday’s first place battle with Alumni. Dillon dealt Pang-born its first loss in three games in last Sunday’s finale, 13-0. The win still leaves Dillon with an outside chance for the title.
This week’s schedule headlines one top fl battle in each division.	3
In the East, Stanford puts its title | on the line when it faces a tough B-P | outfit. Should Stanford win they will | have an inside track to the division title. | Other Eastern division games find Cava- S naugh facing Zahm, and Farley, trying | to even its record, taking on winless St. Ed’s. Keenan is idle.	g
The top Western battle finds Alumni I and Morrissey clashing for first place. | Currently these two teams are virtually 1 tied for the lead. In the other games, a Off-Campus plays Howard, Dillon takes i on Lyons, and Badin faces Pangborn. a
The Scholastic S

28
Defense:
The Story of the Series
by Joe Bride
Al Kohanowich, right end, pounced on it and the Irish moved on down the field to score.
In 1953, Varrichione’s blocked punt came in the waning minutes of the first half. The Irish were trailing, 14-7, and the regulars, in their first game of one platoon football, had been playing the entire half and were tired. Max Boydston attempted a quick kick for the Sooners, but Varrichione blocked it and Don Penza recovered. The Irish then scored and went into the half with a 14-14 tie instead of a 14-7 deficit.
I Tomorrow the Irish meet the Sooners ' for the fourth time on the gridiron. On I each of the previous occasions when the ' schools met, thrilling, free-wheeling, offensive battles took place.
In the first contest, Nov. 8, 1952, the Irish won out 27-21 at Notre Dame Stadium. In the 1953 season openei- on Sept. 26 at Norman, the Irish again , won, 28-21. And, last year, at Notre if Dame the Sooners earned their first victory in the series, 40-0.
Despite these high-scoring battles and the fact that Sooner halfback Billy Vessels was the running star of the , 4 1952 game, that Ralph Guglielmi, Joe ' Heap and Neil Worden ground out the ” yardage in 1953, and that Clendon Thomas and Tommy McDonald ran the । Irish ragged last year, the key plays in all the games were defensive ones.
Jerry Tubbs, Sooner All-American center, slashed across the line and drove into Hornung with a calculated and powerful tackle. Despite the hole, Hornung was stopped cold. Never again during the afternoon did Notre Dame use the single wing, and never were the Sooners slowed in their victory march.
In the first game in 1952, the key defensive play came in the final period after the Irish had fought back from deficits of 7-0, 14-7, and 21-14, to tie the score, 21-21. On the kick-off, Larry Griggs gathered in the ball for O.U. on the 6. Down the field came Dan Shannon, Irish line backer and up the field came Griggs. Shannon, moving like John McFadden if he fell from the top of Notre Dame Stadium, blasted Griggs and the impact was felt even in the press box. The ball bounded in the air.
SCORE TWO
The rested squad then scored two quick touchdowns in the third pei-iod and went ahead 28-14. With 9:39 left, Merrill Green returned a punt 60 yards for a Sooner score, the conversion was good, and the Irish led 28-21.
The stage was then set for Lattner’s play. Time was running out in the final quarter. The Sooners were on the move. Quarterback Buddy Leake threw a well-contrived screen pass to end Carl Allison. A perfect ring of blockers was waiting. They moved down field and Lattner was the only man between three O.U. blockers, and speedy Allison, and the tying touchdown. He fought off all three blockers, dove between them, and made the tackle on the ND 43. Two plays later, he intercepted a pass by Leake to kill the final Sooner effort.
, IRISH TOPS ।
’ A defensive play turned the tide for J* the Irish in 1952 and it was the rugged ' Irish defense, tops in the country, that won out over the speedy Sooner offense, also the best in the land.	•
I In 1953, a blocked kick by Frank Varrichione was termed the turning point of the game by Sooner Coach Bud ; Wilkinson. Johnny Lattner saved the • game with the outstanding defensive * play of the decade. And, all of the । Irish scores came after vicious tackles had shaken the ball loose from the Sooners.
■ Last year, despite the edge afforded । f- the Sooners and the overwhelming 40-0 1 tally they ran up, one defensive play ' clearly showed the Irish the caliber of team they were facing. The Sooners scored by marching 68 yards with the opening kickoff. Then the Irish, trailing 6-0, were fired-up and ready to move. Dick Royer returned the opening kick-
1 off to the 31. The Irish shifted into the ) single wing, the Sooners jumped off-side, a and the Irish had first and five on the 36.
Again ND shifted into the single wing, and the right side of the Irish cleared a hole for tailback Paul Hornung. Hornung charged into the hole, sensing daylight, but from his line backer’s spot,
THE SOONERS SCORE FIRST
Bell takes pass for Okie score, 1956
November 15, 1957
29
TIME OUT
The whole extent of this column was to be “WE’RE GONNA DO IT” in large type owing to the particular interest and excitement caused by “Beat the Sooners” week on campus, but the powers that decide these things around here advised against it. I guess that if one has a great deal of white space he must fill every pica of it, although I don’t know why. So instead of the simple phrase I will give several reasons why the Irish have an excellent chance of dropping the Sooners from their vacuum of success.
OKIES WEAKER
Oklahoma is admittedly weaker than the past few years. They don’t have a top flight quarterback but rather a converted halfback playing in that spot. He is a good runner but a very weak passer. The Sooners weren’t able to complete a single pass in their very narrow squeak over thrice beaten Colorado, and completed very few against Texas.
Notre Dame was beaten by Navy’s fine passing attack and the threat of State’s passing certainly made things much tougher for the Irish defense. Tomorrow the Irish should be able to concentrate more on the Sooner ground game than they have been able to do in the last couple of weeks. Our defensive weakness should be absolved by their offensive weakness, giving us a much better chance to maintain control of the ball for more than a few plays in the second half.
Also missing from this year’s Sooner squad is a breakaway runner of the caliber of Tommy McDonald or Billy Vessels. The Okies have fine team speed but certainly nothing to compare with last year’s National Championship club. Last year they simply ran away from us but this year I doubt that they will be able to break into the open as easily.
CAN’T LET DOWN
Notre Dame should have learned by this time that it is impossible to let down or let up on any play against a good club because it is suicide. Army, Navy and State all scored and set up scores on plays covering around fifty yards. Oklahoma is notorious for this kind of big play that beats the opposition, mentally as well as physically. If we make them grind out their yardage and earn it, we won’t be beaten by several touchdowns, if we are beaten at all.
Then, too, there is the spirit angle. Certainly it will have a fine effect on the ball club. The Midshipmen proved that when they sent their ball club out here two weeks ago. Reports say that the attitude around the Academy was that of the week before an Army-Navy game, which is indicative of how much they wanted to beat Notre Dame. The Irish students want this ball game as much as the Middies wanted to beat the Irish.
GOOD JOB
It might be good to interject a word about the fine work that both the Student Government and WSND have done in handling this “Beat the Sooners” week. They have both gone all-out to make it something more than a hand full of students, and have made it the Student Body behind the team. If Notre Dame does come home with a victory Saturday night these two organizations deserve at least some part of the credit.
Finally we must admit that we have received word from Tyler, who is at this time the hottest picker in any of the college newspapers that we have seen. He says that he has seen the Sooners twice this year and although impressed he did not think that they were unbeatable. Rather, he says that they are ripe for an upset and that the smart money in the “Big Town” is all on Notre Dame.
Our prediction . . . Notre Dame by six.—M.F.
Freshman Basketball Squad Drilling Daily In Fieldhouse
With selection of the sixteen-man squad completed, the freshman basketball team has been drilling every weekday afternoon in the fieldhouse.
Although it is still a little too early i to judge their work, the team has looked impressive and is beginning to co-ordinate. Coach Gibbons has thus far been stressing defensive work, in getting the boys adjusted to the Notre Dame system of a switching man-to-man defense. Most of the practice sessions have been devoted to working half-court scrimmages, in which play can be rf. stopped to demonstrate the various mistakes that have been made. Occasionally, , a full-court scrimmage is held. Work has also been done in getting the players used to the new offensive patterns.
Outstanding thus far, have been the five scholarship winners. Included in this group are forwards Bill Crosby, Jim Sullivan and Denny Walljasper, i center John Tulley, and guard Bill Noonan. Among the non-scholarship members, two have been particularly impressive. They are Ray Vales, a guard from New York City, and Pat Kearney, from Loyola High School in Chicago. Kearney has been working at the forward and guard spots.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK I
Georgia Tech over Alabama Auburn over Georgia Boston College over Marquette VMI over Citadel	*
Duke over Clemson Syracuse over Colgate UCLA over COP Colorado over Nebraska Penn over Columbia Dartmouth over Cornell Navy over George Washington	A'
Washington St. over Idaho	,
Michigan over Indiana	*
Iowa over Ohio State Missouri over Kansas St.
Kentucky over Xavier
Michigan St. over Minnesota North Carolina St. over VPI	4
Stanford over Oregon State Oregon over USC	1
Purdue over Northwestern Texas A&M over Rice Army over Tuiane Tennessee over Mississippi UPSET OF THE WEEK:	”
Notre Dame over Oklahoma
LAST WEEK:	I
18 Right; 6 Wrong; 1 Tie.	|
SEASON:
120 Right; 39 Wrong; 6 Ties.
Pct. .755
30 ______
The Scholastic
Program Changes
(Continued from page 11)
;	7 a.m. with “Dreambusters,” four hours
i of lively music and chatter.
“Off Broadway” will begin the evening’s broadcasting at 7 p.m. on Sunday. This will be an uninterrupted hour show of a complete musical album. The album will be introduced by a few 4 minutes of background material on the [ show.
At 8 p.m. “Adventures in Sound,” a program of significant new “Ip” releases in classic and jazz recordings, plus off-beat “Ips” and experiments in sound, returns for another season.
Following “Adventures” will be the “Notre Dame Reviewing Stand,” a \ round-table discussion program, conducted by WSND’s news department. Topics will include items of national and campus interest, discussed by individual students and visiting professors.
A Dixieland concert, Laura and her * letters from home, and finally a half hour show “Memory Lane,” will round out the Sunday programing.
Twenty-five new members have been added to the announcing corps to help facilitate the change.
, This “new sound” has been brought 4 about with the help and suggestions of the entire WSND staff, correlated and ' brought to its final form by Tom
O’Reagan, the program director.
Liturgy
(Continued from page 19) The Mass is so important—if someone wants to live the Christian life. And yet many people will be surprised to learn what the Christian life is. It is , none other than a new creation by the Sacrament of Baptism by which we begin to think the thoughts Christ thinks, to love what He loves, to hate what He hates, to do what He does, not by our weak human power, but by His power whcih is largely given us in the Holy ' Sacrifice of the Mass and the other sacraments.”
Father opened a yellow-bound book. “Listen to what Father Bouyer says in the last chapter of Liturgical Piety. I’ll ■' read this and then I’m finished. ‘The world of the sacraments, the world into which the liturgy introduces us, is not a world in its own right, standing aloof from the world of ordinary living. It is rather the meeting point of the world of the resurrection with this very world of ours in which we must live, suffer, and die. And this fact implies that liturgical life, far from taking us out I of real life, far from making us inI different to or uninterested in real life, 1 on the contrary positively sends us back into it in order to carry out fully in it the Mystery which has come to us through the sacraments.’ ”
Wrestlers Preparing For Season's Opener
Notre Dame’s wrestling team will open their 1957 schedule Tuesday, Dec. 3, at Notre Dame with a match against Findlay of Ohio. Tentative plans call for half the matches being held before the Irish-St. Ambrose basketball game, and the remainder of the matches being completed after the game.
Intersquad ranking tournaments will begin this week and continue throughout the season. Each week the winner in
Hy Q—the brilliant scholar tells how to stretch your dollar
Greyhound’s the way to go— saves you time as well as dough!
ATLANTA, GA.	$17.75
CHARLOTTE, N. C.	$17.90
CHEYENEE, WYO.	$24.40
CINCINNATI, OHIO	$ 7.35
DETROIT, MICH.	$ 5.70
HARRISBURG, PA.	$16.80
HOUSTON, TEX.	$24.05
LOUISVILLE, KY.	$ 7.70
MIAMI, FLA.	$32.90
MOBILE, ALA.	$21.90
ORLANDO, FLA.	$28.65
SEATTLE, WASH.	$47.45
All prices plus tax
It’s such a comfort to take the bus ... and leave the driving to us!
GREYHOUND®
—- « V
UNION BUS TERMINAL 117 WESTERN AVE., AT 7-6541
each division will be the one who will represent Notre Dame in the match scheduled for that week. This is being done so as to give every member of the squad a chance to hold down first position in his division if he proves himself capable.
Coach Fallon comments that the team is working hard and should do all right in competition, although it is hard to tell until actually the first matches are held. The team is fortunate in having the help of Captain Mike Fucci of the Army ROTC unit stationed at ND. Mike wrestled for Oklahoma A. & M., perennial national wrestling champs, from 1947 to 1951.
November 15, 1957
31
Si 195
sity three
of Vienna, study tours.
PRICE INCLUDES:
Round trip ocean passage, room and board in Europe, tuition at Univer-
SPRING SEMESTER IN VIENNA
Please send us your name and address for more information and application forms.
Name	'		
Address	1		
City	,	Zone	State 1
School	!		
THE
I\STl El TE
OE EI ROPE W 'll 1)1 E'
Ehicauo . 1. 111.
Prof. Barrett to Conduct 'Little Rock' Discussion
Prof. Donald Barrett will lead a dis- 1 cussion next Wednesday evening on the subject of “Government Mistakes in Little Rock.” The discussion will be held in the Rathskeller of the Student Center.
Before coming to Notre Dame, Barrett was a member of the executive committee of the Catholic Interracial Council of Philadelphia.
This is the first in a series of discussions to be sponsored by the Human Relations Club of Notre Dame. The discussion is open to the public, and all ND students are invited to attend. ------------------— -----------—...
JUGGLER
Manuscripts are still being accepted for publication in the winter issue of the Juggler. This issue will be published just before the Christmas vacation. The articles should be submitted to 431 Walsh Hall. 4 A written criticism will be given for all material submitted, which is not acceptable for publication.

O1KORSKY W AIRCRAFT
$
0 SIKORSKY MS®**’T	hq«
TO k HEUCOHER-

MONDAY
The Scholastic

Debaters Break Even k In Southern Tourney
Notre Dame finished with a five and five record at the invitational debate tournament held last week at the University of South Carolina. Twelve schools were represented including Miami of Florida, Florida State and Wake Forest, 4 who are among the top schools in southern college debating.
Paul Coffey, Jack Martzell, Tom Ban-choff and Robert Dempsey competed for Notre Dame which was the only northern school in the tourney. The issue was the right to work laws which is the subject for all college debates this year. ( This past week there was a full scale intersquad tournament on campus for novices. These tournaments are common to most schools but this was the first one of this type to be held here.
In the future there will be two national tournaments in which the Notre , Dame debaters will participate. The first one will be held at Purdue on Nov. 21 and 22. The second will be at Pittsburgh on Dec. 13 and 14. The Pittsburgh debate ■will be a cross section tournament which provides a period after each speech so that the speaker can be questioned by his opponent. Last year Notre Dame placed second in this tourney.
During the next month there will also be three novice tournaments. The first will be at Bradley in Peoria, Ill., on Nov. 22 and 23. The novice debaters 4 will then travel to Butler in Indianapolis on Dec. 7. They will wind up their pre-Christmas activities at Navy Pier on Dec. 14. Last year they won first place in the Butler and Navy Pier tourneys.
Paul Coffey, president of the Notre t Dame debate team, was elected the Midwest regional president of the second annual TKA regional tournament at Purdue. He presided over a mock congressional session.
THANKSGIVING DANCE
Tickefs may be purchased from the various hall representatives for the Chicago Club Thanksgiving Dance at the Sherman Hotel, Clark and Randolph, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Nov. 27.
Johnny Palmer and his band will provide continuous music. The bids are $4.50 for members of the club and $5 for non-members. Tickets may be bought now from the representatives or reserved and picked up at the dance. The chairman for the dance is Tony Cappetta.
Exam Schedule Announced For Graduate School Tests
The Graduate Record Examinations, required of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools, will be administered at examination centers throughout the country four times in the coming year, Educational Testing Service has announced. During 1956-57 more than 12,000 students took the GRE in partial fulfillment of admission requirements of graduate schools which prescribed it.
Candidates may take the GRE on Jan. 18, April 26 and July 12. ETS advises each applicant to inquire of the graduate school of his choice which of the examinations he should take and on which dates.
There Is A Place In This Picture For You! |
OPPORTUNITIES > for Students with Bachelor Degrees in । ★ CHEMICAL ENGINEERING J ★ CHEMISTRY	I
★ MECHANICAL EHGIHEERIHG [
This is a chance to get a head start in your professional -career with ALLIED CHEMICAL’S General Chemical ■ Division.	|
Company representatives will be on the campus for	|
interviews:	|
MONDAY. NOV. 18. 1957	|
ALLIED CHEMICAL
GENERAL CHEMICAL DIVISION 40 Rector Street, New York 6, N. Y.
The GRE tests offered in these nationwide programs include a test of general scholastic ability and advance level tests of achievement in 16 different subject matter fields. According to ETS, candidates are permitted to take the Aptitude Test and/or one of the Advanced Tests.
A Bulletin of Information, (in which, an application is inserted) provides details of registration and administration as well as sample questions, and may be obtained from college advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J., or P.O. Box 27896, Los Angeles 27, Calif. A completed application must reach the ETS office at least 15 days before the date of the examination for which the candidate is applying.
Cantact Your Placement Office Today Far an Interview Appointment and Detcriptive literature.
November 15, 1957
33
REAL ITALIAN AMERICAN FOOD
Enjoy a Private Party in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room
713 East LaSalle	CE 3-0951
3-Minute Pizza Pies PIZZA BURGERS
CARRY OUT ORDERS Eve?s Drive In SOUTH BEND AND EDISON RD. OPEN 5:30 A.M.—1 A.M. BREAKFAST—LUNCH—DINNER
GULF OIL Corporation Representatives will be at the University of Notre Dame
November 20, 1957 to interview candidates for positions in
•	Research
•	Development Positions in such diversified fields as analytical science, physical science, engineering, computational analysis, geochemistry, geophysics, processes, product, oil production and reservoir mechanics.
For additional information and to arrange for a personal interview, please see Reverend Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., Director of Placement.
34
At the Movies
COLFAX
Time Limit: An excellent movie. Because several years have elapsed since the Korean controversy occurred it is now possible to be sufficiently objective without running at cross-currents with the emotions of the general public. Time Limit achieves this objectivity but nevertheless is considerably more than a documentary. A fine cast, good plot, and superb job of directing combine to make it well worth seeing.
GRANADA
The Ten Commandments: (A-l). This Biblical spectacular enters into its fifth week of showing in South Bend. But be patient, a good show should arrive in time for Thanksgiving vacation. (Don’t forget we really do have one this year.)	,	■
PALACE
The Scholastic is continuing to honor the Palace Theatre’s request that we do not make any mention of their film features. The Scholastic has always tried to give objective comments on an equal basis to all motion pictures shown in the area. It grieves us deeply that we can no longer give the Palace features their just due.
AVON
Invisible Boy: Robbie the extraordinary robot turns in another superb dramatic success. The perfect performance of the mechanical genius points out to all who attend the value of staying well oiled at all times.
Co-hit: Hell Canyon Outlaws: The scene shifts to the frontier West where several overly zealous outlaws try to bring the town to life by killing everyone. However Dale Robertson refuses to go along with the good natured joviality and shows the villains the error of their ways by giving them a good solid rap on the knuckles.
The Bells of St. Mary’s: (Nov. 20). The Avon theater is counting on the Notre Dame students having a renewed interest in The Bells of St. Mary’s. However after one time around it doesn’t figure that too many Irishmen want to go to it again. If they do, no doubt they will again be thoroughly impressed by the unpretentious simplicity of the Bells of St. Mary’s. Stars the Binger as a young priest and Ingrid Bergman as a pious nun.
RIVER PARK
The Treasure of Pancho Villa: Rory Calhoun and Shelley Winters come together to bring a real gem to the cinema screen. Rory tries to make off with the treasure but others have different ideas. He ends up wandering the desert sands wondering why he ever went West in the first place.
Co-hit: While the City Sleeps: All the freshman dawn patrollers should get a chuckle out of this. In this one the evil elements go to work at night, get caught by the proper authorities and trudge off to pay their penalty as the sun climbs slowly over the eastern horizon.
Something of Value: (Nov. 17). Robert Ruark’s best seller in pictures. Complete with savages, headhunters, and cannibals. Sorta like college life in the Midwest.
Masquerade in Vienna: (Nov. 20). German with English sub-titles. This feature of the Indiana University Film Festival Series highlights the Viennese Philharmonic Orchestra. Worth while even on a week night.
STATE
Black Scorpion: A real stingeroo!
Co-hit: The Black Patch: Forty years in the making of this extravaganza is the intricate tale of a frustrated checkerboard in search of his missing black patch. Charlie the Checkerboard roams the land in search of the one thing which will make his life complete and finally falls in love with Irene Inkspot. They live happily ever after. Filmed on location.
—George Oess
»1
The Scholastic
r.« \
V
THE NEW EDDIE’S Dining Room&Lounge WHERE DINING IS TREATED AS THE PLEASURE IT WAS INTENDED TO BE
MORE ROOM FOR PARTIES TOO 1345 N. IRONWOOD
Just a few minutes from campus
lew York Strip $1.25
TUESDAYS — THURSDAYS
ILBOO’S
415 N. MICHIGAN
Melt Bros.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOODNOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE
1415 LINCOLNWAY WEST
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Walker’s
Footwear of Fashion
207 N. MICHIGAN (Next to Palace Theater)
November 15, 1957
WSND News
One of the most important and busiest staffs at any radio station is the one charged with the responsibility of bringing news to the public.
Notre Dame’s student-operated WSND is no exception.
Aware of the college student’s interest in both campus activities and the world at large, WSND employs a nine man staff headed by senior George VanKula to do the job.
Notre Dame’s student station keeps its listeners up to date with hourly news headlines and five daily commentaries on the news. The latter can be heard at eight each morning, noon, and at five, seven and 9:45 p.m.
News director VanKula, an AB senior from Detroit, Mich., has been a member of the news staff for four years and has held his current position since his sophomore year.
Other members of the staff include: Ray Whelahan, Dan Ferrone, Paul Underkofler, Jim Bennett, Jim Smith, Tom Haas, and Jerry Broderick. Jim Rielly serves as a staff writer.
In addition to the regular news shows, the department produces “Editor’s Notebook” each Monday evening at 7:30 p.m. This program presents a comprehensive review of the important events of the week from the campus level to international happenings. All members of the news staff cooperate in its production.
In the news pages of this week’s Scholastic you will find a detailed account of the programming changes that have taken place at WSND.
Maybe you’re interested in who is in charge of such changes and how they are made.
The man directly in charge, of course, is program director Tom O’Reagan.
In making changes or lining up the schedule he confers with traffic manager Bill Culliton, chief announcer Bill Sigler, sports director Bill Chesson and news chief George VanKula.
Then, after these talks, O’Reagan draws up a programming schedule and submits it for approval at a meeting with station manager Jerry Slater and the various department heads.
Assisting O’Reagan in the programming department this year is John Casey.	‘
HUNGARIAN MASS
The Rev. Daniel O'Neill, moderator for the NFCCS, will say a Mass next Tuesday at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church in memory of those who died in the Hungarian revolt of a year ago.
LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry
Four Ways to Buy: Cash, Charge Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan AT 7-3630
Order a full year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Wednesday, Nov. 20 INDIANA UNIVERSITY CENTER FILM FORUM presents in German Masquerade in Vienna with ANTON WALBROOK Featuring the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra
RIVER PARK THEATER Mishawaka Ave. & 30th St.
Showing at 7:30 & 9:15 Single Admission 90<
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with IITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
60 Bays
Europe
fra*’’ $585
Orient
.43-65 Deys fr*" $998
.syEHDj^jAiso $149
Many tours include college credit
low-cost trips to Mexico
up. South America $699up. Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and
Around the World $1398 up. Ask Your Travel Agent
25tt Year
k 332 So. Michigan Ave. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
35
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
HI-FI RECORDS
Fred Holzl, manager of the La Fortune Student Center, announced that an attendant will be on duty from 7 to 10 p.m., Sunday through Thursday in the Fiesta Lounge to play hi-fi records on the new Mag-navox High-Fidelity console which was recently given to the Center by the Magnavox Corporation.
All students are invited to bring their hi-fi records to have them played.
Noted Bridge Expert Plans Campus Visit for Iowa Game
Charles H. Goren, considered by many as this country’s foremost bridge authority, will visit the campus for the Iowa week end. He will deliver a lecture to all interested students on next Friday evening. The exact time and place will be posted on bulletin boards.
The teams of Ron Vardiman-Brian Moran and Bill Moran-Ed Kennedy took the honors in the monthly master point tournament held last Sunday.
HOLY CROSS MISSIONS
IN BENGAL, TEXAS, SOUTH AMERICA
NEED YOUR HELP
BUY CHRISTMAS CARDS
— THREE POPULAR SELECTIONS —
ONE DOLLAR A BOX
Modern Liturgical Cards Traditional Paintings by the Masters Berta Hummel Cards
ORDER FROM:
The Moreau Seminary Mission Society Notre Dame, Indiana
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO THE HOLY CROSS MISSIONS	'
The Scholastic
, McCutcheon Cartoons Donated to University l *
A collection of 394 original drawings , by the celebrated cartoonist John T. McCutcheon has been presented to the Notre Dame Art Gallery by his widow, Mrs. Evelyn Shaw McCutcheon, Lake Forest, Ill., according to a recent announcement by curator Paul Byrne.
Mrs. McCutcheon has also donated a , number of color reproductions of her husband’s more famous cartoons, includ
ing “Injun Summer” which is reprinted annually by the Chicago Tribune. Included in the Notre Dame collection is a reproduction of “A Wise Economist Asks a Question,” a McCutcheon cartoon which was awarded a Pulitzer Prize in 1931.
The McCutcheon cartoons constitute a pictorial history of our* time from the turn of the century until his death in 1949. They deal with most of the prominent and controversial personalities and issues that made headlines during that
period. They will be exhibited at the Notre Dame gallery early in 1958, Byrne said.
A native of South Raub, Ind., McCutcheon was graduated from Purdue University in 1889. He drew his first political cartoon for the old Chicago Record in 1896. In 1903 he joined the staff of the Chicago Tribune and was to serve that paper for more than forty-five years. He received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Notre Dame in 1931.
Let’s discuss
(not jobs)
in Guided Missiles
Nov. 20
If you’re interested in guided missiles (and you should be because it’s the fastest growing engineering field today), you’ll be wise to talk to Bendix. As prime contractor for the vital Talcs Missile, Bendix is big league. If you work for Bendix Guided Missiles, you work with the top men in the field, using facilities and equipment that are virtually unmatched. The future of Talos is one of ever-increasing research, development and test
programs. That means you’ll grow, too, just as fast as your talent and ambition will let you. Interested? Then, we’d like to talk to you. Make your appointment now.
BENDIX GUIDED MISSIUS, MISHAWAKA, INDIANA
PRIME CONTRACTOR FOR THE TALOS MISSILE
November 15,-1957
Back PatfC
by MICHAEL KENNEDY
letter
from a cave man
Spring has sprung, Fall has fell, Winter has come And it’s coldeFn usual.
The first snow is in the air today, floating in the wind like dust in a sunbeam, without seeming to fall to the ground. It all stays up leaving the sidewalks dry. Lord, but it’s cold! The wind feels like it blew east out of a Rocky Mountain gorge, getting bigger and coldei' every minute and won’t stop till it gets to the Appalachians: straight across the midlands with nothing higher than a house in the way. Walking west brings tears to your eyes and almost takes the clothes right off you. But east is the way to go today, so get an old wagon, hoist the sails, and don’t come back till the wind changes. I bet a square-rigged wagon on the Turnpike would go pretty fast today, but I wonder what they’d charge at the tollgate.
Anyway, it sure is no day for birdwatching, because even if the watchers are out, the birds are smarter. When you want to be able to hear the wind pulling in the bare branches, blowing the dry leaves east on the sidewalks, and rattling the windows; when it gets to be darkening about five, and the rain that blew cold in the morning when you got up (a little late on such a day) has turned to a swirl of snow, then that’s an indoor time for sitting in big deep chairs and wearing wooly sweaters. A glass of sherry would complete the picture. And, perhaps, bound in leather, a copy of Vanity Fair. Then, I forgot, you need a huge white pine fire in a colonial fireplace big enough to stand in, and a fat old tom-cat sleeping so close he might bum up. Now you’re complete and, after listening to the sounds of the wind and the fire, may begin reading.
The winter was the time when reading was invented, only it must have been storytelling first. Six men in tiger skins sitting around a smoky fire
in a cave while the snow piles up outside, decide to pass the glacial age by telling their adventures one by one and back again. But the ice remains. So they pass from real life memory to imagination and find their stories getting longer and longer, their exploits grander and grander, and their heroes ’ more heroic. The wind blows, the fire crackles, and the ice piles up outside. Having easily passed (after the first lie) from fact to fiction, from hunting bears with bows to barehanded wrestling with mastodons, it is easy enough, when the whole world is covered with ice, to leave the world behind and climb to imaginary heavens. Tale follows tale, longer and more fantastical: of Prometheus, who stole fire from heaven—that’s like the story of how reading was invented— and when man can climb no higher, the gods are introduced.
(After an exceptional story one says, “By George, that was good!” And another, “I say, why don’t we write our stories down so we can read them when the next ice age comes along.” They did, and that was how reading was invented.)
Maybe those six tiger-skinned men, who were pretty old when the ice melted, didn’t know what they started by this reading, and, if they had known, might have been content with word of mouth. If they were to go into a library and take down a book on how some old writer you never heard of was not influenced by some old culture you never heard of either, or any book of criticism for criticism’s sake, I’m sure they wouldn’t recognize their invention. They probably wouldn’t call Confidential magazine reading either.
What is “reading” then? At least, what is the right kind for winter— such a tale as may be told to five patient men in tiger skins by a fire while the winter wind howls? Or what kind will go with the first snow of November and a glass of sherry (at room temperature, please).
First of all, it is not anything out of
a book on cost accounting, or embryology, or structural mechanics, or philosophic psychology, or higher algebra, or symbolic logic, or classical literary criticism; nor is it likely to be anything # assigned by a well-meaning professor: “For the next time you will read up to p. 396, the paragraph beginning, ‘As for the existential situation. . No, whatever is read on a winter’s day must be entirely voluntary. Unfortunately the system of education to which we are partial slaves leaves us little time to wander intellectually, and the onus of 4 assigned reading often dampens the enjoyment of good reading in general. Perhaps, for the sake of principle, it would be a good thing to miss an occasional assignment to celebrate appropriately the coming of winter (by reading, I mean).	»
On the other hand, real reading is not to be found in the newspaper comics, 1 or Life magazine, or some twenty-five cent novels, or Playboy, nor even very often in the Saturday Evening Post. Maybe everything has its appropriate moment, but you want something special for a winter’s day.	|
What will it be? I suppose in the I end everyone must follow his own taste, I for it is meant to be a most personal g experience. My own taste on such a day | leads me away from American society, £ 1957, to the stately phrases of less hur- I ried cultures and the quaint tales of jg other, more mannerly, times. A strange S story of colonial New England from a Nathaniel Hawthorne, or a novel of B nineteenth century England, or, from || the end of a shelf the dusty chronicle H of an early South Pacific voyage, filled £ with remote wonder and catastrophe, n When this wind blows it is time for looking into another world than my own —I want a tale of its joy but of its^ I sorrow too. As one of the younger char- S acters of our good friend Mr. Shakes- || peare said some time ago, “A sad tale’s best for winter: I have one of sprites S and goblins.”
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS B
rt
you can help missiles ‘think’ better!
Missiles are mental projectiles ... “projections," actually, from your mind to paper to components to systems to complete weapons. And missile design demands our best effort to get top performance and maximum efficiency. Here’s your chance to educate our missiles, applying latest techniques and newest devices in plants equipped to build components and complete systems without sub-contracting ... telemetering, infrared, radar, sonar and many other systems from research through development to manufacturing. The Tl-transistorized telemetering system shown above, in this case more a “talker” than a “thinker,” provides four times the radiated power in a smaller, lighter package than comparable vacuum tube systems. Not “frozen” to old design standards, it is almost completely transistorized and is completely electronic with no moving parts... a typical example of TI’s policy of advanced systems engineering.
At Texas Instruments — in research, development, design, and manufacture — you will push out beyond existing limitations into new concepts and new products. You can choose from dynamic fields such as electronics, missile control and detection, infrared optics, semiconductor behavior, high speed data reduction, and many others. At TI, this pioneering approach has been so successful the company has grown 20-fold in the last 10 years to a current $70 million volume... a growth accelerated by recognition of individual achievement... a growth you can share.
Texas Instruments INCORPORATED
6000 LEMMON AVENUE DALLAS 9. TEXAS
openings
ELECTRONIC AND ELECTROMECHANICAL APPARATUS - Radar, sonar, infrared, navigation, magnetics. telemetering, communications, computers, transformers.
SEMICONDUCTORS AND OTHER COMPONENTS — Transistors, diodes, rectifiers, resistors, and panel instruments.
RESEARCH — Ph.D. level for research: semiconductor materials and devices, noise, surface, ferromagnetics, infrared, microwaves, magnetics, radiation damage, high speed data reduction, etc.
MANUFACTURING —Engineers for production, planning. purchasing, cost analysis, etc.
invitation
Hitch your wagon to the Texas star_work at a plant within the city but away from downtown traffic _______________________________live within 15 minutes of your work or your play — year-around recreational, amusement and cultural activities. A Texas Instruments representative will be on the campus in a few days to give you more details. You may contact the placement office or write —
Interviews Thursday, November 21
Y
'■ 3
Wherever you go, folks go for Winston! You will, too. You’ll like the full, rich flavor of fine tobacco. And you’ll like Winston’s exclusive filter, too — the pure, snow-white filter in the smart, cork-smooth tip. It’s a great cigarette in every way!
Now available in crush proof box, too I
; •>






For bright, c/ear flavor—
CIgare
Smoke WIMSTOM Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!