
res·,.9 ns . , .. tD become Y'fB>.{or 
of' Miami 0eaC-h, Nt~Dn \Dses ) e.l ectr>ro 1 
votes. 
, ~ \~ / , "/Iv-\ IVI 

ftwvrosv 

JPatJ;J
f/19 iJ.Va.? -P!f.~ SZJ 

If you have 210 .4.f\A. erdoroes C-andiqate linked -n Colonel Sanders e.lectoral vol-es,you McGDY'em. N,-.xon vnob 1 yet 9ains }5"' introduces fhe brand-re may ent--er. rC>Ol-5 .fur U5.C. e\ecr~ra I V5teS trrios-tly ~CJYl; JBasR.e±99 it has u.s.c.ga1tis 2 ,new 1f) New Jersey, Wh1iY1 nf)f~c"hj but ri_ght wir135. r\a'{~. N.D.W{r'\Sgame tJ/\\'f nas 3') NixOt/\ ge.-ts 2el~ralvote5 , 
Marduar'\~ lega.1,Jed. Na crrav;3~. Ev'e'rl)ne i:5 too stCf/\ed to ca re.  
Abbe ~&n endorses Nixon. Nixon loses 11 e.lectora\ votes  
McGovern di) bad case. of '\bleed i~ heart.'' Loses iVm. ·  
t'1 ,~ or\ B,es -to Ctiti"na 19.a ins 12 eledl>r§l vDl-e5. N1·-,.6r1 refuff\<3, \o~es 15.  




¦ ,, 
l 
,¦ 

7 'l 
l 
'i 
7 ¦ 
,,!: 
!
:, 
i 
¦ 
7 


7• 

Four More Days ,(to the next four years) 



NOVEMBER 3, 1972 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

scholastic 
~ 
AIJ6E.'-O "JAC1<So>J" 

o·ioous1<. 
1>1tE.::.E.1)E.ll'I° 'l i' 


VOLUME 114, NO. 5 

The opinions cxp1e~~ed in the SCHOI.\!>TIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOL,\STIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for 
national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly 
during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the 
ScHOL\STlC is printed at Ave Afaria P,ess, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription 
rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are 
available from the ScHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to the Sc1-1or.,\ST1c, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unwlicitcd material becomes the property of the ScuOL\STJC. 
editor: greg stidham / art director: michael lonier / managing editor: jim munsch / assistant editors: george block, jim fanto, jim gresser, pat mccracken, dan o'donnell, jim pauer, terri phillips, joe runde, jack wenke / business manager: joe meyer / circulation: roger burrell / faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: pat ahasic, ann arbour, jay berry, paul bolduc, brian burke, t. j. clinton, paul colgan, greg conti, buz craven, jim delong, al depman, chris fahey, tom gora, bruce hooper, don jaspers, mike king, tim kochems, dennis mcintyre, kerry mcnamara, lea j. mulcahey, mare nishan, peggy perkinson, casey pocius, bob quakenbush, jim reagan, john ring, pat roach, neil rosini, mary siege!, tim standring, sally stanton, theresa stewart, katy sullivan, bubby vespole, pete weber, mark wenig, bob wielgos / 
.business: gus brown, jim hoban / art & photography: earl hawkey, terri lustic, don nollet, nan smith. 
illustrations: game board on cover by nan smith / poster design on inside front cover by michael lonier / photographs on 3, 18 by earl hawkey / draw­. ings on 8, 9 by don mollet / photographs on I 0, 11 from public information / photograph on 14 from gulfoilmanac. 
4 
5 
6 8 
10 12 13 • 14 
• 18 
20 24 
25 26 
28 
30 
32 
34 

letters  
editorial  
MONTAGE "politics, politics and more and more  and  more  politics  tom gora mike melody  
ANALYSES back to jerusalem pheidippides takes to water  in  the rock  tim kochems & jim munsch george block  
week in distortion  t. j. clinfon  
aversion to the apocalypse campaign issues  buddy _vespole & jack wenke paul colgan, juan manigault & terri phillips  
PERSPECTIVES a wish for the future the american dream of war  tom dooley jim braun  
KULCHUR more mailer second to no one  i i joe runde roche schulfer  
coming distractions  al depman  
the crooked rook  paul bolduc  
the last word  greg stidham  
a game of chance  tom gora, casey pocius joe runde, and nan smith  

business? And what of the Senator from

lette,rs 

South Dakota? Will his economic 
PLAY IT BACKWARDS 
-
Editor: 
Your article "A Case Against Shakespeare" (The Sclwlastic, Sept. 29, 1972) was reminiscent of a pre­vious Scho1astic article · some three years past. Unfortunately, ·despite the similarity in fascination, this controversy cannot· be settled .by playing a Beatles' 'LP backwards. · 
As a lover of Shakespeare I -feel justified in appropriating Juliet's words about Romeo as the most fit­ting-perhap~ Shakespeare's own­response: 
What's in a name? T.oat which we call a rose / ··By any other name would smell "as :sweet. . So [Shakespeare] would,· were he not [Shakespeare] called,/ Retain ,that dear perfection which he owes Without a title. 
-Romeo and Juliet II.ii.43-47 A 26-year old graduate student doing a doctoral dissertation on : Shakespeare at the University of Notre Dame, 
:Julienne H. _Empric 
Letters s1wuld ·be addressed to the · Editor, The Scholastic, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, Indiana 


SECOND COMING ( ?) 
Editor: 

Congratulations to you and your staff for a refreshing and long over­due return to relevance. 
Have a good year.· 
Cordially for Notre Dame, 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 

THE.VOTE 
Editor: 

Critical questions confront the eleven million newly enfranchised voters approaching the ballot box. Has the man elected on a promise to end the war broken faith with the American People? Can the Ameri­can people stomach the war now that the color of the bodies has changed? Has the sense of moral outrage over napalming and bomb­ing been exhausted? Do the nomina­tions of Carswell and Haynesworth to the highest court mark a planned retreat from the commitment to rac­ial justice? Is the bugging of Dem­ocratic National Committee Head­quarters symptomatic of an emerg­ing Orwellian nightmare? Has the · Nixon administration sold out to big ;proposals bankrupt the economy? Do·.the Eagleton fiasco and the "re­fining" of the proposals of the pri­maries portend a presidency based on vacillation? Will McGovern, by reducing the military budget, dim­inish the diplomatic flexibility of the U.S.? Invite aggression? Pave the road to war? 
The questions ·are, of course, loaded. There are few simple an-_ swers. But remove the vituperation and the inflated promises and four facts are clear: 
. ~ ~ " 

_First: Th_e candidates vying for the presidency differ widely in ide­ology and outlook. The potential voter cannot sit this one out on the grounds that the choice is between Tweedle Dum and Tweedle Dee. 
Second: The· new voter who re­fuses to cast a ballot is shirking.the responsibility which he claimed he deserved. To refuse to vote or to vote casually is to solicit the. disgust of those who demanded the 18 year old vote. It is also to invite the smug­gest "I told you so" in history from the cynics and. the skeptics. 
Third: The college student can­
. not choose to remain unaffected by the direction of national leadership. If the President of the United States chooses to tolerate unemployment and underemployment, for example, the Ph.D. of today will continue to be the cab driver of tomorrow, and students with B.S.'s and B.A.'s will 
. continue to pour into secretarial pools and factories. 
Fourth: The establishment listens to numbers. History will record that the young rose up from the college campuses in search of a leader to end a war they judged immoral. His­tory slwuld record that the young also managed to sensitize the nation 
,to the need for ecological balance, population control, equal rights for minorities. By refusing to vote, the student invites inattention and gu_arantees that the interests of the young will not be served. 
The message is clear. An impor­tant choice must be made. Those who 
·use the ballot November 7 will partic­ipate in making it. Those who boy­cott the ballot box will succeed only in ripping themselves off. 
The message is simple. Vote. -National Voter Registration Drive. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
The SCHOLASTIC editorial board does not understand a statement made by Bernard Norling which likened 
-the idealism of George McGovern's speeches to SCHO­LASTIC editorials. This is the first editorial we have printed all year. However, we will certainly try to avoid the "idealism" that Norling alluded to in his statement which was, as usual, full of hackneyed expressions. Political reality is our subject here. The political real­ity of endorsing a presidential candidate is our par­ticular concern. 
Our editorial board wholeheartedly endorses Ge~rge McGovern for President of the United States. We respect his persistent and unflinching stand against the Vietna.m war. ·We believe that he has demonstrated his sensitivity to human needs by his support of Social Security and health _care legislation. His redirecting of economic priorities is, to us, sound. 
The political stances of President Nixon as demon­strated in his four years of office make us all the more enthusiastic about George McGovern. With the risk of an hyperbole, there is nothing we like about Richard Nixon. He has continued to wage a savage mechanical war on the inhabitants· of Vietnam. His opposition to busing can best be described as cynical and pandering to· racial prejudices. Nixon has made no secret of his desire to create a conservative Supreme Court. Given four more years and the unstable health of the liberal judges, Nixon's wish will become a reality (and an in­
-escapable nightmare). 

We do not like what Nixon has done to the status of a politician in our country. We can't· accuse him alone of vitiating our sense of a political statesman. For that would ignore our country's traditional ridicule of the politician. However, Nixon has further depreciated the status of a politician until it has become synonymous with crime, corruption and an insensitivity to human needs. 
Nixon has also adversely affected the entire political life of this country. Men today are simply indifferent to or dejected about politics. They doubt their own power to influence the political life of this· country. Nixon has helped spread this pall over our political sensibilities. His outright contempt for the Constitution, Congress, arid the press reflects his disrespect for the political structure of our country and the opinions of the citizenry. His love of secrecy has robbed men of the feeling that they know what is happening in our gov­ernment. Like the silent majority, we are expected to wait and see what new trick Nixon will pull from his sleeve. 
We believe that George McGovern will have a 
· salutary effect on the political life of this country. He is ·indeed a political realist, and he is actively seeking votes from all types of people. Yet, George McGovern has a spark of integrity within him. When he makes a mis­take, he admits it. This honesty is a refreshing change from a president for whom candor is an anomaly. We would rather have a president who admits his mistakes than one who hides the crimes of his adminstration behind a Justice Department investigation. 
_We strongly urge all Notre Dame students, faculty and administrators to vote for George McGovern on November seventh. 
NOVEMBER 3, 1972 


editorial 
..C 
Introductory remarks aside, the core. of the lecture dealt with four


montage 
"inhibitory· factors"·· that influence American :·politics. These. are: · 1) the outmiddling strategy; 2) govern­·abilify;-3) :the sell out;; _and, 4) tlie continuity factor. The outmiddling strategy rests upon the fact that the American system is of. the "winner ·take all" variety. A mere plurality ~ 
· is all· that is· needed; the loser gets nothing for_ hi_s .efforts. Given the fact that_every candidate begins W!th so.me·kind· of·~onstituency-,whether · of the left or right-his only strategy for 'electoral' victory_ is obviously to move: towards the· middle. This ac­
. co~nts for·the tendency of elections to "blune: ilie issues. Besides this · tendency, Wills ·notes. that there are. other · almost innumerable methods
' . .
' 

· by which politicians can "ignore" issues. Perhaps the best example of · this · is the· e~se with ·which Nixon and Humphrey managed to side-step · the war issue in '68. · qovernability . refers to the ability of a Pre~ident, . once elected, to-maneuver. Could Goldwater, if ·he was elected, have · rria~aged to expand the war in the same manner. as Johnson? Wouldn't 
he have ·had:. the opposition of a Democratic .Congress? The sell out

Men·cken Rides On 
-fs related to .the outmiddling strat­
.egy. if the only_way a·politician can 
. augment )1is support ·is to move to-
At last, after ever so long a wait, seek office to become what, · Wills ..·wards•.the .center ·and even the op-a cynic appeared· on campus in the terms· "omni-directionally· _ingratia-· position,-the~· he must. natur~lly sell guise of Garry Wills. His lecture, ting." It forces tlie_m to cultivate and out.his original supporters. An ex­"The Loss of the Amedcan Tradi::-._ value social_ skills su~h-~s t~e: ability . .-. a:ziiple would be Kennedy's macho tion," was delightful. His incisive wit to fool others. A polit1c1an .is forced . _stance· du.ring _the Cuban Missile combined with his firm grasp of logic.: to ; deaden ·whole_ areas or· human · C~isis-a:'starice. which· according to_ served to reduce both Mes_srs. Nixon sensitivity-and sensibility; The_ intri::-_ ·· ·wills t~rned on the· right-wingers. ~nd McGovern to a stature that_.they· guing_fact is that there a~e·-. more · Wills~ --logic is once again penetra­eminently seem to_ deserve. Anyone than ~nough ~en ~ho. are ~ling to _ ting, . while the result, as usual, is. who begins such a lecture with a _do this. At this·pomt,. we-might be-·.. somewhat absurd.· It follows that if reference to Mencken has_ to som_e-· gin to ·wonder why men enter prac-you want McGovern's policies; you how represent the voice of sanity _in_ · ·tical politics.in the first place.· Due should vote for Nixon. ·If you want. the present debilitating morass of . to \~iUs' ·-facility for: adjecti~es, his Nixon's policies, then you should conflicting claims of saintliness made critiqu~-not· only seems incisive, but vote for McGovern: In a similar-fas-· by both Nixon and McGovern. Per:.. it ·is also entertaining. Yet, there is hion the ·continuity factor affects haps Mencken's most celebrated co~: -a:.-_catch to this. "A Presid~nt, of Am~rican politics.' The actions of a ment about a politician was the on~: course,: carf_kind.of absent-mmdedly predecessor tend to bind his succes­to the effect that this poli~cian was· •_kill·people m Asia by the thousands · sor. If Goldwater, for example, was the only man· he knew. who _could __ so l_ong:as they are not our people. elected could lie really have slain· strut while sitting down. . Gab:y:·-. But ·the ordinary run of politician· the Hydra-like Federal bureaucracy? Wills carried ·on this tradition ·ad::-:· probably kills no more people than In fact Wills notes that the genesis mirabli · ·:· · doctors; bilks fewer people than of cha~ge in our society is usually 
. . businessmen; misleads fewer people unpredictable and depends upon the 
than educators." If we reflect on . t· f "v ard" who give
. . . . . ·t . ac ions o a angu
1

Why ar~-our politicians as· a class American politics, on one 1evei. 1 1s . . . . of men so mediocre?· Why-do they amusing, but there is another facet; the particular pos1ti~n respectab1~­seem to have s9 · few virtues? ·The ·it can, if you happen to live ·in ity, and, hence, make It safe for poli~ answer appears to_be-that_ our polit-· Southeast·Asia, be somewhat serious. -tlcians ·to embrace the cause. The ics in some way force the men who. But the joke's on them, isn't it? · . whole civil rights movement . was generated by a black woman who supports this view. The meaning of just didn't sit in the back of the bus the word "just" has been absorbed by one day. Law records social change; the positive command of the sover­it does not create it.· Politics isn't eign. One has only to refer to the . very important-·unless you are uri­Presidential arguments for the con­fortunate enough to live in 'southeast stitutionality of the war to see: this Asia. ·. in all its starkness. 
· At this: point, it _is reasonable to .. Meanwhile, our collective obscen­
ask just · what purpose elections ity ·in Vietnam· seems endless. A serve. On one level, they are func­. twelve year old girl runs down a tional merely in the sense that they street with her flesh on fire; not just 
provide cynics with a wealth of ina­arm .or legs, but her whole body. terfal; and, ·hence, in a .way serve to The .land . continues to be depopu-· nurture the public humor and sanity. lated and denuded. All this is righte­ously done in the name of "We, the
Without the election, Wills' material People." The core of the problem ap­
would have been sadly deficient. But 
,vills makes·the important point that pears to be that we, ,as a people, re­· elections. serve the purpose of giving fuse to admit that there is any limit the citizen a feeling of participation to the application of our power for 
-the purpose of making other men do
in the system. In other words, they our· will. Interestingly, the person
make us. feel: significant; ~utile .as _ · they are in one sense, they _make us who acts out another's will without . question is a slave, and in a sense the
feel good. In a way, they are groovy. North Vietnamese appear to be say­
Yet,· there'" is something deficient ing that they would rather be deadabout Wills' cynicism. He indicated than slaves. Perhaps, if we can trulythis ·when he remarked ·that for a understand ·the tragic flctw of ourshort time he worked for McGovern. 

own tyrannical hubris, then we, as aHis· concluding remarks about the people, can come to a new, more re­"crime of Vietnam" :were alo~gthese · fined understanding of. our life ,to'.: 
· same lines. ; Yet, ·he did not go far · gether; an understanding which in-enough. The audience was left with . eludes. the tragic and, hence, limitedthe· cynicism and a frustrating sense dimensions of our common life. Inof hop_elessness. The only· thing that this case, the election does provide·_a· sane man can do·,is :to withdraw some ·.choice. On the _one hand;->itfrom. politic~ and -protest the inani­seems that we have the· micro-souled: ties~of the ·system. ­banality of Richard . Nixon. On the ·cynicism· is riot·.a•. particularly · other, .we have the muddled . George · modern phenomenon. ·'.It ·first grew McGovern. But McGovern revealed ·. 
in ·ancient Greece after-the defeat. of much about his character when in .. Imperial ·,Athens. at .the hands 9f a recent . speech . he extensviely _ re-· · Sparta and .her· allies. The ancient, ferred to Lincoln's S~cond Inaugural · -'like the modern, cynicism _.was .~a Address-a speech calling for com­"philosophy of withdrawal and pro:: passion. But, of course, this seems test• against _the. "system." This was . 
to imply a communion among men based on· the experien·ce ·that there· ·that we no longer have even the was a fundamental corruption of the words to talk about. The ultimate 
res publica, the public things. It.was 
issue is whether or not we can learn 
. impossible for the good man to enter from this American tragedy. The politics._ Such men could only with­Greeks thought that such a thingdraw-into private, isolated. commu­could happen, and thus the tragedy . nities of their own kind. The crucial was a public performance attended ·difference between the • ancient and by all_ the citizens. 
the modern cynicism is that we, un­The alternative . is cymcrsm.
like the ancients, lack any _type of Wouldn't (isn't) it be interesting if discourse to discuss such a funda-· Nixon ·made peace a few days before 
mental corruption of the res publica. 
the election? · 
Even those who regard our project I confess, for my part, that it in Southeast Asia as a "moral dis­[democracy] greatly delights me. 
aster" tend to discuss this in terms of ­·I enjoy it immensely. It is incom­miscalculation. The word hubris or parably idiotic, and hence incom­.the Christian term sin seem to have . parablY. amusing. . . . . (H. L. 
no place in our public discourse. . · Mencken) 
· The experience of those who at­tempted to raise the just· war issue .-mike melody 
NOVEMBER 3, ·1972 
rriEncKenrldesOn 



Amidst a Blast 
·The babbling boob tube recently labeled the political espionage scandal an amazing and note­worthy development in election history. _Semantically safe, but I tend to think that an even more amazing and_ noteworthy phenom­enon of political history has been the public response to these consti­tutional affronts. The media's cov­erage of the situation has barely evoked a yawn from the average citizen, by riow immune to political graft and foul play. Nat surpris­ingly, this immunization has come by way of continual exposure rather than some subversive.sloth serum. 
_·Relatively few people have shown· ­surprise, and fewer have indicated that these events have or will alter their voting tendencies. This is the opinion one readily perceives from those samples of humanity the media chooses to present to the nation, and the political polls seem to ordain these fools true represen­tatives of public unopinion. Well, in the long run, I imagine 300 million people can't be wrong, and if Nixon needs an offensive security to save the country from the 





of Regal Trumpets 
terrors of democracy (the process, not the alternative) then I suppose the nation must accept it. 
However, once the patriotic ma­jority has swallowed up or wished away this nasty affair, our humble president should turn his attention to an equally pressing problem, that of apathy. 
If you'll remember, Norman Mailer attributed his feeling of well­being on this campus to the fact . that Notre Dame is at least four years behind the rest of the world (bear with this digression; there is a point to be made). Perhaps Notre Dame does lag a bit, but I believe that because the University has re­mained somewhat in the past, we have consequently discovered the 
·very answer . to Tricky Dicky'.s sticky problems. Just think. ... What has been the largest political stimulation of this campus since the '68 porno film bust? What new political institution has consistently succeeded in drawing crowds of 2,000-plus to pre-election rallies? Along with coeducation, what new development has made alumni re­check the return address on their newsletters and journals? 
Right! Our good old "President by the ·name of 'King,' " as Ken­nedy affably put it. Consider what the return of absolute monarchy 
has .done for  this  University,  and  
subsequently,  what it  can · do  ·for  
the  country.  (On  the  other  hand  
...)  

Well, it happened here didn't it? 
Just after the elections, or even before, since we are all sure that Dicky will win, our fearless leader should address .the entire nation, breaking in on Johnny Carson, or perhaps, All in The Family, to be sure that the entire nation is watch­ing. Amidst a blast of regal trum­pets, he could announce the institu­tion of a new king, himself, and of a · new kingdom, the American States Reunited. There will be no need for a coup d'etat, for everyone will greet the news with joy. The people, who naturally anticipated the reform all along, will jubilantly gather in the streets to prove the demise of apathy and complacency. Even the Democratic legislators will not dissent, for they will tell you that the country has been ruled by a .monarchy since '68. 
Once the White Room has been transformed into the Throne Room, Henry Kissinger can become the king's chief advisor, and Spiro, the court jester, or the other way around. No matter, the king will not have to tell anyone what he does with those lackeys he was forced to work with in a democracy. As king, he won't have to reveal cam­paign sources, issue a Vietnam policy, or promise lower taxes. After all, no advance pledges means no broken campaign promises. 
Unfortunately, poor George Mc­Govern and the other enemies of the kingdom would have to beware lest the king, in a fit of justice, con­demn them to the Sisyphusian task of gathering public opinion. All in the interests of the king's subjects, assuredly. 
If that situation were to arise, though, old witty George and his band of merry men would probably flee the kingdom. It hurts to know though, that once exiled to some barbaric democracy like Canada, the warmth and good cheer of the Great American Monarchy would never shine on him, or me. 
-tomgara 

analyses 

Up to the House of the Lord 
A Notre Dame Campus in Jeru­salem? Come off it! Is there such a thing? Most du Lac Domers hardly noticed last month when the Ecu­menical Institute was dedicated in Jerusalem. Little did most here re­alize that the University of Notre Dame had just become the proud parent of an Institute situated near Jerusalem for which millions of dollars were spent and which the University now owns and operates financially. To make the plot even thicker, Notre Dame, despite its in­timate connection with the Insti­tute, has absolutely no academic control over it. 
Amid a time of rising costs, budget cuts, and diminishing sup­port for education, what on earth is the University doing, building a multimillion-d'ollar Institute in Je­rusalem over which it has no aca­demic control? The answer, like so much else at Notre Dame, revolves around the personality of that peri­patetic phenomenon in residence, that aging lion of the third floor of the Administration Building, Fr. Hesburgh. Ted Hesburgh and the University of Notre Dame are not identical although in unraveling the history of the Institute it's quite difficult at times to distinguish be­tween them. 


The Institute was the brainstorm of Pope Paul VI in 1964. He wanted to found an ecumenical institute in Jerusalem to commemorate his meeting with the Byzantine Patri­arch, Athenogoras, and to continue the ecumenical spirit initiated at Vatican II. He gave Fr. Ted, in his capacity as head of the Interna­tional Federation of Catholic Uni­versities, a letter which granted him exclusive control over the project. Later, in the world of Vati­can politics, this letter proved in­valuable when Fr. Ted had to resort to waving it in front of the nose of an Italian Cardinal who was trying to ~ake him an offer he couldn't refuse. 
In 1965 an Academic Council, comprising members of all the great Christian traditions, was drawn up to plan the Institute. The Council held a stormy first meeting in Bel­
Iagio, Italy the same year. The 
varied group of men voiced reserva­tions about this strange new idea which looked suspiciously like a papal albatross. By the end of the session, though, a joint unanimous communique was agreed upon and plans moved ahead. 
The financing of the Institute can be summed up in the Notre Dame corollary to Christ's commandment: "Love God . . . Love thy neighbor ... and let Fr. Hesburgh raise the 
money!" To make a long, arduous 
story short, the money was raised; mainly from a variety of private sources. The nearly $2,000,000 for the building itself was donated en­tirely by Notre Dame trustee, Mr. 
I. A. O'Shaughnessy. Presently, Fr. Hesburgh has raised enough funds to finance the Institute for six years and ultimately hopes to raise an endowment of $6,000,000 which will carry the Institute in perpe­tuity. 
After an exhaustive search, a striking hill top called Tantur, the highest point between Bethlehem and Jerusalem, was chosen as the site. The Pope bought the thirty­five acre site from the Knights of Malta for $300,000 and leased it to Notre Dame for fifty years at the price of $1.00 a year. Then Notre Dame was charged with construct­ing the building it now owns and operates financially. However, the academics of the Institute were placed entirely in the hands of the Academic Council. 
The building was designed by Frank Montana of the Notre Dame Department of Architecture and has been lauded as the most beau­tiful Christian structure built in Jerusalem since World War I. The Institute is built entirely out of the gray-and brown-colored stone of the region so that the structure takes on beautiful red tints at sun­rise and sunset. Tantur is a strik­ingly beautiful site looking out upon the arid rocky countryside dotted with bright green olive trees and bushes. Two miles to the north the walls bf Jerusalem are visible. The towers of Bethlehem loom to the south. At the dedication last month Notre Dame architect Montana re­ceived a medal for architectural excellence. 
The building is maintained by six Spanish Benedictine monks from Montserrat near Barcelona who, in addition to maintaining the Insti­tute and singing the monastic offices, operate a hostel on the premises where they are obliged to call upon their millennium tradi­tion of Benedictine hospitality in receiving guests. The Institute con­sists of a chapel, a library, an audi­torium seating 100, forty study bedrooms, ten family apartments, a monastic wing for the monks with guest rooms, dining room, common rooms, and recreational facilities. 
The Institute's Fellows will be about five or six resident scholars invited to make the Institute their home for periods of two to three years. In addition, eight to ten senior scholars will be invited for periods of eight months to a year. Perhaps as many as twenty junior scholars will visit for shorter pe­riods either to finish dissertations or carry on post-doctoral research. It is planned to have three rectors for the Institute: one Catholic, one Orthodox, and one Protestant. The present rector is Notre Dame's Fr. Charles Sheedy who gave up a year's sabbatical to head the Insti­tute when the scheduled rector fell ill and had to return to England. 
In addition to being a place of 

academic research and inquiry, the 
Institute is a living community 
where scholars of the four major 
Christian traditions will live, work, 
pray, study and recreate together. 
There are times of common prayer, 
interfaith worship and common reci­
tation of the Creed. In addition, the 
different liturgies of the distinctive 
traditions are conducted publicly on 
an alternating basis. Perhaps one of 
the most fruitful forms of inter­
course is the social interaction 
and the informal discussions be­
tween men of different traditions, 
cultures, colorings, and attitudes. 
According to Fr. Hesburgh, the Institute, in its early stages, is planned to be a strictly Christian affair until some sort of common understanding and working ar­rangement develops among the residents. Once this comes about, he believes that there will be a move­ment to establish contact with the other great world religions, particu­larly the two indigenous to the area: Judaism and Islam. 
The Institute at Tantur seeks to encourage independent research in all theological disciplines, joint study of salient problems in con­temporary society, contributions to ecumenical understanding and fel­lowship and dialogues with scholars of other faiths. International col­laboration on the university level has been sought. To date eighty-five universities in about thirty coun­tries have expressed interest. 
The Institute is entirely inter­confessional in make-up, organjza­tion and research. The old ecumeni­cal theory of "reunion by return" has been abandoned. Scholars are independent and their research is interdisciplinary. There is no pres­sure applied to achieve a consensus position. 
The Ecumenical Institute of Jeru­salem has produced a curious side effect at Notre Dame. Ted Hes­burgh, despite his myriad abilities, can only juggle a limited number of things at one time. During the last years of the Summa Program, he tried juggling more than even he was capable of juggling. In addi­tion to the Institute in Jerusalem, practically an exclusively Christian affair, there were also ambitious plans afoot for the creation of an Institute for Advanced Religious Studies here at Notre Dame. The thrust of this institute from its start was to be a center for the study of all the great religions of the world -a study beyond the narrower scope of Christian ecu­menism. The project was a daring one, calling for the raising of over $12,000,000, the creation of twenty or more fellowships, and the construc­tion of a complex of buildings on the shores of St. Mary's Lake near Carroll Hall, including a residence tower, library, auditorium, studies and offices. A director for the In­stitute at Notre Dame was brcught 
from Princeton and plans went ahead. The Theology Department, in particular, was extremely enam­oured of the idea of having a world religions institute in its back yard. 
However, financing the one Insti­tute in Jerusalem and another here at Notre Dame at the same time proved to be an impossible task, especially as inflation and rec~ssion made money rather tight. When faced with a choice between the two, Fr. Hesburgh decided to· con­centrate on the Jerusalem Insti­tute, leaving the World Religions Institute here consigned to limbo for the indefinite future. The mem­bers of the Theology Department had a bitter aftertaste in their mouths. 
However, niggling about the finances or politics of institute founding would miss much of the point of Tantur's existence. The Jerusalem Institute came into being through an incredible mixture of idealism, religious convictions, money scrambling, bickering and Middle-Eastern politicking. But to look only at these things would be to not see the forest because of the trees. If we detach ourselves for a moment from the frenzied world of religious and institutional politics, we can gain a perspective on these often-disordered events. The hori­zon-sweeping view from the top of Tantur reveals that in the minds of the men who planned, fought over, and eventually built this Institute, there remains a vision of the sublime figure of a Galilean carpenter who walked the landscape two thousand years ago. 
-tim kochem.s and jim munsch 

For Logan Center and the South: 



An Aquatic Marathon 
The marathon, which commemo­rates the heroic feats of Pheidip­pides -the famed soldier athlete ­on his run from Marathon to Athenst is one of the most dramatic events in sports. It is a run that lasts a little over 26 miles made to test the strength, endurance, courage, and will of the athlete. By its very na­ture, the marathon is not an event to attract crowds. It is a solitary event, where each man must draw on the deepest part of his spirit to find what is needed to win. 
The swimming team at Notre Dame is calling on the spirit of the marathon and the generosity of the members of the community, N ovem­ber 19. Senior backstroker John Balthrop along with last year's Most Valuable Swimmer Jim Kane have organized a swimming marathon. The event will start at 5:00 No­vember 19 and will last until around 
10:00 that night, approximately the same time it took Pheidippides on his run from Marathon to Athens. 
"The idea certainly isn't a histor­ical commemoration," chides Bal­throp. "It has been organized as a money-raising event. The idea is for each swimmer to try to get as many sponsors as he can, to stake him for anywhere from a penny to a quarter a lap." 
Each fall the swimming team tries to raise money to support itself dur­ing its winter training period, along with supporting its extensive pro­gram at Logan Center. Senior but­terflier Chris Mecca, who coordi­nates the Dolphin Club activities, adds, "The team has a tradition of working and supporting Logan Center. In fact, I -think we might have been the first group to work there. Anyway,.the money we make 
in the fall is always split in some way with them." 
The swimmers are definitely a unique group in regard . to this project. Swimming -more than any other sport -requires condi­tioning on top of conditioning, and the best time for a collegiate squad to get the long yardage required is over the month-long Christmas va­cation. For the past three years, the swimmers have worked to raise money to pay for their Christmas training period. "The school picks up a little, but compared to what would be realistic, it's not even funny," added Mecca. "That's why we decided to try this. For the first time, we haye a chance to go down south to work out in 50-meter pools and get some real distance work in. The psychological lift wouldn't hurt us either. But to pull it off, we will need about three times as much money as we had before." 
The swimmers were aware that they weren't going to raise that kind of money with their hot-dog stands, peanuts, programs, and odd jobs. And that even if they possibly could, they surely wouldn't have any at all for Logan School. 
"We seem to be always caught in a bind. Swimming is a non­scholarship sport, so most of the guys have to work during the sum­mer to pay for school. This is sort of bad, because the outdoor season is quite critical to a swimmer. So when we come back to school need­ing the time to work out, we end up having to sell hot dogs so we can train in South Bend over Christmas vacation! This chance to go south is really good for the team. It will give us the best possible _in train­ing with three 50-meter pools, the 
psychological lift that thirty guys 
giving up their Christmas vacations 
need, along with a recruiting point 
which a non-scholarship team des­
perately needs." 
So with Logan School and 50­
meter swimming in mind, Jim Kane 
came up with the idea of a mara­
thon. "I know we can get guys on 
this team to kill themselves," says 
Kane, "so getting the guys to swim 
shouldn't be much of a problem. 
Personally, I just hope I don't die." 
The swimmers figure that with 
the work they put in during the 
year and the kind of exciting, free 
swim meets that they produce, that 
they shouldn't have any problem 
getting supporters. Their only fear 
is that people will forget that the 
profits they get are being split with 
Logan. 
"Most people don't know how im­
portant a little bit can be to those 
kids," says Chris Mecca. "I'm just 
starting to understand after three 
years there. When I ask one of my 
friends if he will sponsor me, I hope 
he remembers that we always give 
the kids their percentage of every­
thing we do. Maybe, _somebody 
might give me only an extra penny 
a lap. It wouldn't cost him that 
much, but when you multiply it by 
everyone's sponsors, it can mean 
quite a lot." 

On November 19 Jim Kane, John Balthrop, Chris Mecca and twenty other young bodies will put them­selves through hell trying to finish the non-stop, two-hundred laps. It might make it warmer for the swim­mers at Christmas, but they surely -know that it will make it warmer for the kids at Logan School for 
quite a while to come. 
.-george s. block 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

week in distortion 

HELP WANTED DIVINE RIGHT A LA\V \VITH TEETH 
The SCHOLASTIC is seeking the identity of the freshman reported to have sold some forty copies of last week's issue at $1.00 a copy to returning alumni. In addition to de­manding our royalties, the business department is looking for such en­trepreneurs. 

IN HEAVEN THERE IS NO BEER 
This week's Spirit of Notre Dame award goes to Niels Bohr, the Danish physicist. 
It seems that Bohr had to pre­pare to leave Denmark quickly in 1942 when he learned that his ar­rest by the Nazis was imminent. He hurriedly prepared to leave the country along with his wife and son, and reminded himself not to forget a bottle of heavy water he was stor­ing in his refrigerator. 
Bohr was able to escape the Nazis, and arrived safely in Sweden. However, when he unpacked his lug­gage, he found that the bottle he had taken from his refrigerator was a bottle of beer. 
The police chief in Mbabane, Swaziland, has ordered that all automobiles must pull over to the side of the road when the car car­rying King Sobhuza approaches. 
At last report, Arthur Pears,_head of Notre Dame security, hasn't re­ceived any requests for the same sort of treatment. 

THE BELLS OF ST. MARY'S? 
A good number of the people we interviewed last week didn't know the melody of the "St. Mary's Vic­tory March." For their benefit and yours we reprint the first two bars below: 
In Rumford, Maine, it is against the law to bite your landlord. ­In South Bend, it's the landlords who are putting the bite on. 

DON'T LET IT BRING YOU DOWN, IT'S ONLY LIGHTLY RAINING.... 
It's not so surprising that Father Hesburgh can walk on water, after all. It's a survival factor in South Bend, a town where Weather Bu­reau jobs are considered to be sinecures, where little children ask their_ m o t h e r s, "Mommy, what makes the sky gray?" 
"It's just that God did the sky over South Bend last, and ran out of blue Crayolas...." 




The Death of Spirit: The State of Politics in America 
The intense quality of the American experience has characteristically pervaded our cultural history. Many authorities trace the root of this intensity to the Puritan errand in the seventeenth century and, more precisely, to John Winthrop who, in 1630, addressed the Puritan immigrants on the deck of the Arbella prior to their landing at Massachusetts Bay. Winthrop said, "For we must consider that we shall be as a city upon a hill, the eyes of all people are upon us. So that if we shall deal falsely with our God in this work we have undertaken, and so cause Him to withdraw His present help from us, we shall be made a story and a by-word through the world." 
Winthrop's cry was not so much an articulation of ethnocentricity and self-righteousness as it was an ex­hortation to embrace the humility and strength needed to fulfill an important destiny. If more is expected of a people, then the standards of judgment will be cor-· respondingly more . severe. It is here that we find the source of the tension that has become inherent in Ameri­can history. This tension is often expressed in dichoto-_ mous terms. Either America is the world's pacesetter of morality or the paradigm of depravity. It is from this point that we must depart if we are somehow to view our own position in American politics in 1972 as it re­lates to the American Tradition and, more specifically, to the last decade. 
Indeed, it is only in reference to the profoundly American quc;1Jity of the 1960's that we can begin to seek the root of the national political mood of 1972. The sixties represent a period_ of social and political explo­sion whereby the emotions of our nation were :repeatedly invoked to make ultimate emotional commitments. Po­litical assassinations, a cancerous war and even ·the landing of men upon the moon, compounded with the bombardment of instantaneous communication, drove the American man into new rooms of awareness. 
However, in this election year, there is something 

NOVEMBER 3, 1972 
amiss in the spirit of the country. A distraction has evolved which poses the threat that our nation may, in Winthrop's terms, become a "by-word through the world." A spirit of commitment seems to be absent from the national mood. Politics in America has always been viewed with a peculiar degree of intensity, thereby suggesting that the results of political elections possess more than mean significance. 
A brief "cataloguing" of the more significant events of the last decade may offer some indication as to what forces have coalesced to make this election year dif­ferent. It would be rather profane to believe that such a weighty task could be adequately performed in such a short piece as this. Therefore, the intention here is intuitive rather than definitive. Although it is too soon to even feign a complete evaluation of the cultural political history of the last twelve years, some intima­tions may conceivably be drawn from factual events. In short, a brief voyage through the sixties might yet offer some explanation as to how the national reservoir of emotional spirit has become severely fatigued or down­right depleted through relentless tapping of the source. Also, this cursory expedition may render a useful ex­plication of the complacent condition of the American electorate as the campaign of 1972 draws to a close. 
The election of 1960 presaged much of what was to come. With the advent of extensive television coverage, the campaigns_ of the two major candidates became, literally, household news. Because of this, a "new familiarity" with the actual furor and excitement of a campaign was accessible every day. People were more involved with the personalities of the candidates than ever before. Experts hypothesize that the Kennedy vie­
.. tory was a direct function of the live T.V. debates. The sharp appearance of John Kennedy outshone the shabby former vice president. Indeed, the power of mass media · was not to be discounted. 
· 15 

Nixon has -aborted the traditional ·American vigor 
With the Cuban Missile crisis in 1962, America tot­supporter, then he stood fo!' all that you were against. tered on the brink of apocalypse. The eyes of a nation Whether what he saia' was "good" -or not is irrelevant. watched President Kennedy deliver the -ultimatum The truth was that Robert Kennedy moved the emotions which, if ineffective, could -easily have launched a war of of many people. His death did much to deflate the devastating proportions. Undoubtedly, many students optimism that surrounded the campaigns _of Kennedy ­can still recall the sense of ineffable dread which ac­and McCarthy. After the final ·assassination of an. in­companied Kennedy's ominous address. The possibility credible _d_ecade, the voice of optimism faded into the of destruction was real. streets ·outside the C_hicago -_convention. The blood in 
It was not long before the entire world was severely the streets -was another b·old sight for the national shocked by the assassination of John Kennedy. -The audience. The-conyention, however, nominated a can­stark reality of this was greatly self-contradictory by a didate and the --campaign -continued. week of exclusive coverage of the wake and the funeral. The in-depth live coverage-was interspersed with count­less documentaries and ·eulogies. Also, the shooting of I '----­Lee Harvey Oswald, seen· by millions of citizens, f, on the one hand, the election ?f Richard Nixon can coast to coast, as it happened, caused the blade that had be corisidered the result of a·contest thatlacked mean-already partially severed the psychic nerve of -the coun.: ing, it can_ also be see_n as the-natural conclusion of the try to penetrate a bit deeper toward the marrow -of events which molded-the·election. The candidates were the American-bone. unusually close to one another on issues. But Richard 
-The horror. and outrage_ of the first modern Amer-Nixon had -an·. "efficient organization'_' while Hubert ican political assassination was experienced two more Humphrey was critically:wounded by the chaos-of the times before the decade -ended. -_ Although the. untimely convention: Tlius, Nixon was elected and,.after almost deaths .of Martin Luther·, King and Robert Kennedy' ·_ a decade-_ of turmoil,.the eniotion.s-of the nati~n seemed were n'o less hideous,still the surprise and initial shocks -spent. -. . . ­of disbelief \Vere-not the-s~me. C By _the time of-Robert Since tlle attempt: here is not' purely !Jistorical, the Kennedy's assassinatio°n~ there ·existed few pople who -·: brief excursion through the sixties can cease. Historical labored with delusions of-misinformation.: The ·reality nuance is a_n-Jnexhaustible-well;_-Tlierefore,-let us now of assassination w?-s non~:bno~i:nal. It inhabi_teci a regi~n contend with-the· p'oliticai-present.··· ­in i:4e American.spirit that was· formerly-__reserved for__ _ The term of-Ri~hard .Ni~6_n:~ca:ri~-perhaps, be· mosi: the im-aged terror of·a·Nazi .r-egiine. · significantly characterized by_·tlle· gradual development 
---.-. -.. -of an American-apathy.'~Prt~~ident Nixon had the.power 
Exclusive of the' b~mbshells. of a~sassination','. the to eithe~·_revive· the··_traditiop.al' fe_rvor so prominent 'in war in Vietnam occupied a similar_.domain on.the Am-er: the sixties, c:>r. to _driveA(further-irito-tfre labyrinth 6f ican psyche_ for more -tlian·~half the dec~de. Indeecl, 'the unmitig~ting :apathy':' Neeclless ~-_to_-say, ' he ch~se ·_ the 
-. emotional ~nd:intellectu~l-involvement.of'a_Jl,thinking· .-latter. /:\ i:-:;--;::--.< ?:'. '. ' __· -, -_ ·.: -_ -_ · · -·_· .. individuals; pro ,or 'con; 'cannot be-denied.' 0 011~-way or-_. -'Nix_on_'--has;_been' the _·chief;~·s1/rg~on_:in-performing, another,-the· issue -of 0the \var_ dragged··on :and _-on, .and.. -the_ abortion•. ofc the.,-trad1tionai ,'-~meric~n: vigor: and ­the disease ·was nc:itermiriai::~rt was-a-.first:c6usin:of, ·· spirit~ 'He wasted ·-ncftfrne -irL:enterfog· the womb· of a bieeding:ulcer. i ---. , _. :.: -~-·._·,.. :__-·.-:>':_: _,. --" ..' ,-the·Anieric~n donscienc~ihejrfetriam::war--with his-­
When :the-,history' of tlie ·. sixties is ·finally_-:written, --_ politicaf:scaipel: .-Nix~n. has :rerrit5ved. the(visible.'rriarii:-· ­the death;of :R_qb_~rC~Ke1m~dy ~wiii~ ·have,·'1:~-be-)viewe"d'..--testations -of: our. participatiorfjn' -Vie~tiaift by ra4ically­as· a defeatinif blow:-tctthe:·spirif,of .·youthful~-optimism._·.' .decreasing :theJoss.of American ·uves:·1:0_-a~ _"mere'_' one This lilay:hkve_ b~eri~_the~major:f;aged/ of,:!}le;_sixties. _; 'or.two per_::w~ek,.-, 'This;_'of ~ou'rse~·does-no{take acc_ount If..he '. did/nothing':i~lse;..:Rohert. K~n~edy..inspi~ed.:deep· '~: . o.(the. inariy lives'still needlessiy being'-Iost_:iri:Vietnam.· emotional·:commib:nent:· rr -yo1i -were-·not a.-Kennedy Our -moral and ·economic involvement ·is-, greater: than 
THE -SCHOLASTIC 
ever. Nixon has promised to end the war and sue for peace, but his attempts; for-the lion's share of his term, have appeared insipid, to say. the· least. As long as the true spirit of the American people remains in abeyance· in some surgical trash can, the real . facts: will not be recognized. The moral commitment ·of· the nation-at-• large was not abie to transcend the physical presence of American· lives, a selfishness which traditional ·Amer­ican spirit would never have·· tolerated. 
when the Americ~n people were understandably drained of spirit by the relentless intensity of the. six­ties, Nixon exploited this emptiness. by limiting, the loss of .American lives,. which pr~dictably appeased· the.apa­thetic_ American emotion_ One might criticize the prag­matic ploys of Nixon in his bid for reelection in 1972, but one must realize that Nixon can not succeed without the sanction of a majority of American voters. 
McGovern's appeals to the American people to recog­nize the real facts of the war-that is the senseless killing, bombings arid waste of. funds-have fallen on deaf ears. McGovern's ideas and proposals concerning the morality of the war and .federal spending would necessitate too much mental and emotional stimulation for most apathetic Americans who prefer the vapid_ luxury of Nixon's shallow, pragmatic ideas which allow them to revel in their pejorative state of quiescent tor­pidity.. Nixon has seyered the umbilical cord between the heart and the mind, the body and the spirit,· and captured that ineffable region where ·the emotions lie. This emotional vacuum is not enipty. It contains ·votes. and has proven· impenetrable for McGovern.. · 
.Perhaps the surgery Nixon has performed is not so much an abortion of spirit as it_is a prefrontal lobotomy in which· he has severec:I the· C(?rpus collosum of the nation, thus cutting.some of the regions of -the brain­and leaving the.country in a permanent state of impas~ sive·i~difference. :If this be the case, ·then, perhaps' we will have to. wait for a new generation, unscathed bY' the knife of the pernicious political surgeon, until· we have a metamorphosis of spirit bacl~ to''the traditional spirit more· reminiscent of Winthrop than Machiavelli. 
So the emotions lie on the table. The ·aura _of devas­. tation in• the last-decade effected a paralysis of .the-. spirit. ·Advances in technology played no small part iri · 
.augmenting the emotional impotence of society in gen­eral.·. In. Of a_ Fire on the Moon (page 147),· Norman · Mailer ·says, ."It is the premise of technology that spirits do not exist; and the·.same act repeated in obedience-to .·.·a system of procedure and well-oiled machinery~ will' 
. · ·produce not a spirit, but in fact, the same result ~s ·_the 
· . preceding. occasion." .Whether or _riot the situation \\'ill. 
· ·. change offers one a wide expanse for prophetic.rtimina~ ' tion: However, the question at present is: ,Has spirit dissipated or has it merely gone . "underground" ·to . : . · gather strength? If the former is true and.the:me~ii-: ocre has become a permanent watchword, it would,· by _,no means, necessitate collapse.of our borders. The na­. tiori undoubtedly will continue into the :futµre in a 
0 • 
"well-oiled'' way. Nonetheless, something far greater ;. and· inore intangible will be lost. This intangible qual-· . . · j.ty will be the distinctive. element which will delineate 
•between a future based upon mediocrity and a past­. grounded in profundity. 


NOVEMBER 3,·1972 17 



Eleventh Hour: Do You Know 
The issues im·olved in the 1972 Presidential cam­paign arc complex and confusing. The following para­graphs constitute an attempt to clarify a few important issues within various policy areas. Each of these policy areas is divided into two parts, one for Nixon's policies and one for ?IIcGo\·ern's. Both \·iews present the programs we feel could be expected under their respec­tive administrations as indicated by both past perform­ance and campaign statements. No bias is intended. It is our hope that these capsulated summaries might help the reader to review the stands of each candidate. 
First. however, there is a need to comment on the currenr Vietnam cease-fire negotiations. On October 8, Hanoi suddenly revealed a willingness to negotiate a settlement before the November election. This does not me;m that the war ceases to be an issue. Past positions of the candidates should serve as a reliable indicator of their prc~sent positions. It would be hoped, however, that the mon° for peace has at last gained enough momentum to lranscend the political, to achieve fruition regardless of which candidate is finally elected. 
FOREIGN AFFAIRS 
With the possible solution of the Vietnam war we can focus on other areas in foreign affairs. 
Nixon-The Nixon Doctrine would honor its treaty commitments; American allies would assume the major burden of their own defense: US would maintain a strong nuclear shield against outside aggression. Em­phasis beyond Vietnam would be on SALT talks with Russia. Nixon's trip to China opened an era of trade with Asia, Russia, and the Common Market as the major target of future diploma tic actions. There would be renewed commitment to Israel for military aid through shipment of Phantom jetc;. Kissinger's energies would focus on the Middle East and balancing new Chinese and Russian relationships. 
l\lcGovern-His new internationalism would focus on economic and technical aid to third world countries; lessening of American military commitment overseas; reduction of cold war. gun boat diplomacy. He calls for withdrawal of 170,000 troops from Europe and con­tinued military· and economic aid to Israel. Emphasis will be on negotiations, not arms. Distribution of food and other forms of foreign aid would be based on need rather than narrow ideological and political considera­tions. His trade policies include negotiated tariff cuts and farm goods import. controls. 


DEFENSE 
Nixon-Will not "weaken" America by cutting im-:­portant funds but will most likely practice strict eco--~: · nomics to prevent rising costs of faltering programs that could raise budget· to $100 billion. Also, increased em­phasis on research and development such as the Trident missile program could add to the budget. He ,vould continue draft. reform to institute .an all-volunteer ru,-my.. 

·.18 
i\lcGovern-He would cut all fat off the military budget at the rate of 10 billion dollars a year. Emphasis would be on what we need (not twice our need) by means of a careful evaluation of long range require­ments. Elimination of unnecessary programs such as the B-1 bomber are first priority. A voluntary army is a must as is increased civilian control in the Pentagon. 
ECONOi'UIC POLICIES 
Nixon-Future Nixonomics will be as an extension of Phase II ,vhich sets limits of 5.5% as acceptance in­creases in wages and prices. Stated objectives are stabil­ization of prices, a 2 to 3 per cent inflation rate, and dis­solution of the Pay Board and Price Commission. Unemployment remains a major problem. Though he predicts no increase in taxes, the institution of a value added tax may be essential to the economy. The tax is expected to relieve property taxation, increase revenue sharing, and establish equal funding on a per capita basis for all national school districts. Limitation of federal expenditures to the $250 billion mark has been requested. Lessening of governmental interference in private business concerns is a primary objective for the future. 
l\lcGovern-Seeks the evolution of an economy based on full employment, every able-bodied American being guaranteed a job opportunity.· The program is to be federally funded and formulated if necessary. Tax re­forms, aimed at reducing capital gains benefits and establishing a more equitable system of taxation, are to be instituted. The reforms will be eff~cted via the closing of tax loopholes, the lowering or abolishing of investment tax credits, the upping of inheritance taxes, the slicing of oil depletion allowances, and the altering of both tax deduction and depreciation procedures. An attempt at redistribution of the nation's wealth is ex:­pected. Toward fulfillment of that goal, McGovernifes have suggested the institution of a $4,000 minimum annual income to every family of four, the r~ising of taxes above and beyond the $20,000 income level, arid the removal of the federal government from the sphere of plant subsidizing. Federal budgeting would assume a new outlook, channeling some $32 billion from reduced defense expenditures into domestic programs. Other proposals include an orderly reduction of the· riaJional debt, reform of the international monetary system.·,. permanent limitations on corporate price increases, re.:.· vision of trade policies, and expansion of public service· employment. 
.· : URBAN POLICIES 
..-•Nixo~:-:-:Th~ Ptesident bases much of his urban pol­icy on:. th~ recent passage of the Revenue Sharing bill. Through·.the· Bill; :monies will be increal:ied to state and local governments Jo· fight crime and:cteate programs beneficial t6 the community. He has pledged ari "all-out war to reduce cri~e and violence.'' Nixon wants to re­form the. penal system in ·the.cpiu:~try·and reduce the 
~ ~ -. .'. ; . . 
.. , .:·:. ~. :; : T~Ef SCHOLASTIC 
> .,_ -.--, • 


Where Your Country Is? 
logjam in the courts by increasing the funding of the federal judiciary. Nixon has stated that the states should control the flow of cheap, readily obtainable handguns, but is against any type of gun control legislation. If re­elected the President will budget "$17 bilUon for the prevention of crime and its control." 
McGovern-George McGovern has promised legisla­tion that, in effect, would rebuild the cities and make them "honorable and decent" once again. He feels that the people should be somewhat responsible for the poli­cies that affect them in renewal programs. Also, he calls for the creation of a strong anti-pollution agency, crea­
_tion of urban mass transit systems, local public service employment programs, and federal assistance for busi­ness ventures in the inner city. The senator favors a crack-down on drug pushers, while providing better trained police. He would provide an extensive program for better lighting of city streets and wage all-out war against organized crime. 
EDUCATION 

Nixon-The President opposes busing on the grounds of its use as a device for achieving racial balance alone. The President has a strong commitment towards higher education and several proposals introduced by him in 1970, two of which-the National Institute of Educa­tion, which would provide a new direction for restruc­turing the present educational system, and the National Foundation for Higher Education, which would distrib­ute $10 million in grants-were recently destroyed by him when he vetoed three higher education bills. :Mr. Nixon believes that both public and non-public schools are beneficial to the educational process. Also the Pres­ident has pledged that "no qualified student who wants to go to college should be barred by lack of money." 
-McGovern-Senator McGovern believes that "reason­able and increment" busing should be used to achieve racial balance. He believes that federal support for edu­cation will provide a quality learning environment for -all. He has pledged to spend at least $15 billion to re­build and restructure school systems throughout the -country. He would allocate funds to the states according -to need, set up an incentive program to achieve fair ad­-_, _ministration by the state and local tax structure, and W(?Uld distribute funds to achieve equalized educational -· opportunity. Sen. McGovern also proposes the creation -of a natioi1al endowment fund for the arts, humanities, and -social sciences. He also believes that parochial schools are a must as a means for providing better edu­cation and he promises to support measures for the con,. 
-. tinued existence of these schools. 

HEALTH AND WELFARE 

._ . ,-_Nixon-.Favors welfare reform but has deferred on . :-·-guaranteed income programs, focusing instead on wo.rk . -~./ :_ assist~nce to eliminate welfare cheaters. Older citizens' .-_ .-' ''.b_e~efits_ in the form_ of income supports and tax breaks -_alprig with increased medicare are major commitments. 
>' ... ~. -• 
~ \ . 

_. ,-::NOVEMBER 3, 1972 _ 
-, 
'-_ 
In the area of health care he favors a ''partnership for health'' with financing handled by private insurance firms where profit would be the regulator in lieu of the government. 
l\IcGovern-Advocates a $4,000 support level for a family of four as the basic standard in welfare reform. He has decided to concentrate more on guarariteed em­ployment as a means to reduce welfare. He emphasizes that welfare has gone up rather than down under the Nixon adminstration and that a Presidential commission discovered that only 3~{ of welfare recipients ,vere welfare cheaters. He has cosponsored the Kennedy plan .tor health security financed under a program similar to social security. He has expressed deep concern for health care and claims the AMA and insurance com­panies to be the main adversaries in health care plans. 
HUl\IAN RIGHTS 
Nixon-When it comes to minorities the President feels comfortable with his record. The Tiumber of blacks with federal jobs has increased, and he promises more of the same for the next four years. He also plans to continue work with the Spanish-speaking Americans following a plan announced in 1971. Nixon has pledged to enforce legislation already on the books and to in­crease, to a certain degree, spending allocated for these programs. He is strongly opposed to any type of quotas for the hiring of minority members by the government. In the field of women's rights, the President supports squal work and elimination of discrimination agc:.inst women at all levels in the government. 
lUcGovern-Sen. McGovern believes that the decency of the American people has been infringed upon by the present administration. He believes that all Americans, regardless of race, religion, creed, or sex, should receive the same basic and fair treatment from their govern­ment. The Senator has promised no more tax breaks for the extremely rich or the special interests, and no more antitrust settlements for Republican or Democrat _con­tributors. 
Paul Colgan 
Juan Manigault 

Terri Phillips 
perspectives 
Dr. Thomas A. Dooley 

Letter to a Young Doctor 
The following reprint from the Feb­ruary, 1961 issue of Think maga­zine was sent, without comment to the Scholastic by the Chief Medical Officer of the U.S. Navy. It is a let­ter by Tom Dooley to Bart, a friend about to graduate from medical school. Dooley's words about his work in Southeast Asia certainly make one stop and reflect about the more recent work of Americans in that area. I also feel compelled to comment on the letter not as an editor, but as a pre-med student at Notre Dame. It's words strike me directly addressing some notions that seem to be all too remote to premed students who feel they must always busy themselves with study for their next test. 
-greg stidham 

Dear Bart, 
It is far past midnight. I am sitting at the table in my house at Muong Sing, high in the foothills of the Himalayas in northern Laos. The kerosene pressure lamps overhead are hissing at me, and the wind is lashing down my valley. It whips the palm and frangi­pani. All the earth on this sad cut of the world seems flooded in the monsoon rains. This is the season of the crashing violence of the tropical storm. The crickets, frogs and wilder jungle animals screech and scream. The high Laos night land is not calm. 
But I feel very calm in writing to you. I feel as though I have just met you outside of the medical school auditorium. May I thrust my hand out and say, "Congratulations, Bart. Congratulations on your graduation from medical school. Congratulations on being a doctor." But along with my congratulations, I also want to inject into your mind some thoughts to mull over during your coming year of internship. 
Four years of medical school are behind you. "What is past is prologue." You have been given much by parents and teachers. Use it wisely, for others. You have worked hard and learned a good deal, but be­cause you are out of the stress of the doing does not mean that you are yet in the peace of the done. You will never be. 
As a doctor, you have a tremendous potential. There are a lot of glorious things ahead of you, if you choose to choose them. I know this very well, though only six years ahead of you in time of practice and age of life. 
Know that this passing and precarious time in his­tory will demand much of you. It will maroon the 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

hesitant, but inspire the brave. Stand up and shout, 
"This is my time and my place in this time!" And seek 
that place. The state of total gratification is for cows, 
possibly for birds, not for man. Seek greater things 
than the material. 
Do not aim for just a certain socio-economic position in society. Seek something beyond the split-level ranch house and the two-car garage. Become supremely aware of and intimately involved in the great issues of your day. You have the potential for great deeds, and today demands deeds. Human deeds. Principles enunciated and hopes expressed are not enough. Remember this. 
You are a doctor. The proud state of being a doctor is a joyful thing. There is a lot more to you than just the knowledge of bugs and drugs. All the information you have acquired has certainly distilled itself into certain beliefs. Your beliefs may be scattered, rough and unclassified, but you do have them. You are well trained. Your hands are keen, your mind incisive, your sensitivity deep, your vision well-honed. You are aware of the sadness of mankind. You know the physiognomy of pain, and, accordingly, the quality of mercy. You know the power of drugs and under­stand the importance of the "patient who has a sick­ness" rather than the "sickness that is in the patient." You have a capability to know the pain and glory of other men. 
You possess more than knowledge of the healing art. You can do more than laboratory experiments and herniorrhaphies. Your greatest attribute is that indispensable and essential aspect of your human spirit. Learn how to utilize the fiber and core of your heart. 
There is a great deal more to living than just existing. Believing is a fine thing, but placing those beliefs into execution is the real test of strength. The state of being a doctor is a happy one, a lofty one, and one filled with tremendous potential for good. You commit a sin of omission if you do not utilize all the power that is in you. Seek a way to practice your art of medicine, utilizing all the deepest powers of your belief. As a doctor, you must be a part of your time. Isolation and indifference in world affairs are com­pletely past and over. You can no longer be just a doctor or just a researcher or just a teacher. All men belong to me. All men have claims on man. And to the man with special talents, this is a special claim. This is your challenge. It is required that man take part in the actions and passions of his time at the peril of being judged not to have lived at all. You are qualified not only to take part in, but perhaps to lead in, the actions of a segment of the world today. A doctor's job is to cure sometimes, to relieve often, and to comfort always. 
You must utilize, along with your medical talents, the powers of your spirit and heart. This will help to buttress up the fragile peace of the world. 
Bart, you've a year's internship ahead of you. And after that, the choice of a residency for specialty training or private practice. I know you have been plagued with some indecision, "Shall I be a specialist 
NOVEMBER 3, 1972 
with years and years of more training, or shall I go into private practice now?" 
I am going to presume that you will choose the life of a general practitioner. There is a place in the world for specialists (speaketh the young G.P.), but this battered, beaten world of ours needs a few more country doctors in even a few more countries and villages, too. 
As a general practitioner, where will you practice? There is a need for you every place. But the world is all lopsided in its distribution of doctors. Almost all corners of America have available doctors. With veterans' benefits, Social Security, labor union pro-· grams, industrial group health plans, and all the others, there is hardly a citizen who cannot find medical attentiqn if he is willing to make some little effort. 
I live in Laos. This valley, prior to our Medico hospital, had nothing but black magic, necromancy, witchcraft, clay images, sorcery and beatel juice. The villagers wallowed in monkey's blood, cobwebs, tigers' teeth and incantations. They never had hope, much less help. Today, the people of Muong Sing have good medicine, compassionate help, training and a fine little 25-bed hospital. Twentieth century. 
You know the world's statistics. The Congo, 13,000,000 people and not one native doctor. South Viet Nam, 11,000,000 people, about 180 doctors. Ccii-n­bodia, 5,000,000 people, seven doctors. Laos, 3,000,000 people, one Lao doctor. Other nations' statistics are equally staggering. 
Though this is sometimes called "the age of the shrug," I do not believe you would say, as some do, "So what, it's not my problem." You know, Bart, you and I are the heirs of all ages. We have the great legacies of music, art, literature, and our own medicine. We have been born and raised in freedom. We have justice, law, and equality. But we have overlooked the uglier side of our inheritance. We have also the legacy of hatred, bred by careless men before us. We have the legacy of abuse, degradation, and the in­humanity of men blinded by prejudice, ignor­ance and personal spleen. To people like yo~ and me, richer in educational opportunities than many, this is a special legacy, and a challenge. To accept the ugly as well as the beautiful and to answer this challenge is a privilege and a responsibility. Accept it without fear. 
BART, I personally believe that the unique aspect of this challenge to young doctors demands that we invest some of our lives in the practice of medicine in foreign fields. I say "some," not a lifetime. This is not expected of us. But we can give a year or two. It can be part of the maturation of a man, the metamor­phosis of a doctor. . 
You went through college, medical school, clerkship; internship lies ahead, maybe residency, and then ... come to the developing nations of the world .for a while. Bring your gadgets, and the armamentarium of drugs, to be sure, but most of all bring your human spirit. Bring your youthful enthusiasm, your drive, your energy, your dedication to help the sick. Bring your wonderful spontaneity, your belief in the good and the right. Bring along a sense of humo:r, don't iorget it; you'll certainly need it when the roof leaks, 
the patients eat all the pills-the first dosage, and the _ . witch doctors put cow ciung over your sterile ~om­
presses. Bring also a few cents' worth of the· spirit of adventure that our founding fathers possessed. Spend some time in valleys like Muong -Sing. Invest some of your life to answer personally the _challenge of today, your. legacy, your heritage. _. 

It is more difficult for other professions ·to enter and work in a foreign country. Citizens and governments are suspicious .... as _they are even a bit ·suspicious of the doctor~· (There are some who are not yet con­vinced that I am ·not an agent of the FBI or a Jesuit-in-. disguise.) But your M.D. ·diploma does open niany doors. You will be allowed to come·to these under­developed areas and build your small hospital. You ­can cure sometimes·, relieve often, and comfort always. · Splash some of the warmth and goodness of your human spirit on people who heretofore· knew little of this element in the Western man. My vi!}agers; lives were just one great groa::ri of agony before 1:he Medico · hospital·was built They knew only Western men bent on colonizing them, arid perhaps exploiting-what little they had, . ­
Your medicine will have a twofold effect. Ymi will find that by just being a doctor with-qualities of-the human heart, you_ will help to unify_ men: Simple · __ humanity makes· the primitive lands of Asi~ and Africa important to every American. Simple self-interest · · · makes_it vital.-· . · ·' . · 
You are probably thinking, "Tom~ hate to sound this way, but what's in it for me? We are all a_little selfish, you know." Right you are, Bart.· Perhaps we . 

point, -but to give up ayear or two for a spiritual thing called 'fulfillment,' you know 'bout that." I can only r·emind you that the history of mankind 
. constantly repeats the exclamation that the only way man ·can achieve his own happiness is to strive for the happin_ess of others: 'And you reply, ''Ugh, Dooley's murky mysticism again."_ History also proves, Bart, that men rarely learn from the teachings of history, but must learn ;for theniselves. Come_ to Asia. Learn. 
Ttiere are programs in the world with .which you could work. ·Programs like the World Health Organ­ization, our own Medico, and ·others. These will pay you enough to keep you-out qf debt (though perhaps not much more). They will handle the mechanics of medical procurement and supply.·_ Medico, you know, from a. kernel of an idea in 1958,' now has 17 hospitals, clinics and prbgr:ams in -12· different nations. Dozens and dozens of doctors like you. Free next year, Bart? 
TODAY-demarids a: deeper e_mphasis on the brother­hood _of_ man. All professions must seek ways to do this. For the doctor it is not a· difficult thing. It is in the root of the tree of a doctor -to understand . and believe in brotherhood..This _coricept was not S_O important in the times of our.fathers.. It is now. The Brother­hood of Man.exists as.definitely.as does the Fatherhood 
.of God. :Ana· we_ must riot fo:rget:it. . -. · :I do not_ believe ."b:rotberhood" is a sentimental, ­
mushy-mouthed, hyperglycemic. thing. It is -a potent, ._mighty.force t() bring·-rnen together as rrien. We are . not as actively engaged in solidifying this idea as we 
should be:· Doctors-know tlie alikeness·of-all men. 
should be a bit ·wary of the man whc{ is completely. _­-· . The \YOrld doe~ ~n9t -neecCanqther union of white men, 
unselfish. There is a great _deal '_'iri it;, for you. ·B)T · investing a portion of your life for:work here, by . · depositing ayear or.two of your _time you .will take back with you into private practice _a:great sense of. , accomplishment, cotipled·with a: vasthuman experience. : Your accomplishment ~ill be beyond the.narrowconfin~s . of continent and custom~_ Your accomplish~ent~-will .b~ ~ 
of a wider scope: along-th·e_ broad-horizons of peace-· : for the whole world.• You will always kn6w that you , have given a fragmen(of yout lif_eforthe good' . of many._ . 
_. _ . , • . . . __ _ 
All men yearn. t9 lose therriselyes in·. something. ·_ 
-

greater tp.ru:i themselves: You will have· done this·,_;_:.::._. 
and wi!J have helped to .achieve. that: unquenchable :-, prorrµse that someday·all men of all· ra_ces will learn ·, to live together in peace~ I_ do notbelieye this fulfillment is_ achievable. in private pra<::tice. _.: 
You've always beeri. a bit of a cynic: I imagine you? ­are quietly snarling, ".Okay;· T9m,'0 you've· made__ your or of American meri,.or·of Dutch men;or of.Negro 

men, ·Or more fragmentation-of peoples into endless 
exdusivil?ms,_ Brcjtp.erhood should be a -force to-ui-iite 
men . _.: ·. as· ~en._· : .-, ­
.. Patriotisrp is_.'not enough,. either. Nations must ­
belong_to a larger wor:ld; with a-.wider.horizon:than 
that of any single co11ntty._-Countries ·working together, 
ea,ch giving something to the other.. . . this is part of· . brotherhood/ Asia and· Africa need picks a_nd shovels, 
bulldozers _and syringes to r_eniove the · higll cliffs . , of poverty, injustice and sickness. You, as a doctor, . have tho~e syringes. We must do what we cari, as.: : . 
. individuals, to help other individuals. _ We young Americans must take the_ drama of our· . 
-free_doms (from disease as well as from tyranny)'. thaf we have received from the pa~t and-project_ it'. irito :. the future: For other men. We who have 1(:musf help 
-those:who _do not have it. ­_ The k_e:rosene is running out, of the ~amps..~nd, they .'. are sputtering and flickering. Dooley needs to:hi(the <__ 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

· sack, so I'll stop the letter just now . . . an.d_ continue. it tomorrow. · 
A full day has passed since I began·this letter to you. At clin1c this morning we had.78 patients._.Every­thing from a blazing malaria-to a man who brought his donkey; requesting that we sqture up a laceration in its flank. We gave the malaria'p~tient chioroquine, and sutured the laceration in the donkey's posterior with chromic catgut, siz:e 8 (tough ass). _ . 
Some children had diarrhea,· eye infla"rnmations, and one had a case of head lii:::e. My American corpsmen pulled some teeth (dentistry is· not for me). The kids howled just like they do in,'America. The old gals complained about·having to· wait in line, just like they. do in America. ·A few of the older gents wanted some ".;_,igor· pills/' just like ... well, anyway., There are no really deep differences between people. I,have spent six years of my life among different men, and always I find the similarities outweigh the differences., Each life is infinitely precious as a life .. _ Everywhere. 
To recapitulate what I've written, Bart, I ,believe that as a young doctor, as soon as you finish your internship, you should spend a year or two in lands such as ·Laos:. You should utilize your profession and your heart as a cable to bind men fogether. Danger cements men;• why can't other forces be used? Many tools must be implemented to destroy the false walls that separate us. Medicine is one..:Medicine-when enveloped in that indispensable element of the human spirit.·. Kindness and gentleness are· claily instruments of the doctor, more than of other professions. Kindness and gentleness can be potent weapons to fight against the anger of the world. . . 
. The world is'made up of persons.· Internationality is only a conglomeration of .individuals. All individuals yearn for something hum~n: This flings a'special . 
. challenge to you 'as there is no more intimate person­fo-person' relationship than. that of the-doctor. and his patient; Bring.the talents of your degree,· and the ,spirituality of your heart, to distant valleys· like mine. 
'And take back ':Vith you a rich, -riclt reward. , . 
.' DEDICATE 'some _of you>~~~-~o ~theis. io~r. d~dica-. ' tion will not be a sacrifice.-.-:It Vlill be· an "exhilarating . experienc:~ b~cause it, jg.i:riten~~·effort applied:to~ards a -meaningful:end. '. : , ;,:_ · · -· · ­·-: ·so along ~itl?my~-~ongrat~lations. on y~ur. gradua­.tior{ T'send m:y':wish· that-you' will utilize yourself -:as afqr~e: of µi:iifari~ ·1:he.,-~ragil~ peace of today. And 
-' ,that;}dt(wilLknow iti(eJiajipiness that ·comes of. . 
' '.. .'se~ing"itli'ersfwho have-~othing. :-. . : . · ·,_.-,i':~-. '. ·": ... '· . · :. :: ::;:~: ~ ,Sincere . best wishes always; -, ··· .', ·: ,· ·: ··-· ... ·_·... •':Tom. 
. .-.. ..·
~ ~ ­

come to asia. learn. 

NoyEl\IBER: 3~, 1972 · 
Jim Braun 
To Warm the 


Age of Ice 
How does one begin to expres·s those sentiments which our nation should; which it ·must share communally? ·How does one begin to express, not the guilt, but the shame which gnaws at our national consciousness, perverts our national purpose, meta­morphoses the American dream into the American nightmare? I speak of the American, no, the· global tragedy. I speak of the Vietnam war. 
Our people have espoused a -unity of moral b-eliefs in the basic rights of man for nearly two centuri~s. Most especially, we have believed iii the unas~ailable dignity of the human being and we have believed, 
_if not always practiced, the principles of fair play. -That has gone. David has become Goliath.. Our unity has disappeared with the unraveling of our.moral fiber; our civHwar has begun anew, now to be fought on the battlefield of each American's conscience. Our wounded lay as obstacles in the middle of the road, and_our mi~sing in action search for the realm of moral truth,. while our POW s are tortured by callousness and by frustration at their inability to unfetter' themselves from the shackles of social · 
apathy, of distant technology.. 
Ours is an Ice Age. I speak of cold, of barrenness. I speak of the Orphic•god, Statistics. We believe in · . facts, so let us speak of :facts. Fact: The Holy One has· decreed that due to theJaws o{political.:.physics, the.vacuum caused by our absence from.the Asian coast shall be filled by blood. Fact: Rex II has fulfilled. that prophecy,-turned it i~to an anachroni~m. ­Two score:X 105 have,fl~d thisworld, no, ha~e been-kicked out of this world·withou_t trial, raped:of.life. . They Q.id not draw fast enough. ·They did not··close-· 
the sluice gates .of: ~eir mouths -in· time: They ·have been drowned-by their flood of words, thefr flood.-· ­

of emotion, their flo.od of hurnanity:· Fact: 'The Great'·-. American Birds have let :fly·-more bomb~ over this land than were loosed in all of Eura'pe·-and Asia in ill of World War II. Fact:· We have destroyed our_ . allies as effectively as we have destroyed our enemi~s. : · Fact: We are the enemy. The land of Asia has been · turne:1 into -a land o~ refugees: We are the· refugees.. We are .refugees from justice, from honesty, from · ' concern. We are afraid of ourselves. Look about you. 
For a long time we believed. I speak of ideals. --,_ Now we can believe no·more. We can no longer belie;e• · in ourselves. ·Or at least our own infallibility: .-Dare· · ·.-· 
we believe? Cervantes wrote, "Virtue is so powerful that of itself it will emerge victorious from any trial." Dare we believe? Is the American Dream Machine -no more· than an esoteric poppy patch? Our country has now been baptized in the blood of iniquity, : the blood orothers, the blood of ourselves. But I do.not have faith; perhaps it is not.a baptismal but a burial rite. God is dead.. Perhaps we are the · 
.new Satanic disciples, disciples of technological 
. blood-letting. If we are a nation of ideals, and those ideals have b_een shattered, ·have• proven an ideal Tower at Babel, 1:heri we must build again. We must find new: ideals -to·which we can_be true, or we must 
· uve under-the heavy rod of reality, the· rod of honesty. We haye·eaten of the· fruit ·of vision. We have seen our sin. 
Wf: have seen. Now we must learn to listen, to h~ar. How do _we break the yoke of tyranny about-our necks-without breaking our necks? There.are parasites of tyranny in _this -land. This is a_ land of castes. 
It is_ for them, the chose~ breed, : To learn the unredeemable horror ­The horror:of th</spectre of death The spe_ctre of a well-known .stranger The suspense,: the mystery of death Death .whistling.through The_ dark as -· · · A bomb , Falls.. 
Hi~ for them, the appointed race,. the anointed face, To. wield Jhe .uncontrollable_ whip · · The whip ,of_ power.. _ · The power of death Death by decree . , . · The pen Writes 
\Y:here_ d~ ·we b_egi~\ ;i: speak: ~f decisions, for I do n~t believe ir1 _de!e~ir1ation.. For me, it shall begin ­wit_h me. For._)'ou!. it ~ust be~n with you. Suf­
._ fermg as_ we._~ suffe~ is not enough. We must put 
. an end·-to that. ·-1 shaUno l_origer follow sheepishly as othe!s areJed-t_o-the slaughter. Who. knows? P:rhaps;, it.shall _soon _l:>e me. No', I shall lift my blmdf9ld, and thoughknowledge_ be painful, I shall. __no long~r s!Jffer my ignorance. I shall no longer . _ 
suffer fqr c~nsensus decisions in which I do not consent I shall suffer: only in my oneness. Untii Y?U joirime. 
So I return'd to the Garden of Love That so many sweet fl~wers bore· 
. . ' 
. And I saw it was filled with graves And tombstones where flowers should be; And priests in black gowns were walking their 
rounds,. · · · And binding with briars my joys and desires. -Wm.•Blake ­
-~fm Brau_n lu!-i'ls from· Patux~t River., Maryland. He 'IS. at pesent a sophomore and plans to declare a 
major in English. 
kulchur 

The Existential Errands 
of an Ego 

"Ego! It is the great word of ·the "To the Time-Life Staff." He closes big novel· he promised twenty years twe~tieth century." Wi~h ·these his letter with th1s paragraph: "The ago. The novel is yet unseen. These words Norman Mailer opens the first notion that we're running on, then, essays, letters, playlets, interviews, essay of Existential Errands, "King is that until we begin to know a little poetry· translations and entertain-· of the Hill." With these words Nor-more about each other-not through · ments are fine in getting acrossthe man Mailer. tempers his reader for the old-fashioned New Deal govern-philosophy of Norman Mailer, but 
·the extraordinary trip through the mental methods of tolerance -.. but somehow ~ey are not so effective as book.. Mailer, of course, is the errand thro·ugh the quality of human expe-a good novel might have been. There boy. But he views his. errand as a rience in societies, small societies is .not the recognizable coherence prophet would view his message. He , and somewhat , larger societies, which would lend itself to an easier may even view himself as a prophet. founded upon various principles -realization of the existential roman-
Existential ·Errands, published in philosophical, spiritual, economic, tic undercurrents. The ideas are August, is the embodiment of Mail-. geographical, territorial, _historical, clearly there, but the vehicle for er's message. The coherence of the or whatever-·we know nothing at their expression is not. This perhaps collection of writings which make up all. And that's why I feel' certain is an example of what Moby Dick . its contents is at first dubious, but optimism· about this·· candidacy. Be-would have been in the form of col­with _reading, it is a fairly unified cause what I think it offers to. all lected small works instead ·of the and philosophical celebration of man. people of the city of New York is a huge novel it was. This is ·disap­Ncit the man of suburbanized techno-. · chance to turn this city around and pointing, but at least we have the cratic" America who depends upon an make it what it once :was-·the leader ideas. electric knife to carve ·his Thanks-of the world. Thank you.'·' · E9--istential Errands may be a bit giving Turkey, but_ that two~legged hard to take for many who are un­
.reasoning creature that for the last Beyond_ the rhetoric of the political · acquainted with Mailer. Existential few thousand years, has been domi-campaign ·for ·Mayor of :New York Errands calls for a prior.knowledge nati~g the, planet. ·Essentially, this· paragraph expresses certain ·of Norman Mailer lest he seem an Mailer's view of man or rather his philosophical beliefs about ina.n. Like unsufferable egomaniac. He is biased. ideal. of man, is ·the _Romanticist's Hemingway; Mailer sees something He holds his own opinions highly. concept.. '(Indeed; in Of a Fire on the wrong with.New York City.. This is .. All this is not, however, without Moon, he calls Hemingway the last not:because it is_a city, but because reason. He is an intellectual and -great l(Romantic," and wishes him-o,f its atmosphere. · Certainly, this is his opinions are based upon his rea­self·Hemingway's heir.) not the pastoral ideal of· ~'Tintern son. His reason leads him to con­·. Maiier's Romanticism-is not the Abbey" or "Ode to a Skylark.'' 'It clusions which are the make-up of same as·that of Wordsworth or Shel-. is, though, a celebration of man iii his philosophy, his view of man. ley: :It. is not the Romanticism of . his ·currer1t state, in· the city.· To . Still, the ambiguity of this might ·_ariy of thelate 18th-early 19th cen,;, , Mailer the development of the city give the impression that he is like tury·· writers, though Byron might · is not what will destror man, but the squat peasant bullfighter in his have. been close in some of his writ-technology .is. Mailer, throughout "El Loco" reflection-he fights one ing: -Mailer celebrates man in an the book carries· this one theme. He . bull with a flourish and the next like existential, or Nietzchean, manner. believes that technology is simply a clown. But, that is not Norman To him man is not merely another violating all the sacred parts of man. Mailer and that is not Existential 
·of God's creatures meant to live in . In the preface to the book Mailer Errands. Writer and book are much the verdant beauty .of nature. He states that these essays reflect much more substantial. closes his book with a letter titled of what would be the themes of the -joseph, runde 
NOVEMBER 3, 1972 
grew out of his work at the Univer­sity of Chicago. It was replaced in 1956 by the Compass, the first pro­. fessional improvisational theatre in the country. ·The Compass was lo­
.·cated ·in the Hyde Park neighbor­hood of Chicago. It provided theatre tliat was "impr:ovised from the very middle of the community-in the neighborh9od,_of the neighborhood­of the moment." 
Sills always believed in a theatre that is ·connected to a larger com­n1unity yet is a community in itself. The· Compass and the Second City broke through, he believes, because "at a certain time they [the per­formers] were more interested in ·each other than they were in suc­cess." The problem is that profes­sional actors tend to· resist playing together. This · makes community genesis in the theatre a problem, especially for Sills,· in light of his belief tliat theatrical method should ·be based on play: "Playing is a communion : . . . play is freedom.


Starting 
Play is also mutual. You can't play aione ... I fought my ass·off to get . them [the _actors] to see each other
a Scene or Two 

and play with each other o_nstage." In a sense, S~lls feels "Second City is a failure . . . all these things are failures in terms oi real organic
The great fountainhead of the im-The· improvisation of the Second theatre." But he feels that conven­
provisational theater movement was City is invented by the performers, the short-lived Compass Players and but it is.developed in rehearsal. So tional ·resident theatres are worse --fai_lures: "No amoµnt of pumping
its direct successor, the Second City. the sketches that are viewed are big city repertory theatres into a
From these groups have come Mike well-rehearsed . with occasional -di­t6w1i' is goi11g to make any _difference
Nichols, Elaine May, Barbara Harris, gressions that are made up on. the in the cultural level of a town . . ·. 
Alan Arkin, David Steinberg and spot. Also, one segment of the even­many other remarkable performers. . ing features the audience suggesting so-called intellectual theatre will not The band of actors. at the_ Second ideas. and then having the actors· and:cannqt work." City are largely responsible for the . work out the idea. This· allows the· -.: Sills maintained some hold in the rising tide of intelligent satirical-company to keep their skills sharp-. Second· _City but also moved_. into humour in the United States. ened and · gives the audience al} _op:-other._ areas -that . could ·satisfy his 
An evening with the Second City portunity to witness the development . desire for an organic theatre..These consists of a series of improvisational of a . sk:e!ch .. Subjects range Arom··. expe:ri~ents -culminated in Paul sketches, directly pointed at the politics and movies to urban paran_oia . Sills' ·Story Theatre, which started · hangup of the middle-class, white. .and dope-smoking.. With no sets ari~_ ·in: Chicago, took hold a.nd moved to liberal. All his foibles and paranoias. ol!ly a few hand props, the actors •. greater: succes~ i~ ·New York. are paraded before him and·put -in·_· create an entire·world of satire.. · ,Urban ·renewal forced the Compass proper perspective. But 'the htim._.:. --·The seeds of.the Seconcq::ity_ :were: .__ out_ of .'Hyde· P~k andjnto _a· riew our is not. reserved for one.-group;· planted b?7" .a Chicagoan narried raul-·home:in a_:defuncf·Chinese l_aundry any person with_a love for intelligent _Sills.: Sills_ was ·a leader of_ the. jm.: · qn the.fringe of-Old Towp·, a reside:n,­satire will find himself rewarded by.: provisational movement of the. mid--,..-tial·;area<on the north side..There the troupe. · · · · ·, ~_. ,dle 50's. ;-An-·early theatrica.1::veijture ~-._th~-~ Second .,City ~was foundid .by:. 
· " --' . . . . . ·._· · ..-> :-. Sills,'.·_Bernarci.:Sahlins· _and :Howard ·-. . . ·. . : ::/', ;:' Alk.-:. Thei<took;the.'-name from._the .,_ ._ ·-,· -.< >:: · ·, :· title~of theJate·-A.J.•Liebling's deri-­
._,. .. · -•.·.-···.··.·'.~--··,::·· ·•.j•·····. __ .-. _----: .:~sjy~_.'.,ptofµe-:_of·. Chicago_.in -N~w ·._ :·.·.-:>.··',_: ".:. -0 .._ -· ,·. ,_Ca:··:· ·Yorker, magazine:·.-':on·_·December -­
•. 

---. :·~-,~_:"., ,_-·. ·•·_,,· :_·_., ·-'··-..: ._,-:. __: "_:=,_<,-__:;··:16~>:1959,-._they bpenec(their citib· 
0 

-•• .. • •:, ._·. :· , :.---;._:· : :: ,:·--" • -_, :·· , • • • -. -~ > . --._ .; :<.c,::_::--__:.,. :: to almost instant. success and imme­
• 

• • • ,-• • • _· .....--:-• _.,_, ·_ • 
0 ·diate national atterition. Befo~e the 
-' -! ~ ~, • • d -• >' w • • • ' 
T.HE SCHOLASTIC 

startled actors knew it they were inundated with praise from the media and the place was packed every night. Soon the Second City became a "must" for the profession­als of_ the acting world when stop­ping in Chicago. In April, 1961, a record album was cut; in September, 
. a Broadway run began; in October, 1962, the first of three London ap­pearances took place; in ·February, 1967, the Second City touring com­pany developed -and on and on, through the decade of the 60's. 
Over the years, the activities of the Second _City· have ramified in many directions, under the leader­ship of Sahlins and Sheldon Patin­kin. The main commerical activity is the cabaret on North Wells Street. They also mount industrial shows and industrial movies, and have shot a rather unheralded feature -film (The Monitors) entirely in Chicago. There is a Second City school and workshop which trains young people in the kind of discipline involved in the Second City's. presentations. 
The cabaret has flourished. In 1967 it moved into the heart of Old Town which enabled it to double its seating capacity. Seating is at small tables and drinks are available. Ber­nard Sahlins, the current artistic director says, "I think the · Second City, the revue theatre, the popular theatre, has an on-going function. We're the inheritors of a three-thou­sand year old tradition ... we go on to other things because•we need a change , of pace. . However, we're always aware ·of this as the mother lode." If there_is' one positive proof that the Second City is a Chicago in-: stitution, it is the fact that on one of its anniversaries Mayor Daley went so far as to proclaim a "Second City Day" in Chicago. 
An evening with the Second City \Vill provide an ab~ndant amount of excellent satire. It will challenge you to look'at yourself, and then fo laugh . at what you see-but laughter that 
. is .. "with you" and not "at you." It will-be an evening with an intensely creative, dedicated company, always working towards superior contem­porary humour. They will make you laugh in order to make a point: that unless you can stop, look, and laugh at yourself, you are not· fully human. 
··"Down _with A.· J.-Liebling!"­
~ ~
. .. -ro_che ~chulfer: · 

NOVEMBER 3, 1972 
Resumes 

• 
low cash and carry prices 

• 
fast service 


• 
photo offset printing 

• 
electrostatic copies 

• 
"type yourself" on an IBM selectric 


NOW AVAILABLE 
Letter Press Service 
MINIT PRINT of South Bend 
1616 Mishawaka Ave. across from Adam's H.S. 


233-1652 
BERNARD F. 










DIEDRICK 
FOR 

STATE 
REPRE­SENTATIVE 


collection of Ludwig Meidner Prints, opening Nov. 12 in the ND Art Gallery. The ND, SMC, and IUSB

coming distractions 
FLICKS 
Zagrans's $1 Zinema West· pre­sents Midnight Cmvboy, X rating · and all, on Nov. 4 at 8 and 10 p.m. in Flanner's basement. · Real cow­boys the next week in lUcKenna's Gold, same time, same place. The 
N.D. Baltic• Society covers election eve on Nov. 6 'With Richard, a politi­cal spoof. It's at 7 or 9 or 11 p.m. The same gang of Baltics is also showing The Best of Genesis, a col­lection of insanity from Genesis I-V: both films are in the Engineering Auditorium, Thursday, Nov. 9, at the last-noted times. CAC goes for bust by showing . the feared film Reefer Madness (with a short by the Fireside Theatre) on Nov. 2nd and 3rd, 8 and 10 o'clock, then con­tinue on high with Woody Allen's mad Take the l\loney and Run on Nov. 10 and 11, ditto on times, $1.00 per viewing per person. Cine..: ma '73 will play Rules_of the Game (Nov. 12 and 13, 8 and 10 p.m.) and cast Shadow of a Doubt orito the 
Any. organ/ization., department, person. or wJzatever who·· would like to have an event publicized in this column.; plea.se sub'liiit details at least three weeks p~r to this event. Our Address: 
. Cmning Distractions 
c/o Sc1iol<istic . 
·Notre Dame, Indiana,4.6556 . -or bring. it to the. ScHOLASTIC office on .the fdurtb; floor of La-
Fortune.. 
C • • • ., 
students and faculty work will be shown and auctioned at the Opel Art Festival at the Yeager Motor Co. Showcase, Nov. 4 from 8:30 a.m. 'til 7 p.m.; Nov. 6, 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.; Yeager's is at 225 S. Lafay­ette Blvd. Ceramics by Marvin Bartel of Goshen College will be on display Nov. 1 through 30 in the Moreau-Hammes Galleries at St. Mary's, along with Tom Meunich's ceramics. T h r e e photographers, namely, Joan Redmond, Linda Con­nor, and Jim Raymo, will show the audience the capturings of their shuttered eyes also through Nov. 
30. The Ebony Fashion Fair will show on Nov. 16 in· O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:00 p.m.

screen on the 14th and 15th. Non­cardholders One Dollar. 

SPECIALS MUSIC 
The new Scholastic Frontier So-

Yes invades later this month: ciety will hold a forum on Nov. 7 Otherwise, the Korean Children's (Tues.) from 7:00-9:00 p.m. in the Choir, or "The Singing Ambassa-Black Cultural Arts Center. The dors of the Orient" come to Bethel topic is "Raci,sm: A Normal Part of College, Sunday, Nov. 12, at 3:00 Academia." Featured speakers will p.m., $3.00. The South Bend Cham-be Dean Crosson (A & L), Robert her Orchestra with guest conductor · McC:fady (Steering Committee of 
E. Wayne Ambercrombie perform Ujamaa), and Dean Johnson Nov. 11 at. 8:15 p.m. in the IUSB (''Action"). The moderator will be Auditorium. New albums to watch Tom McGill (Law School). A lec­for: Moody Blues 7th Sojourn; Dos ture on "America. and the Soviet (Malo); Guitar Man (Bread); Liv-Union" by Prof. Richard Gregor, ing in the Past (Tull, American Univ. of Toronto, is on for 4 :00 p.m. release); Caravanseri (Santana). · in the Faculty Lounge of Northside James Schwabacher (tenor) will· Hall at IUSB. Travelogue: Florence vocalize a program of Baroque and the Heart of Italy as part of the Songs in the Library Auditorium, Scott~sh Rite Series, Nov. 13, with 8:15, Nov. 14, free. Likewise (freely) Eric Pavel guiding you to the magic Josefina Cubeiro (soprano) wilrpre-boot-top of Europe. Also, the Mid­sent her programme of Spanish ·. American · College Art Association Songs, same place . and · time,. on · is holding a conference in the CCE, Nov. 17.. Nov. 2-4. · 
P-1 a y w i s e, Tennessee Williams' 


SPORTS. 

beautifully _fragile drama of frus-Our footballers go to-Vet Stadium trate_d love-.will be at Washington ·in Philly this Saturday to do battle , Hall, Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18, at with Air Force spoilers Navy. Then · ·8:~O p.m. The_·play is, of course, we: meet the high-flyin' boys fo ·Col-Summer and ~moke. This is an ND­_orado· ·on Nov. · 11: .Hockey_· has -_ SMC product~on. Then, on Nov. ~, begun!..-University _of Michigan the-Second C1~ Pla.ye~s, fro~. Chi­.visits us Nov. 10 and 11 and more· c_ago, the areas first city, will pre­immediately, Bowling Gr~en on Nov. sen: "Best of Sec~nd City," a col­
5. Go;' puckers! . lectlon of well-received spoofy skits from recent reviews: "No, No, Wil­mette," "The 43rd Parallel,". and

EXHIBITIONS 

"Premises, Premises." Portents of No inhibitions( Go _vis_it :.the pre-hilarity. Colu.mbian art from the permanent-­
. · -:-a,l depman ­
THE SCHOLASTIC 
YEAGER MOTOR Ca.1 Inc. 
BUICK--OPEL--VOLVO 
~­
• SALES 
' 
• 
SERVICE 

• 
PARTS 

• 
ACCESSORIES 






Christmas creations a la Black Forest. handmade in Ha\'\-aii from original. three-dimensional designs 10 delight the collecror. For treasured gifts. chnose from o,er 200
.,~­

items. each hand-painted in gay Christmas colors. 
• I Our ,a:alo1 Jfflf Oil r,q1UJt~ s,.d. $I n.,osit lt1faad4M,. 
I \_;-' ORDERS AIR~IAILED ll'ITHIS 48 HOURS Of RECEIPT 
• 
~~­
-­

. ' A. AL E X A S D E R co. 
98 Riverside Driv•, N•w Yo,~.N. Y. 
....._-.... ' 
'--"·
R. K. MUELLER, INC. ~.~P-sakeJ; 
~ REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS 




Nixon &Bowen 
Now more than ever! 
Downtown 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St. 



-An Apology 
The SCHOLASTIC wishes to apologize for neglect­ing to mention that ·Mary Lynn Broe, author of "Seats of Wisdom'' in ·the' October 13 issue,' will_ receive· her doctorate this· year from the Uni­versity of_-Connecticut.· 
the crooked rook 


SA!vIUEL LOYD 
First Prize Chess Monthly 1857 
White  mates  in  three  moves  
.. · ANS\VER TO LAST PROBLEl\l  
SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE  1. P-K8(B) 2. P-B8(B) 3. B-Q7 mate  K-K3 K-B4  


An Open Letter to the. Students and Faculty of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College ... 
ROBERT J. DuCOMB, JR. 
Republican for STATE REPRESENTATIVE 16329 STATE ROAD 23 GRANGER. INDIANA 46530 Phone: 272-8188 

Dear Voter: 

This is a year of change and great opportunity for Indiana. Though most of the interest in this election has centered on the races for President, Congressman,· and Governor, there are many more contests which are also very important, since they will help shape the course of our government during the next few years. 
It is my belief that voters-especially young voters-are less. interested in party labels and more interested in casting their vote based on the qualifications of the candidate and his stands on the issues. For that reason, I am sending you this letter to give you a brief introduc­tion to my background and a short statement of the positions I have taken in this campaign.. 
I have two degrees from Indiana University-an A.B. Degree in. Government and a Doctor of Jurisprudence (Law). Afte·r graduation, I served two years in the U.S. Army. Following discharge, I returned to South Bend and began the private practice of law. For two years, I served part-time as a Deputy City Attorney for South Bend. I am 29 years old, married, and the father of two daughters. 
In the campaign, I have stated that I will only support increases in state taxes -if property tax 
relief is guaranteed by having the state· assume a _large·r share of the cost of lcicai"" 
education and by imposing controls on local spending increases. Also, a sales _tax increase 
should include reducing its regressive features. by eliminating it on unprepared food and 
medicine. As one of the ten largest-industrial states, Indiana must_ place a top priority on 
pollution abatement. Accordingly, I will .insist upon strict enforcement and adequate funding 
of our newly enacted sta.te la_ws, and an active program to seek federal funds for environ­
mental improvement. I advocate the expansion of educational opportunities for those who do 
not attend universities by improving our vocational educational system. I will vote for the 
reduction of. the legal age of majority to 18, since.·the present sta~us of the law is .plainly 
inconsistent, and for the equal: rights amendment:· 
·unfortunately, space· limitations do not permit nJe t~-cli~cuss ~II of.the issues; however, I have pledged ·to listen to the voters and to be responsive to their needs. Please let me know of -your views or·of,your questions. . . 
t:will sin·cerely appreciate.your-vote. 
, --+ -, 


.. -::,: ;·.; ··,-very truly\,9urs~ <:.·.<. ·..·::: Rohert l::Du·co·mo,·Jr. 
•-:;:,A. ' • :, ~• --• 'J .:": •' ~-:, ' ' • • _-• '
r -,••' • • 

NOVEMBER 3, 1972 


+-'
Cl) 
Cl)
.c 
m
..., 
-

Scene: Television studio. Three chairs, modern, padded and comf ort<ible-looking., sit in a serni-circle on a raised platform in middle of studio fioor. Small table next to center chair, half-empty water glasses, a pitcher, ash tray with long curls of blue snwke rising-from premium­length cigarette. Arranged strategically around plat­fonn are three intimidating black cameras on dollies; microplwne hangs over center, suspended from -long, polished boom. . _ · · . 
In center chair, near table, sits middle-aged cavalier typ~well dressed in checked coat; frilled purple shirt with long, pointed collars, wide green silk tie; hair styled and streaked by Pierre Moffet, New York. He speaks with a slightly lispish, highly inflected southern drawl ... ~­
On his right sits another man, slightly older. His hair is also grey; the ends of a _long grey handlebar mustache curl over the ·plateau of his cheekbones. He wears the nieticulously embellished dress of a_ British · cavalry officer at the turn of the century. · . -­

The man in the chair to the left appoo:rs about twenty. Grizzly, half-grown patches of hair covm-his cheeks--a beard. He wears large, tinted wire-rims on a nose powdered for caniera, a yellow crocheted poncho over knickers reminiscent soniehow of .Elizabethan pantaloons. His bl,ack shoes curl promin~ntly at the · toes (about size 13), and he puffs serenely on the end of a hashish pipe. 
Announcer: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Wel­come to ':Meet.Your Candidates." Tonight's show is the final in our, series of conversations with the various· candidates, and we are pleased to have with us the two majorpresidential hopefuls: on my'right, Colonel Myron Breckingham; my left, young Able Hoffer. Colonel Breckingham and Mr. Hoffer, perhaps we might begin tonight's program by asking each of you to summarize your platforms. Colonel Breckingham ... 
Breckingham: Why, uh; yessir. Thank you, sir. It, uh, strikes me, sir, that the most_ pressing area of concern, uh, facing our beautiful country today, sir, is our current· economic situation._ As you, uh, well know, unemploy­ment is at an all=-time high, with; uh, very few prominent people making tlie greatest amount_of salary. What, uh, I propose, _is· a tw_o-mortth curtailment of all joos. That way, sir, the disparity between the working and the non-working will no longer exist. 
Announcer: I see, Colonel. ·How, -then, would you avoid· even more widespread poverty and destitution as money ceases to circulate altogether? 
Breckingham: A very·, hh, good question,-sir. However, 
. I am not yet at liberty to disclose that aspect of my plan. I will say this, though: I will make all of that perfectly clear after my election. ­
Announcer: Mr. 'Hoffer, would you.care to clarify the 
important points of your platform '. .. 
Hoffer: My two.:.pronged program ~f two weeks ago was ·a really'far-out progr:am. _·During my two-term rotation in the Rotary· Club, I was able to see first-hand the 
slaughter that our couritry was promoting in Southwest Vinlandia. I immediately saw that this was the single horse upon which I might ride right into the stables of the White. House: . However, .as 'you know, after my frank discussions of the war, the issue became a loose football, so to _speak. Unfortunately, my opponent picked up the ball and ran.with it by telling our· boys to stop using bullets to kill the Vinlandiamese. And now that killing is no longer an issue, my two-pronged program has only _one prong.. · · 
Announcer: And what will be the stick of that remain.:; 
ing prong?· -· · · 
Hoffer: My secon<:Fpoint deals with the economi~ situa­tion.· Quite simply,-and most· emppatically, I feel that · marijuana should be legalized. · 
-_ -:; ­
Announcer: And· how will· that· alleviate our_ economic 
crisis? ·:.. · · · 
_Hoffer: Wf!ll; the specifi~s of my plan will become much clearer after it is put into effect_and everyone is smokingdope. ·.• · · -· 
Announcer_: Thank you, gentlemen.· .And now: a word 
from our sponsors. · 
· Curtain falls. At this point audience is free· to go to a· concessions· stand and buy a can of beer . . 
Scene. Curtain rises:. Our ~hree characters are sitting ~ before, with one _notable _exception: all three are clad only in· their underwear. Breck.'s mustache is gone and Hof.'s cheeks are bare. Breck. q,nd Hof. wear ordinary white briefs (BVD); the announcer sports -the boxer variety, lavender with red h,earts. .
~ 

Announcer:· Welcome back to "Meet Your Candidates." -, In the second portion of the ·program we hope to touch 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

on some more of the issues of this campaign. I think to do this we will open the session up to any remarks the two candidates would care.to make. 
Breckingham: I, uh, would like to p·oint out my opposi-· tion to "training,", sir. Many politicians across, .uh, the country are advocating greater use of commuter trains to, uh, get the cpmmon man to and from work. Sup­posedly, by bringing the laborer to the source of work, more opportunities. would be, uh, equally shared. How­ever, it is apparent that this, uh, training ·would run exactly.counter to my economic proposal of curtailing all jobs. Not ·only would these trainers have,jobs, 'but in­creased training would, uh, make more jobs for train drivers. 
Hoffer: I would like to raise a sort of-objection, if I may. I don't see how a workable plan• could be devised ·by anyone who cari't even get the stains out .of his ·under­wear. 
(Breck. blushes.) 
Announcer: Please, gentlemen. Please .stick to the issues. Mr. Hoffer, what is your stand on ·the question of training? 
Hoffer: Well, actually my position is pretty-clear.:.cut. I 
think the plan has both advantages and disadvantages. 
Breckingham: (in subdued voice, a~most whisper) ,How 
do you get your skivvies so white? 
·Announcer: Do either of you thinkthat the.question of 
welfare will be critical in this .election? . . . . -. . · 
(Breck., oblivious to. the .question; has moved· _toward 
Hof. Speaks in same 811,bdued tones) 
Breckingham:_I don't believe I have ever seen underwear 
so immaculate! 
Announcer: The electorate has expressed concern about the illegal use of. wiretapping. What constitutes legal wiretapping, as opposed to the illegal variety? 
·Hoffer:.! have found that bleach used with ·yourregular detergent in a hot-water_cycl~-with a~arm-water rinse seems to be most effective. · 
Announcer: Wh_at can be done to -restore the public's 
confidence in the workings of their-government? 
· 'Hof. and B'reck. continue their subdued conversation -about underwear-washing techniques, not hearing .An­.nouncer's question. At ·this last question, they rise· together, still conversing, and begin slowly to exit right, gesturing _occasionally to emphasize .one point or another. Flustered announcer stands, frantic, motioning them back. His chagrin is obvious as he collapses into chair, exhausted and bewildered. After a pause,·he picks up Hof.'s hashish pipe, takes long, draivn breath, and 
. . collapses back into chair. Curtain. --greg ~stidham 
NOVE~BER 3, 1972 
r-------------------------7 
I Complacency Card: The holder of this card can I I present it whenever one of the cards goes I f against him. Due to -voter complacency there are I l no bad results. (Nobody cares.) _ I 
I . --I 
I --------------------~-----1
-I

I Complacency Card: The holder of this card can I I present it--whenever one of the cards goes I I against him. Due to voter complacency there are I f no bad_ results. (Nobody cares.) I 
1----------------~-----~---I 
I I
I Fund Scandal: Lose 10% of your electoral votes I 
f -to your opposition. I 
I I
I -I
1--------~-----------------l 
I lI 
I Eagleton Kickback: _McGovern loses 40 electoral 
I
[ votes; Nixon gains 15. ( 
I -l 
1~----------_.;--------------1 
l I 
I Ramparts labels Nixon Fascist. Nixon gains 20 I
l 
electoral votes. McGovern gains 30. f 

l -!
l _____:.:...____________________~--1' 
I --­
I I
l National Review forgives Nixon his sins. Nixon I 
l 20 votes; McGovern a hair shirt. I 
l
l --I 
1--------------------------I 
--I

1 -I 
l Women's Caucus supports McGovern. Nixon gets I 
I 30 electoral _votes and divorce; McGovern gets 5. I 
I I 
1 _________...;.._____.;___,;_.. _______ 1­
1 ----I f Spiro Agnew calls McGovern -a Commie. McGov-I I em gets 20 electoral votes; N(xon gets diarrhea. I I I
I ----­
1--------------------------I 
--I

l ---I I Unemployment and lnfla·tion Rise. Nixon loses 20 _-I I electoral votes; McGovern gains no_thing. I 
l ----I
l ---­
:--~-----~-~~-~~~--~-------,I 
I M~Govern made ho~orary Hopi Indian. McGovern l I gains nothing; Nixon gets-reafffrmation from John -, I I · Wayne. I·
!_.:..__________...,,__.:..______::,..____--.:___ ! . 
-, I 
-'Everybody: is bored. :Bo!h_ Candidates lose ·and 
--I 
the_'country. becomes a m-oriarchi· --­
-I ­

I___.:...:...:.._,-c-;...~.::...:.,_.:..::....:..c...-:-.::...:..,_.:.:_;....,....:.. ! 
I --Ca~inet -_s~a~~a~. 'Nix~~' los_es.:5,0:el?ctora(v?t~s: ·: ---_ I 
and Henry_ K,ssmger~<McGoyem-_·ga,ns 20 votes_. _-_ II ,-and Henry-Kissiri'ger. '.Anyway ,You.:1001<_: at ifyo_u,--, ; -_,,, I lose. ---, · _ _ . : -, --_ I 
L____:.____~;.....~::.:_~---~~::._:~~--::_-~ -~-----:.J ­
34 
_Monotony 
--RULES OF THE GAME 
Our Monotony game consists of one nifty game board 
(ori cover), twelve Back Stabber Cards,_and these rules. 
Two people may play, one representing the Republican 
party, the other representing the Democrats. If you 
have more than two players, get another game. Because 
of lack of motivation on the part of our editors, you 
must rip off your own die and playing figures. We sug­
gest perhaps a '72 Gus Hall campaign button or the 
ring tab from your favorite ·brew.. The editors used a 
telephone bug and a McGovern/Eagleton campaign but­
ton, but the board self-·destructed after eleven primary 
moves. ­

The -object of_ the game is to accumulate enough 
electoral votes (270) to win the election. (No cheating 
and no graft, otherwise the game will seem too real.) 
The player ch~osing-the Nixon campaign begins with 
300 electoral votes while McGovern's supporter begins 
with only 60. -These figures are based on current sta­
tistics, and not· on a desire to see the underdog win. 
A toss of the die determines the order of play, except 
if "Nixon" rolls afour, five; or six, in which case he rolls 
again. 

Players move· the number -of squares indicated by 
the throw, alternating iri a democratic manner, follow­
ing the instructions given -on each square. Thus, elec­
t.oral_ votes are_ amassed or forf_eited according to the 
specific information i:ri each square. In addition to the 
regular game board consequeri_ces,-a player passing the 
"Start" square must draw one card from the pile; the 
subs&iuent •conditions· apply to both parties. 
However, if one has the good fortune to draw a 
Complacency Card, he· niay save it to nullify the re­sults of some nasty -card situation he may get into later, i.e._, Nixon loses 50 elect.oral votes qver Watergate affair; public effects -annulled · through Complacency Card. Nixon_ keeps -his 50 electoral votes but returns -the card to :the-.'.rnconsequen,tial Superfluities Pile, i.e., 
Back Stabber _Card Pile, -i.e.., Special Card Pile. 
A player landing on one of the three direct roads to 
the White House squares may advance to the final leg of the game only if he has the necessary 270 electoral votes for the presid~ncy.-If. he-has 'the good fortune to land ori a square divestinthim of the necessary votes, he proceeds ,directli: to -start,_-• without stopping .at the White House,'_'and--withoufcollecting ten million dollars ·in campaign funds.-.If'he_ silcc~eds in attaining the hal­Jowed Pale Palac·e, he ~ins, or ioses, depending upon the impact of reality, -or,-fantasy, or power, or campaign 
funds (?n· the aforementioned accomplishment. 
--We· hope you enjoy your new electoral powers. We -also hope ·you have hetter luck with this game than the_ Jtation ·seems to be having with its version; remember, you can-replay :the game immediately, but the nation 
has to waitC'four. more ye-ars." 
.THE SCHOLASTIC 

McGovern 
For President 
For the People 

PARTY STORE · 
liquor . Beer & Wine Champagne Gourmet Foods 


if we. don't have it-we'll get it 
U.S. 31 South, Niles Mich. 
1 Block No. ot Ind. Line 683-9875 
Flowers speak for themselves and for you as well 


For Thanksgiving, send your love some flowers! 


Citizens for Hradema~ Cornm11tee, Jerome B Kearns, Chmn. 


fail HcC! Dskey -furms ,, Candid ate taos i't 
vacf.-Ree_ub l,cans ~-McG d J 
'.LlnderDon )1cU>'lern gairi; 11 e!e~-dn +a ke:, fundJ, di scover5 #i8t +ora\ v0 t-es. McC[osk.ey Air For"ce One1 ~piro 1·5 a transvestife. lD-=es -seat t-o and oecre-"tary N1xon loses 4) electoral rno<lerat-e demCOctt. to Rio. 
votes. Ga in'=' Ga~ Lib Caucus. 

Hanoi bom55 
, 
LoS Ansele.s. Admiriistra-hon 
lose~ much face., Los An3e,\e.-s> ~ Z1e\ectoral vote$. 
f~~o 
PR1CE:.i:t'2.0D, 00D. 
MD RffiA&E VAWE: 
14elecrora.1 ve>f-es . 
Afl.-CI Dendrfsemwf. 
Confront:sfion 
wifh peace tndrtJ1 
Nixon lose5 
l1 e[ectoral votes;• McfxNem 3aif6 22. 
McGovern €ndorsecl by 503. loses Seleckrai 

~enry Kiss in3 
love triad bar, 
Adm ir1,strat?o1 
lo5e3 l7electoral v1 ~er)ry }o5es 2chi( 
'JJ11/Yl/JV5e :Pat:£ Slush -fund di:s-Cand idak: ga If you have 2..Jo c.ove.red. Go back laborfrd~ electoY'a l voTI:S> 3,space;. Do not G'eor:3e Me.art ou may en.1..o pass Go and DD aaff'G ttlDC> oo
'/ t'"r: NDT rol \ec-t f 2.00 . :.J r 



