Put the suit on...
PLATEAU SLACKS $20.00
Now you feel it...	Now you don’t!
5
RASMUSSEN
MEN'S SHOP
106-108 S. Main	130-132 W. Washington
The Scholastic '
Top Secret?
Editor:
For the past year or so I have been carrying on a correspondence with two A or three representatives of other universities to the NFCCS. They were not too surprised when I told them that the Notre Dame student body knows little or- nothing about the work of the NFCCS and that many do not even know what the organization is. They wrote of how the Notre Dame represen-• tatives are very nice fellows and that as far as the social ends of the conventions are concerned, they are right at the top.
However, they went on to say that the ND representatives do little, if anything at all, toward contributing toward the business aspect of the meetings. No constructive criticism, no comments, no ideas, no nothing!
I was very sorry to hear this for it seems far from the Notre Dame way of doing things. I confronted one of these representatives last Spring asking how I could join the organization a and I was told that all the Notre Dame students are members. I thought it very strange that we are all members and yet receive no reports as to the activities of the organization and many of us don’t even know of its existence.
I read in the latest issue of the Scholastic that one of these representatives has now been elected to the presidency of the Student Council. My big prayer is that he will realize the responsibility of such a job and carry out the business of the position and not consider it merely one of social prominence !
Name Withheld
A Rebuttal for "Smiley"
Editor:
I read with' much interest the “Roughly Speaking” column in last week’s Scholastic. My particular attention was brought to the fourteen odd lines dealing with “Smiley, the Happy Cop.” Indeed he is a rare specimen.
Smiley may like the world, all right, but I think he has it in for poor guys who live in a thriving metropolis and are not used to the Stop, Wait, Go, Walk system of traffic control.
Last year, just before the Christmas vacation started, I happened to be in greater South Bend on a slight shopping spree. My heart was naturally
A Oct. 7, 1949
newest idea in sport shirts!
Van Trix
Something really new ... really different in the sports world—Van Trix! The collar, cuffs and waist are knitted. . . but the shirt body is made of popular woven (not knitted) fabrics. Right for sports .. . for class ... or for those evening bull sessions.
In tcashdble Cotton suede, §3.65. Van Gab gabardine, §3.95. Rayon check, §5.95. Also... Vanaca wool Flannel, §6.95.
Van Hensens
' the world’s smartest” m 111 |
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK I, N. Y.
It’s Adlers for
Van Hensen
ON THE COUiEK MKMiUN K MfiMSIM
full of joy and good will for my fellow man. Then I met Smiley. I was hurrying for the bus along Michigan street and was just starting to cross Jefferson when the traffic light (if you’ll pardon the expression) turned to the Wait sign. In my haste I failed to notice this. (I wasn’t the only one.) I had just reached the other side of the street when an official, but polite voice said, . “Hey, Bud, can’t you see?” I pointed to my glasses, but he didn’t seem to like that.
Apologizing all the while, Smiley wrote out my ticket, and I missed my bus.
I finally figured it out, though. I guess he doesn’t believe in Christmas.
Name Withheld
P.S.: Please withhold my name, as I do not wish my police record to be publicized.
Tradition Debunked
Editor:
In last week’s editorial, you endorsed the glorious tradition that “no underclassman should traverse the hallowed stairs” of the Main Building.
I hate to be a wet blanket, but that’s
not a tradition. It’s a law that the University has made because it doesn’t like the main floor to be cluttered with people. Nobody in those offices could think when mobs passed through, going to classes. That’s why we are “requested” not to use that narrow staircase on the inside, too.
So keep on hallowing those glorious stairs — or you’ll get bounced right off ’em, according to tradition.
Jim Kingsley 328 Alumni
Scholastic reader (and writer) Kingsley is way off base on both counts. Webster says tradition is something passed down from the past. According to reliable sources, the matter of the main stairs harks back to the days of Father Sorin. Its origin has been lost but it is by no means a recent edict. That side stairway is restricted for faculty use.—Editor.
What's Goin? On?
Editor:
In the last edition of Scholastic I read the article on the election of a president by the Student Council at the second meeting of the semester. If I recall correctly, last semester Scho
lastic published a new constitution, which had been drawn up by a Student Council committee, in one issue, and subsequently an article telling of the defeat for adoption of this constitution by a vote of the remaining members of the council. Since that time nothing further has been published as to what actually happened afterwards. The student body never had a vote on the proposed constitution.
Evidently this year the residents of the individual halls are to have no part in the election of the council members, for the council is functioning without any elections. Is this the case and is it fair?
Edmond C. Tonti 159 Alumni Hall
For all the facts see the Council story on page 9. As for the ethics, you be the judge.—Editor.
'Life' to the Rescue
Editor:
I wonder if we realize the importance of the Fall of 1949? It features the occurrence of the third most noted contribution to Notre Dame’s progress during the one hundred and seven years of the University’s existence. The first (Continued on Page 33)
¥
BROWSERS ATTENTION!
The Browser’s Register is all set . . . come in and register for our weekly drawing. You may be a lucky Browser Winner. No purchase is necessary to win ... no box-tops to save . . . it’s simply our way of saying you’re ALWAYS welcome at Adler’s! Don’t forget to register each week. Make the Max Adler Co. your downtown headquarters.
WATCH THIS SPACE FOR BROWSER WINNER
Weekly Browser Winner will be announced in Adler’s Advertisement.
The Scholastic
9
THE WEEK
by flack McGoldrick »
Top of the Week
World Series — (it’s rumored that some scholars bet dollars.)
The WEEK pauses to salute the Dodgers and the Yankees. The Bums and the Bombers had few supporters here on the campus last week, when things looked black for them. But there was an ND-Yankee fan club with headquarters in 138 Dillon, where Jim Slattery, Jack Kelly, Don Grieve, and a lot of others crowded around Tom O’Neil’s short wave radio and listened to Mel Allen broadcast the games from New York. And down at the Stratigon-extension of the Ebbets Field bleachers, loyal Dodger fans Jim Heany, Bill Cullen, Roy Wendell, etc., drank imported (from Brooklyn) Schaefer’s beer, and morally-supported the Brooks in their chase after the Cardinals.
As we go to press, the WEEK picks the Dodgers in a seven-game series.
Bearskin Is a Eigmy
It looks as if the South Bend Tribune, responsible for bringing us such sterling features as Mary Haworth and Ella Cinders, has come up with another winner in a new Friday night column called Punts and Passes, written by “Bearskin.” Nobody seems to know who Bearskin is, but it appears that he crawls through an anonymous underground from an end zone seat in the stadium to the sports page of the Tribune. Here he holds forth with what the Trib calls a “. . . sharp native wit.” Last Friday, this pseudo-Pegler mentioned that several local high school elevens looked better than “his” Notre Dame team did against IU. (The rumor that Frank Leahy writes the column has been denied.)
Anyhow, Bearskin will ask to have the price of his season ticket cut in half, due to the poor showing put on for him in the opening game. The WEEK suggests that Bearskin be cut in half, and one half sent to School Field to watch the prep games, while the other half be allowed to write for his favorite high school paper, where he would be more in character.
If Bearskin is part of “our Hoosier Heritage,” let’s give Indiana back to the Indians. (Let’s give it back anyway.)
Liberal Education
One senior- (this is a true story) who is majoring in sociology, had a few elective hours for this semester, so he signed up for a harmless looking course known as “The Chinese: their history and culture”—(History 193 in the Arts and Letters bulletin). On the first day of class he walked into the assigned room in the Social Science building, and saw the prof, but no one else. Said the student, “heh, heh — guess I’m the only one who showed up.” Said the prof, “heh, heh — you’re the only one in the class.” Should be an interesting semester, Tom.
Browsing
We see where a local store got the jump on the rest of the nation’s clothiers with an ad that makes the famous Gilbert 30-60-90 days extended charge account look like a Notre Dame football ticket sale. As a special service to veterans who have not dropped their GI insurance, the store advertises that you
Learn to DANCE
GET THE BEST FOR LESS
It's
NORTHERN INDIANA'S LARGEST STUDIO
Congenial Dance Fiesta every Thursday Nite 9-11 pan. for pupils and guests. Meet new friends and have fan.
• Incomparable Low Rates
• Private Studios and Main Ballroom
• Friendly, Congenial Atmosphere,
• Personally Trained Staff
Fun... the GEORGE DAVIS WAY
Alice and George Davis
FREE
TRIAL LESSON
DIAL 3-8229
IOS W. MONBOE AT MICHIGAN
STUDIO HOURS 10 aan.-10 pm.
can buy a suit (or a cloak) now, and pay for it when your insurance dividend arrives!
To get in on this deal, all you have to do is hurry down and turn over your insurance policy (making their credit manager co-beneficiary). Of course, you’ll have to leave all your other clothes as security, and if you’re not a citizen, you must present a personal, certified letter from the Secretary of the U. S. Treasury.
Neo-technics
We understand that the Departments of History and Religion have a new IBM machine that will not only correct the departmental exams, but will think up the questions to be used on these tests. Some students who have taken these departmentals think that this should be an improvement over the old method.
Mail Call
Last week, freshman Egbert Bflskt wrote to his brother Joe, requesting money for books and stuff. Joe sent five bucks for books, but kept the stuff locked in the liquor cabinet.
Bottom of the Week
One hundred thirty-five yards worth of penalties in the Washington game.
Oct. 7, 1949
Entertainment
OCTOBER 7
COLFAX (through Oct. 12)—Father Was a Fullback (Legion of Decency Rating A-2). Fred MacMurray and Maureen O’Hara team up in this technicolor farce about college life. Its timeliness and gridiron scenes guarantee a laugh riot.
PALACE (through Oct. 13)—Home of the Brave (A-l) and Counterpunch. The feature is a hard-hitting story of Negro prejudice. It’s sincere and the story and exceptionally fine dialogue are way above the run-of-the-mill tripe. It should be seen.
OCTOBER 8
PURDUE GAME—Those who are planning to head south will find the roads clogged with fellow hitch-hikers while the stay-at-homes stay glued to their radios, turning the campus into ghost town.
VICTORY DANCE—For the third Saturday night in a row the Drill Hall will be packed with NDers and their dates. Gene Hull and his fine orchestra will again be on the podium.
—'5
WASHINGTON HALL—Return of October. Glenn Ford and newcomer Terry Moore star. It’s a technicolor fantasy about a reincarnated talking horse and silly as blazes. If those who were unfortunate enough to see last Saturday night’s flicker at Washington Hall think that was bad you haven’t seen anything until you see this one. It really scrapes the barrel.
OCTOBER 9
GRANADA (through Oct. 12) —Slattery’s Hurricane (A-2) and The Fan (A-2). Tough-boy Richard Widmark isn’t up to the mark he established as Tony Udo in Kiss of Death but manages to snarl convincingly enough through this story of the Navy’s work in charting hurricanes. Linda Darnell and Veronica Lake support Widmark. Jeanne Crain, Madelaine Carroll and George Sanders do pedestrian justice to a tepid picturization of Oscar Wilde’s comedy.
STATE (through Oct. 12)—Mr. Ace and Bachelor’s Daughters. (Reissues) George Raft and Sylvia Sidney costal- in the feature while Ginger Rogers and David Niven emote in the second pic. Their film is better, by far. It’s a light comedy with some hilarious situations involved.
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
SHUTTERBUGS
Sport scenes offer many action situations, you can’t miss with our proper equipment and professional advice.
—- Special .......
NOTRE DAME
SCHOOL ALBUM
in Blue and Gold
$3.25
AULT CAMERA SHOP (Inc.)
122 S. Main Phone 3-5041
OCTOBER 12
NAVY DRILL HALL — The University Concert and Lecture Series opens its year with Christopher Lynch, the well-known Irish tenor. Student tickets will be sold in the Dining Hall only. The fee is $1. All true sons of Eire should appreciate this bill, in particular.
OCTOBER 14
COLFAX (through Oct. 20)—Task Force (A-l). Warner Brothers tee off the new war pic trend with this saga of the history of the aircraft carrier. Gary Cooper stars with Jane Wyatt and Walter Brennan (who turns in an excellent characterization of an Admiral) supporting him. The film is half document and half fiction. The former ingredients are bettei- than the latter, but as a whole, the film shapes up as first rate.
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Come in and visit with us. We carry the finest assortment of all nationally known makes of watches and fine gift items. We maintain an efficient watch and jewelry repair department that is famous for high quality workmanship.

111 South Michigan Street
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91
October 7, 1949
No. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI______Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA__________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT.Sports WILLIAM RILEY________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN_______Photography
LEON GARDNER_____________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER________Advertising
£ LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising
EDWARD FOLEY Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE___________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_______Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Two years ago this Fall a tragic accident on the Dixie highway claimed two students’ lives; one from Notre Dame, the other from St. Mary’s. An exemplary campaign, attempting to get protection at the dangerous crossing, was waged at the time. But the words fell on deaf ears.
From the Editor's Desk..
Who's Gonna Work 'Em?
The crowd from the Victory Dance was streaming along the lake road, headed for St. Mary’s. The team had romped over Iowa in the afternoon and the celebrants were all in a happy mood. As they reached the Dixie highway it was every man for himself. A fellow would look both ways, grab his date’s arm and run. It was almost like a game—a dangerous one.
A horrible screeching of brakes cut the laughing crowd to silence. A car plowed into a group like a knife. Joe Hailer and Marie Despres were killed. Several others were injured seriously.
The hue and cry was taken up. Campaigns, conducted by campus organizations, the Administration and the-Scholastic all demanded an immediate remedy for the hazardous situation. Petitions, letters and delegations descended upon South Bend officials. Their efforts were in vain.
Busses were introduced to take the Victorv Dance throngs back and forth and an occasional red flare bearing policeman was assigned to the beat. Nothing was provided, however, for those who visited St. Mary’s on Sunday afternoons or on date nights. This condition lasted for two years.
Then, a week and a half ago, two manually operated lights were installed. At long last you can traverse the accident-ridden highway safely. Despite the fact that it took so long for this problem to be solved, the Scholastic commends those who were responsible for remedying it.
Our complete satisfaction, however, will be withheld until arrangements have been made to guarantee a constant attendant. Students are not yet allowed to operate the light. It will work only under supervision. This, to our mind, is wrong. Some stray dater might go across the highway alone some afternoon. Why shouldn’t he be safeguarded then as well as when in a large group? It doesn’t make sense to us and we’ll hold back our full quota of acknowledgements until someone takes care of it.
A week and a half ago, however, two manually operated lights were con-structed across the highway. The four-~ some on this week’s Scholastic cover are shown navigating the speedway, knowing that they are at last safe in doing so.
Although we can’t understand why it took two years in which to put up these lights, we would, nonetheless, like to congratulate whoever was responsible for their completion. It’s a shame the job couldn’t have been done in ’47 . . . —Photo by Murphy.
• Oct. 7, 1949
Month of the Holy Rosary
October is Our Lady’s month. Here at her college that’s not merely a quotation from a religious calendar but rather a tradition that has been passed down through the years. The same is true of the Rosary; the most beautiful and soul-satisfying means by which to talk with Her.
The beads of prayer gain even greater spiritual light by the fact that it was our Blessed Mother who personally instructed us in its use. Some look upon the recitation of the Rosary as a chore rather than a privilege. Most students, however, realize the joy and contentment it can bring and say it frequently.
When one graduates from college he often finds the time limited in which he formerly spent praying to Our Lady. If for no other reason than that, we should take advantage of the opportunities presented to us now—especially during this month of October. As much as our own mothers like to receive word from us, Our Lady waits for us to call upon her. The Rosary is our highest means of corresponding. Say it now; frequently, and forever.
7
MORE DATES
MORE FUN
GET SET
Now
For a limited time only ... SPECIAL LOW RATES TO STUDENTS
MORE COMPLIMENTS
FOR A GAY AND POPULAR SCHOOL YEAR
It’s fun to be popular, and it’s so easy too. Just put yourself in the hands of an Arthur Murray expert. You’ll be amazed how quickly you’ll be dancing a smooth Foxtrot, Jitterbug, Waltz—even the Latin dances . . . Rumba, Tango, Samba. The secret as to why you learn so fast is in Arthur Murray’s new discovery—“The First Step to Popularity.” Anyone can learn it, even if you have never danced before.
So stop letting good times pass you by. Be prepared for the coming dances and parties. Why sit and watch others when you can be dancing yourself?
STOP WISHING/
PHONE
2-3339
AND
CLUB DANCE
EVERY SATURDAY NITE for Pupils and Guests. Starts 8:10 p. m.
NO CHARGE
START DANCING/
Send for Arthur Murray’s new magazine —“Murray-Go-Round” . . . 25c
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
PHONE 3-3339
S
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 3
OCTOBER 7, 1949
Student Council Gets New Constitution
New Stop Lights Aid e Student Pedestrians
By VIC DORR
Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College were breathing easier this week. Their lives were no longer quite so much in danger from the menacing traffic on Homicide Highway (US No. 31 on all road maps). The State Highway Department of Indiana had come across and two bright new traffic stop lights now grace the dangerous crossing between the two schools.
Although student pedestrian protection of this sort has been needed for many years, the new lights were erected after increased agitation from both schools following the fatal traffic accident at the crossing on the night of Oct. 25, 1947. At that time Joseph Hailer of Notre Dame and Marie Despres of St. Mary’s were killed by a speeding auto. Two other’ students were injured in the tragedy.
Solution Long Sought
Since then, ND-St. Mary’s officials have sought some sort of solution for the threat. First “Slow — pedestrians crossing” signs were erected for the north-southbound traffic. Then, a pair (Continued on Page 32)
ENROLLMENT TOTALS
There are officially 4.937 students enrolled in Notre Dame this Fall semester. This was announced during the week by Rev. Louis J. Thornton. C.S.C.. registrar.
Father Thornton said that of the total enrollment 4.512 are enrolled in undergraduate courses, while 425 are enrolled in the Graduate School. A total of 175 priests and brothers are included in this year's tally.
By JACK POWERS
Operating under a new constitution designed to streamline its makeup and procedures, the Student Council got undei- way in earnest last Monday with the announcement by President Bill Kirchner of the revocation of all club charters. The order affects all campus clubs, geographical, technical, or otherwise, and all previously-existing organization charters.
Kirchner explained that the order was issued to aid the Council in compiling accurate records of the many campus organizations. Each club will fill out a request for a new charter, submit an acceptable constitution, and receive a new Student Council charter. “If the matter is attended to immediately,” the Council chief pointed out, “There need be no postponement or delay of any planned activity.”
Form Supplies Data
To secure the application form, the club president, or an authorized representative, must report to the office of the Student Council at Room 122 of the Main Building, on Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. The form will supply the Council with all pertinent data concerning the particular organization. The Council will accept applications for new clubs at the same time.
The Student Council, which has the power to make such regulations concerning campus activities, is itself functioning under a new constitution. The present Council document is a revision of the one drawn up last spring. It added a Preamble, provisions for a Moderator, a provision for filling vacancies, a two-hour limit on regular meetings, and made any member of the Council eligible for the presidency. Previously, only a senior could be nominated.
The original Constitution was scrapped by the Council last year chief
ly to reorganize the membership. Under the old plan, the Council was composed mainly of representatives from each hall. This was the source of constant debate as it led to endless discussion on almost every measure. With the new plan, the Council hopes to comprise a better organized group, capable of getting its work done with a minimum of debate. (See page 19 for a copy of the Constitution).
Old Constitution Scrapped
At the same time, the makeup of the reorganized body still provides fair and equal representation of the student body. The new Council is composed of the president and vice-president of each class, the chairman of the Blue Circle, and four representatives-at-large, one a member of the Law School, and three seniors, one of these being an off-campus student. The Moderator is the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs, the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C.
Committee Heads Announced
President Bill Kirchner also announced the standing committee heads and the delegates to the National Federation of Catholic College Students at last Monday’s meeting. The Service Committee will be headed by Mike Jacobs and Ed Farrell, chairman and vice-chairman, respectively. Others include: Social Committee, Verne Kelley and Ray Yanics; Publicity Committee, Dick Cullen and Norman Kopec; Audit Committee, Russ Skall and Jack Thornton; and the Religious, Education and Athletic Committee, Frank Regan and Dick Clancy.
N.F.C.C.S. delegates will attend their first meeting in Chicago this Sunday-They include: Jim Garvin, senior delegate; Ed Farrell, junior delegate; Bill Kirchner, junior alternate, and Art Frericks, senior alternate.
9
” Oct. 7, 1949
Irish Tenor to Give Wednesday Concert
The Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series will present Christopher Lynch, the noted Irish tenor, in a concert to be held in the Navy Drill hall Wednesday, Oct. 12.
The celebrated tenor from Rathkeale, Ireland, and star of the “Voice of Firestone” radio program, will present a selection of Irish songs, along with operatic and other selections.
The concert will begin at 8:15 p.m. and tickets will be available to all Notre Dame students and faculty members in the Notre Dame Dining Hall. Price of the tickets are $1 for ND students, $1.25 for faculty members, and $1.50 for general admission. In order to secure tickets, students must present their ID cards.
Tickets, which went on sale Monday, are purchasable only in the Dining Hall. They will not be sold at the door. Mr. Lynch’s program will be as follows:
I
Sri >nia gioia, from “Pardienope”............Handel
(Be thou my joy)
Alina mia. from “Floridante” ............_...HandeI
(My dearest)
Irish Songs ....................... arr. Beethoven
Morning a Cruel Turmoiler Is
Once More I Hail Thee The Pulse of an Irishman “Then You’ll Remember Me.” from “The
Bohemian Girl” ..........................   Balfe
II
Lamcnto di Federico, from "L’Arlesiana’’________Cilea .Marechiarc ________________________________________....Tosti
Ninna Nanna (Lullaby) .....................Garguilo
La Danza ---------------------------------- Rossini
III
Irish Folk Songs
Eamonn an Cnuic (Ned of the Hills)....Traditional In the Garden Where the Praties Grow____________ ------------------------------------------------- arr. Liddle
My Lagen Love __________________________ arr. Harty
The Palatine’s Daughter  arr. Hughes
Intermission
IV
En Bargue _____Pierne Aria: Porquoi me reveiller, from “Werther”....
--------------------------------------- Massenet
V
The Fiddler of Dooney _______________________Loeffler
O Cease thy Singing. Maiden Fair________Rachmaninoff Sing a Song of Sixpence ________________Malotte
Blow me Eyes ________________________________Malotte
VETVH.LE SQUARE DANCE
The ever active council of Vetville has scheduled a 'square dance* in the Vet Rec Hall tomorrow evening. October 8. The price of admission will be twenty-five cents per couple. All married students, including those living down town, are invited.
Future activities planned by the married students include bridge parties every other Friday night, 'potluck* dinners, and a Thanksgiving dinner.
Irish Spirit, Friendliness Get Top Rating As Students Tell 'ND Things Liked Best'
Covering the campus like a rumor of free cigarettes at the Huddle, Scholastic reporters brought in a sample of student opinion on the question: “What do you like most about Notre Dame?”
When the results were tabulated in the Scholastic newsroom it was found that the spirit and the friendliness at Notre Dame were the most popular.
Typical of comment noted was that of Jack Harrington of Boston, Mass., and 106 Morrissey who said: “The thing I like about Notre Dame is the bond between us; maybe it isn’t always noticeable but it’s there. A Notre Dame man will help another in real need. From a frosh to an alumnus.
A Chicago man, Bill Beauchamp, of 423 B-P, was more succinct. He said: “The spirit around here. It’s all over the place.” Hal Engelbaugh of St. Ed’s put it another way, saying: “I like the good spirit among the freshmen to the seniors.” The very idea of being at Notre Dame makes Joseph Merchak of Fairport Harbor, Ohio, feel good. And a Winnetka, Ill., freshman, Bob Feit, especially appreciates “The spirit of the school towards the frosh.”
Boys From South
A man with a spirt of his own is Rebel Maurice Maloof of Copperhill, Tenn., who likes “the boys from the South.” Another Southerner offered his opinion: “I like best the fact that there is no hazing or social level among the students. The absence of the ‘false front’ fraternities pleases me greatly,” says John Baker of Sorin Hall.
Steve Fricano, of Staten Island, N. Y., agreed, saying: “I like the absence of fraternities — no small cliques — which results in everybody working together.” Similarly, Bob Sincavich of 39 Sorin remarked that “the Irish, poor, Protestant, or young, little class distinction exists. Your roommate may be the son of a senator or a coal miner. It is probably due to the feeling of equality in the eyes of Our Lady.”
In addition to the equality among the students, Bud Powers of Richmond, Va., likes the religious atmosphere. Jose Gonzalez expanded on the same theme. His comment was that at Notre Dame the best thing is the “wonderful opportunity which a man has to combine the learning of a profession with the daily practice of his faith.”
A Vote for ND Spirit
. . the ‘Fighting Irish’ spirit famous throughout the country, not the glory of our football team, but the general spirituality as applied to every phase of a
student’s life. Many schools have spirit, only Notre Dame is dedicated to Our Lady.” That’s what Donald Zehnder of 220 Walsh likes best about Notre Dame. Frank Spinelli of Astoria, Long Island, echoed the idea: “I like the spirit of Notre Dame. We all sense it yet it escapes description. It is due, I believe, to the religious bond we share and manifest on campus together.”
Jean Paul Massicotte, of Howard Hall and Quebec, Canada turns to the sports field for his vote. “I like tennis,” he says, “they have pretty good courts here.” Spence Daly, of Bronxville, New York, thought he liked the golf course best of all.
Frosh Likes Fire Department
Using his head, a Chicago freshman, J. A. Crowley, had this to say: “I like the fire department, I live in St. Eds.” An off-campus student, Pat Dougherty, of Mishawaka cast his favor for- “the teaching attitudes. They are doing well to carry out the initial aims on which the University was founded, stressing both technical ability and moral guidance.”
But Jack Burns, of Zahm Hall and Kalamazoo, Mich., waxing poetic, summed up all his feelings about Notre Dame in a bit of lyric verse:
“I like some classes; I like some profs.
Mr. Kiley, from Boston, brings many laughs.
I like the spirit and I like the Dome, But I love the weekends when I go home.”
Ten O'Clock Rosary Resumed Over WND a
Campus station WND, Notre Dame’s “student voice,” resumed the Family Rosary last Monday night. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, leads the devotion which is broadcast every evening except Saturday at 10 p.m.
Topping a list of new WND shows this year is “Your Musical Personality,” which features the prominent popular artists of the day. Another new program is a ten-minute capsule jazz ses-sion, designed to present the best in “Dixieland” to jazz lovers. The Philadelphia restaurant is sponsoring a new show entitled “Philadelphia Platter Time.”
The Family Rosary was an idea conceived and inaugurated last year by Father Cavanaugh. It was very well received by the students and many halls set up radios in the chapels to permit students to join the recitation in a body.
10
The Scholastic %
Denissoff Impressed By ND Grid Contest
Professor Elie Denissoff of the Department of Philosophy had an experience that for most of us was nothing unusual; he witnessed the Notre Dame-Indiana game. But the professor viewed the contest from a different viewpoint than did the typical ND fan. The game was the second he had ever witnessed, the other being the 28-27 win over Purdue last season. a
Professor Denissoff taught philosophy until a year and a half ago at one of Europe’s leading Catholic universities,’ the University of Louvain in Belgium. Then, since he had travelled extensively but never crossed the Atlantic, he decided he’d like “a little bit of experience in America.”
At the game the professor admits his chief source of information on what plays were being run by whom and for what were his “neighbors.” But lack of knowledge of the game in no way hampered his enthusiasm. One particular aspect that interested him was the contrast between the European and American attitude on such a sporting event.
In Europe the professor had never witnessed such a huge crowd jammed into a stadium cheering their respective favorites on. He said, “It is totally impressive to see a group of so finely trained 'Catholic boys playing with such a wonderful spirit, an activity so much better for the health and character than lounging and drinking in the pubs and cafes as is done by so many students in Europe.”—Roger Vorce
Generation Club Meets
A smoker held in the Army-Navy Center in downtown South Bend Oct. 5, was the first social event of the year for the Generation Club.
All men whose father or grandfather graduated from or attended the University are eligible for membership in the organization and are urged to join.
Dayton Club* Convenes
The Dayton Club held its first meeting of the <semester last week: several new members were admitted to the organization. They immediately went to work, and planned a dinner party for Oct. 12. A communion breakfast was tentatively planned. Other activities were discussed.
The officers who will serve for the coming year are: President, Lou Haley; Vice-president, John Whalen; Secretary, Frank McBride; and Treasurer, Joe Nemeth.
® Oct. 7, 1949
Notre Dame's new Student Council officers are, L to R.: Russ Skall, treasurer, Bill Kirchner, president, Dave Mathews, vice-president, and Bill Anhut, secretary.
NFCCS Sets Program To Assist Foreigners
Fund-raising to aid foreign students, help for DP students, and a travel program to Europe are on the 1949-50 agenda of the newly-formed Overseas Service Program of the National Federation of Catholic College Students. The OSP absorbs the Student Relief Campaign program, in which Notre Dame led all other schools in contributions for the last two school years.
The first phase of the OSP, fund-raising, will consist of raising contributions for school buildings, student hospitals, books of all types, mimeograph machines, etc., and some scholarships. Food and shelter, if possible, will also be supplied to needy foreign students.
DP students in this country as well as overseas will receive aid from the OSP in many ways. If scholarships cannot be provided, the DP students will be helped in their search for lodging and jobs. There are no DP’s at Notre Dame at the present time.
Travel Programs in Europe next Summer, of an essentially spiritual nature, comprise the third phase of the OSP. There will be three types of tours, each lasting a specified number of days and at a comparatively low cost to the student. One will allow the students to study at either Freibourg or Louvain. A second will attend the Pax
Romana World Congress in Holland, and a third will travel directly to Rome. All these tours will end together in Rome on September 5 to have a special audience with the Holy Father.
The fund-raising phase of the OSP here at .Notre Dame is still very much in the planning stage, according to Bill Kirchner, president of the Student Council and vice-president of the Chicago chapter of NFCCS. An OSP chairman and two delegates to the NFCCS are yet to be named, and any fundraising plans must first be approved by the University authorities.
—Ray Doherty
Many Students Answer Call For Adoration in October
As the October devotions to the Blessed Sacrament move into the fifth day, it is apparent that the Liturgy Club’s efforts to solicit students for adoration have been successful. A large numbei- has turned out already.
Similarly, YCS, the campus Catholic Action group, will conduct First Friday adorations and the Christmas novena for parents. The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus plan to supervise Lenten devotions.
Of these devotions Reverend Richard Grimm, C.S.C., prefect of religion, said, “We hope that the students will respond generously, for it’s up to them to make it a success.”
11
Acting Veterans Land Leads in 'Dark' Show;
Hanley Primes Cast for Nov. 1 Opening Night
Professor Frank J. Hanley, director of the University Theater’s Fall production Whistling in the Dark, had his hands full this week as he attempted to name a cast from some fifty aspiring actors and actresses. But after several thorough tryout auditions he came up with thirteen names — ten ND students and three Vetville wives — to play the principal roles.
Practice sessions will begin before the week is out, according to William J. Eisen, director of the Theater. And this comedy-type mystery melodrama by Laurence Gross and Edward Childs Carpenter will open in Washington Hall on Nov. 1, to run four straight nights.
McAteer in Lead
Pat McAteer, a veteran of such Theater productions as The Milky Way and the three one-act plays last season, has been selected to play Wallace Porter, diminutive crime novelist and hero of Whistling in the Dark. Opposite him will be Jo Ann Smith, a pert, attractive little blonde, who will play Toby Van Buren, Porter’s fiancee in the story.
Eleanor Thompson will be Rosa, a Portuguese woman who doesn’t have much to say. Slim Scanlan, a nervous, fairly intelligent and thoroughly unpleasant gangster, will bs played by Larry McDermott. Lou Garippo, another veteran of former Theater productions, will enact the role of Joe Salvatore, a reliable, though dull-witted Italian. Jake Dillon, otherwise known as “The Boss,” an elderly, officious type of crook, will be played by Jack Powell, the third member of the cast with previous experience in University Theater. Leo Blaber, who will be Cap O’Rorke, and Jim Maher, in the role of Benny, another thug, are the only other players with experience in campus productions.
Connell to Play Lefkowitz
Mickey Connell will play Herman Lef-kowitz, a dapper Jew; Charlie Shaw, a thin sinister gangster, falls to Otis Jordan, and the Cossack, a chauffeur, will be played by Neil O’Reagan. The Police Sergeant will be Walter Sterner, and the Operator will be Rosemary Donnelly. Several policemen, all minor parts, will be selected from a group of seven students: Alan Fitzgibbon, Alford Wood, Stephen Berry, Dan Caulfield, James Sullivan, James Kelly and Frank Walker.
James Beymer, who assisted in the production of University Theater per
12
formances during the past season, will be stage manager for Whistling in the Dark.
The play itself is a comedy w^th plenty of thrills, laughs and a smattering of suspense attached to it. Mostly it is about a popular writer of “crime” novels who, while house-hunting, becomes entangled in a nest of notorious criminals. The plot is clever and entertaining, and the production received much acclaim from critics when it was a Broadway hit in 1932-’33.
Pennsylvania RR Set For Student Trippers
Because of the necessary early sale of student trip tickets, Bill Kirchner, Student Council prexy, reports that arrangements for the all-important weekend are near completion. Contrary to the general opinion around the campus that the trip will be made via the N.Y. Central Railroad, the Pennsylvania Railroad will serve as the official transportation medium.
Both railroads offered approximately the same rate, but, since the trip to New York was made on the New York Central on the last three occasions, the Pennsy was chosen. Special busses will take the students from the circle to the Pennsylvania R.R. Station, on South Main Street, where they wall board the train at approximately 3 o’clock Friday, Nov. 11.
An effort is being made to have box lunches made up here and distributed to the students before they depart. A diner, however, will be on the train.
When the train arrives at the Penn Station at 7:30 Saturday morning, the travelers will attend Mass in a body at a church yet to be selected. After Mass everybody will be on their own until 5 o’clock Sunday evening when the train will leave the big city.
Most of the students will stay at the Embassy Hotel, while some others will spend the night at another hotel which has not been disclosed at this time.
Students making the trip should be glad to heai* that they will sit in the section of Yankee Stadium that was occupied by the Cadets at the last Army-Notre Dame game. The train ride should be most enjoyable, too, for the railroad has promised that the special train will be made up of deluxe reclining chair coaches.
Fund Hits $400,000 For Science Building
The new Science Building Fund received a shot in the arm this week when 1949 contributions to the University of Notre Dame exceeded the $400,000 mark and nearly doubled the amount received up to this date in 1948.
Early this week the thermometer on the Science Building Fund graph rose over the $400,000 level and now registers the total of $401,333.
The significance of this figure becomes more noteworthy when compared with contributions received during the similar period of 1948. From Jan. 1 to Oct. 1 of last year ND alumni contributed $154,145. Up to date this year the alumni have increased that amount by a third for a total of $205,522.
Increases Reflect Effort
The efforts of the Notre Dame Foundation, which is conducting the Science Building drive as a part of the University’s long range building program, are shown by the increase in gifts to the University from non-alumni friends. This group has been made aware of Notre Dame’s need of funds to offset its lack of extensive endowments by the Foundation’s publicity program and by alumni groups throughout the country. The group includes the parents of present students. In the first nine months of 1948 they donated $62,376. Through the efforts of the Foundation and alumni this amount has risen 214 per cent to date in 1949 for a total of $195,810.
Part of Sum Restricted
The sum of the contributions of these „ two groups, the alumni and the friends <1 of the University, gives the $401,333 total. The use of part of this sum is restricted by donors who ask that their contributions be used for specific purposes, but the remainder is added to the Science Building Fund.
ND’s Science Building is now $400,000 . closer to reality but the amount of contributions between now and next June •will determine when the first ground will be broken for the new building.	1
EUCHARISTIC HOUR
South Bend's annual Eucharistic Hour will be held Sunday afternoon in School Field stadium on South Eddy Street. Notre Dame students are welcomed to join the Catholics of South Bend and Mishawaka in this public devotion.
The Scholastic
Owner of Two Human Heads in Morrissey Is Willing to Part With Them for a Price
This didn’t sound right to me, so I waited. When it was dark I left. The dew had made my press card soggy and my ears were a little Gableish from
By JOHN H.
How would you like to buy a pair of human heads? That’s right, two human heads. If you are in the market for such a commodity, Henry E. Vor-beck, 400 Morrissey Hall, has two for sale.
Henry, whose home is in Quito, Ecuador, is the proud (sic) possessor of two authentic South American shrunken heads. His explorer uncle originally obtained them from a Jivaro tribesman several years ago. The Jivaro aborigines live in the Ecuadorian jungle about 300 miles southeast of Quito. When Henry was ready to sail for Notre Dame his uncle generously bequeathed the heads to him hoping that Henry’s friends in the U.S. would find them interesting.
Last week Henry placed an ad in the South Bend Tribune’s classified section which read:
“COLLECTOR’S ITEM. Two authentic South American human shrunken heads for sale. Unique opportunity. Write Box 632, Tribune.”
'Needed the Dough*
Upon investigation Henry was found and was asked why he wanted to sell the gruesome noggins. He replied calmly, “I need the dough.”
Taking a paper sack from his locker, Henry proceeded to pull out the two heads. There was no mistaking the five-inch by three and one-half inch trinkets. They were human heads, with lips and eyelids crudely sewn together and brown colored with age. Each head was adorned with red native beads and one of the “fellas,” as Henry calls them, has a “crew cut.”
The story of head hunting and shrinking is very fascinating to the uninitiated. Whenever a member of a foreign tribe insults a Jivaro, the offense is quickly reported to the Jivaro chief. The chief’s job is then to hunt up a member of the offending tribe, kill him, preferably with a poisoned dart, and then lop off his head.
How Heads Are Shrunken
In his village the chief proceeds to take the “innards” out of the head, leaving a sack of flesh. The flesh is sewn together except for an opening at the neck. Hot stones are then placed in the flesh bag to cleanse it. After the hot stones, the head is immersed in boiling water. When it is removed from the water, hot sand is placed inside to dry
JANOWSKI
out the face oils. The final touch is added by stuffing the “sack” with herbs, paper, etc., to reform the human image.
The native chief keeps the head in his hut as a symbol of his skill and power. The more heads a chief has, the greater is his renown. You see, “it pays to get a-head.”
If you are planning to purchase one of these heads, Henry has revealed the price, $75 apiece. It’s an opportunity that is truly “unique.”
Writer Misses Story On Buzz-buzz Men
A week or so ago one of the editors pointed his pudgy paw at me and said, “Hey you, you ■with the thick glasses. You look like a fly-boy. Rush over by the Stadium and find out what all that buzz-buzz-buzz is.”
I rushed over. But no buzz-buzz-buzz. I went back to the editor for more directions. He wasn’t at all sympathetic. “Get out and get the story,” he said.
So I went back. But still no buzzbuzz-buzz. I asked some of the fellows playing football if they knew about the buzz-buzz-buzz. They said they did; but, like all of Zuppke’s plays, it’s too complicated for an interhall team to use.
Here Are the Men "Scholastic Writer" Jim Carrol Failed to Find
listening. But still no buzz-buzz-buzz.
Then all of a sudden I thought of something. This was just a gag. They always send a new reporter out on a wild goose chase. Gee, I thought, it’s a good thing they didn’t send me to check on water cress cultivation in Badin Bog.
Things looked much brighter now. When I reported to the editor on deadline day I was quite jovial. “Well, you old horse thief,” I said, thumping him freely on the back, “you thought you had me fooled, didn’t you? Well, I’m not as dumb as you thought. Send somebody else out on that buzz-buzz-buzz business and gimme something really big to work on.”
“You numbskull!” he bellowed. “I’ll give you something big to work on!”
I’ve been cleaning typewriters down here in the Scholastic office ever since. Things aren’t quite clear to me yet. I did see a photo of some fellows with model airplanes. From what I’ve heard, that must be the buzz-buzz-buzz.
Maybe someday I’ll get the story. I’m still trying. I think I’ll transfer into Aero engineei-ing next year. Then I’ll build my own model airplane. I’ll take it out by the Stadium and fly it every afternoon.
But, gosh, there’s no sense in getting my hopes up. The way things happen to me, I wouldn’t get buzz-buzz-buzz from my own plane. And who’d want a story on slclp-plitc-schlunk?
—James P. Carroll
Oct. 7, 1949
13
500 Frosh Attend Picnic, End Orientation Program
The Blue Circle brought their freshman orientation program to a highly successful close with the Freshman Picnic, held last Saturday at Potawat-tami Park. Jack Thornton, president of the senior class, was chairman of the event.
About 500 Notre Dame freshmen and several hundred girls attended the picnic. The girls represented St. Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s Academy, South
Bend Catholic High School, and the Nurses’ Home.
Starting early in the afternoon, activities included softball, football, trips around the zoo, and the football games on the radio. Evening found everybody ready for the fine picnic supper provided by the foods committee under the direction of Art Frericks.
After supper everybody crowded around the campfire for the entertain
ment which featured Bill Sahm’s quartet and song parodies by a group of St. Mary’s freshmen, led by Marge Russ. The evening’s entertainment concluded with dancing on the pavilion.
Thornton was assisted in planning the picnic by ticket chairman Jack Powell, transportation chairman Tom Carroll, food chairman Frericks, Ed Noonan in charge of recreational equipment, and other Blue Circle members.—Bob Finney
Group Rosary Reciting Increases at Notre Dame
Group recitation of the Rosary by the students is on the upswing. In addition to Rosary devotions daily at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church, groups are being formed to say the Rosary together each evening in the hall chapels.
Reverend Edmund Murray, C.S.C., assistant prefect of Religion, makes the following suggestions to the students:
1	.) Spend one-half hour each week in adoration of The Blessed Sacrament;
2	.) Attend Rosary devotions daily;
3	.) Always carry a rosary.
To emphasize the need fcx- devotion to the Rosary, Father Murray cites the apparition of Christ to a young woman at Heede, Germany, in 1946. Between 1937 and 1940, the Blessed Virgin had appeared to four little girls at Heede, repeating what she had said at Fatima, “Pray and make sacrifices.”
When Christ Himself appeared to one of the girls three years ago, He said, “Men did not listen to My Most Holy Mother when she appeared to them at Fatima and admonished them to do penance. Now I Myself am coming at the
14
last hour to warn and admonish mankind.”
Oui- Lord went on to stress the power of prayer, particularly of the Rosary, and continued, “Tremendous things are in preparation. It will be terrible as never since the foundation of the world . . . I will come soon!”
“The messages at Fatima and Heede aren’t mere apparitions,” warns Father Murray; “they are ultimatums.”—Don Carbone
Kimberly-Clark Fellowship Awarded to Jim Cunningham
The recently established Kimberly-Clark fellowship in Economics has been awarded to James Cunningham, of South Bend. The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, announced early this week that the fellowship, a donation of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation of Neenah, Wis., will enable Cunningham to carry on full-time research in preparation for his master’s thesis.
Cunningham graduated from Notre Dame in 1943 with a Ph.B. in business administration. According to the terms of the fellowship, he will receive a financial grant while pursuing his graduate
studies in Economics. His research, which will be carried on by personal interviews and surveys conducted in the South Bend area, will deal with “The Economic Condition of White-Collar Workers.”
This fellowship is the first to be established by the Kimberly-Clark Corporation other than subjects of interest primarily to the paper and pulp industry. It was established early this year.
Cunningham spent 31 months in the Navy after graduation from the College of Commerce and returned here to begin graduate work last September.
Pay Phones on Campus Listed With Numbers
Following up last week’s list of the hall phone numbers, the Scholastic offers the following list of the pay phones on campus:
Alumni Hall ________3-0378	St. Edward’s
(third floor)	3-0745	Hall	..........3-0354
Badin Hall ---------3-0831	Sorin Hall ________3-0519
3-0743	Walsh	Hall _____3-0707
Breen-Phillips	Zahm	Hall ____3-0356
Hall _______________3-0506	Cafeteria _________3-0750
Cavanaugh Hall....3-0466	3-0729
Dillon Hall ________3-0426	3-0785
Farley Hall --------3-0487	Law Building ______3-0732
Howard Hall _______3-0441	Recreation Hall ..3-0522
Lyons Hall _________3-0621	3-0475
Morrissey Hall	....3-0458	Main Building ....3-0308
3-0443
The Scholastic O
Zahm Hall Dwellers Buy Television Set
Last Saturday, when thousands of Notre Dame men hunched over radios, and hundreds of frosh clustered around portables in Potawatami Park, a hundred and fifty elite students from Zahm Hall sat in their private television room and not only heard, but watched the Irish crumble the Washington Huskies. The TV set, a 1950 Motorola, was purchased by the Zahm men themselves by means of donations.
Playing to crowds ranging from one to last Saturday’s one hundred and fifty, the new television set carries four channels from Chicago, WBKB, WNBQ, WENR-TV, and WGN-TV, and is the nightly haunt of Zahm’s theaterclientele.
There are no matinees, except on special occasions, but for two hours in the evening, television draws Zahm’s basement audience. The Rev. Charles Mc-Carragher, C.S.C., has a sellout for the World Series.—Joe Conlon
yCS Communion Breakfast Slated for Sunday Morning
Next Sunday, Oct. 9, the inaugural Communion breakfast of the year will be held by the combined colleges and freshmen groups of YCS following an eight o’clock Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel. Father Louis J. Putz, c.s.c., will be celebrant of the Mass and Jim Poat, president of YCS will serve as toastmaster at the breakfast which will be held in the Dining Hall.
YCS activities this fall have centered around talks by Jim Poat, vice-president Jim Kelleher, and Secretary Gene Myler to the sophomore, junior and senior members of YCS. The correlated talks explained the need of Catholic Action and how YCS fulfills that need. They were given successively for two —	weeks- tor the - Arts-.-and Letters group,
followed by the Commerce, Science and Engineering divisions.
Approximately fifty freshmen turned out for their initial meeting and Rev. Theodore F. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Jim Kelleher and Frank Zappala introduced to them the idea of YCS, and its place on the Notre Dame campus. Father Hesburgh spoke briefly on the dire need of Catholic leadership in the world today. The frosh, organized on a hall basis, will handle their own program and inquiry, and are at present studying the principles and activity of Catholic Action.
9
Newly-Arrived Priest From India Describes Poverty and Fear of Communism at Home
The Reverend Father Peter Vadach-ery, newly arrived from the seminary of Nagapur, India, knows a lot about the country from which he comes. He was educated at St. Adelbert’s College in Ernakulan in South India. He later joined the Apostolic Seminary there and fqr some years was the editor of a clergy monthly. During the eight years prior to his coming to Notre Dame Father Vadachery was a professor of philosophy at Nagapur.
“Communism,” says Father Vadachery, “is the greatest single threat to the peace and well being of the Indian people today. The division of Pakistan
Father Vadachery
and India between the Hindus and the Moslems has finally been peacefully completed. Given a trial period and as much help as possible I believe that the present Indian government under Nehru can bring India up from poverty.
Mechanized Fanning Is Key
“Mechanized farming is the key to the problem of India’s poverty. India is rich in undeveloped farm land and in other natural resources. Though the population is very large the land has never been fully developed because the average Indian has never had the tools or the finances to develop more than a very small plot of ground. With a bullock and a wooden plow it is very hard for a man to plow as much as an acre a day — with tractors and irrigation there is easily enough potentially arable land in India. to feed all of the five million people.
“If the present Indian government can make good its promises to the
people and can bring about economic recovery, then that government should easily survive. If the government does not get enough help from the outside, cannot mechanize the agricultural system, then the Communists will undoubtedly gain in strength and take over in the wake of the continued poverty. Already there is one very flagrant Communist paper in Bombay and much evidence that the communists are persistently boring from within — awaiting their chance if the people become discontented.”
Family Was Converted
Fathei- Vadachery belongs to a family long ago converted from Hindujsm. According to an old tradition the Apostle St. Thomas once came to India and converted a large number of pagans to Christianity. Father Vadachery believes that his ancestors were among these. At any rate his family has been Christian as far back as any known records can tell. “In Sanscrit,” says Father Vadachery, “the name Vadachery means a religious place. Literally it means ‘fig tree,’ which symbolizes a religious temple to the Hindu. This is derived from the fact that you will always find a fig tree planted in the middle of every Hindu temple. The fig tree gives excellent shade. In India the worshippers need the shade very badly. With this connection I presume that at one time my family was Hindu.
“In India there was once a great deal of religious controversy. There were and are eighteen different Catholic rites among the people. At first the nonLatin sects were denounced as heretical and the Jesuits were sent to try to convert them. The Jesuits caused so much trouble that they were recalled and the Cannelites were sent over in their place. Although there was no further serious trouble the sects were eventually Papally approved without further attempts at reformation.”
Father Vadachery is very much impressed with the wealth of America. “The Hindus are very wrong in at least one thing,” says Father. “They have always believed that poverty was necessary to make a man achieve the maximum of holiness. They have believed in complete denial of the world if possible. Here in America I think that I have seen the final evidence that they are wrong. A reasonable amount of worldly comfort for all is as necessary to the full man as is a reasonable amount of asceticism.”—A. J. Scriba
Oct. 7, 1949
15
The new series of flora and fauna —
IV: The Slide Trombone
By GERRY BOLGER
I wonder how many concert-goers stop to think that most of the noise they pay to hear is being made by Trombones. Trombones provide most of the volume in almost all orchestras, bands, ensembles, and organizations, except the string quartet. Too little credit is given for this. The fact is that nine listeners out of ten would sleep through whole symphonies if it weren’t for the places where the Trombones come in. This makes the Trombone one of the principal dispensers of culture in our time.
And yet, how deep the public ignorance concerning this instrument! How few really know whether the performer swallows the slide! I have not been asked that question right out in some years, but people do wonder. One can see it in their eyes. They are just too shy to ask — just as you or I would hesitate to ask a man with three toes how he counts to twenty. Such ignorance and reticence are regrettable; the Trombone has been operative for some six hundred years or more, while no one has such questions about the cotton gin or the steamboat, which have been known for scarcely twenty-five. This may be, of course, because it doesn’t look as though anyone is swallowing a steamboat.
It was not always thus. Many years ago Trombones — they were then called Sackbuts, a silly mistake that I never would have made — were used to play for Kings and Queens. At this period the social status of the performers was so high that some artists would not appear unless there was a pair of Jacks or better in the audience. Trombones, or rather, Sackbuts — we might as well go along — used to play fanfares, chorales, suites, and in general, much the same sort of thing played by Trombones today, except , that Dixieland hadn’t been invented. Thus the Sack-but passed away without ever being played out over the back of a truck.
In fact, when the Classical period of music set in, nobody much played the Sackbut anywhere. They weren’t writing any music for it. Some critics have ventured the opinion that this was because of the mixup in names. Many composers wanted to write music for the Trombone, but there weren’t any. Sackbuts were old hat, so nobody bothered with them. So the Sackbut industry declined, and many large families starved.
16
Sackbut players had to pay their way in to concerts until Beethoven, a man of genius, saw the error, changed the name, and put a part for Trombone in his Fifth Symphony. This is the source for the claim that the Trombone helped win the late Encounter. This incident, by the way, also illustrates just what it is that drives an artist to triumph. Biographers of Beethoven have discovered that his wife’s brother was an itinerant Sackbut player who frequently borrowed money from the composer. And, Beethoven’s wife was always nagging him about getting Adolf a job.
This coup by Beethoven caused several Trombones to get jobs. A few of them liked working, and told their friends. Soon all the Trombones banded together and started the Minstrel Show.
In gratitude for this gesture, the people of the South invented a new kind of music, and called it Jazz. Originally this was played by Trombones alone. After some years, they noticed that something was missing, and they added a Trumpet to carry the melody. In the underhanded manner of Trumpets, this fellow craftily attracted all the attention, and soon the Trombone was back in its comfortable obscurity.
GREAT BOOKS DISCUSSION—Father Cavanaugh, President of the University, and Mortimer Adler, right, pose questions for Great Books readers at Central High.
Once more the Trombone was unemployed. To care for the thousands made homeless by the Trumpet menace, the Union was organized. Great strides were made, and rehabilitation of Trombone players advanced rapidly. After a few years, the Saxophone suddenly overthrew the Trumpet, and these men sought admittance. Generous as ever, the Trombones agreed; the rest is history. James C. Petrillo was a Trumpet.
Trombones may be divided in two classes: Symphony, or Straight, and Jazz. Some individuals call these divisions Bad and Worse, but these people are, by and large, Trumpets. Some are even Oboes, and if that isn’t leaving yourself open, I don’t know what is.
Jazz Trombones are divided into Sweet, or Schmaltzy, and Dirty, or Low Down. Straight Trombones are divided into First, Second, and Bass Trombones. This division is permanent and exclusive. They do not speak to each other.
Many famous people play (or have played) the Trombone. Nanky-Poo went about disguised as a Second Trombone. I play the Trombone. H. Lee Hope once played the Trombone. On the other hand, Toscanini did not. Neither does Harry Truman.
There are no statistics available on the numbers of Trombones extant today. The only certain fact known concerning this is as follows: there are more Trombones than there are Jobs.
The Scholastic
Student Council Constitution
PREAMBLE
For the furtherance of cooperation between students and administrative officers to the end that the interests of the University and the student body may be advanced, it is essential that there be a student council.
It is obvious that no student council can properly perform its work unless it enjoys the confidence of the University and students alike. In order that there may be proper blending of authority between student council and the administration, two things are essential; first, a realization on the part of the student body that it must cooperate with the council, and in so doing, also cooperate with the University heads; and, secondly, a pledge on the part of the administration to grant as much freedom of action to the Student Council as is consistent with justice and order.
If it be recognized that the planning of broad policies and legislation on student conduct in general rests with the University officials, and that cooperation on the part of the Student Council is both advisable and helpful in carrying out these regulations, then the Student Council will be what it should be —-a powerful good in all departments of student life, and beyond this, a means of educating the student to govern himself and to submit to democratic authority.
Article I	— NAME
This organization shall be known as the Student Council of the University of Notre Dame.
Article II	—OBJECTS
Sec. I—To provide an effective channel of communication between the student body and the University authorities. The Student Council will be the only official body recognized by the Administration as representing the student body.
Sec. II—To administer student activities, organizations, traditions and customs. “Activities” in this section is to be construed to pertain to intellectual, religious, social, athletic and other miscellaneous functions which pertain to general student welfare.
Sec. Ill—To crystallize and make ef
Oct. 7, 1949
fective, by bringing them to the attention of the University Administration, the opinions of the student body.
Sec. IV—To take all steps necessary to promote and maintain school spirit.
Article UI—POWERS
Sec. I—The Student Council shall be empowered to carry out all the provisions and necessary implications of this constitution and its by-laws, to make such regulations as it considers necessary to attain this end and to apply such sanctions as it considers just for infractions of its rules and regulations.
Sec. II—Enumeration of poivers—The powers shall be legislative, executive and judicial. These powers shall be exercised during the academic year.
a.—Legislative power — The Student Council may, as it sees fit, regulate and order, in cooperation with the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs, all student organizations, celebration customs, ceremonies, entertainments, general elections, and all other matters pertaining to the student body. Such legislation, when approved by the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs, shall be regarded as official.
b.—Executive power — The Student Council shall have the power to regulate and enforce all legislation enacted under Section 11(a).
c.—Judicial power—It shall be the duty of the Student Council to consider any complaint brought before if by any student or hall board and, if after consultation with the party concerned it deems such complaint merits attention, it shall decide upon a recommendation in the matter and appoint a committee to present this recommendation to the Administrative officials of the University through the Office of the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs.
Article IV — COMPOSITION
Sec. I—The Student Council shall be composed of the following:
a.—The President and Vice-President of the Senior, Junior, Sophomore and Freshman classes.
b.—Four representatives-at-large, including at least one representative of the Law School, and three seniors, one a
representative of the off-campus students.
c.—A Stay Council of four members
chosen from the hold office in the year, to serve as ceeding council.
existing Council to succeeding academic a basis of the suc-
d.—The Chairman of the Blue Circle shall be an ex-officio member of the Council. He shall not be eligible to hold office in the Council.
Sec. II—The Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs shall act as the Faculty Advisor for the Student Council and shall meet with the Council at the regular meetings and, when necessary, at the special meetings.
Article V
INTERNAL ORGANIZATION
Sec. I—The Council shall elect from its members a President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Sec. II—The first meeting of the new Council shall be called by the Chairman of the Stay Council within three weeks of the start of the fall semester. The officers shall be elected by the members of the new Council at the second meeting and will hold office for one academic year following their election.
Sec. Ill—The faculty advisor shall preside over the second meeting until the officer elections are concluded. All elections shall be determined by a majority vote.
Article VI
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
Sec. I—The four officers of the Student Council, plus one Student Council member elected by the body, shall comprise the Executive Council.
Sec. II—The powers of the Executive Council shall be the same as the powers of the Student Council, subject to the following limitations:
a.—The Executive Council shall act only on business which by majority vote it feels could not reasonably be deferred for action until a Student Council meeting.
b.—The Executive Council is responsible to the Student Council and there-
(Continued on Page 20)
17
"C'mon, you human, you. Cut that out!"
If you ever stray up to the fourth floor cf the Main Building and find yourself looking at a pile of skulls and a few stray pieces of armor, don’t be afraid. You’re not in an Aztec sacrifice chamber; you’re just looking at the headquarters of one of Notre Dame’s oldest and least known departments—the Department of Fine Art. The skulls and armor, like the cast statues strewn around up there are just props for the students to draw.
The art department has come a long way since Julius Ackerman founded it in 1854, around twenty years before the present Main Building was built. Some time after the Main Building was constructed, the art department moved to a room up under the Dome. When the
Four Flights Up
by BILL WEIR
architects moved out, though, they were able to occupy the whole fourth floor.
The most famous of the early department heads was Luigi Gregori, who brought over all the armor from Rome. Gregori painted the inside of Sacred Heart Church and was responsible for the Columbus murals in the Main Building.
Closed During World War II
During the past war, staff members Mr. Stanley S. Sessler and Mr. Frank J. Hanley were in the service and the department had to close down for about a year—the first time in ninety years. After the war the department began to expand in earnest: Mr. Frederick S. Beckman joined the staff, and they scraped off the Navy gray paint that had covered everything and started to decorate the place by putting up examples of the work of students and former students.	•
The enrollment kept pace with the de. partment’s expansion, too. In 1946 there were only twelve art students up under the Dome, but now there are some seventy students, thirty of them art majors, while the rest are taking electives in art. The expanded electives program is another feature of the renovated art de
partment. One of the newest electives is the Drawing for Science course. The idea of this course is to give pre-med students a chance to learn the type of drawing they will be doing when they are doctors. That’s the reason for the skulls and bones in one of the rooms: all doctors run into cases where they will have to be able to make sketches. The art department figures that as long as this is so, they ought to give the studer^s a chance to do it well. In fact, the partment thinks it would pay all students to take courses in art. Drawing, like writing, is one of the basic forms of self-expression: people in all walks of life have opportunities to use it. It’s not that the art department wants to turn commerce and engineering students into great artists, but they claim that an extra form of self-expression, like drawing, adds to a person’s poise and self-confidence. The art department also recommends its survey of art coux&p, especially to arts and letters student^
Sculpture Courses Offered
The art department also offers courses in sculpture under resident sculptor Eugene Kormendi, in his studio behind the Main Building. For the art majors, the department offers both a fine arts course and a design course. The courses
A neophyte master applies that final stroke which decides the greatness of his work. ND's Art Department has alumni in fields from modernistic theory to plain cartooning.
18
The Scholastic
hr Art
oEered here have the advantage of | giving the students thorough background in liberal arts: when they leave, they will know something besides art; they will know enough about life to create their own work and not merely copy the techniques of their teachers.
In addition, the art courses give students background in elementary drawing and painting, so that they can branch off into any style they desire. sSRral former Notre Dame art students have done this quite successfully. One of the most notable examples is Darrell Austin, the modernist, whose paintings were recently given a big spread in Li/e magazine. Another is Rev. Anthony Lauck, c.S.C., who is now going to Rome on a scholarship to work with the great Ivan Mesterovic. Still another former student is Joe Lochner, the head of King Features Syndicate’s art department. You can’t say that | Nafre Dame’s art course destroys the stWents’ originality!
Mr. Sessler, the department head recently received a letter from the advertising manager of an insurance company that supports his ideas about background. It was a request to use a student’s thesis painting for a magazine cover. In the last paragraph, it said:
“Mr. Ansley has done some work for
The main spokes in the Art Department's wheel gather for an informal picture; left to right, Messrs. Byrne (librarian), Beckman, Hanley, and Sessler (head).
me and I find him to be better trained than most young persons who come out of art schools. That speaks well for your department.”
You can see some examples of the students’ work any time you want to, up on the fourth floor. There are paintings, sketches, fashion designs and various commercial drawings. There are also some package designs, executed mostly by Mr. Beckman, who did commercial art work before coming to Notre Dame. This
is another thing you don’t find in the art departments of most big universities. There are not too many student pictures up yet, but the number will increase as the semester goes on. Besides the student exhibit, the Art Department will also present traveling exhibits of the works of famous artists. These shows used to be held in the Library, but there isn’t enough space there now, so they will be hung in the Art Department.
You ought to go up there sometime.
A drawing-from-life class picks on one of its own men to serve as a frozen model. The unclad Greek in the background is a reported relic of Potawatamie civilization.
19
Constitution
(Continued from Page 17) fore is required to keep an accurate journal and to make complete reports concerning all of its activities to the Student Council.
Article VII	— DISCIPLINE
gec J—Any member of the Council may be removed from office in the Council and in his class by the other members of the Council for serious neglect of duty or for any other cause they consider serious enough to warrant such action. A vote of two-thirds of the total membership of the Council shall be necessary for removal.
See. II—A member who, without being properly excused by the President of the Council, shall have been absent from three regular meetings during the term of the Council, shall thereby have vacated his place on the Council when the matter shall have been so decided by the other members.
Article VIII—	MEETINGS
Sec. I—Regular open meetings shall be held weekly at a time agreed upon by the members of the Council.
Sec. II—Special meetings, open or closed, may be called at the discretion of the President of the Council.
Sec. Ill—The Parliamentary Rules contained in Robert’s “Rules of Order” shall govern the Council insofar as they are applicable and not inconsistent with this constitution, or the rules and regulations adopted thereunder.
Sec. IV.—The Secretary shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of all meetings. On the request of any three members, he shall enter in the journal a record of yeas and nays on any question. The journal shall be open to the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs at all times.
Sec. V—Two-thirds of the members of the Student Council shall constitute a quorum to do any business.
Sec. VI—The President may cancel any weekly meeting if it is deemed ad-visable, but no two successive meetings will be cancelled.
Sec. VIII—Any disagreement over the interpretation of the Constitution and By-laws shall be settled by a two-thirds vote of a quorum present at the meeting in which the disagreement is discussed.
Article IX—	COMMITTEES
Sec. I—The President shall appoint all standing committees and such other
20
committees as he feels are necessary.
Sec. II—Any member of the Council shall be eligible for membership on any committee.
Sec. Ill—The Chairmanship and ViceChairmanship of all committees shall reside in the Council members.
Sec. IV—All members in good standing of the student body shall be eligible to serve on these committees.
Article A —AMENDMENTS
Sec. I—This Constitution may be amended by a two-thirds vote of the full membership of the Council; the proposed amendment having been submitted in writing and read at a scheduled meeting at least one week prior to the
AT
CUSTOM FITTED TO YOUR OWN MEASUREMENTS
Individually fitted, impeccably tailored formalwear for any dress event you may wish to attend...at a really modest rental price...this is the new customer service we offer for your convenience. Every garment is guaranteed to fit, made of faultless, high quality materials, cut in the latest, correctly styled fashion...and delivered to you clean, freshly pressed, made to fit like your own!
ANOTHER CUSTOMER SERVICE OF
FmAimR
MODERATE RENTALS
FULL IIRESS SUITS TUXEIIOS
DINNER JACKETS CUTAWAYS STRIPER TROUSERS SUMMER FORMALS
Parker - Winterrowd, Inc.
II51/2-II71/2 North Main St.
Second Floor—Upstairs
“South Bend’s Oldest Custom-Tailors and Clothiers”
date set for voting upon it. All amendments must be approved by the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs.
Sec. II—Within a week of approving an amendment the Council shall notify the student body by publishing such amendment.
Article XI	— BY-LAWS
Sec. I—The Student Council shalU have the power to pass By-Laws by’ majority vote of the total Council membership. By-Laws shall become effective when approved by the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs.
Article XII	— RATIFICATION
Sec. I—This Constitution shall be-(Continued on Page 28)
The ScholastiC
Scholastic Sports
Boilermakers Out to Snap Irish String
Angelo Carnaghi
Only One Irish Foe Drops Week-End Tilt
As outnumbered Notre Dame was hurdling a stubborn Washington eleven, all future opponents of the Irish, with the exception of Purdue, were likewise making entries in the win column. Many of the games were one-sided conquests, but SMU and North Carolina were forced to use full throttle to escape possible ties or defeats.
Down at Lafayette, the Boilermakers couldn’t seem to do anything right, losing the ball seven times on fumbles. Two of these led to touchdowns and that was all Iowa, another- Notre Dame foe, needed to take a 21-7 decision.
Thanks to Doak Walker’s running and kicking, Southern Methodist handed ■Missouri their second consecutive one-point defeat, this time by a 28-27 margin, in their after-dark affair at Dallas.
Southern Cal relaxed in the first half but rolled up 28 points in the last two periods to rout Washington State, 35-7. Tulane had an easy time in subduing Georgia Tech, while Georgia threw a scare into the audience at Chapel Hill before succumbing to Charlie Justice (Continued on Page 32)
Sellout Crowd to See Purdue Test ND Power
By FRANK RONNENBERG
Purdue, a team that has played tremendous football against Notre Dame the last two years, makes another all-out effort to break the Irish unbeaten string at Ross-Ade Stadium tomorrow.
The Boilermakers have already lost two contests, one to Northwestern, 20-6, and the other to Iowa last week, 21-7. As a result, they are given little chance to surprise the crowd of some 52,000 people by halting high-powered ND. In past games, Purdue has won but five
times from the and tying one.
Irish while losing 11
Unfortunately for Stu Holcomb, in his third year as head coach at Purdue, he does not have the team he had last year. Despite the presence of 29 lettermen, graduation robbed him of the complete first-string line that opened last year against Notre Dame including Phil O’Reilly and end Bob Heck. In addition, Holcomb lost his best quarterback, Bob DeMoss, to the pros and fullback Jack Milito.
Rebuilding Process Hampered
To make matters worse, the necessary rebuilding process has been hampered by the injury to Purdue’s top offensive
threat, Harry Szulborski. Szulborski, the leading ground gainer in the Big Ten the past two years, injured his leg
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS
NOTRE DAME	PURDUE
Wightkin 	E			 Bland
Martin (C-C)	T			Karras
Burns 	G			 Jackson
Grothaus 	C		Carnaghi (C)
Lally 	G			Weizer
McGehee 	T			 Beletic
Hart (C-C) 	E				 Whitmer
Williams 	Q			 Gorgal
Spaniel 	H		Szulborski
Coutre 	H			Adams
Sitko 	F			 Kerestes
Game time: 1:30 p.m., CST.
Harry Szulborski
during pre-season practice and has. played very little ball thus far this, season. It is expected, however, that. Szulborski will be ready for Notre Dame.
The play of four returning lettermen has thus far proved the only bright, spot on Purdue’s dismal football horizon. Angelo Carnaghi, the center and captain of this year’s Boilermakersquad, has been playing an outstanding defensive game. Earl Murray, a four-year veteran, has shown a surprising-
improvement over last year. In the backfield, Holcomb has developed Bob Hartman into a fine ball-handling and. sharp passing T-formation quarterback, while fullback John Kerestes has carried the brant of the Purdue ground', attack. .
ND Suffers Referee-Poisoning
Notre Dame, in its first trip to the-Pacific Northwest, was stricken in the first half with an advanced case of fumble-itis and referee-poisoning, which left them locked in a 7-7 halftime stalemate. The Irish, however, snapped back in the- third quarter for two touchdowns and ran over Washington for another-score in'the. final period.
Leon Hart scored first for Notre-
^pct. 7, 1949
21
Washington tacklers and ND's Frank Spaniel (28) are aii over Emil Sitko on this play. Huskies' end, Chuck Olsen (4), on the bottom of the heap, made the tackle.
Dame late in the first half when he took a pass from Bob Williams. At the beginning of the third quarter, it was Hart again who broke the 7-7 deadlock with an end-around play from eight yards out. Larry Coutre, behind Notre Dame’s only real sustained blocking effort, ran thirty yards to the third touchdown. Jack Landry racked up the last Notre Dame six-pointer in the fourth quarter. Although he didn’t score, Emil was the outstanding ballcarrier on the field.
Notre Dame’s defense was much sharpei- at Seattle than it was here against Indiana. Washington was held to 17 yards net rushing through the improved Irish forward wall.
Leon Hart (82) crashes into Don O'Leary and the Washington quarterback fumbles; the Irish recovered and proceeded to score. O'Leary played freshman ball here.
22
Irish Cagers Working Out Before Pre-Season Drills
The following varsity basketball players have reported for trainer’s practice in preparation for the regular pre-season practice which will begin in a couple of weeks: Dan Bagley, Floyd Blair, Dom Cannon, Dick Clancy, Ed D’Arcy, Tom Dunn, John Foley, Neil Fichtel, Bob Fink, Jim Fritsch, Dick Giedlin, Jerry Halligan, Ralph Hinger, Mike Jaekles, Tom Johnson, Gene Kenny, Dick Laney, Leroy Leslie, Jack Neu-mayar, Marty O’Connor, James O’Neill, Kevin O’Shea, Tom Sheehan, Russ Skall, Don Strasser, Jerry Stricker, Bob Wray, Hughes Wilcox, Fran Vitelli and Tom Roemer.
Two Freshmen Star In Intramural Tennis
One of the most successful events of the fast-growing intramural sports program, the annual tennis tourney, has entered into the final stages with the possibility that two freshmen will battle for the school title.
The two freshmen are Ray Smith and^ Terry Kiely, both Illinois boys. Smith, a Chicagoan from 261 Zahm Hall, earned his spot in the bracket finals by outclassing Bob Hensler, a South Bender who won the 1947 tourney. The scores were 3-6, 6-0 and 6-3. He then breezed past top-seeded Matt Tuite, last year’s winner, in a best three-out-of-five, affair, 6-2, 6-3, 6-4.
The championship match will probably have Smith against the winner of the^ Tom Overholser-Kiely meeting. Over-^ holser advanced to the finals in his bracket by besting Bill O’Connor, 6-0, 6-1. Kiely is slated to play the winner of the Rubery-Romaker match, but, since they haven’t got together, Kiely may be advanced to the bracket finals.
This year’s tournament drew 93 competitors, an all-time record. Now under the guidance of Tennis Coach Walter Langford, the tourney has been on and off the Notre Dame sports calendar since the ’20s. It has been a regular affair^ since the early ’30s with the exception of^ the war years.
Besides being a lot of fun, the tournament giv"s Coach Langford an excellent chance to size up next Spring’s varsity.
Prospects for 1950 make Coach Langford breath a bit easier. To bolster a squad that won six and lost three last spring, Langford could pick up some valuable men from the tourney. The tennis team retains its two top perform-a ers, Bob David, No. 1 man, and Gene® Biitner. Others are juniors Jim Hennessy, Herb Hoene and Pat Tonti and two of this year’s tourney stars, Tuite and Overholser. Smith and Kiely, of course are a year away from eligibility.
—Rudy Unger
Szekely Asks Big Turnout As Hall Touch League Forms
Any halls desiring to enter touch foot-^ ball teams are invited to file their entries® with Mr. Szekely at the activity field, south of the tennis courts, as soon as possible. Tentative plans call for the schedule to get underway in about a week.
It is hoped that a greater interest in the sport will result from delaying its start till colder weather begins. According to Mr. Szekely, “if we could get eight or ten teams, it would give us a nice league.”
The Scholasti^'
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Kalph Way kt
About
To many much cials).
the Washington Game steal a phrase: never (the Washington team) (135 yards) to so few
have so owed so (the offi-
B Team vs. Frosh
This sunny Autumn weekend just past made us long for a football game on the campus, and others probably felt ^the same way. We’ve been wondering why a game or two between the B squad and the frosh couldn’t be arranged for some weekends when the varsity isn’t playing here. The reserves and freshmen deserve a chance to play before a crowd once in awhile, and a battle between the two would provide actual game experience for future varsity members. Incidentally, Saturday, October 22, is an open date.
^Short on Varsity Sports
" The 1948-49 sports agenda is well under way and we’ve yet to hear about any additions. Notre Dame has a pack of capable athletes who are being deprived of intercollegiate competition by an incomplete athletic program.
One sport that certainly deserves consideration for varsity status is boxing. The Bengal Bouts prove that Notre Dame has a great interest in boxing, from the viewpoint of both the specta-Jtor and the participant. We have the interest, we have some real talent, and, if a man like Dominic Napolitano isn’t capable of coaching a team, nobody is. We’d sure enjoy seeing boys like Vic Roblez and Zip Roemer fight against stars from other universities.
While we’re on the subject of new varsity sports, how about those riflemen who are winning everything in R.O. competition? They would make a varsity team to be proud of. They tell us jthat Father Lange’s weight-lifters and Hocal tumblers and swimmers are others who "have a yearning for intercollegiate competition.
If Notre Dame believes that intercollegiate competition is a good thing, it seems that some sort of athletic expansion is in order.
Only Two Thousand?
Although he is probably ignorant of the fact, Stanley Frank made a lot of
&)ct. 7, 1949
Notre Dame students angry ■with his statement (in Collier’s} that 2000 ND boys play class and dormitory football with the hope of moving up to the varsity some day. Of course, his figure of the number who play is fantastic. And, if any interhall gridders are playing with the hope of advancing to the varsity, we have news for them (and Mr. Frank). They’ll never make it. To our knowledge, no student has moved from interhall to varsity status in recent years, if ever.
Mr. Frank’s statement makes Notre Dame sound like a name for a sort of football factory. He must picture ND students walking around campus with a football under one arm, industriously studying Coach Leahy’s book on the T-formation.
We’re proud of our football teams, very proud. But, please Mr. Frank, we do think of something else once in awhile.
Bearskinning
To Bearskin of the South Bend Tribune: Maybe it’s because we’re prejudiced against anonymous writers, but we don’t agree with many of your remarks about the Notre Dame team, especially your accusations of bigheadedness. You accused Bob Williams of pool' play-calling in the Indiana game while Frank Leahy, also in the Tribune, was praising Bob’s play against the Hoosiers. Pardon us, but we’re inclined to think Coach Leahy still knows more about the game than Bearskin.
In case you’re interested, Mr. Bearskin, very few people believe that baloney about you having been in Arizona for years; the general opinion is that the author of “Punts and Passes’’ is someone close to Notre Dame who hopes to arouse the Irish with acrimonious comments.
Questions of the Week
Is some well-meaning student organization, like the Student Council or Blue Circle, going to show movies of the road games this year?
Or, better yet, would some local television man like to bring a set or two over to the Drill Hall so we could see
the away games that are being televised?
Prediction of the Week
After the last two years, we know that Purdue isn’t impressed by. Notre Dame prestige; the Boilermakers can’t be underestimated. A sound Harry Szulborski would help them a lot. Still, records to date indicate a more comfortable win this time. Notre Dame, 35; Purdue 7.
Veech, In Torrid Play, Cops Golf Tourney
Flashing unusual driving power and uncanny putting accuracy, Tom Veech, the soph sensation, shot his way to a 70-73-70-71-par 284 for 72 holes of medal play competition to cop the 20th annual University Open Championship. Trailing the victor was defending champ Bob Rolfs who posted a 70-77-72-75—294. Art Arquilla rounded out the 300 breaking trio with a good 297.
The opening round was held on Saturday, Sept. 17. At the end of the day’s activities they had both tabbed torrid 70’s. On Sunday they cooled off to a 73 and 77 and at the halfway point it was Veech 143, Rolfs 147. The football weekend postponed activity until last Saturday when Veech slowly pulled away from his weakening opponent.
On Sunday, Oct. 5, Veech increased his lead further to finish a full 10 strokes ahead of the upperclassman. Although the competition was medal play, match play pressure took its effect on both golfers, especially Rolfs. A par second round would have put him in the lead with 36 holes to go, but he blew up and finished the day trailing by four instead of leading by two. Behind Arquilla, a merry battle ensued for fourth spot which went to Ray Burian with a 304. Spence Daly and Tom Klett each finished with 305 while Jim Treuschel and his 309 rounded out the seven finishers from a starting field of 35.
In his winning effort, the big sophomore was only five strokes over the event record of 279 posted by Jack Fitzpatrick in his freshman year of ’43. As another of a long roster of great champs, Veech receives the William B. Burke trophy, the annual award for the winner, to be presented by Bill Burke, Jr. Also, Veech will have his name inscribed on the Memorial Trophy in the Golf Shop.
The tournament brings to a close all organized golf affairs in the University until spring. At that time, Rev. George L. Holderith, the golf coach, will open practice around a nucleus including Rolfs, Veech, Daly and promising Klett.—Jack Economou
23
Coach Tom Simon watches his Morrissey gridders do a little blocking on the practice field south of the tennis courts. Interhall football starts next week.
Interhall Gridders Open Play Next Week; Champion Dillon Bids for Another Crown
Round-robin play for the interhall football championship will begin the second week of October according to an announcement from Mr. Dominic Napolitano of the Department of Physical Education. Two leagues, consisting of five teams each, divided into the East and West side of campus, have been set up.
Top contender for the Eastern League championship is Pete Varda’s Dillonites. They are strong in manpower and experience, and may be expected to bid strongly for a repeat campus championship.
Morrissey’s sophomores may be top challengers if their vaunted passing attack lives up to pre-season expectations. Coached by Paul Schlafly, the old men of Walsh Hall look like the dark horse in the Western League. Lyons, tutored by Don Owens, is also stressing a passing attack, and could come through with a winner if they can produce a passer to hit their ends. Alumni is still short on manpower, but may be a threat.
Cavanaugh could have a hard time maintaining their supremacy in the Eastern League. Coach Dick Greenwait is also faced with a man shortage, but has assembled twenty-two lads to carry out his instructions. Greenwait has been sending his charges through signal. drills and dummy scrimmage.
B-P and Zahm look like the teams to watch in the freshman section. Jim
24
Shaughnessy has a forty-five-man turnout in Breen-Phillips. Rumor has it that Joe Moshell is also grooming a powerhouse behind Zahm.
Dick Soisson, repeating as St. Ed’s coach, can be relied on to send a representative group of gridders out to do battle.
Play will begin at four o’clock, with games being played simultaneously on both interhall fields. Each team will play one game a week.—Bob Rubery
Students Pick Irish To Trounce Purdue
Before returning to school, we were confronted with a host of football magazines that predicted everything but what price scalpers will be asking for Rose Bowl tickets. National and conference champions and All-American teams were picked long before the season’s opening kickoff, and there will be much wailing and' gnashing of teeth before the bands file out of stadia all over the country for the last time.
Not to be outdone, the Scholastic today enters the “pick ’em and weep department” by allowing seven students to forecast the outcome of tomorrow’s Notre Dame-Purdue game. Our experts, chosen at random, have unanimously selected the Irish to run their unbeaten string to 31 games.
Here’s what they have to say:
Bob Blight, 344 Morr.—ND 26, Pur-
Harriers Outdistance® Wheaton and Marines
Notre Dame opened its cross-country season last Saturday by whipping Wheaton College of Illinois and the Quantico Marines from Virginia on the school course. The Irish had 21 points, Wheaton was second with 34 and the Marines finished last with 65. A
(In cross-country, the first five finishers from each team figure in the scoring. The first man in is charged with one point, the second with two, etc. The team with the least points wins the meet.)
Benny Almaguer, the little Mexican-born sophomore from Monmouth, Ill., who some experts think is a potential Greg Rice or Ollie Hunter, took first place from blond Jim Kittell with a fine_ 15:24 clocking.	9
Two Wheaton men followed this pair of Irishmen across the line, and then, right in a bunch, came three more of Coach Doc Handy’s sophomore hopes J Connie Tetrault, George Gross and Bob Feiler, respectively.
By agreement of the coaches, Gil Dodds of Wheaton, Captain Henry Hart of the Marines and ND’s Doc Handy, the race was held to three miles instead of the scheduled four.
The Marines were completely out^ classed bv the collegiate runners. OnlyW their coach, Hart, an intercollegiate champion in 1941 and the lone experienced man on the squad, was able to beat any of the collegians. He finished eleventh.
Just before the race, two more members of the Irish harrier squad joined Tony DaDamio on the injured list. They were Jim Kelly and John Mohar. Their places in the meet were taken by Jerry Johnson and Ted Prahinski who finisher® fourteenth and sixteenth, respectively.
due 7. “Considering the extensive travels of the Irish and Purdue’s fine performance of last season. I look for a tight, hard-fought game.”
Garbey Jones, 259 Cav.—ND 27, Purdue 0. “Purdue has not been too impressive. especially offensively.”
Angelo Carideo. 428 Walsh—ND 35.
Purdue 7. “The Irish are too powerful.’^) Jack Curtin. 305 Cavanaugh—ND 26,
Purdue 7. “Too much Sitko.” t
Jim Sampair, 401 Zahm—ND 34JPur-
due 0. “Purdue is not last year’s club.”
S. De Lucia, 152 Cavanaugh—“The Irish by three touchdowns unless Purdue scores first, in which case it will be closer.”
Fred Fsser. 309 Lyons—ND 33. Purdue 6. “Szulborski’s back but was unimpressive against Iowa.”
The Scholastic^
Irish Harriers to Meet Purdue and Spartans
Notre Dame Products Coach 20 Colleges, Five Pro Teams; Recent Graduates Move In
By TED PRAHINSKI
By BILL RILEY
I
Coach Doc Handy’s largely-sophomore cross-country team bites off a real mouthful tomorrow morning on the W Purdue campus when it tackles a veteran Michigan State squad, last year’s national champions, and a Purdue team that dumped the 1948 Irish team.
The Spartans have six men back from a seven-man squad that scored the first “grand slam” in cross-country history last year by taking the IC4A title, the NCAA crown and the National AAU honors. The Irish runners took fifth in the NCCA, the only place where they ^crossed paths with Michigan State.
Purdue humiliated ND on its home course last season in the state championship meet. On a rainy day last November, they took second behind Indiana and pushed the Irish back to third.
Bill Mack and Warren Druetzler, big guns for the Spartans, can expect plenty of competition from Ben Almaguer, Doc Handy’s soph flash, who has some old scores to settle with the •two from high school days. Jack Dian-etti, another MSC star, has made a habit of nailing Irish runners at the tape for the last three years and is probably one of the chief causes of Coach Handy’s thinning hair.
Jim Kittell is the only man on this year’s team who faced these opponents last year. Almaguer, Con Tetrault, George Gross, Bob Feiler, and two of these five, Jerry Johnson, Ted Prahin-eski, Jim Kelly, John Mohar and Tony Da Damio, will complete tomorrow’s squad.
Besides having phenomenally long winning streaks, perennial national championship teams, and All-Americans by the score, Notre Dame coaching staffs of the past and present bow to none in the production of outstanding coaches of college and professional grid machines.
There are three former Irish gridders head-coaching pro teams this year, and twenty as top men at colleges — scattered from upper New York, where Hughie Devore is heading up-and-coming St. Bonaventure, to Austin, Texas, where Bill Pierce leads the Austin college lads.
Foremost among former Notre Dame gridders now coaching is Notre Dame’s own head man, Frank Leahy. A Rockne-trained tackle in his undergraduate days in 1928 and ’29, Leahy has amassed an incredible record, first at Boston College, and since 1941, at Notre Dame. Helping Leahy are five other ex-Irish. Bernie Crimmins, Bill Earley, Bob McBride, Wally Ziemba, and Benny Sheridan, freshman football coach, all learned their fundamentals at Notre Dame, four of them under Leahy.
Krause Outstanding
Ed Krause, athletic director and head basketball coach, was an outstanding member of both the football and basketball teams in 1931, ’32, and ’33.
Other Notre Darners coaching at their alma mater are Jake Kline, baseball; Walter Langford, head of the Department of Modem Languages and Irish
tennis coach, and Rev. George Hol-derith, C.S.C., head of the golf team. Herb Milton, Notre Dame fencing coach, has just completed his graduate work in law.
In the Big Ten, Eddie Anderson at Iowa, assisted by ex-Irish great, Frank Carideo, is the only Notre Dame trained coach to face the home school in football this year.
Marchmont “Marchy” Schwartz is head coach of a surprisingly strong Stanford team and has ex-Purdue head tutor Mal Elward as his assistant.
Sheeketski at Nevada
Also in the far west is Head Coach Joe Sheeketski of Nevada who lettered in 1931 and 1932.
One of the Seven Mules, ^.dam Walsh, is head mentor at Bowdoin College.
Frank Thomas, ex-head coach, and now Athletic Director at Alabama, and .assistant coach Tom Lieb, who played together in 1920-1921, are teamed up again.
Auburn University also has two former Irish teammates together again as head and assistant coaches. Earl Brown and John Murphy are grid tutors at the Alabama school.
Other Notre Darners teamed together in coaching are: Rex Enright and George Terlep as head and assistant at the University of South Carolina; Gene Oberst and Frank Gaul at John Carroll in Cleveland, O.; Maurice “Clipper” Smith and Frank Dancewicz at Lafay-
(Continued on Page 33)
Notre Dame’s cross-country squad which runs at Purdue tomorrow takes off. Left to right, Merle Fleming, Dick Lee, George
Oct. 7, 1949
Gross, Bemie Endress, Jim Kittell, Jim Kelly, John Mohar, Jerry Hanley, Ben Almaguer, Bob Feiler, and Con Tetrault.
25
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
5 Barbers Manicurist
W. E. Cyr, Prop.
i!

CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
O
“It’s no use, Mary, he’s been like that since he discovered there’s NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER when you smoke Philip Morris,r

You don't have to smoke like a chimney to discover that Philip Morris are milder, kinder to your throat. Here’s why: PHILIP Morris is the one cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand.
NO OTHER CIGARETTE

CALL FOR
" -	CAN make that statement!
PHILIP MORRIS
Week's Tourney Decides Frosh Debate Champs
After a gruelling week of “yeas” and “nays” the affirmative team of George Pearse and Pete Ninneman emerged victors in the Freshman Debate tourney which ended last Monday.
Mr. Leonard Sommer presented the winning team with a cash award and announced his plans to take the most^^ promising orators in the- Frosh meet to the Regional Tau Kappa Alpha Debate tourney at Purdue University on Oct. 27 and 28.
This year’s varsity Debate team will be headed by president Bill Carey. Other returning debaters are Bill Dempsey, Tom Ninneman, Bill Rich, John Gallagher, Austin Hogan, Quintin Marlowe, Kenyon Snyder, and Ed Waters.
ND Songsters Plan Picnic At Director's Rural Estate
The Notre Dame Glee Club will hold its annual picnic and “get acquainted” party Sunday afternoon at the rural estate of its director, Daniel H. Pedtke.
The outing will begin at two p.m. with the freshman songsters as special guests. After inter-club softball and touch-football games, an outdoor hot dog roast will be held.
Chairman for the affair is Jack Powell^ He will be assisted by Bill Sahm on the refreshments end; Bob Ruetz who will handle the athletic equipment; and Ray McGrath in charge of transportation.
Jersey Club Stresses 'Unity'
The New Jersey Club, presided over by its new president, Dick Cordasco, commenced the 1949-50 activities with an organization meeting on Sept. 26.^ He announced that the Rev. Colman* Haggerty, C.P., would serve as chaplain for the coming year.
A record attendance, due to an influx of freshmen, discussed the aims of the club and plans for various social activities during the coming year. The new theme of the club, as stressed by President Cordasco, will be “Unity.” Oct. 10 was settled upon by the assembly as the next meeting time.
Cercle Francais Organizes
The Cercle Francais will hold its first meeting of the year next Tuesday evening, Oct. 11 in the Audio-Visual Center, Room 218 Main Building, at 7:30 p.m.
A program of songs, films and conversation is scheduled as well as a brief organizational discussion. Anyone interested in hearing and speaking French is urged to attend.
26
The ScholastiC
Names Make News
University. Last January he was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws degree by Notre Dame.
Last week Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s.c., president of Notre Dame, and Dr. Mortimer Adler of the University of Chicago conducted a Great Books panel discussion in Central High School Auditorium in South Bend before nearly 600 persons. Preceding the 1 discussion Rev. THOMAS BRENNAN, C.S.C., professor of philosophy at Notre Dame and chairman of the local Great | Books committee, explained the manner in which the discussions are carried on . . .
The Chicago Stags, of the National ^Basketball association, paid out a reported $20,000 last week to sign LEO BARNHORST, former Irish hoop star, to a professional basketball contract.
1 Barnhorst originally signed with the former Basketball Association of America as a free agent. The Stags paid $10,000 to purchase his contract. The one-year contract is reported to call for another $10,000 . . .
Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, ph.d., of the > University of Notre Dame will appear with two other speakers before the Perley school Parent-Teacher association next week. The subject of his talk will be “Freedom of Religion” . . .
Dr. KENNETH N. CAMPBELL, professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame, has been appointed a member of the experimental therapeutics study section of the National Institute of Health. As a member of the section, Dr. Campbell a will help review applications for research grants. Dr. Campbell, chairman of the medicinal chemistry division of the American Chemical society, has , gained recognition for his research at Notre Dame in the fields of malaria and cancer . . .
OTTO F. SEELER, assistant professor of architecture at Notre Dame, related last week how he avoided forced labor under the Nazis. Hearing of a German plan to draft all professional ^femen, he fled when an allied air raid destroyed all records at the University of Darmstadt, where he was employed. He found some friends in the Tyrolean Alps who sheltered him until the area was liberated by allied troops . . .
Another Notre Dame graduate an-l nounced that he is heading for the altar. He is JOSEPH T. O’HARA, who became engaged to Miss Betty Lue Shaum, of Mishawaka . . .
^Oct. 7, 1949
Two Notre Dame graduates were married to South Bend women last week. They are JOHN CONSIDINE, who married Benita Anne Guthrie, and ELMER F. HORVATH, who married Barbara Steinhoffer . . .
A bust in ceramic clay of JOHN “PEP” PANELLI, former Irish grid star has recently been completed for presentation to his mother. The sculptor was JOHN D. ZEKAN, a classmate of Panelli’s here at Notre Dame. Zekan, who studied for four years under EUGENE KORMENDI, formed the bust from four sittings . . .
Paul Schrantz
Even CLASHMORE MIKE, former Irish mascot, is being written up this year. He is the subject of a new book Mascot Mike of Notre Dame, written by Mrs. Leila Rostiser, a former resident of South Bend . . .
Thirty students of EDWARD A. FISCHER, professor of Journalism at Notre Dame, visited the plant of the South Bend Tribune as a part of their newswriting course. They were shown all of the departments of the Tribune and each was explained by a Tribune representative . . .
His Holiness Pope Pius XII has named Mr. JOSEPH A. LAFORTUNE, Vicepresident of the Warren Petroleum Co., Tulsa, Okla., a Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory.
■ Mr. LaFortune is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the
Tall, affable Mr. PAUL SCHRANTZ, former Fort Wayne businessman, has been appointed Assistant Prefect of Discipline, the Rev. JAMES J. LEAHY, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, announced last week. Mr. Schrantz will have authority in the discipline department second only to the Prefect.
H. Lee Hope & Co. Gird For Tulane Game, Oct. 15
All Notre Dame men are warned that they are taking their lives into their own hands when they venture into the vicinity of Washington Hall. Thereabouts, Field General H. Lee Hope is directing his legions of musicians in maneuvers preparatory to their invasion of the stadium during the Tulane game, Oct. 15.
He will continue to use his revolutionary techniques on the battlefield complete with triple reverses, fancy stepping and novel formations. The second phase of “Our Hoosier Heritage” will feature the age of growth and invention. Included in this period is the founding of the University of Notre Dame. However, the cagey general refuses to disclose any more of his top secrets with which he will again try to win the acclaim of the fans.
That recent addition to the marching band, the versatile baton twirler, is Randy McNally, a junior from Chicago. He will perform with two other twirlers in a precision routine during the opening number.
In addition to these game time festivities, the woodwind quintet of the band participated in a recital, Oct. 3, at the Progress Club. The band members who played were Hugh Baker, oboe; Hank Ketterer, French horn; Andy Fairlie, bassoon, Cohles, clarinet, and Clinch, flute. This same group will play again before several other organizations this fall.
LOST AND FOUND
A number of articles were found in the Stadium after the Indiana game two weeks ago. Owners may identify and claim their possessions at the Athletic Office in Breen-Phillips Hall.
ARTICLE	IDENTIFICATION
Set of keys_____Ind. License 663-309
Set of keys_____Jerry Turley
Set of keys Found in section 27 of stadium Miraculous medal_In bookstore package Woman’s gold cross_In bookstore package Woman’s black hat_None
Man’s tan raincoat-None Tan army blanket_None Woman’s green
rain hat None
Constitution
(Continued from Page 20) come immediately effective when it has been accepted by a two-thirds vote of the Student Council and by the proper University authorities through the office of the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs.
BY-LAWS	;
Article / — ELECTIONS
Sec. I—A declaration of intended candidacy must be filed with the Secretary of the Student Council at least two weeks prior to the date of elections. Candidates not found acceptable under provisions of Sec. II will be so notified.
Sec. II—Candidates for Council mem-bership must have a clear disciplinary record, must possess a minimum accumulative average of 80% and must be able to serve for one full academic year.
Sec. Ill—Election of all members except Freshmen and Stay Council shall
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
LOOK AT Sheedy all puffed up with pride. And to think that only last week he almost croaked when he found he couldn’t pass the Finger-Nail Test. Then a friend put him wise to Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Now he’s the big noise on the campus. Non-alcoholic Wildroot contains Lanolin, keeps hair neat and well-groomed ail day long. Relieves annoying dryness, removes loose, ugly dandruff. So if you haven’t switched to Wildroot, better hop to it right away. Get Wildroot Cream-Oil in bottles or tubes at your nearest drug or toilet goods counter. And don’t froget to ask your barber for professional applications! (One at a time, of course!)
* of327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
uui#**
on
take place on the first Tuesday in May, but these members shall not take office until the beginning of the following academic year.
Sec. IV — The Freshman members shall be elected by the members of the freshman class in November on a date to be announced by the Council, and shall take office immediately after election.
Sec. V—The members of the respective classes shall be eligible to elect their respective class officers. The Law School Representative shall be elected by the members of the Law School. The off-campus representative shall be elected by the off-campus students. The two Senior Representatives-at-Large shall be elected by the then Junior Class.
Sec. VI—The Stay Council shall be elected by the members of the Council at the last meeting of the academic year.
Sec. VII—In the elections outlined in Sections III and IV, a plurality vote of

those voting shall be sufficient to elect. For valid election, at least 25% of the total class membership must vote.
Article // — VACANCY
Sec. I—When the office of President shall become vacant for any reason whatsoever, the Vice-President shall succeed to that position. If both offices President and Vice-President shall be simultaneously vacant, the faculty moderator shall preside over the meetings until elections are held in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.
Sec. II—When any other Council officer who has been elected to such office and has entered upon the duties of said office, shall be lawfully declared to be disqualified from further service in such capacity for any reason whatsoever, or shall resign therefrom, then and in that event at the next regular1 Council meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose to be held before the next regular meeting, nominations shall be made and an election shall be held to fill the existing vacancies.
Sec. VIII—No member of the Council shall be disqualified as a candidate for a vacant office by the fact that he is at that time an officer in the Council.
Sec. IV—In the event that a present officer is elected to fill a vacant office1 in another capacity, a successor to fill the vacancy caused thereby shall be elected at the same meeting.
Sec. V—In the event that a Council member should be lawfully declared to be disqualified from further service in that capacity, or should resign from that position, he shall be replaced, both as a member of the Council and as a Class officer should he hold both offices, by the candidate receiving the next highest number of votes in the election which puts him in office. The Secretary of the Council shall keep a complete record of the results of all elections for this purpose.
Article III
DUTIES OF THE OFFICERS
Sec. I—The President of the Student Council shall organize and direct the activities of the Council and perform all of the other duties which his office implies. He shall have the power to issue statements regarding the business of the Council, he shall preside at the meetings and conduct them in the following order: 1. Call to order; 2. Roll Call; 3. Minutes.of previous meeting;
4. Report of officers; 5. Reports of standing committees; 6. Reports of special committees; 7. Unfinished business;
The Scholastic^
28
8. Correspondence; 9. New business; 10. Adjournment.
The powers of the President of the Council are not plenary.
Sec. II—The Vice-President shall supervise the administrative procedure of student government, acting as manage!-of the Student Council office, and shall ^perform the duties of the President in his absence.
Sec. Ill—The Secretary shall be responsible for all correspondence and for keeping all records, except the accounts of the Council.
Sec. IV—The Treasurer shall be the custodian of all funds and shall keep the accounts of the Council; he shall act as Chairman of the Audit Committee through which the Council examines the financial status of all organizations under its jurisdiction. He shall be assisted by an Auditor, appointed by the President of the Council, who may be reimbursed fox- his services. The treasurer shall disburse the funds upon direction by a majority vote of the Council.
Article IV
FUNCTIONS OF THE COUNCIL
S Sec. I—It shall authorize all Student organizations and regulate their extra-
curriculai* activities. It shall approve the constitutions of the organizations, inspect theix- books, sanction theii- schedule of meetings and social functions, both on and off the campus, and determine the regulations that shall maintain. in the conduct of these functions.
Sec. II—It shall choose students to x-epresent the student pody in the matters of its jurisdiction.
Sec. Ill—It shall possess the right to circulate notices and to express its view in the officially recognized student news publication ox- to publish notices therein when such action appears necessary fox- the efficient performance of its duties.
Sec. IV—a.—It shall, when it believes such action warranted, investigate infractions of its regulations and exercise appropriate sanctions.
b.—Sanctions which the Student Council is empowered to exercise are: 1) Revocation of organization charters; 2) Suspension of organization charters; 3) Withdrawal of permissions granted by the Council; 4) Suspension of individual rights exercised undex- this constitution; 5) Recommendation for disciplinary censure by the University Administration.
c.—Sanctions shall be levied by a
two-thirds vote of the total' Council membership.
Sec. V.—To execute these functions the President of the Student Council shall appoint committees. The Chairmanship and Vice-Chairmanship of these committees shall reside in the Council members. All members in good standing of the student body shall be eligible fox- these committees.
Article V	—AMENDMENTS
Sec. I—By-laws may be adopted, amended or repealed at any scheduled meeting by a two-thirds vote of the total Council membership.
PHOTO CREDITS
Picture on page 11 by McLaughlin; 14 by Caccamise; 15 by Kin-ville; 16 by Brickson; 18 and 19 by Brickson. except for top right (Gorman); 22 by Acme; 24 by Kinville; 25 by Caccamise and 27 by Harlan.
REVIEW OF POLITICS
The lead article in the October issue of THE REVIEW OF POLITICS concerns the foremost topic in the world today: "Constitutional Dictatorship in the Atomic Age." Students can subscribe to the quarterly for $2.00 by applying at Room 118. Main Building.
TWA Announces
REDUCED OVERSEAS * STUDENT FARES
35-50 per cent savings on TWA Skyliner trips abroad
Now, students from 12 through 21 planning to travel and study abroad can go by de luxe TWA Skyliner at big savings. Starting October 1,1949. fare reductions of 3-5 per cent will be in effect for TWA round-trip ocean crossings. Once students arrive in Europe, they become eligible for a reduc--z tion up to 50 per cent for travel to and from distant points, even as far as Bombay. Tickets are good for one year.
Although fares are reduced,TWA’s service stays at its consistently high level. You’ll relax in your lounge seat, have tasty, full-course meals served you. And in a matter of hours you’ll arrive at your destination, thanks to TWA 300-mph speed and dependability.
For details, contact your nearest TWA office, or your travel agent.
*
^Oct. 7, 1949
Across the US. and overseas
Free trip for tear ergoarzers
TWA gives a fall free ticket over its International routes to any person engaged in educational work who organizes and conducts a party of ten
or more persons for an overseas tour. Persons may organize groups for university study abroad, or may secure ten or more enrollees to the International Youth Camps in Switzerland (ages 12-20). Call on your nearest travel agent for details.
TH AMS MfOAlO A!HUMS

EVERY MAN HAS A REP!
If you haven't a
rep, your local
Arrow dealer can
fix you up quickly.
Arrow's pure silk
rep striped ties
come in most
college colors and
are made in the
new narrow shape,
regular shape
—--------------------- «
The place to go for the names you know
It's GILBERT'S for ARROW
REGULAR SHAPE
NEW SHAPE
and bows.
$2
DO CLOTHES
MAKE THE MAN? Write for your free copy of "The
What, When and Wear of Men's Clothing." College Dept., Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., 10 E. 40th St., N. Y. 16, N. Y.
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
ARROW SHIRTS
WWW
TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Ifs ADLERS for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS
Concerts begin at 12:30 p.m. in the Reading Room of Cavanaugh Hall.
Program for week of Oct. 10:
MONDAY
Symphony No. 6 ..........................Tschaikovsky Aria: Omia bambino cara (from Gianni
Schicchi) ..................... Puccini
Temple scene from Aida ........................Verdi TUESDAY
Symphony No. 5 ----------------Tschaikovsky
Arias: Voi le sapete, and Tiriddu’s Farewell (from Cavalleria Rusticana) Mascagni
Aria: Vesti la guibba (from Pagliacci) ....
---------------------------- Leoncavello
Aria: Pace, pace, Mio Dio (from Forza del Destino) ...................... Verdi
WEDNESDAY
Symphony No. 1 ................... Brahms
Overture to Russian and Ludmilla____Glinka Duet: Tornami a dir (from Don Pas-
quale) ....................   .Donizetti
Duet: E il sol dell’ anima (from Rigo-letto) Verdi Aria: Recondita armonia (from Tosca) ---------------------------------- Puccini
Aria: Donna non vidi mai (from Manon
Lescaut) ...................... Puccini
THURSDAY
Warsaw Concerto ............... Addinsell
Symphonic Espagnole _________________Lalo
El Amor Bru jo ___________________De Falla
FRIDAY
Gayne Ballet Suite ...........Khachaturian Classical Symphony ...  Prokofiev
Brandenburg Concertos _______________Bach
30
The Scholastic
A Rage to Live, John O’Hara; Random ' House, New York; 1949, $3.75.
If in his newest work John O’Hara ■ ^attempted merely to write a long novel, : ^he has succeeded. In A Rage to Live’s 590 quick-moving pages he has placed much of the same force and liveliness :	for which his best short stories are
known. He has filled the book with vigorous and fascinating people. He has even depicted a way of life. But in . doing all these things, he has not gone far enough, for the book lacks some, thing. -
$ A Rage to Live is hardly more than • ™a souped-up yarn about a beautiful, ; desirable woman who cannot control her passions, who apparently knows no 1 shame, and whose libidinous nature leads her to physical desires of such intensity that she would probably sizzle if touched with a damp cloth. This book is the story of Grace Caldwell , Tate and her shortcomings.
A member of the so-called “ruling class” of Fort Penn, Pa. (Harrisburg), Grace Tate had just about everything > woman could ask for — unchallenged ; prestige in the community, a tremendous income, a devoted husband and three fine children. Her marriage had all the earmarks of a long, happy one. That is, until she embarked upon clandestine romance with a local contractor. Then her marriage to Sidney Tate soured, he and her youngest son succumbed to polio, and Grace began to | think maybe she was being punished 1 ^for her sins.
The woman tried to stop her sinning, • but she could not. After another pair w of affairs — with an insurance magnate and a local newspaper man — O’Hara plucks the errant widow from an agitated Fort Penn populace and packs her off to New York, where the book ends.
The story itself isn’t bad reading, despite a number of references, quotations, and phrases that may offend some ^people’s taste. John O’Hara is still the master of a highly satisfying, free-flowing prose. His characters are real and memorable, especially the amiable governor, the mayor who wanted a bridge named after him, Grace’s brother Bruce, who never amounted to much, and numerous other petty politicians, teachers, prostitutes and farmers. He describes the parties, carnival, clubs, and the whole life of the town with an unerring eye for accuracy. The read-
7, 194%
ing of A Rage to Live is free and easy. The story itself is not.
The most glaring fault of this novel, it seems to me, is the fact that O’Hara never completely explains Grace Tate. He gives no satisfactory answer for that uncontrollable driving force which plunges her into such desperate affairs. Rather he prefers to attribute it to a combination of sexual tension and irresistible internal pressure. It is not a satisfactory solution to Grace Tate’s problem, however, merely to slough it off as “a rage to live,” as he has done.
Aside from that, the book moves along fairly well, giving readers a reasonably good picture of uppercrust Fort Penn society. It is a big, clear mural of how people fared in such a middlesized Pennsylvania city of the twenties, and it deals equally well with their economic, social and political problems. Yet somehow the book just doesn’t click. You pick it up expecting O’Hara to lead you through another experience full of interest and meaning. You may read it through in a few sittings, because the
CORDUROY JACKETS
4 Patch Pockets $14.95
CORDUROY SLACKS
$8.50
Rvsc s Katz
1 V FO/? MEN AND A V/OCWG MEN
MAIN AT CO LFAX
book is O’Hara, and it is interesting. But you’ll probably come away from it disappointed. For, as far as I can see it, A Rage to Live has no real meaning. —V. O’G. D.
Sociology Club Opens
New to the list of campus clubs is the Sociology Club which is being started this semester under the auspices of the Department of Sociology. The purpose of the organization is to hold monthly meetings for academic discussions and social activities.
Four graduates have been named officers of the group. Charles O’Reilly is president, John Realy is vice-president, Robert Cassidy holds the secretary post, and Frank Marsden is treasurer. Membership in the club is open to all graduate students and seniors majoring in Sociology. Students who fit these qualifications and who are interested in joining the organizations are asked to attend the next meeting on Oct. 17, at 7:30 p.m. in the Law Building.
31
Lights
(Continued from Page 9) of floodlights — one on each side of the highway — were raised to light the crossing. The latest attempt, which was finally abandoned, was the barring of the two center lanes to traffic (by still-visible yellow lines) and confining it to the outside lanes on either side. Now there are the new stop-go light signals.
After erecting the new lights, M. C. Pohlkotte, head of the traffic division of the State Highway Department, said they would be operated on a red-green traffic stop basis only when the flow of pedestrians crossing the highway would be sufficient to warrant it. Otherwise, the lights will blink with their regular amber caution signals.
Lights Manually Controlled
Also, the lights will not be used to stop auto traffic, Pohlkotte said, until both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s agree on an authorized official to operate them by manual control at the proper times. He emphasized that the traffic lights •would be used only for the protection of pedestrians when the crossing was heavily used, and that their purpose was not for vehicular control since there is no crossroad at the installation.
Commenting on the new lights, the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student welfare, said the lights would probably be used to stop traffic on nights of big dances and the like, when many students are crossing back and forth between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
The new traffic signals are‘overhead installations, one each above the north and south-bound traffic lanes. They -will be operated from a control box in the watchman’s hut at the entrance to St. Mary’s.
SAL, OCT. 15
John Adams Auditorium
JO STAFFORD
L
FINE REPAIRING •)
7 p.m.
2 SHOWS 9:30 pan.
TICKETS $3.00 — $2.40 $1.80 — $1.20 Tax included.
Opponents
(Continued from Page 21) and crew, 21-14, in the last two minutes of play.
The black crepe was removed from Bancroft Hall as Navy won their first game in two years by torpedoing Princeton, 28-7. Sophomore Bob Zastrov passed for two touchdowns and plunged for a third. For the second week in a row, Marquette was handed a 41-point loss, this time by Michigan State. The Spartans uncorked an aerial barrage that missed the target only five times in 18 attempts.
While Notre Dame is playing Purdue tomorrow, Southern Cal will be entertaining Ohio State, Navy goes after its second win as it plays host to Duke, North Carolina travels to Columbia for their tussle with South Carolina, Michigan State is home to Maryland, Iowa meets Illinois in a Big Nine contest, Tulane preps for its Notre Dame fracas by scrimmaging Southeastern Louisiana and Southern Methodist takes the day off.
15 PHOTOS $100
for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size 2J4 x 3/>	'
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL $1.00 and PHOTO to
"PROcopy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
Presented by SERVICE GUILD
PAUL WESTON'S ORCHESTRA
Red Ingle — The Starlighters
Tickets on Sale at
COPP’S MUSIC SHOP
124 E. Wayne St. Sorry, no phone orders
Two-Day Program Planned
The third annual Natural Law Institute will be held Dec. 9 and 10 in the College of Law. The two-day program will be devoted to discussion of natural law philosophy in current American jurisprudence.
Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, O., businessman, will sponsor this year’s Institute. Mr. Gould also sponsored th^ 1948 Institute.
Headquarters for your ATHLETIC APPAREL
For a Limited Time
on GOLF CLUBS
We carry a full line of Accessories
MANHATTAN BOWLING BALLS
Fitted and Drilled in our own shop.
BOWLING SHIRTS
SONNEBORN’S
SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave.
South Bend Phone 3-3702
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
32
The Scholastic
Music
By JIM BRETT
This week we have in our midst an English hit, Jealous Heart, that has bounced across the sea and scored on I? the American side. Featuring the voice ; ^md piano of the populai- London orchestra leader, Al Morgan, it has rapidly climbed high on the popularity list.
, Sammy Kaye’s sentimental rendition of < Room Full of Roses with Don Cornell and the Kaydets on the vocal is an-' other tender number on top of the I	musical heap.
; In order to settle any violent arguments that may have developed among ^£he campus connoisseurs of fine music, ^et me state here and now that Scotch Hop and Hop Scotch Polka are two correct titles for the same number, which is currently featured in vocal chorus arrangements by both Art Mooney and Guy Lombardo and their respective orchestras. Speaking of violence—Frankie Laine is taking care of Noiv That I Need You in his typical grunt and groan style, but in Lucky Old Sun he leaves his boxing trunks behind and scores an unexpected triumph.
A blue note was sounded in the musical world' during the past week when vocalist Buddy Clark was killed in a plane crash in California after attending the Stanford-Michigan football game. All of us will miss Buddy, who, although he never quite reached the ultimate in musical stardom, was a । steady and pleasing performer of the nation’s popular ballads.
Attention Brother Bones fans! Brother, who brought us Margie in the Bones manner, has dished up Ain’t She Sweet in a rejuvenated version. Another old number on the upward trail is I Never See Maggie Alone sung by Benny Strong. Poor Benny’s chances with Miss Maggie seem rather dubious as a vast collection of her relatives crowd in on his lyrical love-making. When it comes to love, however, you ^pan’t leave out the King Cole Trio.
■At present all three of the songsters are courting an earthly angel of whom they ask the musical question Who Do You Know in Heaven?
Bing Crosby has dashed a few platters up from the Paramount production Top o’ the Morning, starring the groaner and Ann Blyth in a film in which the blarney stone is stolen from its resting place in ole’ Ireland. One
7, 1949
of the most pleasing of these releases is a ditty with the same title as the picture Top o’ the Morning.
And with the old blarney stone in mind, I hope all you sundry sons of Eire will be on hand when a real flesh and blood Irish tenor, Christopher Lynch, holds his concert Wednesday evening, Oct. 12, in the University Drill Hall. Mr. Lynch, who was born in and received his training in Ireland, was a protege of the late John McCormack, and according to his advance billing, you can fairly smell the shamrock in his lilting melodies. He has recorded several numbers for RCA Victor and an album, The Minstrel Boy, for Columbia, and is also a star of the radio program “The Voice of Firestone,” so you can be sure that those purchasing tickets for the affair are in for a real treat.
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) was the arrival of Father Sorin and six Brothers of Holy Cross as founders in the Fall of 1842. The second was the first Irish triumph over West Point’s gridders in the Fall of 1913. The third was the appearance in Life magazine last week of the article featuring LOBUND and its noteworthy contribution to medical research.
It is estimated that more than fifty million Americans have been laboring under the delusion that Notre Dame is primarily, and almost solely, a football factory. Life, with its millions of readers, has come to the rescue; and has proved beyond question that an educational institution that leads all others in building men physically and morally, is up with the leaders in scientific discovery.
We are grateful to Life and we welcome the material and moral support that should express itself in swelling the University’s endowment so that future generations will profit by the wise and economic expenditure of each and every contribution.
Sincerely yours,
John O’Connor 337 Sorin Hall
California Fan Writes
Editor:
The Scholastic hit the West Coast yesterday and was most welcome—as usual. The slightly altered format is interesting. I am wondering whether you will continue to emblazon university figures on your cover, as was begun with Mr. Martin, and co-captain Hart.
Are the traditional covers of the past few years gone forever?
’Tis rather refreshing - to note the spruced-up entertainment section. For a change the writer doesn’t have a dark opinion of everything. And shamrocks to Mr. Ken Thoren for his concrete expose of the back page column. It is pleasant to see that the immature gripings of the past few years have vanished. Let us hope that the new trend is not merely first issue madness!
Geraldine C. Cassutt San Diego, Cal.
We hope so, too! — Editor
Coaches
(Continued from Page 25) ette; Joe Benda and John H. Miller at St. John’s in Collegeville, Minnesota.
Pro Coaches, Too
Earl “Curly” Lambeau just quit coaching the Green Bay Packers. He was one of five Notre Darners teaching the pros. Others are Jimmy Phelan, heading the Los Angeles Dons of the All-America Conference; Lawrence “Buck” Shaw, head tutor of the San Francisco 49ers, also of the All-America Conference; Hunk Anderson, former Notre Dame coach, now assisting George Halas with his Chicago Bears; and Wayne Millner, assistant coach of the Chicago Hornets.
Many recent graduates have also moved into the coaching ranks. Jack Fallon, who lettered in 1946, 1947 and 1948 is an assistant at Wayne University. Teddy Budynkiewicz, a ’49 graduate is assisting at Arizona State. Dick Riley, personable phy-ed grad of ’49 is holding down the athletic directorship at newly-founded Kings College.
Ex-Irish coaching basketball include Ray Meyer at DePaul and John “Buster” Hiller of St. John’s in Minnesota.
Architects Visit Indianapolis
The Architects Club attended a two-day seminar program conducted by the Great Lakes District of the American Institute of Architects in Indianapolis last weekend.
The topics of the seminars were: architectural acoustics, color systems, and color and lighting.
After the Friday program the members of the club had an informal talk with the president of the American Institute of Architects, Mr. Ralph Walker, on some of the contemporary problems of Architectural Education.
33
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Zkoren
Okla Okay
Along with a large contingent of fellow Notre Darners, we took in the road company of Oklahoma! the other night. Having seen the show in both New York and Chicago, we were pleasantly surprised to find that the touring production came up to the original in every respect. The cast was young, attractive and possessed fine, full voices. The costumes and scenery have not been allowed to grow shabby in any way. The dancing was even fresher and better than its Chicago counterpart. The only fault we could find with the show, and even that was infinitesimal, was the fact that they’ve broadened the humor to the point where it precariously skirted the fringes of obscenity.
The Palace was jammed during the two-night run. The acoustics in the large house were excellent. Our group could hear every word of both the dialogue and lyrics. That was particularly interesting since we sat in the very last row of the top balcony.
It’s puzzling why more stage productions do not play South Bend. The fact that the local public thirsts for such entertainment was evidenced by the sellout houses. The large numbers of Notre Dame students in the audience also showed plenty of interest from this quarter. It’s too bad the Theater Guild doesn’t list the town as one of their subscription stops.
It looks, however, as if we’ll just have to be satisfied with the ear-busting orchestras that play at the town’s biggest bijou and the one-night stands that pack that barn they call the John Adams auditorium. Then, too, there’s always our own University Theater. And the plans they’ve mapped out for the year look interesting. Yes, there’s hope.
Lay Off George
With the never ending lines in the chow hall it seems too bad that now you have to also hurdle another obstacle before attacking your food. The problem exists in the East Dining Hall and is namely a nice old gent named George. He means well and has a heart of gold, but why, George, must you be such a minor despot?
When one goes to eat he wants to eat with his friends. George, however, insists that you mustn’t save seats even
34
though your buddies might be on your heels. Who wants to sit with strangers? Some of the best conversation of the day is flipped back and forth across the chow tables. Maybe George, you’re acting according to orders. If not, how about layin’ off and giving “gourmets” such as we a break?
On. the Ball
For a change it seems as though all those campaign promises prior to last year’s elections weren’t just vote-fodder, sophs, juniors and seniors are all off to a roaring start. The seniors have already slated a date for a barn dance. The juniors are formulating plans, that if approved, will meet with the class’ wholehearted approval. The sophs are working hard on their Cotillion, the social highlight of the fall season.
The credit for all this work can be traced to the hardworking prexies (Sparky Thornton, Ray Yanics, and Jim Garvin) and their associate execs. If these officers can produce their packed programs of activities it will be a red letter year for sure.
Never Like This
Some colleges have often been referred to as country clubs. Although it has a golf course, two lakes, the massive Rock, et al., Notre Dame has never fallen into that category. With the latest addition to the campus, however, it might. We hear tell that the frosh of Zahm have bought a television set. When they’re installed in every room and included on the tuition it won’t matter if even sporty Georgetown calls ND a country club. In the meantime, congrats to you Zahmites. (What nights are guests allowed?)
Villagers Plan Mixer
The Villagers’ Club announced that it will play host to all off-campus students at a mixer* party on Oct. 12. The party, to be held in St. Joseph Parish Town Hall will be free to all members of the Villagers’ Club.
To add zest to the affair, the student nurses at St. Joseph’s Hospital have been invited to attend. Tom Flock, president of the club said that there would be dancing and free refreshments between the hours of 8 and 10:30. Admission for non-members has been set at 50 cents.
Mass List for Coming Week
In hopes that last week’s list was of some help to the men who are novices at using a daily Missal, the Scholastic again lists the coming week’s Feasts:
Saturday, Oct. 8 — Double-White, St. Bridget, Widow. Gloria, Common Preface.	*
Sunday, Oct. 9 — Semidouble—Green;	11
18th Sunday after Pentecost; Gloria, 2nc^ ' Coll. St. John Leonard, Confessor, 3rd St. Denis and Companions, Martyrs;
Creed, Preface of Trinity.	f
Monday, Oct. 10—Semidouble—White;
St. Francis Borgia, Confess. Gloria, 2nd Coll. “Defend Us”, 3rd Choice of Priest, Common Preface.
Tuesday, Oct. 11—Double of 11 Class
—White; Maternity of the Blessed Vir- t gin Mary; Gloria, Creed, Pref. B.V.M.
Wednesday, Oct. 12 —Simple-Green £ Mass of the previous Sunday; 2nd Coll. “Defend Us,” 3rd Faithful Departed, 4th Choice of Priest; Common Preface.
Thursday, Oct. 13 — Semidouble — White; St. Edward, King and Confessor; Gloria, 2nd Coll. “Defend Us”, 3rd Choice of Priest; Common Preface.
Friday, Oct. Ik—Double — Red; St.
Callistus, Pope and Martyr; Gloria, f Preface of Apostles.	y
Geologists Hold Session
Geology Club Program Director Harold Sheeran opened this year’s activities with a meeting last Wednesday afternoon in the Main Building Geology Quarters. After a short business meeting, Dr. R. C. Gutschick showed color slides which he had taken this Summer while working on the Redwall limestone in the Grand Canyon area in Arizona. ___________________
Aero Club Plans Picnic
The Notre Dame Aero club held its first meeting of the school year last week. The club is the student branch of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences.
Mr. William D. Drinkwater, faculty advisor for the club was the principal speaker. Mr. Drinkwater spoke on the work the Department of Aeronautical Engineering plans for the year. Th»' club also made plans for a picnic Oct. Is and tours of the Bendix Aviation Corp, and the Studebaker Corp, in South Bend.
The aero engineers will hold their next meeting Oct. 20. Mr. Frank N. M. Brown will deliver an address at that time.
Officers of the Aero club are: Walter Geudtner, chairman; Robert Kraemer, vice-chairman; Tim Hanrahan, treasurer; and Peter Skerrit, secretary.
The Scholastic
A
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
| fOR STUDENTS OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING :
* 1 ******.—*  ........  ............    .. •*•••••• ...••*• •• ........‘.'•JS.'/S"./	.*..
Research across the U. S. A.
YOUNG SCIENTISTS ARE BUILDING CAREERS WITH DU PONT FROM
CONNECTICUT TO TEXAS
When you think of Du Pont research, you may think first of Wilmington, Delaware. Actually, only eight of the Company’s 36 research groups are located there. Du Pont scientists now pursue their studies in 11 states scattered from Connecticut to Texas.
Each of these laboratories is a selfcontained operation. It may be devoted in part to fundamental research and applied research, or to investigations looking to the development of new products—sometimes a combination of these activities.
An unusual Du Pont laboratory is one opened last year at Newburgh, New York.
Inside The Laboratory
In the three-story building at Newburgh, scientists have at their disposal the most modern equipment for study of coated fabrics and plastic sheetings under all sorts of conditions. For example, a new product can be tested in a room maintained
Newest Du Pont laboratory, at Newburgh, N.Y., was opened last year. It is devoted to research and development work in the field of coated and impregnated fabrics and allied products.
at a temperature of —20° F. In other rooms, the effects of high temperature and humidity can be studied. Equipment is available for testing tensile strength, tear resistance, fading, flex and flame resistance, and many other characteristics. One of Du Pont’s 33 libraries has quarters in the building; there is a photographic darkroom, as well as offices, conference and work rooms.
The Newburgh Laboratory works closely with the adjacent plant, which makes "Fabrikoid” pyroxylin coated fabrics, "Fabrilite” vinyl resin coated fabrics and plastic sheetings, "Tontine” washable window shade cloth, bookbinding materials, and other coated and impregnated fabrics and plastic sheetings for many uses.
Research at Du Pont
Research has long been a major activity at Du Pont, and it flourishes in an atmosphere of appreciation, encouragement and patience. The new products, the new plants, and the new and better jobs of the years to come will develop from the painstaking research programs being carried on today in the laboratories.
H. A. Van Etten, B. S. Ch., Colgate ’42, and E. R. Grise, M. S. Ch., Worcester Polytechnic Institute ’48, investigating the properties of vinyl compounds used in plastic-coated fabrics.
K. F. Richards, B. S. Ch. E., Cornell ’48, and E. K. Holden, M. S. Ch. E., Delaware *48, studying ’’Teflon” tetrafluoroethylene resin insulating material with special apparatus at the Newburgh Laboratory.
Choice of Careers
Each of the Du Pont manufacturing departments conducts continuous research. They operate much like separate companies, with interests ranging from heavy chemicals to plastics and textile fibers. Each holds challenging opportunities for college-trained chemists and physicists, as well as chemical, civil, electrical, industrial and mechanical engineers, also those specializing in production, sales and many other fields.
In this alert, ever-growing organization, young graduates can choose from a variety of careers the one that suits them best as their ability and interests develop.
PE5. U_5.PAT.OFE
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ..THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, informative—Listen to "Cavalcade of
America" Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
^ct. 7, 1949
Printed at AVE MARIA PRESS
