BEUEVE IN YOURSELF! Don't test one brand alone ..♦compare them all!
TRY THIS TEST! Take a PHILIP MORRIS-and any other cigarette. Then, here's all you do:
S Light up either cigarette. Take a puff—don't inhale— * and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose.
O Now do exactly the same thing with the other cigarette.
NOTICE PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
. -A
Unlike others, we never ask you to test our brand alone. We say ... compare PHILIP MORRIS...match PHILIP MORRIS . • • judge PHILIP MORRIS against any other cigarette!
Then make your own choice!
Remember
NO CIGARETn HANGOVER
MMRS
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
s PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
Apr. 20,1951
3
sports major...
new VAN GAB gabardine
If vou’rea student of relaxation—and week-ending is vour main course—then Van Heusen new Van Gab sport shirts are the subject for you.
A.	Gabardine sport shirt (especially smart with contrasting vest). Shirt $5.95, Vest $2.95.
B.	Pullover Teezer with gabardine front, knitted collar, waist and back, $2.95.
C.	California Lo-No model has two-way collar smart with or without tie, $5.95.
0
Van Heusen
REG. T. M.
"the world's smartest''
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
J
Make GILBERTS
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
*813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
MM MIU WOMIN ANO CNI1DMN 209 West Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
HOE. LaSalle

4
The Scholastic
by Mb

Top of the Week
Only a month more until exams . . .
Culture Plus
This week’s bill of fare for the Concert and Lecture series is definitely outstanding. Where else could you find a talk by an authority on gambling and a talk by an authority on Catholic education during the same week? We are excluding the floor of the Senate in Washington, D. C., as a matter of fact.
This gambling speaker has a fascinating background as far as the publicity releases are concerned. He’s done just about everything to expose crooked card and dice boys, except beat Frank Costello in a game of gin rummy.
Veni, Video, Vici
We can’t say too much for television in its present condition, but it has influenced so many of our national habits that we think it wise to digress a bit from the business of going to college and grope around in the real and mundane sort of world away from school.
When It Rains
The old saying about troubles coming in carloads is certainly true this week, as we observe the world situation from our cozy and protected niche in this bastion of Christian learning.
The local bus strike was as welcome and helpful as a broken arm. Many a student was forced to postpone his regular nightly trip to the metropolis because of the transportation tie-up. A goodly number of clean shirts are still piled up in South Bend laundries waiting for their bus-less owners to claim them.
While the N.I.T. buses for once did something according to schedule, General MacArthur arrived in the good old U. S. A. via Constellation “Bataan.” We were listening to WGN prior to the “hero’s” landing and it sounded like all America was preparing for the coming of the Messiah. “Mac” is probably entitled to a Lindberghish welcome, but why not save the real whiz-bang affair 1 for when all the GI’s from Korea step off a transport on the West coast, seasick and disgusted with all wars and all generals.
They Called It Music
What, may we ask, has happened to the popular music industry recently? From the looks of local juke-boxes, the only thing that seems to be in demand is a waltz. These range from the Monongahela Riverbank Waltz to the Smol-ensk-Vladivostock Valley Waltz with vocals by West Virginia Sammy or Earl Shives.
A good Herman, Kenton, Goodman or Dorsey recording is as scarce as a nickel milk in the Huddle.
For Scrapbooks
The first night of Mr. and Mrs. Broad-ivay was great. And as we predicted, Wolfgang Bushclime stole the show. For the Charleston number, words aren’t good enough.
Bottom of the Week
. . . we go down for our physical Thursday.
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.50 a day per man for complete camping equipment, canoes and food supplies. For Booklet, write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS — Ely, Minnesota.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bld?.
r
T. V. has turned hitherto harmless, innocent children into virtual introverts, a society of sitters, listeners, and watchers. We bet there isn’t one kid today whose family owns a television set that knows how it feels to win a game of marbles or accidentally blast a baseball through the garage window of their next door neighbor in an attempt to bat in the winning run for their team.
From the looks of things, 100 to 150 years more of T. V. in its present form will produce a generation with eyes as big as the proverbial saucers and no arms or legs of any actual significance. This should delight athletic coaches no end, and may explain the armed forces development of radio-controlled, unmanned weapons.
For television addicts and prophets, much like the esoteric e. e. cummings’ enthusiasts and followers of Sarte, “Pogo,” and Elliot Quimby, our words are like particles of dust upon their rose-colored picture window—not much bother. When the rocks start coming through those windows, the irritation quickly follows.

NEW
"2 for 1"
RATES
... two can learn to dance for the cost of one and save 50% ... Call now for a free trial lesson... You’ll enjoy South Bend’s largest and most beautiful dance studio.
DIAL 7-1517
106 W. Monroe Street, corner Michigan
Apr. 20,1951
APRIL 20
WASHINGTON HALL—Mr. Michael MacDougall, “The Card Detective,” will give a lecture starting at 8 p.m. All bridge addicts who consider a look better than a finesse might pick up some more tricks.
COLFAX (through April 21)—The question of the week is why Bird of Paradise (Legion of Decency Rating B) was ever held over for a few extra days. It’s supposed to be serious stuff. The actors |	go through their paces with serious faces as if this was real	drahma.
|	If they had known they would be laughed at by audiences	the way
|j	they are they would have cringed a deeper red than the	picture’s
!	climactic volcano. Louis Jourdan, Jeff Chandler, and Debra	Paget —
I who looks more like a Riley co-ed than a Polynesian princess — are ■I the misfortunates who head the cast.
AVON (indefinite) —A lot of people have an urge to walk on ceilings but it takes Fred Astaire to achieve this feat against gravity. It is one of his many stand-out dances in Royal Wedding (A-2), a thin but sparkling musical. Jane Powell is steadily developing into a fine performer and does well as Astaire’s dancing partner and does even better when it comes to singing several of the show’s catchy melodies.
GRANADA (through May 3)—Good comedies are few and far between. One that will be remembered for a long time was last year’s Father of the Bride. It was such a complete success that MGM rushed a sequel into production and they’ve beaten the old bug-a-boo about follow-ups being flops. Father's Little Dividend (A-2) doesn’t suffer a bit in comparison to its	predecessor. Spencer Tracy,	Joan
i	Bennett, Elizabeth Taylor and the	rest of the	original cast are	back
ji	again, generating as many laughs	as they did	in Father.
PALAIS ROYALE—The local	dance emporium will take	on a
military look tonight when the Air Cadets present their annual Spring dance. Entitled ASUWUR, the affair is to be formal with the regular Air Force uniforms as the appropriate dress. NROTC students have received invitations to attend from their Fly Boy brothers-in-arms. Dancing in the •wild blue yonder will be from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m., and 2 o’clock permissions have been granted.
APRIL 21
WASHINGTON HALL—Delmar Davies, the writer-director responsible for Bird of Paradise, is also the man who did the same chores for Broken Arrow. The latter, though, is a success in every respect. James Stewart is the stai- of this early west technicolor story and is supported by an excellent cast. Debra Paget and Jeff Chandler are also in this but their performances are far better than those they gave in the bit of Polynesian stupidity.
APRIL 22
COLFAX (through May 2)—Bob Hope found some good pickings in Damon Runyon’s story Sorrowfid Jones so has gone back to the master’s stockpile and this time comes up with The Lemon Drop Kid. This is Hope at his best. The laughs are loud and steady from start to finish. Marilyn Maxwell, Jane Darwell and a host of Runyon characters do a wonderful job, too.
APRIL 25
WASHINGTON HALL—The University Orchestra will present a pop concert under the direction of Mr. Charles E. Biondo. The program, to start at 8:15 p.m., is promised to be a pleasing one.
6
- hl i
Vol. 92 April 20, 1951 No. S? >
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN, '51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS, '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI, '51
JOHN J. POWERS, 52_________________  News
ROBERT G. FINNEY, '53..._.Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE, '51__________Features JOHN F. MEANEY, '52_______________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY, '52.........Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER, 52_________Photography LEON GARDNER, '52........^Librarian
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT, 51....Advertising G. M. McARTHUR................Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN, '51___________Circulation JAMES ROGERS, '51______________ ....Circulation
DALE FRANCIS------------Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey. Dave Hayes, John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly. Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg. Bob Rust and Joe Straub.
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Jay Conlon, Bill Stapleton. Rudy Unger. Ed Vasta, Dick Cody, Charles Hands and Hugh Schaedle.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson. Paul Fitzgerald. John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy. Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The beginning of the baseball • season is taken by many to be the real < beginning of Spring. But even though Spring doesn’t come to Indiana until the j middle of May, and then only lasts for two weeks, Jake Kline’s basebailers went i ahead and opened their ’51 home season anyway this past week, hoping for the best. Pitcher Jean Ferryman gets set to wing in the high hard one to catcher Joe Moriarty.—Photo	by Terry Shee-	.
han, ’54.	j
The Scholastic	)
t (l
T
Batter-Up
No one yet knows what to expect of the 1951 baseball team. It started its season last Saturday with a game that must have been a hum-dinger to watch. The main regret is that is wasn’t played on Cartier field. And it was also too bad the squad had to lose Dick Giedlin—a player who has always done his most for the Notre Dame teams he has played on.
As for the season ... it is any man’s guess as to how it will turn out. No one can judge a team on their first performance. For all anyone knows the squad might come through with a season to equal 1949’s. Then, again, they might run through a lacklustre season like last year’s.
There is one thing that can help the squad to tally up a great year. And that’s support.
The 1950-51 basketball season is still remembered. Few could forget the way the’team arose like a phoenix out of its ashes of defeat to batter some of the country’s greats. One of the things that sparked this revived spirit was student support.
The only trouble with the basketball season was the team didn’t get the support until after the mid-way point in the season. Will this happen to the baseball team, too?
Will the diamond stands be empty until the very warm days of May?
Will baseball supporters remain in the sack on a nice afternoon rather than give encouragement to the team?
Will the peanut and coke vendors be the only students cheering for Coach Kline’s men?
Like the season, itself, all of these things won’t be answered for at least another month, and perhaps not until
the end of the season. When they are be great if the replies could be on the the team and the student body.

On the Beam
This past week an active member

answered it would credit side of both
of the local radio
station’s staff asked: “What’s wrong with the Scholastic? It hasn’t slammed WND in over three months. You guys getting soft, or something?”	z
The answer is—no, we’re not getting soft, or something. We still call them as we see them. The main reason why there hasn’t been any adverse criticism of WND lately is because it has been shaping up so well. Any derogatory remarks thrown its way would, at present, be completely uncalled for.
Soon after the station installed its new transmitter there was more than enough trouble over in the Fieldhouse roost. Things weren’t going according to plan at all. Reception in some halls was awful. In others, it was impossible to get the station. WND, for a time there, hit an all-time low as
a service to the community. But it was during this period that the station must certainly have found out how high a popularity rating it did have.
Everyone was asking what was wrong with the station. Lots of NDers got their dander up because their routine of listening to the station had been interrupted by some faulty mechanisms. When people gripe so vociferously when you’re out of business you can be sure you had a strong effect on their lives when you were operating.
Those that were dissatisfied with WND’s temporary period of trouble have reason to be doubly glad now that the station is running smoothly again. For not only has’ the new transmitter helped the station but some new and better programs have also improved conditions.
The station’s crop of disc jockeys has improved and there seems to be more variety to the platter shows. The insertion of some big-time recoided shows help a great deal, too. Next week the station plans to prolong its evening schedule right through until eleven o’clock each night.
After several hours of pounding die books it’s always a pleasure to turn on WND for some relaxing music. One of the best aspects about WND seems to be its continuous desire to improve. It is far from being a stagnant organization.
And that’s why the Scholastic hasn’t been attacking its fellow, local field of communications. The large and hard-working staff over there have been doing a fine job. Here’s hoping they’ll continue on their up-hill route.
'Broadway'
Now that the stage crew has struck the set, the costumes have been sent back to New York, and the cast has forgotten with relief about getting to nightly rehearsals, it is time to say a few parting words about the student musical before the successful show is filed into local history books.
It was good to see this project revived. Everyone who saw it had a fine time and compared it favorably with the . University’s previous shows. There were well over a hundred people connected with it in one way or another which is a further reason why it should be put on each year. It proves there is plenty of hidden talent on the campus waiting for a chance to strut their stuff for the entertainment of fellow students. And the capacity audiences that filled Washington Hall each night proved the popularity of such an event.
The Student Council deserves commendation for having sponsored Mr. and Mrs. Broadway. Their investment was wisely spent. May next year’s Council demonstrate the same kind of judgment by being angel for what should be an annual production.
Apr. 20, 1951
7
How to Prepare NOW to Write Better Exams
Yes. you can be the proud and happy man who writes better exams this term.
The best approach, of course, is to bear down on your studies, but here’s another valuable suggestion. That is to improve your comprehension and concentration skills through Foundation for Better Reading training.
Through Foundation training you not only learn to read faster, but you also can achieve greater understanding of what you read. You improve your ability to leam. You pave the way to better exam grades. And, you get more out of your college education too. Foundation training also helps you “grasp” exam questions with greater speed and ease—to get you off to a “running start” on exam papers.
Many of your fellow students who have taken Foundation for Better Reading training will tell you how it has helped them. They have doubled—even tripled—their reading speed. They have improved their comprehension and understanding of what they read—particularly in courses that require long reading assignments. Father John A. O’Brien, Notre Dame educator and author of “Fast Silent Reading,” recommends better reading training.
o	o
Special Pre-Exam Training Now Starting
Act now to be better prepared for finals. Get started next week on the special pre-exam training available at the Foundation. The course is easy and convenient. No advance preparation is required. Set your own hours—day or evening.
Come In or Write for Free Booklet
For complete information about the Foundation’s way to help boost your academic standing, be sure to have a copy of the valuable 12-page booklet, “You Can Read Better.” It’s yours for the asking. Come in ... or return the coupon . . . today.
Foundation For Better Reading 114 East LaSalle Ave. (Open ’til 9 P.M.) Phone 3-0077 Be sure to come in ... or return the coupon ... right away.
To: Mr. Stanley Gould, Director Foundation for Better Reading 114 East LaSalle Avenue South Bend, Indiana
Please send me your 12-page booklet, "You Can Read Better," and complete information about Foundation training.
Name .............................................................
Address ..........................................................
City ................................ Telephone	.................
Major Course .................................. Year..............
(Please Print)
.	The Scholastic
I	'
I
* VOLUME 92, NUMBER 22
APRIL 20, 1951
> Day to Highlight / Mediaeval Institute
> The importance of scholarly mediaeval research to the Catholic Church and to the world will be highlighted during a University of Notre Dame " Mediaeval Institute Day to be held April 27 at the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York City.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.S.C., president of the University, and the Rev. . Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Notre Dame Mediaeval Institute, have issued - more than 200 special invitations for the event. Invitations have been sent > to all Fellows of the Mediaeval Acad-emy of America, to the most prominent t	mediaeval scholars in the nation’s col-
F	leges and universities, and to associates
i of Notre Dame in the New York area.
His Eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman, Archbishop of New York, ’ ■will be Patron of the Mediaeval Institute Day in New York. Host to the Mediaeval Institute for the occasion will be the Pierpont Morgan Library, which houses some of the world’s rarest manuscripts. Arrangements with the Library for the observance are being rmade through Dr. J. B. Adams, Curator of the Library.
I	During.the observance Father Phelan
will speak on “The Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame.” Rev. Aztrik L. Gabriel, of the Mediaeval Institute faculty who now is a member in the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, N. J., ■will discuss “The Daily Life in a Parisian College of the Fourteenth Century.”
The Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, the only one of its kind in the United States, was founded in 1946 as a center for research in the Christian culture, philosophy, theology, language, literature and art of the Middle Ages. The Institute is partially financed by the Michael P. Grace II Trust of New York City.
Receives $1,000 Painting
Peter C. Reilly, president of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company, Indianapolis, Ind., has presented the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery at Notre Dame with an original painting by the noted Italian artist, Sassoferato. The new gift is Sassoferato’s “Madonna and Child Adored by Angels,” valued at $1,000.
Air Force Men Will Take Off on Four-Hour Flight to Palais Royale for 'Azuwur' Tonight
It’s destination Palais Royale for approximately 140 Air ROTC men and dates tonight as the Air Cadet Club holds their “Azuwur” Ball, with take-off time set for 9 p. m.
Dress uniform is the last-minute brief for fly-boys as well as NROTC and reserve personnel who are to tactically support the formal mission. Those who haven’t been issued proper combat attire are instructed to make the run in tuxedo. A sonorous artillery barrage is expected from Gene Hull and orchestra for the full four-hour run over target. After completion of mission at 1 a. m. the anticipated return to base is 2 a. m.
Flight will be interrupted at 11:40 for the crowning of the queen, who is Miss Mary Jane McKeon, a sophomore at St. Mary’s, from River Forest, Ill. She will be escorted by mission commander, Tom Digan, a senior. There will also be a parade of all Air ROTC seniors.
An airplane constructed of balloons, cartoon posters, and official Air Force photos will help dress the crepe-camouflaged ball room, and the tables from the balcony above have been arranged
AZUWUR Chairman Tom Digan plans sortie with Queen Mary Jane McKeon.
in a semi-circle on the main deck for necessary forced-landings.
A sen,d-off receiving line which will greet all combatants prior to flight time will stand as follows: Tom Digan, chairman of the dance; Bill Whiteside, president of the Air Cadet Club; Maj. Joseph J. Weidner, USAF; Capt. Thomas Conley, USN, and Col. Melie J. Coutlee, USAF.
Other strategists of tonight’s show besides Digan are Dave Schoen, tickets; Bill Hagan, publicity; Tom Regan, decorations, and Danny O’Neill, date bureau.
Glee Club Travels To Hamlet Sunday
The Notre Dame Glee Club, recently returned from their annual Easter concert tour of the Eastern states, will travel to Hamlet, Ind., Sunday, for a concert and reception in that town.
Last Monday night, an octet from the student singing organization made the trip to Hamlet for a special program. Sunday night’s performance will feature the regular 36-man Glee Club travelling squad who will be unc’er the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, F.A.G.O., head- -of the Notre Dame Department of Music.
On May 6, the “Singing Irish” will make another trip, this time to Monroe, Mich., for another formal concert. The Monroe trip will probably be the last jaunt for the songsters before they appear in Washington Hall for a Spring concert at a yet undetermined date-
On April 9 the Glee Club was featured on a TV show emanating from Chicago, Ill., that celebrated Universal Notre Dame night. On their recent Easter tour, the singers were again prominent video-wise when they starred on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” show-over the nation-wide facilities of the C.B.S. Television network.
For the remainder of the year, two new soloists will appear regularly with the ND Glee Club. They are Gene Fanning, baritone and Jchn Nolan, tenor. Both soloists are veteran Glee Club performers and possess unusual talent in solo roles.
Apr. 20,1951
9
Long's 'Shanty' Ork Set for Senior Ball
Musical hosts at the Senior Ball, May 11, will be Johnny Long and his orchestra. The “Shantytown” man will bring his crew to the Rockne Memorial
JOHNNY LONG
after recently playing such spots as New York’s Hotel Statler, the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago and the Palladium in Hollywood.
Long started his dance band career as a Freshman at Duke University and played there until he took a B.A. degree in English in 1935. Since then Duke’s most musical Sigma Nu has pushed his outfit to the top and today his is rated as a favorite band of colleges.
A violinist by trade, Johnny does his bowing from the port side which is rare in fiddling circles. Adding to the Long show is the glee club — the vocalists who put the shanty in “Shantytown.” This musical epic about a dilapidated edifice with much vegetation adjacent, now a part of every party boy’s vocal repertoire, is Long’s most popular record. Since making it in 1940 he has sold well over a million of the discs. Another Long favorite is “All the Way Choo Choo,” to be remembered by ND’ers who made the trip to New York for the 1949 North Carolina game.
Price of the Ball bid is $8.50. For those in need of tuxedoes a rental service will be available. Those interested should contact the Student Council Office. Rental charges are $3.50 with the understanding that the suit will be cleaned before being returned.
University Made Site For Deferment Tests
Rev. R. W. Woodward, C.S.C., director of the Office of Military Information, has announced that the University will be in charge of selective service tests to be given on May 26.
The bulletin of information about the test and test registrational forms 106 and 107 will be distributed at and by the University as soon as they are received. This bulletin will be issued by the only authoritative source — the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, N. J., about April 22 or 24. All directions and information will be found in this bulletin. The time and method of the test will be announced later.
Father Woodward advises everyone to take the test. “There is everything to gain and nothing to lose by so doing.” A student in the lower part of his class can win a possible deferment by scoring a satisfactory mark. If this same student fails the test, he has lost nothing, since he is draftable anyway.
A student in the upper part of his class has a chance for deferment without passing the test. In any event, final judgment rests with the local draft board concerned.
As it now stands, sophomores are eligible for deferment if in the upper two-thirds of the class, and juniors in the upper three-fourths. If not in these categories, deferment is still possible upon passing this test.
Seniors who intend to go into graduate study must rank in the upper half of their class for deferment. A senior not going to graduate school can be drafted right after graduation, unless he obtains an essential job.
School Plays Host To Pan-Am Meeting
The NFCCS Tri-regional Commission on Inter-American Action held its seventh annual Pan-American Day Conference at Notre Dame last week end, as over 180 delegates from schools in the Chicago, Wisconsin, and Fort Wayne Regions discussed the present relations between Spain and the countries of the western hemisphere.
The. conference began Saturday afternoon with a general meeting in the Law Auditorium. Blue Circle President Tom Carroll welcomed the guests, and Rev. Jose A. Sobrino, S.J., of the Spanish Embassy in Washington spoke on the history and culture of Spain.
Father centered his talk on the life of Queen Isabella and her part in launching the flow of culture and re
ligion from Spain to the New World.
According to Father Sobrino, Spain’s t course of action through the years has reflected two important notes of Spanish culture, extreme individualism and idealism. He compared Spain today to “a sick man recovering by himself with- , out medicine.” “Catholicism,	of prime	<
importance in the colonization	of Amer-	2
ica, is greatly handicapped in presentday Spain,” he said.	§
Regarding inter-American	relations,	I
Father Sobrino stressed that there can < be a firmer bond between the American republics “if we emphasize the things we have in common.”
Saturday evening the visiting stu- -dents were guests at the Student Council dance at the Palais Royale. Special ’ entertainment was provided by a x marimba player, a guitar trio, and a Spanish dance by Carol Krull of St. . Francis College in Fort Wayne.
The conference theme “Spain and the -Americas Today” was the main topic of the three panel meetings Sunday morn- ' ing. Through Student talks and dis- . cussion, the panel sessions reviewed current relations of the United States, Canada, and the Latin American countries with Spain.	y
At a meeting of the tri-region’s officers and moderators, Rosary College of Chicago agreed to be host to next year’s Pan-American Day conference. If a fall meeting is held, Barat College will be the site. The IAAC will also take part in a fall meeting in Chicago of the Archconfraternity of Christian Doctrine.	-
The tri-region voted, unanimously to (Continued on Page 30)
Singing Star at ND
SOPRANO LILLY WINDSOR who recently sang- in Washington Hall poses with Father Kehoe and her pianist.
10
The Scholastic
FRANKENSTEIN Is Loose!
Y	The lowest depth to which people can sink
1	before God is defined by the word “journal-
ist * . . . If I were a father and had a
I	daughter who was seduced. I should not deF	spair over her: I would hope for her salvation.
But if I had a son who became a journalist.
I	and continued to be one for five vears. I
1	would give him up . . .
।	Indeed, if the press were to hang out like
- *	every other trade, it would have to read:
j	Here men are demoralized in the shortest pcs-
sible time on the largest possible scale for the |	smallest possible price . . .
• ‘ —	What we need is a	Pythagorean silence. There
*	is a far greater need for total-abstaining socL
I	eties which would	not read newspapers than
i	for ones which do	not drink alcohol.—Sorin
)	Kierkegaard.
♦ >
I A
-TILL right, so we can see that Mr. I Kierkegaard wasn’t exactly in favor of f - the journalism of his day. But was it i"	this bad? Is it this bad today?
“ Let’s think about it. Just how important are the newspapers, radio, TV, Pi and the movies today? One man put it I this way.
j	The motion picture, which now attiacts hun*	dreds of millions, is the most vivid and emo-
tional power influencing the souls of the un-
i	reflecting masses. The radio, a more superfcial
।	and ephemeral influence, pervades with its
leitmotifs and trends the \ery atmosphere of
1	the homes and thoughts of the masses. The
influence of the press is more unobtrusive but goes deeper and shapes more intimately the basic conceptions of the common man. The great increase, not only in newspapers but also in magazines and illustrative papers, has developed the most powerful marhinerv of all time for producing in the masses current beliefs. opinions and tendencies.—Felix Morlinn. o.n.
I think we can conclude with Father Morlion that the power of the existing media of mass communication is immense, and further that the mere existence of a being of such great power is enough to warrant our attention, lest, like a Frankenstein, it destroy its creator. But the thing about all these means of communication is this: They can have tremendous power for man’s good, but they can exert the same power in opposition to his good. In themselves they’re neither good nor bad — or we could say that they’re indifferently good. The determining factor is the end to which they’re put.
Thoreau had something to say about the value of the end for which a newspaper is printed. To wit,
I am sure that I never read any memorable news in a newspaper. If we read of one man robbed, or killed by accident, or one house burned, or one vessel wtecked. or one steamboat blown up, or one cow run over on 'he Western Railroad, or one mad dog killed, or one lot of grasshoppers in the winter, . . .'we never need read of another. One is enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and cppli-cations? To a philosopher all news as it is called, is gossip. Yet not a few are greedy after this gossip.	-
By BILL RICH, ’51
The following article does not necessarily reflect the vieics on this topic of the Scholastic.—Editor.
Perhaps again the point is made too strongly, but I think it’s worthy of our attention. For we are the people who watch TV, listen to WSBT or WND, and read the Trib.
But look what journalism has done, or, on second thought, let’s take a look at what some people think it has done. I think we more or less see its good side, but since the purpose of an article like this is not to give definitive answers, but rather is to take a look at some questions that don’t ordinarily get asked; let’s take a look at the views of some people who have seen some effects cf journalism that seem to them to be seriously bad.
Thoreau has already made the first criticism. Namely, that journalism focuses our attention on the trivial, the unimportant — and thus spoils us so that we don’t appreciate more worthwhile things, much like somebody who’s had a steady diet of comic books from the age of 10 to 21 is spoiled for anything but True Story.
The second criticism is that journalism has encouraged lazy thinking.
The mind of a man whose only reading is his newspaper is like a blackboard on which everything is erased ever)’ day or even twice a day. A straight-news mentality has no real continuity of thought but mirrors a succession c«f often contradictory factual impressions and emotions. This typical 20th century complex is a form of intellectual laziness and the breeding gtound of all demagogic movements.—Morlion.
In SHORT, then, the kind of reading you have to do in a newspaper geared to the IQ level of a 13-year-old tends to make you a sloppy thinker — and, the third criticism, ideal material for an Adolf Hitler or a Huey Long — because you read the newspaper to get the news — and since what you want is the news, you just run through to see what the news is — and reading something with that attitude makes you an a-number-one sucker for propaganda.
To get back to Mr. Kierkegaard — he’ll give us the fourth and fifth adverse ways in which newspapers or journalism or “journalese” affects society. He describes the fourth as the “mass attitudes” formed by the press.
Ths demoralization which comes from press can be seen from this fact: There are not ten men in every generation who, Socratically, are afraid of having a wrong opinion; but there are thousands and millions who are more frightened of standing alone, even with an -opinion that is quite right, than of anything else. But when something is in the papers, it is eo ipso certain that there is always a good number having that opinion or about to express it.
The fifth and last adverse effect is described as that of the spectator mentality. He illustrates this . with the instance of the two English noblemen, who, upon seeing a horseman in distress— instead of helping him — merely bet as to whether he’ll fall or not. Or to bring it closer to home, looking at the Korean war news each day and idly speculating about it — while not giving a bit of thought to the soldiers who are suffering and being killed or the country despoiled and the people made miserable.
So FAR, then, I think that we’ve seen that there is a problem here. We have a tool of great power which seems to be having some powerfully undesirable effects on society. But what can be-done about it? We can’t simply wash our hands of the whole business, because it’s a fact. There are TV sets. People can read, and they do read newspapers. So we’ve got to be practical, accept the powerful tool as a fact, and see how it can best be put to man’s service.
Now I can’t even attempt to solve that whole problem. But I would like to offer some ideas on what seems to me to be the contribution which that part of the media of mass communication aiming at the dissemination of news (e.g. newspapers, newsmagazines, commentators, movie news, etc.) has to offer man. And flowing from this contribution will be some journalistic responsibility. As to how journalism is to be brought from its present state to a state wrhere it will make this contribution, I’m not able to say. But I think we will see some means which ■won't lead us to this end.
It seems, too, that the purpose of these institutions (which I’d lump together under the term journalism) is to orient man to the historical present in such a manner that he can intelligently go about his business of living in the modern world. The journalist does this by first sifting out the significant events-from the non-significant, and then presenting the former together with the pertinent facts necessary for the reader to see. the event’s significance.
Apr. 20,1951
11
The journalist may also relate these events within time to truths or realities which are beyond time. During this process the journalist is careful that the material is presented so that it may be correctly evaluated by the reader. But the journalist does not attempt to seduce the readers’ minds with slogans, half-truths, unmentioned facts, etc. in order that the reader may agree with the journalist’s conclusions. His aim is not to present material so that it may be swallowed by the gullible, but rather in such a manner that it can be digested by the understanding intellect if the material is of sufficient importance to warrant such careful treatment by the intellect. In short the journalist should keep in mind what Maritain said regarding the purification of means, i.e., that the means must be proportional to the dignity of the human person.
The journalist, then, has a very difficult job. But he has a very influential, and important one too. He has the right to communicate to a mass of men, and thus he has a grave responsibility to further the common good by his communication.
I think we could apply these criteria to the article which presented Mr. Manion’s book in the April 6 issue of the Scholastic, and we would find that this article satisfied the criteria to quite a considerable degree. It brought to the attention of the student body a matter which was of significance for them, and it presented the matter in such wise that the reader could make a reasonably sound judgment as to the merits of the book.
ThERE was, however, an advertisement in last week’s Scholastic which would not at all satisfy these criteria. For these criteria would require that no untruths be presented to the reader, and further that nothing be presented in such a manner as to insult the intelligence of a reasonable man. This advertisement failed miserably on both counts. I doubt if it was of any danger to the common good of the students reading the magazine, and it was probably the.occasion for a few laughs.
But the fact that an advertising campaign such as the one of which the particular ad was * an instance could actually reap a harvest in dollars and cents for its promoter points up forcefully the seriousness of this problem. The fact that people buy the product makes it clear* that literacy can be a dangerous thing, for evidently there are a great many credulous people who can read with their eyes without exercising any sort of critical understanding of what they read. Couple this
ST. MARY’S •«
The next Open House at St. Mary's will be this Sunday from 2:30 to 5:30 p. m. The program includes dancing, card playing, community singing and entertainment in Stapleton Lounge. Jackets and ties should be worn.
with the greatest means for mass communication in history, means often exercised without regard either for truth or the common good, and truly you have a Frankenstein monster capable of destroying us.
This being so, let’s turn the question around and ask, What responsibility do we as readers have in regard to this problem? For after all the right which we have to know what’s going on carries with it certain responsibilities.
First of all we have the responsibility to make our own judgments, and not accept the ready made ones handed out by the newspaper we read. And this is tough, because nobody can read critically while his mind’s asleep. But as Catholic college students we have a responsibility to be leaders in our community, and as a group we must be. leaders in our society. To do this we must know what’s going on, and we can only do that by thinking for ourselves and reading intelligently. Otherwise, as far as our ideas are concerned we will have about as much originality as a pair of GI issue pants, and we’ll be the sort of mass men Kierkegaard talked about.
You know, we have a responsbility to the journalist too. For instance, I can criticize Scholastic, but it’s not my responsibility to put out a student magazine. How many people read the article on the book carefully? The kind of reading it deserved? In the practical order, we have a great deal to say about what the journalist writes since we either do or don’t read it. What kind of boost did publications which are trying to do the job — as for instance Commonweal, America, and the Sun Herald — get when only 281 subscriptions (less than 1/16 subscription per man) were purchased during the press Drive — and this at the greatest Catholic university in America.
Remember — if the Frankenstein destroys his creator, we, who helped to create him, will suffer—perhaps even more than the journalist. The job belongs to us too, not only to read intelligently and think intelligently, but also to do all else we can to solve the problem.
History Workshop to Be Held For Teachers This Summer -a
Problems involved in the teaching of history in high schools will be treated during the second Workshop in the i Teaching of History to be held here from June 18 to Aug. 10.	f
The Workshop, which will be con-ducted throughout the University’s	;
eight-week summer session, is intended	\
primarily for high school social science	j
teachers. Dr. Marshall Smelser, as-sistant professor of History at Notre Dame, will conduct the course.
Its aim is to arrange the materials of history in the most efficient organization for teaching purposes. Last -year the course included the materials usually covered in the first semester of ' < American history. The 1951 workshop will treat the second semester’s work, thus completing the first year’s work i in high school American history.
Opportunities also will be available for specialized work in visual-aids, testing, and text-book evaluation. Further * inquiries should be directed to Dr. Marshall Smelser, Department of History, Notre Dame, Indiana.	c
Law Colloquium Conducted By Latin-American Board
Latin-American and Anglo-American law will be discussed in a colloquium conducted by Mr. Edward Barrett of the College of Law Tuesday night, in the fourth colloquium sponsored by the committee on Latin-American studies at Notre Dame.
The first in a series of Colloquia on the question of the comparison between Latin-American law and Anglo-American law, it is entitled “Latin-American and Anglo-American Law: Some Points of Comparison in Their History and Methods,” and will be presented at 4:15 p.m., in ■ Room 101 of the Law Building.
The committee on Latin-American studies is composed of members of the faculty of the Departments of History, Political Science, Modern Languages in the College of Arts and Letters, the Marketing Department of the College of Commerce, and the College of Law.
The topic which is to be discussed is a subject in which Professor Barrett has made some special studies and will be useful for those students who are interested in Latin-American problems, either from the point of view of business or for cultural studies. After Mr. Barrett’s opening paper, there will be a general discussion in which the public is invited to participate.
12
The Scholastic
'Mr. and Mrs. Broadway' Scores Bullseye; Powers, Carey and Marshall Rate Raves
By Ken Thoren, ’51
Washington Hall’s usual hoots and howls of derision were replaced by hearty laughs and appreciative applause three nights this week during the run of the tremendously successful student musical, Mr. and Mrs. Broadway.
* After an absence of three years the entirely student-conceived production returned to ring the bullseye bell in every department. All those who were connected with the musical ought to be proud of their excellent show and by the reception it received they should feel compensated for the long hours of work they put into it.
One would need a bushelful of superlatives to review properly the production. Everyone connected wtih it— from the authors right down to the prompters—deserves credit. This was f far from being the type show which derives its success from one or two people. There must have been fine spirit among the large cast and crew for a unified desire to please came forcefully across the footlights. It looked as if the cast was having the time of its life up i there. Its attitude was contagious with the audience.
It is impossible, therefore, to single out only a few for special mention. Perhaps the best way would be to start with that huge cast and crew spoken of above. The chorus and dancers, collectively and individually, added greatly to the show’s success. The stage crew did a fine job in moving some large sets quickly and smoothly. (Speaking of the seis—John Armstrong and his staff
cleverly executed some of the best pieces seen around here in a long time.) As for the unseen production staff behind the curtains: they added mightily toward putting the musical over the top.
Now to get down to individuals. A lion’s share of credit for the show’s success goes to Buddy Powers. Assuming responsibilities of both producer and di-
“Mr. and Mrs. Broadway”
Book, Music, and Lyrics by Bill Carey and Dick Marshall
Produced and directed by Buddy Powers
CAST
GLORIA ................  Hildegarde	Vargyas
GEORGE GLEASON ____________ Dwight Douglas
KEITH NEWTON  Jack Powell WOLFGANG BUSHCLIME......... J. Gerald Godwin JERRY ..................... John Broderick
JIMMY SKIDMORE ____________ Richard Gaeckle
MAX  Lou Garippo PAULA ________________________ Thelma Field
KAREN KINGSLY ________________ Jane Sparks
CHARLEY ______________________ David Rogers
CARTER REX ___________________ Jack Barnett
SINGING ENSEMBLE Rosa Hahn, Pat Klinko, Avis Creighton, Joan Hoar. Ruth Ann Youngsma, Marilyn Zimmer, Rita Hein, Margie Zoller, Mary Ann Pordon, Hannah Pillow, Paula Popko, Doris Rockwell, Joan Polman, Dick Novitsky, Jerry Kerns, Paul Harrington, Joe Enzler, Marion Leszcynski, George Hammer, Phil Finnegan, Cudmore MsMurray, Joe Daigneault, Charles Bassett, Norm Feltes, Jack Harford, Al Eilers. Hal Tompkins.
DANCING ENSEMBLE Betty Hurstel, Gloria Cunningham. Maxine White, Ruth Caussemaker, Joan Jackson. Cleora Buczkow-ski, Ellen Frank, Janice Mickels, Jolant Rybicki, Leila Baranyai, Betty Stark, Flora Jean Solzan, Art Margro. Chazz Shubert, Robert Berner. Bill Whiteside, Bill Toohey, Al Bailey, Jim Higgins. Charlie Allen, Mike Dentino, Francis Ferro, Paul Corcoran, Dick LaPata.
rector, he handled both jobs with complete mastery. His direction of the huge cast was excellent except in a few instances when the Washington Hall stage proved too small to place the actors attractively.
Powers’ special forte seemed to be his staging of production scenes. There were any number of highlights in the show but the Charleston sequence was far and away the top moment." This spot had audiences rolling. The only fault with it was it wasn’t given the encore it deserved.
Bill Carey and Dick Marshall did a workmanship job on the musical’s book and turned in an even better job on the lyrics and music. The story, about a separated Broadway team, the show they put on and their subsequent reconciliation, was pathetically weak in spots. The pace of the plot was often slow and choppy. These minor faults, however, were easily overlooked, thanks to a liberal peppering of witty dialogue.
And their songs came close to being downright great—especially three or four of them. Some of the more whistleable ones were Springtime and You, Be My Everything, and I’ll Tip My Heart to You. These tunes and the rest of the score skirted the pitfall associated with most amateur efforts—namely, that of being imitative and reminiscent of professional counterparts.
Next there was the cast. Jack Poweli has been a standby in campus dramatics for the past four years but his portrayal of Keith Newton was by far the best thing he has ever done. He made the" character completely convincing and his delivery of crisp dialogue was perfectly timed. Lou Garippo, Dwight Douglas and the rest of the straight dramatic
(Continued on page 29)
BROADWAY chorus (left) does the Charleston. Talented Tapster Buddy Powers (right) produced and directed show.
Apr. 20, 1951
13
A Friend of Students
Whether the student realizes it or not, one of the best friends he has is crowded in between the Placement Bureau and the Personnel Office in the basement of the Main Building. Here is the place where he can get squared away on what his capabilities are, can discover what occupations he is best fitted for, or can-find the solution to many of his study problems. Here is the University’s Department of Testing and Guidance.
In a nutshell, the purpose of Testing and Guidance is the educational and vocational adjustment of the individual with respect to the limitations of his scholastic aptitudes and abilities. This covers a multitude of duties and manifests itself in many different ways. First, it gives individual counseling and testing in the fields of academic and vocational guidance. Secondly, it covers group- testing such as Freshman, Law School, and Medical School admission tests' as well as Navy aptitude tests for R.O.T.C. entrance. Thirdly, it cooperates with the deans of the various colleges, the department heads, and the faculty who refer students for counseling and testing. Lastly (and most important for the Seniors), it cooperates closely with Mr. William Dooley of the Placement Office by furnishing him with records so that he will have an idea of the aptitudes and abilities of the job applicants.
Text by Charles Hands, ’52
Photos by Al Muth, ’51
Now starting its sixth year of service, the Department’s facilities are growing rapidly. They have in file 180 different tests in thirteen different categories, including such things as interest inventories, personality inventories and scales, and aptitude tests to measure capacity for the mechanical, clerical, legal, medical, physical science, social science, educational, artistic, musical, and other skills. These tests come from twelve different nationally known and recognized test publishers.
One of the most popular devices in the department is the Reading Rate Accelerator which helps the slow-reading student pick up his speed. The average student coming into the Department reads at a rate of from 225 to 250 words per minute, but if he sticks with the machine he can increase his speed anywhere from 40 to 100 percent. One graduate student, Jack Melchor, started out at 300 words per minute, and is now doing approximately 700 words with a comprehension of about 80 %. It is true that this is an exceptional case, but the fact remains that almost every student can be improved if
he wants to take the time and trouble to spend a few hours every week in the Guidance Department. And the best part of it is that this service, like every other service of the Department, is free to all students of the University.
Good Study Habits An Aim
Reading speed is not the student’s major problem, however. The problems most frequently encountered are the correction of study habits (this is particularly valuable to Freshmen who haven’t learned how to budget time, outline, prepare for a lecture exam, or take good notes in class), academic displacement (for the student who is in the wrong field), and the exploration of vocational abilities. Less frequent are the problems of emotional disturbances because of failures, and the problems of the introverted type (overachiever), who has poor social adjustment, and the extroverted type (underachiever) who participates in too many activities and doesn’t spend enough time hitting the books.
Let’s take the hypothetical case of Joe College, a student who goes to Testing and Guidance because he is worried about what field to enter after graduation. The first thing to be determined is what Joe is capable of doing; this is done by putting him through a battery of presonality and aptitude tests. From the scores of these, the De-
COUNSELOR-PSYCHOMETRICIAN Edward R. Quinn (left) clocks Joe Hennessey, who learns that he doesn't have the “manipulative dexterity" of a dentist. Fellow C-P Richard Willemin (right) checks tests as Tom King and Bob Jaeb rack brains.
14
The Scholastic
MR. QUINN stands under office sign.
partment is able to tell Joe what kind of work he is capable of doing and what kind of work he would be happiest in. Joe now knows what college to enter and has a pretty good idea of what electives to take in order to develop his natural talents.
But that doesn’t end the job as far as Testing and Guidance is concerned. Thsy have in their files a number of Career Monographs published by The Institute of Research, Chicago, which give a survey of the advantages, disadvantages, and prospects in 185 different fields. After Joe studies the Monographs of all the fields that he is suited for, he should have a pretty good idea of just where he stands in the job whirl.
By far the most important part of this process is the counseling. In many cases, this phase might take from two to three hours. The tests are the tools, but the correct interpretation of them is absolutely essential. The counselor examines them from every angle and exhaustively explores job possibilities with the student. The Monograph might give a broad picture of a particular occupation, but it is the counselor who applies it to the student’s own personal background. From here on in i’s up to Joe. In the long run, his own drive and ambition will determine just how far he goes in his selected field.
Reading Disability Cured
Or, if you prefer, take the case of Joe’s brother, Paul. Paul is troubled by a reading disability and applies for corrective help at the Guidance Department. The first step here is to find out just what kind of disability he has. It may be that he is having trouuble with word attack in which he fails to recognize words, cannot pronounce them oral
ly, or associates them with other words in the context. It may be that he has a vocabulary weakness or that his level of comprehension is low. In any of these instances, the cure is to accumulate a list of unrecognized words and look them up in the dictionary. After getting the dictionary meaning, the next step is to use them in a written sentence, and finally to use them orally. All these progressions are necessary if Paul is to make them a part of his working vocabulary.
On the other hand, Paul’s vocabulary may be sufficient, but he may have a personality disturbance which doesn’t permit him to concentrate. Here the cure is primarily up to Paul himself. Concentration is increased only by being able to exclude all other thoughts. Through counseling, Paul is given a high motivation; the rest is up to him.
Finally, Paul may have one of the two difficulties that can be remedied by the Reading Rate Accelerator. If it is his level of intelligence that is faulty and he is average or above, he can profit by being made to read faster; if his intelligence level is below average, he will still be able to get some help by using the accelerator, but not as much. If he has a regressive eye movement, the accelerator will definitely help by not allowing him to repeat a line, by increasing his eye span so that he can take in more words at a single glance, or by diminishing eye fixations so that the eye doesn’t come to a dead stop several
RUDY POUSE tries to keep pace with another of the Department’s helpful devices, the fast-moving accelerator, an instrument designed to increase his reading rate.
times in the course of a line. If any of these six eventualities, the Department has helped him in one way or another.
In addition to guiding and counseling students, the Department is also under contract with the Veterans Administration to supervise the testing of those veterans living in Northern Indiana. There is no counseling given to these men; that part of it is the responsibility of the V. A. Right after the end of the war, vets constituted a large number (Continued on Page 30)
Apr. 20,1951
15
Senior Journalist Authors 'Sign' Feature Giving Picture of Catholicism Inside Mexico
Joseph M. Dukert, a Senior in Journalism at Notre Dame, authored the feature article in the current edition of Sign, magazine, the national Catholic monthly. Entitled “Thunder in the Sun,” the article is an account of Catholicism in Mexico as seen from within.
Dukert, an off-campus student, gathered the material for this article and seven similar writings while on a five and one-half week visit to Mexico last summer. His works have also appeared in the Catholic Review and several other leading Catholic periodicals.
In “Thunder in the Sun,” the author states that North Americans visiting Mexico are usually shocked or disgusted with Mexican Catholicism. He cites:
“The real Mexico is a Catholic country; 97 per cent of its citizens have been baptized in the Catholic Faith. And right there is one of the big causes for misunderstanding. Mexican Catholicism is unlike ours in a lot of ways; and the people’s attitude toward morals and devotion is different, too. Many tourists are alarmed by this fact, and some are even led to doubt the sincerity of Mexican churchgoers.	|	.
“Public displays of religious fervor are so common in Mexico that they almost seem to be based on superstition.”
The reply to such an accusation is summed up by Dukert in the words of a Mexican college student:
“We like to show our feelings. We’re used to showing them. When an emotion is as strong as Mexican Catholicism, it’s bound to appear everywhere.”
Although there is apparent neutrality in Church-State relations in Mexico, there exists a strong passive resistance from anti-clerical government officials. The Church, furthermore, is taking a number of positive moves to counteract the attacks of the State. Says Dukert, “. . . At the top of this list comes the rise in religious vocations among Mexicans. Right now there are 1,736 young men in the final stages of seminary training in Mexico—more than in any other country in Latin America. . . .” The author further points out that, despite the increase in religious vocations, there is an inadequate number of priests to care for the spiritual guidance of the 20,000,000 Mexican Catholics.
In evaluating the true faith of the Mexican people, Dukert said: “Mexico is not the country you see in Hollywood movies or travelogues; its Catholic Faith is deep, sincere, and inspirational.”
Dukert, who has been a frequent contributor to various campus publications, is now engaged in public relations work with the Notre Dame Office of Public Information. A member of the local A.R.O. T.C. unit, he expects, upon graduation in June, to enter into active duty as Public Information Officer with the U. S. Air Force.
At present, Dukert, whose hometown is Baltimore, Md., is preparing an article entitled “Opus Dei,” which will be completed the latter part of May.
Summer Cruises Designated For ND Navy Midshipmen
Over 125 midshipmen from the Notre Dame NROTC unit will make summer cx-uises this year, according to a memorandum to members of the unit recently issued by Comdr. S. A. Bobczynski, executive officer. The men will be divided among four different cruises, depending upon class and Navy status.
Regular students undergo a six or eight week training period each summer during their college years, while contract students participate in a shorter cruise between theii- junior and senior years.
Next year’s sophomores and seniors, regular students, will take the U. S. Naval Academy-NROTC cruise this summer, embarking from Norfolk, Va., on June 3, and debarking at Norfolk, July 27. A task force of two battleships, the Missouri and the Wisconsin, eight destroyers, and a landing ship (dock) will be formed for this cruise, which will visit various European ports and Guantanamo, Cuba.
Regular students of the class of ’53 will report to Little Creek, Va., June 20 for approximately three weeks of amphibious training, and will then proceed to Pensacola, Fla., for aviation indoctrination training. This group will be detached at Pensacola, August 3.
Regular- Marine Corps candidates of the class of ’52 will report at Quantico, Va., June 13 for eight weeks training, which will end August 10. Contract Marine trainees will commence six weeks of training at Quantico, June 18, ending July 27.
Next year’s contract seniors will embark from Norfolk, June 22, on the heavy cruiser Macon and four destroyers, and will be detached at Norfolk, July 13. Ports of call for this cruise include Kingston, Jamaica, and Guantanamo.
March of Time Plans ND Natural Law Film
The March of Time and the University of Notre Dame have entered negotiations concerning a full length film, to be produced by the March of Time, about the Natural Law.
March of Time representatives are now working on a film draft which will be presented to Notre Dame for approval. If this is obtained, work on the script will begin immediately and the cameras are expected to begin grinding this summer. The film is scheduled for nation-wide release next year.
The entire production and direction of the film will be the job of the March of Time studios. The University will provide technical advice on matters of Natural Law.
This joint venture will be financed by Mr. Alvin Gould, Cincinnati businessman and founder of the Natural Law Ijjstitute at Notre Dame. The film is expected to dramatize the history of the Natural Law to illustrate Notre Dame’s part in its contemporary re-emphasis.
Palais Dances to Be Aired By New WND Feature
“Listen my children and you shall hear” something new which has been added to the nightly entertainment provided by WND. Prompted by a successful trial broadcast of the Engineers’ Ball last Friday night, the campus network will feature on the spot broadcasts of all dances from the Palais Royale.
There will be a half-hour broadcast tonight of the Air Force Ball, and next week the air waves will vibrate with the rhythm of Harry James and his orchestra, who will serve as music-makers for the Junior Prom.
In a two-hour broadcast tomorrow night, WND will pick up approximately an hour of music by Gene Hull and his orchestra. The rest of the broadcast will be devoted to an informal “chatter show,” with Jack Hynes and Charlie Schubert doing the interviewing against a background of “canned” music. According to program director Bill Ryan, this informal interview show, inaugurated last week, proved popular with both radio listeners and those attending the dance, and will highlight many of the future dance broadcasts.
The Notre Dame station will broadcast major league baseball scores every hour starting at 3 p. m., and at 4:45 there will be a resume of the afternoon’s scores. A more complete rundown on the day’s games will be given during the 10:15 sports final.
16
The Scholastic
Staff of 1951 Trade Convention Named; Two New York Businessmen Accept Posts
Representatives from every phase of foreign marketing will be on hand when the 1951 Notre Dame World Trade Conference is conducted on May 10. Held annually since 1948, the all-
MR. NICHOLAS J. MURRAY
day session is under the direction of the College of Commerce of the University of Notre Dame.
Two leading New York businessmen and an official of the United States Department of Commerce have recently been named as members of the staff for the forthcoming convention. ’ The three speakers, the first to be announced, are Emil E. Schnellbacher, director of intelligence of the Office of International Trade in the U. S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D. C.; Colonel Redington Fiske, Editor- of Export Trade and Shipper, of New York; and Nicholas J. Murphy, vice-president of the Foreign Department of the Chase National Bank of New York.
In an afternoon panel discussion, Mr. Schnellbacher will discuss the part played by government in foreign marketing. Associated with the Department of Commerce for 2 years, Mr. Schnellbacher visited Northern Europe during the inauguration of the Office of International Trade’s program of inspection of Foreign Service Posts. He also was a Commerce Department member of the Taylor Mission to Europe, which studied means of increasing U. S. import volume from European Recovery Program countries. Colonel Fiske, who will be the prin-
Apr. 20,1951
cipal speaker at a noon-day luncheon, has been connected with foreign trade since 1920. Chief of the Supply Procurement and Fiscal Division of the United Kingdom Base during the latter part of World War II, Colonel Fiske has written numerous articles on international economics. Before becoming editor of the Export Trade and Shipper Colonel Fiske served as foreign credit analyst with the International Acceptance Bank, Inc., of New York, and he was formerly engaged in export financing with an affiliate of the First National Bank, of Boston.
Mr. Murphy at present is a director of the National Committee of American Importers and is chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Foreign Credit Interchange Bureau of the National Association of Credit Men. Having served as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Banking from 1934 until 1936, Mr. Murphy was elected a director of the Banker’s Association for Foreign Trade in 1948. At the local conference, Mr. Murphy ■will speak on the problems presented by finance in world trade.
The morning round table, scheduled to commence at 10 o’clock, and the panel discussion, beginning at 2 p.m., will both be held in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. Mr. J. E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce, will serve as Chairman of an
COL. REDINGTON FISKE
evening dinner in the faculty dinin; hall.	.
According to Professor Wesley C Bender, head of the Department o Marketing at Notre Dame and chair man of the 1951 affair, the conferene will bring together over 100 business men and educators, who will exchangi ideas, while, stimulating interest ii world trade.
MR. EMIL E. SCHNELLBACHER
Alumnus Red Smith Merits Applause of 2Look' Magazine
Red Smith, noted sports columnist of the New York Herald-Tribune, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1925, is featured in “Look Applauds’* in the April 10 issue of Look magazine.
This department is devoted to giving recognition to distinguished personages who have made contributions to knowledge, culture, and the improvement of human relations.
“Look Applauds” says of Red Smith:
“As readers of his syndicated N. Y. Herald-Tribitne columns can testify, he has an affectionate but irreverent regard for sports: ‘I always like to remember that these are still games that little boys can play.’ His ability to make even a basketball game interesting (‘Some big goon throws the ball up and it either goes in or it doesn’t’) has brought him a desk-drawerful of awards. And columns from his book Out of the Red have been used as texts to animate English majors at Columbia.
“Smith became a newspaperman partly from a natural disinclination ‘to lift things.’ Frank Sullivan, no slouch as a wit himself, thinks this is a happy infirmity, calls Smith: ‘a humorist of the purest ray serene’.”
17


Dance of the Dunce
A. SLOW, dreamy record was playing on the phonograph, as we stood alone in one cornel' of the room. “Hold my hand,” she murmured softly. I took her hand in mine; how small it was! “Why don’t you put your arm around me?” she suggested a moment later.
“Isn’t—isn’t there something more to this?” I prompted shyly.
“Oh, yes,” she replied. “There’s one thing more you must do.”
“You mean . . .”
“Exactly. You must step directly forward with your left- foot, follow slowly with your right, taking care all the while to make your movements smooth and even as you shift to the side. Watch yourself in the mirror, now.”
Alas, this was no romantic tete-a-tete.
Perhaps I had better explain how I came to be dancing with a professional instructress. It all started the day I read that advertisement. “How can people get through life not dancing?” the ad asked. I myself had gotten through a good portion of it without undue difficulty, but anything can happen in these troubled times, so I decided to give it a whirl. After all, one might as well be prepared.
I made an appointment and nine o’clock the following night found me sitting in
Text by Dick Cody, ’52
Illustrations by Chuck Lenz, ’51
the outer office of the dance studio, calmly smoking my way through a quartergross of cigarettes I had thoughtfully brought along. An old man sitting across from me, obviously a veteran of many lessons, winked knowingly, and only a moment later I caught an exchange of arch glances by two passing instructress. Undaunted, I flashed back a devil-may-care grin, wishing all the while I were in Nairobi.
Then another girl came into the room, one different from the rest. “We are ready for your lesson, Sir,” she said to me. Our eyes met, and a tingle went through me, like electricity. Suddenly I felt like singing. We walked arm in arm to the dance floor, and I could feel rhythm flowing through every line of her slim, willowy arm. Her hair was the shade of midnight, and she had intense black eyes to match.
“Tell me,” I asked, “where did you get those big, black eyes, from your father or from your mother?”
“From my boy friend,” she shot back, slapping her leg in delight. Tears
streamed from my eyes as I roared with helpless laughter. Any girl with a sense of humor stands okay in my book, I’ll tell the world. Still chuckling, we entered the dancing room. It was a big, mirror-walled place, filled with couples * dancing to the music which blared from a phonograph. Everyone was laughing and singing; an air almost of Mardi Gras gaiety prevailed. One old fellow in particular was having a good time. He was- racing around the room, wearing a funny hat and blowing on a noke- ' maker. Occasionally he would toss up a handful of confetti.
“It makes me feel good inside to see elderly people enjoying themselves,” I remarked.
She shook her head sadly. “Poor, old fellow. The excitement at one of our ' dancing parties was a bit too much for him, and he went hopelessly insane. We just haven’t been able to get rid of , him.”
We walked over to a corner of the room, away from the crowd. “Hold my hand,” she murmured softly ...	“
■N OW that I have explained the situation, let us continue with the story. I had stepped smoothly forward with „ both feet, you will remember, and was . just peering at myself in the mirror. Or rather I was peering at my instructress —this explanation took a long time, and I became tired of my own reflection after only a minute or two. She was much better looking, anyhow.	.
“My, but you have a natural sense of rhythm,” she said. Okay, so I simpered. What man wouldn’t when he’s just been told he has a natural sense of rhythm? After all, I’m as average as the next guy. “So you just put that rhythm into play,” she continued, “and we’ll have you dancing in no time at all.” Now this irked me. Of course I’m no Arthur Murray, but I’m not the lowest beginner either. As a matter of fact, more than a few people know me as the “Old Pro of Maypole Day.” I’ll show her a thing or two, I thought.
“Do you happen to have any samba records lying around?” I asked innocently.
“Come to think of it,” she replied, “the next record to play is a samba. ‘Tico-Tico,’ do you know it?”
“Oh, yes,” I boomed with false joviality, “very well.” It was beginning to dawn on me that perhaps I had made a
IS
The Scholastic
A
mistake. After only two trcmps on her little feet I knew I had made a mistake. “Some of these second-rate samba bands can’t give a good beat to save their souls,” I alibied quickly. “Put on a rumba.”
She walked over to the phonograph and pressed the reject bu’.ton. The record clicked off; then the sinuous, throbbing strains of the rumba filled the air, coursed through my veins with a strange, compelling fire, filled me with the irresistible desire to get out of there. She glided back to me, calling out “Shall we dance?” as she came.
“Did I say rumba?” I cried desperately. “How stupid of me. Naturally I meant tango.” Please don’t havxe a tango, I prayed.
“Oh, a tango,” she said joyfully. “Why didn’t you say so? I just love tangos. And we have so many nice ones here, too.
“Of course,” I bleated, “it is rather warm for a tango. They’re so strenuous, you know. How about a waltz, or a nice, slow fox-trot? That’s it, a foxtrot. They’re slower than waltzes, aren’t they?”
“Mm, much slower,” she agreed. There seemed to be an odd glint in her eye. It almost looked like she was enjoying this. “As a matter of fact, there is a fox-trot coming up that you might like.”
When it came up, I was ready to go down—for the count. “That’s a Foxtrot?” I asked incredulously.
“Well,” she said, qualifying her statement, “you might call it a ‘bouncy Foxtrot’.”
“You don’t, uh, happen to have a record with something about the Maypole in it.”
“No,” she replied smilingly, “but we do have a record with something in it for you—our studio’s record of never turning away a beginner, no matter how bad he might be, because our entire rep
Apr. 20,1951
utation depends on the successful teaching of each individual pupil. Yesirree, this will certainly pay off in dividends to you, as you gradually progress from beginner to accomplished dancer.”
“And will I be the life of parties?” I asked, wriggling in anticipation.
“Not only will you be the life of the parties,” she continued, “but you will also have that inner sense of satisfaction which springs from hearing someone say, ‘Gee, he’s smooth’.”
Already I was deep in reverie. I could hear them say that of me, “Gee, he’s smooth.” The doors of happiness would be unlocked for me, whole new vistas of excitement would open up. I’d dance my way across the continent, into the hearts and homes of millions.
“Make me smooth,” I cried.
“The first thing you must do,” she began, “is to put yourself completely in my hands. You are a beginner, a rank amateur, a know-nothing, and I can help you. Look at yourself in the mirror, you clod, you clumsy, trodding, blundering, gawky fool.” She slashed me across the face with a riding crop. “Just look at yourself, if you’ve got nerve enough.”
I HAVE already described myself as being about as average as the next guy, but this holds true only if the next guy has about five, big, fat, feet.
“What must I co?” I implored her.
The first step she tried to teach me was the “Conversation Step.” This, she explained, was a simple little thing where you casually stroll around the room with your partner, tossing off epigrams and bon mots, pausing occasionally for clever bits of banter with your friends. As a matter of fact, I did the step beau’ifu’ly. My only fault was that I paid so much attention to the dancing that I didn’t have time for the wit, with the result that our little stroll took on the appearance of a shopping trip for tomb-stones. After about the fifth circle around the room, I noticed that the edge seemed to have gone from my instructress’ enthusiasm. Come to think of it, she seemed positively unhappy. Oh, well, so she hated my guts.
Then we tried the “Ezee-Do Two Step,” and I discovered that this night would forever afterwards be commemorated as a studio “first.” It marked the first time that the “Ezee-Do Two Step” had been used on anyone larger than an eight-year-old. I felt rather good at this — that they should take me for older than eight years, I mean. She mentioned something about the “Ezee-Dc One Step,” adapted from a popular method of teaching baby how to walk, but I put my foot down on that. After
all, I said, I’m here to learn how to dance, not walk. Well, I guess that stopped her.
E both sat around, after that, trying to figure out what to do with me. I was getting kind of bored when suddenly her face lit up. “Eureka,” she cried, and my estimation of her dropped a peg. The least Americans can do is to speak American, I always say. “Of course,” she continued, “why didn’t I think of it before?”
“Think of what?”
“The ‘Miracle Step,’ s’.upid.”
“The ‘Miracle Step Stupid?’ ” I asked, cleverly turning the insult back at her.
“Yes, stupid. The ‘Miracle Step,’ ” she riposted quickly, knowing she had me there.
“Can the ‘Miracle Step’ really work a miracle with me?” I asked wistfully.
“It better,” she replied, “or I know a certain studio record that’ll go down the drain.” She outlined the step; it was a slow 1-2 forward, then a quick 3-4 to the side. I grasped the idea instantly, and tried it, but something went wrong. I tried it again, and something was still wrong.
“I don’t know,” I apologized. “I never was much good with numbers.”
“Okay,” she suggested, “we’ll do it this way. As you dance I’ll say ‘slow-slow-quick, quick!’ Can you remember that? ‘Slow-slow-quick, quick’?”
I tried it the first time, hesitatingly, unsteadily, like a baby learning to walk to the “Ezee-Do One Step.” It worked! And again and again. Tears welled up in my eyes. Finally, after six hours and 27 minutes of failure, I was dancing. Unashamedly I let the tears trickle (Continued on Page 33)
f
19
'Faust' Leading Man, Tunney, Discovers It's Been a Long, Hard Road to Stardom
Joe Tunney, who plays the leading role in the University Theatre’s latest production, Faust, has, in the portrayal of his various parts, gradually evolved from a saintly lay brother to a wealthy, but disillusioned business man, who sells his soul to the devil.
It all started when Joe was given his first part, a small one, in Brother Pet-roc's Return when he was a junior in Saint Joseph’s Prep School, back in his home town, Cynwyd, Pa. The role demanded but a few “Aye’s!” and “Hail’s!” as the standard lines for the first-nighter. But Joe was not to be stopped at this. In his Senior year, he captured his first lead role as the aspiring “Macbeth,” which may have been the intermediate factor in softening the shock for his change to the Faust role. Recalling two events which occurred during his performance in Macbeth, Joe relates that his theatrical career may have very easily been stemmed. The audience for which he performed was the largest in his career, 1200 people.
Enraged by the torments of Banquo’s ghost, Macbeth was to throw a wine goblet at the intruder. Instead of hitting the top of the chair as he had been instructed by the director, he missed, and the goblet flew off the stage and landed on the head of a member of the audience. Joe admits that his pitching arm was never too accurate. But he would not leave the stage until he had succeeded in transforming the Shakespearean play into a comedy.
A small stack of chairs had been tied to the ropes supporting the stage curtains as a weight. In the middle of an ultra-dramatic scene, one of the chairs fell and disturbed the balance. A pendulum of rope and chairs immediately burst forth, swinging to and fro across the stage and brought the curtains down with a thud, thus bringing about? an impromptu exeunt on the part of Mr. Tunney.
In the summer of 1948, Joe went to Quebec. There he enrolled at Laval University to study French. In his first year, he did some work in radio broadcasting. However, the radio took a back seat and he, together with a group of other fellows from the States, produced The Farce of Master Pathelin. The significance of the task lay in the fact that the play was presented entirely in French. It was in this play that Mr. Tunney acted his most enjoyable role as a Jewish tailor. Direction, architectural arrangements, set designing and produc
tion were done by the students themselves.
Joe jokingly recalls that the spirit of the troupe was greatly boosted when it was affronted with the cries of a few7 members of the audience in the form of “jarret,” only to find afterwards that the English equivalent w7as “ham.”
Capturing a lead role in his first attempt at Notre Dame was quite an accomplishment for the 20-year-old Junior. Although he has not appeared in any University Theatre productions heretofore, he has done some announcing for the University Radio Workshop.
He plans to return to Laval this summer for classes and hopes to appear in a student production once more, provided he does not receive the nod from Uncle Sam. Notre Dame is his choice for graduate study in philosophy, the course in which he is now majoring. .
Faust will be the final major production of the University Theatre, to- be presented May 13-17, following two previous full-house performances, The Man Who Came to Dinner, and Harvey.
Planning Europe Trip? Forget Draft Fears!
If you wrant to go abroad this summer, but are worried about how7 your draft board will react, there’s new7 hope. According to the Council on Student Travel, Washington headquarters of Selective Service has given the go-ahead to draftable students at the discretion of local boards.
This regulation (Selective Service 1621.16) authorizes local draft boards to issue registrants a permit to depart from the United States unless it is found that the “registrant’s absence is likely to interfere with the performance of his obligations under the Selective Service Act of 1948.”
The new7 ruling makes it possible for students to take advantage of the low7 rate student fares to Europe being offered by various student organizations during the coming summer.	.
But the Selective Service regulations goes on to point out: “Before determining whether a permit should be issued, the local board may require the registrant to complete and file his Classification Questionnaire (SSS Form No. 100) and such other forms and information as may be necessary to a determination of the advisability of issuing the permit.” .
Maybe it isn’t worth it, after all.
Tuesday Is Deadline For Election Tickets
Frank Regan, chairman of the elections committee of the Blue Circle which is handling class elections, has announced that Tuesday is the deadline for the submission of nominees to the secretary of the Student Council. The elections will be held May 8.
Election campaigns may not begin until the nominations have been approved. Approval is dependent upon a clear disciplinary record and a scholastic average of at least 80 per cent.
Officers to be elected are the presidents, vice-presidents, secretaries, and treasurers of next year’s Senior, Junior, and Sophomore classes, two representatives of the Senior class, one representative from the College of Law, and one off-campus representative. The off-campus representatives must be a member of the class of 1952.
-4)
German Translation Made Of Father O'Brien's Books
Tw7o best-selling books authored by the Rev. John A. O’Brien, writer and lecturer at Notre Dame, have been translated into German and published by the Paul Pattloch Company publishing firm.
Father O’Brien’s The Faith of Millions, published in German under the title Der Glaube Der Millionen, has undergone tw7o of the foreign language printings. The publisher currently is bringing out a third edition and is attempting to smuggle copies of the book into Eastern Germany, now under domination of the Communists w7ho disapprove of the circulation of Catholic books within their zone.
Also published in the German language by the Pattloch Company is Truths Men Live By, also written by Father O’Brien. The book is being published in German under the title Goot Lebt, with an intended circulation in both Germany and Switzerland.
7
Former Teacher Called To Active Duty as Pilot
Kelly Cook, ’44, a former instructor in the Department of English from 1947 to 1949, has been called to active duty as a jet fighter pilot w7ith the 174th Fighter* Squadron and will train at Dow7 Field, Maine.
He served in World War II as a bomber pilot and has forty combat missions to his credit. Prior to his call he had been acting as a staff member of an Iowa radio station.
20
The Scholastic
Fagan Completes Sweep With Frosh Speech Win
William Fagan of Newark, N. J., completed his first place sweep of oratory contests on April 11 when he won the Freshman Speech Contest. He had previously won the Breen Medal for Oratory and the eliminations for the Notre Dame entry in the forthcoming Hearst speech contests.
Fagan won the ten dollar’ Frosh prize
r
BILL FAGAN
with an address entitled “Soldier, Statesman and Spirit.”
As a high school student he was named New Jersey state champion and was a winner in Hearst and American Legion state high school competitions. Fagan is a member of the Notre Dame debate team.
Professor Reappointed To Law Committee Post
Professor John J. Broderick, Jr., assistant dean of the College of Law at the University of Notre Dame, has been reappointed to the Committee on Cooperation with the Bar and Bench of the American Association of Law Schools.
The Association, which includes leading law schools of the United States, is one of two national organizations whose members are entitled to practice law in all states. The Committee for Cooperation with the Bench and Bar currently is engaged in a survey of all member schools to determine the importance of a course in Legal Ethics in the curriculum of law schools.
Announcement of Professor Broderick’s reappointment to the Committee was made by F. D. Ribble, dean of the
Law School of the University of Virginia and president of the American Association of Law Schools. Professor Broderick, who is serving his third term on the Committee, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1947.
Former ’Scholastic' Editor Made VP of Detroit Ad Firm
Paul Foley, A.B. ’37, has been made . a vice president of MacManu’, John & Adams, Inc., advertising agency with headquarters in Detroit. The announcement was made recently by James R. Adams, President of the firm.
Foley joined the agency in 1946 after returning from service as News Bureau Chief for the Office of War Information in Istanbul, Turkey, and on the foreign staff of Associated Press.
Before the war he moved over into the advertising business after working on the editorial staffs of various papers including the Chicago Evening American.
At Notre Dame Foley majored in Journalism and was editor of the Scholastic in 1937.
Foley is married and has three children. He lives at 1211 Willow Lane, Birmingham, Michigan.
WMMB	MM ^^^M M^B MB* ^^M
I	1
। Attention Atl Artists! ।
•	i
All students who expect to enter the Art and Hobby Show to
I be held May 11, 12, and 13 are requested to fill out the information । blank below and return it as soon as possible to the following ad- I | dress: Notre Dame Art and Hobby Show, 319 Dillon Hall.
The committee would like these entry blanks in order to plan | I the display space. The site of the show will be the Drill Hall. Any hobby, craft or art work executed by a student, either undergrad or I
I graduate, will be accepted. Photography is also acceptable. The only prerequisite for the hobby or craft entry is that it must involve some ■ | clement of construction in its execution.	’
|	Please cut out and return to:	I
NOTRE DAME ART AND HOBBY SHOW	।
I	Room 319, Dillon Hall
|	NAME: ............................................
ADDRESS: ......:..................................  ’
SCHOOL........................................      I
|	NO. OF ENTRIES..................................... |
.	MEDIUM	OR	MEDIUMS................................ .
Russ Carlyle to Play For Freshman Dance
Russ Carlyle and his orchestra will serenade an expected 3-50 first-year men and their dates from 9 until 1 a.m. on May 4 as the class of ’54 stages its first official dance at the UniversityTom Murphy and his decorating committee are hard at work planning the transformation of the Rockne Memorial to a “Starlight Terrace” for this climax of the year’s freshman calendar.
Co-chairmen George Welsh and Ed White have announced that 2 o’clock privileges and car permissions have been granted the dance-goers. Bids have been set at $4.25, which covers tax and favors. Dress will be semi-formal.
Handling hotel reservations for the visiting girls is Bill Woodward. Tom Schoen is chairman of the publicity committee and John Keenan heads the arrangement committee.
Dick Delmonte, Walter Vaughn, and John Bierbusse are directing a date bureau for those first-year men who have been unable to obtain dates for the dance.	.
Apr. 20,1951
EBB
21
Job Seekers Helped
ONE of the most talked about and least understood organizations on campus is the Placement Bureau which the University established last spring.
“What am I going to do once I graduate? What kind of work do I want to do and where would I like to do it?” These questions are in our minds throughout college. And to aid in finding the answers to such questions the University established the Placement Bureau.
According to the man who runs -he Bureau, Mr. William Dooley, the real purpose of the Bureau is not to get a job for the student. Bather, he says, “We are trying to help a man help himself. We are-trying to help him to find his own job. We know that it is the student himself who must get his own job; but we here in the Bureau can teach him how to go about it and furnish him with much other valuable help along the way, and that is exactly what we are trying to do.”
Placement, really, is nothing new at Notre Dame. For years, professors, alumni and friends have been aiding the student in properly training for his future career, in advising and helping him to find the position where he would be best suited, the job where he could best put his knowledge and ability to work, in which he could be happy and at the same time be making a valuable contribution to society.
The purpose the University had in
Text by Rudy Unger, ’52
Photos by Al Muth, ’51
mind when it established the bureau last spring was to take advantage of the situation, to co-ordinate the work of all these professors, alumni, and friends by placing it under one central office, thereby making it effective and invaluable to the student. Integration of all the academic depar! ments, alumni, and other sources allows the Bureau to work out the many details involved with a minimum of red tape and allows placement to be made on a large and more effective scale.
Actually, the manner in which the Bureau has succeeded in its first year has surpassed the hopes of the University. This condition is due to both the interest of the students and to the response of employers.
How Placement System Works
With the idea in mind that the job of finding a job is primarily up to the student—let’s see just how this centralized placement system works.
Placement, actually, began the day you filled out the questionaire sent to you before acceptance into the University, in which you were asked about your academic program in high school, what your “strong” subjects were,
what extra-curricular activities you participated in, and what some of your ambitions for college life were.
The first week after your arrival here on campus, you were confronted with a maze of tests, designed to determine your academic achievements, aptitudes, and interests. They delved into your knowledge of the natural, social, and mathematical sciences, as well as your English achievement, scholastic aptitude, and educational and vocational interests.
All these tests were prepared, studied and filed by the University’s Testing and Guidance Department, an organization headed by Mr. Edward Quinn, which is closely allied to the Placement Bureau and which plays a significant part in helping to achieve its aim. Every student is free to study and discuss the results of his test with the Guidance Department and to augment them, from time to time, with further tests, all of which may enable the placement people to help him to help himself.
And so placement isn’t something that starts in senior year. On the contrary, Mr. Dooley stresses that, “Placement is the integration, the culmination of the student’s four years of studies, extra curricular activities, and planning — reading, thinking, talking, counseling—which all shape him for and point him toward his career.”
Placement is a four-year job. The
MR. WILLIAM DOOLEY, Director of the Placement Bureau, interviewing Senior Bob Thompson (left) and checking files.
22
The Scholastic
student should have that in mind when , he starts off as a Freshman; everything he does in his four years can help him in preparing for the career he selects after graduation. Studies are but one portion of his college life, essential as they may be. Participation in extra-curricular activities along the line of his ambitions, thinking, parents and friends, as well as having personal interviews with the placement people, all aimed at Ending the best possible career for himself and best way to prepare for it, are essential to the idea of placement. Tests taken at the Guidance Department may be illuminating and helpful. Another useful way of aiming toward that career is by finding summer and part-time jobs that have some connection with it.
With the coming of one’s Senior- year the business of placement goes into high gear. So you say, “Okay, let’s just suppose I were a Senior now. How would I go about finding a job, and how can the Placement Bureau help me?”
Well, the first thing you do when you are a Senior is to register with the Bureau. The Bureau’s new offices can be found in the West wing of the main floor of the Main Building; right next to them is located the Testing and Guidance Office. The offices of the Placement Bureau are open to all students, and may be utilized at any time, although personal interviews with Mr. Dooley must be by appointment.
The first thing the Bureau will do is to furnish the student with detailed printed information, instructing him on how to start an effective mailing campaign to all prospective employers and sources of employment information. The ultimate aim of the campaign is to gain an interview, either at school or at the company.
If the student wishes to find out about aWy specific company the Bureau will furnish him with the necessary information. At present the Bureau possesses permanent files on over three hundred companies and the government; in addition it maintains active contact with 26 State Chambers of Commerce, supplying information on employment possibilities in their areas, together with the various alumni clubs throughout the country, most of which have regular placement divisions. If the Bureau finds that a sufficient number of students are showing interest in a particular company, it will add that company to the permanent files.
The Bureau receives an innumerable amount of booklets and magazines from companies, stating the opportunities they have to offer. The bulletin boards in the office are kept well supplied with new job opportunities, and from time to time the Bureau will circulate pos
ters around campus, advising students of coming interviews.	'
The Interview! That’s the crux of placement. How a student handles himself while being interviewed by a company representative may most often be the determining factor as to whether or not he gets the job. To properly prepare himself for the pending interview, the student receives from the Bureau all sorts of printed and personal advice.
Uppermost in the mind of the student going into an interview should be the knowledge of his potential employer and himself. He should be prepared to ask pertinent questions about the company, and he should be able to answer questions about himself.
Just what does a representative look for in interviewing students? Mr. Dooley says that if it could be put in one word, it would be—maturity! “This implies,” he says “a combination of character, personality, and intelligence. Naturally a representative will be interested in the student’s academic record, but he can get that easily enough from the school’s files. What he will be trying to do when he speaks to you is to gauge your leadership possibilities and find out what examples he can find of this in your college career, in activities outside the class room. He’ll want to know what sort of a person you are socially. Are you capable of getting along congenially with others? Likewise he will want to know if you have the ability to work hard and if you are a responsible individual. He’ll be curious to know if you have had any previous experience with the type of work
KEN J. GUTSHAW, ’40, of Union Carbon & Carbide (second from left) searching for talent at the Placement Office. W. H. Billings (left) of the same company, and E. L. Gibson (standing) interview Tom Hinkes, Senior from Wauwatosa, Wis.
BOB THOMPSON looks for openings.
his company does, in summer work, perhaps in your part-time jobs.
After the interview, the representative, as often as possible, tries to get together with your- teachers in an effort to find out more about your potentialities and how you might fit into his company’s set up.”
When speaking to students about interviews, Mr. Dooley always emphasizes two particular points. The first is, “Don’t depend too much on interviews here at Notre Dame! They are valuable aids in your job campaign, but nevertheless it is necessary to remember that as yet, comparatively few employers send representatives to colleges for interviews. Hundreds of thou-
Apr. 20,1951
23
sands do not. Remember! You will get the job for which you are qualified, if you make' yourself known to enough employment prospects.”
Qualifications, not Classifications
The second point Mr. Dooley makes is that, “There seems to be a tendency among students to feel that because they will probably be drafted within a short time after graduation, it does not pay to try for interviews, since most companies will turn you down anyway. That, however, is not true. The attitude of most companies appears to be one of willingness to speak to and hire students, whether they are potential draftees or not. Their main interest is in “whether or not the man has the qualifications we are looking for.”
“Getting placed with some company prior to entering service,” Mr. Dooley continued, “would be a rather wise thing for a student to do. Even if the student does not actually go to work, but is just on the payroll as an employee, he will be one step ahead of the others in the post war scramble for jobs. Most companies keep files, and if a man is listed as having been a member of their organization before his hitch in service, he will have a job awaiting him on his return. Even students with ROTC status, who are certain of service, are strongly urged to make contacts and obtain interviews with prospective employers.”
Most of the present overwhelming demand for placement comes because of the present mobilization period the nation is undergoing. And the most interested people up to date have been the government and industrial and business firms such as Bell Telephone, General Motors, Boeing Aircraft and United States Steel, some of whose representatives have spent two to three days here interviewing prospective students who possess the qualifications their companies desire.
Usually these firms hold a general interview first, and then deal individually with students in personal interviews lasting about twenty minutes to a half hour.
Most of these companies have been highly pleased with what they have found here; they usually conunent on two particular factors. First of all they have expressed a preference for the centralized type of placement system Notre Dame employs, as opposed to the departmental type most state schools use.
Secondly they have been greatly impressed by the difference in attitude between Notre Dame men and students
24
from most other schools. In other universities and colleges, they point out, students in general have a certain pessimism in regard to the future. And here, in contrast, they are finding that Notre Dame students have a more mature view toward the days ahead, that they seem to face the future in a good frame of mind, and with some confidence.
Most of this difference can be attributed Mr. Dooley' says, to the theological and philosophical background, and the religious environment enjoyed by the students here at Notre Dame.
This brings up the point made by Mr. Dooley, that the bureau exists not primarily to aid students in finding jobs that will pay high salaries; the financial factor is but a secondary factor. There is a more fundamental matter involved.
The bureau claims to be a culmination of the student’s four years here at Notre Dame, and as the University’s aim is to educate students to become leaders in tomorrow’s world, leaders with moral character, so it is the aim of the bureau to not only help a student find a place in the world in which he may gain a decent livelihood, but also one in which he can make a genuine Christian contribution to society.
Eminent British Speaker To Lecture Monday Night On Catholic Education
The Very Reverend Martin C. D’Arcy, eminent Cathoilc philosopher, theologian, writer, and lecturer from Britain, will speak at Washington Hall next Monday at 8 p. m. on “The Catholic View of Ed ucation,” under the auspices of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Father D’Arcy has long been recognized as one of the foremost Catholic . philosophers in the world. At present he is Master of Campion Hall, the first Catholic college to be affiliated integrally with Oxford University since the Protestant Reformation. Father D’Arcy has been provincial of the English province of the Jesuits since 1945. The British speaker’s present tour of America is not his first visit here, having served as dean of philosophy at the Graduate School of Fordham University for several years before the last war.
A noted writer, Father D’Arcy has written many books on theological and philosophical subjects, among which are: Christian Morals, Nature of Belief, Mirage and Truth, Thomas Aquinas, and The Mind and Heart of Lave.
Round Table Meets
Members of the Economic Round Table have completed plans for their annual formal dinner to be held in the Oliver Hotel on May 1. The retiring officers of the group will be presented with gold keys.
At last week’s meeting, Tom Carroll presented a paper, “Truman’s Welfare State.” Discussion from the floor followed his address.
Special Student Rates
i
For all coming dances Logan’s offers special . student rates to Notre Dame students and {5-faculty members. NO DEPOSIT necessary. |. .f
You are invited to come in and inspect our stock. Over 500 suits to choose from in sizes Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; shorts, stouts, regulars, longs, and extra longs.
Complete line of accessories
Low rental prices	j'j-
Free alterations
Due to the large demand place orders early.
UH.AVN |
107 N. Main Oliver Hotel Bldg.
The Scholastic^
Spartans to Invade Cartier Wednesday
Eleven Gains Power, Blocking Much Better
Notre Dame’s 1949 national chanr-T pionship team was said by many experts including Illinois’ ‘‘Galloping Ghost,” Red Grange, to be one of the _ best elevens to ever play on the gridiron. It was a great team and one of the very important reasons for its greatness was its efficient down-field blocking. Last year’s team, for the most part, lacked this important aspect of T football. Next season’s team might, and probably will, have it. *
For the most encouraging thing to come out of the Spring sessions on Cartier Field thus far has been the re-■ markable improvement Coach Frank Leahy’s lads have made in downfield blocking. They seem to be getting to the secondary faster than they did last season and with much more devastating results. In last Saturday’s scrimmage, yardage via the ground was concentrated on for the most part and the backfield combination of John Mazur, ’ Fidel Gander, John Petitbon, and Frank Paterra ground out large chunks of turf thanks to an often disabled secondary.
The backfield is powerful. In fact,
one of Leahy’s main problems here is going to be just what to do with all the good halfbacks that go whizzing by. Paterra looked very capable Saturday filling in for Bill Barrett, .who was called home to Chicago. Petitbon should be secure in his offensive spot despite the quantity of good halves right behind him. Frosh John Lattner, who played at the same high school in Chicago as Barrett, is one of the best all-around halfbacks on Cartier Field today. He is a good shifty runner- and a demon on defense. Another frosh, Joe Heap, is doing his best to add to Leahy’s halfback “problem.” He looked mighty deadly as he churned his way through the line Saturday.
Leahy might have a real problem at fullback, but if Fidel Gander can show up consistently this season as he did sometimes last season he could become one of the major threats for he is probably the hardest running back on the club.
The first team looks good. The line is big and aggressive and the guard problem might be solved by the switching of end Chester Ostrowski to that position. Last Saturday’s starting line looked like this: from left to right, Jim Mutscheller, Dick Hilinski, Paul Burns, Art Hunter, Ostrowski, Bob Toneff, and Joe Katchik.
Irish Nine at Indiana Today and Tomorrow
Coach Jake Kline’s varsity Notre Dame nine will wind up the first quarter of their ’51 season with games against Michigan State and the University of Pittsburgh during this coming week. On April 25, the Irish will be hosts to the Michigan State College baseball team. The ND squad will then travel to Pittsburgh to play the University of Pittsburgh on April 27 and 28 in what will be the first diamond meeting of the two schools in the 58 seasons that Notre Dame has fielded a baseball team.
This Wednesday’s contest will be the 69th encounter between the Irish and MSC diamond squads. In the history of this long baseball rivalry Notre Dame has won 39 times while the Spartans have come out on top in 29 engagements. Last year the Irish edged MSC 11-10 at Notre Dame. The Spartans returned the compliment later on in the season with a 7-1 victory over ND at East Lansing.
Last Spring Coach John Kob’s Michigan State nine had a splendid record of 19 triumphs against nine defeats.
QUARTERBACK Mazur prepares to hand off ball to halfback FULLBACK Gander takes ball from Quarterback Mazur, heads John Petitbon in last Saturday's scrimmage on Cartier Field. for hole opened by Guard Paul Burns and Center Hunter.:
Apr. 20,1951	25
But their squad last season was bolstered by the presence of nine Seniors. This year the Staters have only one Senior — Captain Vince Magi, regular centerfielder — on their roster and will have to depend on Juniors and Sophomores to repeat last season’s fine performance.
Michigan State started out their ’51 season this Spring with their 23rd trip below the Mason-Dixon line for a series of games against top Dixie nines. Starting on March 21, the Spartans tuned up for the Big Ten campaign and Mid-Western competition with ten games on their southern jaunt.
Coach Kob has besides Captain Magi seven other lettermen to form the nucleus of his ’51 club. But his pitching staff will have to depend on Sophomores for its depth. Only two seasoned hurlers, Juniors Tom Lawson and Bob Carlson, will be available for duty. Both are righthanders.
Carlson had a 3-1 record last year while Lawson won four and dropped three. The most promising Spartan Sophomore pitching prospects are righthanders Bob Dangl, Chuck Gorman, and Roger Howard and lefties Don Quayle and Don LaPointe. But Coach Kob will have two front line catchers to handle these youngsters: Juniors Bill Bower and Charley Jobionski. The Spartans also will have Sophomore Dick Edin ir reserve to handle the team’s backstopping chores.
In the infield MSC is two deep at every position except third base, and that post is well taken care of by regular Dick Blanchard, a Junior. At the initial sack they have letterman Bob Ciolek backed up by Dick Moser, a JV player a year ago. Over on second base Jack Hofstetter, a Sophomore, appears to have the edge over Cornell Ghise, a squad member last year.
At shortstop letterwinner Joe Rivich and Junior Al Zvoda hold sway. The Spartans’ outfield does not appear to be as strong as their inner cordon though. Only three fly chasers are named on the early MSC roster, Captain Magi, Sophomore Darrell Lindley and Ray Lane, a Junior who showed in but one game last year.
Last weekend, the Irish nine opened the season by edging Ohio State at Columbus in an 11-inning 1-0 thriller. Most of the joy from the win was squelched, however, when it was learned that Dick Giedlin, ace first baseman, who batted .317 in ’50, had suffered a fractured ankle in scoring the winning run, and would be out for an indefinite period.
Bob Nemes started on the mound for the Irish and pitched ten superb innings of one-hit ball before going out for a pinch hitter in the top of the eleventh.
26
Irish Open Outdoor Track Season Tomorrow In Triangular Meet With Big Ten Opponents
By TED PRAHINSKI, ’51
Tomorrow afternoon the track team gets its outdoor season going full blast with a triangular meet with Northwestern and Purdue. Except for the men who have been running on relay teams it’s the first competition for most of the men since the Indoor Central Collegiate Championships on March 3.
Looking at the situation realistically things don’t look too rosy for Coach Alex Wilson’s trackmen tomorrow. For as far as dual meet strength goes, Purdue and Northwestern are among the most powerful teams in the Big Ten. And Notre Dame isn’t as strong this year as it has been in past years. Coach Wilson has done an excellent job of coaching with the material he has, but graduation took a tremendous bite out of Notre Dame’s track talent last June, and Wilson hasn’t had enough time in the few months he’s had the job to develop new strength.
Purdue and Northwestern are especially strong in the events where Notre Dame’s little strength is concentrated, so that even that may go to waste. Notre Dame’s two best performers during the indoor season were half-milers John Mohar and Vai Muscato who won almost every time they ran. Tomorrow they are going to face some serious competition in Shaeffer and Weisflog who ran on a Purdue two-mile relay squad that licked an Irish team featuring Muscato and Mohar a few weeks back. The Boilermakers also have two fine quarter milers in Ronny Meyer and. Dick Koons to throw against Notre Dame’s best, Jim Bollas and John Hastings. Coach Wilson is going to move Lou Lepry down to the quarter to see what he can do. Lou is a Senior who
In that inning, Giedlin singled with two away and no one on. Tom Boland followed with a scratch hit to deep short, sending Giedlin to second. Then Jim Gillis punched out the third straight Irish bingle to score Giedlin with the game’s only tally. Jerry Ledwidge set down the Buckeyes one, two, three in the last of the 11th to preserve Nemes’ victory.
The loss was the fifth for the O.U. nine as against seven wins so far this season. Because of the cold, rainy weather, the other game of the series, scheduled for Friday, was cancelled. Today and tomorrow will find the Irish diamond crew at Bloomington as the guests of Indiana.
has been running distances the past few ; years without too much success, largely because of injuries. He has been looking very good in the shorter race since . Wilson pulled the switch a few deeks , back.
Purdue also has two good men to throw against Notre Dame’s milers and two milers. Johnny Stayton is one of the strongest Sophomore milers to show ’ up in the Big Ten in years, while Bob Rodibough is an old foe of the Irish ’ two-miler Ben Almaguer.	’
North western’s Kurtz ran very well > in indooi- Big Ten sprint competition, and looks like a favorite against Notre Dame’s Buck Ewing in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. Irish quarter milers Norm Feltes and John Hastings might go to the post in the 220 as well.
All the way through the hurdles and • the field events the South Benders are ■ going to be weak. Ed Powell will be the only high hurdler available and he ; and John Doiron will be alone in the	J
low sticks. Whether Bob Toneff, the	(
school’s only shot putter, or Al Kohanc- « wich, the most consistent high jumper i indoors, will be available depends on | whether they can be spared from foot- 1 ball practice tomorrow. Hughes Wilcox 1 and Tom Hassinger will be available f for high jumping tomorrow, but if s there’s no Toneff Notre Dame will have i to concede the shot put.	|
Tom Hinkes will probably be the only | pole vaulter, but if Phil Carnaggio’s | muscles heal, Hinkes will have a little | help in that event. Also a lone man in his event will be Soph Jack Shea j who will make his discus tossing debut.
Broad jumper John Worthington will try jumping again tomorrow for the g first time since suffering a leg muscle spasm in the last indoor meet. If the g leg doesn’t show right the Irish will be H hard-pressed in that event, for the rest g of the season since Worthington was J Notre Dame’s only dependable scorer there indoors.	®
Frosh Fall Second Time Before Varsity Gymnasts
Notre Dame’s varsity gymnastic team shone brightly in all events except the parallel bars last Saturday to take their Freshman counterparts by the score of 62 -33 %. Only two weeks previously the Frosh had given the upperclassmen a tough battle before losing by the narrow score of 48/2-47^.
Neil Vasconcellos was the top point'
The Scholastic^
getter for the varsity by scoring 13 % points. Neil took fii-st in the flying rings, and took second in the trampoline and in tumbling.
For the Frosh, Dave Engels led the way with 10/2 points by taking first on the parallel bars, second on the trampoline and fourth on the horizontal bar.
AROTC Riflemen Fire Impressive 81-6 Record
While football, basketball, and baseball have been monopolizing sport headlines all year long, a somewhat less celebrated activity possesses a team which has quietly been building quite an outstanding record in Notre Dame athletics. This squad, whose season runs from October until April, is the Air Corps ROTC rifle team.
After a slow start of winning only two of its first six postal matches, the team, under the watchful eye of coaches Major Thomas J. Hardy and Master Sergeant William A. Melton soon started to come along. Competing with teams from all over the country, they compiled a record which at present stands at 81 wins and only six defeats.
Beside this impressive seasonal record, the team has achieved several distinguishing honors. In the William Randolph Hearst matches held in February, the squad placed seventh in the entire nation.
The Notre Dame airmen were then selected as one of the three teams to represent the Tenth Air Force in the Intercollegiate matches which took place in March. The results of these matches have yet to be received.
Members of the squad are: Don Riley, captain; Walter Gruger, Bill Donelan, Terry Brown, Bob Biever, Lou Meece, Bill Hagan, Joe Cusack, Bernie Baute, Don Mahrt, and Joe Engler.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
April 20-21—BASEBALL at Indiana 21—TRACK, Purdue and Northwestern at Purdue
21—GOLF at Kentucky
23—Golf at Indiana
25—BASEBALL, Michigan State here
26—TENNIS at Wisconsin
27—BASEBALL at Pittsburgh
27-28—TRACK, Drake Relays at Des Moines


by JAEM MEAMEY
Win and Loss
Notre Dame won a sensational 1-0 win over Ohio State last Saturday to open their ’51 baseball season but they’d gladly hand the game over to the Buckeyes if it would mend Dick Giedlin’s shattered ankle.
What could have been the start of a great season for the diamond men turned into a calamity with Giedlin’s injury. It is doubtful if the hard-hittirg first baseman will be able to play again this season.
Bob Nemes pitched superlative ball but his brilliant effort was almost completely hidden undei- the blight of Giedlin’s accident. Nemes’ performance is a good example of how much brains and control contribute to the success of a pitcher.
Up until last Saturday, all the pitching Nemes had done was two two-innings stints in an intra-squad game. That’s all, just four innings. And he had to face a team that had the advantage of a spring- training trip and was playing its eleventh game of the season. Yet, Nemes went out and set them down with one hit for ten innings—and he didn’t throw a single curve all day.
Bob’s entire repertoire consisted of just one pitch—the straight one. Never down middle, though. And not just at one speed either. First he’d nick the outside corner with a fast one, then float a change up inside, and then maybe a half-speed pitch on the outside again, and so on for ten innings. The Buckeyes never knew what was coming. Just goes to show you what brains and control can do for a pitcher.
Coaches Bugaboo
Fate seems to have picked out the ankles of key athletes to wreak havoc on Irish sport teams this year.
First it was Bill Barrett’s arkle which sidelined him last Fall and weakened the weak Irish scoring punch even m:re. In the few games Barrett did play in, he was sub-par and he never was able to match the performance of his sophomore year. The Irish didn’t have anyone to make up for his loss, and this was one of the many reasons for the poor football season.
Fate next tapped the ankle of Don

Strasser in the third game of the basketball season, snapping it neatly when the speedy Irish guard drove in for a layup without anyone within ten feet of him.
Strasser was out for the season. Krause could never find a substitute who fully measured up to Strasser, and the basketball team became sports tragedy number two.
Now it’s Jack Kline’s turn to worry with his losing his big gun, Dick Gied-lin, as the result of a fractured tibia. Giedlin will be missed by the base-ballers just as Barrett was by the football team and Strasser by the Irish quintet. Whether the Klinemen can overcome this handicap and go on to a successful season, something neither the basketball nor football team could do. only time will tell.
Time Out
Three games have been added to the Notre Dame baseball schedule, Athletic Director Moose Krause announced last week. The Irish will meet the Great Lakes Naval Training Station nine at -Great Lakes on May 19 and on Cartier Field May 30. On their swing through Hlinois during the first part of May, the ND nine will play Illinois Normal at Bloomington May 3.... Frosh vaulter Jim Harrington, whom we mentioned in this column a few weeks ago, passed another milestone in his career the other day. He vaulted 13 feet for the first time. . . . Anyone looking at the spring football roster just couldn’t help drooling at the weights of some of the Irish linesmen. The ends have six men over 200, led by Joe Katchik’s 255. Tackles have 12 members of the 200 pound club while the guards claim five. But best percentage honors are taken by the center candidates. Every man, all seven of them, weigh in at 200 or over.
In contrast to the line, only one man in the Irish backfield is listed in the 200-pound bracket. That, surprisingly enough, is first string quarterback, John Mazur. John stops the scales at an even 200. He’ll need all that weight if opposing linemen pour through the Irish pass protection cordon the way they did last Fall.
Apr. 20, 1951
27
Europe Tour Given Journalism Students
Travel & Study, Inc., an organization for study abroad, has announced a “Foreign Assignment” program for students of journalism, working journalists and all those interested in evaluating the contemporary scene in Europe.
Students will observe current political, economic and social conditions in England, France, Switzerland and Western Germany and Scandinavia. In Paris, Zurich, Frankfort, Hamburg, Copenhagen, Stockholm and London they will be received by the local press associations, will visit the editorial rooms of some of Europe’s newspapers and will attend regular press conferences.
There will be lectures at the Sorbonne and Stockholm University and seminars at the European Headquarters of the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies in Geneva. In London, the Kemsley group of papers is arranging a special four-day session with its “Editorial Plan”— a unique training school for* the Kemsley group’s own young journalists, and the nearest European approach to an American School of Journalism. The students’ enquiries will also extend to radio journalism and visual media of information.
The “Foreign Assignment” program has been approved by the American Council on Education for Journalism
HEAD football manager Bill Doyle and assistant, Ray Duncan, check team roster, 28
and by the American Association of Accredited Schools and Departments of Journalism. Further information may be obtained from Travel & Study, Inc., 110 East 57th Street, New York 22, N. Y.
Engineers Will Stage Equipment Exhibition
The Electrical Engineering Department announced that it invites all engineers of St. Joseph Valley and others interested in electronic measuring eqquipment to an exhibit on May 14 at 7:30 p.m. in the Electrical Engineering Laboratories. Alfred Crossley and Associates of Chicago will demonstrate and display electronic equipment manufactured by firms the Crossley Associates represent in the Chicago area.
The equipment displayed will be the same as that recently shown at the Institute of Radio Engineers’ show at Grand Central Palace, New York City, in March.
Among the various pieces of equipment on display will be Video Oscilloscopes, Models 303 and 294, manufactured by Allan B. DuMont Laboratories. The U-H-F setup shown at I. R. E. show by Hewlett-Packard, as well as their 524A Frequency Counter. An. Oscillator, covering the range of 10 cycles to 10 megacycles, and Vacuum Tube Voltmeters will also be on display.
The Boonton Radio Corporation will
be represented by their Univerter which is to be used with the 202B Signal Generator giving a range of 100 K. C. to 216 megacycles.
A Brown Electro Measurement Universal Impedance Bridge will be on display as well as the C. G. Conn Stroboconn.
A Gertsch Products Heterodyne Frequency Meter, which operates in the 20 to 480 megacycle region, will be available.
The lower freqquency engineers will be interested in the Sierra Electric Corporation’s Model 101 Carrier Frequency Coltmeter which tunes from 3 to 40 K. C. and is used by the Bell System in linings up their carrier services.
The Technology Instrument Corporation will have on display their Decade Zero Phase Shift Amplifier; their Phase Measuring Set; Z-Angle Impedance Meter and a demonstration of Potentiometers which can be used to obtain voltages of various desired shapes.
A 12-channel sweep Wobbalator for T-V radio frequency alignment will be on display as well as a 12-channel television transmitter. These items are manufactured by Tel-Instruments Company, Inc.
Various high frequency tubes made by Varian Associates will be on display and in use in equipment.
All interested parties are welcome and invited to discuss their problems with Mr. Crossley and his representatives.
Krause Names Managers For 1951-52 Schoolyear
According to an announcement made recently by Notre Dame Athletic Director Edward W. “Moose” Krause, appointments have been made to fill all managerial vacancies for the 1951-1952 schoolyear.
Bill Doyle of Oconomowoc, Wis., has been named head manager of football. He will be assisted by Raymond Duncan, LaSalle, Ill., and Joseph Borges, from Paia Maui, the Hawaiian Islands.
Edward Sullivan, of the Bronx, N. Y., has been named senior manager of basketball. .Don Schlemmer, Memphis, Tenn., will handle track, and Hugh Durbin will be senior baseball manager. Ed Ball will be manager of the minor sports, including tennis, golf and fencing. All will be Seniors in the 19511952 academic year.
Name Card Offer
The Alumni office has announced that representatives of an engraving company will be on campus Monday for Seniors interested in name cards.
The Scholastic

Full Scholarship Offered For Oslo Summer School
An all-expense scholarship to the summer session of the University of Oslo will be granted to an American student whose main interest is in the field of economics and who has at least two years of undergraduate college work. Announcement of the scholarship, to be known as the Norwegian America Line Scholarship, was made by the executive committee of the Oslo Summer School. The award will cover the expenses of transportation to and from Oslo, board, room, tuition and student and excursion fees.
The 1951 summer session will be held June 23 to Aug. 4. Scholarship candidates should make application with Dean Norman Nordstrand, Oslo Summer School for American Students, St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn.
Students can earn six semester credits for the six-week course. The main emphasis of the curriculum is on Norwegian culture — history, language, literature, music and art. Courses will be offered on the social, economic and political situation in the Scandinavian countries.
The faculty includes Halvard Lange, Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs; Haakon Lie, secretary of the Norwegian Labor Party; Dr. Karl Evang, surgeon-general of public health; Christian S. Oftedahl, editorin-chief of the Stavanger Afterblad, and Dr. Francis Bull, professor of Scandinavian literature at the University of Oslo.
Psychiatrist Talks Thursday On Psychiatry and Religion
Dr. Frank J. Ayd., Jr., noted Baltimore psychiatrist, will speak on “Psychiatry and Religion” at 8 p.m. next Thursday in Washington hall.
Dr. Ayd, whose address will be sponsored by the Department of Religion, is head of the Department of Psychology at the Loyola College Graduate School in Baltimore, as well as lecturer in the Department of Psychology at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C. He also has a private practice of psychiatry in Baltimore.
After graduating from Loyola high school, Loyola College and the School of Medicine, Dr. Ayd took his internship at St. Joseph’s hospital in Baltimore. He later served residency in pediatrics at the University Hospital in Baltimore, residency in psychiatry at the U. S. Veterans Administration Hospital at Perry Point, Md., and from 1948 to 1950 was staff psychiatrist at the latter hospital.
Musical Hit
(Continued from Page 13) cast all turned in expert performances.
John Broderick and Jane Sparks could not have been better. Hildegarde Vargyas, Thelma Field and Ciretta Ann Buczkowski were other stand-outs. And a special accolade should be paid to J. Gerald Godwin. His playing of Wolfgang Bushclime, especially in the contract-signing scene, was one of the brightest show-stoppers of the production.
The vocal and orchestral arrangements by Bob Welch were pleasing and Gene Hull and his orchestra provided capable accompaniment. Don Grobmeyer, who served as pianist for the show throughout its lengthy period of rehearsals, was exceptionally fine in the same capacity during the show’s run.
That’s about it. There wasn’t a person connected with the musical who didn’t do a fine job. Their excellent production of Mr. and Mrs. Broadzuay fired hopes
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
SHEEDY looked bird-seedy with his ruffled hair. He didn’t know feather to bury his head, or go on a wing-ding! “Owl I ever get a date for the prom?” he asked his tree roommates. “ You’re robin yourself of popularity, birdbrain,” they chirped. “Better be cagey and get Wildroot Cream-Oil! It’s non-alcoholic! Contains soothing Lanolin! Grooms your hair neatly and naturally. Relieves dryness... removes loose, ugly dandruff! ” Now Paul’s flying high! The tweetest little chickadee on campus has him out on a limb. So get a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil at any drug or toilet goods counter tomorrow. And nest time you see your barber, ask him for a professional application. Then you’ll really be in there pigeon!
* of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
that the student musical will be put back permanently on the annual agenda of campus life. If succeeding productions can match up to this year’s show then the history of Notre Dame student life will show a long and happy list of solid hits.
French Consulate Officials Inspect ND Library Exhibit
Messrs. Francois Brierre and Roger Labry, Consul and Vice-consul of the French Consulate in Chicago, recently visited the campus to inspect an exhibit of rare French books which their office had put on display in the University library through the auspices of the Department of Modern Languages.
While they were here the French officials also attended a meeting of the Committee on International Relations. The meeting featured a talk on France by Mr. Robert Byrne, a Professor of History at Rutgers University and a recognized authority on French government.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N.Y.
l-srl
oxKmud
NHLDaoaT

29
Apr. 20,1951
Editor:
Your article on the General Program of Liberal Education, “The Bold Innovation,” (April 13) was quite interesting and was very much enjoyed, but I would like to take issue with you on one point. You infer that under the present system of education, “students are the passive recipients of their professor’s labor, sitting quietly erect while he feeds them with a silver spoon.” Isn’t this somewhat of an exaggeration? As far as I can see from my own experience, most teachers aren’t really teachers at all; they only stimulate. The textbook is the real teacher, the so-called “dead teacher.”
If the Great Books are better teachers than are textbooks, then there is an advantage in using them. In some fields of knowledge however, (i.e. Science, Engineering, perhaps Economics) the way things are learned in history is not the easiest nor the best way to learn them today, because often an almost complete practical science is developed before its fundamental concepts are discovered or theorized. The Great Books are of little use in these fields of knowledge (except in the study of history) since it would be foolish to learn a hundred effects independently when you can know them all simply by knowing their single cause.
Walter J. Landry
Student's Friend
(Continued from Page 15) of .those being tested here at Notre Dame, but row it has slowed down to a trickle, and Testing and Guidance handles only about two vets a day.
Speaking of the military, the Department has also been one of those selected to give the Selective Service Qualification Test. These will be given on three different dates: May 26th, June 16th, and June 30th. There has been a great deal of controversy about these tests lately, but regardless of that, they definitely will be given on the dates mentioned.
Testing and Guidance is manned by five people. Mr. Richard D. Willemin and Mr. Orville R. Renner are Counse-lor-Psychometritians. This forbidding title means that they work with students in academic and vocational placement. Mr. Joseph Hennessey, a student, helps with the scoring of tests and keeping of records, and Miss Mary Beth Komives acts as receptionist and secretary.
Head of the Department is Mr. Ed-•ward R. Quinn, who does counseling, testing and administrative work. Mr.
Quinn has a very impressive background. He got his A. B. in English at Notre Dame, went back to his home state of Wyoming where he put his theoretical knowledge into practice as rural supervisor of seventeen schools, and then came back to Notre Dame to get his M. A. in Education. After he got his Master’s degree, he went to work as an advisor in the Civilian Conservation Corps in the field of testing and guidance. Later, he came back to Notre Dame for the third time—this time to head the Department of Testing and Guidance.
Mr. Quinn is also very active in other phases of his field. He is a member of The National Vocational Guidance Association, and the American College Personnel Association. At the present time, he is Vice-president and Presidentelect of the Northern Indiana branch of. the National Vocational Guidance Association.
But more vital than all this is the enthusiasm he has for ths importance and future of Testing and Guidance: “In a meeting at Chicago a few weeks ago, it was observed that the trend in the growth of personnel work in colleges and universities is toward the establishment of the guidance office as an integral part of the administrative phase of education. Six years ago there were only about 46 colleges and universities with placement offices and guidance centers. Today that number is much closer to 500. Admission tests are almost universally accepted as a necessary feature of admission. Counseling in the vocational areas is likewise as well accepted.”
Mr. Quinn and his staff will be happy to assist any student of Notre Dame who has a problem in the vocational or adjustment phases of his life. Testing and Guidance is growing despite the fact that its movements are restricted by cramped quarters. Drop in and see them; the’y’re capable and willing to help. And remember, it’s free!
Pan-Am Meet
(Continued from Page 10) support the reinstatement of Immac”-lata College as national IAAC chairman.
Reports on the panels and dedication to Our Lady of the Assumption by Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., at a second general meeting Sunday afternoon, closed the conference.
Conference Chairman Carl Lish was assisted by Mary Louise Heger of St. Mary’s College, Adolfo Calero, and Tom Murray and his committee on arrangements. Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., acted as adviser.
Sullivan Authors Book On Impressions of ND
Richard Sullivan, noted cuthor of “The Fresh and Open Sky,” has recently completed a book on the University of Notre Dame. This new work is the compilation of “impressions” of the university obtained over a period of approximately twenty years. Probable date of the publication, which is to be handled by Henry Holt Publishers, is next fall.
Presently unentitled, the book has been announced as average novel length by Mr. Sullivan, and it pertains to the general history of the university and to certain indirtduals connected with it during the past and the present.
Placement News
Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Office, announces the following job interviews for next week.
In the job interviews on Monday Mr.
John Endres, Class of ’26, of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago will interview Commerce majors for auditing and accounting jobs. This is not a government agency. Veterans are preferred. A representative of Fort Wayne Corrugated Paper Co. will in- '	,
terview Commerce and A.B. men interested in a managerial training program.
On Tuesday a representative of Kem-pei' Insurance Co. will interview Commerce and A.B. majors. A represen- . tative of Associates Investment Co. will see Commerce and A.B. majors who are over 23 years old. The Eaton Manufacturing Co. of Detroit will send a representative to interview B.S. metallurgists.
A representative of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. of Akron, Ohio, will interview prospects for- sales and office personnel on Wednesday. On the same day an interviewer from the Diamond A Chain Co. of Indianapolis will talk with engineers.
Montgomery Ward of Chicago will send a representative to interview sales ’ prospects on Thursday. An interviewer from Toledo Edison Co. will speak wuth a few juniors, who are electrical engi- J neers, for summer work. On Thursday ’ and Friday a representative of the Ara- ; bian American Oil Co. will be here : for interviews.	!
On Friday a representative of Sears | Roebuck Co. will speak to June gradu- I ates of Commerce and other schools In- -4 terested in retailing.	|
Those qualified for	and interested in	£
talking to these company representatives may seek more information and sign up for an interview at the Place-	£
ment Office.	K
The Scholastic	H
30
<4
YEARS AGO
■By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53-
Fifty Years Ago
From the April 20, 1901, Scholastic: Henry Austin Adams spoke at the Uni versity on “that most remarkable, ludicrous and inexplicable movement, known as Christian Science.” . . . Notre Dame’s baseball team opened the season with a victory over Purdue, 7-6. . . . Mike Powers, of the class of ’98, sigred to play ball for the Philadelphia American League team. . . . The University announced that Archbishop Corrigan would present the Laetare Medal to Bourke Cockran of New York. . . . Father Morrissey went to Dubuque to attend the ceremonies investing Monsignar J. J. Keane with the pallium of archbishop.
Twenty-Five Years Ago
From the April 23, 1926, Scholastic: Professor John J. Becker, of the Department of Music, was directing rehearsal of a one-act opera written by Norbert Engels and Walter Graham, of the class of ’26. . . . The University inaugurated a program of spring registration for the fall semester. . . . 5,000 copies of the catalogue for 1926-27 were printed. Some of the new courses listed included Commercial Spanish, Investments and Speculations, and Historical French Grammar. . . . Bay Miller, one of the football-playing Miller brothers, was married to Miss Buth Hamilton, of Lima, Ohio, at a solemn high Mass in Sacred Heart Church. . . . 25 years ago the University of California rejected a football coach because he was not a graduate of Yale.
Ten Years Ago
From the April 18, 1941, Scholastic: The Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Eugene Ormandy was scheduled to appear at Notre Dame during the first week of May. . . . 1,100 delegates from 14 states, representing-43 schools, colleges, and parishes attended the second annual Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine at St. Mary’s College. . . . Two of the starters on the baseball team, Ralph Ray Pinelli, from San Francisco, and Bill Stewart, Jr., from Dorchester, Mass., were sons of major league umpires. . . . The Knights of Columbus are planning to present a minstrel show at Washington Hall, May 5-6. . . . The Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, Archbishop of Chicago, was guest of honor at the feature radio broadcast of the University of Notre Dame Night celebration.
Apr. 20,1951
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, neck~ wear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs.
31
In Answer to Query: How to Tell a Priest From a Brother on the Notre Dame Campus
The Scholastic recently received a letter from Carl Bordlemay, 325 Badin, which read as follows:
It is not known how general the problem is . . . but the classification of various members of the religious here at the university becomes a complicated problem; and one to be solved, well, I don’t know how. Do you? Which ones are Brothers? Which ones are Priests? What order? Where is the orders house of studies? Do these orders run universities of their own? Etc., etc.
Can the Scholastic help clear up this problem?
The information in answer to this letter was offered by Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion.
The first problem is classification of the different members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, of which priests, seminarians, teaching Brothers, and working Brothers are present on the campus.
The teaching Brothers attend regular classes, preparing for a vocation of teaching in high schools all over the country. The working Brothers may be seen in Sacred Heart Church, the
Cagers Meet New Coach
IRISH cagers (kneeling l-r) Norb Lewinski, Jack Neumayr, Jerry McCloskey, (standing l-r) Leroy Leslie and Don Strasser listen as their new coach, Johnny Jordan explains future plans. Athletic Director Edward Krause (I) looks on.
treasurer’s office, and the bookstore, keeping the school and the community houses in good running order. Both the teaching and working Brothers wear the same cassocks.
The chief distinction between the Brothers and priests is that priests always wear a cape over their cassocks, and Brothers never do. Also, Brothers never wear a biretta or a cross tucked into the front of the cassock.
In the case of the differences between seminarians and priests, there just aren’t any differences, except age in some cases.
Moreau Seminary, across St. Joseph’s Lake, is the house of studies for the seminarians. Some seminarians, however, attending the regularly taught subjects here at the University, reside in the back wing of St. Edward’s Hall. The Brothers live mainly in the Community House across St. Mary’s Lake, but some also inhabit Dujarie Hall. The Holy Cross Seminary, across St. Mary’s Lake, is for high school students preparing for the priesthood. But there are many exceptions to these rules, so you cannot distinguish between priests, seminarians, and Brothers by the direc
tion from which they are coming.
As regards other Orders, no one will have difficulty in recognizing the plain white habits of the Dominicans. The coarse brown habits mark a man as a Brown Franciscan, who also wear white .. cinctures and have a rosary hanging from their side. The Black Franciscans wear a black habit with the white cincture and rosary. Both wear a small ■ hood.
The Benedictines wear a black cassock with a scapular cloth hanging K down in front and back. Besides these orders, there are some diocesan priests teaching and studying here.
After reading this, everyone can go r out and nod to all the priests, Brothers, and seminarians and be sure of at least one thing — they are all Catholics.
Father O'Brien Publishes New Marriage Pamphlet
Our Sunday Visitor Press announces the publication of the pamphlet, Love For Keeps, by the Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien, of Notre Dame. A condensation of Father O’Brien’s story was published in the Reader’s Digest and in its foreign editions, evoking a worldwide response of interest and appreciation, along with requests for its publication in pamphlet form.
In response to such widespread interest in the story, Our Sunday Visitor has published the complete story in 10-cent pamphlet form with a view to the circulation of millions of copies of the same.
The pamphlet presents the technique of preserving the happiness of the wedding day throughout the whole of the couple’s married life. In addition it explains a second vow which newlyweds, as well as all married people, are urged to take to guard against certain subtle dangers which threaten the peace and happiness of the home, and which therefore must be specifically guarded against. Of the thousands of marriages fortified by the second vow disclosed in this pamphlet, not a single one has suffered shipwreck or marital trouble of any kind.
KEY TO PEACE
In the April 6 edition, Scholastic erroneously stated that publication of Dean Manion’s The Key to Peace had been taken over by Doubleday’s Garden City Press. Actually, The Heritage Foundation, Inc., is still selling the book in single copies or in bulk quantities by mail. Garden City Press is handling retail sales. Our apologies to The Heritage Foundation.
32
The Scholastic
Four NFCCS Men Attend National Council Meet
Four Notre Dame students are attending a meeting of the National NFCCS Council in Philadelphia this weekend. They are John O’Connell, Frank Hennigan, Tom Field, and Tom Murray.
At the meeting, Hennigan and Field will present a bid on behalf of the campus YCS organization for the chairmanship of the national Catholic Action Study Commission. The commission has been without a chair school since January, when the National Council suspended the commission charter of the University of Dayton for inaction.
Representing the Tri-Regional Commission on Inter-American Action, Murray, a graduate student, will speak on behalf of the restoration of the National IAAC charter to Immaculata (Pa.) College, which lost the chairmanship at the January Council meeting^
O’Connell is attending the meeting in his capacity as president-elect of the Fort Wayne Region.
The three-day Council meeting began today, with sessions tomorrow and Sunday.
Dunce Dance
(Continued from Page 19) down my cheeks onto the floor. Only later did I learn that the wet spot was to cause a nasty spill by a couple dancing a fast schottische. Suddenly I was a new man. Nothing-was too hard for me, no dance too difficult. One minute it was a waltz, the next a tango. With my “Miracle Step” all they had to do was change the record.
We danced far into the night. What a picture it would have made—one solitary couple whirling around the moonlit room, the only sound the soft shuffle of dancing feet, the lilting melody, and our murmured conversation, “slow-slow-quick, quick, slow-slow-quick, quick.”
Yes, this is my story. A success story, you might call it, although it is far from finished. And what happened to that girl, you ask, that wonderful girl with whom I danced the night away. Well I can only say, proudly, yet humbly, that she married her boyfriend. But what was to be my finest hour came early the next morning, in the still empty streets. Three high school girls burst into appreciative applause as I whirled gracefully around a mailbox. That did something to me, because it came from their hearts.
And so, if you should be walking to class some morning, and you happen to hear a fellow mutter “slow-slow-quick, quick” softly to himself, don’t call the infirmary—it’s only me.
9%
Real Italian Pizza
Pizza with home-made Italian sausage 75c
Pizza with scamorza Italian cheese 75c
Pizza with fresh mushrooms 75c
(Served from 7:30 till 11)
THURSDAY — STEAK NITE — $1.25
“A favorite with Notre Dame men33 .
PAPANDREA’s Spaghetti House
415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
DMMOND dUBUEE FO* TWO/
The National League was founded 75 years ago (1876)—the year that Al Spalding started the company that has always set the pace in fine sports equipment. The Spalding base ball has always been the Official ball of the National
WW/I • OFFICIAL*
E
League. 1951 marks the Golden Anniversary of the American League, which has used only the Spalding-made Reach ball all of its 50 years.

’ ____________________
s
SPALDING
SETS THE PACE
IN SPORTS
ASSAM
f£ • Official.
TWfNS
OF THE
M4/0AS

Apr. 20,1951
Ay
Rock is an ideal place for a dance, and there was reason enough to believe that the spot would be perfect in every way. As it has turned out, either the name band or the advance publicity, or both, drew more heavily than was expected. A lot of Juniors have been disappointed. It doesn’t matter very much 'about the upper-classmen, but the Juniors themselves have a right to their own dance.
‘Broadway’
Notre Dame’s own Mr and Mrs. Broad tv ay has lived up to expectations. In our opinion, it was little short of terrific.
Since there is a more complete review elsewhere in these pages, we’ll limit our observations to a few plaudits. Jack Powell surpassed all hopes with his fine performance. He was rivaled fox’ top honors by J. Gerald Godwin, as the erratic Wolfgang Bushclime, and Jane Sparks, as Karen.
Jack Broderick and Thelma Field both turned in adequate and pleasing performances. Buddy Powers and Ciret-ta Ann Buszkowski were marvelous in their third act dance.
Most of the songs were fine. We especially liked “The Moon Wasn’t Shining” and “Springtime and You.” The chorus did an excellent job supporting the soloists. And Gene Hull’s orchestra was just right. '
All told, the first musical comedy in Washington Hall in three years was a huge success. This opinion seems to be popularly echoed and in something like this it is popularity that counts. There were faults, of course, such as a tendency to be jerky in sequence and transitions, but these were minor in relatioxx to the total picture.
Our congratulations to all, from the authors on down, fox- a terrific job.
“The Mikado”
The student musical almost gave a back seat to another musical presentation this week. Gilbert and Sullivan's The Mikado, put on by the St. Joseph Linnets under the direction of Dudley Birder, ran a five night stand at St. Joseph’s School Auditorium last weekend, but the campus production nudged it out of the limelight.
The Mikado was another- fi’e performance, however, and it was only accidental circumstances which kept it from taking honors of the week. The cast included ex-Glee Clubber Eoy O’Neil, current Irish sophomore John Noland, Ju
niors Thomas Welsh and John LaBoe, and Jim Boemer and Lawrence Metcalf.
Noland, Welsh and Metcalf were outstanding. So were stars Nancy Gradecki Sweitzer- and Terese Lazzara, the former of whom has a lovely high range voice. The favorite comic opera was produced with understanding and essential hunror.
Gilbert and Sullivan are certainly not “great” music makers, but they are a lot of fun. And the Linnets made them even more fun.
Junior Prom
The hard working Juniors had a publicity campaign worked out to push their Harry James dance that would have broken records on campus. Unfortunately, perhaps, they barely got it underway when they sold out.
A lot of people were disappointed. But there, doesn’t seem to be any one spot where the blame can be laid. Perhaps, early in the planning stage, the large Junior class might have foreseen the inadequacy of the Rockne Memorial to hold a very big crowd. But equally perhaps they are not to be blamed foxshortsight.
The tickets were high priced, the
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
So it seems like an unfortunate thing. But the unintentional mistake has been made, the die is cast, and we hope the Juniors have a fine dance in spite of all.
The Last Word
The Student Council’s objective dining hall questionnaire’s evidence a willingness and a concern. We hope all took them in that light and were equally objective and willing.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and Jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 North Niles

The Scholastic
------------------------- ——---■ Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN
408 Platt Bldg.. 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours: Mon. 9-12 Thuis. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 6-3627
Fri. 1:30-5: Sat. 9-12	' Res. ph. 7-1409
Choose your ARROW SHIRTS FROM THE COMPLETE SELECTION IN THE MEN'S SHOP AT
First Floor
HMTSOn
Siend
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
. Study and Travel
A RARE opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to
SPANISH STUDENT TOURS, INC.
500 Fifth:-Ave., New York 18. N. Y.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
FAYS
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
CORSAGES
FLOWERS
for
All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan	Phone 3-8227
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Apr. 20,1951
35
A
THE UNIVERSITY LI! lemmonier library NOTRE DAME LOCAL
ARY
__ ^oryou-Proof^MILDNESS
with no unpleasant after-taste

JOAN FONTAINE is just like you and everybody else, today. She wants the cigarette that gives her the most for the money. She makes the Chesterfield Mildness Test and Always Buys Chesterfields.
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Mters Tobacco Co
* Hollywood's favorite photographer, Pau! Hesse, and Joan Fontaine enjoy a Chesterfield while he shows her his new Stereo Realist camera.
Chesterfields are Milder
A Paramount Picture
They re MY cigarette
Starring in "SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR



^ways^uy\CHESTERFIELD