Vol. XXI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 28, 188S.	No. 19.
The Sea Gull.*
Tribut de Reconnaissance au Tres Reverend Pere Sorin, Sufdrieur-Gdndral de la Congregation de Ste.-Croix.
. Bird of the sea! where mighty frigates drown, Nor leave a ripple, are thy pastimes made. Grave sports, in vast aerial circles played
From wave to cloud, from'cloud to wave. No frown
On sea or sky appals thee; and the down
On thy white breast shows glistering, in the shade Of gathering tempests. There, with motion staid,
I see thee, where the mid-sea surges crown The rocking billows of the awful deep, Cradled as peacefully as if asleep.
Which, seeing, though with cheek blanched, cold with fear,
Sudden within me Hope’s chilled pulses leap; Since He who fashioned thee with purpose clear, Our drifting ship, storm-tossed, can safe to harbor steer.
* From “ Songs of a Life Time,” by Eliza Allen Starr.
Arbitration, th© Substitute for War.
BY T. F. GRIFFIN (LAW), ’88-
The world in its onward march is at every stage confronted by some great question demanding a solution; some social movement requiring regulation; some evil custom .which should cease to exist; some relic of barbarism to be abolished. In our present age it seems that the one great evil which presents itself most boldly before the public, and demands immediate attention and removal by all civilized countries is the custom of resorting to war as a means of settling international disputes.
There was a time in the early ages of the world’s
history when physical force was employed for the settling of all disagreements, both public and private, between nations, communities,orindividuals. Might ruled instead of justice, and the weaker were al ways kept in terror, and frequently oppressed by their more powerful neighbors. It was in these unenlightened times that the idea of settling disputes between nations by means of bloodshed originated. The history of the early ages is a continuous record of wars between the nations that then existed. Justice was generally, if not wholly, ignored, and the sword alone was relied-upon to settle disagreements. Not only nations, but differing factions, families, and even private individuals, were justified by custom in engaging in deadly combat to settle their disputes. While these barbarous customs existed, natural justice was out of the question; and consequently, as the people became more enlightened, and education was more generally diffused, a tendency to abolish many of the evil practices then prevailing was made manifest. It became evident that when disagreements arose between individuals, disinterested parties might be appealed to who, after becoming fully acquainted with the points in dispute, would consider the matter deliberately and decide the contest in accordance with the dictates of reason and justice. This method was universally adopted, and now we look upon the ancient practice as unreasonable and productive of the grossest injustice; but the evil was only partially remedied, for the practice of settling disputes between nations by means of bloodshed still continued; that was left to be wiped out at a later time and by more determined opposition.
It is a strange fact, however, that when any custom has once become established, and has existed for a long time, no matter how odious or productive of injustice it may prove to be,there will always
2$0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

be found those who oppose its abolition. The very fact of its having long existed is deemed by some to be sufficient reason for its continuance. It has been ever so, and it is for this reason that the old custom of engaging in war to settle disagreements is defended now; not because the practice itself is productive of any beneficial effects, but the time has come when intelligence and judgment rule the actions of men, and physical force is no lopger regarded as the infallible method of settling disputes. Individuals are required to submit their disagreements to an arbiter; why should not nations do likewise, for nation-, are nothing more than individuals in their collective capacity. If two private persons disagree, a third is called upon to decide between them; so also, if two nations disagree, a third should settle the dispute.
The danger of war renders it necessary for every nation to keep continually a standing army to be ready for immediate action in case of necessity. This, even in time of absolute peace, is a source of great inconvenience, annoyance and expense. A large multitude of men standing idle, waiting for •war which may or may not come, contributing nothing toward their own support, but feeding on the substance of others, is certainly a very effective means of impoverishing a nation. The United States is, in a great measure, indebted for its prosperity to the fact that, owing to its position with reference to other nations, it is obliged to maintain only a comparatively small standing army, while' the great nations of Europe, owing to their proximity to each other and consequent fear of invasion, are compelled to keep a large proportion of their population constantly in arms.	.
The war system is also a source of great national injustice. Weak nations can exist only so long as their powerful neighbors choose to let them live; while, if war were totally abolished, and the equilable method of arbitration substituted, the weak would be able to assert their privileges and maintain their rights equally with the strong. History is by no means wanting in examples of the subjugation and dismemberment, even in recent times, of weak nations for no other reason than that they were unable by force of arms to defend.. themselves against,their more powerful enemies. The position to which-Ireland is reduced at the present time by an adversary more powerful in arms than she is an instance of this. War also teaches that it is highly honorable and justifiable, for two powerful rulers to unite their forces and dispossess a third, who is weaker than either of them, of its dominions.	,	.

But this injustice with regard to property is by no means the greatest evil aiising from war. It appears in its most deplorable light when we view the blood-stained field of battle. To dwell on its horrors here is unnecessary; they are already too well known. It sweeps over the land like a pestilence and leaves nothing but emblems of distress, ruin, and death in its bloody course. It robs the nation of its citizen^, the family of its protection, the home of its support. The duration of war may well be called a period of national desolation. A dispute arises between the rulers of two different nations, perhaps over a matter trivial and insignificant in itself, which, if submitted to the judgment of disinterested parties would in a short time be amicably settled, and neither loss of life nor property ensue; but custom will not permit this. Armies must be called out, blood mu-,t be shed, property must be destroyed. The citizens of the belligerent nations abandon their homes and families, take up arms .and hasten.to the bloody field, under the false notion that the dignity of their country demands such a sacrifice. Year after year, the contest continues; business is neglected; commerce is obstructed, and poverty overspreads the land. At length, after millions of .dollars worth .of property has been destroyed and thousands of lives sacrificed, the rulers are satisfied, and the war is declared at an end, leaving perhaps both nations . in precisely the same position they were at starting, but more frequently in a worse one. And then, after trouble, expense and loss of life have been incurred, the matter is very frequently submitted to arbitration in the end. The time has long since passed away when a military life was deemed the only honorable one for a man to lead. The glory gained by a soldier on the field of battle (if, indeed, indiscriminate slaughter can be called glorious) is of very little benefit to his family, who are perhaps starving at home.
Arbitration is an appeal to reason and justice; war is an appeal to physical force, where might will prevail, regardless of justice; and it must be admitted that wrong is at least as often triumphant • as right. Moreover, disputes very often arise in ■ which both sides should make some concession but when the matter is decided by war, the con- 5 quered nation must yield up all her rights and is wholly at the mercy of the other. If the matter were placed in the hands of arbitrators, both dis- ; putants would be required to make such concession ; as justice and right demanded.
There is nothing whatever impracticable in thej plan of substituting arbitration for war. What:



Mt*-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
has been successfully done, can be done again. History fails to record a single instance in which disputing nations appealed in good faith to the tribunal of ai bitration, that the outcome was net more in harmony with the principles of justice, and a settlement more readily arrived at than were arms resorted to; and it is equally unable to produce a case in which war was not productive of dissatisfaction and distress. In 1S66 the United States and England had an excellent chance to engage in a military struggle, and thereby get rid of their surplus population. British privateers had, while the civil war was in progress in this country, attacked American ships and preyed on American commerce. This would, according to the general idea of international law, have been a sufficient injury to justify resort to war. Fortunately, neither nation was just then in a position to take up arms against the other, and the matter was submitted to arbitration. Had they appealed to war, it is difficult to imagine where the matter would end, or what the outcome would be; as it was, the affair was speedily and satisfactorily settled. Less than three years ago, a favorable opportunity for a bloody contest between Germany and Spain presented itself. Had it been at a more ancient period when war was gloried in, both countries would probably have hailed the event with joy, as it would afford an opportunity to display their military powers; but they, more wise than nations usually are, left the matter in the hands of Pope Leo, which assured a just adjudication.
So, numerous cases might, if necessary, be cited where arbitration was successfully appealed to. - She stands ever ready to aid in the administration of justice. She listens with equal attention to the appeal of the w-eak and unprotected as to the voice of the powerful and independent. The one feels her protection, the other her restraint. She takes into consideration the justice of the cause, not the power of the claimants. The time is surely coming when the blood-stained hand of war will be compelled to relax its relentless grasp, and cease to retard the onward march of civilization. For eighteen hundred years, the world has been in practice, if not in theory, moving along the golden path which Christianity pointed out; but until civilized countries sheath the sword and lay aside the trappings of strife and bloodshed, the goal which all nations are striving to reach will never be attained. And ■ when the appeal of justice is permitted to be heard, when reason reigns supreme and rules the world from her lofty throne, the cruel, harsh voice of war will be stilled forever.
War vs. Arbitration.
BY J. L. HEINEMANN (LAW), ’88.
Logicians assure us that a great portion of the disputes and dissensions troubling man’s peaceful attitude of mind arises from an abuse or misuse of words—the.com mon symbols of thoughtj and that frequently the art of meeting an argument consists merely in liberating these words from enforced service. Whether the work devolving on myself and colleague in this evening’s discussion consists solely in the performance of this service, I do not feel warranted in saying; but it does appear to us as being a most desirable condition, before entering fully into the spirit of this debate, that we have a clear and correct idea of the sense in which several words frequently recurring in the remarks to which you have just listened are used. And until these are made to express definite ideas, common alike to your minds and mine, I anticipate little success towards an intelligent prosecution of the task before us.
Following, then, on these lines, it may be asked what is war? Worcester says it is the existence of “open hostilities between nations”; Webster defines it as that of “contests between nations carried on by force.” But these definitions are too general for our purpose. As thus defined, it is a generic term. What are its species, and with what species are we concerned? Are the contests, to which ref- ■ erence is made, the result of envy, hatred, or revenge; arrogant desire to command or control; thirst for riches, or an avidity of conquest? If so, they are wars of conquest, and as such are justifiable in no sense, not even on the plea of satisfying the rapacity of the aggressors by arbitration. Be they wars for the purpose of imposing upon one or the other party the acceptance of a particular form of government, or enforcing upon them the reception of peculiar religious tenets? It cannot be such, since then it would be no fit subject for arbitration, as an arbitrament would not be possible; for society is free to choose its own form of government, and religion is not a matter of compulsion. We are justifying the action of neither insurrectionary nor revolutionary wars; these are notin question, since the Resolution proposes to substitute arbitration for war in the settlement of international questions.
Nothing, then, remains as a legitimate use of .the word war in this evening’s discussion than that as referring to defensive warfare, to justifiable warfare —that particular kind of warfare to which St. Au
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gustine referred when refuting those who asserted that Christianity was subversive of civil government; and that a nation composed entirely of Christians could not subsist. He says: “Let those who think Christianity opposed to the State form an army of such soldiers as our doctrine requires, and then let them dare say that it is an enemy of the Republic; or rather, let them confess that, always obedient, it is the salvation of the Republic.” And we desire, by way of anticipation, to meet the argument that in an actual conflict, both belligerents cannot be acting on the defensive: that so long as injustice remains in the world, so long as men are prone to evil, will the necessity of defensive warfare remain a stern reality.
On this, then—the logical use of the word—do we join issue. Should arbitration be substituted for the means heretofore employed by states and nations, when defending themselves from foreign aggressions?
At the very foundation of our conception of a government exists the idea of its being a thoroughly organized power, developed in all its parts, and inherently possessing a natural means of self-preservation; standing there as an organic personality, and, by the most sacred laws of its nature, bound to use these means in protecting itself from unjust aggressions, oo
.This scheme of arbitration includes in its terms provisions for the withdrawal of a nation’s right of exercising this most essential attribute of its being. No reasons are to justify the assertion of its right of existence, should extraneous circumstances combine in the formation of causes, deemed sufficiently weighty by the arbitrators for decreeing otherwise; and that such results are likely to occur, becomes the more probable w.hen we stop to consider the advantages of the position held by the old and well-established governments, as opposed to the less favored ones. There, in the arena of diplomacy, would meet in single combat the experienced and the inexperienced, with intrigue, deception, arid chicanery, as the only weapons of defense. And under this new arrangement, with whom would lie the chances of success? The strong, the powerful, the experienced, hand in Machiavelism, supported by the opulent resources incident to the governments of our 'day, need but bring to bear upon this single temple of justice the moral pressure of which these resources are capable, by influ- encing the proceedings as placed before the judges, tosucceed in their iniquitous designs. No conditions requisite for the success, of their plans,' as against the less favored governments, would be impossible.
The substitute for force would be money, not reason and justice. And what the governments representing the weaker nations are to do, is told us by inference. The substitution is to be complete. No appeals to arms are to be made. Perpetual peace is to reign at all hazards; and so for the nations once the victims of intrigue and chicanery, no recourse shall be for them possible. Theirs is but to submit to the oblivion of the tomb, if so decreed by these courts.
We oppose arbitration as the exclusive method of obtaining redress, on the grounds of its purporting to remove these natural means of self-defense, instinctively found in all animated creation; and that, therefore, it is derogatory of the natural law —the source whence all just laws and regulations must emanate; and upon the additional ground that it is subversive of the principles of sound government in its practical results and in its theoretical inception. No such power is given to man as the legislator for his fellow-men; and the adherents of its principles must justify their course in the creation of a fictitious source whence to draw this authority. They must proclaim the state to be omnipotent. Their motto must be: The State - is God, the State is the sole source of laws, and before it natural law must yield.
We now ask for your indulgence in examining the more immediate questions before you. Arbitration being the thing proposed as a substitution for war, I wrould ask, what is arbitration? As used, in the terms of the proposition, oppositely with that of war, it will be expected to convey a meaning of equal importance, and not subordinate to it. If we desire to substitute one object for another, for the purpose of accomplishing the same end, the former must certainly be of equal importance with the latter, and hence we are not to look to those inferior .tribunals, erected as occasions require, for the disposition of matters arising from conflicting interests of nations, and admitting of being disposed of in such a manner: these are subordinate to the term we are considering. Their office is, by equitably fixing upon the respective rights of discordant nations, to prevent wars. Theirs is a palliative remedy. The settlement of the Alabama Claims between this country and England, the Caroline Islands question, between Spain and Germany, are exact instances of these; yet who is prepared to say that the action of these courts was a substitution for actual warfare? Were the respective governments, at the time these courts were convened, at the brink of war, or were these measures not rather adopted with a view to their ex-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pediency, the same as prudent business men frequently do, instead of entering courts of laws? But does this argue the superfluity of our courts?
An apt illustration of the specific distinction to be made between the uses of these special tribunals of arbitration and the uses of war, is to be found in the Declaration of Independence, in which it is maintained, that men have certain rights, and that when these are impaired by a long train of abuses, pursuing invariably the same end, and that when .•edress is persistently refused, their right, their duty, lies in the severance of these bonds by levying war.
We now have but to notice the question in its practical application.
What would be the first steps taken by a court, such as is supposed, in citing a recalcitrant state before its bar of justice? In other words, what are its summoning powers to be? No force is to be employed, since its pre-eminent feature is its repudiation of force as a coercive power. As the term implies, it is the services of an umpire that we have, exercising no jurisdiction over the case further than the delivery of a juridical opinion regarding the merits of respective causes before him. It is simply a judicial office, and nothing more.
War, as has been shown, accomplishes other ends. It is a coercive measure, and though not a thing to be sought for for its own sake, it is often GO.	*
not so great an evil as the very causes which produced it. And that, in a just cause, it is successful, was aptly demonstrated in our War of Independence. Who so ignorant as not to know that the long train of abuses charged to the Georges of England were effaced only by the action of the patriots at Lexington?
Therefore we maintain that, as arbitration is purely a judicial act, consisting, as it does, merely in deciding between rights and wrongs, it can be no substitution for war, whose office it is to enforce the recognition of these rights; that it is a contradiction of terms, to propose to substitute the one for the other; and that perpetual peace is, and will ever remain, a Utopian dream and a millenial vision unrealizable and impraticable; and that if there is anyone thing of which in this mundane world we may be certain, it is that so long as nations are composed of men will they never fix upon a precise date when, like the tribes in the “Song of Hiawatha,” they will lay aside
“ The feuds of ages, The hereditary hatred; The ancestral thirst of vengeance.”	.
Never do right unwillingly.
Origins of English.
On Prof. Roemer’s “Origins of the English People and of the English Language,” which gives an account of the sources of our language more copious and more accurate than will be found in any other volume, the following article is based:
What the language or the languages of the natives of Britain may have been prior to the immigration of the Celts or Gaels, before the Roman invasion, there is absolutely no historical evidence to determine. The Romans sought to promote their own interests by infusing their speech with the vernacular; and,although many wordssurvive to prove their success—such as air from aether, airm,and arm from arma, earn in the Cambrian from caro, flesh,bo from bos, ox, there is nothing to enable the student to . discriminate between the Latinistic English and the English that may preserve vestiges of the tongue that the natives employed in discussingtheirforeign	.
masters. During the periods of disorder that followed the withdrawal of the Romans from Britain,	~ '
the Picts and Scots once more appeared among warring native factions, while the eastern coast was infested by German corsairs whose raids became more frequent and more daring. These intruders left deposits of their own languages upon those of the natives. The countries whence the marauders came are left largely to conjecture, and there is unsettled dispute about thedesignations applied with more narrow sense to invaders of later periods.	•
The name Jutes, for example, seems applicable indiscriminately to all the piratical visitors upon the coast as far back as the native chronicles preserve the record, even blindly. The word is found in Geatum, Giotos, Eotas, Iotas, Ghetes, Wfht, and Vit, and all refer to the country whose Scandinavian names disclose the same orthography, Jutland. The word Jutes is undoubtedly a variation of the Gothic root tiut and diut, meaning only “ men of the nation”; and its Latin forms are Teutoni and Niutoni on the one hand, and Eni and Euti, on the other; thence comes Teut or Deut, which, with	'
the suffix isch, becomes Deutsch, or Dutch; and . the root is easily carried back into Celtic etymology. . Theaccountsof theseinvasions restontradition only. The name Saxon is not used in any form by Cresar, Strabo, Pliny, or Tacitus. Ptolemy applies it to a small tribe in Northern Germany, and it means a short sword or long knife. It was at first only an epithet, but became'the name of a powerful combination. The knife which it described was a national weapon of the Friesians; and these, allied with the	-
Franks, became formidable enemies of all peoples upon whom they preyed.
Toward the end of the fourth century there were expeditions of these’allies to the coast of Britain. In the early part of the fifth century a Saxon colony took possession of what is now Normandy, and in that and the century following they conquered Britain. The Angles, who in time were mixed with the Saxons, derived their name, accord- .
294
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
ingto Bede, from Angulus, which he placed on the Danish peninsula. It was written indifferently A vn-gull, Ongull, Angul, Ochgul, Angel, and Engel. That Bede was mistaken, is no longer questioned. The people to whom it was properly applied were Teutones of Thuringia, the three great invading races, Angles, Saxons, and Friesians being of that stock. The language the}7 spoke, with what precision or diversity it will doubtless never be discovered, belonged to the group called Gothic, or Moe'O-Gothic, from the Province of Moe-ia, to which the Huns drove the Goths. The Teutonic was one of the great groups into which this Mmo-Gothic was in time divided; and of all the dialects into which it was gradually distributed the Low Dutch retains the most ancient forms.
Christianity in England became the cradle of its national literature; and the tracks of the various invaders of the island, Celtic, Roman, and Teutonic, reveal themselves in it in the earliest examples of which we have any knowledge. Thus bard is Welsh, as is also park; basket is from the Celtic basged; barley is from two Celtic words meaning bread-plant; clan is Celtic, meaning children; crag, crock, hog, griddle, glen, mop, plaid, all are Celtic. Flannel is from Llanelly, the principal Welsh factory of blankets, as drugget it, from Drogheda, in Ireland, where coarse clothes were made. Philologists have recently come to think that many words hitherto considered Celtic in their origin are, on the contrary, migrants into the languages of Ireland and Scotland through Latin or other media. Quaff has heretofore been supposed to be the Gaelic waugh, derived from the Gaelic cauch, a cup. But Skeat insists that this in turn is the Latin caucus, a drinking vessel. Skeat does not enter into the question of the relative antiquity of the Gaelic or Celtic and the Latin—a question which other philologists consider by no means closed in favor of the latter. There is interesting but inclusive testimony upon it in “The Aryan Origin of the Gaelic Race and Language,” by the late Canon Bourke; and Max Muller, in his Science of Language lectures, assumes the Celts to have been the fii st Aryans in Europe, and to have been driven by subsequent Teutonic migrations into Ireland. As the Irish have been from the earliest times fond of .Latin and Greek; as their alphabet is so like the Greek characters that it is very easy to read it at sight if one is familiar with the Greek, and as many words which students encounter in the Gaelic dictionaries of our time are exact or only slightly modified Latin words meaning the same thing, the comparative age of the two languages must have been made more difficult of elucidation by the intermingling of Latin and Gaelic in the Irish schools for many centuries. It would be easy, if space permitted, to illustrate how common this mixture is.
But the Celtic names survive with sharp notes of victory in the geography of England. All over Europe Teutonic village names stand on rivers with Celtic names, a clear proof of the order of migrations. So in England there is scarcely a river name that is not Celtic, generally a compound- including both river and some adjective descriptive
of its chief characteristic. In one notable instance the Gaelic and Teutonic are united, Darbeck. The latter pait, bee L the Dutch beck, a stieam; Je.m Ingelow and other writers, fond of older English than ours, use it as a synonym for rivulet. Sodun, a foitress, is historical evidence of early Celtic power. It is closely akin to the Welsh din is; Bendinas in Cornwall has become Pendennis, and Londun was the first name of the English metropolis. So almost every town name is Celtic, and most of the shire names are Celtic. “These facts,” says Dr. Roemer, “taken together, show that the Saxon immigrants for the most part left the Celts in possession of the towns, and were satisfied with subduing each for himself a portion of the unappropriated waste.”
The Romans left their testament in the English names descriptive of war, administration, and defense, from port, the harbor, the gate of entry into the land, to che-ter, from castrum a cattle. But the first Anglo-Saxon writing was in Irish, not in Roman characters—a fact that confirms the traditions of the debt of early England to Irish scholarship; and even the Roman alphabet was introduced into England bv Irish scholars before the Romans them-elves earned it there. Five letters of the present English are not found in the earliest written Anglo-Saxon of which we have some fragments— j, k,q,v, and z; and c and cw are invariably placed wheie phonetically, k and q would now be. 'Phis is why orthoepists insist upon spelling Celtic Keltic, in order to restore the ancient pronunciation; but they can have their wav only at the expense of the ancient orthographv. The Gaelic letter continued to he used until the eleventh century. Its modern Teutonic descendant is still preserved in Germany and Scandinavia, but appears to be yielding everywhere to the Roman.
The Scandinavians, who sought in piratical visits to England to escape from the persecutions of Charlemagne, added still other Teutonic contributions to the English language; but it is impossible to classify them with certainty, the Low Dutch and Scandinavian being cognate. One of its most interesting examples is yard and garden—the same in meaning originally. Guided by the distinct elements, Gaelic, Saxon, and Scandinavian, the author of the volume under consideration constructs a map locating, the three race factors. Thus the Celts are preponderant over Ireland, with sparse and rare settlements of Teutons; Celts are established in Scotland, with Saxon colonies along the coast and considerable Saxon settlements at the northernmost extremity; Saxons occupy the greatest part of England, with large Danish spots on the eastern coast; and Celts occupy nearly the whole of Wales.
The difficulty of mutual intercourse created by difference of language and rival claims for mastery had their inevitable effect. At the time of the Norman invasion, England was not of any account on the political map of Europe. Ignorance and illiteracy prevailed. There was no foreign commerce; scarcely any domestic industry, except of the most primitive kind, The nobility were giveq
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to gluttony and drunkenness, continuing in riotous feasts for days at a time, and knowing no pleasure except animal. In their recreations they had neither refinement nor magnificence. Dress, houses, domestic accommodation's, manner-, all were mean. But their language had already acknowledged the influence of the Normans. The older nobles, content in their own degradation, sent their sons to France for. education, even as the earlier Engli-h had sent theirs to Ireland. As early as the reign of Edward the Confessor, the resort of young Eng-lishto France anil of Normans to the English coast was so common that it had become the fashion to imitate French customs Edward himself had almost entirely forgotten English, and made French the court language of necessity, having been sent at 13 to Normandy for schooling. For twenty -seven years he had spoken only French; he naturally preferred Normans to English; and, following the example of the court, the rich, the j’oung and the gay despised the native tongue and the native dress and made themselves as French as their circumstances permitted. Thus the way of the conquering invaders was made ea<v, and it was not William but the decay of English and the degradation of England that opened the gates for foreign conquest and the fusion of French into the English tongue.
Of what we may call the constitutional change wrou gilt by the Norman French upon the old English, Earle (“Philology of the English Tongue”) say-, “a vast change was made in the vocabulary,” and he quotes a graphic passage from Trench’s “.Study of Words,” summing up the nature of the new diction. The wot ds signifying dignity, state, pre-eminence, the names of all articles of luxury, the terms of the chase and of chivalry, of spectacle and sport of a refined and polished nature, and the articles of personal adornment—all this element in our vocabulary is generally of French origin. The words that constitute the basis, so to speak, of society, are Saxon—house, roof, home, hearth; but palace and castle are French. The instruments used in cultivating the earth are Saxon. So the names of the animals are Saxon; but when prepared for the table, they become French. Thus ox is Saxon; beef, Norman; calf, Saxon; veal, Nor-m m; sheep, Saxon; mutton, Norman; deer, Saxon; venison, Norman. In time, as Earle says,“a frontier must have existed between English and French in every town”; and a bilingual condition continued until the middle of the fourteenth century, when modern English began to take body as the Saxon element, still virile, forced its way once more forward.
The transition period may be divided as follows: Broken Saxon, 1 too to 1215; early English (French documentary period), 12• 5 to 1350; first national English, 1350 to 1550. The influence of the French ascendency has never been discarded altogether, even in its frankest forms. The royal assent to acts of Parliament is still given in la Reine. Ie vault. In legal phraseology there are preserved many forms purely French, and in law itself many' principles carried into judicial processes by the
Normans. The new rulers, more airy in their lives, more dignified and urbane in their leisure and their gayetits, have supplied us with amusement. We play with their cards; we count with their ace and deuce; we turn their jue perdu— game lost—into jeopardy.
The first bill of the Lower House of Parliament written in English bears date 1485. Henry VIII was the hut monarch who ordered French’ as the court language. The monarch who will abolish it, as the speech in which the acts of the Legislature ’ shall be m ide law, will doubtless be the Engli-h people,after they have succeeded to the sovereignty.
To Correspondents.
Our correspondence has accumulated during the Christmas holidays, and we take this method of making reply, dispensing with the formality of separate letters:
Howky Dicklxs:—Yes; when a man begins • horseback exercise, he generally has lots of gall. Mditaty uniforms should be made of drilling, of course.
Frauleix vox Wachsexdahl:— Nr; the proper contraction for Mnsouri i- “ Mo.” To write “ Miss” for Mis-ouri is a misdirection.
Mlle. Isabelle de la Chaxdoxxe:—You ask: ( 1 ) Can one pronounce Volapuk with the organs of speech in their normal position?. (2) Are thereanv naughty word- in Volapuk,and if so, what are thev?—Answers: (1) No; you mu-t get the regular Volapucker. (2) We believe and hope not. In fact, so peculiar is Volapuk in this matter, that a distinguished French writer has said that it is propriety itself: “Z.a propriety e'est le W”[-apuk.J
Pholsa L’Arme:—No; Senator Vest does rot belong to the same political party as President Arthur did; but, nevertheless, Arthur thought almost as much of Vest as he did of pants.
Ed. LJ. K. Snix:—Yes; there is at least one spot on earth where the East wind never blows: the North Pole.
Tellixguam Ltze:—The words of Livy are: Dicit se cunctam dccoctioncm lambere posse. He says he can lick the hull b’ilin’, would be a not too. free translation.
Eurota Pohm :—(1) No; the success of a young lady’s toilet can hardly be said to depend on the political sentiments of the newspapers with which she stuffs her bustle, although there may be fundamental errors among them. (2) The quotation from Dante Gabriel Rossetti is—
“When we speak of the mothers that bore us We may mean our mothers-in-law.”
P. Wroos:—Yes; down in Arkansaw in hot weather the farmers alllike a long noon-spell. Sometimes they are said to spell it p-n-e-u-g-h-n-e; but they deny the allegation and can lick .the alligator.
2^6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ISubItsIjrIi r&rra Saturtag Durintj Emit Eimt at N. 3. JHni&nsita
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, January 28, 1888.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-First year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88,	P.VD. Brownson ’88,
J. A. Burns, ’88,	Chas. P. Neill, ’89.
—We must apologize to our readers for the poor appearance of the last few numbers of our paper. What with the cold weather, worn-out type, and other things, we have made a sorry display; but we hope in a short time to procure a new dress of type and make such other improvements as are demanded by the journal of a great U niversity.
—Weare under great obligations to Miss Eliza o	o
Allen Starr, of Chicago, for a copy of her late work entitled “ Songs of a Life Time.” In a large, well-bound volume, the gifted author gives to the public the choicest effusions of that rare poetical talent which has adorned an eventful and useful career in the world of literature and art. We can at present do little more than call attention to the work, but we hope soon to lay before our readers an extended notice more in accordance with its many merits. We have taken the liberty to reproduce on our first page one of the thousand gems of the volume, because of its reference to our venerable Founder, and the recalling of a memorable
event—the accident to the French steamship RAm-eriquc on a trip across the ocean in the Fall of ’75.
—The members of the Law Society of the University gave their first public debate last Saturday evening. It was well attended and gave general satisfaction to those desiring to see entertainments of this nature replace some of oui- amateur dramatic performances. The Law Society and Prof. Hoynes deserve credit for making the first effort in this direction, and we hope to see their example followed by the other societies of the University.
Prof. Hoynes opened the evening’s exercises by announcing the question for debate and the order of procedure. Mr. O’Regan followed with a pathetic recitation, entitled “ The Gambler’s .Wife.” His ability as an elocutionist is well known; but on this occasion he was hampered by not having committed his recitation properly to memory. The debate was then begun on the subject, “Resolved that arbitration ought to be substituted for war in international disputes.” Mr. Griffin opened the speeches on the affirmative side in a well-prepared oration which was delivered in excellent style. He was followed by Mr. Heinemann, the leader on the negative side, who delivered an able argument with splendid effect. These two ai tides appear elsewhere in our columns, and are left to our readers for criticism. Mr. Heinemann was followed by his assistant, Mr. Rochford, who brought out some very good points for his side. The latter has an excellent voice and is an earnest speaker. His remarks were for the most part extemporaneous, and he would have done better to have given his subject-matter more preparation. The debate was closed by Mr. Nelson of the affirmative. He argued that if arbitration be just in the case of individuals, it must certainly be the same in the case of nations. He also argued strongly against Mr. Heinemann’s well-taken point that, “To deprive a nation of the right of waging war is a violation of natural justice, since it deprives that nation of the means of selfdefense—a natural inherent right.” Prof. Hoynes then gave his decision in favor of the affirmative.
The interesting exercises concluded with Mr. Stubbs’ recitation of « The Raven.” Mr. Stubbs gave evidence of careful elocutionary training, and displayed some very delicate modulations of voice. He has seldom appeared to better advantage. The entertainment was the outcome of a single week’s preparation, and the universal verdict was that it was a most creditable affair to all who took part. Gentlemen of the Law Society, let us hear from you again.	.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
297
The Return of Very Rev. Father Founder.
Last Wednesday was a festal day at Notre Dame, when all its inmates rejoiced to welcome the return amongst them of the venerable Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and the Founder of our beloved Alma Mater. During the past five months he had been sojourning in Europe on business connected with the respon-’ sible administration entrusted to him, and had been specially privileged to make a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. It will be well understood, therefore, that so prolonged an absence made all the more intense the cordial greeting which was given the venerable Superior as he arrived at his own home on Wednesday morning. After a short time given to much needed rest, formal words of welcome and congratulation were spoken by the representatives of the Community, Faculty and students. In the afternoon, Father General was escorted to the Music Hall, where an entertainment was given by the students. Considering the short time to which all preparation was necessarily limited, the exercises were very creditable to the talents as well as the hearts of the participants.
The entrance of Father General was productive of one of those old-time outbursts of applause in which the joyful satisfaction of the students of Notre Dame, at having him once more amongst them, has, from time remote, found expression. Then followed an entrance march by the Band. Next came, from the princely representatives of the Minim department, a very beautiful poetical address, which was read with tones and gestures eminently suited to the style, by Master H. Lonergan, assisted by J. O'Neill and Charlie Grant.
“America,” by the Orchestra, was then produced in good style, followed by a song from Mr. Fred. Jewett, “Where art Thou?” which, though not up to his usual high standard, was still rendered in a very pleasing manner. An address from the Juniors, by Willie McPhee, was next on the programme. This tribute of love and respect for the venerable Founder was not only well written, but was also delivered in an earnest and impressive manner. A delightful piano solo—“ The Last Idea of Weber”—was played by J. Reinhard, after which followed a well-rendered duett—“Evening” —by Messrs. L. Orr and W. Devine. Mr. M. Mul-kern had been deputed by the Seniors as their representative on this occasion, and right nobly did he perform his task. His address was a model of conciseness, yet comprehensiveness. The gem of
the musical portion of the exercises was the orchestral rendition of “The Diadem,” which was given after Mr. Mulkern’s address.
Father General then ascended the stage and addressed the audience. He expressed his profound . gratitude for the sentiments of love and welcome with which the respective addresses to which he had listened were fraught, and told of the intense • happiness it gave him to be once more among his dear children at Notre Dame. He was gratified -beyond measure, he said, and, in some degree, even surprised to note in what high esteem the University of Notre Dame had come to be held by the high educational and religious circles not only in the Eternal City, but also in many other great centres of learning throughout Europe. Evidences of her growing fame were not wanting even in far-away Jerusalem. Father General flattered the members of the local Total Abstinence Society not a little by assuring them that the fame of their organization had preceded him to Rome, and that some of the greatest dignitaries of the Church had words of praise for their noble efforts. He concluded by again returning heartfelt thanks for the reception accorded him, and trusted that the stu- . dents would continue not only to- preserve the bright name their University had nobly earned, but even add to its lustre.	-
Books and Periodicals.
—Scribner's Magazine for February is rich in illustrated articles, which are also of unusual interest in their text. The leading article, entitled “ Mendelssohn’s Letters to Moscheles,” is the first of two which have been made from a remarkable collection of manuscripts which has been for nearly half a century in the possession of Felix, the son of • Ignaz Moscheles, the eminent composer and most trusted friend of Mendelssohn. These letters, which are unusually intimate and personal in tone, were recently placed in the hands of William F. Apthorp, the well-known musical critic, and from them he has made a judicious and entertaining selection. He has welded them with a brief commentary, which throws light on the various allusions in the correspondence. The first article is liberally illustrated with portraits of Mendelssohn and his family, of Moscheles, and with reproductions of several drawings by Mendelssohn. The concluding paper, to be published in March, will consist almost entirely of letters.	.
—In the February St. Nicholas Mary Hallock F oote has drawn the frontispiece—two young housekeepers in consultation over “Family Affairs.” Besides other things, in “ The Story of an Old Bridge” is found a historical sketch of London Bridge and the great events with which it has been connected,
298
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
illustrated with drawings by Peters and Brennan, and by other pictures. The high tides in the Bay of Fundy are explained in an amusing story, “A Legend of Acadia,” by C. F. Holder; and Lieut. Schwatka, in “How a Great Sioux Chief was Named,” gives the origin of the name “Spotted Tail,” and, incidentally, of other similar appellation6;.	'
—The Catholic World for February, already noticed in our columns, is noteworthy in many respects, but made especially so in regard to a large and increasing class of intelligent minds of the American Republic,—those who realize the necessity of a religious education as a fundamental requisite in the training of the young—by an article from the pen of the Rev. Dr. McSweeney. We quote the follow ing:
;“The Nezu Princeton Rr-oiew of January last his an article by Dr. A. A. ILidge, of Princeton College, lately deceased, which is remarkable as perhaps the nearest approach that has yet been made by a non-Catholic to the Catholic portion on the school question.
' “ I Ie advocates the immense importance of religion in the education of the young on the ground, soofteii held by us, that (in the wordsof Dr.IIodge) ‘education involves the training of the whole man and of all his faculties, of the conscience and of the affections as well as of the intellect,’ and ‘that it is absolutely impossible tp separate religious ideas from the great mass of human knowledge.” The Doctor holds that ‘every school must of neces-ity be either CnrLtian or unchristi in, and that there is no such thing as a neutral education. To be neutral in religion it must be imperfect and faulty—indeed, no education at all.’ And hence he further insists that
“ ‘ The infinite evils resulting from the exclusion of relig-icn from the schools ca mot be corrected by the supplementary agencies of the Christian home, ihe s ibbath school and the church. This follows not only because the activities of the public school are uuversal, and that of all the other agencies partial, but chiefly because the sabbath school and church cannot teach hi-tory and science, and therefore cannot rectify the anti-Chri-.tian history and science taught by the public schools. And, if they could, a Christian history and science on the one hand cannot coalesce with and counteract an atheistic history and science on the other. Poison and itsan’idote together never constitute nutritious fond. And it is madness to attempt the universal distribution of poison on the ground that other parlies are endeavoring to furnish a partial distribution of an imperfect antidote.’	■
“ Catholics will scarcely believe their ears when they find him saying further on:
“ ‘In view of the entire situation [what he considers the dangerous and mad svslem of public school education in the United Slates] shall we not. all of us, who really believe in God, give thanks to Him that He has preserved the Roman Catholic Church in America to-day true to that theory of education upon which our fathers founded the public schools of the nation, and which have been so madly perverted?’
“ lie goes on to show that the plan of excluding all positive religion from instruction is absolutely unprecedented, no nation or race having ever be- fore attempted it, the experience of all mankind and their conviction having been that reverence for God and knowledge of the future rewards or
punishments are absolutely essential to the sustaining of parental and governmental authority, unless, indeed, it be an obedience of mere fear and terror of physical force, which, even if a government could he sustained by it, would make it the worst kind of despotism, and its subjects the most abject and brutalized of slaves. The cornel--tone of this glorious Republic was the Christian religion, as Dr. Hodge proves by p iges of quotation from the history of its general government and of each State in particular, as well as by many extracts from speeches and writings of its great men, none of whom ever dreimt of building on an inti lei or • agnostic foundation. Even F ranklin and Jefferson, who might be thought of as exception*, never ex-clu led God from their thoughts—the former ad-vocatingthe opening of the sessions of the Federal Convention with prayer,‘since Go I governs the affdrs of men;’ and the latter decliring ‘that the liberties of a nation cannot be thought secure when we have removed their only firm basis—1 conviction in the minds of the people that the-e liberties are the gift of G > 1.’ D.\ II »Ige, therefore, calls upon ‘Cnholics and Protestant-—H<cip’es of a common Master—to come to an understanding,’ an I save the liberties and civiliz uio 1 of the United States, and not permit them to be destroyed by the infi lejs who are, at least as yet, in a sm ill minority.
“A plan by which religion could be introduced into the schools is the same which now is in use in the asylum-', etc., the denomination starting and managing the school, and the State p tying for results in the secular branche*. If the State wi-hes to regulate the secular studies, another plan of compromise, although not as suitable, might be accepted by us. Let the State appoint Catholic teachers for Catholic children, and Protestant teachers for Protestant children, prescribing the present neutral system of education for certain hours of the school dav, and giving also a fixed hour or hours for daily religious instruction. To do this, the Slate need not recogivze any Church, but can and should take cognizance of the preferences of the parents. By doing it, it is not ‘illogical or unjust,’ since in other matters it does it continually. It is by the influence of somebody that teachers are now appointed.”
Personal
—Mr. L. Mathers, ’86, of Monica, Ill., was a welcome visitor to his Alma Mater this week^
—Mr. D. E. Dwyer, ’87; has blossomed forth in ■St. Paul as a full fledged journalist. May success attend him!
—Mr. George O’Brien, who was awarded the Commercial Medal in ’84, is now engaged in the real estate business in San Jos£, California.
—Rev. E. P. Walters, the esteemed Rector of St. Mary’s Church, Lafayette, Ind., was a welcome visitor to the College during the week.
—Mr. Daniel McWilliams, of New Haven, Conn., paid a flying visit one day last week to his
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	299
brother John, of the Senior department. He expressed himself surprised and highly pleased with all he saw at Notre Dame.
—James A. Girard (Com’l),’75, of San Luis, Cal., after a number of years spent in successful real estate bu-iness, has taken possession of an extensive ranch in Cayu.os. In a letter recently received, he speaks with pleasure of his college dav«, and attributes his subsequent success to the training he received here at his Alma Mater.
—The Texas Statesman (Au-tin) says:
“ Brother Albert, C. S. C.. an arti-t of repute, who has lately sought a sanitarium in Texas, is now professor of painting and drawing at St Edward’s College. He taught painting and drawing at Notre Dame University for some years, and aft- rwards at St. Joseph’s College. Cincinnati, where his work was favorabl noticed on several occasions bv the city papers. We hope that he will a:d in the good work of making Austin a centre for the fine art-, which, in ad ition to its "celeb ity as a health resort cannot fail to prove a great advantage to our ueauiful city.’’
— The Rev. D.J. Spillard,’64, now Superior of the Missions of the Congregation of the Holt Cross, his nceived the following notice from the Ocono-mo’Moc (Wis.) Press.
“ Rev. Father Spillard. of*the C mgregation of the Holy Cross a—i-ted by orner Fathers of the same Order, gave a verv successful mis-ion in St. Jerome’.- Church. Oconomowoc, commencing on Sunday, Jan 8, and terminating o 1 Sunday, the 15th i. 1st. Notwithstanding the inclemency of tne weather, the mission was w 11 attended throughout. Father Spillard labore I with great zeal and energy during the mission to in ike it effective of good results. Father Spillard is an eloquent and very i npre<sive speaker. The Rev. II. McMahon, pastor, is highly pleased with the good attendance of the people and the beneficial results of the mission, and he and his congregation are sincerely thank ful to the good Father Spillard for his zealous labors in the r behalf, and wish, him many long years of good health to g ve such missions for the good ol religion and salvation of souls.”	’
—Among the recent visitors to the College were: Miss A. Burleigh, Mason, III.; Mrs. Dr. Churchill, Three O.tks, Mich.; C. McCary and daughter, Elkhart, Ind.; Miss M. McCary, Middletown, O.; C. Dunning, Mt. Ayr, Iowa; Mrs. La Berge and daughter, Mrs. C. M. Campbell, M. J. Roughan, Mrs. J. Howard, Miss M. Balter, Mrs. Hamilton, S. J. Gregory, S. D. Witkowsky, Mr. and Mrs. O. Jackson, O. A. Jackson, Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Dunn, Chicago, Ill.; A. A. Van Cleve, Ypsilanti, Mich.; E. D. Dickerson, Oak Grove, Mich.; E. Vallmer, De Witt, Iowa; Mrs. W. A. Mott, Elgin, III.; I. Schloss, Leadville, Dakota Territory; M. Girtin, Lemont, 111.; E. J. Brannick, Kansas City, Mo.; I. Galberth, Ligonier, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. j. Wile, Miss A. Guggenheim, Laporte, Ind.; C..F. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.; Mr. and Mrs. F. Schumacher, Galen, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. C. Rossman, Niles, Mich.; G. Burns, G. Crumpacker, Miss A. Davidson, Valparaiso, Ind.; Mr. and Miss J. Reinhard, Columbus, Ohio; H. S. Booth, London, England; D. A. McWilliams, New Haven, Conn.; Dr. J. W. Mitchell, Harrisburg, Ill.
—The following, from the Chicago Times of recent date, will be read with pleasure by the many friends of James Taylor, ’76:
“James A. Taylor has been appointed confidential secre
tary to Hon. A. F Seeberger, collector of this port. The po.-iti >n i- worth $2,500 a year.	.
‘•James A. Taylor was born in this city April. 26. 1S60. He was educated at Notre D one Un versity, and on leaving that institution travelled exten-ively. In 1882 he was elected to the 8 ate Legislature, and was noinin ited again in 1SS4 and 1886. He was the xoungest menib -r of that body, and served with credit to himself and to his disriict. Mr. Tax lor has always taken an active part in local and national politics and is a member of the Iroquois Club. Cook couniv democracy, and the Irish American Club. His father, Augu-tin D. Taylor. was born in Hartford, Conn., April 28 1796. and settled in this ci'y just after the Black Hawk war, whi h closed in 1832. he bein < a veteran of the war ot i8t:. At the advanced age of 91 he is on-of the oldest settlers now living in Chicago, having re-ided here fifty five years, and is the olde-t democrat in the citv. having cast hi- fir-t vote in 1S17. 1 le was a tru-tee of Chicago when it was a village in 1836: in iSj.6 -oleasse-sor of Co >k county; city coll ctor in 1847-8, and aiderman of the First ward two terms, 1S53-4 He was a builder an • contractor. He built the first court hou-e in Chicago in 1S35 and he erected the first church—St. Mary’s, Catholic—in 1S33.”
—The Kalamazoo Telegraph gives the following report of Rev. President Walsh’s lecture, lately delivered in that city:
“ Sodality hall. St. Augustine’s Church was filled Wednesday evening to hear the Rev. Tho-. E.Walsh. President of the University ol Notre Dame. Indiana, who gave the opening lecture of the course of the Young Men’s So lahty. The series of lectures yiven bv them for the past tnree or four seasons have been excellent, the lecturers being me < of unusual talent an I of mo-t plea-ing ad Iress. Tne large attendance h is shown the favor in which >hev have been legarded. After listening tn the speaker of Wednesday e\ ening. one mii-t admit that the pr-sentcourse seems to promise to be equally as good as any that have been given heretofore. '
“After music by the choir, President Walsh wasin’roduced and was warmlv received His subj -ct was ‘Tne Temporal Power of the Popes.’ The speaker made a stro> g showing from his standpoint in favor of the temporal as well as spiritual sovereignty of the Pontiff. He did not claim that he should have temporal authority over the earth, or even a great territory, but that he should have control and swav over a country he could call his «»wn; an independence of action; a court of hi- own. The speaker said that the same causes which had made the temporal power o*’ the Pontiff necessary in the past, would make it necessary in the future; that it had resulted in the greatest good to the world and to mankind. It was legitimate, it is the oldest dynasty. and it has ever been exercised for the greatest good of the people.
“ Father Wal-h then, in an impressive manner anti in the choicest language, reviewed the historv of the Popes* temporal power, from its incipiency in the very earliest in the Chri-tian era to the present time. His voice is very pleasing, clear and distinct, and his paper was given in the style of an es«ay. The supremacy of the popes in respect to temporal affairs was a simple historical development, and nosuprem acy was either claimed or recognized during the fir-t. second and third centuries. Charlemagne treated the pope simply as the first citizen, and considered himself the head of the Church. By degrees, the influence of the popes b -came stronger and more importan'; but with Gregory VII the hierarchat position of the nope became fully developed and established. The part which the popes have had in the making of the history of Europe was splendidly set forth. Through the efforts of the early popes, Attila, the ‘ Scourge of God’ and the barbarous hordes who invaded southern Europe, were turned back. St. Leo was truly the savior of Christianity by his defeat of Attila. '
“The trials, the per-ecutions, the exile and the contumely which had been put upon the popes; their constant adherence to the principles of liberty, justice and protection of the oppressed against the powerful, was a theme which the speaker dwelt eloquently upon, generally and in detail. He claimed that learning, civilization, the light of science, everything which could conduce to the elevation of the race’had ever been encouraged and advanced by the popes . and their interference with kings and potentates had always
3oo
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
been in behalf of the best condition of the race. He cited the famous schools and universities established by the Roman Catholic Church in Italy and other countries, and that the Church had sent their missionaries to all parts of the world. To the control and influence of the popes during the gloom of the dark ages is due the preservation of the arts, of civilization and liberty. The popes had ever been devoted to sustaining those governments which represented justice and right. It was the oldest of dynasties, and therefore appealed to the best thought for permanence. Ils power had always been exercised for good. It was necessary for the spread of the Gospel and advancement of the Church. Therefore the speaker believed that the temporary sovereignty of the popes will be restored.
“ Hearty applause greeted the speaker at the close. After a selection by the choir, the meeting closed.”
Local Items.
—Examination.
—Another blizzard!
—The sleighing is superb.
—Dire was “Birdie’s” wrath.
—It is winter, and no mistake.
—Simon’s canine met with harsh treatment.
—The messenger of “ rec ” arrived just in time.
—Joe declares that he cannot be outdone in generosity.	s
' —“Ike” is fast becoming recognized as one of the powers that be.
—The St. Thomas Aquinas’ Academy will hold a meeting next week. •
—Twenty-six new students have entered the University since Jan. i.
—There is no good reason why public debates should not take place oftener.
—Col. Hoynes and staff enjoyed a pleasant sleigh-ride Wednesday afternoon.
—The first public debate was a success, and we hope it will be followed by many others.
—Messrs. T. O’Regan and P. Burke have been admitted to membership in the Thespians.
—The Band is rehearsing patriotic airs preparatory to Washington’s birthday celebration.
—Mr. Joseph Hepburn, of El Paso, Texas, is the latest arrival. He entered the Senior department.
—Everybody is at work, either answering or preparing for calls before the examination committees.
—We hope that our musical organizations will not forget the usual soirees of the winter season.
—It is proposed to give a literary entertainment on the 22d prox., instead of the usual dramatic exhibition.	*
—The Law Society has given a good example, which we hope other societies will not be slow to profit by;	•
—Mr. P. Nelson’s first appearance on the stage at Notre Dame was hailed with enthusiasm by his numerous friends.
—The Lemonnier Boat Club acknowledges the receipt of a handsome donation from Moses Livingston of South Bend.	.
—3,000 stars are visible to the naked eye; but the Junior, after taking his first boxing lesson, declared he had seen countless millions.
—Macbeth is said to have murdered sleep; but that dog aroused the whole community in a manner that would have put Mac to shame.
—The winter examinations began, according to announcement,yesterday (Friday ) morning. They will terminate on Wednesday next.
—The College Glee Club will give an entertainment in Washington Hall next Thursday evening. A small admission fee will be charged.
—The Juniors are going to have a good old-fashioned midwinter festival for the purpose of raising funds for their baseball association.
—At their last meeting the Thespians decided to postpone the dramatic entertainment set for Feb. 22 and substitute for it a literary programme.
—Simon’s forthcoming work has roused the envy of Jimmy, who now proposes to shine in literary circles in a new publication on “ What I know about beard-raising.”
—A letter received from New York states that the Marquis Emmanuel de la Chaux is attending school in that city. His many friends at Notre Dame wish him success in his studies.
—The Junior skating rink has been gradually enlarged during the past week until it now extends from the gymnasium to the side entrance of Washington Hall. It has been a great success.
—The graduates, military officers, and delega tions from the other students called on Very Rev. Father General Sorin Wednesday morning to con gratulate him on his safe return from Europe.
—There was a stereopticon exhibition in the Minims’ reading-room last Wednesday evening to aid the baseball association. It is the intention of the boys to purchase new uniforms during the Spring.	.
—Some fine games of handball are played occasionally in the Senior “ gym.” Among those who have distinguished themselves at this game may be mentioned Messrs. Cartier, McGrath, Coady, Prudhomme, O’Regan, Cosgrove, and Mackey.
—Verily, the life of the amateur is brief and filled with many miseries. Scarcely hath he learnt . to portray the feelings of the murderous Macbeth, or acquired the witches’ plaintive chant when the prospective play vanishes forsooth like the shadowy Banquo.
—The Scholastic Annual comes to us again this year with the compliments of Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, of Notre Dame. This year’s number is as replete with literary gems as ever, and also contains much valuable information. Long live Prof. Lyons and his Annual!—South Bend limes.
—The Rev. Prefect of Discipline announced in the study-halls on Wednesday evening that Father General had graciously remitted all detentions then in force—a proclamation which was welcomed, with such a whirlwind of applause that even “ Dutch,” in his far-off hook, looked up and smiled.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	301
—Rev. J. A. Zahm, Professor of Physical Science and Vice-President of the University,returned to Notre Dame on Wednesday with Very Rev. Father General, whom he had accompanied to the Holy Land. He met with a hearty welcome from his many friends of the Faculty and his religious confreres. The students look forward eagerly to . the entertaining and instructive lectures in store for them.
—The following non-commissioned officers have been appointed for the Sorin Cadets: First Sergeant, C. Boettcher; Second Sergeant, E. Savage; Third Sergeant, L.Dempsey; Fourth Sergeant, W. Williamson; Fifth Sergeant, L. Doss; First Corporal, R. Clendenin; Second Corporal, C. Koester. The Third and Fourth Corporals will be appointed hereafter.
—The Director of the Historical Department returns grateful thanks to Mr. Reinhard, of Columbus, Ohio,for a handful of Chinese coins; toMother Superior, St. Mary’s Academy, for a medal of the Medical Convention, Washington, i S87; to George Myers, of Dubuque, Iowa, for a medal of the High Bridge Celebration, iSSy; co Master E. Hughes for several Turkish coins.
—The Pansophical Conversational Society had a very enjoyable meeting last Wednesday evening. There was a choice literary programme consisting of an essay, debate and two declamations. It was resolved-to have a sleigh-ride to Mishawaka some day next week. Several were admitted to membership. The society is already flourishing and is doing a great deal of literary work.
—Dr. William J. Rowsey, of Toledo, Ohio, who was a prominent student of the University of Notre Dame in 1853, has enriched the collections in the Bishops’ Memorial Hall with a fine two-volume edition of the Bible in Latin and German, printed in the year 1737, and brought from Germany by one of the Jesuit Fathers exiled by Bismarck. He has also presented two large boxes containing volumes of The Catholic Universe^ The Freeman's Journal, and McGee's Illustrated, Weekly.
—A beautiful incident in connection with Father General’s return may be noted. The silence of two favorite canary birds, in the dining-room of the Presbytery, for the past four months has been remarked by everyone. Nothing but a “chirp” could be heard since a familiar voice was missed. But when Father General entered the apartment on the morning of his arrival, the little birds, as if recognizing him, at once burst forth into a rich song of melody, and since then they sing as gaily and as loudly as ever.	-
—There are still a few individuals about the premises who, notwithstanding the anathemas civilization has uttered against their kind, persist in harrowing the feelings of all around them by their inglorious efforts to put two abortive ideas together and make them pass for a pun. An honest pun may be permissible once a month 01* so; but the ghoulish playing upon words to which some are addicted is a continual torment to the cultured ear.
—The Latin classes of St. Aloysius’ Seminary were examined last Wednesday by the following Board: Rev.J. French, presiding; Rev.J. O’Hanlon, Prof. of Moral and Dogmatic Theology, Secretary; Rev. M. Robinson, Master of Novices; Rev. S.Fitte,Prof. of Philosophy; and the Professors of the respective classes. The younggentlemen were well-grounded in the subject-matter for examinations. The class of Church History, taught by Rev. J. Frere, was examined a few days ago, and gave a fine result, reflecting credit upon both the Professor and his pupils. The Rev. Father will begin next week a new class of Church History, comprising the students of the first year’s Divinity.
—Last Wednesday afternoon, an entertainment was given by representatives of the College societies in Washington Hall, to celebrate the return of Very Rev. Father General Sorin. The programme of exercises was as follows: o
A GREETING
TO
VERY REV. FATHER GENERAL SORIN, OX THE OCCASION OF HIS RETURN FROM EUROPE AND THE HOLY LAND,
Wednesday Evening, January 25, 1S8S. March................................N.D.U. B.
Address from the Miniin Department.....
...............H. Lonergan, J. O’Neill, and C. Grant “America”......N.	D. U. Orchestra
Song—“ Where Art Thou? ”. ...........,F. Jewett
Address from the Junior Department...W. McPhee
Piano solo—“The Last Idea of Weber”..J. Reinhard Duet—“Evening”.......................L. Orr, W. Devine
Address from the Senior Department.M. B. Mulkern Song—“ I am King of the Land and the Sea”.L. Orr “ The Diadem ”.........................N.	D.U. Orchestra
—Mr. Bernard Bigsby lectured before a large and appreciative audience in Washington Hall last Saturday evening. The subject of his lecture was “The Old Schools of England,” and he could not have chosen one in which his hearers would have been more interested. The discourse was a description of English school-life as seen at the great public schools of Winchester, Eton and Rugby, and a eulogy of Dr. Thomas Arnold, the great English schoolmaster. The city of Winchester, a typical old English town, was graphically described with its grand old cathedral, its parks, its gardens, and its celebrated school. As the audience followed the lecturer, they saw spread out ' before them as on a panorama the playground of Winchester school, the historic Roman wall, where, in days gone by, the students aided the royalists to drive back Cromwell and the roundheads, its. ivy-covered dining-hall where the monks of old chanted their matins and sang Mass. Together . with the speaker we traversed the academic halls, . pitied the unfortunate “ fag,” laughed at the young nobleman’s wrath, trembled as we stood in the dreaded presence of the stern, unfeeling head-master, and left the school as the ancient cathedral bells pealed forth their solemn notes.
We then followed Mr. Bigsby to Eton. We admired the American-like independence of. the old Eton master who refused Prince Albert’s^ request to visit his royal mother, but could not <
303	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
forgive the hard-hearted ness which kept Walter Bambridg-e from a widowed mother’s side. We o
then passed on to Rugby and heartily enjoyed the mishaps of the speaker when he was a Rugby boy. The lamented “Chinese” Gordon was his schoolmate, and many an hour they spent together in atoning for past offences, or laying plans for future mi-chief. Mr. Bigsby concluded with a well-merited tribute to the famous Dr. Arnold whose name is inseparably linked with that of Rugby. The heart of every student present went out to that grand and noble character that loved the boys, labored for the boys, and died broken hearted when he left them.
We have seldom had the pleasure of listening to a more gifted speaker than Mr. Bigsby. Mis descriptions were beautiful, his satire inimitable, his humor refined and intellectual, and his pathos ir isi tibly touching. For an hour and a half the ku li< nee listened with rapt attention, and, by their enthusiastic applause at the-close-of the lecture, they te-tiried their heaity appreciation of a treat that is seldom surpassed.
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Lot of original .letters, written by living prelates, presented by William Maher. Large photograph of the Honorable and Rt. Rev. Alexander Mac Donnell, fiist Bishop of King-ton, Canada, taken from an oil painting in the possession of a relative; this picture has been handsomely framed in gold and cherry, and presented by Mr. Joseph Norris -per Master Wilkin. Wood from the roof of tile old San Diego Mission built in California in 1765, presented by Mrs. D. Fitzhugh. Panc-gyriques des Saints, par M. lacoves Birat, Paris, 1670, presented-by Mi. George E. Clarke. Stole of heavy lemon-colored watered silk, exquisitely embroidered with grape vines and sprays of wheat in white silk fl >ss, reverse of purple silk moire antique worked with eccle-iastical designs. This stole was owned by Bishop Brut£, who took it from around his own neck and placed it on the shoulders of the late Father Neyron more than fifty years ago; sui plice made of a lace alb owned by Bishop Brute, received from S. U--------. Death mask.of the late Father Neyion, presented by Piofessor Gregori. Wood cut print of the Rt. Rev. B’shop MacDonnell; package containing old numbers of the Catholic Standard, presented by Mr. F. X. Reuss. Two packages containing odd numbers of the Catholic Standard, received from the American Catholic H -torical Society, yansenius Candanensis in Evangelia, printed 1606, from the library of Rev. Gabriel Richard, presented by a friend. Letters written by Chief Justice Taney and Pierre Soule, a prominent Catholic, who was Minister to Spain, and for a long time Senator from Louisiana; parchment, document signed by Pope Clement XIV in 1770,presented by Daniel Waldron. An interesting Latin document relating to the Portiuncula at Notre Dame, presented by Most Rev. Archbishop Elder. Autograph letter of Archbishop Duhamel, recei ved from the Editor of the Ave Maria. Medal of the late Vatican Council, presented by Very Rev. Father Provincial Qorby. Spanish Bible recovered
from the bottom of the ocean, where it was for three months in the steamer Oregon, presented by Rev. Father Toohey.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of tho=e students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Brennan, Beckman. P. Burke, J. Burke, Barrett, Barnes. Bombeck, Ball, Bies-ington, Bvrnhart, J. Burns, Bush, Brownson. Brewer. Becker, Baca, E Burns. Boland, Craft, Co-grove, Campbell. Cassidy, Chacon. Craig. Cartier, Chute, F. Coady, Clarke, Donohue, Dore, Dulaney, Ewing, Eyanson, Fleming. Finckh. Fenton, Fehr, Franklin, Griffin Goebel, Gallardo. G<isler, Henderson. Higgins, Heinemann. M. Howard, Hummer. E. Howard, Houck. Jovce, Jacob-, Keating, L. Larkin, W. Larkin. Lappin. Leonard, Luhn, A. Longmire, Langan. W. McDermott, J. McDermott. Metzner, Mulkern, Mackey, Major, W. Morri-on, Maloney. Mithen, McA liste-. McCart, Mack, McAuliff, McGrath, Melady, McCune. Mattes, Andrew N choll, Alfred Nicholl. K Newton. Niill, R. Newton, O’Hara. O’Shea, O Regan, O’Donnell Pollock, Pears, Pa-chel. P. Prudhomme, E Prudhomme. Prichard, Preston. Plato,* Rudd, Rochford. Rodriguez. Rotherl. Stubbs, Sullivan, S'ephvn-son. W. Silver, R Silver, M. Smith, Tiernan, Wall, Woods, Welch, While, Wilkin, Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Anfenger Allen, Berry, Bombeck, Boyd. Bachrach, Beaudry, Blake, Burger. Benner, Brown, H. Bray, Brady, Cunningham Cauthorn, J. Connors, Carleton, Cooney, Cai roll, Chacon, »xmnellv, Cavanagh, Carney, Coulter, D. Carlier, W. Carlier, Chute, J. Dohertv, Delaney, Daniels, Doss, Davis, Devine, Darragh. Ebner. Elder, Fitzgerald, falvey, S. Fkming. P. Fleming, C. Fleming. Fiench, F. Flynn, Freeman, Frei, Graham, Gros-man, T. Greene. J. Greene, Gale, Girten, Grever, Hayes, Houlihan, Henry, Henderson, Hoffman, Hagen, Howard. R. Healy, Hall. Hampton, Hoerr, Hackett, Hartman. Hake, Jewett, Johns, Jos-elyn, Kutsche, Kellner, Kehoe. Lane, Lahey, I eona d, W. Martin, Mayer, Munroe, McGuire, John McIntosh, James Mcluto-h, W. Mallay, McIvers, McPhee, Miner, McCartney, Mooney, McCorMick, McGrath. Mulqueen, McKenzie; McNulty, McMahon, Neef, O'Neill, W. O'Brien, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, Priestly, Paquette, Power-, Pecheux, Plan, F.Peck, J. Pick, Quinlan, Roth, Rierdon, Roper, Rei hard, I. Rose, S. Ro-e, Rowsey, Stephens. R. >palding, Shenk, Senn, A. Sullivan, R. Sullivan, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Silver. Simpson. C. Spalding, Talbot, Wageman, Welch, Walsh, Wright, Wilbanks.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, H. Bachrach, S. Bachrach, A. Bachrach, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, G. Black, L. Black, Blake, Beerman, Bates, Burns. Bradley, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Cummings, Connelly, -Clendenin, Carlile, Cohn, W. Creedon, F. Creedon, Crane, Cudahy, Campbell, Durand. J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, Jas. Dungan. Doss, L. Dempsey. J. Demp.-ey, Dench, F. Dempsey, M. Elkin, E. Elkin, G. Franche, C- Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Firkel, Grant, Goldman, Greene, Gerber, Hinds, Hagus, Hai lan, Healy, Howard, Halthusen, Jaramillo, Johns, Kerwin, Kutsche, Kehoe, G. Klaner, Koester, Keefe, Kinsella, Kane, Kaye, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Moonev, Marx, Morgenweck, Maternes, A. Marre, J. Marre, L. Mayer. G- Mayer, McPhee, Mott, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, O'Neill, O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plauntz. Parker, Pierce. Quill, Rogers, Ricks cker, Sweet, Seerey, F Smith, E. Smith, Stone, Stephens, Speir, Taft, Trujillo, Thornton, Wal. Williamson, Win. Williamson, J. Walsh, W. Walsh. Welch. A. Witkowsky,S. Wit-kowsky, Wilson, Willien, Young, Zieman, Savage.
* Omitted the last two weeks by mistake—not of the printer.	'	.
TH& NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3°3
Saint Tftary’s Academy.
One Mile JPest of Noire Dame University.
—Miss Adele Geiser is a welcome visitor at St. Mary’s.
—The Second Seniors held a competition lately in Modern History. Not one question was missed on either side.
—The music examination closed on Saturday evening'. The standings and promotions given in another column will show how all acquitted themselves.
— The examination in Christian Doctrine took place Sunday afternoon. Rev. Fathers Corby, Walsh, Kirsch and Saulnier presided the different classes.	..
—The sanctuary of the chapel is now richly cirpeted, thanks to the generosity of some of the pupils who are zealous in the work of beautifying God’s temple.
—The visitors at St. Mary’s during the past week were: Mi.-s Rose Swegman, Delphi, Ind.; Mrs. A.Campeau, Mrs. L. S. Pug-ley, South Bend, Ind.'; Miss Maggie Griffin, Miss Mary Griffin, Chicago, III.; P. M. Hennessy, T. Brennan, Miss M. Brennan, St. Paul, Minn.; Mrs. E. Cox, Bryan, Ohio.
—Over the side entrance to the church there is a very handsome transom of elegant design and finish. It is of stained glass in mosaic style, having as a centre piece a scroll bearing the words: “Go ye, therefore, and teach all nations.” It is the generous gift of Mr. F. D. Kinsella, 85 East Jackson st., Chicago, to whom warm thanks are tendered.
—The beautiful “politeness cross,” given to the Junior department by Mrs. Campbell, was drawn for last Sunday for the first time by the Misses T. Balch, Blaine, Burdick, E. Burns, Crane, Churchill, Davis, Dempsey, Dryer, Foster, Hull, Hughes, Kloth, Lewis, Longmire, Lauth, Miller, McCune, M. Morse, N. Morse. Newman, A. Papin, Palmer, Quealey, Rineh irt, Rogers, Stapleton, Wyatt, H. Warzburg, F. Warzburg. Miss Stapleton was the fortunate one.
The Amenities of Life.
Man was created in a state of absolute dependence. In infancy, of all sentient beings, he is the most completely helpless. But of what creature can we say that it is independent ? It would be a contradiction of terms. God alone is independent, self-sustaining, omnipotent. Creatures are at the mercy of the, wind, the tide, the temperature of the weather. They enjoy,'or suffer, according to the wealth or the poverty, the rudeness or the kindness, the carelessness or the consideration of those who have charge of them. What mortal can boast with any degree of justice?
We are also created as social beings, and can no more live without society of some kind than we can respire, freely .without pure air. The social element of our being partakes of its immortdity. The torments of those in another world who have despised the means of salvation in this, arise, no doubt, in a great measure from their being associated with those who, like themselves, are reprobates. In purgatory, the poor suffering souls are not alone, but they expiate their offences in each ' other’s society; and, happy thought! the delights of Heaven itself consist in the society of God, His angels and His saints. The religious reduce, though seemingly deprived of all communication with other intelligences, is far from it. His chief occupation is prayer, the highest form of social interchange, for he holds converse with Gnd.
There is a recluse of another soit, denominated in common parlance “a book-worm.” Is he without society? Not by any means! He may receive and entertain in his library the most delightful company. There he is peifectly at ease, and he may enjoy the unrestricted companionship of poets and sages of old, of authors, wits, and scientists of all limes. Life is one continuous round of events, in which we are influenced by our fellow-beings, and on whom we in our turn exert an equal influence. From the cradle to the grave this interchange is unabated.	.	,
We see that companionship is a necessary condition of human existence, but the members of soe’etv are not all equally companionable. “The amenities of life” are those gentle, con-iderate actions which render individuals agreeable to one another; which equalize discordant tempers, and assimilate contradictory dispositions, so that a pleasant understanding exists, and the happiness of each and all is promoted. They are the natural outgrowth of the more serious duties enjoined by the : Commandments—those divine restrictions upon the perverse inclinations of the human heart, which are binding upon the cou-cience under pain of sin. • The entire code of civil laws, founded on the decalogue, is based on our relations, with one another; but outside of, though resting upon them, like vines upon a trellis, are social rules, not often formulated, yet which by common consent are— everywhere observed. Those little delicate attentions which are naturally suggested by an aHection-ate, unselfish heart, compose those prized, unwritten rules, and are obligatory on the truly generous. It is not a crime to speak harshly to a child, or a servant; but such harshness should call the blush of shame to the cheek, for the golden rule would require us to address the child, or the servant in exactly the same manner which we would have ■employed towards ourselves.	-
Broken friendships are more frequently the results of neglect in the careful observance of,these “small amenities,” than of grave offences against good breeding. This neglect does not take the life of friendship, but it hushes its happy song like a heavy scarf thrown over the cage of a bird to-darken the little musician’s home, and produce the effect of night.	-
364	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A kind heart prompts gentle behavior, especially towards those less favored than ourselves. A hard heart is revealed in insolence towards the asred, the unfortunate and the infirm. The sweet amenities garland the path of childhood with the holy blossoms of innocence and confiding affection. They impart a character which accompanies the person through every stage of life. There is no tell-tale of our early surroundings like the manners that were formed in the home circle and which go with us to the end of our days. Wrangling and harsh language excite opposition, and they foster deception and forbidding ways. Kindly condescensions, sweet, low voices, and a spirit of self-sacrifice in the home of childhood will color a lifetime with beauty, and give the keynote to a tranquil, useful prime and old age.
It is easy to detect the treatment to which a child has been subjected. If he be shy and fearful, it is evident that he has been treated as an unwelcome supernumerary in the household; but if he be straightforward, frank and cheerful, confident in his manner, without boldness, we may be sure that he has been accustomed to affectionate and considerate treatment.
In academic circles, almost more than anywhere else, the amenities of life are absolutely necessary. The larger proportion of pupils are used to every attention at home, and the neglect of new acquaintances would, as a matter of course, be keenly felt by a new comer. Attention to these, on the part of. pupils who have spent some time in the institution, would be the natural impulse of a good-hearted young girl; while one who is selfish, would prefer to seek the society of those unfeeling as herself.
Unfortunately, there are some who affect to despise obliging manners, and to laugh at them as old-fashioned—quite out of date. It is a ruse to cover their own selfishness. So long as hearts throb with generous emotion; so long as souls aspire to heaven, so long will kindness be expressed in the beautiful and endearing amenities of life which inspire confidence, conciliate ill-will, and disarm malice. They will never become antiquated.
Grace Regan ( Class *88).
Tablet of Honor.
FOR. POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allen, Andree, Arpin, Brady, Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer, Beschameng. Bourne, Butler, Blacklock, Beck, Carmien, Clifford, Claggett, Conners, Clore, E. Coll, M. Coll. Cam-peau,Campagne, H. Dempsey,C. Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis; Dunkin, Daubs, English, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Gavan, Geer, Gordon, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hutchinson, Hepbourne. Johnson, Kearns, Kohler, Kron, Keyes, Koester, Latta, Leonard, La Berge, Loomis, M. F. Murphy, L. Meehan, E. McCarthy, B. Morse, McCormick, McEwen, M. McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, C. McFadden, J. McFadden, Mitchell, Marley, Neff,
L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, O’Brien, Prudhomme, Piper, Papin, Quill, Quealey, G. Regan, Riedinger, E. Regan, Richardson, Robinson, Rannells, Snowhook, Sullivan, M. Smith, B. Smith, Sloman, Spier, Thompson, Van Mourick, Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Young, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burns, S. Crane, Churchill, Dreyer, E. Dempsey, Farwell, Foster, Hughes, Kloth, Lewis, Longmire, Lauth, Miller, N. Morse, M.' Morse, Mercer, Newman, Quealey, Rhinehart, Rogers, Stapleton, Wyatt.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Burns, A. Papin.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC*
Reorganization of Classes, and Promotions for the Second Session.
Advanced Course—Miss E. Horn.
ist Course, Graduating Class—Miss H. Guise.
Advanced Course, Harp—Miss M. Dillon.
Promoted to ist Class—Misses M. F. Murphy,* M. Rend,* L. Van Horn.*	.
2D Class—Misses B. Snowhook,* Reidinger.* Classed Miss M. Allen.	.
2D Div.—Miss O. O’Brien. Promoted to this division— Miss M. Desmond.
3d Class—Misses G- Regan,* K. Gavan* E. Brady,* L. Sears. Promoted to this Class—M. Horner, M. Barry.*
2D Div.—Misses L. Ducey, E. Flannery,* II. Coll,* L. Hillas. Promoted to this division—Miss T. Hinz.*
4TH Class—Misses C. Moran,* L. Piper,* G. Stadtler,* J. Latta, C. Dempsey.* E. McCarthy* Promoted to this Class—Misses M. Hughes,* M. Smith,* M. Davis, M. Sheehan, K. Heffron.
2D Div.—Misses I. Stapleton,* M. Clifford* L. Koester, J. English,* M. Keyes. Promoted to this division—Misses B. Claggett,* C. Hurley, N. Morse,* L. Dolan, O. Hoffman, J. Daube, E. Quealey.*
5T11 Class—Misses O. Knauer,* M. McEwen, E.Wright, A. Blacklock,* M. Bates* M. Hummer,* L. Fravel, F. Carmien,* E. Kearns,* L. Henke,* 1. Bub.* Promoted to this Class—Misses B. Fenton, E. Foster, E. Balch.*
2D Div.—Misses G. Wehr,* M. Hull* B. Hellmann, L. Meehan,* E. Lewis, E. Dempsey,* F. Hertzog,* H. Meehan,* P. Sloman, M. Fitzpatrick, M. Beck, E. Harlen.* Promoted to this Class—Miss L. Waterbury. Classed— Miss J. McFadden.
6th Class—Misses A. Johnson,* E. Churchill, R. Van Mourick, M. Newman, M. Rhinehart,T. Balch,* B. Wagner, C. Prudhomme,* NI. McCormick,* L. La Berge, M. Kennedy, H. Hake.* Promoted to this Class— A. Wyatt, J. Robinson,* E. Regan* M. Andree, F. Marley, M. Papin, M. Burton, L. Reeves, H. Pugsley* Classed—Miss N. Wurzburg.
2D Div.—Misses M. Kohler, M. Thompson,* C. Kron, M. Arpin, E. Blaine,* E. Fritz,* L. Nicholas, K. Loonie, M. Richardson, M. Coll.* Promoted to this division— Misses M. Mitchell, M. McCune, E. Burns, N. Dunkin,* K. Hurley, E. O’Conner, M. Campbell,* K. McCarthy, Quill.
7th Class—Misses M. Burns, E. Hagus, D. Rogers, L. Mercer, E. Longmire, I. Zahm, B. Smith, E. Nicholas, E. Davis, M. Geer, C. Bray, M. Rannells. Promoted to this Class—Misses L. Dreyer, M. Morse, A. O’Mara, L. Wiesenbach.*
8th Class—Misses G. Pitpin, C. Kloth, B. McCormick. Promoted to this Class—Misses M. Miller, S. Smith, F. Burdick.
9TH Class—Misses M. Rose, M. Reed. Classed—Misses F. Palmer, K. Early.
ioth Class—Miss Ella Burns.
HARP.
Promoted to 5th Class—Misses Snowhook, L. Hillas.
Promoted to 6th Class—Miss L. Waterbury.
guitar. . .
Promoted to 5th Class—Misses K. Desmond, M. Burton.
6th Class- Mis L. Nicholas.
, Pupils with names marked* were promoted inSeptember. .1