

The savings continue 
Our Annual 

SALE. 
of university-styled 
SUITS, SPORT COATS TOPCOATS 
at savings of 
½ 
Choose from our regular stocks of quality, up-to-the-minute styles, fabrics and colors. 
BUY NOW ... PAY NEXT SUMMER 
Pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August with no service or carrying charges added. What could be more convenient? 
~~~ 


LIER • amp11$~ho
----~ 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
february 13, 1970 notre drune, indiana

scholastic 
volume 111, no. 13 
Markings 

The Mummers of Plantland / John Keys ------------------------------------5 
The Second War in Nigeria ----------------------------------------------------------6 
From the Book of Revelations 7 
The Week in Distortion 8 
Playing Hangman ---·---------------·---------------·---·-·-·-------·--------------·----·--------·--···----------11 Tim O'Meilia and Carolyn Gatz 
Camus: The Flight of a Sparrow -·---------------·-·--·-·----------------------·---·-·--------------16 Richard Moran 
and the letter Z ------------·--------·---------------------------------·--------------------------------·--·------18 Steve Brion, Carolyn Gatz and Michael Patrick O'Connor 
Departments 
Variations on a Theme by Blake -----··------·------------·--·--------·---------24 
The Sons & Chicago ----------·-----------··--·-·-··-··--··----------------·-----··---------27 
Who's the Best Guard in College Basketball? --·-----------····--·····-·· 28 
l\'Iovies ···-·-··-····--·-·--------··----------·-_________ .............._____ ______ ___ ______ ______ _______ 33 
Chicago --------·-···-·-·--------------------------------___________ ......----····..-________________ 33 
Last Word _________ ----···-··--------------------------···_________ _______ _______ _______ _____ _____ 34 
Editor-in-chief Richard Moran Executive Editor Philip Kukielski Managing Editor Michael Hendryx Art Director Michael Patrick O'Connor Associate Editors John Keys, Raymond Serafin Assistant Editors Pat Gaffney, Carolyn Gatz, Fran Maier, Tim O'Meilia Photography Editor Gary Cosimini Copy Editor John Kwiecien Assistant Managing Editor Greg Stidham Sports Editor Terry O'Neil Contributing Editors Steve Novak, Steve Brion Contributors Michael Costello, Kevin Rooney, John Stupp Business Greg Naples Circulation Michael Malone 
Public Relations James Murphy Faculty Advisor Frank O'Malley 
Writers Jack Fiala, Phil Glotzbach, Tom Macken, Marilyn Riordan, Bernie Ryan, Walter Secada, Martin Siravo, Joe St. Onge Copy and Layout VeAnn Patterson, Mark Richardson, Coleen Unger Business and Circulation William Pelletieri Photographers Jim Hunt, Beth Malmsheimer 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the ScaoLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the ScHou.snc is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL ll£v1E.w). Please address all manuscripts to the ScaoLASTic, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScHOLASTIC. 
3 

Ask the 2618 graduateswho joined an industry leader last year 

-about /Etna. 
Learn about ./Etna. Ask for "Your Own Thing" at your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer and a JOBS-participating company. 
Even lEtna can't be everybody's thing. But for any graduate with an interest in people and an inquisitive mind, a career with us can stretch your capabilities. 
Helping people is our kind of thing. After all that's what insurance is all about. Ifit's also yours, we have opportunities in three basic areas-administrative, analytical or sales management. And we need engineering and business graduates as well as liberal arts people. 
At .lEtna, our business is selling insurance. But our concern is people. 
OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 
LIFE & CASUALTY 

Plant Land 
We were in a Mummers' play together one time, The Peace Egg, one of those hempen, homespun olde English things where the whole ugly troupe crashes the party, mums and thrashes about with an earthly wit, forces the host to make a choice and gets paid to leave. Well, on stage we stood nearly chin to chin and his opener went, "I am a bold kr:ight and Slllllaaashher is my name ..." Now that was Dick, a most excellent poet (who later penned "To Mayford Dean in His Seven­teenth Year") and there was a sort of liquid accompani­ment to his presentation. But I was thankful because that's about as close to greatness as I've ever been ­about as close as I'll get in the clown theater of the near future. Which is what I was sneaking around to all the time. 
You see if you're a senior and you try to think past June, say to October, you find it real easy to walk across the ice and say, "Gee, life is sorta grotesque," or "Wow, 21-30 seems like a Nowhere Land," or "I'm gonna be unproductive till I'm thirty," or, if it's as late as April, "Christ, this bites." Yeah, it gets real easy to talk like that. Jim Kunen said it. He said something like, "They keep telling us this is the best time of our lives and you wonder what the hell they're talking about. You mean this is the best it's ever going to be?" 
Choices? Well there a.re a lot of alternatives. But most of them have something just a bit grotesque about them. Everything does, like a little spongy fungus or slime mold or something. And maybe that's what peo­ple want, or maybe they want at least one thing open to them that doesn't have any liverwort grunging it up. At least one acceptable choice -one set of valid alter­natives -not HHH or RMN, not a liberal conservative ,or a conservative liberal, not broccoli or brussels sprouts, but a choice so the democracy can at least say it's doing its push-ups. 
Choices? A friend's story ran something like this: 
"The Army. Well, I haven't been in ROTC, and my number, 357, should come up in July. But I have this thing about Vietnam; it's wrong and those guys have to get up at 5:00 a.m. and like I'm just no good at that time of the morning. Then I could enlist in the Navy or the Air Force but that's usually a couple of extra 
February 13, 1970 
years and the Coast Guard's waiting list was used to wrap the laundry at the Academy. 
"And there's Canada but I just talked to a girl whose boyfriend was in Montreal and he had decided to come back and go to jail because the Mounties were holding up his pay checks because he was only a free-lance pho­tographer and couldn't get working papers and was getting a little hungry. So he came back but when he found out that instead of two years in Pennsylvania he'd get three years in Kentucky he packed a jar of peanut butter and headed back. The girl in the black old hat who told me about all this said they were all very happy, really, and that they had really wonderful times sitting around smoking, reading The Little Prince, when they had enough heat. And, no, she guessed there really wasn't any end point in sight. It would go on like this indefinitely or until the amnesty. 
"Jail. Jail is for criminals. I guess that's the fungus on that one. There a lot of time, busywork; it gets too hot, too noisy, too cold to liberate the spirit. That's what the mummers there told me. 
"Grad school, work, I've got some really fine ideas I'd like to look at but I'd get drafted. I might be able to teach but a lot of local boards are talking about doing away with deferments, besides I don't have the educa­tion credits. 
"I could possibly become a CO, conscientious ob­jector, but to get that your religious background must be opposed to war in any form and it seems there must be some things worth fighting for." 
That pretty well pulls the whole Systern together, all the alternatives, the whole phylum BryO'f)hyta, the mummers of plant land just soaking 1,1p all the soil nutrients and flipping a few asexual spores around, and not really contributing much to the bet~erment of peo­ple except a few cases of mushroom gravy. Nothing very insidious about the whole thing -just a little grotesque, this theater.of clowns. 
Oh well, I heard about a guy in Greenwich Village a few years back, had this little flat and made his living cleaning belly buttons, dime a shot, and he used two different brushes. He got his deferment for working in the field of public health. But that's still working on the edge of the System. 
The Second War 

in Nigeria 
IN the aftermath of the Biafran bloodbath, relief for the Ibos is the overwhelming problem confronting Nigeria (whose Premier, General Yabuku Gowon, regards hunger as solely a Nigerian problem) and the rest of the world as well. Most of us on campus recognize the fact that 5,000 people, taking the average from the confused reports emanating from Lagos, are dying daily. The Students for Biafran Relief, originated and headquartered at Notre Dame, rec­ognizes that fact and is doing some­thing about it. In the past month, Tom Hamilton, a freshman, and others have been striving to set up and operate a stude::it-oriented drive for funds to send to the Red Cross and other organizations in Nigeria. "I was just like the rest of us ­concerned over the starvation but feeling unable to do anything," Hamilton said. "Then I saw some film that actor Cliff Robertson had taken of the Ibos during the war and was appalled. I started to send in 

a donation, but then talked it over with some people and decided to make a concerted effort to raise money on campus. Later on, we de­cided to go national, to give the stu­dents their own outlet through which to help." From there, he explained, it was all a matter of publicity and organization. 
HAMILTON went to Washington over semester break, looking for en­dorsements which would cross party lines. But he ran into a refusal from many Republican Senators who felt he was asking them to follow a course other than the President's. "Actually, all we want is to have Nixon follow his campaign speech of September 10, 1968, in which he stated that 'This is not the time to go through channels or to observe diplomatic niceties. The destruction of an entire people is an immoral objective even in the most moral of wars,'" Hamilton explained. 
"Still, some senators like Scott and 
Eagleton felt it would be a direct 
affront to the President and refused 
endorsement. We were more sympa­
thetically heard elsewhere, though." 
Endorsements came from seven 
Democratic senators, 2 Republicans, 
and 2 Congressmen (Brademas and 
Lowenstein). Tentative endorse­
ments are also in from eight or nine 
more members of Congress. He also 
received much help from Mrs. Vance 
Hartke, who is involved in the World 
Freedom from Hunger organization, 
and the National Students Associa­
tion which gave him full support in 
spreading the organization to other 
campuses. 

Hamilton had a conflict while in New York with the Americans for Biafran Relief, the major fund-rais­ing agency. After a long conversa­tion with the coordinator, he decided to keep SBR an autonomous orga­nization so as to promote the student image in the project and also be­cause, as he said, "they just didn't seem to be doing things right or as eff~tively as we could." 
fOR now, Students for Biafran Relief is still a campus organization. All the contributions have come from campus, which Hamilton describes as "fairly good considering the apathetic attitude shown by many here toward the Biafran problem." He is now starting expansion to other colleges through NSA and student publications, asking for free ads and organizational assistance. 
Hamilton said, "All we can do now is hope that people on other campuses will coordinate their ef­forts with ours so we don't waste time and money getting the food to Biafra. All of the money is being made available to the Nigerian Red Cross, which we admit as being a badly run group but the only one allowed into Biafra by General Gowon. We really have no choice ­we must get the food in now, be­cause upwards of 5,000 people, ac­cording to the spotty news we get, are still dying daily, in the eastern region." 
The Students for Biafran Relief, Box 516 at Notre Dame, are trying to help his Ibo tribesmen survive their second and more heart-rending war -that with hunger. 
-John Hurky 
The Scholastic 


From the Book of Revelations 
"It wasn't my idea. I just bought the buttons." Karen Grabowski doesn't like being called an "orga­nizer" or a "campaign manager." She's also vociferous in maintaining that it's not a movement, and that it's not directed against anyone. It's the "Willis D. Nutting for President" campaign, and it's now starting to materialize. 
Candidates must always be nomi­nated if their campaign is to be of­ficial. Dr. Nutting's nomination ap­peared in the letters section of the SCHOLASTIC of November 7, 1969. Written by Charlie McCarthy, it cited Willis Nutting as the only man for the job of president in a chancel­lor-president structure. That after­noon in his seminar, Karen thought of the buttons; last Wednesday, the buttons arrived. 
A thousand buttons on Wednes­day, and a reorder six days later ­Dr. Nutting has put on no blitzkrieg campaign. Winning the admiration and respect of his "fellow students" (his own term) can't really be called a political move. There is room for conjecturing that his was a 35-year plan for usurping control of the Uni­versity through creating an air of honest gentility about himself, but this is highly improbable. 
What has become apparent is that "W.N." has quite a following. All that was necessary for him to pick up a sound nucleus of campaigners was a suggestion that he be made president. Buttons. Everybody who knows him wants one. People who know him well are pushing them. Dr. Nutting smiles shyly as he con­fesses carrying one in his pocket. 
Early reports had Dr. Nutting calling the whole thing "Outlandish." "I didn't say that," he retorts, adding with all the sincerity in him: "It's the biggest honor ever paid me be­cause they really mean it. If I get some honorary degree when I leave, that'll only be something from the du Lac Corporation; but this, this is a true honor because it comes from the people themselves." 
February 13, 1970 

More than an honor, however, the candidate sees that the campaign "might result in getting some things talked about that are terribly wrong here." He points specifically at the recent court injunction brought against Dow-C.I.A. demonstrators as a result of a lack of awareness by the administration of these students' motives. 
"Here we had a situation [the in­junction trial] where four members of the Notre Dame Family were brought to court by the Administra­tion (the President was not present) and the University lawyer kept ob­jecting to students' testimony saying 'Morality has nothing to do with this case.' That's pretty awful in a Chris­tian university." 
Willis says that the president of a university belongs on the campus talking to the students. He can no longer rely on subordinates such as University vice-presidents to report back to him the student attitudes. And four meetings a year in the University Forum cannot substitute for walking around, finding out how the students feel from day to day about campus developments. He feels that the chancellor-president struc­ture is necessary for a progressive university. 
His campaigners shared his ideas for the University administrative structure. They refer to his -book The Free City as their campus bible, and allude to his tolerance of other people's opinions as what's needed in this University's president. 
Dr. Nutting oftentimes cites his favorite quote from the book of Revelations as a maxim for a man trying to put across a ne,v idea: "I stand at the door and knock." He says that if one persists in his knock­ing, either the person on the other side must cover his ears and cringe or else open the door. 
A knocking is starting to build on the campus. The raps are sparse but seem to be increasing. And all the callers are wearing buttons. 
-Jack Fiala 
T. M. Hesburgh has denied rumors that he su-pports Willis_, but his Mercedez­Benz (with a reconverted Daimler engine)_, shown here_, sports a sticker. 



The vVeek In Distortion 
An American Sampler 
In Chicago, President Nixon was escorted through one of the many sewage treatment plants he visited on his recent junket to the heart­land. The superintendent dipped a ladle into one of the large purifying tanks and smilingly offered it to the President. With a seemingly under­standing nod Mr. Nixon drew a deep breath, announced that "I want to make this perfectly clear" and passed the cup to HUD Secretary George Romney who commented that, "Not since the cultivation of brainwashing has anything appeared so clean to me." 
Daniel P. Moynihan, the presi­dent's urban specialist, responsible for improving much of the :flavor of American life, when asked his im­pression of the voyage of "the :flying White House" said dryly, "If you've_ seen one sewage plant you've seen them all," thus echoing an earlier Agnew formulization of the ghetto problem. 
Meanwhile, citizens across the hinterland, still titillated by the 1948 barnstorming of Thomas Dewey were remarking that if you had seen one president you had pretty near seen 'em all. 
Spring Books 
Ave Maria Press today denied that its prime offer in the predictably hot 

and heavy spring book season was going to be Father Hesburgh's 
Thoughts for Our and Other Times: Collected, Rethought and Synchro­nized with the Greenwich Mean Observatory. The Press said only that currently under consideration was Hesburgh's not-so-widely-touted 
Thoughts for Other Times: Du Mayen Age, volume 3, treating as it does the structure of the courtly ro­mance as a scenario for bussing Viet­namese children between Saigon and Hanoi in the year 2000. 
The likewise-eagerly-anticipated 
Legal Thoughts, or Rethinking Thoughts, More Thoughts and Still More Thoughts for a Legal Legerde­?nain, Philip Faccenda's guide to Hesburgh's early works, has always sought in vain for a publisher. Ru­mors that the SCHOLASTIC will begin printing it in cereal form are simply ridiculous, not to say, untrue. 
In other news of the book world, the widespread suggestions that Alum.nus publish a book-length Divorce supplement with each issue has had no response from either the Editor or the Managing Editor of that magazine. Both gentlemen have, since the time of the suggestion, an­nounced their resignations. They have not announced their divorces. 
The book-reading world (all eight of us) were deeply saddened by the death of Rod McKuen. Shot by a .28 carbine air rifle at sixty paces by crazed poet manque Ezra Pound, McKuen sang (or croaked in the minds of the pseudo literati) as wonderfully as he has done all his life. Till the end. His posthumous works will be published next fall under the title The Sweet and the Sticky: The Sap Conies front the Sapling. 
Bernard Geis will not publish Arthur Hailey's next novel, called Gutter. "Even I couldn't do that. But wait till Cerf sees it; he'll croak," the multimillionaire hack publisher said in a gloating moment. 
Logic 

When former President Lyndon Johnson bared his soul for the second time on prime time television last week to head CBS confessor Walter Cronkite, he took several brief time­outs to confess the sins of several of his more intimate friends, notably fellow southerner Senator J. William Fulbright. 
With the kind benevolence of a fatherly teacher Johnson reminded his audience thatitwas the Arkansas dove who had sponsored the Gulf of Tonkin resolution which gave Johnson the authority to commit American troops to Vietnam orig­inally. With a wry grin and a pre­dictably heavy heart Johnson said, "It was a shame that somebody didn't think of calling it the Ful­bright resolution." 
And wasn't it the demure Harry 



If WA5 WRO~~ BOT wro i056 FAC5 1.'M FCR SAVltJG BUT 1ALKIMS fBOUT IH I~ 9IHPATfflf wrm 7H6 
OS fO 66T (~TO IF We GOT OUT. AHeRICA~ LIV6S-IT ONU? He~PS ARGUHBJJT5 OF_Ttf6 PRO· Vie 

HAtJO 
TeSTtR5. 
~ 


8UT fJ6HC¥J5rRAflJJG I SUPPORT 1H6"" Borr WISH He77 I AH 1H6 VOlC€ S1CJP M6 BfRJRf;
ASAINST 1He e0va:w­PR£51D6tJC CHMJG£ Hf S pa­OF t-lOOeRAtfOtu. I KIIA--HCRe. 

Truman who said once upon a time, "Well, hell, wasn't it them scientists what gave me that bomb?" 
An Appendix 
Pope Paul VI made his long awaited statement on celibacy last week. In a forceful dictum issued from the Vatican, the pontiff declared that all nuns and priests were re­quired to renew their vows of chastity and obedience to the Roman Church once a year. The statement further observed that more young people would enter the clergy because of the single life than if the rule were changed allowing clerics to marry. It is rumored that the statement on celibacy was intended as an ap­pendix to the Pope's earlier state­ment on population control. All things considered though, Paul is still undecided about seeking a second term in office. 
Milestones 
Vaulted: Spiro Agnew, into the third spot in national popularity ratings. The Vice-President is now the most admired man in the country save for the President and Billy Graham. 
Named: Spiro, best-dressed states­man and Billy Graham, best-dressed cleric. 
Struck: The New York gravedig­gers and Doug Sanders. 
Blessed: John V. Lindsay, by Re-


CAN ONLY £cJIO TttE STATE:Ml=rfr e,y THE -rcP4liER/sc.ttolAR3 Of THE t E'NqlNEERt~(i DEAI\RTMENT. ME 

THEREFORE: Hf\S 
NOTHING-TO 
publican national chairman Rogers 
C. B. Morton, who chanted, "If he wants to go over to the other side, he has my blessings." 
Clipped: John Lennon, by an avaricious London barber and his lithographs by Detroit authorities. The new style in England is the shiny head. Hail the return of the Cavaliers and the Roundtops. 
Abandoned: The Grand Funk Rail­road. 
Chastised: All bishops and priests, by Pope Paul VI, who outlawed all clerical review of the doctrine of celibacy. 
Consoled: Gamal Abdel Nasser, by the Soviet Union. Nasser reportedly stated that he "felt honor-bound to launch an immediate, all-out war against Israel, regardl~s of the con­sequences." The Soviets chuckled and stepped up shipments of defen­sive weapons. 
February 13, 1970 


R. K. MUELLER, INC. 
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED 

Keepsake 
DIAMOND RINGS 
OMEGA-TISSOT-BULOVA ELGIN WATCHES AND RINGS 
* 

218 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL-233-4200-CALL 
The 
Juggler 
IS 
now accepting contributions for the second issue. (coming 
1 11Iarch) 
Address 
The Editor, Box 583, 


Notre Dame. 

When you know it's for keeps 
All your sharing, all your special memories will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a choice selection of many lovely styles. He's listed in the yellow pages under "Jewelers." 
~,--.,.;.:__~I STEREO 
k

~psa e® 
DIAMOND RINGS 



Ruogs from $100 to $10,000. T-M Reg. A.H. Pond Company, Inc., Est. 1892. 


,------------------------7
I HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING
I Please send new 20 page bool::let, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" and full color folder, both for only 25c. Also, tell me how to obtain the beautifulI 44 page Bride's Keepsake Book at half price. S-70 
I
INome _____________________ 
I Addre,s,____________________ 
lcfy ~-------­
, State,_________________Zip,____ 
I . 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X_?~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Scholastic 






Playing Hangman 


On Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, Dow Chemical and Honeywell, among others, are sched­uled to interview prospective employees. It has been three months to the day since the exuberant activities of the last visit by Dow and the CIA transpired on November 18, but little has been done to make straight the way. In fact, the only step which even indirectly treats the causes of the ob­structive demonstration, a report on the Placement Bureau by a joint committee of the Student Life Council and the Faculty Senate, was undertaken a month before the disruption. 
The recommendations of the joint committee were accepted for the most part by the SLC Mon­day night, for what they were worth. Among these accepted were: that the Bureau be retained as a valuable service to students, that an area approxi­mate to the Bureau be provided for dissemination of literature concerning interviewing companies and that the Bureau prepare a brochure explaining its procedures and policies. Italso crushed a recom­mendation to charge a $50 to $75 fee for use of the facility by companies. 
The most significant recommendation endorsed by the Council denied the CIA use of the facility because of its "stated policy ... not to engage in discussion in any kind of form, even for the sake of defending its actions and operations." 
What preventive measures have been taken in the event of a similar demonstration next week have been in a probable refinement of the judicial code and the threat of the invocation of a tempo­rary court injunction, which could sentence dis­rupters to three months in jail. In this two-part article the SCHOLASTIC examines the campus and civil court proceedings of the last CIA-Dow incident and their implications for future Placement Bureau controversies. 
I. Building the Gallovvs 
THE usu.al confusing mish-mash of charges, counter­charges and bungled investigative and judicial proceed­ings which have become the hallmark of campus crises is the fit subject of black humor -of a perverse chuckle. Although ROTC administrators would deny it, the sit-in on the field of the ROTC Presidential Review in the spring of 1968 caused its cancellation the fol­lowing year. The infamous though not indecent Por­nography Conference of a year ago resulted in a ·mag­nificent 140-page plus report whose very existence 
February 13, 1970 
seems to have been forgotten and its recommendation? largely ignored. But last November's CIA-Dow dis­ruption and its subsequent judicial juking are worthy of a healthy bellylaugh. 
How is it that at least two of the ten suspended and expelled students were innocent, yet their suspensions upheld? Or that the person who was charged with the final decision on the suspensions was the very one who summarily invoked them? Or that "the rule com­bines in the over-burdened person of a single adminis­trator the function of police officer, prosecutor, judge, jury and academic firing squad," in the words of the defense statement of the ten? 
The answer, in part, lies with the judicial code itself. Following the disruption the Student Life Council dis­covered that the judicial code it had approved had not yet been passed on by Father Hesburgh. Consequently it decided to give the ten the choice of appeal under the old code which was technically in effect at the time, or the temporarily approved new code. A battle ensued in the SLC however over the procedure of the new code. The new code designated use of the six-man tripartite University Court in the situation. Although the burden of proof supposedly still lay with the Dean of Students, the court would in effect be an appeals court, thus necessitating a 5-1 decision in favor of the ten to overturn the summary suspensions. The council succeeded in reducing the ballots needed-to-overturn to four, a majority, meaning a tie vote would uphold Fr. Riehle. 
SURPRISIN~LY the ten students chose to be tried by the old code, although they knew the three-man appeals board of that judicial system could only offe·r recommendations for disposition of the case directly back to Fr. Riehle. Fr. Riehle commented, "I told them if they chose the three-man court it could only give recommendations back to me. I wanted to get off the hot seat." 
Mark Mahoney, one of the ten, explained his view, "Riehle walked in with six people, four law students and two law professors. When we asked for a con­tinuance, they said they had law exams. It was sort of a moot court atmosphere, for them very much of a game -a legal question -and for us a moral ques­tion. Although Foschio [chairman of the court] said all the evidence would be considered, it didn't appear we could get away from the legal aspects. We wanted a moral decision and what we got was a legal one and so it didn't really matter in the end." 
The new code states: "The Court shall determine whether the conditions established by the President's Letter were met in ordering the suspension or expul­sion." Riehle concurred, "I think the six-man board probably would not have allowed them to read their statement, though I'm just guessing, because only the facts were to be reviewed." 
The greatest danger of the code was realized when the ten refused to defend themselves at the hearing on the basis of the facts of the disruption. Since their summary suspensions and expulsions made them guilty from the outset, the court had little choice. The recom­mendations of the appeals board were sympathetic to the defense statement of the students. It laid part of the blame on the University. "The administration of the University appears not to have taken steps to avoid this confrontation." It also admitted that it was "un­able at the hearing to deal with the problem of whether or not individual students among the ten were justly 
accused." 

NEITIIER Mahoney nor Charles McCarthy, chair­man of the Nonviolent Program who assisted the ten 
in their defense blame Riehle for their suspensions.
' 

McCarthy said, "Riehle is not responsible for the court's 
decision. Those are upper echelon decisions. Those are 
Faccenda's, Hesburgh's and Joyce's, not Jim's." 
It appears that the new judicial code will be re­
paired. SLC chairman James Massey has made several 
recommendations to the council to insure smoother 
proceedings. Summary actions by the Dean of Students 
will require a trial which will be a first hearing and 
not an appeals board; the Dean of Students will be re­
quired to show cause for his summary action and it 
will require a majority of the court to uphold his 
decisions. 

But even a judicial code working with buttery­
smooth efficiency will not be equipped to resolve the 
questions of a disruption similar to that of Dow­
CIA. Both McCarthy and Mahoney believe that the 
existence of the judicial code and the 15-minute policy 
are antithetical to the concept of a Christian university. 
McCarthy said, "I think that the kind of thing the judicial code embodies, might makes right, can be shown in no better example than in the 15-page state­ment on which the ten based their whole semester. The administration didn't see fit to answer any of their points.'' 
MAHONEY sees the Christian community as placing a burden of responsibility on all its members to uphold its ideals. "The judicial code is really inconsistent with the idea of Christianity. It recognizes the right to protest to a certain point, but it doesn't give the re­sponsibility to the administration to understand protest and bare some of the suffering for what went on ­
1.o face the main issues. The roots of this problem have been around for a long time. The whole ideal of the university had been violated long before that doorway was blocked." 
"The concept of rational persuasion is sacrosanct around here but you can't use it under the present structures. Hesburgh told me that if 50% of the stu­dents wanted to get rid of the rule, he would. But that's not rational persuasion, that's coercion. The state­ment of the ten was disregarded because it was made by only ten people, but isn't that rational persuasion? The only rational persuasion at Notre Dame is going through Hesburgh and that is authoritarianism and paternalism." 
At last Friday's University Forum Hesburgh said that if fifty per cent of the students desired the elimina­tion of the Placement Bureau, it could be done. This, too, misses the point of the disruption. It is not the existence of the Placement Bureau that the demon­strators are questioning, but the lack of self-realization of the University. The deepest values of the University and of the judicial code "seem to be the status quo and the maintenance of the university," according to 
Mahoney. 
McCarthy is confident that the University can find better ways to solve the problem of disruption. "We've got the people and the equipment to find a better way to settle conflict. There aren't mean, hateful, vicious people here. The adversary court system form of resolving conflict is absolutely detrimental to the ends 
of Notre Dame as a Christian university and com­munity" 
DOW is scheduled to return to interview next Tues­day and Wednesday and in the three months since November 18, no steps have been taken outside of the statement by the ten to treat the root problems of the disruption. The SLC has conducted an investigation of the Placement Bureau to be sure, but not an investiga­tion of the ideals of the university. The judicial code, coupled with the injunction, will be able to hum along sweetly, handling the surface crisis, the eruptions caused by deeper wrongs. Meanwhile the injustices perpetuated by a malfunctioning judicial code and by an inability or a refusal to understand beyond surface appearances leave the ten missing $1500 tuition and a semester's worth of study. 
McCarthy diagnosed the proceedings of the past few months. "It's just a situation of people who have power over other people; of inflicting suffering or the threat of inflicting suffering. And that's not what a university is about. That just means you're inflicting suffering. not that you're right." 
Tim O'Meilia 
II. Writing the Warrant 
FOUR Notre Dame seniors awoke to the pounding of St. Joseph County sheriffs, at 6 a.m. on Tuesday, November 18, 1969. The marshals of St. Joseph County Superior Court served notice of a restraining order, issued at the University's request, against the Dow-CIA demonstration. At the same time came notice that the University was seeking an injunction to permanently block all future Placement Bureau demonstrations. Father Riehle had arbitrarily selected four students as "leaders" of the protest and thus forced those students -Fred Dedrick, Timothy MacCarry, Brian Mclnerney, and Richard Libowitz-to serve publicly as "representa­tives of a class" of all future demonstrators. 
A restraining order providing protection from a 
temporary threat to real property or persons is good 
only for a brief, stated period, the period until a hearing 
on a temporary injunction can be held. Similarly, a 
temporary injunction is valid only until a hearing can be 
held for a permanent injunction. Three months and 
sixteen hours of court hearings after that Tuesday 
morning, the temporary injunction was granted. 
Attaining the injunction required of the University the use of their corporate lawyer (and corporate lawyers do not come cheap) and the posting of a $5,000 bond. The four students, arbitrarily selected by the Dean of Students, (two of whom were removed by the court as unjustly named) have incurred several hundred dollars in court costs. The legal document in question is not a masterpiece-it is fairly ambiguous in what it pro­hibits, although rumors that it prohibits all walking by students in the adminstration building are slightly ex­aggerated. The document means this precisely: at the request of the University administration, a demonstra­tor called "disruptive" can now be cited for contempt of court. For this, he could face a 3-month jail sentence and/or up to a $500 fine. 
The court costs aside, even the ambiguity of the legal document aside, the transfer of the conflict from campus to civil judiciary raises serious questions about how the University is autonomous and who in it publicly represents that autonomy to those outside the Uni­versity. It also makes public the problem of how the ,:Vniversity should react to dissent and makes that prob­lem public in a way that is embarrassing to anyone who 
still believes that this is a Christian community. 
THE reality of what the "university" is under Amer­ican law emerges when a university dissolves its sep­aration from society as an academic institution and goes into court. The rhetorical illusions of scholarly or Christian community disappear and leave a legally recognized business corporation. The business just hap­pens to be dissemination of knowledge. This is an un­fortunate situation unique to American law, and while it is certainly advantageous in some respects, it comes as a rather uncomfortable realization. A corporation is what students have to deal with when the corporation officials (the Administration), the only element of the community with any legal position, places its problems under the jurisdiction of a civil court. 
In Anglo-American law, court injunctions and con­sequent contempt of court charges are narrowly legal­istic matters. In this case, the injunction was ad­judicated on the University's contention that it faces irreparable harm from future demonstrations unless the court restrains the source of this danger, the Uni­versity's students. The court of equity (or the civil court) creates, in an injunction, a new, specific set of rules; prior to the injunction, the Univer~ity could not. have taken the matter of a demonstration to court, but with the injunction in hand it is now able to do so.. The case of the demonstrators here is similar to that of striking laborers in the early days of labor union development: the employers could point to no law which the workers were violating in the strike, but they were able to convince the court that they would suffer real damage, so the court granted an injunction against the strike. 
PHILIP Faccenda, lawyer and Special Assistant to Father Hesburgh, explains the purpose of the injunction in this way: the conflict is resolved by reverting to the state of affairs that existed before the conflict developed, specifically, by keeping the opposing_forces apart. "And 
February 13, 1970 
I don't view the Administration as one of these forces 
in this situation. Rather, there are the students who 
want the Placement Bureau open and there are those 
who want it closed. Not in every situation is the Uni­
versity neutral, but in this one it is." 
The decision to seek an injunction against demon­strators at the Placement Bureau came after consulta­tion among administrative officials, Mr. Faccenda ex­plained. It was Fr. Riehle who, as Dean of Students, proceeded to obtain the court order. From the admin­istration's point of view, an injunction is only "one of several tools available in the attempt to peacefully solve difficulties." The editorial in the South Bend Tribune suggested the injunction added "another weapon to the arsenal" of the University in dealing with campus dis­ruption. Faccenda further insists that the pursuit of court protection in this case does not represent any policy decision affecting campus locations other than the Placement Bureau: "each case must be evaluated at the time." 
The University has two options in taking some legal action against demonstrators: it can either charge them with trespass or use an injunction. It is following the latter course hopefully to prevent the kind of inflammatory situation that developed last winter dur­ing the Pornography Conference. If students were charged with trespass and police called in, the police would be obliged first to ask them to leave and if they refused, to remove them by force. With the injunction, now in force, the University can rather petition the court that issued the injunction to further issue con­tempt citations against demonstrators. The citation would be served by the police, this would be their only action. It would require the person to whom it is given to appear in court, but it does not directly require police action. 
Using the injunction benefits the University in two ways: the threat of initiating a petition for contempt citations will probably be enough to halt any demon­stration, and if it is not, the demonstrators find them­selves in criminal court, not in the campus judiciary. It is interesting to note that, in all likelihood, the Uni­versity will probably not use the second advantage in the way that one would expect: demonstrators will not only find themselves being publicly indicted for serious penalties, but they will also be liable to trial on campus. 
AMERICAN universities have turned to injunctions with the hope that the forced confrontation with civil authority would be frustrating and therefore discourag­ing to people who are, after all, interested in arousing discussion and action within the University. This would supposedly force the dissenters to seek avenues other than demonstrations. Notre Dame points to the Uni­versity Forum, the SLC, and similar bodies. Yet the bill passed last year by the Student Senate in reaction to a previous Dow-CIA demonstration, a bill providing for discussion between demonstrators and corporate repre­sentatives, was ignored because, as Faccenda explained, "the Student Senate has no legislative power." 
THElegal approach of the four defendants was based 
on the fact that the outcome of their hearings-will aff~t 
members of the community beyond themselves. Although purely political explantions of the Dow-CIA action were allowed in court (as similarly political ones are not in the Conspiracy Trial), the emphasis of the defense proceedings fell on the attempt to disprove the assertion that the four student leaders had acted in concert and that the University faced imminent danger of disruption when Dow and CIA returned for inter­views in February. Judge Kopec granted the injunction on the narrow grounds of possible future disruption, which he found "explicitly admitted" in the statements by Fred Dedrick and Brian Mclnerney that they could only assure the court that there were no plans formu­lated at that time for further action. The preservation of unregulated conscience, coupled with continued dis­agreement with Dow and CIA, left the possibility of dis­ruption open. 
Paul Kusbach, the defense lawyer, also tried to illustrate the administration's prior knowledge that the demonstration would take place; he pointed to the administration's refusal to convene a conference be­tween the interviewers and protesters as provided for in the Senate Bill passed last spring. Thus, an attempt was made to prove that the University could have pre­vented confrontation. The court concluded, however, that the factions opposing recruitment faced a wider spectrum of choice: therefore, it granted the requested protection to the University Administration. 
FROMthis intricate tangle of legality and legal prose, a portrait of the affair emerges that falls in the famil­iar area of inscrutability. Applying strictly legal con­siderations, the case of the University appears legally solid: myopic but solid. The outcome of the courtroom drama itself led the defendants to guess that they had been victorious: an obvious miscarriage of justice oc­curred in naming Libowitz, Dedrick and MacCarry as leaders of disruption when they had not at any time blocked the door. 
Further, the status of the placement service as an essential part of the University remains in question despite the fact that the corporate power (the Admin­istration) claims it is so: Hesburgh and Faccenda have echoed each other in stating that it exists only "be­cause the students want it." The process that deter­mined this truth remains obscure. 
Also, it is possible that the court unavoidably mirrored the mood of the nation and of South Bend, a mood generally defensive and even reactionary on the issue of campus unrest. This mood, it might be specu­lated, broadened the dimensions of considerations in adjudicating the case. From this standpoint, the polit­ical views of Judge Kopec himself were on trial before the eyes of the South Bend community. Because the University took the matter out of its O\\'TI community, the question was subject to influences from the South Bend community. 
THEimpact of the injunction upon the campus itself remains to be seen. The Administration views it as a neutral tool they have secured to prevent further trouble. The ambiguity of the injunction itself leaves wide range for speculation on its stringency. Neither the court nor the Administration claims to forbid the right, guaranteed by the Bill of Rights, to peaceful dem­onstration. But what tactics other than blatant block­ing of doors constitutes interference with the business of the administration building? What "number" of per­sons gathered in one spot constitutes disruption? Does protest activity in other areas of the same building vio­late the injunction? 
The fault of the proceeding goes beyond these ques­tions of ambiguity; Fred Dedrick articulated the most basic aspect of that fault: "The harm has already been done because the University has decided to pit its cor­porate strength against four students ... three of whom engaged in no greater threat to the order of the Univer­sity than the simple exercise of free speech activities." 
THE use of injunction to deal with campus unrest has appeared only in the last decade. Yet the history of the use of this option repeatedly includes cases of dis­ruption beside which the Notre Dame case appears meager and, even ridiculous. Columbia University, for example, sought injunction to stop repeated take-over of buildings alleging "imminent danger of severe bodily injury to students and other persons on the campus, substantial destruction of plaintiff's property and the likelihood that other buildings may be occupied...." The University of Wisconsin sought court protection from extensive occupation of buildings only after "the director of the Office of Student Organizations' Advisors contacted one or more of the defendants and offered cooperation, guidance and assistance in explaining and communicating to the protest's leaders...." Placed beside the efforts of these last-resort petitions, the Notre Dame injunction indicates an overly heavy-handed and suppressive response from University authority to the prevalent mood of student concern and activism. 
Paul Kusbach reflected that "an injunction improvi­dently granted could be worse than no injunction." The import of this possibility is an escape from any pressure to face the issues brought up in protest. The injunction and similar measures afford the authority of the Univer­sity this possibility. Further, the increase in factional­ism resulting from the Administration's transfer of community affairs into the civil courts compounds the struggle to increase communication ,vithin the com­munity. Phil McKenna, Student Body President, assessed the Administration's actions as a "refusal to recognize the essentially necessary elements of trust-. The Admin­istration itself has resorted to force, that which it speaks against, to stop overt disagreement." Dedrick added to that assessment, saying that court action "re­moved a large part of the controversy from the com­munity and put it in a courtroom where the elements of the University became opponents rather than fellow­participants in a community struggle." Regardless of the possible violation of the injunction and the complex string of events that will follow, the University has magnified communal strife to the level of the civil court. 
THE Massachusetts Institute of Technology recentiy abandoned its injunction proceedings. Allegedly, a blue ribbon committee of the M.I.T. Faculty Senate cen­sored the invocation of such self-protective measures as a serious failure of imagination. The committee re­portedly asserted that it was wrong to pretend after a decade of student activism that symbolic protest carried a threat to life and property. The right to injunction is established in American law to prevent just this threat. The crisis of protest, except for violent conflict, is not of the magnitude to which the "drastic" weapon of injunction should restrict itself. 


Carolyri Gatz 

Camus: The Flight of the Sparrow 

MIDNIGHT. 

A warm and lighted hall. Open portals high on the gables of either end. Little light seeps out. Cold, thick darkness pours in. Life, as Kierkegaard describes it: the flight of a sparrow from one portal to another. 
·The walls hold the darkness without, the light and warmth within. Unsure that the light is better than the darkness, the sparrow crashes against the walls. Again ... and again. Assured that the walls can be pene­trated. 
And having battered its wings against the rough stone and wooden roof, the sparrow begins to find an uncertain joy in the excitation of his senses, in the dis­covery of his bounds. 
In time, the sparrow, while not forgetting the dark­ness, _dismisses his desire to penetrate the walls. The hall is accepted not for its light but for its walls. 
Once and finally, though, the sparrow does not batter its wings; instead it soars through the other portal. Into a pool of darkness. 
THIS week's conference on Albert Campus produced one unequivocal assertion: Camus was a conservative. In the most profound and the least banal sense. He was not an economic romanticist of the Goldwater-Agnew variety: he did not believe that the accumulation of material was a proper project for humanity. Nor did he believe, with Fichte, Hegel and that tradition of German romantics, that the determination of man's duty was a function or a privilege of the state. But as Edward Gargan noted on Monday, his death marked the end and the culmination of the French tradition of moral philosophy. Since Camus's death, the scope of the questions that philosophy is willing to ask has con­tracted. The abyss within has been set aside until ques­tions of less grandeur and, hence, of less futility, have been answered by more scientific methods. 
Camus's only interest was in discovering a way of life. In The Jltlyth of Sisyphus (1941), he writes of the restlessness of man, man tortuously living the task of his rock; Sisyphus acknowledges no end to the energy he can expend, to the eternity of his task; his burden remains untempered by its futility. His enchantment resides less in the mountain than in his own energy. 
It was with this diluted Nietzschean romanticism that Camus wrote The Jltlyth of Sisyphus. It is a roman­ticism born of the death of god, yet born after the birth of paradise. In Tuesday's symposium, Father John Dunne noted that the historical development of this expectation of paradise is founded in the Middle Ages. Faith in Christianity had created an assurance of eter­nal life. But the decimation of this faith left man still execting paradise. And now these expectations had to be transferred to the earth. 
The Enlightenment replaced faith with reason, heaven with Eden. With its assurance of reason and progress, it lent to man the illusion that the ,-_rorld was ordered and rational, that paradi.se was a proC::rt of discipline. It was this belief in reason that led to the French Revolution. And it was Robespierre's passion for discipline, a discipline see~~ing reason, that produced the Reign of Terror. 
The men of Robespierre's times realized that if man's nature was fallen, redemption was impossible because there was no longer a faith in the saviour. Thus men sought innocence. The man of the Enlightenment had to convince himself that salvation was not neces­sary, that no sin existed that could not be dissolved by reason. But nothing is more violent than an outraged innocent. Jean-Paul Marat, innocent and ruthless, is a symbol of the French Revolution: 
What is the blood of these aristocrats 
compared with the blood the people shed for you 
Marat is the forerunner of Marx and Marx's promise of a worker's paradise, a paradise conceived in blood. 
Europe turned from the Age of Reason and its violence only to find another, more terrifying vio­lence. German romanticism proved more dangerous; with nihilism as a point of origin, it nevertheless af­firmed the world. Nihilism left open the entire project of constructing a world because nihilism acknowledged no essential world and no limits to the world that could be constructed. 
"The revolution," Camus writes in The Rebel) "based on principles kills God in the person of His representa­tive on earth. The revolution of the twentieth century kills what remains of God in the principles themselves and consecrates historical nihilism. Whatever paths nihilism may proceed to take, from the moment that it decides to be the creative force of its period and ig­nores every moral precept, it begins to build the temple of Caesar. To choose history, and history alone, is to choose nihilism, in defiance of the teachings of rebemon itself. Those who rush blindly to history in the name of the irrational, proclaiming that it is meaningless, en­counter servitude and terror and finally emerge into the universe of the concentration camps. Those who launch themselves into it preaching its absolute ration­ality encounter servitude and terror and emerge into the universe of the concentration camps. Fascism wants to establish the advent of the Nietzschean superman." 
AFTER his participation in the French resistance during the Nazi occupation, Camus realized that the kind of thinking he outlined in The Myth of Si.syphus offered only succor to the Nazis he resisted. He realized that his philosophy was no foundation for his action. 
His 194 7 novel, The P7,agueJ depicts the suffering and solidarity within Oran, a city beset by pestilence. For the first time, Camus deals with the problem and the possibility of politics, of people living together. In the novel, he rejects transcendence: the journalist Rambert, after trying to escape the city, finally chooses to live his life in Oran. But he also rejects heroism; his characters act to make Ii!e possible, not to under­take struggle for its own sake. 
The Rebel is written two years later. For Camus, the rebel makes an assertion· quite beyond that of the slave, beyond that of Sisyphus. "He affirms that there are limits and also that he suspects -and wish~s to preserve -the existence of certain things on this side of the borderline. He demonstrates, with obstinacy, that there is something in him 'which is worthwhile .. .' and which must be taken into consideration." This is the essence of Camus's conservatism; he asserts an inner value, a value neither logical not invented. It is with this insistence that there is a limit to how much man can take .that he also discovers a limit to how much man can inflict. The fact that men live with other men limits man; respecting his own worth, the man must respect the worth of others or he destroys all limits. Man is limited in how much he can make without destroying. Witness Nazi Germany. vVitness technocracy. 
W1TH the discovery of himself, of his worth, of his limits, the rebel returns to the Greece of Homer and Sophocles, a Greece where there is no expectation of an afterlife. "At this meridian of thought, the rebel thus rejects divinity in order to share in the struggles and destiny of all men. We shall choose Ithaca, the faithful land, frugal and audacious thought, lucid ac­tion, and the generosity of the man who understands. In the light, the earth remains our first and our last love. Our brothers are breathing under the same sky as we; justice is a living thing. Now is born that strange joy which helps one live and die, and which we shall never again postpone to a later time." 
-Richard 1Yloran 


February 13,-1970 
And now Marat now I see where this Revolution is leading 
To the withering of the individual man and a slow merging into uniformity to the death of choice to self denial to deadly weakness in a state which has no contact with individuals but which is impregnable So I turn away I am one of those who has to be defeated and from this defeat I want to seize all I can get with my own strength 
The Marqui.s in Peter Weiss' Marat/Sade 

and the letter 
z 

which in greek means he is alive 
[I] 

INTENTIONAL Any similarity to actual events or persons, living or dead, 
is not ·coincidental. It is intentional. Costa-Gavras & Jorge Semprun 
[II] 

The Doctor and the people escorting him went in the direction of the Kosmopolit Hotel, which was diag­onally across the way from the sidewalk where they had been standing. . . . From the opposite corner, on the hotel side of the square, a pickup van swooped in like a shot. A man, crouched in the rear, hit him on the head with an iron bar. He wavered, then fell; the wheels of the van went over him, dragging him a foot or two in the process ; a pool of blood began to form on the street. 
"They've killed him!" 
VASSILIS VASSILIKOS 
[III] 

GREEK LEFTIST HURT; REGIME IS ACCUSED 
SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES 

ATHENS, May 23-The chief of police in Salonika was suspended tonight following Opposition allegations that a Left-wing member of Parliament had been run down by a motorcyclist in an attempted "political murder." 
Oppositi~n parties charge that the Government is morally responsible. 
Two members of Parliament were taken to a hos­pital in Salonika last night after a clash between nuclear disarmament campaigners and Right-wing op­ponents. One of them, Gregory G. Lambrakis is in criti­cal condition from injuries received when_ he was struck by a motor cycle as he was leaving a mass me2ting of anti-bomb campaigners. 
The United Left Democratic party, a pro-Communist group, alleged that the cyclist, who was arrested, was "a well-known Right-wing terrorist." 
The other injured man was George Tsarouhas, a pro-Communist deputy, who was said to have been as­saulted during the clashes. 
Tonight, George Papandreou, the leader of the Cen­ter Union, the major Opposition party, denounced Pre­mier Constantine Caramanlis as "the moral instigator of the political murder of Deputy Lambrakis." 
THE NEW YORK TIMES 
[IV] 

IN]URED GREEK DEPUTY DIES; REACTIONS FEARED 
SALONIKA, Greece, Monday, May 27 (AP)-Gregory Lambrakis, leftist Deputy in the Parliament at Athens, died early today of injuries, suffered when hit by a motorcycle after a stormy ban-the-bomb rally here last Wednesday. The death could trigger serious political incidents. 
Crowds gathered during the night outside the hos­pital where the Deputy had been unconscious since he was hurt. They clashed with police and five persons were reported injured. Rioting flared in Athens and Piraeus Saturday. 
THE NEW YORK TIMES 


[VJ Greece 

The death on Monday morning of the left-wing indepen­dent dupty Mr. Gregory Lambrakis has plunged Greece into crisis. Despite threats against Lambrakis and other left-wing figures at the Salonika meeting, the police per­mitted gangs of toughs from various right-wing para­military organizations to assemble outside the building. When Lambrakis came out of the building the van ap­peared out of a side-street. According to eye-witnesses the van then drove straight at Lambrakis, who ran for his life. In other words, if the eye-witness evidence is true, there was no collision: he was chased and run down. 
The police do not appear to have attempted to stop the van or arrest its three occupants. They would, in fact, have gotten clear away had not a communist militant jumped into the back of the van and forced it to a halt about 1,000 yards from the scene of the accident, where it was immediately surrounded by an angry mob. The driver has been identified as a member of the fasc.ist National Union of Greeks and is reported 
February 13, 1970 
to have a record of convictions for political violence, theft and rape. 
The government has reacted to the incident with a mixture of bravado and panic. Students demonstrating against what they term the murder of Lambrakis have be2n savagely dealt with by the new "mechanised" sec­tions of the Greek police. In Athens the affair has been seen as a prelude to a fascist coup. Armed fascist gangs, operating under various labels, have proliferated in re­cent years. The opposition claims that the Karamanlis government connives at their existence, permitting, for instance, recently retin~d officers to train and organise them. Some estimates put the number of men in these armed bands as high as 30,000 and it is widely believed that their supreme commander is an ex-officer. 
THE NEW STATESMAN 31 MAY 1963 
[VI] 


Greece 

During the past week, as fresh evidence has come to light, the events surrounding the death of Gregory Lambrakis have grown more sinister. It nov.-appears that the driver of the motorcycle van, Gotzamanis, be­longed to a fascist-sympathising organization, whose purpose is to 'assist' the police 'in the preservadon of Greek civilization', and the signature on his membership card was witnessed by a police superintendent. The fail­ure of the police to prevent the killing of Lambrakis lends credibility to the suspicion of police complicity. This is deepened by their apparent unwillingness to in­vestigate the affair. Although Gotzamanis has now been charged with murder, the police have made little at­tempt to find witnesses. One, Sotirchopoulos, was pro­duced by journalists, but was then beaten up while on his way to testify. 
The Greek Minister of the Interior is now in Salo­nika, allegedly to speed up investigation into these various incidents. But many in Athens believe his task is rather to white-wash the whole affair. It is notable that, at every stage, action has been taken only after the most vigorous protests by the press, which in fact has done all the detective work. But now the press has been attacked by the Ministry of Information as 'ir­responsible', and there are fears that the Karamanlis government intends to shut down certain newspapers or silence them by prosecution. If this happens, those ultimately responsible for Lambrakis' death may never be discovered. 
THE NEW STATESMAN 7 JUNE 1963 
[VII] 

Z. A movie by Costa-Gavras based on the novel Z by Vassilis Vassilikos. The screenplay for the film was written by the director in collaboration with Jorge S2mprun. Photographed by Raoul Coutard. Music by Mikis Theodorakis. Produced by Jacques Perrin and Ahmed Rachedi. 
The movie stars Yves Montand as the Deputy, Jean­Louis Trintignant as the Investigating Magistrate who is assigned the deputy's assassination, Irene Papas as the deputy's wife and Jacques Perrin as the journalist. 
[VIII] 

I never intended Z to be sheer entertainment. I was not too surprised when the reviewer for The New York Times considered it only as a thriller. I suppose there are certain people who just do not wish to believe that things are the way I have shown them in my film. 
COSTA-GA VRAS 

[IX] 

The movie Z is based on a series of "actual events" in Greece: the assassination in 1963 in Salonika of the pacifist parliamentarian, former Olympic Champion and professor of medicine at Athens University, Gregorious Lambrakis, after a ban-the-bomb rally, specifically di­rected against American Polaris installations in Greece; the sinister attempts by government officials to conceal the true circumstances of the killing; the investigation of the crime by a young magistrate; the harassment of witnesses by the police; and final indictments brought against the four leading Salonika police officials (one of whom was transferred from service in the Athenian palace guard to Salonika shortly before the assassina­tion). And ultimate coup d'etat by the military which turned the facts in the small world of the Lambrakis affair around in a way similar to that of the military junta currently in power in Greece. If there were any 
facts in that small world. 
[X] 

It is not a large world. Relatively even to this world of ours, which has its limits too (as your Highness shall find when you have made the tour of it, and are come to the brink of the void beyond), it is a very little speck. There is good in it; there are good and true people in it; it has its appointed place. But the evil of it is, that it is a world wrapped up in too much jeweller's cotton and fine wool, and cannot hear the rushing of larger worlds, and cannot see them as they circle round the sun. It is a deadened world, and its growth is some­times unhealthy for want of air. 
CHARLES DICKENS 


[XI] 

The film is about stasis and total loss; it seems to be­speak the impossibility of political revolution because the political world it presents has no viable human di­mensions. The deputy shows his political naivete when he complains that "We are in a country where the imagination is suspect." In politics, the imagination is always suspect. The first thing that the assassin Vago can think to do after the murder is to go to a news­paperman friend of his and ask him to put his name ~n the paper-"Write that I was there, taking care of the bastards. So my pals'll know." When the magistrate be­gins to press his investigation, the Pros2cutor reminds him that those in the Government want the investiga­tion brought to a speedy conclusion and that, after all, he has a brilliant career in front of him. 
The world of politics that Costa-Gavras presents is peopled with men who believe that things do not bear much looking into. When the magistrate tells the Gen­eral that his investigation must go on because it is un­covering new facts, the General angrily replies, "What new facts? Everything was clear yesterday." The red­neck organization that is directly responsible for the assassination and which the police rely on for so much support is called CROC: "Combatants for Royalism and Occidental Christianity." It is only too clear that those words mean only what the rednecks want them to mean; the King is in power and thus should stay in power and Christianity is, after all, only what I believe in. 
The movie is acted out by characters who literally have no names, but only functions; by men whose "good" intentions, unless they are partisan or purely personal, can only lead to disaster. It is about the im­potency of individuals trying to aet as moral men. Trying to find out truth when there is no absolute truth but only the relative truth of rewritten police reports: partisan newspapers, and witnesses whose testimony is determined by their desire to work in order to feed their children or even by their desire to live quietly by themselves. It is finally about the realization that morality in politics is suicide, and it is about the des­pair that grows out of that realization. It 1nay also be about the only possible way to achieve any real revolu­tion. 

[XII] 

in politics 
who's honest 
true 
to 
death? 
the off the cuff 
opponent (Guildencrantz) 
who'd stopped husking 
for the nomination 
until after the funeral 
and after the funeral 
forgot any day before 
while conserving Freedorn 
nevermind Liberty­
honest 
LoUIS ZUKOFSKY 


[XIII] 

Three people appear around whom all actions in the film move and take form: the doctor's wife, the govern­ment investigator, and the reporter who with his detec­tive work is the catalytic agent in the investigation. Each in his own way speaks a part of the film's truth. The assassinated doctor's wife bears the same terrible 
The Scholastic 
and degrading responsibility as did Mrs. Kennedy and Mrs. King: she must mourn in public. She refuses to play that role, however; she rejects everything political. Her black hair swept back in a tight bun frames a white face, her mouth set immovably in the countenance of gravity and pain. Her eyes, also dark, scan everything that surrounds her; they alone acknowledge what hap­pens. She knows only that her husband is dead and that his death will change nothing. When told of the assas­sination, she says only "So they've finally succeeded." The reporter later asks her who "they" are and she says nothing. 

[XIV] 

Lady Dedlock, having conquered or been conquered by her world, fell, not into the melting, but rather into the freezing mood. An exhausted composure, a worn-out placidity, an equanimity of fatigue not to be ruffled by interest or satisfaction. 
CHARLES DICKENS 


[XV] 

Neither the Investigator nor the reporter are aware of their roles and their importance in the drama. Neither can see, until it is far too late to turn around, the cata­clysmic results of their actions. The Investigator is simply trying to be a moral man; he seeks the truth, he wants only to bring the guilty party to justice. But his investigation and its finding are the direct and imme­diate cause of a military take-over. There is no genuine truth or justice-only serviceable substitutes. Because he does not learn that, at the end of the film, he is removed from his position, exiled. 
The reporter has been almost involuntarily caught up in a labyrinth that will destroy him. In the begin­ning of the film, he is politically neutral, disinterested; he wants only a story. But somewhere-one cannot pinpoint the exact spot-he is swept into the storm that he has inadvertently agitated. 
What follows is inevitable: he must follow the story to its end, because he must know everything and he is finally responsible, along with the Investigator, for the downfall of a corrupt regime, a military coup and his own destruction. Just as the Investigator is a historian of sorts, the reporter is an artist of sorts. His task is to make you hear, make you feel, make you see every­thing. And he is an ironic artist because the world he is presenting is always not what it seems to be. He is unaware of the tragedy he will cause, but he cannot really care. At the end of the film he has been im­prisoned for obtaining and releasing official documents. 
And so the problem becomes even more disturbing. Everyone is a function, not a person. The individual is either impotent or the unknowing agent of evil. The Investigator is killed by his own honesty; more than that, he has caused a military take-over, which would have never otherwise occurred, and prevented a revolu­tion which might have occurred. His search for truth 
February 13, 1970 
has been completely perverted. He does not learn what he set out to learn, "the facts of the case," because there are no lasting facts of the case. It is possible that he learns the assertion that "he is alive." 
The generals the Investigator prosecutes are not just dishonest; they have been so blinded by their own righteousness that they feel justified in committing murder in order to save their "Occidental Christian civilization." And so· it is not simply a problem of removing certain corrupt officials; rather, it is a deep­seated perversion that is essential to the political order. Costa-Gavras is speaking most intensely about the terrifying inscrutability that characterizes all contem­porary political action, whether in Greece or Algeria 
(where the film was made) or in America. 
No one, anywhere, is in control. The system and the killing are fed only by themselves. The voice at the end of the film, the voice that tells us that the journal­ist has been jailed and reads a list of things banned by the new military regime, is a surrealistic fictional con­vention. The voice is created because no one is left alive in the world of the film ; the movie has to end, but it does so only in the detritus of the world whose death it narrates. No one runs the machine, it runs itself. 


[XVI] 

Lost in the crowd, miserable and undersized, he medi­tated confidently . . . but after a while he became ills­agreeably affected by the sight of the roadway thronged with vehicles and of the pavement crowded with men and women. He was in a long, straight street, peopled by a mere fraction of an immense multitude; but all round him, on and on, even to the limits of the horizon hidden by the enormous piles of bricks; he felt the mass of mankind mighty in its numbers. They swarmed in numerous like locusts, industrious like ants, thought­less like a natural force, pushing on blind and orderly and absorbed impervious to sentiment, to logic, to ter­ror, too, perhaps. 
That was the form of doubt he feared most. Im­pervious to fear! Often while walking abroad, when he happened also to come out of himself, he had such moments of dreadful and sane mistrust of mankind. What if nothing could move them? Such moments come to all men whose ambition aims at a direct grasp upon humanity-to artists, politicians, thinkers, reformers and saints. A despicable emotional state this. 
JOSEPH CONRAD 
[XVII] 

We are left then, apparently, ,vith but two choices, represented by the Investigator and the doctor's wife: we either try to play the political game while retaining our morality and knowing full well that we must die because of it (no matter :what we learn in the process); or we remove ourselves completely from the mud and from the revolution. It i~ the choice between death and stasis . . . which is no choice at all. 

£·",; ,,.::"" 
-.1 --,: 4 ~1 . ..~-.:..::..~-~~ 


' .~j4i:1~::i 
'.,;-r / 1$$ t --' . •_.. <~ . _. ' 
,-, I . . 
~-/' -~~"1."".~. ~ ' 
_i ,,~-,.,,. 
~ ·,.\ !._


{.--t,\ \ 
[XVIII] 

My nature is subdued To what it works in, like the dyer's hand: Pity me then, and wish I were renew'd! 
SHAKESPEARE 
[XIX] 

On December 4, 1969, State's Attorney Edward V. Hanrahan held a press conference. At 4:44 a.m. of that morning Fred Hampton and Mark Clark had been as­sassinated: 200 shots had been fired, and Hampton lay dead, shot in bed. Hanrahan's comments at the press 'conference were these: "We wholeheartedly commend the police officers for their bravery, their remarkable restraint and their discipline in the face of this Black Panther attack-as should every decent citizen in our 
community.'' 

[XX] 

CONTAINING THE VVHOLE SCIENCE OF GOVERNMENT 
The Circumlocution Office was (as everybody knows 
without being told) the most important Department 
under Government. No public business of any kind could 
possibly be done, at any time, without the acquiescence 
of the Circumlocution Office. Its finger was in the 
largest public pie and in the smallest public tart. It was 
equally impossible to do the plainest right and to undo 
the plainest wrong, without the express authority of 
the Circumlocution Office. If another Gunpowder plot 
had been discovered half an hour before the lighting 
of the match, nobody would have been justified in 
saving the Parliament until there had been half a score 
of boards, half a bushel of minutes, several sacks of 
official memoranda, and a family-vault full of ungram­
matical correspondence, on the part of the Circumlocu­
tion Office. 

This glorious establishment had been early in the 
.field, when one sublime principle involving the difficult 
art of governing a country was first distinctly revealed 
to statemen. It had been foremost to study that bright 
revelation, and to carry its shining influence through 
the whole of the official proceedings. Whatever was re­
quired to be done, the Circumlocution Office was be­
forehand with all the public departments in the art 
of perceiving-How NOT TO DO IT. 

Through this delicate perception, through the tact 
with which it invariably seized it, and through the 
genius with which it had always acted on it, the Cir­
cumlocution Office had risen to overtop all the public 
departments; and the public condition had risen to be-­
what it was. 
CHARLES DICKENS 


[XXI] 

The movie is called by the letter Z, which in Greek means "he is alive." He is alive because the film is banned in Greece, because in 1966 there were 60,000 
February 13, 1970 

young people banded together in clubs named in his memory. Because the producer of the film was told not to return to Greece if he cared for his life. He is alive because the investigation in Chicago did not die on the morning of December 4, because the evidence smugly presented by Edward V. Hanrahan "proved to be fraudulent." 
He is alive despite what has happened or will happen politically, despite the fact that both investiga­tions have failed to persuade most people in Greece and America. He is alive, perhaps, simply because we desperately want him to live. He is alive because no government as yet can control a man's mind. 
[XXII] 

"Crawling at your feet," said the Gnat (Alice drew her feet back in some alarm), "you may observe a Bread­and-butter-fly. Its wings are thin slices of bread-and­butter, its body is a crust, and its head is a lump of sugar." 
"And what does it live on?" 
"Weak tea with cream in it." 
A new difficulty came into Alice's head. "Supposing it couldn't find any?" she suggested. "Then it would die, of course." "But that must happen very often," Alice remarked thoughtfully. 
"It always happens," ·said the Gnat. 
LEwrs CARROLL 
[XXIII] 

Revolution against the government alone is not revolu­tion at all. Any hope born of this film, however irra­tional and unfounded, rests on that fundamental vision: the revolution will succeed if and when it looks beyond governments to the deeper perversions of which they are merely symptoms . 
The murderers of the deputy have gone free, as have the murderers of Lambrakis. The killers of Fred Hampton and Mark Clark have been praised by all "decent citizens." 
Z-he is alive. 
[XXIV] 

In the beginning was chaos. Mist, fog, rain, snow, and hail. A void and darkness was upon the face of the deep. Wind systems off the meeting of waters inhabited it, and birds flew within: crows and swallows. 
V ASSILIS VASSILIKOS 
Steve Brion, 

-Carolyn Gatz, 

& M. P. O'Connor 







Variations on a Theme by Blake 
Almost 200 years ago, William Blake exhorted the youth of England in these words: 
"Rouse up, 0 Young Men of the New Age! Set your foreheads against the ignorant Hirelings! For we have Hirelings in the Camp, the Court & the University, who would, if they could, forever depress Mental & pro­long Corporal War." 
A recent book entitled The Making of a Counter Culture by one Theodore Roszak takes 300 pages to ( excluding the exclarnation rnarks and the capital let­ters) say much the sanie thing. Except that he's a bit more specific about who tlie Hirelings are and about what is to be done towards routing them. But be care­Jul -some of your best friends .. . 
IN his remarkable testimony in the defense of the Conspiracy 8 (or is it 7 now?) Allen Ginsberg was asked to explain to the Court what a "be-in" was and how this was to be related to the proposed "Festival of Life" which was to be celebrated in Chicago during the 1968 Democratic Convention. After the usual objections, which were, for once, overruled, Ginsberg replied that a be-in is "a gather­ing together of younger people aware of the plane-
Theodore Roszak. The Making of a Counter­Culture. Garden City, New Jersey: Doubleday Anchor Book, 1969. 
tary fate that we are all sitting in the middle of, imbued with a new consciousness and desiring a new kind of society involving prayer, music and spiritual life together rather than competition, acquisition and war." Furthermore, what was planned at Chicago was "a gathering of the tribes of all of the different affinity groups -political groups, spiritual groups, Yoga groups, music groups and poetry groups that all felt the same crisis of identity and crisis of the planet." . 
One's reaction to statements of this sort is always rather mixed. Somehow it all sounds strangely fascinat­ing, even appealing. And yet there is still that big wide real world out there that one has to go on living in. Right on, Allen, right on all the way, but you don't really expect us t0 take (or rather to live) this stuff seriously, do you? 
Well, Theodore Roszak does. Ginsberg's testimony came too late to be included in the book, but it no doubt would have been had it been given earlier. The same admiration for the cultural and religious develop­ment taking place among today's young (and the same hints at an apocalyptic end for all of us if these de­velopments are thwarted) keeps cropping up in The MaTcing of a Counter Culture. 
And so do the military-industrial boys. I am sure that if the book had been originally published (it is now out in paperback) at a later date, Roszak would have argued that both the convention disturbances and the Conspiracy trial are instances of cultural as well as political repression, or, as Jacob Epstein has called them, "an usually violent form of theatrical censor-ship." This last point, as well as the whole repression theory, is of course moot. Nonetheless, in the collective unconscious of young and old America, Chicago has come to represent a real generational gap -one that is cultural as well as political. 
rrHE lines are drawn then. The young are in the process of setting up a radically new culture, a "counter culture." And Roszak, "in a spirit of critical helpful­ness," has taken it upon himself to give us all a guided tour of this new culture and its prophets. In this con­t.ext he gives us chapters on Herbert Marcuse, Norman 
0. Brown, Ginsberg, Alan Watts, Timothy Leary and Paul Goodman -a gallery of the hip, all of whom address themselves chiefly to the young. In this sense the book is "helpful" since these are exactly the names we all have heard of and know that we ought to read, but don't. Somehow if we read at all, that 400-page work by Marcuse tends to get passed up for Mailer's latest advertisement for himself or some near-porno­graphic exercise in wishful thinking like The Harrad Experiment. By reading Roszak's book, though, the reader gains something of an understanding of just what all those people are thinking and saying, the effect of which should at least give him an aura of com­petency with hip ideas. 
Naturally this approach tends to get a bit simplistic at times (Marcuse is wrong, Brown's gnomic utterances are usually right, Leary and drugs are bad, bad, bad) but this is almost unavoidable in an approach which compresses and criticizes a man's lifework into a 25­page chapter. A more serious charge is that the book is extremely paternalistic; this is especially annoying coming from one who professes to champion the youth culture. All the young really have going for them is their "healthy instincts'' while "more mature minds" (both phrases are used repeatedly) are needed to guide them along life's confusing path. He sees a danger that "the exploration of nonintellective powers" will "de­generate into a maniacal nihilism" and is "uncertain" that "many of the young have reflected sufficiently upon this." Thus he urges his fellow academicians to "in a spirit of critical helpfulness . . . sort out what seems valuable and promising in this dissenting culture, as if indeed it mattered to us whether the alienated young succeed in their project." It certainly is nice of him to bother. 
But Roszak's thesis is too important to ignore simply because he insists upon putting down the young. For, he has undertaken a much more ambitious task than merely presenting the prophets of the New Age. He is insistent that this is a counter culture, that is, a culture in direct and dialectical opposition to the present state of things. And that entity to which it is in opposi­tion is not to be identified with the old or the capitalists or even the forces of political repression within this country. Rather, "the paramount struggle of our day is against a far more formidable, because far less obvi-. ous, opponent, to which I will give the name 'the technocracy.'" Technology is the real enemy and its. proponents are the Hirelings. And he's not just talking about atomic bombs or DDT in the food chain here. He's perfectly willing to take on medicine ( well, much of it), automobiles, the scientific method and the whole level of industrialized affluence America has reached. 
THE main trouble with these offsprings of technology is that, if they are treasures, they are ones which have only been gained at a great price. First, claims Roszak, the growth of technology will lead to a loss of freedom as a "regime of experts" will gradually come to domi­nate all of human behavior. The scientists, engineers and managers will know all the answers and will, in effect, come to make all the decisions for the man on the street. They will be right, of course, but there will be some question as to just who is living who's life. The danger here will be compounded by the need for efficiency w.hich will eventually entail forcing people to do what's best for all (see, for example, the Selective Service document "Channeling" which Roszak unac­countably fails to mention) while also subverting all morals and traditions to the expediencies of technique, as exemplified by the demise of the Japanese culture under Western technological influence. 
Secondly, argues Roszak, technology and its sup­porting beliefs work _to bring about the estrangement of man from his God, his environment, his fellow humans and even his true self. If alienation is the subject of much modern literature, says Roszak, it is only because the relatively modern technological phe­nomenon has only recently made it possible. The tech­nological world view ("objective consciousness" as Roszak calls it) can only bring affluence by blocking the spiritual and sensory experiences of life or by 

No more fear of tenderness, much delight in weeping, ecstasy in singing, laughter rises that confounds staring Idiot mayors and stony politicians eyeing Thy breast, 0 man of America, be born! Truth breaks through! Allen Ginsberg  


February 13, 1970 
abstracting them to a higher and more removed level. Thus, technological man is given the image of life through television (and ultimately through Huxley's "feelies"), but only at the cost of becoming separated from real life and real people. 
On the societal level, the material goods bequeathed by technical advances require a social regimentation that many of today's young find impossible to accept. Resistance to a society that can only offer them "ca­reers" in plastics begins among the bewildered and angry graduates of our age. As Roszak points out, "the most troublesome students" (for campus admin­istrators) "are those who have swelled the numbers in the humanities and social studies only to discover that what the society really wants out of its schools is technicians, not philosophers.'' As for future develop­ments, Roszak is not one much given to understatement. "If the resistance of the counter culture fails," he claims, "there will be nothing in store for us but what antiutopians like Huxley and Orwell have forecast." 
What, then, is to be done? Well, for one thing, we are going to have to start taking all those groups that Ginsberg was talking about ser~ly. Watt's study of Eastern religions is to be incorporated into a new "eclectic spirituality" while Brown's "mysticism of the body" offers the possibility of a new and freer sexuality, a liberation of the personality. Goodman's version of Gestalt psychology and the New Left's affinity for "the anarchist tradition which has always championed the virtues of the primitive band, the tribe and the village" are similarly to be drawn upon. In short, nothing less than a whole new consciousness is to be forged. 
The one solution conspicuously absent here, of course, is politics. This is due to Roszak's definition of the real enemy we all face. It is not capitalism, nor the forces of political repression that are the real dangers to freedom and equality. Rather it is all those scientists and engineers and managers that are to be kept under control (Arts and Letters men of the world unite!). Those involved in the political process, however, are unwilling to repudiate power and thus are unable to prevent the growth of the technocracy. Even the radi­cal left is powerless here, for ''Marxism is the mirror image of bourgeois industrialism: an image reversed and yet unmistakably identical. For both traditions, 
the technocratic imperative with its attendant concep­tion of life stands unchallenged." 
For this reason, Marcuse, the political theorist, comes off as somehow old-fashioned, "the defender of this world, this tangible world we can lay hands on and which is nothing other than our reason takes it to be." Rather, it is the spiritual mystique of Brown that we are to follow. Roszak approvingly quotes Brown's advice that "The next generation needs to be told that the real fight is not the political fight, but to put an end to politics. From politics to poetry ... Poetry, art, imagination, the creative spirit is life itself; the real revolutionary power to change the world ... " 
JUST how much of this .is to be taken seriously is really more than I can deal with here. Surely the key element must be one's readiness to rely upon something more than what Roszak has called "this tangible world." I, for one, am not so eager to jettison the political proc­esses -it does seem as though some good has been brought about by governmental institutions and the processes of political change. Still, there might be some­thing here. The spirit of William Blake hovers over much of the book. It was he who first identified the threat to the spirit posed by machine technology in his outcries against the "dark Satanic mills" and the "mind forg'd manacles" of the Industrial Revolution. Similarly, he, too, seemed to place his hope for any .real change (i.e., a change in human consciousness) upon a spiritual sphere which somehow transcends the tangible world of Realpolitik. In his poem "Grey Monk" Blake once wrote, 
But vain the Sword and vain the Bow, They never can work War's overthrow. The hermit's prayer and the widow's tear Alone can save the World from fear. 
Ginsberg's affinity groups. Poetry, art, imagination. The hermit's prayer and the widow's tear. Perhaps. 
Michael Costello 
The Sons & Chicago formerly The Sons The Chicago of Champlin Transit Authority 
no adulation no hypes just progress 
LESS than a year ago, a group known as Blood, Sweat, and Tears began to achieve widespread recogni­tion. The most distinctive feature of this band was its horn section which was comprised of musicians who had been playing in jazz groups. And, since this group made most of its appearances at rock meccas such as the Fillmore, East and West, and Chicago's Kinetic Play­ground, the legend grew that the music of Blood, Sweat, and Tears was an amazing amalgam known as jazz-rock. 
Jazz-rock was a convenient term used to express the fact that something new was happening in rock music. By likening rock with jazz, some people felt that they could then have a respectable interest in pop music. But, one horn section does not a jazz group make. Memphis groups have been using horn sections for years, and they have never claimed to be playing jazz. The use of brass by BS&T was no more close to the jazz genre than the arrangements that were used to back up Carla Thomas, Otis Redding, Eddie Floyd, Sam and Dave, and the other artists who recorded for Stax-Volt during the sixties. 
Blood, Sweat, and Tears did use more sophisticated charts for their horns, as well as permitting jazzy sax and trumpet solos, but at no time did they ever ap­proach the free-wheeling improvisational style of a true jazz group in which one musician picks up an idea, and the rest of the band tries to follow him as he explores tenuous new ground. Such exploration is the basis of jazz, and is something that I have never noticed in BS&T's albums or live performances. Unfortunately, they have been labelled as leaders in the nonfield of jazz-rock. This, added to the pressures imposed upon them by their success on Top Forty radio, has created 
problems for them. How they react to these difficulties will be the most interesting aspect of their soon-to-be­released third album. 
BuT two other groups with recent albums manage to employ horns without any trace of identity problems. 
achieve respect for their artistry. 
The Sons, in their second album, The Sons (Capitol). 
show how versatile a rock group can be. The group 
has a rocking beat, colored with exceptional perfor­
mances by guitarist Terry Hagerty; the addition of sa.x 
and trumpet gives the music a little extra bite. While 
many of the songs begin with a soul beat,' the mooc! 
and tempo often change several times before the end 
of the cut. Some of the songs (such as It's Time, You 
Gan Fly and Boamp Boornp Ohornp) move out in tra­
ditional rock-style, but other songs (Love of a Woman 
and Why Do People Run Fram the Rain?) surprise the 
listener with their soft expressiveness. And all the 
songs, regardless of Lrie beat, express an outlook on life 
which can only be called joyful. 
Chicago (Columbia), by the group of the same name. is an exceptional double album with no throwaway cuts. James Guercio produces both Chicago and BS&T, but Chicago fits more smoothly into its music. The group plays only its own material and plays it with a con­Yiction often lacking in rock groups. Although Chi­cago does not feature brilliant soloists, their tight and exciting arrangements make for a dynamic perfor­mance. Their music expresses our revolutionary times and their two specifically revolution-oriented composi­tions, -4 Better End Soon and Where Do We Go Frorn Here?, are more relevant to the times than the strictly apocalyptic songs of a group like the MC5. But, though the album is dedicated to the Revolution, its musical forms transcend appreciation by only the New Left. 
CHICAGO and The Sons are two groups that are breaking new ground in pop music. Don't label them jazz-rock or anything else -they just lay down their songs and ask you to listen. The adulation and hypes can be given to other groups, but the real progress in rock music is being made by groups whose music does all of the talking. 
The Sons, as well as Chicago, prove that rock bands do not have to hide behind an artificial label in order to 
Kevin Ro·oney 
February 13, 1970 

Rick Mount 
Purdue 





\ 
I 1 
. 
•'. 
~ / ... \ ~­
_;/\,,~' /, ' 
;,_:·., :~·---~. ' 
. . . 

Calvin Murphy 
!Via Qa ra 
'---' 
Who's the 


in College

Pete Maravicl1 
LSU Basketball? 
February 13, 1970 
Why, Austin Carr, of Course! 
THEIR names are alarmingly al­literative -Mount, Murphy, Mem­inger and Maravich. And then there is this other guy. His name is Carr. 
It is a ludicrous argument, to be sure. Marquette Coach Al McGuire says Meminger's statistics don't show it, because of the Warriors' style, but he's No. 1. Purdue Coach Bob King -with a million Hoosiers screaming their hysterical assent in the background -casts his vote for Mount. Press Maravich chuckles and clears his throat. Then, with the demeanor of a true LSU gentleman, he opines that Pistol Pete is his choice. \Vhat the hell kind of a father would he be if he said any­thing else? 
Niagara's publicity department presents the case for Calvin in a series of quotes. From Bill Russell to "Taps" Gallagher (not to mention Dave Markey, Bobby Wanzer and George Krajack), they all know Cal­vin's a fine basketball player. (And, ah, what a baton twirler.) A pair of upstate New York sports editors have their own way of phrasing it. "Calvin Murphy is the most exciting individual in basketball bar none," says Bob Lowe of the Niagara Falls Gazette. "Yeah," says Mike Abdo of the Olean Times Herald, "but can he sell popcorn"? 
And so it goes. 

Supporters of Carr have stated, very calmly, that all this lip about the 4M Company is fine. But check those shooting percentages, re­bounds, difficulty of schedules and team records. 
Here is a statistical profile, com­plete through February 8, of college basketball's five best guards this season. -Terry O'Neil 
SIZE 
Marovich ..................................  6•5  190  
Mount ......................................  6.4  190  
Carr  ........................................  6.3  200  
Meminger  ................................  6-0  170  
Murphy ....................................  5-1 0  165  
FIELD  GOALS  ATTEMPTED  
Marovich  71 0  Mount  ............  368  

Carr ................ 477 Meminger .....•.. 227 Murphy .......... 456 
FIELD GOALS MADE Marovich 331 Mount ............ 173 Carr ................ 274 Meminger 103 Murphy 223 
FIELD GOAL PERCENTAGE Carr ...............574 Mount ...........• .460 Murphy .......... .489 Meminger ...... .454 Marovich ........ .466 
FREE THROWS ATTEMPTED 
Marovich 264 Meminger · 143 Murphy .......... 172 Mount ............ 110 Corr ................ 160 
FREE THROWS MADE Marovich 209 Mount ............ 91 Murphy .......... 152 Meminger .......• 90 Carr ................ 127 
FREE THROW PERCENTAGE Murphy .884 Marovich ........•792 Mount .............827 Meminger .......629 Carr ...............794 
REBOUNDS 
Carr ................ 157 Murphy 55 Marovich ........ 99 Mount ...........• 34 Meminger ........ 81 
REBOUNDS PER GAME Carr ................ 8.3 Murphy ............ 2.9 Marovich .......... 5.5 Mount .............. 2.6 Meminger 4.8 
ASSISTS 
Marovich ........ 106 Mount Meminger ........ 70 Murphy Carr ................ 
ASSISTS PER GAME 
Marovich .......... 5.9 Mount .............. Meminger ........ 4.1 Murphy ............ Carr ................ ­
PERSONAL FOULS 

Murphy ............ 63 Mount .............. 23 Marovich .......... 54 Carr .................. 22 Meminger .......... 28 
DISQUALIFICATIONS 

Carr .................. 0 Mount .............. 0 Marovich .......... 0 Murphy ............ Meminger .......... 0 
TOTAL POINTS 

Marovich 871 Mount ............ 571 Carr ................ 675 Meminger 296 Murphy .......... 598 
POINTS PER GAME 

Marovich ........ 48.4 Murphy 31.S Carr .............. 35.5 Meminger ...... 17.4 Mount ............ 33.6 
TEAM RECORD 

Murphy (Niagara) .............................. 16-3 Meminger {Marquette) ........................ 14-3 Car:; (Notre Dame) .............................. 14-5 Mount (Purdue) ...................................• 12-5 Marovich (LSU) .................................... 12-6 
DIFFICULTY OF SCHEDULE• 

Carr (Notre Dame) ...........•......................2nd Marovich (LSU) ......................................21st Mount (Purdue) ......................................99th Meminger (Marquette) ................ (tie) l 20th Murphy (Niagara) ................................120th 
-Indicates statistic not available. 

• As computed by Wright State University professor Gordon L. Wise for 211 major college basketball teams. 
The Scholastic 


1 l 
' 
j j 
i 
) 

'Wlych One 
is the 
'Pdulist? 
ffs easy to tell a Paulis!. Just talk with him. 
The first lhing you notice is that he·s contemporary. He Jives today, but plans tomorrow with the experience and knowl­edge of yesterday. That"s a Paulist characteristic: the abil­ity to move with the times and to meet the challenges of each era. 
A Paulist i, also the mediatvr of his age: he tries LO bring to­gether the extremes in today's world and the Church, the lib­erals and the moderates. the eternal and the temporal. 
Next. he is very much an i11di­1·id11al. It sets him apart imme­diately. He has his own partic­ular talents and abilities -and he is given f reeJom to use them. 
If you arc interested in finding out more about the Paulist dif­ference in the priesthood. ask for our brochure and a copy of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 
'Paulistth
'Pa e(G 
Room 300 415 West 59th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 

Even conservative profs rebel 
----­against smear tactics on term 
papers. You're always better off with erasable Corrasable® Bond. 
An ordinary pencil eraser lets 
you erase without a trace on 
Eaton's Corrasable type­EATON'S CORRASABLE 
TYPEWRITER PAPER

writer paper. At college book­
stores and stationery stores. 
Only Eaton makes Corrasable ® 

EATON'S CORRASABLE BOND TYPEWRITER PAPER Eaton Paper Division of fextronl Pittsfield, Massachusetts 01201 
.. : _;;,-:-:-:-.~ __,;~ :, =·: ;:·'.~~~~;,,


THE SCHOLASTIC ERRED The ScHOLASTrc's Football Review issue ( Decem­ber 5 ) erroneously charged linebacker Tim Kelly with ineffective pass coverage on Purdue's first touchdown play of the Sept. 27 game at Lafayette. 
The Scholastic 
STATE: Tick . .. Tick ... Tick ment of a young London photog­.. directed by Ralph Nelson. Jim rapher. David Hemmings is the star, Brown, George Kennedy, and Fredric Vanessa Redgrave is one of the wom­
movies 
GRANADA: California's answer to all those who thought the world ended at the Hudson River. Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice is one of those films about the new "sensitivity" more commonly known as plastic, and usually found only in the com­pany of one or more salesmen, who as the story goes -put on their smiles in the morning, and take them off before they go to bed. Elliot Gould may win the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. Who cares, you say? I dunno. So what'd you want, a plot synopsis? For times call 233-7301. 
chicago 

In its production of The Ternpest) the Goodman Theater has set out unflinchingly to capture all the magic and romantic imagination at the heart of Shakespeare's play. Their costumes and sets are elabo­rate, and stage trickery abounds. Freedom is another important con­cern of the play: this is dramatized in the casting of Caliban and Ariel as Blacks. Ariel's fellow spirits be­come African dancers. In the same manner, the vulnerable reality of the Duke's ship-wrecked party is emphasized by placing them in 19th century costume. 
If this all sounds a bit confusing, do not despair. True enough, to in­crease dramatic impact the director has chosen to make an already loosely organized play even more eclectic in structure. But considera­tions of sets and costumes are sec­ondary in this production: above all it is an actor's play. And the acting is uniformly excellent. Ferdinand and Miranda are suitably loving; 
February 13, 1970 
March flying wedge themselves into your hearts with this story, based on a black sheriff in a Southern com­munity. Given the above compo­nents, you might expect one of those hokey racial morality plays . . . . well . . . For times call 233-1676. 
COLFAX: Alfred Hitchcock's Topaz is based on the revelations of a defected French intelligence agent who claimed that the Russkys had infiltrated the top levels of the de Gaulle government. The Cuban Mis­sile Crisis also plays a role in this cold war tiddlywinks game. AT­TENTION: the fate of the entire world does not, I repeat, does not hang in the balance. For times call 233-4532. 
AVON: It's not funny. At 8:15. 
CINEMA '70: Blow-Up. The mas­ter of color and mood, Antonioni is featured in this controversial film about the involvement or noninvolve-
Gonzalo suitably trusty; Ariel suit­ably graceful. Trinculo and Ste­phano are hilarious but not over­done. As Prospero, Douglas Camp­bell is annoyingly cocksure at times -we miss the mental turmoil in Prospero which is imaged in the tempest on stage. But Campbell is a fine actor, whose command of the stage and Shakespeare's language is always apparent. The triumph of the show is Clayton Corbin's Cali­ban; his monster is terrifying in its resemblance to the human, fright­ening because it is so possible. In short, the quality of the acting in the play allows it to succeed despite the criticisms we might express for its design. 
The Goodman Theater is located only a stone's throw from beautiful Grant Park, directly behind the Art Institute off Michigan A venue. The wise driver will park in the Good­man's own lot and pay the bargain rate of $1.00. Student rates are in effect: wait until thirty minutes before curtain time, show your I.D., and you will get seats at the enviable price of $2.50. The Tempest will run through Feb. 22. 
There are two contemporary polit­ical works of some note. The first is ZJ which is discussed elsewhere in this issue at some would say tedious length. The second is Luchino Vis­counti's The Damned, a novel num­
en in his life, Jeff Beck and the Yardbirds put in a brief appearance; and the music score is handled by Herbie Hancock, if I'm not mis­taken. The movie has been the source of a prodigious amount of critical debate since its release in 1967. Some of the reasons for this are: it was the first foreign film by a major foreign director to have im­mediate national distribution in the United States. Its atmosphere of mod sexuality and its aura of youth­ful energy have also contributed to its tremendous popularity. The original story was suggested by the Argentinian author, Julio Cortazar. Screenings: Friday night, 7 and 9 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Patrons free. Admission $1.25. Prob­ably one of the ten best films ever made. 
RIVER PARK: Do-ionhill Racer with Robert Redford. Call 288-8488. 
ber about sex and money and how that led to Fascism. It's one of those films Pauline Kael, the rather in­judicious reviewer for The New Yorker couldn't sit through, so it's probably worth the price at the Carnegie. 

To-paz is easily the most ridiculous film Alfred Hitchcock has ever made and now in the twenty-third year of his dotage, he's clearly gone. 
We also on our peregrinatio!1s en­tered the new Kroch's and Bentra­no's Bookstore. It is still the most distinguished bookstore in Chicago, the now retired manager VI. W. Goodpasture assured, and getting better all the time. We were com­forted to see that Chicago is in no danger of becoming anything like New York. The long-winded lady was not seen buying Graham Greene's latest novel. 

Things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour. 
Shakespeare 
On January 21, the following "Statement of the Engineering College Council Concerning Dissent and Its :Manifestations on the Notre Dame Campus" was issued. The pomposity of the title befits the arrogance of the statement itself. 
The members of the College of Engineering Council are obliged to express themseh-es with respect to the recent event im·oldng ·'non-violent"' obstruction of a process long established at this institution, specifically the Placement Office and its operation. 
Rather than address ourselves immediately to this specific incident, it is deemed inperative that larger issues first be dis­cussed, for the specific incidents of recent unhappy memory are but particular deriYatives of misunderstanding of the broader, greater issue. That greater issue is: the nature, the meaning of the University. 
I We view the UniYersity as a structure, a framework, within which students benefit, in areas of established disciplines, in consequence of both formal and informal instruction by the teacher-scholar. 
II We view the student-teacher/scholar relationship to be essentially authoritative, not authoritarian, not, certainly democratic. 
III We ,-iew the University structure to be one which not only tolerates but invites, indeed, entertains diverse and con­trO\·ersial reasoned opinions, inquiries and in response, reasoned answers supported by scholarship, not feeling. 
IV We Yiew the community which exists within the University framework to be one marked by a decent respect for the reasoned opinions of mankind. 
In consequence of the above precises, we judge that any declaration or action which is rooted in an allegedly unique vision of reality, which denies dialogue; which suggests that those holding contrary or neutral views are basking in evil or ignor­ance; which in effect assumes a dogmatic posture, is in fact a declaration and/or action at variance with the letter and spirit of principles long recognized as essential to the life of an uni­versity. We are members of a University which while not to be confused with a seminary is certainly not a commune. 
In sum: 

The University is not a sociological gymnasium, wherein students and/or teachers are free to exercise their "thirig" to the detriment of their prime purposes: learning, teaching, research. 
the last word 
The Uni\·ersity is not to be an instrument in the fostering of particular, immediate, socio-political goals. 
The University, despite turmoil without its gates, must remain that sole bastion of objective scholarship, contemplative learning, speculation, and teaching free of the impulsive, the polemical; indeed, research, learning and teaching in an atmo­sphere relatively detached, not from issues, but detached from the prejudices which sadly mark current issues. 
As for the specific issue of the Placement Office, it is evident that its existence is predicated upon the notion that the students are entitled to certain ser\'ices. The Placement Office is one which any and all students may utilize or reject and, to date, no substantial evidence has been set forth to suggest that demons have captured berths at that office. 
No student is required to use that service, anymore than he is required to purchase his candy at, say, the Huddle. Hence, this Uniyersity no more endorses, nor condemns, the policies of particular corporations which use the Placement Office than does it endorse a particular sweet offered for sale at the Huddle. Indeed, the student makes the ultimate choice regarding utiliza­tion of the Placement Office, a choice mercifully granted him by a system and institution which, to our mind, must reject the a priori declatations of censors who presume to be granted unique insights into the mind of the Almighty concerning the intrinsic morality of things, persons and corporations. 
As an institution devoted to intellectual and moral development, the University of Notre Dame must insist upon an atmosphere free of gnostic coercion. The proper atmosphere for reform of our times is one which permits free introspection, hence the cultivation of humility and, in consequence, individual rcfonc1. 
The members of the College Engineering Council seem to have forgotten that the CIA has not yet re­nounced its "socio-political goals." Nor does the College of Engineering itself stand on stable ground if the soil of that ground is a mixture of contemplation and reflection, if the University is anything but a locus for vocational training. The Council might well be reminded that an atmosphere free of the gnostic is quite clearly agnostic; and an atmosphere free of unique ( i.e., personal) "insights into the mind of the Almighty concerning the intrinsic morality of things, persons, and corporations" is not only unpolluted but also amoral. ( Such is the cost of secularity.) 
It is true, perhaps, that "this University no more endorses, nor condemns, the policies of particular corpor­ations which use the Placement Office than does it endorse a particular sweet offered for sale at the Huddle." But neither Playboy nor prophyllactics are available at the Huddle. Only sweets. 

Bi~frans are dying at a rate of 
5,000 PER DA-Y! 




' .., 
CONTACT YOUR CONGRESSMAN 
• :: CONTRIBUTE ANY A.\IOUNT OF .\!ONEY so THAT 
THE FEW ORGANIZATIONS OPERATING CAN STILL DO SO. ALSO: THIS WILL BE AN ESTABLISHED LINE OF FUNDS FOR WHEN THE RELIEF SERVICES RESUME WORK IN BIAFRA. 


SEND YOUR CONTRIBUTIO!\S TO: 

STUDENTS FOR BIAFRAN RELIEF National Headquarters P.O. Box 516 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame., Indiana 46556 


,~~~~pu~@~i~~, •~• •
m • • • • • m •· 

--_-:__·:-.::::?_:__.,:_:~L~r:~f~f~ tL\:.:=:~;'.)·:_=)>­
1Vow ... when your need is greatest ... 
SPECIAL 
SELLING 
of quality made 
OUTER COATS 
Choose from several styles in a selection of fabrics and colors. These handsome and rugged coats arc perfect for :Michiana weather. \1\/c now offer them at substan­tial savings. Use your Campus Shop ac­count. 
Savings of 
BUY NO\V ... P:\Y NEXT SU1111ER \VHEN IT"S :MORE CONVENIENT 
Pay one-third in .fut1l'/011c-thirrl in .fuly/one-third in August 
,re nc\·cr add a scn·icc or carrying charge 
~~~ 
LIER • amp~~ho
----~ 
ON THE CA11PUS ... NOTRE DAME 







