Vol. XXII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA. December i, 1888.	No. 15.
The French Drama.
BY REV. S. FIT'L’E, C. S. C. ____________ \ (Conclusion.)
IX.
“Athalie.”
This play is not only the “gem ’’ of the French theatre, but. according to Voltaire, “the masterpiece of the human mind.” Racine, in “Athalie,” shows himself not less eminent as an epic and lyrical poet than as a dramatic writer; and among , all the literary works that have ever been produced by the hand of man we know of none other that bears more deeply impressed upon itself the mark of superhuman inspiration. It seems as though at the very moment when ' the writer traced out those lines, which breathe the holy, ardent faith of the Prophets, God was present there opening for him all the treasures of that heavenly poesy which the Seraphim sing around His throne. Let those who regret that a spirit of piety took possession of Racine, imposing silence upon his genius during twelve long years, be consoled in reading “Athalie.” Had he remained a slave to the worldly life of the theatre, he would have certainly enriched the French stage with new wonders. But thanks to that retirement, France can now—in contrast with the grand plays of Shakspeare and the sublime comedy of Dante—present a “divine tragedy”; or, if Sophocles were to come to life again, he might'well take off , his crown, and, bowing before the pious bard, exclaim: “Hail to the Chief!”
The subject of the play is very simple. We read in the Fourth .Book of Kings that Athalia, the daughter of Achab and Jezebel, who had established the worship of Baal, wishing to
avenge the death of her son Ochozias. ordered all the princes of the royal blood to be killed. One of them, still an infant, was rescued from the slaughter by Josaba, Ochozias’ sister, who kept him hidden in the temple, whilst Athalia usurped the throne of Juda. When the child was seven years old, Joiada, the High-Priest, made known to the Levites the secret of his birth. Placing on his head the crown of David, and in his hands the book of the law. they consecrated him, and, clapping their hands, cried out: “God save the king! ” Athalia, hearing the tumult of the people who rushed into the temple, entered together with them. There she saw the young king sitting on a throne and witnessed the universal joy; tearing her garments, she cried out: “ Treason! Treason!” Joiada. then said to the guards of the temple: “Take her away, and if anyone follow her. let him be slain by the sword.” The officers obeyed him and killed Athalia outside the temple.
This is all the material which Racine found in the Bible. Let us see now how out of these few lines the poet made a perfect tragedy in five acts, in which the dramatic interest grows with-out interruption to the end. and this,, without adding a single incident to the plain narrative of the sacred text. The plot turns upon the crowning of Joas after the overthrow of the usurper. All the characters are historical: first Athalie, proud, impious and cruel, an implacable enemy of David’s race and persecutor of God and the Jewish religion; then Joos, the young prince saved from death, the legitimate heir of . the throne, whose innocence and piety are blended with gentleness, docility and precocious brightness; Joad, above all. the leading spirit of that sacred drama, the prophetic oracle of the Most High, whose indomitable will fears God alone; Josabeth, the wife and aunt of the in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fant king, a model of motherly love and exquisite tenderness; Mathan, an apostate, the worthy counsellor of Athalie, a type of hatred, envy and hypocrisy; finally, Abner, the captain of the guards, a brave soldier, good-hearted man, well-meaning, though weak and wavering.
Bearing in mind this cast of characters, let us briefly analyze the most prominent situations.. In accordance with the divine command, Abner had come to the temple, together with a few faithful Jews, to commemorate the anniversary day when the Law was given to Moses on Mount Sinai. Full of sorrow on seeing the worship of the true God forsaken by the Jews, he fears lest Athalie might destroy the holy temple where, Mathan says, is hid the treasure of David:
“For two full days, the haughty Athalie seems to be plunged in sadness. While observing her yesterday, I saw her cast furious looks upon the holy places, as though in some recess of this edifice God concealed an avenger armed for her punishment. Believe me, the more I think, the less do I doubt that her vengeance is about to break out upon you, and the blood-thirsty daughter of Jezebel will dare to attack God even in his sanctuary.”
Thus, in the very first scene we are informed of the danger which threatens the temple, and of the mysterious avenger prepared by God but unknown to both Athalie and Abner. Listen to the answer given by the High-Priest:
“He who puts a stop to'the fury of the waves knows also how to check the plots of the wicked. Respectfully subject to His most holy will, I fear God, dear Abner, but fear no other than God.”
The whole character of Load is contained in these-four lines. Subject to the will of God, he will obey His orders without any fear, because he knows that God will not fail to sustain him. But at the same time he uses all the means suggested by human prudence. He chides Abner on account of his “idle virtue”; and when the latter, in order to excuse himself for not having severed all connection with impiety, says that God Himself seems to have abandoned the Jewish nation, and no longer manifests His power, Load, inspired by a holy enthusiasm, cried out:
“And what time was ever more fruitful in miracles? When did God show His might by more striking effects? O ungrateful people! What! will the greatest wonders ever resound in your ears without moving your hearts? Shall I, Abner, shall I remind you of the course of wonderful deeds accomplished in our days, the well-known disgrace of Israel’s tyrants, and God proved faithful in all His menaces? Behold the inipious Achab destroyed, and the field which he stole through murder soaked with his own blood; near to that fatal:field Jezebel slain, that queen trampled under the feet of horses, dogs quenching ; - their thirst in her inhuman blood, and the hideous limbs of her body tom to pieces; the gang-of .false, prophets publicly exposed, and the fire of heaven coming down
upon the altar; Elias commanding the forces of nature> the heavens through him shut up and hardened like brass; the earth during three years without rain or dew; the dead rising again at the voice of Eliseus; at these wonders should you not recognize a God such in our day as He was at all times? Yes, He knows when to glorify His name, and His people is always present within His mind.”
It would be useless to seek in all the poets of antiquity and modern times for an historical picture comparable with the description embodied in these lines. Each clause, in its energetic terseness, contains the narrative of a great event. We may, moreover, remark that, besides using the most brilliant expressions, Racine found the secret of giving to the simplest and most common words a poetical turn full of elegance and dignity. What more simple, indeed, than the expressions which he selected to present to our sight the frightful spectacle of Jezebel’s death? and yet; is there anything more terrible and majestic, adorned with more vivid colors, without any ugly or repulsive detail? Some critics of our day, blind partisans of the romantic school, maintain that , Racine was wanting in boldness. To us his style appears to be a felicitous combination of taste and audacity, because he knows full well how and where to place every word, and by surroundings entirely changes the character of diction -and produces the greatest effects with the smallest means. . . • ■ '
Abner was deeply struck with the reproaches of Load. But where shall that offspring of David, so dearly promised, be found? Did not Athalie choke the infant in the cradle?- - :	'
“Oh! if in her frenzy she had been deceived; if some precious drop had escap'ed.from the.royal blood!”	’
“Well, what would you do?”- -■ -	■
“O day thrice happy for me! With what zeal I would recognize my king! ”	.
Load does not want to hear one word more, for he knows>that he can rely upon Abner, and, without explaining anything, he invites him to call again in the temple at the third hour. “ God then might show him. by important favors that His word is steady and never deceives us.”
Most admirable, indeed, is this exposition in which even recitals themselves are put in action, and throw light and interest upon the mysterious event about to happen. Load, being assured of the support of Abner, who commands Athalie’s army, does not hesitate any longer to speak clearly, and declares to his wife Losabeth that he is determined to crown the young king in the temple on that, very day and have- him recognized by the Levites.Losabeth, who foresees the danger and knows the power of their audacious enemies, timidly remarks: ... ..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
“ Of what avail against them is the little band of your saintly ministers, who, raising to the Lord their innocent hands, know but to sob and cry and pray for our crimes, and never shed but the blood of spotless victims ? Perhaps in their arms Joas wounded and covered with blood—”
But Toad, interrupting her, exclaims:
"And do you count for naught God who fights with us? God who protects the innocent orphan and shows in weakness His almighty power? ”
Then, after doing away with Josabeth's alarms, he directly addresses God Himself, asking for the courage he needs to accomplish his bold undertaking:	.
" O God! if Thou knowest that, unworthy of his race, he should forsake the example of David, let him be like a fruit dying in its blossom, or like a flower drying out under a wintry blast! But if the same child, docile to Thy commands, should be the instrument of Thy holy designs, permit that the sceptre be given to the legitimate heir; surrender into my feeble hands his formidable foes; confound in her counsels a most impious queen. Deign, deign, O my God! spread over her and Mathan that spirit of error and darkness which shakes and overturns the throne of wicked kings! ”
load's prayer has been heard. Actuated by anger and blinded by hatred, Athalie enters the temple; but scarcely has she reached the foot of the altar, when she is astonished at the sight of a young boy. Who is lie? She wants to know; she wishes to learn from him all that con-„cerns his life. Once before the same boy had appeared to her in a vision, which she relates to Abner and Mathan. This narrative, far from being a merely poetical, ornament, is a- necessary part of the action itself. It is that vision, it is that dream, and the terror which it left in. her heart, that caused Athalie to enter into the temple, where she was to meet the child who threatens her with a dagger. That dream, therefore, is the very knot of the drama, and at the same time a masterpiece of epic narration. In reading it we are tempted to stop at each verse and admire its beauties; but soon carried by the rapidity of-the style, we feel that neither time, nor room is left for admiration.
This is also the impression we receive in listening to the remarkable dialogue between Joas and Athalie which every connoisseur of French literature should know by heart. None of the repartees placed on the child’s lips is above his age, and yet their sublime simplicity is calculated to puzzle and put an end to the wrathful designs of the perfidious queen. Moved to tears, she is surprised at her weakness. If left to herself, she would perhaps give up fear and yield to pity; but Mathan, her counsellor, excites her terror and cupidity. She finally commands that both the mysterious child and the hidden treasure shall be surrendered into her hands; and
the High-Priest answers only by ordering the gates of the temple to be closed and to prepare for the crowning of Joas.
At that moment God reveals to His minister the secrets of the future:
“Ye heavens, listen to my voice! O earth,be attentive O Jacob, sayest thou not that thy Lord is asleep? Ye, sinners, tremble and shudder in the face of the Most High!”
Then, describing in graphic style the dreadful miseries of captivity, the destruction of the holy temple and the ruin of Jerusalem, the High-Priest, inspired by the Spirit of God, and lifting up the veil of the future, exclaims in sweetest strains full of heavenly harmony:
“ What is that new Jerusalem, rising from the desert, immortal and brilliant, bearing on her virginal brow a crown of light and glory? Ye nations of the earth sing and exult! Jerusalem is born again more charming and graceful. Whence came to her on all sides those children whom she never bore in her womb? Raise, O holy city, raise thy shining head! behold all those kings amazed at thy glory; the rulers of nations, prostrate before thee, kiss the dust of thy feet, and the peoples eagerly walk in thy luminous paths. Happy he who shall feel his soul burning with zeal for the bride of the Lord. Ye -heavens, drop down your dew, and let the earth bring- forth her Saviour! ”
This is genuine lyric poetry, in all its beauty, grandeur and magnificence. Nothing more sublime was ever sung by the prophets, and Isaias himself does-not seem more highly- inspired by God than Racine in “Athalie.” It is true that, in order to find these new and bold accents, which cannot have been borrowed from pagan antiquity, Racine must have been more-than a poet, more than an ordinary Christian: piety and devotion must of necessity have enlarged and inflamed his incorhparable genius. .	_
At last the coronation of Joas takes place, and we cannot refrain on this occasion from quoting the words addressed to him by Joad. For, by a glorious privilege granted to men of genius, Racine seems to teach, thereby, a public lesson to the all-powerful Grand Monarque:
“ O my son! if I still dare to call you by that name, forgive my tenderness and the tears which I shed amid too just alarms. Raised far from the throne, alas! you know not the poisoning charm of worldly dignities; you know not the dizziness of an absolute power, and the bewitching voice of vile flatterers. They might tell you that the most sacred laws, though ruling over the people, obey the ruler’s will, that a king has no other check than his own pleasure; that everything must be sacrificed to royal sovereignty; that the people are doomed to labor and to tears, and must be governed with an iron rod. Thus from snare to snare, from abyss to abyss, corrupting the purity of your spotless manners, they will make you detest the truth, and represent virtue in horrible colors. Alas! have’ they not misled the wisest of all kings?
. Swear, then, on this book, and before these witnesses,
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that God shall always be the first of all your cares; that, severe to the wicked and the refuge of the good, you shall take God as judge between the poor and you, bearing in mind, my son, that, hidden in the temple, you have also been poor, obscure, and an orphan.”
While the touching ceremonies of the Coronation are going on, Athalie prepares to set the temple on fire; but fearing to lose the treasure concealed therein, she sends Abner to tell Joad thathe may yet save himself by surrendering with the treasure the infant Eliacin. Joad answers that the gate shall soon open for Athalie, and David’s treasure be revealed to her. Meanwhile, Athalie conies in. accompanied by a few officers:
“Here thou art!” she exclaims, on seeing load, “base seducer and pernicious author of conspiracy!... I should slay thee on the altar upon which thou sacrificest. ... But no! give me what thou hast promised: that child, that treasure, where are they?”
“Forthwith you will be satisfied.”
A curtain is raised, and Joas, seated on his throne, appears surrounded by the Levites.
“Come forth, dear child, worthy heir of our kings. Knowest thou, O queen, the offspring of our holy monarchs? Has thy sword missed the mark? Behold thy king, thy son, the son of Ochozias! and ye, people, recognize and proclaim Joas! ”
“Treason! Treason!” Athalie cries out; but she threatens still, when she hears that the people have broken the gates of Baal’s temple and slain the traitor Mathan.. She finally withdraws, exclaiming: “O God of the Jews, Thou prevailest!” And soon it is announced that the sword has put an end to the horrors of her life, and Joad concludes with these lines:
“From this dreadful fate, worthy of her crimes, learn, O king of the Jews, that kings have in heaven a most just Judge, innocence an Avenger, and the orphan a Father! ”
To appreciate “Athalie”—the greatest masterpiece of the French drama—one must read and reread it; oiie must study it in all its details, and then one may realize to some extent the simplicity of the plan, the truthfulness of the characters, the sublimity of the situations, the richness of its poetry and the magnificence of its style.
But why is it that the play was not successful? Was it owing to certain religious scruples? Was it not rather on account of the political situation and the spirit of opposition which arose against Louis XIV and his court? Boileau alone protested and boldly declared that “Athalie” was the best work composed by-Racine. Boileau’s judgment became the verdict of posterity. .But Racine was no more, when the public by its admiration rendered a tardy justice to a tragedy which Voltaire himself called “the greatest’, effort of human genius.”
Racine, unlucky with his genius, soon fell into disgrace; and, after losing the king’s favor, thought only of preparing himself to appear before the tribunal of God. On April 21, 169g, he died, consoled by the prayers of Port-Royal, after embracing his children, and uttering to his friend Boileau these last words: “I feel happy to go before you.” The following lines were engraved on his tomb:	.
“ Du theatre fran^ais 1’honneur et la merveille,
Il sut ressusciter Sophocle en ses ecrits,
Et dans Part d’enchanter les cceurs et Ies esprits, Surpasser Euripide et balancer Corneille.”
Southwell, Grashaw and Habington.
BY PROF. MAURICE F. EGAN, A. M.
II.
For six vears Southwell labored in his native land. Many Catholic souls, even priests, in hiding, were strengthened by his example and consoled by his fervent piety. His zeal made many return to the Church and saved others from apostasy. Protected by Lady Arundel, whose confessor he was, he performed his sacred duties and wrote at intervals; but the crown of martyrdom, like a pillar of fire, was always before him. It led to the Promised Land, and he was soon to gain the end for which he worked. The manner of his betrayal and imprisonment is related graphically by Mr. Turnbull in his biography affixed to ML Russell Smith’s edit on of the martyr’s poems:
“ There was resident at Uxendon, near Harrow-on-the-Hill, in Middlesex, a Catholic family of ■ the name of Bellamy, whom Southwell was in the habit of visiting and providing with religious instruction, when he exchanged his ordinary close confinement for a.purer atmosphere. One of the daughters, Ann, had in her early youth exhibited marks of the most vivid, unmistakable piety; but, having been committed to the Gatehouse of Westminster, her faith gradually, departed, and along with it her virtue. For, having formed an intrigue with the keeper of the prison, she subsequently married him, and by that step forfeited all claim which she had by law or favor upon her father. In order, therefore, to obtain some fortune she resolved to take advantage of the act of 27 Elizabeth, which made the harboring of a priest a treason, with confiscation of the offender’s goods. Accordingly she sent a messenger to Southwell, urging him to ..meet her on a certain day and hour at her father’s house, whither he, either in ignorance of what had happened, or under the impression that she sought his spiritual assistance through motives of- penitence, went at the appointed time. In..the meanwhile, having apprised her husband of this; as also of the place of concealment in her father’s house and the .mode of access, he conveyed the information to .Topcliffe, an implacable persecutor and denouncer of the Catholics, who, with a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
245
band of his satellites, surrounded the premises, broke open the house, arrested his reverence, and carried him off in open day, exposed to the gaze of the populace. He was taken in the first instance to Topcliffe’s house, where during a few weeks he was put to the torture ten times, with such dreadful severity that Southwell, complaining of it to his judges, declared in the name of God that death would have been more preferable.
“The manner in which he was agonized may be seen in Tanner's Societas Jesu Martyr. But all was to no purpose; the sufferer maintained an inflexible silence; nothing could shake his constancy; and the tormentors affirmed that he resembled a post rather than a man. He was then transferred to the same Gatehouse which was kept by the husband of the wretch who had betrayed him, and, after being confined there for two months, was removed to the Tower and thrown into a dungeon so filthy and noisome that, when brought forth at the end of a month to be examined, his clothes were covered with vermin. Whereupon his father presented a petition to Elizabeth, humbly entreating that if his son had committed anything for which by the laws he had deserved it, he might suffer death; if not, as he was a gentleman, he hoped her majesty would be pleased to order that he should be treated as such, and not to be confined in that filthy hole. The queen, in consequence, ordered that he should be better lodged, and gave his father permission to supply him with clothing, necessaries, and books; of which latter the only ones which he asked for were the Bible and the works of St. Bernard. During all his protracted confinement, although his sister Mary, who was married to ,a gentleman of the name of Bannister, had occasional access to him, he never discoursed of anything but religion.”	’
• He was kept in prison for three years. At last, upon his own petition, he was brought to trial. According to Chailoner, Cecil’s reply to this petition was “that if he was in so much haste to be hanged he should quickly have his desire.” He was removed from the Tower to Newgate, and on the 21st of-February, 1595, he was taken to Westminster and tried. His conduct before the court was worthy of his life. He was serene; manly, and not presumptuous. He denied that he was guilty of treason, but confessed that he was a Catholic priest, and that his purpose in England was to administer the rites of the Church to her faithful children. He was condemned, and on the morning of the 22d of February was executed at Tyburn. Through the blundering of the hangman his agony was prolonged, and he “several times made the sign of the cross while hanging.” He was drawn and quartered; but “through the kindness and interference of. the bystanders the martyr was allowed to die before the indignities and mutilations were allowed.” And this happened in the reign of a woman whom historians have named “good,” and whom Englishmen have been taught to reverence as “great!”
■ #
William. Habington, who was ,born in 1605,
has been strangely neglected by Catholics and the public in general. The pathos of Southwell’s death did much toward keeping his fame alive; but it is difficult to understand why, when Crashaw is remembered, Habington is almost forgotten. In those wonderful melanges of literature compounded “for the use of schools and colleges ” it is difficult to find mention of him, and well did he write in “The Holy Man”: .
“ Grown older I admired
Our poets as from heaven inspired What obelisks decreed I fit For Spenser’s art and Sydney’s wit! But waxing sober soon I found Fame but an idle sound.” '
It is not surprising that we, who have left the name of a real Catholic poet, George Miles, fade away, and to whom the Catholic Canadian, Louis Frechette, is only an unknown name, should not delve into volumes of forgotten law for Habington’s poems; it is surprising that at this time, when the resurrection of musty poets has become a mania, so little has been done for one who, if not a born singer, was yet so near the divine voice as to catch some exquisite echoes. He was pre-eminently the poet of conjugal love, as Southwell was the poet of the higher love. His song is always of two pure hearts feeling hope and fear, to whom the fever of passion is unknown. Habington came of a good Catholic family, which is a distinction in a country.where the good families had been so willing- to barter’ faith for fortune. The stanchness of his blood was proved by the way his ancestors had kept the faith. His uncle, Edward .Habington, having been implicated in Babington’s famous conspiracy to rescue the Queen of Scots, was hanged, drawn and quartered at St. Giles in the Fields. As usual, there was a Protestant minister at the scaffold, who urged him to be of a lively faith. He answered that he believed steadfastly in the Catholic faith. The minister feared that he deceived himself, and asked what he meant. “I mean,” he answered, “that, faith and religion which is holden in almost all Christendom, except here in England.” After this, much to the disgust of the reverend gentleman, he would answer no question, but prayed to himself in Latin. In his dying speech he “cast out threats and terrors of the blood that was ere long to be shed in England.” The poet’s father, Thomas Habington, was also implicated in the same conspiracy. He.escaped probably because the people were becoming tired of the shedding of the. blood of some of the noblest men in England. It was not hard for the public to sympathize with generous youths who, a§
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
if to return to the days of chivalry, had risked their lives in behalf of a beautiful-and unfortunate queen. The people at heart were not entirelv devoted to the daughter of Anne Boleyn, and the wily politicians around her throne knew when it was prudent to stop the shedding of blood. Hence, Thomas Habington escaped the fate of his brother. He went to prison, however, and when he was released, Maty Stuart had bidden farewell to earth and gone, let us hope, to a land happier than even “le plaisant pays de France.” He retired to his ancestral manor, Hendlip, where he led a life of lettered leisure, producing several works of local topography and a translation of the epistle of Geldus a Britain. He suffered a second imprisonment for suspected implication in the Gunpowder Plot. That he sheltered the Jesuits, Father Garnet and Father Oldcorne, afterwards most unjustly hanged, at Hendlip, was the only evidence against him. James is said always to have been partial to the partisans of his mother, and it is possible that Thomas Habington’s connection with the Babington plot may have worked in favor of his release. His brother-inlaw, Lord Monteagle, interceded in his behalf, and after his escape a second time he betook himself to the company of his children and books •
Of his son, the poet, little is known, except his love-story. He was educated at St. Omer and at Paris. Returning to England with the down just sprouting on his lip, he fell in love. The lady of his thoughts was Lucy Herbert, the daughter of Lord Powis. Habington was a gentleman of small estate and a bearer of a name that of late had not been on the winning side. Lord Powis felt that the niece of Northumberland and the granddaughter of an earl might look for a more splendid suitor. But Lucy— the incomparable Castara of Habington’s poem —looked with favor on the poet. The course of true love did not run smooth, but its variations were rather the ripples of an April shower than the waves of an autumn storm. Following the fashion, young Habington wooed his ladylove in verse. It does not take much to excite turmoil in a poet’s soul, and Habington’s troubles must have been mild indeed, since they did not excite anything but the most proper and gentlemanlike protest:
“ Parents’ laws must bear no weight ‘	.
When they happiness prevent, And our sea is not so strait
But it room has for content.”	.
This is about the most violent sentiment, he utters. Lord Powis belonged toi.thejCatholic branch of the Herberts, and the stqnchnessof the
Habington faith must have had some effect in' softening his opposition. He was not a very cruel parent, and the fact that Habington had a small estate neutralized his demerit, in a father’s eyes, of occasionally dropping into poetry. In all his raptures of Castara’s sighs, glances, eyebrows, and bosom Habington never loses a certain consciousness of “ deportment.” He is never tired of protesting that the bent of his love is honorable and his purpose marriage—an iteration that the occasion does seem to require. But if his verse was somewhat mannered—and even the spiritual Southwell did not escape the conceits of his time—his sentiment is always honest, manly, and pure. His thoughts did not wander from his wife, the wonderful Castara. Next to religion she was the lodestar of his thoughts. He was married at the age of twenty-eight, and the years of his life afterwards kept the peaceful and happy promise to his wedding-day.
(conclusion next week.) .
College Gossip.
—The .S^rta/brloudly.proclaims to the college world that “only freshmen and chumps wear mortar boards at Columbia.”
—The Albion College football eleven, one of the strongest teams in Michigan, received a severe trouncing at the hands of the Ann Arbor boys last Saturday. The score was 76 to o.
—Yale won the football game with Princeton on the Polo grounds, New York City, last Saturday by a score of 10 to 0. There were eighteen thousand people present, Yale'sympathizers being in the majority.
—/Rev. Dr. D. J. O’Connell, President of the American College at Rome, has been appointed Bishop of Richmond, to succeed Rt. Rev. John J. Keane who will take charge of the Catholic University of Washington as its first rector. He was educated at St. Mary’s College.
—The population of our globe, estimated at about thirteen hundred millions, is raised to 12 emperors, 25 kings, 47 princes, 17 sultans, 12 khans, 6 grand dukes, 6 dukes, 1 vice-king, 1 nisam, 1 radia, 1 imam, 1 bey, and 28 presidents, besides a large number of chiefs of wild tribes. Of the republics, nineteen are found on the American soil, having only nine for the rest of the world.
—There was a large-sized row at Dickinson College on All Hallow e’en. Some of the students set fire to the' fence around the college campus, and an alarm of fire was turned. in. The firemen responded, but the students refused to allow to throw water. There was a “scrap,” . and several firemen and students were seriously injured. The West may be “wild and wooly,” but such rowdyism is never seen.
oa
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ipubltsfjtli e&crj Saturbas burinu Eton Eime at N. S. Snibcrsitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, December 1> 1888.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others', is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has entered upon the twenty-second year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,	.
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.30 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Ought we to Have an International Copyright Law?
A Symposium.
The members of the Criticism Class being much interested in all questions connected with the progress of literature, were asked this question. In twenty minutes,— time given for reflection,—they made these responses:
This question, which is at present, and has been for some time, causing a little excitement among our literary men, and which is being discussed wherever there is anybody who takes an interest in literary societies, should, in my opinion, be answered in the affirmative. We Americans, I think, should have enough vim, enthusiasm and love for our country in us that would stir us up to write something worth reading. Then the author of the book, no matter who he may be, rich or poor, should also have the credit of it, and as a recompense be paid for his work. And this cannot be done unless we have an international copyright law. What is the use of a man spending all his time and labor in trying to produce something good for the national welfare if he is not credited for it? and, what is still worse, to have his book stolen and not to receive any pay for it. Y ou may say we can also steal the books printed in other countries, then we can sell them cheaper than if we wrote them ourselves and had them printed here. But would you not rather have the credit of the work yourself? It seems to me that such should be the case with every true American citizen.
G. J. Mayerhcefer.
This is becoming one of the great questions of the day. It has passed the House of Representatives, and is now pending examination by the Senate, It is a law that should be passed,
as it will encourage many of our great minds who might otherwise sink into obscurity. The author who writes a book and receives only a few dollars for it cannot be courageous enough to write another one. But the man who receives a certain percentage on the sale of his book feels like writing another one. We steal the English novels and then publish them in a cheap form. These cheap editions are scattered throughout the country, but the writer receives perhaps only two dollars or some small sum which hardly pays for the time spent on it. By this law books would become more costly; but this would do away with most of our literary trash, and good books would take the place of worthless novels. Something should be done to encourage writers.
W. P. McPhee.
The Constitution of the United States provides the power to Congress to promote the progress of the sciences and fine arts. But as it is now, the author receives no encouragement by the Government, as his works are reprinted in some foreign country,—England, for instance; and he does not receive a cent in their republication. Is this fair? is the universal question; but a man engaged in literary pursuits would answer no, as he would suffer and does suffer from the state of things existing now. They do not enable him to obtain a worthy recompense for the work that he has spent years over. Some men—but very few—write for pleasure; but most of them write to gain a livelihood, and they depend upon their productions as a support for their wife and children. Our manufactories are protected, and are not the men engaged in the manufactory working for a livelihood for themselves and families ? Such is the case of a literary man; both tend to the same end—of making money to keep starvation from the door. Therefore the Government should not show partiality in protecting one man, and not another; then in consistency with reason, the United States should protect her literary sons, by having an international copyright law.
B. M. Hughes.
Article I, Sec. 8, of the Constitution in defining the power of Congress, provides that they shall have power to “ promote the progress of science and the useful arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive rights to their respective writings and discoveries.” Congress has exercised this power by granting to authors and inventors the exclusive right to the use of their writings and discoveries in this country; but they have no power to allow them to have the exclusive use of their works in other countries. Numerous attempts have been made between this Government and the foreign powers for an agreement upon an international copyright law, but so far no definite terms have been agreed to. It seems no more than right that the author of a work should be protected.
THE NOTrH, DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Very often the sale of a work in the country in which the author resides barely pays for the printing of it. This is especially so with regard to works of high literary and scientific value. Now, if there is no protection granted to writers for a limited time, such works will be very few, the time and labor spent in preparing them falling far short of the pecuniary profits that follow.
A great objection to the passage of an international copyright law is that higher prices for literary works would be the result. The difference in price would be remedied by the increased value of the work; for authors receiving a recompense for their works would be able to give more time and attention to them.
P. E. Burke.
Briefly summed up, we believe the following advantages to be derived from the international copyright law: the exclusion of the cheap and trashy English novel; competition between English and American authors to rest on the same basis; an equitable payment to the author for his work. Consequently a freshness and originality in the thought of American authors, and an improvement in the tone and standard of American literature.
We are in the midst of a plague of* novels and novelists that is spreading disease to the minds of all readers; an international copyright law would have.an effect on this plague similar to that of a frost on the ground of yellow-fever.
John B. Meagher.
A copyright is the right of property possessed by authors in the works they compose; which right they can sell or assign. The law of copyrights originated in the time of Oueen Anne. Every country affords protection to its own authors; but as yet no legislation has been secured that guarantees for a writer protection to the fruits of his labor in countries other than his own. This is not as it should be.
Upon our statute books to-day should stand emblazoned a law giving to every author, native or otherwise, the substantial reward which he can rightly claim as his own. The majority of people have always been satisfied to reward genius with nothing more tangible than a casual “thank you,” and the mere pittance they reluctantly part with to the bookseller. International laws permit the registration of patentsand trade-marks, thus giving to the inventor of the clothes pin and the toy whistle, the protection it refuses to authors of our great and invaluable works of history, science and fiction.
What inducement is there, for instance, to an author to spend years and years in expensive and tedious research in order that he may give to the world an intelligent scientific book, only to find that the pecuniary profits arising therefrom are limited to the boundary of his own native heath. No wonder, then, that men eminently fitted for literary work, shrink from it, merely on account of the Jack of protection given their works when placed upon the market. Let us have some legislation on this subject.
-	D. E. Dwyer.
This is the question of the day which is considered by all persons who contribute to literature. At present the works of an American author may be stolen by persons of another country, without notice or consideration, and vice versa. The question is, should there not be a law compelling any person reprinting the works of an author be made to pay him accordingly? We think it just that such should be the case in order to secure to the author the full reward of.his labors.
Adams.
That the United States should have an international copyright law will be evident when we consider the great injustice done to both American and British authors when their.books are stolen and reprinted in other countries without benefiting the author in the least. Take as an example Gen. Lew Wallace, whose famous work— “Ben Hur”—has been republished in England, where 200,000 copies have been sold without any profit to himself. Thus all the authors suffer, after toiling weeks and months over their manuscripts, which when given to the press are stolen and mutilated, and the author has no control whatever over his work. As for our receiving scientific and other such valuable works cheap now when there is no international law, it is true; but we must remember that scientific writers should be justly dealt with as well as other writers. Again, the passage of such a law would limit this great influx of British novels which are now very detrimental to the young people of this country. Because as they are now very cheap, many read them who would not were the\' dearer, which would be the case if this law were passed.	M. J. O’Connell.
The international copyright law must come. It is in the order of things. Whatever may be his nationality, the author has rights which ought and must be respected. One of these rights entitles him to be in a position to realize from the sale of his works all that he possibly can. To prevent him from attaining this position is unjust. The enemies of this. measure say that if it were good and just, it would have been in force long before this. But does not the very fact that it is being agitated show that it is good and just? They say that if this measure is carried we will not enjoy the benefit of cheap reprints. These cheap reprints consist mostly of scientific works and society novels. Those that buy the scientific works can generally afford to pay the increased price. In regard to the society novels this law cannot but be a benefit. because by increasing the price of these trashy books, it will lessen the demand.
R. Adelsperger.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
The international copyright law,.a question which at present is the cause of much comment, is certainly of great interest to American authors arid readers as well. Under the present existing state of affairs our authors, by their utmost zeal and labor, are scarcely able to earn a livelihood, whilst, on the other hand, English authors of equal merit are well paid for their work. That there is something wrong is very evident. That Congress should take some measure, if not to encourage, at least to protect our writers from unjust competition, no one will deny. On account of foreign reprints and translations our country is flooded with cheap literature which foreign publishers have stolen and published without the least remuneration being paid to the authors. If something is not done to protect our -writers the literature in America will never attain a prominent place. There is no country in the world in which literary men are not well compensated save ours. There is no money in literary work except in writing for magazines or journals, and these certainly are too few in number to publish the writings of our American authors. Therefore, if the international law were adopted it would do away with most of the trashy literature of the day, and would place the foreign author on a par with the American; it would encourage our good authors to write more, and thereby increase our supply of good books. The works of American authors would be read more, and the literature of the country would soon acquire a prominent position.
. .	D. Barrett.
The United States ought to have an international copyright to 'protect our American authors, on account of the quantity of publications published in England, to which English publishers have no right. American authors receive nothing for the books published in a foreign country to repay the labor which they had in writing the book; and, therefore, it is nothing but stealing so much money from the author. It is true that American publishers do the same, but this does not alter the case. Not having an international copyright law makes books very cheap in the United States; but I think that the author should not individually suffer for the public at large; and therefore the United States ought to have an international copyright law.
■ C. S. Burger.
In looking over the different phases of this question which present themselves to our view, the matter of justice appears - most prominently: “ Will we or will we not give to literary men a just return for their work ? ” This, as I have said before, appears to be the most important cdnsideration in regard to this question. Now it is urged by the opponents to this measure that the passage of this law will'be’detrimental to the interests of the riiasses. [But we should consider this question
not from an interested point of view, but froin • the side of right and justice, and in doing so we cannot fail to see the wrong that is being done to authors of this and of other countries at the present time—a wrong which could bereinoved by the enactment of such a law as the one proposed. Take, for instance, the works of Charles Dickens, which were sold in America by the hundred thousand without their author receiving-one penny in return. So also 200,000 copies of “ Ben Hur,” the work of an American novelist, were sold in England without its author receiving any benefit thereby. We might bring forward hundreds of instances such as these, but those already presented are doubtless sufficient to give the reader a correct view of the matter as it now stands. As before said, all this wrong could be righted, and the authors receive adequate returns for their works by the passage of such a law, and we at least owe them this justice. It is not a matter of right onlv, but the assurance of greater returns would be quite an incentive to literary work, and we cannot give too great inducement to encourage people of promising talent to enter this profession in life. If . we lay aside all feelings of personal interest, and consider this matter merely as a question of justice, we cannot fail to see the good which would accrue from the passage of such a law.
W. Larkin.
This is a question about which much has been written and said without arriving at any definite conclusion. English- writers receive prices for their manuscripts commensurate with the merit of the work and the reputation of the author. American litterateurs are not only poorly paid, but are driven to many expedients to support life—as lecturing, “hack work,” etc. Our country is inundated with foreign literature which the publisher gets for almost or quite nothing. The result is that every American writeris poorly paid. It has been urged that if we had a copyright law with England it would do away with cheap books. Will it not be better to have the price of books advance, and for us, as a people, to read our own literature more freely than to’ be crammed with foreign views of life, and with alien literary7 and moral influences? It seems to us that it would be far better for the people to pay a higher price for good books than to have our country flooded with insidious trash at a price within the reach of every child.
E. Larkin.
A copyright is a right conferred by law upon an author to the sale of his intellectual productions. A law does exist in the United States to protect to some, degree the works of Americans. But an international copyright, law should be passed by Congress. That freedom which a foreigner has to reprint and sell another’s work, and receive the reward for it, is unjust.? Such has been done by the English to
250	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Wallace by reprinting his “Ben Hur,” without he himself receiving any pay. The fruits of a work, which cost the author many a day of mental labor—his private property, as it were— are stolen from him. Still, some means should be taken in order to prevent the high prize for books which the passing of this law would cause, so that books can be obtained and are in reach of every laboring man. So let the protectionists step forth.
•	A. Finckh.
An author should receive proper remuneration for his work. It is piracy—the meanest, most despicable kind of piracy—to steal the work of an author. The highway robber is a more honorable man than a literary pirate. The farmer, manufacturer, tradesman, and laborer, is protected, while the author—the bulwark of civilization—is wholly without redress, if another chooses to rob him. Is this fair? Is it just? It is true that under the existing state of affairs books are cheaper than they will be if the proposed law is passed. But right here a question presents itself for consideration. If the price of books continues to decrease, will it not be the means of driving all good authors out of the field? If a book is worth reading it is worth paying for, and the price paid should correspond to the excellence of the work.
H. A. Holden.
The question of Tariff and Free Trade is again under discussion in the Senate. We are gratified, however, to learn that it has assumed a new form. The issue, as it now presents itself, is, “Should we have an International Copyright Law?” There are many arguments pro and con; but the question, when carefully considered, resolves itself into this form: Is it better to have cheap books by foreign authors, than to have a home literature? We cannot have both at the same time, and, I think, most of us prefer to recognize home talent even if we should be compelled to pay a trifle in its support.
J. W. Cavanaugh.
As the United States has laws to protect the rights of citizens, she should also have a law to protect the rights of authors. These men wish to make the most of their labors, and why should they not obtain the benefit of it. If a laboring man—that is one who works in mills and factories—gets money for his work; why should not a writer have the same privilege? -
We have laws to protect us against thieves or housebreakers; why should we not have a law to protect authors against thieves of literature? Some people may say that we obtain books at less expense under our present system than we would if we had a copyright law, because a publisher in this country can take a.book that has been written and printed in England
and print it here without any compensation to the writer. This may be so, but it is an injustice to the author, and if we have laws to protect us against injustice in other matters, why not have some to guard literature? And I think if we had a copyright law, authors would not ask so great a sum for their writings as they do now, because they would obtain money in every country in which their books were printed which would compensate for the sum of money which they lost in having it printed for the first time.
J. Maguire.
The question of an international copyright law between England and America has for some time engrossed the attention of the literary people of both countries. When we know that inventors can protect themselves by securing a patent on their invention in other countries wherever it may be used, it scarcely seems to be right that the intellectual inventions of authors should not be secured in the same manner. As the law now stands, English writers do not receive a penny for the thousands of copies of their works read in this country, nor do American authors receive any compensation from their English readers. But the English writers are more numerous than our own, and more English works are read in America than are our books in England; consequently, if the price of books would be increased greatly by an international law, England would get the greater benefit. Should we give oui- authors their dues, and pay high prices for English books of which we now have cheap copies? Or should we place a great obstacle in the way of the masses, and thus debar them from the richest store of English literature? In whatever way it is decided, some injury must be inflicted; and as the number of American authors is insignificant in comparison to the thousands of our people who now have the benefit of cheap prints of costly English works, it will be better for Americans to have no international copyright law.
T. A. Goebel.
Personal.
—J. T. Burns,’80, of Chicago, Ill., was a guest of the University last Thursday.
—Mr. G. Cartier, an old student from Ludington, Mich., was a visitor this week.
—Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, Ind., was a welcome visitor to the College, Thanksgiving Day;	.
—Mr. Edward Britt, Law ’88, has located in Philadelphia, in the office of the ex-Attorney General of Pennsylvania.
—Prof. John G. Ewing went to St. Louis yesterday to attend the funeral services over the remains of Mrs. Sherman.
—Rev. J. Klein, C. S. C., returned to Notre Dame on Monday last after an extended so
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	251
journ in the House of the Congregation at Paris.
—The Polish citizens of South Bend celebrated one of their anniversaries in Good’s Opera House, Thursday afternoon. Among the prominent speakers was Col. Hoynes of Notre Dame.
—Mr. G. C. Harrison (Prep), ’86, has passed with honor his first examination for the Baccalaureates Lettres at the Sorbonne, Paris. He was one of the 14 successful candidates out of 25, who were called upon to undergo one of the most memorable examinations in the history of the institution. His friends here are pleased to hear of his success, and extend best wishes for the future.
—Among the visitors Thanksgiving Day were Mr. M. Cudahy, Mr. Cavanagh, Mr. Healy and sons, Mr. McDaniel, Mr. and Mrs.Campbell, Miss and Master Campbell, Mrs. Rend and daughter, of Chicago; Mr. Carroll, of Crawfordsville, Ind.; the Misses Call, of Philadelphia, who are the guests of Mrs. Prof. M. F. Egan; and Mr. J. Hoffman, Wheeling, Va.
Obituary.
A telegram received by Prof. John G. Ewing on last Wednesdaj7 evening brought the sad intelligence of the death of his aunt, Mrs. Ellen Ewing Sherman, wife of Gen. Sherman, who departed this life during the afternoon at her residence in New York city. The deceased lady was in the sixty-fourth year of her age, and had passed a life devoted to the good of religion - and filled with the merits of Christian faith, piety and charity. Two of her sons spent some time as students of Notre Dame, and her daughters were for some years pupils at St. Mary’s. She had many friends at Notre Dame, all of whom are grieved to hear of her demise, and extend their condolence to the afflicted relatives. They have indeed the blessed consolation that relig-' ion gives, that a life so good will merit the speedy possession of an ineffable reward in bliss eternal. May she rest in peace!
The many friends of Col. Elmer Otis, Fort Davis, Texas, have been pained to hear the sad news of the death of his daughter, Mrs. Marie C. Cabell, who erave her soul to God at Fort Meade, Dakota, on the 20th ult. The deceased was, during the years ’81, ’82, ’83, a pupil of St. Mary’s Academy, and beloved by her teachers and companions. The afflicted relatives have the sincere condolence of the numerous friends here in this severe trial with which they have been visited. They have the consolation that the last moments of the departed one were made peaceful and happy by the sacred rites of holy religion; and they may be comforted by the assurance that death for her has been but the entrance into a more blissful life. May she rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Christmas next.
—No football this afternoon.
—.Do not make a mountain out of a mole-hill.
—Improvements, or at least changes, at the Post Office.
—The St. Cecilians will probably come out on the 15th of this month. ’	;
—An electric light lamp of the latest pattern , has been put in the students’ office.
—The painting of the cornices on Science Hall adds much to the appearance of that structure.
—The Glee Club entertainment rendered a handsome sum for the Football Association.
—The accordeon man has two rivals now. One plays the violin and the other the mouth organ.
—Workmen have been employed this week^ in putting galvanized iron cornices on the new building;
o
—The Sorin Cadets are drilling regularlv now. They are under the supervision of Captain Cusack and Lieutenant Brownson.
—The customary change was made in the pump back of the College last week. That pump has suffered about 8 changes during the last year.	.
—There is but one opinion in regard to the merits of the Thanksgiving Supper on Thursday last. It was a chef-d'oeuvre from our excellent cuisine.	'
—It was rumored around Saturday morning that 61 had been entered, and our “Burtie” carried away. All were relieved to find that the report was without foundatidn.
—The Albion (Mich.) College football team plays here this afternoon. This is said to be the strongest eleven in Michigan—with the exception of the University of Michigan organization.	.
—Christmas falls on Tuesday this year, and it is thought that the authorities will dismiss school on the Thursday before, giving everyone ample opportunity to reach home in proper time.	~	9
—A letter from Albion, Mich., states that, owing to the fact that a number of the football eleven went home for Thanksgiving, it would be impossible to play here this afternoon. An effort will be made to have a game next week.
—The electrical apparatus forsupplyingSorin Hall with the incandescent light costs nearly $5,000. The cable wires alone which connect the dynamo with the building cost over $1000. The entire plant at Notre Dame must be worth at least $12,000.
—The Biological Laboratory now possesses twenty excellent microscopes; twelve were made by Carl Zeiss, of Jena, and six lately procured from Bausch & Lomb of Rochester, New York,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Besides these there is a binocular microscope of Beck made in London, and one of Carl Zeiss’s largest make, equipped with all the accessories necessary for the most minute investigations.
—Bulletins for the. months of October and November will be made out before the students leave for the holidays. It goes without the saying that special effort should be brought to bcar upon conduct and study during the few days that now intervene, in order to make those testimonials a handsome and acceptable offering to parents on visiting them at Christmas tide.
—The Wabash is a paper of good taste. In a recent issue it says:
“ For a weekly college journal the Notre Dame Scholastic is an excellent paper. It is a good represen ta-tive of this large institution. The literary department in each issue is better than that of half of our monthly exchanges, while the local department is’filled only with news of especial interest to friends of the institution.”
—Thanksgiving Day was very fittingly observed with religious services at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father Provincial Corby, assisted by Rev. Fathers Morrissey and Klein as deacon and subdeacon. All the clergy, members of the Faculty and students attended in a body. The sermon appropriate to the day was preached by'the Very Rev. celebrant.
—The following, taken from the press despatches, if not true, at least gives a hint that may be of profit to those intrusted with the interests of society:
’ “ The customs authorities have become aware of the -fact that copies of New York sporting papers and other forbidden literature are being received by Ottawa booksellers through the mails. It is probable that a thorough examination of the mails will be made in a few days, and all literature of that kind confiscated.”
—Quite an effort was made to have the Ann Arbor eleven stop over on their way to Chicago last Wednesday and meet the Notre Dame team. In response to several urgent requests for a game, Capt. Duff, of Ann Arbor, replied that extra time could not be secured until after the Thanksgiving game in Chicago, and then the team would be in no condition to meet our eleven, as several of its members would leave for their homes after the Chicago contest. The U. of M. boys cannot put up as strong a game as last year, but will be much strengthened next spring when Harless returns to the University. Arrangements may be made for a game then.
—The Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society held its 9th regular meeting Saturday evening, Nov. 24. The Vice-President, Mr. J. B. Sullivan, presided. Mr. J. Welch read a criticism on the last meeting, and Mr. McAllister delivered a declamation. The debate, “ Resolved, that the Winter Season Affords more Opportunities for Sports than the Summer Season,” followed, with Messrs. Hackett, Rothert and Toner on the negative, and Messrs. O’Brien, Bronson and Mattes on the affirmative. The judges rendered a decision in favor of the negative. Messrs. O. Jackson, R. Flemming, E. Brannick, I. Tewks
bury and Leahy were elected to membership. The meeting then adjourned.
—The College of the Sacred Heart at Watertown Wisconsin, under the presidency of our one-time esteemed Prefect of Discipline, Rev. J. O’Keeffe, C. S. C., is meeting with great sue-cess. Of recent improvements the Watertown Gazette says:
“ Ere anothor year rolls around Watertown will possess one of the finest colleges in the West, as work has already been commenced on the new additions to the Sacred Heart College, a full description of which improvements was given in our columns several months ago. It is expected to have the work completed next fall, ready for the reception of the large number of students expected. In the meantime the accommodations at the college are such that the improvements being made will not interfere with the students now attending the college, or any additional ones that may choose to enter before the completion of this work.”
—On Monday morning, at eight o’clock, Rev. President Walsh commenced the examination of the Minims. He intends to visit all the classes before Christmas. With but a very few exceptions he is well satisfied with the progress made by all. Those that excelled were: in the first Arithmetic class, J. Dempsey, Koester, F. Toolen, C. Franche, V. Kehoe; in the second, E. Falvey, G. Mayer, H. Durand, J. Seerey, J. Barbour, F. Webb, E. Elkin. I. Gregg-, J. O’Neill, H. Marx; in the third, W. Hamilton, D. Goodwillie, H. Plautz, W. Crawford, R. Kirk; in the fourth, F. Cornell, Burns, D. Ricksecker, A. Crawford; in the fifth, Duquesne, Evers, P. Trujillo and D. Wilcox. In Mental Arithmetic, R. Bates, H. Mooney, V. Kehoe, G. Franche, M. Elkin, G. Dorsey, H. Connolly, F. Roberts, J. Cudahy, W. Nichols, G. Mayer, P. Stephens, W. Creedon, distinguished themselves.
—Yesterday (Friday) was the forty-sixth anniversary of Very Rev. Father General’s first Mass at Notre Dame. The Minims invited him to say Mass in their chapel. He preached a. beautiful sermon on the glorious Apostle St. Andrew. He exhorted all to love the cross and the Blessed Virgin, to which devotion he attributes the marvellous blessings that have attended his labors during forty-six years at Notre Dame.
At 10.30 a. m., the Minims invited him to St. Edward’s Hall, where they presented a little programme consisting of vocal and instrumental music, and addresses, dialogues, etc., which delighted and elicited words of unfeigned praise from Very Rev. Eather General, Rev. President Walsh, and the other Rev. Fathers who honored the occasion by their, presence. That the brave, the beloved Founder may live to see many other such happy returns.of the anniversary of his first Mass at Notre Dame is the sincere, the affectionate wish of all at Notre Dame.
—Law Department:—The case of Brownfield vs. the city of South Bend will be tried before Judge Hoynes in the University Moot-court this evening. Messrs. Pope, Long, Brady and Brewer will appear as attorneys. The Law Debating Society held their weekly meeting last Wednesday evening. The question for debate was:
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
25i
“Resolved that the Practice of Granting Lands to Railroad Corporations has been Prejudicial to the Best Interests of the Country.” The dis-sputants were Messrs. Chacon, Gallagher and Tiernan for the affirmative, and Messrs. Long, Hummer and McGinity for the negative. The debate was decided in favor of the negative. Several of the debaters appeared for the first time, and acquitted themselves quite creditably. The question for next Wednesday night is: “Resolved that the President, Vice-President and Senators of the United States should be elected by the direct vote of the People.” The speakers are Messrs. Plummer, Craig, Gallagher, Hermann, McNally and Tiernan. The case of Sands vs. Lake Shore RR. is on the Moot-court docket for next Saturday evening. Those absenting themselves from the meetings of the Law Society hereafter without a reasonable excuse will be subject to a small fine. The Quiz Class will be started when the department takes possession of new quarters in Sorin Hall. The attorneys for the case set for trial next Saturday are Messrs. Tiernan and O’Donnell, Smith and Chacon. The afternoon class finished pleadings this week.
—The Carnoy Microscopical Society held its first meeting for the present scholastic year on Monday evening. Messrs. V. Morrison and F. Jewett were admitted as members. During the meeting, which lasted an hour, the president of the society exhibited a number of preparations of unusual interest to the members. First there were shown sixspecimens of micro-photography of which “ Gray’s Elegy,” represented on a space the one sixteenth of an inch square, elicited . expressions of great admiration. Nexttherewas exhibited the fine resolving power of a DD. lens • of Zeiss, showing by this the difference in resolving power between a lens of low angular aperture and that of high angular aperture. A slide of Pleurosigma angulatum was used, and it was resolved without the least difficulty even by the use of central light. Finally, a preparation was shown, which stands undoubtedly as the highest attained skill in microscopic mounting. This specimen represents a slide on which are arranged 106 diatoms, representing all the families of this class of plants, and the space occupied by them represents the one twentieth of an inch square. Anyone seeing this preparation for the first time is at once convinced of the utmost skill required for such a difficult test of human ingenuity. In the next meeting the members will solve some very difficult problems in micrometry. There are indications that the society will do some excellent work this year, since the highest and best microscopical talent of the college is represented in its members.
—The Glee Club:—It was thirty minutes past four, Thursday afternoon, when the reporter entered Washington Hall. There was great applause (when the Faculty came in). The house was full, or rather filled. Allthe available
space in the parquet and dress circle was taken, while the balcony was crowded. It was a goodly assemblage gathered together to witness the annual performance of the University Glee Club. The entertainment was enjoyable, but we will not attempt to mention each clever act, for it would take too long to give each participant the praise due him. The singing of the quartette and of Messrs. Jewett and Smith; the witticisms of Dougherty, Melady, Kelly, Lahey, Hackett and Morton; the cornet solo by E. Howard; the “Topics of the Day” byH.Barnes; the “ Meetingof the Champions,” the comic drill, were all delightful features, while the club swinging was excellent. The laughable absurdity, entitled the “Somnambulistic Sanitarium,” which • concluded the programme, brought down the house, and everyone left the hall satisfied that they had spent a delightful evening. Credit is due to Prof. Liscomb, Mr. Doughertv and their able assistants, Messrs. Jewett, Melady and Newton, under whose direction the entertainment was gotten up. There were others who contributed to the success of the evening whose names have escaped our memory, but they all acquitted themselves creditably.
We are authorized to state that the tomahawk incident was not a part of the regular programme. The players had no designs upon any one in the audience.	•
—Rumors being rife last Saturday morning that room 61, main building, had been entered by a burglar, and both the inmates kidnapped, a Scholastic reporter called to ascertain the truth of the matter. The proprietor was ^at home, and appeared pleased to see the visitor. The scribe was given a seat, and helped himself to a cigar, while Mr. G-- took a toothpick. After a few remarks about the weather and college athletics, and the coming refined minstrel show, Mr. G-------------gave his account of the burglary as follows:
“ Shortly after supper, I came upstairs to my room, and on entering was surprised to-find the lights out and the transom opened. I also heard a heavy snore in the corner where my bed stands, and thought at first it was Morrison, my room-mate, personating a tramp—as tramps had been the theme of conversation at the supper table. I passed my hands over him, however, and was startled when I felt a bandage over the eye, while my left hand came in contact with a satchel under the sleeper’s head. I hastily turned on the electric light, and found indeed that it was a tramp. I rushed across the hall to Cusack's room, where a number of the boys were holding an impromptu concert. I asked their aid in ejecting the trespasser, and they responded with alacrity. The tramp was thrown out, beaten severely, and kicked down stairs and was seen to leave the building. I thought no more about the matter, and having been up later than usual attending a meeting of the Philosophical Society the night before, I retired early. About io o’clock I was awakened by a noise at the door, which was followed by some one entering. I thought it was the watchman, ana asked what was wanted. There was no reply, but the intruder lighted an Oshkosh match as if he was searching for something. He struck a second light, and, seizing my coat and vest and pantaloons which were on a chair at the foot of the bed, he made a hasty exit, leaving the door open behind him. I called to Vin., and asked him . if he had seen the man, and just then the burglar came
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
back a second time, and hearing voices ran away. I got hastily out of bed and rushed into the corridor knocking at the boys’ doors for help. Brownson and Aiken came out at once, and though considerably frightened, began to look for the thief. The other boys joined them, and though they did not catch him, they discovered my clothes and brought them in. In a few minutes Pat Burke came up trembling like a leaf and affirming that the man had massed him in the lower corridor, and had given him a bad scare. The tramp was of medium stature, had on a ongcoat, and the hirsute appendage on his face was short and stubby. Do I think it was a real tramp and not some practical joker? I should say so. I saw him twice in the room, for I am convinced that both tramps were one, and it could not have been any of the boys, for they were all in here just after the burglary. I notified the authorities, but they laughed at me, and said some one was having some fun at my expense; but I have no doubts about it at all—it was a genuine burglar. “ Did you lock the door before retiring?” “Yes, and left the key in the door too. I can hardly see how he got in so quickly. He must have been an expert.”
Mr. Morrison was also interviewed. Mr. Morrison thought it was a srood one in his room-mate, though he corroborated his evidence.
The reporter called upon others who were present just after the burglary, and they all told the same story, although they regarded it as nothing serious. They laughed heartily while recounting their first adventure with the tramp, when they threw him down stairs. When asked to explain the curious feature of the tramp’s satchel, Mr. Burke said no respectable tramp would travel without a change of linen, while Mr. John Cusack suggested that he carried his lunch with him. Mr. Goebel thought it contained burglars’, tools, dynamite, etc., and Mr. Aiken thought perhaps the tramp had something to .drink with him, or maybe a bound volume of the Scholastic. It is known that the thief did not leave the building that night and, in fact, his disappearance is something wonderful. The whole affair is shrouded in mystery, but the reporter thinks he has discovered some valuable clews which will explain everything satisfactorily. Look out for this in next week’s issue, and. in the meantime Subscribe for the Scholastic!
Meagher, W. Meagher, McCune, Nations, Albert Nic-holl, R. Newton, O’Flaherty, ,E. O’Brien, W. O’Brien, O’Shea, O’Connor, O’Donnell, Paquette, Prichard, Pollock, Patterson, Pim, Robinson, Reynolds, Reedy, Roberts, Rothert, Schmitz, Sullivan, Stephenson, D. Sullivan, Toner, Tiernan, Tarrant, Wise, Wade, J. Welsh, Wynn, Waixel, Webb, Younker, C. Youngermann, F. Younger-mann, Zeitler, Zeller, Sawkins.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters W. Allen, Ayer, Aarons, Berry, Wilbanks, Bombeck, Bates, Beaudry, Brady, Blumenthal, Boyd, Bradley, Baltes, Bearinger, Bryan, S. Cleary, T. Cleary, Crandall, F- Connors, Covert, Case, J. Connolly, G. Connolly, Chacon, Cauthom, Chute, N. Davis, E. Du Brul, W. Devine, A. Devine, Dempsey, Daniels, Dunning, H. Darrock, Dinkel, Ernest, Erwin, Elder, Flannigan, T. Falvey, S. Fleming, P. Fleming, C. Fleming, Frei, Foley,* Fitzgerald, Greene, R. Healy, P. Healy, J. Healy, Heller, Hoerr, Halthusen, Hughes, Hanrahan, Hague, Houlihan, Hoffman, Hammond, Heard, Hennessy, Hartman, Jack-son, Krembs, King, A. Kutsche, W. Kutsche, Kehoe, Kearns, Louisell, Moncada, Mahon, Maher, B. Wile, Maurus, Monarch, Malone, Mayer, Morrison, J. Mooney, C. Mooney, Merz, McDonnell, L. McIntosh, Young, McIvers, McMahon, McGrath, McCartney, F. Neef, A. Neef, Nockels, Nester, O’Neill, G. O’Brian, O’Mara, O’Donnell, P. O’Brian, Populorum, Pecheux, Prichard, F. Peck, J. Peck, Palmer, Paquette, Powers, Quinlan, E. Roth, I. Rose, S. Rose, Reinhard, Rowsey, Ramsey, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, Sheehan, Sutter, Sullivan, Spalding, Shear, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Smith, Talbot, Toolen, Telod, Wright, A. Welch, Weitzel, Wood.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bates, Blake, Ball, Bruel, T. Burns, J. Burns, E. Bryan, Bearinger, Brown, Connolly, Cornell, W. Creedon, F. Creedon, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, W. Connor, Crandall, Crane, Downing, Durand, Dunn, Jas. Dungan, J. Dungan, Dorsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench, E. Elkin, G. Evers, F. Evers, C. Franche, G. Franche, Finnerty, E. Falvey, Foster, Fanning, Grant, Greene, Goodwillie, Gregg, Goodman, Girardin Hagus, Hendry, Hamilton, Hinds, Hedenbergh, Jonquet, Kane, Kroolman, Kirk, Keeler, Kaye, Koester, Kehoe, Lansing, Levi, Livingston, Londoner, Lonergan, J.-Marre, Marx, A. Marre, Matemes, Minor, Mattas, C. McDonell, F. McDonnell, McDonald, McGuire, Mooney, Montague, McCarthy, Mayer, Miller, Marr, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, Nee-nan, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, Plautz, Parker, Pierce, L. Paul, C. Paul, Ricksecker, Rea, Seerey, Snyder, Seiden-sticker, Stone, Stephens, Steineman, Toolen, Trujillo, Thornton, Witkowsky, F. Webb, R. Webb, Wever, Wilcox, Washburne, Duquesne.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
Boll of Honor.
- [The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the • Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Akin, Amador, Alvarez, Ahlrichs, I. Bunker, Bombeck, Burger, Barnes, Becker, Brewer, H. Brannick, Barrett, Burke, Beckman, C. Brown, Brady, Blackman, Crabb, Cassidy,' Crooker, Cooney, S. Campbell, Chacon, G. Cooke, Jno. Cusack, Jos. Cusack, D. Cartier, Cavanagh, T. Coady, E. Coady, Chute, Draper, Dacey, Dore, Delaney, Dougherty, Dwyer, Eyanson, Fisk, J. Fleming, Finckh, Fehr, Ford, Grange, Goke, Goebel, Jos. Giblin, Jno. Giblin, Gallardo, J. Galen, Garfias, Gallagher, Healy, Hayes, W. Hacket, L. Hacket, Hermann, M. Howard, Hempier, Hoover, Hill, Hummer, E. Howard, Henderson, Irwin, Karasynski, Kehoe, Kenny, Kohlmann, Knoblauch, Lane, Lozana, Leonard, F. Long, E. Larkin, W. Larkn, G. Long, Landgraff, McNally, Murphy, Maloney, McErlaine, H. McAlister, G. McAlister, Mackey, J. Mc-Carthy, Mattes, Madden, MeAuliff, J. F. McCarthy, Mc-.. -Ginnity, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, Jno. Meagher, L.
The Tongue.
“The boneless tongue,so small and weak, Can crush and kill,” declared the Greek.
“ The tongue destroys a greater horde,” The Turk asserts, “than does the sword.”
The Persian proverb wisely saith, “ A lengthy tongue—an early death.”
Or sometimes take this form instead, “ Don’t let your tongue cut off your head.”
“ The tongue can speak a word whose speed,” Says the Chinese, “ outstrips the steed.”
While Arab sages this impart,
“ The tongue’s great store-house is the heart,”
From Hebrew wit the maxim sprung,
“ Though feet should slip, ne’er let the tongue.”
The sacred writer crowns the whole, “ Who keeps his tongue doth keep his soul.”
—N. Y. Mail-Express.	. Philip B. Strong.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
255
St Marv’S AsademY.
Patriotism.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss D. Fitzpatrick is spending a few days at St. Mary’s.
—Rev. Father L’Etourneau has presented to the confraternity room two fine engravings. The Children of Mary return warm thanks.
—Thanksgiving day was observed in the usual manner at St. Mary’s. Recreation, turkey, mince-pie, music, etc., made up the traditional holiday.
—The Misses Bloom, N. Gibson, M. Gibson, M. Davis and T. Balch deserve special mention for their excellence in chemistry, as was shown at a competition held lately.
—The Third Seniors held an interesting competition in algebra last week. All showed earnest study; but the Misses Campeau and L. Nester, as captains, carried off the honors.
—Professor At. F. Egan delivered the third of his series of lectures on Tuesday last. The subject was “Literature as a Factor in Life,” and was listened to with great interest. Every word carried conviction, and the lecture cannot but be productive of lasting good.
—The Misses M. Clifford, Brewer, Butler, Ledwith, Nelson, Norton, Quealey, B. Smith, Bloom, Crane, Churchill, Dolan, McPhee, N. Davis, Coll, Koepplinger, Waixel, Webb and Voechting were best in a grammar competition held last week in the First Preparatory class.
—Mrs. H. Clement, nee Miss B. Morrison, for several years a pupil at St. Mary’s, spent a few hours with her old teachers and schoolmates last week. Bonnie is on her wedding tour, and happiness will surely be hers through life if only one half the good wishes extended her are realized.
—On Thursday last, a great treat was enjoyed by the lovers of good music, for the Mendelssohn Quintette Club of Boston gave one of their excellent concerts. The annual visit made by Mr. Ryan and his company is eagerly looked forward to, and this year the performance proved even better than last. A special feature was the singing of Miss Ryan, who has been studying in Europe.
—The Misses Hurff and Dolan gave the read-ings at the Sunday academic meeting. Miss Maggie McHugh appeared for the first time as a reader in public; her selection was “A Regular Boy.” Needless to say she gave entire satisfaction. Very Rev. Father General was present, and invited Rev. Father Zahm to address the young ladies, which he did in his usual happy style. He spoke of the necessity of bringing Out. the Minims, and showed by examples what little people and little things can do.
“ Breathes there a man with soul so dead, ‘Who never to himself hath said: This is mine own, my native land?
Whose heart hath ne’er within him burned, As home his footsteps he hath turned From wandering on a foreign land? ”
Since the existence of man there has been implanted in the human breast a feeling of love for country not unlike that which is shown by a child for its parent, and to this sentiment is given the name patriotism. This is exhibited particularly in time of war, that great test of patriotism; for though some may bear its hardships and dangers for merely mercenary motives, the majority do so through desire of preserving the freedom of their country. In some individuals this sentiment is more powerful than in others; but it seems evident that all should cultivate it. It is a well-known fact that love of country was so strong in the Swiss that the playing of their national airs or melodies was forbidden in their regiments when on foreign service, as it awakened .in them a longing for home, and thereby unfitted them for duty.
It is true that ■ not to every one- is given the opportunity of exhibiting love for his country on the battlefield; but throughout life occasions are offered • when its presence dr absence will make itself felt. Were it not for the patriotism of our forefathers, our country would not have attained the freedom of which it now boasts. No one can read the history-of its early days without being struck, with admiration by the heroism displayed under the ’ trying circumstances of that dark period. All our present comforts, our schools and institutions of learning, were in a great measure purchased by them at the high price of hardships innumerable, and even at the cost of many lives.
A truly patriotic man is one who for his country’s good, puts aside all thought of self, and, boldly encountering danger, stands face to face with death. But it is not shown on the battlefield only, for a man may be a patriot in civil life—if he be a law-maker, by advocating only those laws which will promote.the general good;; dr if a simple-citizen, by observing these same laws, thereby influencing others to follow his example of obedience.
As to its effects oii individuals much might be said. : How often in reports of battles do we read that the courage inspired by love of country turned the fortune of the day, and changed defeat into victory. - For when the soldier’s heart
256	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is fired with patriotic love, he becomes truly a host in himself, and against him it is useless to contend. Again,patriotism ennobles one’s character by enabling the individual to cultivate the greatest of all virtues—self-sacrifice.
Its effects on a nation are many; when the people of a country are all patriots, the result is a nation of heroes, and, thus the former is not left a prey to war-like nations; but on the contrary, it may take a front rank among the leading powers of the earth, and advance in the arts, sciences, and in all the refinements of life.
In no country are dead patriots more honored, than in our own. This is exemplified in the yearly decoration of the soldiers’ graves, which shows that though thev have long been laid to rest, their many noble deeds are not forgotten by the survivors. For, as Collins says: •
“ Here honor comes a pilgrim gray, ■ To deck the turf that wraps their clay.”
The past furnishes us with many examples of patriotism. The long list of revolutionary patriots are headed by him who was not only “first in war and in peace, but first in the hearts . of his countrymen.”	■
Again, Lincoln was a patriot in the true sense of the word. He may be said to have lost his life for the welfare of his country, and when the nation stood at his grave, it mourned for him as one who was truly a martyr to the cause of patriotism.
The example set by Leonidas, king of Sparta, is of a truly patriotic nature. At the head of the three hundred Spartans, he gained immortal glory, fighting and falling with his brave band. Many'- other examples might be given, but these will suffice to show the spirit of patriotism displayed in every age and in every land. Not only has it influenced warriors to brave deeds, but it is also a power among those devoted to the arts of peace.
Poets have made patriotism the theme of • their most eloquent verses, and beautifully has the pen of Goldsmith described the feeling of love for one’s country when he says; .
“ Such is the patriot’s boast where’er we roam,.
, j His first best country ever is his own." ■
We, who claim America as our place of birth, should be grateful for. the blessings we enjoy in “this sweet land of liberty,” and it should be our care to make apparent to all by our upright lives that this is indeed the “land of the free and the home of the brave.”	: ;
.	; Mary Bates,
-	-	-• First Senior Class.
Roll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment, and exact observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Arnold, Ansbach, Anson, Ash, Andree, E. Balch, Barry, Bates, T. Balch, Burton, Bloom, Beschameng, Bogner. Butler. Brewer, Barron, Bush, AI. Beck, C. Beck, M. B. Clifford, E. Coll. Campeau, Cleaveland, Currier, Caren, Compagne, Clarke, Al. Clifford, Cohn, AI. Clore, Connell, Crabbe, Canepa, Donnelly, Ducey, M. Davis, Dempsey, Dority, D. Davis, Dorsey, Daube, N. Davis, M. De Alontcourt, I. De Alontcourt, Flannery, Fursman, Fitzpatrick, Fox, Flitner, Gavan, Griffith, Geer, Grace, AI. Gibson, A. Gibson, Gordon, Harriman, Hertzog, Hammond, Harlen, AI. Horner, I. Horner, Hurff, Healy, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hamilton, Hagus, Harmes, Hutchinson, Huber, Haight, Haney, Hellmann, Hubbard, Irwin, Kingsbury,Koepplinger, A. Keeney, Koopman,Lawrence, Linneen, Ledwith, Lewis, Aleehan, L. AIcNamara, Moran, N. Alorsc, Moore, Alarley, Alincr, C. A'lorse, AlcCarthy, Mercer, McCune, H. Nester, L. Nester, Nacy, Nelson, Norton, Nicholas, Prudhomme, Piper, Paul, Penburthy, Quill, Quealey, Reidinger, Robinson, Roberts, Rentfrow, Rend, M. Smith. Slesinger, Spurgeon, Schrock, Studebaker, Simpson, Saviers, B. Smith, Schiltz, Taylor, M. Thayer, Van Horn, Van Mourick, A7an Riper, Wright, Webb, Wehr, Waterbury, Waixel, Wilkinson, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Alisses Barry, E. Burns, M. Burns, Burchard, M. Campbell, R. Campbell, Churchill, Cooper, Cooke, Crane, M. Davis, Dexter, Daley, Dempsey, Dolan, Dreyer, Ernest, Goke, Griffith, Hull, Kloth, Kelso, Lauth, Marks, M. McHugh, AL McPhee, Northam, Papin, Patrick, Patier, Quealey, Reeves, Regan, Rose, Rowley, Rinehart, M. Smyth, J. Smyth, Scherrer, Sweeney, M. Schoellkopf, I. Schoellkopf, Stapleton,Thirds, A.Wurzburg, N.Wurzburg,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Burns, Crandall, B. Davis, Griffith, L. AIcHugh, AI. McHugh, Moore, Papin, S. Smyth. Scherrer,
Class Honors.
LANGUAGE COURSE.	’
LATIN.
Misses L. Griffith, G. Clarke.
FRENCH.
2D Class—Misses L. A'*an Horn, A. Beschameng, K. Gavan, S. Campeau, F. Alarley	.
3D Class, ist Div—Alisses K. Alorse, M. Burton, T. Balch, M. Papin, C. Prudhomme, B. Arnold, H. Studebaker, AI. De Alontcourt, B. Hellmann.
2D Div.—-Alisses B. Hepburn, Kingsbury, F. Waterbury, J. Cleaveland, B. AA7agner, B. Smith, A'l. Rinehart, I. De Alontcourt, M. Coll.
4TH Class, ist Div.—Alisses J. Bloom, M. Hurff, L. Healey, D. Davis, N. Davis, B. Bloom, B. AA7ebb, N. Gibson, AI. Gibson, I. Homer, N. AA7urzburg, A. Wurzburg, G. Roberts, H. Pugsley, S. Hamilton.	‘
2D Div.—Alisses C. Haight, AI. lungblut, A. Penburthy, AI. Flitner, L. Hutchinson, M. Ash, S. Dempsey, M. Thayer.	.	.
5TH Class—Misses L. Ayer, A. Papin, S. Scherrer, C. Griffith.’	.	-	'
GERMAN.
ist Class—Alisses I. Bub, M. A7oechting. - ’ ‘
2D Class—Alisses Lauth; Moore, Burton, .Wehr, Piper.
3D Class—Misses M. Davis, C. Morse, K. Hurley, C. Hurley, Quealey, Kahn, Koepplinger, A. Keeney.
4TH Class—Misses Harmes, AI. Schoellkopf, Daube, L. Dreyer, Kaspar, Koopman, Healey, Aliller, Haney, Waixel, I Schoellkopf, Andree, Thirds." , *
5TH Class—Alisses Miner, Ansbach, Churchill, Currier, Nicholas,'Irwin, Ernest. Ledwith, Grace; Hillas, Spurgeon, Van Riper, McCarthy. .	• ,.	.
2D Division—Misses Griffith, M; Davis, Hagus, B.
Davis, Goke. . ’	• L.: 1 j ; .	. .	‘	.. ■