1867 - 1992
A century ahead of the competition.
Parents - Alumni - Fans Subscribe to
Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Follow the Fighting Irish and keep up with campus events as Scholastic celebrates our 125th anniversary!
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:______________________
Address:____________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
Music Movies
5
NEWS
10
14
17
18
2 4
12
19
20
21
22
24
Off-Campus Crime Durgans Pressured to Resign
SPORTS
Another Chapter Begins The Battle For Bragging Rights
National Champions : 1920
DEPARTMENTS
Editor’s Notes CampusWatch Coming Distractions On Other Campuses Behavior Modification Week In Distortion Glancing Back Final Word
cn m
i
On The Cover: The Notre Dame football team will take on Indiana University this Saturday. Cover photo by Ian Johanson.
SEPTEMBER 5, 1991
■
EDITOR'S NOTES
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 133, No. 2
September 5, 1991
D/sce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Patricia Doyle
NEWS EDITOR
Kate Manuel
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts
SPORTS ASSISTANT
Jim Kuser
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
DEPARTMENTS ASSISTANT
Kim Cenedella
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Margaret Kenny
SYSTEMS MANAGER
Kevin Hardman
ADVERTISING MANAGER
David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examinalionand vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,IN,46556andprintedatThePapers,Inc.,Milford,IN46542. The subscription rale is $25.00fyear and back issues are available al $125 / copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial boardofScholasticoroflhe University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
2
Come One, Come All
For those of you who didn’t find out at Activities Night, Scholastic is holding a meeting for all interested writers, artists, designers, and photographers tonight, September 5, in the Montgomery Theater on the first floor of LaFortune at 7:30. If you are interested in joining our staff, we are looking for both experienced journalists and rookies of all ages (yes, this means juniors and seniors too!). If you are unable to attend the meeting, but are still interested in working for Scholastic, please let us know by calling our office at 239-7569.
For anyone seeking a more ambitious job, the position of Campus Life editor is currently available. (This is a paid position!) Applications for this position will be available at Thursday’s meeting or they may be picked up in our office at 303 LaFortune. Keep on your toes, however, because these applications are due tomorrow, Friday, September 6 in the Scholastic office.
On the Lighter Side
In case you arc puzzled regarding the whereabouts of “On Other Campuses,” “Behavior Modification” and “Week In Distortion,” these columns can now be found in their “new and improved” locations on pages 19-21. While our Departments editor, Mike Owen, believes we are saving the best for last, we are also hoping that this will encourage you, our avid readers, to read through our other sections, such as news, campus life, entertainment and sports to arrive at Mike’s entertaining columns.
In This Issue
Our cover story takes a look at this year’s football team. With the many changes that have taken place since last spring, writer J. Bradley Keck previews the 1991-92 football season. Sports Editor Jon Paul Potts prepares us for the opening football game against the University of Indiana this weekend.
In News, Copy editor Margaret Kenny reports on the worsening off-campus crime situation. With the recent confrontation between South Bend residents and Notre Dame students on Notre Dame Avenue, the assistance given by the South Bend Police Department is being questioned by some. Although Campus Security is beefing up protection around campus, what can be done if students are fearful of even leaving campus?
Editor in Chief Ian Mitchell examines the changes that have taken place in the Student and Minority Affairs Offices. We will be seeing new faces in these offices with the resignation of Ken Durgans and the hiring of Iris Outlaw and Kevin Warren.
This week’s sesquiccntcnnial story reviews the history of football at Notre Dame. Sports writer Amanda Clinton looks at the origins of the gridiron sport at Notre Dame and the paths it has travelled over 104 sea-sons.Once again, be sure to check out our weekly departments in their new locations on pages 19-21. This is one of the changes Scholastic is making this year. We are trying to improve our publication and we welcome your input and suggestions. Please let us know what you think!
Patti Doyle Executive Editor
letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer 5 name, address and phone number. University si udenls should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. Alllettersmust besigned. Nameswill be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all Idlers received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Noire Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS COMMENTARY
CamousJ/l^fc/i
H BY THE GIPPER
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
An Ugly Trend
NUMBER OF PAGES
112
IN DU LAC	Pages
The Gippcr thinks the chart above tells the whole story — almost. To be fair, the last two editions of the ND student bible were printed on smaller-size pages (so they’re not really twice as long as the years before). On the other hand, this year’s Du Lac includes regulations covering several areas formerly included in the student handbook, and quite a few new policies.
The Gippcr, like all loyal Domers, has spent hours trying to memorize the new version of Du Lac. He is a bit puzzled by the section entitled “Rights, Responsibilities and Policies” (p. 26), however. While “responsibilities” and “policies” abound, despite repeated readings, the Gipper has been unable to find any general listing of student “rights.” Surely there has been some mistake.
'Bookstore Revenge Update
As entries in the “The Bookstore Took My SEPTEMBERS, 1991
Money And Now I’m Mad, Really, Really Mad” contest continue to mount, the Gipp is pleased to announce the leaders so far: Single Most Expensive Book: $64.70 HighestTotal: $363.20 for 32 books (bonus points awarded because 16 of the books were sold as “used” — at that extra-special super-low rock-bottom bookstore discount price)
Can you top those numbers? Think you’re spending more on textbooks than tuition? Put your mouth where your money is: drop off a copy of your bookstore receipt at the Scholastic office (third floor LaFortune, room 303). All entries must be received no later than 5 p.m. Monday, September 9. Both number of books bought and sheer cost of thebooks will be taken into consideration. The Gipp-meister is the sole and final judge of all contest entries. The winner(s) will be announced in this space next week.
This Was Not a Good Idea
Paul Webb
The new crosswalks (?) at the intersection in front of the JACC.
Hitchcock Has Nothing on ND The Gipper enjoys Alfred Hitchcock films, especially “The Birds/’ but Notre Dame’s
campus has its own feathered menace —	!
Canada Geese. The birds are protective of their territory and can be downright ornery (remember last year’s Grace Goose?). Mike McCauslin, assistant, superintendent of landscape services, told one inquiring CampusWatcher that ND’s flock of the protected bird have grown to 150-200 birds.
During the summer various groups use ND facilities for conferences and such, and the geese weren’t exactly cooperative about sharing their lakefront property, McCauslin said. “Five or six big ganders began harassing people,” he said, adding that some geese were even chasing passing bikers. Added to that is another minor problem: “goose dung that is just everywhere,” he said. Since the birds are protected, ND contacted the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for help.
The plan was to relocate some of the flock to a wildlife preserve, but the idea was hatched too late in the season: after molting season, | the birds are too mobile to be easily caught. I McCauslin said the government agencies . I might make another attempt at geese rcloca- [ tion next summer. In the meantime, he I warns that the geese have had a lot of gos- < lings. The Gipp fears for his life.	j
Tell One to the Gipper	|
Got a tip for the Gipp? CampusWatch tells i the stories that aren’t covered by press releases, but the Gipper can only be so many places at once. If you have a news tip or any kind of campus information thatpeoplc need to know, become a Junior CampusWatcher — tell the Gipper! The gossiping ghost doesn’t see visitors, but you can leave a	‘
message for him by phone (239-7569, call	!
anytime), in person (stop by the office s Monday-Friday 2-5 p.m.) or by campus mail	;
(303 LaFortune). The Gipper is counting on you.	□	•
3	;
Nothing better to do than sit on your duff, eat pizza and degrade the opposite sex?
Find out what's REALLY happening on campus and become SCHOLASTIC'S Campus Life Editor (This is a PAID position)
Applications are available from the Scholastic Office (303 La Fortune). Or pick one up at TONIGHT’S INFORMATIONAL MEETING (7:30 pm in the Montgomery Theater, La Fortune). Hurry! They’re due tomorrow.
4
SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
n
Shining Superstition and the Blood of mellow awareness
Siouxsie and the Banshees - Superstition The Lollapalooza tour certainly did prove that after fifteen years, Siouxsie Sioux can still screech. Holding her own among the likes of Generation X, the Buzzcocks and the Sex Pistols, Siouxsie and her band are probably one of the few survivors of the mid-70s British punk scene. On their latest album, Superstition, Siouxsie and the Banshees have kept the relatively new lineup from the Peep Show album, with John Klein on guitar and Martin McCarrick on keyboards and cello, Steven Severin on bass and Budgie on drums.
The album starts with “Kiss Them For Me,” the danceable, Eastern-influenced single layered with percussion that has become an integral part of the new Banshees sound. The song continues Siouxsie’s mockery of certain popular feminine types, such as the glamorous party girl. Although the Banshees have developed many new styles, some tracks, including “Cry,” are reminiscent of the driving, guitar-oriented sound of Tinderbox, a 1986 album.
Songs like “Silly Thing,” “Fear of the Unknown” and “Got to Get Up,” in which Siouxsie shouts an entreating call to “... get up and win this life,” are fairly straightforward Banshees tunes that make up for in energy what they lack in soulfulness. “Shadowtime,” “Silver Waterfalls” and “The Ghost in You,” with its message to an unknown participant in the Tianenmen Square tragedy, are also very catchy pop songs with atypically traditional major chord melodies. However, it is when Siouxsie slows things down a bit and establishes a mood when the Banshees really shine.
The subtly ominous yet musically powerful “Drifter,” the slightly melancholic “Little Sister” and the simply beautiful “Softly” are songs in which the blend of
SEPTEMBERS, 1991
McCarrick’s cello, Siouxsie’s lovely voice and even lovelier lyrics blend perfectly with the other instruments to achieve a truly romantic sound similar to the work of Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark, back in the early 1980s. Although a far cry from the screeching voice and screaming guitars of the Banshees’ early work, Superstition definitely stands upagainsttheover fifteen years of work the band has done.
This Mortal Coil - Blood
Possibly one of the most ambitious projects in the last ten years, This Mortal Coil’s newest release, “Blood,” is this compilation band’s third effort in eight years. Originally the brainchild of producers and 4AD cofounders Ivo Watts-Russell and John Fryer, who has produced the likes of Love and Rockets and Nine Inch Nails, This Mortal Coil was an amalgamation of 4AD artists into a coherent project to perform obscure, mellow covers of even more obscure songs. In the past, TMC has recruited members of Cocteau Twins, Modem English, Cindy talk, Breathless, Dead Can Dance and Magazine, and have covered the likes of Donovan, Dylan, and Judy Collins.
Now, TMC has a core group consisting of Watts-Russell and Fryer writing and performing the original music, with guest artists helping out on the covers. Singers Louise and Deirdre Rutkowski and Alison Limerick share most of the vocals, while Tanya Donnelly of Throwing Muses and Kim Deal of the Pixies share vocals on “You and Your Sister.” Caroline Crawley of Shelleyan Orphan sings on “Mr. Somewhere,” “Help Me Lift You Up” and Syd Barrett’s “Late Night.” Tim Freeman of Frazier Chorus helps out on backing vocals on “I Come and Stand at Every Door,” and Dominic Appleton sings lead on the upbeat “I Am the Cosmos.” Other highlights include the danceable instrumental, “Loose
Siouxsie and the Banshees prove that they've still got it.
Joints,” the soulfully somber “Nature’s Way” and the beautiful “Several Times,” written by Pieter Nooten of Xymox.
Like other TMC albums, Blood is a coherent double album work with recurring musical motifs appearing as instrumentals and later as integral parts of other songs. Every song flows effortlessly into the next with mellow guitars, ambient samples, soft beats and a heavy string section, courtesy of Martin McCarrick of Siouxie and the Banshees. The songs Watts-Russell and Fryer have chosen to cover have a definite 1960s quality to them, with themes of peace and love and psychedelic staring at the sky imagery. TMC makes these songs all their own with an ethereal touch of modem atmospherics to blend with the particularly sixties mellowness. The work of TMC, however, is a nostalgic excursion into heavenly areas that only 4AD artists can travel, and the band’s three albums are probably some of the best mood pieces in modem music. While using the tool of the electronic age, the sampler, TMC takes technology to a new realm of organic ethereality, with an almost new age-influenced sound that levitates the listener to the heights of mellow awareness. □
by Jason L. Winslade
5
MOVIES
§ no.mm®ff	2
(□©©pair's IPfiffiltes aimdl IPsuMajlkas
Each Summer brings new hope and excitement that theaters across the nation will pulse with blockbuster movie hits. This Summer was no exception as I anxiously awaited several new films, such as Terminator 2 wi Robin Hood. Whilesome of the Summer’s films did not disappoint, at the same time, I felt bombarded with some truly awful excuses for “filmmaking.” And now ... without any further ado, I present to you the best and the worst of Summer 1991 cinema.
THE WORST
Wwstt Accents: This one is a definite tie. Kevin Costner, in Robin Hood. One minute, he’s Crash Davis, the next, he’s doing a bad Roger Moore impression. Also winning the prestige in this category is Arnold Schwarzenegger, for his role in Terminator 2: Judgment Day. If the machines in the year
tellegent about this man’s accent?
2029 are so intelligent, how can they not design one without an Austrian accent?
OirngfimaH Meas: Naked Gun 2 U 2. Far too many rehashed jokes from old Police Squad episodes.
Casftnnng OecDstonns: These are numerous. Jean-Claude von Damme, Double Impact. Satisfied that we loved his other screen gems, such as Cyborg. he costarred with himself. Wonderful. What’s next? He plays a whole family of von Dammes and they go bowling? Dustin Hoffman look out ... Don Johnson and Mickey Rourke, Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man. The title of this one kept me rolling on the floor for hours. No screen is big enough for these two egomaniacs. Martin Short and Danny Glover, Pure Luck. There would have been better chemistry between Steven Seagal and Jerry Lewis.
WwM Actoess: Jennifer Jason-Leigh, Backdraft. As William Baldwin’s love interest, she succeeded in killing every scene involving her. I can never take her work as an actor seriously after her role as Stacey in the all-time classic Fast Times at Ridgemont High.
Actor: Kevin Costner, Robin Hood, At his best, Costner invites you to be on screen with him as you share in his thoughts and experiences. Here, he is so detached and disinterested he almost ruins the film. Christopher Lampert (Highlander) should have been granted this role instead.
Wwsti Mame: Bingo. Another cutesy dog film. I thought Hollywood learned its lesson after Chevy Chase’s 1982 goldmine, Oh Heavenly Dog (however, Laverne and Shirley-s Cindy Williams needed the work).
THE BEST
Besft SjpecM Effffecto: Terminator 2. Followed closely by the fire scenes from Backdraft.
Bestt VnllDannn: Cruella DcVille, 101 Dab mations. Up there with the Wickcd Wi tch of the West and Jack Nicholson’s Joker.
Bestt amd Aalto Scenn®: • Schwarzenegger cocking his shotgun while riding a motorcycle. Closely following is the Leslie Nielsen-Priscilla Presley love scene in Naked Gun 2 112.
Bestt Cannae®: Sean Connery, Robin Hood.
Bestt Actoess: Geena Davis, Thelma and Louise.
IBesft Actor: Harrison Ford, Regarding Henry.
NOAH’S TOP FIVE FILMS OF THE SUMMER:
5. Robin Hood
4. City Slickers
3. Terminator 2: Judgment Day
2. Regarding Henry
1. Thelma and Louise	□
Noah Cooper is a Pangborn sophomore and veteran Scholastic movie god. He does not care is anyone likes his reviews, as long as Julia Roberts does. (Entertainment Writers needed-Ed.)
6
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
Off-Campus Crime
The crime situation in South Bend is worsening, but what is being done to help Notre Dame students?
By Margaret Kenny
On Friday, August 23, 1991, Steve Trzeciak and his five roommates were having a party at their house on Notre Dame Avenue. All was going well and being kept under control until approximately 12:15 a.m. when two uninvited guests entered the house. The trouble that resulted has caused these six men to move from their home to a new apartment at the Turtle Creek Apartment complex because they no longer felt safe there.
The students reported that there were approximately 50 people at their party, and everyone but 15 to 20 people were inside. Yet because of the late August heat, some of the guests were sitting outside on the porch; therefore, the front door was unlocked. At one point, the men noticed that two black men in their late twenties had entered their house and were looking around as if searching for valuables to take at a later time. Shortly afterward, three more men entered, beginning all of the trouble on Notre Dame Avenue.
“They just walked into the house and began throwing us around, basically,” said Trzeciak. Mayhem erupted as Trzeciak and one of his roommates, Tim Farley, were - accosted by the intruders and thrown up against the wall. Then one of the uninvited guests grabbed a glass pitcher and threw it at another inhabitant, David Mercurio, who ducked. The pitcher, instead, shattered against the wall, spraying shards of glass over some of the frightened guests. Another one of the intruders tried to invade the back
end of the house, yet met up with a partygoer brandishing a golf club.
At this time, Trzeciak said, heran from the house in an attempt to gain assistance from the South Bend police. He claims that there was a squad car sitting outside the house, which he approached. The officer reluctantly unrolled his window, and Trzeciak implored him to break up the fights and remove the intruders. The student said they were refused any assistance from the officer, who claimed they should have expected problems by having a party.
By this time a gang of approximately 15 black men on the front lawn had begun fighting with guests attempting to flee the premises, including Aneel Chablani, another inhabitant of the house. Chablani, while standing on the porch trying to clear the party, was punched in the chin and cut so badly that he needed stitches.
While trying to explain the extent of the commotion, Pete Slamkowski said, “There was a group of at least six of the guys and some students squaring off against them. Aneel had already gotten hit, and I was try ing to break up fights. I couldn ’ t really do anything to the neighborhood kids ‘cause there’s noway to really reason with them. So you had basically to go against your own friends — people you knew — and start pushing them to walk away.”
During the commotion, the phone had been knocked out, Trzeciak said, so a neighbor ran next door and called 911. Seven police cars responded to the call. When the police arrived, Slamkowski reported, they were trying to get all of the guests either inside or to their cars as the
gang of assailants moved away from the house, toward a parking lot nearby.
Because of its close proximity to the house, several of the party-goers had parked their cars in this lot, which was about three doors down. One of the guests had returned to his car only to be attacked by the gang. Several people, accompanied by two police officers, rushed to the parking lot where the attackers still remained, Slamkowski said. One of the neighbors, coincidentally the same man who had called 911, shouted for the police to do something to the attackers.
“The police weren’t doing anything, so our neighbor starts yelling at him, using profanity and stuff... So four of them (the officers) run up after our neighbor, throw him against his house, cuff him and arrest him for public intoxication,” said Trzeciak.	f
While talking to the police after the ; commotion had died down, Trzeciak and his	i
housemates were led to believe that they	[
should have expected problems because of	:
the neighborhood. By having a party, the i police told them, they were simply asking i for trouble. “It just seemed like there should	;
bea time for action, and a lecture could have	]
The men later accompanied their	i
roommate, Aneel, to the emergency room i for stitches, where they ran into a friend who ’	;
had graduated from the University. Their ; friend allegedly reported, that the officers who are assigned to the emergency room were bragging about getting the first Notre Dame student arrest of the year.
After the attack, the students planned to i remain at the house on Notre Dame Avenue.	■ *
After all, they had expected some trouble J
come later,” Trzeciak said.	ji
SEPTEMBER 5, 1991
With the “locals” of the neighborhood. They •could see the gang members who had intruded into the party watching them, as if waiting for an opportunity to break in. Yet their convictions to stay in the house were severely swayed when a neighbor found an eight to 12 inch knife in the yard between the two houses. This discovery was enough to convince Slamkowski and a couple of the others to move.
But Trzeciak was still hesitant to leave the house. That is, he said, until he was later confronted by a man while sitting on his front porch. He had been sitting in the shadows observing the situation before him, especially in the government-funded housing projects across the street. A man, who Trzeciak said he believed to be intoxicated, approached him, and at first neither man said anything.
“All of a sudden this guy comes up to me, and 1 said nothing to him or he to me. He, all of a sudden stopped and said to me, ‘You’re prejudiced! You’re prejudiced!’ All I could do was run in my house and lock the door. That’s no way to live.”
After the incident, the landlord allowed
the former Alumni Hall residents to break their lease, and they moved to the Turtle Creek apartment complex, where they say there have been fewer problems. They all agree that they “got off easy” since they realize that someone could have easily been more seriously hurt, even killed.
Yet the recent increase in crime has not ignored the Turtle Creek complex. Although Trzeciak and his housemates were not aware of any problems, another resident, who prefers not to have his name published, reported problems with theft over the summer. He said there were nine break-ins in the month of June, mostly involving car stereos due to poor lighting in the parking area. But the situation improved some when new lights were installed, although right before school started, the source said he had his storage space burglarized. In this theft, he and his roommate lost their stereo and ‘ television, among other things.
The incidents on Notre Dame Avenue and at Turtle Creek are merely a few among several recent crimes involving students. In the past few years, students at Notre Dame have noticed the changes. The men from
Notre Dame Avenue, who are all seniors, remember their freshman year, when they felt secure walking back to campus from as far away as St. Louis Street with only one companion.
A junior, who wishes to remain anonymous, felt safe last spring walking from the Commons to Club 23 — two popular bars among the student body — with just a couple of friends. “But now,” she said, “I am even nervous when coming outof the bar alone to go to my car. I’m terrified of walking back to my dorm from the parking lot, even when I am with others. You never know what could be waiting for us.”
Students are sometimes unaware of the animosity felt by some underprivileged youths in South Bend, often called “Benders” or “Townies,” toward Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College students. Even if students have heard the stories about problems, they fail to believe them or simply brush the warnings off. Because so much of students’ lives revolve around the campus, some fail to realize that there is more to South Bend, Indiana than the University of Notre Dame.
A junior in Flanner Hall reported, “When I was a freshman, I took the bus to the mall with a friend who was a sophomore. I had been told by a number of people to be careful of the kids from South Bend, but I didn’t really understand why. Well, we were about halfway there when a group of six guys came down the aisle directly toward us (we were in the back) and sat facing us. They just kept looking at us, commenting on us being Notre Dame students and laughing. We got off at the next stop and walked.”
While most of the disturbances so far have occurred off-campus or on the periphery, after dark the campus itself is also subjected to violence, especially due to its easy access for pedestrians. Therefore, in order to prevent criminal activity on and off campus, the Office of Student Affairs and Notre Dame Security have published a poster of safety concerns.
This poster has been posted throughout campus, and it explains what the University is doing to protect the student as well as how the student can protect him or hersel f. To a id in the prevention of further violent crime, Campus Security says it has stepped up patrols, providing 24 hour protection. Between 8 p.m. and 2 a.m., students arc
8
SCHOLASTIC
The murder of Damon L. Comer occurred at the corner of Colfax and LaPorte streets.
encouraged to utilize the SafeWalk Escort Program, where a student may call and request an escort from or to anyplace on campus by a student volunteer. After 2 a.m., SafeWalk is unavailable for an escort, but Security will provide an escort in the hope of preventing students from walking alone at night. Security says it has also added an additional campus car to patrol the perimeter of campus to look for pedestrian students between 8 p.m. and 4 a.m..
Furthermore, 18 emergency call boxes have been installed around the edges of the campus and along the route to St. Mary’s College. These boxes are meant for students to report any suspicious activity or any emergency situations. The lighting around campus has also been improved in order to diminish the number of dark areas where attackers could be lurking.
Because of its prime location between Chicago and Detroit, South Bend has had an increase of late in the amount of drug trafficking that occurs within its boundaries. “Crack houses” have become a problem in South Bend, and houses that were once being rented to Notre Dame students arc
now unavailable because they have been rented out by the week or the month rather than for the semester or entire school year. Drug-related arrests also seem to be on the rise. For example, reports the South Bend Tribune, on August 16, two men were arrested when found in possession of weapons, ammunition and drug paraphernalia during a Dayton Street raid. Also, later that month, a raid on a South Bend Avenue apartment turned up crack cocaine along with a semi-automatic weapon.
Just over a year ago, South Bend was shocked by the brutal triple homicide that occurred at the Osco Drugs in the Phoenix Plaza. Shortly before 8:30 a.m., three employees were gunned down by a still unknown assailant. Although a full year has passed since the crime, the city is still affected by it. Stores adjacent to Osco are much more cautious, especially around opening and closing time, and some store patrons have stopped shopping at the plaza altogether.
This past summer, the city also witnessed the murder of 19 year old Damon L. Comer
on August 3. Comer was si tting in his car at the intersection of Colfax and LaPorte streets when he was shot in the head. Michael Ivy, 24, has been charged with Comer’s murder.
Comer’s killing is believed to be somehow connected to a recent drive-by shooting of a six-month-old baby and to a shootout at the . comer of Colfax and Walnut streets. The investigation into the murder has also been targeted as an example of racism in the South Bend police department by a panel discussion on August 19.
This meeting was held at the Martin
Luther King, Jr. Center in order to discuss possible solutions to violence within the city. According to the South Bend Tribune (August 20, 1991), many of the residents arc displeased with the treatment of the black citizens by the police department. They claim that the police harass black youths, especially upon the streets at night.
In defense, LieutenantLynn Coleman, the commander of the Juvenile Aid Bureau, said that inner-city youths would get into less trouble if they stay off the streets, where lawlessness is often a problem. He suggested that they spend their free time in a more “positive environment,” citing public libraries and churches as examples.
Off-campus living gives the student freedom from the University’s rules, yet the recent criminal incidents in South Bend seem to show that there is also a greater risk involved. Social problems like crime and drug use mean students will be taking care to protect themselves from incidents like those that occurred this summer on Notre Dame Avenue, atTurtle Creek and in thecity itself.
□
SEPTEMBER 5, 1991
9
NEWS
Outlaw and Warren take charge
Two new appointments by Student Affairs mean changes are coming
By Ian Mitchell
Notre Dame’s new director of minority affairs knows she has a job ahead of
her.
“I feel that for a while it’s going to be a hot seat, and I see the students probably coming in to challengeme to see what I’m all about, and trying to see if I’m trying to follow in Ken [Durgan]’s footsteps,” Iris Outlaw said. “But I am here with my own agenda, and hopefully the students and I can work together to reach some of the goals that they want, as well as working within the administration.”
Outlaw was appointed this summer to fill the vacancy created when Ken Durgans resigned his post. A 1973 graduate of Indiana University, she received her master’s degree in administration from Notre Dame last year. She has worked locally for several community organizations.
While this is her first job in the field of higher education, Outlaw said she feels her experiences have prepared her for the new position. In her community work Outlaw said she spent time “investigating fraud, which meant I had to deal with a lot of conflict. So I have a lot of skill in dealing with conflict relations, remaining unbiased in decisions I have to make.”
Those experiences may come in handy, since the director of minority affairs is a liaison between students and the university administration, two parties that sometimes at odds with each other.
“You have to remember that you are part of the administration, and you do have to be empathetic with the students,” Outlaw said. “You have to understand where they’re coming from, and I do feel that I understand.”
Only a year ago, Outlaw herself was a student at Notre Dame. As graduate student, she said, “1 knew quite a few people who were involved in SUFR.”
While as a grad student she was never asked to join SUFR, she said she was aware of the issues the group raised last spring and followed its progress. Outlaw declined to give her opinion of SUFR’s list of demands, explaining that she didn’t know the exact demands as they are currently presented.
Outlaw said her experiences as both a student and an administrator had taught her the value flexibility as well as giving her the ability to see two sides to an issue. As director of minority student affairs, Outlaw said she would concentrate on goals.
“You’re looking for the final result, essentially, so you may have to change the shape and form a little bit to get the final result, but you have to be willing to work with that.” she said. “And [students] have to learn that they have to within the system, because once they leave the golden walls of Notre Dame, they have to go through the same process.
“You know it’s often interesting, when you’re a student, or on one side of the fence, you only understand your perception of how you ought to deal with something. Well, when you get put on the other side, then you
realize ‘oh, there are some rales to the game ' that you have to abide by.’ So I feel that my position is to show them the rules of the game, and help them work within that system to get that final result.”
Outlaw stresses working “within the sys- ; tern,” but she adds “I am not a £yes-man,’ I ■ was not hired to be a yes-person.”	j
Hired after Outlaw was Maria Fuentes, i assistant director. The two new administra- i tors bring a new plans with them that sur- । prise some, Outlaw said.
“I’ve been getting statements like ‘These are things that students have wanted to do all along,’ but the students who were in power previously may [have had] tunnel vision, and these students now are not, they’re looking at the whole big picture,” she said.
While her office deals mainly with minor- ' I
ity students, Outlaw said her activities should not threaten white students. “It*s not like we’re trying to single out students of color, what we’re saying is that they should be able to work within the system, yet be able to keep their uniqueness. And they ought to be respected for their uniqueness, and I think that calls for awareness on the majority’s part, and that’s so that the majority does not feel threatened.”
A second new appointee was also recently named by the office of student affairs. Kevin Warren has been named as the second assistant vice president for student affairs, a new position which will oversee the minority affairs office, the alcohol and drug education office and relations with off-campus students.
A 1990 graduate of Notre Dame’s law school, Warren stressed his openness to student concerns: “I am an approachable administrator,” he said. Warren will also be serving a faculty member of Notre Dame’s law school, his first academic appointment. His fiancee, Greta Spears, is a graduate student at Notre Dame.
Warren said his position will not create new bureaucracy, but will allow closer supervision by the assistant vice presidents. “It will allow us a more preventative-type administration, so things like the SUFR movement last year will hopefully be dealt with at this level,” he said.
So far, Warren said, “I’ve had a very positive reaction from the students.” □
■Bt Former director of minority affairs | says he w	SUFR's rise
B'.’ '.	J. ■ 7'	*7 B 7?
7 77'7 /By Ian Mitchell 7 77 -'MM:' '
■Last.spring, while StudentsUnited For / /Respectprotested for its demands, Ken. • fDwgahs was Notre Dame’s director of 7mmprity
7 This summer; Durgans resigned his i • -position at the universiiy. .7 7 \ :: ; ■. : 7? In'an interview with Scholastic, the '•
'former adrninistratorsaid that the deck	.	FsoPh«o
sion was not made entirely freely. The . 'was going to be there for the students,” he .
7 diversity y administration,-;^
flamed him for the rise of SUFR.	new director bf minority affairs, Iris Out-
;Diirganssaid that hewas pressured lb law. 7	' 7	■ '	;:7
/resign “basically because of events of?Although he said he has been in contact last year. 4 was basically held respon- with “many” students since leaving Notre'; . siblb: for that?’.	Diirgans said he. did not want his- ;
/given an ultimatum to ‘‘resign or else.’’	resignation to become an issue, saying that .
'/■tNiJurgahssaid he thought the decision such personalization would be‘‘tacky?’ : ;
: was made by Dr. Patricia O’Hara, vice: . “I have great faith in. the.studenta there,” .' / president of student affairs, because, he ? Durgans said, “and I think if they think ; said,/she was. “blaming the office for : they heed	to fight, then they,
whatwenton withSUFRand though tshc will?’. 7	.	-: •	:
could control the students better if I 7 Durgans reiterated that he was not in-
-“ wasn’t, there. That was what she went; - volved with SUFR:: “I had nothing, to do : for,” he said, adding that he was only; with it; planning; implementation,no '
Conjecturing as tb.O’Hara’s motivati	7 warning, nothing like that,” he said. : 7
7> / O’Hara was put of town this week and	Lookingloward thefuture of admini-
couldnot bercached for comment. Vice strationrmiriority student relations, Dur-. : president of student affairs Kevin War-. • • gans predicted, the conflict between, the. . ; ren, whonow oversees theminority af- twosideswould continue. '7 . ?7 77.;; J Taii^ bffice. said Ke wa	“I don’t think it’s over until there’s more
■ sity when the resignation took place and done,” he said. “If there arc ahy changes /referred questions about it to O’Hara. In
^cle published last week; di4 d^^^^ y O’i^siy(pli&-Durans;
i reisigparion 'dp /connection
7.foffice’js'restfpc.tunng?7;;;:	7;;.wo^k in,h^^
,7;7 Durgans saidthat;hewas:ndtablcto?currehtlycih theprocessbfHnishingihis .disetisssom	hisriesignation/dw^
7d^	Wanted: to sity./Healso^m^^
/7s^y;apqtherye^^nd.i’m:pdtdiere?.’he.^
/y.^.yHtis myTeeiing thatB'ey'were joking :;/<:?4jdb'lmoW
y fbrison^c tb. 6eimpr£^^	y.’t^th'e stddcn.tsX^^
7:[irffi&?|.ii^?goinj7yith sprrirane wrioysaidf B
SEPTEMBERS, 1991
11
11 day c a 1 e n d a1 r
Make sure your event gets listed -- send information (including date, time, and cost) to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Departments Assistant, Kim Cenedella at 239-7569.
Sunday	Monday Tuesday Wednesday
September 8 Sophomores: Trip to the Dunes	September 9 Films: "Our Hospitality," 7 p.m. "Sherlock, Jr." 9 p.m. Snite, $2.	September 10 Films: "The Bicycle Thief," 7 p.m. "Psycho," 9 p.m. Snite, $2.	September 11 Lecture: "Lost Dogs and the Laboratory: The politics of Animal Experimentation in 20th Century America," 7:30 p.m., rm 118 Nieuwland.
September 15 Masses: Sesquincentennial Mass, J ACC, 4 p.m. and Opening for the School Year Mass, Sacred Heart Church. Picnic Dinner.	For More Information Call: On Campus	Touch Four	1 LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128	Call 239-2500, then: Student Union Board: 239-7757	ext. 2101 for movie! Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361	ext. 2114 for the mu: News Line (summary of campus events): 239-5110 ext. 2112 for concert JACC Ticket Information: 239-7354	ext. 2117 for theatre Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD	ext. 2525 for a list ol Senior Class: 239-5136 Junior Class: 239-5117 Sophomore Class: 239-5225		
fhursday Friday	Saturday
September 5 Movie: “Die Hard,” Cushing Aud., 8 and 10:15 p.m., $2. Seniors: Golf Tournament
f
!
September 6
Movie: “The Doors,” Cushing Aud., 8 and 10:15 p.m., $2.
Film: “Edward Scissorhands,” 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Pep Rally: JACC, 7 p.m.
September 7 Home Game (vs. Indiana) Movie: “The Doors,” Cushing Aud., 8 and 10:15 p.m., $2. Film: “Edward Scissorhands,” 7:30 and 9:45 p.m., Snite,
 $2. 
Note: Contrary to the Daily Shillelagh and last week's calendar, there is no ventriloquist scheduled for Washington Hall this week.
September 12
Pop Pianist: Ariel, 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $8.
Movie: "The Lost Boys," 8 and 10:15 p.m. Cushing Aud., $2.
Lecture: Photographer-Laurie Simmons, 7:30 p.m., Snite.
Music: "The Drovers," Theodore's, 7:30 p.m., $5 advance, $6 door. .
September 13 Pop Pianist: Ariel, 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $8.
Film: "Silence of the Lambs," 7:15 and 9:45 p.m., The Snite, S2. Movie: "Mortal Thoughts," 8 and 10:15 p.m., Cushing Aud., $2
September 14
Film: "Silence of the Lambs," 7:15 and 9:45 p.m., The Snite, $2.
Movie: "Mortal
Thoughts," 8 and 10:15 p.m., Cushing Aud., $2.
Picks of the Week:
The first home game against Indiana is bound to be exciting. The Notre Dame football team always knows how to impress.
Also, check out Ariel, a talented Russian Pops Pianist who includes native stories in his contemporary pieces.
press:
information
sic line
• information information
■ college events
Movie Theatres
100 Center Cinema I & II: 259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
Pull out and save this page!
SPORTS
Aaother
Although the 1991 Notre Dame football team is young, they are ready to
put their own page into the storied annals of Irish football
Paul Webb
Will Irish fans everywhere be rejoicing again this season? In 1990, the Notre Dame faithful celebrated several big wins, such as the 29-20 victory over the hated Miami Hurricanes.
By J. Bradley Keck
In less than two days, the pigskin will fly at Notre Dame Stadium. As the football team takes the field against the University of Indiana, millions will watch NBC and join with the 59,075 fans inside to celebrateone of the greatest traditions this 150-year old university has to offer— Irish football.
It will be an exciting day. A Notre Dame I home opener brings the school together like nothing else can. Everyone from the freshman who has never attended a game, to the alum who has not missed one since 1950, can | feel magic in the air. Many will feel chills as | the Irish Guard and the band burst from the : north endzone. The stadium will be abuzz with excitement as the blue-clad Fighting i Irish storm the field.
14
But will the Irish faithful still be this happy come January 1 ?
Coach Lou Holtz has built another strong team. Opponents will be wary of the Blue and Gold. Even after heavy losses of personnel since the close of the 1990 season, Notre Dame is ready to compete as national contenders. The coaching staff has found solid players to fill the gaps left around the remaining vets.
“We’ve awakened the the last three years on January 1 with a chance for the national championship,” says Holtz in the 1991 media guide. “Are we going to be that good again? The chances are against us. But this football will create an identity and it will due to the leadership of the seniors.
The seniors, without doubt, have played the best football of their careers so far. This is probably the most inexperienced team we’ve had. But I expect this to be a very, very solid football team.”
On the offensive side of the ball the Irish are ready and able to pound opponents with a hard rushing attack. The Irish have equal strength of personnel in the receiver positions. This combination, lacking for thepast few years, should allow the Blue and Gold troops tocuidown field both in the air and on land.
Junior quarterback Rick Mirer has plenty of targets to look for this year and the trained eye to find them. Split end Tony Smith is a speedy, sure-handed player with plenty of
SCHOLASTIC
M'r-w
experience. Along with sophomore Lake Dawson, who had some tremendous fall practices, the Irish will be looking deep more often this year.
But perhaps Mirer’s most inviting target will be pre-season All-American Derek Brown. He is the anchor of the Irish receiving corps. At 6’7”, 250 lbs, this senior will not only be a favorite receiver of M irer, but also a huge asset for the rushing game. Brown’s blocking ability is just as impressive as his talents catching the ball.
Behind a strong offensive line, the back-field isprimed for a successful season. Their success will depend upon continuing the ball-control style the Irish have been refining since the dawn of the Holtz era. The first step will be to control the opposing defense. This job comes down to five big guys, quick tackle Lindsay Knapp, quick guard Aaron Taylor, center Gene McGuire, tight guard Mirko Jurkovic and tight tackle Justin Hall. They all have the size and heart needed to open the running game. Jurkovic and McGuire are two of the finesllinemen in the nation. The line will be the key to Holtz’s attack.
The talent in the backfield is overflowing. Team captain Rodney Culver, who led the team last year in rushing last year with 725 yards from the fullback position, is
Number 86 Derek Brown, shown here clearing the lane for an Irish runner, will be looked to for big blocks and big catches.
Paul Webb
poised to better his marks from the tailback slot. Culver is excited about his new position and hopes that his explosive 4.38 speed will lead to a very big year. Willie Clark, Reggie Brooks and another career 1,000 yard gainer, Tony Brooks, will also see time at tailback.
The fullbacks are almost as skilled. Sophomore Jerome Bettis will shoulder most of the burden. Bettis averaged 7.7 yards per carry as a freshman and has continued to run over his teammates throughout spring and fall drills. Bettis has the power and size (247 pounds) to push the Irish past many tough third-and-short situations. But look for fifth-year senior Ryan Mihalko and
T. Brooks to also gain some serious yards from the powerback spot.
On the defensive . side of the ball the Irish have 23 lettermen re-. turning. But that large number is deceptive: of the ten lettermen lost, six were full time starters. Two of those players are Notre Dame legends, Chris Zorich and Todd
Paul Webb
Junior Rick Mirer will pilot a gifted Notre Dame offense.
Lyght. Added to these is the unfortunate loss of fifth-year defensive tackle George Williams to disciplinary problems.
The Irish, however, are a tough bunch and will bounce back. The defensive backs return starters at both the strong safety and field cornerback positions. Senior Rod Smith plays that cornerback spot and should continue the blanket coverage he demonstrated last year at the boundary comer. Hard-hitting Greg Davis is reluming to the strong safety position. He is the top returning Irish tacklerand ranked number one last year in defensive minutes played.
Added to these seniors arc an unheralded
SEPTEMBER 5,1991
15
class of sophomore D-backs. Jeff Burris is slotted at free safety. He will be backed up by John Covington. The other comer will be. held down by Tom Carter and Greg Lane. They have both looked solid for the entire fall. LeShane Saddler will also get a second look. After switching positions this summer, Saddler is now doing a good job backing up Davis at the strong safety.
The linebackers will be tested this season. Demetrius DuBose and Devon McDonald bring a lot of experience to the Irish second line of defense. DuBose will be calling the defensive signals for the B lue and Gold, and should be a team leader in tackles. This talented junior holds the strong side or “eagle back” position. McDonald, a senior, is going to be tough at the outside linebacker spot. Middle linebacker looks to be shared by Jim Flanigan and Brian Ratigan. The other outside line backer position is not yet nailed down but look for Anthony Peterson, Karmeeleyah McGill and Nick Smith to contribute.
The defensive line is where the question marks start popping up. It is not that the Irish
do not have the personnel, it is just that almost all the players in contention have almost no experience at their positions. Eric Jones is the lone exception and should start at right tackle. At noseguard, Junior Bryant tops the depth chart. Bryant Young should see time at the left tackle. These men are untested but they have both been reserves
Junior Craig Hentrich, shown here drilling a field goal against Air Force, will once again handle all the kicking duties for Notre Dame.	Paul Webb
Katey Charles
Devon McDonald will provide relentless pressure on opposing quarterbacks from his linebacker position.
hungry to step into startingroles. Hopefully, they can focus this desire and crush their opponents.
Finally, Notre Dame’s special teams have been always been among the best in the country under Holtz. This year will be no exception. Since Holtz’s second year in 1987, the Irish have returned 20 kicks and
interceptions for touchdowns. Irish opponents in that same time have relumed exactly ... none. Even with the lossof the “Rocket,” Raghib Ismail, this trend should continue.
The Irish also have Craig Hentrich, a sure All-American at kicker. Hentrich handles all kicks for the Irish. He combines the rare ability to both punt and placckick with power and precision. His punt average of 45 yards put him among the national leaders in 1990. Last year he hit a perfect 41 of 41 PAT’s, along with 24 field goals.
“I think Craig is one of the truly outstanding kickers I’ve ever been associated with, and I’ve had several who went on the pros,” says Holtz. “He’s an excellent competitor and a good athlete. If there’s ever been a pro prospect, he’s it.”
In this season like so many others the Irish are being questioned. Holtz and his squad know the only real way to respond will be on the field. The team this year feels that they are part of something special, no matter what the polls say. On Saturday, they will make their first statement against Indiana. The words will be clear: “Weare ND.”
So, as the game starts, keep in mind the victory march. Just because the preseason poll says that the Irish are seventh in the nation does not mean that the fans will not be playing that tunc 13 times this season. □
16
SCHOLASTIC
SPORTS
The Hoosiers come north to challenge Notre Dame for football bragging

rights in the state of Indiana
Indiana coach Bill Mallory has led the Hoosiers to a 37-31-2 mark and four bowl game appearances In the last six seasons.
Notre Dame Stadium for what, to the Fighting Irish football team, will be the first game of a long season.
For Hoosiers everywhere, however, that game looms as perhaps the largest game on their state university's schedule, the Big Ten slate notwithstanding.
While Bobby Knight has always had a stranglehold on the state's basketball spotlight, Notre Dame, a school whose student body is international and is composed of football nuts from all the fifty states, has always held the stage when it came to football.
Now, those Hoosiers finally have a chance to beat the Irish on their own turf, and the Irish better be ready for a fired up football team. These two teams have not played since 1958, so the Hoosiers will not be in awe of Notre Dame due to past beatings. This team has no history with Notre Dame, and the fact that the Irish have dom inated the state rivalry 22-5-1 will be irrelevant on Saturday.
Indiana will take the field under the direction of Bill Mallory who enters 1991 as
the coach for the Hoosiers for the eighth season. After a dismal 0-11 first effort, Mallory has since churned out four bowl teams in the last six seasons, including an appearance in the Peach Bowl in 1990.
He will be working with a dangerous offense led by preseason All-Big Ten running back Vaughn Dunbar. Last year, Dunbar stepped into the big shoes left by All-American Anthony Thompson and performed better than could have been expected. He ran up 1,224 yards and 13 touchdowns on the ground for the Hoosiers and is expected to make some loud noise this season in the Big Ten. With the Notre Dame front seven decimated as it is by graduation and other problems, Dunbar could cause the Irish some very bad headaches if the Indiana line gains control of the line of scrimmage in the early going.
Dunbar will be joined in the backfield by quarterback Trent Green. Green tossed for almost a thousand yards and four touch
downs in 1990 and also rushed for six touchdowns. Left unchecked, Green could compliment Dunbar well and cause some problems for the defense.
On the defensive side of the ball, 1990 second team All-Big Ten linebacker Mark Hagen will be hunting the Irish runners down. A ballhawk who led the Hoosiers in tackles with 120 and tied for the team lead in interceptions with three, Hagen will deserve special consideration when the offensive coaches draw up their gameplan. ’
Indiana is a notoriusly fast starter. In 1990, it won the first four games and tied Ohio State in the fifth, making therestof the Big Ten sit up and take notice of the upstart Indiana boys. But they quickly fizzled out to finish at 6-5-1.
That quick start cannot be ignored, however. Their early season fire, coupled with all the hype Hoosiers everywhere have been pouring on since the summer, will make them a tough opponent on Saturday. □
SEPTEMBERS, 1991
SPORTS
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
A Tradition of Excellence
1929 National
Coach: Knute Rockne.
Captain: Frank Coughlin.
Notes: The Irish again finished in a tie for the top spot with the University of California, which closed out their season at 9-0, and Princeton, which ended up 6-0-1 .. . This was Rockne's second national title in a row and second of six such titles his Notre Dame teams would earn... This outstanding team boasted two All-Americans in halfback George Gipp and end Roger Kiley . . . The Gipper earned All-American honors despite missing the last game of the season due to strep throat, the affliction which led to his untimely death on December 14 ... Gipp had the best yearofhis career in 1920, leading the Irish with 827 yards rushing and eight touchdowns... While the Irish were winning on the field, the Dome was regilded for the first time.
October 2	W	Kalamazoo	39-0	H	5,000
October 9	W	Western Michigan	42-0	H	3,500	i
October 16	W	Nebraska	16-7	A	9,000	’
October 23	W	Valparaiso	28-3	H	8,000
October 30	W	Army	27-17	A	10,000	:
November 6	W	Purdue	28-0	H	12,000	'
November 13 W		Indiana	13-10	N	14,000	■
November 20 W		Northwestern	33-7	A	20,000
November 25 W		Michigan State	25-0	A	8,000
9-0-0
SCHOLASTIC
Hold a piece of tape up to your eyes dim the lights and try to fill out your taxes.
Now you’re seeing things from her point of view.
Almost everybody has to file taxes, but not everyone can do it on their own. Volunteer and help make someone’s taxes less taxing. Call 1800 829-1040.
A Public Service of This Publication &
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE CAMPAIGN NEWSPAPER AD NO. IRS-91-1761—2 COL. x 2
Volunteer Agency: McCann-Erickson
18
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
Tyson’s Back!
(Just Kidding)
This Way to the Cemetery
Sometimes we all feel like we're on a dead campus. But how would you like to feel like that on your first day there? Freshmen arriving for orientation at Miami University of Ohio may have been shocked to notice a sign stating "Cemetery Entrance" on the samepole as the sign for Freshman Orientation reports The Chronicle of Higher Education. A similar occurrence has happened several times here at Notre Dame with the Cemetery being mislabeled as South Dining Hall, Cushing Hall, and, most frequently, Fisher Hall.
Dave Tyson... *91
In the "where are they now?" category, Scholastic takes a look at Father David Tyson, C.S.C. Former VP of Student Affairs at ND, he's now president of the University of Portland. In a front-page article headlined "President Tyson shows off personal side,” the UP student newspaper, The Beacon, reported in April 1991: "The president [that’s Tyson, folks], admitted to the ASUP executive board that he once owned a pet rock and prefers not to wear a coat and tie. He is tan, young and athletic looking. ASUP Secretary Beth McCanna said, "He's got a real smiley face. He’s always smiling.’" Back on planet Earth, the article concludes with a quote from our own Father Theodore Hesburgh: "He’s very pleasant, but don’t let him fool you, he can be tough."
Plato or Play-Dough? Tough Decisions
at Miami
Attend College Without Going to Class
A service that sells class notes to students may help many Kansas University students to skip all the classes they want according to the Daily Kansan. Jon’s Notes, a note-taking service based in Lincoln, Neb. charges $23.50 for a semester’s notes or $1.50 per lecture. Professional note-takers attend the classes and provide the notes two days after the lecture. One university official fantasized that the students would learn to take better notes by taking their own and then correcting them with the others. It could happen.
Students (?) at the University of Miami were urged in a recent issue of the Hurricane not to overwork themselves and to take it easy. "Don't try to do everything right away. Pace yourself' the editorial suggested. To top it off, the stressed-out Miamians wrote the headline "Academics vs. Activities: Students must find a balance." At a place like Miami, aren't these basically the same thing? □
Edited by Michael Owen
SEPTEMBERS, 1991
19
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION
Forcefully Moved to Pg. 20
Mr. Manners is relegated to the end
I Dear Readers:
I
i Mr. Manners has lived through the Welcome Back Week from hell.
; First, I am now located in the oh-so-popular end of the magazine I	(right next to the schedule of activities for Theodore’s and SUB).
j	Do notbe fooled. This is a ploy by the helm of this magazine in order
j to have you read (or at least flip through) the other sections and end up with this column - the most popular section in the magazine.
'	We’re being stream-lined to become more “journalistic." I often
i	mistake this magazine for The Atlantic Monthly don’t you? My
; suggestion is to now flip the magazine oyer and read backwards.
Here’s the real kicker. We (they-not me) paid some group to [ critique our magazine’s format, style, writing, etc. Wedidn’tdotoo -	badly, but the group’s chiefrecommendation was to eliminate yours
t'	truly and I quote, “Dear Mr. Manners does not seem to be appropri-
i’	ate material for a college publication. When I first looked at
* . Scholastic, the Behavior Modification pages made want to not look i any further.” I’m guessing she’s either in her mid-90's or is looking for the ultimate white-bread, boring, ra-ra magazine. Sorry, honey.
> Yes, I have considered terminating my position but that would not :	be fair to you, the reader. There are not too many other places one
can receive the feeling of intoxicating delight for free. Besides the - money’s good and the perks are huge. So on with my crusade.
; Dear Mr. Manners:
What’s your first name? I feel your column is too impersonal without your readers knowing your first name. Thank you for your help in this matter.
Most sincerely in Notre Dame,
Mary Elizabeth Margaret Mary Patricia St. Joan Kathleen Mary Ann Christine Mary O’Domer (My friends call me Dottie) Dillon Senior
; Dear Mary Elizabeth Margaret Mary Patricia St. Joan Kathleen-Maiy Ann Christine Mary:
!	If you must know, my first name is Nunov (from the Greco-Slavic
। derivation) as in “Nunov your *#$%@!& business what my first
name is.” If you can’t call me Mr., don’t call me at all.
Secondly, are you Irish-Catholic by any wild chance? Do you really live in Dillon? How is this possible?
Dear Mr. Manners:
I love coming to this school but their are a few things that just get me ticked. One of them would be O’Shaugnessy Hall in August and early September. Or should I say O^SaunassyV. You see, I have overactive glands. I tend to sweat and smell quite a bit in hot enclosed areas. That place is like an oven.
This past week was my worst nightmare. Four of my classes are in the Sauna. So of course it was like 210 degrees every day, the prof would close the door due to stupid people ranting about their meaningless summers, and the odor would permeate. Eventually the whole class left except for my professor. What do I do about this bodily affliction?
Sincerely, B.O.
Flanner Hall
Dear B.O.:
I was in that class with you. You really do reek pretty badly. Ever thought of going to a doctor to get rid of that affliction? If that’s too easy for you, you can always change your classes to the Library and Security buildings. However, I have a feeling that you sweat and stink all year, so this may not help. Just don’ go to class. □
Mr. Manners accepts letters from most non-annoying members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Family. (Can you imagine considering yourself related to some of these people?) Anyway, if you dump on my new location in the magazine, you'll increase your chances of being published. Just send your problems to:
Mr. Manners, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail
20
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Idiots Abroad
Zen and the Art of Budget Travel
i
I’ve heard a lot of talk about the surfer’s perspective on life from movies, music, and the occasional conversation with someone who has actually experienced surfing first hand. There’s something mystical about their rapport with the ocean, and it reflects itself in the way they live. It seems like these people are totally independent of the rest of the world, living only to get out and fend for themselves among the violence of the waves.
Their life’s philosophy is to seek the “ultimate wave/' the ultimate buzz, which to most people sounds stupid and self-indulgent, but really reflects two much more deep-seated beliefs. The first is self-reliance in the face of uncertainty. “All there is is you, your board, and the wave, man. Just you against the ocean.” The second is a kind of mystical understanding that comes from having conquered adversity singlehandedly. I don’t know if I can really explain this or not. If it’s not readily apparent, you probably haven’t ever experienced it. I can suggest things that might explain it better (try listening to “Ocean Size” by Jane’s Addiction, written by Perry Farrell, a surfer), but I don’t know if anything can get the full point across.
I don’t know that I fully understand the surfer’s philosophy, either, but I’ve had sim i 1 ar experiences. Much of my spare time this summer was spent speeding along the Mississippi in a Waverunner, which doesn’t have quite the same natural buzz as surfing, but being alone except for the Great Blue Herons in a completely deserted stretch of river is definitely a semi-mystical experience. My “board” happens to be motorized and the river is usually (but by no means always) gentler than the ocean, but I’d say the experience is similar.
There’s a thrill that comes from the danger of what you’re doing, then realizing that
you’ve survived and been in control of the elements. It doesn’t necessarily have to be surfing that gives you this feeling, either. Robert Pirsig came up with another approximation in Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance. The point is that some kinds of buzz-seeking produce a unique frame of mind that broadens understanding (that’s the Zen in “Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance”).
I know you’re thinking now, “What’s the point of all this?” so I’ll try to get to it. What I’m trying to get at is a comparison of what I’m getting into with a year of study abroad with this kind of “surf zen.”
I’m heading into a completely unknown, unpredictable situation, and trying to learn
something from it I’m ready to travel Europe on my own because of a combination of youthful stupidi ty and a desire to learn something. I’m seeking abuzz, in a cultural sense, from trying to take on an unknown continent on my own. Just me and a backpack full of necessities. What I hope will happen is that I’ll develop a “train zen” ora “backpack zen” and get the same kind of enlightenment from
travelling Europe on my own that surfers and bikers get from taking on the ocean or the highway.
For now, though, I’m stuck with the far more mundane chore of trying to fit a year’s necessities into two suitcases and a carry-on bag. So far, everyone has said to pack sparingly and then throw half of that out. It looks like I have enough room for everything that needs to be going along. I’m not going to worry about it, though. Whatever I forget, I can buy later. Plus, if I forgot it in the first place, it’s probably not that staggeringly important anyway. Apart from clothes and music (which to me is equally or more important than food), there’s really not that much else. Camera stuff, cosmetics, and the like are all nice, but in the big scheme of things, they don’t really matter that much.
What matters is that I get there and start going after that buzz right away. I’m seeing this whole trip the same way a surfcr secs playing hookey from work to go hit the waves — what makes me happy is what’s really important in thelongrun. If I’m a few dollarsshort,or forgottobringmy hairdryer, so what? I wasn’t put on this earth for the express purpose of having enough clean clothes and having dry hair all the time. I’m not what I own, or what I did or didn’t bring with me. I’m here to live, man. I came here to find that wave and ride it. And that’s why I’m leaving the comfort of having a secure life on a little northern Indiana campus for the “buzz” of being in Europe on my own. Like I said, if you haven’t done it, you don’t know what you’re missing.	□
By Dave Holsinger
Dave Holsinger is Scholastic's "Editor in Exile" for the 1991-1992 schoolyear. Dave is studying in Innsbruck, Austria lie would probably be a surfer if he had e ver U ved near an ocean.
SEPTEMBERS, 1991
21
1 842-1 992;
Uriiyercityoi ■
By Amanda Clinton
“The Seniors thinking that by a more careful selection of their players they would have no difficulty in defeating the Juniors, challenged them to a second game of foot-ball on the 10th. A new football was bought for the occasion, each party paying half the cost of the ball, which was to go to the winning side. At 4 o’clock the contest began, and a more exciting game was never played at Notre Dame. From the long and hard-fought struggle of the Juniors, it was easily seen that the captain of the Seniors had made a good selection of kickers. The Juniors, however, drove the ball within the goal and won the game, the odds against the Seniors being too great. A difference of rules in deciding the game of football in the Senior and Junior Departments led to a misunderstanding, but as the game was played in the Juniors’ yard, it was decided according to the Juniors’ rules.”
Scholastic
November 17,1877
It is very difficult today to imagine Notre Dame without football. However, it was not until 1887 that the first team was assembled. And their meager season consisted of one game against Michigan, which they lost. Although Notre Dame did establish more challenging schedules and won a majority of their games over the next few decades, it took 26 years before Notre Dame jumped into the national spotlight.
It was November 1,1913. Notre Dame was known across the Midwest as a strong team. Yet, when the Irish trekked to West Point in upperstate New York to face a confident Army football team, considered by many to be a national powerhouse, many figured Notre Dame had traveled a long way to lose a game. However, Army was in for a surprise.
The Irish showed a potent attack by passing the ball not only in desperation, which so many teams were familiar with at
ANNIVERSARY
Glancing
Back
A quick history lesson in Notre Dame football as the Irish enter their 104th season on the gridiron
the time, but as a standard of play. The result? Coach Jesse Harper’s Fighting Irish pulled the big upset, routing Army 35-13.
“The press and the football public hailed this new game,” said team captain Knute Rockne. “Notre Dame received credit as the
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
‘The Gipper’ was Notre Dame’s first true football superstar.
originator of a style of play that we simply systematized.”
Although the game against Army did give the Irish some well deserved credit, it truly was not until the Rockne coaching era that Notre Dame became synonymous with football.
Rockne changed the game of football both in the Notre Dame community and on the national level. With his guidance, the Irish became the underdogs of the nation, upsetting other teams with a reputation for strength. Rockne revolutionized football on a national level by further developed passing techniques. He also used his background as a chemistry teacher at Notre Dame to redesign the team’s uniforms to cut down on the mass of the equipment, but still provide protection. Other teams saw the success of these changes and soon followed suit.
Knute Rockne brought Notre Dame to national prominence through his excellent
22
SCHOLASTIC
H

coaching abilities. But it wasn’t until the arrival of the legendary George Gipp that the Irish had their first true college football superstar.
Gipp came to Notre Dame with drcams of playing baseball and even planned on playing with the Chicago Cubs after graduation. Gipp was certainly not thinking football when Knute Rockne came across him one day while he was kicking the football 60 or 70 yards with ease with some friends out on the quad. Sensing the young man’s natural athletic ability, the one future legend persuaded the other future legend to come out to the gridiron. The rest is history.
The Gipper became a household name not only for his excellent playing ability but also for his famous talk with Rockne on his death bed at the age of twenty-five.
“I’ve gotto go, Rock. It’s all right. I’m not afraid. Some time, Rock, when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys—tell them to go in there with all they’ve got and win just one for the Gipper. I don’t know where I’ll be then,Rock. Butl’ll know about it and I’ll be happy.”
Rockne relayed this request to his team eight years later in an emotional pregame speech. Notre Dame had lost the first two games of the season and now faced a powerful Army team. After the famous speech, Army should have gone home, for they had no chance against the fired up Irish. That game, on November 10, 1928, will forever be remembered and Rockne’s speech, the “Win One for the Gipper” speech, will forever be imitated as one of the most truly inspiring pep talks in history.
Where the Gipper’s untimely death left off, the “Four Horsemen of Notre Dame” picked up. In the October 19, 1924, New York-Herald Tribune, the legendary poetic sportswriter Grantland Rice coined this phrase to describe the Irish offensive backfield of Jim Crowley, Elmer Layden, Don Miller and Harry Stuhldreher:
“Outlined against a blue, gray October sky the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction and death. These are only aliases. Their
SEPTEMBER 5, 1991
real names are Stuhldreher, Miller Crowley and Layden. They formed the crest of the South Bend cyclone before which another fighting Army team was swept over the precipice at the Polo Grounds this afternoon as 55,000 spectators peered down upon the bewildering panorama spread out upon the green plain below.”
These four men formed the best backfield in the nation from 1922-1924, compiling 5,188 yards rushing between them and 66 touchdowns. All four players were later inducted into the National Football Foundation Hall of Fame.
Ever since those first ground breaking days, Notre Dame has continued to be considered a national powerhouse because of the consistently strong teams turned out year after year. Notre Dame converted Americans across the country into avid fans because of the electrifying games they played.
Notre Dame and Ohio State, both undefeated, were matched up on November 2,1935 for what was known as “The Game of the Century.” The Buckeyes were heavily favored and once again the Irish came into the game as an underdog. Despite injuries and with the help of a few miracles, the Irish won with a final score of 18-13.
The Associated Press poll began in 1936. Since that time, the Irish have won eight consensus national championships, in 1943, ‘46, ‘47, ‘49, ‘66, ‘73, ‘77, and most
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
The Four Horsemen, (left to right) Miller, Layden, Crowley and Stuhldreher.
recently, in 1988.
Notre Dame has also continued to turnout numerous outstanding football players, seven of which have won the Heisman Trophy—Angelo Bertelli in 1943, John Lujack in ‘47, Leon Hart in ‘49, John Lattner in ‘53, Paul Hornung in ‘56, John Huarte in ‘64 and Tim Brown in ‘87.
Since that November day in 1913, football has-been an essential part of the atmosphere of Notre Dame. The library is known around the country for the mural of Christ, not so much for the beauty but rather for the nickname “Touchdown Jesus.” Other landmarks around campus that have been renamed with football twists are the statue of Moses in front of the library, “We’reNumber One Moses,” and a statue of past president Rev. William Corby that is known as “Fair Catch Corby.”
Father Sorin undoubtedly had no idea what he was creating when he first set fool in the wilderness that is today theUni versity of Notre Dame. Over the past 150 years Notre Dame has flourished into one of the top universities in the country, a vision which Father Sorin most likely dreamt of on those cold windswept nights by St. Mary’s lake. However, Notre Dame is not only known for the education given to its students but also for the tradition of football.
It is difficult to imagine what times were like when Notre Dame was first established. More difficult is the idea of not having football and athletic excellence as a part of life under the Golden Dome.	□
23
FINAL WORD
Students vs. Police?
Six Off-Campus Students Share Their Security Concerns
On the night of August 23, we got very lucky. This time it was only a cut on the chin, but next time, according to the emergency room physician, “it will be a bullet in the head.”
When we had our first party of the year at our house on Notre Dame Avenue, we knew that you had to be careful considering the history of crime in the area, and the fact that N.D. apartments had been converted to government-subsidized housing projects. We did not expect, however, to be attacked by a gang in our own living room. We did not expect to see this gang beat up our friends as they tried to escape to their cars. We d id not expect to find a deadly weapon in the grass where the brawls took place. Most surprisingly, we did not expect our plea for help to be completely ignored by the South Bend police.
Although one of our housemates was sent to the emergency room after being punched in the chin, we feel that we got relatively lucky, considering the far greater injuries which could easily have been inflicted.
The off-campus crime problem, which has been getting steadily worse over the last three years, has escalated over this past sum mer to the point where students are now not even safe within their own homes.
The scariest part of this story is that students may be completely on their own. South Bend police have proven in our experiences to be completely apathetic towards the safety of Notre Dame students. In fact, an emergency room employee indicated to us, that night, that a South Bend police officer bragged about how he arrested his first N.D. student of the year. It seems as though students are now no more than targets, notches in the belts, of the police. Therefore, off-campus students are left
24
This house on Notre Dame Avenue, rented by the authors, was the scene of gang violence late last month.
helpless, due not only to the would-be attackers, but also to the general lack of protection by the South Bend police department.
Without seeing these off-campus incidents with our own eyes, we never would have believed the true severity of the situation. But, the fact of the matter is, if we students are not more careful in the neighborhood surrounding Notre Dame, at least one of us will be seriously injured or killed before this year comes to an end.
The responsibilities for insuring safety should not rest solely on the shoulders of the students. We understand how difficult it would be fortheuniversity to protectstudent
housing areas, but considering our present relations with theSouth Bend police, and the severity of the crime situation, off-campus students mustbeable to call upon theuniver-sity for some kind of help. Considering Notre Dame’s great influence on the city of South Bend, we believe that the university must not only address, but also help to remedy the growing problems of off-campus safety before “a bullet in the head” becomes reality.
by Steve Trezciak, Aneel Chablani, Tim Farley, Pete Slamkowski, David Mercurio and Paul Szyperski. The six Notre Dame seniors formerly from Alumni Hall, now reside off-campus.	□
SCHOLASTIC
WHRt'S MlBSlNG ON THIS PAGE???
CARTOONISTS WANTED
INTERESTED? COME TO TONIGHT'S MEETING OR CALL 239-7569
ANY AND ALL INTERESTED ARTISTS, WRITERS AND PHOTOGRAPHERS ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND
SCHOLASTIC'S
INFORMATIONAL MEETING
TODAY, SEPT.5, 1991
MONTGOMERY THEATRE 1ST FLOOR, LA FORTUNE CENTER 7:30 PM
APPLICATIONS WILL ALSO BE AVAILABLE FOR CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR (A PAID POSITION) APPLICATIONS ARE DUE TOMORROW, FRIDAY, SEPT. 6, 1991
THE JUGGLING VARIETY ACT OF:
IPASSHW W®
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 11
WASHINGTON HALL 8:00 PM
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO. DESK-$3
