Diamond Jubilee 1867 -1942
Volume 76
Number 8 August 7, 1942

Notre Dame Men learn how to live; but in time of war they are willing to sacrifice their lives for their country.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	.	. .
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	. ■ ’
Volume 76
AUGUST 7, 1942
Number 8
POPULAR K. C. VAUDEVILLE SET FOR THURSDAY;
HALL PARTIES FURNISH TALENT FOR CASH AWARDS
shawn McDermott
In keeping with the summer cooperation program at Notre Dame, the Knights of Columbus will present the fourth of its revived series of Vaudeville Shows next Thursday, August 13, at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. The show, at which master of ceremonies Dave Curtin will preside, was promoted by Reggie Flynn and will feature the top notch talent of the campus picked from the various hall parties. Prizes of §15, §10 and §5 will be awarded to the lucky winners.
In addition to the regular Vaudeville Show “Veet” Capello and his “Cavaliers” will air their regular Thursday night broadcast produced by Tom Cooney over the campus radio facilities in Washington Hall from 9:30 to 9:45. It is probable that this will initiate a series of weekly performances, held in conjunction with the “Cavaliers” broadcast, which will be open to all students who believe they have talent. These subsequent shows will not, of course, be as elaborate as next Thursday night’s performance and will start about 8:30 with the orchestra’s broadcast beginning one hour later.
Since the revival of the Knights of Columbus Vaudeville in 1940 they have hit the top in student entertainment. It was in that year that magician Jack Whalen, who enlisted in the navy last semester, won first prize. In 1941 top honors were taken by Reggie Flynn and his swing quintet, and last spring, tenor Bill Scully led the contestants.
This summer’s show has been organized as part of the student cooperation program. During the past few weeks the various halls have been Hdlding parties at which local talent was uncovered. It is this talent that will be presented at the Vaudeville Thursday evening.
The performance should equal or even, surpass the great entertainment offered last spring. At that show, filled with promising performers, red headed Bill Scully of New Rochelle, New York, took the grand prize of §25 with his rendition of the “Road to Mandalay.” Bill is one of . the outstanding soloists of the Glee Club
and has been featured in numerous concerts with the band this summer. Second prize of §15 went to the singular mal*-content trio of Dave Curtin, Johnny Kelly, and “Doc” Walsh. Their act, one of
"M.C." Whalen wears Navy white now
the greatest laugh producers ever to hit Washington Hall, paved the way for those who would like to present original ideas in this show. The trio sang a novel ditty, arranged by Dick Hines, which included good-humoured take-offs on the “University at large.” Dillonite Brock Lynch, then a freshman from Breen - Phillips, danced away with the third prize of §10. His impersonation of Paul Draper, a first-rate exhibition of tap dancing, brought him back for several encores.
Along with these three top acts last Spring, there were many others worthy of recognition. Such entertainment is promised again for next week’s program, with many of the old performers back for another crack at the cash awards and the prestige of winning.
Among the entertainers scheduled so
far for the performance are Bob Coleman, trombone, and Jim Bueci, accordion, both from Breen-Phillips; Paul O’Connell, imitations, and Phil Holzberger, piano, from Walsh Hall; from Cavanaugh, the “Flamingoes,” singers, and Ed Dunnigan, trumpet; Joe Hesch, accordion and yodeling, and Brock Lynch, tap dancing, from Dillon. Kevin O’Toole’s quartet will represent Sorin, while eliminations will be held in Alumni to determine who will perform from that hall.
Students Enjoy Supper, Cooperation Day Sports
Last night in the dining hall a special supper was given to the Notre Dame students as one of the features of Co-operation Day.	.
The Menu for the Cooperation Day Supper consisted of fruit cocktail, olives and radishes, filet mignon, creamed potatoes, and com on the cob. The dessert was colored ice cream in the shape of . the United States Shield.
The Cavaliers played during the meal. Walter Jones, president of the Student Council, was master of ceremonies at the short after-supper entertainment. Members of the Glee Club were present and sang several selections.
From the dining hall, the students went to the grotto for evening prayer, -then were lead to the fieldhouse by the I Notre Dame band.
Paul Lillis, captain of last year’s football team, presided as master of ceremonies for the program in the gym. The program included interhall games, comic . presentations, and as a finale a student pep rally.
Each hall was represented by a team of 12 men, chosen by the hall Student Council representative. Each man on the hall team participated in one event. .. Prizes were awarded on a hall basis, and will be presented at the K. C. vaudeville.
The band played five or six numbers during the interhall competition, and also for the Pep Rally which was the concluding feature on the Cooperation .. Day Program.	.
The program closed at 8:15 pan. with . the boxing matches in the gymnasium. -
—Frank Kearns \\
■ .	. •	• v;
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FO UN DED 18 6 7
TIN PAN ALLEY
“How Did Parents Learn About the Things They Always Tell Their Children Not to Do?” is the title of one of the latest songs, not a quiz show question. The Library of Congress copyright office sends out a monthly booklet of its copyright entries, and the above song was only one of more than 9,000 listed in a recent issue.
Other artistic titles were “Yussel Come Back to the Range,” featuring a sweet and simple cowboy ditty, “Black River Jawnie and High Water Lil,” romance on the Tennesee turnpike, “I Am Ready to Give My Man to Uncle Sam,” one of the more patriotic numbers, and 465 foreign language titles, which we do not find space here to print.
TRIBUTE
Every Wednesday at 11 a.m., e.w.t., since World War I, except during vacations, four Ohio State buglers have brought all University activities to a momentary halt. With the sounding of “taps” each week at this time they have paid tribute these many years to the Ohio State men who gave their lives in that first World War.
Nowadays this tribute takes on new significance as Ohio State’s “Roll of Honor” for World War II increases from week to week, and the memory of these men is honored also.
MATH CLASS
We have always been intrigued by such mathematical problems as the one here stated. It Isn’t the math that holds our interest, however. What we would like to know is the origin of such things as this. Rumor has it that college professors sit up nights working out these, just so they can hand something down to posterity. This one is in its sixth generation now.
In order to know a person’s age and the amount of change he has in his pocket, you may ask him point blank, or involve him in this procedure, to wit:
1)	On a piece of paper have him state his age.	=
2)	Multiply by two.
3)	Add five. .
4)	Multiply by fifty. (You’re now getting closer.) .
5)	Subtract the number of days in the year. (Now set at 365.)
4
6)	Add the amount of change he has under one buck.
7)	Add 115.
This answer he now gives to you. The last two figures of it will express the amount of change he has. The first one, or two or three (if he’s a centenarian) will express his age.
Two in a Cellar
Sonny: “Mother, Poppa wouldn’t- murder anybody, would he?”
Mother: “Why certainly not, child. What makes you say that?”
Sonny: “Well, I just heard him down in the cellar saying, ‘let’s kill the other two, George’.”
WAR STORY
Here’s a little story we got from The Indiana Daily Student that we’d like to pass along to you.
A few years ago there were 12 carefree youngsters—seven boys and five girls— growing up together in northeastern Los Angeles. Prior to last December five of the boys enlisted in their country’s service, two in the Army, two in the Navy, and one in the Marines. The two soldiers and the Marine were killed at Pearl Harbor, and shortly before the war broke out two of the girls had died.
There were seven of the twelve left on Dec. 8. Then came word of the death in action of one of the sailors. Immediately the two remaining civilian boys joined up, one with the Army, one with the Navy. The remaining three girls also enlisted, two"in the Army nursing corps, one in the Navy.
Then word came of the loss in the line of duty of the other sailor, the last member of the original five.
Today but five of the 12 are alive, and all are in the service, fighting the common enemy that has taken their friends. Two of the nurses serve in Ireland, the other is in Hawaii. The soldier is with MacArthur in Australia and this story comes from the sailor, Yeoman Joseph S. Kennedy, of the U. S. Naval Training School at Indiana University.
Quiz Kid	.
The nurse entered the professor’s room softly. “It’s a boy, sir,” she said..
The professor looked up. “Well, -what does he want?”	.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr......Managing	Editor
Daniel Downey...........Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds___________Eports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker______Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan___________Promotion
Ted Weber________________Photo	Editor
George Thompson............Art	Editor
James Chrisovergis.—<Staff photographer Gail Fitch, Jr............Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind. ‘
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
K. of C. Vaudeville Again __________ 3
At Long Last _______________________ 5
S. A. C. Retains Powers'............ 6
ADMINISTRATION
Engnieering Favored _______________I I
SPORTS
All Star Volleyball Tilt........ 15
Sullivan Wins Title ...........  16
FEATURES
College Parade ______i___________ 4
The Clubs ________...._....:____ 8
God, Country,	Notre	Dame _____ 9
The Week ____________:___________14
Pressbox Splinters	_____________21
- Introducing __________________   20
Oamn&A. NewA
Prof. Simon Addresses
Student-Prof. Meeting
Last Monday night at the weekly Student - Professor meeting Dr. Yves Simon, distinguished Catholic philosopher and author, addressed a group of students on “Enlightened Leadership and Democracy.”
. Dr. Yves Simon
Dr. Simon termed himself a pessimist on the possibility of democracy generating universally sound leadership. “I wish to distinguish between sound pessimism —an attitude of mind which recognizes. and laments the miseries of mankind— and skepticism — an attitude of mind which is indifferent to the sorrows and sufferings of man.” Dr. Simon stated that any system ostensibly for the purpose of electing the best leaders is “fantastic utopianism.” “The idea that the people are infallible collectively is often found among Europeans. This is absurd. Merely witness the mistakes of the majority in democracies and you will have the proof of this point.”
Dr. Simon believes that the average man has little political competence. In his experience, he said, he has seen among the higher classes of society the most flagrant dishonesty, incompetence, and sheer ignorance of political affairs. “With this the case, how can we trust in democracy to provide the best leaders?”
“The important thing is this: what is the most important function of the universal vote? Is it to choose the best man as leader? No. It is to provide the majority of poor people with a means of protecting their rights. It is their only means of obtaining justice, for the upper class minority has wealth, technique, prestige, contacts which the lower classes lack. Hence the idea of an enlightened despotism is absurd, for it would wipe out the last hope of justice for the poorer classes.”
Dr. Simon then proceeded to outline a means of obtaining the best possible leadership in democracy, though, he admitted, even the system he outlined would not outlaw incompetence from government entirely. He believes that the two-party system as it exists in the United States is the answer to the problem of leadership. The parties nominate the best men available; the people are then left to choose from competent, intelligent leaders proposed to them. “In Europe this system has not had the opportunity to function. When it functions in Europe, then democracy shall again flourish.”
“In France, my unfortunate country, and in your country I find the attitude of the people toward politics one of disdain. It is this attitude which may kill democracy. The young men of today should interest themselves in government and prepare themselves for leadership in politics, rather than shun the political life and leave it to the dishonest and incompetent.”	_
Following his lecture, Dr. Simon answered many questions proposed by the students. Among the topics discussed were these: the role of education in providing leaders for democracy, the moral necessity of policing the world following the war, and the part played by Catholic political philosophy following the last war.—Al Sommer
St. Joseph's Lake To Be .
Site of Swimming Meet
St. Joseph’s Lake is the scene tomorrow afternoon, Saturday, August 8, for the interhall sports program’s gigantic swimming meet and water carnival. Time for the first of the 11 events has been set at 3 o’clock.
Potential Johnny Weismullers were busy this week preparing for the swim contests as more students signed up each day. A coach has been chosen for each hall and it has been announced that the entrants may enter as many events as. they choose.
To the winners and runners-up in all the contests will go prizes awarded by the Student Council. The department of physical education is in complete charge of the aquatic affair.
The 55-yard breast stroke will open the meet followed by the 50-yard free
style, and the 50-yard back stroke contests.	■
An underwater swimming dash for distance is next on tap for the water carnival. Following the 100 yard free style swim, a water polo battle between two five man teams threatens to outshine the other events, at least in activity.
The remaining divisions of the meet are as follows: Long distance swim (length of the lake); fancy diving; hall team medley (relay-three man teams-50 yards, breast, back and free strokes); king-of-the-raft (two three-man teams, five minutes).
Concluding the swum festival will be the hall team relay with the distance set at 200 yards. Four-man squads will coni-pete in this final event.—Bob Dunne -
AT LONG LAST
The scene depicted on the cover of the Scholastic of July 10 became reality this week as some 1,500 or more seniors, juniors, and sophomores mobbed the temporary ’42 Dome disposal offices set up in the publication’s “morgue” room. Scholastic’s cover picture of July 10 was cautiously captioned “ ’42 Dome Due Within Week—Barring More Priorities Trouble.” The ensuing circumstances backed up the magazine’s reluctance to be emphatic about the yearbook publication date. The first few 1942 books straggled on campus about mid-July as had been promised by the printer and binder. But Editor Joe Hillebrand took one quick look, and then rushed to the phone and ordered the remainder of the books to be held by the binder. Beason: The printers and binders, flooded with -government orders, had permitted several glaring errors to remain uncorrected. So once again the campus settled back in its long vigil and the Publications office continued to receive letters from *42 grads who didn’t know what was the matter.
At long last, however, on this past Monday, seniors were informed that they could obtain their ’42 Dome by presenting proper identification at the “morgue.” Editor Hillebrand has settled back to a life of ease and contemplation and the writing of his senior thesis. And now the ' question is, “When will the December Dome- be out?” From now on Kelly Cook; replaces placid Joe Hillebrand as “Head- ' Man” at the worrying post.
-	5
Quiz Show Gives Movie
Passes for Questions
Movie minded students who feel they can take an afternoon off now and again on these sultry summer days will be interested in knowing about the free theatre passes offered by the Notre Dame Quiz Show which fires questions at contestants every Saturday afternoon over WSBT at 5:00 p.m.
For the first time in the history of the Radio Club, prizes are being given on programs emanating from the local radio studio. Due to the untiring efforts of Radio Club Vail Pischke, the Palace Theatre offered to give theatre passes to contestants on the weekly Quiz program. Quiz masters of ceremonies Dave Curtin and Dan Downey, in order to stimulate more interest in radio work on the campus, decided to give the winning contestants some other form of award and distribute the theatre passes among students who were willing to compete for them.
Beginning last Saturday, the questions used on the program were submitted by students on the campus, who received in return a free pass to the theatre. This new idea is to be continued in the future. To win one of these passes to the Palace all that is necessary is that a student send or deliver to 213 Cavanaugh Hall or 220 Walsh Hall four original questions on some subject, such as literature, sports, music, Army, Navy, wars—any topic of general interest. If the questions are used on the broadcast the student will be presented with a free pass. Last week passes were award to Bill Talbot, Cavanaugh; Bob LeMense, Alumni; Bill Boss, Cavanaugh, and Richard Leon, Cavanaugh.
Students who are interested in trying for free passes should submit their questions before Wednesday for the Saturday’s radio program. If entries become numerous, the Quiz Program is ready to give a pass for every one of the 20 questions used each week. Everyone is welcome to visit the radio studio in the Engineering building on Saturday for this broadcast.
S. A. C. Retains Powers
Profitable to Students
At the last Student Council meeting in the Rockne Memorial building, Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, reiterated to the council the many powers which they possessed if they wished to put them into practice.
The Student Council performs many services for the students, and it is im
6
perative that the latter recognize this, as they profit immensely by the Council’s work.
The cooperation with the University in any legislation concerning the students is one of the powers of the Student Council. In this way the student body’s opinion is voiced in the laws of the University.
One of the biggest jobs the Council controls is that of regulating, with University officials, all student organizations, clubs, customs, ceremonies, entertainment, general elections, and all other matters pertaining to student activities. Interhall sports is another job for the Student Council to handle along with the Director of Athletics.
The Council is also the organization which hears any complaints students may have, and if the matter merits attention it is brought up before the administrative officials.
When a student breaks a rule the Council has the authority to act as intermediary to meet with the Board of Discipline before the settlement of the case to discuss the penalty involved. The Council may also represent a student before the Board of Discipline if the council committee thinks the case a worthy one. The Student Council has the right to appeal any case on the finding of new evidence to a University Board ot Appeals.—John O'Hara
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Mr. Robert D. LeMense,	August 3, 1942
Scholastic Magazine,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Sir:
I don’t know why I call you “Sir” as you are in all probability just another one of those English majors. That however is beside the point.
Tonight I noticed that the flying cadets who live in St. Edward’s were
playing touch-football with one of our dining hall milk bottles. In this citadel of football, it seems to me, that once such unflattering conditions were called to your attention a man of your position could do something to rectify them. I am serious, Bob, about the complaint, though even the tone of the letter might suggest to you that it is a joke.
Thanking you in advance for the attention which I hope that you
will pay a worthy cause, I am,	j
Sincerely yours,	3
A Patriotic Student.
(Editor’s Note: The “Ed” is quite certain that whether or not he
be called “Sir” is beside the point; however, he has dark suspicions as	j
to the branch of education pursued by the “Patriotic Student.” Is the	.!
“P. S.” accusing the C. P. T. men of stealing one of the popular half-	J
pint milk bottles or is he deploring conditions which force them to use	g
such inadequate equipment? Or has he investigated the situation? Was	|
the milk bottle used merely as a novelty? Scholastic will attempt to	i
ascertain if this is a worthy cause; meanwhile “P. S.” is advised to do	I
likewise.)	1

IN THE FUTURE
By George Bariscillo
Friday, August 7: “Notre Dame News- . cast,” WSBT, 3:30. Pischke & John- ; son with newsy bits.	i
Saturday, August 8: “Notre Dame For- 1 urn of the Air,” WSBT, 12:30. Mr. 1 Frank O’Malley, guest; Mark McGrath, • moderator.
Inter-hall swimming meet, St. Joseph’s lake, 3:00.	i
“Notre Dame Quiz Show,”	WSBT,	■
5:00. Downey vs. Curtin.	1
Movie, “They Died With Their Boots On” — or — “I warned them against these mystery-balls.” Disney Cartoon; News.
Sunday, August 9: “Hello — that you, Gladys?”
Monday, August 10: Student-Professor meeting, Rockne Lounge, 7:30. The inside story on airplane designing.
Tuesday, August 11: “Well, I don’t know, Gladys. You see, I—”
Wednesday, August 12: “Sportscast,” WSBT, 3:30. Pete Moritz & Lee Raymond. Economic Round Table meeting.
Thursday, August 13: K. of C. Vaudeville Show, Washington Hall, 8-9:30, followed by broadcast of “Cavalier’s” Tom Cooney, announcing.
“O.K., Gladys, see you tomorrow for spaghetti at Rosie’s.”
TRUMPET-TOOTING GHOST ABSENT IN RECENT YEARS;
PLAYS, OPERETTAS, IS WASHINGTON HALL ROUTINE
.	JACK WOELFLE
“Last night I saw upon the stair, a little man who wasn’t there. He wasn’t there again today. . . .’’
—Author uncertain; probably T.E.B.
Some of us here at Notre Dame have heard occasionally of the ghost of Washington Hall, but very few, we’ll wager, have ever heard this famous legend in its entirety. It seems hard to believe as one walks past this historic old landmark that some 20 years ago an honest-to-goodness ghost was prowling ’round its hallowed corridors, rattling papers, turning doorknobs, pattering across floors, and tooting trumpets. It really happened, however, so read on and learn about one of Notre Dame’s most baffling mysteries.
Washington Hall at the time of our story was used as a dormitory for the student professors. Their rooms were located in that’ part of the building which is now Music Hall. These student professors had many privileges which the undergraduate did not have, such as allnight lights, keys to the front door, and no prefects. It was in 1919 that Jim Minavi, one of the student professors, became very ill and died. Jim occupied the room that is at present, Professor Joseph Casasanta’s office. It seems that Jim was especially talented on the trumpet and was very popular with the boys because of his frequent renditions of the popular tunes of the day. As is the way of young men, however, Jim’s death was soon forgotten, at least for a little while.
About Dec. 13, 1920, George Gipp, one of Notre Dame’s immortals, passed away. This was just a year after Jim Minavi’s death. It is one week after this that our story begins.
John Buckley, a philosophy major, was working on his epistemology thesis late one night when his attention was attracted to the door by a noise. Now this wasn’t the sort of noise that one would ordinarily expect to hear at 2:00 a.m. It sounded as if someone was rattling a paper underneath the door. John was a deeply religious boy and had his own ideas about strange noises late at night. He grabbed a rosary in one hand, a baseball bat in the other, and made a dash for the door. To open it? No sir, to lock it as tight as he could. When John told the boys his story the next day they all laughed loud and long not only because he had been so frightened, but be
* Steps in Washington Hall went directly to second story at that time.
cause he didn’t try to see who was rattling the paper. It was passed off as a practical joke, however, and was soon forgotten.
1 -
There was one room in the basement of Science Hall which was occupied by a science student named Pio E. Montenegro. Pio considered himself pretty lucky to have his own private suite, but oh! what he wouldn’t have given for company one chilly December night. It was about a week after John Buckley had had his frightening experience and the vivid description of John’s ghost was still in Pio’s mind. He was ready to retire for the evening but decided to get a drink before doing so. There were no drinking fountains in the Science building at that time and anyone wanting a drink had to use a hand pump just outside. As Pio approached the pump there suddenly came from the direction of the quadrangle the sound of a sharp breeze. As he turned to see what was causing the
noise he sazv it. There came out of the ' dark group of trees, a ghostly white form. ;
The figure headed directly for the steps of Washington Hall. Then Pio recognized the form. It was George Gipp astride a . white horse. The figure rode right up the , steps* and vanished as quickly as it had. appeared. Of course the next day .most ; of the boys laughed as loud and as long as before but some were starting to-wonder.	-
Joe Casasanta was a music student at Notre Dame but had the rating of a student professor. He didn’t know it then but he was to become one of the most famous university band directors in the years to come right here at Notre' Dame. Joe, at the time of all these mysterious episodes, was also living in Washington -Hall. His room was located on the second floor, one of the present practice rooms for piano students. Joe had been asleep . for about five hours when he was suddenly awakened by the toot of a trumpet. Who would be blowing a trumpet at 3 ajn.? Then there was the sound of .pattering feet right next to Joe’s bed and that familiar feeling some people have when waking up late at night, that some-
(Continued on page 26)	_
*Z4e OidiA |
94H2w!M«**»*{**»<M!M«<M«**3M*'MSM***^*X<,*«*{'M*MX**«*^M»'Mi,^M^v
New Members Admitted
to Economic Round Table
Five new members were formally admitted to the Economic Round Table at a regular meeting of the club on Wednesday, July 28, following a vote of approval by the active members. Two of the new members, Joseph Rud, junior from Chicago and Edgar Pessimier, junior from Seattle, Wash., are accounting majors in the commerce school; while James C. Clark, a junior from Hamilton, 0. and two sophomores, Alphonse A. Sommer of Golf, Ill., and James W. Kelley of Olympia, Wash, are students in liberal arts. The topic for the round table discussion of the evening concerned the ways and means of eliminating the unjustified anti-Jewish sentiment in this country as outlined in a paper by Mark Lies. The expression and thought of each applicant were the chief considerations in their final selection from the group that submitted applications for membership. Secretary William O’Neil, chairman of the membership committee, presided over the meeting.
The Economic Round Table, under the faculty guidance of Mr. William Downey, is continuing its traditions of weekly meetings off campus for dinner and discussion among its members by convening amid the favorable surroundings of the Morningside Hotel. Professor William Shanahan of the history department speaking before the club on “The Military Situation of the Moment” recently provided an interesting divergence from the regular procedure of the meetings.
Gerald Smith Presents
. Paper to Bookmen Club
On Tuesday evening, August 4, the Bookmen, the campus literary society, held their usual bi-monthly meeting in the seminar room of the Law Building. As is the custom, one of the members, Gerald Smith, gave a paper on the life and works of F. Scott Fitzgerald. The discussion was taken mainly from notes that Mr. Smith had made in preparation for his thesis, in which he plans to define and estimate Fitzgerald’s novels and short stories/ Fitzgerald was the most famous novelist of the so-called “lost generation” of the ’20’s and the author of such clever and characteristically “world-weary” novels as This Side of Paradise, The Great Gadsby,
Tender is the Night, and the posthum-, ously published The Last Tycoon. Smith’s talk was informal and contained some amusing anecdotes on Fitzgerald’s life and it was followed by a free discussion of the author’s work and significance.
Claiborne Adams, president of the club, announced that within three weeks a party will be given for the members at the house of Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, the moderator of the club.
Architecture Students
Plan Jackets, Picnic
On the average of twice a month, 19 Notre Dame architecture students put down their pencils, brushes, and sketches and move from their drawing rooms to the first floor of their building. Whereupon Ed Holland of Stirling, N. J. and president of the .. Notre Dame architecture club takes over.
Under his direction, the potential builders have made plans to buy. campus coats and discussed a club picnic.
The campus coats will be standardized in material, color, and design. They will be of gray flannel and will feature a seal designed by one of the club members. This seal will be selected through a contest open to all club members.
As yet plans for the picnic are in the formulative stage but.a drive is being made by club treasurer Tom O’Brien to have all dues paid up. Raymond Zando is secretary of the club.
Notre Dame Chicagoans Await Summer informal
Signs of an impending week-end began to show themselves on campus this week, and not least among these were the blue and white Chicago Club posters advertising that club’s dance for the Assumption week-end. The dance will be held in the Windy City — the Knickerbocker Hotel to be exact—on the evening of Saturday, August 15.
The dance is open to all Notre Dame • students. They will dance to the Colonial Club orchestra with the over 300 members of the club. The dance will begin at 9:30 and at one in the morning will be over, according to the club president, Bill Sullivan.
The tactful campus posters announce the cost as “donations—$2.75.” The dance will be informal.
Roger Cummings is vice-president of the club; Bill McCaughley writes the minutes of the meetings; and Joe Farm-ar handles the financial matters.
Mark Lies Presents
Paper for Wranglers
Outlining and solving the problem, Mark Lies of Riverside, Ill., and secretary of the Wranglers told members of
MASK LIES
that club last Thursday that the Jewish problem must be attacked from two angles, that of the Jew and that of the Christian.
He suggested that the cause of friction between the two races
could be describe as the “bumptiousness” of the Jew. He denied that religious differences, moral standards, or economic behavior were valid reasons for the existing feelings. He listed three requisites for the inquirer into the problem: first, dismissal of bias; second, discussing the problem in the light of Christian teachings; third, discussing the question in the light of today.
President Jack Ryan presided and Robert LeMense announced a paper on propaganda to be given at the next meeting. The Wranglers meet every Thursday in the Seminar room of the Law building.
Schoolmen, Philosophers, To Reorganize Soon
The Schoolmen, one of the more distinguished campus organizations for many years but now in a state of inactivity, is due to be rejuvenated at the request of interested students.
Comprised mostly of students majoring in philosophy, the Schoolmen had periodic meetings at which were discussed modern philosophic problems. Papers were given regularly by members, who presented to the club tendencies in ' philosophic thought today with discussions of noted men in this field.
Once a year, after much preparation, the Schoolmen had a disputation open to all members of the community and students. The disputation was held in Washington Hall and consisted in several papers on vital philosophic problems by members of the organization.
The evident decrease in philosophy majors manifests the need for acquainting the student body with the vital importance of this science. Those students majoring in this field in both the junior and senior classes are eager to re-organize this distinguished club, and plans are under way for this program.
The faculty advisor is Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., well known professor of, philosophy.
8
Qod, GoUHfruf attA ffotte ^bd^e.
Ensign Durkin, *37, Drifts for 14 Days
To drift for 14 days in the South Seas in an open boat, to land finally, suffering from starvation and exposure, on a small island inhabited by head hunters, to end up in a naval hospital in the South Seas over which presided a doctor with whom he had fished two years before in Idaho!
Such, believe it or not, was the amazing experience of Ensign Thomas F. “Tex” Durkin, ’37, who turned into good use the training he had undergone to win a Bengal Bout Championship on the campus a few years ago.
The naval doctor who cared for Tom, Commander John Schmoele, formerly of Los Angeles, ■wrote a detailed story of the experience to a close friend, Tom’s uncle, T. J. O’Brien, Salt Lake City.
“Ensign Tom Durkin was brought into my hospital yesterday suffering from starvation and exposure after having been adrift in a rubber boat since the 13th of May,” Commander Schmoele wrote.
“It seems that Tom and his gunner were on patrol duty when he got separated from his carrier and lost,” the latter said. “After running out of gas, he landed in the sea in the darkness, and immediately threw out his inflated rubber life raft, and both climbed aboard.”
“The plane went down on May 13,” Commander Schmoele related. “On May 29 Ensign Durkin and his gunner were found, . . . dehydrated, burned to a crisp by the sun and covered with sores, lying in a native hut near the shore.
“They had only three quarts of water and a little concentrated food. Twice planes passed over them on search, but did not see them. When Tom saw the chance of rescue was remote, he began to paddle in an easterly direction.
“Later they rigged up a makeshift sail from a parachute they had salvaged,” the commander wrote, “and on May 28 they drifted to a small island inhabited by head hunters.
“They somehow got through the coral reef and landed on the rocks, and made a meal on raw eels and shell fish', caught in the coral crevices.
“The natives became frightened and fortunately reported to an advance group of our soldiers who - investigated and found them.... and reported their plight to us.... He is O.K., and with the ex
ception of a long beard and being extremely thin will be none the worse for wear.”
Tom, in a letter which accompanied the commander’s, said simply that he was “forced to make an emergency landing and drifted for 14 days, finally making it to one of the islands.”
Tom was commissioned last September as a naval flyer after training at Pensacola, Fla;, and he did some patrol duty in San Diego before being assigned to a carrier as a torpedo bomber in March of this year. Until he enlisted in the Navy he had made his headquarters in Salt Lake City.—N. D. Alumnus.
Requiescat in Pace
The following is a list of those Notre Dame alumni or former students definitely reported killed in military service:	-
Robert E. Fordyce, ex. ’42	.
(Ferrying command)
John T. Von Harz, ’40
Joseph C. Foley, ’37
Major Hugh F. McCaffery, ’27
Eugene A. Poletto, ’40
Lieut. Howard Petschel, ex ’42
William P. Marsh, ’41
Capt. Richard S. Freeman, ex. ’29
George W. Weber, ’40
James T. Connell, ’40
Oliver P. Helland, ’39
Ensign George A. Wolf, ex ’39
Ensign Francis X. Clarke, ’39
Lieut. Milton E. Connelly, Jr., ex. ’42
John Flynn, ’36 (R.A.F. pilot) -
John P. Ffrench, ’34
Bishop O'Hara Confirms
Students and Trainees
A large group of naval trainees and students received Confirmation Wednesday in a Catholic ceremony which took place after a special afternoon mass at the University.
The Most Rev. John O’Hara, C.S.C., auxiliary bishop for the army and navy, did the confirming, with the Rev. Joseph Corcoran, C.S.C., celebrating the mass. Fr. Corcoran is awaiting call as a chaplain in the armed forces.
The mass and ceremonies were held at 4:45 p.m. in Sacred Heart church on the campus.
Rev. Speer Strahan, '17, Stationed in Hawaii
Stationed "at Fort Kamehameha, Hawaii, as an army chaplain, the Rev. Speer Strahan, a 1917 graduate of the University and a well-known poet, relates many exciting experiences in his writings of events during and just after the Pearl Harbor raid.
In his article “Holy Communion in Hawaii” which appeared in the.Cow-momveal last Spring, Father Strahan tells of hearing confessions .on a railroad track for an hour and a half, along a sea coast where men were building a bomb shelter, and of penetrating thickets where men were guarding gun positions.
Father Strahan, who was one of the finest student poets ever on the campus, was bom at Fife Lake, Mich, in 1894. He was graduated with honors from Notre Dame and was the class poet. Father Strahan collaborated with the Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., to edit the first volume of Notre Dame poetry.
After graduating from the Catholic University in 1926 with the degree of master of arts and attending Yale University four years and the University of Paris one year, he became a priest and was later an instructor in English at Catholic University for five years.
Father Strahan was appointed a first lieutenant, Chaplain Reserve, in 1937 and ordered to active duty at Ft. George . G. Meade, Md., in 1939. Promoted to cap- . tain, Chaplain Reserve, in the September of 1941, he was assigned to duty in the Hawaiian Islands the following month.
Novena Offered For
All N. D. Service Men
The Novena in honor of Our Lady’s . Assumption which began Thursday is., being offered for the deceased Notre Dame service men and for all who are now in arms, students and alumni. This Novena is an answer to the many appeals that have come, from men in the armed forces requesting prayers from the students. News of the Novena will he sent to all the camps and will be a source of 1 much encouragement to these men ’in service who fully realize the dangers they are facing. ’

Travel Service Offers
Help for N. D. Students
With the rush of Navy business a vivid memory and the exodus of Notre Dame men for September vacations confronting him, Jim Byrne, director of the Notre Dame Student Travel Service this week caught his breath and released to the Scholastic a resume of the work that this student travel service has accomplished and intends to accomplish in the next semester.
Mr. Byrne stressed that the service is a non-profit organization set up for the benefit of all the students. It is essentially a student enterprise handling all types of transportation, especially bus and plane travel. Reservations are handled through the campus office, making unnecessary any trips of the student downtown to secure information or reservations.
By using the service, students are assured better travel facilities, for the amount of business handled gives the service power to demand better accommodations for the traveling students. Mr. Byrne advised students intending to go home over the September vacation to make reservations early as a definite shortage of equipment is anticipated.
Two unique problems have presented themselves with the advent of war-time situations to the Notre Dame campus. "First, the group of reserve officers training here in May and June gave the service a real test when they left in a group in early July. Second, the hot summer months have driven many students to lakes serviced by the travel bureau.
Any second floor Dillon resident can
Byrne fills these in record time.
paint a graphic picture of the lines of Navy officers waiting outside 265 Dillon in the late June evenings. The service handled reservations for about 400 naval officers and these reservations represented a gross of approximately $12,000.
At present the bureau is considering possibilities for the fall student trip.
Byrne, a gradaute student in the Arts and Letters School, is head of the service. He was a graduate of the Class of 1940 and is at present a prefect in Dillon while continuing his studies. .
The-Travel Service has the approval of the University and of the Prefect of Discipline but is not legally connected with the University.—Ted Weber
New Issue of "Notre
Dame Lawyer" Appears
“Revival of Natural Law,” a series of four lectures delivered at the University earlier this year by Mr. Roscoe Pound, appears in the issue of Notre Dame Lawyer just off the press.
Mr. Pound is dean emeritus of the Harvard Law School. He also holds the chairmanship of the section on legal education of the American Bar Association and is a former president of the Association of American Law schools.
“The Rights of a Copyright Owner,” by James H. Neu, also appears in this issue of the publication. Neu, a May graduate of the College of Law from Plymouth, Ind., won first prize with this article in the 1942 Nathan Burakan Memorial Competition sponsored by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers this spring.
The Lawyer is published quarterly through the school year by the students of the College of Law at the University.
Students Favor Marines
In Campus Service Poll
Among Notre Dame men, “From the Halls of Montezuma to the Shores of Tripoli” is second only to “Cheer, Cheer For Old Notre Dame.” In a poll of student opinion concerning the different branches of the service, the U. S. Marines, enhanced by the courage and valor shown at Midway and Wake Islands, hold the number one spot. It is the general
feeling that the “Leatherneck” will always be found where the “going is .rough.”
Out of 14 students, two from each of the seven residence halls, there were five who preferred the Marines, while the Navy and Army Air Corps had four each. The remaining preference went to the Army infantry.
Al McDonald, 157 Dillon Hall: “Give me the Marines because there you really have a chance of seeing some action.”
Bill Hooley, 254 Cavanaugh Hall: “I like the Army Air Corps because in that outfit there is lots of excitement and adventure.”
Charles Becker, 124 Breen - Phillips: “My choice is the Navy for there you can learn something useful.”
Dave Curtin, 213 Cavanaugh: “The Marines have a great record—and besides Quantico is only 35 miles from Washington!”
Tony McNicholas, 161 Dillon: “The Navy looks good to me because I like a clean bed to sleep in.”
John Borkowski, 204 Walsh: “The excitement, action, and variety of the Army Air Corp’s looks good to me.”
Bill Lower, 125 Alumni: “I like the colorful life of a Navy officer.”
Mike Mahoney, 228 Breen - Phillips: “The Marines get to the fight first; that’s what I want.”
Lou Crollard, 135 St. Eds: “It has always been my ambition to be an Army flyer.”
Jack Finnigan, 301 Sorin: “I like the Navy because they fight with more chivalry.”
J. H. Johnson, 111 St. Ed’s: “In the last analysis the army will have more to do with the real victory.”
Jack Russell, 145 Alumni: “Give me the Marines because they have a good course of training and they get plenty of action.”
John Murray, 102 Sorin: “If it is action you want the Marines will find it.” . Joe Costello, 214 Walsh: “I’ll take the Army Air Corps because after the war one has experience in a field essential to civilian life.”—James Downey

10
a
I*®
AamiKidhaitoi’i
FALL FRESHMEN FAVOR ENGINEERING;
DINING HALL WILL CONVERT TO CAF
BOB DUNNE
This week, from the desk of the registrar, Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., came the startling news that the College of Engineering will show the greatest increase in enrollment, according to the preference of applications thus far received. Undoubtedly, this choice is dictated by the war and its mechanized aspects. It is another way of revealing that even the younger men of the nation are war-minded, and conscious of the need of this particular phase of education. Even now the quota for this college in the University is almost filled.
Wednesday, August 5, marked the final day for pre-registration of students now enrolled, and the Director of Studies and his staff are now busy tabulating the figures. Added to this group will be approximately 325 former students who did not return for the summer semester, but who will again resume their classes in the fall.
The new semester will, as usual, rep- resent the 48 states, with the number of students from Mexico taking a decidedly upward swing. A representative group from South America is likewise expected. However, in view of the war conditions, it will be not at all surprising if the number of students from other foreign countries proves to be negligible.
This week, it was also made public that the Colleges of Engineering, Science and Law, and the Graduate School, were affected least by the summer semester ' enrollment.
Notre Dame’s first summer semester* will terminate two days sooner than originally planned, the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, announced in a letter to faculty members, Friday, July 30.
The final examinations will be held the Monday and Tuesday of August 31, and Sept. 1, according to the letter. Welcomed by the students, the change in dates was made in order that there may be sufficient time for a necessary installation of cafeteria equipment in the east side of the University dining hall. The semester finals were first' scheduled for the Thursday and Friday of Sept. 3, and Sept. 4.	.
Conferring of degrees on the students, who in this semester are completing the courses, has been changed from Sunday, Sept'. 6, to eight o’clock, Thursday evening, Sept. 3.
In the same letter from the office of the director of studies, it was announced that the registration of students for the fall semester will be on Wednesday, Sept. 9, with classes for the semester beginning Thursday, morning, Sept. 10.
Students Warned of
Limited Enlistment-Quota
At a meeting of the Deans of the Colleges early last week, plans were made for instructive talks to be delivered to the students of the colleges concerning enlistment in some branch of the Army, Navy, or Marine Corps. The instructions were given to the students of the College of Commerce last Thursday; to the students of Arts and Letters, and Engineering last Friday; and to the students of the College of Law this past Monday.
The meetings were merely informative. They set forth the qualifications and advantages of enlistment in one of the reserve corps. The students at the meetings were strongly advised to take up the question with their parents—immediately! Henceforward, the Army and Navy will not try to out-sell each other in soliciting enlistments.	.
Very shortly the Army and Navy will grant to each college a limited quota of enlistments; as yet, however, there is not any determined quota set by either branch. Sometime between November and January the Navy will start granting commissions only to those who first satisfy V-l requirements; and the V-l school from then on will be open only to the Freshmen. The Army is considering the same thing. Right now the A.E.R.C. has set the maximum quota for Freshmen at 200; for Sophomores at 160; for Juniors at 115, and for Seniors at 90. Anyone, incidentally, who is sincerely interested in this program, and who thinks he can surely fill the requirements, is advised to write Father Tra-
hey at his office in room 231 of the Engineering Building.
Rev. -James D- Trahey, C.S.C., told the groups that it is not an instance of which is the easier, the Army or the Navy. In entering a branch of the service the student should choose the course that adds to his educational status. If the student has leadership, the Army is the place for him; whereas, if the student has brains then, despite any lack of leadership, the Navy is the place for him. A college graduate, Father Trahey emphasized, is not, ipso facto, assured of a commission. The students were further warned not to wait until they received their induction papers to sign up in a reserve corps: delay invites the draft.
Architecture Department
Receives Many Awards
The University’s department of architecture, with Prof. Francis W. Kervick as head, was highly honored when , the drawings submitted in the Intercollegiate competition held at the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design in New York City were judged on July 30. The decisions of the
Prof. Francis W. Kervick
judges found Notre Daine architecture students being awarded a first medal, a first mention and seven other mentions.
First Medal in the Class A, advanced design group, went to Edward Lee Holland of Stirling, N. J., for his design of “A Laboratory Theatre.” This was a problem involving practical training in all phases of theatrical production. The first medal was the highest possible. .
.	'	■	.	11
award in Class A. The solution of the problem as submitted by Joseph John Sherer of West Hartford, Conn., received a mention in the same competition.
In the class B, intermediate design group, Robert B. Hackner, LaCrosse, Wis., was awarded a first mention, the next to highest award in this category, for his design of “A Lakeside Restaurant.” John J. Andres, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.; James J. Gallagher, Schenectady, N. Y.; and John G. O’Connell, Bridgeport, Conn., received mention awards in this same competition.
The following students were given half-mention awards in Class C, elementary design: Venture Gonzales, Dallas, Texas; William F. Griffin, Bridgeport, Conn.; and James V. Hirsch, Medford, Wis. The problem in Class C was “A Dental Clinic.”
The N. D. students, all of whom are in Mr. Francisco Montana’s classes in design, worked for six weeks on the presentation, of their drawings. Preliminary sketches were required to be made in nine hours and had to be sent to the Beaux-Arts Institute by June 6. In the development of their drawings the students were not allowed to deviate from ideas set forth in the preliminary sketches. The design of all the above mentioned problems required that the students take into consideration practical as well aesthetic problems. This demanded a great deal of research.
Many of the leading architecture schools in the country were represented in the submission of drawings. The designs were judged by well-known practising architects. Under the accelerated program seven problems are given out by the Institute in the course of a year.
Farewell Mass is Said
For the Naval Trainees
Approximately 125 members of the Naval Officers’ Training Unit that left the campus this week attended a Mass said for their intentions last Saturday at 6:00 o’clock in the Lady’s Chapel of Sacred Heart Church.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., race-president of the University, was celebrant of the' Mass. At its conclusion Father Cavanaugh spoke briefly to the naval men present, congratulating them on their splendid turn-out for the Mass and assuring them that they would be remembered in the prayers for the. large Notre Dame family.
With this Mass the University hade a formal farewell to the 1,300 apprentice seamen, who comprised the third and largest contingent to be trained at the N. D. naval station and for whose bet
ter accommodation the University relinquished a fourth hall, Badin. The 1,300 men represented many colleges and universities and came from every section of the nation.
Prof. Sullivan's Story
Appears in O'Henry Book
Mr. Richard Sullivan, assistant professor of English at Notre Dame, has received word that his short story “Feathers,” which appeared in the July ’41 issue of Mademoiselle, has been selected for the 1942 edition of the O’Henry Memorial Award anthology of short
Prof. Richard Sullivan
stories. This book is published annually and contains stories chosen by a group of well-known critics as the best of the preceding year.
Othe stories written by Mr. Sullivan have been published recently. A story entitled “In the Glass Darkly”- was in the spring issue of the Yale Review. Two other stories have been purchased by Mademoiselle.
Summer after Summer, a novel by Mr. . Sullivan, is to be published Sept. 25, by the Doubleday Doran Publishing Co.
Prof. Edward Mahin
Attends ASM Meeting
Prof. Edward G. Mahin, head of the department of metallurgy at the University, attended a meeting of the publications committee of the American Society for Metals in Cleveland, Ohio, last week. This committee reviews all-papers submitted for presentation’ at the annual '■ convention of the Society-and for publication in the Transactions. The commit--tee also arranges the program of the
annual convention, which will be held in Cleveland this year, Oct. 12 to 16.
The committee, numbering 15 members, represents industrial and educational institutions from all parts of the country. The Society has more than 14,000 members. Notre Dame is headquarters for the chapter in this region.
Prof. Flynn Named on
Fellowship Committee
Prof. Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work at the University, has been invited to join a committee to administer a new fellowship fund of the Central Howard Association of Chicago. The activities of the Association are rehabilitation of released prisoners, crime preventive legislation, and betterment of prisons.
Through this Fellowship position set up on the staff of the Association, persons engaged in probation or parole work will be given half-time employment, the other half-time being devoted to graduate professional education in a school of social work. By this plan, promising members of public parole or probation agencies, who otherwise would not be financially able to undertake professional education and training, will be encouraged to obtain this much needed requirement for their chosen profession.
Prof. Kuntz Conducts
Teaching Course for Navy
During the summer semester Prof. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the department of education, is giving a course in the
Prof. Leo F. Kuntz
“Technique of Teaching” to the regular instructors of the naval R.O.T.C. The teaching of such courses is a general procedure, that the Navy has initiated in order to give their men specific training in the presentation of subject matter and in practical work of teaching.
Attending Prof. Kuntz’s class are Lieuts. Thompson Black, William S. Howell, Theodore R. Stansbury, Conrad J. Zimmer. Lieut.-Comdr. W. F. Bullis is also sitting in for the lectures. The course is being taught two hours a week for* six weeks. Classes are conducted in the Rockne Memorial Building.
12


FOURTH CONTINGENT OF TRAINEES DUE TUESDAY;
SEAMEN HERE FOR TWO WEEKS’ INTENSIVE DRILL
drilling, or athletics. The navy has always stressed physical fitness and aims to give the trainees some real exercise on the newly constructed athletic fields.
PHIL KEEN
Again Notre Dame puts out the welcome sign for more apprentice seamen who will arrive on campus this week. In the meantime the 1,250 V-7 men, having trained here for the last four weeks have departed for various advanced schools of training.
The previous class will be divided and proceed to Abbott Hall on the Chicago campus of Northwestern University, Columbia University in New York City, and the Prairie State Training Ship, formerly the battleship Illinois, which is now in the Hudson river in New York. Each man’s post is assigned in a carefully planned manner. Aptitude tests and individual interviews are given to all the seamen. These results determine the branch of the service the men are best qualified to enter. They may take any one of several engineering lines, study
to be a supply officer, maintenance officer, and many others.
It was reported this week that 300 midshipmen, members of the first class trained here have been commissioned ensigns in the U. S. naval reserve. They have completed three months of inten-' sive study at the naval reserve midshipmen’s school at Abbott Hall. Having received their commissions they reported for duty with fighting ships of the fleet.
The 1,100 V-7 Trainees arriving Tuesday include representatives of colleges and universities throughout the country. Upon arrival they will be given thorough physical check-ups and receive the traditional “shots” in the arm.
Lyons, Morrissey, Howard, and Badin halls will house this, the fourth contingent, wThen they are not at classes,
According to Lieutenant F. C. Dugan, training officer, the sailors will he guided
throughout the day by the same schedule that other classes have maintained. The schedule will be as follows:
Breakfast in the dining hall at 7:00 a.m. From 8 a.m. until 9:15 ann. four platoons will be hearing a lecture, four platoons will be drilling, four will be learning gun-loading, rifle range performance, seamanship, and first aid, and four will be studying mathematics. These platoons shift for the next period. Lunch is served at 11:30 a.m. In the afternoon, from 12:30 until 2:00 p.m., and from 2:30 until 4:00 p.m. platoons are again shifted. Dinner is served at 5:30i At 10:00 p.m. taps will be sounded. In addition, each day one platoon will have an athletic period instead of a lecture. On Saturday the first two periods are devoted to inspection by the captain.
This cavalcade of seamen will be here
V-7 Men march to
line next semester.
Dining Hall three times a day to a Rhythmic Drum Cadence; N. D. Students will stand in
for two weeks. This is the shortest period for basic training ever given the men at Notre Dame and serves as a good example of our nation’s super speed-up war. program.
Clad in their traditional white uniforms wnth navy blue neckerchiefs, the platoons will again be seen marching to classes and meals in their picturesque manner. Again the bugler will sound the call to colors as “Old Glory” rises majestically over the main quadrangle.

13
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Cash register breaks down in Caf.
OUT OF THE HUDDLE
They should really serve spoons with the malteds and shakes. One fellow sucked so hard trying to drink a shake via two straws, he lost two tonsils. A real laugh here of late is the advertisement on the side of the paper cups which reads: “ For Health Drink More Milk.” Those doughnuts are delivered in a Mack truck with a four wheel drive. Ask for some water in The Huddle and you get a cute little miniature cup with enough water for an eye wash. The only time the scale is used over there is when some Oscar wants to read back issues of the Religious Bulletin or wants to stick his head up for air during the 9:50 rush. The benches are very strategically located so that one may sit but not be able to place his books or bottle of coke, or he may stand and place the books and refreshment on the bench. Oh well, it goes down better when you stand up. You can get a check cashed but it’s cheaper to keep the check. This is the favorite hangout for the Cavanaugh kids who get put to bed without any supper. These lads purchase more files! Those bars are tough fellas. Ye Oide Huddle is a nice place for atmosphere thought, if you like margarine on your sandwiches.
ALONE WITH A DRONE
They really “put the bee” on Dick “Honeychile” Kilmer the other evening. “They” are the buzzy little bees that swarm when it’s warm. Well it wasn’t warm the other evening but the bees ,made it plenty hot for friend Kilmer. Dick and two pals (???) were strolling ’round the lake the other evening when suddenly he slipped and his foot got nosey. Yep, right in a bee’s nest. He found himself all alone. The .other pair took the air and left the bees in Kilmer’s hair. Associated Press issued communiques from both sides that night. Said the bees: “Enemy retreated doing comic strip.” Said Mr. Kilmer: “Ouch!” Dick spent the night in the infirmary as a result of the encounter and suffered a relapse the next morning when they served him honey buns for breakfast.
14
NOT SO?
Because of their neighbor’s boardinghouse manners and methods, some boys are complaining that they aren’t receiving enough meat. To show what we mean here is a bit of conversation overheard at dinner the other night: Lad at meat end of the table: “Meat’s good tonight.” Lad at the vegetable end: ‘I’ll take your word for it.”
LA DE DA
One of the best quips of the week was made last Friday by Father Trahey at the special meeting of the A.B. students concerning the draft. When asked how the physical for the E.R.C. compared with the draft physical, Father said: “To pass the draft physical you have to be able to see lightning and hear, thunder.”. ... Who are the geniuses who make up those clever little sayings advertising the student-professor meetings? They probably sit at home composing the advertisements while the meetings are in session.... If the Chicago Tribune is the world’s greatest newspaper, why can’t it do something for Little Awful Annie and her Junior Hammandos? Will Junior beat out Dick Tracy’s time with Frizzle-top? These interesting and timely questions will be answered at the next meeting of the Alumni Hall “Hot dogs.” You are requested to bring your own comic section. — Communique: “First group of St. Mary’s girls left for school today.” It’s a long walk from Kalamazoo-zoo-zoo.
"OOH! ISN'T IT NICE!"
Each Sunday groups of people are seen walking ’neath the shade of the trees in the quad, looking up, looking down, looking all around. Who are they? Where do they come from? What do they want? The males wear coats and ties and their hair is combed. These can’t be Notre Dame men. The ladies wear shoes and look like ladies. H’m, the mystery heightens! John Steinbeck must have received his inspiration for Grapes of Wrath while visiting the campus one Sunday afternoon. Yeah verily, the oakies come from near and far to see how the Notre Dame student lives. Their only complaint is that they never see the students. This is because they don’t look in the right places. They spend too much
time in the library and Church. If they were to drop in the Oliver Coffee Shop or Walgreen’s, they’d no doubt find a quorum. (From Alumni anyway.) You can always tell when there is a pretty young visitor in the hall. Doors fly open, radios blare, every bloke suddenly gets thirsty and has to wander around the hall looking for the water fountain that’s right outside his door. Johnny Jantzen can be the hall jerk all year long; but as soon as his good looking sister comes for a visit Johnny is mathematician par excellence, or so it would seem the way fellows rush in asking for advice in Calculus. All the boys drop in to see if “old Johnny” wants to take in a show, “on me Johnny old pal.” The first thing people ask once inside The Memorial is, “Where’s Mr. Rockne’s office?” Oh well!
7:15 A. M. W.S.B.T.
The “Morning Bugle program,” the program that blows its own horn. The show (ha) starts when Parcher blows his nose. This is the signal for Mr. Douglas’s friend and Mr. Parcher’s friend, Mr. Douglas, to walk in. “Good morning, good morning!” he shouts. Clever fellow. So timely with his remarks. He tells Parcher to play a number’ and Parcher, the little devil, yells “six” into the mike. “Oh what a card you are Parcher, what a card,” laughs Mr. Douglas. Is it not a merry little group? The Bugler gets a big kick, (some day he will), out of criticizing a number, or making a funny joke such as: “Just call me a taxi Parch.” Parcher brings down the house, (Parcher’s house), when he says, “All right so you’re a taxi Mr. Douglas.” Oh fun, oh bliss! What fun these fellows are bringing to the South Bend homes— (here you have your choice of a period or question mark.) The best part of the program is when The Bugler says, “you have been listening to — etc.”
FUTURAMA
Since there is a shortage of paper and since the government has asked all loyal Americans to save paper, Notre Dame men will be afforded an excellent opportunity to help the war effort in just three weeks. The slogan on the campus at that time will be, “Scrap the Pads” (Exam pads, Edgar). The St. Mary’s girls will be afforded an opportunity to aid the war effort also. It is rumored that the girls will be offered commissions in the W.A.A.C.
❖
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
? Guilty Conscience ? ?
faite Spotii.
WWBgSSg	3M-=e— " '■■ !1
ALL-STAR VOLLEYBALLERS TO PLAY FACULTY TEAM IN INTERHALL SPORTS FEATURE THURSDAY NIGHT
Campus Baseball Fans
Enjoy "Safe at Home"
JACK DENNISTON
Several hundred campus baseball fans enjoyed the National League movie,
Minus flag raising ceremonies, parading musical units, and marching soldiers —like most of this year’s Service All-Star attractions—the All-Star team of undergraduates in the Interhall Volleyball circuit will tackle the pick of the Faculty athletes in the feature game Thursday evening, August 13, at 7:00 p.m.
Little need be said for the Faculty aggregation of Walt Langford, Gil Burdick, John Scannell, and Dominick Napolitano, who play a fast game, despite being oldsters. Moreover, the profs play as a unit. Vince Commissa, Volleyball League ruler and referee for the All-Star tilt, says the lack of team play might prove the biggest stumbling barrier for the All-Stars.
The All-Star’s chances were dealt a cruel blow last week, when Bob Purcell, Cavanaugh Hall’s ace spiker, suffered a sprained ankle, and as a result will probably miss the All-Star affair. The Star’s command will probably send Frank Leahy’s bronzed Florida warrior, Johnny “Dough-boy” Lanahan, to the front in place of the injured Purcell. Lanahan has been in scalding water with league officials lately; but will be permitted to play by special joint consent of the league’s front office and from the Faculty team, piloted by John Scannell. George . Murphy rightly deserves a starting assignment because of his all-around play. He will be in one of the starting spots. St. Ed’s twin guns, Ray Nedweki and Dick Terry will fill in two of the other starting slots. Little Bob Walsh, Alumni I’s gift to the league, has also been assigned a berth. He’s the real fighter of the outfit. Joe Rigney, lanky Cavanaugh Hall, set-up man, occupies the sixth ’ and final spot. Reserves include, John
McNulty, Dave McLaughlin, Bob Neff, . Tim Torpey, and Bud Ahearn.
In last week’s games, St. Ed’s smothered Walsh Hall in a very close game; and then lost to an improved Cavanaugh I, tied for first place in the league standings. St. Ed’s is only one game out.
Other results: NROTC shelled Cavanaugh II in three games out of five to take a delayed battle. A default to Alumni II and a lashing by Alumni I accounted for Dillon’s two defeats this
week. Walsh trimmed Lanahan coached Breen-Phillips, taking three out of the four games. Rain again caused cancellation of two nights play.
Schedule for the week of August 10: Monday, 10th, NROTC vs. Breen-Phillips and Dillon vs. Alumni II; Tuesday, 11th, St. Edwards vs. Alumni I and Cavanaugh I vs. Walsh; Wednesday, 12th, NROTC vs. Alumni II and Breen-Phillips vs. Alumni I; Thursday, 13th, Dillon vs. Walsh and League All-Stars vs. Faculty; Friday, 14th, Cavanaugh I vs. Cavanaugh II and Alumni I vs. NROTC.
League Standings
TEAM	WON	LOST	PCT.
Alumni II-			 8	1	.889
Cavanaugh I 			 8	1	.889
St. Edward’s			 8	3	.727
Walsh 			 6	4	.600
Alumni I 				 5	4	.556
NROTC 			 4	•5	.444
Breen-Phillips 		2	7	.222
Cavanaugh II 			 2	8	.200
Dillon 				 0	9	.000
Coach Frank Leahy appointed to ’’All-Star” Staff.
15
“Safe at Home,” in Washington Hall, Tuesday night. The movie was shown through the. co-sponsorship of the Scholastic and the Knights of Columbus.
Directed by Ethan Allen and narrated by Red Barber, the film was very informative as well as entertaining. Director Allen used split screen shots to illustrate the fundamental hitting and pitching rhythm of the Senior circuit stars. More than 60 prominent National Leaguers participated in the 30-minute production.
The opening scenes indicated the value of baseball in civilian morale. “Safe at Home,” as did the American League movie which was shown on campus a few weeks ago, was concluded with shots of the Yankee-Dodger World Series of last • fall. Comedy sequences were provided by Mike Gonzales, Cardinal coach, Freddy Fitzsimmons, Dodger coach, and-Casey Stengel, Braves manager. Lou Novikoff, the “Mad Russian” of the Chicago Cubs, added to the film with a harmonica rendition.
DAVE SULLIVAN WINS CAMPUS GOLF TOURNEY DEFEATING JOE MOORE OVER UNIVERSITY COURSE
when Moore faltered. A brace of pars eliminated the game Moore as he muffed strokes on the next two holes to lose the match, 5 and 4.
BILL
Persistent putting enabled Sophomore Dave Sullivan, a sturdy bespectacled native of Dedham, Mass., to down Joe Moore, tall angular Chicago soph, 5 and 4, in the ‘36 hole finals of the annual University golf tournament last Sunday.
An overnight downpour made the fairways very soft and driving for any great distance was an impossibility. The finalists were, however, confident that towering pitch shots would burrow oiito the greens and stay. Off the tees and down the lanes both lads were sound shot makers whacking their drives as far as the damp turf would allow and clogging their chip shots close to the pins but Sullivan’s consistent putting fogged out the green work of Moore’s balky straight iron and gave the compact New Englander the campus golf title.
Slogging down the swampy fairways early Sunday morning Sullivan rammed to the lead on the second hole after splitting the first with the Chicago lad. Dave’s par four overshadowed Moore’s bogey and the easterner led one up until Moore minced the fifth hole to square the match.
A perfect three shoved Sullivan to the front on the short sixth green as Moore’s mashie-niblick swing fell short and took four tries to go down. Joe’s second wood buried within three feet of the pin on the eighth as the soggy greens sucked every lofted shot to an instant halt. Sullivan parred the hole but the slopeshouldered Moore tapped his short putt into the pot for a birdie three again evening the contest. Both lads slipped in pars on the final hole of the outgoing nine.
Dropping into the back stretch the Windy City ace drilled in a par on the tenth to take the lead which he doubled oh the fifteenth after halving four consecutive holes. Sullivan clutched the seventeenth and eighteenth holes to square the round as the boys dropped their clubs and headed for lunch and a short rest.
A spread of sunshine loosened the dew from the grass as the contestants trotted to the nineteenth tee.
Moore holed a 30 foot putt on the 20th carpet for a birdie three and slipped to the fore. Sullivan dropped a 40 foot try on the next green and the lead was erased. After dividing the 22nd hole Dave parred the 465 yard 23rd and pushed Moore behind. Sullivan’s clean putting wavered for the only time during
BOSS
the match on the twenty-fourth green when his second putt curled around the cup and fell out. Moore pinned a par to even affairs once more as Dave went one over.
The poor putting on the back green fired a spark in Sullivan and the squat easterner dropped difficult putts to grab the next two holes to lead two up after 27 holes.
The final nine was short. Moore matched Sullivan’s putting wand on the 28th and 29th as each lad dribbled in pars. Dave then forced his way to the front with a par three on the short 12th
Defeated finalist J. Moore congratulates victor, D. Sullivan (left). Photwby Wurzier
During the morning’s struggle both contestants shaped 75’s from a dripping 18 hole battlefield. Sullivan leaned two under par when the tiff was climaxed on the 32nd green.
Tolling the victory bell is not an innovation to the bespectacled Bay State lad. During the past few years he has snagged notable spots in numerous links tourneys around Boston and the New England area.
Among the club tournaments that the quiet speaking Dave has captured are: the Sandy Burr Championship at the Sandy Burr Country Club in Whalen and the Thorny Lea title. In 1940 the diminutive Dedham divoter reached the quarter-
i i
16
finals of the Massachusetts State Junior Championship and the quarter-finals of the New England States Amateur Tournament. He was second low amateur in the Vermont Open played on the hazardous Burlington lay out where the National Collegiate Golf tourney was held two years ago. Dave managed to finish second in the New Hampshire open in 1940.
An almost certain varsity starter next year Dave has seen competitive action only against a Navy team here in the Mid-west. It was not a regularly scheduled match but Sullivan shot a neat one-under-par 70 for his days work.
Lanky Joe Moore, the vanquished, received his primary fairway trainging at Mt. Carmel High in Chicago. He marched to the semi-finals in the Chicago District Junior tourney in 1939 and was medalist in the Catholic High tournament in 1940.
The score:
Morning round:
Sullivan Out : 444 463 44 4—37; In: 543 444 54 4—38 37 — 75.
Moore Out : 454 454 434 — 37; In: 44 3 44 3 5 6 5 — 38 37 — 75. Afternoon round:
Sullivan Out: 4 43 454 334 — 34;
In : 4 4 3 4—
Moore Out : 4 3 4 4 6 4 5 4 4 — 37.
In : 4 4 4 5
Continuing Winning Ways
Stars Defeat Dodge 10-1
Modeling after* Johnny Metzger’s perfect mound performances of the week before “Bobo” Fischer* clutched the hit bag firmly at Mishawaka last week doling out only two hits and one run to the Dodge A. C. as the summer varsity stretched their winning ways to three consecutive contests, 10 to 1.
The Stars were in command from beginning to end. Not once did Fischer’s fine flinging flare up. He pitched capable ball and was well-handled by backstop, Bill Stewart, who started his first tiff of the current campaign. The squad New Englander is probably the most conscientious ball player seen in the Star apparel. Bill has been shifted often by Coach Kline in an effort to find the spot -for* which he is best suited. From infield to outfield and then behind the plate wandered Bill. Now it looks like he’s at home to stay. Clamped in the outer gard-den, the former reserve quarterback, scrambled after every scurrying ball with equal vigor but he just wasn’t fast
enough to catch up with the fleeting agate at all times. The infield was out of the question but determined Bill did not give up. Being shifty and having a dependable arm he was shoved behind the plate. His light willow tags enough base drives to the outfield to make him a threat to any pitcher. At Mishawaka he slapped out a single in two official jaunts to the plate.
Fischer* whiffed eight Dodger batters while Faulhave, hurling for the easterners, was chalking up six strike-outs. “Dip” Evans led the Irish batting surge by whacking out three hits. Andy Chle-beck managed two blows in five trips to the stage.
The Stars met the Mishawaka nine earlier in the campaign. “Nibs” Trim-born tried to smother the Dodge men but was thrown for a loss in the late innings, 4 to 3.—Bill Boss
Track Meet Promised
If Interest is Shown
As the summer semester advances into its last stages, the interhall track program is rounding out exceptionally well.
The candidates in all events are getting into fine condition as a lot of interest is being shown and if this continues there will be a track meet open to the entire campus the last of August. This track meet is being emphasized to stir up a little more interest so that more students will come out and participate in the various events and get into tip-top shape for the event.
In the high jump, especially, a lot of good material is being turned out. Several men look like real varsity candidates, who are needed to fill the places left by such men as Keith O’Rourke.
Ed Ke’elan, an interhall high jumper deluxe looks like he might fill the bill as one of Notre Dame’s varsity jumpers this year. '
The program should prove to be a great builder of varsity track men for it offers opportunities in all events and men with possibilities are encouraged to try out.—George Blackmore
Unbeaten Dillon Holds
Interhall Tennis Lead
There are two teams in the inter-hall tennis league who are just not satisfied to be buried in the second division. These teams, the Naval R. O. T. C. and Cavanaugh, after a slow start, have moved steadily up toward the leaders. Both squads now have a record of three wins and one loss. They have taken over possession of second place, pushing Dillon II down to third place. Dillon I, however, still reigns as king with an unblemished record in their three matches.
This week’s play was confined to two matches due to the heavy rainfall. N. R. O. T. C. topped Breen-Phillips 4 to 1. Roy Grumbine put the Navy boys out in front in the first match, giving them a lead that they never relinquished. Grumbine beat Bud Steffen 6-3, 6-2. Bob Bobbett made it two straight with a 6-4, 6-1 win over Ed Denefe. Camille Vander Voort kept the frosh in the running with a. hard-fought win over Red Griffin by the scores of 6-4, 8-6. Jack Coleman put the clincher on the match by taking* the fourth point 6-3, 6-3 over Coughlin. Coleman then teamed with “Red” Griffin to defeat Denefe and Vander Voort 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. Rain caused the cancellation of the other doubles match.
The Cavaliers of Cavanaugh advanced with an easy 7-0 victory over Alumni. Bill Talbot of Cavanaugh- and John Doerr of Alumni battled for nearly two hours before Talbot came out on top 13-11, 4-6, 6-2. In the remaining matches the Juniors completely dominated play by allowing Alumni no more than four games in any set.
Intermittent rain throughout the week cancelled the Dillon I - Walsh, and Dillon II - Breen-Phillips matches. These will be played on some open Saturday or at the end of the season.
League Standings
Dillon I			WON 	 3	LOST 0	PCT. 1.000
N. R. O. T. C				 3	1	.750
Cavanaugh 			 3	I'	.750	.
Dillon II			 2	1	.667
Walsh 				 1	2	.333
Alumni 			 1	3	.250
Breen-Phillips 				 0	4	.000
Results: N.R.O.T.C. 4, Breen-Phillips 1; Cavanaugh 7, Alumni 0.
Schedule for the next two weeks:
August 11, N.R. O. T. C. vs. Alumni; Dillon I vs. Dillon II; August 13, Faculty vs. Walsh; Cavanaugh vs. Breen-Phillips; August 18, N.R.O.T.C. vs. Faculty; Dillon II vs Cavanaugh; August 20, Alumni vs. Walsh; Breen-Phillips vs. Dillon I.—Phil Keen
17
ON CAMPUS
The
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Welcomes you to the campus. We invite you to visit our shop at your first opportunity.
Souvenir Jewelry
Compacts Necklaces Bracelets Pins Novelties
Toilet Articles
Toothpaste
Shaving Creams Lotion
Soap
Postcards and Stationery Pens and Pencils
GREETING CARDS
INTRODUCING
F. “SLUSH” RICHARDS
George Biittner
Rounding out the Introducing column for this week we turn to tennis and its number one man, George “Bud” Biittner.
George, as you may or may not know, has claimed Schenectady, N. Y., as his home town for some 21 years now. It was at Brandywine Grammar school" that Bud first started to acquire the polish that comes with an education. Studying like mad Bud moved on to Central Park Junior High and finding studies rather boresome, turned to tennis. ■
The above account of Bud’s start in tennis might be Just a bit fictitious but it will suffice. While attending junior high, Bud was grade champ for three years in succession. Nott Terrace High School made Bud the number one tennis man for three years, and gave him the honor of captain in his senior year. Speaking of the team at Nott Terrace, Bud modestly stated that they were undefeated in 13 matches in his final year.
When not showing his wares for Nott Terrace, Bud was busy on his own, making himself district champ for two years and retiring the trophy, at the Sagamore Invitational Meet at Lake George. “I qualified for the National Interscholastic but that’s as far as it went,” added Bud sadly.
Physical Education, his major, holds Bud’s interest at Notre Dame. A high number in Uncle Sam’s draft is Mr. Biit-tner’s only hope of finishing school. He favors the Navy Physical Fitness program and would like to be a part of it.
Bud, too, like our interviewee of last week, has a young brother. He thinks the young Biittner is about the best tennis player to come to Nott Terrace High.
. In the past season here at Notre Dame, Bud has been an important cog on the Western Champion tennis team. He came through with a fine average of five wins against three losses. For the best team played this year, Bud picked Western Michigan.
Paul Martin, a gentleman from South Bend who is now coach at Lawrence College in Troy, N. Y., was Bud’s greatest - help in gaining tennis education and therefore is his idol of the net game. -
Injecting the feminine touch in this article we add: a young lady by the lilting name of Letitia McCarty holds the
number one spot in Bud’s thoughts. We will say no more.
During the summer months he is playing with the tennis team which is at present winning the Northern Indiana
League title. As vice-president of the Capital District Club he rounds out his life here at the “U” as a swell fellow to know.
Team Golf Tourney
Set For This Week-End
The-final golfing event on the summer calendar, the interhall team play cham. pionship,. will be held this week-end, August 8 and 9, over the William J. Burke Memorial Course.
Each hall on the campus will be represented by five competent golfers. These men will swing around the 36 hole layout and have the four lowest qualifying scores totaled to determine the team score. - ; . ' - -
A trophy will be awarded the winning hall; team and individual medals will be presented to each of the five, members of the winning team.
At present the Dillon Hall team looks very powerful boasting the services of campus golf king, Dave Sullivan, and runner-up, Joe Moore, Everhart Schleck, medalist in the University golf tournament, Jim Gallagher, and Jim Casey, both low scorers make up the quintet.
Cavanaugh Hall’s entry directed by Jim Crowley will be defended by Griff Allen, Bill Rempe, Joe Fieweger, and Crowley. Wally Christman will guide the < Alumni Hall outfit.	.
Congratulations "Zup" •
Arch Ward’s choice in Bob Zuppke as this year’s head coach showed the keen taste of an accomplished sportsman, a choice that none will contend. This is a grand gesture to one of the “greats” of American football. “Zup” in his many years on the gridiron has certainly given his all. It was he who gave us the short spiral snap from center to the backs. Then came his famous “screen” forward pass, a device that is no longer legal. His next invention was the guard protection for forward passers, an item which has become vital to all teams that use passing as their fundamental offensive device. The same year he came out with the forward and backward pass on the same play, a brilliant deception play that is still spreading all over the country. As John Heisman said in his article, “Makers of Modem Football,” Zuppke possesses a forceful character and has an original way of analyzing nearly all football problems.”	-
At Illinois he won six Conference championships, and put on the field some of the nation’s classiest teams. With the fine material and outstanding assistants, he should put on quite a show for the sporting world next August 27. We also wish to congratulate our own “super man,” Frank Leahy, on his appointment to the All-Star staff. Steve Juzwik ought to have a busy evening of it that night, as it has always been “Zup’s” contention that Steve is one of the finest players he has ever seen.	.
. "Puffin' Punchers"
. Those who were foolish enough to stay away from the bouts over at the fieldhouse can start regretting right now, as the boys put on a grand show. Ken Palmer proved to the audience that he’d be a poor boy to fool with when he K.O.’ed Bill O’Rourke. Of course Bill might have had a chance to get up and fight back if he hadn’t hit the floor so hard. A rematching of those two boys should prove interesting. Jack Leahy put on the fight of the evening when he out-distanced a truly fine fighter in Bill McNamara. You see that type of fighting on a good professional card. Sam Atwater proved to his followers again that he’s a man worth backing when he beat Joe Farrell. We would nominate Joe as the boy with the most “guts,” for he’s the type of boy who backs up only when its physically impossible for him to move ahead..
Harry Florence looks like the real thing this year, if he can only get some
"RED” LONERGAN
real competition. Only tough, breaks have kept Harry from a Bengal crown so far, but this looks like Harry’s year. The card wound up with a bang in the sense that Mr. Huber smacked Mr. Whitley who hit the floor ■with a bang. Here's another game boy who didn’t want to quit just because he was knocked out. That will be another interesting return match. They didn’t spare the costs when they acquired Harry Wright for the announcer as Harry leaves nothing to the imagination when he starts that “hog calling.” Yes “Nappie,” a few more shows like that last one and we’ll be running you for mayor.
Alumni Monopoly
There seems to be a race between Zahm and Alumni halls to see who can put the most intramural teams on the field, and Alumni claims the'momentary lead. Bob Walsh, the Alumni athletic director, has entered three softball teams and two volleyball teams for a total of some 40 Alumni boys out for the night sports, which isn’t bad, eh? The softball leagues are increasing in size and interest as the season progresses. This is certainly a compliment to the tireless effort of Director Scannell, and his assistant, Vince Commissa.
There ought to be an official name given to the intramural field south of the Biology building, on which all night activities are carried out. It wouldn’t be a bad idea if the students were given a chance to name it themselves. It used to be called Minims Field when Notre Dame had a preparatory school. -
The -man of the week seems to be Bucky Gallagher, the Walsh pitcher who tossed a one hitter against Dillon hall. The irony of it all is that the only tut off Bucky was a handle hit over first base. Sure your name isn’t “Lefty” Smith Bucky?.... The league’s finest managerial job seems to have been Bob Walsh’s for leading his Alumni I team back into the league leadership with six straight victories after losing their first one to Johnny Peasenelli’s Breen-Phillips organization. Alumni I knocked off Alumni II in a grudge game 15-7; it seems that the II boys claimed that they were a better outfit than the team Director Bob Walsh selected to represent the hall as their top team. Bob just points to the score and laughs. This might prove Bob’s point but to Commissioner Commissa it was a little World Series as both teams won their respective leagues.
NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
Bostonian Service Shoes_$8.95
M‘X ADLER Michigan at Washington
PALAIS ROY ALE
presents
Frankie Masters and His Orchestra
SATURDAY, AUGUST 8th
Adm. S5c per Person (Tax Incl.) 9 to 1
Old Pool "Commodious";
Almost Forgotten Today
Few present-day students realize that there still stands behind the Main Building in decrepit pride, one of the first and, during its day, one of the finest indoor pools in the country.
That natatorium hulked as large in the life of students then as does the Rockne Memorial pool today. The Scholastic of that winter indulged in the almost unheard of folly of printing two pictures to illustrate an article on the natatorium. And according to the Scho
19 ARRIVALS DAILY!
The Rockne Memorial pool is popular.
Yessir! Nineteen South Shore trains every day—breezing right through congested business districts into the heart of Chicago. No stop lights. No detours. No traffic problems.
Six convenient stations in Chicago — three in the Loop.
For information call
C. W. VEACH Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-31 I I
WELCOME, Navy Men! Ask about special furlough rates.
lastic reporter who wrote the story, “. . . here men from the different halls gather. ... In this way the swimming pool is constantly filled with a happy, plunging crowd of fellows that dive and swim simply for the pleasure it affords.”
The reporter termed the building a “commodious one” and listed its dimen-, sions as “90 feet long, 45 feet wide, two stories in height, of which the upper one is used as a trunk room.” Construction of the pool evidently brought with it difficulties, for the first pool was tom up and new layers of brick and cement were laid; the sides were then lined with glazed tiling. The Scholastic evaluated the pool “as near perfection as a swimming pool can be.”
At the turn of the century, Notre Dame was beginning to feel a pride in the oc-complishments of its teams and was beginning to' do . something about it. The new. gymnasium had been erected and-Cartier field had been laid out for sports when, “in the spirit of athletic progress,” a new natatorium was begun.
The 1902 article recorded the equipment of the pool building. On the first floor, were 18 needle and shower baths, bathtubs and closets. . These, according to the reporter, “are cleverly gotten up, and a student before using the pool must cleanse himself in one of . these.” ;
Steam-heated, the temperature was held at about 70 degrees. There was a life-guard on continuous duty. Depths of water ranged from six feet, six inches to seven feet, six inches. When the “minims and juniors,” used the pool, the water was lowered.
Today this “near perfect natatorium” stands hidden to most students under the shadow of the Main Building and surrounding trees. The darkness of its worn door-way and the red daubed “Closed” sign turn away the few students who wonder what the weather-beaten building may hold.—Ted Weber
The Lithuanian Club To Award Scholarships a
The Lithuanian University Club, which annually awards Sums of money to students of Lithuanian extraction who need financial assistance in continuing their college careers, has announced that applications should be sent in now for Scholarship awards for the school year of 1942-43. The award is in the form of an outright grant of $150.
Following are rules to be observed by all aspirants. Applicants for the award: may be college sophomores, juniors, or seniors; must have a scholastic average of “C” or better; must be residents of Illinois or neighboring states; must be of Lithuanian extraction; must be a student who has dire need of a Scholarship to continue his education; shall supply at least two recommendations (only one from a teacher); shall supply an official scholastic record; shall supply a recent photograph; shall write a letter explaining in detail need for scholarship; must be willing to appear for personal interview;
Applications must be post-marked not later than August 15, 1942. For application blanks and full particulars write to the chairman of the Scholarship Committee. The committee is comprised of the following members: Mr. Edgar R. Firant, 630 West 61st Street, Chicago; Helen E. Domkus; Irene C. Mankus, and Albin J. Reneckis.
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
8 TO 6 WEEK DAYS: 8 TO 8 SATURDAYS
13 Law Graduates of '42
Pass Bar Examinations
Word has been received by Law Dean Clarence E. Manion that 13 of the University’s 1942 Law graduates have been successful in their Bar examinations.
Those admitted to the Indiana Bar are James H. Neu, Plymouth, Ind.; Richard F. Swisher, Piedmont, Calif.; John Joseph Miller, South Bend; Alexis T. Tsiolis, South Bend; John M. Speca, Kenosha, Wis.
Admitted to the Illinois Bai- are Robert E. Richardson, Ottawa, Ill.; Edward J. Kelly, Seneca, Ill.; James J. McGoldrick, Philadelphia, Penn.; John J. Ward, Barrington, Ill. Mr. Miller also passed the Illinois examination.
William J. Syring of Toledo, Ohio and
101'LL FEEL HUH IBM THE WUHL
.. . when you step out in a pair of Douglas Shoes! For Navy men know that in Douglas they get that top quality, extra comfort and fine workmanship that comes from 66 years of fine shoemaking tradition.
'Dcuqlai Shoes ® W. L. DOUGLAS 4 SHOE CO.. BROCKTON. MASS.
Douglas ’’Dawn-to-the-Wood" construction assures you better fit—greater comfort.
Custom and Normal
Treds $g-50
$5.50/6-5°
The Briton
Black, plain toe Navy oxford The right shoe for smart appearance and lasting comfort Ask for style 0107
210 South Michigan Street
NEW SUMMER STYLES IN LADY DOUGLAS SHOES - $4.45 — $5 45
Anthony M. Bernard of Youngstown, 0. have been successful in the Ohio Bar examinations.
Admitted to the Iowa Bar is Philip J. Hamel, Sioux City, Iowa; and to the New York Bar, Ward James Rafferty, Rye, N. Y.	-
Henry P. Schrenker, Elwood, Ind. and James D. Lancaster, South Bend, who have joined the armed forces, are eligible for admission to the Indiana Bar without examination under the emergency regulation for men in military service. Robert Sullivan of Helena, Mont, passed the Montana Bar examination at the end of his Junior year.
Four of the 1942 Notre Dame lawyers are now with the Federal Bureau of Investigation: John J. Killen, Sterling, Ill.; William B. Mooney, Waverly, Iowa;
James J. McGoldrick and Robert E. Richardson. James Lang of Delphos, Ohio, a member of the 1943 class, is also. with the F.B.I.
WELCOME, NAVY LADS
Down Town at
SPIRO'S
You'll find all the necessary Furnishings for your new outfitting. .
★
121 SOUTH MICHIGAN
Spalding & Goldsmith
GOLF AND TENNIS
EQUIPMENT
"T" Shirts
TENNIS and GYM SHOES $1.69 to $5.50
Gym Equipment
SONNEBORN'S 121 West Colfax
23
ANNOUNCING 1
Shore -to- Shore Simpson Service
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient service which literally reaches from shore to shore, with offices and shops in 30 important naval bases to serve you. This is an advantage of great value to men. on the move. For instance, you can order uniforms here in South Bend, and they will be shipped to our New York Branch for fitting and delivery if you are assigned to the "Prairie State". . . to our Annapolis Branch if you are assigned there ... or to dur 646 North Michigan Avenue store in Chicago if you go to Abbott Hall. We also have a new branch in Ithaca for those who may take post-graduate work in Engineering.
After you graduate as an.officer, you will be able to secure the service you may require from time to time, at any of .our branches such as Boston, San Diego, Corpus Christi or 27 others. Wherever you find a Simpson Naval Shop you find a trained, efficient, courteous personnel to serve you.
J. B. SIMPSON SHOPS ARE LOCATED IN: .
Chicago (3)	New York. .	Pittsburgh
.Great Lakes	Boston.	Kansas City
Annapolis,	,	Philadelphia . Toledo
Ithaca	’ San Diego. Indianapolis
Pensacola	Detroit';. ---	Youngstown
Jacksonville	. -	Cleveland	Ft. Wayne
Corpus Christi St. Louis - .	; Memphis .
SanFrancisco	NewHaven	Houston
South Bend ?.	Newark .	North. Chicago
IN CHICAGO:	- \	. - ! 3 ■	. •	?	-;
Midshipmen's Store ; Officer's-Naval Store , . 646-N._ Michigan Ave. . .30 North Dearborn St.
OF OUR NEW hAV
205 N. MAN SOUTH BEhD,
The new J. B. Simpson Shop in South Bend
has been opened for the convenience of students at the Naval Training School at Notre Dame. Staffed by a trained and experienced?, personnel, this Naval Shop offers a complete line.of Naval dress and service uniforms and-accessories.
J. B. Simpson, Inc., is a long established firm in the Naval Uniform business with offices .and shops in 30 important naval bases, thus.as-■suring the. maximum in serv-.
ice to you.
IS THE Fl ISSUED
SATISF
If your issued terations to im| them in to J..E ‘ ient.Service De - opposite the C
Dame Campus.1
EXPERT |
Prompt Re
J. B. SIM
Fine Nai

at 20'
forms
ured
Notre
They
>F YC □TH 11 TORU
rms req i j their fit □son's c the Dinir :n on the
NATION
>f Garme
THE OPENING
LVAL SHOP AT N STREET >, INDIANA
We invite you to visit our Naval Shop
;tu-
ire eri; a ini-
at 205 North Main Street, to inspect our Uni
forms and .accessories.. You may be meas-.. ured for your requirements before leaving Notre Dame, and your uniforms.can be. made for you during your Midshipman training. They will be ready for you . when you com-
)F YOUR DTHING TORY?
• Irms require al- -i their fit, bring | bson's conven-the Dining Hal!
:n on the Notre
NATIONS ■
>f Garments
plete .your training and will be delivered to you through .the Simpson Shop or office located wherever you may be assigned.	.
■I Tailors
Finest Tailoring Liberal Credit
The long experience of J. B. Simpson, Inc., assures naval’officers the standard of quality, design, and .tailoring which will give complete satisfaction. All Simpson uniforms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability, and are sturdily constructed for more days of wear. . Or- . ders may be placed before leaving Notre Dame, without obligation to accept should -you fail to graduate, or should you be dissatisfied with our service, our uniforms, or the fit of our garments. . .	.	'
Very liberal '■ credit arrangements . are available to all. who desire them.- :No deposit is required at the time of ordering, and provisions may be made whereby you can take ten months to pay.
Your satisfaction is guaranteed because the completion of:all transactions is dependent upon your acceptance of the. completed uniforms. .	-	• . . .
WASHINGTON HALL GHOST
WELCOME V-7 MEN!
(Continued from page 7)
one is standing right next to you. He froze up like a-man paralyzed and wasn’t able to move for half an hour. When he was finally able to relax, he turned and peered anxiously about the room. No one was there and the door was locked. From here on the action was wild and frequent.
Two nights later Jim Bell, who was rooming in a double, was awakened in the same manner as Joe had been. There was the lonely wail of a trumpet at, if it was coming from the stage of Washington Hall. Then there came the pattering of feet directly opposite the bed. Jim was so frightened he was unable to summon his roomie wno was asleep in the lower
We carry the regulation Navy Shoes
St. Ed's A.C. hears strange sounds.
bunk. When he was finally able to look around, he could see nothing. A dim light was thrown over the transom from the night light in the corridor. Who or w Aat was causing these noises? The doors of the rooms were always locked. None ef the boys would give any sign that he was playing a joke. Besides, why was it always only one boy who heard the trumpet. If it was loud enough to wake up one, it certainly was loud enough to wake up all. What about the pattering feet?
Florsheim's, $10.50 up
Freeman's, $6.95 up
The campus was soon in an uproar. Groups of boys were sent over to sleep on the stage of Washington Hall, trying to catch the ghost, for it was a ghost, you know. Nothing happened during such
excursions, however, and the students in Washington Hall were left to solve their own spirit problems. By this time the boys were a little jittery. When one went to the caf, they all went. No one would stay in the hall alone. Something had to happen, and it did soon.
Harry Stevenson was a normal hard working student. Although he had his doubts as to the authenticity of the other boys’ stories, he still wanted to take no chances of arousing the ghost’s wrath. Harry lived on the third floor of Washington Hall, and as was his custom he descended to the drinking fountain on the second floor every night for a short snort before retiring. This certain night Harry had just turned from the fountain and had started toward the stairs when he heard a noise as of footsteps directly behind him. Then came the blast of a trumpet in his ear. Harry didn’t wait to see if it was Harry James practicing. He was up those stairs in just about nothing flat. Now the boys were really frightened. After all, you don’t ordinarily hear trumpets blowing in your ear late at night, especially if no one is behind you.
The last episode of our little tale took place about a week later. John Mangan, now official school chauffeur, was a studious lad, but even studious lads go out on occasional dates. Anyway, John had just returned from town and was undressing. The hall was especially quiet because all the boys had retired early. He was just removing his shirt when he heard it. There came from just outside his door the low toot of a trumpet. Then the doorknob began turning. John was too scared to call out, but he took a long chance. After all, it could be one of the boys trying to frighten him. He tip-toed over to the door, grasped the handle, and turned it around. When he heard the lock click he yanked open the door. No one was there. The hall was empty; and there wasn’t a sound.
This was the last of the mysterious episodes. There were no more turning doorknobs, rattling papers, pattering feet, or tooting trumpets. Now we ask, you, what do you think? And, oh yes! When you come in from your next midnight, be sure to lock your door and shut the transom. If ycu’re from Cavanaugh and vicinity, keep a careful watch for “The Gipper” and say hello for me if you see him, will you?
MAIN AT COLFAX
26
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
PIPES
9m the
Dining Room
the JtaSaUe, <9t&tel
You will enjoy fine ■food — distinctive appointments and excellent, service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to THE HUDDLE
NOTRE DAME DIARY
Phil Keen
Again we consult the little fellow who keeps those three foot putts out of the cup, and he tells us that it would be interesting to look into the date of April first and find out the past events as recorded by the Scholastic.
75 Years Ago
The first of April was signalized by more ludicrous occurrences than have ever come to light.... Articles for publication, in the Scholastic must be received before Wednesday noon, otherwise no attention will be paid to them.... The president’s parlor was the scene of a meeting of the resident alumni. On motion of Professor William Evers, A.M., M. T. Corby was chosen as secretary pro tem.
50 Years Ago
The dress parade Sunday afternoon by the Hoynes Light Guards was one of the best ever held here. Promptly after dinner they appeared on the lawn in front of the main building- and were followed by the Sorin Cadets, and were loudly cheered.... It gives us great pleasure to announce that the commencement oration on “The Dignity of Labor” will this year be delivered by Monsignor Seton, D.D., of Jersey City, N. J. . . . Monday an exciting victory was won by Captain Cavanaugh’s “Stalwarts” over Brother Hugh’s “Good Enoughs.” The score was 10 to 9 in ten innings.
10 Years Ago
Continuing an unbroken line of victories, Notre Dame’s affirmative debate team, Hugh Fitzgerald, Robert Schmelzle, and William Kirby won a decision over Albion College last Sunday in Washington Hall.... Ted Weems and his countrywide famous band have been given the contract for the Senior Ball to be held Friday evening, May 12, in the Palais Royale Ballroom.... We laugh at all professors jokes no matter what they be;' not because they’re funny ones, just because it’s policy. (From College Parade) .... Trackmen score in four events at the Armour Relays.
5 Years Ago
Richard Crooks, leading tenor of the Metropolitan Opera Association, will give a concert in the gymnasium on Friday May 6.... Long scrimmages this afternoon and tomorrow will top off the fourth week of spring practice for the Fighting Irish hopefuls... 20,000 alumni and old students of the University of Notre Dame, together with thousands of radio fans throughout the United States, will observe annual Notre Dame night
in unison on April 25 by means of coordinated radio programs.... A friend of ours who patrols Michigan Street regularly four or five afternoons a week, reports that he noticed a fellow in front of Walgreen’s corner last Sunday, watching passersby through a pair of binoculars. (From “The Week,” naturally).
Specialising in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sherland Building
L. E. fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S.
Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend. Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2674
27
Notice!

NAVY V-7 WELCOME!
Important Notice!
We are proud and nappy to greet you .	.	. Future Officers of the greatest
Navy in the world —
For Your Convenience
BOSTON has more than
600 PAIRS
of REGULATION DRESS OXFORDS available in all sizes, 6 to 12, in B, C and D widths.
Black
Blucher, Plain Toe Oxford
SPECIALLY PRICED to Navy V-7 Men at
$ J35
per pair
I Our regular $5.85 quality)
To facilitate handling we have developed the following method: Come into the store and be measured and fitted in the correct size. Your shoes will then be made available from the warehouse stock and delivered to you on the Notre Dame campus.
The Boston Shoe Store is justifiably proud of its record of fitting shoes properly, with emphasis on Quality Merchandise, sold at Popular Prices. We back each sale with a 43-year reputation for Integrity and Honest Value. To serve you will be deemed a privilege.
THE BOSTON SHOE STORE
124 South Michigan Street	South Bend	' i'
Fashion Footwear . . . . Always Properly Fitted J