aa
GOT STARTED
HOW THE STARS
J^bwood
AMERICA’S NO. 1 “QUEEN OF THE ICE”
Camels agree with more people
THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness’and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette I
I STARTED SMOKING CAMELS
ABOUT NINE YEARS AGO. I FIND
Camels delightful mildness
AND FLAVOR SUIT ME JUST

Donna Atwood says:
“I was 13 before I put on skates.
I’d had ballet lessons and this helped my skating. In three months, I surprised even myself by winning the Pacific Coast novice championship. Three years later — the National Singles and Pairs. Then I joined the Ice Capades. Skating’s still fun!

RIGHT, YEAR AFTER YEAR!
YOU SHOULD TRY CAMELS
Scholastic
Vol. 95 APRIL 2, 1954 No. 21
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.	'
Editor
PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ...................Features
FRED C. ECKART......................News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ....Assistant News JOHN A. ADAMS ..................... Copy
ROBERT B. FROLICHER...............Sports
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ............Circulation JERRY D. BAIER ...............Advertising
BOB FOWLER__________Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE_______Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates. Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton, Robert Kaufman, John Kelly. Eugene Les-mez, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Jack Mullin, Francis Newman, Dick Norton. Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Norman Wendrowski.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski. Dave Davin, Kit Eckl. Gary Gates, John Guegen, Dave Kilkeary, Jack Kirby, Ray Leschcr, Dick Mannion, Jim Morris, John Phelan, Bob Ruhl. ADVERTISING ASSISTANTS: Ken Woodward, Pat Logan.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Coliegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: Jefferson Caffery, U. S. Ambassador to Egypt, was named Sunday as the 72nd Laetare Medalist. For more than 40 years he has been active in the Nation’s Foreign Service, serving in 15 countries. ’
Mr. Caffery j’oins four other diplomats in holding the Laetare Medal. The last of these was Carlton J. H. Hayes, Ambassador to Spain, who won the Medal in 1946.
A story on Mr. Caffery and other Medalists appears on page 10.
See the latest “After Six” formal wear at
Michigan at Washington — On the Comer
April 2, 1954
3
Parker-Wiiterrowd Inc.
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Wintemwd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
H5I/2-H7I/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Thank You, Mr. Hank!
Editor:
Thanks very much to you and your staff for the fine job of covering the National Invitational Debate Tournament. The officials of each school represented here were sent copies of that issue.
I would also like to pass on my thanks to the Administration, the various student groups and the members of our Debate Team who gave their help so freely.
Without this help it would have been impossible to run a successful meet.
Thanks again. William J. Hank, Tournament Manager 332 Walsh Hall
■
Count Me Out!
Editor:
In your issue of March 19 I am quoted as saying, “The only thing the rule has meant to many studeffts is another hour out of the sack.” I wish to point out that this quote does not present my true feelings on the subject. I am a great believer in human freedom. . . Here in the University my concern is for intellectual freedom. The new rule on lights ■ does give added illumination for reading and writing, of the sort we should be more interested in. . .
... at the end of your article, your reporter, it seems to me, appeals to sentiment. “In those days everyone rolled out at 5:30 each morning. Each hour of the day there was a set place where each student was expected to be.” And why should your reporter ring in such dubious facts as that all students in the old days spent all their time either studying or in bed? Really. Do you expect students to believe this? Human nature hasn’t changed, has it?
Lest you think me irate, recall Cicero’s remark: “Let them take care that it -is not considered a most unjust and intolerable thing. . .” this letter.
In veritate, John Gordon First Floor Fisher
■
Old Glory's Predicament
Editor:
It seems to me with the large number of military personnel on the campus that someone should be delegated the apparently onerous task of raising and lowering our country’s flag on its staff in front of the Law Building on class days.
It would be fitting if members of the campus- reserve units were to perform this duty and there would be a certain
amount of color involved if a member of each branch were present at the time.
I realize that this is a university and not an army post but nowadays we go from school into the service so let it be a reminder1 of things to come.
Naturally, all motion ceases while the ceremony .is in progress.
The details I leave to you.
John J. Vail Off-Campus. ■
Who’s “Naive”?
Editor:
How childish does Mr. Gordon Bergquist think we freshmen are?
His “advice” not to study, to get profs who do not take roll, to “rave and scream” in Washington Hall, makes me wonder just who is “naive.”
I would like to give some advice to Mr. Bergquist. In the future pay more attention to your column and less attention to things which you know nothing about.	Dick Streit
251 Zahm Hall
J
*
CANOE TRIPS
Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $5.00 per man per day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and map write: Bill Rom. CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box 717 C. Ely Minnesota.
REStlUNG
/15^5
WITH
STANDS OUT
STANDS UP
COSTS LESS
• Moisture Immune o Lasting Liveliness
• Harder Smashes
• Better Cut and Spin
At tennb shops and spotting goods stores.
APPROX. SDUNONO COST: Pto^aded Braid„..$6.00 Multi-Ply Braid..$5.00

*$ - * A ■ = R A IDED RACKETSTRING '~z :c c’ T”e Champions
4
The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the WEEK
(Editor's Note: This *?/*!*! blankety-blank column.)
The Pineapple League
The Pineapple League, local counterpart of the Grapefruit League, got things underway last Saturday out on Windswept Field, better known to the less athletic as the Bog. The initial game of the season proved to be a corker, too; 11 innings—oh! Our aching backs.
Our side finally won, though, 4-3 . . . or was it 24-23 . . .
oh well, something like that. One reason for the low score was the softball. It was just that—soft. It took on a different complexion each time one of the batters hit it, which, luckily for the ball, wasn’t too often.
Another prominent reason was one Frank Raith, who showed rare midseason form in recording seven strikeouts. The only drawback was, Frank wasn’t pitching. Seems Frank had a little difficulty in navigating the old willow to the approximate longitude and latitude of the ball at a given time. That’s okay ‘Swish,’ there’ll be better days . . . there couldn’t be any worse.
Bowkays
Congrats appear to be in order to the Senior Ball Committee—George Pflaum, Ron Mazzoli and Company—for finally injecting a little rhyme and reason into the sale of the Ball ducats. The other classes might do well to take a cue from you.
Mechanics Section
We don’t have to waste time asking you if anyone noticed that bright yellow job answering to the name of Buick Roadmaster out in the Walsh hinterland last WEEK. You could see it from over by the Aero Building.
The queer thing about it was, our roomie had been up to the auto show in Chitown the previous weekend and, well, you know . . . little things like that sort of worry you once in awhile.
Everything turned out okay, though. Whoever the exhibitionist was who belonged to it finally drove it away, and life once more returned to normal on our rustic campus . . . and the troops no longer crossed the Bog toward the Chow Hall with their tongues hanging out.
The Dukes of Palooka
See by the paper where Joe Palooka is fighting in the old hometown—Utica. Funny, dad didn’t say anything in his
last letter about it. Wish we were home —sure would like to see the champ perform. ’Course maybe he’ll still be there when we get home for Easter. You know how some of those fights drag out.
A Funny
Here’s one to keep in mind with vacation just around the corner:
They sat on the swing in the moonlight for half an hour without a word breaking the stillness. Then—
“Suppose you had money,” she said, “what would you do?”
He threw out his chest in all the glory of young manhood and proclaimed, “I’d travel.”
He felt her young, warm hand slip into his. When he looked up she was gone ... in his hand was a nickel.
Bottom of the WEEK
(Author’s Note: Tsk, Tsk, such a temper!)
A. Osborn's 'Thought1 Courses To Get Close University Study
Consideration of courses in “creative thinking” suggested by Alex F. Osborn, one of the founders and directors of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, New York advertising agency, has been started by the University for initiation in the Fall semester beginning next September.
No definite plans have been made' according to Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce. However, the proposed curriculum will be studied further by University officials.
Osborn visited Notre' Dame recently to consult with University heads about his proposed course and to explain it to faculty members and students in a talk in the Law Auditorium.
Osborn credits a dinner with Rev.
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., past president of the University and now director of the Notre Dame' Foundation, and DeWitt Wallace, editor and publisher of The Reader’s Digest, with giving him the inspiration for starting his present campaign.
The result of such a program, Osborn says, is to develop a “new attitude” in the student which gives him “a confidence and ability to solve problems and to get new ideas and a desire to try harder to use this ability.”
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
DRRWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
— OPTICAL RH»AIRS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring In The Pieces” — EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our "Pizza and Spaghetti” The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made ChiE Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
April 2, 1954

6
APRIL 2
AVON (ends tomorrow)—Naked Jungle (A-2) received only mediocre rave notices from the so-called experts, but most of the troops who have seen it, seemed to like it. Who are we to argue?
COLFAX (through April 7)—Rhapsody (B) combines the oft-used love triangle gimmick with beautiful scenery, and music that’s a real pleasure to listen to.
GRANADA (through April 10)—Hell and High Water (A-l) is almost sure to be a box office hit. The CinemaScope production has an intriguing and suspenseful cloak and dagger story that is handled ingeniously by the actors and by the production crew. Richard Widmark has the lead role of professional sailor who commands a civilian-sponsored submarine reconais-sance of a suspected Red Atom Bomb base.
PALACE (through April 7)—Beachhead (A-2) might have been more timely a few years ago since it’s concerned with World War II in the Pacific, but even now, it should prove pretty entertaining. The picture, however, does become a little unrealistic at times, especially when a dish like Mary Murphy turns up on a war-torn island and helps a couple of marines (Tony Curtis and Frank Lovejoy) accomplish their mission. Robot Monster is also on the bill, if you like a double feature.
APRIL 3
WASHINGTON HALL (1-5 p.m. and 8:30-11 p.m.)—Notre Dame hosts the State-Wide Invitational One-Act Play Festival.
APRIL 4
WASHINGTON HALL (11 a.m.-noon)—Conclusion of the One-Act Play Festival.
WASHINGTON HALL (2:30, 6:30 and 8:25)—All the Brothers Were Valiant (A-2) with Bob Taylor, Stewart Granger and Ann Blyth. You’ll see what we mean when we say this is a WHALE of a picture.
STATE (through April 7)—The management continues to show the Oscar winners and draw the crowds. This time’ it’s Stalag 17 and Roman Holiday.
AVON (through April 10)—Jeff Chandler chases all over the globe, encountering mucho danger (which he of course survives), all for the love of a redhead, in Yankee Pasha (A-2). The redhead is Ronda Fleming so his actions cannot be regarded as being too foolhardy.
APRIL 6
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30 p.m.) —Dr. William Burke of the English department and his wife speak at the last session of the Marriage Institute. Their subject is “Success in Marriage.” A movie on reproduction will be shown following the lecture.
APRIL 8
COLFAX (a week)—A mixture of farce, comedy, and songs make Red Garters (B) an enjoyable picture, though certainly not a top-notcher. The main drawback is the lack of originality in the story. In the cast are Rosemary Clooney, Jack Carson, Guy Mitchell, and LIFE’S recent cover girl, Pat Crowley.
PALACE (a week)—Miami Story and Iron Claw are so new that we couldn’t find any information on them.
STATE (three days)—High Noon and African Queen were tentatively booked as we went to press. .
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquete and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
AlnaHf and Baah Shop.
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
128 W. Washington
The Scholastic
ooms pm

r>

MURROW AND McCARTHY “Stop Throwing Mud, Joe.”
VETO OF 1954 STUDENT MUSICAL by a three-man committee, in the Department of Speech dealt quite a blow, it seems, to everyone around the University who appreciates good entertainment.
Rev. James E. Norton, vice-president of student affairs, indicated in the committee report that there were two main reasons why this year’s annual student-produced show drew a big, fat “No.” Preparation, he said, would be cut down to only four weeks because of the extended Easter vacation; and the scripts which were submitted did not represent University material.
The report explains “why” the undertaking of such a production was considered impossible for this year; but the fact remains that everyone is just plain disappointed.
The solution for eliminating such circumstances, which will inevitably arise again in future years if nothing is done, rests in the hands of the students. Someone, who has productive ability and is interested enough in this sort of thing, should obtain an Activities Franchise from the Student Senate and form a Student Musical “Club.” It would then be the function of the club to set down certain administration-approved standards to which submitted scripts should conform, and then see that they are met.
This should insure student musicals for future years. The Class of 1954 had to learn the hard way.
THE WELL-AIMED BARRAGE of verbal and pictorial damnation which Radio-TV commentator Edward R. Murrow recently threw at Senator McCarthy on CBS’s “See It Now” tele-show seems to have backfired.
The spontaneous result was that undernourished members of the anti-McCarthy faction finally had found something immediate to feed upon, grouped behind the leadership of Murrow, former vice-president and still a director of CBS.
Within a week, however, the glitter of Murrow’s valor had taken on a tarnish. The reasons: some said TV shouldn’t take sides; others said Murrow shouldn’t use the same tactics he was condemning, (i.e.) using highly selective films in support of his argument.	_
The fact that Murrow packed the punch of his argument with the attack on McCarthy’s personal antics proves only that Murrow didn’t have the black and white goods on the Wisconsin senator. If he would have had them, he would have used them.
We’re not taking sides as to whether McCarthy’s tactics are right or wrong, but we are disappointed with Murrow’s failure to produce an above-par argument—which is unusual in his case.
• _ -
SEVERAL ANONYMOUS LETTERS have been sent into Scholastic's editorial offices within the past couple of weeks. Our policy, how- j ever, is to disregard them. We’d like to explain, for the benefit of our । readers, just why:	- >
One reason is that our editors can’t be sure as to whether or not the. . letters have been submitted by legitimate subscribers. If we were to adopt this policy, the “Letters Column” could easily fall prey either to individuals or groups of individuals who like to play useless pranks, or to others who prefer to raise rabble solely for the purpose of rabble. This would, in effect, thereby deprive our real subscribers of the opportunity of expressing their opinions.
Secondly, and most important, is the fact that we consider an anonymous letter—even if it is sincere—a dead issue. To be frank—they’re . filed in the wastebasket.	.
It’s our opinion that, if a man doesn’t sign his letters, he’s either: lacking an argument to substantiate his opinions; or he’s afraid of criti- = cism. And, in either of these two cases, he shouldn’t say anything in the first place.
. 7
April 2, 1954
imons
Scholastic
and
“Epoch-making. . . . One might have looked in vain for an historically-minded study of Catholicism in our society until the appearance of the present volume.”—Catholic Book Club News.
“Splendid articles . . . impressive learning ... an exhaustive array of facts that no Catholic can read without being at times startled, at times stunned, at times immensely encouraged. . . . The last word on contemporary Catholicism.”—Ave Maria.
THE
Catholic Church
in
WORLD AFFAIRS
A serious and realistic analysis of the is* sues at stake in the relations of the Church and the modern world—designed to meet the need for a medium-length, factual and readable account of the role the Church is playing in contemporary world affairs.
420 pages, $4.25
A Catholic Book Club selection
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS Notre Dame, Indiana
Edited bv
John Courtney & Edward L. Heston Monsignor Harry Oskar Bauhofer Yves R. Simon n Heinrich Rommen * Karl Thieme
Current Issues Discussed:

Church-State problem . . . Popes and peace in the 20th century ... Papal diplo* macy . . . Doctrinal issue between Church and democracy . . . The Church and human rights . . . Continental Protestantism after World War II . . . The American social question . . . The Catholic Church in England, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Latin America, and the United States.
®* *e Bookstore
rjnr
SEHHUM
Volume 95, Number 21
Notre Dame, Indiana
April 2, 1954
One-Act Play Contest Draws Eight Entries; Matinee Opens Second Festival Tomorrow
The State-Wide Invitational One-Act Play Festival will get underway tomorrow afternoon in Washington Hall. The plays will be presented from 2:30 to 5 tomorrow afternoon and from 7:30 to 9:30 in the evening. The Festival will continue Sunday at 10 a.m., concluding at 11:30 ■with the presentation of plaques to the -winners in Washington Hall. There' wall be no admission charge.
Following tomorrow night’s performances, a party will be held in the Student Center for the casts.
The Notre Dame group, directed by Prof. John D. Tumpane of the Department of Speech, and seven other Catholic drama groups and colleges will participate. There is no basic theme being followed.
The groups and selections are: Notre Dame—The Second Act of the Torch Bearers, George Kelly; St. Mary’s—The Happy Journey, Thornton Wilder; St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods—Parable of Devil’s Bridge, Henri Gheon; St. Joseph’s, Collegeville—Hoop Is a Thing With Feathers, Richard Harrity; Marion College, Indianapolis—Red Carnations, Glenn Hughes; The Catholic Theater Guild of Evansville — Fascinating Foundling, George Bernard Shaw; St. John’s Drama Club, Whiting—Riders to the Sea, J. M. Synge; and the Catholic Theater Guild of Indianapolis—Desmos Did It, by J. Robert Dietz, a former drama teacher at St. Mary’s. The' order of presentation will be determined by drawing lots.
Representing the University will be: Dick Robison, John Noland, Bill Bleak-ley, George O’Donnell, and Ed Sexauer; Misses Evelyn Kaskey, Phyllis Beck, Mary Miles, Denni Egry, and Mona Ber-dini, all of South Bend.
The Festival, sponsored this year by Notre Dame, is in its second year. It was originated last year at St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods to encourage drama and friendship between Catholic drama groups.
Three judges in the drama field will pick the best play, actor, and actress.
The first judge is Mr. George Hekker, drama critic of Our Sunday Visitor,
Fort Wayne. Aiding Mr. Hekker will be Sister Mary Agnese, S.P., of St. Agnes’ Academy, Indianapolis, and Mr. Frank G. Schmidt, drama critic of the South Bend Tribune.
Scenery, which is limited to basic needs to insure swift staging, will be furnished by Notre Dame.
BERNARD J. LaLONDE
New Editor Gets Things Rolling
LaLonde Is Selected Editor of 1955'Dome1
Setting a precedent in the early selection of the Dome editor, John P. Defant, director of publications, has announced the appointment of Bernard J. LaLonde as editor of the 1955 Dome.
LaLonde, a junior economics major from Detroit and holder of a Ford Motor Co. scholarship, is the associate editor of the 1954 Dome. LaLonde states that he will start the layout for the 1955 yearbook immediately and he expects to complete the book’s design before the start of the Summer vacation.
The new editor declares that changes in style and format are being planned for the 1955 annual. “Since the plan-
Student Musical Vetoed For '54 on Two Counts
A final decision was passed this week by a specially appointed three-man committee in the Department of Speech to drop the annual student musical, it was reported by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs.
The annual student-produced show, usually staged late in Spring, drew committee fire on two counts, states Father Norton.
The first, and most important, is the question of time. The change in the Easter vacation, with its extension of length, would permit only two weeks before and two weeks after it for preparation of the musical. The committee felt this circumstance would be unfair to the production itself.
Secondly, the committee' was divided on whether any of the three entries submitted were, in their present form, University material. It was felt that perhaps some revamping could have been done to make one of the musicals acceptable, but the lack of time again proved the obstacle.
“A high level is needed toward which student playwrights should have to strive,” the committee quoted. “We do not believe it right to have a student musical through tradition, but through merit,” they added.
ning of the ’55 Dome will begin earlier this year than in previous years,” he continues, “we expect a better and more complete coverage of 1954-55 activities. I have an ambitious and talented staff shaping up, which is any editor’s greatest asset.
“Because the Dome is published for the students,” LaLonde adds, “I would appreciate any constructive suggestions from them. They should address all suggestions to me in care of the Dome.”
The remainder of the 1955 Dome editorial staff will be announced at the annual publications banquet in May. The editor of the 1954 Dome is Senior Al Sulwalsky.
April 2, 1954
Ambassador to Egypt. Cattery, Announced As Recipient of University's Laetare Medal
has been described as a career man with a profound sense of duty to his country and as one of the most efficient administrators in the Foreign Service of the United States.
Jefferson Caffery, U. S. Ambassador to Egypt, was named by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, as the recipient of the University’s distinguished Laetare Medal for 1954. The award has been made annually since 1883 to an outstanding American Catholic Layman.
In announcing the selection of the veteran career diplomat, Father Hesburgh said:
“In more than four decades of service to his country, Jefferson Caffery has distinguished himself as a diplomat of the highest competence and integrity. He has held many positions of responsibility in the capitals of the world as the United States advanced to a position of world leadership. In his public and private life, Ambassador Caffery has
I. A. O’SHAUGHNESSY
Recipient in 1953 . . .
exemplified the finest ideals of his country and his church. Particularly in these times, his career stands as a challenge to all in government service who would serve their country faithfully and well. It should also be an inspiration to young men and women who aspire to a career in the Foreign Service.”
Ambassador Caffery has been a member of the American Foreign Service for 43 years. He is senior in point of service to all American ambassadors and has held the rank of chief of mission as ambassador or minister for 28 years. Before assuming his present post in 1949, Caffery served as assistant Secretary of State, and Ambassador to Cuba, Brazil and France.
“For distinguished service” and “superlative diplomatic skill over a long
number of year’s” Caffery received the State Department’s Distinguished Service Award on Oct. 17, 1950.
Caffery is the fifth diplomat to receive the Laetare Medal since .it was established 71 years ago by Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of the University. Earlier recipients include Richard C. Kerens, 1904, Ambassador to Austria-Hungary; Maurice Francis Egan, 1910, Minister to Denmark; G. Howland Shaw, 1945, Assistant Secretary of State; and Carlton J. H. Hayes, 1946, Ambassador to Spain.
O’Shaughnessy '53 Medalist
Last year’s recipient was the oil industry executive and philanthropist, I. A. O’Shaughnessy. Mr. O’Shaughnessy is the donor of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts on campus. A member of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees, he received an honorary doctor’s degree from Notre Dame in 1947.
Thomas E. Murray, a member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, was the 1952 Laetare Medalist. Mr. Murray, who helped to establish the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, formerly served as head of the Catholic Charities .in Brooklyn, N. Y. Papal titles conferred on him include those of Knight of St. Gregory, Knight of Malta, C. M., and Knight of the Holy Sepulchre.
The winner of the Laetare Medal each year is named on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. Formal presentation of .the medal is arranged for a time and place convenient for the recipient. Other recent Laetare Medalists are: Irene Dunne, actress; Gen. J. Lawton Collins, U. S. Army Chief of Staff; and John Henry Phelan, philanthropist.
Jefferson Caffery was born in Lafayette, La., on Dec. 1, 1886. He was graduated from Tulane University in 1906 and was admitted to the Louisiana Bar in 1909. Caffery became a convert to Catholicism in 1928 and married the former Gertrude McCarthy of Chicago in 1937.
Began Service in 1911
Caffery’s first appointment in the diplomatic service was as secretary to the Legation at Caracas, Venezuela, in 1911. In the intervening 43 years, he has served in 15 national capitals including Caracas, Stockholm, Teheran, London, Madrid, Athens, Tokyo, Berlin, Brussels, San Salvador, Bogota, Havana, Rio de Janeiro, Paris and Cairo. He
In Paris during the peace conference following World War I, Caffery served as a member of President Wilson’s staff. He became counselor of the Embassy at Tokyo and after the great Tokyo-Yokohama earthquake of 1923, he was chairman of American Red Cross activities there through March, 1924.
While serving as Ambassador to Cuba, his most notable achievement was the negotiation of a reciprocal trade agreement between the United States and that country. As Ambassador to Brazil, Caffery played an important role in negotiations which resulted in the “Corridor to Victory” which allowed U. S. use of Brazilian air bases.
As Ambassador to France, Caffery represented the United States and signed peace treaties with Italy, Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria at Paris during
THOMAS E. MURRAY ... And 1952
1947. He also played an important part in negotiating Marshall Plan aid for Europe.
In 1949, Caffery was named Ambassador to Egypt. Since that time, Caffery has played a key role in the fight against Communism in the Middle East. He has also assisted informally in the difficult Anglo-Egyptian negotiations over the Suez Canal.
In receiving Notre Dame’s Laetare Medal, Ambassador Caffery joins a distinguished group of Americans of whom it has been said:
“The Laetare Medal has been worn only by men and women whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity.”
10
The Scholastic
Tickets For Frosh Frolic Go on Sole Sunday Night
Bids fox- the Freshman Frolic will go on sale Sunday in the lobby of Farley Hall. Sale of the bids, which will take place between 6 and 7:30 p.m., will continue through Monday and Tuesday. Approximately 450 tickets will be available at §5.50 each.
Bill Walkex- and his orchestra, currently playing in the Pump Room in Chicago, will provide the musical beats for the dance on April 30. The Student Centex- will be the' scene of the affair.
Breaking a long-standing tradition, the queen of the Frolic will be elected by the vote of freshmen attending the dance. Usually the date of the' dance chaix-man is automatically named queen. This yeax-15 or 20 pictures of dates will be selected from those entered by dancegoers for the final voting. Voting will take' place at the time of the ticket purchase.
The queen of the dance will be announced next Saturday. The escox-t of the elected queen will receive a free ticket to the dance and the other activities, including the Communion breakfast on May 2.
Another- novelty will be in vogue' at the sale of the bids. The first ticket will be sold for $3.50, the second and third for $4.50. Pre-numbered ducats, known only to the committee, will be sold at a dollar discount dui'ing the sales.
Jack Moynahan and Marty Murphy are co-chaii-men for the ticket sales.
Blue Circle Will Announce New Members Wednesday
The Blue Circle will announce final membership selections for next year on Wednesday evening, it was announced by Pat O’Malley, membership chairman.
More than 119 applicants submitted fox-mal applications for admission to the organization. Of these 119, 21 will be accepted. Seven men each, representing the Freshman, Sophomore, and Juniox-classes, will be granted membership on the basis of theii- qualities of leadership, responsibility, and attitude. Every one of the 119 has been granted a 15-minute personal interview with one of the five interviewing boards, each headed by a Blue Circle officer.	•
Each class is represented by a board of interviewers. Those recommended by the boards will await final approval by the Blue Circle Membership Committee itself.
The inteiwiews have been held earliex-than usual this yeax* with the hope that those selected will have bettex- opportunity to acquaint themselves with problems and procedures of the Blue Circle.
Junior Prom Bid Sales to Open Wednesday: 500 Senior Ball Ducats Are Sold in 45 Minutes
Some 500 juniors are expected to take up where an equal numbex- of seniors left off last Monday when the.third-yeax-men go aftex- theix- Junior Prom bids scheduled to start selling Wednesday night on the dix-t oval of the fieldhouse from 7 to 11:30.
Approximately 300 tickets to the Junior Prom Communion Breakfast and 175 ducats to the Saturday night DinnerDance at the Soxxth Bend Country Club will go on the block with the 500 px-om bids. The prom bid will cost $8 pex-couple; the Dinner-Dance ticket will run $7.75 pex- couple; and the Communion Breakfast ticket will run $2.50 pex-couple.
At this time it will be decided whethexox- not to publish a soxxvenix- booklet of the Prom. Only if a sufficient numbex-of students express a desire fox- the picture booklet, will it be initiated.
The Prom will be the initial event fox-the juniors and theix* dates, getting underway at 9:30 p.m. Friday, in the Student Center, and will last until 1:30 a.m. The theme of the Prom, “Fascination,” will be set to the music of Ralph Flanagan and his orchestra.
The Dinner-Dance will headline Saturday night’s activities. There -will also be a dance at the Student Centex- fox-those unable to attend the! Dinner-Dance. The Communion Breakfast Sunday morning in the Dining Hall will conclude the weekend’s activities. Prom Chairman Don Yeckel says, “It is cex-tainly a fitting ending to the weekend’s activities, and we hope it wall be a great success.”
Jim Hesburgh, chairman of the Communion Breakfast, has assembled the program of guests and speakers fox- the Breakfast. Speakers include Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., vice-president of the University; Head Football Coach Texry Brennan and possibly, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Honored guests will include Mrs. Terry Brerman; Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of business affairs; Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs; Rev. James E. Noxton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs; Rev. Joseph Barry, Juniox-Class chaplain; and the Juniox- Hall rectox-s, Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., of Dillon; Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., of Soxin; and Rev. Robex-t Pelton, C.S.C., of Badin.
Last Monday evening lines formed in the Engineering Auditorium three hours befox-e the Seniox- Ball tickets went on sale. Early ax-rivals were promptly
given numbers fox- positions in line when the sale opened.
According to Tom Stabler, ticket chaix-man of the Senior Ball, 500 of 580 tickets were sold in less than 45 minutes. Stublex- further added, “I wish to extend my appreciation fox- the cooperation given by the Seniors during the ticket sales.”
Fr. Lauck to Conclude Aquinas Talks Sunday
The last in the series of Aquinas Lenten lectures to be held Sunday xxight at 8 will feature Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the Department of Art. He will lecture on “Beauty Excommunicate.”
The addresses, which have been presented on each of the Lenten Sundays, are given at the Progress Club, 601 Colfax Ave. in South Bend. Admission is $1 for single lectures.
Father Lauck is most noted for his work in sculpture. He has brought fame to the University through his exhibitions and lectures on sculpture throughout the country. Last Summer he exhibited two works in the 39th annual exhibition of the Provincetown Ait Association, Cape Cod. He was one of the featured speakers during the Festival of Arts last October.
Previous lectures presented Rev. Fredrick Wilcock, S.J., speaking on “Russia and the Catholic Church”; Dr. A. R. Caponigri, “Italy in the Free World”; Rev. Godfrey Diekmann, O.S.B., “Holiness of Marriage”; and Dr. Patrick J. Casey, “Sense in Censorship.”
FATHER LAUCK
Closes Annual Series Sunday
April 2, 1954
11
Glee Club Sets Date With 32 Million Viewers For Easter Sunday 'Toast of the Town' Bow
Thirty-two million people will view the Notre Dame Glee Club for the sixth time in as many years on Easter Sunday night when Ed Sullivan’s Toast of the Town again hosts the 40-man traveling squad from the University.
The Easter Sunday TV appearance has become a tradition both with the Club and with Sullivan, who was led to remark recently that as long as he is in charge of Toast of the Town, the
Moot Court to Present Semi-Finals on May 5
The annual Moot Court competition will complete its semi-final round with the presentation of two simulated trial cases on May 5 in the court rooms of the Law Building.
The first case will deal with the conflict of laws. Wilbur Pollard and Robert Maley will present one side of the argument. Mark Tolle and John Houck will defend the other side.
The second case will be concerned with constitutional law. Joseph Pollard and Thomas Griffin will be opposed by James Kelly and Armand Deatrick in this case.
' These two cases, as all others in Moot Court sessions, are hypothetical. The cases for this year’s semi-finals have been drawn up by Prof. Edward F. Barrett of the Law School.
As yet no judges have been selected for the semi-finals, but Professor Barrett is trying to secure several appellate court judges for that purpose.
The four men who survive the semifinal round will argue in the finals which will be held next October. The winners of the finals will represent Notre Dame in the national Moot Court competition.
Professor Barrett, concerning the basis used for judging the Moot Court winners, said, “The winning indirtduals are selected on a basis of preparation of the brief, research, ability to answer the judge’s questions, skill in answering the opponents’ questions, and overall court poise.
“This is not team competition. The winners are determined by individual point totals. These contests are not debates. There is no place for oratory; the entrants must adhere to strict points of law.”
In all Moot Court contests, the situation assumed is that of an appellate court. The two teams of future attorneys attempt to prove whether or not the decision of the lower court should be maintained or reversed.
Club will continue to appear on his show.
The TV date is only one highlight of the 2500-mile trip throughout the Eastern part of the country. The singing Irish vn 11 also give concerts in New Jersey and Pennsylvania in addition to several concerts in New York State.
A specially chartered bus will leave the campus on Tuesday evening, April 13, and will check into the Hotel Martinique, New York, Wednesday night, after a 21-hour trip.
The songsters will take advantage of such outstanding New York attractions as the Metropolitan Opera, the Empire State Building, and St. Patrick’s Cathedral Thursday and Friday while not rehearsing for the Sullivan show.
Saturday night, the Club will travel to New Rochelle. N. Y., to sing at a private lawn party, which was arranged by one of the club members.
Another highlight of the tour will be their appearance at the Hotel Pierre Easter Luncheon, an annual event for the celebrities who march in the famous Easter Parade along Fifth Avenue. Immediately following, the men will rush to the CBS studio for a last-minute rehearsal.
In all probability, the Club will appear for ten minutes or more on Sullivan’s show, and will sing three or four numbers, appropriate to the occasion. The Glee Club will climax the night with the traditional Victory March.
On Monday, the group journey to Summit, N. J., for a concert during wThich the winners of a high school vocal contest will sing with the men. They will return to New York City that night.
Wednesday evening will find them in Philadelphia to sing for the famous Montrose Academy, leaving from there for Brentwood, Pa., and the local Ki-wanis Club sponsored concert on Thursday night.
The squad will head back for the campus Saturday after giving a concert in Sharon, Pa., for the Shenango Valley Junior Chamber of Commerce Friday night.
Prof. Daniel Pedtke, director of the Club, states, “The group this year, is outstanding in nearly every respect, and has many veterans, which should be instrumental in making this tour one of the most successful trips the Glee Club has ever undertaken.”
Among the new numbers the songsters will introduce on their Eastern tour will be: Let the Celestial Concerts All Unite, Somewhere Over the Rainbow, The Lost Chord and Siesta.
REV. DANIEL A. LORD, S.J.
For Seniors, Silence and Prayer
Fr. Lord to Conduct Closed Senior Retreat
Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., nationally knowm director of Catholic youth, will give the' first closed senior retreat April " 10-11. The retreat is being sponsored by the Blue Circle and the Senior class in cooperation with the Department of Religion.
The retreat will begin Saturday morn- -ing with Mass in Sacred Heart Church at 7 a.m. and will close Sunday after- ' noon at 5. The complete program and schedule of talks will be distributed to all seniors.
Father Lord, a graduate of Loyola University of Chicago, Creighton University, and Boston College, has written over 200 pamphlets on Catholic theology and Catholic action. He was ordained , in 1923 and two years later became director of the Queen’s Work in St. Louis.
Seniors are urged to maintain silence j as much as possible during the two days ! of the retreat. The Student Center wall i be reserved Saturday afternoon during 'j the retreat for those who wnsh to make use of its facilities for spiritual reading and personal meditation.
“The Senior* retreat offers the ideal way to culminate the student’s college career. It gives him a chance to con- i sider what spiritual progress he has made during the past few years, and to	I
prepare him for entrance into ' a world	i
where God is often completely ignored,” I says Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., Prefect	|
of Religion.	I
Classes will be excused Saturday	|
morning for those attending the retreat. j An excuse must be obtained from the 3 professor of the Saturday classes before | April 10 to allow the student to cut the . classes.
12
The Scholastic
Student Senate Adopts Election Plan Changes
Several changes have taken place in the system of campus elections as a result of amendments to the Senate Constitution adopted by the Student Senate. The body met last Monday night to consider proposals by Senators Tom O’Malley and Jim Deline.
Under the first of the new amendments the student body will elect the President of the Senate. Nominations for that post will be made by members of the retiring Senate and each of the nominees shall possess at least one year of Senate experience. This experience may have been gained in either the freshman, sophomore, or junior years. The preferential system of balloting that was inaugurated earlier this year will continue to be used in forthcoming elections.
Senator Tom O’Malley, in presenting this proposal to the Senate, expressed the hope that it would “create a greater interest on the part of the entire student body towards student government.” He pointed to the fact that the plan would greatly broaden the number of men eligible for the Senate presidency and at the same time insure that the elected officer has had previous experience.
Dillon Hall Senator Jim Deline, in an effort to reactivate the Hall Council System, recommended that beginning next year each residence hall elect both a hall president and a senator. This separation of powers is designed to let the hall president devote more time to the hall council and its duties. Deline also recommended that the hall councils be combined as an arm of the Student Senate to meet monthly with the Senate vice-president. The Senate passed both of these amendments to its constitution unanimously.
Entries For Fr. Steiner Prize Must Be Submitted by April 26
Applications for the Father Steiner Prize competition, open to outstanding juniors and seniors in the College of Engineering, must be submitted by April 26. Each applicant will be judged on the basis of scholastic average, extracurricular activities, qualities of leadership, proficiency in English composition, and the oral presentation of a technical paper.
The winner will be announced May 3 at the award ceremonies in the Engineering Auditorium. In addition to a cash award of $50 the winner will have his name engraved on a permanent plaque which hangs in the lobby of the Engineering Building. '
April 2, 1954
Senate, Class Officer Nominations to Close April 9; Elections Will Be Held After Easter
The Blue Circle election committee has announced that the nominations for campus senators and class officers will close April 9. The elections will follow after Easter on April 28 and 29.
All nominees must have a satisfactory disciplinary record and an overall average of 85 for senator and 80 for class officer.
Officers to be elected include: senior, junior and sophomore class officers and senators from the Colleges of Engineering, Science and Law.
All candidates will be given the chance to give their views in the next issue of the Student Senate Information Bulletin coming out April 26, two days before the election. Candidates will be given space for 300 words. They may discuss anything they wish in this article including the activities fee, the hall residence system or any other issues of the campaign.
“This paper should go a long way in basing the election more on ‘issues’ and less on ‘personalities,’ ” said Joe Saunders, publicity commissioner for the Student Senate.
Candidates may also place 11 by 14 posters on hall bulletin boards as well as distribute mimeographed material to the students rooms with the permission of the hall rector.
To Use Preferential Ballot
The preferential ballot will be used this year replacing the simple plurality votes used in former elections. This system allows the voter to number all candidates according to his choice. The number of first place votes decides, but in case of a tie the second place votes of each candidate are added to his first place votes to determine the winner, then the third and then the fourth in case of still further ties.
“The record of the Student Senate in this last year has been one of enlarged function, increased activity and greater efficiency,” said George Carhart, chairman of the elections committee.
“This has been due to the calibre of the senators, both as individuals and as a group. It will be difficult for future senators to replace these men, but it is not by any means an impossible task. We of this committee feel that there are men who can and will step forward to assume this responsibility, not just for personal advancement, but with a willingness to serve Notre Dame as a student leader,” he concluded.
The election committee consists of George Carhart and Don Gels. All nominations must state the office the candidate seeks, and be mailed to Election
Committee, 231 Sorin. Articles to appear in the Student Senate Information Bulletin should be typewritten and mailed to Joe Saunders in 142 Dillon.
Talk by Burkes to End *54 Marriage Institute
The 1954 Marriage Institute, sponsored by the Department of Religion and the Senior Class, will present its last forum Tuesday night at 7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. Dr. and Mrs. William M. Burke, parents of three children, will be the featured speakers. The topic of their talks will be “Success in'Marriage.”
Following the talk, a movie on reproduction will be shown.
Burke has been a member of the Department of English since 1949. He is an authority in the field of American Literature. Born in Meriden, Conn., he was educated at Peddie Preparatory School and Duke University. He received his Ph.D. at Pennsylvania University.
Tickets for this last forum may be purchased at the door.
The Marriage Institute is sponsored jointly by the Department of Religion through Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., and by the Senior Class through President Bill Guilfoile. Mr. Warren of the AudioVisual Department was responsible for the loud-speaking system. Guilfoile’s committee consisted of Ray Tilley, Tony Mandolini, Hugh Bray, Tom Field, Walter Babcock, Tom Murphy, and John Snakard.
DR. AND MRS. BURKE
Wind Up Marriage Institute Tuesday
USNSA to Stage Student Relations Seminar; Harvard, Iowa State to Host Summer Confab
The International Commission of the United States National Student Association has announced the opening of competition for the second International Student Relations Seminar to be held in Cambridge, Mass., and Ames, la., from July 12 to Sept. 1, 1954.
The program, initiated in the Summer of 1953, is designed to provide students with specialized knowledge in the field of international relations as it affects student life. It aims to train a cadre' of individuals capable of representing the Association overseas, and of conducting NSA’s international program on the member campuses.
All students at NS A member schools are eligible to compete'. Those selected will receive scholarships which will cover room, board, tuition and transportation. Notre Dame is an official member school of the NS A.
Seminars Constitute First Part
The first part of the program, at NSA’s International Offices in Cambridge, consists of five weeks of seminars and lec'ures by leaders in the academic and student worlds, and of individual research on student topics in specific areas of the globe. Speakers at last year’s program included Douglass Cater, Washington editor of The Reporter, Professors William Y. Elliott, F. S. C. Northrop, and William L. Hansberry of Harvard, Yale and Howard Universities respectively.
Students will use the facilities of the Harvard University Summer school for all living accommodations, and do research in the Harvard libraries and in the files of the International Commission.
The last two weeks of the program will be spent at the NSA’s seventh national congress, to be held from Aug. 18 until Sept. 1 at Iowa State University. Two of the six national officers elected at last year’s Congress participated in the international training program.
Application forms and posters announcing the program have been sent to deans, student body presidents, and the chairmen of political science departments at member colleges. Applicants should be able to demonstrate interest :n international relations and in student activities. Previous experience' in NS A is not necessary, but knowledge of one particular geographical area, or of one or more foreign languages will weigh in the applicant’s favor.
Deadline for applicants is May 10, 1954. The selection committee will announce its decisions on June 1, 1954.
Further information can be obtained . from the Department of Testing and Guidance in the Main Building.
Wanda Paul to Give Piano Recital Here
Wanda Paul, gifted American pianist, will play the music of Mozart, Debussy, Brahms, Donato, and Chopin Monday night in a recital sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series. The concert will begin at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
Miss Paul received all her musical training in her native city, Chicago, under the' guidance of Rudolph Ganz. She has received many awards including the Frederick Stock piano award, the Musical Arts award, and the Society of American Musicians Symphony award.
Miss Paul has played before many college audiences throughout the country in addition to her performances with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra,
WANDA PAUL
Pianist to Give Concert Monday
the Illinois Symphony, and the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra. She has also played in the Ravina and Grant Park Summer music festivals and in the Twilight Concert Series in Chicago’s Orchestra Hall.
Included in Monday’s program will be Variations on a Minuet of Duport by Mozart; Three Preludes by Debussy; Variations on a Theme of Paganini, Bks. I and II, by Brahms; and Three Preludes by Anthony Donato. Miss Paul will conclude the concert with Chopin’s Waltz in A Flat, Nocturne in D Flat, and Scherzo in B Minor.
Grad Business Exams Have April 29 Deadline
The Department of Guidance and Testing has announced that applications to take the' May 13 Admission Test for Graduate Study in Business must be received by the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, N. J., by April 29.
The following schools, members of the policy committee guiding the development of the testing program require the test of candidates for admission: Columbia, Harvard, Northwestern, Rutgers, Seton Hall, Syracuse, Chicago, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Washington University of St. Louis.
In addition, a number of schools not members of the committee either require or recommend that their applicants take the test and have scores reported to the schools. In the first administration of the test in February, over 1,300 candidates took the exam, and score reports were sent to 54 different graduate business schools or divisions.
Since this is the final examination scheduled for the academic year, all applicants for Fall admission to graduate study in any of the business schools requiring the test must take it on May 13 unless they have already done so.
Copies of the bulletin of information and application blanks for the test may still be obtained from: Admission Test for Graduate Study in Business, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J.
Dr. Kane Announces Change In Junior Sociology Courses
Dr. John J. Kane, head of the Department of Sociology, recently announced a change in the method of presentation in the sociology course for all A.B. juniors beginning next September.
Material covered in two semesters in the past will be presented in the first semester, using Rev. Raymond Murray’s textbook as a guide. The second semester will be devoted primarily to actual case solutions, stressing the need of a Christian approach to the various problems.
Professor Kane stated that “the Department, in the future, would attempt to find the causes and solutions of sociological problems on the basis of Catholic thought.”
The change came as a result of the recent plea of Pope Pius XII at the Congress of Educators held at Havana, Cuba. His Holiness stressed the necessity, now more than ever before, of infusing Catholic thought into the sociological problems that face the world today.
14
The Scholastic
..
Packard, U. S. Gypsum, Corps, of Engineers Head Week's List of Placement Interviews
The Placement Bureau has announced the following interviews for the week of April 5 through 9. The company representatives, unless it is otherwise stated, are seeking both master and bachelor degree candidates expecting to receive their degrees in either June or August, 1954. Only those officially registered in the Placement Bureau are eligible to sign up for the interviews.
A representative of UARCO, Inc., of Chicago will be here on Monday to interview AB and commerce men for sales positions. There are openings throughout the U. S.
Also on Monday, American Blower Corp, will interview mechanical, chemical and electrical engineers for sales engineering.
Meredith Publishing Co., Des Moines, la., will send representatives to the University Monday, seeking seniors in all colleges who are interested in the advertising and general promotion staffs of the magazine Better Homes and Gardens and Successful Farming.
The Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army, will be looking for architects, chemical, electrical and mechanical engineers on Monday. The Anny will need these men for work on such projects as airfields, camps, hospitals, and dikes.
On Tuesday the Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D. C., will be looking for electrical and mechanical engineers. Ph.D. physicists will also be interviewed by the Navy.
Representatives of the Associates Investment Co. of South Bend will be here on Tuesday to interview AB and commerce men for training in the finance business, especially the automobile field.
On Tuesday Packard Motor Co. of Detroit will seek mechanical engineers and metallurgy students who are going to graduate in June.
On Wednesday, Ryan Aero Corp., San Diego, Calif., will inteiwiew aeronautical, electrical, and mechanical engineers, in addition to students in mathematics and physics.
The U. S. Gypsum Co. will be looking for chemical and mechanical engineers for production, plant engineering, architect service, engineering sales and research.
The Upjohn Co. is in need of science majors for sales work in pharmaceuticals throughout the United States.
Also on Monday, representatives of Black, Sivalls and Bryson, Inc., of Kansas City, Mo., will be at Notre Dame to interview mechanical and chemical engineers for sales, engineering, research
and the development and design of equipment used in the petroleum and related industries.
On Thursday the Anchor-Hocking Glass Co. will seek AB and commerce men with strong sales aptitude for selling glass containers and tableware.
Commercial Credit Co. is in need of AB, and commerce students to work in the finance business.
On both Thursday and Friday, representatives of the Royal-Liverpool Insurance Group will seek seniors in all colleges interested in positions as sales promotion representatives, and risk analysts.
Those qualified for and interested in the above interviews should apply at the Placement Bureau, Main Building, as soon as possible and sign up on the schedules. Company information material and qualification blanks will'then be distributed.
This’ll be three de ... er ... 3 merits.
Campus Knights of Columbus Initiate New Members April 5
First Degree initiations for candidates who want to become Knights will take place April 5 in the Knights of Columbus chambers.
The chambers are located in the basement of Walsh Hall and those who are interested in making arrangements for initiation should contact Lou Basso, membership chairman, in the chambers between 4 and 5 p.m.
Second and Third Degree initiations,
for members of the Knights who have already attained First Degree standing, will be held April 11 in South Bend.
Fourth Degree initiations for Third Degree members will be held May 9 in Gary, Ind.
A Fourth Degree membership is the highest honor a Knight can receive. There are two qualifications a Knight must have before he is eligible for Fourth Degree honors. He must he at least 21 years of age and a member of the K of C for at least one year.
Students who become Knights in the Notre Dame branch are allowed to transfer their membership to any other branch in the country since the K of C is a lifetime organization.
Listed among the many activities and events that the Knights sponsor are the Bengal Bouts which were recently completed.
Senate to Award Cash Prizes In Technical Project Contest
In conjunction with the Engineering Advisory Board, the Student Senate is sponsoring a contest for technical projects and essays. The contest is being held in connection with the Engineering Open-House on May 15. All projects and essays must be completed by May 8 in order that the judges can announce the winners at the Open-House festivities.
The purpose of the contest is to stimulate interest in technical projects and to give students an incentive to provide material for the Open-House exhibits. Prizes will be awarded as follows: in the project competition, first prize §25, second prize §15, and third prize §10; for the essay division, first prize S15 and two honorable mentions of §5 each.
All students are eligible to enter the contest. A group of two or three students may work together and enter one project if they so desire. To enter this contest a student should submit a short letter of application to Dick Capka, 319 Sorin. The letter should state the applicant’s campus address, his major field, and the type of project or essay which he intends to enter. The' Contest Committee will then contact each contestant to inform him where and when the project should be displayed and other . details.
The project must be of a technical nature. Further information about the nature or details of the contest is available from Ed Arcy, 278 Dillon, Don Burkhart, 213 Fisher or Dick Capka, 319 Sorin.
Professors from the different engineering departments will judge the projects and essays during the week of May 10 through 14.
April 2, 1954
l $ =1
Fr. Gabriel Impressed by European Students During Tour of French, Spanish Universities
By GENE LESMEZ
“European students are more inclined to conduct patient research in humanities than their American colleagues,” reports Rev. Astrik L. Gabriel, 0. Praem., director of the University’s Mediaeval Institute, having just returned from a two month visit to France and Spain.
“I was most happy,” relates Father Gabriel, “to see a few American students visiting the old monuments of Paris and wanting to learn more about the soul of this great intellectual city. They avoided carefully such pseudo-existentialist hideouts like the bars around Saint Germain Les Pres.”
Father Gabriel notes that students in France and Spain show a friendly attitude towards Americans Studying overseas since “American scholars balance the wrong impression and reputation the people of Paris assign to us by the so-called Paris-by-night tourist.”
U. S. Girls See “Red” Areas
He was pleased at meeting Catholic Action girls from the United States who were risiting Paris suburbs and getting true, immediate impressions of social conditions prevailing in the most “Red” recognized districts.
Lectures by Father Gabriel were given at the Sorbonne at the invitation of the Dean of the University of Paris. He addressed the faculty, student body, and a great number of scholars, not only from the University, but from the National Library and the National Archives of France. Some American students attended the lectures as did also many friends of Notre Dame.
While lecturing in Paris, Father Gabriel addressed the student body completely in English, devoting his talk to “Internationa] Cooperation in Mediaeval Universities.” He reports that the lecture was an immediate success.
Father Gabriel was also invited by Monsieur Andrieu Guitrancourt, dean of
COLLEGE PRE-REGISTRATION
Pre-registration with the deans of the various colleges for the Fall semester of 1954 will begin next Tuesday and will continue through April 13.
The college deans will announce the times of their respective pre-registration periods to the students.
the Faculty of Canon Law, to give a talk on “The Rights and Privileges of Mediaeval Students” to his group.
One gratifying event in Father’s tour was being made a Fellow of the International Academy of Science and Letters after having addressed this organization on “Foreign Students in Paris during the Middle Ages.”
Father Gabriel interposed a short visit to the Free Europe University at Strasbourg. This university is sponsored by the United States and has many students from behind the Iron Curtain.
From France Father Gabriel visited Spain. The invitation had been extended by the School of Mediaeval Studies. He worked for a time in the National Archives of Spain while in that country.
The European invitation was a sign of appreciation of Father Gabriel, who is an expert on mediaeval student life, and of the scholarly work Notre Dame and the Mediaeval Institute are conducting in the United States.
“It is surprising how well-known Notre Dame is in Europe,” said Father Gabriel, “foremost being by its scientific publications, like those of the mediaeval studies, edited by Father Moore and Father Garvin, and The Review of Politics.”
“Libraries Always Crowded”
Father Gabriel commented on the European public’s interest in the history of the Christian civilization, “the libraries are always crowded with studious students who are most interested in the way of life of their predecessors.”
Now being published are the records of the history of the University of Paris. This work, being done by the Mediaeval Institute, is to celebrate the 700th anniversary of the founding of this famous school by Robert Sorbonne in 1254. A history of the Sorbonne’s life, written by Father Gabriel, was published in October, 1953.
There is also a history of Ave Maria College in Paris being collected and written by the Institute. This school was founded in 1336.
“The Mediaeval Institute has a very fine collection of books on mediaeval civilization,” Father Gabriel stated, “facilitating serious, conscientious endeavors . by graduate students in research. We urge all the students to visit our libraries, knowing they would profit a good deal intellectually by doing so.”
MARITAIN LECTURES
Because of an unexpected illness of Dr. Jacques Maritain, the annual Spring series of lectures sponsored by the Department of Philosophy have been canceled.
Dr. Maritain had originally been scheduled to lecture today, and next Thursday and Friday at the Main Building.
Sleepers Get Surprise As 'Art' Proves Useful
Local experts on efficiency in sleep can draw a lesson from Nebraska College graduate A. W. Turnbow who recently earned his degree. “I slept my way through college,” states Turnbow.
This startling statement came as a complete surprise to ex-student Turnbow’s professors who had once predicted his college career would end in failure.
Disclosing his secret, Turnbow stated that he had been “sleep-learning.”
“I’d read many articles on the theory of sleep-learning,” he said, “but none told me how to go about it. So I made my own sleep-learning device and experimented. I was working full time and trying to carry 19 credit hours at college. I was told I was failing, so I figured I couldn’t lose anything.”
“It was hard the first few weeks,” he said, “but anyone can learn while they sleep if they stick to it. It’s the easiest way in the world to get an education once you start getting results. Sleeplearning will revolutionize education once the public accepts it,” he added.
Student Turnbow’s unusual method of obtaining knowledge was first applied to his course in Russian. “I read 2000 Russian vocabulary words into the machine, then gave the English meaning to each,” he reported. “Results were so successful that I started reading notes from all my courses into the' device.
“I remember how my fellow students laughed when I told them about ‘sleeplearning’,” he remarked. “But when I started tossing around five-syllable vocabulary words, formulas, dates and complete passages from Shakespeare, they changed their attitude.”
Time has proven that Turnbow didn’t lose anything. According to Turnbow, now president of Sleep-Learning Research Assn., of Omaha, Neb., he owes his college degree to his pioneer experiments.
16
The Scholastic
Victory March Sung By U.S. Girls in Paris
Festival time was beginning! Hundreds had congregated; each country was represented by a group of its own college students. This was the International Folkloric Celebration in Paris last January.
The many nations from all over the world offered a kaleidoscope of nationalities, with groups from places like Brazil, Ireland, Turkey, Sweden, India, and Egypt. There was also a contingent of four young ladies from the United States—Miss Ann Martin, Miss Joan Newlone, Miss Carole Pieroni, and Miss Joan Gaine, all students at New Rochelle College in New York.
Rev. Astrik L. Gabriel, director of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, was -a spectator at the celebration. Father Gabriel reports that the audience showed tremendous enthusiasm as the multitude of acts wei-e presented. Each national group would do one particular song or dance which they had chosen as exemplifying the best found in their country’s schools.
Then it came time for the American delegation and the four young ladies offered a college song. It was a most happy experience, says Father Gabriel, to listen as these girls began singing the Notre Dame Victory March. The large audience recognized the song immediately.
“It shows the worldwide fame and respect, not only achieved by the song, but by the whole University,” said Father Gabriel, “as South Americans, Asians, Europeans, everyone, responded so heartily, enthusiastically applauding. The song was a great success, one of the highlights of the celebration.”—Gene Lesmez.
Moreau Seminary to Observe Pan-American Day on April I I
Sunday afternoon, April 11, Moreau Seminary will be host for the second annual Pan-American Day Observance.
Activities will begin at 5 p.m. with the keynote address, and will continue with a buffet supper to be held in the dining hall of Moreau.	•
Workshop talks on various aspects of Latin American life will follow the supper.
Mr. John J. Keefe, C.S.C., chairman of the Pan-American Committee, points out the aims of the day in his statement, “We want to crystallize for both seminarians and Latin American students the basic issues facing our Christian culture in the whole hemisphere.”
WITH THE ARTS
If you live in the vicinity of New York City you’ll find, away down at the right hand end of your radio dial at 1560 kilocycles} station WQXR. WQXR is pretty much of a rarity among radio stations. It’s owned and operated by The Neiv York Times, broadcasts 18 hours a day at 10,000 watts (loud enough to be picked up every now and then out here) and plays nothing but classical music.
This last part is the oddity. According to statistics in the radio trade publications, WQXR is not only self-sustaining—but is actually making quite a bit of money. With the obvious commercialism in radio today this is hard to imagine, especially when you look at the station’s programming. It has five minutes of news every hour, usually preceded and followed by commercials—nice, quiet commercials, no “Flying Irishman” stuff. There may be one or two more commercials during the hour, and the remaining fifty minutes or so are completely taken up with solid “long-hair” type classical records. Three times during the day—around breakfast, lunch and dinner time—individual semi-classical records are played, interspersed with the comparatively dignified commercials.
The station is so popular that it publishes a monthly “program guide” which has a circulation in the tens of thousands “so that you can know when your favorite classical selections will be played.” There is also a “WJXR Network,” which feeds programs from WQXR to various other stations in the East.
We imagine that the listening audience can be divided into two categories—music lovers and those who like “not to listen” to music, who like quiet background music to read or work to. No matter which category a person is in, it must be a relief, in this age of high-pressure, to hear something presented normally, in the most high pressured medium of them all, radio. It feels good, every so often, not to get blasted out of our chair by the loud-mouthed commercials and the blaring triteness of much of today’s hit parade music. And it’s refreshing to hear music written by men who had feelings they wanted to express rather than by those who take a melody —any melody—and add words which are “cute” and which will sell their records. Today we speak of the “music industry”—and an industry is exactly what it is, complete with a form of mass production on an assembly line basis. Certainly very little of what is termed “popular music” today can be classified as art in anything but the crudest sense of the word.
Our idea of “good” music isn’t, of course, limited to classical music. This type has the one big advantage of having stood the test of time, but if we are to judge the quality of music from the effort and feeling put into it we would have to include many other types. Much of the jazz, for instance, written in America—swing, Dixie, even the modern progressive jazz to some people—is full of feeling and skill. The arrangers today, with orchestras like Paul Weston and Percy Faith, can make just about anything sound good. And all of that is truly an art. But the whole tempo of the “music industry” music is such that it just can’t be appreciated—even though it may be liked for the moment—the' way that real music should be. As such it should be subordinated.
WQXR has proved that people will listen to good music if they’re given the chance. We don’t think that they’re getting it on these programs that deVote six or seven minutes to commercials—and the rest of the time to the top three songs on the Hit Parade.
Maybe the high-pressure that is so characteristic of the country should slow down a bit and give the people a chance to catch their breaths.
April 2„ 1954
17
(Cutatoap Wieto of Dr <itn/
Times do change.
About the only thing at Notre Danie that hasn’t changed through the years is the weather, and maybe even this has changed a little'. At least that’s the impression you get from an article in Donahue's Magazine in 1885.
Donahue's Magazine, “a journal devoted to the Irish race at home and abroad,” sent one of its writers, Arthur Stace, to this “institution of learning in a state distinctively called Western” to report on its location, environment, routine, and accomplishments.
As he rode in an open buggy from South Bend to Notre Dame, he noted that the campus was distinct from South Bend with only a few buildings, erected from native Indiana mud bricks, dotting the countryside. “West of south lies South Bend, mapped out beneath the eye of the spectator, and still further west stretch the' Kankakee marshes, for so many years the paradise of the fowler.”
One of the first things that impressed in 1885 was the unpredictable weather
of Northern Indiana. Mr. Stace called the wind “The most violent of all the sons of Aeolus, coldest of all in winter, hottest of all in summer, and a dry, healthy wind at every season.”
A picket fence, flanked by two small frame houses, greeted the magazine’s reporter as he rambled to the gate in an open buggy. Mr. Stace walked along dusty paths to the two central buildings, the Main Building and Sacred Heart Church.
The Main Building was the pivotal point of all life' in 1885. It served as classrooms, dining hall, library, study hall, bookstore, and dormitory. The dining hall was located in the basement where everybody ate at one serving in family style. Study halls occupied the wing that now houses the' Notre Dame Foundation office. The remainder of the first floor held “recitation rooms, airy and spacious, well-lighted, and warmed, as are all the buildings, by steam-heating apparatus.”
The courses of instruction offered at Notre Dame in 1885 highly impressed
Mr. Stace. Commercial courses, engineering, and the liberal arts were prominent in the curriculum. Notre Dame now has a pre-medical course, but no medical school. Mr. Stace believed that “that of medicine might be equally flourishing, were it not that the invincible repugnance, which a dissecting
TEXT: Paul Fullmer
ILLUSTRATIONS: Don Dixon
room excites in the minds of those who have no vocation to the healing art, has hitherto militated against the establishment at Notre Dame.”
Pandemonium did not break loose at the bell that ended class in 1885. Mr. Stace writes that, “the practice of going to and from recitations and other college exercises in silence and ranks, has
always prevailed, and contributes much
The “whirling bird" has replaced the horse-and-buggy of 1885
Went to and from
J
18
The Scholastic
at
i-
! ance at class wasn’t sufficient for gradnation. The practice of “plucking” eliminated those who were not able to keep ' up the standard.
Mr. Stace states that both the Ave Maria and Scholastic had extensive cir-> culation back in the late nineteenth century. He says that the Scholastic “takes ■> a high rank among college papers . . . and enables the youth destined for the ' vocation of the journalist, an occupation whose standing in the social sphere' is daily receiving a higher recognition, _	to fit himself for the exercise of his
i	chosen profession.”
Athletics received their share of atI	tention in 1885 from both faculty and
i	students. The students didn’t have the
।	“Rock” or phy-ed classes, but they did
I	have what was then called “rec” days
1	on which the fields to the east of the
)	Main Building resembled the old Roman
*	Coliseum as the “lads” ran and pum-
melled each other with reckless abandon.
The spirit and reputation of a Notre Dame man was known back in the nineteenth century. “The sense of honor is sedulously cultivated by the officers of the institution, as a ground of moral restraint and self-command on which all may meet on a common footing. Hence

the absence of rudeness has always been a marked feature at Notre Dame.”
There was social life at Notre Dame in 1885 and, much like today, it was mainly concerned with a school across the road. Mr. Stace sensed this when he wrote, “In the West, a mile away, on the rural banks of the river, is St. Mary’s Academy, an institution for the education of young ladies, which the
dormitory
LIBRARY
was the pivotal point
The Main Building
STUDY ROONS
CUSS ROONS
DINING mu,

tourist will find well-deserving of a separate visit.”
If Mr. Stace wished to relive his days and return to Notre Dame today, he might choose to arrive in a whirling helicopter, that had churned its way . through “the limpid air” and avoid the bumpy buggy ride along the narrow, dusty road.
Times certainly have changed!
April 2, 1954
19
Students Voice Views On McCarthy Issue
Perhaps no man in the history of the United States has been caught in as much congressional crossfire as Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy (Rep., Wis.), head of the Senate’s Internal Investigating sub-committee.
In an attempt to supplement the adjoining pros and cons of McCarthyism, the Scholastic tapped the flow of sentiment of the students interviewed at random in the Huddle last week.
When queried as to his views, Jack Alexander, senior from Alumni, replied, “I believe that Senator McCarthy is basically conducting what he considers an honest inquiry as to the nature of Communism in this country. Although he is acting within his rights in disclosing the identities of suspected Communists, I believe' that many innocent people are being incriminated along with those guilty. Senator McCarthy’s program should be limited to cases more pertinently identified as Communists.”
Joe Ward, junior from Dillon Hall, commented, “I think what he is doing is right, but the way he goes about it is wrong.” When asked if he thought Senator McCarthy should be recalled he said: “No. At least he has the courage to try and do what he thinks is right.”
Somewhat to the contrary concerning techniques, Tony Russo, sophomore from Off-Campus, stated: “What he (McCarthy) is doing is essentially a good thing. His techniques seem fair. The defendants always hide behind the Fifth Amendment instead of telling the truth. If they would tell the truth, they would have nothing to worry about, as verified by the investigation of movie star Lucille Ball.”
■ More in agreement with Ward was First Lt. Bill Delaney, USAF, Class of ’52. He commented, “He (McCarthy) is sincere, but going about the investigation in the wrong way. He is trying to help the country. He will have to change his tactics, for he unintentionally seems to be doing more harm than good.”
Another vote against McCarthy’s methods came from Skip Maynard, junior from Badin: “McCarthy has been an anchor on the Republican Party. . . . If he is complaining about the methods .used on him, which he originated, then they can’t be any good. ... I think he’s stepping outside his boundary. . . . The exposes are bad for the morale of the country. Something is needed to wake up the country, but McCarthy is using the wrong slant.”
Press interpretation drew sharp words from an unidentified student from Off-Campus: “Before we' can judge him, (Continued on Page 33)
What’ll McCarthy’s Line Be? x'lw
By PATRICK CARRICO
Editor, Scholastic
Television is expected to play host to one of the largest audiences in its history Tuesday night when Senator Joseph McCarthy appears on CBS’s “See It Now” telecast to answer charges recently made by the network’s crack news analyst and commentator, Edward R. Murrow. The show, no doubt, will reek with McCarthy’s usual tongue-in-cheek antics and Murrow’s usual high-handed syllabications, but the Senator has already borrowed an old theme to make it a new program: “What’ll My Line Be?”
This question was first raised for the Senator by his committee members and political allies when they started looking for another brickbat to hurl back at Murrow in order to save face; it picked up added importance 'without McCarthy’s insistence, however, when publications like Newsweek soberly questioned the “ethics” of Murrow’s contrived selectivity in choosing films which were loaded with lop-sided evidence.
McCarthy Will Use A ‘New Twist’ in Answering Murrow
Joe McCarthy’s test will be to answer Murrow with the same effectiveness which he has used in most of his other retorts—employing either his usual sensational verbosity or a new line of attack, similar to Murrow’s, which could possibly be more effective on television.
McCarthy—according to his Assistant Counsel, Donald Surine—will try the new twist. Surine indicated, in a personal two-hour interview recently, that McCarthy won’t just talk, but that he will hold his evidence at fingertip distance from the cameras so that televiewers can read for themselves. The “evidence,” Surine said, is an old Soviet-printed document which states that Murrow served on the advisory council for a summer school at Moscow University in 1933 and 1934.
Murrow had stated on a previous show that the summer-school session had been cancelled by the Soviet government in 1935 before it ever got started. McCarthy merely told the press that he has proof of Murrow’s connection with the school during 1933 and 1934, but he did not tell them precisely what it was—as Surine did for this reporter.
“Evidence” Described as Similar To Travel Brochure
Murrow, Surine said, was pin-pointed in the document as the man who “personally” had the task of screening all applicants individually before they could enter the school. He also indicated that the document, which was printed by an organization similar to one of our travelling agencies, stipulated that students of the school “must” take a course in Marxist doctrine at Moscow University. The report, Surine added, gives an account of progress which the school made in 1933 and 1934 under Murrow’s direction.
When asked if this “evidence” would necessarily implicate Secretary of State John Foster Dulles—since' Dulles was one of 25 top-notch U. S. educators named by Murrow as co-members of the advisory council—Surine declined to answer. The Assistant Counsel only referred to the fact that McCarthy’s document “will prove that Murrow’s statement (about the' school’s cancellation before it was started) was completely false.”
A check with authoritative sources indicates that Surine is a former FBI agent. A report by Richard Wilson, chief of Look Magazine’s Washington bureau, says that Surine was “disconnected” from the service by J. Edgar - Hoover. It is also known that Surine collaborated with the former Miss Jean Fraser Kerr, before she married McCarthy, to help defeat Mary-• land’s Senator Tydings in a campaign that used a picture of Tydings and Communist Earl Browder in unseemly camaraderie. (See editorial, page 7.)
20
The Scholastic

McCarthy and His ‘Ism’
Notre Dame Student Opinion—Pro and Con
The opinions expressed in the following articles by Robert Greene and William Hank are solely those of the authors and do not reflect or represent in any way the opinions and policies of the Scholastic. The articles are published only as a sample_ of individual student opinion, pro and con, on the controversial subject of McCarthyism.—Ed.
Robert W. Greene is a senior in the College of Science. He is a native of Bethlehem, Pa.
William J. Hank is a senior in the College of Commerce. He is a native of Chicago, III.
{	PRO
| One of the major problems facing the United States today :j is to find the answer to the question “What is the best way to keep communists out of government and other positions of vital importance?”
The wounds left by those communists who have reached important positions won’t heal easily. We’ve had a Klaus Fuchs who supposedly gave some of our most vital atomic secrets to the Russians. There was Harry Dexter White who allegedly gave Russia the plates for our occupational currency.
“There Will Be More to Fill The Vacancies.”
Alger Hiss has been blamed for many of the mistakes made at Yalta. If there are any more traitors, we don’t know about them but this we do know—if we let our guard down again, there will be more to fill the’ vacancies left by those who have been exposed.
, Senator McCarthy claims to have the answer to the ques:	tion originally proposed, and at the present time he is being
vigorously opposed by those who say he doesn’t have the answer. These people give two objections to McCarthy: (a) the sincerity of his objectives, and (b) the morality of his j methods.
In reference to the first objection, it should be mentioned that nobody knows what McCarthy’s objectives are except 1 McCarthy himself. Segments of the press accused McCarthy of trying to gain control of the Republican party when, in his “perfumed note” speech, he accused President Eisenhower of “softness” in dealing with the British shipment of arms to China.
Yet, just recently some newspapers also accused Mr. Eisenhower of “softness” when he refused to make any statement concerning the cross examination of witnesses by McCarthy. Should we accuse the press of trying to gain control i of the party?
I, myself, feel that McCarthy is sincerely trying to rid the government of communists. Of course, there are other motives | such as prestige, but I doubt that even President Eisenhower
| April 2, 1954
CON
McCarthy’s subcommittee receives a direct appropriation of almost a quarter-million dollars a year. To this one must add the hundreds of thousands of dollars indirectly spent on his group . . . franking privileges, Government Printing Office expenses, time lost by government aides and witnesses.
To say that this money has been completely wasted would be a Daily Workerism. But a few irregularities have been uncovered, and public attention has been focused on the Communist threat.
The question, however, is not “Has McCarthy done any good?” but, rather, “Does the bad outweigh the good?” Could another committee, individual, or use of other methods have accomplished this and more?
In the course of our debate and discussion work for the University, we’ve spent many hours talking about McCarthy and McCarthyism. Hours of speaking presupposes many more hours of preparation. This might explain why this is going to be somewhat an unusual attack of the subject.
Even a cursory glance through the reams of matetrial written on McCarthy, both pro and con, shows that slanted and emotional copy is the rule, rather than the exception. Perhaps the place to go, then, for an analysis would be to McCarthy’s own writing and speeches and testimony before congressional committees.
Probes While McCarthy Was Mistaken Basebailer
His book and his “I Am the Issue” speech gives one the impression that only McCarthy has prevented a Communist from being elected President. Yet important investigatory work was accomplished back when most Americans thought Joe McCarthy was a baseball manager. The House Un-American Activities Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee had been functioning for years.
How do the committees stack up on the basis of results? To cite an example, McCarthy journeyed to Boston and confronted a handful of Harvard professors. Just prior to this time, the House and the Senate Committees mentioned above had spent weeks investigating infiltration of the educational
21
GREENE . ..
HANK .. .
Does Good Outweigh Evil?
took his job only because he felt he had to help the people of the United States find peace.
The second objection—which seems to be the one for which McCarthy is most severely criticized—is that he accuses people without sufficient evidence and thus ruins the reputations of innocent people. Obviously, some innocent people are going to be hurt in this type of investigation and this is the evil in McCarthyism. But I think that this evil has been greatly exaggerated by the press.
The press keeps repeating that there was insufficient evidence to prove the man guilty, but it must be remembered that it is the work of the investigating committee to get evidence. If there were sufficient evidence the investigating committee would no longer be necessary.
“Out-of-Bound” Accusations “Vital”
It is true that McCarthy steps out of bounds when, as an investigator, he' makes accusations but, as I null show later, the accusations are vital to the good which results from McCarthyism. Also, it should be pointed out that McCarthy must have some good basis for Ins accusations. If he didn’t, at least the Democratic members of his committee would rise up in arms.
Thus, thetae is an evil in McCarthyism—although greatly magnified by the newspapers—just as there is an evil in our system of justice. The evil in McCarthyism is that innocent men’s reputations are ruined; the evil in our system of justice is that innocent meh are hung. But in both cases I feel the good outweighs the evil.
Of course, if McCarthy’s intentions are evil, his acts are evil; and all the good in the world would not justify his evil acts. But as I pointed out before, I believe that McCarthy is sincere (the charges that he is trying to obtain control of the party are illogical) and that therefore the evil is not intended but merely permitted to obtain the good.
What is this good? I think that the primary good of McCarthyism is that by keeping the American people' aware of communism, it keeps communists out of government.
During the war, men like Alger Hiss, Owen Lattimore, and Harry Dexter White got into important positions in the government. How? It might be said that at the time our position dictated friendliness to the Russians. But surely those who held high positions in the government when they were hiring these men realized the dangers of communism and subsequently weren’t fooled by their own propaganda.
The Catholic Church particularly, had preached for 40 years that communism endangered our freedom. These men also knew that there were communists in government, because the Dies Committee and the FBI had pointed this out.
President Truman even promoted Harry Dexter White with full knowledge of an FBI report which indicated the latter was a communist. And although Truman later said he was working with the FBI on the case, he couldn’t substantiate it.
“When Public Reacts, So Does Government”
How many other FBI reports went unheeded? The brass in the government knew the dangers of communism, and they knew there were communists in government; yet they did nothing to get rid of them. Why? I think it was because these communists had reached influential positions, and for the government man to expose them could have hurt the exposei* politically. As long as the public knew nothing about it, the' matter could go unnoticed. But when national attention was
(Continued on Page' 31)
22
Is McCarthyism Necessary?
processes. The results of each: McCarthy’s Committee: Heated words, many headlines, foreign friends lost to America in the field of government and education, and a growth in the educators’ tendency to cry infringement on “Academic Freedom.”
The Senate Committee, on the other hand, submitted a 36-page report1 on the question, with five pages of names of Red educators, including three of the Harvard profs; in many cases they gave the cell identification and/or Party Card identification. The report was circulated to leading educators and administrators. They not only complimented the committee, but, what is more important, ACTION WAS TAKEN.
The House Committee took over 2000 pages of testimony on “Subversive Influence in the Educational Process”2 and issued a report exposing the methods and aims of the Communists in this field ... an invaluable guide to high school and university officials on how to recognize and handle a Commie teacher. Decide for yourself where McCarthy placed.
AnOthei* point is obvious to one reading these hearings. The other congressional committees stick to the facts. McCarthy, however, has several pet phrases which run a constant thread throughout his hearings. Time after time he prefaces his remarks with, “I gather,” “I deduct,” and “I assume.” The assumptions often run at a tangent to the testimony presented.
It is not the function of an investigatory committee to “assume'.” It is their function to prove before accusing. This would be bad enough if he confined his “I assume’s” to those who hide behind the Fifth Amendment, but when he uses such tactics on decorated military general officers and members of his own party, theta not only is there a question of justice, but also one of political soundness.
“Tactics Cause Bitterness, Loss of Morale”
Such tactics can cause only bitterness and loss of morale in various departments of the government. Central government is a difficult enough task today even when everyone puts his weight into the harness. Add an element of severe internal strife, and the Administration’s entire legislative' program is jeopardized.
By now it should be obvious that congressional investigation preceded McCarthy. Investigations of communists by governmental agencies goes all the way back to the Revolution in Russia.
In my speech files on the subject, there’s a letter written by Charles Evans Hughes, Secretary of State’, in 1923. He states on the subject, “There is a strong desire that nothing should be done to place the seal of approval on the tyrannical measures that might have beeta adopted in Russia.” A democracy must triumph using the weapons of a Democracy. To usurp the tactics of a dictatorship is to admit their superiority.
So, the issue is not one that can be solved by slanted writing and emotional words. The issue is not, “Did Schine receive special treatment from the Army?” He wouldn’t be the first. Nor is it, “Was there a Commie in the State Department?” .
The issue, I repeat, is, “Could another committee, individual, or use of other methods, accomplish this more' expeditiously and justly?”
1	(---), Subversive Influence in the Educational Process, Government
Printing Office: 1953.
2	(---), Communist Methods of Infiltration, Education, Government
Printing Office: 1953.
The Scholastic
Red Cross Rescue Course Strives to Prevent 'Unnecessary* Drownings at Nation's Beaches
WSDII Be Chatter
By HENRY O’BRYAN
How do you work out a cramp while swimming? How is artificial respiration given to a person with a broken back? What should a rescuer do if the victim submerges before the rescuer reaches him ?
These are but a few of the questions that 115 students in the Red Cross Water-Safety and Life-Saving Course at the Rock are answering and demonstrating. This group of Notre Dame students is voluntarily giving its time to acquire the rudiments of personal safety and rescue efforts.
Each year a group of students have voluntarily conducted a course of instruction in life-saving. Because of the untimely drowning of a Notre Dame student while swimming with helpless companions last summer, special emphasis has been placed on standard, supervised Red Cross Life-Saving methods and techniques.
This semester’s group of 115 is the largest ever to take tire course; its members range from freshmen to law students and represent all the colleges of the University.
Student instructors have all completed the Red Cross Water Safety Instructor-courses. Max Plante, a junior Commerce man from Detroit is director. Plante spent last summer instructing handicapped children in the art of swimming. Two sophomore instructors, Paul Hurley and John Chomeau, assist Plante in conducting the classes and demonstrating techniques in the water. Ray Roth and Ev Hatch act as student assistants to the three-man instructing team. All serve on a completely voluntary basis.
Nineteen Hour Course
The course, consisting of 19 hours of instruction, began on March 11 and will continue until the Easter vacation. Successful completion of the freshman swimming test is the only entrance requirement.
Each week there are two two-hour .instruction periods, and attendance at all classes is necessary to complete the course. For the lecture half of the period, an extensive oral quiz is given and a discussion of the principles of rescuing and swimming follow. Text instruction is occasionally supplemented ■with movies on life-saving. Homework consists of readings in the Red Cross manual.
Putting their textual knowledge to work, the future life-savers take to the
Rock’s pool for the second half of the period. The students themselves practice the exercises. The execution of a surface dive, the chin carry or the use of a torpedo buoy are among other vital techniques included in the instructions.
For the final exam each student must take a two hour written test and must demonstrate in the pool his grasp of the techniques of water safety and life-saving. The reward of these five weeks of toil is a certificate of completion for the course and the Red Cross Senior Life-Saving Certificate. With these certificates the students may secure life guard jobs during the Summer or take the instructor course.
BRIDGE
There will be an informal bridge party held in the Student Center each Wednesday, starting at 3 p.m. All are invited.
Fifteen Receive Recognition In 1954 Science Competition
Fifteen Notre Dame students won recognition in the National Science Foundation Competition for* graduate fellowships recently. Four of them won fellowship awards and eleven honorable mention. Twenty students from the University entered the competition.
The winners of the fellowship awards are Richard C. Pilger, chemistry; Robert J. Ballengee', electrical engineering; Edward R- Byrne, electrical engineering; and John A. Poirier, physics.
The recipients of honorable mention include: Louis R. Haefele, chemistry; David H. Scheiber, chemistry; James E. Sturm, chemistry; Philip V. Lopresti, electrical engineering; Arnold P- Stokes, math.; and Richard L. Uschold, math.
The others receiving honorable mention are: Anthony J. Kennedy, physics; Joseph W. Simmons, physics; Ronald A. Thiel, physics; Paul V. Man-one, engineering; and David Dwyer Smith, earth science.
The winners of the fellowships are all current seniors who will be graduated in June. The stipends of $1,400 will be for the first academic year. Allowances for- dependents, tuition, and other normal expenses are also provided.
The disc jockey is considered by some to be typical of the mediocrity of American culture. By others he is considered to the epitome of entertainers. Actually, he is neither. In the field of culture and entertainment he is a middle-of-the-roader, giving neither the best nor the worst to the listening public.
If he can be censured for talking too much about the records he plays, he can be praised for helping a new artist to rise to stardom by plugging his efforts.
Regardless of whether you like the music he plays or whether you don’t like it, the fact still remains that he is a source of entertainment to millions of people. You can decry him as a blot on the “ethos of American culture,” as some people call it, but it is not his fault if his listening audience is not discriminating.
The disc jockey is not an educator. When he sits up in his studio spinning his records, it is not his job to educate his audience in the fine points of music with the music he plays, so don’t blame him. And don’t blame his audience. The audience has been shaped, or has not been shaped, because of our so-called intellectuals. Jf it is not what these intellectuals would want them to be, whose fault is it? Why don’t these intellectuals do something about this instead of only harping about it?
And who says that this music is so bad? Certainly some of it is. But a lot of “popular” music is not bad. A lot of it is very, very good.
Why do you find so many “intellectuals” with large collections of modern music on records? More to the point, why do you find so many musicians who think that this music is good? And I mean “classical” musicians, not the band leaders.
Even symphony orchestras find pleasure in jazz. Toscanini once walked in on his symphony orchestra and found them in a “session”—he stayed to listen and found it interesting and exciting. Some symphony orchestras regularly program scenarios of popular songs.
Why do teachers of music think Stan Kenton very good? . Surely you can’t classify him with an indiscriminate public. Why did a university professor write a scholarly book on the history of jazz? Wouldn’t you say that professors belong to the “intellectual” group?
WNDU has quite a few disc jockeys who play “popular- music”, but you can’t dismiss them because of that. A lot of popular music is too good to be dismissed.—John Slavick
April 2, 1954
23
Three Opportunities to See Europe
1. SUMMER BICYCLE TOUR
Travel through Holland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Germany, Switzerland, France and England. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, bicycle and equipment, room and board at student Hostels. Tour conductor: Dr. Clement
H. de Haas from the Univ, of Leyden. Limit: 25 students. Time:
8 weeks. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price_____
2.	SEMINAR TOUR IN EUROPE
Special program for students of Political Science. History and Geography, German. Italian. Art and Architecture, and Liberal Arts. Program lasts 95 days and attends Seminars and lectures in famous universities in Holland, Germany, Italy and Austria. Also attend the famous Salzburg Music Festival. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, room and board, and CJQQC tuition. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price. ipOZ/O
3.	STUDY AND TRAVEL PROGRAM—Two Semesters
Live in Vienna. Austria and take the English taught courses offered by the University of Vienna. Student groups travel and explore nine countries of Europe and North Africa with competent professors. Courses are creditable. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, complete room and board for 10y= months while in Europe, tuition at the University, travel djl ‘TQQ expenses and special lectures. Deadline: June 1, 1954. Price_ipAOlrvF
SCHOLASTIC CREDITS WILL BE OFFERED BY NOTRE DAME FOR PROGRAMS NOS. 2 AND 3 For further information see Walter Clemens, 326 Badin Hall between 6:30 and 7:30 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES, 7325 S. Maryland. Chicago 19, III.
WHY INCH THROUGH HIGHWAY TRAFFIC or wait until skyway weather clears? Take a train home and keep that very first date for sure! ITS MORE FUH GOING with the crowd all together on the train. There’s room for bridge or bull session. And, in the dining car, you can enjoy the next best to home cooking.
GO FOR 25% LESS than the regular coach fare by traveling home and back with two or more friends on Group Economy Plan Tickets. They’re good on trips of 100 miles or more. Gather a group of 25 or more and you each save 28% riding long-distance on the same train, then returning as a group or individually.
Consult Your Local Railroad Ticket Agent Well in Advance of Departure Date for Detailed Information
EASTERN RAILROADS
$690
Essay Contest Offers Awards Up to $1000
Students interested in international affairs may win up to $1000 or a full fellowship, amounting to $1750, at the School of Advanced International Studies of the Johns Hopkins University in Washington, according to a recent announcement by the Foreign Service Journal as it launched its Prize Essay Contest.
The essays, to be written on “The Organization of American Representation Abroad,” will be judged by a committee of six nationally known men including John Sloan Dickey, president of Dartmouth College; Robert D. Murphy, Deputy Under-Secretary of State; and Lt. Gen. Harold R. Bull, former commandant of the National War College.
Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, in a statement which accompanied the contest announcement said: “I hope this contest will produce constructive and helpful public thinking on a matter of importance to all Americans.”
Students constitute one of four categories of entrants outlined in the contest announcement. Other categories embrace former and present State Department and Foreign Service personnel, personnel of other governmental agencies, and competent persons other than those in the first three categories. A total of $3850 will be awarded in prizes after the contest closes Oct. 15, 1954.
Full details of the contest may be obtained by -writing Foreign Service Journal, Contest Committee, 1908 G Street N. W., Washington 6, D. C.
Three Attend Eastern National Student Meet
Frank Tonini, Tom James, and Ray Long recently represented the University at a National Student Conference held ait Columbia University. The Student Council of Columbia, which sponsored the program, adopted as the theme for the conference, “Rights of Free Americans,” in conjunction with Columbia’s bi-centenniial anniversary theme, “Man’s Right to Knowledge ana the Free Use Thereof.” Delegates from schools all over the country attended.
Such notables as Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, Henry Steele Commager, Jacob K. Javits, Dean Chamberlain, Rudolf Halley and Basil Rauch were on the speaking program. At the closing session Dr. Philip Jessup and Norman Thomas also spoke.
There were 14 sessions in all, moderated by members of the Columbia Student Council and Law School.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
BRENNAN LAUNCHES CAREER AS HEAD COACH
Weather Halts Drills Outside For Klinemen
Spring Grid Practice Sessions Open Today; Brennan's Coaching Staff to Get First Test
As usual, the weatherman has put his damper on Coach Jake Kline’s attempt to round his Notre Dame baseball team into shape for the swiftly-approaching season. Kline has been running his team through training drills since Feb. 25. However, because of the weather, they have' had only two or three days of hitting practice.
The poor weather is especially harmful to Kline this year. He has a vast rebuilding job to do and most of the starting team will be made up of sophomores. Unless the weather takes a turn for the better, Kline won’t have an opportunity to take a lengthy look at his numerous and untried candidate's.
The Irish nine open their season during Easter vacation with an eight-game tour through Dixieland. On the tour, Notre Dame is slated to clash with the Memphis Air Base team three' times and with Arkansas State College in a two-game series. Kline’s charges wind up the southern tour with single games (Continued on page 27)
DAN SHANNON
Ex-high School Mates . . .
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Notre Dame will open its 66th edition of spring practice in Cartier field today under its new head grid mentor Terry Brennan. Some 85 hopefuls will report for the opening day with the initial drill being devoted primarily to the traditional picture-taking ceremonies.
To take advantage of expected better weather, the start of spring work has been delayed two weeks past the' usual St. Patrick’s day opening date. The practice period will be interrupted by a two-week Easter vacation lay-off, but it will conclude as usual with the annual Old-Timers game scheduled for May 15.
The Irish will be led by co-captainselect Dan Shannon and Paul Matz. Together with 19 monogram winners, the nucleus of last year’s freshman team, and other candidates, they will vie for positions on the ’54 varsity eleven.
The big problem will be to fill the positions vacated on the starting eleven by six graduating seniors. Lost from last season’s squad that compiled a commendable 9-0-1 season mark and finished second in the polls are All-Americans Johnny Lattner, one of the Irish’s greatest all-around players and winner of both the Maxwell award and the Heisman trophy, Art Hunter, Captain Don Penza, Neil Worden, Minnie Mavraides and Jim Schrader. Others lost through graduation include: Tom McHugh, Bob Martin, Rockne Morrissey, Armando Galardo, Bob Rigali, Art Nowack, Joe Bush, and Fred Mangialardi.
Brennan is faced primarily with replacement problems at fullback, right halfback, right guard, center and a noticeable lack of depth at tackle. Next year’s list of lettermen will include ten seniors and seven juniors. The seniors, in addition to Shannon and Matz, are Walt Cabral, Frank Varrichi-one, Sam Palumbo, Jackie Lee, Dick Szymanski, Ralph Guglielmi, Tom Carey, and Joe Heap. The juniors are: Don George, Wayne Edmonds, Ray Lemek,
Pat Bisceglia, Don Schaefer, Dick Fitzgerald, and Dick Keller.
Other welcome additions to the list of spring candidates who saw limited or no action last season are John McMullen, Paul Reynolds, John Gaffney, Nick Raich, Ed Cook, Dick Frasor, Jim Mense, Ben Zajeski, George Nicula, Gene Martell, Gene Kapish, and Tony Pasquesi.
In the backfield, capable replacements must be found for Lattner and Worden, and in the line, only the left side is intact from the ’53 forward wall. Several players have an inside track on these openings at this early date, but as Coach Brennan put it, “Actually, every job on the field is open, wide open to the best men available.”
The new Irish head isn’t putting himself on the spot by predicting any great things for the Notre Dame eleven next season, but still hopes remain pretty high in the Irish camp. Since it will be Brennan’s first time at the helm of the
PAUL MATZ
. . . share Irish Captaincy
April 2, 1954
25
ASSISTANT GEORGE DICKSON	HEAD COACH TERRY BRENNAN
Brennan and Two of New Staff Members Ready For The Tough Job Ahead
ASSISTANT BILL FISCHER
varsity, the outlook is expected to shape up after the first few days of work. The new coaching staff is eager to get underway at their new tasks.
With the innovation of a new coaching staff at Notre Danie, there will also be new styles on the football field. The usual freshman team will be abandoned until next fall, and in its place a “B” team will be employed. This year’s crop of candidates will be divided into the “B” squad and the regulars, and the scrimmage sessions will be run in this manner.
This will mark the first time that the new Brennan coaching staff will be working together as a unit, although the staff members have been working daily in preparation for the opening sessions. Besides Brennan, end coach Johnny Druze, backfield coach Bill Earley along with freshman coach “Blacky” Johnston all w-ere with the Irish last season, while George Dickson, Bill Fischer, and Frannie Curran have all returned to their alma mater in coaching assignments.
Brennan, an advocate of the split-T, is aware of the job which faces the new Irish staff. He knows, too, that he must get valuable help from sophomores or reserves in order to even approach last season’s unbeaten record. The bulk of the Irish’s troubles will fall on the members who have had at least two years of varsity experience.
Georgia Tech and Oklahoma do not appear on the 1954 schedule, but the addition of Texas and Michigan State make it just as tough as last year. The -usual line-up of Purdue, Pittsburgh, Navy, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Iowa, Southern Cal and Southern Methodist round out the slate.
Brennan faces the same problem that
presents headaches to coaches every year when spring practice rolls around. He must fit his 20-day practice sessions within the required limit. However, by the time May comes around Brennan will have a better idea of the strength of his first Fighting Irish team.
Spring Interhall Sports Open; Runkle Heads Baseball Nine
Interhall Spring sports will get into full swing within a few weeks under the direction of the Physical Education department. Any hall or club interested in participating in any of the sports should place their entries in the “Rock” before leaving for Easter vacation.
The baseball league, under the direction of Mr. Raymond Runkle, will be organized the week of April 5, and a schedule will be drawn up during the holidays. The league will begin action after vacation and all games wnll be played in the afternoon. Practice games will be held before vacation starts.
Mr. Thomas Fallon and Mr. Frank Maxwell will be in charge of the Spring volleyball tournament and the softball league respectively. A discussion will be held to determine whether the softball games will be played in the afternoon at 3:45 or in the evening at 6:30.
The softball league will begin just as soon as the diamonds are in condition. Mr. Ernest Szekely stated that time was very important and that all entries should be made as soon as possible.
Six diamonds will be used for softball and two diamonds for baseball. All games will be played on the athletic fields adjoining the tennis courts.
Harrington Leads Irish, Captures Third in Relays
Jim Harrington, Notre Dame’s ace pole vaulter, again led the Irish as seven of Coach Wilson’s thinclads participated in the Chicago Daily News Relays held last Saturday in Chicago Stadium. It was the third straight week that Harrington topped the Irish individual entrants and the fourth straight time he hit 14’4”.
Harrington’s vault was good enough for third place behind Don Laz and Jerry Welbourne, w-ho both tied for first place at 14 feet 8 inches. Captain Joe Springer came in fourth with a vault of 14 feet, which tied his season’s high.
Bernie Allard tied for third place in the high jump with a jump of 6 feet 5 inches. He failed to break his record jump of 6 feet 7 inches set last year in the same Relays. The mile relay team consisting of Dennis Malec, Al Schoenig, Jack Alexander and Bill Squires came in second in the Champion of Champions Mile Relay behind the winner and Big Ten Champion Indiana, with Oklahoma, the Big Seven winner, finishing third.
The Relays closed the indoor season for the Wilsonmen. The Irish will now begin practice for the outdoor meets. The schedule for the coming season includes: April 4-5, Texas Relays at Austin, Texas; April 15, Triangular Relay with Indiana and Purdue at Indiana; April 17, Kansas Relays at Kansas; and April 23-24, Penn Relays at Penn.
On May 1 the Irish face Michigan State at East Lansing; May 7, Michigan Normal at Notre Dame in their only (Continued on Page' 33)
26
The. Scholastic
Fencers Gain Eighth
Place Tie in Tourney
Notre Dame’s fencing season came to a successful conclusion last weekend, as \ the Irish’s three representatives, Captain Rod Duff, Gerry Finney, and Dick v Hull, gained a three-way deadlock for eighth place in the annual NCAA tourney ait Chicago.
Baseball
(Continued from Page 25) with Arkansas State Teachers, Memphis State, and Southwestern College.
Following the custom of past seasons, Notre Dame has scheduled a dozen games with Big Ten schools. Most of the Big Ten contests are on a home-and-home basis. The entire schedule of the Irish is still incomplete and many of the dates are still tentative.
April 2, 1954
by Bob Frolicher
The Irish won a total of 52 bouts to finish only nine points behind the winners for first, Columbia and NYU. Also, they were only two points from a fifth place finish which would have been the highest place a Notre Dame squad has ever achieved in the NCAA meet. A sixth-place finish in ’52 is the' best the Irish have copped to date.
Teams who placed ahead of the Irish were: Columbia and New York universities, 61; Cornell, 59; Navy, 58; Penn, 54; Princeton, 53; and Rutgers, 53. The eastern teams again dominated the' meet by capturing the first seven places.
Finney Wins Fourth
Finney was the individual ND leader as he captured a fourth in the sabre with 20 wins and seven losses, and won a spot on the mythical All-American squad, chosen from the first four finishers in each event. Hull took ninth in the foil with 16-10, and Duff ended up 12th in the epee with 16 wins and 14 losses. In all 33 schools were represented.
Coach Walter Langford’s ’54 squad was another of the fine' teams he has been producing for several years. The Irish ended the season with a mark of 12 wins and but one loss. They won 10 straight after an early season loss to Wisconsin.
In the past seven seasons, Langford’s teams have lost only eight dual meets. Their eighth-place finish this season in the NCAA marked the fourth time in the last five years that they have placed in the top ten. Illinois is the only othei-midwestem school to match this record.
FRANK LEAHY
An Inspiration
New Faces On Cartier Field
Today is the day. Head coach Terry Brennan steps into one of the biggest jobs he has ever faced when he leads the Irish into its 66th football campaign. It marks a new era in Notre Dame football—The Terry Brennan Coaching Era. Behind him stand some of the greatest records and coaches to ever step on the gridiron. Excluding the terms of Ed McKeever and Hugh
Devore during the war years (1944-45) Brennan now is the fourth coach to hold down the head mentor reins since the death of Knute Rockne on March 31, 1931. He will be starting Spring practice within the same week of the 23rd anniversary of Rockne’s unfortunate plane crash.
Spotting Cartier field will be new faces on the Irish coaching staff. Brennan is staffed by two veterans from Leahy’s outfit, Johnny Druze' and Bill Earley. Returning to their alma mater where they played in one major sport or another are assistants Bill Fischer and George Dickson, “B” squad coach Frannie Curran and freshman head “Blacky” Johnston. Together with their head coach, these new assistants form one of the youngest coaching staffs in a major university.
Brennan follows in the footsteps of the Old Master, Frank Leahy, considered by many as the greatest coach in history. There is no doubt that
together with Rockne, they form the two most outstanding eras in football. At the conclusion of their coaching careers they had almost identical records, and at the time Leahy bowed out of coaching, he was considered the top man in coaching circles. Brennan played under Leahy. Brennan gained national recognition under Leahy. After four years of varsity competition, Brennan knew that it took the fundamentals, spirit, drive and hard work to form a good, winning combination.
Today he will be out to instill those same requirements in the 1954 edition of the Fighting Irish. Like any new coach, Brennan has his own ideas of the brand of football he intends to play. However, it can be taken pretty much for granted that basically it will be the same as the Leahy style with new variations. To the new Irish head, Leahy serves as a fine inspiration. To follow such a coach makes Brennan’s job twice as tough, but it also makes the incentive twice as great to match such a performance, and the pursuit of such an incentive is bound to bring top-flight results.
They Said It Before—They’re Saying It Again
This is the day the skeptics have been waiting for. Ever since the announcement of Brennan succeeding Leahy on Feb. 1, this select group of critics have reminded the public time and again that the Irish coach can’t make good because of his inexperience and age. Many from this group said the same thing in 1941 when Leahy left Boston College and returned to Notre Dame to succeed Elmer Layden. At the time Leahy was only 33.
However, Brennan faces quite a task of finding capable replacements for vacancies left by graduation. At a first glance most people would say his job isn’t any more difficult than that of the other coaches. He loses only six first-*stringers and he has 17 monogram winners returning.
The fact might be that the numerical loss of personnel is not above normal, but the question remains whether any coach, old or new, ever faced the problem of finding replacements for six first-string All-Americans. • Brennan approaches his task with neither optimism nor pessimism but with a job to do, and with a desire to carry on the tradition which has placed Notre Dame in the national football spotlight for many years.
They Fly Through The Air • • .
Fourteen men fly through the air, without wings, five afternoons a week in the Navy Drill hall. These fourteen men are the Notre Dame gymnastic team—a group that is short on campus recognition—but long on talent.
The team, originated here in 1949, is in its fifth year under the capable tutelage of Coach Ray Runkle. Runkle’s recipe for successful gymnastic squads has been hard work mixed with patience, plus a dab of showmanship thrown in for good measure. The end result of this concoction is that the Irish gym team is now ready for the big time competition.
This year Runkle has scheduled meets with several Big Ten teams. They have already faced three of the top teams in this area: Iowa, Illinois, and Michigan. They’re competing with these squads despite the fact that they are an inexperienced outfit.
That’s the surprising thing about Runkle’s crew. Only two men, captain Dave Engels and Reggie Grimm, have ever had any gymnastic experience prior to coming to Notre Dame, yet the team is holding its own in competition with more experienced squads. The remainder of the team reported with no experience—they acquired all their knowledge and ability from the capable instruction of Coach Runkle.
COACH RAY RUNKLE AND STUDENT
Irish Gym Mentor Aids Squad Member in Tumbling Workout
By DAVE KILKEARY
Coach Runkle, known to his squad as “Dad,” is a graduate of Penn State, where he won the Eastern Intercollegiate Gymnastic championship in 1939. In his fifth year at Notre Dame, he previously served two seasons as gym coach at Illinois, prior to a four year hitch in the Air Force and a two year stint as gym coach of Pottstown high school in Pottstown, Pa.
Although his gymnastic team is on the campus club status, they have high hopes of being recognized as a minor sport within the next year. The club is hoping there won’t be too much difficulty in switching to the minor sport level, because they now own all of their equipment. They’re a self-supporting outfit, receiving money from donations and shows put on in the Michiana district. The biggest piece of equipment, the trampoline, was donated by Mr. Pontius from Brockton, Mass., through the efforts of the club’s number one booster, Bill Crimmins of Sorin Hall.
In gymnastic competition, each team selects three men to work each piece of apparatus. There are six events: the trampoline, the side horse, the parallel
bars, the horizontal bar, the flying rings, and tumbling. Such performers as Dave Engels, Roccy Tonnone, Dan Healy, Reggie Grimm, Jack Soldo, Nick Raich, and Evie Hatch form the nucleus of the squad.
These men have put on performances in Sturgis, Michigan; at Howe Military Academy in Howe, Indiana; at the Mardi Gras; and last year- performed between halves at some of the home varsity basketball games. Last February, in conjunction with the Phy. Ed. Department, the club brought the World famous Swedish Olympic Gymnastic squad to Notre Dame.
Captain Experienced Vet
Dave Engels, the team captain, has had considerable gymnastic experience, starting his training as a student at South Bend Central. He has been a member of the campus club for the past two years and at one time or another has worked every piece of equipment in meets. His best performance to date this season was against Western Illinois, when he took two firsts and a second place for 17 team points. Engels admits that this season’s schedule is one of the toughest in the past four years.
The gym squad prepares for these meets in the Navy Drill hall. One of the reasons they prefer the Navy Drill hall to the Rockne Memorial is for the physical well-being of the trampolinists—in the Rock the soaring trampolinists nearly go through the roof.
Other members of the squad are Mike Lyons, George Mott and Bob Conrad on the parallel bars; Paul Leitzinger on the horizontal bars, while Bob Wempe, Joe Collins and Ed Paglee are tumblers.
“I’ll welcome all aspiring gymnasts regardless of any previous experience they have had,” Coach Runkle says. He’s looking for more squad members. “The only thing necessary is to report for practice,” he adds. In an effort to discover talent on the campus, the club will sponsor an interhall gymnastic competition later this spring, with medals and cups being awarded to the winners. It will be a novice tournament. The last novice tournament held here four years ago was a great success.
The team is now preparing for another exhibition in Sturgis, Michigan. Coach Runkle wants no repeat performance of what happened in an exhibition held there last year, however. Neil Vas-concellos, last year’s captain, executed an excellent maneuver on the side horse, but lost his pants enroute.
28
The Scholastic
Nine Varsity Cagers Awarded Monograms
Nine members of the 1953-54 Irish cage squad that advanced to the NCAA regional finals for an impressive 22-3 season’s mark were awarded monograms last Thursday at the annual South Bend Villagers’ banquet in honor of the basketball team held in the LaSalle Hotel.
Six seniors, one junior, and two sophomores were recipients of the awards. Captain Dick Rosenthal earned his third ND emblem, along with Joe Bertrand and Junior Stephens. Bill Sullivan won his second monogram, while seniors Ed McGinn, John Reynolds, and Dick Honingford were awarded their first letter.
ND’s two sophomore sensations, John Fannon and Bill Weiman, both in their initial year on the squad, were awarded the traditional varsity symbol. Fannon was a regular starter during the past season, and Weiman made 23 appearances in the 25 games played.
Pete Newell, former head basketball coach at Michigan State and newly-appointed mentor at the University of California, and Forest “Forddy” Anderson, Bradley’s mentor this past season and recently named Newell’s successor at State, were guest speakers at the testimonial.
Notre Dame edged the Spartans, 74-71, but suffered their second loss of the season at the hands of Anderson’s Bradley Braves at Peoria, 74-72.
Sullivan Plays in Shrine Tilt; 'Rosie1, Bertrand Join Stars
Three seniors of the 1953-54 Notre Dame basketball team and all members of the starting five the past season, captain Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand and Bill Sullivan, have extended their talents past the regular season and NCAA tournament.
The Irish’s ace center, Rosenthal, is currently playing with the College AllStars on their tour with the' Harlem Globetrotters. In their opening day of exhibition last Sunday, “Rosie” dumped in 28 points in two games to pace the collegians. The Stars dropped a close one, 73-70 in the afternoon tilt with Rosenthal collecting 17 points, only one behind top scorer Bob Leonard of Indiana and tallied 11 points in a losing cause that evening as the All-Stars fell, 69-57.
Rosenthal then followed with 17 points the following night in Toronto to help lead the Stars to a 94-87 win over the Trotters. It halted the Globetrotter
streak at 263 games, a streak which extended back to April 15, 1953, when another All-Star group defeated the flashy team.
Rosenthal led the Stars after the first three games with 45 points and a 15-point average. In the two opening day games the Irish ace sunk 14 of 15 foul shots. Bertrand, a star forward on the Irish five, will participate with the Stars on the second half of the tour with the Globetrotters.
Last Saturday night in Madison Square Garden Bill Sullivan, ND guard, pumped through six points to help lead the West All-Stars to an upset win over the East Stars, 103-95 in the New York Herald-Tribune benefit game. Indiana’s Bob Leonard scored 22 points to lead the West attack.
Fisher, Rodgers Lead Irish Crew to State Championship
Skippers Bob Fisher and Ed Rodgers scored 12 and eight points respectively last weekend to lead the Irish sailors to the Indiana Championship crown at Diamond lake. The host Notre Dame team captured eight of the 12 races.
Behind the ND team which compiled a total of 42 points were: Purdue with 35 and Indiana with 15 points. Commodore Dan Matthews, Paul Miller, John Chomeau, Giles Gallant and Frank Dwan were the other Notre Dame skippers.
This weekend the Irish sailors travel to Northwestern to participate in the Team Race Championships against the host , Wildcats, Wisconsin, and Marquette. Other, races on the Notre Dame spring schedule include: the Boston
IRISH CRAFT
Sailors Outrace Indiana Foes
Dinghy Challenge Cup races at Boston, Mass., on April 24-25; the Midway Dinghy Championship Eliminations on May 1-2; the Notre Dame Snipe Invitational on May 8-9 and the Midwest Dinghy Championship Finals on the 15th and 16th of May.
Cleveland, Accounting Fight For Kegler Crown Tomorrow
The Cleveland Club and the Accounting Club will meet tomorrow in a match to determine the Kampus Keglers’ champions. The Keglers closed out their regular season last Saturday with Cleveland and the Accountants winning their respective league titles.
Jim Haering of the AIEE Club finished the season with a bang, hitting a 617 series and a high single game of 230. Haering’s 617 series was good enough to tie Buz Velotta, of the Cleveland Club, for the second high series of the year. Paul Pfohl’s 633 was the best series of the season.
Jaime Saenz, of the Architects’ Club, had the high single game of the year, 259, ten pins better than his closest competitor, John Hoblitzell of the Garden State Club.
The Erie Club took both the high team series and high single game for the season. Erie’s 2935 total pins was 156 points better than the second best team series, held by the Buffalo Club. Erie’s 1009 single game total tied the Air Cadet Club for the season’s top honors, but the Pennsylvanians also had the third best team single' game with a total of 997.
Airmen Down DePauw, 74-58, To Win ROTC Cage Tourney
Notre Dame’s Air Force ROTC cage team recently walked off with championship honors in the annual ROTC tourney played at Purdue' University.
The Irish, coached by Lt. Col. Milton R. Weaver, drew a bye in the first round, defeated the Butler five, 61-53, in a semi-final round game and downed DePauw, 74-58, in the finals for the crown. Teams from Purdue and Ball State rounded out a field of five entrants.
Captained by Junior Stephens, a regular on the Notre Dame varsity, other team members included Bill Weiman and Dick Honingford, also members of Coach Johnny Jordan’s squad, seniors Bob Joseph, Bill Voor and Tom Short, junior John Locht, sophomores Ron Weber and Tom Caplet and freshmen Jim Porcari and Jim Healy.
April 2, 1954
29
Set April 13 as Deadline For$100 Stanford Contest
The deadline for submitting entries for the Leland V. Stanford Prize in Science and Engineering will be Tuesday, April 13, it has been announced by Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science.
A first prize of $100 will be contributed by Mr. Leland V. Stanford, of New York City and a member of (the Advisory Council in Science and Engineering, for the best essay submitted by a student of the College of Science or Engineering on the topic, “Liberal Education in Relation to Technical Education.”
All essays must not be more than 1,000 words. All undergraduate students in the two colleges are eligible to compete.
Mr. Stanford, who is rice-president of the Sinclair Refining Co., has expressed particular interest in college students, and in their opinions concerning the place of liberal education in science and engineering programs.
“Because of Mr. Stanford’s particular interest in Notre Dame, it would be a tribute to him if a large number of contestants took part in this essay contest. And T urge all undergraduates in science or engineering to participate,” stated Dean Baldinger.
Essays, Reviews, Sketches Included in Spring 'Juggler1
The Spring issue of The Juggler, recently published, is now on sale at the Cafeteria and Bookstore for 25 cents a copy. All of the Juggler's material represents work done by students of the University.
“The Birthday Money” by Jerre Lloyd, “A Stranger in Death” by Bob Swanson, “Wind” by Luis Harss, and “Ten and Five” by Vern Teofan are the short stories in this issue. Joe Inibriaco and Editor John Burns have' contributed essays on John Courtney Murray and Melville’s Moby Dick, respectively.
An unusual feature of the Spring issue is a drawing of Job by Pete Staris. Duke Rank, Pat Sweeney, and Burns have written the poetry, and the' freshman section includes sketches by Edward Gordon, Brother Donald Eagleson, C.S.C., and Gordon Davis.
Book reviews have been handled by Frank Maier—Jessamyn West’s Cress Delahanty, Frank Newman-Fergusson’s The Idea, of a Theatre, Imbriaco-Ker-tesz’s Diplomacy in a Whirlpool, Mike Long-Basil Wiley’s The Seventeenth Century Background, and Pat Lally-Guardini’s The Church and the Catholic.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, April 3—Saturday of the Fourth Week of Lent.
Sunday, April 4—Passion Sunday.
Monday, April 5—Monday of Passion Week.
Tuesday, April 6—Tuesday of Passion Week.
Wednesday. April 7 — Wednesday of Passion Week.
Thursday, April 8—Thursday of Passion Week.
Friday, April 9—Friday of Passion Week; Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
ND Priests to Attend Sorbonne Celebration
Two representatives of the University have prominent roles in the' American celebration of the 700th anniversary of the founding of the College of Sorbonne today in New York City. They are Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of academic affairs, and Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute.
Father Moore is chairman of the American septicentennial committee formed to commemorate the founding of the famed French college in 1254 and Father Gabriel is the committee’s secretary. They will participate in a program to be held in the Harkness Amphitheatre, Columbia University, tonight at 8:15 o’clock.
Dr. Miller Will Preside
Dr. Charles R. D. Miller, executive secretary of the Mediaeval Academy of America, will preside at the meeting which will include two major addresses. Pearl Fibre, associate professor of history at Hunter College, will discuss “The Rights, Privileges and Immunities of Sorbonne Scholars in the Thirteenth Century.” Lynn Thorndike, professor emeritus of history at Columbia University, will speak on “Censorship by Sorbonne of Science and Superstition in the First Half of the Seventeenth Century.”
Others participating in the septicentennial program include Dr. John A. Krout, vice-president and provost, Columbia University; Dr. George N. Schuster, president of Hunter College and chairman of the National Commission for UNESCO; and Prof. Pierre Donze-lot, the permanent representative of French universities in the United States.
Engineers Make Plans For Open House in May
The third annual Engineers’ Open House, which is scheduled for May 14 and 15, is expected to be the biggest and best of all, according to Ed Christiano, general chairman of the Open House Committee.
The two-day Open House will be filled ■with enginetering events and activities.
Festivities will open informally "with the General Electric House of Magic display in Washington Hall 021 the morning of May 14. This first display is especially designed for students.
The formal opening will take place in the afternoon when Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering, will speak briefly welcoming the guests. Immediately following the dean’s speech, there will be another General Electric House of Magic display.
The Open House tours through the various engineering departments will start later in the afternoon. As a specialty for the toui-, the' Open House committee hopes to have experimental dream cars from some of the divisions of General Motors on hand for the tour display.
Tours will be held during the remainder of the afternoon and will be continued on the morning of the 15th.
Plans are being made for the traditional engineers’ chariot race which will take place right before the Varsity-Old Timers’ football game.
“Most of the plans for the Open House are -still tentative and are subject to minor change,” said General Chairman Christiano.
Northwestern's Link to Talk In History Series Wednesday
Prof. Arthur S. Link of Northwestern University will be the guest speaker in another of a current series of lectures being sponsored by the Department of History Wednesday, it has been announced by Prof. Vincent DeSantis of the department.
The lecture will be held in Room 101 of the Engineering Building at 8:15 p.m.
The topic of Professor Link’s lecture will be, “Rupture of Japanese and American Relations in 1941: Background and Combination.”
Professor Link is one of the foremost young American historians in the country. He teaches American History at Northwestern. He is a leading scholar in the study of Woodrow Wilson and has written several books and articles concerning the World War I President of the United States.
30
The Scholastic
McCarthy ... Greene
(Continued from Page 22) focused on the case the facts were dug up and the communists were exposed.
The moral is this: when the public reacts, so does the government.
To illustrate the point further, .in the Greenlease kidnapping the public was aroused and therefore the case had to be handled with extreme care. Had the kidnappers gotten away, the public would have wanted to know why. Yet in many other kidnappings of which the public was ignorant, the kidnappers escaped and it was passed off as bad luck.
As is the case with everything we do, to operate at top efficiency we must have a good reason; we must be pushed. To get the public to push they must be aroused; and the problem is to arouse them against communism.
This is where the press fits into the picture. The press decides what will be printed on the basis of what they know will hold the public’s interest. Now obviously if every day the headlines report that a communist has been exposed, the matter soon becomes boring, the public stops reading about it, the press stops printing about it, the people lose interest in it, and the government stops acting upon it.
It takes a controversial figure like McCarthy to consistently hold the public .interest. By keeping this interest focused on communism, those who have the job of hiring and promoting people in government jobs are kept on their toes. They fear what will happen if they let a communist into government.
This, I think, is the primary good of McCarthyism and it is my contention that this good outweighs the evil involved.
There is another good, of course, and that is this: McCarthy has actually exposed some communists. Lattimore is an example.
McAuliffe Wins Presidency In St. Louis Club Balloting
At its first meeting of the spring semester, the St. Louis Club elected Bob McAuliffe, a junior majoring in accounting, president by a landslide vote.
Jim Phelan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, collected a majority of votes to take the office of vice-president from four other nominees. Dave Max, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, was elected to the position of secretary. After a tight race fox- treasurer, Bob Baudenistel, a junior in the College of Engineering, was awarded a majority on the second ballot.
The new officex-s immediately began working on the plans for the Eastei-dance and are also revising the club roster.
The April Issue of the
Review of Politics
will feature
Professor Frank O'Malley's
"The Culture of the Church"
To insure yourself a copy send your advance order now to Box 4, Notre Dame, Ind., or call at the Review of Politics office in the Social Science Building
Student Price
$1.00 a copy $3.40 per year
Students of other universities read The Review of Politics
WHY NOT YOU?
Other Articles in the April issue
Father Stanley Parry, C.S.C.: “The Premises of Brownson’s Political Theory” Adrienne Koch: “James Madison and the Workshop of Liberty” Will Herberg: “Religious Communities in Present-Day America” Otto B. Roegele-. “Adenauer's Electoral Victory” And reviews of important books
Place Your Order Now!
Review of Politics
Notre Dame, Indiana
April 2, 1954
31
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
Pizza Spaghetti
Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
Open on Sunday Nights
You’re always welcome at . . .
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
Architecture Students
Fourteen students from the Department of Architecture are making a field trip to Chicago today and tomorrow in order to study the problems involved in converting slum areas into modern housing developments.
The group, under the direction of Mr. David Ardito, instructor in the Department of Architecture, will visit the Public Housing Authority and will interest themselves particularly with the South Side Planning Board, a re-development agency for Chicago’s South Side slum clearance.
ASK ANY GOLFER WHO OWNS A SET OF SYNCHRO-DYNED CLUBS!
Hundreds of unsolicited testimonials from amateur golfers tell the same story on Spalding Synchro-Dyned woods and irons — golf’s more fun now and a lower-scoring game, too!
You’ll see why the first time you play these advance-design clubs. Yom: shots are easier to control, your swing is freer, your timing more uniform — because every wood, every iron has the identical contact feel!
Have your Spalding dealer fit you now.
BOBBY JONES WOODS & IRONS
SpaldinG
Synchm-Dyned
♦MEMBERS OF SPALDING ADVISORY STAFF
JIMMY THOMSON WOODS
On Chicago Field Trip
The men, who are part of a Housing Seminar group, will inspect South Side slum areas with the idea of forming a possible improvement plan of their own. They then will travel to areas where housing projects have been erected to see how slum problems have been met and solved.
Also included in the schedule for the weekend is a side trip to Park Forest, a suburb 30 miles south of Chicago. The interest of this suburb lies in the fact that it is a planned residential community which was completed only recently. The erection of this community was aided by the Federal Housing Act of 1952.
The third highlight of the trip is to be an inspection of the campus of the Illinois Institute of Technology which is noted for its architectural style, having been designed by Ernies VanderRohoe, the famous Dutch architect.
It is the hope of the Department of Architecture that more tours can be arranged in the future which 'will include not only students in architecture but also those majoring in economics, sociology, and political science.
Survey Aims at Improvement Of Foreign Student Relations
In a recent survey conducted by the Student Senate among the foreign students of the University, a major step was taken to promote better relations between these students and the rest of the student body.
High up on the list of proposals to better student relations was a lecture series through which the foreign students would explain different habits, traits, and customs of their various countries. In addition talks on the United States were proposed, so the foreign students can get to know more about this country and its people. It was suggested that these talks be promoted by the regional clubs on campus.
Much interest was also expressed in favor of an International Ball and an International Dinner. Besides these, an exhibition on the different countries in the library was proposed.
Although the majority of the foreign students are from the Latin American countries, the countries of Europe, Puerto Rico, Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, China and the Ukraine are also .represented.
Ray Kraemer conducted the survey which was directed to graduate students as well as the regular four-year men.
32
The Scholastic
Art Department Plans Summer Grad School
The Department of Art will offer a complete program of graduate study during the Summer session, June 18 to Aug. 3, according to a recent announcement by Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, department head.
Operating with an expanded faculty in the new studios and workshops of the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, the Department of Art will offei-regular undergraduate courses in drawing, painting, design and sculpture as well as an extensive curriculum on the graduate level.
Among the new features of the program, which has been designed particularly for art teachers, is a lecture course on the origins and development of liturgical art. Other courses to be offered include commercial art production, sculptural design and a variety of drawing and painting classes.
In addition to Sessler, the Summer session art faculty will consist of Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., noted sculptor; Frederick Beckman, design and crafts; Robert Leader, a specialist in liturgical art; and Ernest Brandl, art historian.
Track
(Continued from Page 26)
home meet of the season; May 15, Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh; May 22, Indiana State Meet at Lafayette; and on May 29, the Western Michigan College Invitational. Notre Dame closes the outdoor season with the Central Collegiate Meet at Milwaukee on June 5 and on June 11 and 12 take part in the NCAA Meet at Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Students Voice Views
(Continued from Page 20)
it would be nice if we could see the principle he is trying to stress, instead | of the press’s interpreted words. They, the press, are twisting his words.”
Of the same opinion was Ray Brennan, freshman from Farley Hall. He stated, “He (McCarthy) is trying hard , but is meeting much opposition. He is being held down; he should have more i	power. He should be commended	for
i	bringing these atrocities before	the
!,	people.” '
; Sophomore Paul Kraman of Howard
Hall, summed up, “McCarthy’s only purpose is to convince the people of the , United States that they need Senator 1 McCarthy!”
i (Scholastic reporters credited with se-! curing the above interviews are: Bob Dunseath, Jerrold Hilton, and Bob Kaufman.—News Ed.)
I MAGIC and NOVELTY 1 ^CATALOG
INCLUDES 14 WONDERFUL MAGIC TRICKS FULLY ILLUSTRATED AND DESCRIBED
Dept. ND
Send Only JOc to Cover Cost of Mailing, Read all about our FREE GIFT OFFER.
CHICAGO MAGIC CENTER
19 W.RANDOLPH ST. CHICAGO I,ILL.



SOME PIGEONS ARE
INCLINED TO POUT
OR did Garcia really care about getting that message?
This is the Sad Story of a Senior who was Serious. About a Girl. In the straight-forward manner common to Seniors, he decided to invite her up for The Big Weekend.
A month ahead, he sat down and wrote her a Nice Letter. Then he sat back and Waited. For three weeks, with no answer. Finally, alarmed, he Phoned her.
Cost him S4.25 in quarters. When the bonging of the Coin Box stopped, all he could hear at the other end of the wire was a Series of Sniffs. "Pigeon?” he asked, tentatively. She wept. "What’s wrong?” he asked. She sobbed.
"Oh, Harold,” she wailed, "You used to send telegrams to invite me to Big Weekends. This year, all I get
105 N. Main St.
is a little old Letter. You don’t love me any more.” And hung up.
Harold goes everywhere Stag now. Says he prefers it that way. But you should hear him Sigh whenever he passes a Western Union office.
As your Telegrammar will telj you —(the Telegrammar being a handy, pocket-size guide to telegraph use that you can get for free by simply writing to Room 1727, Western Union, 60 Hudson St., New York City)—a Telegram takes any message out of the casual class. It’s Subtle_ flatters the Gal or Guy who gets it. Next time you’re sending an Invitation, a Howl Home for Cash, birthday greetings to Mother—just call Western Union, or head for your Western Union office.
Telephone 3-6101
April 2, 1954
33
by Gordon Bergquist
The Notre Dame Man is a curious animal.
The Notre Dame Man is a round-faced, pink-cheeked freshman who arrives on the campus in early September with six suitcases, two satchels, and a fond mother’s fond admonitions still ringing in his ears.
The Notre Dame Man is a sophomore full of lore of the ways and means of prefects and rectors; he can, from his wide experience, spot a double-check an hour away and can tell you at the drop of a scalper’s ticket, the rushing average of every back on the football squad.	.
The Notre Dame Man is a first-semester junior, completely at sea in the first ripples of his major—but terribly determined not to be bothered by the whole thing.
The Notre Dame Man is a second semester senior, calmly playing bridge, bothered by nothing in the world save a comprehensive sometime in the misty future of a week or two away.
Tests, Trips To Grotto
The Notre Dame Man is a student, constantly on the alert for a test, that he may have time for a quick trip to the Grotto.
The Notre Dame Man is a freshman, cheering his lungs out at the first home football game of the season, when the team is a touchdown behind.
The Notre Dame Man is a sophomore who makes the supreme effort to get up on Saturday morning to make his third Mass Check—and fails.
The Notre Dame Man is a junior,
night in the chair car of a rattling train as it carries him home to a little town in Iowa at Christmas-time for his first vacation.
The Notre Dame Man is an excited sophomore, yelling up the aisle of the railroad car reserved for the Student Trip—but still wondering just why his parents suddenly relented and let him go in the first place.
The Notre Dame Man is a junior, sleeping soundly, sprawled across two seats as his train heads for New York in the first week in June.
Crossword Puzzles, Clubcar
The Notre Dame Man is a senior on his way back to school who casually glances up from his copy of Monthly Crosswords to the sweet young tiling with the knit dress as she passes his seat—and then returns to his puzzles, wondering if the girl will be in the
club car when he goes back in another ten minutes.
The Notre Dame Man is the elderly rector of a freshman hall, who, at 11:30 at night, closes the door of his office, pretending not to hear the yells from the end of the hall; and goes into his living room to watch the late wrestling matches on TV.
The Notre Dame Man is a young professor, trying to get a laugh from his very first class.
The Notre Dame Man is an old, old man chipping the ice from the steps of the library, while the gaily chattering young students pass back and forth on their way to class through the icy cold.
Thinking—A Curious Animal
The Notre Dame Man is a Brother, working in the Post Office, day after day handling the requests for stamps and the hundreds of little orange slips that the students bring in to exchange for packages from home.
The Notre Dame Man is a freshman, sophomore, junior, senior who emerges, blinking his eyes, from the Colfax Theater and tosses some sarcastic comment to his buddy as two South Bend high school students go by with • their peg pants.
The Notre Dame Man is a freshman, sophomore, junior, senior kneeling in the Lady Chapel for a half-hour’s adoration during Lent.
The Notre Dame Man is a freshman, sophomore, junior, senior sitting quietly by the edge of St. Mary’s Lake after dinner, watching the sun go down.
The Notre Dame Man is a freshman, sophomore, junior, senior thinking of the girl back home.
The Notre Dame Man .is a curious animal.
sitting cocky and complacent on the steps of Sorin, watching the seniors and their dates come up the pathways to 11 o’clock Mass, on the weekend of the Senior Ball.
Senior, Seminarian, Freshman
, The Notre Dame Man is a senior who suddenly realizes a bit sadly, even getting a bit maudlin, that in a few short months or weeks, he will leave Notre Dame.
The Notre Dame Man is a young seminarian, lying sleepless in his bunk in the Old College' at 2 a.m. in the quiet of a Spring night and listening to the soft splash of the lake.
The Notre Dame Man is a flannelclad freshman, sitting eagerly awake all
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
“Rosie’s." Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
34
The Scholastic

Who wants to walk alone when Daddy’s hand is there to hold?
Makes a girl feel the same size as everybody.
That’s the way all little girls and boys need to feel—safe in a world of love where they can grow without fear. That’s where the security we need begins—for every one of us.
To build security for those we love—that is our common dream. And it is a dream that can come true only in a country like America.
For only in a free land is every man and woman free to work for it.
It is by taking care of our own that we also make America strong. For the strength of our country is simply the strength of each secure home joined to the security of another.
Saving for security is easy! Read every word—now! If you’ve tried to save and failed, chances are it was because you didn’t have a plan. Well, here’s a savings system that really works—the Payroll Savings Plan for investing in Savings Bonds.
This is all you do. Go to your company’s pay office, choose the amount you want to save-a couple of dollars a payday, or as much as you wish. That money will be set aside for you before you even draw your pay. And automatically invested in Series “E” U. S. Savings Bonds which are turned over to you.
If you can save only $3.75 a week on the Plan, in 9 years and 8 months you will have $2,137.30. If you can save as much as $18.75 a week, 9 years and 8 months will bring you $10,700!
For your sake, and your family’s, too, how about signing up today?
The U.S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with, the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.
THE PROOF YOU OUGHT TO HAVE
I smoke REGULAR
Chesterfield/ soys
Mary Healy
I like KING-SIZE
Chesterfield, says
Peter Lind Hayes
SMOKE REGULAR OR KING-SIZE CHESTERFIELD...
AMERICA’S MOST POPUIAR 2-WAY CIGARETTE
THE QUALITY YOU WANT
No matter which size Chesterfield you buy you get the same premium quality cigarette, and all the flavor and mildness that goes with it! You get the world’s best tobaccos, selected by Chesterfield buyers with the help of our research chemists ... and proven, by actual tobacco tests, to be highest in quality.
the TASTE and MILDNESS
you want
.bkccoco-
CHESTERFIELD Bcsreonnw
THE LOW HICOTIHE YOU WANT
Before we buy tobaccos for Chesterfields, our laboratories take samples from all over the tobacco country and analyze them for low nicotine content. The extra care pays off! In recent “tobacco tests,” the six leading brands of cigarettes were chemically analyzed. The findings: of them all, Chesterfield is highest in quality— low in nicotine.

A group of Chesterfield smokers have been examined by a doctor every two months for almost two years. 45% of them have been smoking Chesterfield, on the average, for well over 10 years. The doctor’s examinations show... no adverse effects to the nose, throat
SINUSES
NOSE
THROAT
and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.
Consider Chesterfield’s record with these smokers—with millions of other smokers throughout America. Change to Chesterfield and enjoy the taste and mildness you want—highest in quality—low in nicotine—best for you!
1?54, Ijcgett & Mvw Tosacco Co,