
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe 
to 

Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 
Address _______________________ 
City State Zip Please make checks payable to: Scholastic f\fagazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x __ years=$ 
-~I 
LASTIC 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine October 19, 1989 
Cover Artwork by Vivienne Padilla 
COVER_ 
5 
Faith and Reason Are Safe 
"The Last Temptation of Christ:" some find its opportunity for 
free expression simply irresistible. by Shaun Sparkman 
8 
Ties That Bind 
Where and when do we need restraint in order to maintain 
integrity?· by Sammy Bagby 

FEATURES 
Football Corps 
Student managers love their ''tough jobs'' despite extended time commitment. · by Rich Kurz 
10 
NEWS 
13 Released But Not Free Notre Dame and Saint Mary's chapter of Amnesty International continues to fight for a prisoner of conscience in South Africa. by Mike Wieber 
SPORTS 
15 
Yet Another Tug 0' War 
Notre Dame and Southern Cal hook up Saturday for the 61st installment of 
a classic college football rivalry. by Dan Flynn 
18 
Phase Two 
Ric Schaefer's hockey squad prepares for the next step in its reemergence to national acclaim. by Brian McMahon 

? On,i!'£tli~~G.. > . "' >· .•• ]~~(~~~I:~gp
eek',llltDi~~~IJi.911_r~.~U()SRP.~ir§_•.-.•.•



~y:lilti,;
I::·~if~•~mM.~~'~0-~;~m!llck:.•~ove 
!(~i~l!B['l~Ilt~i~~l·i~i; 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinioos expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinioos of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
October 19, 1989 
On Other Campuses 



ALFRED, PREPARE 
MY BAT NOTES 
So said Batman original, Adam West, before appearing at Creighton University 
W 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
ham! Kapow! Zowie! No, not the results of yet 
another chemistry lab gone haywire. More likely, it 
couldbe the crowd reaction to a recent lecture given at Creighton University. As reported in The Creightonian, the student body was looking for a professor with an incredible crime-fighting physique, a desire to fight for truth and justice 24 hours a day, a silly costume and the ability to talk funny. Responding to their call was the one and only original Batman, Adam West. The superhero spoke on several topics including the popularity oftheTV series, Robin the boy wonder, the recent Batman blockbuster movie, and the future of Batman. 
Black Cadillac, cruisin' down the road, took a wrong tum, right into your home! Not quite a Bruce Springsteen original. However, a few University ofIllinois students are singing the biues since they received an unwelcome visit from Aaron Leider. A story in The Daily Illini detailed the escapade in which Leider drove his 1979 Cadillac into the living room ofan apartment housing UI students. "When the car hit, it felt like an earthquake," said one resident. Not surprisingly, the driver failed a sobriety test given by police who arrived shortly thereafter. 
''If20,000 Show, I'll Lay Out the Dough." That headline, which appeared last month in Northern Illinois University's student news­paper, the Northern Star, trumpeted a promise made by the daily paper's sports editor, Bob Regan: Ifat least 20,000 fans showed up at the football team'ssecond home game, he would donate$100 to the university's athletic fund. Mr. Regan said he made the wager because he was disappointed by the small crowds that regularly turned out for the games, despite the fact that students are admitted free of charge. Several other officials on campus matched the challenge. On game day, 22,365 fans watched Northern Illinois defeat Wes tern Illinoig:_ the 13th largest crowd in the history ofHuskie Stadium. The general scholarship fund received $800 for the effort. 
Major decisions are in order for some students at The University ofNew Hampshire. A news brief in Holy Cross' (Worcester, MA) paper, The Crusader, stated that designing your major is one way of obtaining a degree from UNH. The mission of the program is to motivate those students who cannot find suitable concentrations. But it's not a way to get out of certain undesirable classes since the candidate must petition a faculty committee for approval. Not surprisingly, several students have petitioned for a major entitled The Sociology of Keg Parties. 


Galileo would have been proud of the effort, but ashamed of the results. As reported in the police report of the University of Kansas Daily Kansan, zany funsters at the school dropped a water balloon­presumably quite large-from the eighth floor window of a school dormitory. Unfortunately for the unscientifically savvy pranksters, the popular college projectile shattered the windshield ofa carparked below. Damage is estimated at $250. No wonder the Hesburgh Memorial Library has non-opening windows. 


¦ 
Week in Distortion/ Tim Rogers 

Philosophies of a -Troubled Youth 
Some things have been bugging me lately. Relax, though. This isn't another bitchy piece about South Bend night life, our administration's poli­cies, or even underwear (listen up Observer inside columnist). No. I have much more important problems troubling my dis­traught mind. I have some questions of epic proportions burning inside me and 
they despirately need answers. 
First off, why Michiana? I can't fig­ure out why ihis place has such a silly name. Why not Indigan? Indigan sounds much more cosmopolitan. Was there a vote? Ifnot, we need to hold one. My room will serve as election central and everyone should call me (or my roommate, Jeff) and let me know what you think. People with last names be­ginning with A-M should call anytime Friday. Names beginning with N-Z should also call anytime Friday. Leave a message if neither of us is home. 
Nedville is a small town on the Wis­again. He should snap and kill ten people in a McDonald's with an assault rifle pretty soon now." 
My last question really gets to me the most It keeps me awake at night and takes up scarce space in my head that could be put to better use-like· memorizing Motley Criie lyrics: 

consin-Iowa border. It was named after the great statesman, Ned Norgas. Do people in the Nedville metropolitan area really say they live in Wiscowa? To me, Wiscowa sounds like a toilet bowl cleaner. I wouldn't want to hail from a place sounding like that. 
I also have a question about my door lock. Which 'wise' opens it? Is itclockorcounter­clock? No matter how sober I am, I can never remember. What's more, my first guess is always wrong. I can't be trying the same wrong every time, so it must change. The Notre Dame Plant Maintenance guys must get a good guffaw out of changing the lock/ unlock direction on my door while I'm at class. I can picture a man with a tool belt, showing far too much butt cleavage, telling the boys back at the Plant Maintenance Em­ployee Lounge, "Yup. Got that Rogers kid 
Wow. But back to my question. Ifyou're eating in the dining hall as you read this, STOP. Think fora second how many lips that fork has found its way past. Imagine just who might have licked frosting from between those prongs. Picture the person with the worst oral hygiene imaginable -the one who's mouth graces a dentist's wall with a caption like, "FLOSS OR LOOK FOR­WARD TO THIS." Yuck. 
So, my question is this: exactly what are the chances of me grabbing the same fork more than once during my four years at this place? This question ambled into my head and left me so perplexed that I had to do something about it. I called the Manager of Flatware and Vessels at South Dining Hall. 
ME: Hi. I'm a pretentious smart aleck and I write for Scholastic. Can you tell me how many sets of flatware South Dining Hall owns? 
MANAGER: Huh? Gee. I don't know. Must be a lot. 
ME: More than fifty? MANAGER: Much more. ME: A hundred. MANAGER: Gettin' warmer. 
ME: Which is your biggest meal? MANAGER: (Demonstrating wit) 
Breakfast. But we serve more at lunch. ME: How many? MANAGER: 'Round 3,000. ME: Do you start with a fresh set 
before each meal? 
MANAGER: Yep. We wash them before each time you use them. We have our own sanitizer. 
ME: Great Thanks. 
So the Dining Hall has around 3,000 forks, give or take a couple. Using the familiar Weinschantz Fork Probability Equation, I calculated that 
the chance of me eating a meal with a particular fork more than once in four years is almost as good as the freshman panty raid resulting in anything but some harmless fun. Fat chance. 
Well there you have it. A sampling of some of the weighty problems that make adults around me think, "That Rogers is such a troubled youth." I can't conceal my an­guish. I think the ancient Greek philosopher Pythagoras once said, "The unexamined life isn't worth a hill ofbeans." Pythagoras might have been a good guy, but he should have stuck to triangles. My examined life only causes me strife. II 
Tim Rogers is a second-year sophist who calls Fisher Hall ( still has the green "F") the "buildi.ng where I live." 

October 19, 1989 


Music/ Jeff Jotz 
Chi-town Music 




Underground 
When it comes to alternative music, South Bend really doesn't rank up there with such meccas as Hoboken, New Jersey, Seattle, Washington, or Athens, Georgia. However, 
to find that so many Europeans knew the words to their songs on the tour, even though they were all sung in English. Green was also suprised to find thattheircutR.E.M. went as high as number six on the Belgium National Bomb", and "Hiway 666" remind me what might happen if the Feelies suddenly em­ployed the Ramones as song writers. In other words, it's a fine, fine example ofrock 'n' roll pop craft. 
South Bend's bigger neighbor, Chi­
In my opinion, the best and most cago, has much more to offer if you 
promising band at Pravda is a new­fancy the underground music scene. 
comer to the label, Precious Wax Drip­While not as extensive as New York or 
pings. Their most recent 7" EP,Rayon Los Angeles, Chicago can still boast 
, is an energetic and intelligent piece of about the great bands that call the 
work and definitely merits considera­Windy City their home. 
tion as one of the best independent Traditionally, Chicago has been 
records to be released in the past year. known for its blues, and more recently 
Possessing an ferocity so absent from its 'house' music, but rock 'n' roll has 
commercial rock, Precious Wax Drip­definitely played an integral part in the 
pings has really matured on Rayon, as Second City's musical traditions. In the opposed io 1987's EP on Landmind world of underground rock, bands such 
Records; Ain't We A Wishin' Bunch. as Naked Raygun, Big Black, Ministry, 
Songs like "Across The Tracks" and and Urge Overkill have gained national 
"Boston"prove this energy notonlyon exposure and acclaim on college radio 
vinyl, but in concert as well. In a and respected rock 'n' roll publications. 
March 25th show, Precious Wax Drip­If good old rock 'n' roll is your game, 
pings opened up for Dinosaur Jr. at the Chicago has some damn fine bands for 
Cabaret Metro and was received your listening pleasure. The company 
warmly and enthusiastically by the that embodies that spirit ofraw, unadul­
crowd. They then proceeded to put on terated rock is Pravda Records. Pravda, 
a show that was just as good, if not situated next to the Cabaret Metro at 
better, than Dinosaur Jr. on that cool 

3728 North Clark St., calls itself home to plenty of great bands like The Serv­ice, Precious Wax Drippings, The Slugs, The Farmers, and Green (not the album, but the 
band). 

Green, the most well-known band on the Pravda label, released their new aptly-titled 7",RE.M., last year. Therelease,alongwith their previous two albums, Green and Elaine MacKenzie, received a considerable amount of airplay on college radio stations nation­wide. This past summer, Green was the first Pravda band to tour Europe as they embarked on a six-week romp through Holland, Aus­tria, Switzerland, France, Germany, and Belgium. The band was pleasantly suprised 
Author Jeff Jotz In front of Pravda's Chicago headquarters. 
Radio Chart. Green's succesful mix of Beatlesque pop with the epergy of a rowdy bar band proved to be a big hit here at Notre Dame, too. Last year, the band played twice on campus to wildly enthusiastic audiences at Theodore's and the Keenan Revue party. Another great band that calls Pravda home is The Farmers, a trio of two guitarists and a drummer from the Chicago area. Their first single, "Black Sea/Blue Devil", released in 1988, rocks with quirky guitar riffs and some intensedrumming. ThispastSeptember, The Farmers released their debut LP, Sea Of Love. Tunes like "Paris, France", "Drop The 
March evening. 
So, if you think that Skid Row and Warrant are two examples ofquality cutting­edge rock, then maybe a trip to Chicago to sample its music scene isn't worth your time. However, if your mind is a little more open to new music, and a sense of adventure is in your bones, stop by the Cub by Bear Lounge (1059 W. Addison) or Club Dreamerz (1516 
N. Milwaukee) to see who's playing. It may be a welcome throwback to the days when rock 'n' roll didn't require teased hair or six sets of drum machines ·when some musical talent, raw energy and desire burned in the eyes and hands of rock 'n' roll's founding fathers so many years ago. ¦ 


Opinion 

Faith and are 
afe 
Spirituality at Notre Dame is in question due to "The Last Temptation ofChrist," but some find its oppor­tunity for free expression simply irresistible 


BY SHAUN SPARKMAN 
The opinions in the following article do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofScholastic or its Editorial Board. 
mid the longest football winning 
streak of any major college, Notre 
Dame is host to another game that causes not only anxiety, but also threatens the spiritual and academic unity at Notre Dame. The first of the two teams involved in this game is Belief-the established, mainly con­servative, aptly theistic team that throughout time has platooned with the "elders" of soci­ety to make the big play. Their opponents are Expression, an artistic, liberal bunch who imply reality and often transcend the given rules. 
· This game has been played throughout time, usually with the former triumphing in bloody defamation. Consider Galileo, the quarterback of the.1611 Expressionists, who was sacked (and I do mean sacked) by Team Beliefwhen he tried to implement his radical new game plan consisting of the sun in the center of the solar system with the earth in orbit around it. 
To help the underdogs, later societies implemented new rules in the forms of free-
A 

<lorn of speech and free­dom of expression. Yet new conflicts, although not as one-sided, are still as fierce and deep­rooted. And now a Belief vs. Expression battle, as if brought on by the deci­sion to allow cable TV on campus, has come to Notre Dame. 

Some members of the Notre Dame commu­nity believe that the showing of ''The Last Temptation of Christ," and the ensuing contro­versy, has jilted Notre Dame's normally ho­meostatic spiritual life. This raises the broader question of whether a Catholic University and its commitment to the Catholic tradition will ever have to suppress creative or liberal ex­member of the community who calls the pression when it violates the boundaries and movie blasphemous because it portrays a the sanctity of the church. nonscriptural Jesus Christ. He is amazed that 
ProfessorEdward J. Murphy is one such it was shown on campus and open to the 
October 19, 1989 




Opinion 

public. He proclaimed in · the Viewpoint section of the September 25 issue of The Observer: "Why is this movie being shown on the Notre Damecampus? As an 'academic exercise'? But this is not a private showing in a class where teachers study and critique the film ... Tickets are to be sold, suggesting that the sponsors might even be hoping to tum a profit." He and a few others believe 
faith and reason." If the exhibit is beyond reason, it can be viewed but ignored when determining faith. But, if the exhibit ex­presses reason, then the compatibility fore­mentioned will ultimately help solidify our faith. 
This debate over such a widely vie\Yed film leads to a look back at the reasoning behind the formation of the Catholic univer­
of an intractable university of higher learn­ing? 
Whether or not the film's message is correct or incorrect, "the adm'inistration agreed to show the film, for, it further exam. ines, as Lapsley explains, "the ordinary and extraordinary life of Jesus Christ." Perhaps the movie is wrong, perhaps it is right, but through the questions it presents it may help 


that the showing of this 


the viewers identify and fixate 
film has caused spiritual 
their ideas on the incarnation and 
confusion and unrest 
the carnal life of Jesus. 
among students. How­
Spiritual life at Notre Dame is 
ever, a majority of ad­
safe and secure. Surely, some 
ministrative and faculty 
might be spiritually confused, but 
members do not hold 
for others, confusion has been re­
this position. 
solved since enrolling here. The 
"The Last Tempta­
open~ng lines ofDu Lac even state, 
tion of Christ" was 
"A mature religious or spiritual 
shown because many 
life is integral to full human devel­
individuals find it valu­
opment. It can be stifled, or hid­
able to bring such issues 
den, or allowed to stagnate. But it 
as.· the incarnation out 
can also be challenged and en­
into the open. The Dean 
couraged to grow." 
of the College of Arts 
Lapsley continues on the 
and Letters, Professor . 
same subject, "To me, the show­
Michael Loux, declares, 
ing of the movie, and even the 
"A Catholic University 
movie itself, is not blasphemous. 
has a responsibility to 
Blasphemy is showing irrever­
render intelligible tradi­
ence to God, and if one views the 
tional Christian doc­
movie while reminded of faith, 
trine and certainly the 
reason and scholarship, then they
doctrine of the incarna­
are not paying irreverence to God. 
tion is about as funda­
The spirituality of the school 
mental as any to the 
would have been in danger by not 

Christian Church." He says that it never crossed his mind to ban the film from campus, and that the spiritual life 
has in no way been affected by its showing. 
As for the question ofwhether there will ever be a need to forbid an exhibition such as this one from Notre Dame, Loux declined to comment on anything that general. It is hard to categorize and assess such an open topic, but Professor Dan Lapsley feels that if the exhibit has any academic or artistic value, it is likely that the administration will allow it to be displayed on campus. 
Lapsley goes on to say, " The best de­scription of the Catholic University was given by the person who said the Catholic University is where the Church does its thinking. There is compatibility between sities and w hatthe schools should stand for. It can then be perceived why the film was shown at Notre Dame. Socially, Catholic Universities can be conservative and slightly behind the times; but, intellectually they must value scholarship and the life of the mind to remain reputable. 
Erudition encompasses vast categories, creative as well as objective. A Catholic university has a obligation to the students, faculty and the hierarchy of the church to be liberal and unrestraining when it comes to ideas, expression and art, for they have scho­lastic value. All passages to spiritual growth and ultimate knowing must be tried and evaluated, and an education must be rounded in order to be valued. Has anyone ever heard 
Mari Okuda showing the film." If your faith 
can be shaken in two hours, then a reevalu­
ation of your faith is probably needed. 
The movie does goagainst the scriptural 
life of Jesus Christ and Nikos Kantzanzakis 
and Martin Scorsese have no foundation for 
many of its scenes, but the administration 
decided it does have academic and ecclesias­
tic value. The crisis, if one can call it that, of 
"The Last Temptation of Christ" was 
handled with composure and class by all of 
the students, faculty, and administration. It 
was shown and discussed; it was peacefully 
picketed and through pamphlets the non­
scriptural scenes were denoted. In this case, 
spiritual life and the coalescence ofspiritand 
scholarship have risen to the occasion at 
Notre Dame. 


-
The opinions in the following article do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofScholastic or its Editorial Board. 

otre Dame has committed a ter­rible offense in showing "The Last Temptation Of Christ" A self­proclaimed Catholic university has deliber­ately dashed the word of God and its own theology in favor of a pack of lies sprung from the imagination of one man. Incon­ceivably this university denied the holy tes­timony of the apostles and welcomed with open arms the fantasy of a heretic. 
Indeed, from any Christian standpoint, "The Last Temptation Of Christ" is unde­niably a deplorable blasphemy, one man's image of the Son ofGod as a weak, confused sinner. The movie blatantly reduces Jesus Christ to our own level, flatly denying His identity as the divine God-man. 
· The source of the blasphemy is therefore in man's stubborn pride which struggles to shut out the truth of God's light shining through a human being, illuminating the darkness of humanity. In this sense the film is revealed to be a twisted attempt to justify man's own sinfulness by staining the only sinless One. 
In essence, Notre Dame's showing of this movie is more than a public condonementof blasphemy; it is an active participation in the destruction of the true image ofJesus Christ in the hearts of His · worshipers. As such, there can be no difference between Notre Dame and the Pharisees of Christ's time, 
BY SAMMY BAGBY 
Opinion 



Ties That Bind 
"The Last Temptation ofChrist": where and when do we need restraint in order to maintain integrity? 
who also tried to destroy the truth and ulti­mately roused the masses to scream for His blood. 
Moreover, Notre Dame's actions amount to a direct de­nial ofCatholic Christian the­ology, espe­cially the great theologian St. Thomas Aqui­nas, whose writings pow­erfully frame Jesus as both perfect God and perfect man. The Last Temptation Of Christ and Ca­tholicism are absolute an­titheses ofeach other, as St. Thomas af­firms. 
"Christ in no way assumed the defect of sin-either original or actual-according to whatiswritten [in Peter's letter]: 'Whodid no 

October 19, 1989 
Opinion 


"The truth of His human nature is not merely substituted for the authority of Christ ingly sponsored a public defamation and proved by sin, since sin does not belong to and His Church the more peremptory author­insult, a blasphemy, of her Son. Until that human nature, whereof God is the cause; but ity of the secular establishment." error is repudiated, the University at least rather has been sown in it against its nature The gravity of Notre Dame's transgres­ought to refrain from claiming to be what it is by the devil" sion, when measured in the context ofCatho­not." (Summa Theologica,III,Q.15, art.I). lic theology, is exacerbated to the point of no The tragedy lies in the fact that the accep­
Immutably proving "The Last Tempta­return, for the deepest depravity that exists is tance ofblasphemy at Notre Dame must have tion" to be unmitigated fiction is the univer­to suggest that Jesus Christ is not the divine been precipitated by a long-standing regres­sal dogma ofthe Christian Church first estab­Son ofGod. Notre Dame has willingly com­sion ofspirituality, because the bottom line is lished at the Council of Chalcedon in 451, mitted this crime---denied God Himself to that ifNotre Dame truly loved Jesus Christ it which states: preserve the nightmare of a heretic. would not be entertained by watching the 
"Our Lord Jesus Christ..is perfect in both As Aquinas notes in his Summa Theol­purity and goodness of God's Son be dis­His divinity and His humanity, truly God and ogica, "It is written (Leviticus 24:16): 'He torted into something weak and sinful. truly man ...like us in every respect except for that blasphemeth the name of the Lord, dying Paul writes an answer to those whose sin." so let him die.' Now the death punishment is swelling pride leads them to challenge 
Yet Notre Dame defends its deplorable not inflicted except for a mortal sin. There­Christ's divinity: " Do not deceive your­action with the thin veneer of "free expres­fore, blasphemy is a mortal sin." selves; no one makes a fool of God. A person sion of ideas," the guise under which it has This mortal sin is made all the worse by the will reap exactly what he plants"(Galatians cloaked its reckless bounding down the secu­fact that Notre Dame prides itself as a Chris­6:7). lar path. Notre Dame does have the freedom tian university. Through its actions, Notre Notre Dame has planted the seed of blas­to express whatever ideas it wishes, but as a Dame has mired itself in the hopeless quick­phemy, the seed which is the ultimate mock­supposed Christian university it is endowed sand of secularity from whose iniquitous ery of every Christian symbol on campus, with a moral obligation as to whether its depths it cannot distinguish between God's from the Grotto to the figure of the Virgin ideas create or destroy. holy truth and deliberate malicious blas­Mary atop the Golden Dome. By lending its 
Paul the Apostle did not share Notre phemy. trust to a slander of God the university has Dame'saffinityforunlimitedacademicfree­This university truly betrays its Master placed itselfin theserviceoftheEvil One, the dom; his message concerning blasphemy is with a kiss, because in its utmo!it recesses "father of all lies"(John 8:44), who wants unconditionally clear to the Galatians: there is no repentance nor, in an even more only to destroy the image of Christ in the 
"In no time at all you are deserting the one pathetic sense, any vague feeling that it has hearts of all mankind. who called you by the grace ofChrist and are sinned. In a still deeper sense, this seed constitutes accepting another gospel...B ut even if we or Such is the extent to which liberal thinking a vicious renouncement of the Lord's sacrifi­an angel from heaven should preach to you a has diseased and enfeebled Notre Dame's cial blood on the cross and of the inconceiv­gospel that is different from the one we grip on the truth; such is the natural product able love of God which permitted the crea­preached to you, may he be condemned to of"free expression" tearing down that which tion to murder the Creator. hell! "(Galatians 1 :6-8) God has built up over thousands of years The first Christian martyr, St. Stephen, 
There is absolutely no reconciliation be­through the martyred blood of His apostles wasmovedbytheHoly Spirit to condemn the tween blasphemy and truth; as the Lord and saints. Pharisees who crucified the Lord and perse­Himself said, "No servant can be the slave of If one addresses the question of whether cuted His disciples, and his words echo two masters; he will love one and hate the this movie signifies a new direction in Notre through antiquity to those who seek to twist other; he will be loyal to one and despise the Dame spirituality, the only Christian answer the word of God today: other"(Luke 16:13). is that Notre Dame is living a lie. Nothing "How stubborn you are! ... How heathen 
Accordingly, Notre Dame cannot call it­remotely spiritual or redeeming can ever your hearts, how deaf you are to God's self Catholic and em brace a heretic's twisted . come from defacing God. message!...You are the ones who received vision ofJesus Christ. Charles E. Rice, Dean Neither should this university delude itself God's law, that was handed down by an­of the Notre Dame Law School, seizes the by thinking that it has served the cause of gels-yet you have not obeyed it!"(Acts crux of this contradiction in his personal education; in its attempt to preserve "free 7:51,7;53) statement on the movie, from which the fol­expression" it ironically abominated some­Yet God, the Alpha and the Omega-the lowing is taken. thing infinitely more important-its identity beginning and the end-cannot be defeated 
"In effect, the University has declared its as a Christian institution. by a heresy. Indeed, as the Pharisees and 'autonomy' [academic autonomy] not only Notre Dame's supportof''TheLast Temp­palace guards beat Him, spat upon Him, from the church but also from the Second tation" reveals itself to be both a Christian hurled insults at Him and jeered Him to His Commandment However, it is fair to say self-denial and a secular redefinition, as Rice face, He won the victory with bowed head, that the public sponsorship of 'The Last confirms: silent to the end. For the light shines in the 
Temptation' is proof that Notre Dame has "Notre Dame was founded as Catholic, as darkness, and the darkness has never put it not liberated itself from authority. It has the University ofOur Lady. But it has know-~­
. 

Features 

-
Jar. They had all been athletes in high associated with the student managers of the 
BY RICH KURZ 
school; but realized that they would not be football team. They were hooked.
Ifyou believe the folks in the U.S. Gov­able to play varsity sports at Notre Dame The tradition associated with the foot­ernment, they'll tell you "the toughest because ofthe extremely high level ofcom­ball managers is nothing less than stunning. job you'll ever love" is in the Peace petition. When they learned about the op­The managers came into being when a coach 
Corps. Buta group ofdie-hard football freaks helping to run the show over on the practice fields have a different opinion. They think the many of the same duties toughest job you could ever love is being a as the current managers, football manager for Notre Dame. but the university did not 
Someofthe group ofdedicated managers provide them with spend as much as forty to fifty hours a week money to travel to the performing their tasks. After going to classes, · away games with the they spend five to six hours a day on the job, team. Legerid has it that preparing for and then cleaning up from prac­the managers used to tices. On game days, the managers arrive at stow away with the lug­the stadium long before the players, and don't gage on the train to away · leave until well after the players have left. games. Then, when 
They don't get time to savor a Notre Rockne found them, he Dame victory-even if it is a national cham­would pretend to scold pionship. "In the remaining moments of the them, but then tum his game (last year's Fiesta Bowl) we had to back while they stowed gather things up, and secure them to get them away again next game. 
. to South Bend," said Greg "Tank" Leininger, Thelinks to the past, one of the senior managers for the football both distant and near, are team. "We had to fight our way through the almost constantly evi­crowd while everyone was celebrating to get dent on the job. The to the locker room, which waspretty far away. managers who take care It was not an easy task." of the equipment are 
When Pat Qtienan, Greg "Tank" Leinin­under the directorship of ger, and Tom Nevala arrived on the Notre the equipment manager, Dame campus as freshmen, each sought a way Mr. Gene O'Neill ­to stay involved in sports, football in particu-Senior manager Mike Helland stocks a player's locker. only the second equip-




Football Corps 
Student managers love their "tough jobs" despite extended time commitment 

October 19, 1989 
Features 


ment manager Notre Dame has ever had. When he became the football equipment manager twenty-one years ago, Ara Parseghian was the coach and Rocky Bleier was the captain of the football team. 
O'Neill often treats the managers to stories of bygone eras at Notre Dame, while visitors like Parseghian and HeismanTrophy winner Paul Hornung often stop by the locker room after games. Even the equipment itself is a link to the past. It is not unusual for one of the managers to spot the name of Tim Brown or Allen Pinkett in a pair of pants or a jersey. 
The managers do, however, have to work to en joy all ofthe tradition. The process ofbecoming head football manager is strenu­ous to say the least. During freshman and sophomore years, the managers work for several different sports teams, under the lead­ership of the head manager for that sport. At the end of sophomore year, all but the top seventeen managers are cut. For them, the experience ofbeing a Notre Dame manager is over. 
The survivors still have a tough road to follow. The juniors spend their entire year with the football team, reporting five weeks before school starts to help run the pre-season camp. They, along with the freshmen and sophomores, do the brunt of the actual physi­cal work. They are responsible for preparing all of the practice materials and putting them at the disposal of the coach. On game day, the players can "concentrate on the game at hand," in the words ofTank Leininger. They are also charged with the task of keeping the helmets of the Irish spotless and shiny ­every week they paint the helmets to keep them looking new. 
After junior year, the remaining manag­ers are ranked from one to seventeeh by their peers, with input from the senior managers. They then choose what sport they wish to manage, with the person ranked first getting first choice, and the person ranked seventeenth get­ting last choice. Since there are three spots avail­able for football managers, the top three inevitably choose football. As head manag­ers, they assume largely supervi­sory positions. 
The head. football manager,­Pat Quenan, over­sees practices to make sure that all of the managers are doing their job. "The night before home games, the at a hotel off-campus to prepare for the game," said Quenan. "I stay with them, and make sure all of their needs are met." On game day, he charts plays with the coaching staff. 
Tank Leininger is the head football manager in charge of equipment. "I make sure that all of the players are properly outfit­ted, both for games and for practice, and Pat and I also oversee the helmet painters, since we both used to be painters," Leininger said. His game day assignment starts long before the game starts. He packs everything for the away games, checks to make sure that it gets to the proper place, and then, after the game, gets everything back to campus. 
Tom Nevala, the head manager in charge of personnel, performs most of the paper­pushing type administrative work. He keeps lists of who is supposed to be traveling with the team, and, among other duties, he makes sure that the players' parents get tickets when they need them. On game day, he keeps track of the individual players' playing time. 
· The hard work is not without its material rewards, but as Pat Quenan said, "they (the perks) may initially attract people, but you have to love what you do to do a good job." Freshman year is strictly on a volunteer basis; the only reward is spending time with the 



they put each player's equipment together so entire team stays Managers Matt Knott and Trina Chapman prepare to chart offensive plays. 
Scholastic 



Features 


junior year. The manag­
ers get some financial as­
sistance for working at 
the pre-season camp, 
along with assistance for 
books. Also in junior 
year, the managers are 
admitted to the Mono­
gram Club,receivinglet­
ter jackets and getting 
their names placed in the 
record books alongside 
all of the athletes who 
earned monograms in 
their sport. Juniors 
travel to all of the away 
games, including bowl 
games. Last year at the Beth Colle!on Fiesta Bowl they were 

Rich Dellapietra, junior manager, helps out at practice. given all of the same 
players and coaches. The perks pick up some souvenirs the players received, including 
sophomore year, with the managers receiv-National Championship rings. Senior year, 
ing financial assistance for their books, as · besides all of the other perks, they are given 
well as tickets to all of the games. a partial credit for tuition. The fringe benefits really start to pile up But the most impressive memories the managers will have of the entire experience have little to do with free t-shirts or sweatsuits. Rather, it is the atmosphere sur­rounding Notre Dame football, the thrill of running onto the field with the team in front of60,000 screaming fans, and the people, es­pecially the people, that will remain with them throughout the years. As Tom Nevala said, "they (the best memories) always come back to the people you run into." 
And, despite the incredible time com­mitment they put into their work, the manag­ers have never_doubted their decision. "Sure, maybe you miss other opportunities," said Quenan, "but I wouldn't have wanted to miss this opportunity." 
All right, maybe the job of a football manager, while being tough, is not quite as tough as that ofa Peace Corps volunteer, but that doesn't mean that these hard-working managers love their jobs any less than the Peace Corps volunteers do .. Besides, their job does have some advantages over working for the Peace Corps -the managers get great seats for the Notre Dame football games! I 


News 


eleased But 
Not Free
l' 
r 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's chapter ofAmnesty International continues to fight for a prisoner of conscience in South Africa 
BY MIKE WIEBER 

He was flagged down at a roadblock on August 5 or 6, 1986. The lawmen, if they can be called that, arrested him, but no formal charge was ever filed. This did not, however, prevent the gov­ernment from keeping him in prison for over three years before releasing him under house arrest. This is not a story from behind the Iron Curtain nor is it a scene from a current movie. This is the story of Henry Mutile Fazzie, a South African prisoner of conscience .. He was known in his community as a carpenter and a labor organizer. "Fazzie was widely considered to be a moderating force," said John Farley, former campus coordinator of Amnesty International. Fazzie, 63, also held the position of vice president of the United Democratic Front prior to his arrest. In May, the government released Fazzie and his wife who was being held under simi­lar circumstances. The terms of his house arrest were far from liberal. AtpresentFazzie is required to check in twice daily at the police station in Elizabethtown some 20 miles from his town. He is allowed out of his house only between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. As a result he cannot hold a job to provide for himself and his family. "It's almost like the state is trying to starve him to death," said Farley. So is the situation as of today. The South African government has, as of last Sunday, released all prisoners of conscience, most under similar conditions, with the exception of Nelson Mandela. Mandela has been known to advocate violence and remains a threat as far as the South African government is concerned. 


Amnesty International, however, does not subscribe to Mandela's methods. They much prefer to support people in Fazzie's posi­tion-those who feel non-violent means are the path to a solution in their country. In fact, Group 23, the Amnesty chapter on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, has pri­mary responsibility in the Fazzie case. Their efforts do seem to have played at least some part in Fazzie's release. 
In particular, since the group was first as­signed the case, they have held several write­a-thons in which the members wrote letters to prison officials and the South African gov­ernment urging Fazzie's release since no formal charge had been made. "We had a write-a-than and about 300 letters were sent Group letters are also sent from every meet­ing," said Kevin Mundy, amemberoftheor­ganization. He added that many people have also sent letters on their own. 
In addition, last Christmas Amnesty spon­sored a Christmas card drive on the campus. Posters displaying his picture read: "Are you going home for Christmas? He's not." They encouraged students to join in the letter writ­ing. Several thousand cards and letters were sent by the student body to Fazzie's prison. The cards were addressed to Fazzie remind­
ing him that he had not been forgotten. or any ordinary organization on campus such a campaign would surely mean complete bankruptcy. All told the group spent about $1,500 on the drive most of which went toward postage. The group however sought sponsors on campus and turned a great deal to the administration for assistance. 
"I tried to facilitate funding for them... I encouraged the administration and worked with student groups to help pull together a pool of resources," said Roland Smith, ex-
October 19, 1989 
I'. 
News 

I ecutive assistant to the president. Although he did not meet formally with any organiza­tion, he helped solicit finances from Campus Ministry, Walsh Hall, and student govern­ment as well as several private donors. He added that he hoped Amnesty would continue to seek monetary commitments from a num­ber of sources beyond the administration. Although his lawyers were not sure he had received all the mailings, they did say Fazzie had received at least some of them. Farley agreed. "His lawyers said it boosted his spirits and it showed the prison he wasn't forgotten," said Farley. He added that he thought the prison might have felt the pres­sure in light of the fact that Fazzie was re­leased in May while most ofthe other prison­ers were not allowed to leave the correctional facility until October. Jackie Uhl!, campus coordinator for Am­nesty, said that it is difficult to ascertain the amount of materials that actually make it to Fazzie or to the government "Communica­tion is not very clear with the situation in South Africa," Uhl! said. "We are trying to get more information on whom to write." Amnesty at Notre Dame is quick to point out that these people are far from free even though they have been released from confine­ment Their current poster campaign shows the same· picture of Fazzie but reads: "Re­leased, but not free." George Lopez, faculty adviser to Amnesty, stressed that Fazzie still undergoes harsh treatment but the situation is improved. "He's no longer subject to direct harsh treat­ment like having prison officials urinate on his food," he said. In addition to his inability to hold a job due to restraints placed on him, Lopez sees further potential problems for Fazzie. "Because he 


i 
1, must walk the same path to the police station 
F d everyday, he could easily be assassinated by some clandestine group." Lopez also be­lieves the government would refuse to take the blame in any case. 
After being the specific concern of Group 23 for over three years, Fazzie's case has not fallen to the side after his recent release. Rather, Lopez feels a change of emphasis is what is needed. He said that the group must consider whether they want to use the funds raised to exert political pressure or to send them to Fazzie -~9,,help support his family during this period of house arrest 


"Now we are concerned with getting him financial support. He has no way of paying the bills," said Mundy. To this end, Amnesty has continued to request funding from vari­ous bodies at Notre Dame and has raised about$600, according to Uhll. Campus Min­istry alone has donated $500 to the cause. This money has been budgeted for direct relief to people in Fazzie's situation. Cam­pus Ministry added that this would most likely notbe a one time donation; rather, such funding is a regular part of its function. 
In addition, Uhl! said, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Student Activities have been very helpful in fund coordination. 
Financial support has not been so central to this case that other relief has been ignored. Students continue writing, said Mundy, to the Prime Minister ofLaw and Order in South Africa, the person ultimately in charge of Fazzie's sentence. He added that, although no response has been given by the minister, students have not lost interest. The members view the release of Fazzie from formal cus­tody as a result, in part, of their efforts. 
Uhl! is planning another Christmas card drive. She hopes thatFazziewill realize that students at Notre Dame arc still concerned and know his situation is far from greatly improved. 
The fact that students have been placed in charge of this case at all speaks strongly for the commit­ment of the group at Notre Dame said Farley. Al­though Fazzie is shared with another chapter, he has been deemed a high priority case by the interna­tional secretariat and · would in most cases be given_ to a group which would meet year-round. "He would· ordinarily be given to another group because a scholastic group only has nine months a year," said Farley. 
Lopez spoke highly of 
the Notre Dame Amnesty chapter's commitment as well. "Many places have campus groups, but here we have an international adoption group," · said Lopez. He added that participation in the group has been on the increase and that local high schools have asked Group 23 to help them organize school groups. 
The fact that the group is on a campus is seen as a good point rather than an extra challenge for summer months according to Lopez. "One advantage to being on campus is that we can ask what 'Released but not free' means," said Lopez. He feels these exchanges will lead to greater student aware­ness of human rights issues. 
To that end, Amnesty has planned to have a student panel discuss human rights abuses at a special meeting on November 6. It is hoped by Amnesty that such an event will expose those who attend to worldwide prob­lems facing human rights movements. 
Until the eyes of the world are opened, Amnesty will continue to write letters and send funds to defend those whose rights are being denied or limited. Like the candle encircled with barbed wire, Amnesty's sig­nature, the members will persist until true freedom is afforded to all. Ill 
14 


Sports 


t Anoth r Tug 0 1 War 

BY DAN FLYNN 

Here we go again. · In what has been called the greatest intrasectional rivalry in the history ofcollege football, the University of Southern California and Notre Dame will meet for the 61st time Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. The rivalry between these perennial collegiate heavyweights is the stuff from which legends are made. Eleven Reisman Trophy winners have participated in the annual contest along with more than 250 All­Americans. To top it all off, the winner has also claimed 14 national championships, 
including Notre Dame's 1988 campaign. The series was destined for greatness since the first time the two teams stepped on 
· the gridiron together in 1926. The Irish won that one 13-12 in the closing minutes, and by 1933 fiveoftheseries' first seven games had decided collegiate national championships. Lately, though, the Irish have had the Tro­jans' number, winning the last six contests to take a 33-23-4 lead in the overall series. Of all the 60 games, not one was more important than last year's confrontation in Los Angeles. For the first time in the long and fabled history of the series, both teams en­tered the game with perfect records while holding the top two spots in the national rankings. Notre Dame's convincing 27-10 
Notre Dame and Southern Cal hook up Saturday for the 61st installment of a classic college football rivalry 

victory solidified their number one ranking and earned them a date with West Virginia in the SunkistFiesta Bowl. 
As was the case in last year's contest with the outstanding play ofFrank Starns and Stan Smagala, defense could be the key in this season's matchup. Both the Irish and USC defenses rank among the top 15 in the country, and whichever team stops the big offensive play will likely walk out of Notre Dame Stadium victorious. 
The Southern Cal defense seems to have the advantage over Notre Dame's on paper. Through last Saturday's 31-15 winoverPac­10 conference rival California, the 5-1 Tro­jans rank tenth in the nation in total defense, allowing a mere 253 total yards per game. 
October 19, 1989 


They also stand tenth in scoring defense, 

allowing only 12 points per contest. Both of· 
these statistics lead thePac-10. 
These numbers may seem impressive, , yet USC's rushing defense numbers are even 
experience and talent The eleven defensive 
starters who started last year's game against 
Tony Rice and company in Los Angeles will 
be the same eleven stepping onto the field 
Saturday afternoon. 
.So much for the experience. The talent 
comes in the shape of All-Americans. The 
Trojans have three ofthem on defense, two of 
them in the secondary. 
Senior tackle Tim Ryan leads the USC defense and is the main reason why the Tro­jans have been shutting down the run so effectively. Ryan has been tremendous thus · far this season, accounting for 37 total tackles 
and five sacks for a total loss of 43 yards. 
What's scary about USC is that Ryan is 
only tied for fourth on his team in total tack­
les. Inside linebackers Delmar Chesley and 
Scott Ross are one and two, respectively, and 
have also played a big part in stopping the 
run. 
So what can the Irish do? Well, accord­
. 
ing to fullback Anthony Johnson, they have to, uh-um, run the ball. 
"We've gotten to where we are by run­ning through teams," says Johnson, "and al­though they (USC) have a great defense, we have to go with our strength." 
In other words, look for yet another in­stallment of Notre Dame's "Smash-Face Football." The Irish have averaged 241 yards on the ground before the Air Force contest. They boosted that statistic last Saturday as eight different Irish backs rushed for a total of 332 yards. 
Although the Irish have shown their ability to run through teams so far in 1989, they may have to take to the air to balance out their attack. Sureeno1:Jgh, ifUSC's awesome defense has a flaw it lies in their pass defense. Despite their performance against the run, this unit gives up an average of 217 passing yards pergame, including 248 versus a so-so California aerial attack. 

better. TheTrojansrankfirst s0=======""""""""'""""'========= in the country against the run, allowing only 36 yards per game. Their defense has not allowed a rushing touch­down all season. 
More surprisingly, no opponent has rushed for more than 88 yards against the stingy Trojan defense and no single runner has gone for more than 83. The list boasts microscopic yields: Washington State was held to 14 rushing yards, Washington to 19, Utah State to 24 and Illinois to 35. 
"All we want to do is to go out and see how far we can get against them (USC's defense)," said Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz, his team still catching its breath fol­lowing a 41-27 victory over the Air Force Academy in the thin air of Colorado Springs. 
There are two simple reasons why this Trojan de­fense is putting these types of numbers on the board (and 
Joe V~acro····


also keeping them off): 

Watters and his backfield mates may have a long day against USC's stingy rush defense. 

16 



Sports 
week," said Smith. 
Marinovich is not the only threat on USC's bal­anced offense. Senior Aca­demic All-American split end John Jackson is the school's all-time reception leader with 128. Mari­novich will also look to tight end Scott Galbraith (13 re­ceptions in 1989) and flanker Gary Wellman (eight) to mix things up. 
As solid as the USC passing game is, their offen­sive strength is the run. Junior tailback Ricky Ervins, the Pac-IO' s top rusher at 109.4 yards per game, romped for 124 yards versus California. Ervins is also an excellent receiver out of the backfield, hauling in 17 passes (second only to Jackson). The Trojans have another excellent back in Leroy Holt, who comes off his best collegiate perform­ance last Saturday, a 160­yard performance against the Golden Bears. 
Withbotha potent rush­ing and passingattack stand­

Even then, passing the ball may not be Reisman Trophy race. ing in the way, the pressure falls on Notre an easy task for the Irish. Any team that This year's gamemarks a role reversal of Dame's front defensive three of Chris Zor­boasts All-American performers like Mark sorts. Unlike 1988 when heentered the game ich, Jeff Alm and Bob Dahl. They must not Carrier and Cleveland Colter in its secon­playing second fiddle to Rodney Peete, Rice only stuff Southern Cal• s run, but along with dary is bound to create problems for any comes into Saturday's game as the marquee the line backing corps must create a pass rush aerial attack attraction. In the meantime, a young Trojan to get to Marinovich. 
"They're both excellent players, but to passer waits in the wings with outstanding The latter feat may seem to be more ofa beat USC, we'll have to be a little more passing numbers. Redshirt freshman quar­difficult task. While the Irish are allowing balanced than we have been so far this sea­terback Todd Marinovich, perhaps the only 120 rushing yards a game, the pass rush son, and that means passing the ball, too," nation's top frosh signal caller, has passed for has been virtually non-existent This became said Holtz. almost 220 yards a game, almost 100 yards glaringly evident against Air Force, where 
Rice might have given a little encour­better per game than Rice. quarterback Dee Dowis passed for 306 yards agement to Holtz with his outing Saturday. "That kid (Marinovich) is one of the top and was free to throw most of the game. Although never spectacular, Rice was con­five passers in the country," said Holtz. With all these potential problems stand­sistent with his passing. He threw for 128 Marinovich continues to impress Trojan ing in the way ofHoltz' top-ranked team, the yards, completing nine of 13 attempts with Head Coach Larry Smith each week, espe­stage is once again set for the most fabled ri­one touchdown. If he can keep the ball out cially two weeks ago versus Washington valry in the country. ofCarrierand Colter's hands and find Derek when he was 23 of 35 for a career-high 284 It's Notre Dame-USC, the 1989 edition. Brown and RaghibIsmail, Rice will not only yards and one touchdown. "I threw him in It's also October break. What more could boost Notre Dame's chances against USC against Illinois (USC's opener and only loss) you ask for? but may put his name back on top of the pretty cold and he has gotten better each 
Notre Dame's pass rush looks to vent Its frustrations on Trojan quarterback Marlnovich. 
October 19, 1989 
Sports: Hockey Preview 

Ric Schafer's hockey squad prepares for the next step in its reemergence to national 
acclaim 
BY BRIAN MCMAHON 

W hen Notre Dame Head Hockey Coach Ric Schafer was hired prior to the 1987-88 season, he began a quest to return the Irish hockey program to national prominence. In his first year, the Irish charged through a marginal schedule in recording a record of 27-4-2. Attendance shot up and the Irish were given eight scholarships to use over a four-year span. At this point, Schafer drew up his sched­ule for the '88-'89 season. He upgraded his schedule dramatically, dropping the likes of Villanova and Dayton for college hockey powers Boston College, Merrimack and Michigan. This move proved to be too much too soon for his young program, as the team lost 26 games. 
1.: "We were excited about bringing big­time college hockey back to Notre Dame," said Schafer. "Theopportunity was there and we jumped at it" This season the Irish hope to recapture their winning ways of two years ago. The schedule has been toned down a bit from last year, providing a competitive yet realistic slate of games. Notre Dame will play the 
required twenty Division I games to meet the criteria for a possible invitation to the NCAA post season tournament as an incjependent. Their chances have improved since Merri­mackjumped to Hockey East for the 1989-90 season. 
This year's schedule includes St. Cloud State, last year's recipient ofthe NCAA inde­pendent berth, Ferris State of the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, and tradi­tional rivals Lake Forest and Michigan­Dearborn. St. Cloud State is poised to join the Western Collegiate Hockey Association next year, a conference that includes perennial powers Minnesota, Wisconsin and North Dakota. 
"This year's schedule is much more in line with what we are capable of doing," said Schafer. ''The NCAA berth is a nice goal. I don't know if we can be disappointed if we don'tgetit The fact is, we'rea team with five scholarships divided between 12 players competing against teams with 20 scholar­ships. That won't detract from our efforts, though." 
Schafer also entered his squad in the Milwaukee Tournament, slated for Decem~ ber 28-29. The tournament includes Boston College, Minnesota-Duluth, and Wisconsin. The tourney will afford the Irish the opportu-nity ofplaying theNCAA's elite, not to men­tion performing in front of some of the most rabid college hockey fans in the nation. 


"This type ofchallenge is something we want every once in a while," said Schafer. "We are excited for it." 
This fall, the pace in practice and the team's overall attitude has been "excellent," according to assistant captain Mike Leherr. "We are tired of losing," he added. "There has been a good effort since last spring." 
Schafer concurs. He feels his team used last season as motivation to work hard over the summer to improve. "Their efforts over the summer show they weren't happy," stated Schafer. ''They've become stronger through off-season training programs." 
The players' work over the summer, combined with the experience gained last year and the influx of a promising freshman class, makes this year's squad a much more talented one. · · 
The team's strength lies in goal, where Lance Madson returns to once again provide stellar netminding. Madson, who was in­vited to compete in the World University Games after last season, set a school record for saves in a season with 1288 lastyear. The Irish hope to avoid that mark this year. 
"We've become accustomed to solid 
18 


Sports 

but Madson will love him 
and Curtis Janicke. Jan­for his steady, relentless icke is a clever center and play in his own end. should work well with 
Sophomores Rob Curry, who has tremen­Copeland and Kevin Pat­dous speed and a heavy rick will build on outstand­shot. Schafer has placed ing freshmen seasons. Curry on the off-wing on Copeland was voted most this line in an effort to util­improved player by his ize the winger's shot. teammates last season, Marvin adds size and while Patrick showed tre­muscle on the other wing. mendous poise and moved "Janicke is quick and the puck well in his first crafty," said Curry. "He season. gets you the puck and 
Rounding out the top doesn't make too many six are a pair of freshmen. mistakes. He is very hard Dan Sawyer and Eric Gre­to knock off the puck." goire will be counted on to So the Irish hockey make an impact right team is poised to continue away. Both are big, mobile their climb up the college and strong. Schafer has 
.._______________________....,.....,..,,.,--,--, . hockey ladder. "After the even paired the two to­Mari Okuda last three weeks of prac­
Sen ior standout goalie Lance Madson and an improved defense will 
goaltending," sq.id Schafer. "Ifwe can give him a little more help, who knows what will happen. Its like a pitcher in baseball. We'll try and get him some runs." 
The Irish boast the most depth on de­fense. The top ·~six is comprised of two seniors, two sophomores and two freshmen. Seniors Kevin Markovitz and Mike Leherr represent two extremes on the defensive spectrum. Markovitz is a prolific skater and clever stickhandler who provides offensive punch. Leh err will neither score as much nor be as flashy as Markovitz, 
gether. "They've looked good," said Markovitz. "They have good size and they move the puck well. They don't play like freshmen." 
Pushing these six for playing time will be themuch-improvedBill Hoelzel and Scott Vickman, both sophomores, and freshman Darren D'Amato. The depth on defense provides insurance in case of injuries and pushes the top six to play well. "We're stacked on defense," said Leherr. "We've got nine guys who can play." 
Madson's presence and the strength of the defense will work hand-in-hand to form the backbone of the team. The defense should make life a little more bearable for Madson while their confidence in him will allow them to take the occasional offensive chance. "What can you say?" said Leherr of Madson. "He's a stone wall." 
At forward, the Irish have last season's top two scorers returning. Sophomore David Bankoske led the team last year with 11 goals and 34 assists for 45 points. Already an accomplished playmaker, Bankoske will be looked on to score more this year. "We want him to shoot more," said Schafer. "He can score as well as anyone on the team." 
Flanking Bankoske on the wing will be seniors Tim Kuehl and Bruce Guay. Kuehl, 
disappointed in my play. I felt I owed myself 
and the team." 
Whereas Arendt made strides over the 

summer, sophomore Lou Zadra was perhaps 
the team's most improved forward over the 
course oflastseason. He will flank Arendt on 
the wing along with freshman Sterling Black. 
The Irish are pleased to have Black in the fold 
this season after he opted for prep school in . favor of the Irish last season. 
The sleeper of the forward lines may 

come from the trio ofsophomore Mike Curry 
and freshmen Dan Marvin 
cut down on goals allowed. 

the team's captain and second-leading scorer for the Irish in 1988-89, will strive to improve on last year's impressive totals (19-16-35) while Guay hopes to regain the form that netted him 24 goals in 23 games as a sopho­more. Both have good shots and excellent hockey sense to complement Bankoske. 
Sophomore center Pat Arendt has been the most pleasant surprise for Schafer thus far. He came to school this fall faster and stronger. Schafer goes so far as to predict that Arendt will double his goal output (9) of last year. 
"I came in with the wrong attitude last year," said Arendt "I didn't hit the weights. Last year I was put in my place. I was tice, I think we can do 
well," said Schafer. "We will be a hard-working, honest, solid, two­way hockey club. We have good players." 
Schafer doesn't want to set a goal for wins and losses, however. "I want to see us improving," he said. "A good barometer will be if we're as excited about playing hockey on January 18 as we were on September 18 when we (first) hit the ice." 
The Irish will be a confident, fired-up bunch when they open the season at home against the Rochester Institute of Technol­ogy on October 26-27. "Last year was tough," said Markowitz. "But we're jelling pretty fast. Everyone worked hard over the summer. October 26 can't come soon enough." 
¦ 

October 19, 1989 

Sports 


time in over a month as they travel to Charlot-i,,-==-----~= 
.,..,...,...,.,..,,,,..,.,.-,------1 nent, Akron, to a 0-0 deadlock in overtime o Friday, Oct. 13 at Krause Stadium. The Irish hav
WOME 
a three game homestand this week against Val 
paraiso, DePaul and Loyola

The Notre Dame women's golf team con­cluded its 1989 fall season with a stunning touma-b°:3337TTTTTTTT"'."."'.'.TT~ ment victory at the Franklin College Invitational 
The Irish captured their second ._...;...;...,_.....;_.;;;..;......;______.;.;.;;;..;..;..._ __,____----t consecutive single-round tournament victory by Notre Dame earned a split of two games las shooting a team score of 337, with the nearest weekend as it defeated Illinois State Friday an 
competitor falling four strokes behind. The Irish iost to defending national champion Texas o individual honors also as freshman Saturday. The Irish downed the Redbirds in fiv CAPPY MACK shot an 81 to lead the field of 40 games, 15-7, 15-17, 14-16, 15-7, and 15-12. Th 
Longhorns swept the Irish on Friday in thr 1------------=,,......=-----1 games, 15-8, 15-13, 15-10. 61
·•iWOJyIEtl§jt~§f~? · this !e~~~~h! ~~;~~t::e~~::r~~~~: 
;']b~astsr<>ke(2,:2,Q.32,):and:IOOOtyat'~ff~GSf?i-;.··.;;;.:.===============-f nament. Also participating will be New Mexico '.;,;!~f(rn:,~Q;)~fo C• .....· . , ...· ..... ,... . . . ,. ·. , . . The Irish participated in the Hoosier Con-UC-Santa Barbara and host Stanford. 
Notre Dame closes its fall season this week with two games against Southern California. They play the Trojans October 19 and 20 at South Bend's Stanley Coveleski Regional Sta­dium. 
ED LUND has been named the captain of the 1990 Irish baseball team. Lund, a catcher, hit .328 with four home runs and 48 RBI last season. He was also third on the team in game-winning RBI with seven and fourth on the team in hits with 58. 
,·· _., 

. SQ(J(Jll:R 

The Irish (10-6) continued their successful ~.:....a;;;.;;..:....a;;;.;;..:....a.:....a,;.;_,;.;_~;;.;.;;,;.;_;;,;.;;,;.;_.;;;.;;,,;.;_,;.;_'"'"-1 
homestand last week, extending their winning streak to a record-breaking seven games. On Oct 10 they pummeled Tri-State by a record score 17-0. MARGARET JARC led the Irish with three goals. 
On Oct. 11 the Irish did not allow their opponent a shot on goal for the second straight game in their 5-0 win over IUSB. They then extended their string of shutouts to four by de­feating Alma College, 6-0. SUSIE ZILVITIS led the Irish offense with two goals and two assists. 
The Irish will take to the road for the first 
The Notre Dame men's golf team completed its 1989 fall season last weekend at the 16th Annual Buckeye Fall Classic in Columbus, OH. The Irish faced their toughest competition of the fall and finished 12th out of 17 teams with a 54­hole score of 950. Leading the way for the Irish was JOE DENNIN, whosetotalof231 earned him a tie for 22nd place overall. 
The Irish successfully defended their MCC title with a resounding victory at the champion­

ship held in Middletown, OH. The Irish finished J.;.......;...........;.....;.....;.....;.....;_...........;____"""'"'_____........., 
14 strokes ahead of second-place Xavier. 
The Irish battled Great Lakes Region oppo 

COMPILED BY TIM MARR 
Notre Dame comes off an impressive per­formance in the MCC Dual Meet, in which the men's and women's squads posted victories in all five dual meets that were scored. Both teams posted victories over Butler, Evansville, Saint Louis and Xavier. 
The Irish men's and women's swimming teams will host the Notre Dame Relays Nov. 3 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The meet, which fea­tures Wayne State, Wabash, Marquette, North Central, Butler, Illinois-Chicago and St_. Mary's, 
gets underway at 4 p.m. 
J~bkohoi~e,> a .. />·<;.·.···••i.••> 
[~IJ~ltliltl~
Jackoboice was one ofsix>Irish swirnrners i.
):/~:={':-i=:/.::-=:-·:~.,.. ,-, .: . . . ·-· ·.?.-:--· ·..........:• .. . :::=·: ........ -.: .. :.:•. . . · ... ,. 
TRACY BARTON defeated teammat MELISSA HARRIS, 6-0, 6-1 to capture the con solation bracket of the first flight. 
Notre Dame travels to St. Louis to compete. the annual Midwestern Collegiate Conferenc Championship Friday, Oct. 20 and Saturday, Oct 
21. 
,.):, •/Yo.••••,,'.; 


verse Classic in Bloomington, IN last week. 

20 





SPECIAL 

Dirty Book Sale. Cloth $1.50; Paper, $1.00; and new and recent titles 20% off. Hesburgh Memorial Library_ Concourse 
9:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 
Mid--Semester Deficiency Reports Due in the Registrar's Office. 
MOVIES 

Movie: "Cousins" Cushing Auditorium. 
SPECIAL 

Colloquium, Robert Keohane, Harvard University, a presentation of his current research. Room 131 Decio at 1:15 p.m. Sponsored by the Dept. of Government. 

SPECIAL 

FALL BREAK BEGINS! (THROUGH OCT. 29) 
Graduate Management Admission Test, Cushing Auditorium. 
EXHIBITIONS 
"Rare Bindings for Rare Books" Dept. of Special Collections Hesburgh Memorial Library 
"Gabriela Mistral: Poet of the Americas" West Concourse, Hesburgh Memorial Library. 
"University of Notre Dame Press" EastConcourse, Hes burgh Memo­rial Library. 
"Three Universities Collect: 20th Century W arks on Paper", SniteMuseum of Art. 
"Arctic Exploration" Fitzpatrick 


October 19, 1989 
-

Editorial 


Freedom For My People 
W ithin the next few days, October Break will spur a mass exodus from South Bend. Though it may be taken for granted, this exodus demonstrates the basic right of freedom. Mutile Henry Fazzie, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's prisoner of conscience, would not know about this right. Although he has been released in a technical sense, Fazzie is still a prisoner in his own home under house arrest. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community deserve a great deal of praise for their part in his release. The task, however, is far from complete. The positive progress that has been made should not be cause to relax, but, instead, a sign of hope which the ND/SMC Amnesty International should rally around. One would be hard pressed to find anyone on either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's in agreement with the oppression that is taking place in South Africa. However, only a small portion of the student body com­prises ND/SMC Amnesty International. Students are often criticized for their lack of political awareness. Here is a chance to effectively demonstrate a social conscience. Sheer numbers can make a powerful statement of disagreement which can ignite action as demonstrated by Fazzie's release. · The potential number of protest letters that can reach South Africa, however, is not only limited by the man-power behind a write-a-th on but also by the amount of money available for postage. The administration should continue to actively solicit and provide funds. This role is as important as actual participation in the organization. In short, ND/SMC Amnesty International has been effective on an international level. Continued success hinges upon increased participa­tion and funding. Get involved. Contact Amnesty International at the Center for Social Concerns or Jackie Uhll for more information. 
-Scholastic 


ADVERTISE WITH: 

CHEA·P, 
EFFECTIVE 
CONTACT TONY PORCELLI AT 239-7569 FOR DETAILS 

24 





CH ICl\60 

60tJGo'S FORGED i;.xcusi:: 
fRO~TffE OE.SK OF taON60 
Polc:iRA\T oF /11\0f'/\ 




BON Go's LEiTeP. 7"0 S~N"'iA 
Deqr $qnto..., 
A11 1 WQl'li" for Xrna~ is my fwo f r-on"t +eeth. 
An~ anothe.,.. 
ear: 



~ 
"' ~ 
"Tl 
" 
~ 
C 
~ 
V'I 
., 
"' z. 
<I r, 
~ 
rn 
... 
o> ..J 





··Subtly & Superbly funny!·· · · ·Second City' is brilliant.·· 
-\I:\, YORK l>l)iT 
-Tlt\E t\AGAZINE 
Touring Company 

S.U.B. welcomes the Second City National Touring Company to Notre Dame's Washington Hall, Thursday, November 9th at 8 p.m. 
Tickets go on sale Wed., November 1 at LaFortune Information Desk, Noon-5 p.m. Tickets remain on sale at Info Desk thru November 9th or until sold out. 
{Any remaining tickets will be sold at the door.) Price: $5 Students $7 Non-students STUDENT UNION f30t\RD 




