

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE Entertainment reviews and previews, ~ut of Bounds ·and a Corning Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus 
Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's 
happening on campus. 
Remember: If you see news happeningr•./,you're · · probably reading Scholastic! ··/;r:' -­
.! 
If you don't have time to write home every week, · , 
let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
~-------------------------------------­
Please send.__ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 

Address: ______________ 
,City: ______ State: ___ Zip Code: __ 
.. 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x _ years = $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 La.Fortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 
CONTENTS 


NOTRE DAME1SSTUDENT MAGAZINE 


3 Back to the Future: Notre Dame's Catholic Character 

11 Hit by the ·Books 14 .Risky Business 
. .. . .. 

18 High Hopes 20 Fear Me 

23 Out of Bounds 24 A Christmas Nightmare 25 Deck the Malls 
FROM THE MANAGING EDITOR 
I have been in Catholic schools since Kindergarten and cannot count the number of times my mom has said to me, "I send you to a Catholic school, and this is what happens." For some reason, being in a Catholic school means something. 
Notre Dame is in a period of transition. It is trying to redefine what being a "Catholic" university means. Notre Dame will remain Catholic, to be sure, but how it will choose to manifest its Catholic identity is subject to change. Some are worried that Notre Dame is losing its Catholic identity. Others are concerned that in the rush to attract Catholic faculty, the university will sacrifice its standing in the academic world. In the next few years, Notre Dame will decide what makes Notre Dame Catholic and what should be done to enhance it. 
It is my humble opinion that Notre Dame's Catholic character comes not from the faculty or administration, but from the students. For all the talkabout the "homogeneity" of Notre Dame, there is something to be said about going to school with people who share a common background and common values. 
Take for example the recent memorial Mass of Mara Fox. Hundreds of students, many of whom did not even know Mara, packed the basilica to offer support for her family. Would the same happen at Michigan or Berkeley or Yale? A Catholic character is alive and gives Notre Dame a sense of place. 
I am afraid that if we institutionalize our Catholicism we will threaten the spirit of free exchange of ideas, or worse, we will stifle the Christian spirit. 
Of course, my opinion covers only the tiniest fraction of the issue, and represents only one of a myriad of possible beliefs. There are many who would vehemently oppose what little I might say, and I encourage them. How to shape Notre Dame's Catholic character is at once a very important and seriously divisive issue. I hope Scholastic's exploration of this controversial debate will inform you, engage you and inspire you to find out more. 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... 

... fake IDs ... John MacLeod ... Cindy Daws ... A Nightmare Before Christmas ... Notre Dame student study habits ... and our regular features, including a special two-page "Campus Watch." 
On another matter, this is the last issue of Scholastic this• semester and my lastissueasManagingEditor. GoodluckonexamsandMerryChristmas. It's been real. 
-Kenneth A. Osgood 
Scholastic is publlslud wttkly throughout tlu schoolye,.,actpt duri11g a"minati01t "nd "'"cation periDds "t tlu University of Notre D"me, Notre D"me, IN, 46556 ad pri11ttd"t Tiu P"f'tr•, Inc, Milford, IN 46542. Tiu subscrlptiON ,,.t, i• $25.00/ye"r "nd back Issue,,.,, =11ilable Ill $1.25 /cupy, Tiu apbiion• nprtsstd bi Scholastic "re those of tlu "uthor• "nd editon """ do not 
nec,s,arily represent flu apbii01ts oftlu entire editorial board of Scholastic or of flu IIlliversity ofNotre D"me, it, admbilstr"­tion, faculty or students, EditoriJJls signed Scholastic represent flu apbiion of tlu mlljority of tlu aecutir,e editoriJJl bo,.rd, MMuscripts 11rewelcome. AllU11.alicititdm11ttri11ls become tlu property ofSchol,..tic, 
Copyright 1993 Scholastic M"guille. All rightsrese,r,ed. Rtpro­ducf.ion bi whole orin partwitlsoutwrltttft permlssimt is prohib­ited. 

utttn to Scholastic mu.t be typed "nd include the write,,. n"me, ,ul,lreu "nd ph07te ,am,ber. IIllivnsity atudtffts ,hould include tluir ye,., bi school and colltge. F"culty mtmben ,nouldinclude tluir dtp"rfment. All letttra mu.t be signed. N"'"'' will be withluld upon Ttlf"tll in ctrlabi bistancu. Scholastic,..,,.,,. tlu right to rtject letftra Uu,t "re libelmu or ob,cene by tlu laws ofthe United Statu. Scholastic "lsowilledit for copyfittbig, grammatic"I or spellbig errors """ Schol11Stic ,tylt. Bec,.u,eofspace,Scholasticcannotprint"llletftnrecthJed, 
Addreu "II comsp01tdtnet to : 
Tiu Editor 
Schol,utic IAFortune Center Notre D11me, IN46556 
NEWS 


sity resides with the board of trustees. No 
longer can the university rely on the consis­
''Today the challenges are 

tency offered by the Congregation of Holy many and the temptation Cross. While the trustees can point to the 'founding vision,' they do not live that vi­exists to abandon sion in the same way as the priests and brothers of Holy Cross do. And though the 
this religious heritage 

trustees may share a commitment to the and conform Notre Dame Catholic faith, they do not have as complete as commitment to Catholicism as priests do. 
to some other model, 

When control of the university was trans­secular or otherwise." ferred to the board oftrustees, the university took a major step toward secularization. 
This trend toward secularization has been the pattern for religiously founded universities across the country. Duke University, Vanderbilt University and the University of Southern California all were founded by religious groups. How­ever, each has largely abandoned its reli­z gious heritage. 
p -a This trend toward secularization has be­

! come evident in Catholic schools recently as i Georgetown University, Boston College-=~==~~~~====~::::::!~=~~0 and the Fordham University, among many owed total allegiance to the Congregation others, have moved away from overt Catho­and to the Church. licity. While none of these universities has The president was a priest of Holy Cross. repudiated its religious heritage, andwhile 

"... If no planning is done and no genuine steps in recruitment are undertaken, 

.. ·the university will soon resemble its secular counterparts." 

each is still headed by a priest, they have all left behind major elements of Catholic edu­cation. 
This trend toward secularization has been actively chosen by some universities while others seem to have fallen into it Irrespec­tive of how it happens, all religious institu­tions of higher learning must now address the issue of their own religious nature and . how that nature is to effect its operation ­and Notre Dame-is no exception. 
Into this breech rushed Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C., and his Colloquy for the Year 2000. The document is a tomprehen­sive report by the president for the trustees, and it is the most recent chapter in Notre Dame's long history ofdealing with its own Catholicism. It addresses everything from 24-hour space in residence halls to the con­struction of a Laboratory for Aquatic Ecol­ogy Teaching and Research. However, the most important, most prominent and most controversial aspect of Colloquy is its dis­CU§Sion ofNotre Dame's Catholic character. While the compilation of information for Colloquy involved large segments of. the university population, it is the work and His word was final; his will was absolute. His,direction was drawn from the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross,.and Holy Cross, in tum, drew its direction from the Church. 
This order was lost as soon as the Holy Cross order was removed as the sole govemorofNotre Dame. In 1967, it was the will of the president, Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., that the university be re­moved from the control of Holy Cross and be placed in the hands of a lay board of 
trustees. 
The University of Notre Dame was no longer the possession ofthe Congregation of Holy Cross, both in concept and in actuality: the Congregation no longer had sole control ofthere the university, and the new board of trustees owned all of the land and buildings which the Congregation had built. 
Father Hesburgh and the trustees agreed on one important stipulation in this transfer of power: the presidency of the university was left with the Congregation of Holy Cross. Yet, ultimate power over the univer­

''The danger in affirming the centrality of Notre Dame's Catholic mission and character is that some members of the. university community might feel excluded or unappreciated." 

vision of Father Malloy. Yet, in that he submitted it to the trustees, and in that the trustees accepted it, Colloquy has become Notre Dame's mission statement Hence, it is important to bear in mind that the goals and objectives ofColloquy are the goals and objectivesofthepresidentand trustees ofthe university. In short, what is in Colloquy is the direction of Notre Dame. 
"The University of Notre Dame is a Catholic academic community of higher learning, animated from its origins by the Congregation ofHoly Cross ... The Catholic identity of the university depends on, and is nurtured by, the continuing presence of a predominant number ofCatholic intellectu­als. This ideal has been consistently main­tained by the university leadership through­out its history." Thus begins Colloquy which then elaborates on the notion of Catholic character in its first section, provid­ing specific practical recommendations for preserving Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter. Key elements of the Catholic character section of Colloquy appear on these pages; 
"Notre Dame has a responsibility to strengthen and enhance its Catholic identity. In fact, this will be one of the great things that we will do for American higher educa­tion. This country does not need another good secular university-butAmerica does need a good Catholi_c university," said Fa­ther Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C., history chairman and an outspoken suporter of en­
hancing Notre Dame's Catholic character. In essence, what Colloquy does is to place Cat_holicism as the focal point ofthe univer­sity and all of its actions. It affirms the 
''All who participate in hiring faculty must be cognizant of and responsive to the need for dedicated and committed Catholics to predominate in number 
among the faculty." 


traditional role ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross in the guidance of the Notre Dame, and it seeks to stop the perceived slide to­ward secularization. 
One of Colloquy's strongest statements regarding Catholic character dictates that Catholics should predominate in number among the faculty. "When I was a student here, being Catholic meant something very different from what it means today. How­ever, one thing that has remained the same is that young Catholics need good Catholic role models," said Father Oliver Williams, C.S.C., associate provost "We want to show our students that it is possible for a Catholic to become a businessman, or a lawyer, or to enter any number of profes­sions. Our faculty are the best wittness to that, by the quality of their own lives," Father Williams continued. 
"Weshould seek to attract faculty who are broadly supportive of the mission of the university. I would expect that a majority of these faculty would be Catholics. They are crucial to the university," said Father Miscamble. 
With the adoption ofColloquy as the for­mal guidance policy of the university, that document's pronouncements on Notre Dam~'s Catholic character and how to pre­serve that identity have co 
me to form the official direction of the university for now and for the future. Father Miscamble said, "Certainly Notre Dame has to pay attention to the question of its own Catholicity, or without anyone even being conscious ofit, thereareotherforcesatwork that might change the place. We have ar­rived at a crucial point in time -Colloquy cameatjusttherighttime." . 
;····-·:·(.:<~<-:, 

ame'1s #ze.•Catholic:, . .· ..•how Caihohc1snffits 111.,the life ofiAmenda;;.:.,;•· (< :•i >.. ,. ,i'c:) 




'F~[,rorecflilf&l,~l~I 
The Jury is Still Out on What's 

in Colloquy 
Leading philosophers and theologians debate the merits ofCatholic character and its implications 
by J. Patrick Coolican and Melissa Sheldon 

Do you know what it means to be a . Catholic university? Does a Catholic university require a Catholic faculty? Is Notre Dame moving in the right direction with respect to its Catholicity? Don't know -ask someone whose business is religion, a theologian. However,NotreDame's most eminent theologians are divided over these and other questions presented in Colloquy for the Year 2000. Campus theologians and philosophers are perplexed by this rather vague notion of Catholic character. ''The fundamental issue is what constitutes Catholic character; put­ting an emphasis on the number ofCatholic faculty is addressing the tail end ofthe issue. In other words, we must determine what Catholic is before we move to enhance Catholicity by hiring more Catholics," said Dr. Ralph Mcinerny, Grace Chair of Phi­losophy. 
"One with a Catholic character has a uni~ fying theme of Catholicism permeating his or her life. He or she sees Catholicism as a singular task. The question becomes, how does a university, specifically Notre Dame, provide that unifying theme," said Dr. Alasdair MacIntyre, McMahon-Hank Chair ofPhilosophy. One answer lies in a prepon­derance ofCatholic faculty members, which would presumably bridge the gap between character and intellect. 

"The Catholic character does not depend on the number ofCatholic faculty. Catholic character may beretained ifthe faculty is not necessarily Catholic but has respect and regard for fundamental Catholic values. Mere quantity doesn't insure quality Ca­tholicism," said Father Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien-Walter Chair of Theol­ogy. 
Many faculty members have voiced ob­jections to the Colloquy's Recommendation One, which calls for Catholics to predomi­nate in number among the faculty, because ofthe process, or lack thereof that developed this statement. According to Father McBrien, Recommendation One was never a product of pre-Colloquy faculty discus­sion. In particular, the sentence insisting on a predominance of Catholic faculty was never placed in discussion. "It was as if the last sentence in Recommendation One came from on high without any faculty discus­sion," said Father McBrien. 
Why has Father Malloy, author of the colloquy report, suddenly become so inter­ested in Catholic character through the hir­ing offaculty? "Many on the fac;ulty believe 

SCHOLASTIC

'i
,r 
If 
-
that the recent push for Catholic character reflects a nervousness on the part of the Holy Cross order of losing their position with Notre Dame," said Father McBrien. 
Why would Father Malloy be nervous? Notre Dame's president is necessarily se­lected from the Congregation of Holy Cross. However, Father Malloy's loyalty to the order is natural. 
There is some disagreement among lead­
''I object to the conceptof choosing faculty on the basis of their-catholicism. Such a policy would result in a kind of ethnic cleansing as well as a decrease in the quality of academic life." 
-Father Richard McBrien 

ing theologians and philosophers as to whether the goal of a predominantly Catho­lic faculty is desirable. "We need to recruit as many good Catholic faculty as possible. The problem is, there are not enough good, qualified Catholic professors," said MacIntyre in support of the goal. 
That a Catholic quota would lessen the stature of the Notre Dame faculty is patently false, according to MacIntyre, because fac­ulty hiring is controlled by faculty commit­tees that would not allow an unqualified applicant to be hired or tenured. ''The stu­dent body has a vested interest in making sure that there is a high quality faculty," added Father McBrien. 
"Many on the faculty are unnecessarily fearful that the recent 'Great Awakening' of Catholicism on campus will deteriorate the intellectual vibrancy of the university," said Mclnemy. "It's a shame that people are embarrassed about Catholic character. Faith is the best thing that happened to the human mind." 
Some, however, disagree with the prin­ciple of a Catholic faculty as well as the practical dilemmas it creates. "I object to the concept of choosing faculty on the basis of their Catholicism. Such a policy would result in akind ofethnic cleansing as well as a decrease in the quality of academic life. Are you [the university] going to hire Catha-­lie faculty before more qualified non-Catho­lie faculty," said Father McBrien. 
The Catholic character issue has devel­oped numerous debates around campus. There has been a great struggle between many different contingents. There are three fundamental questions: first, what exactly is Catholic character; second, once defined how will it be implemented; finally, should there be such a strong Catholic character at this free-thinking university? The Colloquy has raised these questions, and the answers to them may change the university forever. Mclnemy said, "I've been here for 40 years, and in all my 40 years this has been the most important debate to ever grace the univer­sity." D 
"It's a shame that people are embarrassed about Catholic I 


character. Faith is the _I 
best thing that jl.I 
happened to 
the human mind 
-Dr.Ralph 
Mcinerny 



NEWS COMMENTARY 


The Gipp is very unhappy to see Florida State ranked number two after losing to ND. The Gipp does not want to go to the stupid Cotton Bow1. While the Gipp is not going to cry about it, like West Virginia coach Don Nehlen did on ESPN, he does have a fun picture of the FSU band (right) to share. 
The Gipp heard that Lou took a lot of flak from the administration for the Boston Col­lege disaster. When Lou asked for a chance to go to a good bowl game ["good" means not the Cotton Bowl] the administration told him to stick it, the Irish will play for which­ever bowl will give them the mosfmoney. 

significant blemish on our season, seven BC students complained that while cel­ebrating on our field, they were clocked by members ofthe Irish Guard, and one student claimed he was whacked by a tuba. To top it off, the Gipp saw a fresh­
man girl smash the Boston Were they stoked or what? College Eagle's wire mesh face and tear off his left wing. The girl broke her hand in the process. Cool. As a totally random aside, ESPN reported that when Notre Dame hired Frank Leahy away from Boston College, BC asked the Pope to intervene. The Pope will issue an encyclical on this in 2732, a week before the administration rolls-back parietals. 
1? 
~ ~ 
Attention K-Mart Shoppers 
or "The Cost of Convenience" 



The Gipp is known campus-wide for berating the bookstore. Indeed, the Gipp has made cruel and denigrating accusations about the value ofshopping at that house of swindlers for years. To discover just how conniving the larce­nous establishment is, the Gipp did real research! Actually, he coerced his friend Chris into doing the research, but 

B that is irrelevant. .!,! ~ TheGipp's observant readers will no-
CJ.______________________________.
tice that the above graph compares the omitted. 
Hammes Target Venture 

costofitems at the Hammes, Target and Venture. The Gipp's amigos will also notice that Osco Drugs is not included in the graph. This isbecause (and this is truly shocking) Osco is more expensive than the bookstore. Naturally, the Gipp could not include any information in his graph that does anything less than make the Hammes look like an oppressive over-priced monopoly of the capitalist bourgeoisie, so the Osco information is 
THE GIPP: REJECTED 
Last weekend, the Gipp discovered that there is in fact i;io one on this campus who needs to get a life more than he does. [Note: Rudy is not on this campus.] When the Gipper invited seven of his friends over for Thanksgiving dinner at his house, three of them turned him down. Not because they were going home, mind you. They told the Gipp, "Well, actually we already made plans to go to the dining hall."* The Gipp could not imagine any more humiliating reason for getting turned down. ReallY:--the dining hall! But, then again, there was that girl who rejected him in high school because she had "scuba diving lessons" ... on a Friday night!** 

DO NOT DRIVE ON CAMPUS 
The Gipp received a letter from a loyal fan which asked, "How do Notre Dame security guards decide whether to let someone drive on campus or not?" The Gipp investigated. He asked a security guard if there are any guidelines that dictate who drives on campus and who does not. 
The officer replied, "Yes." 
"Well, would you like to share them with me?" 
"No." , 
This, ofcourse, told the Gipp nothing. So the GipJJ probed further. 
"Let's say I've got a broken foot ... " 
* The Gipp is not making this up. ** Sadly, the Gipp is not making this up either. 
8 



ment office, etc. -Pretend you are a football player. The Gipp knows someone who the security guards always let on campus because they think he is a football player. (He drives a black Mustang with one of those booming­bass stereo systems, fluorescent purple lights underneath the car body and tinted windows.) -Have someone "need" a ride to the airport. -Know a friend who is injured. (The Gipp has picked up the 'same "friend from Dillon with a broken leg" for three years.) -Don't tell them you are the Gipp. They hate the Gipp. WHOOP-THERE IT IS The Gipp has been here three and a half years, and he still hasn't figured out how the library works. See, the 'brare has an anti­theft library-book detection system, and yet students show the library monitors what is in their book bags anyway. The Gipp never docs this. He always walks right out He has never been stopped, ever. The Gipp's friends keep insisting he has to show the monitors the contents of his bag.· The Gipp, on the other hand, has always insisted that he doesn't. The Gipp hoped to settle this matter once and for all and interviewed three different monitors. He asked them ifhe always needs  THE GI. Because the Gipp is leaving, he must reveal his identity. The Gipp figures that every­one who knows him knows that he is the Gipp. It is a hard secret to keep: Basically, if you don't know who the Gipp is, then either you don't give a damn or you can 'tread. [Busi­ness majors: Ifyou can't read or have trouble reading, call this number: 631-7394.] Past Gipps have announced their secret identities in the following manner: "OK, it's time to announce who I am. I am really Cornelius from Soul Train." The Gipp is more clever than that, so he con­structed a puzzle based on pre­vious Campus Watch's. The Gipp doesn't want to make it too easy for his enemies to toilet paper his car and crank call his house. He is also afraid that his priestly professors will not write him recommenda­tions because of the Corby Hall booze-fund joke.  PP: EXPOSED!!! The Gipp's real identity exposed vertically here! To discov entity: answer the questions and complete the puule. 1) Monk's high school nickname. [Hint: Not "Monk."] 2) Best way to get Into a football game without a ticket. 3) ND's favorite drunkard. [Hint: Wide right!] 4) The Glpp's favorite superfrlend ­better known for being trapped Inside a giant clam weekly. S) The real Rudy watched a private screening of his movie with this political figure. 6) Place where It costs extra to buy Items In bulk. [Hint: Den of theives.] 7) Building on campus where cadavers are stored. 8) Archltecturalnameofthefountaln•thlngy on Dcbartolo's quad. 9) This sex goddess' book Is on reserve In the library. 10) What will happen to you If Student Affairs catches you "In the act," but will not happen If you get pregnant. ·sz: ol!vd ao ~suv  

-
people with broken feet drive on campus." 
"So there are some guidelines ... " 
"Yes ... well ... I'm not gonna tell you what they are." So there you have it There are guidelines, but you can't know what they are. 
BUT DO IT ANYWAY The Gipp has been driving on campus for years. It's easy. Just lie. 
The Gipp's secrets: 
-Always pick something up, never drop something off. Ifyou say you are dropping something off, they might check. Sugges­tions: pick up records from WVFI, your parents at the bookstore, art projects from Riley, pizza boxes from the student govern­

"Broken foot? We're not supposed to let 
to show them his bag. Two said yes, one said no. 
The Gipp was very angry at them for giving such wishy-washy answers, so he conducted an experiment, which he called, "How many books can the Gipper smuggle out of the 'brare in one night without being caught?" [Business majors: Do not try this at home. You need a library.] 
The Gipp cleverly hid a book inside his book bag, showed the bag to the monitor and moved along. Book number one, stolen successfully. The Gipp repeated this pro­cess 10 times in a row, carefully stacking the books in the library lobby. 
The Gipp went inside to grab his 11th stopped his experiment, went to DeBartolo and checked his e-mail. 

HASTALAVISTABABY 
The Gipp must admit that he is sad be­cause this is his last issue as the Gipp. Do not fret Gippy fans!!! The Gipp has already found a replacement for next semester. [A warning: Next semester's Gipp actually uses his Daily Shillelagh as an appointment book.] Itis, ofcourse, unusual for Scholastic to switch Gipps midstream, but this year is exceptional because yours truly is graduat­ing early. The Gipp looks forward to leaving ND because, if for no other reason, he will never have to ride the LaFortune elevator a ain. 0 

BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 

1,11 11,1 

Bruno's North Bruno's South Open for carry out and delivery only. . Accepting reservations on weekends. One 18 inch 2-item pizza for $13. Available for private parties and banquets. Or one 12 inch 2-item pizza for $5.70 One 20 inch pizza for $10 (dine in o_nly). Prices do not include tax. 2610 Prairie Avenue 115 N. 31 (just North of campus) 288-3320 273-3890 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now offer free delivery of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's.campuses. 

10 

CAMPUS LIFE 
in their rooms. Sophomore Seth Grieshaber "never" studies in his room during finals week. "There are too many people yelling and running up and down the hallways," he said. 
HIT 




BY THE BOOKS 
A Scholastic survey tells the story about-Notre Dame students' study habits. 
-
by Chris Lenko 

The evening started out innocently enough. Two good friends, a can of EZ cheese and only twelve short hours until their cumulative Western civ history final. Walking to the computer math building to study at 2 a.m., they came across a duck who had lost his family by the library re­flection pool. One ofthe girls bent down to reunite it with its family. Then, without warning, the sinister shape of the mother duck appeared on the horizon and lunged at her without warning. Luck­ily, she fled unhurt. That evening, she learned two important lessons: never sit in a small, confined area with a hyperactive friend, a thermos of coffee and a case of Mountain Dew, and never taunt a hostile bird. Either way, one runs the risk ofgetting mauled. Such is life at Notre Dame during finals week. As ihe semester draws to a close, and students start to feel the heat of fast ap­proaching exams, anything can and does happen at Notre Dame. No Notre Dame student is immune to the · pressure to succeed academically, and over the years students have developed some sure-fire study strategies to survive finals week with both their sanity and GPAs still intact. Some students rely on regular, dis­ciplined study sessions while others, like junior Erin Hayden, swear by elaborate rituals and magic charms. Hayden uses the same "pen of knowledge" for each of her final exams. 
Most students testify to the benefits of old-fashioned study sessions. While sitting at a desk for several hours may require discipline, the benefits to this type ofexam preparation are numerous and visible. It's therefore not surprising that the results ofa Scholastic campus survey suggest a corre­lation between one's GPA and the number of hours one devotes to studying for tests and exams. 
Although many students emphasized the benefits ofstudying in the library, a surpris­ing 42 percent ofstudents still like to study Alumni Hall freshman Matt Mahoney often studies in his room, but when he has a test or exam to prepare for, he takes advantage of the study room down the hall. "In my room there are too many things to distract me," he ex­plained. "At least in the study lounge there is no television, stereo, friends or phone." 
Study lounges are preferred by 17 percentof students for a number ofother reasons as well. If misery loves company, at least everyone is there for the same purpose, and while the rooms are quiet and free of distractions, one needs only walk down the hall for a snack or a quick study break. 
Some students, however, find it difficult to study with other people and go to great lengths to find a secluded space that is free ofdistrac­tions and conducive to study. A variety of rather unusual places to study were mentioned in Scho/astic's survey, including laundry rooms, dorm chapels, the top ofMorrissey, the hallway in Zahm and the bathroom floor. One Siegfried resident who asked to be identified only as "Sherri" went to drastic measures to secure a private study area for herself and her roommate during finals week last year. "We locked ourselves in the study lounge, and blocked the door with a 2x4 so that no one else could get in," she reported. ­
Preferred Locations of Study 
for Notre Dame Students 
II Room (42%) llil Library (30%) II Dorm Study Lounge (17%) lzl Nieuwland Library (3%) D Lafortune (2%) ¦ Bed(2%) E3 Other (4%) 





Other students are more considerate and venture elsewhere in search of solitude. Scott Rudich, a sophomore, goes to the La Fortune student government office when he needs peace and quiet, while sophomore Megan McGrath either camps out.on the fifth floor stairwell landing of her dorm or goes to the JACC Sports Information Of­fice after it is closed. "I started going there evenbeforeisawRudy." shelaughed. "But now that I know Rudy broke in there too, I'm proud to be emulating my idol:' 
Sophomore Michelle Fraiser describes how two residents of her dorm took over a downstairs study room for an entire week. "They brought everything.they could possi­bly need, books, pillows, blankets, coffee, food, their alarm clocks, and everything else from their room," Fraiser said. By the end of the week it was so messy and dirty and smelly in there that even they couldn't stand to be in the room, and they had to move somewhere el,se fora couple ofdays." 
Even ifone does find a quiet, comfortable place to study, there are numerous other obstacles that stand in the way of making a · good grade on a final. Exhaustion is per­haps the biggest enemy a student must face, and many students have reported taking drastic measures to combat sleep and bore­dom. Caffeine and sugar are the chemicals of choice for students struggling to stay awake. Hayden claims thatTwix chocolate 
Average Hours of Studying by major/school 
Engineering 

Arts and Lettersr 
Pre-Professional.a 

II Each night 0 Average Hours 10 of Studying II Each night during final exam week 
F1I For-one exam 

bars, popcorn and Diet Coke are exam week buy anything to keep them awake and mov­
staples for her and her roommate. · ing." Bev Fillmore, a cashier at the Huddle con-Of course,· too much sugar and caffeine vehience store, confirms that students live on can actually be counterproductive, as any­cheap junkfoodduring this period: "Joltcola . one who has experienced the unpleasant seems to be the most popular choice, and we effects of a caffeine overdose knows. Too can go through three cases ofJoltin two days much caffeine can lead to nausea, shaking, during exam week," she observed. "They'll irritability and restlessness. Since caffeine is found in a wide range ofproducts includ­ing coffee, tea, pop, cocoa and chocolate bars, students are more likely to consume too much caffeine during finals week, when they stay up later and snack more than usual. 
Even more dangei:ous than ~affeine arc Vivarin and other pills that promise to help keep one alert and awake through the night. These products are potentially addictive and can have serious side-effects, especially when one exceeds the recommended dos­age. 
McGrath took Vivarin tablets during her freshman year to help her get through finals week. "In the middle ofmy math exam I felt sweaty and shaky like I was going to pass out;'.' she remembered. "Iattribute that to the Vivarin." McGrath now avoids the coffee/ sugar/Vivarin combination and suggests people turn to EZ cheese instead, which she considers a safer snack alternative. Unfortu­nately, some students still rely on products 
12 

like Vivarin, and Fillmore reported that Fast Break usually runs outofVivarinearly in the week. 
Sleep deprived, sugar-filled, stressed out students are a dangerous bunch, and many report taking part in unusual activities or rituals to help relieye the building tension. Nobody can forget the antics of the naked Keenan rollerbladers that thrilled and shocked North Quad residents last April or the annual Alumni Hall library run. Last Christmas, the theme of the run was "Wrap Your Package.'1 It featured a Santa Claus from Alumni running through the second floor, followed by twelve.naked guys throw­ing candy at students. 
One anonymousAluqmi resident who has participated in this dorm tradition believes that the event has become a hall tradition because "it is fun, relieves stress and helps promote dorm unity.'' The Alumni resident believes that the administration does not really object to his dorm's performances, since security has never taken steps to stop them and since the show is harmless: "No­body has ever attempted to find out where we change, and last year the. library monitor who was supposed to stop us was actually 
giving us high fives on the way out.'' crawled under her desk and refuses to come 
Average Hours of Studying· 
by Year 

;;... 
-= 
.....
= 
Cl.) 
~ 
0 
t 
= 
~ 
~ 
E <. ~ 

Freshmen Sophomores Juniors 

Year
Each Night Each night during exam week For one exam· 
Whilenuditymayseem .---------------------, 
to play a big role in stress reliev!ng activities on campus, water is also a popular ingredient in exam week activities. Sophomore Julie Koenig described a water fight that took place in her dorm on the first study 
day last year 
"It started out inno­cently enough," she claimed, "but it evolved into a war. We started filling shower buckets and popcorn bowls. Those ofus with compas­sion used warm water, while the rest of us used 
cold. By the end we were ..._____________________, 
drenched and looked really pretty. The hall smelled nice too, kind oflike a wet dog," she said. "Some people in our section got kind of mad, but eventually they went home for Christmas and got over it" 
So if the Coke machine downstairs is out of Mountain Dew and your roommate has 
How Studying Affects GPA 
~ 
G 
cu 
&° . 
cu
< 3.1 

Less 2-3 3-4 4-5 5-6 Over7 Hours of studying per night 
out, take comfortin the fact that Christmas is just around the comer.· No matter how bad things might seem right now, chances are you'll survive another round of finals at Notre Dame. If you stay away from the caffeine, sugar, drugs and ducks, that is! D 
r 
1. 
About the Survey ... ? 
For this Scholastic survey, a sampling of 175 random Notre Dame students were quest~cmed during lunch hours. Students were asked to estimate how much they study on an average night, each night during exam week, for one test and for one final exam in an attempt to determine the study habits ofa typical Notre :Dame student. 
The students were classified by their major, year, and GPA. 70 freshmen, 44 sophomores, 32 juniors, and 29 seniors were surveyed. Because the freshmen had no experience with final exams, they were exempted from the questions on the subject. 
Students in the survey were also asked about the number of all-nighters they pull each semester. There w.as no correlation between majors and the number of all-nighters. However, interestingly enough, as students got older, they tended. to pull more all­nighters. Freshmen pulled a·n everage of 1.2 all-nighters, while seniors had an average of 2.8. D 
~

,: • • • -• I • 0 ' '-, ' '' , "•, J • • ,,: • ' '_, 
CAMPUS LIFE 

in aquiring and using fake IDs. 
by Theresa M. Hennessey 

You are a 5'11" blond with striking blue eyes. She is a 5'6" redhead. The only characteristic you and the woman on your fake ID have in common is gender. But don't worry -if you're he said. "In Indiana the maximum sentence is 60 days in jail and a fine of $500. In addition, the individual's driver's license could be suspended, and he could be charged with false informing." 
But even these penalties do little to dis­courage underage students from posing a outside and cited her. 
According to_ Jenny, the policewomen first confiscated the alcohol and made her fill out some forms in the back of their car. Then they asked her to go back inside the store and identify the person who had sold her the alcohol. As a result, Jenny is now a 
witness for the State of Indi­
lucky, no one will be able to ana against Chuck's Liquor tell the difference. Besides, Store. ·· you won't be 21 for another The arrest will not go on two and a half years, so you'll Jenny's permanent record. take your chances. Instead, she is part of a Pre­
Although not every under­trial Diversion Program, age student at Notre Dame which setherpunishmentata feels the need for false identi­$125 fine, 20 hours of com­fication, fake IDs are preva­munity service and a year of lent on campus, and many probation. · students are willing to risk of But as Jenny and other being caught in order to have students have attested, who a good time. gets caught is purely luck of 
"The worst thing that can thedraw. NotreDamejunior happen to you is that your ID Lisa* laughed as she recalled will be taken away by the her experience at Bridget's bouncer or by the clerk in the lastyearonSt.Patrick'sDay. liquor store," said Dawn*, a "I used a neighbor from Notre Dame sophomore. home's expired license who "And even that doesn't hap­was in her mid-thirties. The
This Notre Dame student exhibits his fake ID pen as often as one might and one of the advantages It brings. person carding at the door think. I have only been turned asked me if it was my grand­

down twice, and both times the person who 21-year-olds. "I was arrested back in Octo­mother. I told him to just let me in, and in I was carding just laughed at my picture and ber, but after my year ofprobation is up, I'd went." told me to go home." chance it again," said Jenny*, a sophomore. On the other hand, Mary*, a Notre Dame 
However, according to Sergeant James "I think I just got unlucky. I don't think it senjor, experienced problems at the Line­Moon, head of the Stop Underage Drinking was a sign to never drink again." backer when her real ID was challenged. "I and Sales (S.U.D.S.) program for the South Jenny bought alcohol from a very small was too ~ared of taking a risk with a fake Bend Police Department, taking chances distributorin South Bend, where she was nof last year, so I was very excited to go to the with a fake ID may not be worth itin the long carded. However, as soon as she shut her car bars when I finally turned 21. But the guy at run. "Ifa police officer knows an individual door, two undercover policewomen the door told me the picture didn't look like isl ying, he or she could go tojail or be cited," · knocked on her car window, made her step me. He made me recite my address and 

phone number, and even then he was doubt­
ful.,, 
Many students may wonder how stores 
and bars dec!de when to card and how they 
differentiate between a fake and authentic 
ID. "As a rule of thumb, we card everyone 
who doesn't look 26;" said Peter Cothard of 
Corktowne Liquors. . "Some people are 
older than they look, some are younger. A 
lotofthepeoplewecardareactuallytwenty­
three." 
Ifthey are doubtful about the validity of the ID, they look at the ID and feel it for lumps. "We look for inconsistencies and to see if ithas expired," Cothard said. "We also have a book that describes each state's current license as well as the one it had · before any changes may have been made." A supervisor at Osco Drugs, who wished to remain anonymous, stated that Osco cards "if an individual looks younger than 35." Even then, the employee usually asks a few questions and requests a second form of ID. "One thing we check to see is if the issue date is in the same month as the date of 
expiration." 
"We have a training video we make our 
employees watch as well so they know what 
to look for," the Osco Drugs supervisor 
explained. "We really need to be careful; 
otherwise, we could lose our liquor license." 
Despite these kinds ofprecautions, under­
. age students who want to purchase alcohol said they can usually tell how strict a store is going to be. "A friend of mine walked into a distributor at home and behind the counter was a board with about 200 IDs tacked to it entitled 'The Hit List,"' said John*, a junior. "He knew right away that he didn't have a chance." 
Amy*, a junior, related, "I went into a supermarket here in South Bend because I was too afraid to go to Belmont Beverage. The lady looked at me and smiled while asking if I was really 21. After insisting I was, she studied my ID for a few seconds and then asked me where the birthdate was printed. I pointed it out to her, and she smiled again and said, 'Oh, so you just turned 21. You're okay then."' 
"Bigger stores like Martin's or Osco's usually don't card as hard," stated Dan*, also a junior. "Halfthe time young kids are working the register anyway. A friend of mine altered my license by whiting out the birthday, and I have never had a problem with it." 
Whiting out a birthdate, however, is not the greatest length that an underage student will go to to sup­ply himself or oth­ers with fake IDs. There are a hand­ful of students right here on cam­pus who possess the know-how and technology to ac­tually replicate li­censes. 
"I make them from scratch, but they look like the real thing," said Eric*, a junior. Eric designs the IDs on his com­puter, scanning the necessary state seal from an ency-· clopedia. The photo for the li­cense is taken with a polaroid, and everything else is printed on the computer. For the overlays, Eric uses acetate transparencies because they can be printed on, unlike con­tact paper, which is what the bouncers look for. 
To protect himself from the law, Eric hides a tiny disclaimeron the back ofthe IDs he makes. "That way, if I ever get caught, I'll only get one or two years instead of40!" 
Because "things got too chaotic" in his dorm room, Eric only makes the IDs athome now. "I don't charge my friends anything," he said. "But I will sell the prototype to people for $200 so that they can continue the process." 
Marlc*, a junior, used an innovative pro­cess to make false identifications as well. He and his friends had someone steal license forms from the DMV, and they set up a license picture machine in his basement. "It worked great for a while -my parents · actually thought that I was an avid photogra­pher," said Mark. 
Today, Mark no longer makes IDs even though he never was caught. "Now I am older and wiser," he said, and added, "Be­sides, you can always go to an off-campus party where drinks are free, and you don't need an ID there." 

Students have differing opinions about the importance of having false identification. 
"I don't think it is that big of a deal ifyou don't have an ID," said one fresh­man. 'There is enough to do right here on campus where you don't need to worry about S.U.D.S." 
Kristina*, a Notre Dame se­nior and a Resi­dence Assistant, will not turn 21 for another two weeks. She said that she would take her chances with an ID ifshe wasn't an R.A.: 
"I thought about getting [a fake ID] last year, but at the time I didn't mind hanging out on campus. Now, all my friends are ofage, and I am stuck in the dorm on the weekends while they are out celebrating at the bars." She added that "there are only so many movies you can watch before that gets old. I feel like I'm losing out big time, especially after the football games." 
Other students link their willingness to risk using fake IDs to the type ofactivity they seek. "If you want to purely buy alcohol, there are enough ways to get it without an ID. Butifyou really want to go to the bars and get into that scene, you'd defintitely be missing out without one," said one student. 
Twenty-year old senior Allan* said, "If Indiana had a law like many other states, allowing you to go to a bar at age 18, and they stamped your hand so you wouldn't be able to drink, it wouldn't be all that bad to be one of the few underage seniors left· But as of now, I'd have no social life at all if I didn't use a fake ID. I think I'll take my chances." 
* Names have been changed to protect anonymity 



Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Goming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. 


For More Information Call: 
Lafortune Information Desk: Sophomore Class:· 631-5225 
ND News Line: 631-5110 Senior Class: 631-5136 JACC Ticket Information: Student Union Board: 631-7757 631-7354 Junior Class: 631-5117 Notre Dame MenuLine: 631-0111 Snite Film Series Hot Line: Weekel).d Wheels Schedule: 
631-FRED 

Thursday 2 
Movie: "Lawrence of Arabia," 6:00 & 
10:15 p.m., Montgomery Theater, LaFortunc, $. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., LaFortune. Seminar: "The United Sates and Viet­nam: From War to Peace," CCE. 

Friday 3 
Seminar: "The United States and Vietnam: From War to Peace," CCE. Lecture: "Octavio Paz o la busqucda del prcscme," Hugo J. Vcrani, Univer­sity of California, Davis, 12:15 p.m., C-103 Hcsburgh Center. Roundball Classic: 6:00 p.m., Angela Athletic Facility, SMC. . FUm: "Menace Il Society," 7:30 & 
9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "The Firm," 7:30 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Crack Ups Comedy Cafe: 9:00-11:00 p.m., SMC Dining Hall. 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat: 
Fatima Retreat Center. 


Saturday·· 4 
Seminar: "The United States and Vietnam: From War to Peace," CCE. Hockey: Notre Dame vs. University of Illinois-Chicago, 7:00 p.m., JACC. Basketball: SMC vs. Adrian College, Carthage College, De Pauw University, 
1:00 p.m., Angela. Fllm: "Manacc Il Society," 7:30 & 9:45, Snitc, $2. Movie: "The Firm," 7:30 & 10:30, Cushing Auditorium, $2. ­
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat: Fatima Retreat Center. 

Tiana, the 
p.m. Frida 
to Vletnan From War and Is being shown In conjunction with the seminar "The United States and Vietnam: 

/ 
SPORTS 





High Hopes 
Notre Dame head coach John Macleod plans on proving his critics wrong and leading the Irish basketball team to success 
command, the Sooners enjoyed a 90-69 "It's no board meeting you're having record and a couple of trips to the National down there," he said. Invitational Tournament MacLeod also recognizes the real reason 
Notre 0ame Sports Information 
by Jeff Weghorst 

It seems these days that the one man in South Bend who hasn't yet seen Rudy is the one man who needs to see it most. Notre Dame'sJohnMacLeodlatelyhasbeenhear­ing about all the things that his basketball team can't accomplish. Many think that it's next to impossible for the Irish to compete and play big-time college hoops. And there are plenty who are willing to tell MacLeod what's wrong with his program. "You won't go anywhere without a con­ference," they tell him. "Forget it. Notre Dame's a football school," they say. "Your schedule's just too tough," he hears. Yet MacLeod gets up every morning and keeps on believing. Like Rudy Ruettiger, he , is sticking to his guns and in the end, intends · to prove his critics wrong. Before we get to how MacLeod plans to deal with these yahoos though, we should take a quick look at the man himself. Sure, we all know that he coached the New York Knicks and that he likes Sprite, but perhaps we should know more. MacLeod's coaching career extends far back before his one year stint with the Knicks. His first big gig was with Oklahoma in the late 60s and early 70s. Under his 
In 1973, MacLeod took his show to the NBA. Coaching 18 seasons, 14 with the Phoenix Suns, he became the eighth winningest coach in NBA history with 707 
victories. So while some may think that Notre Dame had to "settle" on MacLeod after failing to lure big-time college coaches like Bobby Cremins of Georgia Tech and Mike Krzysewski of Duke, let it be known that MacLeod, without question, is one of the best in the business. 
It was in 1991 thatMacLeod signed on with the Irish, bring­ing with him his brand of fast­
paced basketball. 
What's he like on the side­line? Well, MacLeod is an ex­tremely intense coach but he isn't going to totally lose con­trol and throw his chair across the court He knows that it's important for a coach to keep a cool head out there and he wants his troops to follow his lead. 
"I don't want our players go­ing bananas," MacLeod said. 
"He let's you know what he wants done. He won't motivate you by sitting you down and screaming at you," said senior Joe Ross. 
This doesn't mean, however, that MacLeod never informs students come to this university -academ­ics. He also gets his message across to his players. 

"He makes sure you take care of your classwork first," said freshman --Admore White. 
This season, MacLeod plans to expand his role of teacher though. Not only will he teach his players, but he also plans on giving a little lesson to his critics. 

the refs of poor job perfor­With more than 700 career coaching wins mance or becomes vocal with In the NBA, Coach Macleod still ranks ninth his players. for career coaching victories In the NBA. 

In the 1993 season opener last weekend, Coach Macleod directed BIiiy Taylor and the rest of the Irish team to success In a 95-74 win against Valparaiso. 
Be sees his mission here as a step-by-step process, and it all begins with getting some wins, not next season, but now. It is his opinion that once this team makes an NCAA tournament or two, things will start to fall into place. 
Here's his theory. TheNCAA tournament means exposure and this leads to better re­cruiting. With better recruits, Notre Dame can look to being consistently among the top 25, and this leads to more NCAA's. It just goes around and around on a circular track. Right now, however, the Irish are on the outside looking in. 
"We've had slippage here, and the pres­sure is to get the thing back on focus here and climb out bf this thing," said MacLeod. 
Another big problem is fan support. You need thunder to have a Thunderdome, of course.and that hasn'tbeen the case lately in the JACC. A good start this year will go a long way in this department. The Irish need fans but from where will they come? Isn't Notre Dame a football school? 
"Obviously, Notre Dame is a very very strong football school," said MacLeod. " ... but Indiana is a basketball state. And in this area if we get this thing going, the basketball people -and there are a lot of basketball fans here -they're going to come. All we've got to do is show that we 'recapableof 
crazy? Few believe that the Irish will ever be playing competitive team basketball, and this dominant. Itjust can't be done. they'll come and they'll pack this place." Perhaps the makers ofRudy will soon be 
MacLeod also refutes the idea that Notre returning. . 
Dame can't compete in the re­cruiting wars because it is known as a football school. He claims that one only needs to look at Okla­homa, Michigan or Florida State to see that it's possible for the Irish to soundly flog their basketball as well as football opponents. 
However, the cries of the critics will continue to drown out the claims of this coach until this squad wins and makes it into the NCAA tournament. The pressure will continue to mount to join a conference or to schedule less tal­ented opponents. But MacLeod doesn't worry about what others think. 
"The most intense pressure is what you put on yourself," he said. 
This pressure will ultimately make the victories that much sweeter once the Irish get rolling. Itwill be a delight to watch as one by one the fans start to believe as much as MacLeod does. Remem­
In his first year at Notre Dame, Coach Macleod 
ber the pep rally before the FSU 
led the Irish to 18 wins, the most of any first year basketball coach In Notre Dame history. 

SPORTS 




Fear 
After an impressive freshman season, opponents ofthe Notre Dame women's soccer team have three more years to fear the talented moves 

by Jake Schaller 

The North Carolina State and Notre Dame's women's soccer teams line up for an Irish comer-kick. The ball is put into play. Both squads, poised for the ball,jump into the air for a shot at it. Leaping at least two feet over every other player is Irish freshman Cindy Daws. Timing the jump perfectly; she heads the ball towards the goal but it hits the crossbar. There is a scramble for the ball, Daws fights to get it, regains control and crushes it into the net past a stunned goal-keeper. According to Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli, this play symbolizes the talent of Daws. "That one play shows her ability to win balls in the air, her hustle and the power of her shot," Petrucelli said. The Notre Dame women's soccer team received an incredible addition to its squad this year with the arrival of Daws, a midfielder. As a freshman, Daws led the Irish in scoring with a season record 52 points on 16 goals and 20 assists. As if that were not enough, Daws won "Newcomer of the Year" honors for the Midwestern Collegiate Conference and was 
. M.V.P. of the MCC Tournament. Hold on. She is a freshman? 
ofmidfielder Cindy Daws 
"Sometimes you forget that she's a fresh­
man," said Irish tri-captain senior Andi 
Kurek. Her numbers tend to make you 
forget it. "You could never expect a fresh­
man to have the kind of season that she did. 
The kind of numbers she put up are out­
standing for any player," said Petrucelli. 

She, however, is not any player. Daws, a 
resident of Northridge, California, started 
playing soccer at seven for a park team 
coached by her father. In seventh grade she 
began the Olympic Development Program. 
This program allowed her to train with and 
play against some of the best players in the 
nation. In high school, in addition to starring 
on her high school soccer team, she played 
volleyball until her senior year when she had to stop to concentrate on soccer. Daws achieved all-league and all-California Inter­scholastic Federation honors for three years and received N.S.C.A.A. Ali-America hon­ors. She also is a member of the under-17 
0 and under-19 Youth National teams, the Western Regional team and Southern Cali­fornia State team. 
With these credentials and her overall talent, Daws conceivably could have at­tended any of the top soccer schools in the nation, including the University of North Carolina, that ended the regular season atop the polls. Some may wonder why she chose Notre Dame, a team that finished 15th in the nation in 1992. 
"I wanted to be an impact player," said Daws. "I knew that the team was going in the right direction, and I 
wanted to go some­where that I could play right away." In addi­tion, Daws said that she loved the commu­nity and spirit of the university. 
Make an impact she did. Called "the Ron Powlus of Women's Soccer" by her coach at the begin­ning of the season, Daws started every game for the Irish this year. Coach Petrucelli said that he had seen her play a great deal before she ever came to Notre Dame, so he had a good idea of her abilit . 

. ' . -. . . . . \ . , . ,, . ~ . ' -' ' . 
"It didn't take too many practices to see on the field, however, is overwhelmed by field. 
that she would be a starter," he said. her modesty, as she is quick to point out parts "She has come up with a lot of traditions 
For the first few games of the season, of her game that need work. Petrucelli said and nicknames for us," said Jen Renola. 
Daws had to play out of her normal she has "quiet confidence" and "when she In her free time, this California native said 
midfielder position and played forward. She scores a goal, she'll get a little smile and then she enjoys volleyball, basketball and 
adjusted well, however, and within a few tum around and run back. There is no waterskiing. "Basically beach stuff," she 
games was back to her normal position. running around and celebrating." said. 
According to Daws, the best part of her One can definitely begin to spot parallels "She is such a pleasant, fun-loving kid 
game is her "offensive threat" .This varies, between Daws the soccer player and Cindy that people seem to gravitate around her," 
ho:,vever, depending on who you talk to. Daws the person. The way she plays on the Petrucelli said. Her play and attitude have 
"To pinpoint one facet of her definitely sparked the Irish this 
game that is the best is impossible, year. 
because she can do so many Thanks in great part to the 
things so well," said freshman stellar play of Daws, the Notre 
goalkeeper Jen Renola. "She is Dame women's soccer team fin­
probably the best in the air, win­ished the regular season 19-2, 
ning head balls. , She is also very ranked number three in the coun­
strong and has good size." try with a perfect 6-0 record in the 
Others think that itis herunself­MCC and were 15-0 in the Central ish attitude and field awareness. Region. The only two losses came "She's very uns(?lfiSh and likes to to number one North Carolina and see others score," Kurek said. number two Stanford. Nonethe­Coach Petrucelli points to Daws' less, the team won four other physical ability and her strong games against top 20 squads, in­play in the air but was most im­cluding a victory over fourth · pressed with her shot. "I don't ranked William and Mary. The 
know if I have ever seen anyone Irish ended their season a great hit a ball as hard as Cindy," he deal earlier than they wanted to remarked. when they were upset, 2-1, by Sophomore Ragen Coyne re­George Mason in the first round of counted a goal Daws scored in the N.C.A.A. tournament How­which she shot from 'at least 25 ever, Daws and the rest ofthe team yards out and rocketed the ball on that will return next year are ex­a line into an upper-coi:ner of the cited and optimistic about their 
net. "It wasincredible," she said. chances. "But to Cindy it was just another "We're only going to get bet­goal." ter," Renola said. 
Renola, who played against As for Daws herself, and un­Daws in a Northern California fortunately for other teams around versus Southern California All­the nation, she is only going to get Star game and has to face her in better also. Daws' modesty practice, knows what it's like to showed when she admitted that see Cindy Daws ready to fire an­even she needs to improve her other shot. "It's scary," she said. game. 
Something that certainly im­"I definitely need to work on
She also was named Most Valuable Player 
presses people is Daws' confi­my defense," Daws said. 
of the MCC Tournament. 

dence. Although only a• fresh-Petrucelli said that the sky is man, she shows no signs offeeling pressure. field is strikingly similar to how she is off the the limit for Daws, and that if she wants to 
"When things get tough, Cindy plays bet­field. An unselfish player on the field, she could make the United States Olympic ter," said Petrucelli. Her best games seem to distributing balls and goals to others, evi­soccer team. For Daws the goal for her and come against the better teams. To Daws denced by her 20 assists, Daws is equally her teammates is to win a National Champi­there is no reason to have to feel pressure just unselfish off the field, pushing away acco­onship. because she is a freshman. Because of her lades and recognizing the play of her team­As for opposing teams that will have to experience in the Olympic Development mates and even congratulating the football deal with this threat for three more years, Program, she has already been playing with team. Her relaxed and loose style on the they might be wise to learn from Renola's the top players in the nation. Her confidence field translates to her personality off the experiences against Daws: Be afraid. 


DECEMBER 2, 1993 21 

SPORTS 

SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY-Size Appetite!!! Liglzt Appetites: Big Appetites: 6 Inch Cold Cut Combo 6 Foot Party Sub .. ' ·:·)\ff.i{4<;:(:\;_:-., :--... , • SR 23 At Ironwood • US 31 N (By North Village Mall)  

FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Beth Morgan: Morgan, a freshman from_ Bloomington, IN, led the women's basketball team toa 105-59 victoryoverBKStrakonicelast Sunday at the ACC. Morgan scored 18 points and had five assists in the Irish' s preseason victory. At this point in the season, Morgan is the leading scorer for the Irish. 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE .WEEK 

Monty Williams: Williams, a senior from Forest Heights, MD, scored a career high 42 points in the Irish victory over Valparaiso last Sunday. With his 4 2 points, Williams posted the most points scored by an Irish basketball player since Adrian Dantley scored 49 against Air Force in 1975. 
REVIEW & PREVIEW 

by Miranda C. Sanford 

Gone With the Wind: Part II Yes, it's true. The entertainment industry finallycastdowneverythingsacredandholy by producing a sequel to the finest movie of all time -Gone With the Wind. As if a continuation was not bad enough, it will be presented as an eight-hour CBS mini-series. The character listing tends to the unusual as Joanne Whalley-Kilmer's (cast as Scarlett) previous experience includes Wil­low, Navy Seals and Scandal. The question­able content is based on Alexandra Ripley's novel Scarlett. Set forreleasein November 1994, the production has a budget of $50 million dollars and will be aired worldwide in 17 languages. A Scarlett with Naval experience, Rhett speaking Swahili -sane 
"Womb•for Rent" 

Roadside advertisement is always inter­esting, but anyone would be shocked at a billboard advertising "Womb forrent! Edu­cated, healthy, loving 'surrogate mother available." Located on a busy Houston freeway, she felt this was the most efficient way to reach the public. The presently anonymous woman wants to finance her PhD degree . and figures this is a prime money making method. 
Her attorney in the matter stated she pos­sesses "a good sense of humor ... wants a close relationship with the couple and prom­ises she will give up the child immediately after birth." He also noted that she is "not a nut in any way, shape or form." Good to · know that those renting out procreation ser­vices are not mental cases. 

Peanuts Galore! 

People go to such extremes to get into the Guinness Book of World Records! Take 
Peanut, Pennsylvania, for example. As part 
of a gala festival, high schoolstudents will 
attempt to create the world's largest peanut 

butter and jelly sandwich ever. It should be 
40 feet long and 450 pounds. 
The high schoolers will spread 200 ponds ofpeanut butter and jelly on two giant slices of bread. After the ten hour project, the sandwich will go to feed 1,000 people. The Adult Peanut Butter Fan Club with 60,000 members organized the project What ex­actly are these students learning by dressing in waders to slap hundreds of pounds of peanut butter around? Where does one sign up to be in a peanut butter fan club? How do they bake the bread? Maybe the entire venture is one of those "optional extra credit" projects we used to love so much. 

What's That Smell? 

Perfume creators recently have gone way too extremes with their new Vanilla scented fragrances. Modeled after the environmen­tal craze, nature's scents were believed to be the best kind. Already five different brands of vanilla are on the markets. I wonder if these -companies have smelled their cre­ation, ifnot they need to think again. Admit­tedly, I was intrigued by the advertising campaigns and thought about trying the new perfume. However, that changed upon en­countering a person wearing it. At first she smelled like Betty Crocker, but after an hour ofthe sickly sweet stench I was ready to hose her down with Lysol. Ifcompanies begin with spice smells, where will they end ... animal odors? 

Wild Kingdom 

PBS recently executed a bold decision about program content by running the show The Nature of Sex. Receiving three and a half stars, the show is hailed as innovative and educational. Public broadcasting 
thought, "Ifpeople want sex on television, 
we can give it to them in a new, yet informa­
tive, fashion." 

The show focuses not on how creatures 
do it, but why. The desire to reproduce, pass 
genetic information is universal, amazes the 
mind and the eyes. The producers spent four 
years traveling around the world in search of 
footage, and scenes on the adventure include 
spiders devouring their mates and zebras 
defending harems. 

The most interesting segment has to be the Australian marsupial mouse, which engages in "such prolonged intercourse (12 hours) that he invariably dies." Whether one ad­mires or pities the rodent, the Novaesque show is definitely worth watching. 

Up and Coming 

Entertainment industries are filling this Christmas season with tons of goodies for the public. make sure you run to the Rosemont Horizon on New Year's Eve as not to miss Michael Bolton. Hailed as one of the sexiest men alive, let Michael ring in the new year in his, oh, so special way. Ifthat does not ring your bell, Janet Jackson re­leased another concert date for the Horizon on December 2 and Smashing Pumpkins perform at the Aragon Ballroom on Decem­ber 10. 
Musical releases keep coming during the holiday season. The Metallica box set, the Beavis and Butthead disc and the new Guns and Roses album all came out on November 23. Ifanyone needs a gift for a parent or grandparent, check out the Frank Sinatra Duets l,tlbum. He sings 13 classics with such artists as Anita Baker, Bono, Kenny Gand Luther Vandross. 
Movies go without saying, tons of good ones are out So, enjoy the holidays! ~ 
ENTERTAINMENT 

by Josef Evans 

I heard that movie was scary!" Such was the ignorant response of one my friends upon my asking them to see the new Tim Burton film, ''The Nightmare Before Christ­mas." Oh, yeah, it's scary, all right Almost as frightening as "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer." :J'he big advantage, though, is that you don't have to sit through Burl Ives singing "Silver Bells" and countless other forgettable tunes. Now that's scary. No, no, no, this movie's not scary. Come on, it's rated PG, what are they going to do -imply a lot ofviolent acts? It's a story told through the "magic of Claymation" (I think they said i.hat on a California Raisins' Christmas show preview, right after the Alpo commercial), and the effect is actually quite something. Not scary, mind you. "Visually Stunning!" screams the some­thing-or-other-Tribune. Yep. The Claymation here is amazing. It took hours and hours of work, and it shows. Burton (director of "Beetlejuice," "Edward Scissorhands," and the "Batman" films, among others) has meticulously crafted each character to fit his warped imagination, and ifyou like his style, the movie's a treat. If not, try popcorn-bucket bingo with the kernels you've still got left because the story is substandard holiday-special fluff. 
Actually, the basis for the story is a great idea. It involves a town for each holiday of the year, where residents live out the year in preparation for their particular day. The story here begins in Halloween town, where Jack Skellington, town hero, has orches­trated another successful Halloween, but­you guessed it -it isn'tenough! Poor Jack. He craves something more ... hey, let's sing a stupid song about it! 
Speaking ofwhich-this film also tries to be a musical, for some odd reason, and the . result will linger in your ears like the smell of that limburger loaf you never finished from registration week that you just found behind the couch yesterday does in your nose. OK, bad analogy. But suffice it to say the songs are rancid. Stupid. In short, "Pure Magic!" says the blah-blah-blah Herald. 
At any rate, the great idea at work here is that Halloween Town and Christmas Town come into contact, and the Halloween folks try to make their own version of the ho-ho­holiday (sounds like a Radio Shack com­mercial, I know). This has some very funny results, which almost make the film worth­
while for everyone. Among these were the scenes in which Jack takes over for Santa Claus and delivers.the warp;ed creations of Halloween Town to the kids all over the world. However, the general feeling I had is that a lot more could have been done with this idea. It seems that a good deal ofscenes ·may have been left out in order to market the film as a kid's show, with a short enough· 
running time to hold their attention. 

Did I mention the songs? They're rotten. 
Metamusil-ic. "Sewage!" cries the Daily 
Cesspool. 

Burton also has a knack for creating irrev­
erent and often extremely humorous charac­
ters, (i.e., Beetlejuice) of which-there are a 
good number in this film. The Boogey Kids, 
three snotty little runts who watch over the 
Boogey Man's house, are especially funny 
here. The Man himself is pretty funny, too, 
until he's forced to sing a few songs straight 
out of "Aladdin'"s trash cari. 

If nothing else, the visual style ensures 
that no one will be walk away from the 
theater with a wasted experience. If you 
don't mind its predictabie plot and songs 
lifted out of hell's Top 40,you might really 
like it. And if you can do that -hey, who 
knows? You might even be scared. 0 




ENTERTAINMENT 

'Twas a month before C ough the malls Children were crying ·ng the halls. My friends w · end, Had just settled n for a long Th · g weekend. 
The parking Io " ere filled, with exhaust an As I ste, "ed off the bus with many hours Crawfordtealendars were hung at Waldenbooks 
··fe'little boys gawked and drooled with eac tor music advanced through the I could say was why, why, 
reed to witness this commerci of glitter, of lonely people with no to Kaybee toystore to see if at long Ia 

They. the Milennium Falcon of my Christmas' ·t all I could find were dinosaurs and squirt guns d stuffed Whoopi Goldberg's dressed up as nuns. 
In Osco I found candy, lights, and fake poinsettias, But it lacked the spirit and the joy that used to uplift us. 
o I thought of my friend Charlie Brown who always would pout, yone who knows what Christmas is ked an old man with a pipe if he knew, he just tried to sell me a bag of fresh chew. went to the card store and looked all around, t even with Hallmark the meaning wasn't found. I went to Fanfair and saw Starter jackets, And old men waving around Prince tennis rackets. I had a Peppermint milkshake in spite of myself, And I almost puked, right there on the shelf. So I ran over to Santa, to sit on his lap, But the wise little elf said I would give him the clap. 
Besides, Santa wore Nikes and a two-bit smile, And with little kids he would connive and beguile. 
o my advice to you this season is to avoid all the m 
And even the Bookstore, where for gifts a darner calls nstead write cards, make wreaths, go to Whoville and sin Songs by the great ones, like Sinatra, King Cole and Bing. Snuggle by a fire and watch "It's A Wonderful Life," For it is only on thrice, due to networking strife. Hang lights and trees and mistletoe in your dorm, For it is our hearts and smiles that need the reform. I know the following doesn't fit with my rhyme, 
But it is . m1 ge,that.stan,&,them...,.~~·&t:e~:~~~~~~~ 
"Glory t~\God in the Jflghest! Ancitm Earth Pel'e
·1 fl@ 
Good • I Towards fan." dfike2:14 


ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News ofthe Bizarrefrom the Nation's Universities 
Long Live the _Salamanders 
University of Stanford students are uncertain whether to rejoice or regret the recent re-emer:gence of the California tiger salamander. Four hundred of the six­inch black salamanders, once thought to be extinct, now call Stanford's Lake Lagunita home. Because of the likely passage of a petition to the state, urging that the salamander fall under the Endangered Species Act protection, Stanford has been forced to consider the salamanders' welfare when making university deci­sions. In light of this consideq1tion, Stanford cancelled its annual Big Game Bonfire earlierin October. This event, hailed as an important campus tradition, was cancelled to protect the salamanders in the area. 
As if this was not good enough news for the amphibians, volunteers from the ·Stanford Center for Conservation Biology are organizing an escort service to move 
the salamanders across a busy thoroughfare during the heavy winter rains. The . volunteers, who mustremain constantly on call and ready to cion their rain gear at · the first advent of showers, plan to setup two-foot high dnft fences to block the 
salamanders from crossing th~ road. The salamanders will be funnelled to a point _at the end of the fence where volunteers will put them in buckets and escort them · across the road. Just when things couldn't get any better for the salamanders, members of the 
California Tiger Salamander Research and Rescue Project are proposing to ·adorn ·. the Stanford crest with the black and yellow colors of the tiger salamander. The . program's. assistant director, graduate student °Jamie_ Reaser, feels that the • "Stanford Blazing Salamanders" would be a perfect choice for a school mascot. "The tiger salamander can choke down a banana slug (UC-Santa Cruz's mascot) .in no time flat-and can you imagine a slogan like 'Slime Cal?"' Jamie, to bequite . honest, I can't But, in all fairness, it would prnbably be easier to rally behind even 
a salamander than to· rally behind Stanford's present mascot. 

Did I Say You Could Do That? 
Antioch College's Sexual Offense Policy, initiated by students last year, has gained nationwide attention. The policy, dubbed "checklist love," states that no verbal permission means no deal. According to the policy, students must get the verbal consent of the other individual involved whenever sexual contact is not "_mutually and simultaneously initiated." Furthermore, consent must be specific to each act Surprisingly, most Antioch students agree with the policy and see it as a preventative measure designed to avert problems of sexual assault It certainly doesn't sound very romantic, though,does it? 


Welcome, Freshmen 
While new freshmen around the countfy were struggling to adjust io college life, University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill first-year students were having a particularly rough time. Pranksters fabri­cated phony campus maps and displayed them in prominent locations around campus. The maps ex­actly resembled official university maps except that the labels of each building had been switched. Can you imagine the havoc that would have been created had 2,000 freshmen flooded the administration build­ing on the first day of class looking for DeBartolo classrooms? 
--edited by Jenny Tate 

WEEK IN DISTORTION 

The Great American Rural Survey 
by Caroline Smith 

Christmastime is rapidly approaching, and in just three more weeks winter break will mercifully be here. Arrival and departure to an~ from South Bend almost always leads to some distinctions between here and various hometowns. This survey is scientifically designed to find out how rural your town is. 
1. Your town votes for candidates for public office on the basis 
~ 
.  
a. their party affiliation  c. previous accomplishments  
b. their platform  d. how many teeth they have  
2. Your high school fight song:  

a. 
heralds your winning ability c. hails your school colors 

b. 
speaks of your school history d. praises the virtue of -livestock 


3. The finest restaurant in your town: 
a. 
requires dressy attire 

b. 
is very expensive 


4. Your mother: 
a. 
works 

b. 
is highly active in social concerns 


5. Your newest home appliance is: 
a. 
a fax machine-· 

b. 
a CD player 


c. 
requires reservations 

d. 
contains the word "eat" somewhere in the name 

c. 
is a chronic baker 

d. 
packs a shotgun 

c. 
a home computer 

d. 
the Flow-bee hair system 


6. The first thing you look for in a possible mate: 
a. 
physical appeal.. c. personality 

b. 
sense of humor d. number of tattoos 


7. Major status symbols in your town are: 
a. 
size of house 

b. 
kind of car 


8. Employees in your town operate: 
a. 
extremely fast 

b. 
with reasonable speed 


9. Your clothes are: 
a. 
dressy 

b. 
casual 


c.· size of pick-up truck 
d. 
number of appliances on your back porch 

c. 
slower than the DMV 

d. 
"Whaaaaaat?" 

c. 
presentable 

d. 
muddy 



10. You consider naming your children after: 
a. 
family members c. famous country 

b. 
saints western stars (e.g .. Willie, . Wynona, etc .... ) 


d. subtle variations on canned vegetables ( e.g .. 
B~~ 
11. Your taste in music: 
a. 
modem rock c. bluegrass 

b. 
dance music d. Pete's Polka Band and his Magic Kazoo 


12. As a child you were called in for dinner: 
a. 
by someone screaming your name 

b. 
by a younger sibling 


13. Your father refers to you mother: 
a. 
by her given name 

b. 
by an affectionate nickname 


14. Your family car is: 
a. 
a station wagon 


c. 
by loud burping noises 

d. 
by flying beer cans 

c. 
as woman 

d. 
as mom 

c. 
a pick-up 



b. 
a mini-van d. abandoned 

15. Your Thanksgiving dinner consists of: 
a. 
the traditional turkey· 

b. 
an ethnic dish 



16. To you com is: 

a. a yellow vegetable 
b: edible 

17. Your favorite movie: 
a. 
a John Hughes .film 

b. 
a Disney movie 


c. 
a pseudo-turkey legume substitute 


d. 
a couple of s~-packs and some.beer nuts 


c. extremely versatile ·· d. "Just too damn cute!!!" 
· c. Children ofthe Corn· 
d. Deliverance 

18. On family vacations-you general_ly go to: 
a. 
Europe 

b. 
a ski resort 



19. Every~y you thank the Lord: 
a. 
for your good health 

b. 
for your famiiy/friends 


c, some beach· 
d. 
Graceland 

c. 
that your state does not change fordaylight savings time 


d, that Elvis is still alive 


Majority of answers A or B 
Bethankful you live near a major metropolis. Let South Bend be a lesson to you, stay where you_ are!! 

Majority of answers C 
Be careful, you may be slowly slipping into Elvis worship. 

Majority of answers D 
You scare me. Try to return to society gradually. Moves to a large city are inadvisable, the culture shock may be fatal. D . 
SPY DISPATCH 


No Velma, No Peace A PY Investigation 
Vitamins: FLINTSTONES Manufacturer: Miles Inc. Characters: Fred, Wilma, Barney, Dino, Pebbles, Bamm Bamm, the Flintmobile Missing: Betty Why? Spokesperson Greg Decker: "You can tell the difference between Fred and Barney, and between Pebbles and Bamm Bamm, but you can't with Wilma and Betty. That's why they put the car in there. Children like different shapes." Who made the decision? Unknown. But Decker notes that since the shapes since the 1969 launch, "Betty may well have been part of the family at one point." 
Number of letters received annually 
about missing character(s): As many as 10. 
Vitamins: BUGS BUNNY 
·..· Manufacturer: Miles Inc. Characters: Bugs, Yosemite Sam, Daffy Duck, Elmer Fudd, Porky Petunia Missing: Tasmanian Devil, among others Why? Asked why Porky's obscure girlfriend was included, Decker says he isn't sure but "they do tests with these things." Again, it's the various shapes." Michael Peikof, vice president of public­ity, Warner Bros. Consumer Products: "Miles has made the determination. We bow to their experience in the vitamin business." But why Petunia? "She's a great counter­part to Porky." Not just because she's a girl? "That's speculation. She's a great counterpart to Porky." Who made the decision? Miles market­ers, after focus groups were conducted before the 1971 launch. 
Number of letters received annually about missing character(s): One or two. 

Vitamins: GARFIELD Manufacturer: Menley & James Labora­tories Characters: Garfield, Odie, Pooky Missing: Jon the Human Why? Tina Ellis, Garfield licensing director at United Media:_ "Jon is sort of an ancillary character who hasn't broken into the product line. To be perfectly honest, I can't see some kid who takes vitamins saying, 'Give me a Jon today.' It's not quite as exciting to eat a Jon as to eat a Pooky." Menley & James spokesperson: "We have no coinment." Who made the decision? Ellie says Garfield creator Jim Davis and representa­tives from United Media and M&J held a number of meetings to design the product. "We decided Jon wasn't the strongest character we could use." 
Number of letters received annually 

about missing character(s): "We don't ·expect any." 
-Chip Rowe 

Cause Celebs 
And then I go and spoil it all by saying something stupid like: 
HARRY HAMLIN: One of the issues that I am currently LOUIS GOSSETT JR.: Half of the middle class is unemployed involved with is the Greenpeace issue, to save the world. and homeless. It's touching more people than we think, and ifwe WOODY HARRELSON, whose hi.t-manfather has been don't stop, everybody's gonna be homeless or somethin-less. spuriously connected to the Kennedy assassination (accompanied TOM CRUISE, before receiving his Mercedes gift: The thing is, by guitar): And we're drinking bottled water/We'll soon be not many people are going to be able to drive race cars ... [Look drinking bottled air/ And the Amazon is burning, we send money at] the things you can do to make a difference as opposed to 'cause we.care/ And we march toward self-destruction/ Like saying, "Look at Tom Cruise." lemmings toward the sea/ And the wa:s machine is growing to RICHARD DREYFUSS, who admitted having a cocaine preserve democracy. problem during the early eighties: I feel [the war on drugs] is an STING,father offive: We have too many people; we have to use insincere, unfocused, misdirected waste of time. Give people birth control. training and employment. Give people something to live for. RAQUEL WELCH on Larry King Live, talking about going to Drugs become central to people who have nothing. a pro-choice rally: I was asked to come ·10 Chicago because WOODY HARRELSON (encore): Hey you, in love with your Chicago is one of our 52 states, and the mandate we've now been nation/ Hey you, patJ:iotic generation/ Hey you, clinging to your given on the pro-choice issue is that we have to pick up the . Red, White and Blue7 Hey you, we've got a lot of thinking to do. 
-_pieces ... In 52 states across the nation, we have to bail water out 
-Carol Vinzant
of the boat 
Grist For The Mill 

T/?ll=D IT 'r'E..T•••
HEY, DUNCAN, 
"RE.MEMBER. HEAR.ING 
wru, CHECI'.: THIS:

AML>T n-lAT '':x:JCUr 
TH8D A Go'/

ME.TH OD'' TH 1/J 6 ~ 

.Q>JNG FO~ lNAVn-1~12£!) IJSE Of THE. ,lJAf.\E.
YEAH 
.SOC:11:.ATE.5 ~I) ".soc.unc.. ME.lW)t)" 
\ 

:,o IF Yoo RE.ALLy AA.E. ~TES, WI-\~ 1-llt\JE. \'Clo BEEN ML-TI-ILS n/v\E. Z 
IT5 Ul:E. TH!S ••• 
' 

v 
Rick Grey 

TH INt'.. HE'..s GOT rt C.16£., 
a= CDobE. 1'M soc:r..ATE>I 
.JEFF'<'. 

'-
WH~ WOUL!:> I UE. A-"BOO-r .50METHIJJ6 Ut::E. THAT 'Z 
~ 





-~~ 

the Shear Madness trip.
Sunday, December 5 -buses leave at 1 pm 
trip includes 

~ 
!0 --bus ride to and from Chicago
z ~ <( :2
{~ ~ H --ticket to the show 

STUDE~T UNION BOARD 

§ :j. z 
--dinner at-the Blackstone Hotel crazy stuff and more! tickets S30 at Lafortune Box Office. 





