

SCHOL_ASTIC 
The Twenty-First of September 2006 
_Ilews.__ o4 _ 
.....................'. ...... 9 ON YOUR HONOR Eric Gomez Scbolnstic investigates if recent changes made to clarify the honor code have effected academic honesty. 
-COVER: A WORKER'S WORTH Doug Schlarman As a bastion of Catholic leadership, do Notre Dame's wage policies correspond with its identity? 
Culture 19 
!··'··'···········-ND UNPLUGGED Molly Slavin, Meghan Garvey andJen Wulf Scholastic highlights some of the most successful acts AcoustiCafe has produced. 
CAMPUS CHATTER Mike Laskey and Claire Sobczak Need a friend who likes surveys? What about one that walks tight rope? Look no further. 
SpQrts___2~L __ . _________ _ 
\.. '. ............ _ FRIENDS IN HIGH PLACES Christy Laufer Charlie Weis' work ethic and NFL connections have made ND a hotbed for future pro talent. 
Humor__ 29.~--------------------·-·-----­
THE4-1-10N 0L' 5-0 
Mike Healy The King of All Things Funny attempts to resolve the student-cop quandary. 
From the. Editor . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Letters From Abroad . . . . . . . . 19 Staff Editoridl . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Sports Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 News Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Gipper ................30 Snapshot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 6 Five Questions ...........32 
l 
• ~ 
8, No. 3 • 21 SEPT 2006 

SCHOLASTIC 
Editors In Chief Christopher Meskill 
David Poell 
Managing Editor 
Doug Schlarman 
Executive Editor 
Miko Laskey 
Associate Editor Claire Sobczak 
Exocutlvo Copy Editor Regina Gesicki 
Executive Copy Assistant Kate Dresser 
Executive Design Editors 
Julio Ruffin 
Jana Stewart 
Nows Daric Snyder, editor 
Kato Furlong, assistant 
Culture 
Michael O'Connor, editor Sarah Barrott, assistant 
Sports 
Megan Teigen, editor Brittany Lash, assistant 
Humor 
Mike Healy, editor Joo Latta!, assistant 
Design Emma Daugherty, assistant 
BelhAnn Viscoglia, ass·1slant Carolin Hubscher Jane Lee Katie K Napleton Chris Sebastian Ellen Voglrledor 
Photography 
Kristin Kave, editor 
Juan Muldoon, assistant 
Courtney Sullivan 
Copy 
Jossica Farmwald 
Business 
Bryan Lowery, manager Jemini Patel, assistant 
Distribution 
Bryan Lowery, manager 
Online Michael King, webmaster 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 

COVER STORY 
DOUG SCHLARMAN 
COVER DESIGN 
JULIE RUFFIN 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtmts Vive Quasi Crns M01·itunis 
Publishod biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed al Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. Really, guys, titties were floppin. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Cyborgs at Stanford. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for un·so­licited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in tho next issue;'1etters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. Doug wants to bear Healy's love child. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number, All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. ls Wayne Brady gonna hafta choke ab°"*? Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copyj please specify volume and n_umber, or date. You know when they feel like bags...of sand. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advortising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of 
Notre Dame or the student body. 
21 SEPT 2006 




Friends and Brothers ln Holy· Cross 

Since 1842 and ·growing into the future. 

ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 



Fleeting Hope 
The Notre Dame Forum was inspirational, 
but without follow-up, will quickly fade. 
Last Thursday's 2nd annual Notre Dame Forum, which focused on the global health crisis, was an impressive event. Jeffrey Sachs, the closest thing the world of economics has to a rock 
star, spoke inspiringly about how the United Nations' Millennium Development Project is working to combat poverty in the poorest areas of the world. Dr. Paul Farmer's slideshow, which depicted how his organization has been able to help the sick in Haiti and Africa, drew well-deserved rounds of applause from the impressively large Joyce Center audience. As a female doctor determined to make her native Uganda a better place to live, Dr. Miriam Opwonya provided a unique perspective. But despite the admirable topic examined in the forum, two big questions remain when taking a look at one of the newest Notre Dame traditions. 
First, why wasn't the forum any different than it would have been at a secular school? While Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., mentioned Notre Dame's Catholic character quickly at the beginning of the event and Farmer cursorily mentioned his own Catholicism almost jokingly, the connection between faith and working for social justice was nowhere to be found during the forum. The fault here lies not in the panelists; they spoke eloquently about what they know. Perhaps the university could have encouraged its student and alumni partici­pants in the forum to discuss how their faith drove their work for justice, or maybe invited someone like Professor Todd Whitmore 
-a theology professor and an expert in Catholic Social Teaching who has recently worked in Uganda -to participate in the event. 
The second big question about the forum concerns its impact. Where do we go from here? At the end of the forum, Jenkins asked students to return to their daily lives and reflect on what they learned, but is that enough? Will students work harder to effect change, as the forum's title urged? Has the discussion moved from the imposing stage of the Joyce Center to the classroom and the residence hall? Without rigorous follow-up, the forum would become just a glitzy, superficial two hours. Hopefully, the forum was effective at planting some seeds. But only two days later, the Michigan game happened, and global health quickly and quietly slipped in to the backseat. 0 
21 SEPT 2006 
Congressional Crunch ~Time 
South Bend braces itself for one of the 
nation's closest political races 
oJulie Putnam
Polls for the upcoming election for Indiana's 2nd Congressional 
District predict a heated race for Republican incumbent Chris 
Chocola and Democratic challenger Joe Donnelly. 
Recently, two-term congressman Chocola's popularity has waned, 
according to a Majority Watch poll released last week. The poll gives 
Donnelly a 12 percent lead over Chocola, with a 3 percent margin of 
error. But with over a month left before the November 7th election, 
the race is expected to be one of the closest in the nation. 
This is not the first time Chocola and Donnelly have met in a 
Congressional face-off. In 2004, Chocola held a one-term incum­
bent advantage and soundly defeated Donnelly by a 54 percent to 
45 percent margin. But two years later, the Republican stronghold 
on the district has become more vulnerable. 
· Chocola's drop in support seems partly stimulated by receding 
presidential approval ratings and unpopular political choices by 
the state's Republican governor, Mitch Daniels. However, Chocola 
has a lead in finances -his funds played a role in his 2004 victory, 
outspending Donnelly in campaigning by a 2 to 1margin. This ad­
vantage remains this year, with Chocola's campaign funds totaling 
$1.5 million relative to Donnelly's $435,000 as ofJune. 
So far, both campaigns have been fought viciously. For months, negative ads from both camps have flooded the local media. The 2nd District is a key race in the Democratic Party's "Red to Blue" Campaign in their efforts to regain control of the House of Represen­tatives, which has had a Republican majority since 1995. Democrats need a 15-seat gain in order to reestablish a majority in the House and overcome the current Republican 2 9-seat advantage (231 to 202). The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee pledged help for the Donnelly campaign this summer, aware of South Bend's po­tential to swing to the left in light of recent dwindling Republican ratings. 
Various non-partisan election analysis organizations such as The 
Cook Political Report have researched and published their opinions ofpotential swing elections, including Indiana's 2nd District. It has categorized 75 seats (currently 55 Republican and 20 Democratic) as "potentially in-play" for a change in party representation and only 19 seats (all currently held by Republicans) as "Toss Up" -with the 
Chocola-Donnelly race topping the list. 
In light of these recent polls and declining presidential support, 
the South Bend district seems to be up for grabs by the Democrats 
striving to turn red into blue. 
Notre Dame students i:;an play a role in the upcoming election 
not only by voting but by becoming directly involved with either 
campaign. Both College Democrats and College Republicans are 
lending a hand towards each campaign, canvassing door to door and 
making phone calls. Notre Dame students can also register to vote 
locally until the first week ofOctober. Registration can be completed 
online at http://www.in.gov/sos/elections/vote_reg.html. 
21 SEPT2006 
0 
Eric Gomez 
Despite various changes that hav.e occurred in American higher education during the past few 
decades, one element has remained con­stant for all students: pressure. In the cutthroat world of college where grades, test scores and resumes can define a student's prospects ofsuccess, it is some­times impossible for students to ignore the temptation to use any means possible to edge out their peers. 
According to a recent assessment proj­ect conducted by the Center for Academic Integrity (CAI) released in June 2005 in which almost 50,000 undergraduates from over 60 institutions took part in a nationwide survey, on most campuses 70 percent ofstudents admit to some form of cheating. A summary of this assessment also reported that "close to one quarter ofthe participating students admitted to serious test cheating in the past year; half admitted to one or more instances ofseri­ous cheating on written assignments." 
As a top-tier university with some ofthe nation's most competitive students, Notre Dame has not been immune from this trend of cheating. In response, the uni­versity has directed considerable efforts to combat the problem. And although these efforts have been generally well received by educators and those concerned with academic integrity, the effectiveness of the approach still remains to be seen. 
~~ 
• ~lti '\ 
00 6


~ ~-' f/•••••• 
Improving the System 
Two years ago, the University Code 
of Honor Committee -an oversight 
group composed of six faculty members 
and six undergraduate students -made 
several revisions to Notre Dame's Aca­
demic Code of Honor. Though most of 
the changes were minor, having to do 
with rewording certain passages to avoid 
misinterpretation and confusion, one 
significant alteration was implemented 
that changed the way in which the uni­
versity handles honor code violations. 
Prior to two years ago, all honor code 
violations were referred to a departmen­
tal committee composed ofstudents and 
faculty members. The committee system 
received criticism, however, because it 
required a significant amount ofunneces­
sary time and paperwork, as the majority 
of honor code violations involve little or 
no disagreement between student and 
professor. 
The honor code was updated to pro­vide an alternative means of addressing violations that could avoid burdensome department committee meetings. "We felt that it would be beneficial ifthere was a system for agreement between student and faculty," explains philosophy Profes­sor Thomas Flint, a University Code of Honor faculty officer and representative. "There was a lot of resistance from faculty and students with the committee meet­
ings, and we responded to it." 
Professors who deal with an honesty violation can now simplyfill out an Honor Code Violation Report (HCVR) describ­ing the incident and the agreed-upon punishment between professor and stu­dent. The reports require the signatures of the student and professor involved, as well as that ofan associate provost who re­views all violation reports. These reports have quickly become how the overwhelm­ing majority ofhonor code violations are handled. Out of 58 violations recorded during the 2005-2006 academic year, 26 occurred in the spring semester; out of these 26 violations, all but two were .settled via HCVRs. 
Streamlining the process of violation 
reporting is not the only goal the Uni­vei;sity Code ofHonor Committee seeks to achieve. The committee members rec­ognize how damaging such violations can be to a student's career, and it has made efforts to curtail the violations them­selves. It is generally recognized that the bestdeterrent to violations is familiarity with the code itself. Most students are not cheaters, and simple ignorance accounts for a sizeable number ofviolations every year. It used to be that first~year students receiv:ed the complete Academic Code of Honor handbook in the mail. Yet as changes were added and the document grew, the committee began supplant­ing the full version with a shortened "student's guide" pamphlet in the summer 
21 SEPT 2006 
•i • • I • ~ • • ' -,/ ' • • 
1 -• • • • .., r • , , I , , • • . • 
of 2005. When the committee learned that most people still weren't reading the pamphlet, they decided to take a different approach. "We wanted to do something that would actually require students to become familiar with the academic honor . code," Flint explains. "We decided that an online tutorial would take the pamphlet 
a step further." 
Reactions to the Tutorial 
Incoming freshmen and transfer stu­
dents were the first group to face this 
online tutorial, which the university ad­
ministered this summer before the start 
of the students' first semester at Notre 
Dame. Each student was presented with 
eight scenarios randomly selected from 
a bank of 33 that tested their knowledge 
of the honor code. Though the names 
and specific details were always changed, 
almost all of the ·scenarios came from 
actual honor code cases. The content of 
the scenarios was taken from four cat­
egories covering different types ofhonor 
code violations, including test-taking, 
falsifying data, collaborative work and 
plagiarism in essay writing. Students re­
sponded to the questions posed after each 
scenario by selecting from four possible 
answer choices. In order to pass, students 
had to respond correctly to at least six out 
of eight scenarios. Though the odds of 
passing without reading the student guide 
were notvery good, 85 percent of students 
passed on their first attempt. 
For those students who didn't pass the 
first time, the online tutorial. prompted 
them to reread the student guide and 
wait 12 to 24 hours to try again. Once a 
student passed the tutorial, they were able 
to sign a document accepting the honor 
code as something they would personally 
follow as students ofthe university. Since 
agreeing to follow the Academic Code of Honor is a prerequisite to enrolling in the university, students were not allowed to attend classes until the tutorial was com­pleted. By the time move-in day arrived, only 10 students had yet to complete the tutorial. 
Student and faculty responses to the online tutorial has been generally posi­tive. "I thought it was a pretty good sys­tem because it was a way of making sure we had read [the honor code]," freshman Britton Snyder says. Christopher Clark, assistant director at the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, who was respon­sible for the tutorial's online design, was particularly pleased with the tutorial's execution. "I was very impressed as an educator with the way the questions were put together," Clark says. 
The WebCT-based tutorial has been so easy to use that other universities are asking about how to create their own. Professor Flint has been dealing with requests for the tutorial from across the country since it began this summer. His only concern is that the tutorial itself might lose its own academic integrity ifit is shared too openly. "In terms of sharing the whole thing, we will probably give other universities access to [the online tutorial] only if they sign an agreement that says they will limit access to it," Flint says, "so that it can't be found everywhere online." 

Still Work to be Done 
Despite such preventive measures, however, honor c;ode violations have been on the rise in the past four years. Forty-one students were found to have violated the honor code during the 2002­2003 academic year, and the number of violators has increased to 46, 54 and 58 in the three subsequent years. Flint thinks that this rise may be attributable Scho/asticNews (J) · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
to professors' increased familiarity with 
HCVRs, which is a more efficient and 
accessible means of reporting cheating 
violations. "Sometimes it takes people a· 
year or two to adjust to changes, so it may 
be that we'll see more of an increase this 
year, as faculty and students become more 
familiar and comfortable with HCVRs," 
he wrote in an email. 
Still, worries remain about how accu­rately such figures reflect the true nature ofNotre Dame's cheating problem. Two years ago Notre Dame participated in the aforementioned CAI survey, and the results were less than flattering. "The results showed clearly that Notre Dame, though slightly better than the average university, wasn't a lot better," Flint wrote in an email. He also noted that the university administration decided not to release the CAI's report's full findings to the public, against the recommendation of cei;tain members on the University Code of Honor Committee. Another disturbing finding ofthe CAI report was that out of almost 10,000 faculty mem­bers surveyed over the past three years, "44 percent of those who were aware of student cheating in their course in the last three years have never reported a student for cheating to the appropriate 
campus authority." 
Given the trends embedded in the CAI 
report and the possibility of apathetic 
faculty attitudes toward academic 'dishon­
esty, it seems that Notre Dame's honor 
code reforms -while a step in the right 
direction -are only a partial solution to 
a systemic issue that is unlikely to disap­
pear anytime soon. Flint agrees: "I think 
it's fair to say that we have far too much 
cheating occurring at Notre Dame and 
that only a small fraction of the cases of 
academic dishonesty that take place are 
being reported." 0 


DomerDollars 
~
I­






HUDDLEMart 
NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 
food~Qd.edu 

·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · fE,!Scho/asticCoverStory 
The History of CLAP 
Campus activist Kamaria Porter had been well known on campus before she even developed the idea to create a CLAP movement. Porter -who graduated in 2006 with a degree in history -was instrumental in influencing the university to cancel Taco Bell's sponsorship contract because of its unfair labor practices toward migrant workers. After this success, Porter's interest began to turn from farm workers to matters more pertinent to Notre Dame. "I felt odd campaigning for the rights of migrant 
· farm workers, when there were unfair labor practices occurring in the dorm in which I was living," Porter says. "I felt a change was necessary." 
Porter, along with Jackie Clark ('06) and current junior American studies major Joe Murphy, formed the idea for CLAP, which is cosponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life, the Progressive Student Alliance and the Higgins Labor Research Center. Together, these students began to caucus low-wage workers to assess their feelings regarding the administration and the treatment of employees at Notre Dame. Once they had gathered enough information from the employees, the newly formed organization wrote a proposal to university administrators asking for an increase in both wages and dialogue between Notre Dame and its employees. 
Unfortunately for the group, its efforts to raise the wages of workers have not been fruitful yet. On April 20, 2006, University Vice President John Affleck­Graves issued a statement defending Notre Dame's existing policies. He maintained that the workers' benefits and wages, which are abo;e average for entry-will be able to voice concerns through town-hall style meetings that will bring the Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., the university's president, face-to-face with workers to discuss important developments at Notre Dame. The university made these steps to address concerns CLAP brought forth about the university's treatment of its workers. But still, many Notre Dame students remain uninformed. 
"It's too easy for them to fire one of'us and have another person trained by the end of the week." -Dining Hall Worker 
level jobs in the South Bend area, rendered a living wage campaign unnecessary. Still, Affleck-Graves' refusal has not hindered CLAP's efforts. Affleck-Graves did not offer comment for this article. 
Recently, CLAP once again met with Affleck-Graves, with more success than last spring's meeting. Affleck-Graves has established a hotline to help workers express dissatisfaction with their job or give advice on ways thatworkingatNotre Dame could be improved. Also, workers How deep is the rift between the university and its workers? And will a living wage fix the problems that remain? 

Where Does Our Money Go? 
"Theyspent over $300,000 on renovat­ing this building for the summer. I really could've used $1,000 ofthat for my kids," one LaFortune worker says (all workers interviewed for this article will, by their requests, remain anonymous). "It hurts 

ScholasticCoverStory {j~) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
knowing that the building was perfectly fine the way it was last year." 
CLAP members and many university employees are in agreement that the university has not been spending its funds in a responsible manner. However, because CLAP is not privy to any of th~ university's financial records, it is impossible for the group to make strong recommendations on how Notre Dame should reallocate threatened if they talk to us." CLAP claims that this anxiety over punishment by Notre Dame officials has kept them from accurately gauging worker support for a living wage. 
"I can't have my bosses think I'm complaining," one dining hall worker says. "It's too easy for them to fire one of us and have another person trained by cannot make policy decisions, but it does canvass the staff and make recommendations to university officials about changes that would best help workers. 
But many feel that the SAC fails to provide an adequate channel for employees to express concerns. "[The workers] don't feel like they have a voice right now," Porter says. Murphy agrees: "One or two people represent 
its funds. the hundreds ofpeople that
"For Notre Dame, an increase in
"We understand that many work in a certain area. It's university donations are unlikely that most workers' 
wages would improve the quality
earmarked for the construction concerns will be of certain buildings, but addressed."
of the labor pool, lower turn-
projects like the new "I know that [the SAC] entranceway or the remodeling keeps our names
over and improve morale."
of LaFortune seem less confidential, but I'm not 
necessary than providing university employees with a living wage," Murphy says. 
Because of CLAP's difficulty in obtaining specific financial information, the group has placed an increased emphasis on the creation of a task force 
·that would make the administration accountable and have direct input on decisions over workers' salaries and spending relating to university employees. Porter and Murphy both agree that the task force should include university administrators, hourly wage campus employees, faculty experts on policy and Catholic Social Teaching, and student representatives. "It would be one person, one vote," Porter says. "A dining hall workeris justas importantas the university president." Employees would be brought face-to-face with administrators, reducing the distance between them. 
Until Notre Dame addresses this spending issue with its workers, some will remain dissatisfied with the way funds are budgeted. "What does the university value? Does itvalue the people who make it run or does it value its appearance to visitors?" one building services worker asks. 
Fear of Reprisal 
One main point of contention in CLAP's proposal has been the belief that 
sure how seriously they
-Teresa Ghilarducci 
the end of the week." 
The possibility of being fired is a very real fear for low-wage workers in the South Bend community. In 2005, South Bend's unemployment rate was 5.9 percent -nearly one percentage point higher than the national average. Because of the amount of South Bend residents Notre Dame employs, if they are fired from the university, there are few options left. 
Affleck-Graves responded to what CLAP termed the "Fear of Reprisal" in his April 20th statement. "The CLAP Living Wage Report's notion that Notre Dame employees feel disrespected, excluded or 'fear reprisal' ifthey speak up on their own behalf is deeply disturbing," Affleck-Graves said. "We · already have several take our concerns [ ... ] I 
don't feel very well represented by it," one building services worker says. "If the administrators say that notl:ting is going to change, then nothing is going to change." 

Struggle to Unionize 
Although all employees have the right to unionize and bargain collectively under the National Labor Relations Act, none of the university's workers have chosen to bring a union to campus. CLAP and university administrators have differed in their attitudes regarding this; while CLAP feels it reflects workers' fear of administrative retaliation, university officials believe that the absence ofunions preserves an intimacy and family atmosphere between the university and 
channels in place through 
"Other jobs I've worked, in
which employees can bring complaints and 
restaurants or whatever,
concerns." One avenue for 
you'11 get a raise of a couple
registering complaints is the Staff Advisory 
of dollars after you've been
Council (SAC). Started in 1996, the SAC is a group 
there for a while. Here I got
of 30 workers elected to two-year terms who act 
a 15-cent raise after I was ~ 
as a liaison between ~ 
a:
workers are afraid to address concerns 
university employees and w >
with the university. While the group was administrators. SAC here for a year. It really doesn't 0 ucanvassing for workers' opinions in the (.)
members represent every 
early stages of writing their proposal, type ofcampus employee, measure up." 55 
<>: 
they met resistance from low-wage _J 
from building services to 
employees. "There's a certain fear aspect," Building Services Worker !
security workers. It 
Porter says. "They feel that they'll be 






-t11
21 SEPT 2006 11 ••••••••• (\~ ~,
Y~'1 ,·~ ~ 
:' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · (f_!Scho/asticCoverStory 
its employees. 
"Notre Dame has long recognized the right ofour employees to unionize ifthey wish, and has stated that, if they do vote to have a union, the university will bargain with it 'in good faith,"' Affleck­Graves said in his April 20th statement. 

"At the same time, there is nothing a union can accomplish for them that cannot be accomplished through an open and honest relationship such as has traditionally prevailed between the university and its employees." Instead of reporting directly to a governing body like the SAC, unionized university workers would have to report to union representatives who are outside the university. 
Although the university believes that unions would be a hindrance to employer­worker relations, some workers express interest in joining. "I'd like to be in. a union, but I feel like it'd be impossible," one dining hall worker says. "I certainly wouldn't want to be the one to organize it." 
Jennifer Warlick, director of the department of economics and policy studies, agrees that collective bargaining 
. is difficult at Notre Dame: "I must say 
· that I'm embarrassed by my university's opposition to unionized labor," she says. She believes it is likely that university officials would fire a group of workers rather than deal with the hassles of collective bargaining. "It would be economically more sensible to outsource," Warlick says. 
The Problem of Benefits 
Often, Notre Dame administrators have cited the university's benefits package as a main reason not to adopt a living wage policy. Currently, in addition to football ticket privileges, all employees at Notre Dame receive a generous health care package, dental, disability, a pension and free tuition for spouses and children who are accepted into the university. "In addition to their base wages, employees at Notre Dame also earn a host of 
~ additional benefits, all ofwhich add up to ~ a compensation package that makes ffi Notre Dame the employer of choice for ~ workers in this region," Affleck-Graves 8 said. ~ One dining hall worker takes issue with ~ this statement: "Benefits are great, but 
j~=-~°.n:putfoodon the ~hie," she says. 
.I~~ IJ 
"I'm conflicted about CLAP. I don't want to feel like a charity case for the students on campus." 
-Dining Hall Worker 

"My kids may end up going here for free, 
but that doesn't mean anything if I can't 
feed them in the meantime." 
Murphy says, "CLAP applauds the fact 
that the university provides benefits. The 
workers need these benefits, but the 
benefits don't make up for low wages." 
IRS law requires the university to offer 
these benefits. Ifhigh-power university 
employees like professors receive taxable 
benefits like health insurance, all 
employees must receive similar benefits. 
Because it would be difficult to recruit a 
high-quality teaching staff without the 
draw of health insurance and a pension, 
itisunlikelythatNotre Dame would take 
away benefits for its lower-wage 
employees. 

The Economic Argument 
Warlick believes that from a purely economic perspective, there are very few circumstances·in which CLAP's proposal for a living wage would be beneficial. The living wage proposal is drafted specifically for a family of four living on the poverty line. Ifa significant portion ofthe workers on campus don't fit that criterion, then the wage hike would be unnecessary. "It would not be target efficient," Warlick s;tys. "The university would be wasting money." 
According to Warlick, a living wage poli,cy could result in fewer jobs. "If the program is not targeted correctly, it will reduce the demand for labor because each employee will need to be paid more," she says. Ifthe university were unable to shift its funds around, it would need to fire workers. 
Complicating the matter is that university employees already feel understaffed. They fear that any drop in the number of employees could result in serious problems filling up shifts. "We don't have enough people, and they're still reducing the number of people working in this building," one building services 
21 SEPT 2006 
f worker says. "It only makes sense to me that if they pay each person more, some people are going to end up fired." 
"Who is going to benefit from this and who is going to be hurt?" Warlick asks. 
"These are the kind ofquestions that need to be asked before you can support ~a policy like this [ ... ] Ultimately, it becomes difficult to defend a living wage policy from a purely economic perspective." 
i\;~faiis)ire in Bl.if~~ to increase _ __ .. , };:i~T":i~11ic~tid11.~~~een er;nployees a_nd • I 

~~i#;wLc~ 
making a living wage an economically beneficial decision. Ghilarducci maintains that this raise in wages must be carefully calculated; too drastic of an increase could result in the firing ofworkers or an increase in tuition for students. 
Since Notre Dame employs such a large percentage of the South Bend community, Ghilarducci also thinks that CLAP's living wage proposal could have a 
"You have to ask, 'Is it fair that any em­ployee should work 40 hours and still not be able to feed his or her family?'" 
Teresa Ghilarducci, professor of economics, disagrees. She believes that raising the wage from its current point to an efficiency wage -the point at which wages are most cost-efficient and create the most productivity in workers -would actually be helpful to the university and the South Bend community at large. "For Notre Dame, an increase in wages would improve the quality of the labor pool, lower turnover and improve morale," she says. The higher productivity of the university's workforce would actually bring more money into the university, 
21 SEPT 2006 
-Jennifer Warlick 
renewing effect on the surrounding community. "I thinkitwould be beneficial to South Bend as a whole [ ... ] you might even see a decrease in crime if Notre Dame spent a little more money in the community," she says. Considering the recent crime directed toward students, this could have a beneficial effect on university-community relations. 
The Equity Argument 
CLAP has been criticized in the past for focusing· solely on Catholic Social Teaching in lieu of the policy arguments 
ScholasticCove~Story (j~) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
that are crucial to an economist. Editorial articles in The Observer have deemed the group "living wage martyrs" and equated their living wage proposal to "using a hammer to chop firewood." 
However, economic policy experts don't ignore the importance of a social argument for the living wage. "We can look at this from an equity perspective, and ask, 'Is it fair that any employee should work 40 

... Mostworkers said-they don't.fully feel integrated into the Notre D~mefamily. 

~~~70~~~~~;~~:::\}\ .~ 

..::5-il 
hours and still not be able to feed his or 
her children?"' Warlick says. "This has 
nothing to do with economics, but it is a 
matter of fairness." 
Ghilarducci believes that the issue of 
fairness in particular relates to the Catholic character of the university. Because Notre Dame has been strictly Catholic on issues relating to birth control and gay rights, she concludes that a consistent message ofCatholic character would include a living wage. "Are we sending out a mixed message?" she asks. 
The members of CLAP are convinced that Notre Dame's Catholicism should lead to a heightened concern for workers' ~ rights. "vVe can be exemplary," lVIurphy ~ says. "The workers fear that their c:: universityis becoming less ofa family and ~ more of a business. We can keep Notre 8 Dame from becoming a corporation." ~ According to CLAP's Living vVage ::i Report, an increased focus on social 30 justice within the South Bend community . . (/) 
13 ......... ,~,~~' 
• r,.
,· 

············· (il!ScholasticCoverStory 
would result in more credibility and a heightened effectiveness in other social justice projects. 
Porter agrees; she maintains that because "the documents of Catholic Social Teaching unequivocally demand a living wage," it is important that the university "use its power to effect change when it can." 
This has been central in the struggle between CLAP and the university. Although Notre Dame ranks slightly above average in its pay for workers ­especially considering the cost of living in South Bend-CLAP's members insist that the university is obligated, mainly due to its strong dedication to Catholic teaching, to become a model for social justice. 

A Renewed Effort 
This year, CLAP leadership plans to renew its push for workers' rights by placing an increased focus on empowering the workers to fight for themselves. They have taken efforts to include workers in meetings; have begun canvassing the workers weekly to hear their feelings on issues and to bond with them as family; and they have held events like a tailgate for the Notre Dame-Michigan football game to ensure that the employees have an enjoyable experience on campus. "This has become a personal challenge for all CLAP members, to get to know all the types ofpeople on campus, especially the people who make this university run, but remain underappreciated," Murphy says. However, Murphy is pleasantlysurprised by the amiable nature ofthe disagreement between the administrators and students up to this point. "We all want what's best for the workers, on both sides. We've just disagreed thus far on how to accomplish it," Murphy says. "Hopefully we can provide a solution that's best for the workers." 
The employees agree. One building services worker says, "I like it because of the students. The pay doesn't keep me coming back; the relationship I have with 
~ 
Notre Dame students makes me like my ~ job." 
c:: 
w 
>
0 
u 
(..) 
~ 
0 
I 
(..) 
(f) 



_They're c:1-efinitely closerJ9;:)1f} 

VM~: V()i©~ of t~e f~ghibiuig EW]Shi om ttlhJe a~tr dJW[ty, 1@ ~~1 :301 Mm · 

: h~:/~l~rr1dl~®du 

SCHOLASTIC




j':iapfot 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources 
in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
DUE TO OVERWHELMING DEMAND 
SENIOR PORTRAIT SESSIONS HAVE BEEN EXTENDED FOR ONE FINAL WEEK TILL 9/2211 l Sign up on the internet @ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in the 2007 full color DOME Yearbook 
Who: Class ot:2007 Students 
When: Pictures taken Now till -Sept. 22 ONLY! 
Where: La Fortune 108 
Why: To be in your 2007 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook 

ember to Sign Up To w.LaurenStudios. co (800) 888-5155 



Dear Friends and Colleagues, 
Since arriving in Chile in July, I have already travelled extensively throughout South America, made tons of Chilean friends, perfected three different types of Latin American dances and mastered the Spanish language (speaking with little or no accent). If you believed any of the aforementioned skills, look up your name in the dictionary under the word "gullible" because I have yet to accomplish one, but I am having the time of my life trying. 
Although I am still learning the ins and outs of Chilean culture, living in Santiago has been nothing short of amazing. The people are friendly, travelling is · easy, and the nightlife is always something to look forward to after a long day of not understanding anything that is being said. In the Santiago program, each student lives with a Chilean family-a living situation that, while challenging your Spanish skills, often presents uncomfortable situations and misunderstandings. For example, I once told Pedro, my Chilean friend, "I am so hungry; I could eat a horse." I was quick to realize that this common American saying could not be directly translated when I sat down to dinner and was served horse meat (it is similar in taste to extremely dry beef jerky). 
One ofthe most humbling experiences I have ever had has been attending a university-level course in Spanish. In my two years at Notre Dame, I have taken for granted simple things such as being able to participate in class and meeting with a professor. It was not until I came to Chile that I realized how debilitating an inefficiency in language could be. Maintaining a limited vocabulary can be extremely disconcerting as a student in a foreign country. While I have often become disheartened in the face of this obstacle, it is also extremely gratifying to have your language improve within the context of social interaction. 
When not struggling with the language, whether at home or at school, I have found that South America has everything an adventurous international student could ask for. The first trip we took was to the driest desert in the world, the Atacama. After bike-riding through the mountains, sand-boarding down 100-foot sand dunes and taking a dip in the steaming-hot El Tatio Geysers, we landed in the Valle de la Luna (Valley of the Moon). Closely resembling the surface of the moon, Valle de la Luna is easily the most beautiful place I have ever seen. The entire group climbed up an enormous sand dune and watched the sun cast its last rays of the day over the Andes Mountains; it was breathtaking. 
The surreal experience of nature in the Atacama Desert was a decidedly pleasant contrast to our second trip to the bustling city of Buenos Aires. As young Americans dying for a good meal, we were overjoyed to find that cattle are abundant in Argentina, making steak an affordable commodity. We ate like kings every night. Other Buenos Aires specialties include the local fairs, which sell leather arts and crafts at extremely low prices. With lots of money left over, we decided that watching a futbol game was a must. Once in the arena, we sat among 50,000 rowdy fans and left quite satisfied, having seen the team from Buenos Aires, RiverPlate, emerge victorious. I had always heard about the fanaticism involved in soccer in South America, but nothing prepared me for the drum-beating, banner-flying, singing and dancing fan section. Ohyeah, and the nightlife was fantastic! 
In the past two months, I have yet to read a Spanish article without looking up every other word, nor have I salsa danced without stepping on some toes, but what I have come to realize is that the world is too big to learn about in a classroom. One has to experience it first hand. Before I came to Santiago, I thought I had a pretty well-developed idea of what life outside Notre Dame waslike, but I could not h~ve been more mistaken. 
Dearly and sincerely, 
Nick Zarazua 
Nick Zarazua is ajunior in Carroll studying in Santiago, Chile, for the Fall 2006 senzeste1: 

w 
0:: 

21 SEPT2006 

-: ..:.-=~
...-~ 
~J~~~)~~'
... 
~ .t.::: ~ ­~,~~~~~­
~....-:.-<:~:::--~· 
l 
/ 

The "Underground" Music Scene at Notre Dame 
0 
Molly Slavin, Meaghan Garvey andJen. Wulf
For years, campus musicians have cut their teeth at AcoustiCafe, taking advantage ofthe chance to perform weekly in front of a live audience in the LaFortune 
Student Center basement. Here, we feature three acts that all have gotten their start at AcoustiCafe, benefiting from the opportunity to play in
w 
c:: 
:::) an intimate setting. Junior singer-songwriter Robbie Hazen !::i and the band Ebb & Flow used AcoustiCafe to get their start 
:::) 
u in today's campus music scene, while the popular jam band
u t5 Umphrey's McGee has made it big in the music world outside 
::i 
0 South Bend. 
I 
u 
Cf) 
Hazen is a veteran ofthe AcoustiCafe stage. Picking up where he left c;>ff in high school (when he recorded a demo CD that sold almost 400 copies), Hazen per­formed for the first time during his freshman year and began performing weekly a year later. · Now a junior, Hazen serves as the student director ofthe pro­gram. Thanks to Hazen, AcoustiCafe has been successful this year in both providing a greatshow and giving artists essential performance experience. "This·kind of thing allows an artist to open up as the main person on stage that everyone wants to see," Hazen says. Under his direction, artists now have longer sets, which Hazen says, "teaches the artist how to engage the audience as a musician." He adds, "The more an artistperforms live, the more he or she understands what it is to be a performer [...] Itallows the person to experimentwithnew material, cover songs, random bits and pieces ofwhatever they're working on [...] It just gives the person a better sense of himself or herself and.what it takes to capture an audience." . 
21.SEPT2006 

Scho/asticCulture (i£!i • · • • • • • • · • · • • · 
' 'CJ 
Though its name is new, you may be familiar with the campus band Ebb & Flow. Previously called the Harper Valley Drifters, the band placed second two times in the campus-wide Battle ofthe Bands -not bad for a group trat created its entry demo the night before the Battle's 
, due date in the spring of 2005. Juniors Chris Doolin and Will Wei_cher and seniorJames Weicher had played together occasionally at their Chicago high school but never actually formed a band. Along with junior Rob Mineo, however, they quickly recorded an acoustic Battle of the Bands submission, were accepted, came in second and the rest is history. 
Almost two years later, the band has changed their name twice -from Harper Valley Drifters to Blue Line this sum­mer (in honor of the Chicago train line of the same name) to Ebb & Flow -and gained two new members. Last year the band added sophomore bass player Chris Terschluse and senior drummer Chris Urban, both of whom had met Will Weicherthrough the school jazz band. They've since gained a local following, playing well-attended shows at Legends and Reeker's, placing second once again in Battle ofthe Bands and even performing at Chicago's Navy Pier. 
Attracting even more attention, though, were WillWeicher and Mineo's performances at AcoustiCafe as a side project, with what Weicher called a two-man "guitar-fiddle attack." The band's music became a mainstay on campus as the two performed regularly throughoutlast year. The duo developed a following withtheir renditions ofnovelties like "The Devil Went Down to Georgia" and their tongue-in-cheek acoustic version ofLilJon's "Get Low." 
Ebb & Flow began primarily as a cover band but has pro­gressed to writing and performing original songs. Its sound is best described as "modern jam rock, with elements of blues, classic rock and some funk." Doolin says, "We're not a full-fledged jam band, but we do jam a lot." So far this year, the band has gotten offto a productive start with a Legends show already under its belt and a Budweiser-sponsored show at K's Bar & Grill this Thursday at 9 p.m. They are hoping to record a d~mo album during fall break. 
21 SEPT2006 
Umphrey'sMcGee, led byBrendan Bayliss, a 1998 Notre Dame graduate, opened for the Dave Matthews Band this summer. Four ofthe band's six members are ND grads, and two ofthe members were raised in the Michiana area. The band is well established on the jam band scene and got its start at none other than Notre Dame's very own AcoustiCafe. When asked about how they started in South Bend, Joel Cummins (keyboard and vocals) explains, "South Bend is a family-oriented, middle-class town. When we were here, there was no live music club with a PA. We had to learn how to do our own show; once we did that, we could take it anywhere." Performing at AcoustiCafe taught them how to develop and present themselves onstage when the opportunities in South Bend itself were limited. Umphrey's McGee's emergence among jam bands has even led Rolling Stone to call the band an heir to Phish's throne. Its new album, "Safetyin Numbers," is its third release and has been hailed by critics as a major step forward for the band. It can be heard on its Web site, www.umphreys. com. Umphrey's McGee is currently touring nationwide, with September dates scheduled for Boulder and Denver, Colo.; Davenport, Iowa; and Buffalo, N.Y. 0 
I! ..........•·•• @Scho/asficCulture 
1i ~,­

CAMPUS RESEARCH DEPT. 
THE GRAND lNQ,UISITOR
Simon Joseph openly admits that when he patrols the Notre Dame campus once a week asking students to answer survey questions, he isn't working for any research organization and doesn't really have a purpose at all. "It's an excuse to meet people. I like people," Joseph told me last Friday during his most recent outing. "I wouldn't say I make friends, but I make acquaintances. I've had people come up to me and say, 'Oh, you're that weird survey guy."' On Friday, Joseph started in the La­Fortune Student Center but left quickly after a number of hurried students skirted past him. "The key is to find people who don't have somewhere to go," he said. Joseph isn't a big fan of LaFor­tune, anyway; he was once thrown out for "looking too. old" while conducting a w survey dressed in a full suit. (He apolo­!s gized for being more casual than usual 
; on Friday, as he was wearing a Knights of Columbus collared shirt tucked into -~ cargo pants with black sneakers and a ~ white Notre Dame cap.) ~ · After two failed attempts on Main 
Quad, Joseph confessed that rejection

CAMPUS CHATTe~ 
can be frustrating sometimes. "But if could ever use. After finishing up the 
one ;in 20 says hello, it's worth it," he political questions and finding out that 
said. An average day gets Joseph about the respondent believes the campus 
20 respondents, he said, whose answers chapter of the Knights of Columbus 
he records on official-looking printed scores about a three out offive in terms 
sheets attached to a clipboard. Friday's of accessibility, Joseph asked his new 
survey was broken into three categories: acquaintance what he thought about the 
politics, the Knights of Columbus and "Viewpoint wars" in the editorial section 
The Observer. The motivations behind ofThe Observer. "People have good stuff 
the first two categories were obvious to say, sometimes," he replied. Joseph 
enough-he's a political science major rolled his eyes and sighed. "Some­
and a self-described "big-time Knight" times." -but why the school paper? "Just be-After a few more successful attempts 
cause I'm pissed off at The Observe,;" he on the steps of South Dining Hall, Jo­
said. seph decided to head toward Reeker's. 
In the middle of South Quad, Joseph On the way, he saw a female student 
found his first enthusiastic volunteer, a walking in the same direction, about 30 
mohawked student with a bright pink t-. fee~_ahead. "You in the red t-shirt!" he 
shirt who welcomed Joseph's request as called. "Do you want to do a survey?" 
ifbeing stopped to complete a survey on She stopped and walked over, and Joseph 
the sidewalk between classes was some-began to ask her about the Knights of 
thing that happened all the time. Joseph Columbus, which she didn't know any­
started with the political questions and thing about. "I'm assuming you don't 
learned that his respondent's avant-garde know a member?" Joseph asked, and, 
appearance didn't quite match his rigidly embarrassed to disappoint her zealous 
conservative politics. · inquisitor, she sheepishly shook her 
When Joseph talks, it's like he's star-head. ":Well, now you do," Joseph said. 
ring in a play, with dramatic shifts in "Hi, how ya doin'?"· 
vocal pitch and equally excited hand -Mike Laskey 
motions. It's more of a dialogue than a 
dry survey, as he punctuates responses 
he likes with an encouraging "Good!" 
that no surveyor seeking objectivity· 
21 SEPT2006 

ScholasticCulture @ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
DEPT. OF ACROBATICS 
WALKING ON A THIN LINE 
s fwalked'out ofLaFortune fol­
lowing my alcohol assessment 
last Friday, the last thing on my 
mind was an encounter with NDSP. I ex­
ited the building and immediately heard 
my name being called· in the distance. It 
was the voice of Brynn Byrne, my spacey 
poet friend, and she was standing, sans 
shoes, under the tree in front of Nieuw­
land with a female on a motor vehicle and 
a man trying to climb up the tree. 
The other girl in the rag-tag team was 
named Karis, and she was parked on a 
university scooter due to some sort of 
leg injury. When asked about her year in 
school, she replied, "Somewhere between 
my second and third year I suppose. I 
came and then I left for two years and 
now I'm back, so I don't really know." She 
seemed to be playing the whole "graduate 
from college" thing by ear. Byrne's other 
crony, a neurotic Asian man who dubbed 
himself a compulsive liar, introduced 
himselfas James Irwin, a freshman from 
Keenan majoring in preprofessional stud­
ies. All three of them were downing Karis' 
greasy bag ofGrab-n-Go popcorn as they 
A 
-·. , · , . ' 
' . . 
{ . ' 
discussed a plan to perch themselves in the tree in question before the Michigan game to observe oblivious fans. But.their more immediate purpose for meeting was to find where would be best to set up for slacklining. 
Slackliners are those people who appear periodically on North or South Quads and walk a tight rope between two trees. Once Byrne and company consumed Karis' popcorn, they set out in the direc­tion of God Quad and soon located two acceptable trees. Compulsive Liar Man then pulled a long piece of braided red rope from his backpack, unraveled it and hurled his body, rope in hand, around the trees, preparing to slackline. 
As soon as Compulsive Liar Man jumped onto the rope and got into his slacklining groove, all the truths of his past came pouring out. Indeed, he was not James Irwin, freshman from Keenan; he was Chewey Liong, a 2005 Notre Dame graduate who felt the need to mask his true identity because he believed the uni­versity was conspiring to overthrow his slacklining revolution. Liong and a few of his friends brought slacklining to Notre Dame two years ago when they were seniors in Dillon. Despite his graduation 
. . . . . . . · · . . . . . -· ', 
, ~-. . ' . 
from the university, he wanted to make sure that the slacklining phenomenon did not end with him. Liong, whose balance was astounding, moved like the breeze across the tight rope. "Once you get the hang ofit, slacklining becomes addictive," Liong said. 
Like any other event at Notre Dame where there is fun to be had, NDSP was not far behind. Liong's alter ego could not protect him from the notice of a rather portly NDSP officer who felt compelled to call in backup for a "505 security situation on God Quad." Byrne was held hostage as she wobbled on the rope, while Liong tried to hide himself behind her looming figure. But Liong soon cracked under the officer's confrontational pres­sure and his plan to stick it to the Notre Dame Man fell apart. Perhaps the uni­versity really was conspiring against the antics ofChewey Liong. For now anyway, the futur~ of the Notre Dame slacklining movement remains in jeopardy. 
-Claire Sobczak 
. ·:...­ . . .  .  , •  · CTS .  
. . .  .  .  '  '  
.  .  - ...  

... ... 
w 
0: 
~· 
;.J i 
ar: 
u l! 
~ ti
~n 
..J 1: 
0 I:
Ii: 
u !I
U) ,I 
.. >l 
. l 

21 SEPT 2006 
23 ......... 
· ··· ·· ··· · ·· ·· @Scho/asticSports 

The NCAA Changed Its Rules ... But Should We Care? 
•Brittany Lash 
Texas Longhorns Head Coach Mack Brown says simply, "I hate it." Oregon Coach Mike Belotti is appalled. And Texas Tech's Mike Leach says his fans "are getting cheated." 
What's the problem here and is it an issue for the Irish? 
Last winter, the NCAA approved eight rule changes in college football. They ranged from the fairly insignificant (rules on shortening halftime) to the necessary (all Division-I schools now have the same instant replay rules in effect). The topic • that sparked the most debate, however, fell under the heading "When Clock Starts." 
On kickoffs, the game clock now starts when the ball is kicked, not when the • receiving team touches the ball. With a change of possession, the clock now starts when the ready signal is given by the referee. According to a release on the NCAA's Web site, both of these rules were introduced to "shorten the length of time it takes to play the game." 
Why would anyone want to shorten the glory that is college football? Rules Committee member and Auburn Head Coach Tommy Tuberville told USA Today,. 
"We weren't looking to take plays away from the game. vVe were looking to [ ... ] . get away from some ofthese three-hour, 45-minute games." Additionally, coaches . and NCAA officials cited television broadcasts as a reason for the changes, since long, four-hour games are more difficult to schedule. But who deserves more: the networks or the players, coaches and fans? 
This year's Ohio State-Texas game was markedly shorter than the 2005 matchup., "One of the great things about college football is a team's ability to come back,": Brown said. "Now that's limited. Our game was 22 minutes shorter. That's a little i 
under 10 percent of our game." : 
Does this really affect the Irish? Overall, teams averaged 12.6 fewer combined i plays this season after two games with the new rules, said Ty Halpin, NCAA ! associate director ofplaying rules administration. Some teams, like Colorado, lost over 45 minutes of game time and only ran 48 plays in one game. Notre Dame, however, averaged 75 plays per game in its first two games of the 2006 season (last year the average was also 75). Game times remained close as well. Last year's times ranged from 3:25-4:01, while this year's range from 3:17-3:28. So far atleast, Irish fans aren't being cheated by much. 
When asked about the rule changes at his August 6th press conference, Charlie Weis gave a succinct response: "Yeah, I looked at them. [My job] is not to judge. I just play whatever the rules are. [You] make sure you know what the rules are so you don't walk out and all of a sudden have the official say, they changed that rule and you don't know. I think that's one thing you have to make sure you prepare yourself for." 
Ultimately, what it comes down to is how the coach handles the situation. Weis has obviously made the adjustment well in terms of number of plays and game time -the changes seem barely perceptible stat-wise. Only time will tell if fans feel a difference. 
The new rules do run down the clock faster, but it is not a game-breaking
~ 
0 ll. difference. Adjustments will be made, comebacks will have to be tightly managed, (/) and like Weis, the coaches, players and fans will have to be prepared for what 
u comes their way.
~ 
0 
I 
{/) u The views expressed in this column are those of the au­


thor and not necessarily the views of Scholastic. 
......... 24 

No. 1 women's soccer notched its 43rd consecutive win with a 5-0 victory over DePaul on September 15th, adding to a program record. Freshman forward Mi­chele Weissenhofer scored twice, lifting the team to its seventh 7-0-0 start in the program's 19-year history. Weissenhofer also notched her ninth assist ofthe season to lead the nation in that category ... 
On September 15th, the No. 12 men's cross country team, led by junior Jake Watson, followed up a big victory the week before at Valparaiso with a win at the 27th annual National Catholic Championship held at the Notre Dame Golf Course. Watson placed second, finishing the five-mile course in 24:40. It 
was the program's 18th win in the event and second team title in two weeks. The women's team earned a tie for first with Marquette behind junior All-American Sunni Olding, who repeated her first ! 
.place finish from last year, runningthe-1 
5Kin'17:5l .;. 
ND alums Ruth Riley ('0l);Jacquelihe 
Batteast ('05) and coach Bill Laimbeer ' 
('79) helped the Detroit Shock win their 
second W~BA championship, defeat-: 
ing ~he Sacramento Monarchs 80-75 on, 
21 SEPT 2006 


September 9th ... 
Jimmy Clausen, the top highschool quar­terback recruit who verbally committed to Notre Dame in April, made his official campus visit last weekend with GregLittle, a top wide receiver recruit. Clausen, from Oaks Christian High School in California, is the number-one quarterback prospect 'nationally in numerous recruiting polls. Much press surrounded his commitment, butClausen has managed the hype, recently throwing for four touchdowns ina 60-6 win for Oaks Christian before being taken out 
in the second quarter ... 

'· 
, • ~ , ; ,: ·"" -'1,
EYES ON
·• , ,, © @ 0 
Joanna Schultz 
•Grant Schmidt 
Freshman track athlete Joanna Schultz begins her career at Notre Dame with high expectations. The 2006 Wisconsin Prep Track and Field Female Athlete of the Year, she became the first athlete of either sex to win four straight Wisconsin Division-I titles in the 200-and 400-meter. Her times, 24.94 and 55.97 seconds respectively, were the fastest in the nation this season, and Sports llfustrated's 
"Faces in the Crowd" recently featured her. Schultz hopes to play a vital role in Notre Dame's track and field success. · · 

What's it like running at Notre Dame, a ~chool so well-known for its athletics? i Who is your role model? 
It's actually a relief. There's no longer Mymom. Sh·e is a very strong woman and tnat.pressure to be number one. I have a raised meon her own. She was an amazing lotrnore of an opportunity here to grow; trackathlete., a hurdler. She always says ru~ning with such amazing athletes. : . to m,akei sure thatl am running track for 
m~• an·d that I enjby running because How <;foes your training here compare otherwise lt's not worth it. to high.school? .• It's a lot different because the season is.·· Youwere featured iri the "Faces in the so long, so hangir}g ;n and n~t burning Crowd" section of Sports Illustrated. out is my main goaH hopeto gradually Yeah! "Someon·e recommended me for get stronger and faster, It's different from Cit, and they put ih. a little blurb about my high school/where you getin sha·pe right .·. accomplishments. Afew weeks 
later, I got 
· -away. i ·. · • · · · · · letter in the mail from a kid If-tho saw me 
. 'fri~Issue.>and wa,nted my autograph. 
What made you want to run? _.·.• .. He ~aid .1 was. going to be. really: great I started running track in 7th grad·e'.:·~cfn~·'c1ay: . --­because I couldn't play softball. I was horrible. All of my friends were either running track or playing softball, so I decided to run. 


I. 
F__ d · Hier·
--·o ­

Charlie Weis is responsible for much of the recent draft attention • 
. r1en 
• qh~~-sty Laufer 
/ 
·W',.hen Jimmy Clausen, the ;/! numb~r-:one high school / recruit 1n the country, _,. announced his decision to play football 
for Charlie Weis and the University of Notre Dame, Irish fans across the nation realized the full implications of Weis' powerhouse NFL-style offense. 
Clausen admitted that choosing Notre Dame over the University of Southern Californiawas largely a business decision, saying, "Ifyou want to go to the NFL, you've got to want to work. You want to be the best you can be. And part of getting there is choosing Coach Weis." 
In the 2006 NFL Draft, the first since Weis became head coach, three Notre Dame players were drafted; tight end Anthony Fasano, wide receiver Maurice Stovall and offensive guard Dan Stevenson. 
The Dallas Cowboys chose Fasano in the second round with the 53rd overall pick. This came at the discretion of Dallas Head Coach Bill Parcells, who developed Weis as an offensive coordinator with the 
"Ifyou want to go to the NFL... part of getting there is choosing Charlie Weis." -Jimmy Clausen 
New York Giants, New YorkJets and New England Patriots. Fasano is receiving a base salary of$275,000 in his first year of a four-year contract he signed earlier this year. By 2009, that figure is set to increase to $530,000. Fasano had an excellent camp and has played in the Cowboys' first two games ofthe season. Though he did not record any receptions in Dallas' first game, Fasano had three receptions for 39 yards in the Cowboys' 27-10 victory over the Washington Redskins on September 17th. Fasano's quick hands and familiarity with Dallas' system, which is similar to Notre Dame's, should lead to more playing time in the future. 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers Head Coach 
......... 26 
s 1n ;!~~;; ·,: <ij)i~-­
~i"\. L~ f:).
_L,~ 
Jon Gruden made the next Irish draft pick. Gruden, who grew up in South Bend, selected Maurice Stovall 90th overall in the third round. Stovall particularly impressed his coaching staff in the preseason, :finishing with 63 total receiving yards and one touchdown. Though he did not record any playing time in the Buccaneers' first two games, Stovall has a promising career ahead of him. 
Bill Belicheck, who was Weis' head coach in New England during their three-time Super Bowl run, signed Dan Stevenson to the New England Patriots July 14th after drafting him in the sixth round, 203rd overall. Stevenson was Notre Dame's top offensive lineman last season and should fit in well with the Patriots' offense. He is currently a member of the practice squad. 
In addition to Fasano, Stovall and Stevenson, a number of Notre Dame alumni are making an impact in the NFL today: i,.-~ 
Julius Jones, running 
back, Dallas Cowboys: 
In his first three years in the NFL, Jones recorded 1,884 rushing yards and 13 touchdowns. As a sophomore at Notre Dame, he led the team in rushing attempts (162), rushing yards (657), rushing touchdowns (7) and all­purpose yards (1,169). As a junior, Jones led the Irish in rushing once again with 718 yards. In the first week ofNFL play this year,J ones 
aces 
was one of the league's leading running backs, rushing for 17 carries and a 23­yard touchdown. He also had a 39-yard reception. 
Luke Petitgout, offensive tackle, New York Giants: In 1999, the New York Giants drafted Notre Dame standout Petitgout in the first round. He immediately assumed a starting role on the team and moved to left tackle in 2002. After eight years in the NFL, Petitgout continues to dominate. He is often criticized for the number of penalties he accumulates, but this must not bother Giants General Manager Ernie Accorsi. Accorsi recently signed Petitgout to a six-year, $30 million contract, which places him among the top-IO highest paid offensive linemen in the league. 
21 SEPT2006 

ScholasticSports @ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 

David Givens, wide receiver, Tennessee Titans: Givens, who is five years into his NFL career, is known for his ability to tack on yardage after making catches. He has a total of 2,241 receiving yards and 12 touchdowns, as well as two Super Bowl championships with the New England Patriots. In 2006, as one of the top unrestricted agents in the NFL, Givens received an $8 million bonus to sign with the Titans. 
Jeff Faine, center, New Orleans Saints: The Cleveland· Browns drafted Faine in the first round of the 2003 NFL Draft with the 21st overall pick. He moved directly into their starting lineup after signing a five-year, $7.25 million contract. Former teammate Barry Stokes of the Browns _called the three-year Notre Dame starter "a rookie with an attitude." He is looking to prove himself after a recent trade to the. Saints. 
Hunter Sinith, punter, Indianapolis Colts: Smith made his 425th career punt in the opening game ofthe 2006 season. Averaging 43.4 yards a punt, Smith is a strong asset to the Colts' special teams, just as he was for Notre Dame eight years ago. 
Irish fans are now looking forward to the 2007 NFL Draft. Experts predict that a number of Notre Dame players will be drafted -potentially in the first round. Quarterback Brady Quinn has the size, talent and intelligence to impress scouts around the NFL. After breaking numerous single-game and single-season records for Notre Dame last year, including 33.completions in the 2005 Michigan State game and 292 completions 
21 SEPT 2006 


the best part of cable in the dorms is on NDtv channel 53 
www. nd.ed u / ~n d tv channel S3 


Scho/asticHumor I~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
' ,~­
,-,--,..,___ 
'---'---~ 
One Hundred and Twelve Years Ago 

~ List~ning In ... • • 
• 
' · ~ "This resume is amazing! It's not a lot of BS ... just a 
•
little BS." -Recruiter at the Career Fair 
., 
,
• 
• @ "What is this? Where can I find a keg on this cam-• 
• pus?" • L.------(1• . -Michigan student at football game 
• 
"I haven't worn underwear for two days. I just really 
•
don't want to do laundry right now." -overheard student in LaFortune 
"Will my roommate think I'm a slut just because I didn't • come home last night?" • • -overheard freshman • 
•
(I Student 1: "I really screwed up this weekend." • Student 2: "No. I mean, you _only hooked up • • with three guys." • 
The times, they are a changin' . 
It's easy to forget just how longstanding Notre Dame's football tradition is. The most recent rule changes in the game offootball·harken back to a time when ships 
:' were made out ofwood, men were made out of steel, and Joe Paterno roamed the Penn State sidelines: 
From the pages of the April 14, 1894 issue of ·Scholastic: 
"[I]n deference to the popular clamor and public sentiment that has been turned againstfootball became offlying wedges and momentum mass plays, the colleges have decided to wipe out the trick tactics and make the game more humane and more the sport ofgentlemen [. ..} {the new rules] put a premium on touchdowns with goals over goals from a field kick; but the players would prefer to have the rules in favor ofgoals from the field ... " 
Ah, momentum mass plays, the simple .mention of them is enough to make one yearn for those heady days when every sports team everywhere was named the Zephyrs. ­
-Mike Healy 



•.! · •· ·· · · · · · · · · · · ([~Scho/asticHumor ::1 
the . 
. gipper 
Welcome back for another helping of healthy behavior courtesy ofyours truly. It's been a busy stretch for the Gipp with the Career Fair, Academic Forum and Michigan game all a few days apart. The pre-gaming (and ritual sacrifices) for each of those events has worn out the old Gipper, but luckily there is still plenty of gossip abuzzin' in this edition, partly thanks to the ever-klassy South Bend local establishments and the joy juice that they provide. Our first report is tied to · last week's Career Fairwith a character who is probably not going to add his latest adventure to his resume. A business major was hoping to score a job with a major accounting firm this summer, and he had a tight connection, as his housemate's sister was a recruiter for a Big Four firm. She was staying in their house while she was in town for the fair. No, this story 
is not taking 
the turn you 
might· be 
expecting, 
since not every 
•·•······ 30 
story the Gipp tells ends with sunshine, a kiss and a Rod Stewart song. The future accountant headed out to Club Fever -a bastion of communicable diseases and incest survivors -and returned home with a little more than "value add" on his mind thanks to cheap drink specials. He felt extremely ill the next morning and remembered that his mother taught him 7-Up can settle the stomach. Unfortunately, the fridge only contained blue Fanta. He must have been thinking of those Fantanas because he drank the bottle and felt as if "knives were poking out of [his] stomach" an hour later. He felt something coming up, rushed across the apartment and violently painted the bathroom walls a color they weren't meant to be painted. The recruiter, and it turns out, future interviewer, tried to sleep through the candidate's guttural symphony in the bathroom. The Gipp thinks if this character maintains eye contact and remembers to shake the hand twice, he'll be running the firm someday. 

Our second story tonight again comes from the magical fantasy world known as "The Feve," a land of whirlwind romance, drink specials and poor decision making. One night, two lusty young patrons were dancing cheek-to-cheek, when our fair lady suddenly became queasy! Showing an amazing amount of foresight considering her level of intoxication, our little floozy forcefully shoved her Romeo away and proceeded to retch all over the floor between the two. Romeo, apparently not to be easily deterred, waited until she was finished and then drew her back to his gyrating hips for another round of the old twist-and-shout. The night must have ended happily for all, as the Gipp was told they were last seen enjoying a session .of saliva. exchange. In case you missed it, that's class right there. The Gipp bets it tasted good -kinda like blue Fanta. And that's all for this time, Gippies and Gippettes. Next time look for a story about one of the lesser known functions of the body, and tip the Gipp ... or else! 
21 SEPT 2006 


•Mike Healy 
fter the horrific loss on 
Saturday, I was down, but I 
at least had the good fortune to see my friend Andy get in a low-speed chase on his bicycle with an NDSP Segway. We gaped, captivated as Andy tried to elude his three-wheeled pursuer with a sharp left turn, gasping in shock when the two collided with a sickening 
A 
thud! 
Immediately thereafter, the officer yelled at Andy, then rolled over and yelled at all of us for laughing and then yelled at Andy for not yelling at us for laughing at him. Listening to this mechanically­mounted officer lecture us (she was actually pretty nice) while she towered 18 inches above our heads (with a slight forward lean) gave me that feeling of irony that hovers between laughing and screaming. It's the feeling I get when a woman at work tells me how much she values my friendship while calling me "Mark" instead of "Mike," or the sensation that struck me freshman year when a girl named Marcy was bragging about how street smart she was, even though she was under the impression my name was Chinedum Ndukwe. 
I've been getting this feeling a lot lately when I think about some of the policy priorities in the community around me. I got that feeling last week when a friend told me that South Bend Assistant City Attorney Carol Nash (accompanied by two policewomen) had just paid him a visit to explain that he and his roommate were on thin ice because ofa South Bend city ordinance that, should one's house get cited even once, compels the landlord to bring an eviction suit against you (I should know, I was evicted from my Turtle Creek apartment last fall before I had set foot inside it). 
Nash is an employee of the city of South Bend and is thus given power as a public servant with the hope that she can improve the lives of South Bend residents. On this day, Nash travelled through streets and sidewalks strewn with shards of glass and sch;ol parking lots littered 
21 SEPT 2006 
with used condoms to read the riot act to a couple of clueless 22-year-olds about playing their music too loud. Whether she walked or drove, ~ don't know. Maybe she took a Segway (they're faster than bikes!). 
Another time I get that ironic feeling is when I get a letter every year saying the university needs to increase tuition by seven percent, and I can't walk through campus without seeing an officer ride by on a Segway, four-wheeler ATV or any other of the motorized contraptions that comprise NDSP's version of Voltron. Princeton must have helicopters and cyborgs everywhere. I understand that NDSP needs money and revenue and all that, but maybe we could ease up a little bit, even ifit does mean shelving our plans for a new tank. 
Don't get me wrong. I don't mean to sound like I'm down on the South Bend Police, on NDSP or even on Nash for that matter. I think they're all trying to do the right thing. I have a very high level of respect for police officers. Growing up, many of my good friends' fathers were Chicago cops, and my close friend Brian Kaniecki has a father who was a police officer in Elmwood Park, Ill., for over 20 years. He also has an Uncle Adolf, but that's neither here nor there. I also think Nash really wants South Bend to be a better place, and NDSP officers really want to serve and to protect (and I have yet to meet one who isn't a pretty good person). I just don't understand the way they're going about it. 

Why are they busting 20-year-old kids having a beer with their dads before a football game while dozens of robberies are happening at the same time? Why does carrying a backpack full ofBud Light from D2000 to Keenan Hall feel like The Great Escape, but cars are vandalized with impunity? 
Furthermore, I know South Bend has a lot of problems, but cracking down on students isn't going to fix them. Most of us are leaving town anyway, so despite what we may like to think, we're not all that important to the· South Bend community (the university is; we're not). And while I agree that people who destroy property or pee in peoples' mailboxes deserve to get what's coming to them, kicking students out ofa house for being noisy on a Friday night isn't the best way to make South Bend a better place to live. It's just the 
I
easiest. 
When the South Bend housing ordinance was passed last fall, South Bend City Council member Ann Puzzello was quoted as saying, "When things get loud, it's a real problem for the neighbors. The huge parties are very dangerous and just not a good situation." 
So let me get this straight. A flood of freshmen driven off campus into a strange and unknown city looking to get drunk isn't a dangerous situation; freshmen bringing booze on campus is a 0:: dangerous situation. Seventeen percent of 0 
:::=: 
South Bend's population living below the :, :i:: poverty line isn't a dangerous situation; C) 
~ 
70 obnoxious college kids singing along to :'.) Journey songs is a dangerous situation. C) 0 I 
Cl)
And my name is Chinedum Ndukwe. 0 
.,ffl
3, ......... {11 ~ 
,~ ~~ I 
~'-----~ .~ 
Tim Roemer served as the. representative from Indiana's 3rd District in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1991-2003. Roemer was a primary author of the legislation that established the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (also known as the 9/n Commission) and served as one of the Commission's IO members. He is currently president of the Center for National Policy in Washington, D.C. 
Out of all the information that you compiled and analyzed during the course of the 9/11 Commission's investigation, what did you ultimately find most surprising? 
One of the most significant and hair­raising findings we had was that a group of radical jihadist ideologues from one of the poorest countries on the face of the earth, in a global technology­oriented world of the 21st century was able to get through almost every single one of our super-powered defenses and attack our homeland and kill 3,000 people. Our government, sadly, wasn't prepared for this and, ironically, in many ways is still not prepared for this. 
Why is the United States government still not prepared? 
I think that we're still looking at the world in too much of a pre-9/11 prism rather than in a post-9/11 framework. If you look at the 9/11 Commission and our 41 recommendations, the White House and Congress have only passed half of them. To only pass half the reforms makes us unsafe and is unresponsive to our needs. The 9/11 Commission issued a report card in December 2005, and we gave our government 12 D's, 5 F's and 2 incompletes. Ifyou're a legislator in our Congress or in the executive branch, those are failing grades. Also, you're dealing with a dynamic, ever-changing lethal enemy that wants very desperately to go after United States targets again. So 
we have plenty ofwork ahead ofus. 
During the past month, much controversy has centered around President Bush's use of the term "Islamofascism" to describe enemy terrorists. Do you think this term frames the debate about America's enemy in the proper way? 
I prefer the term "radical jihadists and their ideology." The Qur'an is a beautiful book, and Islam is a great historical religion. These people [jihadists] have twisted phrases from a great historical and beautiful religion and perverted those phrases to their benefit to try to target both Middle Eastern and United States governments. The U.S. has to do a much better job at preventing the rise offuture jihadists. We have barely scratched the surface in our efforts to provide for an agenda of economic opportunity in the Muslim world and a message ofhope and freedom, instead of one preaching despair and hatred like that of bin Laden. 
You obviously recognize this need for the development of a new rapport with the Muslim world in combating the roots of terrorism. But why has this essential aspect of fighting these "radical jihadists" failed to gain any momentum? 
I believe that this administration has taken too much of a one-dimensional rather than a multi-dimensional approach. Too often we're seeing the administration stress the military side and the law enforcement side rather than a three-pronged approach. I believe this is not checkers where we move a piece and they move a piece militarily; it is three-dimensional chess. It involves a military and intelligence component at one level. On a second level, it involves protecting our homeland and doing that with 21st century technologies, agencies and institutions. The third level is trying to prevent the rise ofmore jihadists in the world, and oftentimes this administration has not worked on all three. I think that this is costing us right now in terms of our overall national security. 
Do· you think most Americans understand the War on Terror? Has Bush's pitch to the public beeneffective or has political maneuvering clouded most Americans' understanding of the threat? 
With all due respect to the President, I don't think that the terminology has really helped us understand the war on radical jihadist terrorism. It [the war] is not simply one ofcapture them "dead or alive" or evil versus good. This is simple rhetoric and a one-dimensional approach. There :was a very talented politician years ago who talked about the rise·:ofWahhabism [a fundamentalist interpretation oflslam], \Vhat the threat meant to the Western world and democracies, and how this could ultimately turn into a very vile and dynamic form of terrorism. That leader was not John F. Kennedy in the 1960s or Ronald Reagan in the 1980s; it was Winston Churchill in the 1920s. This is something that has been with us for a long time and could still be with us a long time. Thu_s, we need a much more strategic and comprehensive approach to this that not only goes after jihadist terrorism as an ideology, not only has a strong military and intelligence component, but has an equally vibrant_political and economic component to it. 
21 SEPT2006 




