That our war is won—
That once again the campus grounds echo the happiness of peace.
OLIVER COFFEE SHOP
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL, 86
NOVEMBER 23, 1945
NO. 2
Notre Dame Receives Another $1,000,000
Fr. O'Donnell Announces Establishment of Notre Dame—Martin J. Gillen Foundation
for the Bureau and for other University purposes to be determined by the administration.
The establishment of the Notre Dame-Martin J. Gillen Foundation for educational and scientific purposes, announced today by the Kev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, places at the disposition of the Notre Dame administration a benefaction now in excess of one million dollars.
Provisions for the establishment of the foundation were in the will of Martin J. Gillen, distinguished friend and honorary alumnus of Notre Dame, who died two years ago. The announcement of this benefaction follows within a month the receipt of a million dollar gift from P. C. Reilly of Indianapolis.
In making the announcement, Father O’Donnell stated: “Mr. Gillen exercised excellent judgment and foresight in leaving the University a wide latitude in its use of his gift. He expressed certain preferences in the disposition of his estate- and the University will honor them. In the main, however, his handsome benefaction, which is now in excess of one million dollars, is an unrestricted gift to be used at the discretion of succeeding administrations to further the best interests of Notre Dame.”
Fr. O’Donnell’s statement continues:
“The University of Notre Dame lost a distinguished friend, honorary alumnus, and benefactor, when Martin J. Gillen, lawyer-economist, died on September 22, 1943, in the beautiful surroundings of Land O’Lakes, Wisconsin, which through his generosity had already become the property of the University. Under the terms of his Will, the University also became the residuary legatee of his other holdings.
“Mr. Gillen had a rich background of legal practice which he broadened with business administration and an intensive study of economics. In 1915 he drew up a plan for industrial mobili-
zation which served as a basis for the War Industries Board, and in 1917 he outlined a plan for state and municipal mobilization for war. As a result, he was called to Washington in World War I as a dollar-a-year man. While there, Mr. Gillen served with distinction as a member of the U. S. Shipping Board and helped to liquidate four billion dollars worth of contracts that were outstanding at the termination of the war. Another of his great contributions to economics was his ‘international balance sheet’ between the United States and the world, drawn up in 1922. He also helped evolve a method for gathering farm data which is still in use.
“In conferences with The Most Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., then president of the University, and the late Father James A. Burns, C.S.C-, president from 1919 to 1922, Mr. Gillen indicated that because of scientific explorations already made on the Land O’Lakes property, the tract should be made available by the University as a scientific preserve for use by scientists of other universities. In these same conferences, the eventual establishment of a boys’ summer school and camp was evolved. To achieve these purposes the University has set up, under the laws of Michigan, the Notre Dame-Martin J. Gillen Foundation, the primary purposes of which are to further educational and scientific pursuits.
“When the Bureau of Economic Research was established at Notre Dame, Mr. Gillen subscribed fully to its aims. He felt that telling the public economic truths in clearly understandable terms was the best antidote for the specious and sometimes fantastic theories advanced by certain students in the field. In his Will, after making specific bequests for religious and charitable purposes, he left a substantial sum to be used by the University as an endowment
“Through his experience as a lawyer, and also because of his knowledge of university operations, Mr. Gillen knew that an institution of higher learning can anticipate its problems only within rather definite limits. As a lawyer, he also knew instances of benefactions which, because of the restrictions placed upon them, failed in the long run to meet either the intentions of the donor or the changing needs of the benefactor.”
This picture of Mr. Gillen, who willed more than a million dollars to Notre Dame, was taken at the time the University conferred an honorary Doctor of Laws degree upon him in 1935.
^he ZNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
iiiittiiiiit mit min i tn m tn tit mu tit iiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiii uh min tuiiiiiitiiniiiiii it ti1111111111111 11
itmmmmmmmttmmimimmimimiimittttmitmiiiiitittiiiiittiimmiimimimtmmiiitmimiii
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT _	_	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS -	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor JAMES F. McCARTHY -	Feature Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI -	-	The Crow's Nest
ARTHUR MOSHER -	-	The Shillelagh
JACK STEWART, CHARLES CLAUSS - The Green Banner PHIL CORBOY	Splinters
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLAVICK GERARD^ HEKKER paGl^Abraham JOE RENINGER pV. O. MILLER pM^REGA^ JAMES’^RNS *
SAMUEL HAZO PAUL RAGAN RALPH HAYMAN
. /'JOE LANG
. FRANK TYCHSEN
- ■ DAVE OLSON
JUSTIN CICCONETTI
JOHN C. THOMAS
JAMES JOHN
JAMES FERSTEL ARTHUR COUGHLAN -REy. PAUL BEICHNER, C.SG. ADVERTISING
Photography
Circulation Manager
Faculty Advisor
Publications Office
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston—Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school- year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
At long last, after all these long, watchful, weary months, we have been able to track down a copy of the publication that is more elusive at Notre Dame than Forever Amber is in Boston—the St. Mary’s Static. One of its columns which is bound to enthrall the men on this side of the Dixie is the one which salutes the latest recipients of fur coats at St. Mary’s. If you want the latest on fashions, lads, do obtain a copy of the November issue of the Static.
★
Dear Old Lady: “Little boy, does your mother know that you smoke?”
Frosh (N.D.?): “Listen, Lady, does your husband know that you speak to strange men on the street?”
—Queen’s Journal
Ohio State’s Lantern headlines the formation on the Columbus campus of a Hiker’s Club under the guidance of one of their faculty members. So far as we know, no f.m. is needed to guide our Hiker’s Club on its weekly Sunday afternoon trek to its objective—St. Mary’s.
★
Reminiscent of Notre Dame Men’s Girls:
N.D. Stude: “Can you read my mind?”
N.D. Man’s Girl: “Yes.”
N.D. S.: “Go ahead.”
N.D. M.G.: “No, you go ahead.”
—Annapolis Log
★
Saint Mary’s (Calif.) students were permitted to purchase tickets for the Saint Mary-Southsrn Cal game at Los Angeles for the enormous sum of two “skins,” according to the Saint Mary’s Collegian. We wonder if the ducats were for wonderful end zone seats, a. la Dyche Stadium, for instance.
★
A story under a 6-column banner headline in the Queen’s (Kingston, Ontario) Journal reports that Queen’s University had received an itemized bill from McGill University for “damage amounting to $483 done in Montreal during the recent football weekend.” This department wonders if the Notre Dame Athletic Association has submitted its dentistry bills to the academies at Annapolis and West Point for “damages done” during recent football weekends in Cleveland and New York.
★
The three R’s at American College have been changed from the old perennials to fit the modern trend. Now it’s “Rug-cutting, Rhythm, and Romance.”
—Ohio State Lantern
4
Observe Anniversary of Board's Founding
The twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame was fittingly commemorated on Nov. 16, here on the Notre Dame campus.
The day’s program included a Mass in Sacred Heart Church, celebrated by the Most Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of Notre Dame and present Bishop of Buffalo; a business meeting in the afternoon at which the election of officers was held; and. the Convocation in Washington Hall at night, which was presided over by Bishop O’Hara. The chairman was Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University.
The lay faculty, in cap and gown, and their wives, the wives and guests of the Lay Trustees, members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and students attended.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, presented special
sterling silver desk plaques to the members of the Board—symbols of the University’s appreciation of their services.
The retiring president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, Mr. Byron V. Kanaley of Chicago, responded on behalf of the Board.
The principal address of the evening' was delivered by the Rt. Rev. Fulton J. Sheen, D.D., LL.D., noted orator of the Catholic University of America.
Following the address, Bishop O’Hara blessed the assemblage and the important function was brought to a close by the playing of the “National Anthem” by the University Symphony orchestra, directed by Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke.
The out-going officers of the Board are: Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, president; Mr. Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind., vice-president; and Mr. C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis., treasurer. The new officers elected at the business meeting are as follows: Mr. Reilly, president; Mr. Ernest M. Morris, South
Bend, Ind., vice-president; and Mr. Thomas Beacon, Jr., Winnetka, Ill., treasurer.
After the exercises of the Convocation, the president, the members of the administration, and the faculty of the University received the Trustees and their guests in the parlor of the Administration Building.—James Greene
Veteran Club Forms Discussion Groups
- The first discussion group on National and International. Politics will meet at 8:00 o’clock Tuesday evening, Nov. 27, in the basement of the Law building.
The subject to be discussed will he: “The United States Foreign Policy.” At the first meeting, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of politics at Notre Dame, will be the moderator.
These discussion groups are being organized by the Notre Dame Veterans Club, but all students interested are invited to attend.
LAY TRUSTEE CONVOCATION
Pictured above are members of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees who attended observance of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the board held at Notre Dame on Friday. November 16.
Left to right, first row: Rev. J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident of Notre Dame; George W. Strake, Houston, Texas; Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.; John Moody, New York City; Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, former president of Notre Dame and present bishop of Buffalo; Peter C. Reilly, In-
dianapolis; Joseph P. Kennedy, New York City; Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame; Frank C. Walker. New York City; Ernest M. Morris, South Bend, hid.
Rear row, left to right: William J. Broderick, comptroller of Notre Dame; Brother Albinus, C.S.C., treasurer of the University; Thomas Beacon, Jr., Winnetka, DL; Joseph A. LaForturie, Tulsa, Okla.; John P. Murphy, Cleveland, O.; Bernard J. VolL South Bend, Ind.; Edward J. Doyle, Chicago, RL; William }. Corbett, Chicago, RI.;' John C. Tully, LaGrange, HL Walter Duncan, LaSalle, RI.; Terence B. Cosgrove, Los Angeles. Calif.
WAR-TIME CADDIES — THANKSGIVING TURKEYS
We wanted to have Thanksgiving turkeys—those fowl inhabitants of the Notre Dame golf course—on the cover of THE SCHOLASTIC this week, but we ran into a few technicalities, including the Northwestern weekend, an advanced deadline, engraving difficulties and a reversed-negative print. We're a pretty persistent bunch of characters, we are, and here is the picture to prove it—three days and five pages behind schedule.
Tickets Now on Sale for Semi-Formal Ball
With two o’clock liberty granted to R.O.’s and V-12’s attending the semi-formal ball in the Palais Royale on Friday, Nov. 30, the dance sponsored by-the Veterans’ Club will be the first campus affair open to the entire student body since the war put a curb on most social activities.
The Cavaliers, a 12-piece campus aggregation led by Freshman Bob Olcese, former trumpet-man. for Louis Prima, will be on the bandstand. Dancing will continue from nine until one o’clock.
Ticket’s for the dance are bn sale in all residence halls; there will be no sale at the door. The tickets must be purchased before the dance since hall rectors must be given the names of students attending in order .that they may receive two o’clock permissions.
Two o’clock liberty has been granted to the Naval trainees by Commander George Hutchinson, executive officer of the Navy unit at Notre Dame. The invitation was extended to the Navy men by the Veterans’ Club in order to draw them more fully into campus activities.
The weekend promises to be an extended and gala one, especially for those also attending St. Mary’s Charity Ball on the following night.
Members of the committee in charge
of the dance include John Defant, chairman, Bill Braun, Jerry Wayno, Maurice Casey, Pat Weishapl, Ed Kane, Matt Siedlicki, Roy Jans, and John O’Neil.
Enrollment Figures
After Notre Dame waved good-bye to the Midshipmen School, which was discontinued early this month, the University gave a hearty welcome to the host of new students who have almost doubled the civilian enrollment.
The various colleges have shown a marked increase with 800 in the College of Arts and Letters, 765 in the College of Commerce, 675 in the College of Engineering, and 401 in the College of Science.
With 75 students, the College of Law has doubled its enrollment; this semester’s freshmen class equals in number last semester’s total enrollment.
Sixty percent of the Law students are veterans.
The Office of Veteran Affairs has recorded 591 veterans currently enrolled. Of the veterans on campus, 105 of last semester’s 114 have returned and 486 are newcomers.
All the civilian residence halls are • filled to capacity. The freshmen halls are housing 708 students, Dillon 232 sophomores and 54 veterans; and Alumni,
Badin, Walsh and Sorin provide bunking space for 674 juniors, seniors and vets.
There are also 260 off campus students and 46 graduate students.
Last but not least, the Community is well represented with 131 undergraduates and 10 graduate students.
K of C Initiations to be
Held Sunday. Dec. 9
On Sunday, December 9, the major degrees of the initiation into the Knights of Columbus will be held at St. Joseph’s School in South Bend. Some forty Notre Dame men are expected to receive the degrees and become members of Notre Dame Council 1477.
The Council has announced a very important meeting to be held on Tuesday, November 27 in the Law Building at 7:30. All Notre Dame knights are urgently requested to attend next Tuesday’s meeting; an election will be held to select a Grand Knight to succeed Joseph T. Kivlin, Jr., who was called to the army eai-ly this month.
Students on the campus who have made their applications for membership into the councils are requested by Council Secretary William McShay to complete all necessary preliminary steps preceding this Sunday’s initiation as soon as possible. Physical examinations should be completed and applications should be signed by an M. D. before the initiation takes place to avoid confusion. McShay has stated that the initiation fee can be paid at the time of the initiation which begins at 1:00.
The initiation rituals will include the First, Second, and Third Degrees. Notre Dame or other council members in good standing are invited to witness the ceremonies.
Plans are being made by the Council officers to stage a gala opening night meeting as soon as the chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall are made available. Work is being done to ready the club rooms for the return of the Council to their pre-war bailiwick. Much reconditioning work is necessary to get the rooms restored to their former status. It is expected that the first meeting will be held in the renovated chambers.within two or three weeks.
MASS CLUB MEETING
The Mass Club will meet Sunday morning. November 25. in the Architecture building library. New men on campus are invited to attend this meeting. Join the club and meet the old members at that time.
S
Navy Moves Supply Offices From Walsh
By W. O. MILLER
One of the most vital organizations at any naval station is the Supply and Disbursing Office. Some of the duties of this office are: the keeping of pay accounts, the paying of the personnel, the issuing of War Bond and insurance allotments, the paying for food and quarters of men in this unit and the supervision of the small stores. '
In the past the average monthly payroll for this station was $50,000. Since the closing of the midshipman school this amount has been lowered to $30,000 dollars. The responsibility for the safekeeping of this, large amount of money falls to the Supply and Disbursing Office. On the days that the men are paid an armed officer carries the money to the place of payment.
Lieut. C. A. Fischer, present head of this organization, reported to Notre Dame in February, 1945. Mr. Fischer enlisted in the navy in April, 1942 and after receiving indoctrination served 21 months aboard the USS Ornsby in the South Pacific. Aboard ship his principal duty was that of division officei- of supply-
Recently Lieut. Fischer and his assistants have been moving their office supplies and equipment from the basement of Walsh Hall to the Navy Building. At the present time the total number of personnel attached to Supply and Disbursing is 15. The complement will be cut to six very shortly.
The Supply and Disbursing office is also charged with the safe-keeping of any valuables or money which personnel of this station may deposit with them. This service is practically identical to that of safety deposit boxes in banks, except that the supply and disbursing office does not charge a fee for its service, nor does it give interest on the money deposited.
The location of the Supply and Disbursing Office, previously in the basement of Walsh Hall and recently moved to the Navy Building, can be readily ascertained by the chattering of its many typewriters.
Within two weeks a small stores unit will be opened to naval personnel. This store will be located in the Navy Building at the west edge of the campus, and will be open for the men of the unit to make clothing and supply purchases.
Shillelagh
A man’s true wealth is the good he does in this world.—Mohammed.
Dear Miss Credulous:
It will be in vain to deny that we have some regard for this column, since we dedicate it to you. Yet you may bear us witness, it is intended only to divert your ladyship and a few pretty members of your own sex at St. Mary’s, who have cast unmerciful aspersions upon Schopenhauer’s character without ever having read his works, or been exposed to his highly amusing definition of woman.
We strongly feel, however, that after having imbibed the depth of his penetration, and felt the full impact of his opinion, your minds will be qualified to form an objective view (or would “highly subjective” be more apt?) of him. At any -rate, you will be within your womanish rights then, to pickle his philosophical soul in formaldehyde.
Schopenhauer was born at Dantzig on Feb. 22, 1788. His father was a merchant noted for ability, hot temper, independence of character, and love of liberty.
He moved from Dantzig to Hamburg when young Schopenhauer was five years old, because Dantzig lost its freedom in the annexation of Poland in 1793. Young Schopenhauer, therefore, grew up in the midst of business and finance, and though he soon abandoned the mercantile career into which his father had pushed him, it left its mark upon him in a certain bluntness of manner, a realistic turn of mind, a knowledge of the world and of men; it made him the antipodes of that academic type of philosopher whom he so despised. The father died, apparently by his own hand, in 1805. The paternal grandmother had died insane.
A Mephistophelean affection which is fairly imposing!
His mother was an extremely clever woman—in fact she became one of the most popular novelists of her day—but she had temperament and temper, too;
She had been unhappy with her prosaic husband; and when he died she took to free love, and moved to Weimar as the fittest climate for that sort of life. Young Schopenhauer reacted to this as Hamlet to his mother’s remarriage, and his quarrels with his mother taught him a large part of those half-truths about women with which he was to season his philosophy. One of her letters to him reveals the state of their affairs: “You are unbearable and burdensome, and very hard to live with; all your good qualities are overshadowed by your conceit, and made useless to the world simply because you cannot restrain your propensity to pick holes in other people.” So they arranged to live apart; he was to come to her house only as one guest among others; they could then be as polite to each other as strangers, instead of hating each other like relatives. Goethe, who liked Mme. Schopenhauer because she let him bring his Christiane with him, made matters worse by telling the mother that her son would become a very famous man. The mother had never heard of two geniuses in the same family-
Finally, in some culminating quarrel, the mother pushed her son and rival down the stairs; whereupon our philosopher bitterly informed her that she would be known to posterity only through him.	•	.
Thus, we set the stage for Schopenhauer’s definition or theory on Woman.
Schopenhauer says: “With young girls nature seems to have had in view what, in the language of the drama, is called a striking effect; as for a few years she dowers them with a wealth of beauty and is lavish in her gift -of charm, at the expense of all the rest of their lives; so that during those years they may capture the fancy of some man to such a degree that he is hurried away into undertaking the honorable care of them — as long as they live—a step for which there would not seem to be any sufficient warrant if only reason directed man’s thoughts.
(Continued on page 19)
7
Devore-Men Moke Second Trip of Year To Mammy-Land; Play Tulane Before 72,000
By PAUL WEYRAUCH
For the second time this season, Notre Dame’s football battalion will travel south of the Mason-Dixon line to meet a southern foe. Having trounced Georgia Tech 40-7 early in October, the Irish will now try their fortunes against Tulane University in the Mardi Gras city of New Orleans. Tulane Stadium will be jammed to the limit with 72,000 people on hand to get their first glimpse of the widely-heralded Fighting Irish. Notre Dame has never performed in New Orleans before, and they have a host of followers in that city.
This will be the second game between the two schools, Notre Dame having defeated Tulane last year 26-0 in Notre Dame Stadium-
Tulane’s Green Wave, which along with the Irish green will give the game a definite greenish tinge, has been an up-and-down club this season. However, Coach Monk Simons has had his club up during the latest stages of the schedule. Georgia Tech ran wild over Tulane 41-7 but the Wave has roared back since then.
From Canal Street to the heart of the French Quarter, rabid football fans in New Orleans have been shouting the praises of linemen Gaston Bourgeois and Elliot Igleheart. These boys deserve it, too. Igleheart hits the scales at an even 200 pounds and hails from Shelbyville, Ky. Bourgeois weighs 205 pounds and claims Lutcher, La., as his home. Both of these men played against Notre Dame last year. Those same rabid fans are not exactly ashamed of backs Bill Reynolds and Dave Rideout. Ray Hoot, Navy trainee,' has proven himself a valuable reserve halfback, too.
A strange feature of the game will be the presence of Tony Cash in the Tulane lineup. Tony attended Notre Dame last year and appeared in the Bengal Bouts. Cash is now a 195-pound end for the Green Wave.
Notre Dame will be playing without its great end, Bob Skoglund, for the first time this year. Bob has moved on from N. D. through Navy orders. He was not listed in the Scholastic’s lineups of last week because he was expected to leave before the Northwestern game. His play this year has been consistent and nothing short of sensational on more than one occasion. In his place, Bill Leonard will move in from left end while Dick Cronin will hold down the right end post.
8
NOTRE DAME vs TULANE Probable Starting Lineups
NOTRE DAME
Player-Weight Bill Leonard (195) Ed Mieszkowski (205) John Mastrangelo Bill Walsh (212) Fred Rovai (198) Pete Berezney (215) Dick Cronin (205) Capt. Dancewicz (180) Phil Colella (170) Elmer Angsman (185) Frank Ruggerio (200)
(200) LG
TULANE
Pos. Player-Weight LE Bill Watkins (185) LT C. Timken (185)
Ingleheart (200)
C Hugh Bowers (179) RG Jack Seyhold (185) RT Bob Logan (195) RE L. McDonald (172) QB Ray Arthur (160) LH Bill Reynolds (175) RH D. Ridehout (165) FB D. Banowetz (184)
Referee—T. G. Kain (Georgia)
Umpire—J. E. Burghard (Mississippi College) Field Judge—B. Bagley (Washington & Lee) Head Linesman—G. M. Phillips (Georgia Tech) Radio Broadcast—WSBT
Irish Give Wildcats Worst Defeat in Years
Playing before 49,500 fans, the largest crowd ever to attend a Notre DameNorthwestern game in the 25-year-old series, Notre Dame scored at least once in each period to defeat the Wildcats, 34 to 7, for the most decisive score of the series. Notre Dame started slowly and had to repulse two Northwestern drives before getting its own offense under way.
The annual battle between these two midwestern schools was more keenly contested than the score would indicate. Although Northwestern didn’t score until the fourth quarter, they threatened seriously on five different occasions but were halted by the stellar Irish line. The statistics of the game were almost even. Northwestern accounted for 17 first downs to Notre Dame’s 14 but were out-rushed by N.D., 274 yards to 190. Another unusual faeture of the game was the fact that Northwestern wasn’t penalized once, while N.D. lost 55 yards by penalties.
Northwestern received the opening kickoff and advanced the ball to Notre Dame’s 22-yard line before being halted. Notre Dame kicked out of danger to the opposition’s 13-yard stripe but Northwestern advanced all the way down the field again until Dancewicz intercepted a pass on N.D.’s 10-yard line. With Elmer Angsman picking up 72 yards in three tries and Terry Brennan gaining eight yards on one attempt, Notre Dame went down to the Northwestern 10. Brennan then gained nine through center to the one, whence Angsman carried
over. Krivik added the extra point. Before the quarter ended Notre Dame had the ball on the Northwestern 28-yard line when Skoglund 1'ecovered a fumble. Jim McGurk gained six yards to the 22 as the quarter ended.
As the second period opened Bill Gom-pers carried twice and Dancewicz passed to Bill Leonard; Notre Dame reached the four-yard line. Gompers gained two yards and then McGurk went over foi’ the touchdown. Krivik again converted. Notre Dame spent the rest of the second period repulsing two Northwestern thrusts.. The first was turned back on the two-yard line and the second halted on the six. Notre Dame was in possession of the ball on its 17-yard marker as the half ended.
The third quarter found several exchanges of the ball as a result of interceptions and fumbles. The only sustained drive of the period resulted in the third Notre Dame score. After Northwestern had been forced to punt, Dancewicz ran the ball back to his own 44. With Angsman, Brennan, and Floyd Simmons carrying, Notre Dame ran up three first downs to reach the Northwestern five-yard line. Angsman gained one yard through center and then Simmons fought his way over the goal for the third Irish touchdown. Krivik again made his extra point attempt.
Bill Gompers intercepted a pass on the Northwestern 31-yard line and raced 31 yards for the fourth six-pointer early in the fourth period, but Krivik missed the extra point for the first time. After the kickoff, Northwestern marched down the field from their 26 to the Notre Dame 19. A Northwestern pass was incomplete and then Farrar completed a pass on the Irish four for a first down. Murphy failed to gain through center and Kemp gained two yards at right guard. Murphy then swung around end for Northwestern’s only score of the day. Farrai-converted the extra point. The final score of the game came when George Ratterman passed to Gompers on the Northwestern 21 and the latter raced the remaining distance for the touchdown. Krivik again converted to make the final score, 34 to 7.
Camera Club Exhibit
The V-12-NROTC Camera Club exhibit finally caught the student eye when it appeared for the first time last week in the Notre Dame University Library.
Twenty-two photographs of campus scenes, including Jerome Seger’s prizewinning entry of the “Dome” comprise the display.
The exhibit, originally scheduled to appear during October, will run all of next week.
■ I
NOTRE DAME'S CROSS-COUNTRYMEN
* ft • J * *	1	1 *
I *
BILL LEONARD LEO PARADISE UM MURPHY
LOUIS TRACY JIM KELLY
FRED JONES
BY JOHN C. THOMAS
After receiving their first defeat at the hands of the national champion Drake cross-country squad, Notre Dame’s thinlyclads will attempt to redeem themselves at the National Cross-country meet at East Lansing, Mich., tomorrow. The Irish will be represented by a sevenman team composed of all but one of the following eight men: Bill Tully, Fred Jones, Bill Leonard Louis Tracy, Jim Kelly, Jim Murphy, Leo Paradise, and Ray Saboda.
The Bulldog harriers were led by captain Fred Feiler, national individual champion, who set a new record for the four mile course, running it in 20 minutes, 49.9 seconds, 3.9 seconds better than the mark he established last year. The Iowa lads captured the first five places in the 14-man field for a total of 15 points, constituting a “hole-in-one” in cross-country competition, compared to the 45 markers chalked up by Notre Dame. The first Irish trackster to cross the finish line was frosh Jim Kelly.
The major purpose of cross-country is to serve as a warm-up for the oncoming track season, but as the present season progressed and each week produced an-othei’ link on the Irish victory chain, school interest was aroused and steadily increased as the Irish went on to win the Indiana state meet. With the national title in view and one more dual meet remaining, the “warming up” aspect had disappeared. The Irish were on the “run,” and though they were slowed
COACH HANDY RAY SABODA
BILL TULLY
down considerably by Drake they still had a full week to pick up speed again before the nationals. Coach “Doc” Handy disclosed that monograms would be awarded if the Notre Dame squad, last season’s runnerups, comes out of the big meet victorious, adding another “spark” to the “fire of spirit.”
One of the prime requisites for crosscountry running is perfect conditioning and the Irish team, to a man, has displayed this quality well while winning from Wheaton, Ill., and Purdue prior to the state meet. In winning the state championship, Notre Dame soundly defeated the previously unbeaten and highly-touted Indiana squad.
Featuring superb team balance more than individual brilliance, the Irish are paced by Captain Bill Tully, naval trainee from Bronxville, N. Y. Tully has won monograms in both track and tennis and is a fine, all-around athlete, besides being a very popular man about campus.
Louis Tracy, freshman from Franklin, 0., and Fred Jones, Miami, Fla., senior, have been the mainstays of the squad behind Tully. Tracy was named bn the all-state track squad in Ohio last year and also starred in football and basketball, while Jones, the mighty mite of the team, has been a monogram winner in track for the past two seasons.
Bill Leonard of Schenectady, N. Y., aimy infantry veteran, who saw plenty of service overseas, just returned to college this semestei- and can’t hope to
Leahy is Discharged;
Will not be "Advisor"
Lieut. Commander Frank Leahy, Notre Dame’s head football coach and athletic director who has been on leave for the past two years wliile serving in the navy, received his honorable discharge last week in San Francisco. He announced, contradictory to previous ru- • mors, that he would not return to the football wars this year but would wait until another pigskin season rolls around.	'
Commander Leahy arrived in time to witness the Notre Dame-Northwestern tussle last Saturday and was thoroughly pleased with the showing made by the youthful Irish squad, which was expected by many of the experts to play the role of pushover this season. He was also high in his praise of Coach Hughie Devore and his entire coaching staff and the manner in which they, have welded the teen-laden Notre Dame team into one of the most powerful gridiron aggregations in the country. Leahy, in denying printed reports that he would act in an advisory capacity to Devore for the remainder of the season, remarked: “This is Devore’s team and he and his assistants have done a great job. I’ll just be a fan for the rest of the season.”
With the war over and many former Irish stars, who have been released from the armed forces, hoping to don their grid togs once more, the prospects of another successful team with Leahy at the helm are shaping up quite favorably among the nation-wide list of Notre Dame rooters. And if the likeable and equally biilliant Irish mentor has as good a post-war start as he did a prewar finish, the “subway alumni” should not be disappointed.
reach his peak of form until the track season rolls around. Leonard won his varsity track letter in 1942. Jim Kelly, Canton, O., frosh, never went out for track in high school, but starred on the tennis team. Kelly has proved himself to be one of the outstanding trackmen on the squad by virtue of his showing in the Indiana State and Drake meets.
Jim Murphy of Park Ridge, Hl., and Ray Saboda; freshmen, both placed high in the National High School track meet last season in the mile and half mile, respectively, Murphy placing second in the mile and Saboda finishing fourth in the half mile. Leo Paradise, first year man from West Haven, Conn., rounds out the well-balanced squad. Paradise was the captain of his high school track team and also played football.
9
Gray Flannel
Slacks '10.
Neatly tailored all-wool flannel slacks to wear with your favorite jacket
Mm a*MEK... MKNKMI $
Splinters from
By PHU O
I
I
LEAHY'S RETURN	j
The many rumors regarding Frank । Leahy’s return as head football coach । and director of athletics to the Univer- J sity of Notre Dame have finally been | stifled. The affable Irishman’s own comment to the press has convinced the soothsayers that neither the National ' Professional League nor the recently formed All-America Conference has induced the Irish coach to transfer his coaching abilities to either of the professional circuits.
Of the various rumors that have found their way into print, perhaps the most popular was the one contending that Leahy had been offered an annual salary of $25,000 to coach, plus a $1,000 bonus for his signature on the contract! t (Elmer Layden in the capacity of Com- | missioner of the National League receives but four-fifths of this quoted salary.)
To this phenomenal amount was added the replacement of Leahy’s South Bend home with a place of residence in the home city of the club angling for his services. (Incidentally, the name of the 4 benefactor was never disclosed.)	Jj
It is dubious that the Irish coach was offered these fantastic inducements to j relinquish his position here at Notre ' i Dame. It is not too difficult to believe, I however, that he was offered more to J enter professional football than he could | earn in the college ranks. It’s obvious I that a strictly-for-profit corporation can j afford its members a more substantial I return than a college or university that « must utilize its profits from athletics V: to cover the huge overhead so necessary ll at any large school.	C
Apparently, then, Mr. Leahy is coming ' back to coach the Irish for reasons other than mercenary. He has many friends in South Bend and has always been popular on the campus, which together may have been sufficiently important in his 1 view to warrant his return.	.
His position as head coach at the I; school that has earned the praises and popularity of the most sports-minded T-, nation in the world was probably the I! underlying factor determining his re- I' turn. Since the fruitful Rockne era the I] Irish have always been close to the top in the appraisal of newspapermen and 9' opposing coaches, schools and teams. A »
10
r
[be Press Box
()BBOY
Star-Studded Notre Dame Basketball Team Will Open 1945-46 Season at Home Dec. 8
Dy DAVE WARNER
। mere discrepancy in financial reimburse-, ment means little to a man of the char-, acter and personality of Frank Leahy, especially when he fits so well into the pattern of Notre Dame football that has i. been prevalent for over- thirty years.
| THIS N* THAT . .. HERE N' THERE p Notre Dame’s 34-7 victory over North-f' western last Saturday in Dyche Stadium I; was the largest score ever amassed in the lengthy meeting of the two schools on the gridiron. The last of Stan Kri-j vik’s four conversions was responsible for the shattering of the old record which had existed since 1920 when the Irish defeated the Purple by a score of 33-7. . . . Dick Connors, proficient Northwestern ground gainer, was a high school playing partner of Elmer Angs-man, Irish right half who was the most
I,, successful ground gainer in this year’s clash. Both boys made gridiron fame on Mount Carmel High’s ’41 and ’42 teams. . . . Jack Vainisi also found himself opposed by a former prep school team member in the person of Kenny Wiltgen, Northwestern’s right end. Vainisi oper-i ated from the left tackle position and f consequently the two former St. George / linemen were responsible for each other’s defensive and offensive accomplishments h of the afternoon. . - . Hughie Burns, Notre Dame trainer, stayed in Chicago last weekend after Saturday’s game to witness the Chicago Cardinals-Cleveland Rams tilt in Comiskey Park. Hughie believes there was more spirit evidenced in the Notre Dame locker room after
1 the Irish had succumbed to Army’s might than there was in the full sixty minutes of football played by these two : professional teams. . . . Terry Brennan and Bill Gompers, left and right half backs, respectively, whose running attack was so brilliant in last week’s game, are two of the youngest members of this year’s squad. Both of these freshmen are but 17 years old. . . . Geofge Ratter-। man, who has subbed for Frank Dance-wicz most of the season, should have little trouble garnering the first-string quarterback slot on next year’s team.
’ The slim Cincinnati boy connected on a 60-yard pass that was inches away from a touchdown in the Navy game, and was again on the tossing end of the 48-yard pitch which sent Gompers into the end zone in the last quarter against Northwestern. George’s biggest obstacle
With about three weeks remaining before the opener with Camp Atterbury on Dec. 8th in the Notre Dame field house, Elmer Ripley, the genial new basketball coach, has been hustling his charges through five day a week workcuts.
The start of the November semester brought with it another pleasant surprise package for Ripley represented by the 6' 5" frame of Vince “Buckets” Bory-la, recent resignee of the U. S. Naval Academy, and who last season in his first year at Notre Dame broke all existing individual single game and seasonal scoring records of the school. His individual single game scoring record of 34 points was achieved against the University of Detroit in the final game of last season. Boryla’s return gives double satisfaction to Ripley. For one thing, it solves his pivot position problem. Then too, Boryla’s presence assures a tried and true scoring threat from under the basket. Understudying Boryla at center are George Riley, a 6' 8" freshman, and Herman Hohnhorst.
When the Irish courtmen take the floor against the soldiers from Camp Atterbury, the starting line-up will look something like this: John “Scooter” Dee will be down front at forward with Leo Klier, a N. D. All-American basketbailer two years ago. Vince Boryla will handle the pivot post and Billy Hassett, captain and pacemaker of this year’s quintet, will team up again with Frank Gilhooley at the guards. Gilhooley who shot very seldom last season is, at the suggestion of Coach Ripley, developing a well executed drive-in-lay-up shot originating from his guard position. As the season progresses it is certain that George Katterman, an All-American honorable mention last season, Jim Korth, a former standout at Minnesota, and Joe Sobek, a former standout at Notre Dame, will be making strong bids to break into the starting line-up. Ratterman and Korth are both presently occupied with football and will not be available to Ripley until after Dec. 1; Sobek is nursing an in
in the way of another year’s competition is his unsettled status in the NROTC program. If he is released from service in June, as is anticipated, he may become the first Notre Dame athlete in quite some time to earn 12 monograms in 3 years of competition.
jured middle finger. Thus, with seven monogram men on hand, the Irish can present a tower of strength at every position. The reserve power looks promising, too, what with these candidates continuing to show up exceptionally wdl in the daily drills: Jimmy Whelan, ever a hard and willing worker, Dick Kluck, Ray Corley, Tom O’Keefe, Dave Wasmer, Red Gaten, Ralph Hinger, Johnny Mullen, and Norm Mirrington. Leo Murphy, a reserve last year, is temporarily sidelined with two broken ribs.
The 22-game schedule recently released by Hugh Devore, acting director of athletics, cards 10 home games. One of the predominant features of the schedule will be the first appearance of Ray Meyer’s De Paul Blue Demons in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. The 1945 N.C.A.A. runner-ups come here on Jan. 5. The annual classic with N.Y.U. is again set for Madison Square Garden on Feb. 9, with a stop enroute to engage Canisius at Buffalo. The always formidable Kentucky quintet will again be played on their court.
Following is the schedule:
Dec. 8 Camp Atterbury at Notre Dame Dec. 11 Chanute Field at Notre Dame Dec. 15 Wisconsin at Notre Dame	■
Dec. 19 St. Louis U. at Notre Dame Dec. 22 Purdue at Notre Dame Jan. 2 Notre Dame at Purdue Jan. 5 DePaul at Notre Dame Jan. 11 Notre Dame at Great Lakes Jan. 14 Notre Dame at St. Louis U.
Jan. 18 Notre Dame and Great Lakes in Chicago Stadium
Jan. 22 Marquette at Notre Dame Jan. 26 Notre Dame at Kentucky Jan. 31 Michigan State at Notre Dame Feb. 2 Notre Dame and Northwestern in Chicago Stadium
Feb. 7 Notre Dame at Canisius, Buffalo^ N.Y. Feb. 9 Notre Dame and New York U. in Madison Square Garden
Feb. 13 Iowa Pre-Flight at Notre Dame Feb. 16 Notre Dame at Marquette Feb. 20 Notre Dame at Michigan State Feb. 23 Notre Dame and DePaul in Chicago Stadium
Feb. 26 Northwestern at Notre Dame Mar. 2 Notre Dame at Detroit
Navy Boxing Matches
Specialist A 1/c John Durdach is now formulating plans for a series of boxing matches to be held the first week of December. The participants will be matched according to weight and previous experience. These matches will be preparation for the intermural bouts which will be held at the end of the term. All men interested in participating should contact Specialist Durdach.
II
*Z4e (fyieeti HaMieA.
By JACK STEWART and CHUCK CLAUSS
' .. ~
THE LAST WEEKEND
The weekenders of the Northwestern game were divided into three classes:
1)	Those fellows who had a great time in Chicago.
2)	The semi-broke fellows who had a good time at the Co-Hop.
3)	The mob of broke fellows who had a time at St. Mary’s. I wonder which crowd had the best time!
LIGHT
Art “The sun god” Mosher has been seen at the solarium, enlightening himself, and singing “You Are My Sunshine.” Some of the fellows were there before their trek to Chicago, trying to acquire a healthy Notre Dame complexion, but they came back looking pale as “L & L.”
PARADOX
We just peeked and saw—some bobby soxed S.M.C. girls trying to attain that “Baby” Bacall air- as they pseudoso-phistically held lighted cigarettes and whistled.
BANKRUPTCY
George of George’s Arcadia wil probably‘go out of business now that Phil Martin of the elbow-bending Martins has taken to his prefecting job so seriously. If John Powers took George’s case to court it would soon be empty.
EDUCATION
From trying to get things in “order, before and after,” John Agnone has decided to major in Philosophy.
❖
CHILDREN'S ITEM
It seems that little Bill Meehan can’t reach water fountains. Maternally inclined ladies and theatre ushers hold him to the fount when Bob “Apollo” Welch isn’t about to lend his bulk. While on infantile subjects — who has seen Jerry Wayno’s baby blue nursery in 104 Walsh.
❖
LOVE
“The Camden Caesar” (Mat Siedlecki) another vet politician, has a queen over at S.M.C. His cherub cheeks were all smiles last Sunday. Watch next Sunday! Frank Peters is reported to have dated, or at least been seen with, a woman under 30. Jack McCourt has it bad. Again a S.M.C. femme. He takes aspirins for colds now, not the old antifreeze.
Try our Loafer—
The college man’s favorite campus shoe
$6.50
THANKSGIVING
One of the fellows on the bus the other night was raffling off 30,000 turkeys at 30 cents a pound. Then he changed to raffling off 30,000 policemen at 30 cents a pound. Maybe that is what we had yesterday.
La cerveza es buena—Cervantes.
Exclusive representative for
Nettleton — Crosby Square Walk-over — Foot Joy Stacy Adams — Matrix
£5.95 to £16.50
X-Ray Fitted by Experts •
120 So. Michigan Street
Open a Charge Account
for your convenience
Christmas Shopping
Ready for the Merriest Christmas in Years!

PATRONIZE "SCHOLASTIC" ADVERTISERS
12
On SaL ^nnnl The RADI° and portable typewriter Vil UAlv Uvvlla you’ve been waiting for these war years.
For NOTRE DAME Men
The
Notre Dame
SCAPULAR
MEDAL
$1.98
with chain
Reverse	Reverse
MINIATURE RING
This ring is actual size. Both views show designs on shanks of this sweetheart ring which is now available.
OFFICIAL RING
This ring is actual size. The illustration shows this massive ring which symbolizes the strength and dignity that is Notre Dame.
Football Predictions
Games November 24
MID-WEST
Michigan over Ohio State.
Northwestern over Illinois. • Indiana over Purdue.
Iowa over Nebraska.
Wisconsin over Minnesota.
Missouri over Kansas.
Oklahoma Aggies over Oklahoma.
EAST
Penn State over Pittsburgh.
Colgate over Brown.
Columbia over Dartmouth.
Penn State over Pittsburgh.
Princeton over Yale.
Holy Cross over Boston College.
SOUTH
NOTRE DAME over TULANE.
Tennessee over Kentucky.
Georgia Tech over Clemson.
Baylor over Southern Methodist.
Duke over North Carolina.
FAR WEST
U. C. L. A. over California-
Southern California over Oregon State.
Washington over Washington State.
>	—Paul Weyrauch
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
BADIN HALL
Veterans Plan Special
Communion Breakfast
On Sunday morning, Dec. 16, the Veterans’ Club of Notre Dame will attend Mass and Holy Communion in a body to commemorate all Notre Dame men who gave their lives in the cause of victory during World War II.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., today gave the go-ahead signal that will start • preparations to make this the most impressive ceremony the club has sponsored since its organization in March of 1945.
According to Bill Braun and Matt Seidlecki, chairmen for the affair, the 8:00 o’clock High Mass at the Sacred Heart Church will be followed by a banquet breakfast in the west wing of the dining hall, which will be reserved exclusively for the club.
The tentative program includes a specially-planned menu and a list of interesting guests and speakers, representing important organizations throughout the state of Indiana. The Mass, to be attended only by members of the veterans’ club and their guests, will be sung by Father O’Donnell.
It is the hope of the club and the faculty that the Communion breakfast will continue as a regular monthly activity.
13
Ctou/d,
the cream of American manhood (anyway, that’s what they tell us) but some things are impossible, even for the stalwarts of the N.R.O.T.C.
IT, MAC!
An eager beaver is a lowly creature, almost as low as the mate who sneering-ly strolls by your room without stopping when he’s passing out the mail. We believe the height of eagerness would be some assistant mate of the deck breezing down the passageway, yelling, “Now hear this! Only five minutes till reveille!”
NO CAN DO, PETE ...
Some of the student officers are carrying things a bit too far. Pete Gaydos, company commander of the first .company, was reproaching the men of “the rugged first” for their poor execution of an oblique movement. Pete barked, “On an oblique movement I want you men to dress it up horizontally, diagonally, and vertically!” Now Pete, we know we’re
CltJiiiimGA Scott —
And did you know that Flowers make the perfect Gift?
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY
Phone 3-8227
114 So. Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind.

FLIP FLOP QUIZ TIME...
“Aw right, youse guys! Line up over dere near dat bulkhead in a alphabetic line! And don’t make no noise eider or youse ain’t gonna get paid!”
Anyone who thinks he can identify the speaker of the foregoing passage, just jot down the name on a piece of paper and send it to the O.O.D. along with an old phy.ed. sock, your strength test report, and your pay chit. If you’re a winner (and you may well be), you -will receive, free gratis, on the house, one delicious meal at the Notre Dame chow hall, with a beautiful (this we refuse to vouch for) chow hall girl for a dinner partner.
ROGER FALLS OUT...
Roger “I’m a first classman now” Amstutz was reclining glamorously in the top sack, puffing nonchalantly on a cigarette, when he thought he heard an officer coming. In his eagerness to avoid demerits, he fell out of the sack. Result —one dented waste basket and one room mate with a slight brain concussion.
PaJihe^-WutieVUMMi cuHuiteA,
That it looks like a rough winter ahead — but you'll be mighty comfortable and properly turned out in an
ADLER-ROCHESTER OVERCOAT
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115'/2 N. Main Street
Upstairs
ROMEO WETS HIS WHISTLE...
- The presentation of Romeo and Juliet at Washington Hall attracted a fairly large number of our dramatic enthusiasts who wished to avail themselves of this opportunity to expose themselves to a little culture. There was one particularly tense moment—Romeo, upon finding Juliet apparently dead, very dramatically proceeded to drain the contents of a bottle of poison. It was then that George Collins and Erv Wolf, evidently forgetting themselves, gave out with yells of “Down the hatch, chum!” and “Chug-a-lug!”
LOCAL BOY MAKES GOOD
Larry “I-did-my-part-in-this-war” Sims gave the men in Howard Hall a big thrill Saturday morning by spending an hour parading up and down the hall with the fruit salad on his manly chest—yes sir, the Victory Medal and the American campaign certainly looked impressive. How about adding a star’ for each gruelling semester in the Navy?
COMPETITION FOR ST. MARY'S...
Some of the men had a very enjoyable week end after the Northwestern game
14
The place where
Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt, courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
Saturday. The sorority houses all held open house and in general, made life very pleasant for the visiting Notre Dame students. “Hubba hubba, St. Mary’s was never like this!”
ZOLTMAN'S THESAURUS
Filet Mignon was an opera by Puccini.
Thrombosis is an instrument used in a jazz band.
Etc. is a sign you put on exam papers to make believe you know more than you do.
A yokel is the way people talk to each other in the Alps.
Agnus Dei was a woman composer famous for her church music.
Students Invited to
Chemical Society Meet
Dr. Eugene G. Rochow of the General Electric Company will address the 195th meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society on the topic “Organo Silicon Compounds.” The meeting will be held Wednesday, Nov. 28th at 8:00 p.m. in Room 213 Chemistry Hall, and all students are invited to attend.
Dr. Rochow received his scientific training at Cornell University, where he was awarded the Ph.D. degree in 1935. He has been associated with General Electric as research chemist since that time, and has worked on various organometallic compounds, especially those derived from gallium, indium, germanium and silicon.
Vocation Discussion
Group to Meet Tues.
The student inquiry group on vocations will hold its first meeting of the new semester on Tuesday, November 27, at 7:30 p. m., in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. Modeled after similar clubs at the Cherry Point and Camp LeJeune Marine Bases in North Carolina, the club meets informally to discuss various points on vocation to the Priesthood and Religious Life.
During the semester members of the various religious communities and the secular priesthood will discuss signs and requirements of a vocation, the work proper to the different communities. Informality is stressed and part of each meeting is given over to a question-and-answer period.
Anyone seeking information along these lines is cordially invited.
"The MEN'S Corner"
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
KUPPENHEIMER SUITS - COATS
BOTANY "500" SUITS
STETSON HATS LEE HATS
FLORSHEIM
SHOES
FREEMAN
SHOES
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
BOTANY
TIES
INTERWOVEN
HOSE
HICKOK BELTS and SUSPENDERS
MAIN AT COLFAX
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
15
|o|ii iiitttiinttti itiiiiiiiiitittiii ittittn mti iinii tn iitttttiiiiiiiiiutii i mu i iiitti 11 iiiiiiiimiii mtiiii 11 iittit itiim 11 mu tit itii 1i ittti i iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiitai i iiitti ttmtiKiaaiiiaaaaaiiiataii ti in mm iimitiii utitii i m iiiiihihi hi hi i hi i i
Qjg are so grateful that this thanksgiving our boys are- borne aaa 'ui. . .
|	THE lilllll
[■JiiiitaaiiiaiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiaiiiiiiiaaaaiiiHHiiiiaaiiaiaa.aaaaiiiia.iiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiii.a..
50 YEARS OF X-RAY
ratory, who developed the high-vacuum tube—second only in importance • to Roentgen’s original discovery— which increased x-ray efficiency in medicine. And his sectional tube with its- cascade principle has made possible high-voltage x-rays for industry.
Using this sectional tube, the G-E two-million volt x-ray, developed by Dr. E. E. Charlton and W. F. Westendorp, makes it possible to see through twelve inches of steel. And it can radiograph an eight-inch steel casting 78 times as fast as the smaller giant of one million volts. General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.
WORKING in his laboratory at the University of Wurzburg, Roentgen discovered the x-ray. That . / was November, 1895. This year, 1945, . • is 'the 50th anniversary of that discovery and also the 100th anniversary of Roentgen’s birth.
’ Within the space of fifty years x-rays have come to benefit mankind through the part they play in science and medicine. Equally important, though less well known, is the part they have come to play as an inspection tool in industry.
It was Dr. William D. Coolidge, working in the G-E Research Labo-
The best investment in the world is in this country's future. Koop all the Bonds you Buy.
GENERAL © ELECTRIC
•	95S-107F-2U
16
fylOAll ^-notk
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
A SHORT STORY
To aid in the orientation of new freshmen, we present a one act play entitled “The Horrible Example,” or “It Shouldn’t Happen to a Freshman.”
Scene 1—(The Rector and the Student in conference. The Rector speaks) :
“Your name, sir?”
Student: “William C. Chips.”
R: “How did you get into your room last night?”
S: “There was a window in my way, and expediency forced me to open it.”
R: “Why didn’t you come in the door?”
S: “It was locked.”
R: “Why didn’t you summon the watchman?”
S: “I don’t know the gentleman very well.” -
R: “Mr. Chips, do you know the penalty for your breach of discipline?”
S: “Two weeks’ suspension, Father.” R: Goodbye, Mr. Chips.”
ROUGH GAME
Upon the field
Lies right end Paul;
He blocked a kick
That kicked no ball.
❖
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Dear Citizens of the Empire:
I was perusing the South Bend Tribune' the other day, and what to my bloodshot eye should appear but an article stating: South Bend invites United Nations to make headquarters here.” Now that would really be something to see! Just imagine it; people from all over the world making South Bend an international center. Can’t you picture the changes made: Walgreen’s offers a Chop Suey special for the Chinese delegates; the cashiers at the Colfax learn how to say “How many, please?” in forty-six different languages, and all the students at ND grow long black beards to make 'the Russians feel at home; Hook’s serves tea to the English at four every afternoon; and from noon to two the whole population takes a siesta. Yes, it would really be interesting to see.
Well, my children, I must close for now, as my English prof asked me to
hand in a theme tomorrow. See you next week. . . .
Your pal, ADF.
CAMPUS QUIPS
When we were over at Washington Hall last week watching Romeo and Juliet cavoi-t about the stage, Dan Shea leaned over and whispered, “That’s a pretty corny line, is n’t it?” Well, Dan should know. . . . Some of us were discus-
sing the meals at the dining hall recently. Bob Murray told us his method for testing: “I just jab the meat once or twice with my fork, and if it doesn’t jah back, I know it’s safe.” We Never Thought It Could Happen Dept.: Kenneth Carlton Hogge listening to the New York Philharmonic Symphony. (Dat’s nuttin’ but pure cultchoor.)
♦
N.B., A.B.MEN
An English prof and an Engineering prof were lunching. During the meal, the former spoke: “I had a peculiar answer in class today. I asked who wrote The Merchant of Venice, and a freshman answered, “Please, sir, it wasn’t me.” - ‘
“Ha, ha, ha,” laughed the engineer, “and I suppose the fellow had done it all the time.” '
---------------------------------
AT MARVIN'S - - -
A selection of beautiful Christmas Gifts for every member of your family and especially for her.
x • EARRINGS	• PINS .
• BRACELETS	• WATCHES
• BIRTH STONE RINGS
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago: Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel- time to any section of ; the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan- St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE &S O. BEND R. R.

JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
CORNER MICHIGAN wo WASHINGTON
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS general dentistry X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
• -
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
Dr. Ryan Lectures on Newman Tonight
The University has announced the dates for the Centenary Lectures which are to be held in honor of the conversion of John Henry Cardinal Newman.
The first in the series of two will be held this evening at 8:00 in the auditorium of the Law Building, with Dr. Alvan S. Ryan, nationally known Notre Dame authority on Cardinal Newman, speak-• ing on “Newman and the Catholic University Today.” Dr. Ryan, having made the writings of Cardinal Newman the field of his doctoral research, has gained a very wide reputation through his discourses on the great Catholic convert.
Next Monday, Nov. 26, in the Law auditorium two lectures on “Newman’s Conception of the Relation Between Reason and Faith” will be given by the Rev. Martin J. Healy, of the Seminary of the Immaculate Conception, Huntington, N. Y. The first, to be given at 4:30 p.m., will be entitled “Faith and Probability” and the second, “Faith and Certitude” will be delivered at 8:00 Monday evening.
NROTC G. I. RIGHTS
In an article concerning naval students' eligibility under the educational provisions of the G. I. Bill of Rights, a slight error was printed in last Friday's SCHOLASTIC, and we take this opportunity to rectify it.
The article stated: “If any man in the Navy program completes his training and receives a commission, educational benefits cannot be obtained through the provisions of the bill." This statement is not quite correct.	* *
Many of the officers commissioned upon completion of their NROTC training are undoubtedly entitled to add the time spent in the program to their other active duty time in determining the extent of their eligibility under the Servicemen's Readjustment Act. The Act provided that no credit toward eligibility may be granted if the education received in' the training program is a continuation of the serviceman's civilian studies and if these studies are carried to completion.
In a geat many cases, perhaps the greater number, the NROTC program was not a continuation of civilian studies, and in very few cases was the education carried far -enough to make the student eligible for an academic degree.
KEEP ALIVE THE MEMORY OF YOUR ALMA MATER
Own a distinctive oil painting of Notre Dame.
Size	$50.00 and up.
MISS C. F. MAKIELSKI 623 J. M. S. Building South Bend
THE STAMP SHOP
Everything for the
STAMP COLLECTOR 501 Pythian Bldg.
E	• Greeting Cards	=
1	• Artists’ Supplies	e
E	• Picture Framing	e
I	I. W. Lower Co.	J
1	DECORATORS
i	128 North Michigan Street	f
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
NOTRE DAME JACKETS SWEAT SHIRTS PENNANTS GOLF CLUBS HAND BALLS and GLOVES
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT SHOP
121 West Colfax Ave.
Phone 3-3702
18
THE SHILLELAGH
(Continued from page 7)
Young men ought to reflect that “if the object which inspires them today to write madrigals and sonnets had been born 18 years earlier, it would scarcely have won a glance from them. After all, men are much more beautiful in body than women.”
“Instead of calling them beautiful there would be more warrant for describing women as the unesthetic sex. Neither for music, nor for poetry, nor for the fine arts, have they really and truly any sense of susceptibility, it is a mere mockery if they make a pretense of it in order to assist their endeavor* to please. . . . They are incapable of taking a purely objective interest in anything. . . . The most distinguished intellects among the whole sex have never managed to produce a single achievement in the fine arts that is really genuine and original; or given to the world any work of permanent value in any sphere. When the laws gave women equal rights with men, they ought also to have endowed them with masculine intellects. For all women are, with rare exceptions, inclined to extravagance, because they live only in the present, and their chief outdoor* sport is shopping.
“Women think that it is men’s business to earn money, and theirs to spend it; this is their conception of the division of labor. I am therefore of opinion that women should never be allowed altogether to manage their own concerns, but should always stand under actual male supervision—as is the case in Hindustan; and that consequently they should never be given full power to dispose of any property they have not themselves acquired.”
Thus, you have a fairly accurate insight into Schopenhauer’s philosophy on womanhood. May your feminine soul revel in the content.
Commerce Forum
On Wednesday, Nov. 15, the Commerce . Forum held a short business meeting. Plans for the term were discussed as w'ell as applications for membership. The membership of the Forum is limited to 25 and since the Forum of last term contained only a few graduating seniors, Mr. John Castelli, vice-president, regrets to announce that only two of the thirty applications could be approved. However, several of the Forum’s members 'will graduate in February and Mr. Castelli urges all who were not admitted this term to re-apply for membership in March.
NEW TELEPHONES
Full speed ahead on our biggest Peacetime job
ODAY, conveyors like this at Western Electric are carrying thousands of new telephones for the Bell System.
But it takes far more than just telephones to provide service. It takes cable, central office equipment and many other complex items that cannot be produced and fitted into the telephone system overnight On these things, too, production is steadily increasing.
Western Electric, supply unit of the Bell System, is hard at work on the biggest peacetime job in its history. Furnishing materials and equipment to meet the System’s immediate needs — and to carry out the System’s 32,000,000,000 post-war program — promises record peacetime volume and a high level of employment.	-
Buy all tho Victory Boodt you cm —and koop thoml
Western Electric
SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM
19