
J .
Dotre Dame Scholastic
• VIVS -9VASI- CRAS-IMORITVRVS;
Vol. L.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 4, 1916.
No.
Age.
BY ARTHUR HOPE
was old and bent and tattered and torn,
- He walked with a jerk, and his head unshorn, Bobbed and nodded a sad adieu
To the world of to-day,—to me and you.
He was crooked and lame, and leaned on a staff, The breeze raised his hair as the wind does chaff, And the scattered thoughts of his time-worn mind Fley here and there as snow in the wind.
His voice was shaky, but sweet and soft, Like the tremulo in the organ-loft;
His smile- as soothing as the note that falls
From the throstle’s throat when his nest-mate calls.
The Life and Works of Archbishop Spalding.
BY SPEER STRAHAN.

NYONE who stood, by the coffin of John Lancaster Spalding and gazed down into that silent and peaceful face, must surely have been struck
with the majesty of the silent dead. There in his coffin lay that silent orator, in all the purple glory of his- office, the amethyst gleaming on one blue-veined hand that in death still clasped ' to his breast the chalice which had been his daily strength. The pale, calm Jace was triumphant-. in death. Upon the forehead, was pressed down ' the mitre, as if to guard in death that brain that in life had been so wondrously dedicate - to God. Those lips that had, been a silver ‘ clarion to'higher living were now stilled for-' ever, those eyes whose brightness had struck fire in countless hearts were closed not to open
their origin to the. days of Lord Baltimore;.: till the Judgment. Day, yet here in the silence * Tor more than two hundred years, the numerous < of death his spirit seemed to fill the whdle.place branches of the family have been; conspicuous J
funeral; another public calamity will soon dim the remembrance of his death in the public -mind,' yet to all who love true greatness of' spirit, Spalding’s, spirit will be immortal.
It is seldom that a country as new as America receives a genius so purely intellectual. The stirring times of his youth and early manhood . would seem to have almost forced his talents into a circle of public activities. Unsettled as the period was in national affairs, it yet saw greater religious turmoil. The long struggle between North and South was just beginning. When Spalding was seven years old, Webster thundered out his Seventh of March speech: , it was at Ashland, near Spalding’s birth--'place that the great Compromiser, Henry Clay, sought peace and rest in his attempt to.- solve, national difficulties. The same dark years - _•; witnessed a most thorough persecution of Roman . .: Catholics through the Know-Nothing Movement, for those of’Spalding’s faith, like their . ancestors,. had to endure despoliation, robbery, ' persecution. Rare, indeed, is' so meditative, a^< .genius produced, when the times seem to cry only for the man who can express himself with, swords or pistols. And though firmly wedded to. ancient traditions, he was ready, and eager, nevertheless, to make the most of what, the : T present and the future had to offer. With him. there was no mourning for past glories: all he -asked was opportunity to contend for future honors. This he endeavored with all his mind and soul to imprint on the minds of his countryr . l . men.
John Lancaster Spalding . was Jlescended from an. old English family, ~ famous in eccle-LlJ siastic annals from the Middle Agesr when . Spalding-Abbey was founded *in Lincolnshire, England. The Spaldings - in America 'trace : A
t



.- and brood with holy wings oyer those who passed in the. development of: Maryland'and Kentucky.; .his bier. It is now. already two months since the Among these never to be forgotten is the .name
•s-
•v

TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
• 98
Martin John Spalding, Archbishop of Baltimore, and uncle of John Lancaster Spalding.
John Lancaster Spalding was born in Lebanon, Kentucky, June 2, .1840. Very early he began -to show signs of a priestly vocation, and accordingly was sent to St. Mary’s, Kentucky, where he made his preparatory studies. Thence he _ passed to Mount St. Mary’s, Emmitsburg, and in. turn to Mount St. Mary’s, Cincinnati, - and to Louvain, Belgium, where he was ordained priest in 1863. The end of the next ygar, spent in Rome, found him fully equipped for his life work. In 1865 he took up priestly duties at-the ^athedral of Louisville, but even at this time his scholarly attainments attracted such notice that he was chosen theologian to Archbishop Blanchet of Oregon at the second plenary council of Baltimore in 1866. With Father Hecker, the Pauli st, and Father Ryan, later Archbishop Ryan, he was chosen for the rare honor of preaching at the council. After his return-to Kentucky, he labored by his own choice in a parish of neglected negroes, which after three years he left in a flourishing state. In 1872, upon the invitation of Father Hecker, Jie went, to New York and, taking up residence at the Paulist Scholasticate, began work on the life of his deceased uncle, the Archbishop nf Raltimnrp Of nprind nf	Ufa _
by only the usual activities of an episcopal career. But the inner light of such a life lends grace to every action, and the inner light of his life made him a shining light among men.
Though Spalding was thirty-one years bishop of Peoria, and during this time volume after volume of essays, orations and poetry came from his facile pen, still in his diocese no charitable work was ever slighted, schools, churches, and parishes. flourished beneath his care; a strong priestly body was formed under his direction, and united so closely under his able leadership, that the priests of his diocese solemnly declared on the occasion of his episcopal silver jubilee that ‘not once in the twenty-five years had an appeal been made against his judgment.’
Spalding’s work is written large in the books of Church and State, but literature is greatest in his debt. It is of this I would particular!y speak,—of his distinctive contribution to American thought and consciousness through the medium of the essay. Of all the many books he produced, four in particular, “Education and the Higher Life,” “Things of the Mind,” “Opportunity and Other Essays,” and “Thoughts and Theories of Education,” merit a high place in contemporary literature. In these, slim volumes is contained his gospel, o Qflxroi* ooll	iha Ti ni nrTi + c* -t-Tirx	/-x-F zx ♦-»
—	-	-T—	7——	:----:	.
-	-	' \	'	-	-	'" ~ T -
THE,NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC ’	gg
highest possible living, the deepest, clearest possible thinking x was - his gospel. To be, is nobler than to have, was the thought he would burn upon his countrymen’s hearts. And this made him a veritable voice in the wilderness preaching to a materialistic civilization that pub its faith - in steam and electricity, rather than in self. Not that he would have the mind sufficient in itself, but that if the kingship of the intellect were acknowledged, mechanical inventions would sink to their true importance. '“We must understand and feel,’’ he says, “that the visible is but the shadow of the invisible, that the soul has its roots in God, whose kingdom is within us.” •
Culture is the universal means for the realization of the riches of the intellect. Culture, not for its own sake, he preached, but for- the good it can do us. “The lovers of culture should be the first,” he says, “to perceive that intellectual good is empty, illusory, unless there be added to it the good of the heart, the good , of conscience.” Culture must be. “wedded to religious faith- without which, though the intellectual view is broadened, the will is weakened in acting.’* “It is indeed of inestimable value * to be cultured, to have this faculty of-being able to see this thing'pn many sides, to have a wide sympathy and a power of generous
thought, who know how to appreciate all truth, -all beauty, all goodness. , And to this wide culture, they must join the earnestness, the confidence, the: charity and purity of motive which Christian iaith inspires. We need scholars who are saints and saints who are scholars.” .
Yet before culture can. be . expected in a nation, it must first be realized in the individual. -St. Teresa gathered her nuns about her and urged them onward with the encouragement, “The Kingdom of God is within you”: Spalding repeated the same words to all who . -would become cultured. The soul is indeed a spiritual castle, and the ^cultured intellect can as surely see the king in his glory afar off, as the higher and spiritual faculty can thrill with ecstacy at that sight. To make men realize the royal purple of the intellect was Spalding’s labor.
“It is the imagination and not the reason,” he argues, “that is overwhelmed by the idea of unending' space and time. To the intellect, eternity is not more mysterious than the present moment, and the distance -which separates us from the remotest stars is not more incomprehensible than a hand’s breadth.” The function of the mind in the noblest of all human actions, belief, is stated scarcely 'less strikingly. “Mind is Heaven’s pioneer making way for
i
THFI NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
iod
Priesthood,” delivered at the silver jubilee of the Salesianum at Milwaukee, the Catholic body was made aware of a great educational plan that Spalding had conceived. This idea was later given expression in the Catholic University, of which he was one of the founders and an everlasting friend. In his lifetime he was ever at the call of the Catholic University; at his death, all his magnificent library went to her. She is the embodiment of his spirit, the illuminator of minds, a mother of universities.
For to John - Lancaster. Spalding a university was nothing if. not a ‘ ‘ nursery of the higher life.” At the dedication of the Holy Cross College at the Catholic University he said, “A- university, I think, is not so much a place where all that is known is taught as a place where noble and luminous minds create an atmosphere which it is impossible to breathe and not to feel the quickening of new and eager hopes and aims.” Morality is the fundamental . purpose of the right school,. but morality is real only where the atmosphere is overshadowed by a religion that is vital. In a school where high thinking and right living are demanded, no learning can be sterile, all knowledge will fulfil itself in deeds. .	'	.	. -
It is the great*teacher that makes the great school, for he who would form great men must first be great himself. Scholarship is not of so much importance. There is probably much in education which is art or science: logic or literature or mathematics may be wrongly taught, but education is not a question of mere pedagogical rules. If one believes the contrary, lie . will indeed fail.. In the true teacher is found that “essential and pedagogical " requisite,—the . awakened’mind, the loving heart.” The true teacher must have a great heart. “He is not a machine, but a. living soul.obedient to the light’ of a cultivated intelligence, and. to the impulses of. a generous heart.” “ Character . builds character.”- Hence, let us have the man first, . and then let knowledge abound. ’ ' J It is an inspired vocation, that of the teacher..
“ It is important to make things plain,” he says in an address to the convocation of the Uni
surrounded, and who often appear to us alto gether commonplace. Let but the proper occasion arise, and we. shall behold their souls transfigured by the light of higher worlds and clothed with almost superhuman strength. Thus there is in the humblest man- or woman a divine something before which the greatest may bow with reverence? Let. then, the teacher learn to recognize the'God there is in every child’s soul, and let him strive religiously to unwind the bonds which hold him prisoner.” -
The aim of the university is to produce with . a considerable degree of frequency, what nature only occasionally effects, the perfect student. The saint and the genius are not explained away by their school-training, nevertheless we’ know no more-efficient means of training men -than a good school. There ordinary men become extraordinary, while extraordinary men are ’ formed into leaders. This change is-wrought . by the power the university has to inspire a love of high things. The higher and holier the intellectual atmosphere, the higher and holier the manhood of the teachers, the higher and holier will be the place she will hold in the affections of her students. This is the heart of Spalding’s ideal. The school, and everything she stands for, must be bound to the student’s heart with hoops oLsteel. If she be the right school, he will.love her with an affection as real as any he may afterward feel for home or' family. Every , unexpected • turn 'of the path, every " deserted class-room, remembered in after years, will cry aloud to him: every common tree or remembered view of river, will make him less likely to live and die a commonplace man.
. It is at such a school ..that the real student is produced,—the scholar .who possesses the five attributes of a philosophic mind,—freedom, equitableness, calmness, moderation and wis- । dom. Spalding’s description of the true student deserves comparison, I think, .with Newman’s definition of a gentleman. “The air the true
student breathes,” wrote Spalding, “is pure and serene; the. thoughts ..with which he lives have permanent, value, and they are interfused* with mild and kindly sentiments.’ His^ view is large'
- versity of Chicago, “to throw? about them the- and he-is tolerant? of the little things which
revealing light of the mind, .but those who set irritate' the vulgar.^ His, clearer vision of.the ■ . the world aglow with the warmth arid magnetism . past gives ?him? a greater arid 'more real view :
. of an ardent and passionate soul are the true of the present? In the dim 'arid sober light of
. inspirers and teachers. -We little suspect dead empires and civilizations fallen to decay - -ty;.what.?ppwer	devotion arid' heroism^ dhere is • he- sees ;howtyain are .most of "the. -things which
■ intyhe 'simple people by ?whbm we:are daily : we ?permit? to disturb ? our peace. He knows ..
THE NOTRE DAME' SCHOLASTIC
that doubts and difficulties are best overcome by doing and suffering, not. by arguing and faultfinding. And he understands how easily the5r who accustom themselves to a circle of narrow thoughts and loves come to think it profane to sec God_ everywhere, and settle in their microcosm, believing it to be His universe. He will not disturb them, for so it is for them. He is aware also that the worst egotism is not individual, but corporate: that those who as individuals are kindly or even generous, lose conscience and grow hard and unrelenting when , there is a question of their party or their clique; .. and thus what is called patriotism, or what.is called religious zeal, has led men to commit atrocious crimes. His prayer is that of Isaias— ‘Only let peace and truth be in my days.’” ‘Let others wrangle,’ says St. Augustine, ‘I will wonder.’
Such is Spalding’s ideal of the university, the teacher, and the student. The Catholic University is the expression of the first; and its success is proved by the type of teacher found there, and the type of student graduated from' her halls. To an exceptional degree she has fulfilled the purpose of her establishment, outlined by him many years ago when he said, - “That we might have one centre where our educational principles might be put to the test - under the most favorable conditions this university . was founded; that we might make it plain to ourselves that the patience, the selfdenial, the unworldly temper, the persevering industry,- which alone can mold great scholars and intellectual leaders, are still to be found among us, at least in a few; and that these few should become for us who are thrown into the cares, distractions, and businesses of the world, as beacon-fights to'the storm-tossed sailor,’ as well-springs tp thirsty travellers through arid plains, as the voices- of valiant captains to their soldiers amid the clash of arms and the roar of ” battle; that when men tell us that our religion deprives us of mental freedom and of the power to pursue science in a disinterested spirit, we-
might, instead of having recourse to speculative arguments which are ineffectual, or of .going back to\ past ages, which is not to the point, simply say, “Behold our great school and the clear, searching light -that is there turned on whatever most/ interests the human .mind. That we too, we,- the children of centuries' of oppression and poverty, might now stand'forth in the front ranks of thinkers and lovers of their
fellows, to help illumine this great turbulent, democracy and guide it along the uncertain .. ways, to fairer, wider, purer life; and that we might thus show that there is in our Catholic faith a power of ’ self-renovation,—that its vital principle has not been exhausted by the struggles of ages, but that it is destined some day , to become the inner and organizing force of society, and will then reveal itself to the whole . world in all the depth of its truth and in all the wealth of its blessings—for all this and much ’ more the Catholic Universitv of America was founded.”	-
To us at Notre Dame, the loss of Archbishop Spalding is nothing, if not personal. For more _ * than thirty years, an address by him was the opening number of the lecture course of each . year, while many more times special occasions brought him to Notre Dame as preacher or . orator. And during that long period who shall . say what devotion to duty he inspired, what, enthusiasm he instilled, what hopes he fired, what souls he saved. He came to Washington Hall in a day when fewer distinguished visitors -spoke there than. now. In” one of the halls they remember how once his talk was interrupted by an insistent cuckoo-clock; the old students tell how his burning words'sent them back to room, study-hall or library, full of . enthusiasm, impatient to make themselves truly . educated men. At the death of Father Thomas Walsh, the President of the University, Spalding was chosen to -preach the funeral sermon,- and . there speaking of his affection for Notre Dame -and her priests remarked, “I often thought it -was worth two hundred miles to see his smile ( , -and receive his greeting.”' In 1899 at the dedication of Holy Cross College, which is affiliated with the Catholic University, and founded as a theological institute for the / seminarians of Holy Cross from Notre Dame, . he delivered one of his most brilliant discourses, . “The University: A Nursery of the Higher Life.” Spalding ever'had a deep love for Notre . Dame _and vthe -things for which Notre Dame x -
stands. “ If I had twenty years more to live,”— = . he told a priest from Notre Dame who visited :
him last spring,—“if I had twenty years more • V to live, I cannot imagine a place I would rather live than at Notre Dame.” And in a letter x requesting the presence of the President of the ■	■
University at some function in Peoria, “I know -	. / .
.this is an exceptional favor to ask, but I do ask .. f \ it in the name of my great love'for Notre Dame.” : ... T
7 ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
102
And during the long years of his sickness, it is only fair to say that Notre Dame repaid the - affection he reposed in her.
The place John Lancaster Spalding occupied. in the hearts of those who knew him is not easily filled. Desire for personal honor or gratification he never had, but when occasion demanded, he was never weary of championing 1 he rights of others. Of his more intimate virtues I forbear to speak, yet in 1902 the Chief Bxecu- -tive of the country, President Roosevelt, thought so highly of his ability thatdie appointed him "a member of the anthracite coal-commission during the famous strike of that year.. No less ■ to be noticed is his disinterested refusal of the See of San Francisco, and his effecting the happy choice of his Louvain class-mate, Arch 7 bishop Riordan.
His episcopal crosier and cross have passed to a worthy successor. His burning .words remain, yet the brain that sired them, and the ton sue that gave them birth have both been returned to the earth. We know this separation is only for a time. The body dissolves, but the. soul is triumphant and outlives the body of this death; the spirit, that part of man the cultivation of which Spalding so.urged during his lifetime, can never decay, of' grow old. And until that body which gave his noble soul such a majestic house, until that glorified body and soul are again reunited, John Lancaster Spalding has left the world the memory of, a strong and tender hero, a man who ^yore the . episcopal purple of Christ’s Church with the . ease and dignity of a Basil or a'Gregory Nazian-zen. His nation acknowledged him the intellectual leader of his day; God’s Church, recognized his great talents and chose him as one < f her great .shepherds, a prince of Christ’s Kingdom upon- earth. Are not these reasons, and the homelier one, that by choice and affection; he was always one of us, are these not reasons enough, ; to make his memory immortal at Notre Dame?
Plunder.. y .	’
/ ... ■ - ■- ~ . ■■
■ Now dreams the year, and elm trees .	. Go clothed in.loveliest light, . ... ,. ~
And the oaks drip gold in every breeze"
WTOn woodland path and height.; \
’ - /And to-day, I"saw where therpadjuns: by.
. -- ;KjThree maples clad in red, '. .. , W,- They had. plundered"the :suhset" from;the sky, y; /.And. put it on instead."’ . -	' „ \..y
■y	Speer ’Strahan.
Mr.^Fuller’s- Ego.
t ? . r ——— -
BY CHARLES MdONEY. -
George Fuller was a travelling salesman for the American Cigar Company of New York, and like most knights of the grip who have been on the road a few years, he took great pride in his knowledge of . the world. Moreover, George was very provincial, and was prone to look down upon anyone who lived outside of New York State.
When Fuller walked out of the office of the American Cigar Company on one particular morning, he felt a profound disgust for the world at large... The district sales manager had transferred him to the western route, with headquarters at Chicago. Now George did not relish the idea of selling Pittsburgh-made cigars -to the credulous and unsophisticated people of a city which had no subway or polo grounds. So he looked upon his sojourn in the metropolis of the west as one long Lent. The next day he left for Chicago.
A week later Mr. Fuller was persuading cigar dealers that they’ should patronize American industries by adding the products of Pittsburgh and Wheeling to their stock. He was “getting away” with it, too. This alone was sufficient proof for George F. that the New Yorker was wiser then the Westerner. As his sales increased, his respect for that good people was diminished. If his manager would, only give him time, he would have’the whole Loop smoking his cigars.
The main-problem that troubled George was how to spend his spare time. He visited the Art Institute, White City, and the tower of the Montgomery ward, old tower-building, but found no thrill in anyone of these places. He had a haunting .fear that he would soon be a victim of ennui, if something did not happen. To him, Chicago’1 was nothing more than an
overgrown village, and its people were country -folk who had affected ah urbanity, that was . ■ not genuine.	'
One -morning as George was standing on Michigan ; Boulevard, feeling deeply the lack _ of/excitement, .he noticed ya: man, well on in ■ years; who appeared to be a prosperous farmer. The- stranger in dress - and, inx action seemed everything that the, conventional rural citizen . should be. He. was the type immortalized -by one . Ring W.. Lardnery Mr. discovered him-r self wondering, " how . Ibng. this stranger could ■'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
hold onto his bank roll, if he were in Gotham instead of Chicago. ' ,
A gentleman, rather flashily dressed, whom George immediately "indexed” as a poker- player, class A, approached the farmer and • began to talk excitedly with him. At first the countrified one began to move away, but paused again, and took in, word for word what the other had to say. George then moved nearer to get an "earful.” He was already sure that somebody would be minus several dollars, before this conversation was over.	.
. Mr. .Poker-Player was giving the stranger a . ’t-ale of woe, and a pretty good one too,—at any fate, a better one than George of Gotham had ever heard. The speaker was in hard luck. . His wife was near the point of death in Peoria, • and it was necessary that he should be at her bedside. He was unable to reach her, as all the money he had was a check for a hundred dollars, and being unknown in Chicago he could not cash it. If the gentleman would cash it for him he would allow him a commission of ‘ twenty-five dollars. He hated fo put a stranger to this-trouble, but conventions could not be _ considered in such an emergency. .
The former thereupon - produced a wallet from his pocket and counted out five twenty dollar bills. Check and money were exchanged to the amazement of George Fuller, who watched the transaction with his jaw and upper teeth separated by a good two inches. With a look up and down the street, he of the "hard-luck” story passed on.
Mr. Fuller approached the farmer:	-'
• "Pardon ine, sir, but what was your idea in cashing-that.“hard-boiled egg’s check?” Why he is ’'without doubt, the smoothest looking article that ever entered my bright young life.”
'"Well, neighbor, I’ll tell you/’ said the < farmer, "that fellow’s story touched 'my heart..
The'check may be bad, but I’ll take a chance on it. There ain’t no fellow what’s goin’ to lie. about a dyin’ 'wife. Besides, I’m a pretty 'good judge of faces, and I swear, sir, he certainly had a true one.”	.
"Say,., let me tip you off, my man, you ' better go back to the lil ol’-town wherever you • came from before some, one runs off with the gold, in your teeth. Chicago faces can’t be judged. . Lemme take a-look- at that check, ' if you don’t mind.” -	.	.
The check was an order for one hundred and. twenty-five dollars signed by John. Brown.
103 ■■ - Tj
Air. Fuller again spoke: 1	-	;	'
"John Brown, well that fellow certainly	?
was original in his selection of names. John	"N
Brown—why that proves the check is bad. c I’ll bet a hundred to one that check is a ■	; "
valentine.”	.	’	.	-
The farmer looked thoughtful for a few -seconds and then said: "Well, I don’t know; ’	'
’pears to me that I might as well be out a \ hundred and five dollars as one hundred * .. ' dollars. Say/neighbor, I believe that stranger’s	'/
story so well that I believe I’ll risk five dollars ,	:
on it. What do you say?”	•	, J.
"What do I say! Come on, let’s go put the	A
money up with the clerk down at the Congress.” ■ f j
Having .established the mountain and . the ’ f mole hill on the desk before the obliging hotel / - :r clerk, both men, one from Gotham, the other -	. ’
from Hoosierdom, hurried to the State Bank.
The farmer and Fuller walked up to the -Cashier’s window together and the check jvas A ’ presented. The cashier looked at the check _ and- handed back one hundred dollars in the . \ ? coin of the realm. I think I mentioned something’- -	- .. .
about Fuller’s jaw dropping, say, you should have seen it drop this time. .	•	.: ■
The farmer took the bills, pocketed them,	/
and said "Well, I guess I was right about that-' ? -J-fellow’s looks, eh, young man? I guess I can use that five hundred' dollars of your money / . all right. By the way, I want to thank you ' - A for it.”	•	. = : '/
J'S’all right,” said Fuller from New York, i -"S’all right. Get out of here—quick.”	- ' ' ;
The farmer went off to get his five, hundred	' » =
and five,dollars from the hotel clerk. Then	./. A
Fuller approached the cashier- and said: .	-
"Say, who the heck is John Brown, anyway?”	. Ay
“Why he was the gentleman who came in = -J’;;Aa^ with you, and cashed the hundred dollar check.. './'//J He has a rather large account in this bank.” -	.	1:: -
-Varsity Verse.
The European War.
The baneful cannon shrieking loud, And guns of man’s creation, Demand their toll in human dead,.
And Europe’s desolation.	.
/ ' :
The toil of years and treasured art, . Are sacrificed for Viet’ry.
• -Ah, frenzied king of selfish heart The Devil’s hand hath tricked thee.
104
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Great American War. , No field runs red with battle’s blood - . Columbia’s peace to shatter,..
But stranger war, by stranger kings Compose a grievous matter.
To-day we stand amidst a fray, While round us wages battle:
.Politic war, and party strife, And grafters’ hollow prattle.
The nation’s fate is poised aloft On hands of politicians,
Who labor not for good of state, But lucrative positions.
Finance'is King, Deceit the Queen, And Truth is but a vassal;
While party playthings strive to gain , The presidential castle.
X '
Now Wilson seeks to hold His throne, But Hughes would claim the power And fiercer grows .the verbal fight, As nearer draws the hour.
“Protection is our'only hope,’’ Republicans keep shrieking.
Erse Trade,-the Democratic god, The radicals are speaking.
“In time of peace prepare for war, Preserve the nation’s glory;
Subdue rebelling Mexico, And votefor Hughes, the Tory!”
“Discard the sword and arbitrate, And heed no stump fanatic;—’
We obviated fiscal bane,	'
So vote straight Democratic.”
What-ohe upholds, the other flays, And Truth.grows far remoter; '
:. The candidates play well their hand To catch the cateless voter.
So deeply think before you vote, And then .be not too speedy—
Hypocrisy is well concealed - Bypoiiticians'greedy.
John Reuss..
J .. .5\ :AnoTheR-EamplE?./ > ; limust admit r_m;.quite~a". guy, ’ ’ f . • Said|Walter William’Jones.
’ ---- -	"T—•'	'M.	- < * I - / 1 ‘
I stand uyith: dad about’ acefhigh x -fAfid'ismde ‘ on“ ali'he. o whs.N;
j drive my auto pretty1 fast; z .^jhat-s tru^
But then, it doesn’t have to last, • •
. It only has to go.
“See here!”- I heard a shrill voice say, “You poor, benighted fish,
. If;you,don’t get some meat to-day I’ll hit you with a dish!”
. And Walter William, blushing red, Said, “Yes, my dear, all right!” He backed away with nodding head And disappeared from sight.
N. Whalen.
JustWind.
He says he lived in Jersey	-	?
And owned a touring car,
And left a life of luxury
To go to school afar.
I listened to his,stories
About the swell young-dame
He left in dear old Broadway When he entered Notre Dame.
But hark! one night I saw him Hike to a “Three Cent Lunch”
■/ To buy a “dog” and coffee
' - Unseen by all the bunch.
. And then he bought a “stogie” .With three cents which were "loaned” .And hurried back to Brownson
.To tell us all he owned.
M. A.
Southern Graves.
O.wildering wind!
Thou shepherd behind -
These flocks of Autumnal things; . / : -'Go,gather them all, -Sweep, woodland and wall
Whereonlythe grapevine clings!
O loitering stream	,
-Where, withered leaves teem - A-dahce.on thy dappled waves;	x
. - .Go, ward each along, .
Low crooning" a song
F Of Southland and Southern graves.
_ SASSAS ’ 11 S'FrancisButler. Evening. .	'S
L In;the.distant/W	’ -
.	.-■.And knewithe; day .was-nearly done;. -
"f 4;; :?The!twnight shadows fell.< 7	?
YJO^’eriallThe'wbrld did they5 expand/-,.
-v^And sdbii-inJdarkness’Fmysticiland 4
j: ?;; All earthly-thing^	:F. - -	<• -
■	- '»-S *•	‘	» 4“ k “ * . A.	/ > .. . . •	2 -	* ’
. 7ir-	- 44 'f- / • • r 'r '	-J''.--
'..7dSike“.tHe5cldse:of-:day, life’s'end'will He;4?' T ?
£U;;-hi d?	" 'sFvyF’wF ’J’
/F5Frdm dutHheYealms'oPeternity",






a.
THE NOTRE DAMETSCHOLASTIC
. Shall clouds of darkness roll Enshrouding me in blackest night, Till breaks the dawn of heav’nly light
' To free my frighted soul. .
, ' My Pipe and I.
Oft in the evening twilight, When the campus lay asleep And the spires on the belfry
Cast shadows dim and deep, We looked from out our window
Through a mist of mem’ries fond And savTfaces in the smoke-wreaths, ’ And thought of friendship’s-bond..

- .they began, to pause and ponder uponiTheir . own folly. The weight of: poverty and suffering told upon Europe; she was- being scourgedfor
,B. 0
her sins. . Her soul was being . chastened and’ • purified only at such a cost. In such distress men’s thoughts turned to .Christ and. His religion.* . Poetry, the great reflection of .the nation’s soul, turns to Christ also and sings. ~ of the glories of peace. '	: ' j
The last- stanza of .“New .Heaven.” by;
Katharine Tynan shows the spiritual trend; of; men’s thoughts:	.	\ A-'A'--AA
Aly pipe and I. J. P. Fogarty. .
War Poetry.
BY T.. F. HEALY.
All wars change for good or for bad the souls
‘ of nations engaged in fighting. The present Buropean struggle is not an exception. Already - < it has changed the .soul of. Europe to such a degree that it will, take a* long time, for .the nations to return to the state they were in before
' the conflict. What kind of a change is it—
Paradise* now is the soldier’s land,	..;
. Their own country its shining sod, ' ' A.
" Comrades all in a merry land; -	?
And. the young knights’ laughter pieaseth God. A";
And again in another poem,
Your son and my sori, clean as new swords;; . z Your man and my man and now the Lords! ' f _
Your son and my son for the great Crusade,“A-With the banner of Christ over, them—our knights new-made. . '	' ’ .	;	:
. As time goes on the spiritual, glory, of ;;waf is becoming. more; important, in the minds; of
good or bad? For answer turn to the poetry ;• written since the war started:
Before the present war, literature was in a-, sad state. Omtlm whole, the poetry was-filled with corrupt and materialistic ideas. Then
came the war and with it the “change in the poetry and literature of the different nations. . A thousand themes presented. themselves and the poet had very many sources of inspiration.
First of all,- the poets sang in a passionate outburst of hate. One nation hated all its foes with intense hatred. The poem best fitted to .show this is the famous “ Hymn ofyHate” which was'written by a German poet to express ■ the national feeling of his people, toward. Eng-. . land.' The enlisting songs Too were all typical of the spirit-of the times. Take the last verse
men. Now a soldier’s death is a splendid theme for a long, stirring war song. .	. * -^AA;
The fighting men. go charging past , ,	.	£> ■
WitlTthe battle in their eyes; .	AI,AAA
The fighting men go reeling' past ; ■:	AT:
Like gods in poor disguise: . ( - -,
The glorious meh whom none will see, - :-A; V - No .wife or mother more, ■ A ;T;taA?
Winged with the wings of victory "ATT?
., And helmeted by Thor! - ■	A ,-A
Above the cloud what lights are.gleaining? ?	; ; 5
-God’s batteries are those, .	•	‘
Or souls of soldiers homeward streaming ’''VAT .	/ To banquet with their foes? ..AxvAA1
The war sonnets of Rupert Brook Aeveal;






. of “Fall In” by Harold Begbie ;	.
.- AVhy do they call, sonny, wh>r do they call
. . • For .men who ate brave and strong? .	- -
- Is itnaught to you if your -country fall, ...
A - . And Right is-'smashed by AVrong? -	.
. . 'Is-it'football still and the picture-show, ■
.. A. ‘The pub and. the; betting odds, A. . : A ' When your' country stands to the tyrant’s blow Arid'Eriglarid’s’call.is God’s?	.
the true effect of the war oh poetry. JfereTare.: ' the last six lines, of his sonnet called" “The . Dead.”	''A-. A--;_ T ATTyA
Blow bugles bloW They brought us Lor bur. dearth';, Holiness lacked so long and. Love and Pain. A-
_ Honor has come back, as .a king,' to earth, /AAA And paid.his subjects with a royal wage; .•' : / A,’ ‘ And Nobleness .walks in our. wa.ys again; ATtAAA And we have come into our heritage.- - AATAtA
x And so, the war, -begun-in hate;-hasf iff^i^’ . progress chastened . the -hearts’ of :inen^B^ - - snuffing put the lives tof .strong, .men'.:likeittfie, .' flickering crindle-light it has made^theAmyivofs?
• realize, that the life of -tfiefsoul ^
strong,, steady, undying,—and this irealizati^ ? has.. been woven: - into.; the j songs ■ the? 'soldiers;
A AVhefftthei nations received a good taste of. - sing in their‘hearts and;
the ?warAtheyLhadAbfought upon; themselves,'1 Abopks
>■


$3


a

,i • “J* J Me**-.


io6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana '
L.
NOVEMBER 4, 1916
No. 7.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17-
- Speer Strahan, ’17
F. Jennings Vureillat, ’iS
Harry E. Scott
statistics, be elective officials? There is. no Republican or Democratic way of conducting these positions. They should be removed from the ballot. Instead,:direct the voter’s attention to the most' important offices only, those of governor and lieutenant-governor in the state. Make the rest of .the positions appointive. Give the governor the power the President'of the United States exercises, in appointing his cabinet. Permit ’ him to name the attorney-
— general, the auditor, the secretary of state, and the treasurer, and hold him responsible for the proper administration of these offices. Concentration of power in a conspicuous elective official underlies the short Ballot ’jS principle, a principle that has.worked success-
John A. Lemmer, ’iS
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’18
Thomas F. Healy, ’19
—A fundamental, tenet in the creed of the . American voter is the belief that much electing results in responsible) representative govern-' „ .	ment.. The Indiana ballot is
/ - -
Our Long Ballot, but typical of the general . acceptance of this principle.
When-the voter of St. Joseph County enters the polls on Tuesday he will-be confronted with a “jungR” ballot bearing two hundred and' eleven names.' It will be his duty to select approximately thirty state and county officials. In other word's, he will participate in almost thirty elections on the one day. The Notre Dame student voter is certainly a man of average intelligence. He is interested in
fully.in our national government from the day the Federal Constitution was adopted to the . present time. We must abandon the' notion that much electing means democracy in order to realize (with Mr. Wilson and with Mr. Hughes) that only through the short ballot is the voter’s effectiveness increased..and the boss’s opportunities diminished, and . a- responsible government best secured..
Two Local Books, as Others See Them.
Local praise of local books, .be it ever so just and discriminating, is apt to be considered by the nonlocal world at large partial and. flattering rather than unbiassed and merited. An extension of the adage that blood is thicker than water is brought into requisition to bolster up the contention that a reviewer will naturally, quite as a matter of course, favor an author who is a friend or a.fellow-townsman, a citizen of the same State or a member-of the same religious family-.' It is assumed that, in dealing with such an author’s literary output,'the reviewer will
‘Be to his virtues very kind. And to his faults a little blind.’
As a rule, the assumption is perhaps correct; but, if so,’ the rule undoubtedly suffers frequent exceptions. In some cases, indeed, a. _course_ directly opposite to that assumed is followed; and. the reviewer, far from favoring an author whom he might be supposed to treat at least'fairly, indulges either his petty envy or else-his distorted sense’of humor by injecting into a perfunctory notice a slighting reference or a phrase of double meaning which he finds it difficult to explain away when critics of greater prestige-than he can lay . claim to give unqualified approval, where he has damned: with faint praise “and without sneering taught the rest to sneer.”
The. foregoing general remarks are merely prelimi-
politics; yet, despite his familiarity with the issues of the- campaign, he is incapable of casting a really intelligent ballot. The reason for this is simple. The men of Indiana are asked to vote too much. Indiana’s long ballot. containing name's of unknown candidates for obscure offices makes critical discrimination by the voter impossible. Does the average voter "know which candidate will serve his state best as treasurer? Does he know which aspirant-to: the superintendency' of public
' instruction is best, qualified to further educa- nary to-the statement that, having recently received - .	; . ■	■ - y-/1	. copies of new editions of two local books, we purpose
tional; interests in Indiana? -Such questions - proving, by the citation of ^non-local appreciations " ‘ must be decided when casting his ballot.	thereof that: our-..own notices ;of-the first editions,
.. . -	.	-.	°	;	. favorable as they .certainly were,- did not err. on the
;The task of. the citizen on election day is side .of fulsomeflattery^ Through the courtesy of the complex and . impracticable. . The	short- ballot	- Polishers ; we have before us_a-cbllec.tion of about a
\ ~	y . - ' - . - .	•	hundred reviews, notices,; and-congratulatory letters
.	is a means	of its; simplification.	.Why	should	giving the opinions, relative to the.-bobks.in question,
;	the; coroner,	the surveyor, the reporter	of. the	Tf_^_^Lost?aPthoritative-,periodic^ and some of the y
' supreme -court,. the .chief of. the - • bureau of	Bary	c.s. c. Third Edition.:
- -	. -. * Clerical Colloquies, by the same author. Second Edition. ’
THE: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
most eminent ecclesiastical dignitaries in the Englishspeaking Catholic .worlds Even a casual glance at the more important of these tributes to the works of our local author is sufficient to impress one with the exceptional favor with which they have been received by those best qualified to pronounce on their merit, ' and to explain the somewhat unusual rapidity with which the books have gone, respectively, into their second and third editions.	-
. To . begin with the professedly theological periodicals that are accepted as standard authorities by priests on. both sides of the Atlantic,—the EcdesL astical Review says of “Priestly Practice”: “The cordial greetings which Father O’Neill’s familiar essays on clerical topics received when they originally appeared in the present Review, and which was so widely repeated when they made their first appearance in book form attests their merit and their value. They are thoughtful, inspiriting, genial, above all priestly and yet human things.” And of “Clerical Colloquies” the same monthly declares: “Our readers know-the author, whose genial comments on various phases of clerical life, material, intellectual, and spiri-■ tual, are attractive alike by reason of their directness of address, patent sincerity, and undoubted utility. They have, moreover, a flavor of the poetic which always argues for valuable intuitions. ... It is a helpful volume which should profit the most exalted as well as the humblest of our clerical brethren.” The Irish Ecclesiastical Record is not less complimentary. The scholarly organ of the justly celebrated College of Maynooth does not hesitate to say: “ ... Though we have read many more pretentious volumes by, for, and_ about priests, we do not remember any that has carried us along from chapter to chapter with -greater zest and more genuine pleasure. - . . The collection makes a very readable book, and one the perusal of which will, we believe, be helpful to the matured missioner as well as to the young priest and seminarian.”	' _
Passing to the other extreme of the - pendulum’s swing—from theological monthlies to secular dailies— the New York Sun said of our author’s -first work: - “ ... In the selection of topics and in their treatment the author makes good his aim of being helpfully interesting; and this scholarly book of practice in ghostly counsel and. common sense may well find . place among the working tools of any pastor of souls. Catholic or non-Catholic.” An equally laudator}7 notice of “Clerical Colloquies” in the New York Times says, among other things: “For the laity the book’s chief appeal is to be found in such vivacious and entertaining dialogues as ‘At the Clerical Club’ and ‘Father Tom Says the Dry Mass’—in which the informal conversations of the clergy on subjects special . and general are set forth with genuine realism and tielightful humor. Special mention must also be made of the essay on ‘Clerical Wit and Humor,’ in which even the unsympathetic reader must find -food for mirth. The author’s touch is so light and sure, his knowledge so comprehensive, and his style so charming that it is to be hoped that he will further develop some of the themes in this book and put his cross-sections of clerical life into the form of short stories and novels.
. He may become the'Canon Sheehan of America.” It is interesting to learn, in connection with this notice in the N. Y. Times, that it was reprinted verbatim, and without, credit, in the China Press, pub-
" lished in Shanghai. •	,	_	-
~ Quarterly reviews enjoy, from the very infrequency of their publication,, a reputation for solidity and weight which is not always upheld by their actual contents; but the Irish quarterly, Studies, dealing with letters, philosophy, and science, has not yet outlived the ‘prestige it acquired in its early issues of some five years ago. Of Father O’Neill’s latest work it says: “This attractive volume will enhance the author’s reputation, already well established, as a genial and ■ sympathetic mentor of the Catholic clergy. In sub. stance, as in style' and-appearance, it leaves nothing to be desired in'its own'line. . . , The author knows
priests well; knows their faults without being blind to their genuine, goodness. He has gathered his knowledge from what, when prudently consulted, is the safest interpreter of the secrets of human conduct and motives—his own heart. He is an experienced priest writing for priests, and so he writes with understanding and sympathy. His observation is shrewd and accurate, his advice is uniformly sound and practical, and even where he finds it necessary to call . attention to faults he does so with such evident sincerity and complete absence of superior pretensions , that resentment is impossible.”	-
Among the Catholic monthlies represented in the collection of clippings before us, the Catholic World has this to say: “We have found these Colloquies full of kindly humor, common sense, and sound advice to -clergy young and clergy old. to wearers of the black and wearers of the purple. Even when Father O’Neill ' denounces some striking clerical faults, he does so in so genial a manner as to win over the offender. As he well says, these talks are- ‘practical and helpful, without being dull, prosy, heavy, or ultra-ascetic.’” The Homiletic Monthly concludes an appreciative notice with this paragraph: “ . . . The subjects are all priestly, and they are discussed in a practical and attractive manner. One feels in reading the volume that the author has had great experience of clerical life and knows what he is writing about. It is a volume that will be heartily appreciated by all priests.” From the Lamp we have: “To have written ‘Priestly Practice,’ the clerical best seller of 1914, is happily not distinction enough for Father Parry O’Neill, for it has induced him to favor his audience with an encore in ‘Clerical Colloquies,’ a book for which we wish a measure of success equal to that accorded to his former volume, of which it is a worthy companion. To literary gifts of a high order Father O’Neill brings the grace of-putting things admonitory in a pleasing
' way. Nor does he pose as a superior person, but-frankly states that he has himself .continually in view as occupying a not insignificant place amongst those to whom his felicitously phrased and suggestive admonitions apply. . . . He has given us a second most excellent book, the reading of which we have thoroughly enjoyed.”	.	.
The organ of the Dominican Fathers, the Rosary Magazine, said of the first of these two books, “It is no small compliment to Fr. O’Neill.to say that, while -he has written on the same general topic as the distinguished writers, Manning, Gibbons, Hedley, Keatinge, Stang, Hogan, O’Donnell, arid-' Scannell, he has given us no mere paraphrase of their utterances, but a new book with a new view, which must challenge the attention and study of the earnest Levite seeking to increase his efficiency in his divinely appointed task— the care of souls.” Of the companion volume the same magazine has recently declared: “ . . . Not a single priest should miss the opportunity of procuring it. for himself. In the special literature of its kind it holds a unique place. First of all, the style is such as to fascinate us from beginning to end—live, crisp sentences that stick to the memory for months. Next, ' it is ensouled with the common sense spirit that makes the attainment of the ideals which it outlines possible 'and practical. . . .- And, last of all, the book touches upon precisely those points of the priestly life which, as a rule, are skimmed over or treated lightly . in the literature destined for clerics. In this point precisely the work is unique. We can do nothing better' than urge every -priest to procure this work for. himself and make the lessons it contains his own.”
Coming to the notices contained’ in the scores of Catholic weeklies published in Ehglish, we have ‘an embarrassment of riches,’ and must necessarily confine our quotations to the more representative papers. The London Tablet enjoys a distinction unquestioned .on either side of the Atlantic; and, of “Priestly Practice,” . it speaks in this downright fashion: “A. thoroughly satisfactory work. Priests in search of a really good / . book on priestly life and duties, full of sound advice conveyed in an attractive forfn, should lose no time in .

108 -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
procuring a copy of this publication. - The counsels ■ . here set forth are evidently drawn from sr ripe experi-
ence, and a deep knowledge of the spiritual life. . . The topics are treated with great originality of thought • ' showing that the ideas are not borrowed from other
books. . . Altogether the work is what it prbfesses-to be—eminently practical and helpful.” The London ’ weekly’s cis-Atlantic counterpart in scholarship and ‘ prestige, America, greeted “Clerical Colloquies” thus
cordially: “-Father O’Neill is already well-known to _ the clergy through his charming and helpful work . called ‘Priestly Practice,” favorably reviewed in the
columns of America nearly two years ago. In his .choice of a title for this companion volume to the other, the author is very happy. Writing with the view of furnishing the ordinary work-a-day priest with reading .material that is practical and helpful without being dull, heavy, or ultra-ascetic, he has realized his pur-‘ pose admirably. . . ‘Colloquies’ they assuredly'are, and the graceful combination of high ideals, broad experience, moderate views and cordial sympathy not only-precludes ennui, but infuses interest and pleasure into each moment we spend in the company of the genial author.”	.
It is claimed for»the London Catholic Times that'it is the* most widely quoted Catholic newspaper in the^ .world, a partial guarantee at least of its influence and worth. Its well-known reviewer, “Papyrus,” honored the first of our author’s books, two years ago, with his leading article; and of the second hook writes as follows: “This work, intended for, the priesthodd, is one of the most delightful books of its class that have come to our table for many a ye-ar. It is a gathering of essays and dialogues, varying considerably one from another, and of such keen interest for pastors of souls that when the fifteen chapters have all been carefully
and we.belong- (alas!) to the large multitude who only
. .	. too often, take their spiritual reading as people take
perused we rise from the literary banquet with' an medicine: not because it is pleasant to the taste, but appetite for.more! . . . Since our perusal of Cicero’s '	' '	' *	..........
. piece of special pleading for Old Age, known to students as ‘De Senectute, ’ we have read nothing so eloquent ~ as the chapter on ‘The Longevity of Priests.’ wherein the ^author encourages the priest to take care of his health, and to ward.off such ailments as may prevent, him from being ‘long-lived on the earth’ and reaping a glorious harvest of good works.” .The American weekly which most closely approximates the London -paper just quoted is perhaps the Catholic Standard and ■ Times. ‘Tts summarized verdicts bn. our local books
. are: “-The" essays are models of literary grace and simple elegance. . . .-A very charmingly written
- - book.”	’ .	. .	-	. '
.. Our allotted space, however, is already filled, so we must make an end of these quotations. The following, from the discriminating: reviewer of - the - Brooklyn
Samuel Gomper’s address to the students Thursday afternoon, October' 26th-, was note-"worthy., principally -because of • the speaker’s ' evident sincerity and unwavering, belief in the. to these /clerical works of. our Notre Dame author:' principles :he enunciated as his -own. Mr.
;	priest has an intensely, human side. Gompers contrasted the-.union worker with '
- Books written .for his edification and instruction, . .	,	. . - .	.	. ..	— .	.
generally, by foreigners, have as a rule omitted this the non-union man, and showed’how the latter important" consideration: . It has been Heft to _an is the mOre subject to the. dictates of his em- . .
. present, volume of Colloquies comes from the pen of pldyer. ? He .5 descried the .fact that it is the ..
. one whose name is not an unfamiliar one to the Ameri- - capitalist side of the labor - Question that’ is look with, interest for his occasional papers and find : presented ’ to the..world >at large^because the tinthenrfoodfo^	. newspaper's.' and other mediums for detailing -
> j Many, of them have read his volume Priestly Practice, : .v /.1 -	. rf	.
.with genuine: enthusiasm not. once' but many, times, !information, are under file/Surveillance- of the ' i for it is always suggestive and entertaining. That the "! einpldvers • t''?/-*;;?:;..:'7	T'vv'-:	-	"	- .
.same-reception will be accordedthis companion volume'	T,- J	v..
. is - our .firm conviction. Reading. r Father Q’Neill’s.
books is almost as good as a. pleasant visit’ from a wise.'.
. ' .bld jpadre'/.who has - been through/ all one’s Fown“experi-7. . / ences.and;knbws"howto'drawtherefrom.a;wealth /-of?. sbum^	:OfS course/;-we^congrattda
fthe reverendjautffpf7? His;wofXdsja'godsend^and ’will * .7 Jamuse,Pinterest,)? andHnstiuct • ?- rderical admirers.”: H ? J ■/. -7:	-
. Tablet, nevertheless demands , an entry because of its explaining the popularity .which admittedly attaches .
>HHumanmatme,Vampng:priests-as|.with bthefi-iiepple, is mudfiffiq same all over the^
ing note of our author’s’ works impresses the European not less.than the American. Thus Rome, the English weekly published in the Eternal City, emphasizes in. a four-column notice the very point made by the -Tablet, the humanness of these exceptional books; -and this must be our ultimate quotation: “Have you yet read Father Arthur Barry O’Neill’s 'Clerical Colloquies’, which has just been published by the ' University Press of Notre Dame, Indiana? If not, you have a treat in store for you, and if, being a priest, you have not come across his other volume, ‘Priestly Practice’ which was printed two years ago, you lyill find it very profitable to add both books to your collection. For both are admirable, they are written by a priest for-priests, and they/treat-of many of those subjects which interest priests.' They are too short, each volume containing only about 250 pages'in large clear type; but the author has now-got into his-stride, and it is to be hoped that he'will yet give us more than one other bright, edifying, human book- of the same kind, for there is a great dearth of them in the English language. Our author has now touched .on a large variety of topics. . . . Obviously there is plenty of scope for other essays on kindred topics, and those who ' have read these first two volumes will eagerly look forward to any others that Father Barry O’Neill may give us. -. . . They are delightful books. We have the habit of reading novels at night. . (Right here you strike your breast and shed a tear). For the last fewnights we have been reading ‘Priestly Practice’ and-‘ Clerical Colloquies’, and we. have found them more. interesting, more amusing, more- touching (to say nothing at all of their, being more profitable and more . edifying) than any novel.we have read for a long time; -
because it is good forjdie inside.-”	'
And now we flatter ourself that we have conclusively shown the absence of any extravagant or undeserved praise in the.. Scholastic’s own notices of Father . O’Neill’s volumes; and accordingly-we expect'our . readers to accept at face value our appreciation, of the-next book fie gives us. It is to appear, we understand, early in 1918.	.	.	.	'
*
- Entertainment.
Hon A James?/W atsonjl^Qpublican -candidate. ■ . for United/States Senator from Indiana, demon- .
.-7--’-,- ’ ” V ’	. NS~;-	J, « -5,	' -y <-	.	.	,
-strafed'^	difficulty that'. J
aj/campaign-^speaker '^ex^	.dn.t eschewing
tpohticalj^^



i°9;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
be interested in political affairs.. Notwithstanding this failing, Mr. Watson spoke eloquently and entertainingly, and was enthusias--tically approved by the students.^ His wit is equalled on1y by the strength of character of which his-words'and their forceful delivery gave evidence. -	.	.	.
Mr. Watson was followed by ?4r._ Joseph' Ralph who described in detail the workings of The wonderfully efficient branch of governmental Undertaking of which he is 'the head, the Bureau of Printing snd Engraving at Washington^ .	•	~	..
On Monday morning , Mr. Thomas Walsh 4 lectured on Cervantes and his works, giving ' particular attention to the masterpiece, “Don
Quixote.” .	■	. z
A picturized life of Napoleon was presented Wednesday night in which all the • French ' characters were depicted by actors unmis-. takably Italian in appearance and deportment. The man who assumed the leading rdle looked less like the. Little Corporal than 'his imper-, senators usually do.	'
Personals.
—Announcement is made of the marrige of Miss . Margaret’ Johnson,^ of Kansas City, Missouri, to Mr. Joseph P.- Morley, of South Eend, on October 25th. The bride is a daughter of Mr. William T. Johnson (A. B., ’68; A. M;, ’70) who is generally regarded as the ablest lawyer in Missouri! .	■	- \ *
—On the occasion of the investiture of the-
I wish., you would convey to him my sincerest thanks7 for the pleasure he affords me in reading his effusions.-He is, perhaps, a modest violet and does not care -■ to sign his patronymic to his contributions, it may be he is trying to escape the consequences of his temerity. Since the Scholastic has been inoculated with a ~ culture of wit, it has begun to appear like a twentieth’ century production.	’ ' r ‘
I see where Father O’Donnell is publishing “The,. Book.of Varsity Verse.” That is very good. I wish !some of you men down there would start a-campaign x -for a real good Notre Dame song. I do not know of a - . one.that is worth much more, than a tinker’s curse.. . It may be I lack literary appreciation. It may be the music has not the proper merit. I would like to see-something that such warblers as .Byron Kanaley and Warren Cartier could sing, so that you would know they were at least carrying an air.
- Obituaries.
Grief over the "death of his only son, Hugh, who attended Notre Dame* until June, 1915, hastened the death last Wednesday morning of:' John F. Burns of Michigan City. He leaves a .
. widow, who is prostrated over the double k -bereavement that has visited her within four months. Mr. Burns is the brother of the Reverend James Burns, C. S. C., President . :
. of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. He . shall be remembered in the prayers of the. . .
Faculty and students of the University, funeral was held Saturday morning.
- ... ***' f
The Rev. Frederick McKeon, . C. -S professor of- Spanish at the University,
The
C!, was.
called home by. the death of his mother oh
Tuesday last in her home at New Conn. The Faculty and students will ber her in prayer. i
Haven, remem-
t Right Rev. E- J. McLaughlin (A. B., ’75;
A. M.,/95) with the p'urple, and with'the title* . of Prothonotary Apostolic, the Senior Class on
Local-News.
behalf of the University sent a message - of. congratulation. To this Consignor replied .as follows: . .	'	■ ,
'• . Most inspiring and grateful to mj'- heart-were the . cherished greetings and heartfelt congratulations from
—-Found—A signet 'ring. The owner may
apply for same to Brother Alphonsus.! -	%
’—The director of the Apbstolate Library desires to thank a benefactor for. a copy of the
excellent biography . of Mgr. Robert Hugh
twelve, hundred valiant, sons of Alma MaterI wish for Benson, by Fa th er. Martin d al e, S'- J. ’
. all highest, honors in this world and when-your work —On-Wednesday evening, the. Holy Cross . is done, highest places in.the.mansions above.	'	„ • • .	~ ~ ; , . . ,	. .
....	.. -	Total Abstinence. Society held a special meeting;
■I Rev. J. E. Scullen (Litt. B.„ '09) of Austin,	lhc iustan..tioll „t 0;e officers for the
. -Minnesota, writing to Mr. Howard-.Parker,	yca!. J<ev. • Cornelius Hagerty,
■ this to say ofour college weekly:. ., c. S. <!., addressed tile students., -k -k ' .•;:’l;a.m-writing .to you. to .learn .who. is the editor of.
the Safety Valve. He,is a. literary, genius and.wit .	y. = ' ■ : - - ' q	, A—
A 4.1 L " '	•>>;'-a -j 'f	~ ayear.-and a half ago, -willbe. presentedum,
-of/the purest, ray serene; * Aside from the locals and ~ ...	. r_; ..
; the'sport-notices it is aU that I read in-the Scholastic; . University • students* tinder .. thedirection

IIO
I
THE'NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Prof. Lenihan some time before. Christmas. The selection of the cast was made yesterday, and practice -will be begun immediately.
—A letter just received from Father Manuel Fernandez, 0. P., brings the information that he left San Francisco July 9th and arrived at Manila August 4th. He is teaching at the • Dominican College, San Juan de Letran, in Manila. The institution is of ancient date, having been founded in the year 1640. Father Manuel will always have the prayers and affection and good wishes of his friends at Notre Dame.
Cross Country.
Oh you blackhorse! Oh you' man with a handicap! It looks as though you were going to come into your own next Thursday afternoon at 4 o’clock when Coach Rockne assembles his trackmen for the Second Annual Intra-. Varsity cross country run. The five mile jaunt will start in front of the Church, along, the cinder path to St. Mary’s gate, thence north on Niles road to Haney’s Corners, thence east - to Eddy Street Road, thence to Cartier Field and one lap on the quartermile track. Rockne has arranged the time allowances as follows: Herman Cook, Moleski, Kenny, Carey, Galloway, Starrett, Donahue, Giblin, Kelley, Ken-nedjr, Murray, O’Neil, Farrington, McKenna, • McDermott, and Susan, 5 minutes; Cooke, Kasar, Suttner, Hackett, and Sorenson, 4 minutes;. Coyle and Harbert 2 mintues; Kasper, 1 minute, and Captain McDonough, Noonan, and Meehan ■ will start from scratch. The following prizes will go to the victors:
1st—South Bend Watch donated by* Dr. ' Lucas;, ,2nd—Shirt by Adler Bros.; 3rd— Meal Ticket by.Mike Calnon; 4th—Cigars by Hulfie and Mikes; 5th—Sweater . by - Coach . Harper; 6th—Sweater by* Coach Rockne.
\» -------------- -
- -	Interhall Football. -
' ■ - ~ ,
- The second game of the - interhail series was played on Sunday, Oct. 29, when Corby Hall .romped away -with a 20 to o victory. The Sorin eleven, though undrilled, showed .plucky fighting, and held .the Corbyites scbreless for
Vogel did the big work for Sorin. Stafford was injured in the first half and had to leave the game.
On Wednesday, the Corby and Walsh Chicks fluttered on to the gridiron for a sizzling game. It was a fine game to watch—plenty of . running and bucking and fumbling and penalizing. In the second half Brownson, by a succession of line bucks and end runs in which Reilly starred, brought the ball to the five-yard line, and a neatly executed forward pass scored the only touchdown of the game. Brandy starred for Corby with long runs and clever passing, while Reilly, Walters and ..White were prominent among the Brownsonites. Mulligan was injured in the scrimmage, and Coach Rockne has advised the little sprinter to remain out of football for the rest of the season.
-------***-------- ’ . . ] Football.---------j
————
a
Last Saturday’s 60 to o victory over Wabash | brought the Varsity’s seasonal score up to 182	- ]
against an aggregate of four ciphers to the I credit of their opponents, andyplaced the Notre	|
Dame fans in high hopes‘for to-day’s game at	I
Army, the result of which will have been | - learned before these lines are read. .	3
Straight football was. almost entirely respon-	|
sible for Notre Dame’s nine touchdowns. Scin-	1
tillating end runs and off tackle smashes	1
crumbled the visiting defense and dashed the	|
' hopes of those who had hoped that Wabash..	|
yould give the Varsity a real contest. Even , I after Coach Harper had removed every one of	I
his regulars, toward the end of the first half,	1
'Notre Dame had .little difficulty in putting	J
through long gains. In the second half, with	j
the score 39 to o, Harper sent back his first	I
team, with the exception, of Mclnerny, but removed them in . the fourth-period. Wabash failed to make a single first down during the . game. ...	'	-	- -1
Cofall made the longest run of the day, : although Grant arid Bergman both peeled off -
long runs through Broken fields. Cofall’s flashy sprint was made at the start of the second quarter. Bacon kicked over the Notre Dame goal line' and The 'ball was brought out . to' the 20-yard line.Cofall took the ball, and '
the first quarter, but Kasper’s team bagged" a following up welLplaced interference/ squirmed" ‘ score in each of the remaining quarters. Forward his . way for. ninety yards to a touchdown, passes were used by both sides with good effect. Grant later eluded, .the Wabash tacklers Jor : ?. For Corby, Kasper and .Mulligan- starred and . - the same, distanceand. placed. the 'ball1 under

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
* nr
the goal posts, but he was called, back by the
Safety Valve.
referee, offside.
■ during John
who had discovered Notre Dame suffered the game.
Miller started the two
a home player many penalties
halves with the
regulars, after a layoff caused by his broken hand, and he picked his way through the pack repeatedly for substantial yardage. S1 ackford followed Miller at the fullback position and pierced the Wabash line . seemingly at will. Malone and Fitzpatrick proved able substitutes for Bergman and Cofall. • Capt. Caldwell at left guard and Thompson at left tackle were the losers’ best performers. Wabash had for its ends a pair of sure tacklers who broke up many a promising run of their opponents.
Between halves a trio of former N." D. football heroes were driven around the field for the edification of the spectators. The men were Gus Dorais, Art Bergman, and Joe Pliska. Royal Bosshard, president of the senior class, was the chauffeur. The crowd was the, largest of the season, and a .typical “big game” atmosphere surrounded the campus during the day.	'
The lineup and summary, with the numerous substitutions, are as follows.
R.E.
R. T
R. G.
C.
L. G.
E. E.
Q-
R. H.
L. H.
F. B.
L. E.
L. G.
C.
R„ T.
R. E.
Q.
L.
R.
F.
H.
B.
Notre Dame, 6o.
'	King, Meagher, King, Meagher
*	Mclnerny, Philbin
Degree, Ward, Degree, Ward Rydzewski, Jones, Rydzewski, Madigan Bachman, Franz, Ronchetti, Bachman Coughlan, Andrews, Coughlan, Andrews Baujan, Berkey, Baujan, Berkey Phelan, Grant, Dorais, Pehlan, Grant Bergman, Malone, Fitzpatrick, Bergman, Fitzpatrick Cofall (Capt.), Fitzpatrick, W. Miller,
-	Cofall, W. Miller
J. Miller, Slackford, J. Miller, Slackford
‘ Wabash, 6.	.
.	O. G. Thomson, Heald.
’	Woodward, Thompson
Caldwell (Capt.) Stonebreaker ~ Michaels, Meal
.	’	Hanicker
Moses, Paulsen Lindsey, Green
•	Walker, Vermillion
Coifing
.	.	Bacon
'Student:—“No professor- I haven’t my theme. You certainly can’t expect me to be writing themes every day with the price of paper way up in the sky. It’s not that I can’t write a fine theme and that I’m not willing to do it but I’ll have to get permission from home just as I have to do when I want a bill for clothes from Father. Moloney.”	.
- . * *
We notice from the personals that an old student wishes a song written that men like Warren Cartier and Byron Kanaley can sing. We offer a thousand dollars to anyone that will write a song that Cartier' and Kanaley can sing.	.
t * * -
“No, George, I haven’t come to bring back the dollar I borrowed but I thought if your razor wasn’t working to-night I’d shave myself.”	- .
• *
’ - * * . .
Tommy Glynn came back to demand the rest of his education.- Won’t someone please give it-to him. - * * * -
You know me, Al. -I’m -the fellow who pats you affectionately on the head after I’ve had any hand -around a greasy hamburger sandwich. -
* ■ . * *
“ Where should a fellow pay his tuition around here, anyway? Is it at Hullie & Mikes or at Bro Leopold’s?” * * * *
You certainly are there in the pinches—just like the bath, tubs in Rockerfeller Hall.
*** . .
No Geraldine they don’t press football suits—at least not till after the _ game starts.
* * * .
Yes, we’ll offer five thousand dollars to anyone who can write such a song.	•
*
John Boyle hasn’t made the WawE this year so he came down Saturday to see about it. He promises to come to the Military Ball-and wear that dress suit
again—Then!!!
Dear Mother:—
*
* *
I am at school now for two months and I write to say that the people here are much funnier than the people in Dunning. I go to one class called Geometryx and we spend the- hour every day drawing lines in different directions and saying a equals b, and b -equals c, and angle or ankle—I can’t tell which it is—is a right ankle. The professor never smiles and seems to be really serious about the thing and'the ■ rest of the class don’t seem to see the humor of the . thing/ They are apparently serious and seem to think . it matters something whether d is equal- to: b and. . whether lines run in the same or - different direction.. Of course I have to agree with them and appear interested as people in their . condition often become■ • violent when opposed. If I could only laugh right out . I’d feel better but I have to "restrain myself. This .x-
Touchdowns—Cofall (2), Bergman (2), Fitzpatrick,
Phelan, ; J. Miller, Dorais, Slackford. Goals from - would be an excellent place forDr. Ease who is'making
touchdowns—Miller .(3), Philbin (2), Cofall. Referee	a special study of feeble, mindedness to experiment.
—Van Riper, Wisconsin. Umpire—Hoffman, Chicago. I also have a class called Algebra where we spend' Head linesman, —Coffins, Cornell. . '	' hours saying a4-b+c=y2 therefore a equals.96. When
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1 get into bed at night I just split my sides laughing at the thought of that class. And the teacher seems to be such a nice fellow otherwise and the boys seem to be sane enough when talking baseball or football. I haven’t been to the Orpheum once this year— these classes have the vaudeville shows skinned. I’d pay a dollar an hour to attend but the secretary doesn’t know it or he'd charge me. Send Will to school here Don’t let him miss this. With love
Old Sludents’ Hall—Subscriptions to November, 4, 1916
The following subscriptions for Old Students' Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee: .
$2000.00 Samuel T. Murdock, '86 ‘Siooo.oo
P. T. O’Sullivan, ’68 Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, ’75 M. F. Healy, '82 John C. Shea, ’9S Clement C. Mitchell, ’02 Byron V. Kanaley, ’04 Daniel P. Murphy, ’95 John P. Lauth, ’6S
$500.00	•
C. A-Paquette, ’90
Rev. John Dinnen, ’65	’
Warren A. Cartier, ’87 Stephen B. Fleming, ’90 Thomas Hoban, '99 Angus D. McDonald, ’co
• William A. Mclnerny, 'or Joseph M. Bj’rne, ’14 Cassius McDonald, '04 William P. Breen, ’77 Student from Far West '• Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09 C. C. Craig, ’85 Frank E. Hering, '98 Peter P. McElligott, ’02 James J. Conway. ’85 George Cooke, ’90
,	$250.00
Peter Kuntz Robert Sweeney, ’03 •John H. Fendricti, ’84	’
John Eggeman, ’00 A. A. McDonell, '00 Eugene A. Delaney, ’99 R. A. O’Hara, '89 v	$200.00
John O’Shea, 'xi James F. Kennedy, ’94 Louis C. M. Reed, ’98 Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00 . Joseph J. Sullivan, ’02	’
G. A. Farabaugh, ’04 Robert Anderson, ’S3 ' foseph Lantry, ’07	. -
Rev. F. J. Van Antwerp, ’14 John Dowd, '99-	,
- Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03 - Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ’94
F. A. Kaul,-’97 I .	'
William Hoynes, '77	’ _
-Edwin J. Lynch.’10
T. D.* Mott, ’95
-_F. Henry .Wurzer, ’98	" .
Paul R. Martin,’13	-
Timothy V. Ansberry, -’93 - ■ John M. Quinlan, ’04 • -	.
.Daniel Madden, '06	-
- Fred J. Kasper, '04	-	-	"
. J. S.; Corby, ’98 . '	- '.
Thomas Steiner, *99_	‘,
John F. Cushing, ’o6
Glenold.
$150.00
William Byrne, ’95 James L. Tong, '94 W. A. Draper, ’06 $120.00
Maximilian St. George 'oS $100.00
Harry V. Crumley. '03 Harry S. Cahill Walter V. Heekin William McKenzie Rev. Bernard P. Munay, Mark M. Foote, ’73 Patrick J. Houlihan, ’92 E. J. Maurus, ’93 Thomas J. Swantz, ’04 H. G. Hogan, ’04 Harold P. Fisher, '06 John B. Kanaley, '09 James F. Hines, '09 John B. McMahon, '09 Rev. John M. Byrne, ’00 J. H. Gormley, ’03	•
Thomas O’Neill, '13 Robert E. Proctor, ’04 John F. O’Connell, ’13 Frank C. Walker, ’09 Rev. Gilbert Jennings, ’oS George O’Brien, ’90 Vitus Jones, ’02	•
W. A. Duffy, 'oS Rev. J. H. Guendling, '14 Fred C. McQueen, ’00 Charles J. Stubbs, ’S3 Rupert Donavan, ’oS Rev. Francis H. Gavisk, ’14 Rt. Rev. Frank O’Brien, ’95 Frank L. McOsker, '72 Charles E. Ruffing, ’85	.
James F. Foley, ’13	’
Rt. Rev. T. C. O'Reilly, ’09 Thomas J. Welch, ’05	-
William E. Cotter, '13 John C. Tully, 'ri John F. O’Connor, ’72 T. P. O’Sullivan,.’02 G. M. Kerndt, '82 _ Dr. Frank J. Powers, ’94
Rev. John Talbot Smith, '07 Daniel C. Dillon
Thomas C. Butler, ’08	'
Edward M. Kennedy, ’08 John J. Kennedy, ’09	-
Peter M. Ragan, ’92 James D. Barry, '97 -Fred L- Steers, ’11 Walter. Clements, ’14	.
Edward J. Carlton, ’16 ; ' Leonard M. Carroll, '16" 'Luke L. Kelly, ’i6	’
Frank E. Swift,’16	, -	■
.. C. P.,Mottz, .’16	’ . . -•
. - Samuel Ward Perrott,-’i6 '
$100.00
Edward C. Ryan, ’16 James Francis Odem, ’16 Emmett P. Mulholland, '16 Thomas A. Hayes, ’16 Frank J. Hiss, ’16 Joseph J. McCaffery, ’16 Walter P. McCourt, '16 M. J. McEniry, JSi . Thomas J. Shaughnessy, ’15 James F.'O’Brien, ’13 Michael L. Fansler, ’04	~
A. C. Fortin, ’01 Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05 M. H. Miller, ’10 William D. Jamieson, ’05 Grover F. Miller, ’16 Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16 Edwin H. Sommerer, ’16 Joseph O’Sullivan Jacob E. Eckel, T6'	.
Vincent Mooney, ’16 John T. Shea, ’06 Edward M. Schaack. ’93 Anton C. Stephan, ’04 Dr. F. B. McCarty, ’07 Harry F. McDonagh, ’10 . Charles W. Lahey, ’13 Adam J. Kasper, ’95 George W. Kasper, ’95 , Robert A. Kasper, ’07
Charles Girsch, ’94 Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07 John B. Fruechtl, ’04 Hugh J. Daly, ’12 .
Edward K. Delana, ’13 Harry Curtis, ’oS Charles Cullinan, ’07 -Daniel Cullinan, ’07 Dr. W. P. Grady, ’99 Edgar-Crilly, '90 George S. Crilly, 'SS James V. Cunningham, '07 M. H. Miller, '10 Frank X. Cull, ’08 ’ Jesse E. Vera, ’10 Walter Duncan, ’12 James W. O'Hara, ’13 Joseph Collins, 'n
-Dr. H. G. McCarty, '12 James Dubbs. ’06	~
Raymond E. Skelly, ’11 William R. Ryan, '11	•
William A. McKearney, 'cS $75-00	,
John W. Costello, ’12.
-	$50.00
’ ’Rev. John Schopp, ’94
A. J. Major, '86 Charles Vaughan, ’14 Stephen H. Herr, ’10	.
J. N. Antoine, ’70 Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09 Fred Stewart, ’12 -• .	’
Jay Lee, '12	.	■
Albert F. Gushurst, ’09 Edward P. Cleary, ’09 . . Rev. John J. Burke, '83	.
~ Rev. M. L". Moriarty, 'io
Rev. J. E. Scullin, ’09	,
Rev. John P. Quinn, ’83 Simon E- Twining, ’13 .
J., V.' Birder, ’13. ' -	•
Cecil E. Birder,-’14 _ M. Emmett Walter, ’15	-
- Ralph Eberhart, ’02 . .
Rev. John M.- Gerenda, ’09' -Timothy P. Galvin, ’16 . Ray M. Humphreys, ’16
. Hugh E.(Carroll, 46 - ... . Jesse C. Harper .
$50.00
Ronald S. O’Neill, ’14 Louis P. Hari. ’16 ’ Joseph D. Kovacks, ’16 Patrick Maloney, ’16 J. F. Delph, ’16 Hugh O’Donnell, ’16 James Sanford, ’14 Ira W. Hurley, ’14 Emmett G. Lenihan, ’15 Francis H^ Hayes, '14 E. P. Cleary, ’09 Raymond J. Kelly, ’16 Ernest P. Lajoie, ’45 Rev. P. J. Crawley, ’95 Arthur Pino, ’06 William Milroy, ’13 Dr. Robert Frost, ’02 Eustace Berry, ’03 . A Friend from the South
Daniel Shouvlin, '14 $40.00
Gerard N. Krost, ’04 $25-00
Lawrence Janszen Rev. A. A. Lambing, ’83 James M. Riddle, ’13 Henry Hess, ’82	-
Dr, E- M. McKee, ’06 Robert B. Gottfredson^ ’13 Rev. John H. Mullin, '11 I. N. Mitchell Sr., ’92 Frederick Williams, '13 Rev. Joseph Toth, '11 Joseph M. Walsh, ’14 Max Adler, '89	~
John G. Mott,-’95 Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09 Paul J. Smith, ’16 C. I. Krajewski, '16 ' Joseph P. Flynn, ’16 John P. Conboy, ’16 W. W. Turner, ’16 Alfred Fries. ’16	_
J. A. McCarthy, '16 ■ J. Harry Sylvestre, '16 Harold P. Burke, '16 Peter C. Verns, ’16 Fred M. Pralatowski, ’16 ' Francis J. Kilkenny, ’12
Edward L. Figel, ’11 Thomas J. Dooley, '97 . MarkA. Devine; 'io
Daniel E. Cooney, 'io Fremont Arnfield, ’12 W. W. Harless, '86 Edward J. Walsh, ’00 Thomas Curran, ’16 $20.00
Gabriel Davezac, ’94 James R. Devitt, ’13 . Albert A. Gloeckner, ’16 $15-00
Bernard Durch, ’13 $10.00
Alfred Vignos, ’95	-
- Andrew L. Shimp; ’91
Frank Niedecken, ’09 .Harry Kirk, ’13
Louis Chute, ’92 J. J. Deasey, ’06 ’ H. King, ’16
James E. Roach, ’16 , J. E- Hogan, ’16
-	. - $5-00	'
' - - Robert D. Murphy, 'or
Mark Duncan, '15 ■	”
- Hiram -Halliday; ’06 ’ Claude S. Moss, ’95 ’ John Bell,' 'oS '	"
• 1
1
