THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 78	JANUARY 29, 1943	NO. 1
Navy Officers - in - Training
You can't drill in uncomfortable shoes. Here is real quality and foot comfort that complies with regulations in your proper size.
and others

Jfe-Art
Exclusive representative for
NETTLETON — CROSBY SQUARE — WALK-OVER — FOOT JOY — STACY ADAM — MATRIX and Q-N SHOES

120 South Michigan Street
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 78	JANUARY 29, 1943	No. 1
1,100 Ensigns Receive Commissions;
New Trainee Class Arrives Monday
Notre Dame bade farewell to 1,100 newly commissioned ensigns. This week the welcome sign, slightly rusted by four months of idleness, -will again be tacked up in full view of each and every one of the arriving 1,200 apprentice seamen.
Graduation has held the spotlight this past week with numerous other activities that kept the men busy. Captain’s inspection was held Saturday in the new officer’s uniforms. On Monday and Tuesday evenings a class play was presented to the four battalions. The Graduation Hop, at the Palais Royale, featuring the music of Chico Marx and his band topped the activity on Wednesday evening. At 10:30 a.m. Thursday the climax of four months of intensive training came when the midshipmen received their commissions and coveted one inch stripe from Rear Admiral John Downes, commandant of the Ninth Naval District.
Another feature of the week was the marriage of 200 midshipmen within four days of the graduation. Fourteen will be solemnized at South Bend churches, three in the rectory on campus, two in the Sacred Heart Church, and the remainder at their home town churches.
These ensigns are destined to be sent to almost any part of the globe. Censorship forbids the announcing of any definite location, but the east and west coasts, advanced training schools, and combat schools will be the destination of a vast majority of the men. The ensigns’ own preference for duty is given due weight, in addition to their grades and aptitude tests.
The apprentice seamen arriving this Monday will also be here for four months. For two months the men will wear the regular sailor uniforms and then change to midshipmen uniforms for the remaining two months. Their daily routine begins with reveille at 5:45. Morning chow is at 6:25 and then a period in which to clean up their quarters. At 7:35 classes and drills begin. One secton has class for two hours while another section drills. The four major classes will be navigation, ordnance, seamanship, and damage control. Noon chow
is scheduled for 11:30. Classes resume at 12:15 p.m. with various sections alternating in classes, drill, and athletics. From 4:15 to 5:15 is an hour of liberty. Evening chow comes at 5:15, followed by an evening liberty till 7:15. Then, they study till 9:30, have a free half hour, and taps is sounded at 10:00 p.m.
This new contingent will be the first to take full advantage of the new navy drill hall behind the field house and the new administration and class room building behind the Rockne Memorial. The drill hall will be used mainly for drill and gunnery practice. It contains all types of dummy guns with which the men practice assembling and loading. The administration hall houses numerous class rooms and offices of the senior officers.
In brief, that is a small bit of what Notre Dame offers the navy. After a few weeks they will enjoy the real Fighting Irish campus.
New Freshmen Attend Retreat and Smoker
The 200 new mid-year freshmen attended sessions of the traditional freshmen retreat Saturday and Sunday, with the popular Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion stationed in Zahm, serving as retreat master.
Father Sheedy reminded the new men that colleges today are a place in which
WANTED: WRITERS
Anyone interested in becoming a member of the SCHOLASTIC staff should report next Sunday, Monday, or Tuesday evenings between 7:30 and 9:30 p. m. at the offices directly behind the main building. All former reporters should notify the editors of their new campus addresses. The SCHOLASTIC offers, to freshmen and sophomores especially, an excellent opportunity for advancement and to all students valuable experience in writing. For any further information see the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall.
to prepare mentally, spiritually, and physically for the all-out job ahead, and not a fancy stopover while waiting for an army or navy call. Between retreat sessions the new frosh met with their retreat master for private conferences.
Last Friday night the new men got together for the first time at a smoker in Zahm recreation room, sponsored by the Catholic Action students. They were entertained by Dan Downey’s guitar and southern humor, Paul O’Connell’s imitations, and a skit by Mike Doran and J. Ryan, while Jim Cunningham filled in as Master of Ceremonies.
Congressional Record
Carries McGovern Poem
(The following verses entitled ‘‘The War Effort” were written by James Patrick McGovern, a distinguished member of the District of Columbia bar, who served as a captain with the American Expeditionary Forces during the First World War. Captain McGovern is a long standing friend of Notre Dame. His verses were considered so “timely and thought-provoking” they were printed in the Congressional Record at the request of Hon. Charles O. Andrews, senator from Florida.)
The War Effort
Effort for this war? In freedom’s hour	.
and very life’s? Vain word of compromise'
To dull our Nation’s will to win. our power, . While civilization falters—lives or dies.
Effort for this war? Best terms are tame, •
But this breathes doubt, and men who falter fail, When action must follow thought: like ball and
. flame,	.	..
And strength and truth. inevitably must prevail-' Efforts for this war? The martial call - .
To warriors on land, in sky,'on sea,- . Fortifying them to give lives—all, ..	'
For love of the Nation’s reverent memory? Effort for this war? At home, even'those ’
Must'serve with fullest heart and readiest hand' While light at Armageddon overthrows '
Darkness, so that peace may smile in every land. December, 1942
—James Patrick McGovern
THE COVER
This week's cover of the SCHOLASTIC shows the captain's final inspection for-the graduated midshipmen class, at which time the 1,100 Navy men wore their Ensign's uniforms. Capt. H. P. Burnett, commandant of the Notre Dame Naval Training Station, inspects the glove of a midshipman.	. .
5
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
The new ensigns.
IT'S GREAT TO BE BACK!
No more of those miserable mornings lying in bed on soft pillows and mattresses waiting to be served bacon and hot coffee, (ha!) We won’t have to come sneaking into the house at those wee hours of the morning, either. Ah, it’s great to be back! There’s nothing nicer than hopping out of bed onto the nice cold floor 16 feet down, especially if your roommate is down there putting on his shoes. He likes you to land on his back with a cheery: “Good morning!” It’s fun walking, wading, or sliding, over to breakfast and temporarily putting a piping hot meal, (which consists of cold cereal, cold milk, cold “mystery balls,” and cold looks), into your stomach. We have in our dining halls what is known as the “seasoned food method.” In the winter the food is cold, and in the summer it’s warm. There’s nothing like a nice long sleep these winter mornings though. So we get up at 6:30. But it’s great to be back isn’t it? Oh it is too!
YULE RECOLLECTIONS:
We shortly plan to publish a new book growing out of our experience over the holidays, entitled, How To Trim A Tree. The escapade began harmlessly enough, with lights and tinsel and bells—all punctured occasionally by our tiptoeing to the topmost branch of the tree and giving out •with a lilting madrigal. Progress was amazing until three young ladies- from the neighboring institute complicated matters with their presence, drooling cyanide and pouring out scurrilous diatribe on our artistic endeavors. Their remarks came cascading down on our poor heads, as only vitriolic “Old Mascara” can dish it out in uninterrupted one-minute intervals. Matters were not at all helped when our trusty assistant picked out a quiet corner and, settling down on his shoulder blades, presently forgot the job entirely; and all the while three stinging tongues moved up and down the scale, gathering momentum. • Weedie, whose secret ambition is to have the last /word with an echo, admitted that she was outspoken. We didn’t help matters at all by our guileless query: “By whom?” Then Kay, a long stalk of love
6
liness, but brimful of obnoxious remarks, insisted on rearranging everything that we had done. Jeanne tried playing politics—you know, straddling the fence while keeping one ear to the ground. Of course it was difficult. If you don’t think so, just try it sometime. A hectic evening, yes, but we salvaged some glory. How lovely our tree looked to Kitty (Bless her!) largely because she has such lovely eyes to see it through. And Otto, thank Heavens, remained as neutral as a swinging door. Before leaving, however, we threw aside our knives and stilettos, and retired to a secluded nook where sunshine and the rollicking sea, the mellowness of age, and the heather more than made up for the rancid remarks of our critical audience. We expect a spectacular review of this forthcoming volume in the next issue of Chimes.
LA DE DA
The rumors have started already. The latest is that the lakes will be dredged for submarine training.... An E. R. C. man to a V-7: “He who laughs last. ... etc.” .... There is also a rumor afoot that banana green has gone to war. (ha!) .... Most of the regularly scheduled trains would probably make better time if they didn’t have to pull student specials behind them.... Note to the “Week’s” many fans. The word is spelled jerk, not, jurk. Thank you._N. D. has the nicest names for profs. Perhaps the prettiest of the lot however and certainly the most suitable is “Slippery.”
WITH OPEN ARMS
“Hello Mabel? Hav ya hoid? The Nota Dame boys is back in town! Yeah! Huh? They bin back a week ya say? Well whaddya think ’a that punk Freddie. He ain’t called or nothin’ What? Joe ain’t rung you neither? Well whaddya know? Maybe they gotta rest up huh? Yeah they was walkin’ a lot where ; Freddie lives. Ya know what? They ain’t even got gas to go. ridin’ in New Yawk! Nah, not even ta go bowlin’. What? Ya think somebody’s tryin’ ta ring ya? The phone is clickin’? Gee maybe it’s Freddie. O.K. I’ll hang up now kid. See ya tonight huh hon? O.K. by the Bowl-Mor. Bye bye Mabe. Heil Bahndix! Gee I hope it’s Freddie.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disco Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailins at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3. 19i~. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Daniel Downey, Editor Ted Weber...................Managing	Editor
Bill Boss..........— Sports Editor
Dave Condon...................Campus	Editor
Jack Denniston........Admin. Editor
Phil Keen.........Asst. Sports Editor
Robert Lonergan...........Promotion
Al Schaefer.........Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Adviser
GREEN PASTURES
They’re here again. The freshmen we mean. You can always tell a freshman even when he’s a mystery ball’s throw away. You can tell them in the dining hall. They eat everything. You can tell them in the post-office. They want to know how long it will take for a letter to
get to Paddookie via air-mail. They wear coats and ties the first week, ties the second week, corduroys the third week, T-shirts the fourth week, and by the time their laundry comes back they’re real Notre Dame men. This year’s crop is an especially good looking one though. Good luck freslunen and may you receive bigger and better bananas.
MUSH!
We’re talking about the moving, not the food. We sure had the weather for it didn’t we? The furniture was moved from hall to hall a la dogsled. The trouble was that the huskies weren’t husky. One of the lads advertised that he was willing to let. go a “priceless chair” for a nominal fee. We went over to look at it and he was right, it was priceless. We would not have offered a dime for it. The plasterers followed the trunk movers around the halls. Said Oswald Spatterwhite, .master plaster caster: “Who’s plastered?” Where have we heard that song before?
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Those moron jokes.
QasM/pMA J^ewA
Grand Knight Killigrew Goes to Navy;
Thomas Rolfs is Elected as Successor
Thomas J. Rolfs, commerce senior from West Bend, Wis., was elected Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame council 1477, at a special meeting held in the Walsh hall council chambers Monday evening, Jan. 25. Rolfs, former chairman of the council’s war bond and stamp drive, succeeds Jerry Killigrew, Hobart, Indiana, who has been called to service under the Naval V-7 program.
Other officers elected to fill vacancies were: Thomas Halligan, Flint, Mich., deputy grand knight; Ben Mammina, Benton Harbor, Mich., warden; John Fitzpatrick, Port Huron, Mich., inside guard, and Robert Hallein, recorder.
Paul Cashman, former lecturer, has also been called into service under the naval program. His successor is yet to be named.
Rolfs has announced that the council’s war bond and stamp drive, which was highly successful and attracted wide attention last semester, would be continued, with, the initial drive beginning next Thursday, Feb. 4. The drive will continue along the same lines as previously, it was
"Teach Yourself" Display to Appear in Library
With liberal education threatened by a growing war-time emphasis on technological subjects, the Catholic Action students of the University under their president, James Cunningham, will place on display next week a selection of books which will allow a student to obtain a liberal education through his own interest and effort. The display, located in the north (magazine) reference room of the main library, will run throughout the month of February.
Briefly the plan -will operate as follows: those books in each field (philosophy, social sciences, etc.) which are written in a popular style and yet recommended by authorities in the field will be placed on tables where students can examine them. Although the books cannot be taken from the reference rooms, students are encouraged to examine and read
New Grand Knight Rolfs
announced, with a weekly hall-to-hall canvas being made by members of the local council. War stamp sales will be taken directly to the students, Rolfs said, and chairmen will be appointed for each residence hall. Totals will be tabulated each week and standings posted. In the last drive the Knights of Columbus contributed materially to the grand total by purchasing §1,500 worth of bonds out of a special fund.
them in the library. At the end of the month the display will be placed on the reference shelves so as to be kept within easy access.
Books from many departmental libraries as well as the main library are being searched out by committees of seminarians and Brothers. Mimeographed lists of all books selected will be made up but only a certain number will be included in the display because of space . limitations.
The establishment of such a project at this time is especially significant. Many universities already boast such a system which encourages all students but especially those in the science and technical divisions to approach the liberal arts on their own. A war-time outlook has accentuated the shift from humanities to technical and scientific courses.
Prof. Langford Addresses South Bend Forum
Walter M. Langford, professor of Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin American history at the University, addressed the South Bend Catholic Forum in the La Salle hotel last Monday evening.
Discussing the past, present, and future of Pan-Americanism, Prof. Langford declared America’s good neighbor policy is going places.
“Pan-American solidarity is neither dream nor destiny,” he said, “but by a common sense attitude on united action along every line of human endeavor there has been a real progress toward interAmerican relations of the best possible sort.”.
“Now war has thrown us closer together in the economic and every other sense, and indications are mounting that the post-war period will find us not only maintaining but further strengthening our close ties with the rest of this hemisphere.”
Wranglers Open Year With Short Meeting
A short organization meeting last night marked the opening of the new scholastic year for Wranglers, campus honorary forensic club. President Bill Lawless, who succeeds John Ryan, Denver, Colo., presided at the meeting. Lawless is a native of Buffalo, N. Y. The weekly series of papers will be started at next week’s meeting when Lyle Joyce, Spartansburg, S. C., presents his paper. The club’s other officer is James O’Dea, secretary, from Lowell, Mass.
Musicians, Lecturers Fill Entertainment Bill
The Washington Hall entertainment schedule for this semester will feature a number of outstanding performers and lecturers.
Feb. 3—Father Elbert Hubbard, S.J., the Glacier Priest.
March 15—Fisk Jubilee Singers.
April 5—The Saidenberg Symphonetta featuring Miss Virginia Haskins, soprano.
April 26—South Bend symphony, Nathan Milstein, violinist.
April 30 — Richard Crooks, operatic and radio star.
7
VIEWS on the NEWS
Vacation these days, like the old gray mare, “ain’t what she used to be.” There is still a car in every garage and a loaf of bread in every pantry, but the car has no gas and the bread no butter. Hot water with a little coffee and less sugar seems to be the new breakfast beverage, while most folks are spending many quiet evenings home by a cold heater. It takes something as home-hitting as drastic rationing to impress the civilian public with the fact of war. Especially is this true of college students who, for the most part, lead a luxurious life as compared with existence in a battle front fox-hole.
Literally, this tire and gas rationing put the nation back on its feet. With nothing but necessary driving allowed, we began to find out what feet are for and that a little long-needed leg exercise doesn’t hurt a fellow, except, maybe, for a few minor blisters around the heel. Without a model"A” Ford or a Lincoln Zephyr to zip down to the latest movie, we could settle back and start the books we had been planning to read for the past three years. And a few peaceful evenings at home proved that the folks are not such bad company after all.
The rationing program will probably do a lot to help the moral fibre of the country. With the traditional American wanderlust suddenly changed to a hang-around home policy, a lot of us will have time to sit down and think things over. We should come to realize that only by hard work and self sacrifice can we retain the ideals for which nations are striving, and that our immediate duty is to give up the things vital for our fighting forces. For some of us who think this rationing is something new and that we cannot do without a lot of things, The Cross recently carried the following item:
“There was no sugar until the 13th century; no coal until the 14th century; no buttered bread until the 15th century; no potatoes and no tobacco until the 16th century; no tea or coffee until the 17th century; no telephones, no gas, and no matches until the 19th century.”
What are we worrying about?
New Dining Hall System
Gives Food for Thought
Notre Dame students, returning from a Christmas furlough prepared to meet Alsab and Whirlaway in the Saturday noon stew, found an additional surprise in the new dining hall set-up now in effect. It concerns the new entrance rules and the requirement that each student’s
dining hall card be punched at every meal.
In the words of the dining hall, they punch the card or punch you. And to facilitate the punching business, only one entrance will be used in each of the halls. Students eating in the East hall will enter via the entrance facing Dillon. Those taking meals in the West wing will find entrance at the door facing the Rockne Memorial.
Plans are being complete for the erection of shelters over the doors, school officials have announced, and the new plan promises to eliminate confusion and allow more men within the dining hall during cold weather.
Meals are served at 7:10, 12:10, and 6:10 daily and at eight, twelve and six on Sundays. The doors will remain open for one-half hour and students have been asked to distribute themselves accordingly, since the use of the dining hall by Navy men makes it impossible for the doors to be opened earlier.
Fr. Cunningham Talks to Inter-American Group
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of the faculty and professor of education at the University, was one of a number of speakers on a two-day program of Inter-American conference on Jan. 14-15 at Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind. Father Cunningham spoke on “Latin America in the Post War World.”
The conference dealt with war and postwar problems and was arranged in cooperation with the office of the coordinator of Inter-American affairs in Washington, D. C.
Herb Coleman and Frank Cusick, “Toughening Up" for Spring Practice
U. S. Mint Asks Public
to Circulate Pennies
A penny saved these days is a penny that is hindering the war effort, according to a recent news release received
from the treasury de
partment this week.
The director of the mint has made it specific that 132,000,000 American citizens, including the Notre Dame student body,
should take all pennies
from the old socks, sugar bowls, and pig
gy banks, and return them to circulation. The same holds true of all nickels that
have been hoarded away as part payment on the mortgage. The reason: pennies contain, besides copper, tin and zinc, all three metals on the “critical materials” list. And if these metals have to be used to replace copper taken from circulation, it’ll mean just that much less bombs and shells for Hitler’ and Co.
Last year, besides all the other fooling around that went on in Washington, someone found time to mint 1 billion 437 million pennies. These penny ante chips used 4600 tons of copper, enough to meet the copper requirements in building twq cruisers, two destroyers, 1245 flying fortresses, 120 field guns and 120 howitzers. The same amount of copper would be enough to make one and one-quarter million shells for the armed forces’ big field guns.
The moral of this story lies thusly: if you have been saving pennies, return them now to channels of trade and help avert a shortage of the Scotch dimes.
8
2,500 Students Return
For New Academic Term
Last Friday the University of Notre Dame began a new academic year with1 the attendance of nearly 2,500 students. Under the accelerated wartime program, inaugurated last May, Notre Dame’s school year now runs through three continuous semesters.
Registering last Thursday for classes in the various colleges were 300 new students, who enrolled as either Freshmen or transfer students. A large number of the Freshmen have been admitted after 3% years of high school, with proper credit and approval from their respective high schools. For the most part, the high school diplomas of these students are being withheld, pending their scholastic standing at the end of their first college semester.
In accordance with decisions of the selective service and manpower commissions, and in conformity with the advice of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, the number of returning undergraduates shows a decreasing mark of only six percent. Many of the students who returned for this semester are enlisted in different reserves, and, having been counseled by both Father O’Donnell and the Hon. Paul V. McNutt, head of the man power commission, to return to school, are generally confident that they will be allowed to finish the present term.—Bill Talbot
Do You Inhale? Not
In the Main Building
Jan. 22, 1943 and the opening of a new school year did not bring about any relaxation of the schools “no smoking in certain buildings” rule, it has been emphatically announced by school officials.
Jerry Quinn and Jim Crowley try the Dogsled Method
Smoking, whether you inhale or no, is taboo in certain buildings, including Science hall, the Main building, and the poor man’s Roxy, Washington hall. The oldness of these buildings makes for a danger of fire, it was pointed out.
Those violating this rule are liable to find that relations between themselves and the prefect of discipline’s office are none too cordial. The same old rule of one semester’s campus for the first offense and a semester’s suspension for the second violation, is still in effect. And freshmen are advised against “lighting up” in the dining hall.
Lt. Wiechman, Former Student, Lost at Sea
Friends here have received notice of the death of Jack Wiechman, a marine corps pilot who was “lost at sea.” A member of the famed “Fighting Irish” squad, Jack was sworn into the navy in 1941. He was an exceptional student as a flying cadet and because of outstanding ability was selected for the Marines. Wiechman made his home in Covington, Ky., and previous to being transferred to the Pacific war theater, was stationed at Jacksonville, Fla.
War Forces Suspension
Of Chemistry Magazine
Suspension of publication for the duration was announced by the Catalyzer, a monthly magazine published by the departments of chemistry and chemical engineering, in its most recent issue. Chief reason given in an editorial announcing the decision was the lack of time to write research articles and the inadvisability of printing information on certain research problems.
Chief feature of the final issue' was the printing of pictures of members of the May and December, 1942, graduating classes of the departments.	.
Staff of the final issue included Robert W. Degenhart, editor; Robert J. Dunlay, assistant editor; and Fred C. Englehart, news editor. The publication is edited by members of the Chemists’ club and the Notre Dame student chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
Matty Byrne Dies
In Navy Plane Crash
During the Christmas holidays Matty Byrne, of New York, and a Notre Dame graduate of the class of ’42, was killed in a plane crash while serving his country as a member of the Naval Air Corps.
Matthew Byrne, '42
Matty was killed instantly when his plane crashed five miles south of Lee Field, Auxiliary of the Jacksonville Naval Air Station, Florida on Dec. 19.
Matty, an honor student and ex-president of the Met Club, reported to Lee Field last September after undergoing elimination flight training at the Naval Reserve Aviation Base at Glenview, HI., Matty was class secretary of the Junior class; he was an associate editor of the Dome his junior year; and his last two years in school he successfully quarterbacked the Dillon and Walsh Hall interhall football teams.
Cornelius A. Hannigan Holiday Death Victim
Word has been received here of the - -death of Cornelius A. Hannigan, Philadelphia, Pa., which occurred at his home on Dec. 31, 1942. Death followed peritonitis, which had set in following an emergency appendectomy. .............
Cornelius, known as “Con” to Dillon hallmates, was an engineering student. He roomed in Zahm hall as a freshman. Two brothers, John and James, were also Notre Dame men.	-
Funeral services in Philadelphia were attended by Notre Dame alumni and students from the Philadelphia region... -
9
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
"TAIN'T GOOD" DEPT.
PRESERVING AMERICA
the works for the rest of them. B was given an F in one course and put on probation; C was given an F in two courses and put on probation; and D was dishonorably discharged and permanently expelled from the University.
“On your honor” really means something in the South.
Entering our fourth annum of this
fantasy called a hardly feel that
■■
JOHNNY LYNCH ciates to the tune
college education, we our labors will have 5 cost $9,600 when ’ the term ends. But ! downstate at Purdue University, the boys have figured that as the cost of a graduating senior. Purdue has an '' investment of 23 • million dollars in ’ physical equipment, which depre; of $200 a year per
student. Also, “it costs about 2% million a year to run the joint,” giving a figure of $400 a year per student. Then, there’s about $3,000 cold cash that finds its way through the student’s hands over a four year period, mostly at his father’s expense. The average student might have made $1200 a year working in industry, so you can add this in to boost the total.
You will excuse us if these figures don’t add up right (and they don’t) but they are quoted from the Exponent at their risk. What matters is, it’s a lot of money to prepare for the E. R. C.
HAVE you HEARD?
We weren’t going to include these in the column, but they do seem to strike a familiar note as we gather in the caf line again.	.
“You’ll have to take this steak back! It’s so tough, I can’t even cut it!”
“Can’t take it back now, sir, you’ve bent it.”	=
A diner when dining in Kew
Found a rat in the midst of his stew.
Said the waiter,* “Don’t shout
And wave it about,	.
Or the others will ask for one too!”
. . ❖ -
“Well,” said'the waiter to the student who had just had his seventh cup of coffee, “you must be very fond of coffee.”
“Yes indeed,” answered the student, “or I wouldn’t be drinking so much water to get a little.”
Hats off to Dr. Howard Thurman of Howard University, Washington, D. C. Dr. Thurmann, a member of the staff of the colored university, established three years ago a student exchange with other universities of the East, in the hopes of bettering inter-racial relationships. This year students will be exchanged for limited periods with Vassar, Bucknell, Penn State, Connecticut Wesleyan, and Smith College.
DOWN BEAT DEPT.
The dancing fans of the University of California have the following to say about a proposal to hold dances in the school gym.
“That’s a good humanitarian plan, but everyone worries too much about social affairs anyway. The gym is a barn.”
“The gym just isn’t the place for a dance. There isn’t even a bar.”
“Quit worrying about social affairs, but I think the gym’s a barn too.”
We are quite afraid it is the fault of the faculty because there is this decided lack of interest. In a recent statement, the instructor in modern dance, in reference to a report that the University of Washington teaches jitter-bugging, said: “There really doesn’t seem to be any demand for that sort of thing on campus. Besides, it has no educational values!”
THE WEEKLY DITTY
There was a man from Racine
Who invented a trucking machine.
It could Lindy and Shag
Like any old bag,
And better than most we’ve seen!
—Florida Orange Peel
HONOR BOUND
The “Aristocrat of Southern College Newspapers,” The Vanderbilt Hustler, reports on a recent drama concerning Vanderbilt’s honor system. Everything is strictly honorable at exam time at Vanderbilt, but if it is found otherwise, the powers that be crack down hard.
The recent case, concerning Messrs. A, B, C and D, resulted in A’s acquittal and
ONE FOR THE BIRDS
A prominent club woman was walking with her Pekingese, when she spied a huge van pulled up to the curb and a pair of hulking mechanics banging away at the engine trying to get the contraption started. When the lady and the tiny dog came alongside, one of the moving men advanced toward them politely, lifting his hat.
“Lady, could we borrow your dog?”
The lady was startled. “Why, what are you going to do with the dog?”
“Hitch him to the truck to get it started.”
The lady lost her breath. “How idiotic! A little dog like that couldn’t pull that big truck.”
“Oh, that’s all right, lady,” said the driver, “we got whips.”
—Los Angeles City College Pace
Lost-Found Dept. Set up
In Disciplinary Office
The starting of a new school year has brought about several small announcements concerning school life.
The first of these is that a “Lost and Found” department has been established in the office of the prefect of discipline. All students are urged to report losses to the office, and articles found on the campus are to be turned in at the department.
The dining hall set-up has been changed, as otherwise reported in this issue. The laundry pick-up will continue along a plan adopted in the middle of last semester. Laundry will be picked up every two weeks and student allowances for laundry have been printed on the back of each card. Students have been requested to have both their name and number on each bag. -
Location of fire alarms on the campus are as follows: Northwest comer of Sorin hall, post in front of the Community House, post 200 feet south of Dujarie, the northwest corner of the gymnasium, post 150 feet east of Morrissey, the southwest comer of the Commerce building, the southwest comer of Badin, post northwest of the Rockne Memorial, and the southwest corner of the Hose house.
10
Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy Donates $100,000; .. , ^ar issues Discussed University to Establish Fine Arts Foundation In "Review of Politics"
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announces through the Depai’tment of Public Relations the establishment of the O’Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation in the College of Arts and Letters. The benefactor who made the Foundation possible is Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy of St. Paul, Minn., whose generous gift of $100,000 was received shortly before Christmas.
The O’Shaug’hnessy Fine Arts Foundation, concerning which further details will be published later, becomes part of Notre Dame’s plan, being carried out through the cooperation of friends and benefactors, to strengthen the College of Arts and Letters in the face of a growing tendency toward the purely technical and vocational aspects of higher education. This is in keeping with the policy of the University as set forth by Father O’Donnell at the first student convocation after the United States entered World War II:
“In this crisis the University has two duties: The first is the obvious duty of helping to overthrow the false principles that make man the creature of the state. The second is to train men for post-war leadership. Peace, when it comes, must be a lasting peace built upon fundamental morality with its concept of rights and duties as they apply to individuals and nations. To neglect the second obligation, or to be placed in such position that it cannot be fulfilled, defeats the purpose of the first.”
In announcing the Foundation, Father O’Donnell said: “Mr. O’Shaughnessy’s tangible expression of his regard for Notre Dame and her work has made everyone connected with the University very happy this Christmas season, regardless of the problems that confront us as a result of the war.
“Much of higher education, especially during the past generation, has been heading in the direction of specialization and secularism, and unfortunately the present world crisis has accelerated its speed. But thoughtful Americans like Mr. O’Shaughnessy share with Notre Dame the realization that unless the technological subjects are complemented by the liberal arts and sciences we will develop mechanics, not leaders. And only with proper leadership can we make— and keep—peace.
Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy
“With the help of the Blessed Mother and the support of such good friends, we shall carry on during this difficult period, , ever mindful of our basic philosophy of education, which is so necessary for the preservation of the American way of life.”
Mr. O’Shaughnessy has had a longstanding interest in education and various philanthropies which has brought him recognition from many sources, both civic and religious, and he is especially well known for his work in Catholic circles. He is a Knight of Holy Sepulchre, and also a Papal Chamberlain of Cape and Sword. During the Eucharistic Congress held at St. Paul in 1940 he acted as Chamberlain to Dennis Cardinal Dougherty, Papal Delegate.
Mr. O’Shaughnessy, who was bom at Stillwater, Minn., is a graduate of St. Thomas College. He has been active in the oil business for many years, and is currently serving on the Petroleum Industry War Council. Mr. and Mrs. O’Shaughnessy have five children, one of whom, Donald a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters at the University, recently received a lieutenant’s commission. He has received orders to; ’report to Camp Joseph T. Robinson, Ark.
The January issue of “the Review of Politics, a • Notre Ddme publication, off the presses Jan. 2-5, features articles on vital issues in the United States, Italy and France by three authorities in these fields, Dr. Edwin Witte, Dr. Yves Simon, and Don Luigi Sturzo. Some of the topics discussed are planned economy, Darlan, and the Papal policy.
Dr. Edwin Witte, professor at the University of Wisconsin, in “What the War is Doing to us,” maintains we are approaching a planned economy because “of all the changed relations which the war has brought between government and business, none is probably more fundamental than the fact that the government is now the purchaser of aproxi-mately one-half of all the production of the American people.” He refutes the assertion that this will ultimately lead to socialism. Dr. Witte goes on to point out salient differences in this war and World War I in its effects on small concerns; on the position of women; and particularly in the handling of labor.
“The Road to Vichy,” by Dr. Yves Simon of the University of Notre Dame, reviews the situation in France- since the Darlan deal. He assures readers that “the moral situation in France is today incomparably better than it has ever been since the beginning of the great process of disintegration which led. to the betrayal and defeat.” Although written before the assassination of the doubledealing Admiral Darlan, the article, has lost none of its timeliness and value. Dr. Simon also gives a clear account of the strange conduct of the Conservatives and their many squabbles from the Fall of France to the African campaign.
Many individuals are overlooking Italy in the European scheme of things. Don Luigi Sturzo in, “Italy in War and in Peace,” warns us that a serious dislocation will take place if she is not considered in the maintenance of post-war peace. It is true, unfortunately, Fascism has put the Italians in a regrettable position, however, he discounts the possibility of a revolt because of the many Germans in Italy. Sturzo denies the charge, made by some anti-Fascists that the Lat-eran Concordat indicates the Pope has become fascist.	•	„	"
Other interesting thanes in The Re
ll
view include “Idea of Democracy” by J. T. Delos, O.P., the French Dominican now in exile in Canada, who examines the four basic elements of a democracy and compares current democracies with Christian Democracy; and an article by Stefan T. Possony on municipal reform
The Manpower Problem Hits University;
Several Professors Receive Leaves
Students returning last week to a snow-covered campus after a month’s vacation found that the national manpower problem has even extended to the University faculty. To comply with the increasing demands of war, a number of well-known professors are leaving for active service in the armed forces, joining the dozen or so faculty members who have left for the service in the past year.
Among recent departures are those of John T. Frederick, distinguished radio book commentator and book reviewer of the Chicago Sun; Dominick Napolitano, of the physical education faculty; Frank T. Flynn, professor of social work; and Alden E. Davis of the College of Commerce. It was also recently announced at the University offices that Prof. Henry T. Froning, dean of the College of Science and head of the department of chemistry, who was on a semester’s leave of absence, has been granted another semester’s extension of the leave, with Dr. Lawrence Baldinger continuing in the capacity as acting dean of the college.
Besides these recent departures, there are many professors at Notre Dame who have been absent for a semester or more. Among these are George B. Collins, physics; Edward A. Coomes, physics; Lt. Col. Benjamin DuBois, French; Vincent F. Fagan, architecture; Lt. John J. Fitzgerald, philosophy; Pasquale A. Guarino, electrical engineering; Ensign Francis J. Hanley, art; Major Dugald C. Jackson, dean of engineering; John L. Kelley, mathematics; Rev. Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C., religion; John P. Nash, mathematics; Daniel C. O’Grady, philosophy; Alexander Petrauskas, physics; Lt. Ste-' phen Ronay, English; Ensign Thomas J. Stritch, English; Rev. George J. Welsh, C.S.C., history; Carl C. Wilcox, mechanical engineering; and Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., philosophy.
In an effort to counterbalance these departures, only two new teachers have been announced for the spring semester. W. R. Utz, M.S., joins the Notre Dame faculty as an instructor in the department of mathematics. He is formerly of the University of Missouri.
A. T. Cross, former instructor at the
and its effects upon politics in our larger cities. In the book reviewing section, Dr. Gurian, the editor, and Dr. Hermens, associate editor, discuss current books in the field of politics. Both are professors of politics in the University.
—Frank Lucas
University of Cincinnati, comes to Notre Dame with experience in the analysis of plant remains in geologic records, and has made extensive geologic investigations in the state of Montana.
A number of priests will soon leave the campus in the capacity of chaplains to both the Army and Navy. They will augment the group of Holy Cross men already in active service.
Prof, de Landero Dies
After a Long Illness
Professor Pedro de Landero, former Notre Dame instructor in Spanish and Portuguese, succumbed after a long illness in his home in Mexico City on Jan. 7, 1943 at the age of 55.
Mr. de Landero graduated from Notre Dame in 1911, and returned in 1933 to
teach the South American languages, and coach the tennis and fencing teams. He organized the first Notre Dame Faculty Club and the Notre Dame Ladies’ Club. He was also influential in starting the Spanish Club. Mr. de Landero was Notre Dame’s first fencing coach and. guided his squads to two undefeated seasons while compiling an amazing record for the fencing team.
Professor de Landero’s two sons, Carlos and Telmo, were star members of the University fencing teams during their father’s coaching reign.
He was forced by ill health to resign in 1939 and return to his home in Mexico City, Mexico.
Simon, Gurian, McMahon
Contribute to "Thomist"
This month three Notre Dame professors, Dr. Yves R. Simon, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, and Francis E. McMahon, joined the leading Thomists throughout the country in paying tribute to Dr. Jacques . Maritain, leader of modern Thomism, on the occasion of his sixtieth birthday. The January issue of The Thomist, Dominican philosophical quarterly published by Sheed and Ward, is dedicated to Maritain and contains articles by more than a score of prominent Thomists.
Since his conversion to Catholicism
some 30 odd years ago, Jacques Maritain has established himself as the foremost
speculative Thomist of the modern world.
His writings have been voluminous; his lectures have been well received in American Catholic and non-Catholic circles, notably the University of Chicago, the University of Toronto, Yale, Princeton, and at present, Columbia. Prior to his coming to this country, Maritain was on the staff of the Institut Catholique in France.
The present volume of philosophical essays on subjects ranging from “John Dewey and Modern Thomism” to “The Role of -Dogma in Judaism” was presented to Dr. Maritain at a dinner given recently in the Waldorf-Astoria in honor of the distinguished Frenchman.
In the current Thomist, Dr. Gurian discusses Maritain’s political philosophy of the sciences; Dr. McMahon writes on the virtue of social justice and international life.
Sheed and Ward has announced that the “Maritain Volume of the Thomist" will be reprinted in book form for the benefit of those who do not subscribe to The Thomist and yet would care to have this treasure of Thomistic thought.
- .	' —Al Sommer, Jr.
12
William Jeffers is Principal Speaker
As Notre Dame Graduates 392
R. H. KEOUGHAN
The ninety-ninth group of Notre Dame graduates received their diplomas on Commencement Day, last Dec. 20, amid war-time surroundings. The ceremonies were held in the recently • constructed Navy drill hall with its various naval flag decorations mingled with the blue and gold bunting of Notre Dame. One graduate, Cecil Jordan, received his diploma dressed in his naval ensign’s uniform. Due to heavy war time and holiday travel, some trains ran late and were responsible for some of the parents and friends being hours late. However, a large attendance of 2,500 guests were present at the ceremonies.
William M. Jeffers, national rubber administrator and president of the Union Pacific railroad, addressed the 392 members of the first graduating class since the installation of the three-semester-a-year plan and their numerous guests. He emphasized, in his address, the importance of a sound education such as Notre Dame imparts to her students.
“Sound education builds character and in this country now and forevermore it must build patriotic character. We must not allow this war to distract us from these fundamentals. The impressive truth is that what we are fighting for—else there is no justifiable reason for fighting.”
Continuing, the administrator touched on the progress of the nation: “For more than a century and a half we have thrived, upon the fundamentals on which this republic was built. For generations we shall continue to thrive on these fundamentals, expanding our superstructure but always without hazard to our foundation.”
Using Notre Dame again as a symbol of sound education, Mr. Jeffers concluded, “I say let it carry on its training of men during the war with such limitations as war conditions must necessarily impose. Let it carry on the same training when the war is over, with expanding opportunities.”
Mr. Jeffers was the recipient of the only honorary degree to be conferred at the commencement exercises. He received an honorary LL.D, degree. As rubber administrator, Mr. Jeffers has an extremely important and difficult task to perform. It is his duty to see that the nation’s critical’supply of rubber lasts for the duration of the war.
Fifteen of the 392 seniors graduated with various awards which are given for excellence in different phases of school work, leadership, and the like. These 15
were: Joseph R. Hillebrand, Toledo, 0., winner of the Meehan Medal for English Essay; Harry L. Murray, Franklin, Pa., winner of the Hoynes Law Award; Charles J. Kleibacker, Cullman, Ala., recipient of the J. Sinnott Meyers Bourse for journalism excellence, Robert D. Le-Mense, Iron Mountain, Mich., winner of . the William Mitchell Memorial Award - for Playwriting. Oliver H. Hunter, III., Erie, Pa., who received the Byron V. Kanaley prize for the senior monogram athlete adjudged the most exemplary student and as a leader; Robert Corrigan, Hulmeville, Pa., winner of the Cervantes Medal for Spanish; Raymond F. Wilmer, Toledo, 0., winner of the Jacques Medal for Fine Art; Edward L. Holland, Stirling, N. J, recipient of the Andrew F. Kervick Gold Medal for freehand drawing; Theodore P. Fredericks, Marion, O., winner of the Gallitzen A. Farabaugh Prize for high scholarship in the College of Law.
Robert B. Hackner, LaCrosse, Wis., winner of the Ralph Thomas Sollitt Prize for the best design submitted as a solution to a special architectural problem; James J. Gallagher, Schenectady, N. Y., recipient of the Gertrude S. Sollitt Prize for the best work submitted as solution to a special problem in structure; Robert G. Lancaster, South Bend, Ind., winner of the John J. O’Brien Prize for excellence in shop work; and Robert C. Blachman, Niles, Mich., and Robert W. Degenhart, Buffalo, N. Y. co-winners of the George L. O’Brien prize for excellence in chemistry, Blachman also was the winner of the Miles W O’Brien award for excellence in mechanical drawing.
All the awards were made at the Class Day exercises held in Washington Hall on Saturday Dec. 19, at which Richard Padesky, La Crosse, Wis., was valedictorian and John Hunt, Brooklyn, N. Y., read the class ode.
Hanley's Paintings Added
To Wightman Galleries
Francis J. Hanley, associate professor of fine arts, who is on leave of absence from the University, presented two of his paintings to the Peter C. Reilly collection now quartered in the Wightman Art galleries on the second floor of the University Library. It’s Ensign Hanley at present, for he is a member of the United States Nayal Reserve and receiving training in the Communications Training School, at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
One of the paintings, “Song and Samurai,” is an allegorical still life painting in oils, and was awarded the Peter C. Reilly prize in 1940 as the outstanding work exhibited by a Catholic instructor in the Hoosier Salon Exhibition of that year.
The other painting entitled, “April Morning Over Power House Hill,” is a large water color and depicts the Notre Dame Power House with the brilliant sunlight breaking through the clouds on , an April Day. A portion of the old railroad siding is included for local color.
Dean Pound Lectures
To Notre Dame Lawyers
Roscoe Pound, dean of the Harvard school of law, spoke before the members of the Notre Dame law school on Jan. 21, 22, and last night. Dean Pound’s talk entitled “50 Years Growth of American Law” was very colorful.
Dean Pound will conclude his present series of lectures before the Notre Dame law school tonight, Jan. 29. His subject will be “Equity.” Last night he discussed “Personal Property” and the many angles of personal property suits. His \ two previous instructions were on “Torts” and “Contracts.”
"Fortune" Education Poll
Cites Notre Dame Figures
Figures on the effect of war on Notre Dame enrollment and an opinion written by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.,_were included in “Education for War” in the December, 1942 issue of Fortune maga-. zine.
According to figures given in the ar- : ticle, the fall enrollment declined 3% from that of fall, 1941. The largest enrollment drop was noted by Black Mountain College with a 25% decrease and California reported a 20% drop. Notre Dame reported 56% of her income as derived from students. Highest in this field was Antioch with 83% and lowest was California with 17%. Notre Dame also recorded a 60% shift in elective courses in answer to the question: “How marked has been your students’ shift away from courses in the humanities and into mathematics and science?”
When the magazine polled educators on the sujggestion that “long-extended wartime preoccupation with science and technology might conceivably lead to the permanent end of liberal education in America,” Fr. O’Doonnell replied: “Science and engineering are important in war, but unless these studies are implemented with religion, philosophy, and languages, we develop mechanics, not leaders—automatons, not men.” The edu-, cators quoted concluded that liberal education will not be destroyed.
13
Glacier-priest to Speak;
Will Discuss Strategy
With the spotlight on Alaska, next Wednesday’s lecture on “Alaska in the War,” by glacier-priest Father Elbert Hubbard, S.J., should be most timely and interesting. Father Hubbard, explorer’, author, and lecturer, has just returned from the Aleutian islands and his account of the situation in this territory is gleaned from eye-witnesses of the Dutch Harbor attack, from authorities, and from the victims themselves.
Father will tell what you want to know about Alaska. In his talk he will answer such questions as: What are the chances of the Japanese invading America—via the backdoor? Is the back door open or merely ajar? What are the possibilities of further Jap penetration?
For 16 years Father Hubbard has explored the Northwest Territory. At present he is acting as civilian advisor to the Western Defense Command, and spent this past summer in Alaska gathering latest information.
Father Hubbard will also show his new motion picture “Alaska in the War.”
Educational Mission
Returns From So. America
The Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, returned early in January from their educational mission to South America aften spending a month visiting the Latin-American countries, including Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, and Argentina. The purpose and results of the mission are to be reported to the provincial and general councils of the Congregation. Although full action on the report will probably not be forthcoming for some time, nevertheless the first result of the trip has been the appointment of the Rev. Alfred Send, C.S.C., to an educational post in Chile. Further details of this appointment were not available at the time of writing.
Father Cavanaugh reported that his companion and he received hearty receptions throughout the Americas. He stated his belief that the Latin-American nations constitute the land of the future. They are conscious of their opportunity, anxious for their development, and confident that the next 25 years will yield much for them. Father Cavanaugh said that a post-war exodus from Europe may wend its way to the South; in that case, the United States should do all in its power to weld relations with the South American nations if we are to avoid serious diplomatic complications in
14	~ J .
the next quarter of a century. These relations should be based not on neighborliness alone, but on a definite sense of -friendship. The United States must not assume the attitude of “big brother”; rather we should respect these nations and send representatives southward who know the language and culture of the countries there and respect their dignity and independence.
Argentina, in particular, Father Cavanaugh added, much like ourselves has a strong feeling of independence and resents any implication of inferiority and any interference with sovereignty. Europeans have respected the sovereignty, culture, and independence of the South Americans; they have settled there, married Latin-Americans; they have capitalized upon the blunders of the United States and our natural trade difficulties
and have consequently secured a foothold in the Latin Americas.
All countries of South America, though, Father Cavanaugh asserted, including Argentina, are desirous of working out their destiny on a hemispheric basis in
conjunction with the United States. Our course is to help South America develop its vast potentialities without exploiting its wealth or independence. We must welcome to this country visitors from the South and show them that we possess a knowledge of their culture and language just as those people show their knowledge of our culture, language, and heritage. Every country which the two educators visited, said Father Cavanaugh, expressed hope that the resources of North America, particularly the educational experience of the Catholic churchmen and their common background of culture, will be available for mutual advantage and growth.
Father Cavanaugh emphasized that American universities if they are to have a role in the development of our Southern friends, must teach more Spanish and Portuguese, the languages of South America, and put more emphasis on the study of the history of those countries. Young America must learn that what is different is not necessarily inferior.
Abraham to Army
Eli Abraham, former secretary of the Notre Dame Council 1477, Knights of Columbus, left for military service on Jan. 2.
While affiliated with the Notre Dame council Eli, financial secretary, was ac7 tive in affairs for the betterment of the chapter. He attended the national convention in Atlantic City in 1941. A mem-ber of the class of 1936, Eli came from Niles, Ohio. While in school he was a _ member of the Law Club, the Knights of Columbus, and the Youngstown Club.
Fr. L J. Putz Teaches
Catholic Action Course
. A new two-hour course in Catholic Action is under way this semester. The course will include in its scope the study of indoctrination in the principles and technique of-Catholic Action. Emphasis will be laid on the historical development of the various movements of Catholic Action in Europe, and in North and South America..
In addition to the background, the course formulates a program of Catholic Action with practical application to the various professional fields.
Taught by Father Louis Putz on Tuesday and Thursday at 1:15, the new course may be audited by anyone.
Playwriting Award Won By Robert D. LeMense
Robert D. LeMense, former Scholastic editor and December graduate, was awarded the William Mitchell Memorial
BOB LE MENSE
Award for Playwriting a't the graduation ceremonies. The award was presented after LeMense’s play, “The Devil’s Son,” was chosen over other entries by the awards committee.
“The Devil’s Son”
is based on the theme of a young boy who trades secrets for; rewards, including a hunting knife and a silver dollar.-He hides a criminal for one reward and for another divulges the criminal’s where- | abouts to a posse. Centered in the back- | woods country, the play is well written, 1 and LeMense has given strength to the ‘j plot, which holds together remarkably K well.	|
Climax of the play comes when the criminal is captured and the play, a “one- 1 acter,” comes to a snapping conclusion 1 as the father gets rid of “What belongs | to the devil” by taking the life of his | son. “He was the devil’s son, and you 1 have to get rid of what belongs to the S devil!” LeMense has taken what might fl have been a highly sensational and very S cheap plot and given it strong treatment S to make a well-balanced play.	S
. The Mitchell award was founded by fi Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Mitchell of New York J City in memory of their sori, William, a S member of the class of 1929. It is award- S ed annually-to the student writing the g , best play.	“	g
LeMense at present is employed by the S United States Rubber Co. in Mishawaka. He majored in English here at the Uni- ..§ versity and makes his home in Iron Mountain, Mich.	' SI
Na4Mf. at Notte ^bante \
V»tE
A WAY OF LIFE
By Ensign P. T. Sprinz
What is a Way of Life? ... Is it a habit? ... Is it a custom? ... Is it the way we can discuss politics, or swear at an umpire, or comb our hair, or go to church?
Whatever it might be we know that it’s worth keeping.
You men of the Midshipman School are about to take on a new way of life, one that will be as much a part of you as swearing at that umpire at the ball game.
You have met new friends, men that will be your shipmates for a long time to come. Men who might save your life some day in battle. Men, that you never knew before your life in the Navy.
They are the kids that played ball in the lot down the street from you; they are the kids that raised hell on Halloween.
A few years ago or perhaps even a few months ago, you were carrying your books to school, not caring too much of the outcome of your graduation. . . . Now once again you are carrying books but on the cover the title reads “Seamanship,” “Navigation,” “Ordnance.”
War broke up your other way of life. Perhaps you were a farmer or advertising man or even a clerk. . . . What difference does it make now? . . . You’re all here because you wanted to come. You volunteered for this duty. No one stood behind you with a gun and made you sign up. No one sat behind a desk with a swastika and a picture of Hitler on the wall and said, “You go into the. Navy.” You wanted to join the Navy, and in volunteering for this you’ll do a better job. . . .
You gave up your farm, your advertising job, your- store, put up a sign reading, “Closed for the Duration,” went to the recruiting office, raised your right hand and said “I do.”
Keep this in mind that if we win the battle of Germany today the battle of American will never be won.
Just remember, “You’re in the Navy first and a specialist second.
THINGS THAT LANDLUBBERLY OFFICERS AND MEN SHOULD LEARN. . . .
1.	That junior officers and enlisted men should be seen and not heard.
2.	That you say “Good morning Captain” or “Sir” and “Good night Captain” or “Sir” as the case may be upon your first and last meeting with senior officers.
3.	That a judicious use of the word “Sir” is expected in conversation with senior officers.
4.	That in the presence of seniors, you do not smoke unless and until asked to do so.
5.	That “Aye aye, Sir” is the response to a command or order and “Yes sir” to a question.
6.	That floors are “decks”; that walls are “bulkheads”; that stairs are ladders; that toilets are “heads”; that many other things are not what you would expect.
7.	That you can always learn by asking but more satisfactorily by observing.
8.	That “You’re in the Navy” at all times.
9.	That though you may outrank a warrant or chief petty officer he he knows considerably more about the Navy than you do and he will be glad to help you if you appreciate his help yet still conduct yourself as becomes an officer.
10.	That unbelievable though it will seem at times there is a good reason for every regulation.
11.	That clothes make the man but a uniform doesn’t make an officer.
12.	That you are oh duty 24 hours a day 7 days a week.
13.	That stiff, white, detachable collars get soiled at the slightest provocation.
14.	That Bluejackets Manual, Lovett’s Naval Customs and Traditions and Captain Hop wood’s Laws of the Navy make fine extra - curricular reading.
15.	That although rank has.its privileges , you have very little rank, therefore very few privileges.
16.	That an officer of the U.S. Navy is a gentleman in every sense of the word at all times.
17.	That “The hull and the dock and the. , keel and the truck of the law is—' -
• ‘obey’.”
The class before you set a high precedent. It’s something for you to shoot at. Their extra - curricular activities took -them into many fields.
They organized the following r choir and glee club, dance band, record gang, Capstan year book, Sea Chest (local paper) , radio programs happy hour, choir broadcast Monday Nite, dramatic group “Boom Service,” drum and bugle corps..
Here is something to remember .. This is a sign that I once saw on an inspection tour of a Navy ordnance plant. . .. It read like this:
“According to the theory of aerodynamics and as may be readily demon- ■ strated through wind tunnel experiments, the bumblebee is. unable to fly. This is because the size, shape and weight of . his body in relation to the total wing-spread, make flying impossible. But the bumblebee, being ignorant of these scientific truths, goes ahead and flies anyway—and make a little honey every day.
We can’t think of a better way to start - ■ off this week’s effort than to throw, a little praise to the nurses and Sisters at-the Notre Dame infirmary . . . the men who have been there say the food is ex- -cellent and the hospital staff goes out of the way to make you comfortable. The Service Men’s Center in South Bend sends out three newspapers daily, and once a week a loaded basket of fruit, cigarettes and candy is sent to the Navy. " - ward.	>	?
Sis is going with a sailor, And at first it didn’t faze us ? ,.'
But noiu the family talk is full .
Of sailors’ salty phrazes ..	.	.
We found it rather hardat .first : To follow all his speech	. :
For they talk different ofi board.ship
Than we do “on the beachF-j .
u.1.:' !—	i	I* j
x x x x x	^ba/Me SomU , .,	,	,	A
BASKETBALL TEAM BACK IN ACTION;
HAD SIX VICTORIES BEFORE LOSING
Notre Dame basketball is having a great year. Thus far the Keogan-men have compiled an enviable record in getting off to a fast start, winning their first six games before dropping a close one to Kentucky.
Conquer Purdue, 46-43
Having disposed of the much publicized Wisconsin five in a 61-59 overtime thriller, they tangled with Purdue on the Friday of the graduation weekend. The Boilermakers came ready and willing, but not quite able. The Irish came out on top, 46-43, a score familiar to followers of last year’s squad, before a crowd of 4,800.
What started out as a dull game, picked up in speed in interest in the second half with the visitors overcoming a 22-12 deficit, take a one point lead, and remain within five points of the winners for the remainder of the game.
Captain Al Menke was the spark plug ' of the Purdue squad with 12 points. Bob Rensberger led the Notre Dame attack with five field goals for a ten point total. Lanky Tom Brennan was the fellow who really put gloom in the hearts of the Boilermakers, caging two field goals and two fouls when the visitors came within a point of the Irish.
Accuracy at the foul line paid off for the Keogan-men in the final capitulation. They marked up a brilliant record of 12 , out of 14, while the gang from Lafayette .made 11 out of 19 to more than account for the three points difference in the final score.
Surprise Northwestern, 49-36
’’Whew 1 You had too darn much speed for us tonight, George.” These words of-Dutch Lonborg, coach of the Northwestern quintet, tell more than description, the story of Notre Dame’s surprising 49-36 victory over the Wildcats.
Just back from a long lay-off, Captain Charlie Butler and his gang led the red hot Northwestern five, all the way to record victory number six. , Captain Butler led the Irish with ,14 points in a game that found the gap. between the two teams •widening steadily. after the first half. Bob Faught put in a real, night’s work, holding Otto “The Great” Graham to two field goals. .
16	-	■ ~	. .■ *	.
Slightly slow in starting the Irish took a 9-4 lead at the end of the first ten minutes. Three minutes before the half ended the Wildcats pulled up to within a point of the leaders, 15-14. However, this was the closest Lonborg’s lads came to setting the pace. Butler sank two quick ones and a free toss and Frankie Curran added another two pointer to give the visitors a 22-16 half-time lead.
Neimera, Bonicelli, Faught, and Butler dumped 14 points in the victory bucket before the second half was eight minutes old and held Northwestern without a. field goal for 10 % minutes to build up an advantage that they never lost.
Upset by Kentucky, 60-55
The University of Kentucky Wildcats accomplished a feat that had baffled six previous Notre Dame opponents this season when they defeated the Irish 60 to . 55. The Kentucky boys earned their de-. cision only by staving off a last minute rally in a wild game that saw the lead chance constantly.	.
The lead changed hands five times the . first half, but the Irish climbed ahead in the closing, minutes to record a halftime lead of 33-27. Throughout the next half the Kentuckians pulled up slowly and forged ahead in the last three minutes.
An indication of the roughness of the game is the fact that a total of 35. fouls were called on the two teams. The Irish ; sunk 15 of theirs while Kentucky made 10 from the foul line. However, the Wildcats made them when points counted, namely, the last three minutes.	_.
Guard Bob Rensberger led the scoring parade with 18 points with Faught stepping in for 16 markers. Akers, with 17, and Ticco, with 15, paced the winners.
Conquer Butler, 45_34
The Irish hit the victory trail once . more at Indianapolis, last Monday, whipping a stubborn Butler quintet, 45-34. Reserve forward, Frankie Curran, again. scored decisive points to aid the Keogan-men in recording their seventh win, in
eight games..
Curran dropped a two-pointer midway in. the second half to knot the score at 34-34 and then, added a free throw to
give the Irish a lead they maintained for the remainder of the game.
Bob Rensberger repeated as high scorer for the Blue and Gold five with 11 points. Glenn Miller of Butler also caged 11 markers. This victory was the 45th for- the Irish in the 34-year old rivalry between the two schools.
Sir
Marquette and DePaul
Featured on Cage Sked
Following then’ disappointing southland journey Notre Dame’s eagers return to the Fieldhouse hardwood this week for a short home display before shifting to Madison Square Garden for a one night stand, Feb. 13. The Irish will match tal-. lies with an increasingly powerful De Paul quintet tomorrow evening and try to stifle Marquette’s scoring attack Tuesday.
Personally scouting Notre Dame in last Monday’s engagement with Butler was Ray Meyer, former Irish captain and assistant coach. Meyer has a De Paul outfit under his tutelage that has been downed but once this year while piling 13 opposing units on the scrap heap.
Revolving around George Mikan, lofty pivot man, the Blue Demon offensive blends deception and speed into a high-scoring attack. Captain Tony Kelly, the eel guard, holds down opponent scoring threats and manages to net his share of points. .
Coach Meyer, flooring his first squad at the Chicago school, is well acquainted with the individual ability of each mem-her of the Irish five and should be able to give his charges a bundle of valuable information on stumping Bobby Faught, Bob Rensberger and Charlie Butler.
The Hilltoppers from Marquette, freshened by a two weeks’ respite, will try to vindicate last years' overwhelming 66-42 trouncing Tuesday evening. -
. Coach Bill Chandler’s lads -will mix - with Bradley tomorrow evening in a Chicago Stadium feature. Recent advocate . of several court rule changes, Chandler has been eyeing the Notre j Dame tilt and picked up additional . strength for his squad as the new semester got under; way. Forwards Jimmy O’Connell and Bob Gleason attained
sophomore ranking,'thus becoming elig- j . ible for varsity competition, and may be | of considerable assistance in the home ! . stretch campaign. ’ .
e
Bengal Bouts Scheduled For St. Patrick's Day
Come Shamrock day, Saint Patrick can once more beam with pride upon his-battling kin. The Bengal Bouts have a prominent place on the Notre Dame athletic calendar this spring, and if possible will be staged on the traditional 17th of March. The twelfth in their series, the Charity tilts are expected to provide as many thrills and probably as many K.O. chills as their predecessors.
It'll be a great day for the Irish!
The war, with its accompanying body fitness and combat program, has raised the manly art of self defense to a lofty pedestal. Boxing, praised on all sides for its contribution to the war effort, has risen in interest, even here at school. The extended University athletic schedule, set up for every student, should add both quantity and quality to the battle for the campus crowns.
Due to the absence of Mr. Dominick Napolitano, now a lieutenant (jg) in the. Navy, Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the-department of physical education, will act as director of the tournament. A new boxing instructor, and assistants will be appointed shortly. As in previous years all possible aid will be extended to the prospective pugilists and the Rockne apparatus and boxing rooms will be at their, disposal.
Sponsored annually by the Scholastic, all proceeds are forwarded to the American Missionaries of the Congregation of Holy Cross laboring in Bengal, India. This money has been expended chiefly for the establishment of small hospital units for the natives. Thus participants and spectators alike will be contributing to a most worthy charity.
Last year some 3,500 rabid fight fans saw a thrill-packed final card, with classes ranging, from the 120s through to the-heavyweight division. Every battle in the
field house was a pillar to pillar affair-that brought down the house. This year will be no exception.	'
Expectant entries should begin to work-on their weight now and reach their physical peak gradually. Let’s show the world and in particular, Bengal, India, how a real Notre Dame fighting Irishman looks in the clinches.—Bill Carey
Warming the Bench
With Bill Boss
A young lady may edit sports around Pittsburgh’s “Tower of Learning” but from the current spurt of conversation that is sifting west of the Ohio a dissatisfied Pitt alumni is now ready to divert from the feminine gridiron performances the once great steel school has recently been grounding.
The days of the well-paid Goldbergs and Cassianos and the cast iron Daddios were shunned by a disgruntled Pitt graduate body short years ago when exaggerated subsidization speculation caused overwrought Smoky City fans to protest the open air proselyting policies of their university. During that invincible regime Notre Dame and many other major football powers crumbled before the bombarding force of Panther elevens overladen with capable backs and mountainous linemen.
Pitt talent scouts were given passports to the nearby, coal territory where they staked a monopoly that no other university would attempt to penetrate. Youths with herculean muscles, were inspired to drop pick and shovel and return to tattered books. They were also asked to play football on the side, the greater side. But, athletic declarations became rather frightful and the smoke was not the only thing that threw a wicked stench from Sewickley to Bangor and back across the nation. America’s football fandom—advocates of amateur performances—objected. The opposition decisively objected and Pitt, also, objected. A gigantic deemphasis program was inducted and Panther football feathered into oblivion. Dr. J. B. Sutherland, Pitt’s fine coach, sought professional grounds to tender. Charlie Bowser took over but he was not successful in converting a crop of splintery high school lads into, a masterful eleven. The Panther’s skimmed through last fall’s docket with only three victories.
During the past week a bundle of hope seems to have dropped on the shadowed city. Coach Bowser, yearning for at least one decisive victory, joined the. Navy.
Clark Shaughnessy was contacted at Maryland. Whether the eminent T physician will embark to Pitt soil is not yet known. At Maryland the former Bear Coach has a comfortable salary flowing weekly and a football team that has far surpassed University of Maryland standards. It will cost Pitt a pro- . digious fee to rifle Shaughnessy away.
Outwardly it seems that Pitt has finally realized the value of legitimate subsidization. They can provide themselves with a winning football team -without spending a rationed fortune. They can offer prospective, players an education if they will work their way through school as thousands of other lads in major universities throughout the country are doing. They will be able to play football, but regard it as an extracurricular activity and not an occupation.
This episode has probably.been frozen by now. But, it is well to remember that Clark Shaughnessy carrying his T brew to inject weakened elevens has done very well since he left lowly Chicago. Stanford will vouch for him. Maryland will stand by. If the Pitt offer is acceptable he will not produce a losing team at Pitt. The Panthers are eager to grow a new set of claws.
Irish Distance Men
Foes at Millrose Meet
The late Notre Dame track coach, John Nicholson, warned Greg Rice that a young running mate, Ollie Hunter, was the boy who some day might be the one he would have to beat. One week from tomorrow this prophecy may become a reality as the old and new Irish stars run against each other in the Millrose Meet at Madison Square Garden in New York.
Jk
Rice’s record can be obtained from almost any Notre Dame man of track fan from coast to coast. Hunter, still ranked in the list of “prospects” is out to beat the big boys. Ollie is a resident of Erie, Pa. and has streaked over the cindered track for 11 years. He was unbeaten in cross-country this past season; clipped 14 seconds off Walter Mehl’s old mark in the Loyola Invitational. At East Lansing, Hunter lowered the course record - by 18 seconds in brilliant fashion, despite losing 15 to 20 seconds when he got off the course. He added the three-mile Sugar Bowl laurels to his record, beating Fred Wilt by 70 yards.
As with Rice,, Ollie is developing a characteristic last lap “kick.” Coach Doc Handy believes that Hunter will run a fine race in New York, disappointing no
'	17
one, but he was not too optimistic on his star’s chances of overtaking Rice. Greg’s pulled tendon is responding to treatment and he is expected to hit the stride that carried him to records in all of the country’s outstanding meets.
The Irish mile relay team: Gene Fehl-ig, Roy Tupta, Frank Conforti, and John Murphy, will also run at the New York meet. They will be up against the elite of relay teams headed by Fordham and Georgetown. On the same day, Feb. 6, the remainder of the track squad will match speed with speed against the Navy Pier team.
Ollie Hunter, winner of the Sugar Bowl Two Mile Invitational, who will compete against. . . .
Sorin Official Winner
Correction of the final standings in the lightweight division, League I, of the pre-Christmas interhall basketball was announced this week by Tommy Mills, director of the Rockne Memorial.
Apologies are due to the Sorin lightweights who finished in first place, but were reported as finishing in the third spot in the league.
The correct standings follow:
WON , LOST PCT.
Sorin_______i____________ 5	*1	.833
Dillon 4	2	.666
Cavanaugh--------------— 3	2	' .600
St Edward’s_____________ 3	2	.600
Carroll 1	' . 4	.200
Breen-Phillips _________ 0	.5	-000
18	‘
Campus Bowling Team
In State and Local Meets
For several years now, it has been our belief that approximately two-thirds of the students at Notre Dame bowl occasionally, either good ’ or bad. It is with this thought in mind that we will attempt to give you a few pointers, a few laughs, and regular bowling news that will be devoted to both the beginner and the so-called star.
Jim Fayette, captain of last year’s , campus bowling team, is now an ensign in the Navy and is stationed at Newport, R. I., in the Supply Corps. Another member, Tommy Fourmy, is climbing telephone poles in Colorado for the Army Signal Corps. Still another member, Cy Tlustly, last year’s lead-off man, is the proud father of a three month’s' old son.
•This year’s team has a few new faces. There are several promising freshman candidates, who show promise to fill the shoes of previous members. They are: Bob Cronin, Bud Furman, and Bill Moore. Dick Klee, Don Birren, and “Nibs” Trimborn have moved up to fill in the team along with veterans Tom Halligan and Bud Gans. The team has already entered the South Bend City Bowling Tournament and are making-plans for the State and National K. of C. Tournaments.
Splits from the kick-backs. . . . Andy Varipapa once said that bowling is 70% footwork, 20% ball, and 10% luck. Before Ned Day enlisted in the Armed Service, he had formulated plans for a National Collegiate Bowling Tournament to be held in Chicago. It is the hope of this column that some other benefactor of the bowling game will carry his plan out.
—Tom Halligan
Cage Rules Announced
For Interhall Tourney
Plans were formulated this week for the approaching interhall basketball play. The same weight divisions, light and heavy, will be adopted this semester as in previous competition.
A man under 150 pounds may play heavyweight ball, but a man weighing more than 150 pounds will be ineligible for lightweight play. Once a man under 150 pounds participates in a heavyweight match he can not play lightweight ball again.
A date will be announced for weighing in and once weighed in a man may not change. A record of individual weights will be kept and anyone found playing in the other division will cause his team to lose that game by a forfeit.
.... Notre Dame's Greg Rice in Madison Square Garden next week. -
Games will start promptly at 7:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. Failure to appear on the court within five minutes of appointed time, unless previously excused, will draw a forfeit.
The number of players on a team will not be limited. However/ in halls where two teams are permitted in the same weight division, a player from one team found playing on the other team will cause that team to draw a forfeit of the game.
Weakened Fencing Squad
Preps For Spring Bouts
The Notre Dame fencing team again raised their weapons this week in preparation for the second half of their schedule. However, the adage “Something new has been added” is, in the case of the season’s team, an understatement. All of last year’s experienced varsity men left us with the December graduation. These men include Jim Madigan, Herb Melton, and Angel Gonzalez.
Ventura Gonzalez, who is Angel’s brother, John Watters, Frank Repilado, Charles Raley, Stewart Stratter, Bob Witucki, Ray Zando, Dave Roney, Gene Slevin, Alfredo Ortiz, and Don Mac-Daniel make up the present team.
Coach Walter Langford has arranged a schedule despite acute transportation difficulties. It will include: Cincinnati, Marquette, Purdue, Wisconsin, and Chicago. There is a possibility that additional meets will be fought, but war conditions have cut many prospective trips off the Irish card. A more complete schedule and announcement of interhall fencing competition will appear in the Scholastic in the near future.
“RED” LONERGAN
Welcome Freshmen
Believe It Or Not
We always make it a principle of ours to make a few' opening remarks to the incoming freshmen of each new7 semester.
On each occasion we ask the incoming . students t o become ‘ a regenerating spark of this intangible । thing titled “the No-I tre Dame Spirit.” It I is your responsibility .	„	1 to enter’ into at least
RED” LONERGAN „	. ..	.
a few7 of the extra
curricular activities here on campus. On the athletic field you should be the “new7 blood” which drives the competitive instinct to new heights. Upon entering the various clubs and campus organizations you should be the members with the new ideas and it should be you who wull-renew7 the interest in the club activities. By w7atching the bulletin boards you will certainly be able to find at least one or tw’o organizations which seem interesting to you. It is only through becoming a part of Notre Dame that you’ll get the full benefit out of your time here at the University
Lithuanian Monopoly
The “Lugens” do seem to have some sort of a monopoly on the “Player of the Year” award; Lou Rymkus in receiving the honor has been the third of his race to be chosen for the rather short-lived aw7ard. Ed Beinor -won recognition a few years back and Lou’s present line coach, Ed “Moose” Krause, was aw7arded the honor during his playing days here at the University. He is also of Lithuanian descent. Habitually the first man on the job and the last one to leave, Jack Wiggins, Notre Dame’s head senior manager, ran true to form in the 99th commencement exercises this past December. He was the last man alphabetically in the last group — foreign commerce seniors . called to the rostrum to receive degrees.
You would never guess the leading ground gainer on last year’s team. No it wasn’t Clatt, Ashbaugh or Livingstone, but John Peasenelli of Rochester, Pa. Little Johhny got few chances to play but when he did he went places. The only opportunity he got to carry, the ball was in the Pre-Flight game in which he toted the ball for 20 yards, this being the highest average for any back on the squad.
One of the year’s most unusual stories hails from our own campus, and it concerns none other than Harry Wright. The “Horse,” who went through the entire season here with only the usual amount of bruises and bumps, w7as rather shaken up at the East-West game at San Francisco last New Years day. -The irony of it all was that he w7as injured by one of his own schoolmates, Bob ■ Dove. There was some mix up on assignments for a certain play and it seems that both boys pulled out and ran head-on into each other, behind the line of scrimmage. Bob got a crack on the forehead and Harry a broken nose. No wonder the old time sportsmen say that “anything can happen.” Harry’s 536 minutes of play in last season’s games may be an all-time Notre Dame record—at least as far as present records show. Regardless of the Southern California’s fans dislike of Harry’s argumentative w7ays w7ith the officials, the U. S. C. squad picked him on their all-opponent team. Apparently the Trojans liked his style? Things don’t look too bright for our Fencing team not with tw’o losses already stacked up, Ohio State and Chicago. The only victory being the one against the Purdue swordsmen. The reason for the rather poor showing of the team is that through the mid-season graduations we lost what seasoned fencers we had and now Coach Langford has to start from scratch. We feel sure that by the end of the season the coach will have a better groomed squad which will make up for a few of those early season reversals.
What Were They Doing?
Many of us wonder what our athletes do during their vacation time. The answer seems to be work, at least that is what a great majority of them did. That is probably the reason why you see few athletes who fit into the pattern being set by “Mr. Five by Five.” Gene Fehlig worked at the Railway Express Agency and later at one of the local lumber yards. He practiced track during his. time off at the Washington University track in St. Louis. “Siggie” Czarobski worked for the Chicago City Pipe Line, an old hangout of Sig’s. Bob Dove played J in the Shriner’s game on the west coast for the Eastern team. He enjoyed the surf-board riding - and the , wonderful meals. After the game he headed for Washington, D. C. where the Touchdown
Shell like a Valentine from Wyman's
Send her something as sweet and feminine as she is for her Valentine. If you’re in a quandary, consult Wyman’s personal shopper — JOAN NAVARRE. She’ll shop with you or for you! You can have your. Valentine gift wrapped (10c charge) and you can mail it from our store.
Cologne, $1 to $i.75
Belle-Sharmeer stockings, '	$1.35, $1.50
Handbags, $2.98 to $7.95
. Linen handkerchiefs, '39 c to $1.98 Eisenberg pins, clips,
$20.95 to $27.50
NAW MEN — get regulation shirts, ties, and socks at Wyman’s.
WYMAN'S
On Michigan at Washington, next to the bank	.
19
UNIFORMS
for NAVAL OFFICERS
Custom tailored to your individual measurements by the Largest Tailors in the World of Made-to-Order Clothes
Ed. V. Price & Co. — Naval Tailors, offer a complete line of fine Custom Tailored Uniforms — all cut to your individual sizes — perfectly fitted and hand tailored from your own selection of fine regulation fabrics:
WHIPCORDS — ELASTIQUES — SERGES WIDE WHALES — BEAVERS
Our direct prices enable you to obtain the finest Uniform Clothing at prices no higher than those asked for ordinary Uniforms. Drop in and inspect our line. Open Saturdays and Sundays.
LIBERAL TERMS
We also carry a complete line of fine accessories:
Abbott Hall Caps	. Hickok Belts
Van Heusen Officers’ Shirts	Midshipmen Insignia
Arrow Collars and Ties	Stetson Gloves
Botany Ties	Swank Jewelry
Sweetheart Pins	Fownes Gloves
Dog Tags
117 West LaSalle St., South Bend, Indiana (Opposite the Hoffman Hotel) General office and shops: 327 W. Van Buren St., Chicago
EXPERIENCED ALTERATION AND CLEANING SERVICE: For your convenience, we will pick up uniform garments for repairing, cleaning and pressing. . . . Done in our own shop by expert naval tailors. Telephone 4-0220.
MIDSHIPMEN: To save time, your order may be placed with one of our Campus representatives listed below:
FRANK ENGLISH . 304 Sorin Hall
AL FINK .	ED MONAHAN
325 Sorin Hall	: ' 1036 N. Notre Dame
20
A hearty welcome also awaits you at the OLIVER HOTEL Coffee Shop and the Emerald Dining Room, where for years Notre Dame Men have found food and refreshments moderately priced, in delightful environment and pleasantly, but efficiently, served.
We wish you success in your new career and hope that through your efforts glorious victories will accrue to the U. S. NAVY.
OLIVER COFFEE SHOP OLIVER EMERALD ROOM
THE OLIVER HOTEL, Inc., Corner Washintgon and Main Streets
21
Club gave him the “lineman of the year” award. He waited for the opening of Congress and then headed back to the hometown of Youngstown, Ohio for ten days. Ollie Hunter, who is closely following the footsteps of his predecessor, Greg Bice, had a very enjoyable vacation. He was awarded $100 in the B. V. Kanai ey prize which is given to the senior monogram man who best exemplifies a student leader on the athletic field and on the campus. Greg also won this prize in 1939. Ollie then went on to New Orleans where he won the Two Mile Invitational against the nation’s best runners. He had taken his mother along and from the track meet he and his mother went to Florida where they vacationed for a while. Bill Earley spent an average
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
413 City National Bank Building
Southern vacation, loafing. It seems that southerners should have this occupation down to a science by this ttime. Congratulations to ex-athletes of the University: Bob Hargrave, Bemie Crimmins, and Frank Quinn on their graduation from the V-7 class here on campus. Bernie is the fourth Crimmins to go into the service.
Student Council Will
Act on Class Elections
An announcement concerning student elections is ’ expected to be forthcoming early next week following a meeting of the Student Council and a representative of the office of the prefect of discipline.
A student council meeting was held this week but no action was taken, it has been reported.
The coming elections will present a special problem to council members. Status of students running for office will have to be clarified and the question whether officers will be elected for; the year or the semester will have to be decided. Should the council decide to have officers elected for the school year that would raise the problem as to whether or not second semester students, those who remained out of school this summer and who will change classes at the end of the current semester, will be eligible for election to office.
Ordinary procedure calls for class officers to be elected the semester previous to their taking office. Lack of spirit and interest has resulted in the present situation being the first of its kind to confront the student body in several years. Immediate action to remedy this situation has been promised by officials.
Student Commission Asks
For Mailing Asistants
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repeat. service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
A call for workers to help distribute . Scholastics to Notre Dame men and chaplains and the Chaplain’s Digest to chaplains was made this week by John H. Terry, president of the Student Commission, 231 Cavanaugh Hall.
Those interested in doing their bit on the “morale front” should contact Terry or turn in their names at Room 10, Main Building, or at any of the offices of the prefects of religion. A meeting will be called and small jobs assigned.
The Notre Dame Student Commission is the distributor of 1,200 copies of the Scholastic each week, and workers are needed to devote one hour a week to making mailing stickers or assisting in the mailing. The Digest is sent monthly to . 1,500 Catholic chaplains. Workers are needed to assist in folding, stapling, and mailing.
DR. ROBERT F LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661 . 702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
. DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L; E. Fisher, M.D~ ' M. J. Thornton. M.D.
22
Five Students Attend Cincinnati Convention
NGWC’s sub-organization for the unifying of Catholic College students—The National Federation of Catholic College Students—held its annual convention in Cincinnati during Christmas vacation with five representatives from Notre Dame attending.
Meeting jointly with representatives from the secular schools’ Newman Club Federation, the delegates spent Dec. 27, 28, 29, and 30 discussing various phases of the convention’s theme—“Victory In War and Peace.”
The more than 400 delegates representing over 250 colleges and universities got together at large meetings, heard talks, wrangled, arg’ued, reached conclusions. Most important conclusions: (1) All principles of the Pope’s peace plan should be applied when the time comes; (2) Post-war era should be based on Christian principles as outlined in encyclical on reconstruction of the social order; (3) Colleges should look more to turning out Catholic lay leaders; Catholic Action cell movement suggested as method for training leaders.
Delegates were frank in admitting that Catholic graduates are quick to accept today’s pagan world rather than using their ingenuity and learning to upset it with their potent, powerful Christian principles. At both open meetings and private conferences need was expressed for a method of forming lay leaders.
Presented to these searching young men and women by N. D. delegates was the cell movement which has been growing here and at other colleges and universities during recent years. Notre Dame’s student movement, the Catholic Action students, has alaready produced a Catholic leader in Detroit’s troubled labor unions, a leader in the rural life movement, two men taking graduate studies and working for the movement in state universities, and many lay leaders working in the armed forces. -
Jack Terry, newly turned junior, headed one of the convention’s panels, treating the victory and decent literature commissions of the NFCCS, of which he is national head.
Another Notre Dame man with an active part in the big meeting was Robert Millett, a graduate of last month, who presented a paper during the open session on, “Victory In Peace: World Government.” Following closely the Christopher Dawson ideas, Millett called for a united world of several large federations, with nations being grouped into federations according to culture.
Attending the convention were other N. D. men: John Lynch and Jim Cunningham, new Sorin seniors, and George Bariscillo, also a senior from Alumni.
For regulation Navy Shoes and accessories, come in to Rose & Katz.
NAVY REGULATION: White Shirts by Arrow -	Shorts and Uppers
Ties and Collars Socks and Gloves Money Belts
REGULATION OVERSHOES — factory rejects.
Rvse s Katz
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 ^.YOUNG MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
23
DISC-CUSSION
By J. C. R.
Somebody warned us today that we should devote our energies to making distinctions between jazz and swing and informing the world which was music and which was not; which was lasting and which was not. Under pressure of that threat, we boldly strike out ignoring all subtle, esthetic distinctions and evade the issue by saying something like this:
Pick up a magazine or newspaper, turn to the Music section and read that “Toscanini concludes Brahms cycle
3F
X
X

$
X
X X
X
% ATTENTION
Boston's SPECIAL DISCOUNT
A X
to MIDSHIPMEN —
x
(Our Regular SS.85 Quality)
— Sizes 6 to 12 —
— B, C, and D widths —
Combination Lasted — They Fit!
Black, Plain-Toe, Blucher, Regulation Dress Oxfords.
$E00
4^^ per pair

Toilet Articles Supplies
Sunday, NBC” and you wonder just what a Brahms cycle is and what could be so wonderful about concluding it. The cycle, it seems, is merely a series of six Sundays on which a Brahms composition is presented, symphony or some other musical form. To conclude it, one merely plays the last number in the series. But the article went on to say that “By all odds, the Toscanini-NBC performance of the Brahms German Requiem may well prove to be the most significant single achievement of this musical year.”
It’s nearly a half-year now since James Petrillo put an end to popular recording and every place we go now two and three-piece orchestras are to be seen taking the place of the thousands of juke boxes. Along with the
X X
X X X X X
X X X
X
5
X X X
X X X
X X X
X X X
X
X X i x X X
NAVY NEEDS
• Black Shoes • Black Sox
• Rubber Overshoes
•	White Shoes
•	Shoe-Polish Kits
zero weather the quiz of J. Petrillo is also of vital interest to the country, and as yet the government is getting no place in the struggle. Within the fortnight Petrillo won his private battle with that last of the nation’s great orchestras as the Boston Symphony finally signed to his union. No longer being able to support itself on its private donations and being driven from radio and even from Wellesley the Boston orchestra signed, and it is rumored that within a few short weeks CBS will sign the Boston for a series of radio concerts.
The Boston Symphony’s concerts will be added to a long list of programs of America’s greatest orchestras within the last few years. America’s tastes have been greatly tuned to classical music. On some smaller stations, where popular dance orchestras were once transcribed, there are half hour programs of the great symphonic and operatic repertoires. Such a tendency is good. Even Deems Taylor recognizes it, and the last two or three weeks he has been telling stories of people never before liking or daring to listen to classical music now “eating it up.” He has even stories of grizzled old sailors in the merchant marine who are lending a ready ear to Brahm and Hayden.
But with all of this we would still like to hear some new recordings by
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
A.
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
24
Authorized Naval Tailors
Representing M. BORN & CO.
Chicago's Largest Custom Naval Tailors
PARKER-WINTERROWD
OLD ESTABLISHED TAILORS 115^2 - 117^2 N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver Hotel, South Bend
CUSTOM TAILORED UNIFORMS AT READY-MADE PRICES!
Fit, tailoring and correction mean a great deal.
Soon you will be interested in securing your Officer's uniforms — at which time we will appreciate having you visit our shop.
ALL ACCESSORIES, INCLUDING SHIRTS AND TIES, AT REASONABLE PRICES.
PARKER - WINTERROWD
Phone 3-6318
Open Saturday Afternoon and Evening, and . Sunday Afternoon.
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES
BOB KUIPERS	CAPT. GEORGE MURPHY
114 Alumni	130 Alumni
EDDIE DORE 238 Alumni
25
OFFICIAL DISTRIBUTORS OF THE NEW REGULATION
U. S. NAVY UNIFORMS
Woody Herman or Charley Spivak or even Claude Thornhill. Record departments are still selling a quantity of older recordings, tops now being Harry James’ “I Had the Craziest Dream,” “Der Fuehrer’s Face” and several recordings of “Brazil.” (And, by George, just as I sit here, the announcer says “Tommy Dorsey’s program schedule for this period will not be broadcast by order of James Petrillo, head of American Federation of Musicians.”) With that, we haven’t the courage to go on.
NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
INTRODUCING
Jack Denniston
Up to now the life of Charles Joseph Butler reads like a Hollywood^ scenario.
The curly and sandy haired senior, who
CHARLES BUTLER
lives in Alumni hall, was born in Chicago on Aug. 15, 1920 into a family of two brothers and a sister. He attended St. Lawrence Grade school and then went on to Mt. Carmel High school.
During his fresh-
man year Butler went out for .the Carmel’s lightweight basketball team. Charlie says his biggest thrill was seeing his name posted on the freshman basketball list. The frosh mentor’s selection of
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
Welcome
Navy Men
Butler proved to be wise, for Chuck continued to shine, and by his senior year he was one of the finest basketball players to come out of the Chicago area in
many a year.
Headquarters for Regulation Shirts Hose Underwear
M‘X ADLER Michigan at Washington
Charlie played on the lightweight City Champs his sophomore year. At the outset of his junior year he was moved into the heavyweight bracket and at the same time was elected captain of those eagers. That year Mt. Carmel won the St. George Tournament — Butler setting the new scoring record with 17 points in one game. The high-scoring, high-riding Carmelites were selected to represent Chicago in the National Catholic Tourney at Loyola that year and Charlie, once again, set a new individual scoring record tallying 32 points in one tournament game. For this and many other feats during the Catholic play-offs he was. named a forward on the All-National five.
During his senior year Captain Butler . led the eagers to the St. George preChristmas crown. He was voted “most valuable” player to his squad during that -tourney. They were city champs that year and high scorer/Butler maintained
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
BOSTONIANS, $8.95
M'X ADLER Michigan at Washington
26
his high school record of averaging at least 16 points per game each season.
He says two of the greatest basketball players he has faced are Mickey Tierney of Purdue and Eddie Riska, former N.D. star. Charlie played with Tony Kelly, who was captain of Mt. Carmel’s eagers when he was a sophomore, and now each will face each other in the Chicago Stadium a month or so hence, when Captain Kelly will lead his De Paul five, coached by ex-Notre Darner Ray Meyer, against Captain Charlie Butler and the Irish quintet. Butler also played one year of high school football, flanking the right end of the Carmel South Section power line in his senior year. He was also the extra point kicker-for the Wally From-hart eleven.
At Notre Dame Chuck won his numerals on the frosh basketball team. His soph year found him understudying Eddie Riska, and when Riska broke his ankle in mid-season-Chuck stepped in and did yeoman service. Last year he was fourth in scoring; as he won his second monogram. Of course, his greatest thrill in college basketball so far was his election, a few weeks ago, to captain of the 1942-43 Irish net squad. Commenting about that Charlie said: “It had always been my ambition to play basketball for Notre Dame ..and one day to be named
captain.” He continued: “We have 12 or 13 fellows out there on the squad, anyone of which can play first team, and everyone of them are looking forward to a successful season. You can be sure we will be out there trying all the way taking each game as it comes.”
This Business Administration major, whose average is 82, would like one day to coach a major basketball team. A thick steak or any other home-cooked . food will satisfy all his wants. And Glenn Miller’s music, he says, is “tops.” Charlie likes to fire a round or so of golf during the summer and he lists that sport as his favorite hobby.
Butler has enlisted in the Navy V-7 and at present is taking special courses preliminary to entering the Navy deck officers reserve.
Publication Contains a
History of the Brothers
■ Two centenaries of the Congregation of Holy Cross are observed in the publication of the Educational Conference of the Brothers of Holy Cross in the record of their seventeenth annual meeting, just released on the Notre Dame campus.
This publication, observing the founding of the Province of the United States on Sept. 14, 1841, and of the University . of Notre Dame on Nov. 26, 1842, con-
Game at Chicago
The Notre Dame-De Paul basketball game tomorrow night is scheduled for Chicago Stadium and not the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. In the other half of the Stadium double feature Bradley of Peoria will meet Marquette. Notre Dame will make one more Stadium appearance this year when she meets Great Lakes on Feb. 20.
tains a historical review by Brother Aidan, C.S.C. Brother paints vivid portraits ■of characters and mannerisms of Brothers of the Congregation whom he knew and about whom he had read.
John J. Fitzgerald, Ph.D., professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame now on leave of absence from the University as an ensign in the Navy, contributes an article entitled “Teaching to Learn and Learning to Teach.” Dr. Fitzgerald asserts that a teacher must be a student in two senses: first, that he must have completed well his three levels of schooling; and second he must be constantly discovering the subject matter he teaches. He further delves into the art of teaching, pointing out that a teacher must master the subject and overcome any deficiencies in order to perfect education. •
Meet me on page 5 of the streamlined February, 1943, EXTENSION
I'll be waiting for you in the issue that's especially dedicated to YOU.
Catholic Press and Campus Issue
EXTENSION, The National Catholic Monthly, 360 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
27
■3H
1 g
NAVAL UNIH(
Individually Hand to Individual Measures W
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient service that literally reaches from shore to shore . . . an advantage of great value to men on the move. For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville . . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, courteous, efficient personnel to serve you.
Mi
IN
YOl labe ever and iden
SEC Man hanc is e-
NAVAL OFFICER’S BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER’S KHAKI WORKING UNIFORM
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval officers the standard of quality, design and tailoring that will give complete satisfaction. All Simpson uniforms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability and are sturdily constructed for more days of wear.
J. B. SIM I
NAKAL
IN SOUTH BEND - 2( 5
or Zero Deck C ant
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., WAI E? BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS C WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, HOU J T°P
NAVAL OFFICER’S WHITE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S WINTER WORKING OVERCOAT
NAVAL OFFICER’S OVERCOAT^/KV1 \ (Two-piece half belt	r
in back)	- • v
w
n
e
iORMS of Character
Cut and Tailored by J. B. Simpson, Inc.
MANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED IN J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
YOUR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram label bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse, every Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date
and number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, identification can always be made.
CHOICE OF POCKETS; top or half top pockets
BODKIN BUTTONS with the can’t be lost and which are so
8
J. B. SIMPSON, INC., 20S N. Main St.. South Bend, Ind.
Gentlemen:
MAIL COUPON TODAY-
quick and positive
attached slide that easy to remove are
a feature of Simpson garments. This permits easy removal when garments are to be cleaned and pressed and eliminates loss of buttons. '
SECRET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND: Many officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty handy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) ; is easily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIPPER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL TROUSERS: We have set aside a large supply of metal grippers and Talon zipper fasteners to use on military uniforms. (At present, it seems we will be restricted in our use of these items for civilian purposes.)
POCKET OPENING IN FACING OF COAT FOR QUICK REMOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in just a minute’s time through the little pocket opening in the facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is the case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the facing open.
You may have regular side pockets or quartei in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed
within regulations, are followed on all personal details.


IPSON, Inc
FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED |
imimi uniform chum ।
TAIL 0RS
with price list and actual samples of uniform materials.
5 NORTH MAIN STREET ।
Please send me your Free Hiustrated Catalog of Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of materials.
anteen on the Campus
Name
WAI \S C
1OU
KEGAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK, TY, CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT. TON, CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
Address
City
State
29
THE EARS HAVE IT
By VAIL W. PISCHKE
... in peace and war
This emblem is familiar throughout the nation as the symbol of a well-trained team, integrated for service in peace or war—The Bell Telephone System.
1.	American Telephone & Telegraph Co. coordinates all Bell Svstem activities.
2.	Twenty-one Associated Companies provide telephone service in their own territories.
3.	The Long Lines Department of A. T. & T. handles long distance and overseas calls.
4.	Bell Telephone Laboratories carries on scientific research and development
5.	Western Electric Co. is the manufacturing, purchasing and distributing unit.
The benefits of the nation-wide service provided by these companies are never so clear as in time of war.
IW CALLS COME FIRST
Lots of things happened during the inverted summer vacation which has just passed—and especially in radio. Bing Crosby’s story about the “homecide” 0 burning which he sponsored isn’t exactly new.... the Old Groaner recently pulled a quickie by helping Spike Jones out of a radio-jam on his Kraft show. It seems that the rhythm section of Trotter’s orchestra had moved front and center to accompany the Charioteers quartet, but drummer Spike couldn’t- move his big drums and cymbal.... As 11 the, song progressed Bing noted ' that the score called for a loud cymbal crash on the finale. He saw Spike couldn’t get back to the drums in time... so fast-thinking Bing picked up a stick, aimed carefully across the stage, and crashed the cymbal right on cue. Cute trick if you can do it, eh?
The war smacks at radio script-writing plenty hard. For example, NBC’s Gildersleeve, a giggler who has been built up in the .minds of listeners as a fat man, has had to defer his prodigious radio eating, for the duration.... no more of those ham, bacon, sausage, five eggs and 12 pancake breakfasts that Uncle Mort used to order on the airwaves, too. CBS has its examples also: “Blondie” never got Dagwood out of trouble with his boss unless she wangled a raise for him at the same time.... that’s out now, since—salaries are frozen. Fibber McGee’s brakes used to screech regularly on his Tuesday night broadcasts, but it’s no longer in line with the government’s policy of conserving auto parts to have a car in bad repair, so there are no brakes or tires pulled to falsetto pitch on that broadcast anymore. Then again, on Abie’s Irish Bose, “Mr. Murphy” flew back and forth between New York and Los Angeles ■with nonchalant regularity —and that’s also “nixed” on future airings.	.
Did ya’ see in the papers where a flock of radio greats are quivering with fright when they think about the coming of television? Seems that there are some 15 network performers who are at this, moment undergoing special face and body rejuvenation treatments in anticipation of the not too distant day when they’ll be seen as well as heard.
Best Boner of the Vacation: John J. Anthony on “Good Will Hour”: “If I were a woman, I would talk to my husband as man to man,” or: Announcer:
30
“This obligation will be brought to you without information.”
Local: There will be an important Radio Club meeting in the radio studio on the third floor of the Engineering building on Wednesday, Feb. 3—all radio men ought to be there at 7 p.m. sharp.... Somebody should ask Dan Tomcik where he got his expensive equipment for the campus’ newest broadcasting unit stationed in 242 Alumni Hall, WND.... he and Bob Martina, another campus engineer, daily and nightly send out musical goodness and gabbical corn for all within Alumni’s boundaries.
gineering schools. Only degree-granting schools are considered.
Notre Dame’s college of engineering was established as a distinct unit of the University in 1897, though courses in civil engineering had been offered as early as 1873, and courses in mechanical engineering were provided in 1886. These courses constituted the first department of engineering at a Catholic institution in the United States.
The engineer’s council is a conference organized to enhance the professional status of the engineer through the cooperative efforts of the national organization concerned with the professional,
technical, educational, and legislative aspects of engineers’ lives. Objectives of the council are to coordinate and promote efforts to attain higher professional standards of education and practice and greater solidarity of the engineering profession.
Round Table
Members of the Economic Round Table will meet next Wednesday for the first time this semester. A paper on “Education” will be given by Al Sommer, a junior from Golf, Ill. President of the club this year is Joe Rud, Chicago, and secretary is James Clark Hamilton, 0.
Engineer's Council
Approves N. D.'s College
The engineering college of the University of Notre Dame opened a new semester last week with the added distinction of appearing on the honor list of the Engineer’s council for professional development, which recently inspected and accredited the University’s curricula in aeronautical, civil, electrical, mechanical, and metallurgical engineering.
A total of 577 engineering curricula in 131 colleges and universities in the continental United States have now been accredited by E.C.P.D. through the inspection program of its committee on en-
110 • ITlai/n SOUTH BEND/ INDIANA
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a line line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
lYlai/n a/vtcl
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Comer for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
'SCRATCH ONE ZERO
must soft
be something special about drink, when men overseas
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND

"OUT THERE WE'D GIVE A BUCK FOR A COKE”
"THEY'RE STILL A NICKEL HERE
"There a 5$
write home or bring back tales about it. That bottle and the familiar trade-mark Coca-Cola remind them of home. The delicious taste and refreshment of Coke bring a refreshing moment on the sunny side of things. Enjoy it yourself."
31
* BUY *
STAMPS
U.S. BONDS
Copyright 1945, Liggett S. Meeks Tobacco Co.


MILDNESS TASTE
that’s what the real pleasure of smoking adds up to
Up at dawn or io bed at dawn...fresh or fagged, more smokers every day are finding this out ... for Real Smoking Pleasure it’s Chesterfield’s Milder, Better Taste every time.