


;,,, 
NEWS 04 

CORE NO MORE Jim Ryan 
College Seminar requirement replaces Core class for A&L sophomores. 

CAMPUS LIFE 12 

DEPRESSION:THE INVISIBLE ILLNESS Lauren Wilcox Scholastic looks at the disease affecting more college students than many may realize. 
NEW BREW RAISES A STIR Emily Paladino 
Fair Trade coffee is now available in dining halls, the result ofstudent activism. 

ENTERTAINMENT 26 

TAILGATING IO I Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Scholastic infiltrates the highly~coveted lots around the football stadium to get the top tailgating tips. 

SPORTS 32 

TY'S TEAM Mike /se/in 
Things are looking up for Coach Willingham and his Fightin' Irish. 

HUMOR 36 

MUSINGS OF A MISGUIDED MESSIAH Steve Mattingly 
Scholastic convinced Notre Dame senior Steve Mattingly to comment on all things random. 
From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Cribs ............. 24 ND Notebook . . . . . . . . 4 Making Sense . . . . . . . . 31 Snapshot . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Being Like Mike . . . . . . . 38 Campus Watch . . . . . . . 23 Final Word . . . . . . . . . 40 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 
SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 

Understanding the Silent 
Affliction 
Life as part of the Notre Dame family is defined by togetherness -arms linked while singing the alma mater, section dinners at South Dining Hall, the Sign of Peace at Sunday mass that lasts for 10 minutes. Beneath the appearance ofl:he uiiifiedtiiiiily are snidents who feeltso:'.··'" '· lated, detached, who suffer from depression. 
For those afflicted by depression and their friends, it is difficult to determine when the common behavior ofcollege-aged students -skip­ping class, erratic sleeping habits, frequent mood changes -develops 
look for 
into a paralyzing sickness that requires medical attention. 
ISSUE 4 
on 

OCT7 
Some shocking statistics, affirmations from university counselors and visceral personal testimonies all combined to create a story that, we hope, paints a se~blance of an illness ·that is difficult even for those whom it_ afflicts to accurately describe. 
Sharing this story with you would be impossible without the students that shared their very personal stories with us, both anonymously and identifiable. Their honest reflections grant us all insight into a little discussed, but very present, issue in our community. 



ffi~ 
Meghan Gowan Executive Editor 
Vol. 146, No. 3 • 23 SEFT 2004 
SCHOLaSTIC 
I
COVER ILLUSTRATION 
NICK ABRAMS 
Editors in Chief Mike Borgia Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor Meghan Elizabeth Gowan 
Executive Design Editor NickAbrams 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Ji_m Ryan General Manager Christopher Kelly 
News Emily Paladino. editor Alisa Finelli, assistant 
Campus Life 
Lauren Wilcox. editor Katie Solan.assistant 
Sports 
.Christopher Meskill, editor Mike lselln,assistant 
Entertainment · Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments Mike Healy, editor Erik Powers, assistant 
Design Nell Ryan David Redenbaugh 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief JenniferWadkins, assistant Drew Dodge Kate Dresser Bridget McFadden Maggie O'Connell 
Doug Schlarman 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Q11asi Semper Victrtn/S Vive Q11nsi Cms Morit11111S 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Marla Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556.The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2001 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or In part, may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center; Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. Greowafleld would like to inform you that the Nalgena bottles are coming. We heart tongue boy.All letters must Include the writer's name, address and phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request In certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. R~quests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year.Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy;please specify volume and number, or date, Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates avallable on request.· The opinions expressed In Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily 
2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 



Friends and Brothers · in Holy Cross 

Since 1842 and growing into the future. 

ANSWER~ THE GALL •'<f>'. 

Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
LEGWARMERS 
The '80s called.They want their clothes back. If you're that worried about the temperature of your legs, try buying a pair of socks. 

ND LIP GLOSS 
Economists say the best way to. increase the cost of an item tenfold is to slap an ND on it. Next week the bookstore is going to be selling green petroleum jelly. 

'90S PARTIES 
They're fun and all, but wearing Abercrombie and listening to Counting Crows is not much different from what ND students usually do on weekends. 

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED ON 
CAMPUS 
We're flattered that they ranked ND the 5th-best college football weekend, but the weekly jab at Rudy/Catholics/South Bend is getting a little old. 

BACKPACKS IN SDH 
While thefts of bags should go way down, thefts of salami and cheddar hoagies will definitely go way up. 
:~:~Te--1 r-71\\-·: -· l[~:.; l1:=~~ r-)?1: r'-·-1· r·-('r·01 Dr f7r\\ ;, 1·1 
:~WFhere's-rlOfl,il1g't0\tit)~i1tl South Bend.'' 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 
It's an adage heard from the earliest days of one's freshman year, repeated ad nauseum by students and profes­sors. The phrase is standard artillery for camp~s humor and opinion writers (in­cluding those that have been featured in this magazine) looking to get a few laughs or to vent their frustrations about a dull weekend. Sports Illustrated On Campus can't seem to let it go, either. But this label is. unfair, and it has be-. come a readily available excuse for many students who expect entertainment to arrive at their door. Perhaps the same could be said about this label that is said about so many others: it comes from a grain of truth. Is South Bend a great college town? Definitely not. But once we depart from that grain, we find ourselves buying into exaggerations and unsubstantiated claims. First, let's consider the nightlife. Clearly the local bars don't exactly measure up to their trendier urban counterparts, or equal the sheer number of those in big college towns like Madison or Austin. It is difficult, however, to picture Notre Dame students willing to pay what many popular urban clubs charge. Plus, given the number of of-age students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, students here do have a lot of options. With the possible exception of home football weekends there s ' always room at a number of the' popular student bars. Underage students do have a bit more to gripe about, but their plight is that of underage students nationwide. At col­leges where social life largely revolves around drinking alcohol, being underage is clearly a disadvantage, especially since police are cracking down on underage drinking across the country. Under­age students do have one legitimate complaint: South Bend lacks clubs for students aged-18 and up. 
Perhaps the area's greatest strength is the number of restaurants and stores. While frequenting many of the same chains found back home can seem pretty drab, at least the Grape Road area offers something for everyone; and though Bor­ders and Barnes & Noble don't exactly have the anti-establishment feel of an independent book or music store, they get the job done. 
But don't be fooled: South Bend and its surrounding areas have more than national chains. Just check out some of the restaurants in downtown South Bend -the Emporium, The Vine, Siam Thai -or even in downtown Mishawaka (no it's not Grape Road). ' 
Perhaps the greatest danger of the "nothing to do here" mentality is that it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. When students hear from day-one that there's no r~ason to venture off campus, they're less likely to do so, giving local businesses little incentive to cater to students. 
Sure, South Bend is no Madison, ·but for those planning to stick around for a while, making an effort to enjoy the town will b: more fruitful than complaining·· about 1t. . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

West Nile Hits Close to Home 


Incidences of virus reported in St. Joseph County 
ANNAO'CONNOR 
Most Notre Dame s111-dents would probably say they feel relatively safe on campus. However, most 
members ofthe NotreDame community don't know that a potentially fatal disease carried in organisms smaller than a finger­nail has been found on campus. 
The alarming discovery of numerous dead crows and blue jays has safety of­ficials concerned that the West Nile virus is spreading across Notre Dame's campus. According to a university press release, the Indiana Department ofHealth confirmed that St. Joseph County-the county in which Notre Dame is located-became one of the 38 Indiana counties with con­firmed cases of West Nile virus, includ­ing one human case. The Department of Health reported that an elderly person, who had been diagnosed with West Nile, died last week in Elkhart County, which borders St. Joseph County to the east. . West Nile virus can cause encephalitis 
-which is the inflammation of the. brain 
-meningitis or even death. Symptoms in~ elude fever, headache or body aches. Only a small percentage ofpeople who contract West Nile will develop any symptoms, and most will fully recover on their own. 
People over the age of 50, people with chronic diseases -such as diabetes -or people whose immune systems have been weakened by AIDS or chemotherapy are most at-risk for developing severe West Nile symptoms. 
West Nile virus spreads when a mosqui­to bites an infected bird and then bites a human. Itcannot be transmitted from one human to another, and it cannot be spread from birds to humans. Even so, dead birds should not be handled with bare hands. Anyone who finds a dead bird should con­tact University Landscape Services, who will use a state-approved protocol to col­lect and freeze the remains, according to a university press release. 
"I thinkitis really scary. I never thought it could happen at this campus because it seems so distant from anything like that," says junior Lauren Halleman. 
"Each ofus can protect ourselves pretty easily," says Ann Kleva, director ofHealth Services at Notre Dame. "There is a very low risk of anything happening to you if you are in good health." · 
Health experts recommend the follow­ing precautions for protecting yourself. from contracdng the West Nile virus:· 

.· ··.(;oocl things South · . Ben.d ~as going f~r it: 
.· s·.·..-.. -Madison Oyst'er Bar . ::. : . 
-·.· •. We.have no' idea whe,re,they . · '. iet,ih~ir'.oysters, butth~y go .• ... ; down weir with a beer atthis · d6wntoWn ~-a~·... 
Dirt che~p c:abs\ ·•·• ·.· Try getting a $.2 ridefrom Main Circle to Boat Club in Manhattan. 
Muffins from Martin's Supermarket . 
· The muffins, topped with icing are the best . 
.2·.··•· . Two Frank .'Lloyd Wright houses 
Just thi~k how cool Stepan Center could have been if . Wright had been around to · 
-design that. 
··1 Higher Grounds 
• ThiSWa~hington Street coffeehouse serve~ a slightly better_ cup of joe than Grab 'n 
Go. . -· ... . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS S
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

Students and campus leaders react to the recent 

change in campus security 
KATIESOLAN 
At the beginning of the ne.w ~chool year, many women returnmg to their residence halls may have noticed a discernible change -an empty front desk. The desks that sit vacant were once the posts of the dorm security monitors, who were a presence in women's dorms for 20 years longer than they were in men's halls. This year, in an effort to provide a higher level ofsecurity that is not gender­biased, a residence patrol squad replaces the dorm security monitors. Before 1980, when the university dorms were not equipped with such fire-protec­tion devices as sprinklers and fire alarms, security monitors served as firewatchers. Fire-protection devices were installed campus-wide in 1980, eliminating the need for security monitors, but women's dorms kept the monitors for added se­curity. 
In recent years, questions began to surface about the security monitors' effectiveness in women's dorms. Three concerns were raised: the security moni­tors served different functions in different dorms, the unequal security measures for male and female dorms were considered sexist, and the stationary positioning of security monitors at dorm entrances had little overall effect on campus-wide security. 
In response to these concerns, Notre Dame Security/Police implemented a five­year strategic planning process seeking to security efforts on campus, says Chuck Hurley, assistant director of NDSP. Input was gathered from security consultants at Michigan State University and Wake Forest University, as well as from Notre Dame hall staff and students. 
The research resulted in the formation of a residence patrol squad, a group of security officers that patrols campus from 9 p.m. -5 a.m. every night to watch for suspicious behavior and create a height­ened level of security. 
Previously, the role of the security monitor fell into a gray area; they often functioned more as a part of hall staff than as an extension ofNDSP. 
"We found that the hall monitors' jobs varied, depending on the hall and rec­tor," says Hurley. For instance, some performed hourly rounds and ensured . that only authorized students entered the dorms, while others enforced pa­rietals and watched for student alcohol violations. 
6 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

Some students enjoyed what they felt to be the caring presence of monitors who would greet students arriving home late and would help residents who may have had too much to drink. Others felt the monitors to be a conduct-police force. 
Hall, feels that the decreased presence of security in the dorms is a drawback ofthe new system. Skinner gives the current pa­trol "positive feedback for the job they are doing," but adds, "The lack of presence of a security monitor within the dorm 







Students felt that [the security monitor system] was biased; females felt "over-observed." 
~ Rex R::ikqw, director of NDSP 
Meredith Jakubowski, a senior from Cavanaugh Hall, says the security moni­tors were essentially members ofthe hall staff, and therefore, male dorms should have had them as well. However, her over­arching opinion was that there was no real need for security monitors on campus. "You could say they were superfluous," 
she says. · ·"-·· ···· ·· ······•··•··uon·ofreri mearit that only traffic in' ~nd 
needs a lot of attention." Skinner feels the old security monitors were a "caring presence for ... women," in addition to being helpful reporters ofdorm problems during the night. 
Although the security monitors were seen by some as an asset to dorm life, Ra­kow says, logistically,,their immobile sta-
Conversely, Sister Carrine Etheridge, rector of Farley Hall, thought the security monitors to be great assets. She feels that the new, roving monitors cannot provide the same degree of service or protection for women in the dorms, do not serve as a caring presence, nor do they check on women after the hall staff is asleep. Furthermore, says Etheridge, security monitors are essential in women's dorms because, "Women have more to fear than men." 
It was this discrepancy between se­curity measures in women and men's dorms that NDSP wanted to ameliorate. When considering a change in the sys-tern, student input was taken into serious consideration, says Rex Rakow, director out of the dorm was monitored. NDSP 
intends for the residence patrol squad to 
focus on overall campus security and the 
safety of all students. 
Keri Kei Shivata Johnson, a residence patrol squad officer and former rector at Bethel College, says that a stationary pa­frol is not as effective as one that is mobile. "When you stay in one spot, you become 
complacent," she says. 
Although the crime rate is low at Notre . 
Dame, the campus is neither completely 
isolated nor free of intrusions by non­
Notre Dame community members, says 
Rakow. Therefore, a roving patrol seems 
a better fit for the campus as a measure 
ofprevention. "Most security threats oc­
cur outside, not within the dorms," 
of NDSP. 
"Students felt that [the se­curity monitor system] was biased; females felt 'over-ob­served,"' says Rakow. With 
the residence patrol squad, equal attention is paid to all dorms. Rakow says tha four security officers are on patrol every night, each as­signed to one quadrant of campus. He says they enter the residence halls only to monitor social spaces and do not ascend the floors of the dorm. 
Beth Skinner, rector of McGlinn 
~~""' he says. 
!QJ-:J~~~....._ 
,.::::,."'"'"-'"=~ ____...a-,,,,..,;=-:::,: 
'~====-~ 
Andrea Wolfe, a senior in Welsh Family Hall, approves of the new residence patrol. "I feel safer when I am walking back to the dorm very late after being out studying. Once in the 
dorm, I don't feel very threatened," she says. 
Some also see that the residence patrol squad will benefit the 
·s;:,;;~;;;;;;i~~...-men on campus. The Rev. Jim King, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall, approves 
ofthe new measures. "In this day and age, we'd be fools not to have security patrol­ling around campus," he says. 
The Rev. Jim Lewis, O.Carm, rector of Carroll Hall, likes the idea of the ad­ditional security for his dorm, which is located on the fringes of campus. "This is an upgrade for us," says Lewis, "in terms of never having security present before." 
Rectors of women and men's dorms alike have cited that they are impressed by the professionalism of the residence patrol and their dedication to student security. The skills of the residence patrol are due much in part to the extensive training they have undergone -a minimum of _ 80 hours before beginning the job. 
Members of the residence patrol at­tended the Office of Residence Life and 

ON GUARD Residence patrol officer Steve Stebbins makes his nightly rounds. 
Housing's five-day resident assistant training program, are First Aid certified and went through a 42-hour campus-pro­tection program. Rakow believes that the residence patrol is more effective than the previous security monitors, adding that the residence patrol is better equipped to handle emergencies. The security moni­tors were not the primary respondents in emergency situations and had to call NDSP for assistance. 
Now it remains to be seen whether the roving patrols will improve campus safety, or if the newly vacant desks in the resi­dence halls will lead to a security gap. D 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 

titude of manager Debra Patterson that keeps them coming back. The shop is even known to many as "Deb's Place." 
Those same loyal patrons kept Patter­son coming to work each day as she fought a difficult uphill battle with cancer. 
In late 1996, doctors found squamous cell carcinoma growing on the outside of Patterson's voice box. As a smoker, Patter­son had been concerned about laryngeal cancer for many years. 
"When I was younger, we had some­one with a stoma come speak to our high school about smoking," Patterson says. "After seeing that, my biggest fear became having the same thing happen to me." 
A stoma is the hole created in a patient's neck in a procedure called a tracheotomy. The windpipe is brought to the front of the neck as a hole, which the person then uses to breathe air in and out. A trache­otomy is required whenever a patient undergoes a laryngectomy, which is the surgery to remove his or her voice box. 
However, Patterson's doctors believed a laryngectomy would not be necessary in her case. They hoped to remove the cancer while keeping the voice box intact. Patterson had the operation in January 1997, followed by six weeks of radiation therapy. Throughout these six weeks, she still made it into work everyday. "I would go to therapy everyday after work, so I was pretty exhausted by the time I got home," she remembers. 
But neither the surgery nor the ra­diation was successful in killing the cancerous cells. Shortly after the end of radiation, doctors discovered the cancer had spread. They told Patterson a total laryngectomy was the only answer. 
For Patterson, however, having her voice box removed was not an option. "I knew I didn't want to live with a stoma," she says. In addition to the effects on her appearance, she was unwilling to accept other physical limitations that would re­sult from such an invasive surgery. Water­skiing and swimming, two ofher favorite activities, would no longer be possible without special instruction and equip­ment. Additionally, a stoma can cause aspiration -when food or liquid enters the lungs -and excess mucus build-up. Without a voice box, Patterson would also have to relearn how to speak. She was de­termined to find an alternative. 
After searching the Internet, Patterson and her husband found a doctor in Chi­cago who was willing to provide experi­mental treatment for laryngeal cancer. In 1997, Dr. Barry Wenig was one of only five doctors able to perform an experi­mental type of partial laryngectomy that required removing part of the voice box and reconstructing the remaining vocal chords. Patterson waited until the fall of 1997 before deciding to have the surgery done by Wenig. At the time, Wenig was researching another treatment option: photodynamic therapy. However, the treatment was not yet available in the United States, and by November, Patter­son could not afford to wait any longer. 
Wenig rebuilt Patterson's voice box after removing 90 percent of her vocal chords. Though her cancer had been re­moved, the surgery required her to make adjustments. For three months after the surgery, she was unable to speak, eat or drink. 
Furthermore, the procedure required Patterson to undergo a tracheotomy, leav­ing her with a temporary stoma until the scar tissue -which was blocking her airway -that she developed from the laryngectomy could be removed. Once· her airway was cleared, doctors would reverse the tracheotomy and the stoma would close. 
Despite her temporary stoma, the physical strain of her recovery and her inability to speak, Patterson started work again only two months after the surgery. She chose to keep her stoma covered, 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 
M-N=t•)lt.;.1-ii@INEWS7 
wearing scarves around her neck each day. She communicated with custom­ers by writing everything down using a marker and dry-erase board. While she learned to speak with her stoma soon after returning to work, she had to use her fin­ger to cover it in order to talk, so she still chose to use the board frequently. "One of my customers used "' to joke with me throughout her illness, using weekends to travel to and from Chicago. 
Patterson's commitment to Decio Commons has been constant since she started managing it in 1996," six years after she became the first manager of Waddick's in O'Shaughnessy Hall when it opened. 
ways know you can find comfort at work," says Alice Pennington, a junior who has worked for Patterson since her freshman year. "She would do anything for us. She goes to all our activities to support us." 
Another of Patterson's top priorities is to remain active with the American Cancer Society (ACS). This year Notre Dame's Relay for Life Com­
and say I probably mittee chose


[PATTERSON] TAKES A HOLD OF SOMETHING AND
used up an entire her as the hon­marker each day," MAKES IT SPECIAL ... SHE MAKES THE IMPOSSIBLE orary faculty she recalls. chairperson. Despite addi­POSSIBLE. "We look tional surgeries, the -Jessica Brookshire, co-chairperson ofNotre Dame's Relay for Life for a cancer 
scar tissue blocking Patterson's airway continued to grow due to residual radiation from the therapy she received a year earlier. As a result, Patterson had to travel to Chicago once a month so Wenig could monitor the tissue's growth. Over the next four and a half years, she had over 20 surgeries to remove scar tissue. 
Wenig tried several different proce­dures to prevent the growth, but had no success. Finally, inJune 2003, Wenig was informed of an antibiotic that could stop Patterson's scar tissue from growing back. She took the antibiotic thatJune and two months later was able to have the trache­otomy reversed. 
Today, Patterson is cancer-free and in good health. Though her voice is altered from her numerous surgeries, she speaks with her reconstructed voice box and without a stoma. She attributes much of her recovery to the relentless work of Wenig and his willingness to seek out experimental treatments. 
Equally important to her recovery, Pat­terson says, was the love and support ofthe Notre Dame community. "It's so exciting to know that people here care so much," she says. Seeing her customers each day at work helped sustain Patterson as she went in and out of surgeries. She man­aged to keep nearly perfect attendance 
Many of her customers say their sup­port for her was well-deserved and given willingly. Kenny Delinski, staff sergeant of Notre Dame Security/Police, has known Patterson since she first came to Notre Dame 16 years ago, and he has frequented Decio Commons since its beginning. "She's certainly a fighter," he says. "She's very positive and thoughtful for others. She goes out of her way .:for everyone." . 
Brendan McHugh, a sophomore who has worked at Decio Commons for a year, explains what makes the sandwich shop so unique. "It's Deb's loyalty to the customers and her close relationship to all ofthem. There are definitely a few items on the menu that she makes just because one persoJJ. wanted it." 
Patterson gets to know many ofher pa­trons on a personal level. "We've laughed and cried together," she says. "They know they can come in anytime and tell me their problems." 
Some customers have even relied on her throughout their own battles with cancer. "Dozens of people who have had cancer have come in to talk with me about it. I'll go to the hospital to be with them when they wake up from surgery," she says. 
Patterson's commitment to others ex­tends to her employees as well. "You al­
survivor who is supportive of cancer research and American Cancer Society events," says Jessica Brookshire, co-chairperson of Notre Dame's Relay for Life this year. "She was the natural choice for us." 
Relay for Life is an overnight event held nationwide and sponsored by the ACS during which participants walk or run laps to raise money for cancer research and aid programs. 
1 
Brookshire has known Patterson for several years and originally met her through the St. Joseph County Relay for Life. "She takes a hold of something and makes it special," Broqkshire says of Patterson's involvement with the ACS. "She makes the impossible possible." 
Patterson also helped to support the Notre Dame relay this year by compiling a cookbook of recipes from Notre Dame faculty and staff. All the proceeds from the sale of the cookbook will go to the Relay for Life. "My biggest hope is to sell all the cookbooks and donate a big check that will really make a difference," says Patterson. 
Looking ahead, Patterson knows retir­ing from Decio Commons -a move she has considered but has no definite plans for -will be a difficult decision to make when the time comes. "I love my job and everyone that comes in here," she says. "Everyone is my favorite customer." . 



I
I. 
. i ·.\ 
NEWS'}i-'--·---------------------.J 
••. ,,•' 
·,:' ' 
'·! . .,t 
f 
Core No More 
College Seminar replaces Core as requirement for Arts and Letters sophomores 
HITTIN'THE BOOKS Sophomores (from top to bottom, on left) Lindsay Hero, Christie-Starzec and Jeff Dorocak give a presentation in professor Michael Brownstein's College Seminar course; 
JIMRYAN 
For some sophomores in the College ofArts and Letters, it was an oppor­tunityfor provocative dialogue in the liberal arts. For others, it was the bane of their ex­istence . Either way, Core is dead. The. Arts and Letters College Council voted last winter to eliminate the contro­versial, year-long requirement for college sophomores. ·Beginning this fall, Arts and Letters sophomores will be required to take a one-semester College Seminar instead. George Howard, director ofthe College Seminar Program and former director of the Core Program, says the pri01ary dif-: ference between the two programs, other than duration, is the professor's ability to customize the course. The curriculum of Core was dictated by the Core office, and professors had to cover the topics ofnature, society, selfand God, Howard says. In the College Semi­nar, professors choose their own topics and syllabi. Howard says that this freedom will al­low more professors to teach the College Seminar than previously taught Core. In recent years, it was difficult to find Core· professors because teaching the courses re..: quired a broad knowledge ofmanyareas of the liberal arts. Few professors have such general knowledge, Howard says, and itwas therefore necessary to allow professors to teach in their own fields in detail. 
Howard says this change reflects the trend in academia of emphasizing deep knowledge in one area in lieu of broad knowledge in many. "Specialization is the hallmarkofthe modern university,"he says, "and it takes somebody with very [broad] intellectual interests to teach Core." 
This move away from Core's common curriculum has permitted a wide variety oftopics inthe College SeminarProgram. Seminars this semester range from Sex, Money and Mother Earth to Trojan War Tragedies to Islamic Ethics, which was supposed to be taught by the controversial Muslim scholar Tariq Ramadan. 
Withouta common curriculum, Howard says there may be the same disparities in the workload among the different College Seminars as were-commonly complained about among students in.the Core Pro­gram. Howard notes that disparities in• workload can exist among sections in any course in the university. 
Howard says that the diversity of the 
College Seminars will alleviate another 
common student complaint about Core: disinterest in the content. 
"If a student can't find a topic ofinter­est to them in the array of30 sections that we've provided this semester, they have serious intellectual problems," Howard says. 
With so great a variety of topics, the College Seminar Program deviates from the Core Program's goal of providing students a general, cross-disciplinary, liberal education. Howard says that many longtime Core professors were opposed to that change. 
One such professor is Andrew Weigert, who taught in the Core program from its inception. "I am convinced that Core was thebest humanistic educational experience _ available to students," he says. He believes that the shorter duration of the College Seminar, along with its specialization, will detract from that experience. 
Yet most ofthe former Core professors,· Weigert included, continue to teach Col­lege Seminars. Some continue to teach the Core· topics. One professor even retained the title ofa Corecourse: Self & God: Ideas 
·1. 
1!i 
10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 
-

__________________:___~~~:@m:J:c~e][!li!t...~:,\.'lljij~lCJ!INJ;Y\'SJ----------------------, 
and Images. 
Howard says thatitis fortunate that some longtime Core professors have continued teaching in the new program. "The [pro­fessors] who stayed with Core over a long period of time did so because they were unusually effective at it," he says. 
One longtime Core professor who is happy with the new program is Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. He says the College Seminar pre­serves an important element of Core: the introduction into diverse ways ofknowing in the arts, the humanities and the social sciences. As in Core, Roche says, students in the College Seminar will watch movies, attend plays and view artwork in addition to their readings. 
Roche is particularly enthusiastic about one large change from Core: At least 67 percent of a College Seminar student's grade is based on oral performance. Roche says the College Seminar will give students practice in verbal expression that will be useful in the future when applying for jobs and scholarships. 
Karen Richman, another former Core professor who teaches a College Seminar, shares Roche's enthusiasm for the pro­gram's emphasis on oral expression. "The students are taking more responsibility for the course [than they did for Core]," she says. "They have to be more active." 
Another advantage ofthe College Semi­nar, Roche says, is that the College Semi­nar frees an additional course for students. Roche says that since the College of Arts and Letters has many required courses, some students do not develop the intellec­tual maturity within their major that they and the faculty would like them to attain. Roche says the new program, which lasts one semester as opposed to Core's two, might help students enter their majors earlier. 
But students are not limited to one Col­lege Seminar, and Roche says there will probably be extra seats in the spring for students who would like to take a second seminar. Students do not have to be en­rolled in the College of Arts and Letters to take a College Seminar, either. Howard says he knows of a student majoring in engineering who chose to take a College Seminar simply because he was interested in the topic. 
Enrollmentin College Seminars this se­mester has been surprisingly high, Howard says, with almost all of the sections being either full or over capacity. Thirtyseminar:s 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 
were offered this semester because Howard believed thatmost students would want to take one in the fall. 
One hallmark of the Core Program was the Core Congress, an advisory committee comprised of one student from each Core section. Howard says a similar body will ex­ist for the College Seminar Program. 
The Core Congress played a role in changing the program because it had been talking for years about various issues with Core, Howard says. College Council min­utes show that Roche consulted members of the Core Congress on the day the Col­lege Council decided to adopt the College Seminar Program. 
While Howard notes the importance of students and faculty continuously evaluating the College Seminar, he says the changes that the College Council made that day are pretty permanent. "It was a decision that was a long time in coming," he says. 
Now it remains to be seen iffuture Arts and Letters students will find that it was worth the wait. D 






College Seminars: A Sampling 
Rather than having a set curriculum like the Core Pro­gram, professors in the College Seminar Program can choose.their own topics and syllabi. Here are a few of the 30 seminars being offered this semester, along with their professors. 
Techne, Nature, Death: The Problem of Antigone 
Kathleen Biddick:_ .Living (and Learning) in a Postmodern World James Collins 
A & L, What's the Point? 
Martine DeRidder .· Engaging Environmental Issues Matthew Doppke 

Once Upon a Time: The Wisdom of the Folk Tale 
Darlene Mathis Eddy 

Music and Ideology 
Paula Higgins 
Dante: Poetry, Arts, Politics 
Christian Moevs 
Everything but the Burden 
Richard Pierce 
Basic Texts: Define 'Human' 
Jeffrey·schneibel 
.SCHOL8STIC 12 
CoreConfuslOn 

i 
I 
'I 



DomeLights 
COMPILED BY ERIK POWERS 
Smooth Criminals: NDSP Takes a Bite out of Crime 

You've seen NDSP patrolling in sport utility vehicles, riding 10-speed bikes in daisy dukes and gunning $8,000 all­terrain vehicles down South Quad at 15 mph. You've seen them direct traffic, 

stake out Reckers and ran­sack any bag larger than a purse at Main Circle; but what else does that thin, 
blue line do to separate 
from complete anarchy? According to the NDSP Web site's police blotter, officers responded to or updated infor­mation on 145 incidents during the first 
Q&A 
Witb_Jazz_S_a~op.b_qr:ijsj: 
Wess 

Notre Dame sees plenty ofblowhards on campus, 
hut none like those who belted out a string of foot-tapping medleys during the inau1sural 
concert in the Marie P. DeBartolo Centerfor the Peifonning Arts last Sunday. Scholastic met up with saxophonist Wess "U7tirmdaddy" Anderson 
ofthe Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra to chat about his music, his work with the renowned 
T,Vynton Marsalis and his passion -jazz. 
First ofall, I have to ask.What's the significance of your nickname, "Warmdaddy"? 
(Anderson laughs.) Everybody always asks me about that. Well, when I first joined the band in 1988, our drummer gave me the name. After our first con­cert, I was so surprised that people wanted to get 
three weeks of school. The most com­. mon criminal offenses were as follows: 
73 cases of larceny 24 instances of illegal possession, consumption or transportation of alcohol 16 found properties 7 burglaries 4 telephone harassments/threats 4 instances of trespassing 3 instances of vandalism 2 lost properties 2 indecent exposures 
autographs that I would go into the audience and invite people backstage to meet the musicians. Our drummer said I was so nice, warm and fuzzy that he gave me the name, Warmdaddy. 
So, where are you from originally, and when did you first learn how to play the saxophone? 
Brooklyn, N.Y., and at age 14. I started with the piano first, at age 12, and then switched over to the saxophone after hearing Charlie Parker play. My father was also a musician; he's a drummer. So it's 
just always kind of been around me. 
How did you meet up with Wynton Marsalis? 
After I graduated from high school, I went to col­lege in Baton Rouge, La., and he came to give a clinic there during my junior year. I attended his workshop, and he asked me to play with him the following summer, which I did ... I thought I was just going to stay with him, but he told me to go back to school. So, I did. But when I graduated in 1988, I gave him a call and asked ifhe could refer me to someone. He immediately asked me to join him, and that was it ... I graduated on Friday and started work on Monday! 
Who would you say has been your greatest musical influence? 
Thatwould have to be my father. He's always guided me. Even now, he still calls me and tells me what to do. He's a big presence in my life, and he's very proud ofwhat I've accomplished. 
Garlic Ranch Custom-Made Pizza_; 
-Ready-to-Make Pizza line at NOH 
-White or wheat pizza dough  
-Ranch dressing from the salad bar (do not use non-fat  -~ e-e:  ~ §  
-Garlic  ---~..,,;,,.:~UL  ]  
-Tomatoes-Onions  -.'1:t::::;:::;;::::;::;-­ ~ _  
-Choice of meat  

Sprinkle garlic into the ranch dressing so that you can see the garlic specs. Do not use the non-fat ranch dressing, as it creates an unusual consistency ·when the pizza is cooked. Use the dressing for the pizza sauce in the NDH Ready-To-Make pizza line and add tomatoes, onions and your choice 
. I 
of meat. Have your own delicious D-Ha/1 concoction?: Subrriit the r_edpe_to scholast@nd.edu.. ____ , 
How would you describe the sound of jazz? Well, I've been around it so long. The rhythm is a combination ofa march and a waltz. And when you put those together, you get the ... burn bah beep burn bum bah beep (he starts slapping his knee and creating a rhythm) that everyone loves. It's almost like the en­gine ofa train, The pull between those two different rhythms actually creates a new rhythm. 
Do you perform most of your concerts out of the Lincoln Center in NewYork City? 
Well, we're based out of there, but a lot of our concerts take place on tour. We did just open a new building, though, so we'll be in New York for about the next two months. We'll have concerts every weekend. 
Do you ever get tired of performing? 
No. I love to perform, but the traveling does get to be a bit much. We travel almost every day. We've been from Wisconsin to Chicago to here, all within a week ... When you're on tour, there are the autographs, the reception, and by the time you get back to the hotel room, it takes another hour to get down off the adrenaline high. 
But I would imagine you get treated pretty well on the road? 
Oh yes, very well. Like kings! 
-Beth Murphy 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

.:,,,:N,€t~l)iis)1:mood disorder associate~ with 1epf~~~i'. JJi.ctWe~lfrri,oriths ofDecember through March; studeii~~­.~P.~lijj~l#.~·)Symptoms of SAD include:. ··. :. '.''.'.' :ilQl\'.\Vlllter-months . . _ ·· _·· . . if.:.-~ 






~vt~~filtt±r.::::t'!;:::~lin~:~~:~;;~til 
..· ;--·· ___:-:·~. ·-:~'-·• .;::.~-:/_'.: ...:·· "<:~~: .·_;_ ·:_.:,. 
paint a picture of an invisible affliction. unco~trollable and inexplicable crying, mon symptom of a descent into a "blue He has struggled with two separate onsets lack of energy and a loss of interest in mood" or a "funk." The UCC staff says of depression during his past three years previously normal daily activities. (See that exhibiting four or more of the afore­at Notre Dame. Butwin's description il-page 17 for a more comprehensive list of mentioned symptoms for more than two lustrates not only the psychological and symptoms ofdepression.) UCC staff warns weeks is. a potential sign ofclinical depres­physical severity of the disease, but also that depressed students are susceptible sion, and the afflicted person should seek the complexities inherent in an illness to excessive procrastination and self-im-professional assistance immediately. that is vaguely defined and often mis-posed hibernation. Individually, many So what exactly causes an onset of understood. non-depressed coJlege. students share depression? 
Depression affects about six percent of these symptoms;""which niakes clinical According to the National Institute of the U.S. adult population, and feelings depression difficult to diagnose. How-Mental Health, it is more often than not of depression are the symptoms most ever, if any ~f these sympt9ms persist an interaction of environmental, biologi­frequently reported by Notre Dame for more than two weeks, the afflicted· calandgeneticfactorsthatcontributesto students to-the University Counsel-student should seek evaluatfon. · the onset ofdepression. ing Center (UCC), one of the primary According t<;> the Amertc~ Psychiatric Many researchers believe there is an on-campus resources for students. The Association,adeastoneinfiveAmericans. inherited genetic component that may UCC's staff includes clinical and coun-_willexperien5damajord~pf~ssiveepisode predispose a person to the disease, and seling psychologists, counselors, a social during :his'or her lifeti:niei\vith .. :\'V"omen that the stressful college environment worker, a dietician and a consulting tw;ce·{s likely to developdepression as only exacerbates these pre-existing psychiatrist. For many students, the real men. Clinical depression is a serious conditions; Interpersonal relationships, test is distinguishing prolonged periods health issue that alters a person's behavior, academic pressures, financial problems of sadness from clinical depression. /physical health and appearance, academic and family problems can all be con,tribut­
"Real, clinical depression is when it's / performance, social activity and his or her ·. ing stress factors, says Dr. Wendy Settle, beautiful and sunny outside and you feel "·',ability to handle· ev¢ryday decisions and psycl:iologist at the UCC. . terrible. You are crying, can't concen~rate, /pressµres, according to th~ National Iri-.Accbrdi~g to the UCC staff, people and nothing gives you pleasure; Youmiss /sti1;ufe ofMental Health, . . . . _ at a higher l'isk_ for depression include class and you're sleepi:ng all the time," / :A~the UCC, approximately36 percent those' who· have a family member with says Dr. Susan Steibe:..PasaHch, ~irector / ·of cw~~ts take some ·form of psyc~otro: depression; have suffered a stressful or of the UCC. ·· · · . . · · . \ pie ine9ications .:.::.. a class of dr"!lgs that. traumatic life event; lack a strong social-
Many questions remainabout depres-\ incl~d~s anti-depressants, as awiell as support network; abuse drugs and alco­sion for those unfamiliar with the disease. \ medications . for anxiety, ADHD\1and a hol; or have a history of medical illnesses When does an extended period of per-\vari~ty ofother 0190d d1sorders. During or persistent physical pain. petual sadness cross ov:erinto diagnosable ~he 2003-2004 academic year, about 2.6 "There is absolutely no difference be­depression? Is there a quantifiable way p~rcent ofthe UCC's clients were on · ._tween a person who has depression and of analyzing when sdepression is life..: prescription psychotropic medic~ticms, .a• person who has, say, diabetes. Most threatening? Whatdifferentiates clinical and/th,e remaining to percent h~d·:Inedi-: people don't realize that depression is a depression from a "bad mood?'' catihnsprescr:ibedhyoutsidedoctors,•says .. disease," Butwin says. "It occurs from a. 
The UCC publishes a long Hst ofcom-· Steibe'."Pas:.1.lich... ·· .· · · laclc of the proper amounts of chemicals mon symptoms ofdepressfori;'Iiichidiiig' ,·,;Jiist"aiblti.e•rtiood? ·· ··· '· "'irione's body.It's nothing [the sufferer] excessive or deficient sleep, a drastic loss · Studies show that, depression is cha,rac-· . did wrong; it's just a fact of science." or gain of appetite, persistent headaches, terized by m.uch Iridre than just the com-· ·· As the various elements that contribute 
. I \_. . 
14 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

____________________;;_____-fflj@5lo?Ji!YA:3'1j.JST()R'f"l!-----_;_------------------, 
· to depression interact and a person ex­periences an onset of clinical depression, he or she will begin to exhibit multiple symptoms. Which indicatiors of severe depression a person will exhibit, however, varies from person to person. "For me, the red flag has been the utter irrational­ity ofmy behavior and my inability to pull myself together, even though I know bet­ter," says Eleigh Radigan, a Notre Dame senior who is currently undergoing treat­ment for clirµcal depression. Radigan says that frequent anxiety attacks were taking a physical toll on her body and helped her realize that she was suffering from more than just sadness. "It's not hard to distinguish between being really sad and depressed," she says. "Depressed is feeling hopeless and knowing thatyou aren't, but not being able to defeat that doubt." 
The development of a distorted view of the world can push students into a downward spiral of depressive feelings is the most standard, yet still very seri­ous, symptom of depression. Frequently, this distorted view creates a tendency to polarize everyday events. into extremes of either black or white, or good or bad, says Settle. This leads the individual to thinkin catastrophic terms and to assume that everyone is negatively judging him or her. Because of this fear of judgment, the depressed student will frequently sever social ties. 
Butwin says that he became increas­ingly antisocial immediately after both of his onsets of depression: "It wasn't anything to do with my friends; it's just what this disease does to you. [My· friends] started to feel like I didn't want to be around them." But cutting off social ties only worsens a student's depression, says Settle. 
The reluctance of friends or family members to intervene only adds to the isolation the student feels, which serves to perpetuate the disease. This reluctance can be life-threatening. "It's not uncom­mon for college students to have thoughts ofsuicide. Ifsomeone is showing signs of depression, don't be afraid to ask if they are s11icidal," says Settle. 
Thoughts of death and suicide fre­quently occur during bouts of depres­sion. According to the National Insti­tute of Mental Health, an estimated 15 percent ofthose with depression commit suicide, and depression is considered to be the underlying motivatorin halfofall 
suicides. 
the treatment debate 
The decision to undergo treatment can be difficult to make. While there is not a 
"cure-all" treatment for depression, coun­selors agree on one thing: depression is not arr illness that should be-or even can be, for that matter-waited out. Clinical depression requires treatment, whether it is anti-depressant medication, therapy or admission into an in-patient counseling facility, says Pastor Jim Lewis, licensed Clinical Social Worker and rector of Carroll Hall. "The students we get are high achievers, and often times it might be camouflaged, but depression is a very serious disorder," says Sister Susan Bruno, a licensed Social Worker and rector of Pasquerilla West Hall. 
While some form of treatment is a necessary part of recovering from clinical depression, Vanessa -a Notre Dame senior who asked that her name be changed-cautions against the use of medication, stating that isn't always the right answer. She battled depression her freshman year and was skeptical of the .medication prescribed to her after her doctors were notified of her family's history ofdepression. 
"I have a hard time believing the fact thata pill is going to-change the situation around me, the. realities that I think about ... so I didn't take it," she says. "I still don't know how I feel about all that, because I do see people who are [taking medication] doing OK, and then once they stop taking it, they take a noticeable turn for the worse. But I still don't_ know 
· whether that's chemical orpsycho­logical," she says. 
Ifa student is prescribed medi­cation, he or she must be acutely aware of the potential dangers existing on a college campus that can counteract with the effective-.'I ness of the medication. Alcohol, for example, can have disastrous effects when mixed with anti-de­pressants. 
Bruno says that along with harmful physical side-effects, alcohol can cause other setbacks as the depressed student attempts to recover. "Alcohol is a depres­sant, and when students are tak­ing anti-depressants and then ingesting alcohol, all they do is exacerbate their symptoms and 
troubles," says Bruno. 
"[Alcohol] works against the body's se­
rotonin levels. It's not hard to understand, 
therefore, that when I came to college and 
began drinking alcohol, it probably had 
an adverse effect on my brain's stability of 
chemicals," says Butwin, who calls alcohol 
a "negative coping mechanism." 
However, Butwin doesn't attribute 
either of his two bouts of depression to 
alcohol alone: "It just didn't help." 
Alcohol is not the only agent that can 
interact adversely with chemical levels 
in the body. Students experiencing 
symptoms of depression should also be 
careful not to abuse other drugs, caffeine, 
or even food. 
In some severe cases ofdepression, 
counseling and medication are ineffective, 
and a complete change ofenvironment is 
essential to ensure a successful recovery. 
"Some kids just need some medicine and counseling, and they can back to normal within a few months while remaining at Notre Dame," says Butwin. Others aren't 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 . SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 15 



1 ------------------------l!JC!•mli!·STOR'(_~:----------------------­
so fortunate. 
"[The student] just needs to be honest with himself and seek a lot of advice and counseling before deciding to go or stay," says Butwin. "In certain situations ... it's necessary to leave, while in other situa ­tions, the best thing for [the student] is to be reintegrated and reimmersed into all the things that the students needs to be around." 
notre dame's role 
The extent to which the university's campus culture exacerbates the stability of students with pre-existing depression 
-or if it creates an environment that encourages the development of depres­sion -is debated on campus. There are even those that maintain that the campus does neither and instead helps to relieve depression. 
"I think there are strengths on our cam ­pus that help alleviate depression," says Steibe-Pasalich. "The strong residential­life system creates community in the dorms and a caring atmosphere." 
But for Vanessa, it was the all-hallowed Notre Dame community that contributed to the onset of her depression freshman year. "For some people, it's great to come in and feel like everyone is accepting of you and to have all the dorm activities to be involved in," she says. "But for some­one who maybe doesn't get into that right away ... [it] just makes him or her feel even more like an outsider, and it can be pretty intimidating and -in short -depress­ing. So seeing everyone else be a part of this greater 'community' or 'family' just makes you feel that much more isolated and alienated, both from the community and the school in general. Pretty much, you feel like a failure." 
The university's commitment to rein­forcing the Notre Dame family mentality on campus sometimes clashes with the personalities ofsome ofits students. "For maybe more shy or independent types, too, it seems like from the beginning [of freshman year], an emphasis is placed on group activities, doing everything as a group ... But at that point in the year, it makes it seem like everyone is getting along great, having a great time with ev­eryone, while you're not," says Vanessa. 
Mary -another senior who asked that her name be changed -disagrees with the stereotype on campus that all depressed students are reclusive loners. In her experience, it is more often the extroverted and socially aggressive stu­dents who are actually suffering from de­pression. A positive person herself, Mary faced great difficulty when trying to come to terms with her own depr1::ssion. 
She cites the competitive atmosphere on campus as a contributing factor to the onset of her depression freshman year. "Notre Dame made it worse. The competition is so out-of-control. In high school, I was the best at everything. Let's face it; here, everyone is the best," she says. "I got here, and I just didn't feel 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

like anyone." 
Butwin, on the other hand, does not 
believe that the Notre Dame campus culture was directly responsible for his first episode of depression. "Depression isn't specific. Depression just is," he says. "It affects every part of your life, so it's hard to say there was one or two things about the environment that,caused it. It's 
a mixture of everything." 
Radigan agrees: "I have a tough time 
implicating something so large as Notre 
Dame in somethingso personal as depres­
sion, because nobody knows what triggers 
it, and it is different for every person." 
Regardless ofthe cause ofNotre Dame 
students' depression, the university offers 
a number of resources for students suf­
fering from clinical depression, spurred 
in part by the growing national concern 
about the prevalence of depression on 
college campuses. 
"As colleges and universities increase 
their means of addressing student needs, we are finding that depressive illness is a growing concern. Notre Dame has a number of layers that allow for good treatment and support of students who struggle with depression," says Lewis. 
"If the problem is increasing, so are the means of addressing it, particularly at schools like Notre Dame," he says. "Fur­ther, [with increased treatment options and recognition of the epidemic of de­pression among college-aged individuals] there is less of a stigma associated with depressive illness and its treatment." 
Approximately eight percent of the Notre Dame student body uses the UCC's resources during a typical aca­demic year. 
According to the UCC, the majority of student-clients are self-referred. "They walk in on their own and are not sent in by a friend, rector or parent," says Steibe-Pasalich. Typical reasons students visit the UCC include feelings of anxi­ety or stress. Frequently, these feelings stem from problems with alcohol, drugs, families, friends, roommates or relation­
ship partners. To assist students with 
their concerns, the university ensures 
that all staff psychologists are licensed 
in the state oflndiana and are all bound to confidentiality. Attendance at counseling sessions is private. The UCC also offers group therapy sessions, meditation con­
sultation and a group called "Feel Better 
Fast," which is specifically designed for students suffering from depression. (Visit 
the UCC Web site, http://www.nd.edu/-ucc, for more information on offeredprograms.) 
During a student's first appointment, a 
counselor conducts an intake interview, which is designed to aid the counselor in 
evaluating an individual's current mental health and determine any negative exter­nal factors that could influence it. These intakes include an alcohol-use evalua­tion, questions about family history of 
psychological disorders and other health issues, as well as questions about current 

...·•SJe~ping, too_ much br tqo little : . •Sl9wedJhoughtprocesses 
•Iri.~bility::t~
·sleep t~~#ifrthi ~ighf ·. ·. ··. •Dlf~c{iI~i~ cdric~ntrating, remem~(. 

•
E~ting 1:00·much.dr toe/little ', •c,\\beri,igian# 1I1a~1:1i-;;4.~~isi9µs. ,,· 


-~lbntt}': pernirm 1hschoi>1 •L~Ssof~teresfi~dail)' activities·. ·.·~aiad,a~h~,s, dig~stiyeJf.~~rµe1i,;riau7;, :·. '·•P~rsiste~tJ~diiigs·of Ja4nis~,· ~rix~-· ' sea. ?~ pai~ :with n,o.llle~ii·a.l ~~~is., ety, 9r;,~op~l.ess11esi\ :. 
·... •E)(cess1tt~ryirig' . ·· •~estlesstiess or(1t~itabil11:y> ·<-~~;or#~~•?l'.#icide / •F,~iling~ 9f /Ilaptropti~re• guilt . ·• -t~~k?ofehergf6r'con~tant fatigue:· ,wo;fhl~sshe~s . " ,, .', :. ', :· .: .. 
E·~~u~~~.~for24-h0Ul'. coosm'"~~md~gencjis~(t(Si4)63i-733'!-.. 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 17 
1 ------------------------1.!io~G.1·~TQ..RYJ~-----------------------1 
life stressors. If individual counseling is recommended, the student will be as­signed to one of the staff psychologists or counselors. The UCC counselors also refer students with special needs to off­campus counselors, but the vast majority ofthe students who consult the UCC are assigned to a specific counselor. 
Senior Eleigh Radigan did not have a positive experience with the counseling services at the UCC; in particular, she objected to being required to take an intake interview each time she visited a different counselor, despite her assertion that her depression does not stem from alcohol-related issues. However, Radigan believes that that the UCC's approach and services can possibly help other students suffering from depression. Furthermore, she believes afflicted students need not look much farther a licensed psychologist," he says. "But don't underestimate the advice of your best friends and parents. They know the real you, and all they want to do is help you. The process goes so much faster once you admit that you're sick and that it's not your fault." Radigan provides a word of caution, adding: "Don't diagnose yourself by something you read online or see in a television ad." 
Vanessa says that friends, above all else, can be the single most important factor in recovery, and encourages concerned friends to alert hall staff if they are concerned someone is suf­fering from depression. Interventions, while emotional and· difficult, are often necessary, says Vanessa. 
"Even ifthe person doesn't accept the help right off the bat, at least know­ing that someone has noticed or cares enough about his or her situation gives some sort of hope ... Also, if you feel like ... the person isn't responding to your efforts to help, don't just stop and ignore him or her altogether. Just be a presence so that he or she knows you're still there for him or her," Van­essa says. Radigan adds: "Don't hold stuffin, but don't be too eager to share and let everybody know how horrible you've been feeling. Self-pity and false sympathy only exacerbate depression." She emphasizes the futility in attempt­ing to make friends and family under­stand depression. "Chances are, you don't even understand what's going on," she says. 
Mary advocates the sup­
port-network approach as 

than the campus community 
opposed to professional for help. "Nobody is alone on counseling, saying that this campus," she says. "And if openly discussing battles you feel alone, then you have with depression with the choice to recognize the similarly situated students truth; ther~ are literally thou­is beneficial and empower­sands of compassionate and fun ing. people here." In the end, how does a 
On-campus counseling is student know when he or 
extremely affordable. There she has recovered -and is 
is no charge for the intake in­full recovery even possible? 
terview, and there is a $4 fee "Let people encourage and 
per individual counseling ses­strengthen you, because 
sion. In addition, each semester right now, you can't do it 
the UCC offers group therapy yourself," says Radigan. 
experiences. Group therapy is "I think you know when 
a great feature of the UCC; not you are OK," says Mary. 
only can students count on the "I have a different feel­
expertise ofpsychologists and_ ing about myself now: so 
counselors, but they also get to · much more self-confi­
know other students who are dence. You have one eye 
facing similar struggles. covered for so long.:_ and 
the recovery process that's how you viewed ev-· 
Among the students inter­erything -but now my 
viewed, there was a general eyes are open." 
consensus as to one charac­Butwin says it is a slow teristic of depression: its un­journey, but _recovery is deniably long recovery process. certainly possible: "You'll "Don't expect to just snap out come out of depression a of it ... See, when you're in wiser, more aware person. depression, everything's a fog. You'll be years beyond You can't see two feet in front your age, you'll be-happi~r, of you, and you don't even stronger and more coura­know which way is up,"' says geous. Seriously, nothing Butwin, who feels his dorm phases me anymore. I rector, the UCC and other fear nothing in life, after 
administrative members were what I ha_ve finally made 
instrumental in his recovery. it through." . 
"Turn to a doctor first, and 
18 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

New Bre\Y Raises a Stir 
Student Government and student activists help bring Fair Trade coffee to dining halls 
EMILYPALADINO 
Starting this semester, Notre Dame eratives, as well as employ the most envi­social justice. students can take a stand on a major ronmentally sound methods of production. Prior to the current semester, Fair international issue by doing some­Some Fair Trade supporters also say that Trade coffee has been available at other thing they already routinely do -drink­FLO standards eliminate the need for mid­campus locations, including the Huddle, ing coffee. 
dlemen in the coffee production process by Starbucks Fair Trade coffee was introduced into ensuring that importers buy directly from and Wad-the dining halls this year, largely due to 

certified growing associations. Supporters dick's. Ex­
I 08 million people in the U.S.
the efforts of Student Government lead­say that under conventional trading prac­panding its 
drank coffee yesterday. 
ers and the student participants of last tices, the middlemen would take a share of availability spring's high-profile hunger strike. the profits, thereby reducing the amount to the din­
At 2.3 billion pounds each year, 
Coffee is the second-leading import of income growers are able to earn. ing halls 
Americans consume more
Many opponents of Fair Trade coffee, 1s viewed
in the United States. Most imported 
coffee than any other nation.
coffee comes from developing nations however, say that this method ofincreasing as a major -such as Colombia, Guatemala, Costa the wages of these growers will decrease success 
In one year, the average tvvo­
Rica and Nicaragua -where Fair Trade the demand for their labor and lead to by Boyle 
cup-a-day coffee drinker will
higher unemployment rates in their re.­and Por­
proponents say coffee farmers are paid 
consume the annual harvest of 
unjustly low wages. spective countries. ter. Boyle In order to be certified as Fair Trade Advocates of Fair Trade coffee have been says the 
18 coffee trees. 
I 
visible on college campuses throughout the continued
coffee, importers and manufacturers must 
More than 300 college 
meet specific criteria set by Fairtrade United States. "Alot ofcolleges are broad­offering of 
campuses now serve Fair Trade 
ening their Fair Trade options," says Katie Fair Trade
Labelling Organizations International 
coffee, including Yale, Harvard,
Boyle, chairperson for the Student Sen­coffee rn
(FLO) -an international standards 
Georgetown, University ofTexas,
ate Committee for University Affairs· at the din­
body that monitors Fair Trade products. 
Oklahoma State, and UCLA.
In the United States, a small Notre Dame. Last spring, Boyle ing halls 
regulates 
, 
ensure 
to the 
I
tional standard. 
I
FLO 
fee growers 
per pound the coffee 
coffee, 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 



• -:'.........-~~-~ 




We meet again, dear Gipplings. We'll get back to business as usual in just a sec, but before 
we begin our chronicles this week, the Gipp would like to ask a favor of this university. Could someone please direct him to the office where you get the dough to setup new campus organizations? 
make-out closet. The Gipp's glad to see we've all grown up since then. Anyway, after this gal received her ovation, she got so flustered that she ran and drug another male froshie into the same water closet. The logic behind thatresponse is beyond the Gipper, but he does appreciate the co-
Apparently, as long as your applica­fountains aren't good visuals when tion involves vague words such as you're holding back the floodgates "development," "dialogue," "issues" -he cleansed his pants with a or "relations," you can throw as naturally sterile detergent. Seeing much money down the drain as that the nearby flora needed some you please. So the Gipp wants to set washin' too, he pulled out the hose up the "Gipper Relations Center," in clear view of the surrounding which will encourage a discussional tourists. He then reportedly -at­dialogue that aims to address issues tempted to cover the evidencewith involving the relatipnship between a Solo cup, which proved quite in­ND students and their Gipper. OK, adequate for what our source called so the Gipp doesn't really mean to a "pillow-sized stain." bash this new group, but rather the Alas, we continue. Upon return­logic behind its formation: "Nine­ing home, our friend realized he teen out of the top 20 schools have had just donated all the alcohol in one, so we need one, too." Last time his system to our luscious grass. the Gipp checked, 19 of the top· 20 (the Gipp hopes all you sunbathers schools weren't Catholic and weren't use towels.) Thus, he would need good at football. But who needs an to continue imbibing. Heavily. 

identity? As long as all the cool kids are doing it ... 
But the Gipp digresses. We've got a few nice secrets to dig up, so let's get to work. ' 
What's Yours Is Mine 
The Gipper's heard this one many times before, but, hey, until this campus gets sick of'80s fist-pumping power rock, the Gipp won't get sick ofmorally casual freshman girls. 
At some point in time, we've all walked by some type of restroom unit that con­tains an extra pair offeet. Or, in this case, knees. But this time, the witness didn't just pass it off with an immature chuckle; he gathered up all his buddies to wait out­side and give the stall duo a warm round of applause when they emerged. Ah, yes, the classic gag-that-killed-the-crowd when done to your seventh-grade buddy in the incidence that the new lucky dog was the roommate of the original recipient. It's quite nice to have a few things in com­mon with your :first-year comrade, but the Gipp advises that these two hop on over to Health Services to make sure they don't have too much in common. 
Tip Me Baby One More Time 
The Gipper awards all available props to the tipster who brought home both juicy slabs of bacon this week. The rest ofyou slackers should be ashamed. 
This tale takes us back to the Satur­day of the Notre Dame's unimpressive conquest over our ugly neighbors to the North. After the postgame party on the pitch, our main character, who report­edly started throwing them down before dawn, was stumbling out ofour hallowed coliseum when he realized his pee-pouch 
could hold itin no longer. Fortunately for the ushers, he made it out ofthe stadium without marking his territory. Unfortu­nately for the few other spectators who happened upon South Bend for the game, he did notmake itbackto his dorm room. We're told that at a stone's throw from Stonehenge -whose free-flowing 
He eventually ended up taking a sloshed snooze on a friend's futon. His cronies, unable to wake him with some not-so-gentle physical contact, slowly be­came alarmed. The hall staff got involved and decided to call the bullpen for their rector, whom our informer describes as the "Patron Saint of Hopeless Drunks." Pops laid his hands upon our friend, called out his name, and he awoke. The rector would later describe his feat as "a moment 
· likeJesuswaking Lazarus from the tomb." The Gipper is anxiously awaiting a new messianic mosaic to be constructed on the side ofa certain campus dorm. 
And so we close the chapter on another Gipper. While amused by our last tip, the Gipp is still searching for the rector who 
spread his hands over our football squad 
two weeks ago. . 
'1 
1
I' 
. 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 23 


ANNAO'CONNOR 

ii
I. 


il,I 
room -the place to b_e. The center of attention is a large, wooden bar, built by Keller this past summer. 
The bar is decked out in Notre Dame paraphernalia, showing the guys' im­mense pride in their school. Other post­ers and flags adorn the walls, including a Hilary Duffposter upon which McGee­ney forged a love note. . 
Large speakers positioned high m the corners of the room allow the residents to blast music at parties without losing crucial space. Even when they are not throwing parties, the poker/bumper­pool table attracts many visitors. 
"People come in all the time to play," Keller says. "One time I came in h~re and did not recognize one person playmg poker in our room." 
Whether you want to sleep, relax or party, there is something for everyo1:e in this quad. You can be sure you will never be bored in 371 Dillon. D 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 25 

Time is Running Out, ** * * * 



and That's Not All -co REv1Ew 

SCOOPLATTAL 
With two successful albums and a huge European fan base, Muse dropped Absolu­tion on the States this spring. Its previ­ous record, Origin ofSymmetry, never 

saw release in the U.S. until it reaches a chorus due to American label during which Bellamy's disputes. Muse fought voice ascends to the to find a label for Abso­stars. lution so the band could '·•Falling Away With try to match its Euro­You" and "Sing for pean success on this Absolution" prove that side of the Atlantic. going emo isn't the only 
The band signed way to write love songs with Warner Brothers anymore. The guitars in 2004, and radios and keyboards pursuing 
immediately exhausted its apocalyptic first single, "Time Is Running Out." The song lured American fans with its catchy bass lead and vocalist Matthew Bellamy's unique vocal range. 
While most mainstream rock albums 


Down by the Riverside 
Emporium an all-around favorite with a twist 
BETH MURPHY 
Is it possi.ble that a restaurant with character and class is located only a few blocks from antithetical Boat Club? Yes, it's true. The East Bank Emporium Restaurant, more com­monly referred to as the Emporium, is about to celebrate its 25th anniversary. The fact that business has been boom­ing for so many years was no surprise to Scholastic after dining there; neither are the two plaques on display that read 
"2003 and 2004 Favorite Saint Joseph County Restaurant" (awarded by the South Bend Tribune) . . 
combine mellow and harder tracks to create diversity, Muse achieves this di­versity within each track. "Stockholm Syndrome" opens with a lightning-fast guitar solo that refuses to decelerate 
the vocal line give each track a singer/ 
songwriter feel, despite the pompous 
and climactic production. 
Interludes before and between tracks give Absolution a movie soundtrack feel. · The "Introduction" march leading into 
The Emporium offers quality food at reasonable prices in a fantastic setting. Located alongside the St. Jo­seph River, the restaurant overlooks the Century Center, Island Park and the East Race Waterway. 
The building, originally an aban­doned warehouse, was restored in 1979 and is decorated with various artifacts that were gathered from the surround­ing area. The oak doors with stained glass windows, for example, were taken from old local churches. 
The inside dining area is warm and 
the destructive piano intro of "Apoca­lypse Please" cranks up the intensity. The "Interlude" following "Falling Away With You" provides passionate closure to the 
pleasant love song. 
Bellamy's songwriting is flawless 
throughout the album. He mixes surprise 
and predictability, delivering each when the 
listener wants them most. Radio-friendly 
tunes like "Hysteria" and "Thoughts of a 
Dying Atheist" don't need to go out of their 
way to impress the listener. More experi­
mental tracks, such as the closer "Ruled by 
Secrecy," keep us guessing with every chord 
change and musical transition. 
One of the most talented trios in all of · current rock music has concentrated on 
songwriting to produce the best album of 
2004 thus far. . 
Listen to Scoop Latta! on WVFI 
4 p.1ll.-5 p.1ll. 
http://wvfi.nd.edu 
***** 
cozy, and a beautiful atrium commands the center of the room. Wide open win­dows line the side of the building that overlooks the river, allowing streams of natural sunlight to enter the dining area, not to mention providing a gorgeous view. 
We recommend going to the Empo­rium at dusk, just as the sun is about to set. If you're in the mood to dine al fresco, ask to be seated outdoors. What was once a four-table patio overlooking the river was expanded last summer. to accommodate 16 tables. 

26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 23 SEPTEMBER 2004 



The Emporium's menu is extensive: baked brie appetizer is spectacular. And It includes staple dishes like New York the filet mignon is tender and juicy, sau­strip steak and chicken tenders, as well teed in a tasty bearnaise sauce, covered as unique specialties like the Big Island in Alaskan king crabmeat and garnished Chicken breaded with spears of in macadamia asparagus. nuts and served If you're not even a great children's menu to satisfy any youngster's appetite. 

The Emporium is fitting for nearly any occasion, but make sure you call ahead to make a reservation: Business is hopping on football weekends and during other major campus events. . 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 .SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 







Tailgating IO I 
Tips and Advice from the Asphalt 
They live to breathe the cold morning air. They endure hours ofplanning, cooking and preparing, often start­ing during the wee hours of the morning. They are the most steadfast Fighting Irish fans, yet many are content to watch the game from TVs in the hatches of their minivans. They are the tailgaters, and the pavement is their domain. The tailgating culture is perhaps one of the most celebrated rituals for a team's dev­otees. It transcends sport, but remains an intrinsic part ofit-so much so thatJohn Madden compiled a cookbook in tribute, John Madden's Ultimate Tailgating, "Whenyou're a participantin the game," Madden writes, taking the perspective of both head coach and head chef, "it seems you are always looking over the fence at the other side and thinking, 'I like what they're doing. It looks good. Some day I am going to do that."' From the perspective of a sports fan at­tending a game just for what happens on the field, the world oftailgating may seem twisted and foreign (Madden is taken aback when a tailgate partier unabashedly reveals she doesn't knowwho the opposing team is). But for those who have been hauling their .Grand Cherokees or Caravans, logging miles and miles on the trek to Notre Dame 
Stadium, it's all part ofthe experience. 
Scholastic ventured into the chaotic world 
ofNotre Dame tailgating, traversing Edi­
son Road, the baseball field and the vast 
C-Lotto find the best gatherings and ask of 
their creators: Whatmakes a great tailgate? 
Amid the smoke, sun, beanbag tosses and 
green-dad revelers, this iswhatwe found: 
Dedicated tailgaters had a lot to say about 
the keys for a perfect parking-lot party, and 
even more to say about why theirs was the 
best ofthe bunch. Most oftheir insight can 
be broken down into four basic categories, 
so novices take heed. 
Food 
Food is a vital requirement for anyone who plans on standing in either the op­pressive sun or the blistering cold. In his book, Madden divides food into "floaters" -foods like sushi and salad -and "sink­ers," which "sink down there and keep you on the ground." Madden writes that all tail­gating foods are sinkers. At Notre Dame, this mostly holds true. _ 
Take Jim Anastos and Eric Schramm, 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

;SCHOLASTIC ENTERTAINMENT 1------------------------, 
age, but most tailgaters listed some type ter-ton.of turkey, Anastos and his neighbors 
of alcohol, from beer to merlot, as aneces­are up at 6i30 a.m. to prep for the day. "It's 
sity. "You need at least one bottle of all not easy,'.' he says. "For us it's a 12-person 
liquor families and a whole trunk full of community effort." 
beer," tailgater Jason Williams advises. But even 6:30 a.m. isn't an early enough 
Above all, make sure beer is kept cold. time for Jason Williams' family. "Be there Williams suggests dividing beverages at 6 a.m. to get prime real estate," Williams among several coolers and labeling each says. "This is like the Louisiana Purchase." one with the contents, which keeps thirsty Die-hard tailgaters suggest arriving at the tailgaters from opening each cooler in their lot at least four hours before kickoff. 
1 
search. "The ice lastslonger and guests love The Friday night before is often work­it," he says. heavy as well, as Welsh testifies. ''We were 
. IT'STHE LITTLE THINGS THAT COUNT Tailgaters will go to great-and sometimes strange -lengths to make their tailgates stand out 
America. Cahn eats and researches recipes of all kinds, then lists them on his Web site. For more culinary tips and recipes, check out www.tailgating.com. 
Booze 
Sorry to disappoint those not yet of­
who, once a year with a group offriends, deep fry approximately 460 pounds of turkey, creating a feast that lasts from 
7:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. Yes, unbeliev­ably that was a whopping 460 pounds of turkey, deep fried. 
Pam DeCola, whose husband has been tailgating for 27 years, makes chili for ev­ery game but warns not to underestimate prepackaged Hostess goodies. "They're indestructible, like a hot dog. You can't kill a Twinkie," she says. 
Scott Smolinski plans two menus: lunch before the game and dinner afterwards. Dinner guests get the royal treatment with· prime rib, jumbo shrimp and perhaps the most gourmet food in the lot-frog legs. 
The most awe-inspiring table was that of Melissa Hennel's group, a veritable cornu­copia of fare served in silver platters with. lavish centerpieces. Her secret? 
Lots of money. 
"I've usually done the cooking," Hennel says, "but this year 40 to 50 people are go­ing to come and so I decided to hire out." Two caterers in white coats stand proudly behind their masterpiece. 
Still, money isn't always what counts. Notre Dame senior Bob Masters is en­tirely satisfied with his much simpler tail­gate. ·"We've got Old Style beer and Bruce Springsteen. This is an American tailgate right here," he says. Chicken, burgers and grilled corn-on-the-cob balance out the menu. 
Joe Cahn, the self-proclaimed "Commis­sioner of Tailgating," has visited tailgates at college and professional games across 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 


Attitude 
In the words oflrish fan Bobby Williams, the best tailgates take "a little preparation, a lot of organization, and a will to win." A host's self-drive is the force that brings and holds. together the good food, bottomless mugs·and lively environment. · 
Evenwhen they're not deep frying a quar­
One party, hosted by Joann Welsh (ND '88), sported a complete bar in the trunk of a sport utility vehicle. While meeting and greeting, Welsh drizzles chocolate syrup down the sides of plastic cups, then fills them with chocolate martinis, the party's main attraction. 
Smolinski took woodem<;upboards from his cabinetry and woodvrnrking business and turned them into a lot-side bar. 
And the worst thing to forget at a tail­gate? "The bourbon!" Anastos shouts. ''After that it's all trivial." 

Atmosphere 
Your tailgatingbasics include food, bever­ages, usually a propane grilf andi ofcourse, a car. But serious.tailgaters. wouldh't dream oflimitfug the experience·to•justthese bare necessities. Welsh, for·example; flies a Notre Dame flag on rutall:pole.for-alLto.see, and has a cardboard·cutoutof Pamela Anderson waving_ a,Lou H6li:z mask. 
JolmGlaubsays thegolden.rule ofreal es­tate isjustas applic:ableto tailgating: location, location, focation ..Naturalshade is coveted and hard to find, butotherwise an umbrella or awning will do justfine. Glaub also favors grassier spots. to asphalt; like those behind Eclc Field and across Edison Road. 
Memorabilia·from flags-to-footballs is of­ten on display. A tailgate proudly blaring the Notre Dame Victory March or swathed in blue, gold or green invigorates what might otherwise be an ordinary picnic. A big screen television in the trunk at.:. tadied to a satellite on the roof doesn't hurt either. 
up until three in the morning making food." For many, a long checklist is indispensable. Welsh admits, though, "It gets easier as you do iteveryyear."Afellow tailgater echoes the adage, "Practice, practice, practice." 
Finally, it is universally recognized that a successful tailgate is impossible without good company. Whether planned together or hosted bya few, the people make the tail­gate..When all is said and done, 10 burned hamburgers and warm beer palein compari­son to who you choke it down with. So, the most important aspect of a great tailgate? Says one fan: "The people, absolutely ... a good football team wouldn't hurt either." 
-with reporting byJennifer Osterhage 


ENT_ERTA.1.t{f"fEN.TJ------------­


aunting South Bend 
A Story of Studebaker 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE 
On the west side of town, situated next to the ruins of the once­thriving Studebaker automobile plant, the former Deluxe Sheet Metal factory looms over Stanley Coveleski Regional Stadium. The main doors ofthe sheet metal factory are locked tight and the buildingis hollow and dark. Aside door, lo­cated adjacent to a dumpster, is even less in­viting, except it has an inconspicuous little Writing a play about the Rust Belt -the long-stagnant industrial centers of the Midwest -was her education. 
She was interested originally in re­searching and writing a play centered on Irish football that would draw from the tradition and athletic culture of campus. She soon realized, however, that writing a play about football would require more than two years of research. "I was teach­
flyer taped to it: ''Avanti," ing a class of.freshmen or it reads, '14. Postindustrial sophomores and I turned to Ghost St01y." And under­one of the guys there and neath that sign, another asked, 'Do you like sports?' reads: "Pull hard-door Everyone' started laughing," sticks." she says. Chalmers was talk­
Inside, it is too dark ing unknowingly to former to see your hand in Irish linebacker Courtney front of your face. Im­Watson. ages that flicker surre­She then looked to the ally on a movie screen cityofSouth Bend for inspi­and a pervading odor ration and was enchanted by contribute to the ensu­what she saw: a prosperous ing "What am I doing ·automotive -history,-with here?".feeling. Studebaker as one of the 
Sitting in the dark­town's largest businesses. ness, in front of a wide­For Chalmers, the great open space bordered by HOLDTHE PHONE Actor David abandoned factories were a the. screen, are at least Pence plays a Studebaker employee. 
linkto South Bend's golden 
10 people with their faces dimly lit by desk lamps. Their gazes shift from the open area infront ofthem to their many laptops and instrumentpanels. A woman's voice echoes through a speaker, issuing instructions. 
The entire scene resembles the arcane tribunal ofan evil organization, or maybe the base of operations for a military ex­cursion. But it is actually the rehearsal of Avanti: A Postindustrial Ghost Story, a new play written by Notre Dame Film, Television and Theater professor Jessica Chalmers. 
Later, in a coffee shop downtown, Chalmers sips an extra-strong cup ofcof­fee and talks about her play. "It took me about six months to write, butI spent two years doing research," she says. As a native ofManhattan, Chalmers admits she didn't know much about the Midwest when she moved from New York to South Bend. 

age. "The whole thing could be considered a love story between past and present," she says. 
The plot ofthe play centers on a demo­lition team's discovery of a ghost in the old Studebaker factory. A modern-day worker is transported back to 1963, where he meets such historical figures as designer Raymond Loewy, who looks to save the financially troubled company with a fu­turistic new car, the Avanti. This attempt failed, however, and Studebaker was forced to close its South Bend factory in Decem­ber 1963, an event Chalmers describes as the tragedy ofan era. 
"The kind 
A GOOD REPORT Actor Michael Coffee talks to a reporter in rehearsal.
do," says Chalmers, "brings together a lot of different interests: video, acting, writing, set design." Avanti features all of them, most notably by complementing stage ac­tors with illusions from video, like making one of the main characters appear to be walking down the length of the factory. 
Chalmers is no newcomer to the theater scene. For the 1999-2000 theater season, she won a Village Voice OBIE Award -"Off-Broadway's highest honor" -for her playJet Lag, about a woman who tries to live on an airplane with her grandson. Like Jet Lag, Avanti examines how tech­nology can be a driving force in our lives. Also like Jet Lag, Avanti will feature The Builder'sAssociation-a NewYork-based performance and media company that has toured worldwide. 
When production and rehearsals began, the downtown community was skeptical of the university's involvement, Chalm­ers recalls. She says the community had a "Whatare you doing here?" mentality. She adds that Notre Dame and the surround­ing community have grown increasingly distant since the local economy shifted from industrial-based to service-based. "The Notre Dame 'bubble' is actually a fairly new thing," she says. 
WithAvanti, Chalmers hopes to regain some ofwhat has been lost since 1963 -a connection between the university and South Bend's once-thriving downtown. She spent a good deal of her time re­searching in the Studebaker Museum's archives, and the play strives to fiction ­ally .recreate the feel of Studebaker's plant some 40 years ago. 
Driving past the decrepit Studebaker factory, where smashed windowpanes and weeds dominate the landscape, Chalmers gazes inquisitively and almost 
reverently at what once was. There 
of the-~ will be no resurrection of the 
ater I 
'-.. WHEN: AVANT/ PREMIERES ~ past, but for Chalmers, a 
THU, SEPT. 23,AND WILL RUN UNTIL SUN, h t f h ·11 d 
OCT. 3. g OS O t e past Wl 
WHERE:THE FORMER DELUXE SHEET METAL FACTORY, \justas well. . 506 W. SOUTH ST., SOUTH BEND 
TOURS IN CHICAGO AND NEWYORKWILL FOLLOW 
COST:$18 FORADULTS,$16 FOR SENIOR CITIZENS,$12 FOR STUDENTS ~--0--C-H_O_LA_ST-IC_E_N_T_E_R_T._'A_IN-M-EN_T_____ MORE SHOW DATES, TIMES AND DIRECTIONS TO THE VENUE ARE AVAILABLE AT r----2-3-S-EP-T-EM_B_E_R-4 ---'
35 20-0­
WWW.ND.EDUI-AVANTI. 

)SGH01.$ST:IG OPINION-:---------------------, 


DividedWe Fall 
Spewing insults under the thin guise of civility, Notre Dame students ar­guing at this year's on-i:iampus presi­dential debates followed in the footsteps of their respective party's leaders as they hurled every type ofdamning propaganda they could muster at one another. The entire audience listened as Re­publicans were accused not only of not caring about the poor, but also ofhaving the main agenda offunneling money into Halliburton. Meanwhile, Democrats were characterized as spineless· wimps who spend their time sipping martinis in the 
Hamptons while they philosophize and over-simplify the world's prob­lems. 
Now more than ever, people on 
both sides of the political divide hate the opposi­tion. Their attacks indicate nQt only 

RICHMclVER
Why America is so partisan 

party is good and which is evil. 
What is striking is that no one in the media is asking why the political climate is as partisan as it is. The media's silence, however, may point to the answer. 
With viewership dispersed from basic network stations to more widespread and diverse cable channels, Americans today have the ability to choose from a plethora of news stations. One would expect that the more channels there are competing for ratings, the better the TV coverage would·be. In some respects, this assump­tion is correct. TVnews has given Ameri­
cans what they wanted: more exciting news. Sound bites, 30­second summa­ries of speeches and entertai:Q_ing 
~ 
analysts have 
~ 
therefore been 
u 0 
added to news z programs in an Biased effort to draw 
In this climate, where voters are pre­
sented with only the juiciestofsound bites and no real substance, it is easy to see why voters are becoming ever more partisan. Ifthey are unable to hear the merits and deficiencies ofboth candidates' policies in a relatively unbiased forum, then voters will simply pick a side and stick to it. The partisan rants atlast week's campus debate were just further evidence that-though ·our politics were founded ~pan debate and compromise _;, those Virtues ire no 
longer the American way. 
So who is to blame? Ironically, the very 
politicians whose policies are marginal­
ized are the ones who have shaped the 
media into its present condition. 
In 1996, Congress passed the Tele­
communications Act, which created 
more media market competition by al­
lowing anyone to start a cable company. 
Market pressure is usually a good thing. 
In this case, however, it motivated news 
organizations to increase profits by cut­
ting panels and replacing them with fluff 
human-interest pieces, exciting (read: 
biased) commentators, and sound bites. 
Furthermore, by not passing the Mc­
Cain-Feingold bill -which would have 
ensured free air time to candidates and 
put restrictions on biased political ad­
vertisements by special interest groups -politicians failed to put in place the safeguards. which could have ensured more comprehensive political coverage. 
Having politicians reform public policy 
will not completely eliminate the grow­
ing revulsion between Democrats and 
Republicans, but it is a start. Politicians 
must find a way to ease the media market 
pressure. Only when market pressure is 
at a minimum will stations be able to cut 
such devices as human-interest pieces, 
which will allow airtime for actual news 
stories. In addition, the media must be 
pressured to provide unbiased coverage of 
mainstream candidates so that Americans 
can have the opportunity to understand 
all sides of an issue. And as our student 
body's one-s1decl portrayal ofthe issues at 
last week's debate demonstrates, change 
is desperately needed. . 
a fundamental ~---------------.:._A_na_lysi~• higher ratings. 
disagreement over policy, but a deeper 
disdain for the very individuals who make 
up the opposing party. 
Not only do Democrats think thatneo­
conservatives are wrong about the war in 
Iraq, but many also think that Bush and 
his supporters..are completely incompe­
tent, and that their administration is evil. 
Tri the same respect, many Republicans 
believenotonlythattheideaofuniversal 
health care is impractical, but also that 
those Democrats who disagree with them 
are socialist and anti-American. 
Defaming one's opponent is nothing 
new to politics. Brit now, partisan bias is gaining traction not only among ex­tremists, but also within the mainstream population. Americans are buying into simplistic "good vs. bad" and "right vs. wrong" views of political parties. Today, many average citizens actually believe that this election is a political apocalypse -afinal showdown, ifyouwill-between good .and evil. Ofcourse, those same citi­zens are almost evenly divided on which 
In the end, America's news media has turned out to be akin to the entertain­ment industry, with news personalities as its stars. 
On the whole, stations no longer pres­ent honest debates or analyses ofcomplex issues or even an unbiased presentation 
. offacts. The 24-hour news stations have paradoxically eliminated much of the mainstream moderated news debates. They instead show a one-sentence high­light from a 30-minute speech and follow it with hours of biased analysis. To com­pensate, politicians adjust to the news and tailor their speeches for the media. No longer do candidates extol the benefits oftheir proposals; instead, they focus on giving an exciting sound bite to fill the lead story. So, the spiral continues ever-downward. The media gives less airtime foi:_ policy presentation, thus politicians talk less and less about it. What we, the voters, are left to determine is who can produce the bet­ter sound bite. 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004  SCHOLASTICNEWS  31  
.  - ---­ -­ -­ - ·---­ •­ -­ ---­ -­ .  
.  .  .  .  - .  - ,  



Last year was tough for Notre Dame sports fans. Football and basketball didn't live up to the pre-season hype, 
a few teams emerged into the national spotlight, but then quickly fell back out. Even our national championship fencing team came up short. Itwas hard to believe in the luck ofthe Irish at the start ofthis 
school year, especially when··faced with ·c-itself, ·and-the Irish women will be able 
the football team's loss to BYU. I will admit; I was starting to doµbt our ability to be an athletic powerhou~e. Although I have been harboring my own skepticisms, I keep looking for a good reason to put my 
#.
faith in Notre Dame athlet­ics this year. For me, even a simple sign would suffice. And luckily, I believe I have found it, 
Just the other day, while walking across Mod Quad on my way to Flanner Hall, I caught a glimpse of something out ofthe corner of my eye. I went to the top floor ofFlanner and looked out at the eight-foot tall, fully illuminated "#1" atop Grace Hall. Look­ing out of other windows and seeing the dome, the basilica and the library gave me renewed confidence in all things Irish. 
As you are probably aware, the Notre Dame women's soccer team is ranked first 

STATZONE 
Megan Connelly brings you ... 
1
ALL THE STATS ,· 
. 
,.__y_o_u_n_e_e_d_t_o_k_n_o_w_ __, 
in the nation, usurping the lon~ili­reign of the North Carolina Tar Heels. Ten years ago, the Irish first climbed to the top of the women's soccer polls and were able to regain the No. 1 ranking at various points during the next three seasons. They even won a national title in 1995. Hopefully, history will repeat 
to celebratei their first NCAA women's soccer title in ten years. Meanwhile, the football team finally 
.. --. .. . .has shaken off the ghosts of last season and begun to perform like a team worthy of wearing Notre Dame's blue and gold. With wins over Michigan and Michi­gan State, Notre Dame has earned the respect of sports analysts as one of the top unranked teams in the 
country. If the Irish claim a victory over Washington on Saturday, they should be able to crack the top 25. And what's more, the situation has the potential to improve; if the Irish can battle past Purdue in two weeks, I see no reason why they can't steamroll to a 7-1 record and, more than likely, a top-10 ranking. I can smell a bowl game already. 
And how about the fencing squad? 
Football (2-1): Under the watchful eyes of Kirk Herbstreit, Lee Corso and the rest of the College Gameday crew, the football team came up big with a win at Michigan State, 31­
24. Irish Head CoachTyrone Willingham, a '77 graduate ofMSU, is 2-1 against his alma 
mater as coach ofthe Irish. This weekend the Irish will play the Washington Huskies for the first time since 1996, when the 11th-ranked Irish defeated the 16th-ranked Huskies 54-20 
·T~ason the team fell short last year was becauS{! the required 12 fencers did not qualify for the NCAA Tournament. However, the 2003-20Q4 team was com­prised offive freshmen, ~ho-~l improve as they mature. Furthermor~unior Derek Snyder has returned from injury, and with the addition of gold-medalist freshman Mariel Zagunis, the Irish will be a force to reckon with this year. 
What else is there to expect? Our basketball team will celebrate its lO0th­anniversary season in style, facing some traditional rivals, like UCLA, as well as some ego-boosters, like Harvard. With senior guard Chris Thomas, junior guard Chris Quinn and junior forward Torin Francis returning, and with transfer-student senior forward Dennis Latimore now eligible to play, I expect the Irish to have their best season since advancing to thethirdroundoftheNCAAtournament during the 2002-2003 season. 
It might just be the pro-Irish sentiment I'm still riding on from our recent win at Michigan State, but I have high expecta­tions for this year. Football, basketball, fencing, soccer -I'm sure we will give our best and earn some respect and rec­ognition. NCAA, brace yourself, because here come the Irish. D 
at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Men's Soccer (4-1-1): This past weekend at. Alumni Field, the ninth-ranked Notre Dame men's soccer team defeated Georgetown 4-1 in the Big East Conference opener for both squads. The Irish notched three goals in just over seven minutes of play to put the game away. The Irish now will go on the road for two key Big East contests. Notre Dame plays WestVirginia on Thu, Sept. 23, and wil~ travel 
32 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 SEPTEMBER 2004 
.;..,-----------------,--------~--..,,,_J&J:~i(!i]§l[::c[!eil!nt~4,:!1J:ij[iij[[!]@lsl"QBTS '-_.----------------------, 
DARIUS




IRISHEYESO 
WALKER 
Just two weeks ago, freshman running back Darius Walker saw his first collegiate football action in Notre Dame's win over the University of Michigan, and he is already an 
essential element ofthe Irish offense. Walker was the first freshman running back since Julius Jones to rush for more than I00 yards in his first game. S,.cholastic got a chance to talk to Walker about his contributions to the team. 

You watched the BYU game and played against Michigan and MSU. What 
is the difference between the Irish squad we saw play BYU and that of the 
past two weeks? 
I think that the offensive line has been the biggest difference. They opened up the holes incredibly for us, so it makes our job a lot easier. All we an:; doing is just run­ning through holes that the guys up-front made, and the guys up-front have been doing really good work. 

You seem to find those holes very quickly, though. Sometimes there doesn't 
even seem to be a hole there until you run through it. 
[Laughing] Ah, well, I just try to bring that aspect to the game. That's something 
that I've been working at for a while, and I'm working hard on it at practice. It's 
going in the right direction. 
What kind of feeling do you have in the huddle when you're in the midst of a 75-yard drive and every play, every snap of it is on the ground? 
It's excitement in the huddle. We're all geared up and working hard. We just keep -· 
pushing and pushing; and it's a good team feeling when we're driving· down the field like that. · · · ---· 

How have you and Ryan Grant worked together? 
Ryin and me, we are very close. He actually was my host when I came up here on a recruiting trip. And we room together in the hotels when we go on trips, so we're real close. We both try to bring our aspects to the game and make the team successful. We try to help each other out, keeping each other focused and motivated. 
What is the next step for you right now? Are you as advanced as you would like to be? 
Well, I think that I have·a great deal ofrnom for improvement. I do not think that you can ever be too good. So I'm still going to work [on] my craft and continue to work hard, both in the weight room and on and off the field. 
Many freshmen say that the game appears to be a lot quicker their first year. However, the game does not appear to be a lot quicker for you than it was in high school. 
I think that's an aspect that I am very happy about and excited about-my adaptation to the game. The game is a little bit faster, but it does not seem to be much faster to me. I heard that the speed was the roughest thing in college, and I've adjusted .to that pretty well. And I'm feeling confident. --Bryan !-,owery
.· -­
to Villanova Sun, Sept. 26. 
Women's Soccer (8-0-0): The Irish, No. 1 in the nation, have maintained a perfect sea­son so far. Last Sunday, they defeated Syracuse 2-1, giving them a 32-2 scoring edge in the history of the Syracuse series (now 6-0-0). Strong starts are nothing new for the Irish, with nine of the last 13 Notre Dame teams opening the season 8-0-0 or better. There are 308 teams in Division I women's soccer, but just one month into the season, there are only five unbeaten/untied teams left in the nation: Notre Dame, Virginia (8-0-0), Washington (6-0-0), UNC-Wilmington (8-0-0) and UC­Riverside (6-0-0). The Irish are now 28-1-1 in their last 30 regular-season games. 
Volleyball (5-4): This past weekend, the Irish lost to South Carolina in four games, 30-28, 25-~0, 30-22, 30-23, in the title match of the Gamecock Invitational. In the effort, 
1, 
;· <i'Ci ~BX i ~;~
t • ..Mt:~f~tt.·•·· ~;:.·
f···'t11" ·iVlltJ>i11r~;..ft 1
-_---~ \ ____,._,__ )JJ -L_________,___\ 

Our Calls ~ 
Football 
OPPONENT:WASHINGTON 
WHERE: NOTRE DAME STADIUM WHEN: SATURDAY, SEPT. 25, I:30 P.M. 
I After beating two Michigan schools in two weeks, I fully expect the Irish to crush the Huskies, especially on home turf.Washington has not been able to stop the ball on the ground this season, so Grant and Walker should be able combine for over 250 yards. The Irish will win this one, 35-14. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL SPORTS EDITOR 
Notre Dame comes out and 
continues to run the ball effectively 
against a weaker Washington defense. 
The Irish defense will once again 
be impressive, shutting down the 
Washington offense and putting 
points on the board for the fourth 
week in a row.The Irish beat the _Huskies, 27-17. 
MIKEISELIN ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
KEYTOTHE GAME: Finding the Holes 
Washington makes many mistakes on the line and leaves a lot of gaps that can be converted into big yardage.Just last week, UCLA tailback Maurice Drew ran for 322 yards against the Huskies, setting a UCLA yardage record and tying the Pac-I 0 touchdown record for a halfback with five . 
' 
junior Lauren Brewster had six aces -includ­ing four on a single rotation in game three -to mark the best serving performance by an Irish player since Angie Harris' nine-ace performance in a single game against Syra­cuse in 1995. Brewster's total is tied for the second-highest mark ever by an Irish player in a four-game match. Over the course oftwo matches in the Gamecock Invitational, she had 10 aces and only one error. . 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 33 









Ty'sTeam 
Tyrone Willingham's recruits are starting to make significant contributions for the Irish 
MIKEISELIN
Two and a half weeks ago Notre Dame suffered a devastating loss to the Brigham Young University Cou­gars. After that defeat there was some talk about Head Coach Tyrone Willingham's future at the university. Many fans and alumni were deeply disappointed and insisted that the Irish should have been better prepared for their match-up against BYU. Many speculated that if things followed this trend all season, Willingham might not be with the team for the 2005-2006 football season. However, all of that talk happened be­fore the Irish stunned the seventh-ranked team in the nation, before Notre Dame put forth what might be considered its most complete performance under Will­ingham, and before Notre Damewent to EastLansing and defeated the Michigan State University Spartans 31-24 on their home field. Irish fans across the country 
are now optimistic and expect a , great season from the Irish and , Willingham. 
F~-
Willingham came to 
r~· 
Notre Dame two and a /, half years ago and worked IJ . 
miracles in his inaugural 
season. After that auspi­
cious beginning, Willing-\ 
ham had the opportunity 
to bring in the first class of 
recruits that was entirely his 
own. In his second season, the 
team did not perform as well, 
but Willingham gave some 
of his recruits playing time 
and developed many others 
on the practice field. With 
two recruiting classes now 
under his belt, expectations 
are high for Willingham's 
third season. 
In 2002, after the depar­ture ofBob Davie, Willingham was hired by Notre Dame to return the Irish to h elite ranks of \\ ollege football. ·:•i For any coach \\ to succeed,'i he needs 
. . players; for Will­ingham, these 
next two 
seasons will show if he has found the right players to help re­gain that coveted elite status. In the 
first three games, some of Willing­
34 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 


~--'--------------------J~me~~·~!ISPQ8TS7-----------------------, 
ham's recruits already have made a dif-Michigan from recording a single sack Walker's impact will only increase as he ference on the field. The next question on Irish quarterback Brady Quinn. Har-gains more experience. to be answered will be whether or not ris' role will be magnified next year when Tom Zbikowski these players can assume leadership roles. senior offensive end Mark LeVoir and se-As a reserve safety, Zbikowski did The performance of nior offensive not see playing time his freshman year. the following play-· . guard Dan However, in the 2004 Blue-Gold game, ers throughout the ~~ Stevenson Zbikowski was named defensive player remainder of this j graduate. of the game. His strong performance in season and next will B r a d y spring practice earned him the start as a be a huge factor in Q u i n n strong safety this year. Zbikowski made determining how Quinn was his biggestimpactlastweekagainstMSU, far Willingham by far the recording nine tackles, an interception will be able to take most notable and an amazing strip with a 75-yard re-his team. freshman last turn for a touchdown. His performance 
Victor Abiamiri year, play-earned him National Defensive Player of 
A six-foot-four, ing in all 12 the Week honors. Zbikowski will have a 
IMM . PACT Darius a er as ma e uge and 269-pound _sopho-~oritributions in his first three college games, including two games huge leadership role next year with. the more defensive end, touchdowns against Michigan. . starting the graduation of the other three starting Abiamiri made a l ---·•---~--------·· --····-· ----~· last nine. He defensive backs. huge difference in his freshman season set Notre Dame freshman records for Jeff Samardzija _ and looks even better this year. Playing completions, attempts and yards. Quinn As a freshman, Samardzija played in all opposite senior defensive ends Justin looked sharp in this season's win over 12 games, made seven catches for 53 yards, Tuck and Kyle Budinsack in his fresh-Michigan, completing 10 of20 passes for and made 75 special teams appearances. man year, Abiamiri recorded 22 assisted 178 yards and two touchdowns. Although Against Purdue last season Samardzija tackles and 16 solo tackles. In his first he threw three interceptions, two of them had a career high four receptions. Last career start against MSU last year, he were tipped balls. Quinn's ability to step week against MSU, Samardzija matched posted a career-high seven tackles. So up and be a leader on this team will have his career high with four catches-three far this season Abiamiri has appeared a huge impact on the team's success for for first downs -for a total of 65 yards. in all three games and has recorded one the remainder of the season, as well as-in Though he will share time as receiver unassisted tackle. He is a key member of future seasons. -with the rest of Notre Dame's large re-the defensive line and will be even.more John SuUivan ceiving core, he should have more of an important next season after both Tuck Sullivan did not play during his fresh-impact as the season continues. and Budinsack graduate. man season but benefited from his work Trevor Laws Chase Anastasio in practice where he was able to hone his Laws sat out his freshman season with Recruited as a wide receiver, Anas-skills against former Irish players Dar-an injury. This season, he has rotated tasio did not play last season and was rell Campbell and Cedric Hilliard. His with senior defensive tackle Greg Pauly red-shirted. This season he has been work in practice both last season and in and junior nose guard Derek Landri as used in a number of different roles the spring earned him the role of start-defensive tackle. In the first three games and has provided some big plays in key ing center this year. Sullivan's strong, · of the season, he has made nine tackles situations. Anastasio helped block a punt aggressive play should have an impact and one sack. Laws has been a key factor against Michigan -a huge momentum on the performance of the offensive line in preventing opponents from running boost for the Irish in that game. He has this season. the ball so far this season. His impact and also seen game-play on the kickoff return Darius Walker playing time will probably increase next team, returning one kick-off for 40 yards Walker -a true freshman recruited season when Pauly graduates. . against BYU, three kick-offs for a total of out of Buford High School in Buford, Ga. 48 yards against Michigan, and one kick--has stepped into the spotlight , . . .· . .. -· --·--. -·-------. ·----·---··--·· ···--­off for 10 yards against MSU. Anastasio early in his college career. Last lk 1 d h h
also has seen very limited time on offense year, Wa er he pe is . igh as a receiver, and on special teams he has school team go 15-0 and earn recorded two tackles. As he sees more its third straight class 3A state playing time in future games, expect title. He was named Gatorade him to have more of an impact. Player of the Year in Georgia. Ryan Harris As a member of the Fight-
Last season, in his freshman year, Har-ing Irish, Walker ran for ris started the last eight games of the sea-115 yards and 2 touchdowns son at right tackle and helped the Irish against Michigan, proving to average 219 rushing yards per game. This be the spark the Irish needed season, against a tough Michigan defense, to upset the Wolverines. He Harris and the other linemen helped the also recorded 98 yards on 26 Irish amass 135 rushing yards and kept rushing attempts againstMSU. 

23 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 35 







LISTENING 
"I feel like I'm walking behind Moses:' 
-student trying to leave Notre Dame 
Stadium through tunnel 
"When someone tells me they're a theology major; I say, 'Yes, I would 
-student at Career Fair 
"You know what's sad? Seeing half our football team at the Career you know no one is going to the NFL." -student in SDH 
Student I: "Why would you go to Heartland on a Thursday night?" Student 2: "What? And go to Boat Club instead and sit in my own 
WHERE'S THE NOTRE DAME FAN? 
Fans in the Michigan section had few reasons to stand up and cheer during the Irish victory, 
but a stadium usher was not afraid to show his spirit after a Matt Shelton touchdown. 

125 Years Ago 
Those Athletes Have it so Easy... 
It is common knowledge that those who come to Notre Dame to play sports are true student-athletes. Unlike other schools, Notre Dame doesn't have joke majors or classes on fairy tales designed especially for those who can throw a football well or row a boat really, really fast. Most ofus cannot even begin to imagine how these athletes balance a demanding course load with the rigors of a varsity sport. Well, it turns out-as discussed in the 1888 issue of Scholastic -that sporting commitments may actually enhance one's ability to do schoolwork ... 
"By allowing a little ofphysical training to mingle with the class work, beneficial results will follow. Furnish the gymnasia ofour colleges with properappliances, and allow the student to indulge in the manly arts, and there need be no fear oftheir attainments in the classroom." 
And there you have it: The path to academic suc­cess lies not in industrious study or hard work, but through long hours in the college gymnasium and the honing of one's skills in the manly arts. 
-Mike Healy 
36 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 23 SEPTEMBER 2004 



j
,
,-__) ,l 


The Higher Ups Get Fired Up 
Steve Mattingly demonstrates the true meaning of journalistic integrity 
STEVEMATTINGLY 
,,, 
The following account is purely fictional. Any resemblance to real persons, places or events is entirely coincidental. 
0 utlined against a clear, blue September sky, the Four Horsemen ride again. Father Eddie "Big M" Alloy empties beer cans and ice into a giant Rubbermaid cooler, while Father Poor Marksman prods sizzling steaks on a grill. Tommy "Sweet Lou" Fanni hoists an ND flag high above the university's H2 Hummer, and Johnny "Tex" Rexow wires a giant loudspeaker on top ofthe vehicle. It is 6:59 a.m. in the soccer field lot. The brilliant sun rising over the nearby treetops promises a fantastic day of tailgat­ing before the football team battles Michigan. In the shadow of the house that Rockne built, these ND administrators are preparing for the eagerly-anticipated inaugural administra­tive tailgate, brought to you by U.S. News & World Report and Trojan brand prophylactics. I have been assigned to cover this monumental occasion for an American Studies project, and I must say that while I have been critical of the administration, what I see today will inevitably change my opinion. What follows is a rundown of the major highlights of the 2004 U.S. News and World Report! Trojan Kickoff Bash: 7:00 a.m.: Big M opens the festivities with a moving prayer. In closing, he intones, ''And let us endeavor to make our student body as diverse and our values as relativistic as those of our op­ponent." Some ND fans look confused, but Big M's voice raises as he declares, "And by that I mean, beat those filthy %$&#*s like red-headed step-children! Amen." The crowd roars. 7:12 a.m.: Marksman burns his hand on the grill. Grimac­ing in pain, he tells Big M, "None of this would have happened if you hadn't made me ban SYRs and hard alcohol, then try to justify it with a bogus student survey." Big M shoots back, "I always knew you were a wimp. Suck it up, Marksman. Honestly." 7:16 a.m.: Big M climbs atop the massive H2 Hum­mer, Keystone can in hand, and calls for the crowd's attention. He explains that, to cel­ebrate ND's highest-ever No. 18 spot in this year's U.S. News & World Report university rankings, a massive group shotgun will be held 18 minutes after each hour. The exu-'-----::--=--=-;~ berant priest thrusts a key into his beer can, spraying several ND faculty members and a Trojan executive, who threatens to withdraw his company's sponsorship if any similar inci-~.rv•n dents occur again. 7:18 a.m.: First administrative shotgun ensues. Fanni tosses not just his empty can 
1SGF.10~S;ITIG Fl'!,JJ10R]:------------------------, 

'.. :i 
but also his breakfast. Big M cries out, "Haha, Fanni! I always knew you were a ninny!" Fanni shows his grit by immediately cracking open a warm Natty Light and chugging it. "That's why they call me 'The Liver,"' he fumes. 
9:55 a.m.: As the tailgate grows abuzz with activity, Tex uses the loudspeaker to announce, "I dare any man to tackle me and my enormous fleet of unnecessary and exceedingly large police vehicles! I am the strongest police chief in all the land!" Marksman steps up to the challenge. 
9:56 a.m.: Marksman is knocked unconscious in a violent head-to-head collision. Tex refuses to let anyone call an am­bulance, saying, "You don't want any cops around here when we're drinking like this. Plus, I just don't like cops." 
11:00 a.m.: Big M hosts a one-hour outdoor seminar en­titled, "Reasonable Progress Toward Imitating Aspirational Peers: How to Run a University in the 21st Century." High­lights include a speech by Big M on physical plant management entitled, "Castles-in the Campus: Build! Build! Build!" and a discourse by surprise guest Kevin "Whitey" Ford called, "Sears Cup Jones: How to Build a Women's Curling Powerhouse in a Rapidly Changing College Sports Environment." 
12:00 p.m.: Marksman wakes up, obviously woozy from his concussion, and rises from his position on the ground between two cars. He asks no one _in particular, "You guys know the first football was actually just a dried goat bladder?" When an American Studies professor asks, "Really?," Marksman fires back, "Of course not! Now I understand why that kid sent to cover this tailgate seems so stupid." 
12:15 p.m.: As the game approaches, the event grows louder and more crowded. Fanni, confused by the enormous crowd, 
runs away when he spots an Indiana excise officer. Tex prevents people from stopping him. "Fanni was a varsity distance runner," he offers. "He'll be fine." 
12:30 p.m.: Big M presents the "2004 Social Issues Seminar -Sponsored by Trojan and the Hugh Hefner In­stitute." The seminar is highlighted by Big M's hour-long 
presentation entitled, "Re-Thinking Stale Values: Why Contraceptives May Have a Place in the 21st Century Church after All." 
2:24 p.m.: As Big Mand Whitey hobnob with smiling executives from Trojan and a mysterious robed fig­surrounded by several beautiful young women, Marksman tells everyone to head toward the stadium, then turns and advises me: "You realize, of course, that everything said here today was off-the-record." 
"Ofcourse," I tell him. And a decent journalist is always as good as his word. D 
37 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 23 SEPTEMBER 2004 

Ii 


1 ---------------------fi~•lfil!om•W[§]HUMCfR~------------------~ 





Bronzing Boys 
Why your golden glow doesn't score points 

ERIKPOWERS 
What is it with guys who tan on the quads? vVhywould a guy go outdoors, away from poker, satellite and NCAA Football 2005 to lie down topless for hours on end? I have no problem with dudes who tan with their girlfriends -when you are in a relationship you are exempt from criticism for two reasons: 1) It's your duty to help your girlfriend with suntan lotion, and if you're comfortable with her putting it on herself or having someone else do it for her, then she's not really your girlfriend but an awkward breakup you keep putting off, and 2) In addition to tanning, you do a lot of things while dating that you wouldn't normally do :un­less you were with a girl, such as shower and talk a b o u t your feelings. There also isn't a problem with girls tanning on the quad, either individually or in small groups. At this point of the school year, an inordinate number of ND girls still appear reasonably attractive. This may be because an eighth of the school has not added· the "fresh-·---­man 15" (percent of their body weight) and is coming off of a varsity high school sport or the swimsuit season. The girls are also still wearing reveal­ing clothing rather than giant, North Face down jackets. All in all, girls tanning on the quads adds something to the view, because how many brain-damaged squirrels and sprinklers can really hold your atten­tion on the way to class? But dudes who tan out on the quads by themselves are the ones I have a problem with. Why do it? Once you enter Indiana, there is no way that you will ever see the sun. With all ofthe ethanol in the atmosphere, it's like already slathering yourself with SPF 79 sunscreen. Also, who are you tanning for? The other dudes from shirts and skins games at the Rock? The game will still go to 20 whether you have a deep olive skin tone or not. Are you trying to impress your section dudes on the way to the shower? Really, the walk to the shower has to be one of the most uncomfortable walks on campus -only a thin layer of cloth tied awkwardly at your waist separates you from the rest of the world. You're always heading down a blind hallway, and the traffic picks up no matter what time of the day it is. There will always be a girl, a group of girls or a rector coming by, and you'll have the impulse to wave even though that's the worst thing to do in that situation, because your right hand is holding your soap/shampoo, and your left hand holding the knot is the only thing standing between you and the college nickname "Flash." So it's an uncomfortable time in which everyone is avoiding everyone and, really, no one is thinking, "Yeah, Ben must have spent a lot oftime at the beach this summer, but how does he maintain that tan?" 
Or are you just trying to pick up chicks while you tan? I'm all for being superficial, but what kind of future would any resulting relationship have? If you were to meet Miss Right, she would be the kind ofgirl who approaches topless dudes on the quad who may or may not be lying in a vulnerable position. Before dating her, you would need to stock up on the latex and 
penicillin. All right, so you're probably not tanning to pick up girls but rather to look better when you're dorm-hop­
ping and apartment-'-crawling on weekends. Still, you're going to be picking up girls in the dark anyway. Does a tan help you blend into the walls, 
like a chameleon, when you need to? "So, -you're a psychology and drama double 
major and a member of the equestrian team and your last boyfriend is now a priest? Umm . . . excuse me for a second while I think of 
solar flares and stand up against this Erik Estrada poster." 
Anyone should really be able to get by with a farmer's tan. Why are there negative connotations associated with a farmer's tan? OK, so it looks bad with a shirt off, but other than that it's fine. I say that we throw a bone to the American farmer. I mean, 
why should a group that stands between us and starvation be held in such low esteem when it comes to skin pigmentation? 
Really, ifsomeone had a job inside all summer or was just really busy building Lego stadiums in his basement, he shouldn't sweat being pale. At least being abnormally white is more honest than being inhumanly tan. But if you dudes are still going to go tanning alone, at least occasionally trip a girl who's walking by. You don't want to look like a total jerk. D 
38 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 


MARIE P. DEBARTOLO 
CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
P R E S E N T S 


P R E S E N T S 

Friday, October l at 9p.m. • Leighton Concert Hall Tickets $19, $15 Faculty/Staff, $10 Students 
KENNEDY'S KITCHEN • CELTIC FIRE · SEAN RYAN DANIELLE SVONAVEC • THE O'NEILL BROTHERS 
Here Come the Irish, aspirited concert featuring Notre Dame alumni who are now 
.professional musicians, will be acommunity celebration of our new home at the 
· DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Join us as our favorite musical Darners come home to celebrate the opening of the PAC. For tickets, call 574.631.2800, Noon-6 p.m., Monday through Saturday. http://performingarts.nd.edu 
Friday, October 8at 9p.m. • Leighton Concert Hall 
Tickets $44, $35 Faculty/Stoff, $15 Students Eileen Ivers rose to prominence as anine-time all-Irish fiddle champion and as the fiery fiddler of "Riverdance," but her passion for musical exploration has catapulted her to rarified air where only virtuosos play. Her bold and imaginative style earned her the title "the Jimi Hendrix of the violin" from aNew York Times reviewer. Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul storm the stage with matchless energy and an eclectic spirit. Respectful of their Irish roots, they infuse their concert with fresh vitality from the rhythms of Latin and African music. Ivers will change the way you think about the violin. 
For tickets, calJ 574.631.2800, Noon-6 p.m., Monday through Saturday. -http://performingarts.nd.edu 


Organizational Meeting Thursday, Sept. 23, 7 p.m. Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune 

E-mail juggler@nd.edu for more information 
The Dark Side of the Mind 

From the outside, everything seemed perfect, but I was looking from the inside. I just could not see past the horror my mind had become. 
Philip Hall is a senior political science major who lives in Siegfried 
Hall. He is also Photography Editor of 
Scholastic. 
40 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
Suck it up and move on with life." God, that was the worst thing anyone could tell me when I was depressed. There was a great deal more to my depression than just being sad. Imagine, for those of you who have never been depressed, feeling as though the whole world is against you and there is no reason to go on with life. Now try to imagine being told to "suck it up." The fact is that depression is no passing bad mood; It is an all-consuming darkness over your life. My depression started during the summer between my freshman and sophomore years in college, and only got worse when I returned to school. I started to sit in my room by myself; I would wake up to my alarm in the morning, turn it off and roll over, feeling as though getting out ofbed was justnot worth it; I stopped hanging out with my friends and lost all interest in everything I had once enjoyed. Whenever anyone asked me what was wrong, my only answer for them was, "Everything." I felt as though every part of my life was somehow wrong. I felt as though I was a failure at every­thing I attempted, I felt as though my family never loved me, as though my friends never really cared for me, as though life just was not worth living. The facts of the matter were quite the opposite, how­ever; I had a loving family, some great friends and even an amazing future ahead of me. From the outside, everything seemed perfect, but I was looking from the inside. I just could not see past the horror my mind had become. I got to the point where I began thinking about ending my life. At one point I was walking towards the elevator booth in Main Building on the third floor. There is a large wall ofwindows there, and as I was walking towards them my mind just said, "Jump." My heart emptied out and left me with a hollow feeling inside, and my leg muscles even tightened, preparing me to run. Essentially my mind, soul and body were all telling me that I had no reason to go on, and every part of my being was ready tci give up. But I didn't; the moment before my legs set in motion, my mind cleared 
by Philip Hall 
for a split second, and I stopped myself. Imagine: Only a split second separated me from commit­ting suicide. 
Ofthe many people I had in my life at the time, do you know how many knew how I was feeling? One. I did a miraculous job ofturning my cries for help into jokes and made sure to put on a hollow smile so no one else had to deal with the pain that was mine alone to bear. I told one friend about my depression, and I owe my life to him. Instead of telling me to "suck it up," or just blowing it off as a bad mood, he listened to me and managed to persuade me to seek professional help. That single person helped set into motion the events that saved me from ending my life. 
Through the help of my friends, family and a professional psychologist I managed to drag myself out of the hell I was in. The best thing anyone did for me was simply to listen. The simple act of just being there to lend an ear, even ifyou are in no position to give any advice or solve any problems, makes all the difference. Just know­ing someone actually cares means the world to someone who is depressed. Today I have managed to turn everything around and I am a stronger person because of my struggles. I can now see everything I may have missed out on had my friend not come through for me. His simple act ofbeing there saved my life. · 
Depression is a serious ailment with many causes but only one result: a personal hell for the afflicted individual. Never underestimate the ef­fects ofdepression on someone. On the surface, he may seem calm, but underneath there is a horrible tempest unequaled to anything else on earth. It is essential thatyou be there for your friend or loved one if he or she comes to you looking for help. If you think a friend is depressed, recommend a session at the University Counseling Center or talk to a member of his or her hall staff. There is no way to fully describe what it is like to be de­pressed; Words fail in comparison to the terror of depression. Know ifyou are depressed that while it may seem as though the world is ending, there is a future and an end to the pain. Keep working at it and hold on; There really is a whole world awaiting you. D 
23 SEPTEMBER 2004 


Notre Dame Archives Univ of Notre Dame 607 Hesburgh Library Notre Dame IN 46556 
PR!:SOrllEU 
STANDARD 
U.S. Postage . PA1::l 
Notre Dame, IN .. PennltNo.2 · 




