Brom Jr



5
Wear Your School Colors on this distinctive gold filled buckle by Herff-Jones.
Belt is a wide, Genuine Leather Original
0 7 $250
Only
Plus 10c Tax
SHOP TONITE
— TAXI FREE —
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
H BENDS LARGEST STOPE FOR
MEN
K
i-ti'A'in .Mi-.
J
!	2
. LETTERS
Deal’ Sir:
May I add my “two-bits worth” to the suggestion of one, Thomas Auchler (Scholastic, March 7, 1947) regarding the hours of the library?
Since it is the policy of the university (and rightly so) that some outside reading be required in many of the courses, it hardly seems logical that the library should keep such short hours. I hardly think that it is a matter of insufficient help, as I believe that many students would be happy to have a chance to earn part of their tuition by working in the library. How about a comment on this matter?
PETE WALLACE
238 Morrissey
P.S. For my money, the Scholastic is the best college magazine on any campus.
F SOUTH BEND’S UNIQUE SHOP
K Rm
GIFTS—KXCLUSFVB JEWKLHY 118 W. Colfax Are. PImb* 4-75(5
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Dear Sir:
Just who . . . does this O’Connor, who puts out his diatribes in his column, “The Week,” think he is. He’s certainly not a humorist. Sure, Mac, the army (and the navy) was no picnic, but the majority of men left their gripes at the separation center, and took a new lease on life, tucked in the pocket of the new brown gabardine suit. But some few disillusioned strategists carried these gripes over into a college news magazine in the form of humor? Better read what humor really is by scanning “The Week” column in the Scholastic of 194243 when Jack Woelfle was the author. I suggest, also, that if the service be mentioned at all, it be with genuine humor, as illustrated by Joe Wilcox’s article in the March 14 issue of Scholastic.
And O’Connor’s remark in the column (March 14) about Jews should never have gotten into print. This is a Catholic university and such Anti-Semitism has no place here, even in the form of “humor.” The Irish would do well to disown one John A. O’Connor, since the majority of them do not claim glory for themselves by virtue of the Superman drivel and making slurring remarks about members of the Hebrew nationality. The Blue Circle might condemn him, as they did the author of the Dining Hall employees letter.
Incidentally, Mr. O’Connor, I’m neither Irish nor Hebrew, and I, too, was an enlisted man (navy).
Sincerely,
C. JAMES PARIS, Off Campus.
Vitriolic reader Paris might do well to read “The Week” with a
(Continued on Page 36)
5OU[hnsehor[
DANCING every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday
at the
COMING —Duke Ellington
3
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—M. Mittermayer OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Closed Wednesday afternoons
The blade with the
MONEY-BACK
THE MARLIN FIREARMS COMPANY fine Gw Sime WO
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist . FOOT AILMENTS 406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
COLLEGE I UAH
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
Since this is supposed to be the Basketball Issue, we have been warned to keep our copy in the hardwood vein by Ye Oide Edde. However, if he had been aware of the fact that all we know about basketball is that if your team does not win by the number of points listed in the pool, you lose, he would have let us write about IFomew. We don’t know anything about that subject either, but it is a heck of a lot more fun conjecturing about them, or doing a little research in that department. Never let it be said that we were ever daunted by any topic, though, so here we go . . .
❖
WHAT PRICE GLORY?
The coach of the sensational (?) Texas scholastic basketball star, Marcus Freiberger, has been offered coaching positions at several of the smaller colleges in the Lone Star S'tate, that is, provided he will bring his scoring wizard along with him. However, the coach, standing up for the purity of somewhat debatable amateur sport, has declined the kind offer, stating that he would prefer having the 6' 10" dwarf choose his own Alma Mater. No one denies the old adage, “A good little man is as good as a good big man,” but when that big man scores 48 of his team’s 52 points in a game, we doubt its aptness.
But wait, Marcus (if he will permit us the Familiarity) is not the tallest of the current scholastic crop it seems. Down in the wilds of Mississippi they also grow them big, Suh! There, a high school eager holds forth, called Max Palmer, who is unable to enter doorways less than 7' 7". That is without shoes, too. Things are so tough that the kid must play in his brogans or his stocking-feet, as shoes cannot be found to fit him. His system is unique and well adapted to the lazy man. He plays no defense, merely standing under his opponent’s basket, and dunking the ball thorugh the hoop as it is passed to him. Only once this season has his team been defeated, and even then he scored 46 of his side’s 48 points. These two performers have called for a paraphrasing of the old bromide to read, “The bigger they are, the more they score.” How DePaul ever missed these two sterling characters, we are unable to fathom. Perhaps they will yet snare the Texan, but rumor has it that the other lad is practically delivered to
the Arkansas Razorbacks, for better or for worse. (Depending on whose side you’re on.)
REEL THREE — (not descriptive of
Saturday night)
Some big men have made good in the collegiate and pro phase of the game. George Mikan, Don Otten, Arnold Risen, among others. But neither success or failure was one of 1945’s widely heralded stars, Elmore Morgenthaler of the New Mexico Mine’s squad. Early last Fall, lured, no doubt, by the lust for Eastern G—(broad-minded men may say Glory), Mr. Morgenthaler enrolled at New York’s small, hustling, hardwood-conscious, Long Island University, coached by equally hustling, basketball-wise, Buffalo-wary (Scholastic, Mar. 14th, Page 6) Claire Bee.
Three short weeks later, Elmore had tossed in his LIU Athletic Dept, towel and had departed for Beantown, where the fish and fog had proven too great a lure. Elmore was the sensation of Boston College, playing in doubleheaders at the jam-packed (2,500) Boston Garden.
Later Morgenthaler’s trouble was diagnosed as being a bigger hit on the court (32 points in one game) than he was in the schoolroom. True to Boston tradition, Elmore was declared scholastically ineligible by the BC authorities. The Providence Pros immediately tossed him a financial life-line, paying him above the board. Now he pastimes in the same Hub arena against Bostonians. Non-committal, at season’s end, Morgenthaler’s thoughts are probably, “New Mexico was never like this.”
❖
HINT OF SCANDAL
After getting off to a fast start (winning 1) and then collapsing miserably by dropping five in a row, the Sorin Hall basketball team has come under suspicion of underhanded dealings. Pre-season favorites (Bick Bunkel on Nov. 30th, gave them a rating of 99.98, second only to U.K.’s 99.99) the lads from the towers never showed much after their first decision. Rumor has it that the Governor has appointed a commission to look into this affair, and has asked to question Alvin Paris as to who (if anyone) got to the pointless wonders. At press time, J. Edgar Hoover had made no announcement.
4
-	By John A. O'Connor
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Out West they’re singing the praises of a young basketeer named Calhoun, Bill Calhoun that is. He’s scorching the courts around Berkeley, California, much in the fashion of the immortal Hank Lu-isetti and more recently, Kevin O’Shea. Here’s the dope: Mr. Calhoun has announced his intentions of enrolling at Notre Dame. Undaunted by reports of foul weather, Buchenwald bill-of-fare, and red-hot competition for bus-seats, local queens and positions on the basketball team, Mr. Calhoun nonetheless yearns to take leave of the “10,000 who wait without” and come in and join the party. Picture two such sharpshooters as O’Shea and Calhoun on one ball team and you have a mighty pretty basketball portrait.
❖
Some sort of a prize should go to the best hecklers of the season. Indeed so tortuous was the needling that enemy teams got once they set foot on the home court that Krause’s eagers had little trouble swamping any and all opposition. The chilling moans, piercing cries, shocking shrieks, and disarming wisecracks that rose in ever increasing crescendo from the Notre Dame rooters kept risiting hoopsters in a state of nervous frazzle from the time they stepped out onto the floor. So, for outstanding performances in hurling the jeer, for distinguished diatribe and illustrious invective, to Ray Chamberlain and Don Kee-land goes our distinguished tirade medal with raspberry clusters.
*
Another bulletin brings out the need for a Student Union. The law says all club meetings are to be held in the Law Building. Then it adds a warning on smoking in said building. Now if a fellow can’t relax at a club meeting and shoot the breeze with the boys in pn infonnal manner, and have a smoke at the same time, then things have come to a pretty pass. The cafeteria is fast becoming a rather crammed substitute foi* a student union. We need a student union building complete with modern theatre, ball room, club rooms, music salon, lounge (now we have to entertain visiting guests or parents in the lobby of the Oliver or at Wal-green’s), and rathskeller.
*
Here we go with an attempted All-American basketball team, based on performance this past season:
Guard: Professor Riley. This fellow stands in the way of a lot of scoring. Really makes the opposition sweat. Men who come up against him usually spend two-to-three hours a night preparing for his wiles. Once he gets on your back it’s rough shaking him off.
Guard: Mr. Murray of the Prefect of Discipline’s Office. A repeater from football season, this all-round hawk-shaw doesn’t let a thing get by him. Can’t be feinted out of his position (Palais or back-booth at Club Walgreen) and trails a man like Boston Blackie. May yet turn out to be a four-letter performer.
Center: General Marshall. Right in the middle of things, this lad came through the recent tournament with flying colors. Now we hope he can outjump Molotov at the Moscow tourney.
Forward: Dr. Chroust. New here this season agile Anton has burned up the court with his knowledge of the game. He dribbles through them with dialectic, shoots over them with philosophical hookshots, and has yet to find the man who can stay with him all the way.
Forward: Msgr. Fulton Sheen. Dangerous. The enemy fears him. High arched shots from the center of the floor are his speciality but he can also drop them through the hoop from close up. They haven’t found a way to slow him down yet; he continues to make shots from any part of the floor, and they usually hit the mark.
4
Seniors who are to be graduated in August and desire football tickets have been advised by the Alumni Association to make their contribution to the association not later than June 15. Only members in good standing as of that date will be sent Alumni preference blanks.
The amount of the contribution is entirely optional with each member. It is emphasized, however, especially in view of the demand for tickets to the Army game next fall, that a contribution must be made by June 15 so that the Athletic Office can send blanks to those eligible.
—Jack Lowe
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
Will the student who borrowed Prof. Engel's scrap book of miscellaneous poetry last semester kindly return it.—Prof. Engel.

I 5

<ov«^MWA«*J

when you smoke
PHILIP MORRIS




Of all the leading cigarettes, Philip is the omZv cigarette with an ~»nce in manufacture— 4«'al authori-
CLEAN, FRESH, PURE
America’s FINEST Cigarette!
There’s an important difference in Philip Morris manufacture that lets the FULL FLAVOR of the world’s finest tobaccos come through for your complete enjoyment—cZe^n, fresh, pure!
That’s why the flavor’s ALL yours when you smoke Philip Morris! That’s why Philip Morris taste better —smoke better—all day long!
No wonder that with millions of smokers everywhere, Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
piUP MORK
6


Inasmuch as this column usually winds up as a postscript to Joe Cheney’s Splinters from the Pressbox, it is only fitting and proper that we add our two cents to what has already been said about this year’s Notre Dame basketball team. Everybody knows they were good. As Winston Churchill might have put it “Never before in the history of our great institution have so many points been scored by so few players.”
There were several surprise packages in this year’s Irish line-up, too. Take Kevin O’Shea for instance. Before the start of the N. Y. U. game at Madison Square Garden in New York, O’Shea, looking like a taped Egyptian mummy,
. No use arguing, O'Shea, yah haven't got a leg to stand on!"
was tapped on the shoulder by a man in a white coat, thrown into an ambulance, and whisked off to the Polyclinic down the Street: the Doc had mistaken “Casey” O’Shea for one of his bed-pan patients.
Then there’s the case of John Goonen, the Lafayette, Ind., cyclone. In the second half of the DePaul game, Goonen intercepted a Mikan pass under the N.D. bucket. Faster than you can say Budyn-kiewicz, Goonen heaved the ball downcourt, stopped sharply at midcourt, ran

up into the stands to shake hands with his mother and father, streaked back onto the court, and was under- the DePaul basket in time to catch his own pass. Incidentally, he made the lay-up without a single DePaul man laying a hand on him. They tell me that both Goonen and 0 Halloran practiced only with the track team this year. Their teammates would have preferred guarding a gazelle boy to these two jet-propelled speedsters. Somebody said that if O’Halloran could have sunk half of his shots this year, he would have eclipsed Vince Boryla’s record by 19,389 points.
Moose Connor was a little late in joining the cage squad last fall because of his football commitments. In his first game with Franklin, Moose heard the ref blow his whistle, saw Johnny Lujack up in the stands, wondered why he went off the field to call a huddle. In that same game Moose threw two downcourt blocks that will no doubt make him All-American tackle on anybody’s basketball squad.
Nevertheless, this year’s team was a hooping success. As Mussolini might have said (if he hadn’t been hung up by some of his friends), “Sheesa da besta team I evah see at Notre Dama. Thisa Moosa Krausa isa vanna dam gooda coacha.”
ATTENTION CLUB PRESIDENTS:
We have been informed by the custodian of the Law Building that the traffic is so thick each evening in his establishment that he has been forced to institute some “walk” and “wait” lights. Hereafter, all club presidents should take their PD permits to Room 6 of the Law Building at least three days in advance of the date they desire to hold their-meetings. If this procedure is followed, much of the confusion of having a dozen clubs in the same room at the same time will be eliminated.
DRESS RIGHT, DRESS!
Hold it, brother! Before you slip that Eisenhower jacket too far back in the closet or pickle that Pea coat in moth balls, get a load of this gripe-a-gram hot off the post-war wire.
A noted congressman, after sobering up from Mr. Truman’s intoxicating anti-Red speech, belched forth that “all former servicemen would be recalled to their
former branches of the service in the event of hostilities.” With this piece of information in hand, we collected a few reactions from members of the Vets Club. We returned with the following point-blank statements:
“G’wan—you’re crazy” blustered Phil Lyons of Clovis, N. Mex. “I’m joining up with the Red Cross.”
“They can’t do that to me,” grumbled Bob S. Witte, Vetville resident. “I’m a dependent myself.”
“Nothing less than a lieutenant commander’s rating will get me back in blue,” moaned Frank MacCauley of Brooklyn, N. Y.
THE SPURS ARE JINGLING:
Down Texas way there’s a saying that “a Texan always gets his man.” Coy McGee, the footballer from Greggton, Texas, got fifty of them last week.
McGee caled for a little Texas spirit from the many Lone Staters here on the campus, told them that there would be plenty action this spring. About fifty Texans here on the campus knew a big thing when they heard it, latched onto the McGee bandwagon. From that one meeting last week came plans for a post-Lenten party, more meetings, plenty of Texas spirit.
FOUR KERNELS IN THE CORN-CRIB:
But none on the cob. The unstretched facts: the Iowa club elected their first officers since the club disbanded in 1941. The man who deserves the credit for the reorganization: fast-talking Bill Phelan of Iowa Falls. After the ballots were counted, Jim Kennedy of Estherville, held the president’s gavel; Bob Newgard of Des Moines the rice presidency; Bill Phelan and Ben Condon of Des. Moines sharing the secretary post; while Mike Bush of Davenport, held the purse. Jim Kennedy, John Meyers and John Cosgrove were elected as representatives of the club to the NSO.
SHUFFLE OFF TO BUFFALO:
On the evening of April 5th, over one thousand Buffaloans, past and present students of the University of Notre Dame, will dance to Gene Rogers’ orchestra in the spacious Kleinhan’s Music Hall. This is the first of what the Buffalo Club hopes will be an annual feature of the club year. Bill Ferrick, the newly-elected rice president of the club, is the general chairman of the Easter dance. He will be assisted by John Koes-sler, Tom Kelley, Jim Fitzgerald, Paul Wendell, Larry Halpin, and John LaVigne. The feature of the dance will be the nomination and selection of a Queen.
7
the	.
THE flOW Dfllflf SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viclurus Vive Quasi Cras Morilurus
Founded 1867
•aimtiiitiiiiuutiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiitittitiitiiittitittiiiiiittMiiiiiiuciiititi
John Defant, Editor ASSOCIATE EDITOHS H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan

Bob Stock
REWRITE
Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
NEWS STAFF
Jim Clemens, Editor
Shaun McDermott, Bill Bradley Pete Reiner Vern Kelley
George McCarthy John Noonan Steve Valetich
Associate Editor
Joe Herrington Lou Horning John Sullivan
Tom Murray
Phil Shea
John Waters
SPORTS STAFF Joe Cheney, Editor Pete Brown, Associate Editor
Dave Warner Jim Howard
Buzz Wright
Bob Leander John Krueger Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF
Joe Wilcox, Editor Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein Bill Leaver John A. O’Connor Jerry dwell Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
PHOTO STAFF
John Brogan, Editor Joe Haller John Koewler Gene Reynolds Gene Lorence Bob Gawne
COVER By H. S. Brown, Jr.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________Faculty Advisor
Bob Kopf ______________Business Manager
Tom Gargan Circulation Manager M. E. Varga__________________Advertising
lamiuuiiuuianuiaiunmuiiainuiiiiiauamaumauamiimiauaniam
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, Ne* York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco- THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
8
New SC Constitution
The Student Council in struggling to bring itself up to date has rewritten its constitution. There were no important changes. The parts pertaining to the Navy were dropped and a clause was entered to expedite the disqualification of a representative when necessary. The SC plans to make available enough copies so that anyone interested may have a chance to read it and offer recommendations.
This is an opportunity for the student body. If there is anything that you think should be added, or subtracted, now is the time to let the Executive Committee know about it. The governing body needs an injection of some sort, maybe this is just the right medicine.
The two greatest general complaints against the organization are that it is not in touch with the students and does not always operate in the interest of the students. For instance, the matter of some thirteen hundred off-campus students who have no representation whatsoever. Also last spring when the members were elected from the halls there were a total of thirty-six votes cast in Dillon. These facts alone are enough to stifle the organization for if it does not represent the students, then whom does it represent?
The only way any of these faults may be corrected is by the initiative of the individual, for every complaint must have a source. If enough reaction results from the request for suggestions, changes will be rapidly forthcoming. The theory of the local council is sound. The aims and objectives as set down in the constitution are worthwhile, although sometimes idealistic. To make them work is something else that requires the interest and criticism of each one of the campus scholars.
With the help of the average student
ILLINOIS BONUS BLANKS
Veterans from Illinois will have an opportunity to procure state bonus applications within the next week, it has been announced by the Veterans Club. Posters will announce where and when the blanks can be had.
the SC can become a strong and dominant force, without this help the Executive Committee might as well be playing pinochle at its meetings.—H. Smith Keel
Today
Several weeks ago a bright new publication went on sale in the cafeteria. Being curious we dug up a dime and bought a copy of Today, a tabloid-size newspaper written by and pointed at all students.
It was appropriate that the new arrival first hit the campus during Catholic Press Month, because Today is one of the finest efforts ever to come from the puttering, anemic, shamefully underpaid Catholic Press. Perhaps it heralds a new era in Catholic journalism. At least it is a large stride forward.
According to its masthead, Today is a bi-monthly edited in Chicago. Editorial Directors James O’Gara and John Cogley, Loyola University graduates, are assisted by student contributors from high schools and colleges all over the country.
Today is wide-awake, well-written, catholic in interest and Catholic in tone. Its militantly Christian spirit somehow avoids being preachy or dull. It does not sidestep important issues for fear of treading on the toes of a sensitive reading public, nor does it scream “Communist!” at every individual whose opinions it does not share.
Today's make-up sparkles under the deft hands of an experienced staff. This issue features a short story entitled “New Girl,” a fast and clever write-up on Georgia’s erstwhile Governor, Ellis Arnall; a starkly real picture of Chicago’s housing mess; all illustrating the magazine’s broad outlook. Vital student problems are effectively tackled from a positive viewpoint.
Here is a Catholic paper with guts, with punch and with pepper. It is a sheet for which Catholics need not apologize, for it ranks with the best secular efforts. Today does not pull its punches and it does not speak from a pulpit.
We recommend Today to the attention of all Notre Dame men. Ask for it at the newsstand in the caf.
—Robert L. Reynolds
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 20	MAUCH 21. 1947	NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
Plan Universal ND Night Program
U. S. Aid Invaluable, Says Berlin Cardinal
By ED SNYDER
Conrad Cardinal von Preysing, Archbishop of Berlin and a sworn opponent of the late A. Hitler, expressed his thanks for aid to war-torn Germany in an address before the student body at Sacred Heart Church, Wednesday night.
Early in his talk, the Cardinal impressed upon the students the value of their education and foundation in the principles of truth and church doctrine. Briefly, he outlined the spread of Hitlerite ideology, which is reaping a harvest of hunger, cold, and sorrow today in Germany. He tied these two points together by reaffirming the Pope’s plea that only the principles of Christ can redeem the present world order.
“Our cities, churches, and hospitals are destroyed,” the prelate said. “The people are freezing and starving, and this is the case throughout the war-torn countries of Europe,” he continued.
He told of American aid that arrived shortly before last Christmas. The children and old people, who suffer most from meagre rations, came with tears of gratitude streaming down their cheeks to receive the aid, he said
Impressive in his red robes, and possessing a tone of deep sincerity, the Cardinal concluded by giving his thanks for American help to the war-ravaged peonies. “Everything you do is a Godsend. I’m sure that what you do to aid these peoples will be regarded by Almighty God, for he said, ‘Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy’.”
During the nazi regime, he came into the limelight as one of the most outspoken opponents of Hitler and his teachings. In March, 1946, he was raised to the cardinalate by the Pope.
The Rev. John J. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of the university, welcomed the prelate for the administration.
NEXT "SCHOLASTIC" APRIL 18
The next issue of the Scholastic will be published April 18. Next Friday the "Juggler," Notre Dame's literary magazine, will roll off the presses and replace the weekly news magazine. The following two Fridays come during Easter vacation, and shortly after the close of the vacation, not allowing sufficient time for publication.
Award Laetare Medal to William G. Bruce
The University of Notre Dame has awarded its Laetare Medal for 1947 to William George Bruce, publisher and civic leader of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, according to an announcement on Laetare Sunday (March 16) by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Mr. Bruce, who is 91 years old, is the sixty-fifth recipient of the Laetare Medal that Notre Dame has bestowed annually on an outstanding American Catholic since 1883. The Laetare Medal is the American counterpart of the Vatican’s historic Order of the Golden Rose.
Father Cavanaugh, in announcing the award to Mr. Bruce, said that in honoring Mr. Bruce, the University of Notre Dame “honors one who through the publication of significant educational works has contributed much to American life.”
“For more than fifty years Mr. Bruce has given his best talents to this work.” Father Cavanaugh added. “He has constantly championed the cause of education through his publications. At the same time, books and magazines published by the company he founded reflect his own high moral standards. Mr. Bruce, therefore, has made signal contributions to the intellectual life of the
(Continued on Page 37)
Extensive Activities Set for April 14
By BOB VIERHILE
Put down that copy of Action Comics, light up a Lucky, and get ready to do a little required reading that did not emanate from the History department.
On the night of April 14th. weather pennitting, and any weather will permit, there promises to be an event on this staid old campus with all the potentialities of a blow torch in a gunpowder factory. Of this fantabulous occasion, suffice it to say that it will be the first annual celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night on home grounds. To the uninitiated, Universal ND Nite is the local version of St. Pat’s Day, Mardis Gras and Yom Kippur all rolled into one. If you haven’t got the gumpshun to amble over to the Drill Hall at 7:30 on the 14th, here’s the bill ’o fare you’ll be missing as announced by Art Coughlan, president of the Philly Club. ■
Ziggy Czarobski, , a throwback to the heydays of the Kelly Machine, will be holding down the spotlight when the curtain goes up (we assure you he will njt be holding it when the curtain goes down). Taking over when the “Senator” gets winded, will be such whilom troopers as Chuck Perrin, that betrayer of veracity; Jerry Sullivan, the whiskey tenor with the soup-eater’s rhythm; and lastly, but not leastly, Patrick O’Flanagan Sheehan, singing nothing but Polish piosenkas for the “real” Irishmen in attendance. And then—yes, then will come the warmed-up left-overs from “Meet the Missus.” headlined by producer Ed Cashman’s “corps formidable” warbling the hit; tunes from the Broadway musical, “Toplitzky of Notre Dame,” and several numbers from the recent campus hit.
Even the feeble few who find no time for the fun will sample the offerings. Mr.
(Continued on Page 36)
9
FIRST LITERARY QUARTERLY SINCE 1942 TO MAKE DEBUT ON CAMPUS NEXT WEEK
Scholastic will suspend operations next week to permit the long-awaited entrance of Juggler, a brand new Notre Dame literary quarterly, into the trio of student publications. The first campus literary magazine since Scrip became a war casualty several years ago, Juggler has been in preparation for quite a few months, and will present stories articles, poetry, plus special departments, including reviews of current plays, movies, and books.
J. H. Johnston, editor of Juggler, who has the honor of bringing out a “Volume 1, Number 1” issue, emphasizes the fact that those who expect a comic magazine (such as the old Notre Dame Juggler) are in for a disappointment. The new Juggler will be quite as serious as Scrip: there has been no let-down in literary standards. But the stories in Juggler, adds editor Johnston, will be quite different from the sometimes pallid introversions of Scrip. The mark of the war years shows clearly in student writing; stories and articles manifest a thoughtfulness and a maturity that is not often found in college writing. The stories, especially, are “wide open;” that is, they have a pace and a tempo of action that reflect the impact of varied experiences.
Sinewy Style Featured
Featured in the first issue of Juggler are stories by Frank Duggan, an exMarine who writes in his own sinewy style; an article on the current French political situation by John J. Fallon (who, while in the army, lived many months in Paris); a penetrative analysis by James Newman on the symbolism of Graham Greene’s novel The Poiver and the Glory: and an examination of the metaphysical basis of politics by Al Sommer, politics major and member of the Wranglers. A story and a touch of poetry is added by Editor Johnston. Juggler also puts a critical eye to several important books that have appeared recently: Thieves in the Night, by Ar- thur Koestler, will be reviewed by Bob Meagher; and Steinbeck’s latest, The Wayward Bus, will be handled by W. A. Madden. A few current movies (that ought to be in South Bend by the end of the semester) will be appraised by James Murphy and George Nesbit.
In all the work that Juggler publishes—whether stories, articles, poetry, or reviews—there will be a fundamental honesty and a serious attitude toward art and criticism. Juggler is conscious of the integral artistic standards that it inherits from Scrip: for over fifteen
10
years Scrip maintained itself competently above the level of ordinary college literary publications. In this connection the significance of the name Juggler should be noted. The old French legend of the jongleur, who juggled and leaped and tumbled before the statue of Our Lady (because it was the only art he knew), embodies the spirit of the Juggler. Students of Notre Dame,
Editors Patterson and Johnston check galley proofs
though they may not write with professional ease and brilliance, at least offer in their art the best that they have, for the honor of Our Lady.
The service branches get an equal representation on the staff of Juggler: besides Editor Johnston, who fought with the 82nd Airborne Division in Europe, there is Assistant Editor Chuck Patter-.son, who was a naval carrier pilot during the war, and Art Editor Frank Duggan, who is a former Marine. On the list of Associate Editors are Bud Steffen, Norbert Geier, Al Sommer, John Shannon, Lee Mara, John P. O’Neill, and John Brehl, all of whom aided in the work of discovering and reorganizing local writing talent, in shaping up the raw material of Juggler, and in helping the new magazine wedge itself back into an overcrowded Ave Maria printing schedule. Special mention should be made of the remarkable work of Frank Duggan, who not only designed Juggler's cover, but executed a beautiful and intricate frontispiece, which tells the story of the mediaeval jongleur.
Editor Johnston announces that he is planning on another* issue of Juggler, to
appear some time in May. He will welcome any potential Juggler material and advises students who have written, or who can write, or who want to write, to get in touch with one of the editors, or apply at 326 Sorin Hall.
Bids for Prom to Go on Sale Next Week
Bids for the Junior Prom, which will be held on May 2 from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. am in the Rockne Memorial, will be placed on sale next week in the various residence halls throughout the campus. According to the plan at this writing, members of the ticket committee, headed by Tom Higgins of Rochester, N. Y., and Dillon Hall, will canvass the halls early next week. For off-campus students, a date will be announced when bids will be sold in the Cafeteria. Price of the bid will be $7.50.
Now being heralded on the campus as the biggest and best dance at Notre Dame in the last five year, the Prom will feature the music of popular Griff Williams and his orchestra, “creator of America’s most danceable music.’\ A Navy veteran and former Stanford University student, who was launched on his career by Paul Whiteman, pianist Williams has played several engagements at the famed Empire Room of the Palmer House in Chicago, and holds the all time attendance record there, topping such performers as Eddie Duchin. Hilde-garde, and Veloz and Yolanda.
Vocalists appearing with the orchestra are sax player Bob Kirk, a baritone, and drummer Wally King, an Irish tenor who is featured in all of the band’s novelty tunes. In addition to its engagements at the Palmer House, the orchestra has been a popular hold-over at the Mark Hopkins in San Francisco, the Chase in St. Louis and Victor Hugo’s in Hollywood.
Members of the ticket committee, from whom bids may be obtained are: Tom Higgins, chairman; John Moorehead, Ventnor City, N. J.; Norbert Smith, Indianapolis, Ind.; Bob Marquardt, Oak Park, Ill.; Charles Carroll Carter, Bethesda, Md.; Herb Johnson, Flint, Mich.; Frank Roche. Troy, N. Y.; Anton Ster-ker, Harvey, Ill.; Tom Jackson, Hamilton, Ohio; Ed Recker, Erie, Pa.; Paul O’Connell, Latonia, Ky., and Gerry Hek-ker, Wood Ridge, N. J.
For those who intend to have out of town guests for the Prom, there will be a bloc of rooms reserved at the South Bend hotels. The committee also plans to facilitate the renting of tuxes by having a man on campus to ■ take orders and make the necessary measureinents.
—Shaun McDermott
LOCAL N.F.C.C.S. COUNCIL PREPARING FOR NATIONAL CONGRESS IN TOLEDO
Notre Dame’s local council of N.F.C. C.S. began work this week on preparations for the forthcoming National Congress. Meeting with Regional and Local Chaplains, Fathers Cunningham and Hesburgh, the six-man executive committee last week named the ten-man delegation which will represent the University at the Congress. On Wednesday the delegates met with Rev. Charles E. Bermingham, director of the Youth Dept, of the National Catholic Welfare Conference and National Chaplain of the Federation, at which time the proposed revised constitution of N.F.C.C.S. was discussed.
Interrupted for several years because of the war, the second National Congress of the National Federation of College Catholic Students will be held at the Commodore Perry Hotel in Toledo. Ohio, on April 18, 19, 20. The Congress begun as a biennial meeting, will seat representatives from Catholic colleges and universities all over the United States, and has the primary purpose of establishing a “solidarity in the Catholic Student Community.” Fourteen topics of controversial nature will be discussed in separate forums by the various delegates, and resolutions will be presented and voted upon by the entire assembly. The resolutions thus approved will constitute a unified Catholic student approach to issues vital in their perennial interest to Catholic life in the nation.
The N.F.C.C.S., as its name indicates is a federating agency. Its aim is to
The new executive committee of the local council of N.F.C.C.S. Left to right: Father Barry, Pat O'Meara, Tom McCaffery, Frank Keenan, Father Cunningham, Bill Walsh, Father Hesburg, Jack Murphy. Absent were Roger Cahaney and Dick Stack.
bring together student groups interested in any field that holds promise of promoting Catholic activity. The Federation works through commissions which are organized on a local, regional and national basis. The local commission on any campus is the student group or club active in pursuing any interest approved by the Federation, or one that holds promise of receiving that approval once it has begun to function on a regional basis. The regional commission is made up of all the groups active in the particular field on the several campuses within the region. Both national and regional chairmanships of a commission are organized, and are located on the campus that is providing leadership in the particular field on a national and regional basis. Notre Dame, for example, holds the regional chairmanship in Catholic Action Study and Inter-American Action, and both the national and regional chairmanships in Veterans’ Affairs.
The executive committees of the Federation, or local councils, are organized in the same way. Ordinarily, in the smaller colleges the local council of the N.F.C.C.S. is the student council. Here at Notre Dame, the local council is a sub-committee of the student council, concerns itself solely with N.F.C.C.S. affairs, and reports its activities to the Student Council.
Currently affiliating fourteen campus groups with the Federation, Notre Dame has for some time actively participated in the N.F.C.C.S. In addition to Pat
O’Meara, National President, and Tom McCaffery, National Chairman for Veterans’ Affairs, the University’s ten-man delegation will attend the National Congress. The entire delegation selected by the local executive committee attended the recent Regional Congress held at St. Joseph’s College, Collegeville, Indiana, at which time, resolutions on the topics to be discussed at the forthcoming congress were adopted. The recently elected executive committee is made up of Frank Keenan, Local Council Chairman, Bill Walsh, Vice Chairman, Tom McCaffrey, Secretary, Jack Murphy, Dick Stack and Roger Cahaney.
The official delegates to represent the University at Toledo are: Dave Mosier, Tom Murray, Bob Uhl, John R. O’Connor, Bob Reinders and Fred Veit.
—Roger Cahaney
Committee Hopes for SRO At Forum Tonight on NSO
The first in a series of forums, open to the entire student body, at which the proposed National Student Organization will be debated, will be held tonight at 7:30 p. m. in Washington Hall. Present at the meeting will be delegates from the various campus clubs and also from St. Mary’s. Invitations have also been sent by the local NSO committee to various members of the faculty.
Purpose of the meeting will be further orientation on the NSO, with an informative and historical talk by Vince Hogan, delegate to the Prague Congress last summer. Martin McLaughlin and Al Sommers will also speak, respectively advocating and opposing the organization. Following this there will be an open discussion on the floor by the official delegates.
Among recent developments in the NSO, it has been announced that the president of the National Continuations Committee has invited Notre Dame to send a delegate to the World Student Service meeting in Denmark next July. With only 15 colleges of the United States having been chosen for this conference, the invitation stated that Notre Dame has been chosen since it is the outstanding Catholic college, and it is believed that a Catholic college should be represented.
SUMMER SESSION IN MEXICO
All students interested in obtaining full information about the Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico are asked to meet with Professor Walter M. Langford on Monday.'March 24th. at 4 p. m. in Room 225A of the Main Building.
11
Vets Ask Reduction of Registration Fee
A reduction in the pre-registration fee from S50 to S20 was asked this week by the Veterans Club in a letter to Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., Director of Veterans Affairs.
The letter, signed by Club President Hank Keel, cited six reasons for the fee reduction.
1.	The fee is due at an inopportune time, since it comes close to the Eastei’ vacation and a number of formal dances.
2.	Most students depend on summer jobs to help finance their education and in the spring they are at their lowest financial ebb.
3.	Married students have been carrying on under strained finances, and the payment of such a fee would only add strain to their purses.
4.	Many students who live off campus are not able to make ends meet without working at part-time employment, and such a fee would add hardship to them.
5.	Most veterans, especially those who are married or who are under Public Law 16, plan to go to summer school to speed their education, thus their good faith could be counted on in regard to next fall enrollment.
6.	That the G.I. Bill has been declared financially insufficient by members of Congress, and that even on campus, stu- ' dents have less than §10 monthly for sundries, cleaning, recreation, etc., after they chop off room and board fees.
According to reliable sources, action on the letter has been promised.
—Ed Snyder
Joan of Arc and Puppets Hold Audience Spellbound
While boxers pummelled each other’ in the gym last week, a diminutive Joan of Arc drew sword and marched to do battle with the English for the Dauphin and France.
Conducted by Martin and Olga Stevens, a company of puppets went through the play depicting the saga of the Maid of Orleans .written by Clem D. Easly. Superbly costumed, the play held the audience spelbound as one dazzling scene followed another. Now in their second decade of puppeteering, the Stevens’ last visit to the University was in 1940.
Seen from the audience, the play is an amazing blend of voice and movement. This amazement is increased when the play is viewed from backstage where the two perform in perfect union the many roles of the play. At times as many as five characters are on stage, all acted by the Stevens, both in sound and in gesture.
Now being added to the repertoire of
12
the talented Stevens couple, who have already performed the Nativity and Passion plays, are such favorites as Macbeth and Taming of the Shrew. Theatre lovers may look forward to a most enjoyable evening when this troupe returns to the campus next year.—J. P. Reiner.
North's Strange Bid Proves Fatal Move
By JOE WILCOX
Loudest roaring social lions last week were N.D.’s avid bridge players, w ho dug into their tournament with all thirteen spades, and put their hearts into their work. Flushed wih the promise that the winning pair could participate in the coming WCTU tourney in South Bend, to be held as soon as South Bend adopts local option, the players were pulling all their tricks out of their bag and trying not to show their hands.
An unexpected spectator was the Prefect of Discipline, who had hurried to the tournament when he heard that there was half a cent a point on the line. The P.D. had overbid, however: first prize was a deck of cards and Ely Culbertson’s “Secrets of Success In Bridge and Marriage.
One foursome, composed of East, West,' North and South, were sweating out their lack of strategical and tactical merit. With both sides vulnerable, East and West were on the verge of an untenable situation, while North’s bidding with its strange preference of clubs over diamonds had little to recommend it. North made a fatal move in failing to pass the five club bid around. South’s soundness of philosophy had been questionable" had left his partner North with six of his clubs champing at their bits. North’s outrageous decision to rescue South from his own folly cost North and South their five spade bid, and they went down three on the contract. East and West wiped their brows as their positions became tenable again. At that, North and South had got better than they deserved: next time North would know enough to pass the five-club bid around and leave South to stew in his own juice.	. 7:
Who would win? Wary players would, make no comment, but pointed to £he fast-dwindling ranks of the original 64 players. Players apparently feared that the Scholastic was trying to trump their ace, would say nothing further. South displayed bruised shins where North had kicked him; East bound up a stab wound from West’s knife. Said South, “I’m glad it’s over. This was worse than the Bulge.” North, despondent over his failure to take proper control of the situation, hanged himself.
General Motors Engineer Talks to Metals Society
At 8:00 p. m., Wednesday, March 12 the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals heard Mr. F. E. Harris, furnace engineer of Buick Motor Division, General Motors Coiporation, speak on Gas Carburization. More than 100 members of the Notre Dame chapter attended the regular monthly meeting, preceding the talk, and welcomed four new members, three seniors and one junior, into the organization.
Mr. Harris, a graduate of the University of Michigan in 1914, was a*s?ci-ated with Buick Motors and Continental Motors in 1917 and has held his present position in the organization of Buick Motors Division since 1919.
The executive committee of the local chapter voted to offer a prize at each of the monthly meetings, to one of those who attend the dinner held at 6:30 p. m. in the University Dining Hall. The prize, one of the books published by the American Society for Metals, will be given at the beginning of the technical session.
The April meeting to be held on Wednesday, April 9, will present Dr. A. J. Phillips, Manager of the Research Department, American Smelting and Refining Company, Barber, New Jersey. His subject will be: Some Practical Aspects of Certain Theoretical Considerations on the Solidification of Metals and Alloys.
—S. T. Valetich
ND Students Star In CYO Showing of Popular Play
Seven Notre Dame students .starred in the dual cast of Peg O’ My Heart presented last Monday and Wednesday by the St. Joseph CYO in the Parish Hall. Directed by Mrs. Mary McCusker, wife of Professor McCusker of the Chemistry Department, the actors presented a modernized version of J. Hartley Manners’ ever popular play about the Irish lass.
“.r Students in the talented cast were Mi. .^hael Riordan, Beve Liebig, Joseph Casa-sianta, Maurice Mahon, William O’Hara, Joseph Roemer, and Dudley Birder, all South Bend residents. Also in lead roles were Joanne Wack, daughter of German piofessor J. J. Wack, and Mary Ann Doran of the Publicity Department.
An unscheduled performance was held on Tuesday night by popular demand as first nighters spread the news of the work on the part of the cast and producers.—J. P. Reiner

Construction of Germ-Free Laboratory for LOBUND to Start In Few Weeks
Construction of a Laboratory for Germ-Free Life Research at the University of Notre Dame will start within a few weeks, following recent authorization of the project by the Civilian Production Administration, it was announced by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
Facilities in the projected building will be used primarily for the breeding of germ-free animals in large quantities foi’ use in medical problems and as a basis for research in the Laboratories of Bacteriology, known as Lobund, at Notre Dame, of which Professor James A. Rey-niers, noted bacteriologist, is director.
Germ-free animals are used for research in disease immunization and resistance and in viruses of different diseases and in nutrition, tooth decay and other' important research projects now being conducted at Lobund. Research also is being carried on at Lobund now in the nature of various diseases as determined through the study of single bacteria cells from each disease, and on the nature of air borne and cross-infections.
The new building will be two stories high, will measure 75 feet by 62 feet in area, and will be constructed of brick, glass brick and Indiana limestone. Both interior and exterior will be of modern functional design. The building also will be completely air-conditioned.
Professor Reyniers, a native of Mishawaka, Indiana, who designed and built unique equipment for the rearing and study of germ-free animals at Notre Dame, has been engaged in such research at Notre Dame since 1928. He is a graduate of Notre Dame. In 1937 he was appointed Director of the Laboratories of Bacteriology (Lobund) which have at
tracted much attention in the scientific world because of the important nature of research being conducted there.
Experimental work is now going on in Lobund with a large “mock-up” tank 17 ft. long and 8 ft. diameter. This tank and accessory equipment will be built of stainless steel in the new building and will be used for rearing germ-free animals in large quantities. The use of this apparatus will involve the entry of a man, clothed in a special diving suit, through a large germicidal trap info the large tank.
The erection of this new building for rearing germ-free animals will permit an expansion of the micrurgical and biological engineering divisions of Lobund in the present Biology Building quarters.
Appoint Sessler Member of Chicago Galleries
Professor Stanley S. Sessler, Head of the Department of Fine Arts at Notre Dame, has been elected an artist member of the Chicago Galleries Association, according to an announcement by Harry L. Engle, Director of the Association.
The Chicago Galleries Association is composed of some forty of the most prominent and outstanding artists in the U. S. Members are entitled to place on display in the Galleries outstanding works of their paintings and sculptures.
Professor Sessler, who joined the faculty at Notre Dame in 1928, served as an AAF officer during World War II and perfected unique methods of identifying vessels and planes for the government. As an artist he has exhibited his work in the prominent art centers of the country and has won numerous awards. He is represented in the Wightman Mem-morial Art Galleries at Notre Dame.
Jimmy Day to Play for KC Formal Ball
Jimmy Day and his orchestra, well-known in Chicago music circles, will provide the rhythms for the Knights of Columbus Spring Formal in the Palais Royale on April 18, Co-chairmen Larry Turner and Tom Tearney have announced.
Committee heads who have been working to make the annual formal its usual success include Joe Dillon, publicity; Tom Broden, tickets; Art McGrath, patrons; and Pat Trixler, music.
Price of the bids have not yet been announced, but the chairmen said that the KC’s policy is to provide a gala affair at moderate cost.
Germany First on Agenda of International Club
At a recent meeting of the newly organized International Affairs Club the members voted a discussion of the situation in Germany as the first topic to be considered by the group. A committee for research and development of the topic was appointed and is presently engaged in preparing the material for presentation to the Club. After discussion and editing of the committee’s report by all of the club members, the topic will be presented in open forum at a subsequent meeting to which the public will be invited.
Father Louis Putz who attended the World Student Conference at Prague, Czechoslovakia, and Fribourg, Switzerland, last summer is the club moderator. Recently elected club officers are: John J. Fallon, president; Joseph Q. Reninger, vice-president; Arthur Curran, secretary; and John Sweeney, treasurer.
WSBT SPECIAL
Special arrangements have been made with WSBT, the South Bend Tribune’s broadcasting station, for a half-hour broadcast the night of the Villagers club’s annual Spring Swing on Monday, April 7, at the Palais Royale, it was announced today by. Joe Casassanta, general chairman. •
The program manager at the broadcasting station has arranged to carry Bob Strong’s music direct from the dance from 11:30 p. m. until 12 p. m., with Notre Dame’s ace mike jockey, Dan Gentile, making things come out even on the program.
The dance itself has evoked widespread interest in South Bend, and among those students who will remain in the vicinity over the Easter vacation. Tickets are available now, and any Villager will have tickets or information leading to the purchase of same.
13
SEVEN MONTHS IN POST-WAR EUROPE
By FRANK KEENAN
Laughlin, traveled south to Fribourg, Switzerland for the Jubilee Congress of Pax Romana. Here they joined the United States delegation, moderated by Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., from Notre Dame.
(This is the first of two articles devoted to Vincent P. Hogan’s sevenmonth sojourn in post-war Europe. Scholastic feels that Mr. Hogan’s revealing observations are icorthy of more than summary attention.)
Probably no one on the Notre Dame campus today has more first-hand information on conditions in postwar1 Europe than Vincent P. Hogan, Port Angelus, Washington, native and Political Science graduate student. Seven months in Eire, England, France, Switzerland, Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Italy culminated on February 3rd when Hogan landed in New York, the half-way mark on his way back to Notre Dame.
The complex and more or less abstract problems facing much of Europe are alive and practical for this quiet, pleasant, young graduate student. Communist influence in the governments of France and Italy, postwar Eire’s condition as a result of that nation’s neutrality in the late war, and the position of the Catholic Church on the chaotic Continent are vitally important questions in this “time for decision,” and to a man who has had personal contact with them their urgency is all too clear.
Seven Months In Europe
Hogan’s background for seven months of study and observation of a battered Europe is an impressive one. In December, 1942, he left New York for England, and for 35 months thereafter played his part in the drama of World War II. First with the Counter Intelligence Corps at London headquarters, Hogan then moved ■with the war, successively with the Twelfth Corps of the Third Army and the Ninety-fourth Infantry Division through France and Belgium on into Germany. In Germany Hogan was attached to the Berlin Command, and from here he witnessed the high-sounding but ill-fated Potsdam Conference, President Truman’s debut in international politics and diplomacy. In October, 1945, Hogan returned to the United States.
Eight months later world-traveller Hogan was on his way again—this time as one of twenty-five American delegates to the World Student Congress at Prague, Czechoslovakia (among the other twenty-four was Notre Dame’s Martin McLaughlin). Getting a head start on his colleagues, Hogan left New York early in July aboard a British Overseas Airways Corp, plane. Alighting in Ireland he visited County Clare, the home of rel-
atives, and then proceeded to London, ’ attending the International Student
Service Congress at Gerton College, Cambridge, from the 19th to the 29th of July.
With this first of several international congresses under his belt, Hogan set out for Prague, by way of Paris, Switzerland, and Austria. Here the scene was set for the historic meeting of student representatives from thirty-eight nations of the world, including the “liberated” countries of Russian-dominated eastern Europe. Bulwarked by these satellite delegates Communist leadership
Vincent P. Hogan
was clearly evident to Hogan, who feels, however, that by fuller participation of western student groups the IUS can be an instrument for universal student advancement and a world student community.
Despite the dominance of Communist groups at Prague the Congress did provide the first real contact since the war with men from the countries on the fringe of Russia. Two weeks of constant association with these delegates convinced Hogan of their dependence upon Russian leadership. With little individual freedom of expression satellite delegations nearly always voted with Russia as a bloc. Socially, too, though affable, rather pleasant and undoubtedly sincere, the individual delegates from these countries were obviously tinged by Marxist doctrines, Hogan found.
From Prague, Hogan, along with Me-
in contrast to the Prague Congress, Pax Romana was noteworthy for the presence of a large South American delegation, and also the return of German and Austrian delegations to the world student community, a turn of events enthusiastically acclaimed by the entire Congress. Delegations from eastern European countries, however, were predominantly exiles.
The two weeks at Fribourg, reports Hogan, provided heartening evidence of the solidarity of Catholic students throughout the world. Particularly emphasized here were the obligations and responsibilities of the Catholic student to both the Church and society. In this regard the pressing need of German and Austrian students for material aid was stressed. Their situation, determined as they are to go ahead with their education, crystallized Catholic realization of the obligation toward diffusing Christian ideas in a war-torn world and the necessity for fraternal responsibility among students of the world.
Announce Four History Essay Contest Awards
Announcement was made this week of four history essay contests, with awards of from $50 to $100, made possible through various donations to the University. Latest entry date for the essays is May 1.
The Father Cavanaugh prize of $100 is to be awared for the best biographical sketch of a person, either religious or layman, who has contributed to the upbuilding of Notre Dame. Judged by historical accuracy and literary excellence, this prize is not awarded if no essay meets these standards.
The O’Hagen. prize, granted every three years, is given to the student submitting the best essay on Irish history. Value of the prize this year is $84.03.
The Father Charles O’Donnell-Charles Phillips prize of $50, open to all students taking history courses, is to be awarded for the best essay on “The Catholic Church as the Patron of the Renaissance of the Fifteenth Century.”
The Monsignor Francis A. O’Brien prize of $100, awarded annually to one or more students, is to be on the topic “A Biographical Study of a Catholic Layman in the United States prior to 1925.”
14
IHE Huffiffnist
JAMES BOMS	7 7 VUIUHIM WRMS fKORAIB
Capitalism vs. collectivism has been a steadily mounting battle since the first rumblings of the social philosophers, Marx and Engels, and the humanitarians, Dickens and Ruskin. They maintained that a capitalistic society must ultimately become collectivistic. With this theory in mind, the question of last week was posed—asking the individual student if he believed that the inevitable result of a capitalistic system is some form of socialism.
We should like to emphasize that our definition of socialism is necessarily postMarxian, for the facts and values upon which it is based are no longer the harsh brutalities of the early industrial revolution upon which Marx founded his policies and programs. Hence, socialism, as used here, does not imply that particular nineteenth century ideology that advocated extreme methods of achieving state absolutism — the tyranny of the group. Nor does this interpretation imply a slavish imitation of the political methods and social institutions of Soviet Russia.
Opposed to Nationalization
When presented with this problem, the majority of the students adopted a compromise stand. Although they said that free enterprise was an essential expression of human nature, they also conceded the necessity of certain social welfare programs that should be state initiated and subsidized. As present-day examples of this compromise, they cited such state and national programs as social security, conservation, the T.V.A., crop insurance, minimum wage, veterans insurance and unemployment compensation. These students, however, will not support the nationalization of such institutions as the coal mines, utilities and large corporations although they admit that these are vital to the national welfare.
Other students, convinced of the intrinsic worth of capitalism and free enter-pi’ise,'-refuse to admit that our society is progressing toward some form of socialism. “Capitalism is the best of all possible systems; it is here to stay.” As proof, they proudly pointed to the fact . that while we have only 7% of the world’s population, we have 92% of its bathtubs. They do not believe that any ’ - further argument foi; the merits of capitalism is necessary.	.
A few students agreed with the Marxian thesis. They maintained that the U. S. will be the next to follow Britain’s example by nationalizing our heavy industries and utilities. We are already progressing toward this end inasmuch as the complexities of our system demand a stable central controling influence to direct its efforts toward benefiting the common good—private capitalism is incapable of achieving this orderly direction by itself. The recent coal strikes and the subsequent national paralysis are evidences of this failing on the pai-t of capitalism. They believe that some economic form must be reached which will adequately provide for all. We now give a minimum of food and shelter and medical care to ci-iminals who presumably have behaved against the best interests of society; why, therefore, should we not extend this same care to all the impoverished members of our society?
These students hastened to distinguish between the totalitarian and democratic forms of socialism, however. They wish to avoid bureaucratic centralization. Collectivism must not be conceived as an end in itself but as an institutional device. They do not advocate complete control and supervision on the part of the state. Collective groups within the state itself—such as trade unions and cooperatives must be maintained. Beard makes a specific reference to this need in his Economic Basis of Politics:
“If there is no individual or group economic interests possessing a high degree of independence as against the state, despotism will replace constitutional government and then run its own historic course.”
The Crucial Problems of Our Day
Modern society is faced with the problem of organizing itself in such a way as to afford security and plenty to the mass of men and yet preserve that freedom without which the rest is nothing. Social control and governmental regulation are spreading at an increasing pace. The trend on the continent toward collectivism is unmistakable. The modern industrial machine has burst the institutional framework of free capitalism—individual enterprise, that which has no control, cannot adequately provide for the whole, its evils are most evident. The cry of the capitalist has been for
production not planning, profits not common good, competition not cooperation. Aimless expansion of production is, in fact, a typical disease of capitalism. It is only logical that a system based upon the principles of competition and advising the individual to get what he can should result in selfishness and an overall lack of concern for the common good. This placing of stress on the importance of individual effort and initiative to the exclusion of the general welfare is not, one must admit, in keeping with Christian pinnciples. Pope Pius XI, in the encyclical, Quadrogesimo Anno, perhaps best expressed the stand of those seeking a system which attempts to provide for the whole:
“Each class, then, must receive its due share, and the distribution of created goods must be brought into conformity with the demands of the common good and social justice. For every sincere observer is conscious that the vast differences between the few who hold excessive wealth and the many who live in destitution constitute a grave evil in society.”
* * *
“Free competition is dead; economic dictatorship has taken its place. Unbridled ambition for domination has succeeded the desire for gain; the whole economic life has become hard, cruel, and relentless in a ghastly measure ... a detestable Internationalism or international Imperialism [has arisen] which holds that where a man’s fortune is, there is his country.”
* * *
“Free competition and still more economic domination must be kept within just and definite limits and must be brought under the effective control of the public authority. The public institutions of the nations must be such as to make the whole of human society conform to the common good . . .”
Effective freedom (freedom from want and fear and exploitation) is impossible without organization, but organization must necessarily thwart freedom to some extent. This, then, is the problem: a virile, responsible society must work toward achieving this effective freedom and toward correcting its evils but the extreme remedies that would ultimately nullify any benefits of this evolution must be avoided.
The question of next week is: “What is the purpose of a university education? Is the American university fulfilling this function? Please address all replies to The Humanist, Box 174, Notre Dame, Ind., by Monday evening. March 24,1947.
15
Jim Sullivan, left, defeated Dick Greenwell for the 125-lb. crown
Mike Conley, right, won from Russ Van Keuren in the 135-lb. class
Bill Roemer, right, knocked out Dick Cotter to take the 175-lb. title
Jack Fallon, left, won heavyweight title by defeating Budyenkowic
FRONT ROW: John Goonen, Leo Barnhorst, Kevin O'Shea, Frannie Curran, John Murphy, John
.... Foley, and Carl Loyd
2nd ROW: George Kennard, Mgr. Jack Loftus, Joe Sobek,, Jim O'Halloran, Jim Fritsch, Buster Hiller, Dick Kluck, Coach Krause
3rd Row: Tom Brennan, Ass t Coach; John Holloway, George Connor, Pat Smid, John Brennan. Wayne Curran. Charles Wolf, Frank Kaufman
Missing from this picture: Paul Gordon, George Ratterman
icz
rd
Congratulations to a great basketball squad that ranks as one of the finest ever to represent Notre Dame. The 1946-47 Fighting Irish quintet deserves a lot of credit for the brilliant showing made during the season recently concluded. When we started practice last Fall our outlook was questionable. Most of the boys had just returned from service and had played little if any ball during the war. The cooperation and hard work displayed by members of this year’s squad made it possible for the Notre Dame team to be ranked No. 2 in the nation at the conclusion of the season.
—Edward “Moose” Krause.
17
...THE SEASON
.	By PETE BROWN
Back in the years when Coach Ed Krause was a young man, Notre Dame had a basketball team of which he was captain. It finished the season with a 204 record. That was a year after his home town, Chicago, celebrated its Century of Progress, 1934. This season, Krause’s second full year as head basketball coach, his team duplicated that feat. Krause returned last fall after two years in the Marines to take control of the quintet. This season’s record plus the record of his ’44 outfit gives Krause-coached teams 30 wins and 13 defeats.
The quintet got off to a fast start rolling up scores of 86-38 and 80-30 against Franklin and Ball State respectively. Both games played on ND’s home floor were sluggish one-sided affairs. The . Franklin game served as the unveiling of Kevin O’Shea, the new Irish phenomenon. The scoring honors of the initial contest were taken by Frannie Curran with 16 points on seven baskets and two free throws. In the Ball State game Leo Barnhorst hit for seven baskets to lead the evening’s individual scoring.
The next contest was the squad’s first real test. It was against Indiana on the Hoosier’s home floor. The Irish came out on top 70-60. Curran again moved into the top of the scoring column with 19
George Ratterman and Kevin O'Shea (14) trail a Marquette man.
points. Close behind was O’Shea with 15. Notre Dame was behind .32-29 at the half, but came back fast'in the final period to take their third victory of the season.
Wisconsin, their next opponent, loomed large on the horizon as the team travelled to Madison for their fourth game. As the game progressed the Badgers grew even larger. The two teams fought on even terms throughout the game. In regulation time they decided nothing. The score stood at 48-48. In the overtime period which followed, the Badgers picked up five points while Notre Dame could register only one free throw. This first defeat was eventually sweetened when the Badgers took the Western Confer- ence championship in their delayed victory over Purdue.
One week later during the Christmas holidays, the Irish returned to their home floor to play Drake. The game was a slow contest which rated as their worst showing before a home crowd this season. Notre Dame outlasted Drake’s last period drive to take the contest, 59-56.
Two games were played during the Season of Good Tidings, against Dartmouth in Cleveland, and St. Louis at St. Louis. Both games were added to the
victory side of the ledger. Dartmouth went down 66-55 and St. Louis 48-46. The Dartmouth game was won going away with Barnhorst’s 14 points tops for the evening. The Billikins of St. Louis played a slow methodical game thus holding down the high scoring Irish five. O’Shea hit for 15 points for top honors. Notre Dame was never behind, but they had to be content watching the tall boys from St. Louis play for the opening which never came. The game marked the first appearance of John Brennan, the eventual scoring champ, as a starter.
Swamp Butler, 86-40
Four nights later the Krausemen returned to the Fieldhouse to play Butler. For the third time during the season, the Irish flew past the 80-point mark coming to a halt with an 86-40 win.
After the Butler breeze they trekked downstate to Lafayette to play Purdue. The Boilermakers delivered the second lethal blow to Notre Dame’s national championship hopes by upsetting the Irish 60-56. Ed Ehlers, the same man who caused the Irish football team some trouble last fall, was the thorn in the team’s side with 15 points.
A short swung through Michigan was the next move for the squad. First in line was Michigan State who fell before them 74-56, and Detroit suffered a similar fate to the tune of 81-40. Brennan started to make his move for the scoring title by hitting for 15 points in the Michigan State encounter and 19 in the Detroit game.
A rematch with Purdue marked the half-way point of the season. The Boilermakers put up a good stand for the first few minutes and then gave up. Notre Dame was never behind in their 74-43 revenge victory.
Back in the fieldhouse for a between semesters tune-up before taking on mighty Kentucky, the Irish easily disposed of Marquette, 87-61, though forward Gene fierce and center Ray Kuffel worked feverishly to keep the Milwaukeeans in the running.
Just as last year, the Kentucky-Notre Dame game was again billed as another of those "dream games.” Thirty thousand applications bombarded the ticket offices of the Louisvile Armory which accommodates only seven thousand patrons. Neck and neck the Wildcats had raced before their crucial meeting for the cov-
18
and DAVE WARNER
eted No. 1 spot of college basketball. The outcome left little doubt which was the bettei- ball club. Rupp’s Rebels were geared for this one, particularly gumchewing Ralph Beard and gangling Al Groza, and the Cats humiliated Krause’s boys, 60-30, for their fourth win of thirteen meetings between the two schools. Only shining light in the game for Notre Dame was Captain Franny Curran with nine points.
But like the kid who got back on the horse after taking his first fall, the Irish proved it had had a nightmarish, off night by successfully completing the northern end of its Dixie tour two days later, thumping Butler, 73-60, in the Butler Fieldhouse. The Butler win began a six game winning streak in which Michigan State, Northwestern, DePaul, Ca-nisius, and N.Y.U. were the successive victims. Once again they had caught the critical, rate-happy eye of Dick Dunkel, “Chuck” Taylor and their ilk.
Dedicate Game to Keogan
Five days before departing on the annual eastern jaunt DePaul was played in the fieldhouse, the game dedicated to the memory of the late George Keogan, a Notre Dame basketball coach for twenty-one years. The Blue Demons were defeated, 80-45, in one of the most memorable rough and tumble encounters of the year with the blood flowing like borscht most of the evening. Even when thirty points behind the Demons, with Federinko, Cooper, and Coorlas showing the way, fought just like their nicknames indicate. Long John Brennan was the crowd’s sweetheart, calmly, almost effortlessly, plunking in the first ten points as part of his contribution of twenty-three for the night. Paul Gordon, too, was a great crowd pleaser, impressively filling in for the ailing Kev O’Shea. Eleven days later Ray Meyei' and his band of scrappers atoned for that loss up in the Chicago Stadium with a 61-50 count. Eddie Mikan with thirty-one points had the night he had hoped to have down here.
Perhaps the eastern trip in which the Golden Griffins of Canisius and the NYU Violets were withered did the most to restore the Irish to the No. 2 slot. Before 19,000 in Madison Square Garden, Notre Dame treated the natives of Manhattan Island to a thrilling, circus-like exhibition of basketball. O’Shea, who hadn’t played since wrenching his “good” knee in the Northwestern game, looking
like a taped up mummy, played only a half, rapidly racked up thirteen points, then called it quits. Ably assisting the Frisco Flyer were Curran, Brennan, Barnhorst and little Jimmy O’Halloran who iced the game, 64-60, with a long one-handed flipper in the dying seconds after the game had been nip and tuck all the way.
Appearing in Chicago’s Stadium again the Irish had its work cut out trying to stop Ben Schadler of Northwestern who rang up twenty-seven tallies. Thanks to one of O’Shea’s snap of the wrist one-handers from the foul circle in the last thirty seconds, the Irish eked out a 55-53 decision.
In the last home game of the season the high scoring Notre Dame machine showed no respect for title holders as it used sixteen players to squelch the colorfully clad St. Louis Billikens, winner of the Missouri Valley Conference, 64-43. For the season’s finale the Krausemen journeyed to Milwaukee, which among other things is famous for Marquette. There was an obstacle to hurdle here. The Irish hadn’t beaten the Hilltoppers on their court in three years. With half of the final period gone it looked like a cinch, Notre Dame leading 58-39. But Gene Berce and Frank Sauceda had
Moose Connor goes up for a lay-in.
other ideas. Together they pulled Marquette up to within three points, 71-68. “Moose” Connor barreled through with a well timed tap-in making the final 73-68.
Perhaps the home crowd wasn’t witness to any of those close, spine-tingling games of last season, but it did watch Notre Dame capture nine tilts to stretch its consecutive string of home victories to thirty-three over a span of nearly four years. It saw, too, the reason why the team scoring record for a single season skyrocketed to 1,573 points, breaking the 1,241 mark set in 1944-45 under Clem Crowe. Coach “Moose” Krause has recommended the following players for monograms subject, of course, to the approval of the faculty board in control of athletics: Barnhorst, Brennan, Curran, Foley, Gordon, Kelly, Loyd, O’Halloran, O’Shea, and Ratterman. But much of the credit goes to those men behind the spotlights: Connor, Goonen, Fritsch, Hiller, Kaufman, Kluck, Loftus, Newbold, Singer, Smid, Sobek and Walsh. These were the boys who prepared them for the tough ones with those daily scrimmages. And don’t forget Manager George Kennard with that ready meal money and publicity man Ray Donovan without whose aid this review might just have been another clump of paper in the maid’s hamper.
19
'	Moose Krause
i	By BILL SLAVICK
I The one man who has played a full j -10 minutes of all 24 games this season is Head Coach Edward W. (Moose)
! Krause. The outstanding amount of |	team play featured by the 1946-47 Irish
।	eagers is in no small part due to his
| knowledge of the game and his ability to direct a group of players with widely-1	varied past experience—fast-break men,
J	slow-break men, man-to-man defense
i players, and exponents of the zone defense.

In his own hardwood career, Krause established Notre Dame all-time records for scoring in a single game, a single season, and three seasons, making All-American in each of his three seasons as a center on the Irish quintet. At this writing, he is the only Notre Dame athlete ever voted a trophy by the Notre Dame student body.
Krause was born in Chicago and raised on the south side where he starred in football, basketball, track, and baseball for De LaSalle High under Coach Norman Barry, Notre Dame star of the early 1920’s.
At Notre Dame, where he matriculated in 1930, Krause distinguished himself in football and basketball, and earned one track monogram in the javelin throw. On the gridiron he was with the shock troops in his first football game as a sophomore, but soon was promoted to a regular tackle berth and held the position for the ensuing three seasons. He was given considerable All-Western and All-American recognition. In 1933 he played 521 minutes of the 540-minute ’ season!
20
Following graduation in 1934 at the age of 21, Kiause signed as athletic director and head coach of all sports at St. Mary’s College of Winona, Minnesota. After five successful years, he went to Holy Cross as assistant football coach. He returned to Notre Dame in a similar capacity in the spring of 1942. During the winter of 1942-43 he was appointed head basketball coach, succeeding George Keogan, who died February 17, 1943.
Krause entered the Marines on February 2, 1944 as a second lieutenant. He was discharged one step higher on January 23, 1946, after spending 14 months in the Pacific in the Solomons and the Philippines as an Air-Combat Intelligence Officer with a Marine Bombing Squadron.
He was married August 27, 1938, to Miss Elizabeth Linden of Chicago. They have two children, Edward, Jr., born September 11,1940, and Mary Elise, born August 17 of last year.
Tom Brennan
Assistant Coach Tom Brennan, former Notre Dame center from Bedford, Ind., has one distinction of which few can boast—he was high-point man in the first basketball game in which he par
Forward
ticipated. If he had had a little more time in his first appearance at Notre Dame back in ’40, he might have pulled a repeat—he made six points in six minutes in his first appearance as an N. D. sub. Brennan is now in the Notre Dame Law School, realizing an early ambition to be an “honest lawyer.” He played on George Keogan’s last Notre Dame five—the 1942-43 team—and his pet peeve back there may be one of the reasons for the splendid teamwork this year—he doesn’t appreciate having forwards yell, “Watch me, I’m open.” He is a brother of John Brennan who has come along since the first of the season to become a mainstay of the Varsity.
BASKETBALL MANAGER — George Kennard of Ann Arbor, Mich., senior in the Commerce School, was among ten who received monograms.
ALL AMERICAN TEAM
Selected for TRUE Magazine by Coaches of America Board
1st Team
Position	Name	College
Forward	Phillip	Illinois
Forward	Tucker	Oklahoma
Center	Groza	Kentucky
Guard	Beard	Kentucky
Guard	Tanenbaum	N.Y.U.
2nd Team
Position	Name	College
Cook Wisconsin
Forward	Tingle	Kentucky
Center	Lavelli	Yale
Guard	Dillon	N. Car.
Guard	McGuire	St. John’s
3rd Team
Position	Name	College
Forward	Hargis	Texas
Forward	Hamilton	Indiana
Center	Barksdale	U.C.L.A.
Guard	O'Shea	Notre Dame
Guard	Ferrin	Utah
o
TRANSRADIO'S 1947 SECTIONAL BASKETBALL SELECTIONS All-Midwestem Team
Gene Berce, Marquette, forward
Bob Cook, Wisconsin, forward
Jack Kerris, Loyola of Chicago, center KEVIN O’SHEA, Notre Dame, guard Dave Humerickhous, Bradley, guard
The Irish-Man for Man
LEO BARNHORST—Barney is the only non-Blarney on the first team. He is only half Irish. A six-foot-three-inch sophomore from Indianapolis, Barnhorst spent his freshman year at Notre Dame before entering the Army Air Forces. At Cathedral High in his home town he won three monograms in basketball and two in baseball, captaining the Cathedral five of 1942, winning all-city and allstate guard honors during the same season. A good rebound man and a clever ball-handler, Barney was a mainstay of the starters throughout the season, and battled to the finish line in the scoring department with fellow guard Kevin O’Shea for the third scoring spot and
By BILL SLAVICS
dividual feats shone forth in the first DePaul game, when he handcuffed big Eddie Mikan and dropped in 23 points in less than three quarters on the court.
GEORGE CONNOR—Moose, junior Irish Center, is best noted for his All-American grid honors last fall and his election to the captaincy of the ’47 grid squad. A native of Chicago, Connor made three letters in basketball and three
in football at De LaSalle High, then went to Holy Cross for two years prior to 35 months in the Navy. Moose got a late start due to affiliation with the football team, but moved up rapidly to the traveling squad. His bulk is a welcome addition to the line-up whenever the going gets tough, and besides the aid of his weight, guarding ability, and back-board work, George is an even half-way up the list of scorers. Connor can boast of the best shooting percentage on the squad with a 45-percent average.
FRANCIS CURRAN—Capt. Frannie Curran, the smallest and fightingest
lost by only five points. He is one of the three men on the squad to see action in every game.
JOHN BRENNAN—Johnny is the Cinderella member of this season’s Varsity, beginning his debut in obscurity, only to appear with the height needed under the basket just in time to help the -Irish get going for another great season. From Bedford, Ind., John is a brother-of Tom Brennan, star at center for the Irish in ’42 and present assistant coach. A veteran of the Anny Air Corps, like Barnhorst, Brennan was accorded all-state honors with the Bedford High team in ’43. Future Dr. John didn’t take long after his rise to the starting team to take over the ranking scoring lead—in fact since the Kentucky game he hasn’t been headed. His top in-
member of the starting squad, is best known for his aggressiveness and uncanny shooting from anywhere on the court. Tabbed by Coach Krause as the most pliant athlete he has ever seen. Curran proved to.be the sparkplug of the team, and moved well over the 200-mark in individual scoring. Curran returned to Notre Dame this year after receiving a discharge as lieutenant (j. g.) in the Navy. The slender six-footer had won a basketball monogram here during the 1942-43 season. From Sterling, Ill., Curran won two monograms in basketball and two on the gridiron while at Community High there, winning all-city ratings in both during his senior year. His greatest thrill up to this season was tapping in the last-minute basket against Great Lakes in ’43 to tie the score-Along with Barnhorst and Brennan, he has appeared in every game this winter.
21
I
i
JOHN FOLEY—Johnny, a freshman center, was rather overshadowed by Brennan most of the season, but when Brennan had to go to the bench against N. Y. U., Foley stepped in to drop in the five points that moved the Irish from
a’one-point deficit to a four-point lead in the closing moments of the game. From Worcester, Mass., Foley has played steady ball all year, particularly for a first-year college netter. After winning three monograms each in football, basketball, and baseball at St. John’s High, going to the All-New England Catholic Tourney finals three years, and captaining his team to the title his senior year and himself to the most valuable player award, Foley transferred his interests to Notre Dame but soon was on the move again—to the Anny. He served under General Patton overseas, getting in combat service as an infantryman.
JOHN GOONEN—Conceded to be about the fastest little streak on the N.D.
squad, Johnny Goonen, at five-feet-nine-inches, is an outstanding second-year man on the Irish quintet. After starring at Seton Hall Prep at South Orange, N. J., winning two cage letters, Goonen moved to Lafayette, Ind., coming to Notre Dame after receiving a Coast Guard discharge last year. He is the lightest man on the squad, tipping in at 162.
PAUL GORDON—One of the most dependable of this year’s quintet is Gordy Gordon, a sophomore from Baltimore, Md., who copped his first monogram as a freshman during 1944-45. After serving 17 months in the Navy, Paul returned to Notre Dame and immediately gained a partial title on the starting guard position. An outstanding soccer player in
addition to his ability on the hardwood, Gordon was named all-state in both basketball and hockey while performing for Mt. St. Joseph’s High in ’42, ’43, and ’44. Besides being a monogram winner in baseball, Paul was also a member of the state baseball champs in ’43 and ’44, the state championship soccer team in ’44 and the conference championship cage team in his final two years there.
JOHN HILLER—No need in going further without calling him Buster, now a representative of the basketball country—East Bernstadt, Ky., after- attending St. Michael’s High in Santa Fe, New Mexico. A steady performer, Hiller came to N. D. first in 1942-43, winning his first monogram. He probably has top highschool honors among the netters. At St. Michael’s, Buster won thirteen athletic monograms, including five in basketball, five in baseball, and three in football. Captain of the basketball and baseball teams, he was a member of the team that won two city titles, one state championship, and was runner-up in the
National Catholic Tourney. He was named All-City eager in 1939-40 and added All-State and All-National honors the same winter. While in the service he played with the Great Lakes quintet in 1942-43.
ANTHONY KAUFMANN — Heinie joined the cage squad in 1943 as a freshman. Hailing from Chicago, Kaufmann competed with the Great Lakes five in 1944 while in the Navy. The Austro-German forward won two monograms in basketball, one in track, and was cocaptain of the 1942-43 St. Ignatius High School quintet. This year at Notre Dame he alternated between the forward and guard positions and proved another bulky addition to the line-up when things were going rough.
JOHN KELLY—One of the senior members of the team, John came back to Notre Dame after a very successful ten-
22
ure at Camp Lejeune where he captivated most of the South with his cage abilities. He won his first cage monogram at Notre Dame during the 1943-44 season before going into active duty with the Marines. At Lejeune, he was high-point man on a star-glutted five, leading in the defeat of the nationally-pow-erful Memphis Navy five for the Southern service title, and then pacing his team far along in the Nationals at Denver before dropping out. A native of Utica, N. Y., Kelly won three letters in basketball and two in baseball at St. Francis De Sales High there, capturing All-City honors his junior and senior years. This season, he high-pointed the Irish at Kentucky and in one of the Michigan State games. He finished up fifth in the individual point-making department, and concluded his college career as co-captain of the St. Louis game in the Fieldhouse.
KEVIN O’SHEA—Heralded as another Hank Luisetti all over the country, San Francisco’s Kev O’Shea, freshman guard, is touted as the greatest West Coast prospect of the day. While in the Coast Guard, Kev starred for the Alameda Coast Guard quintet and last year-played in the National A AU tourney with the Borlo Athletic Club of San Francisco. While attending St. Ignatius High, O’Shea captained the basketball team in his senior year which won the San Francisco championship. He was named All-City guard in ’42 and ’43, also was an All-City baseball selection. At Notre Dame, O’Shea started the season with a trick knee that caused him considerable trouble all season, and when he damaged the other in midseason, had to sit out a pair of games. But featuring an uncanny one-handed shot and the ability to even fake his
own teammates out of position, O’Shea is the star of the Irish. His time on the bench has certainly hurt his point total but he topped the 200 mark to come in an easy fourth on the squad. He dropped in a good third of his attempts at baskets, phenomenally characterized by the manner in which he shot close to half of them.
RICHARD KLUCK—A steadily advancing member of the squad this season, Dick was a very sharp defensive man and exceptionally fast for his size. A member of the Elmer Ripley squad last fall, Dick has moved up fast, and at 19 is one of the two youngest men on the team; Gordon is the other. Two-time
JAMES O’HALLORAN—Another asset to the Irish claim to being Irish on the basketball court this season is Jim O’Halloran, a sophomore from Chicago,
inch, 185-pounder won a baseball monogram as a pitcher for the Irish last season. He alternates between forward and center on Coach Krause’s team.
CARL LOYD—South Bend’s Carl Loyd, is a freshman with one basketball monogram at Notre Dame to his credit. He was called into Navy service late in the 1943-44 campaign after he already had earned a monogram. Loyd, captain of the basketball team at Woodrow Wilson High in South Bend during his senior year, won All-City honors the same year. Although only five feet, eleven inches, Carl is a deadly shot and was in the running for a starting position all season.
captain of the St. Philip High School quintet in Chicago, Kluck won three letters in basketball and one in football during his prep career. Besides basketball at Notre Dame, the six-foot-two-
23
who won his first experience at Notre 1 >anie as a member of the freshman team in ’42. He returne.l this year after receiving a discharge from the Army. While at Leo High. Jim won three monograms in basketball and was a member of the National Championship team from Leo in 1941. He was named All-City forward there in 1941-42. He dropped in almost 100 points this season with an average of around 35 percent.
CHARLES WOLF—A new arrival of the versatile class is Chuck Wolf, from Ft. Thomas. Ky. Only a freshman now. Chuck demonstrated this season that he has the ability to move forward. Besides capturing two letters each in basketball, football, and baseball, he lists as his most interestins’ experience a baseball
Jeeps, was a regular from '3!) to '41 and Andy, the youngest was a varsity man during the 1944-45 season before entering the service.
member of the N. 1). basketball squad in 1943 before he entered the Navy. Hailing from Chicago, Smid won two monograms in basketball while competing with De LaSalle High, and was a
tryout with the Cincinnati Reds. In the Greater Cincinnati Catholic League as a member of the Xavier team, he won AllCity and All-Conference cage honors in '44 and All-Conference grid laurels in '42. His military record includes nine months overseas as a Navy signalman, and a stay at Camp Elliot. Here Chuck was a member of the team that went to the AAU Tourney in ’4fi, beating Camp Miramac in one of their tilts—an overtime—55 to 53!
JOSEPH SOBER—A senior forward from Hammond, Ind., Joe has demonstrated his dependability for three seasons now on the Irish team. He was a member of the varsity during the 194243 season before he was called in the Army Air Corps, and again last year after his discharge. He was an allround athlete at Hammond High School. He is one of three members of the Sobek family to play basketball at Notre Dante. George, currently a pro with the Toledo
basketball and two football monograms. He was a member of the state championship ream in 1942 and in that same year was named All-Conference forward.
PATRICK SMID—Pat Smid was a
member of the squad which captured second in the St. George Invitational Tourney in Chicago during his senior year. In that same season, he was named to the All-City team.
JAMES KENNEDY—Jim was called up from the “B” squad late in the season. Only a sophomore, he has two more years of varsity competition left. While attending high school in Estherville, Iowa before entering the army, he won three
He captained both the basketball and football teams his senior year in high school.
JAMES FRITSCH—A very promising freshman guard from Batesville, Ind. He recently received his discharge as a lieutenant in the Army Air Forces. While in service he played for the San Marcos, Texas, Army Air Force team and the Minter Field and Bakers Field,
Calif, teams. In high school, he won all-state honors at Batesville in '43, copping a total of three letters for cage work.
GEORGE RATTERMAN—Becoming a landmark in Notre Dame athletic circles almost as well known as Cartier
24
Field is Cincinnati’s George Katterman. A regular on the cage team for two years up to this season, Ratterman is one of the most versatile athletes in Irish history. He is one of the few to win four monograms at N. D. in one
year; winning them in basketball, baseball, tennis, and football. Unable to quite find himself this season after the tardy start due to football, George did demonstrate his sparkling plat’ on several occasions. At Xavier High in Cincy, George won All-State honors in football and basketball, captaining both teams in his senior year. He is considered one of the “slickest" players in college ball, and for the 1944-45 and 1945-46 seasons was named to the AllChicago Stadium and All-Madison Square Garden teams. He is a member of the Naval R.O.T.C. unit at N. D.
Irish's 1573 Points Smash N. D. Record
By JOE DOYLE
When George Connor tapped in a rebound in the last 10 seconds of play against Marquette on March S, the 194647 Fighting Irish basketeers had closed the scoring column with the greatest total ever amassed by a Notre Dame team. Connor's points were No. 1-572 and 1-573 or 332 more points than the previous record held by Coach Clem Crowe’s 1944-45 varsity.
Irish fans knew that they were in for a point-making year when the team opened against Franklin on the local court, because with only seconds gone, Capt. Fran Curran had hit on one of his set shot specialties giving the varsity points No. 1 and 2 on the road to 1573.
86 ... 80 ... 70 .. . the team raced on. The Butler game after the holidays gave the Irish point No. 500; after 13 games the average was still above 70. On the road at Butler, they topped 1000 in the 15th game of the year; it had taken the ’44-45 team 17 games to hit this total. Then after the decapitation of DePaul. SO-4-5, the total was 1221 and only 21 points were needed for a new alltime record.
At Buffalo, Canisius was tough and the score at halftime was 20-20; the Irish had tied the record. Just after the second half tip-off, Curran potted the record breaker, another of his two-handed set shots. This was the 19th game and with five games left, it was only a question of how high the total would be. In the last home appearance, Frank Kaufmann's free throw made it an even 1-500, and on the road at Milwaukee the final total was hit.
The 1944-45 team was a high scoring lot, however, since they reached their total in 20 games, only one more than the present group needed to break the record. The statistics of both teams are
EUFFALO CLUB PRESENTS MOST VALUABLE PLAYER AWARD—The Buffalo Campus Club of Notre Dame voted to Francis Curran, captain of the '46-47 Notre Dame basketball squad, the Most Valuable Player Trophy. The award was presented at Buffalo, New York during halftime of the Canisius-Notre Dame game on February 22nd. This initial award of the most valuable player of the basketball team will be an annual affair with a new trophy presented each year. The selection of the player to be so honored was made by members of the club, and will be so selected in the future. The award is called "The Buffalo Memorial Trophy," given in honor of all Notre Dame students and alumni who lost their lives in World War II. This year's presentation was made by President Jack Shine (left in photo) and Lou G. Streer, chairman of the trip.
quite similar, although the post-war boys had a little edge. Coach Krause's five had a 20-4 record, won all nine home games, scored 1573 points for an average of 65.5. Coach Crowe’s team won 15, lost 5, won also the same number of home games, and slipped in 1241 points for a 62.05 average. At home, the averages were 76.33 for Capt. Fran Curran's crew, and 72.9 for the five who honored 1 ince Boryla as captain. Defensively, the earlier team had the best figures, a 48.0 average against a 51.07.
The record previous to 1944-4-5 was 1073 (by the----- team), and in reaching the new record of 1241, Crowe’s team hit 91 points against Loras for an all time record. They surpassed 80 two other times, and 70 on three other occasions. Only once were they held below 40, that being a 44-32 loss to Purdue. The Krausemen, however, failed to hit 90 (top score was a 87-61 win over Marquette), but they topped the 80 mark six times, one of these was aii 81-40 win at Detroit, this being an all time record for a road game. Six times they also passed the 70 mark, and like the earlier (Continued on Page 32.)
25
Basketball Recapitulation 1946-47
Player	Pos	G	FG	FGA	AV	FT	FTA	AV	PF	TP
John Brennan			C	24	114	341	.334	61	109	.560	88	289
Frannie Curran 		F	24	96	271	.354	47	72	.653	57	239
Kevin O'Shea 		G	22	91	261	.349	28	57	.491	40	210
Leo Barnhorst 		C-G	24	88	280	.313	29	62	.468	71	205
John Kelly 		F	22	69	189	.365	28	48	.583	29	166
Jim O’Halloran 		F	21	41	106	.387	14	27	.519	32	96
George Ratterman		F	17	36	132	279	11	21	.524	21	83
Paul Gordon 		G	19	29	115	252	15	30	.500	46	73
Carl Loyd 		F-G	19	21	89	236	2	9	222	4	44
John Foley 		C	17	14	56	250	14	24	.583	16	42
George Connor 		G-C	16	15	33	.455	10	25	.400	19	40
Dick Kluck 		F	14	8	30	267	5	• 7	.714	12	21
Joe Sobek 		F	7	6	19	.316	5	8	.625	8	17
Frank Kaufmann 		G	16	5	27	.185	5	6	.833	17	ft
John Hiller 		G	11	6	26	.231	0	3	.000	8	12
John Goonen 		F	8	2	5	.400	4	6	.667	6	8
Charles Wolf		F	6	3	12	250	2	3	.667	5	8
Jim Kennedy 		F	1	0	1	.000	3	3	1.000	0	3
Jim Fritsch 		F	2	1	5	200	0	0	.000	1	2
Pat Schmid 		G	2	0	1	.000.	0	0	.000	1	0
John Lujack		G	2	0	1	.000	0	0	.000	1	0
Notre Dame Totals		24	645	2000	.323	283	520	.544	482	1573
Opponent Totals ...		24	460	1769	260	306	534	.573	403 -	1226
Kev to Abbreviations: Pos—Position; G—Games; FG—Field Goals; FGA—Field Goals Attempted; AV—Average of Field Goals Made; FT—Free Throws; FTA—Free Throws Attempted; AV—Average of Free Throws Made; PF—Personal Fouls; TP—Total Points Made.
1946-47 NOTRE DAME SEASON RECORD: Won 20; Lost 4
Dec	4	Notre Dame 86, Franklin 	38	Jan. 28	Notre Dame 87, Marquette	61
Dec	7	Notre Dame 80, Ball State	31	Feb. 1	Notre Dame 30, Kentucky 	60
Dec	9	Notre Dame 70, Indiana 	60	Feb 3	Notre Dame 73, Butler	60
Dec	14	Notre Dame 49, Wisconsin	53*	Feb. 8	Notre Dame 70, Michigan State	54
Dec 21		Notre Dame 59, Drake 	56	Feb. H	Notre Dame 52, Northwestern 		44
Dec 27		Notre Dame 66, Dartmouth 	55	Feb. 17	Notre Dame 80, De Paul	.45
Jan.	3	Notre Dame 48, St. Louis 	.46	Feb. 22	Notre Dame 45, Canisius 	39
Jan.	7	Notre Dame 86, Butler	40 '	Feb. 24	Notre Dame 64, New York U. 	60
Jan.	11	Notre Dame 56, Purdue 	60	Feb 28	Notre Dame 50, De Paul 	61
Jan.	14	Notre Dame 74, Michigan State	56	Mar 1	Notre Dame 55, Northwestern	53
Jan.	18	Notre Dame 81, Detroit 	40	Mar 5	Notre Dame 65, St. Louis	43
Jan. 25		Notre Dame 74, Purdue 	43	Mar 8	Notre Dame 73, Marquette	68
MONOGRAM WINNERS**
* Overtime.
Barnhorst, Leo	Sophomore
Brennan, John	Freshman
Curran, Francis (Captain)	Junior
Foley, John P.	Freshman
Gordon, Paul	Sophomore
Kelly, John	Senior
Loyd, Carl	Sophomore
O’Halloran, James	Sophomore
O'Shea, Kevin	Freshman
Ratterman, George Kennard, George A. (Manager)	Junior
Indianapolis, Ind. Bedford, Indiana Sterling, Illinois Worcester, Mass. Baltimore, Md. Utica, New York South Bend, Ind. Chicago, Illinois . . San Francisco, Calif. Cincinnati, Ohio Ann Arbor, Michigan
** Subject to the approval of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics.
26
I
at Mcm AM&l Ga.
Kan Heusen
White Shirts
$450
Beautiful white Van Heusen Shirts in Oxford cloth or Broadcloth in your favorite collar styles—Button down and wide spread.
ON THE CORNER...MICHIGAN 4 WASHINGTON
27
8 Champions Crowned In Colorful Finals Of Bengal Bouts Last Monday Night
One of the most colorful of sporting events in the collegiate world—Notre Dame’s Bengal Bouts—rose to a roaring climax this week. Five thousand thrillseeking fans jammed the Irish fieldhouse to capacity in traditional celebration of St. Patrick’s Day as seven new champions and one defending champ were crowned to bring down the curtain on the 16th annual campus boxing championships.
And the followers of the “Saint of the Shamrock” were not disappointed. Sullivan, Conley, Brennan, J., Brennan, T., and Fallon climbed through the ropes with the golden crown resting solidly on
Douqlai Shod
W. L. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO. BROCKTON IS. MASS.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
The TRUE award to Kevin O'Shea.
their Irish brows, followed by three more adopted sons of Erin, Debitetto, Klocken-kemper and Roemer.
Jim Sullivan of Worcester, Mass., won a unanimous decision from Dick Greenwall of Morganfield, Ky., for the 125-pound title in the opening bout of the evening. Sullivan used a strong left to advantage throughout the bout, mixing in an occasional right hand to baffle his opponent.
Frank Debitetto of Brooklyn staged a third round comeback to snare the 130 pound championship from Tom King of Concord, N. H., on a split decision. After* an even first heat, King stunned his op
ponent with a flurry of blows, but the Brooklyn puncher was able to regain his composure toward the end of the round to win the third frame and the crown.
Mike Conley of Boston, Mass., used a powerful left to take the 135-pound crown from Russ Van Keuren of Rockford, Ill. It was Conley all the way, and he gained a unanimous decision.
Jim Kleckenkemper, of Batchtown, Ill., deciphered Walt Evans’ uncanny right to defeat the Waukegan, Ill., welterweight on a unanimous decision.
Jim Brennan of Milwaukee floored Jim Driscoll, of Pittsburgh, twice in the second round and went on to win the decision in the 155-pound class. Driscoll rallied in the third frame, but was unable to overcome the early lead.
Brother Terry Brennan gained an unpopular split decision from Jim Carroll of Long Beach, Calif.
In the top match of the evening, Bill Roemer, of South Bend, exploded a pair of lefts on the jaw of Dick Cotter, of Austin, Minn. The first left floored Cotter at 2:55 of the first round. The second cooled him at 1:23 of the second.
Ted Budyenkiewicz, of Chicopee, Mass, and Jack Fallon, of Alton, Ill., both former heavyweight titlists, clinched and flailed in the .heralded final bout, with Fallon getting the best of it, namely a decision, which enabled him to retain his 1946 crown.
The Rev. Lawrence Graner, C.S.C., Bishop-elect of Dacca, India, gave a short acknowledgement of his gratitude to the Knights of Columbus in a speech delivered during the intermission. His address was preceded by four bouts between Dogpatch youngsters.
Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, and honorary referee of the finals, presented the Sportsmanship Trophy to Gus Cifelli, of Philadelphia, prior to the last match.
28
Baseball Squad Cut to 75: Material Good
By DAVE WARNER
With his squad trimmed to 75 candidates and plans tentatively set for an Easter week’s engagement of games in St. Louis, Coach Jake Kline and his baseballers await only the friendly, warm nod from Old Man Weather to plant their itchy feet on Cartier Field sod. The boys are getting a little annoyed ducking those balls which ricochet off the fieldhouse walls. With the aid of Paul Lammers, Chicago Cub property and last season a pitcher with Davenport, Kline continues to do the ebst he can, despite the limitations of space, to sharpen batting and pitching eyes.
However, he need not moan about any material shortage; his task will be a problem of deciding upon the best combination. The leading prospects for each position follow:
CATCHERS: Jim Presley, “Wicks” Sheehan, Tom Coccitti, Dick Maher, Bill DioGuardi, John Rattay.
FIRST BASE: Tom McHale, Jim McGurk. “Seeds” Petrzelka, Jerry Bona.
SECOND BASE: “Red” Carlin, Bob Cianchetti, Ben Kozlik, Tom Mulvey, Joe Judge.
SHORT STOP: George Schneider, Emil Garofola, Bill Wallace, Chuck Spo-sato.
THIRD BASE: Gene Lavery, “Huck” Klein, Bob Michado, Frank Ciszczon.
OUTFIELD: Frank Paries, “Jumbo” Mayo, Buster Hiller, Neil Kelly, Steve Pavella, Dan Kristiekaitos.
PITCHERS:Dick Smullen. Walt Ma-hannah, John Creevey, Jack Campbell, Dick Kluck, Bill Sherman, John Hill-bricht, Bob Judy, John Dragavitch, Ray Spoon, Bill Finch, Maury Mahon.
In addition to the above candidates, basketbailers Kev O’Shea, Joe Sobek and Carl Loyd are candidates for infield berths, but their respective positions are not known. Publication of the schedule is pending the approval of the faculty board in control of athletics.
Women Smarter Than Men Is No. I Debate Topic
Men arguing that women are more intelligent, and women arguing that they’re not seems to be the favorite topic of debate these days.
Once again Notre Dame’s debate squad will throw verbal blows on the question,
this time against a girl’s team from Mundelein College. The contest will take place April 14 .
The Irish debaters recently completed an unorthodox “mail” debate with a female team from Wichita (Kans.) University on the same question, namely: “Resolved: Women are more intelligent than men.” Professor Leonard Sommer, debate coach, has been plagued with pro and con letters as a result of this debate.
At any rate, it should prove interesting to see girls arguing that they’re not intelligent, while the boys vehemently claim that they are, when in reality, both teams think that they’re wrong.
IATEST ITUNES
Irish Linkmen Face Bright Prospects
By JIM HOWARD
With six returning monogram men, the prospects for this year’s golf team are especially bright, according to golf coach, Father George Holderith. The Irish linkmen have a total of eight matches and two tourneys, beginning with Wisconsin, here, April 19th.
Captain of the golf squad this season is Everhart Schleck. a member of last year’s team which dropped only one (Continued on Page 32.)
Heartaches—Jimmy Dorsey Anniversary Song—Kate Smith Managua Nicaragua—Guy Lumbardo Among My Souvenirs—Bing Crosby Movie Tonight—Johnny Mercer
Copp's Music Shop
122-124 E. Wayne St.
29
SplitdeAA pUMtt, the. Pte&i Bax
 By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
Dr. Grabow
Coach Ed Krause, who returned to Notre Dame last year, picked up the Irish coaching reins and guided the 194647 Notre Dame basketball team to one of the most successful seasons in the history of the sport at the University with a record of 20 victories and only four defeats.
The Irish quintet, losing only to powerful Kentucky, Big Nine champion Wisconsin, Purdue and DePaul, set a new season scoring record of 1,573 points during the twenty-four games. The old team mark of 1,241 points was chalked up by the 1944-45 aggregation under the direction of Clem Crowe.
In registering a new scoring mark, the Notre Dame team scored eighty or more points in six games and seventy or more in six other tilts. The high scoring spree of the season for Coach Krause’s high-geared quintet was an 87 to 61 Avin over Marquette on January 28th. The Irish five was held to a sea. son low on February 1st when Kentucky chalked up a 60 to 30 victory.
The 1946-47 Notre Dame team also extended the winning streak of Irish basketball teams on the Notre Dame court to thirty-three straight victories. A Notre Dame basketball team has not been defeated at home since December 4,1943, when Western Michigan trimmed the Irish, 46 to 42.
Only two teams, Kentucky and Wisconsin, registered victories over the Irish this season whom the Krausemen did not defeat in return games.
and
other leading Pipe brands
visit
ruwner’s
All Opponent Team .. .
Two members of the powerful Kentucky Wildcats predominated the AllOpponent team named by the Notre Dame basketball team at the conclusion of the season. The two Kentucky eagers named by the Irish five are Center Alex Groza and Guard Ralph Beard. At the other positions the Notre Dame players named Ralph Hamilton, of Indiana, and Gene Berce, of Marquette, at forwards, and Sid Tannenbaum, of New York University at the other guard position.
❖
Monogram Winners ...	-
Ten members of this year’s squad have been recommended for monograms to the
Faculty Board in Control of Athletics at Notre Dame, according to Coach Krause.
Those men recommended by Coach Krause include: Leo Barnhorst, Indianapolis, Ind.; John Brennan, Bedford, Ind.; Francis Curran, Sterling, Ill.; John Foley, Worcester, Mass.; Paul Gordon Baltimore, Md.; John Kelly, Utica, N. Y.; Cari Loyd, South Bend, Ind.; James O’Halloran, Chicago, Ill.; Kevin O’Shea, San Francisco, Calif.; and George Ratterman, Cincinnati, 0. George Kennard, student manager of basketball from Ann Arbor, Mich., was also recommended to the board.	'
In order to be eligible for a basketball monogram, a player must have played at least 200 minutes unless, of course, the coach believes that he deserves it on other merits.
Slivers From Here 'N There . . .
Jim O’Halloran’s flashy play at forward caught the eye of Coach Krause about mid-season. From then on, Jim saw plenty of action and ended the season in sixth spot on the scoring parade with 96 points . . . John Brennan led the scoring with 289 points and he still has three more years of eligibility. As the season got under way, George Connor became a prominent member of the team. He was injured in the first DePaul game but finished out the season. As soon as spring football practice is over, George expects to undergo a minor operation to remedy the injury . . . Frannie Curran became a pop during the season . . . Our vote for the player showing the most improvement as the season progressed goes to Leo Barnhorst, who began the season at center, was switched to guard, and played brilliantly on both offense and defense. . . Kevin O’Shea is probably the best basketball player that we have ever had the pleasure of watching. He belongs in the same class as Bob Faught, Eddie Riska, etc. . . Although John Kelly didn’t score as many points as the rest of the regulars, his field-goal-attempts average of .365 led the monogram winners.
♦
Informational Repeat.. .
Notre Dame was invited to both the National Invitational Tourney at Madison Square Garden in New York City and the National Collegiate Athletic Association Basketball Tournament. The
30
Board in Control of Athletics turned down both invitations.
❖
Thanks io Ray Donovan . . .
Ray Donovan, assistant to Mr. John V. Hinkel, Director of the Department
Ray Donovan
of Public Information, and basketball publicity man here at Notre Dame, gave yours truly and the sports staff of the
Scholastic full cooperation throughout the season and particularly during the past week so that this basketball issue would be a success. Thanks again, Ray!
No. 2 Team . , .
Since mid-season Notre Dame’s basketball team has been rated a Number-Two spot in the country with Kentucky leading throughout the season. The only chance the Irish had to avenge Kentucky’s 60-30 drubbing was at the New York Tournament so the Krausemen will have to be satisfied with second place. On second thought, it might be just as well.
Track Team Travels to Purdue Relays
Notre Dame spikesters will fan throughout Indiana tomorrow, the varsity squad going to Lafayette for the Purdue Relays, and the B team traveling to Culver for an exhibition meet. The Irish may prove stronger than expected with star hurdler John Smith back in shape again. N.D. will enter relay teams and a few individuals in the numerous events on the program.
The local cindermen failed to take one first in last Saturday’s Illinois Tech Re
lays. Bill Leonard and the distance medley team came close, losing to Indiana by a scant three yards. Third place in the University two-mile relay was taken by the Irish; a fifth in the University sprint medley also added to the local cause.
George Sullivan placed fifth in the shot put for Notre Dame, and glitteringlegged Lou Tracy took fifth in the University one-mile run.
Loyola Medical Faculty Member to Speak Here
As a supplement to the course on Christian Marriage taught here, Dr. Herbert Ratner will lecture in Washington Hall on Wednesday evening, at 8 p. m. The subject of Dr. Ratner’s talk is: “A Doctor Looks at Marriage.”
Dr. Ratner is a member of the faculty of medicine at Loyola University in Chicago. He has given many lectures in Chicago and vicinity on the subject of marriage. His talks have met with such enthusiastic acclaim that it has been decided to open his Wednesday lecture to all interested faculty members and students. The wives of students are also welcome.
This lecture is sponsored by the University Lecture Series.
JOAN CRAWFORD
Star of "HUMORESQUE" A Warner Bros. Picture
'i.
r -“V--
The New. AU New
New Iked! New Teste!
New Freshwss!
Made by the revolutionary new “903” moisturizing process. Beneficial moisture penetrates every tobacco leaf—gives you a smoother, . milder, better smoke! Get new Raleigh “903” Cigarettes today.
(WEIGH
p/^pqsitive!*^*
issstHCou^,
903

31
GOLF TEAM PROSPECTS
(Continued from Page 29.)
match and tied another. Northwestern took a close contest from Notre Dame, and Wisconsin tied the Irish to mar an otherwise perfect record. John Fitzpatrick, a member of the Collegiate championship team of 1944 will be one of the sturdy supports of the turfmen. While in service, he won the Occupational Open at Kanwana, Japan, setting a course record of 67. He also took part in the All Pacific contest in Honolulu. Other returning veterans are Jim Eesenf elder, George Stuhr, Richard Seidel, and Tom Dore.
Several newcomers will make the com-petion for team berths a terrific battle. Ray Burian, who also played in the All Pacific and Occupational Open and was city champ of Joliet, Ill., will be a strong contender for scoring honors. Another Joliet City champ, Paul Hudak, will add to the strength of the team. Hudak’s father is the Pro at the Peoria Country Club, so he got his golfing ability right
curoo^
• Replaceable filter in new Frank Medico Cigarette Holden, filters the smoke.	-
• Cuts down nicotine.
• Cuts down irritating tars.
• In zephyrweight aluminum.
• Special styles for men and women.
• $2 with 10 filten, handy pouch and gift box.
S M FRANK 4 CO.. INC. NEW YORK 22
at home. Bob Moskal from Bridgeport, Michigan, will also be an asset to the squad.
Jack Quinn, Tom Conley, William Breen, and Tom Hanlon are other promising newcomers. Adding to the overall potential power of this year’s team are Vic Chartrand, Mauri White, and Jim Erickson. With so many newcomers, the team should be strong for the next several seasons. Practice will get under way as soon as the weather and condition of the course permit.
The schedule for the season after the opener with the Badgers is:
April 7—Kentucky and Louisville at Louisville.
April 26—Purdue, here.
May 3—Michigan State, here.
May 5—Michigan, there.
May 10—Northwestern, there.
May 12—Marquette, there.
May 15—Detroit, here.
May 19—Minnesota, here.
May 24—Indiana State Tourney here.
June (date not set) N.C.A.A. Tourney at Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Theology Subject of Talk By Father Arnault, Mar. 24
Father Leo Arnault, O.P., will speak on Monday night, March 24th, at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium. Father Arnault will talk on the “Sanctification of the Mind.” He will explain especially those intellectual virtues common to students of all departments. A discussion will follow the lecture.
. . . on "Sanctification of the Mind"
Father Arnault is now Professor of Theology at St. Mary’s. He has also taught in the Dominican Studium Generale in Washington and at DePaul University. Father Arnault studied for three years at the Angelicum in Rome.
The lecture, which is open to the pub
lic, is sponsored by the Graduate Students Association. Faculty members are invited with their wives and friends.
ND and Rosary Combine Glee Clubs At Chicago
The glee clubs of Notre Dame and Rosary College combined in concert last Sunday afternoon in the Grand Ballroom of Chicago’s Hotel Stevens. The unusually good program opened with the combined clubs singing Mendelssohn’s “Hear My Prayer” directed by Notre Dame’s Mr. Daniel Pedtke, and concluded with both groups singing Sebelius’ “Onward Ye Peoples” directed by Mr. Gregory Konold of Rosary College. The intermittent numbers were sung by the two clubs separately.
On the previous day the N. D. Glee club alone presented another concert at St. Angela Academy G.A.A. in Morris, Illinois. The following morning they sang at Mass in a church in Aurora, Ill.
This Sunday the group will travel to Fort Wayne, where they will again perform. The “trip of the year,” however, will be during the Easter vacation, when the “nationally acclaimed” club will make a ten-concert tour of Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, and Connecticut.	—TOM MURRAY.
NEW SCORING RECORD
(Continued from Page 25.) team, the 46-47 team was held below 40 once, the stunning 60-30 downfall at Louisville. The ’44-45 team had also the widest margin of victory, the 61 point win (89-28) over Kellog Field, and were beaten by Iowa by 17 points. The present day Irish breezed by Ball State by 49 points, 80-31, and lost to Kentucky by 30.
A five game winning streak was the best the 1944-45 team could do, while this year’s team put one of six together before being upset by DePaul. This year’s team played 16 different teams, and the earlier team played 15. Eight of the teams played were the same as in 1944-45. In the 1944 season four close games were played, three of these were 1-point affairs and the other a 2-pointer. The 46-47 eagers won two 2-point games, one 3-point game, and lost by four in an overtime. There were nine letter winners on this year’s team and the 44-45 team had only seven.
There is the story of two top-ranking Notre Dame teams. Curran, Kelly, Brennan, Barnhorst, O’Shea and Co. were the top point getters, 1573 points in 965 minutes or 1.63 points per minute. The record book has been rewritten; the Fighting Irish of 1946-47 were the highest scorers in the history of Notre Dame.
32
Villagers to Salute N.D. Basketball Squad
The Noti’e Dame Villagers club’s annual salute to the Irish basketball squad —the civic testimonial banquet for the players and coaches—will be ready for its 17th showing on Tuesday, April 1, at the Indiana club in South Bend.
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University and chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, will be an added starter on the speakers’ roster for the banquet. Father Murphy will represent the administration, and also, of course, the Faculty board. He will share the principal speaker’s spot with Adolph Rupp, colorful hardwood headman at the University of Kentucky, the nation’s No. 1 cage crew.
Others at the speakers’ table will include Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Rector of Farley Hall and chaplain of the Villagers, who will give the invocation; Mayor F. Kenneth Dempsey, of South Bend, who will extend the civic welcome; Joe Boland, former star athlete and coach at Notre Dame and now sports director of Station WSBT, representing the Notre Dame Club of the S’t. Joseph Valley, parent organization of the Villagers, and Fred Tansey, Villagers’ prexy, who will introduce Toastmaster
William F. Fox. jr., sports editor of the Indianapolis News. During the intermission, the “What Four” quartet, third-prize winners in last semester’s K. C. vaudeville show, will entertain.
Several awards are to be presented at the banquet by Jim Costin, proprietor of the sports desk of the South Bend Tribune. Mr. Costin will award gold basketballs to Capt. Frannie Curran; John Kelly (the only senior member of the squad); Coaches Ed (Moose) Krause and Tom Brennan; Trainer Hugh Burns, and Senior Manager of Basketball, George A. Kennard. At the same time, Kevin O’Shea will receive the True Magazine trophy in recognition of having been named to that publication’s AllAmerica team by the basketball winters and coaches whose votes determine the choices.
Two of Indiana’s best known coaches will complete the oratorical lineup. Paul D. (Tony) Hinkle, basketball and football coach and athletic director at Butler University, Indianapolis, has long been one of the most popular and able coaches in the sports world and is a particular friend of Notre Dame. Johnny Wooden, looking back on his first season in the big time as coach of the up-and-coming Indiana State Sycamores out of Terre Haute, will be greeted here by many of his South Bend friends who remember
him as the brilliant three-time basketball All-American of Purdue and as the brilliant basketball mentor of South Bend Central High during that school’s domination of the basketball scene in northern Indiana for so many years.
Radio Station WHOT, South Bend’s sport station will air a portion of the banquet, probably the talks by Father Murphy and Coach Rupp.
Tickets are on sale in town at Gilbert’s, Reco’s, Bruggner’s, McGann Securities, Goodyear service station, and Station WHOT. and are priced at $3. Students who want to attend may arrange to do so by seeing any Villager. Student tickets are $2.50, and a number will go on sale at the cafeteria Monday.
Those on committees for the dinner honoring the No. 2 court squad are: Tom Hynes, general chainnan; Bill Sheehan, tickets; Jim Miller, program chairman; Joe Hickey, speakers; Art Clark, awards, and Jack Miles, publicity.
JUGGLER plans another edition in the latter part of the semester, and welcomes any student writing—short fiction, poetry, articles, essays. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 326 Sorin Hall.

PARKER-WINTERROWD, alert to all the special needs in styling and high quality, offers to “Notre Dame” men fabrics especially suited for college wear and after graduation.
We specialize in making beautiful lounge and university models from a very complete showing of flannels, gabardines, coverts, shetlands, etc.
OUR ADLER-ROCHESTER ready-to-wear suits, top coats, and slacks arriving daily.
PARKER -WINTERROWD, Inc.
II51/2-I I7i/2 North Main St.	Phone 3-6118	North of the Oliver Hotel
33
REVIEW and COMMENT
By JIM LARRICK
Diamond Tiaras
Something of the flavor of America from the opening days of the century through World War I has been resurrected in Victor’s Heritage Series. The days of the carriage and the elegant parties, the glittering diamond horseshoe at the old Met, the first families who made firstnights as a matter of pride and tradition, are all captured in these re-recordings of Caruso, Alda, Journet. Tetrazzini and Ancona.
Headquarters
for
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
They have been perpetuated on RCA Victor “Red Seal,” De Luxe Records at $3.68 apiece. This seems, and is, quite a price for a single record, but they are magnificently re-recorded on plastic. Scratch is at a minimum and the voices are produced fully, clearly and with little distortion.
Caruso sings, Rachel, Quand Du Seigneur (Halevy’s “La Juive”), Je Suis Seul and Ah! Fuyez, Douce Image (from Massenet’s “Manon”). Record No. 15-1004.
Alda sings Salce, Salce (from Verdi’s “Otello”) and Ave Maria (from Verdi’s “Otello”). Record No. 15-1000.
Tetrazzini sings Voe Che Sapete (Mozart, “Marriage of Figaro”) and Io Son Titania (Thomas, “Mignon”). Record No. 15-1001.
Journet sings Piff! Piff! (Meyerbeer, “Les Huguenots” and Au Bruit Lourd Marteaux (Gounod “Philemon et Baucis”). Record No. 15-1003.
So, if you want to hear why your mother and father look dreamy-eyed when they speak of the old days, listen to these records. They are magnificent examples of the old masters who sang in spite of starched, choking collars and stiff whalebone.
❖
Do We Get What We Pay For?
The price of records since the war is sky-high. Of course, there is undoubtedly a lot in what the record companies say about the scarcity of materials, but that is hardly an excuse for charging 79c for a record you used to pay 35c for. Neither are the recordings of any better structural quality, and often as not the musical quality is just the same, if not worse, as in the days before the War.
In fact, the best recordings are being
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Let the Buyer Be Sure!
Whether it’s a pure wool plaid in warm colors or a cool short-sleeved oxford, you can always be sure of highest quality in an Arrow sports shirt.
The proud guarantee of the Arrow label is your assurance of the best in sports shirts and sport knits.
To be sure — buy Arrow!
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER . . . MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
—ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS-.
34
Ifs Adler’s for ARROWS
«m COMBI... MKIMNI f MMMM
- ARROW has a sports shirt to cover all isothermic variations.
March can mean a good day for skiing at Dartmouth or Minnesota or a sunny round of golf at Georgia or U.C.L.A.
But whether it be stormy or torrid you can find a handsome Arrow sports shirt to keep you at just the right temperature.
Most Arrow sports shirts are washable, too!
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES i
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
made abroad, usually in England, for American companies who then issue them here in this country. For instance the Decca Company is pressing some superb recordings called the London - Decca (hard to get in South Bend) which are by far the best appearing, at least on shellac records.
There are several shops throughout the country who import master-dies and print the records under their own emblem. The Gramaphone Shop of New York is one fine example, and their prices usually aren’t any higher than much touted and highly - advertised American recorded and made discs. At any rate, they’re better records than our companies are putting on plastic and selling for sky-high prices.
So one thing can be said, for the recordings you get in musical value, we are currently paying more than the record is worth. Perhaps the entrance of M-G-M and other financially powerful concerns into the field will force prices down; perhaps new methods of recording (wire, steel and paper tape, etc.), will help bring records down in price or up in musical quality. It’s a rosy day in the distance when decent recordings can be bought for a decent price.
N.D. Glee Club Sings At Indianapolis School
Under the auspices of the Bernadette Forum, the University Glee Club, directed by Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, F.A.G.O., presented a concert in Cathedral High school, Indianapolis. The versatile choristers gave such a varied program that it included songs ranging all the way from grand opera to popular music.
The soloists included Lawrence Madigan, Nolan Sheehan, Roy O’Neil, John Owen, and Tom “Tootoo” Devine, all of whom were well received. As an encore to one of his numbers, Roy O’Neil sang “Beholden,” by Glee Club member Ed Cashman, from the hit musical, Meet the Missus. In addition to the vocal renditions, the Glee Club accompanist, William Hall Gibbons, gave a piano recital during the intermission.
The local Knights of Columbus gave the songsters a party, and the CYO girls held a dance for them.
The “nationally acclaimed” N.D. Glee Club also gave a concert in Benton Harbor, Michigan, recently, and will combine with the Rosary College Glee Club this Sunday in a joint concert in Chicago.—Tom Murray
35
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3.)
more open mind. Had columnist O'Connor substituted the ivord “Poles” for “Jews” would he have been condemned as anti-Polish?
—Editor.
SIR:
Touche, James Cunningham, reformer.
Your refutation of my defense of the Chicago “Tribune” policy is inconsistent. The “sick, unnatural system” to which you refer has made America the benevolent father of the world. Of course, in our defense of God given rights in World Ware I and II the system failed. Men moved by ideals alone spanned thousands of miles of ocean, breached impregnable fortresses and subdued highly mechanized armies empty handed. Beautiful cities with skyscrapers, mammoth industry with jobs for millions and an unparalelled standard of living might be unimportant to some people, but are just part of the system. I suspect socialist tendencies would motivate formation of a new system.
Granting certain abuses exist under
For 25 per cent Discount on all Garments Cleaned and Pressed
Bring this Coupon in exchange for your Student Identification Card to
BERT CLEANERS AND DYERS
222 W. WASHINGTON 3-HOUR SERVICE PHONE 3-5488
— PRESSING WHILE YOU WAIT —
EVERY NIGHT IS NOTRE DAME NIGHT
at
CLEMENTS GRILL 514 East LaSalle
STEAKS — CHOPS ;
SPECIAL LENTEN DISHES ON WEDNESDAYS AND FRIDAYS
the system due to the tactics of some unscrupulous men, wouldn’t defects exist under any system, especially one designed for free men who exercise their free will? The remedies lie with the lawmakers.
The policy of the Chicago “Tribune” is not that bold as to establish the system as perfect. The paper’s policy merely represents a profile in resenting abuses of a system already proven successful.
To attribute exigencies of war and personal faults of men to the whole system is unjust and easily refutable. You could hardly expect a system that supports the world to do complete justice at home.
It’s to be conceded that New Idealism remedied some defects in capitalism. It was easily accomplished by. .wealth accumulated by the system and used in deficit financing to manufacture an artificial economy which the system will bear in the end.
Mr. Cunningham, you must be psychic to arrive at the conclusion that Colonel McCormick is attempting to control Chicago. Perhaps the statement is based on a personal revelation. They tell me, however, that the Colonel sometimes jests.
—DONALD T. EDWARDS.
319 W. Madison, South Bend, Indiana, March 17, 1947.
Sir:
The Chicago Tribune may be vulnerable to attack on many real points, but Jim Cunningham (Letters, March 14) is simply using a fertile imagination when he says, “the Chicago Tribune is so lacking in intellectual honesty that it recently dropped a daily straw vote feature because the Chicago mayoralty candidate it supports was losing.”
I have attached a clipping from the March 16 Sunday Tribune, Part 1, Page 6 which would seem to indicate that intellectual dishonesty is not practised by the Tribune. This story on the straw poll by Arthur Evans and the accompanying tabulation of that poll show a comfortable lead for Kennelly who is not the Tribune candidate but instead belongs to the well-known Chicago Democratic machine. It would seem that (contrary to Mr. Cunningham’s information) the straw poll continues.
WILLIAM REA GWINN
UNIVERSAL ND NIGHT
(Continued from Page 9.)
Ford, the gent who runs the local eatery, has consented to serve up a fancy meal on the 14th.- Throwing custom to the traditional winds, the management has contacted Phil Foote’s Orchestra to play dinner music in the East wing of the Dining Hall, while Bill Cullen’s Orchestra will do their tooting in the West wing.
You’d think that that would just about fill the bill, but it doesn’t. Also on the menu at the Drill Hall will be Mr. Pedt-ke and his Glee Club; Mr. H. Lee Hope and his bandsmen; Mr. James Armstrong of the Notre Dame Alumni Association; Gene Moore and his quartet; and finally the What 4 Foursome.
Really the big surprise is that the whole show is gratis. All the sponsors ask is the investment of a few hours of your snare time in what looks like a deal as solid as the rock of Gibraltar.
Of course, any extravaganza of this size relies on good, out front thinking. General chairman of the hoopla is Jack Dempsey of Philadelphia, Pa., who is being assisted by such campus notables as Jim. Masterson, Jack Simons, and Jack Galloway, the designer of this year's K of C. vaudeville. The Philadelphia Club the Washington (D. C.) Club, the Rebe Club, the Anthracite Club, and the New Jersey Club have pooled their resources and talent to make the program a success. Also deserving of a big hand aie Father Barry, student activities coordin ator, and Father Archibald McDowell Radio Club moderator.
36
LAETARE MEDALIST
(Continued from Page 9.)
United States and through these contributions to the moral stability of the nation.”
Son of a ship’s carpenter, Mr. Bruce was born at Milwaukee on March 17, 1856. He was educated in the public schools and by private instruction. In 1877 he joined the staff of the Milwaukee Daily News, and in 1881 became assistant business manager of the Milwaukee Sentinel, a position he held for eleven years. Meanwhile, his interest in education had been aroused by his appointment to the Milwaukee School Board.
Mr. Bruce entered the publishing field in 1891 by founding the “American
School Board Journal” on a total capital of $600. In 1914 he founded the “Industrial Arts Magazine,” a professional magazine dealing with industrial arts and vocational education. He founded “Hospital Progress,” official journal of the Catholic Hospital Association, in 1919, and ten years later his firm acquired “The Catholic School Journal.” Each of these publications has been successful.
Mr. Bruce’s company started to print books in 1920, and since then has published nearly 800 titles, including textbooks, novels, religious literature and biographies. Since 1929 the Bruce company has specialized in Catholic books and now is regarded as one of the lead
ing Catholic publishing houses in the world.
CAMPUS CLUB NEWS
The ROCHESTER Club elected delegates to the NSO convention last Wednesday evening. Ray Quinn, Dick Corcoran, and Joe Flood are laying plans for the club’s annual golf tournament. . . . The ROCKY MOUNTAIN Club elected their NSO delegates last Monday evening . . . The VILLAGERS’ Club announces that there are still plenty of tickets left for their Testimonial Dinner honoring this year’s Irish squad next Monday night . . . Club secretaries should mail or bring their club news to 245 Zahm Hall.
5
HOME
fares.
these
venient—and look at
GREYHOUND
11.80
10.75
13.95
3.20
10.75
4.20
Bound Trip $19.45 21J25 19.35 25.15 5.80 19.35 7.60
133 S. Lafayette Blvd. Phone 3-8283
9. TULSA, OKLA...
10. OMAHA _____
11. NEW ORLEANS.
12. MUSKEGON___
13. SIOUX CITY-
14. SPRINGFIELD, ILL.
One
Way
8. ALBANY, N. Y._ $10.80
Chances are there’s a Greyhound leaving right after your last class. It’s the smart, pleasant way—comfortable, congenial, con-fun-stretching, fund-saving
DISTANCE
BETWEEN TWO POINTS
CAMPUS
More Convenience • More Enjoyment • Less Cost
FOR YOUR TRIP HOME
One Way 1. CHICAGO	$ 1.40		Round Trip $ .2.55 5.95
2. DETROIT		3.30	
3. BENTON HARBOR	1.15	2.00
4. MILWAUKEE		275	4.95
5. LOS ANGELES...	37.95	64.30
6. NEW YORK		12.95	21.80
7. ST. LOUIS		5.20	9.40
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
37

Have you thought.. . that Easter is almost here?
By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
EASTER CARDS
Notre Dame Jewelry Gifts
74e Bookstore
Badin Hall
After Louis Budenz’s exhortation two weeks ago, we walked out of the drill hall enthralled. We shied at red neckties. We anxiously awaited the time when Budenz would speak in Moscow, Idaho. Undoubtedly the citizenry would knock themselves out changing the name of the town to St. Petersburg. We began to think that perhaps Our Sunday Visitor was right after all; and perhaps that anti-Communist paper published by the St. Louis Knights of Columbus wasn’t the scurrilous rag we thought it was.
Then came Wednesday and the President’s talk, and we weren’t so sure that we wanted a crusade against Russia after all. We began to think a little about atom bombs and draft boards, particularly the latter, and our faith in the Ave Maria dropped ten points. Thursday night we heard the “America Town Meeting” broadcast discuss the Russo-Greek situation. We hated to admit it even to ourselves ( you see, we had read the letters to the editor of Jim Cunningham and Martin M. McLaughlin concerning PM) but we thought Max Lerner’s (chief editorial writer of PM) statement that “until the United States tried the UN, and the UN failed to solve the question, the United States had no moral right to act unilaterally” was an extremely intelligent opinion. Friday we read in the paper that the Vatican wanted no war against Russia, wanted no war at all. We breathed more easily, we knew that in spite of the apostolic fervor of Mr. Budenz’s lecture we had no religious obligation to shoot Russians.
❖
One of the lesser puzzles of collegiate life is why, oh why, does the Bookstore devote half of its toothbrush display rack to dental plate brushes? All the Notre Dame men we know leave their teeth in at night.
<•»
Life had an interesting article last week devoted to new coin-operated machines. You can now shine your shoes or test your IQ by putting a dime in the -slot. This undoubtedly has some profound social significance but we can’t think of it at the moment so we will let it go. We did wonder though, if perhaps someone might be working on a new “do not tilt” machine to replace that corps of suave, industrious young
dining hall executives. (The ones we see curled in the windows every morning, reading the Trib.)
We-have-a-s p o r t-for-everyone-Dept. Signs on the bulletin boards: “Bengal Bouts work-out daily at the Rock” and next to it: “Ping-pong tourney, those wishing to enter, sign below.”
Those interested in a mah-jong tournament can contact us in care of the Scholastic.
❖
While spearing" an hors d’ ouevre in the dining hall this week, we couldn’t help but overhear the conversation of some gentlemen on the subject of the mode, “The Jolson Story.” They were condemning it, basing their condemnation solely on the fact that Jolson is a Jew. If some students are going to judge people and peoples, dictators to halfbacks on the basis of their religion, we wonder what they would do if the University began to discriminate against students on the basis of their home towns? Same difference, same thinking.
Catholic Press Offers Prizes for Short Stories
Notre Dame students who are interested in writing may find an outlet for their talent in the short-story contest sponsored by the Catholic Press Association of Davenport, Iowa. Any Catholic writer may submit as many manuscripts as he pleases. The competition closes at midnight, March 31, 1947.
Stories must not impugn faith or morals, but religious themes are not essential. Manuscripts must not exceed 4,000 words, be typewritten, double-spaced, on sheets 8% x 11 inches, and accompanied with a self-addressed stamped envelope. The name and address of the entrant must also appear in the upper left-hand corner of the manuscript.
Although the entries become the prop erty of the Catholic Press Association the association will not publish them, and writers may publish their entries where and at what price they choose whether these entries win prizes in the contest or not.
The prizes given are as follows: 1st, $150; 2nd, $125; 3rd, $100; 4th, $75; 5th, $50.	—Joe Herrington
38
To Start Liturgical Program This Summer
From registration on June 17 and 18 to the final examinations on August 13, the University of Notre Dame Summer School will offer its first liturgical program. This program will be twofold, academic and practical.
The academic features of the program will be three courses of five class hours each week, leading to three semester credit hours in each course, under the usual conditions, in the undergraduate Departments of Religion and Music.
Course I is a series of lectures on the History of the Sacred Liturgy according to the Latin Rite from Christian antiquity up to and including the modern liturgical movement. These lectures will be given by Dom Thomas Aquinas Michels, O.S.B., Ph.D., of St. Paul’s Priory, Keyport, New Jersey. Dr. Michels not only participated in liturgical research at Maria Laach, Germany, prior to his coming to America, but also occupied the Chair of Early Christian History at the University of Salzburg, Austria.
Course II comprises five lectures each week on some important topic in liturgy.
These lectures will be given by lecturers of national repute as follows.
June 19 and 20: Dom Godfrey Diekman, O.S.B., S.T.D., editor of “Orate Frat res.” Collegeville, Minn. Subject: “The Christian Way of Life—The Sacramental Way.”
June 23-25: Willis Dwight Nutting. Ph.D.. Associate Professor of History. University of Notre Dame. Subject: “A Layman Looks at Liturgy."
June 26-July 3: Rev. H. A. Reinhold, Pastor of St. Joseph’s Church. Sunnyside, Washington, author and frequent contributor to liturgical reviews. Subject: "Liturgical Places—Churches and Cemeteries.”
July 7-10: Very Rev. Msgr. R. Hillenbrand, S.T.D., Pastor of Sacred Heart Church, Hubbard Woods, Ill., a leader in both the liturgical movement and Catholic action. Subject: “Place of Liturgy in Catholic Action.”
July 11-17: Rev. Bernard Laukemper, Pastor of St. Aloysius Church, Chicago, a leader by word and deed in the liturgical movement and treasurer of the Liturgical Conference. Subject: “Sta-tional Churches and Lenten Masses.”
July 18-24: Dom Bede Scholz, O.S.B., editor of “Altar and Home." Conception Abbey. Conception. Mo. Subject: “The Ecclesiastical Year.”
July 25-31: Dom Damasus Winzen, O.S.B.. Ph.D., St. Paul's Priory, Keyport, New Jersey, editor of “Pathways in Holy Scripture.” Subject: “The Scriptural Background of the Ecclesiastical Year.”
August 1-8: Rev. Gerald Ellard. S.J.. Ph.D.. Professor of Liturgy at St. Mary’s College House of Theological Studies, and author of books on liturgy. Subject: ‘Aims and Objects of the Liturgical Movement."
Course III, including five hours weekly in the theory and practice of Plain Chant, will be conducted by Dom Edmund Kestel, O.S.B., Professor of Plain Chant at Conception Abbey, and under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, B. Mus., F.A.G.O., head of the Department of Music at Notre Dame.
The practical side of the program is woven into the order of the day by liturgical functions, such as the Missa Cantata, the recitation of the Divine Office, together with explanations in the light of the Liturgical Lesson of the day. This part of the course is under the direction of Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., 9.T. D., who has spent many years in the scholarly study of the Liturgy and in the spread of knowledge to the laity regarding matteres liturgical. This part of the course may be participated in by any student on the campus interested in the Liturgy, even though he is neither registered in the course, nor auditing the fonnal lectures.
According to Father R. G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., Acting Head of the Department of Religion, Course I will be accepted by the department as an elective, and Course II will be accepted for credit as the regular major course in Liturgy.
39
YOUR STUDENT COUNCIL
i I
!
1
(This article is the second in a series dealbig with the Student Council).
The Student Council functions officially through the director' of Students’ Activities who is a member of the Administrative board of the university. The Student Council committees submit their reports to him for approval by the administration.
Suggestions from the Students to the authorities should channel up to the committees through the hall representative. These suggestions will be taken up as new business and will be reported upon each week by the Committees until the matter is settled.
Typical of the suggestions are the following:
1.	The telephones on campus are insufficient to handle conveniently the volume of calls. A letter was forwarded to the telephone company and in reply the Council was ’ informed that there had been excessive abuse of the equipment already installed and because of the continuing shortage of materials the telephone company did not deem it advisable to do more than put all of the installations back into good repair.
2.	The prices in the cafeteria were unreasonably high. A committee was appointed to investigate, and its report was published showing the thoroughness of its work. This matter is still active and forms an integral part of the committee’s work now in investigating the Dining Hall management.
There exists on campus little actual knowledge of the position of the Council in the University Administration. The Council was created by the Administration foi" the use of students, not to govern the students because that is the province of the university authorities, but to inform the Administration so that it may more justly govern the student body. Whatever powers the Council has, are delegated to it by the Administration, not by the students who vote them in. This in contro-distinction to the voting the people do in state and federal elections.
In answer to many of the criticisms of the Council, these simple facts are given: That the authorities do not oppress the students in requiring observance of its regulations; that neither do they curtail the powers of the Council
whom they have placed in existence to help them help the student. This column is endeavoring to present the facts so that the student will not unjustly criticize those who are trying to aid him. Justified criticism, however, is well-taken.
Thus, a student who has a suggestion, grievance, or criticism should petition the Council through his hall representative. This procedure is being made more simple by the prepartion of “form complaints” that will be made available shortly.
Again the student is reminded that the Council wants to hear from every student who wants to speak, but for the sake of order, requests that the student follow an effective procedure.
STUDENT COUNCIL. PUBLICITY COMMITTEE.
Notre Dame to Resume Retreats In August
The Laymen’s Retreat movement, which has attracted thousands of business and professional men to the University of Notre Dame for three day periods of special spiritual exercises, will be resumed at Notre Dame this summer from August 21 to 24, it was announced Tuesday by Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C., Director of Retreats at Notre Dame.
The practice of an annual week-end retreat was inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1918 and the spiritual conclaves have become extremely populai- among Catholic businessmen of the nation. For three days the participants withdraw entirely from worldly affairs, live the routine life of a Notre Dame student with religious conferences taking the place of classwork. The annual retreats have not been held since 1942 due to transportation difficulties during the war years.
N.D. Clubs Present Quiz At St. Mary's Academy
At a recent assembly program at St. Mary’s Academy, South Bend, the University Inter-American Affairs and La Raza Clubs presented a quiz match on inter-American affairs.
Each club had a team which answered questions asked by the other team and from members of the audience. The questions were grouped under various specified topics relative to inter-American affairs, such as history and current
BOOKMEN'S CLUB ORGANIZES
The Bookmen's Club will accept a limited number of members. Anyone interested should drop a postcard to Box 21. Notre Dame, or John Hart, Cavanaugh Hall.
The Bookmen is one oi the oldest campus clubs at Notre Dame. Membership is limited to fifteen members.
events, races and social classes, economics and finance, etc.
With the questions counting one point each, the Inter-American Affairs Club team came out on top by a score of 25 to 20. The winning team was composed of Tom Poole, Robert Poisson, and Her-milo Gloria, while the opposition included Sebastian Company, Ramiro Samaniego, and Rogelio Castiello.
Headquarters
for
ne	|
BILBERTS i
I ! 813-817 S. Michigan Street ;
40
You’re the man most likely to
Succeed
You’re head and shoulders above the crowd when you appear in a Van Heusen Sport Shirt. Van Heusen Sport Shirt collars are styled and tailored to look right, fit right, with or without a tie— keep you trim and comfortable wherever you go. Magic sewmanship and laboratoiy-tested fabrics give you tops in rugged wear. Tailored in bright colors and patterns, to fit and flatter your torso! Graduate to Van Heusen today! Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N.Y.
...in Van Heusen sport shirts
Made by the makers of Van Heusen Shirts, Ties, Pajamas, Collars, Sport Shirts
Ifs Adler s for VAN HEUSEN
M TK COMO.... MKHI6M f MSHN6VM
Professor Kent Writes Finance Textbook
Four important fundamental problems of finance are emphasized in a new textbook, “Money and Banking,” written by Dr. Raymond P. Kent, Associate Professor of Finance at Notre Dame.
“Money and Banking,” a general textbook designed for undergraduate courses, contains separate groups of chapters on money, commercial banking structure, commercial bank operations, central banking, the value of money, monetary policy, international payment, and miscellaneous banking institutions.
Dr. Kent started work upon his new textbook shortly after coming to Notre Dame in the fall of 1938. Before joining the Notre Dame staff, the new author taught courses in economics, accounting and political science at St. Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa. His undergraduate training was obtained at the University of Pittsburgh where he received his bachelor’s degree in 1931. He obtained the Master of Arts degree at Pittsburgh in 1934 and the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at the same institution in 1938.
Parochial Schools Save Taxpayers Millions Yearly
American Catholics are saving taxpayers at least §400,000,000 annually by paying for the education of nearly 3,000,000 students in Catholic schools and colleges in the United States, according to the results of a study, released this week by the Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien, Professor of Religion at the University of Notre Dame.
“Much of the newspaper discussion concerning the recent decision of the U. S. Supreme Court upholding a New Jersey law permitting pupils attending parochial schools to ride in public buses,” Dr. O’Brien said, “was singularly off the beam. It conveyed the totally erroneous impression that Catholics are in some way adding to the burden of taxpayers through the operation of their system of schools.”
“The exact opposite is the case. The burden of erecting, maintaining and operating Catholic schools is borne solely and exclusively by Catholics. After paying their share for the erection and operation of public schools, Catholics go down into their pockets a second time and out of their hard-earned wages pay for schools wherein the truths of Christian religion and morality can be daily taught to all who wish to attend. The Supreme Court decision extended no funds for the operation of’such'schools but concerned itself solely with-the application of public welfare legislation to pupils riding to non-profit schools.”
41
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1914
Jan. 24: Franz Wagner’s celebrated cello was the cause of great distress in Washington Hall last night. ... Feb. 7: Saturday afternoon the Irish took a high scoring victory from Penn, 917 to 915. The rifle team looks sharp this year. . . . Feb. 14: N.D. bakers have reached an all time production high — 3,000 buns daily. . . . Mar. 7: Knute Rockne got the jump on everybody here Friday. He broke the Notre Dame pole vaulting record with a tremendous leap of 12 feet 4 inches. . . . Mar. 21: St. Patrick’s day was again celebrated by upper classmen with the old tradition of ducking Freshmen in the lake. No one was drowned
NAME YOUR SPORT . . .
SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue	Phone 3-3702
PHONE 3-0678 for Reservations
this year. . . . May 30: After trouncing Army and Navy, the baseball team was stopped 13 to 10 by tiny Beloit. . . . Oct. 17: Our football squad managed to squeeze by Rose Poly 103 to 0. . . . Oct. 31: The new Post Office is open and ready for business.
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT The Missing Links
Last year an official survey revealed that many of the golfers on the student golf course -were students. This ridiculous situation will surely become a problem again this year with the arrival of warm weather. As a remedy, why don’t they begin work on a new library where
to ^bine.
— and traditionally a good place to meet the gang for delicious
Italian and American Food.
our golf course now stands. Everybody knows our library facilities are inadequate, besides . . .
—Don Lee
No Reflection, of Course
Then there’s the story of the two N.D. law students who were arrested for jaywalking in South Bend. I guess it all goes to prove that ignorance of the law is no excuse.—Mac, 316 Zahm.
Local Pet Peeves
The would-be Vaughn Monroe’s and Al Jolson’s who roam the corridors, infest the shower rooms and make friends with my roommate.
—Long John of Cav. Heights
The campus martyrs who give up whale meat and watermelon for Lent.
—Sack-in Sammy, Lyons
After showering, to be left stranded, bathrobe-clad in the windy hall, while my roommate has thoughtlessly locked our door and gone to chow. Those are usually the nights when he chooses to eat two desserts, buy the newspaper and make a long-distance call home.
—Morrissey’s Matt
Parting Dialogue
First: “Hey, what are you packing for?” Second: “Oh, I got out of a taxi at the wrong circle.”
—George Witteried, Farley
"The Fool Hath Said—"
What man could look into his watch and say: “These wheels have fallen here by lucky chance: How strange that they should measure out the day And accurately mark each hour’s advance!” Would he not know some keen intelligence Had wisely planned this intricate design. And would he not through native common sense A well-determined purpose there divine?
And yet to look upon this universe.
To see it measure off the day and night. To watch the seasons change and heaven disperse The sun and rain that makes the harvest white, And to deny a Master Mind that rules Marks us before mankind as arrant fools.
—T.E.B.
Compliments to a great N.D. basket ball team that lived up to the name “Fighting Irish,” in every sense of thi word.
♦
Send or deliver contributions to TH: STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall. ,
42
lOOtk Anniversary of the Birth of Alexander Graham Bell • March 3, 1947
He gave the world a new voice
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL by Moffett. 1918.
Alexander Graham Bell was a teacher of the deaf. He was also a trained scientist who made it possible for millions upon millions of people to - hear each other by telephone.
. The telephone brought something into the world that had not been there before.
For the first time people were able to talk to each other even though separated by long distances.
Horizons broadened. A new indus
try was born, destined to employ hundreds of thousands of men and women and be of service to everyone in the land.
Alexander Graham Bell was a great humanitarian, not only as a teacher of the deaf, but in his vision of the benefits the telephone could bring to mankind.
BelFs vision has come true. It keeps on being an essential part of this nation-wide public service.
43
OF OUR LIVES X
ORESSEOiNTHENEWCHESTERHEtP PRINT
IT
/
k-Vsifiv Chesterfield isby far the ferrite of Hollywood Stars
ALWAYS MILDER

BETTER TASTING
COOLER SMOKING
ALWAYS
>OESTERFIELI>
RIGHT COMBINATION WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS• PROPERLY AGED
Copyright 1947, Liggett & Myem Tosacco Co.