I
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victuruss vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 7, 1882.
Number 17.
Our Staff.
W. B. McGorrisk.	J. P. O’Neill.
G. E. Clarke.	R. E. Fleming.
W. H. Arnold.	E. C. Orrick.
T. F. Clarke.	M. F. Healy.
Free Trade vs. Protection.
Affirmatively Argued.
BY WM H. ARNOLD.
For what avail the plow or sail. If land, or life, or freedom fail? —Emerson.
Tariff is defined as a schedule of duties payable to the Government on imported goods. Its object is twofold: for the purpose of revenue, and protection of home industries against foreign competition. The subject which I will treat is Free Trade vs. Protective Tariff in the United States. That the system of Protection is not what its advocates claim for it, but opposed to the best interests of the country at large, and the laboring class in particular, is what I shall endeavor to show.
The word “tariff” is derived from the name of a small town, Tariffa, on the Straits of Gibraltar, from which pirate Mussulmans sailed out to meet passing vessels, and demanded of them a part of their cargoes before they would allow them to pass on their way in safety. In a like manner the robber barons of the Rhine, in mediieval times, from their castle strongholds, whose picturesque ruins bedecked with poetic fable are now the delight of travellers, sallied forth to prey upon traffic and extort enormous tolls. These demands, made without a shadow of right or justice, were nothing less than piracy, since they took that for which they gave no equivalent, with no authority save that of might and force. Tnis is simply what the system of protective tariff is to-day; and we still recognize in the custom-house officer who boards our vessel at New York, and other ports of entry, the ancient cruiser of Tariffa, or the fierce robber chief of the Rhine, with the difference Ahat the first is the officer of a Government noted for its love of liberty and justice, while the others had but their piratical greed to gratify. It is thus dishonest in principle, because it takes from the importer without giving an equivalent in return.
Our forefathers, knowing the power of wealth and that it would be used for selfish purposes to encourage monopoly by oppressing the weak, in framing the Constitution of the United States—that noblest embodiment of political wisdom—prescribed in the 1st Article, Sec. 8, that Congress shall have power to lay duties and imposts only to pay the debts and provide for the general welfare of the United States; hence it is clear that revenue tariff alone is permitted by the Constitution, and that protection is absolutely unconstitutional. While numerous decisions of the Supreme Court might be brought forward to prove that this has always been held and still is held’by that infallible interpreter of the Constitution, I will cite but one decision of the Supreme Court, recorded in 20th Wallace, pp. 663-5, in which the court ruled that “taxation for any
other purpose than public revenue is unconstitutional, and inconsistent with the principles of free government.” Mr. Justice Miller read the decision of the court, in which it is said: “ To lay with one hand the power of the Government on the property of the citizen, and with the other to bestow it upon favored individuals, to aid private enterprises and build up private fortunes, is not less a robbery because it is done under the form of law and is called taxation. This is not legislation. It is a decree under legislative forms...... Nor is it taxation. There can be no lawful tax which is not laid for a public purpose.” This decision, coming from the highest judicial authority in the land, declaring that this system of licensed spoliation is illegal and unjust, cann'ot but be of great weight in deciding the merits of Protection.
Tariff is unjust, because it discriminates against’ the majority of the people, in favor of a certain class, namely, the manufacturers. That the majority of the people of this country are engaged in agricultural pursuits is shown by the census, and that this large class of citizens are injured by the protective system will be shown by the fact that they are compelled to patronize the home manufacturer and pay him an enormous price for their plows, hoes, shovels, rakes,—in fact, almost everything they use. They are compelled to do this or do without: and are made to pay not only the price of the foreign-made goods, but the tariff duty in addition, which he adds to the price of his goods. The Government says to the farmer: “You shall not trade your barrel of flour for the Englishman’s plow, but you must give the American manufacturer a barrel and a half for his plow, to encourage him to make more, to sell at the same price.” When the farmer complains that the American manufacturer has been protected and encouraged for ten or fifteen years, and it is about time to remove the tariff, “ Oh,” the Government says, “ he cannot compete with foreigners! he will be ruined if they are permitted to compete with him”; and you know the United States must have manufactories at any cost.
Many things which must be either imported or done without, if shut off by high tariff, cause great inconvenience, if not suffering, to the people, either by self-denial or the payment of exorbitant prices. Tariff cannot annihilate importation, but it can burden the people with enormous prices. It is- an indirect tax upon the people, which, if levied directly, would tempt them to revolution. It is unjust, since it raises the prices of goods without raising the wages of labor in proportion. Suppose foreign cloth is worth $2 per yard, and the duty on cloth is 75 per cent., which makes the foreign cloth when introduced $3 50 per, yard well, now, we know that the American manufacturer of cloth, although he has had to pay no duty nor cost of transportation, will raise the price for his merchandise to about $3.50 per yard, and this exhorbitant price must be paid by the people or they must do without cloth. The merhandise has increased 75 per cent, in price. Does ■ the laborer reap the benefit of this? does the manufacturer add the 75 per cent, to the wages of his laborers? Statistics show that the American laborer’s wages are not raised at all in proportion to the prices of the articles he must use, and so he must suffer, while the manufacturer— who. from the eternal fitness of things, is a rich man—adds to his wealth.
The census of 1870 shows that but 3 per cent, of the American people are engaged in the manufacture of cotton, worsted and woolen goods, steel and iron. These indus
248	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tries were protected by a large tariff, and the result was that 97 per cent, of the people had to suffer, that 3 per cent, might get rich. If it were not for the duty on plate glass we could buy it for 45 cents per square foot; now we have to pay §1.12 per square foot, in order to give the American manufacturer a monopoly of the American market. There are but six persons interested in the manufacture of plate glass in the United States, and they produce an inferior article. Thus the shop-keepers and others who need good plate glass are either kept from buying or else oppressed by the price, and all for the benefit of six men. But Protectionists claim that this tax is not for the benefit of these six persons, but benefits all their workingmen. Now, at the highest estimate, their employees do not number more than six hundred men. Is it just to tax thousands of our industrious people for the sake of six hundred men 2 Certainly it would not be just were these six hundred benefited, but they are not. There is absolute free trade in labor. Our manufacturers of plate glass procure their labor whenever they choose, and pay as low wages as possible, yet they are not willing that tbeir fellow-citizens should be allowed to buy plate glass where they can get a much better article at a reasonable price.
Let me give another instance of the extent to which the people suffer in order to encourage manufacturers. In 1875 the duty on blankets was from 85 to 95 per cent., i. e.,20 cents per lb. above the price without the duty. Now the home-made blankets were sold at a little less than the imported. In the same year there, were consumed 70,000,000 lbs. of blankets. Thus we see that the price which the people paid for this necessary article was greater by §14,000,000—f. e., 20 cents per lb. foi 70,000,000 lbs.—than it would have been were it not for the duly. But did these §14,000,000 go to the Government 2 It would appear not. The Treasury reports for that year show that only §8,451.22 were received as dutiy on blankets; hence the people were taxed to the extent of §13,991,54878, to encourage our baby manufacturies of blankets. I have selected blankets from among numerous dutiable articles to instance this oppression, because the injustice of the tax on blankets is apparent to all. The poor, who cannot afford a fire during bleak winter nights, should at least have- a blanket to keep themselves from freezing.
Most of the high tariffs which now burden the people were imposed in 1861, to afford a revenue for carrying on the war. This was a necessary evil then, but now those emergencies do not exist. In a few years the national debt will be wiped out. The Government revenue is now much larger than is necessary. The present Congress will cut down the national revenue, and protectionists are endeavoring to have this done by the abolition of internal revenue, in order that protective tariff may be assured, as it will then be the onlj' revenue of the Government. This is but an instance of the scheming of monopolists through their agents in Congress. But we may be sure that patriotism and the Constitution will triumph, and that the revenue will be decreased by a gradual reduction of protective duties instead of a repeal of the internal revenue, which, being for the most part a tax on luxuries, cannot be called a burden. Moreover, the repeal of the Internal Revenue laws would not at all benefit the masses.
Protection is tyrannical, since it limits our rights to trade where we will, not even allowing us to buy our clothes abroad and bring them home in our trunks free of duty. Protection is unprogressive, and as such opposed to the best interests of our country and of the people. It is clearly demonstrable by the logic of facts that exports and imports mutually depend on each other, and the failure of the one necessitates the failure of the other. The statistics of our own and all other countries amply prove this fact. If high duties limit imports, exports must necessarily be reduced in proportion, because trade is not merely the bartering of the goods of one country for the bullion of another, but an exchange of goods between both. Keeping foieign goods from our market must also decrease foreign demand for ours, and with the falling off in demand abroad would come also the falling off in prices for our goods abroad, and a consequent increase of prices at home to meet the deficiency; hence protective tariff not only decreases our imporls, exports, and prices abroad, but raises our prices at home; for we can only hope foreigners to buy of us so long as they can sell to us, and if their
goods are made so costly by the tariff that we can buy for a trifle less, at home, and save freight, we do not care to buy their goods. The falling off in exports would necessarily cause a glut in our home markets, as the arrest of business, under*the protective tariff of 1824 and 1828 proves, and a consequent falling off in production as well as demand for labor. Thus many should be thrown out of employment, hence an increase of “ tramps,” misery and crime.
High tariff, by limiting our products, enterprise and capital to our own country, cuts off every possibility of increasing the wealth of the country. Home consumption will never increase the wealth of a country. Home consumption causes home capital to change hands, but new wealth in the country must come from abroad.
Protective tariff limits foreign intercourse, without which no nation can thrive; for Roman greatness, as well that of ancient Greece, was due to the fact that their ports were open to the world. Ancient Athens, situated upon the barren peninsula of Attica, ranked among the richest cities in the world, from the fact of its vast commerce, until it was a common saying that the productions which were found singly elsewhere were brought together at Athens. Free trade was the law in Venice and the Netherlands during the periods of their greatest prosperity. Commerce is the only means of keeping us posted in regard to discoveries, inventions, etc.; hence the progress of the other portions of the world; and as free trade fosters commerce, it therefore furthers the progress of the world. Let
“All nations enter with each swelling tide, And seas but join the regions they divide.”
Tariff, being not for the general good, is unwise, as well as opposed to the principles of our Republic. It has a tendency to keep the cities crowded, to the neglect of the rural districts, and the soil wherein lies our chief wealth, and this to the detriment of morals and the promotion of crime. Any country injures itself that pays §1 for an article that can be bought for 50 cts., simply to encourage an industry that never seems to thrive without governmental care.
As necessity is the mother of invention, so also is competition the life.of trade; and as protection prevents competition, protection kills trade, whose life competition is. Protection has the tendency to unsettle the market, rendering prices uncertain and hazardous. The change in price of pig-iron since 1842 affords an example of its tendency to render prices unstable. Tariff on raw material renders the maiket very unstable, since the manufacturer must regulate the price of his goods by the cost of bis raw material. Every intelligent manufacturer wishes to be supplied with raw material as cheaply as his foreign competitor, and it tariff prevents this there is little or no chance of his extending his business abroad.	■
That the doctrine of protection is false and pernicious cannot be denied. It originated in the hostility of England to Holland, and, after a thorough trial of two centuries, has been gladly shaken off by the former, and will be eventually shaken off by all who share in the delusion. Protection in this country originated in the hostility of England to her lately freed colonies. In our colonial days we had been accustomed to ship all our exports to the mother country. When we had gained our independence we returned to our old channel of trade, but England now opposed a barrier in the shape of heavy duties, and seemed resolved to revenge herself bj7 checking our commerce. Thus it was the spirit of retaliation and self-defence which led Hamilton and others to inaugurate protection. But this was not the protective tariff of to-day, and were Hamilton and his associates now alive they would be disgusted with the deformed offspring of their necessity.
Protection robs the consumer to pay the seller, and leaves labor ever dependent on capital, since it takes from the one to add to the other. Industries that cannot live without the milk of protection, after having been fed on it for years, deserve to die, and that is just the trouble with our manufactories: they never get strong enough to compete with the foreigner. Either the doctrine of protection is false, or it is impossible for these “infaut” manufactories to be anything else. Witness ship-building, as an example ; first protected by a tariff, later by a foreign prohi-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
249
bition, and now so low that the United States, as a shipbuilding country, is hardly rateable. As an instance of the injustice of protection: in 1872, the Michigan Central R. R. Co. were laying steel rails at Detroit at the rate of $97 (duty paid in gold) per ton, while the Canada Southern R. R. Co. were laying the same kind of rails within half a mile of them at $70 per ton.
It may not be unjust fora Government to tax importations for the sake of revenue, if there is no better way of raising taxes, but it is certainly unjust to tax in order that a certain class may be subsidized at the expense of the majority of the people. Protective tariff works the poor an especial injustice, for it taxes all consumers without regard to their condition. Once we have fully inaugurated protection there will be no limiting it, till even the farmer might discover reasons why his class should be protected, and thus it would be much harder than now for the poor to obtain bread and meat. It is lawful to impose taxes, but they should come against the rich, or at least be proportionate to condition. Another injustice is the fact that American goods are cheaper abroad than at home; certainly if we can compete with foreigners abroad, we can do so at home, as in the latter case we save the cost of transportation.
According to the dispensations of Divine Providence, some countries possess advantages which others do not. That our country possesses superior advantages is generally conceded, and to think that free trade would injure the utilization of them were perfect folly; no legislation can effect the changing of the decrees of God so that Maine could raise cotton as advantageously to her people as Mississippi, or Louisiana raise wheat as profitably as Indiana. And what is true of States is equally true of nations.
“ Heaven formed each on other to depend, Bids each on other for assistance call, Till one man’s weakness grows the strength of all. Wants, frailties, passions, closer still ally
The common interest or endear the tie.” Pope.
The vital essence of protection is that it considers the people only in the light of sellers, and not buyers as well. It aims to build up what it in reality tears down. If a century of protection has not been sufficient to build up our ship-building trade—and this in spite of the fact that our advantages are equal, if not superior, to those possessed by any country in the world—then surely no better argument of the inefficiency of protection is needed. Protectionists maintain that we cannot compete in ship building because American wages are higher than English, but they well know that protection makes the commodities used by the American laborer very much dearer. One of the true reasons why we'.cannot build ships profitably is because protection has raised the price of steel, iron and copper the material of ocean ships. Our protective laws not only prevent us from building ships, but by refusing the flag and registry to foreign-built ships keep us from owning ships. Thus we are deprived of ships and well-trained seamen, which are so necessary not only in case of war but even now io extend our commerce and protect our interests and citizens abroad.
In 1860, 71 per cent, of American commerce was carried in American bottoms, which figures after thirteen years of protection were reduced in 1873 to 30 per cent., and at this time are even lower, although a prohibition against foreign bottoms is still in effect. It is useless to argue that this is because the United States does not protect her ship-building trade by subsidizing American lines; for statistics, not only for this country but tor others, will not bear out the assertion. Fostering our ship-building trade by a subsidy to the American builder would be a great wrong to , our people. According to the statement of those asking a bounty, in order to be effective it must be equal to the amount of cost of the American-built ship over the cost of , the foreign-built ship. If subsidies are given'to only a few , steamship lines, then subsidy means partiality and gross , injustice. If every American who builds a ship is aided , by a subsidy, this means an enormous tax in order that there may be wherewith to pay these subsidies,—it means that we shall only build ships so long as the subsidy is forthcoming—it means that our ships shall cost one-third more than foreign countries pay for their ships, and it means, furthermore, that all our efforts to increase our ocean
carrying trade by bolstering up our ship-builders with ex: travagant subsidies will inevitably prove futile, and will . never enable us to compete in the carrying trade with foreign vessels which receive no subsidy.
Before iron steamers were introduced; our wooden ' ships did not only our own ocean trade, but also that of Germany and a large part of the world. We all know that iron steamers have taken the place of wooden sailing vessels, and, as I have already shown, in consequence of protective laws which keen us both from building ships and floating under the United States flag foreign-built ships, the decadence of our ocean carrying trade has been rapid. While we have thus been strangling this important medium of our commerce, other countries by adopting a liberal policy have been building up their shippinginterests. Take, for instance, Germany. Prior to the introduction of iron steamers she had no ocean ships, and all her trade was carried by foreign merchantmen, principally by our own. At that lime she began to purchase English steamers, and although she has very little commerce of her own, has found it profitable to buy ships, and do the carrying trade of other countries. Her fleets have steadily increased, and to-day the German flag is seen in all parts of the world. Before she began this wise course, there were no yards in Germany for the construction of iron ships, but ship yards were then opened for the repairing of foreign-bought ships. Now thousands of mechanics, are employed in these yards and iron ships constructed at home. If we had pursued a like policy we should have retained our prestige on the ocean, and kept in employment the numerous seamen who once manned our vessels, brought into the country new wealth, and saved the $120,000,000 which are annually removed from circulation in the United States and paid as freight money to foreigners. The cost of foreign ships would be small when compared with this immense amount paid for freightage, and the procuring ships abroad would not hurt ship builders at home, since they should have more business in repairing than they now have in building ships. As the matter now stands, there are no ocean ship-builders in the United States to be injured. Mr. Roach is the only American who builds iron steamers, and therefore we are now protecting an industry which may almost be said not to exist amongst us. When the Franco Prussian war broke out, German merchants were fearful of French war depredations, and desired to place all their merchant fleets permanently under the United States’ flag. President Grant sent a message to Congress pointing out this magnificent opportunity for re- ■ viving our shipping trade,—as according to our navigation laws, these ships would have to be officered and chiefly manned by Americans. In order to accept this offer, of course it wvs necessary to repeal or suspend the law requiring that all our ships shall be built at home. When the message of the President was received, Congress was about to adjourn, and through the filibustering of a single member in each house, who foolishly imagined that this acquisition of foreign ships might injure our own shipbuilders, the measure was not acted upon.
But let us pass from this evil protection to its never-failing remedy, that system of justice of man to man—the Godlike principle of equal rights and brotherly love—not only to our own countrymen but to our foreign brethren, “ the grand panacea which, like a beneficent medical discovery, will serve to inoculate with the healthy and saving taste for civilization all the nations of the world.” (Cobden.) Let us turn, then, to free trade, the grand solution of the knotty problem.
As free trade is exactly the opposite of protective tariff, its workings and results must necessarily be the reverse; consequently, in the same proportion that the protective tariff is a curse, free trade is a blessing. It promotes and encourages universal trade, disseminating the productions of nations in such a manner as to benefit them all. To the countries of the North it gives the cotton, tea, coffee, spices and fruits of the South, wnich in return receives the Northern cereals.
“ Of seeds and plants, and what will thrive and rise, And what the genius of the soil denies, . This ground with Bacchus, that with Ceres, suits; That other loads the trees with happy fruits;
A fourth, with grass unbidden, decks the ground. Thus Tmolns is with yellow saffron crown’d;
250
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
India black ebon and white iv’ry bears, And soft Idume weeps her od’rous tears. Thus Pontus sends her beaver-stones from far; And naked Spaniards temper steel for war; Epirus, for the Elean Chariot, breeds (In hopes of palms) a race of running steeds. This is the original contract; these the laws Imposed by Nature, and by Nature’s cause.”
Virgil, Georgies, Lib. I, 54-61.
Free trade increases the exports and imports, and with the demand for goods comes also the demand for labor. Thus it gives employment to a greater number of people, who though they may receive lower wages, are more blessed than under tariff, since money’s purchasing-power is increased and gives the workman a greater variety of articles. John Bright says that under free trade in England the wages of skilled mechanics have increased 25 per cent., while hours of labor have been abridged and staple articles of food reduced in price.
That free trade never materially reduces wages is proven by the fact that mechanics and laborers in Great Britain are paid twice as much—some tradesmen even more than twice as much—as those of Germany and Italy, which have high tariff. Under free trade in the last ten years English paupers have decreased 25 per centum. Shrewd lies are so frequently invented by Tories over the water, and harped upon by monopolists of this country, to the effect that England is not flourishing under free trade, that it may not be out of place to quote a few reliable statistics:
Export Trade op Great Britain for the Following Decades of this Century.
From 1809 to 1819.5 428 979 769.
“ 1819 “ 1829... 364,158,419,—decrea=e £ 64,821,350 “	1829 “ 1839...439307,837,—increase * 75,149.418
“	1839	“	1849...554.470,620,—	“ f 115,162,713
“	1849	“	1859.-1,000,613 393,—	“	446,142,783
“	1859	“	1869..1,597,596,701,—	“	596,983,300
“	1869	“	1879..2,180,283,873,—	“	526,817,172
These figures, compiled by Mr. Wm. Hoyle, the eminent statistician of Manchester, England, show ever-increasing prosperity since free trade began to be inaugurated and became the law in Britain. Exports for August, 1881, show an increase of 11 per cent, over the same month of 1880. But do statistics also show a proportionate increase in the wealth of the country ? They certainly do. In the last 40 years—remember free trade became a law in 1846 —the amount of bullion and specie received intolhe country, as the increased wealth of England, have exceeded the value of exports by £40,000,000,—i. e., England is by £40,000,000 wealthier than she was 40 years ago.
These are facts from English statistics; why may not the . same rule apply to America ? Il is also demonstrated by contemporaneous English history that the public morals of the country have improved with its prosperity ever since the free trade was adopted. It was the first of a long series of reforms in English 1 egislation during the past quarter of a century, and was followed by improvement in all kinds of taxation until her revenue is now raised upon the smallest number of articles of luxury and to the relief of the largest number of the people. It has opened the way for growth of the liberal sentiments which have encouraged social, political and religious freedom. The extension of educational facilities, the Irish Church Disestablishment Bill, liberalization of suffrage, are all reforms that never would have been realized, if the power of reform had not asserted itself in the derogation of the injustice of high tariff. Free trade is only withheld by the power of the wealthy monopolies that would be overturned, to the great benefit of the people of this country, were free trade in force.
Hear what Daniel Webster, the great statesman of New England, the manufacturing portion of our country, declared :
“ Commerce is not a gambling among nations for a stake, to be won by some and Jost by others. It has not the tendency necessarily to impoverish one of the parties to it, while it en-
* This increase is dne to the fact that, legislation was gradually being shaped for the adoption of Free Trade.
t This decennial increase and those following are due to free trade, which has been in force since 1846.
riches the other. All parties gain, all parties make profits, all parties grow rich, by the operations of just and liberal commerce; .... its only object being in every stage, to produce that exchange of commodities, between individuals and between nations which shall conduce to the advantage and to the happiness of both. Commerce between nations has he same essential character as commerce between individ-ua’s, or between parts of the same nation. Cannot two individuals make an interchange of commodities, which shall prove beneficial to both, or in which the balance of trade shall be in favor of both ? If not, the tailor and the shoemaker, the farmer and the smith, have hitherto very much misunderstood their own interests. And with regard to the internal trade of a country, in which the same ruie would apply as between nations, do we ever speak of such an intercourse as prejudicial to one side because it is useful to the other? Do we ever hear that because the intercourse between New Tork and Albany is advantageous t ■ one of those places, it must, therefore, be ruinous to the others.” •
That protection is necessary to prevent the destruction of our home manufactories by foreign competition is not true, since at no time when free trade existed in this country did imported goods amount to more than ten per cent., of our home manufactured goods. This is amply proven by the statistics which space will not permit me to quote here, while under free trade’s beneficent influences the home productions increased wonderfully. No country has better facilities for manfacturing than the United States, and few as good. Her immense plains for raising live-stock, for wool, hides, tallow, etc., her vast cotton fields, her large forests, her wonderful mineral resources, are unsurpassed, if indeed equalled, on the face of the globe. Why then can we not compete with foreign countries, not only in the products of the soil but in manufactured goods? The boldness of an assertion to the contrary is simply amazing.
I have shown that our prosperity is greatly hampered by protection. Did space permit, I could produce statistical facts to prove that the prosperity of our country is not due to protection, but has been in spite of it, and is owing to agriculture, the development of natural resources, and the immense number of our immigrants and the new wealth they have brought into the United States.
Englandja free-trade country, is an example, having more wealth in proportion to her size than any other country in the world. France has bad a reciprocal free-trade system since 1860. The benefits of this partially free-trade system are shown by the fact that in fourteen years her revenue (which shows an increase in trade) increased from 9,689,360,000 francs to 13,810.000,000 francs, and she ranks today among the most flourishing nations. Under the reciprocity treaty between the United States and Canada, which lasted ten years, the exchanges increased from $21,691,000 to $84,000,000, and with its repeal or termination, diminished in one year to $57,000,000.
These are simply a few instances where free trade has proved its beneficial effects, but many more might be cited in support of this system, based on justice and progress—whose chief require ment is equal rights to all—a system, the choice of the people who understand it as has been recorded on numerous occasions. The South, the East, the great and growing West and Northwest are alive to its benefits, and “ Vox populi, vox Dei." Free trade has sailed since exchanges between man and man first began, for centuries has battled victoriously with the fallacies of “Protection,” and now with sails unfurled and anchor weighed is about to enter nobly, because conscious of its strength, into the harbor of universal adoption.
We have shown that protection is a curse, because it kills competition, the life of trade. It increases the cost of manufactured goods. It does not increase wages in proportion to prices. It creates fictitious and exaggerated values, it enriches the home manufacturer by robbing the consumer. It drives off foreign production. It restricts the right of purchace. It is unjust, it is unprogressive, it does not operate for the general good; it is not in keeping with the spirit of the Constitution; it is unconstitutional; it benefits only the manufacturers to the detriment of all thejothers;; it is false and ineffective in its claimed results. It aids the rich by robbing the poor, and is opposed to the best interests of our country.
Of free trade we have shown the opposite; for each of the evils mentioned it is an infallible remedy.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
251
“Instead of treasure robbed by ruffian war,— Round social earth to circle fair exchange, And bind the nations in a golden chain.”
Free trade not only benefits nations but individuals alike, particularly the poor; based on principles of justice and brotherly love, it benefits all alike. Scie ntific men who have made a close study of political economy, agree almost unanimously that free trade is the true theory of prosperity to nations; and from the catalogue of the London library out of 77 eminent writers of all nationalities— English, French, German, Italian, Prussian, etc.—on political economy, 75 advocate the cause of free trade. Revenue tariff may at present be tolerated, yet it and all like species are, because tainted with the wrongs of protection, destined to give place to an income tax which will be just and universal in its application. All great reforms have met with opposition from the few who might be injured thereby; steamboats, railroads, and labor-saving machinery were opposed in turn, because they would ruin the stagecoach, sailing-vessel, and because it was feared that laborsaving machinery would throw people out of employment; but the voice of civilization demands progress and perfection, and in the ultimate accession to this demand, which cannot be denied, will come the blessings of free trade, a , fit sister and associate with personal liberty and free speech, the Three Graces of liberty. It was Virginia’s noble son, the illustrious Patrick Henry, who, keeping in mindjhis proverb, “I know of no way of judging of the future but by the past,” said: “Fetter not commerce! Let her be free as the air. She will range the whole creation, and return on the four winds of heaven to bless the land with plenty.”
Exchanges.
—St. Nicholas for January has eighty pages and more than sixty illustrations. Its frontispiece is a beautiful picture by Robert Blum, illustrating a fairy story of the f	Rhineland. There is the conclusion of “The Poor Count’s
Christmas,” Mr. Frank R. Stockton's story, begun in the December number, and a curious tale of Modern Greek Folk-lore, told by Hon. Jeremiah Curtin, and illustrated with spirited pictures by Alfred Brennan. Other short stories are: “ The Cow that Considered,” by Sophie Swett, with illustrations by W. T. Smedley; “The Porter’s Iron Collar,” an anecdote of a gigantic nobleman of Russia, by David Ker, with a fine picture by Nehlig; and a comical story, “Bones and Bow-wows,” written and illustrated by Frank Bellew. Celia Thaxter contributes a fine poem on the great Sir William Napier’s chivalrous conduct towards a peasant child, and Margaret Vandegrift some capital ’	verses on an adventure of “The Clown’s Baby ” in a min-
ing town of the far West. These poems have very striking pictures drawn by Jessie McDermott and R. B Birch. In an article entitled “ How to make Puppets and Puppetshows,” Mr. Daniel C. Beard explains to the boys and girls how they may entertain the family circle, or parties of their companions, with a delightful in door amusement; and besides iurnishing a brisk, dramatized version of “ Puss in Boots ” for representation, he supplies examples of all the puppets, diagrams of the way to produce funny stageeffects _and hints and suggestions how to present the shadow-play. This month’s installments of the two serial stories—“ Donald and Dorothy,” by Mary Mapes Dodge ■	' (the editor of St. Nicholas), and “ The Hoosier School-
boy,” by Edward Eggleston, author of “The Hoosier School-master,”—contain novel scenes, characters, and incidents, and are well illustrated.’ And “A Drummer-boy’s Recollections ” describes, in the most graphic manner, and with the help of three fine illustrations, the terrible experiences of a soldier in the Federal Army in the woods at ChancellorsviHe, and through the first day of the fighting at Gettsyburg. Humorous verses and funny single pictures are given here and there in the number; there is a story of four pages with five pictures for the Very Little Folk; “ Jack-in-the-Pulpit ” discourses with his usual good spirit about matters and things; the “ Letter-box ” contains some special words from the Editor to'the readers, besides the tenth report of the doings of the Agassiz Associations; and the “ Riddle-box ” closes the number with an assortment of puzzles including a curious Maze.
—The Century Magazine (Scribner) for January has a varied and interesting table of contents. The third number of the new series presents, as a frontispiece, a tint-printed engraving, by Cole, of Bonnat’s portrait of Thiers, accompanying a paper of personal recollections of the first President of the French Republic, by E. B. Washburne, late IT. S. Minister at Paris. It is a popular record of stirring events in the establishment and life of the Republic, and acquires especial value from the intimate acquaintance existing between the writer and his subject. Mrs. Mary Hallock Foote’s second paper on Mexico deals with “A Provincial Capital,” viz., Morelia, and particularly with the home-life of the place. The materials for this article and its illustrations were prepared by Mrs. Foote during her recent trip to Mexico. “ The Caverns of Louray,” by Ernest Ingersoll, is the first fully illustrated magazine paper that has appeared on the subterranean wonders of the newly discovered rival to the Mammoth Cave. “ The Revival of Burano Lace” is the subject of record by Catherine Cornaro, with drawings made for this paper by the Misses Montalba and the Princess Louise of England, and an engraving by Closson of a portrait of the beautiful Queen of Italy, patroness of the Burano Laceschool. Specimens of lace work are also given for comparison. “ Who were the Chartists ” ? by W. J. Linton (who was himself a Chartist), is a vigorous account and vindication of the workingmen’s agitation in England, in 1848, with portraits engraved by Mr. Linton of six of the most prominent of the leaders of the movement. Colonel Rockwell’s paper of reminiscences of Garfield, which it was not possible to prepare, as designed, for the December number, appears in the present issue under the caption “ From Mentor to Elberon.” Colonel Rockwell writes in the spirit of warm personal friendship, and deals with General Garfield’s attitude toward-the presidential nomination both before and after it came to him; the canvass and his part in it; the home life at Mentor during that summer ; his forebodings after the election; the preparation of the inaugural; the harassing crowd of office-seekers; the fortitude of the illness, etc. With this paper is given an engraving by Kruell of the Bierstadt artotype portrait, which is thought to supplement the Sarony picture engraved by Cole in the December‘number. The most elaborately illustrated paper of the number is Mrs. Lucy M. Mitchell’s account of “Oriental and Early Greek Sculpture,”—the first of several on Ancient Sculpture. The notable engravings which accompany this paper augur well for the papers to come, which will deal with the richer period of the Phidian age, etc. The Assyrian pieces, such as the “Lion from the Gate of Nimroud ” and “ The Wounded Lioness,” are particularly fine. The unillustrated material is not less interesting in topic. Mrs. Burnett’s “Through One Administration,” besides broadening the plot, gives a glimpse of the evils of the spoils system from behind the scenes. Mr. Howells’s “ Modern Instance ” is, for him, unusually full of action, and shows a wide range of variety in the characters, which will be further enlarged in the January part. “ The Increase of Divorce ” is the subject of an essay by Washington Gladden, which makes exhibit of some startling figures, and will be read with close attention. “ The Legal Aspects of the Mormon Problem ’’ are set forth by Arthur G. Sedgwick, who finds no defect in the law as it now exists, and thinks that the decline of Mormonism will result from disintegration rather than from the passage of additional laws that cannot be enforced. But the existing law should be enforced, and at once. That Mr. Sedgwick’s reasoning is illogical is evident from the fact that Mormonism is rapidly and steadily increasing the number of its adherents in this country. That Mormonism is not, properly speaking, a religious belief, any more than Gui-teau’s pretended inspiration to murder President Garfield, has been proved time and again, and that it is criminal and contrary to all law, human and divine, is undoubted. It should, therefore, be summarily suppressed, by force of arms if necessary, in order to prevent a bloody war when the sect becomes stronger. Foreign Governments say they cannot prevent Mormons from leaving Europe for this country, but the U. S. Government can and should prevent Mormon immigration. The legality of the law against the Mormons was tested in the case of Reynolds us. the U. S. Reynolds, having been found guilty, appealed to the U. S.
(concluded on page 253.)
252
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, January 7, 1882.
—Several items of interest are unavoidably crowded out this week.
—have this week again to leave out many items in order to give place to the report of Mr. W. H. Arnold’s opening speech in the debate, “Free Trade vs. Protection.” We believe that all who read it will agree with us in saying that for a student it is an able production. We hope next week to give Mr. Eugene C. Orrick’s very able speech on the negative side, or in favor of “ Protection.’’ Messrs. Healy and Zahm also spoke so logically and eloquently in favor of their respective sides of the question that we would like to give their speeches, but we fear .it would be too much of one dish, even though it is a good one.
—We know of no church in America more beautifully adorned or richer in the possession of artistic gems than the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame. But there is one painting in particular which, at this season, would mote forcibly attract and fix the attention than all the others: It is a painting of the Virgin and Child. It holds a place on the Gospel side, high above the grand altar. The Infant Jesus rests upon His humble couch of straw, His little arms outstretched and His eyes directed towards His Immaculate Mother, who, with affectionate tenderness, earnestly watches over her holy charge. The face of the Blessed Virgin is indeed beautiful, and the expression most touching; it may truly be counted a master-piece of the artist, Prof. Gregori.
The New Year.
Once more have the solemn toned bell and the merry tinkling chimes rung out the old year and welcomed in the new; once more has the hand of old Father Time turned a new leaf in the book of life, and once more we stand face to face with the trials, the hopes and fears of another year.
For many of us here, at dear old Notre Dime, the past year has been replete with bright hopes and high aspirations; have they been fulfilled? If they have not, now is the time to look back and see wherein lies the fault which caused our disappointments. Now is the time to remedy the defects of the past; now is the hour in which to form strong resolutions and begin anew the contest.
The experience of the past year, like that of all its predecessors, has been to each of us precisely what we in our daily and hourly actions have carved out for ourselves. If we have been faithful in performing the various duties assigned us, if we have been true to ourselves, if we have held in loving and respectful reverence the memory of dear ones at home, and have paid due regard to the instructions and wishes of those charged with our care, then for us the past year cannot fail to have produced an abundant harvest of generous impulses, of earnest thoughts, and of fruitful labor.
If, on the other hand, we have been careless, dilatory, and selfishly unmindful of all things save our own momentary whims and gratifications, there is little doubt that conscience will amply repay us with vivid pictures of our un-worlhiness; a burden, indeed, not to be easily laid aside, and not at all to be desired by even the lightest-hearted among us.
Our own country and the world at large have had reason and opportunity to draw deep lessons of wisdom Irom the many trials that have been presented, in faults committed, from losses endured; and in a general neglect of government to guard against professional politicians and political intriguers, who would seek no higher honor (?) than to become a nation’s assassins. With such and of such we have nothing in common; we relegate them to the'profound obscurity that awaits all nothingness in the future. But for our dear country we hope great things.
“Westward the star of Empire takes its way.”
As she increases in population and prosperity may the spirit which each one of the nation’s children shall imbibe be such as shall lift them high above the tendencies of the present hour, to thoughts more worthy, and to deeds more noble in behalf of themselves and their fellow-men.
The demon of avarice with his withering breath, and the bacchanalian gods, in their reckless revellings, have swept across the hearth-stone of mauy a happy home, and in their train left sorrow and despair. By them haughty heads have been bowed down to earth, loving and trusting hearts of mother and of wife have been crushed, and all the sunlight has been stricken out of life. They have brought upon the young a premature old age, and to old and young alike they have made life a blank a burden and a curse.
With the incoming of the glad new year, ushered in, as it is, by all the expressions of joy and the eclat of which our feeble efforts are capable, another opportunity is given us, is given to all, to nations and to individuals, “ to let the dead past bury the dead past,” and to begin anew. Where reform is needed, whether in the people or in the individual, if the “ axe is not laid to the root ” now,—if the needed reforms and resolutions are not made now, and adhered to,—then farewell all hopes and promises of a happy or ot a glad New Year.
What can prevent each one of us from making and keeping any resolution that will prove of benefit to himself or others? Certainly nothing! We have the same abiliiy.to say “No” twice that we have to say it once, and the same strength and the same ability that enables us to say'it once or twice will enable us to say it a thousand times, yes, say it even till the hour of death. As in words so likewise in actions: He who will resist once can resist forever. Moral courage makes moral worth; neither is gained without a struggle, and it is the struggle that shows forth and makes the man.
We are now fully entered on the New Year; the future lies before us laden with all the choicest blessings which the loving Babe of Bethlehem brought to man on that happy Christmas-tide so many centuries ago, and it rests with us to choose the better part and gain for ourselves a share in those blessings, or to reject the opportunities that may offer and lose the many advantages that a bright hope and an earnest endeavor is ever sure to win.
Nations may rise and fall, Governments become unstable and honey-combed with corrupt legislators and principles, and men may scoff at those earnest truths and unshaken principles in which alone society can rest secure, and on which the family tie rests as upon a rock; but if each one of us will but do his humble share, and “ dare to do right,” dare to be a man, we at least shall have no regrets to suffer, nothing to account for; and surely our surroundings will be none the worse off for our having defied opinions, rejected rumors, and tried to do our share in making those about us better and happier. Men, and women too, are too apt, as a general rule, to form set opinions and to believe all sorts of rumors.
From those two sources, more than all others, spring most of the nonsensical bickerings, and foolish enmities that afflict society in general and individuals in particular. The whole may be summed up in a nut-shell: A set opinion, a flat contradiction, angry words, then bickerings, and finally enmity that may last through life.
Of all times in the year, the present is, undoubtedly, the most auspicious, in which to tear down the structure of old habits and petty foibles and build up the new. It is a season of rejoicing foj- all mankind, and while our eyes sparkle, and tears of gladness spring unbidden from their founts at the great joy of all around us, can we harbor in our hearts the least uncharitable thought against a fellowmortal ? He or she who can, must be hard-hearted indeed;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	253
and if there are any such—and we have our fears—then they would do well to remember, that with the same measure with which they have meted out to others, so shall it also be measured to them, and that perhaps in their darkest and neediest hour, when the heart longs for affection and seeks for rest and comfort.
•Farewell, then, Old Year! -Welcome, happy, glad New Year! may all the ends thou inspirestus with, as thy days glide swiftly by, be just these three—God, Country, Truth.
Local Items.
—The Rev. Father Vagnier, C. S. 0., (formerly of the College -Faculty, but now located near Fort Wayne,) returns many thanks to his friends at Notre Dame and South Bend for their generous contribution to the fair in aid of the little church at Leo, Ind.; especially to Very Rey. Father L'Etourneau, Rev. Father Maher, Bro. Fran-cis'Xavier, Prof. J. F. Edwards, to Mr. John Treanor, Mr. Walls, and Mr. Buysse. The fair, we are glad to hear, was quite a success.	.
—Mr. Clem. Studebaker sent Very Rev. Father General a splendid basket of fruit at New Year’s, and of course— as usual—the Minims came in for the lion’s share of it. ‘What is Father General’s is theirs, and what is theirs is their own. As it is, though, everbody seems to be more than satisfied. Father General was pleased with Mr. Studebaker’s gift, and hopes he may live long to give and receive New Year’s presents. The Minims enjoyed the fruit, and nothing will satisfy them but a return of thanks, through the Scholastic, to both Father General and Mr. Stude-.baker, and they wish them both many happy returns of the New Year. The rMinims are irrepressible, and will have their way. Long hfe to the Minims!
—Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General C. S. C., received the congratulations of the good Religious under his charge as also of the Faculty and students of the University, .which his untiring efforts have brought to such a state of. perfection. All were received very kindly and graciously by him. His remarks to the Faculty were both pleasant and moving, and all were not a little surprised when he announced that in future the honors and compliments of the New Year which have been so eagerly paid to him during the last four decades, will, in future, on the recurrence of each New Year, be paid by all conjointly to Our Blessed Lady, whose statue will ere long be moved from its present resting place to its final destination on the dome of the University. Prof. Stace addressed the Very Rev. gentleman-in'behalf of the Faculty. His remarks were timely -and appropriate. The reply of Very Rev. •Father • General, and the humble estimate of himself as shown in his response, touched all.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list.are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. ’
W. H. Arnold, j. C. Armijo, W. H. Bailey, W. B. Berry, R. Becerra, M. T. Burns, T. Cullen, S. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, ■ E. V. Cheiini, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, G. Clarke, N. .Commerford, F. Dever, A. Dehner, A. Graves, F. W. Gallagher, W.- ;W. Gray, M. F. Healy, M. Henoch, A. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, H. M. Lannon, J. C. Larkin, G. Metz, W.-McCarthy, C. J. McDermott, H. W. Morse, W. B. McGorrisk, J. Nash, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neill, T. O’Rourke, E. U. Orrick, E. A. Otis, F. Paquette, J. P. Peifer, E. J. Ryan, P. Rasche, J. Solon, C. B. Van Duzen, J. E. Walsh, E. D. Yrisarri.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. A. Browne, W. H. Barron, B. B. Baca, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, J. L. Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, G. L. Deschamp, M. Dolan, C. Devoto, J. E. Drendel, C. C. Echlin, N. ;H. Ewing, Ed Fishel, W. E. Freyermuth, R. French, J. M. -Flynn, L. G. Gibert, M. 8. Gooley, J. W. Guthrie, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. ,D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, J. L. Heffernan, J. ‘Halligan, C. C. Kolars, J. Livingston, H. M. Metz, J. 8. McGrath; E. McGrath, F. McPhillips, J. Neeson, J. O’Donnell, B. :Osbora, H.-P. Porter, C. F. Porter, T. C. Ryan, 8. Rosenheim,
J. C. Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, D. C. Smith, E. J. Tappan, A. T. Taggart, A. J. Wendell, M. J. Wilbur, P. J Yrisarri.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
E. P. Nash D. A. Piatt, D. L. McCawley, W. Welch, J. H. Dwenger, Ryan Devereux, T. Norfolk, W. Walsh, T. Ellis, J. L. Rose, J. A Frain J. A. Kelly, A. J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, V. A. Rebori, F. I. Otis, A. J. Otis, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, F. J. Coad, F. S. Whitney, C. D. Brandon, L. J. Young, C. Young, W. M. Masi, P. E. Campau, C. Campau, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, P. S. .Gibson, G. V. Gibson, E. A. Adams, E. A. Thomas, J. S. Beall, F. 8. Scott, C. Quinlan, H. D. Dirksmeyer, A. P. Roberts, L. P. Graham, J. Tong, R. V. Papin, C. Metz, J. S. Chaves, B. B. Powell, G. Price.
(jErc^awyes, continued from page 251.)
Supreme Court, which decided that the Act of Congress was not in conflict with the constitutional guarantee. The following extracts show the ground of the decision:
“The only question which remains is, whether those who make polygamy a part of their religion are excepted from the operation of the statute. If they are, then those who do not make polygamy a part of their religions belief may be found guilty and punished, while those who do, must be aquitted and go free. This would be introducing a new element into criminal law. Laws are made for the government of actions, and while they cannot interfere with mere religious belief and opin- ’ ions, they may with practices. Suppose one believed that human sacrifices were a necessary part of religious worship, would it be seriously contended that the civil Government under which he lived could not interfere to prevent a sacrifice? Or if a wife religiously believed it was her duty to bum herself upon the funeral pile of her dead husband, would it be beyond the power of civil Government to prevent her carrying her belief into practice ? ” “. . . . A criminal intent is generally an element of crime, but every man is presumed to intend the necessary and legitimate consequences of what he knowingly does-Here the accused knew he had been once married, and that ;his first wife was living. He also knew that his second marriage was forbidden by law. When, therefore, he married a second time, he is presumed to have intended to break the law. And the breaking of the law is a crime. Every act necessary to constitute the crime was knowingly done, and the crime was therefore knowingly committed. Ignorance of a fact may sometimes be taken as evidence of a want of criminal intent, but not ignorance of the law. The only defense of the accused in this case is his belief that the Jaw ought not to have been enacted. It matters not that his belief was a part of his professed religion ; it was still belief and belief only.”	’
John Burroughs contributes a comparison of “English ' and American Song Birds,” a brief paper suggested by the Duke of Argyle’s comments on American songsters. “ Old Madame,” a short story by Harriet Prescott Spofford, deals with the decay of a stately French-American family of the last century. W. 0. Wilkinson contributes a poem on Webster, entitled “The Farmer of Marshfield,” and there are other poetic contributions by-Celia Thaxter, T. H. Robertson, William Young, Minnie Irving, and Robert U. Johnson. In “ Topics of the Time ” there are papers on the Spoils System (“ New Patches on an Old Garment,” and “ Garfield on Civil Service Reform ”), besides “ Communism in the Book Trade,” “A Forgotten Obligation to the Ministry,” and “ The Good-natured Man.” There is a communication from Mr. Whittier regarding the late Dr. Holland; a reply from James Parton to a review of his “ Voltaire,” with a rejoinder from the writer of the'review; letters concerning the spot where Pocahontas rescued Captain Smith, and the horsemanship of the Prince imperial; reviews of “ American History,” and Books for Children; and eight pieces of minor verse in “ Brie a-Brae.” The World’s Work Department is given over to material about the Atlanta Cotton Exhibition, the result of the writer’s per sonal inspection of the exhibits.
—The editors of the Berkeleyan, a paper from the University of California, have our thanks for publishing a poem on the first page of the current number, which has only a distant allusion to the tender passion. “ Blue eyes,” “ golden hair,” etc., are well enough in their way, but there are other subjects calculated to inspire poetic enthusiasm, and these oughc to re- * ceive occasion! attention, if only for the sake of variety.—Cor-nell Era.
The foregoing remark is to the point. If one were to the matter that occupies a large space of college papers as a criterion by which to judge the editors he would set them down as a set of love-sick swains, and too
254	THE tfOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
m uch absorbed in " the tender passion ” to be fit for study. Athletics would prove a God send to such fellows were it not that they are too intellectual (in their own estimation at least) to indulge in them.
—We have received a card from the editors of The Presbyterian College Journal, Montreal, Canada, requesting an exchange. It is by some oversight that they do not get the Scholastic, as we thought we had made an exception in favor of the Journal and placed it on our exchange list. Exchanges have crowded in so from every quarter of late ihit we must draw the line somewhere, but the Presbyterian College Journal comes within.
Les Minimes.
Our little friends have'been very gay during the Christmas holidays, having more of their number proportionately at Notre Dame than either of the other departments. Their impressions of South Bend, as visited by them twice during Christmas week, are varied and peculiar. Opinion among them seemS to be about equally divided as to whether the Standpipe or Schuyler Colfax is the principal object of admiration to be found there, with perhaps a slight majority in favor of the Standpipe. The new bridge also comes in for a share of commendation, and the general sentiment in regard to it seems to be that if the middle span hadn’t blown down we should now be able to cross the river. A visit to St. Mary’s Academy, on Thursday, was still more appreciated, the cuisine of that admirable institution eliciting the warmest encomiums. Several distinguished Minims, on being interrogated, avowed that their hearts fondly clung to the memories of turkey and cranberry sauce evoked by the mere mention of those hospitable halls. The majestic dimensions of the teapots also seem to have left their impress on the Minim intellect, never to be effaced. Perhaps, in future years, when some Minim hero lies stretched and bleeding on the tented field, a martyr to patriotism, the bright vision of one of those Academy teapots may yet loom up before him, cheering his dying eyes and soothing his last moments with a presentiment that all is not lost,—that the world he is about to leave will still contain something to have made life worth living.
But perhaps the culmination of their festivities was reached on Saturday, when they visited the sylvan regions of the St. Joe Farm. A sense of duty seems to have animated them. The morning was inclement, and flakes of snow were falling. “But what’s the use,” exclaimed a high-souled Minim, “ of talking. The rigs have been engaged ; the Brother is ready; the Sisters are prepared for our visit. In short, we must go!” Master Ryan Devereux reports that such magnanimity was not without its reward. In short, they had a high old time with the calves and things, and the cold weather only served the benign purpose of sharpening their appetites. The groves, both going and coming, were made melodious with their songs; and Brother Simon and the Sisters at the Farm received their heartiest thanks and wishes for future prosperity during the coming year.
The festivities of Monday evening were not unadorned by Minim talent. Master Norfolk laid aside for the nonce that dignity of deportment which has gained for him the sobriquet ot the “Judge,” and delighted the audience with a clog-dance. Master Devereux also gave them “ Young Lochinvar”; and the Minim chorus was a marked feature in the evening’s entertainment.
It must not be supposed, however, that intellectual occupations found no place amid the recreations of the week. The disquisition of Master Tommie Ellis on the propriety of the immediate hanging of Chinamen “ on sight,” as he touchingly expressed it, would be published entire in our columns, only that we fear that the Emperor of China, who is a very sensitive gentleman, might not like it. He,—tha is, the Emperor,—gets an advanced edition of the Scholastic by Pacific cable, and on hearing Master EUis’s views he might become so excited as to order an inmediate and indiscriminate massacre of all American citizens resident in China. This, again, would necessitate our declaring war against China, and as the United States has not any
Navy to speak of, it is problematical how we should ever be able to conduct the war. We trust Master Ellis will see the danger of the too early promulgation of his views. The world, in fact, is not ready for them yet.
Master Rene Papin’s beautiful article on the Minims’ refectory has also been read with much attention. But would it not be liable to excite animadversion on the part of the other departments when they learn the enormous quantity of sugar the Minims have in their coffee, while they—that is, the other dspartments,—“ don’t even get sal t in theirs.” For this reason we abstain from more extended quotations, although duly sensible of the value of Master Papin’s production. Our little friends must continue to afford us the results of their experience.
One Mile TPest of Notre Dame University.
—On Wednesday, the pupils took advantage of the beautiful weather to enjoy, a most delightful walk. On Thursday, they were treated to a pleasant ride.
—On Friday afternoon, Miss Frances Howe, the celebrated writer, entertained the young ladies a with charming description of her visits to the Holy Land, and the re-maikable shrines and pilgrimages of Europe.
—Christmas day was passed most pleasantly in the interchange of greetings, good wishes, and-Christmas gifts. The great number of packages received by the pupils who remained, showed that they were most affectionately remembered by the dear ones at home.
—Regular reunion, Dec. 18lh, Junior department, Readings, Alice Sawyer, From “ A Rhyme of a District School,” by N. E. Perkins; Mina Castanedo, “ Rien n'tst trap beau pour un Soldat Fran^aisP par E. Cossot; Clara Richmond, “The Ring Dove,” Ave Maria; Josephine Spangler, “ Speak Gently to the Erring,” by Julia A Fletcher.
—Christmas eve was spent in lively preparation for the coming Feast. From the least Minim to the tallest Senior all seemed to enter into the spirit of the occasion. Each department and hall was decorated with evergreens and the humble Convent chapol was made to look gracefully festive. The midnight Mass was sung by Father Shortis, the Rev. Chaplain. The pupils all united with the good Sisters in this beautiful midnight tribute of faith and love to the “ Divine Babe of Bethlehem.”
—The instructions of Monday, given in the Chapel of Loreto, by Very Rev. Father General, related to the festival of Christmas and the connection the Feast of St. Stephen bears to that great day.
Said the Very Rev. speaker: “ My dear children; yesterday we commemorated the great revolution which changed the face of the world, but a revolution without the effusion of blood, for the Prince who came is called the Prince of Peace. Yet it was a revolution such as was never known before, for by it the world was renewed. To-day we may count it ag but one day old. Eighteen hundred and eighty-one years ago occurred the great event which destroyed the Old World, and that we may never lose the memory of it, it now dates its existence from that moment. Henceforth the past is forgotten. The Redemption, it is true, is not yet consummated: The Crucifixion, the Resurrection have not yet taken place, but in a few days the first drops of the precious Blood are to be shed, and they will constitute a mortgage, the security of the payment of the debt. To-day we are reminded of the price of our redemption for in the martyr whose feast we commemorate we see the effects.”
Enlarging upon the subject, the dignity of Christian education naturally came up, and the clearest proofs were given why the Christian educator esteems his position as such a sacred trust. The child, the pupil, is no longer regarded, as by the pagan teacher, an intellectual animal,
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	255
but as an immortal soul to be prepared for a sublime and supernatural destiny—a soul which God Himself came to save by His sufferings and death. The tender devotedness of the Christian educator to the pupil is the legitimate result of his regard for him, or her, as the brother, the sister, of the Infant Saviour of the world, etc., etc.
(Selections from “ Rosa Mystica ” and “ St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
Search Deeper.
MISS N. L. GALEN.
“Errors like straws upon the surface flow, He who would seek for pearls, must dive below.”
So says the poet Dryden, and so think we. It is not always safe to judge from externals, except, perhaps, in the case of the flimsy, many-colored soap-bubble which encompasses only so much air.
Hasty judgment is one of the many human errors into which we easily fall. A sparkling, witty conversationalist pleases at once, but in how many cases is the trouble taken to analyze the source of this wit.
Whether it be pure, reverent, and free from a winged poison intended for some fellow-creature, or whether beneath the source of these scintillations the mind be not an opaque flint, capable only, under certain circumstances, of emitting sparks of wit.
Again, there are persons of a deep, dark, and uncommunicative nature who are apparently always engaged in exhuming skeletons; these we immediately pronounce grum, unsociable mortals, and avoid them with the same instinct that leads us to seek sunshine and cheerfulness.
Here, again, we may be very wrong, for, if we take the trouble to examine, we may find these are only timid geniuses, or beautiful butterflies in the ugly caterpillar form. The opinions of others are not always a safe standard, and it is as much an evidence of weakness to accept without question the decisions of others, as it is a mark of pride to place unlimited confidence in our own.
Do not judge a great musician from a realistic point of view: read his life, his character, in the glorious productions of his genius ; feel the tender pathos, the prayerful pleadings, breathing in some of his strains. Look into the heart of an author through the leaves of his book; dig deeper always, and you will probably find that beneath the rough exterior lies a foundation of good humor and common sense of which you had never dreamed.
Delve into nature’s secrets with the* help of Geology. Here are strata of clay and sand, containing all the ingredients of something more durable; underlying these we find layers of dull, grayish limestone, and deeper still, in other places, beds of ugly black carbon.
A fearful convulsion, accompanied by intense heat, takes place. Our strata of clay and sand are metamorphosed into masses of granite, thejimestone becomes the material of the sculptor’s art, and by some mysterious process of crystallization, the carbon assumes new properties of limpid clearness and intense refraction, becoming thus the most precious of gems, the diamond.
Applying this process of digging to the human strata, we find many individuals composed of sand—“ of earth,
earthy ’—others of more durable limestone, and others again of the ugly but useful carbon. To each stratum there comes a convulsion when it is subjected to the intense fire of sorrow: the sand becomes dignified and strengthened into the granite of resignation; the limestone is metamorphosed into a pure marble of unshaken ' faith; the carbon is crystallized and purified by tears, and refracts the light of grace in a thousand hues. Thus we see that it is always better to search deeper. After we have upturned the velvet sward we need not be surprised to find the black earth, and beneath it sand and yellow clay, but searching farther, we are sure to find precious metal, sparkling gems, or if nothing more, at least the pure, cold water of an artesian well.
So, through life, we find that none of God’s creatures are wholly devoid of loveable qualities. Some have hearts of . pure, unchangeable gold, others have dispositions like the precious gems, but nearly all are blessed with artesian wells of human kindness.
The Voices of the Angels.
CHANTING THEIR CHRISTMAS JUBILEE.
’Twas Christmas morn’, the Christ Child born In humble, dreary manger, Was shivering there in wintry air, A poor, rejected stranger.
His Mother strove, with tender love, A mother's care to yield Him;
St. Joseph kept strict watch, nor slept, That he from harm might shield Him. But hark I What sound is floating round This group so weak and lowly?
Look up and see! in jubilee Are crowds of Angels holy, Filling the air with music rare Whose key-note struck on heaven, Makes hearts vibrate, earth undulate As with an impulse given, From heaven ty zones, by angel tones All rapturously singing In ecstacy their jubilee, While joyously they’re bringing To Christ new-born on Christmas morn Their homage grand, celestial;
And as they sing, true peace they bring, To humble hearts terrestrial.
By faith’s clear light, each Christmas night We see this host before us, They seem so near, we plainly hear Their grand, angelic chorus:
“ Glory,” they cry, “ to God on high, To men God’s peace eternal.” From shore to shore, for ever more We’ll keep this Feast supernal. Where’er in state priests consecrate By their God-given power, And Rite Divine the Bread and Wine, In that soul thrilling hour, With ecstasy and jubilee, Our whole angelic choir Shall chant again, our Christmas strain. And human hearts inspire With rapturous love, caught from above, For Jesus meek and lowly, God’s chosen One, pure Mary’s Son Thrice, holy, holy, holy!
256
THE KoTRE I>AJfE SOfiOLASTIC.
The Old Year and the New.
-	-	-	.	4	..	, . t	<*_	: -
The pupils bid, through the pages of “ Rosa Mystica,” a loving, grateful aud pathetic farewell to the dear old year, its joys and benedictions, its sal recollections and holy, re* membrances.	-
We thank all those who have helped to make the past year a year of. blessings to us. .	’	'	'
We sigh as .we recall the memory of opportunities of doing good, neglected, and we shed tender tears as we think of those whose loved voices we shall not hear on earth again, and resolve, that, in future, we will try to remember that naught but kind words and generous deeds done to others, can soothe the sorrow that separation brings. Farewell, .old year! you have filled our hearts with sweet memories. Farewell!
Welcome, new year ! with your bright hopes and buds of promise. Your face is .veiled; you carry your treasures in sealed caskets; you hide your sorrows ’neath the folds of your myterious mmtle; but we accept and welcome you, for you bearjo gsj-he gifts or burdens of God’s sweet Providence. Welcome, new year! we hope great things from you: We hope for a continuance of that peace which the angels brought on Christmas night to “ men of good will.’’ We hope-to see dear-St. Mary’s grpw in mag. nificent proportions.
We hope to see the beautiful chapel rise from its present foundations to graceful heights;-we hope to see the same, dedicated to God by the venerable Bishop of this diocese while the loved founder, Father Superior-General, chants, with majestic tones, thetgrand.ritual. We hope to see all who call St. Mary’s “ home,’’, in the enjoyment of heaven’s choicest bessings, and may those young hearts who call St. Mary’s “ our other, home 7’ grow rich,in; all^the. most precious gifts of nature and of grace. .	.	.
Welcome, welcome ! hopeful, dear new year ! may you bring abundant happiness to all f ’	’ ’ ”'
Roll of ; Honor.	.
BOB POLITENESS, NEATNBSS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.	’
SENIOR ’ DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses E. GalenrL. Tool, S Walsh, A. Dillon, M. Feehan, C. Bland,- M. Campbell, L. Lancaster, A. Nash, EL Nash, A. Rasche, M. Simms,. H._Van Patfen,_K. Wall, J. Barlow, A. Mowryj V. Reilly, ,E. Thompson, K. Fenton, M. Fleming, M. Newton, M. H. Rvan, M. Reutlingen M; Green, M. Mulvey, M. Eldridge. ■2d'2’a&Zet—Misses .-L.rFox, M. A. Ryan, S. Papin, J. Reilly.	-	-	-.	’
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Lancaster, *H.. Ramsey, J. Spangler, 8. Semmes, A. Clark, ,E.‘Considine,” M?Dillon, M. Morgan, M. Paquette, F. Robertson, W. Mosher; P.’Ewing“J. McGrath, M. Coyne, M. Otero, L. Robertson,- M.~ Schmidt, D. jBest, Mary Otis. 2d Tablet—Misses E.,Papin, E. Welch, M.;Wilkins.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’	*
Par excellence—Misses N. Brown.: E.;Rigney, H. Castanedo, J. McGrath, M. Otis, M. Paul. TaMet—S../Campau,- E. Mattis, A. Sawyer, E. Burtis. .	’	‘	'
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HON O KABLY ^MENTIONED
In Music for December. ’	'
. ..SPECIAL COURSE.
Misses E. Galen and A. Gordon. ' •
1st Class—Miss Fend rick’ ’’
2d Div— Misses MTCampbell, M.Wiley.
2d Class—Miss H. Hackett. •;	.
2d Div.—Misses.fC. Bland^M. Beal, C. Donnelly, J. Reilly.
3d Class—Misses'ELtCofyeli;;K. Fenlon,;J. Heneberry, and Maude Price.	4 v ',f	•wkdT
2d Div.—Misses J. Barlow, Maude Casey, K. Fenlon, Emma Chrischellis, L. Fox, L. French, H. Keenan, A. Leydon, Mary Ryan.- •	’
4th Class—Misses Claffey, Dillon, A. McGordon, Ave Price, Ro-itiff and Shicky.
2d Div.—Misses M. Call, L. English, M. Fleming, M. Fishburne, A. Gavan, M. Morgan, A. Rulison, M. Simms, E. Todd, H. Van Patten’.	’
5th Class—Misses Behler, Ducey, Feehan, C. Ginz, K. Lancaster, L. Lancaster, S. McGordon, 8. McKenna, A. Nash, M. H. Ryan, Rentlin ger, EL Ramsey, Rasehe, Robertson, E. Slattery, Thomnson, Vander Hayden, Waters, Wagner.
' 2b Div.—Misses Chirhart, M. Clark, A. Clark, E. Call, Casta-edb, M. Dillon, Ducey, Legnard, Metzger, Papin, Price, Patterson, Reilly, Taylor.
6th Class—Misses Butts, Coogan, English, Glennon, I. Hackett, McCoy, Newton, Owens, Spangler, Tanner, Williams, Watrous, Wilkins, Watson.
2d Div.—Misses H.-Davenport, M. Fisk, F. Hibblns, J. Krick, M. Mulvey, H. Nash, G. O'Neill, C. Pease, I. Smith, E. Wright, M. Wolfe,	*
7th Class—Misses Chaves, Fishburne, 0. Gitchell, E. Gitch-ell, Hanbury, Martin, Mattes, Muilisan, Otero, M. Richardon, Rodgers. Richmond, A. Ri hardson, A, Wright,
8th Class—Misses Brown, Barry, Coyne, Eager, King, Mary Otis; Schmidt, Sawyer.
9th Class—Misses Ives and Welch.
10th Class—Misses Best and Otis.
HARP.
1st Class—Miss Galen.
4th Class, 2d Div.—Miss Garrity.
6th Class—Misses M. Dillon, L. French, E. Hicks, H. Keenan, M. Price, M. Otero.
The Scholastic Annual
For 1882,
COJSTTELTTS.
Astronomical Calculate ns—Astrological Predictions— A; Man (Poetry), T. E. Howard, A. M.—Abstinence Days —A Revision (Poetry), Mrs. Margaret F. Sullivan—Ballad of the'Ute and the Crafty Cook (Poetry), A J. S.—Calendars—The Church and Science, J. A. Z —Eclipses,—Evi-dencesof the Stability of the Church, Right Rev. Bishop Ryan—Fasting Days—A Tribute to President Garfield, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.—Holy Days of Obligation— “The Lion of the Fold of Juda,’’—Castel Rock—Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, The Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C?8. C.—Movable Feasts—Nuevo Mejico (Sonnet), Eliot Rvder— Notre Dame as Seen from the St. Joseph River (Poetry), Eliza Allen Starr—The Patron of Popular Education, .William J. Onahan, LL. D.—Rates of Postage— The Spire of Candibec, Minot Ledge—The Strawberry Festival (Poetry), Arthur J. Stace, A. M—St. Cecilia’s Bridal, (Sonnet), Ethel Tane—Winged Words.
Price, 35 cents, post free.
Orders should be sent to
•	J. A. LYONS,
’ Notre Dame, Indiana.
O’Cpimor & Co.,
CHEMISTS AND DRTTGrGrISTS . ■ * -
Royal Pharmacy, PRINCE ARTHUR'S LANDING,
Like SUPERIOR, DATA RIO, CANADA,
'	'	'	Dealers in
Amethysts, Agates, Chlorastrolites, Catseyes, ' Thonipsonites, Native Silver, and Copper
, Specimens, Quartz, Dog-tooth Spar, Indian Bark Work, etc.
Persons ordering any of the above from a distance will have: their orders carefully attended to.
THE NOTRE DAlfE ^CHOLASTlb.	257
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the'New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price, ...	- gilt, $1.25; plain, §1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
A PLACE FOR YOUR DICTIONARY, A PLACE FOR YOUR NEWSPAPERS, A PLACE FOR YOUR PERIODICALS, And au ornament for your.house, all in one, THE NO¥^biCTldkARY HOLDER.
W. W. Kimball, MANUFACTURER OF Pianos and Organs.
OFFICE AND WAREROOMS: Cor. State and Adams Streets, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
Agent, S. D. ROBERSON, Old Post-Oflice Building, nov5’81-ly	South Bend, Indiana.
!	A fHbst ^ftradtive Holiday Gift.
I	The Household Library
1	■ ' Vxf * * * ,j'*
CATHOLIC WtMi
FROM CHAUCER TO THE PRESENT DAY.
Edited by ELIOT RYDER.
The Only Work of its Kind in ihe Language.
THIS important volume; representing the best work of Catholic Poets, and containing many of the brightest gems of Eriglisb poelry, has s.lections from more than one hundred auth'.r^ English and American,^ It contains many poems which havebecome favorites the world over, besides others of note and popularity. . .
The work is .furnished with an alphabetical index of the names of poems, an index of authors, and also one of first lines. .	___
Both in contents and in manufacture this is one of the finest-specimens of Catholic bookmaking ever produced in this country.
Notices of Advanced Sheets. .
It will he a desideratum in the library of all who cultivate literary taste.— Catholic TTnum.	'	- - . —	.
a book of remarkable quality—an important volume.—Boston
Pilot.	■■	.... .•--------
A most admirable monument _of. Catholic literature.—Boston Transcript.
-The ••Household Library of Catholic Poets ” will be a valuable and handsome book.—A.ve Maria.	. . z , /.
Price: Subscription Edition, Limited (with an adinirdtie Portrait of Chaucer), -	-	-	- $5 00
Cheap Edition, Post free,	-	-	-	- 2 00
Address JOSEPH A. LYONS,. Publisher, Notre Dame, Indiana.
(Removed to Boston, Mass.)
SHORT-HAND
TAUGHT BY MAIL TN 12 LESSONS. FOR $1.50
r. K, ti -i. ...	J
■ The -growing interest in Phonography has ereateiade-mand for'a Periodical to teach the Art, in a aeries of Lessons comprehensive, detailed and thorough. . The .
AMERICAN SHORT-HAND wMlER,. ...
taking the initiative, is the only Magazine in thd World thit teaches Phonography. A full course given every year, one complete Lesson each month, and the Exercises of all Learners ... •, , ;
CORRECTED THROUGH THE MAIL
free of charge. Those who prefer to learn in a briefer time than one year, may join our Correspondence Class and go through an entire course in either 10 or 20 weeks.
Single copy, containing First Lesson, mailed to any address for 15 cents.	_	_
Anyone wishing to learn this fascinating and valuable science are solicited to write at once for Free Descriptive Circular.	.
ROWELL & HICKCOX,
409 Washington'Street. ; BOSTON, MASH.
Please mention the paper in which you saw this advertisement.
258
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Minim Department.
. 9ke fun.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing. Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC, AND SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. (Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana,) Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic, and Classical grades.
Tne institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large Musical Library in French, German, English, and Italian. Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and paint-ingfrom life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. .Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.	...
Miss De La Barre, from Paris, a sculptress and artist of acknowledged superiority, has been engaged for three years as an addition to the regular corps of teachers in the School of Painting and Sculpture.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rales of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds ot Engraving Done
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA,
NEW YORK, 1882.
The Sun for 1882 will make its fifteenth annual revolution under the present management, shining, as always, for aU, big and little, mean and gracious, contented and nnhappy. Republican and Democratic, depraved and virtuous, intelligent and obtuse. The Sun's light is for mankind and womankind of every sort; but its genial warmth is for the good, while it pours hot discomfort on the blistering backs of the presistently wicked.
The Sun of 1868 was a newspaper of a new kind. It discarded many of the forms, and a multitude of the superfluous words and phrases of ancient journalism. It undertook to report in a fresh, succinct, unconventional way aU the news of the world, omitting no event of human interest, and commenting upon affairs with the fearlessness of absolute independence. The success of this experiment was the success of The Sun. It effected a permanent change in the style of American newspapers. Every important journal established in this country in the dozen years past has been modelled after The Sun. Every important journal already existing has been modified and bettered by the force of The Sun’s example.
The Sun of 1882 will be the same outspoken, trnthtelling, and interesting newspaper.
By a liberal use of the means which an abundant prosperity affords, we shall make it better than ever before.
We shall print all the news, putting it into readable shape, and measuring its importance. not by the traditional yardstick, but by its real interest to the people. Distance from Printing House Squaie is not the first consideration with The Sun. When ever anything happens worth reporting we get the particulars, whether it happens In Brooklyn or in Bokhara.
In politics we have decided opinions; and are accustomed to express them in langnage that can be understood. We say what we tnink about men and events. That habit is the only secret of The Sun’s polictical course.
The Weekly Sun gathers into eight pages the best matter of the seven daily issues. An Agricultural Department of unequalled merit, full market reports, and a liberal proportion of literary, scientific, and domestic intelligence complete The Weekly Sun, and make it the best newspaper for the farmer’s household that was ever printed.
Who does not know and read and like The Sunday Sun, each number of which is a Golconda cf interesting literature, with the best poetry of the day, prose every line worth reading, news, humor—matter enough to fill a good-sized book, and infinitely more varied and entertaining than any book, big or little?
If our idea of what a newspaper shouldbe pleases you, send for The Sun.
Our terms are as follows:
For the daily Sun, a four-page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, postpaid, is 55 cents a month, or $6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight-page sheet of fifty-six columns, the price is 65 cents per month, or $7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of Ife Sun is also fnrnished separately at $1.20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is $1 a year postage paid. For clnbs of ten sending $10 we will send an extra copy free
Address I. W. ENGLAND, novl9-6t	Publisher of The Sun, New York City.
PROSPECTUS OF Browne’s Phonographic Monthly AND REPORTER'S JOURNAL, New York, FOR THE YEAR 1881.
ORGAN OF THE REPORTING PROFESSION.
This publication is now in its sixth volume. A course of lessons is being given by the editor, which will embrace all the latest improvements of the art as adapted by reporters during the past twenty years’ reporting As all instraction books are years behind the practice of the art, and do not contain any of the new principles introduced, these lessons will be found invaluable to all students.
Fac-Simile Reporting Nc.tos of leading stenographers will show word-forms and phrase-signs not to be found elsewhere, that will be useful as showing how little attention practical reporters pay to the expedients, devices, and contractions put down in the old instruction books and recommended by authors.
Postbatts and Skeichbs will be given, which will be useful as showing what have been the straggles, trials and success of men eminent iu the profession. In this way an acquaintance will be made with these gentlemen that will be of lasting interest to old stenographers as well as to young men about to take up the art.
Besides being the only shorthand publication in America published promptly on time (the 15th of each month) it contains news, notices of new books, personal doings of stenographers, and communications from reporters throughout the world.
A Premium Holiday Number considerably enlarged and beautifully illustrated, will be Issued in December This number will be sold separately for $1.00. but to regular yearly subscribers, who pay the subscription price of S2 oo. this number will be included without extra charge. To get the benefit of this splendid offer, subscriptions should be sent in now for a year’s numbers, and $2.00 must be forwarded to nay for the same in advance. Specimen copies of a late number will be sent to those desiring to see the publication before subscribing, by simply forwarding address to the publisher with a requestforthe same.
D. L. SCOTT-BROWNE,
Conductor and Publisher.
23 Clinton Place, New York City.