Welcome Students
Fun
LEARN TO DANCE
XT'S EASY ... XT'S FUN
Learn while you’re young. Learn the famous Arthur Murray Way. In no time at all you’ll be able to step out on the dance floor with any partner . . . full of confidence and poise.
Don’t Wait . . Phone 2-3339 today for a free trial lesson.
AIR CONDITIONED
‘Northern Indiana’s Finest Dance Studio”
ARTHUR MURRAYS
120 E. Wayne St
Ph. 2-3339
FREE PARTY DANCES EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT
2
The Scholastic
WELCOME, NOTRE DAME MEN
Largest o
Assortment of Campus Clothes in South Bend
Society Brand...
Hickey-Freeman . ..
Burberry . . . “GGG”
. . . McGregor .. . o
British-R ... Dobbs
i
GILBERTS
813-817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
I Sept. 11, 1950
3
"The MEN'S Corner"
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
WELCOMES YOU
MEN OF NOTRE DAME
KUPPENHEIMER,
BOTANY, CLIPPER CRAFT and CAMPUS TOGS
STETSON and LEE HATS
ARROW SHIRTS FLORSHEIM and FREEMAN SHOES
■ W FO/? MEN AND ■ VrOLWG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
HEADQUARTERS FOR YOUR GYM CLOTHING
GYM PANTS £1.10, £1.35, £1.65
WHITE TEE SHIRTS 65c, 75c, 85c
SWEAT SHIRTS £1.69, £2.25, £2.50 SWEAT PANTS £2.10, £2.50, £2.60
WIGWAM SWEAT SOCKS 55c, 65c, 90c
BASKETBALL SHOES £4.75, £5.95, £10.95
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ph. 3-3702
FOR
LAUNDRY CASES

I t
t
i
I
I
For Appointment
Phone 3-0678
5 Barbers Manicurist
ZIP RING BINDERS
PIPES
W. E. Cyr, Prop.
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber hop"
SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
100-102 South Main Street
Chair No. 5
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED —SAVE MORE THAN HALF This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture One Block North of Gilbert’s
WILLIAMS PAINT CO
PHONE 6-7346
755 So. Michigan
FREE DELIVERY
PIPE RACKS
ASH TRAYS
BELTS
BILLFOLDS
OR MOST ANYTHING IN LEATHER GOODS IT’S
Hans/-Rintzsch
Michigan at Colfax


The Scholastic


Top of the Week
Another September brings to Notre Dame new Freshmen, new classes to attend, new adventures .. .
. Something New
i After brushing away the dust and W 'cobwebs from the desk of our predeces-5 sor, Jack McGoldrick, and after a quick, careless thumbing through the Joe Miller Joke Book he left in the wake of his graduation, we’re just about all set to bring you Scholastic readers your traditional favorite, THE WEEK.
If you’ve religiously avoided this column in the past, it’s changed now. If : you’re new at Notre Dame, don’t be 49% safe —follow THE WEEK.
Hail the Freshman
1There’s a very grim aura about the salutation “Greetings,” but what else can you say to those high school-scarred veterans who are preparing to receive a college education and/or avoid the Draft. The old-timers at Notre Dame have found the University a swell place, proven by the fact that they are returning. The Class of ’54 shouldn’t have any trouble finding that out for themselves.
You can always spot the Freshmen during the registration periods in the Drill Hall. They’re the ones who fill in their census cards legibly, smile when their I.D. photos are being taken, and don’t ask for class schedule changes. To a Freshman an 8 a.m. class looks as good on the schedule as an 11 a.m. class. The Social Science Building doesn’t appear any different from the Law building on that paper you get at registration. Next semester, they’ll know different !
These first two weeks of “orientation” (better start using that dictionary right away) are memorable experiences for each year’s class of newcomers. Senior football stars Bob Williams and Jerry Groom saw Knute Rockne—All American when they first came to the University and look at them now. A lot of this year’s Seniors took the Blue Circle campus tour in September of 1947 and still don’t know where the Mission House is.
Early Birds
This is the first time in the 92-year history of the Scholastic that an issue p has been printed to greet the students at | Sept. 11, 1950
the Fall registration. We think it’s a pretty good idea and good indication of the calibre of this year’s staff. We’re through patting ourselves on the back. Let’s hear from you.
Post Mortem
It’s been a real nice vacation, but thank goodness it didn’t last too long. A few more months and a lot of us wouldn’t be deferred. The situation in Korea is on everybody’s mind these days and for good reason. Even some of the profs who are reserve officers expect an early call. Some profs still don’t let anything worry them.
There’s one bright spot, however. If the war spreads and Notre Dame once more takes on the appearances of an Annapolis, with V-12s and R.O.’s marching to class, Army may schedule us again in football. This won’t happen, of course, unless at least 37 ND Varsity players are called to the service and the coaching staff is transferred to Great Lakes.
When we went up to our Draft board recently, we asked the head man if our attending school would necessitate a deferment. “Ha” was the unencouraging but prompt reply.
That Town
Just South of the University you’ve probably noticed a city of some proportions, South Bend by name. Home of Studebakers and Mauri Rose, South Bend boasts a population of more than 125,000 and a girls’ professional baseball team. You will more than likely travel from the University to the city and back again via the unpredictable N.I.T. busses which have recently boosted the fares to a straight ten cents. No more tokens. When your radio set isn’t jammed with WND programs you might hear one of three South Bend stations.
There aren’t any legitimate theaters in the city, but you can have your pick of motion pictures — everything from Tarzan's Lost Ape to Confessions of a Russian Agent's Grandmother. To keep up with the latest in the films to be shown at the local popcorn distributing emporiums follow the Scholastic CALENDAR.
When you start watching the television programs in your rooms, you wcn’t want to go to town anyhow, so that’s enough for now.
Exit: One Tradition
The past summer at ND brought about a noteworthy change to the tradition-packed campus. The paths in front of the Main Building are now solid “blacktop.” No longer will footsore students (see cover) and visitors have to slodge in the mud or choke,in the dust of these time-honored cinder-paths that advented the appearance of the tarry stuff. No longer will Flor-sheims have to be brushed 27 times a day. A decrease in sales of hip-boots at the Bookstore is foreseen; You’re right, it’s progress.
Bottom of the Week
. . . the same long Bookstore lines, 11 o’clock lights, and Coach Leahy’s woeful season forecast.
Special Student Rates For All Dances
Tuxedos, Full Dress Cutaways, White Gabardine Dinner Coats.
Sizes: Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; over 500 suits to choose from.
We Invite You to Come In and Inspect Our Formal Attire
LOGAN'S
107 No. Main, So. Bend, Ind.
5

MONDAY—SEPTEMBER 11
DRILL HALL — Registration for all courses—classes start on Thursday, Sept. 14—will take place from 8 a. m. until 5 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL and ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—The Department of Guidance will give Admission Tests to all Freshmen from 8 a. m. to 5 p. m. today and tomorrow. Check your dormitory bulletin boards for information concerning the exact hour you are to attend.
CAMPUS TOURS—Fledglings will be able to acquaint themselves with the sprawling campus by taking upper-classmen-guided tours. The Tours will leave every hour, on the hour, from 9 a. m. until 4 p. m. (except from 12 a. m. to 1 p. m.). They will originate from Information Booths set up between Breen-Phillips and Farley Halls and between St. Edward’s and Zahm Halls. Visitors, as well as students, are invited.
FRESHMEN HALLS—A luncheon for Freshmen and for any relatives or guests that may be accompanying the new Notre Dame men, will be held in Breen-Phillips, Farley, St. Edward’s and Zahm Halls from 12:30 p. m. until 1:30 p. m. The rectors and prefects of these Halls will be in attendance.
FRESHMEN HALL CHAPELS—Rectors of the frosh halls will talk to their men in the hall chapels at 7 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL—.4 presentation of the movie, Knute Rockne, All-American, will be held at 8 p. m., open only to first year men.
TUESDAY—SEPTEMBER 12
WASHINGTON HALL—The Administrative Officers of the University will officially welcome the Freshmen Class at a program which will start at 7:15 p. m.
WEDNESDAY—SEPTEMBER 13
SACRED HEART CHURCH—The annual Freshmen Mission will begin at 6:30 p. m. The Mission will last for three nights. It also includes attendance at 6:30 a. m. Mass for three days-
THURSDAY—SEPTEMBER 14
CAMPUS—The 1950 Fall Semester begins at 8 a. m. Sharp.
SATURDAY—SEPTEMBER 16
STADIUM—A special varsity scrimmage will be held at 2. p. nr. Admission is free to all students on presentation of Identification Cards.
MONDAY—SEPTEMBER 18
FIELD HOUSE—The Notre Dame student body will make its official welcome to the Class of ’54 at a general Freshmen Class get-together. Short talks by representatives of extra-curricular- organizations, entertainment and refreshments are included on the program which starts at 7 p. m.
SATURDAY—SEPTEMBER 23
POTOWATOMI PARK—A Freshmen Class picnic will be held in conjunction with St. Mary’s College for women. Tickets will be sold to 400 frosh during the early pari of next week.
Vol. 92 September IL 1950 No. 1
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867	I
========__ i! Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, a Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of 0 postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized | June 23. 1918.	|
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI
JOHN J. POWERS__________________  ...News	>
CHARLES B. DULLEA_________Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE..__________ Features
JOHN F. MEANEY____________ .......Sports
JACK R. VARLEY.......... Assistant	Sports
JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN..........Photography
LEON GARDNER................ ..Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER............. Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT.........Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: It won’t be long before many of the newcomers start rubbing their feet as Freshman Fred Archambeault is doing on this, the year’s first cover. The campus is larger than most people think—at least, until they start wandering about. Then all too soon they learn of its 1,700 acre expanse. Wizened Seniors will be glad to tell the ’54 men how the grounds shrink the longer they are here. To a degree, they are right, but don’t forget . . . you still have only ten minutes to make that “Freshman trek” from the Social Science Building to the Biology Building. In other words, take care of those feet.
—Photo by John Kinville
6
The Scholastic
Our Lady's Men
The day has finally arrived. You have registered and arc now a full-fledged Notre Dame man.
But exactly what does that mean? Does it mean you are henceforth placed in a privileged category? Does it mean you can slough-off, now that you have made the grade? Does it mean you have to grow up? Just what docs it mean?
To tell you the truth, it means a lot of things.
Let’s take them one at a time.
Does being a Notre Dame man put you in a privileged category. The answer is both yes and no.
There is a saving here that those who attend have been chosen especially by the Blessed Mother. She has given us this special opportunity to study, live and grow under Her guidance. We are Her privileged ones — the Notre Dame man believes and says that with humility.
He knows what the responsibility entails. He knows that he is not a Notre Dame man for just the four years he attends college — he is a Notre Dame man for life. And he knows that people recognize him as such. If for no other reason, that’s why he has to be particularly careful of his actions. If he goes astray he’s not the only one to receive criticism — he puts Our Lady under attack also.
The true Notre Dame man isn’t the type who swaggers about, boasting he goes here and expecting special privileges simply because he does. No matter where you go throughout the country, or even throughout the world, for that matter, the University’s name means something. But that doesn’t say you should take advantage of this name. You should live up to it and not live on it.
Yes, being a Notre Dame man does place you in a privileged category. You are one of Our Lady’s men. Offer prayers of thanksgiving and be humbly thankful for the honor.
Now that you have finally made the grade, can you slough-off? In reply to this question, the answer is a resounding no. Soon you’ll hear stories about how many young men were disappointed and not able to get into Notre y Dame. You might laugh and say such stories are trumped-p up. They’re not.
Many men have been denied the opportunity granted you. Therefore, you should prove you are worthy of the selection. College life lasts only four years — four, quick years. They are wonderful years. A time in which you’ll have a great deal of fun. But fun should be a complement of the real purpose of attending college — namely, to receive an education.
For most, this will be your last chance to get a formal education. You’d be foolish if you wasted it. Besides, there are others looking forward to youi- success. Friends are 1 pulling for you. And parents, above all others, are praying
and sacrificing in order for you to have these years.
You can’t afford to slough-off. Too. many hopes, too many dreams are pinned on you. The sooner you get to work the better it’ll be. You can’t help but have a good time — but when you feel like putting something important off, remember your friends, your parents, and Our Lady — they’re all counting on you to produce the goods.
Finally, does being a Notre Dame man mean you have to grow up? Here the answer is yes. Notice whenever anyone speaks of a Notre Dame student they always refer to him as a man, not as a boy.
Your boyhood is over and done with. Now you have to learn how to be a man. And since you are a Notre Dame man, you have to learn to be twice as much — you have to be a Catholic man.
The University is educating our country’s Catholic leaders of the future. That’s a tall order — it means you not only have to know your religion but you have to practice it. As was said before, people will always recognize you as a Notre Dame man. They’ll be doubly critical of you. Go on, let them point you out — but when they point you out, let it be a man Our Lady can be proud of.
You’re no longer a kid. You are a Notre Dame man. Accept that fact and live up to it. If you do, you’ll be a worthy addition to Our Lady’s family.
Within These Gates
Father Sorin used to say to his students something like this: Treat whomever you meet within these gates as friends. Say hello to them; say hello to everyone.
Perhaps that’s how the tradition of saying hello first started. Ask any grad of the University, and he’ll tell you how it used to be in “the good old days.” Even if they didn’t know the guy who was passing they’d always say hello. Such an exchange helped to further the friendly atmosphere that once prevailed here.
But what’s become of the practice nowadays? Some say the war years disrupted all of the old traditions. Others say the growth of the student enrollment killed them. Both reasons are undoubtedly sound — to an extent.
But one reason few ever give is that we’re all too busy to worry about the next guy. ‘ Even too busy to offer a simple greeting. .
That stuff about living, working and praying together is no malarky. We are a family. And as a family we should practice some common courtesies toward one another.
Freshmen, easier to make friends in their new surroundings, will find no quicker way to do just that then by greeting a passing student. Sure, it is impractical to say hello, hello, hello, to fellow students as they pass in huge clumps. But when you are walking about alone or in pairs try to be friendly and you’ll find the next guy will be the same.
7
Sept. 11, 1950
Send
SCHOLASTIC
<Cllstoort1)’5
Home
. . for Outstanding brands in Mens Wear
The folks back home would like to know about the activities at Notre Dame so why not send them a gift subscription? The cost is §4 a year and it means your parents will receive 26 issues of the student magazine.
Arrow
Munsingwear
Get the JUGGLER
The student literary magazine, the JUGGLER, costs $1 a year. This year this magazine is going to feature a special issue that will be the talk of the campus. To get your copy you have to subscribe so send your dollar now.
Puritan Sportswear

Healthknit
Pleetway
Send subscriptions to:
Publications, Notre Dame, Ind.
Men's Shop . . . Main Floor
PAY PHONES '
, „ JlaU
The purpose of the hall extension phones is for the reception of necessary long distance calls to students from family and friends. In order to keep trunk lines open, the operators on the Notre Dame switchboard have been instructed not to put through any local calls on hall extension phones. Instruct your friends locally to call the pay phone number in your hall. Please answer the phones for students’ use in your hall. You do your fellow student a service.
Alumni Hall ______3-0378
(3rd floor) 3-0745
Badin Hall________.3-0831 3-0743
Br.-Phillips Hall ..3-0506
Cavanaugh Hall ..3-0466
Dillon Hall _____.3-0426
Farley Hall ______3-0487
Howard Hall _____.3-0441
Lyons Hall ______3-0621
Morrissey Hall ___3-0458
St. Edward's Hall 3-0354 Sorin Hall _______3-0519
Walsh Hall________3-0707 Zahm Hall_________3-0356
Cafeteria ________3-0750
3-0729 3-0785
Law Building  .3-0732 Recreation Hall ..3-0522.
3-0475
Main Building______3-0308 3-0443
EXTENSION PHONES
	Alumni	Cavanaugh			Howard		Sorin	
1st	Floor 		...375	1st Floor 		...284	1st Floor 			-.439	1st Floor 			...282
2nd	Floor 		...435	2nd Floor 		...445	2nd Floor 			.430	3rd Floor 		...455
			3rd Floor 		446	3rd Floor 					.441		
3rd	Floor 		...436	4th Floor 		...447	4th Floor 			369	St. Edicard’s	
								
							1st Floor 			...280
	Badin		Dillon		Lyons		3rd Floor 			...431
			1st Floor 			1st Floor 			371		
2nd	Floor 		..370		...374	2nd Floor 			.456	Walsh	
3rd	Floor 			...450	2nd Floor 			..437	3rd Floor 		. ...457	1st Floor 		...373
			3rd Floor 		..438	4th Floor 			.458		
							3rd Floor 		...459
	Breen-Phillips		Farley		Morrissey		Zahm	
1st	Floor 		...281	1st Floor 		..448	1st Floor 				288	1st Floor ...		...285
2nd	Floor 		.„452	2nd Floor 	„		..449	2nd Floor 			.442	2nd Floor 		...432
3rd	Floor 		...453	3rd Floor 		..440	3rd Floor 		. ...443	3rd Floor 			...433
4th	Floor 			...454	4th Floor 		..451	4th Floor 			.......444	4th Floor 		...434
8
The Scholastic
VOLUME 92, NUMBER I
SEPTEMBER II. 1950
t
Largest Freshman Class in
i
ND History
iMessage from
Student Influx Swells University Enrollment
My Dear Freshmen:
Welcome to Notre Dame! They have a custom in the Navy of saying to a newcomer as he walks up the gangplank of a ship: “Glad to have you aboard.” I think our way of saying it would be, “Glad to have you in the family.”
You see, coming to Notre Dame is more than walking onto a campus, more than unpacking your grip in the room of a residence hall, more than meeting hundreds of new men like yourselves from all over the United States. Coming to Notre Dame means joining a family as wide as the world, a family that was old and established here before many of your great grandfathers came to this country.
It will take you four years to grow into this family, to learn to cherish its
SCHOLASTIC Meeting
The “Scholastic” will hold its first assignment meeting of the year for members of the staff on this Thursday, Sep. 14, at 7:30 p. m.
All new men who would like to join the staff are invited to attend an organizational meeting at 8 p. m., the same evening.
There are openings for new men in all departments: news, features, sports, editorial, photography, art and business. Both meetings will begin on time and will be held in the Law Auditorium. (Note to Freshmen: The auditorium is in the basement of the Law Building, which is right at the Circle.)
ideals, and to follow its traditions. It will seem strange for a while, but we are sure that you will come to love the lakes, the trees, the towers, and to enjoy the companionship of all the men who make up the great family of Notre Dame.
We are glad to see the family grow, and happy to know that you, too, will
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
share our joy in learning to live the good life here, under the watchful protection and guidance of ’Our Lady Who reigns over all from Her vantage spot atop the Golden Dome. We know She will bring you closer to Her Son Who lives with us in the many tabernacles around this campus.
Welcome Notre Dame men! Glad to have you in the family.
John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c.
President
Incomplete official figures obtained from the Registrar of the University, Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., already show that the largest Freshman class and the biggest number of new students in history are entering Notre Dame this Fall.
More than 1,285 Freshmen, members of the Class of 1954, in all colleges are slated to register in the Drill Hall during the three day registration period which begins today.
With the addition of graduate students, transfer students, and former students returning to ND, the total number of new Notre Dame men for the 1950 Fall semester is a record-breaking estimate of 1,411.	•
The breakdown by colleges shows that the College of Commerce will have the largest contingent of new students. 332. In the College of Arts and Letters, 283 new men are expected. The A.B. total is boosted to 375 with the inclusion of 50 Physical Education newcomers and 42 students enrolled in the new General Program of the college.
The College of Science is accepting 236 new students and the College of Engineering will take on 298 Freshmen.
Though not really Freshmen, 33 new students will begin studies in the Notre Dame College of Law this semester.
Father Thornton also announced that 74 Religious will begin classes at the University this Fall.
Complete totals on the Notre Dame newcomers will not be available until some time after the registration period is over.
The total enrollment figures for the University for this semester should easily exceed the 5,000 mark, but this also will depend on the number of late registrants in each college.
9
Sept. 11, 1950
Scientists Convene For ACS Symposium
Problems and recent advancements in medical research were revealed June 15, 16 and 17 at the second National Medicinal Chemistry Symposium held at the University of Notre Dame.
More than 400 of the nation’s leading scientists from drug concerns, universities and industry attended the Symposium. Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, Professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame, was general chairman of the Symposium, which was under the auspices of the Division of Medicinal Chemistry of the American Chemical Society. Dr. Campbell is Chairman of the Medicinal Chemistry Division.
The Symposium program opened with a discussion of Curare and other related drugs. Curare, the old Indian poison arrow drug now used to cause muscle relaxation during spasms, paralysis and surgical operations, was discussed by Dr. Archibald R. McIntyre, Chairman of the Department of Pharmacology at the University of Nebraska College of Medicine; Dr. D. S. Tarbell, Professor of Chemistry at the University of Rochester; and Dr. James D. Dutcher, of the Squibb Institute for Medical Research, New Brunswick, N. J.
The second session of the Symposium opened with reports by three top scientists on recent advances in antibiotic research, particularly aureomycin and Chloromycetin, recently-discovered drugs which have been found useful foi' diseases which cannot be treated successfully by penicillin or sulfa drugs.
Participants in this discussion were Dr. W. R. Taylor, of the University of Illinois; Dr. R. L. Peck, of the Merck Company; Dr. Harry M. Crooks, of the Parke-Davis Company, who was largely responsible for developing a commercial synthesis of Chloromycetin; and Dr. A. R. Menotti, Vice-President and Director of Research of the Bristol Laboratories, Syracuse, N. Y.
Dr. Ernest H. Volwiler, President of the American Chemical Society, addressed the third meeting of the Symposium. Dr. Volwiler, who is President of the Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, HL, spoke on “The Needle in the Haystack.”
Opening the fourth session of the Symposium was Dr. Harold L. Mason, Professor of Physiological Chemistry at the Mayo Foundation, an associate of the discoverer of Cortisone; Dr. M. H. Kuizenga, Head of the Department of Pharmacology and Endoctrinology of the
(Continued on Page 30)
10
Montana Succeeds Kervick as Architecture Head; Other New Appointments Announced
Resignations and new appointments to the faculty of the University highlighted the Summer months.
Francesco Montana, prominent Detroit, Mich., architect, has been named head of the Department of Architecture. He succeeds Professor Francis W. Kervick, who had been a member1 of the Notre Dame faculty since 1909. Professor Kervick announced his resignation as head of the department at the close of the 1950 Spring semester.
Mr. Montana has been a member of the Pilafin and Montana architectural firm of Detroit for the last three years. He is a native of Italy and has traveled extensively in Egypt, Greece, Syria, Germany, France, and other European countries.
A graduate of New York University, . Mr. Montana is a former winner of the Paris prize scholarship of the Beaux Arts Institute of Design. He received a diploma from the Institute in 1935. He also served as a member of the Notre Dame architecture faculty from 1939 until 1947, when he entered private business.
Another resignation saw Professor Brooks Smeeton of the Department of Marketing leave Notre Dame to become associate professor of Marketing at Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis.
Professor Smeeton left the University after the 1950 Summer session. He came to the ND faculty from Indiana University in 1946.
Dr. Vincent E. Smith, editor of New Scholasticism magazine, has joined the faculty at the University of Notre Dame and will serve as an Assistant Professor
of Philosophy at the University.
Dr. Smith, who received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Xavier University in Cincinnati, O., in 1938, later studied philosophy at Fribourg, 'Switzerland. He also studied physics at the Institutum Divi Thomae in Cincinnati, O., receiving his master’s degree and doctorate from the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C.
The new Notre Dame faculty member studied electronics at Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1943-44, and served as a Lieutenant in the U. S. Navy during YVorld War II. After teaching philosophy at the Catholic University of America from 1945-48, Dr. Smith has conducted private study and research in Denver, Colo., for the past two years.
He is the author of a new book, Idea —Men of Today, which was published in August by the Bruce Publishing Company1 in Milwaukee, Wis.
In another appointment, Dr. Otto Bird, nationally-prominent leader in the Great Books movement, has been named Director of the new General Program of Liberal Education which is being inaugurated this September at the University of Notre Dame.
The unique Notre Dame Program of Liberal Education, designed to answer-the need for a basic and general education on the college level, is built around the master works of the Western Civ-ilization — the great books from the ancient Greeks to the moderns — and around the technique of teaching through discussion.
Dr. Bird, since 1946, has been Assistant Editor of the “Syntopicon,” the analytical index of the Great Books of the Western World, published by the Encyclopedia Britannica and the University of Chicago. Editor of the “Syntopicon” is Dr. Mortimer Adler, of the University of Chicago.
Dr. Bird was .educated at the University of Michigan, the University of Chi- ' cago, and received his doctorate at the University of Toronto in 1939. The doctorate was earned in philosophy at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, Canada.
The new Notre Dame program director formerly taught at St. Michael’s College in Toronto and at St. John’s University in Brooklyn, N. Y. He also formerly was Associate Editor of the CIP Correspondence, a weekly newsletter published in New York by the Catholic Intercontinental Press.	"*

Nation's Advertisers Attend
Special School at University
Latest techniques in the field of advertising were studied by nearly 100 representatives of advertising firms from all parts of the United States that attended a special Outdoor Advertising School which opened July 10 at the University.
Sponsors of the school, which continued through July 15, were the Out- | door Advertising Foundation at Notre Dame, in conjunction with the Outdoor Advertising Association of America. Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, was director of the school.
Instructors at the school included prominent advertisers and advertising agency executives, outdoor advertising leaders, plant operators and specialists in all phases of outdoor advertising. Lectures and demonstrations on widely-varied advertising subjects featured 1. the course.	-R
The Scholastic .
1
Holy Cross Priests Elect New Officers; t Father O'Toole Named Superior General
I The Very Rev. Christopher J. O’Toole, C.S.C., for the past five years Vice-Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross, was elected Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross at the closing session of the Congregation’s General Chapter in Rome.
, Other major changes in the Congre-gation include the election of the Rev. , Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., who since Py" 1946 has been President of the Univer-( sity of Portland, Oregon, as Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross. Father Mehling, whose headquarters will be at Notre Dame, succeeds the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., who has served as Provincial for the past 12 years.
Dame for three years after his ordination in 19S0. He was Head of the Department of Mathematics at Notre Dame in 1936 and 1937, and from 1937 until 1943 served as Superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame. The new Assistant Superior General was Director of Studies at Notre Dame from 1944 until 1949, when he was named Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs.
Father Kenna received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1926, an S.T.B. degree from Catholic University in 1929, and a Master of Science degree from Notre Dame in 1932. He also pursued advanced studies at Johns Hopkins University.
The Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs at Notre Dame, was elected Assistant (Superior General of the Congregation. f Father Kenna will have headquarters in | ; New York City.
I Father O’Toole, whose headquarters I	will be in New York City, succeeds the
j	Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, c.s.c.,
| who has served as Superior General of ; the Congregation for the past twelve years. Father' O’Toole was elected for a six-year term. The Congregation of , Holy Cross is the religious order that administers the University of Notre Dame and other schools throughout the United States.
*	_ A native of Alpena, Mich., Father
O’Toole recevied his Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1929, his I Bachelor of Philosophy from the University of Louvain in 1939, his Master of ’	Arts from Catholic University of Amer-
}	ica in 1942, and his Doctorate of Philos-
J ophy from Catholic University in 1944. 4 He was ordained in 1933. Since 1945 1	he has served as Vice-Provincial of the
Indiana Province of the Priests of i	Holy Cross.
I	Father Mehling, a native of Fremont,
. -ft 0., received his Bachelor of Arts degree ; qj from Notre Dame in 1929, and his Mas-ter of Arts degree from Notre Dame in f 1935. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1933.
After his ordination, Father Mehling served as Assistant Superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame from 1933 to 1937. From 1937 until 1946 the new Provincial was Dean of Studies at the University of Portland, and since 1946 he has served as President of the Uni-.versity of Portland.
i	Father Kenna, a native of Jamestown,
N. D., taught mathematics at Notre
I ' Sept. 11, 1950
Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C.
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C.
Problem cf Television Met By History Teachers Club
A two-fold method of dealing with the problem of television as an inter-- ference with “home work” by school pupils was decided upon at the . annual meeting of the University of Notre Dame History Teachers Club.
More than 75 history teachers from all parts of the United States discussed the problems created by television and decided that “television is here to stay and any battle against it by educators would be useless.”
Members of the Notre Dame club concluded first, that parents must take definite action with their children to make certain that they devote enough time to their home work before turning their attention to the video screen. Surveys reveal, they pointed out, that children of school age spend more than thirty hours a week watching their favorite television programs, and that close super-vision by the parents is needed in order that the home work is not neglected in favor of this new form of education.
Secondly, the Notre Dame conclave went on record as favoring a definite cultivation of the television stations and networks by educators in order that the video entertainment might include programs of an educational nature. Television provides a valuable tool of education, it was pointed out, and school officials should do their utmost to influence the video executives to provide educational as well as purely entertaining programs.
Members of the club also stressed the need of “counteracting the present trend in education of substituting social studies for the study of history.” There needs to be special training for histoi-y teachers, it .was decided, and emphasis placed in our educational system on the “teaching of history as history,” instead of blending it into the more popular study of social sciences.
Brother Keenan Judge, c.s.c., of Cathedral high school in Indianapolis, was elected president of the Notre Dame history club at the meeting. Reelected officers included Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Head of the Department of History at Notre Dame, moderator; Sister Mary de Sales, S.N.D., of Notre Dame Academy, Toledo, Ohio, editor, of the club bulletin; and Miss Mercedes Muenz, of the Notre Dame Archives., secretary-treasurer.
New members of the club board cf directors elected included Sister Mary Eudocia, S.S.N.D., of the Academy of Our Lady, Chicago; Sister Stella Marie, S.C., of Johnstown, Pa., Central Catholic high school; and Sister M. Augustine, o.s.f., of St. Clare Academy, Syl-
11
Mangan, Chauffeur For 40 Years, Dies
Notre Dame lost its official chauffeur and one of its most colorful and friendly personages last week when John Mangan, 66, died after an illness of several months.
istration and finance who are interested in a better understanding and more effective teaching of Catholic Social and Economic Principles.
Speaking at the Aug. 8 session of the workshop were Brother Justin, F.s.C., Chairman of the Department of LaborManagement Relations at Manhattan College, New York City; Rev. T. J. Purcell, s.J., of Chicago; Rev. John F. Cronin, of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, Washington, D. C., and Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, c.s.c., Assistant Professor of Economics at the University of Notre Dame.
ND Awards Diplomas To 217 This Summer
A total of 217 undergraduate and graduate students at the University of Notre Dame received degrees at Summer School Commencement exercises held at 8 p. m. on Aug. 11 in the ND Drill Hall. Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College
MASS SCHEDULE
of Commerce at Notre Dame delivered
the commencement address at the exercises.
Degrees awarded at the Notre Dame Summer School Commencement included 118 bachelor degrees and 99 graduate degrees. Bachelor degrees were awarded to 38 in the College of Engineering, 37 in the College of Arts and Letters, 27 in the College of Commerce, 11 in the College of Science, and five in the College of Law. Of the degrees awarded in the Graduate School, 17 were awarded Doctorate degrees and 82 Master’s degrees.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame celebrated the Baccalaureate Mass at 9 a. m., Aug. 11, in Sacred Heart Church. The Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Professor of Philosophy, delivered the Baccalaureate Sermon.
Another feature of the Summer School Commencement was a formal reception for graduates and guests by the Notre Dame administration in the University’s
Faculty Lounge.
John Mangan was born in Ireland and came to the University 40 years ago. He was the Notre Dame chauffeur since 1910.
During his career on campus Mr. Mangan chauffeured such dignitaries as Pope Pius NII, John McCormack, Alfred E. Smith, G. K. Chesterton, and Admiral Chester W. Nimitz. During the Admiral’s visit to the University, Mangan defeated him in a game of horseshoes.
Funeral services were held last Tuesday in Sacred Heart Church. Rev Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., retired Provincial Superior, was celebrant of the solemn requiem Mass. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., President of the University, was deacon and Rev. Michael Mulcaire, c.s.c., was the sub-deacon. Rev. Eugene Burke, c.s.c., offered the sermon. Burial was in the Community cemetery on the ND campus. *
Social Workshop Features Noted Economic Speakers
Four noted economists were among the speakers at a Catholic Workshop on the Teaching of Social Economics and Social Principles held Aug. 7 to 11 at Notre Dame.
The workshop, sponsored by the Catholic Business Education Association, was held to bring together for special study and discussion, teachers of economics, social sciences, commerce, business admin-
Monday, Sept. 11—red—simple; SS. Protus and Hyacinth, Martyrs; 2nd Coll, of the Saints, 3rd Coll. Against the Pers.
Tuesday, Sept. 12—white—Double Major; Most Holy Name of Mary; 2nd Coll. Against the Pers.; Preface of B. M. V.
Wednesday. Sept. 13 — green — simple; Mass 15th Sunday after Pentecost; without Gloria, 2nd Coll, of the Saints, 3rd Coll. Against the Pers.
Thursday, Sept. 14—red—Double Major; Exaltation of the Holy Cross; 2nd Coll. Against the Pers., Credo, Preface of the Cross.
Friday, Sept. 15—white—Double 1st Class with an Octave; Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin, Patron of C.S.C., Preface of B.M.V.
Saturday, Sept. 16 — red — Semidouble; St. Cornelius, Pope, Martyr, and St. Cyprian, Bishop, Martyr; 2nd Coll. Holy Martyrs, 3rd Coll, of the Octave, 4th Coll. Against the Pers., Credo.
Sunday, Sept. 17 — green — Semidouble; 16th Sunday after Pentecost; 2nd Coll. Imprinting the Holy Stigma on St. Francis, 3rd Coll, of Octave, 4th Coll. Against the Pers., Credo, Preface of the Trinity.
Monday, Sept. 18—white—Double; St. Joseph of Cupertino, Confessor; 2nd
Coll, of Octave, 3rd Coll. Against the Pers., Credo.
Tuesday, Sept. 19—red—double— St. Januarius and Companions, Martyrs; 2nd Coll, of Octave, 3rd Coll. Against the Pers., Credo.
Wednesday, Sept. 20—red—Double; Autumn Ember Day, also St. Eustace and Companions, Martyrs; 2nd Coll, of Octave, 3rd Coll, of Ember Day, 4th Coll, of Vigil of St. Matthew, 5th Coll. Against the Pers. Credo, Last Gospel of the Ember Day.
or
Mass of the Vigil of St. Matthew— violet; no Gloria; 2nd Coll, of St. Eustace, 3rd Coll, of the Octave, 4th Coll. Against the Pers.
Thursday, Sept. 21—red—Double of 2nd Class; St. Matthew, Apostle, Evangelist; Credo, Preface of the Apostles.
Friday, Sept. 22—white—Double major; Autumn Ember Day, and Octave of Seven Sorrows of Blessed Virgin; Mass of the Feast, 2nd Coll, of St. Thomas of Villanova, 3rd Coll, of Ember Day, 4th Coll, of Holy Martyrs, Credo, Preface of B.M.V., and Last Gospel of the Ember Day.
or
Mass of St. Thomas of Villanova— white; 2nd Coll, of Octave, 3rd Coll, of the Ember Day, 4th Coll, of the Holy Martyrs, 5th Coll. Against the Pers., Credo, Preface of B.M.V., and Last Gospel of Ember Day.
12
The Scholastic
Introduction
This is your \otrc Ifame. Before Ion;) pioph. will he bombarding you with qmstioHs and inquiries about the I'nirersity. It is your duty, tin m fort, t<> get aripiahitt d with thi school.
That is the main reason why the Scholastic has published this issm _ For the first timi in its U2-year history. the student weekly is a ppea ring on the day the first-year men arrire. It is hoped the lollow-iny section will facilitate the uew-coun rs in getting to know their school as quicldy as possible.
Fresh men are always filled with questions — some important, others less so. But. from the Freshman point of riew, they all rate answers. The Scholastic agrees and on the following pages has attempted to answer those questions that seemed most pt i tiuent. If. as a Jian of '54. you want to know anythiny else, not answered here, then please write the query down and send it to the weekly newsmagazine in Farley Hall. ’
All questions will be answered in the m.rt issue, which will appear on Friday, Sept. 22. If you want th< quistion answered sooner, then either call or drop down to the Scholastic office — someone will alway-- be there, ready to help you.
The staff would like to thank a group of Journalism majors, who compiled the material appearing in this section, Chuck Lenz, who drew the cartoons, and Tom Carroll, president of the Blue Circle, who helped to plan the issue.—Editor.
Framed by spring magnolia blossoms, the Main Building is an imposing sight not only to newcomers. Undergrads may not use traditional steps until diploma-time.
The University
FACTS:
The University of Notre Dame was founded in 1842 by Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., a French missionary priest, belonging- to the Congregation of Holy Cross. (His statue stands at the end of the main quad, facing the circle.) This religious order of priests and brothers still owns and operates the University.
The student body of approximately 5,000 includes young men from every state and 22 foreign countries. Roughly 407 laymen and 87 priests and brothers comprise the faculty. The campus consists of 1,700 acres, 50 buildings, and two spring-fed lakes.
THE CAMPUS:
Notre Dame is a self-contained city providing for its students various residential, academic and laboratory buildings, a dining hall serving 15,000 meals daily, post office, telegraph office, shoe shop, book store, movie theater, tailoring shop, laundry, bakery, dry-cleaning plant, 18-hole golf course, and two spring-fed lakes for fishing, swimming, boating and skating.	‘
A central plant supplies heat to the 50 buildings on the campus.
The University is equipped with a two-engine fire department.
Vetville is a small settlement, adja-
14
The Scholastic
cent to the main campus, behind Farley i	and Breen-Phillips Halls, where 117
i	married veterans live with their
I 7 families.
ACADEMIC:
The basic formulae for ,-ynthetic rubber came from Notre Dame laboratories, through the genius of the late Father Nieuwland, who supplied the basis for Dupont's development of neoprene.
Anti-malarial drugs, which have pioved superior to both quinine and ata! brine in fighting malaria, have been developed by Dr. Kenneth Campbell in rhe Chemistry laboratories.
Present research includes the highly significant germ-free technique in 1.0-BUND—Laboratories of Biology, University of Xotre Dame. Experimentation involves investigations in heart disease, cancer, the study of nutrition and tooth decay, among others.
A supersonic wind tunnel test program is being' conducted in the Department of Aeronautical Engineering.
There are 1-1 libraries on the campus, serving general, college and departmental needs.
Important research in nuclear physics and radiation chemistry (with two atom smashers), as well as problems in metallurgy are in process of investigation at the University.
The Mediaeval Institute, founded in 194G, is based on research and publications of the Middle Age.-, and is projected as a great contribution to modern Christian civilization.
The first wireless message in this country was sent by Professor Jerome Greene from Notre Dame to St. Mary's College.
There are five colleges in the University, namely: College of Arts and Letters, College of Science, College of Commerce, College of Engineering, and College of Law. There is also a Graduate School and 35 departments in the undergraduate school.
GENERAL INFORMATION:
Notre Dame has an extremely low
endowment — $6,9G7,S->2. (Harvard has §191,279,77!).)
Notre Dame furnishes part-time employment to nearly one-fifth of its student body at a total cost of about §337,480.	.
Notre Dame had a net revenue from nil athletics, in the last fiscal year, of 8155,000.	’■
Notre Dame maintains a Placement Bureau to aid graduating seniors aiid alumni to obtain employment.
Notre Dame has a Testing and Guidance department to assist all students in choosing careers. If you are undecided as to the subject you would like to major in, then >ee Mr. Quinn, the head of this department, in the west wing of the Administration Building, ground floor.
Notre Dame distributed 8250,000 to 255 Graduate School students in the form of scholarships and fellowships.
Notre Dame ha.- many n<m-Catholie students—normally totaling about eight per cent of the entire student body. About 13 per cent of the faculty are non-Catholic.
Students refresh themselves in cool, spring-fed St. Joseph's lake, one of the most beautiful spots on campus.
Sept. 11, 1950
15
Facilities and Regulations
HOW LATE CAN I STAY OUT AT NIGHT?:
Freshmen are free until 10 p.m. every night. You can do as you like but you must be in your room by that hour. You are granted one midnight a week. That sounds tough, but you’ll soon find it nearly impossible to take any more than that one midnight, because of studies. At 11 p.m. sharp all room lights in the hall will be turned off. You are then expected to get to bed.
WHAT ABOUT MORNING CHECKS?:
Three mornings a week, exclusive of Sundays, you are obliged to get up before 7 a.m. and report to a checker at the door of the hall chapel. As long as you are up you should attend one of the several Masses that are said daily in your chapel. These morning checks are important as far as your privileges are concerned—miss one and you’ll be cam-pused. To be campused means you will not be able to leave the grounds.
HOW DO YOU GET TO TOWN?:
Automobiles are special concessions to off-campus students only. The bus service, however, is regular and good. For ten cents you can ride to any place in South Bend. On nights that you take your midnight permission, remember you’ll be campused if you get in latei-than 12 p.m. For each five minutes after the hour, one week’s restriction to the campus is levied.
Now let's see ... did I forget something?
WHAT ABOUT CLASS SCHEDULES?:
The majority of your classes will be held three times a week. Each subject is taught every other day—that is, on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, or on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. All classes are out by noon on Saturday. The average set-up is three classes on MWF and three on TTS.
AND CLASS PERIODS?:
Classes last 50 minutes. Morning sessions start on the hour; afternoon classes 15 minutes after the hour. The schedule: mornings—8 to 8:50; 9 to 9:50; 10 to 10:50; and 11 to 11:50; afternoons—1:15 to 2:05; 2:15 to 3:05; 3:15 to 4:05; 4:15 to 5:05.
HOW DO CREDIT HOURS WORK?:
To get a degree you’ll need a specified numbei- of semester hours of credit. The number is usually about 136, but it varies somewhat according to the college you are in.
If you attend a class three times weekly for one semester you are credited with three hours towards the total number needed for a degree—unless you fail the course, in which case you get no credit. The average number of hours earned in one semester is 18 because you will probably be taking six subjects per semester.
WHAT’S THE DOPE ON GRADING?:
The passing grade in any course is 70, but you must average a 77 (figured
from all courses you pass at the University) to get a degree. An average between 70 and 77 will enable you to graduate, but you’ll get no degree.
HOW MANY CUTS?:
You are allowed a certain number of cuts each semester. If you have a class three times a week, you may be absent from it three times during the semester. If you have a class taught twice a week, 1 you may cut it twice during the semes- ] ter. The maximum number of cuts allowed in any one class is three, even though you might have a course taught five times a week. Cuts are c;unted from the first class on.
IS IT NECESSARY TO RUN INTO TOWN TO GET THINGS DONE?:
No. If you were the hermit type you’d never have to go into South Bend once all the time you go to Notre Dame in order to get things done. In this section you will find a listing of all facilities 4 available to you on the campus and the hours they are open. The shoe shop is directly behind the Main Building. The barbershop and the place where you will pick up your laundry are in the basement of Badin Hall, along with a jeweler’s shop and the bookstore. The Western Union office, the Treasurer's Office, where you may cash checks, and the Book Exchange, where you’ll be able to get used books at a discount, are all in the basement of the Main Building.
•S
HOW DO I GET IN TO SEE ATHLETIC EVENTS?:
The fee for all campus athletic events is included on your bill. Your identification card is your pass for all games—be sure you don’t lose it.
HOW DO I GET STUDENT PUBLICATIONS?: '
Most of them are also included on your bill and you will receive them, save one, without extra charge. The Scho- < lastic will be delivered to your door every Friday afternoon. The Dome is issued to the entire student body—Sophomores up—every fall. The Juggler, the University’s literary magazine, comes out three times a year but is sold, not given away.
WHAT IS WASHINGTON HAT T.?-
Why, it’s the culture spot of the campus, of course, though the University Drill hall is sometimes used as a substitute when the occasion demands more space.	.*3
16
The Scholastic
Each Saturday night, and the night before a holiday, you may attend a free movie in the antique. You may also attend special events free of charge such as plays, lectures, debates, and concerts. The time and nature of each .event is announced in advance.
Beneath the auditorium is the Washington Hall Rec Room. Pool, billiards and ping-pong await you . . . for a small pittance.
AND WHAT’S THAT BOX-LIKE BUILDING?:
That’s the Huddle. Most Freshmen live near it so you’ll find it convenient for an early morning cup of coffee or an evening sod^. This is the cnly spot on
campus that has a blaring juke box—a claim to fame, in itself.
WHAT DO I DO ABOUT MAIL?:
Notre Dame has a post office of its own from which all mail can be sent. Your mail will be delivered to the hall three times a day except on Saturday (two times) and Sundays (once).
HOW DO YOU GET EXPELLED?:
Most students who are expelled have stupidity to blame. Some fellows consider themselves wise enough, for an example, to keep a car on campus and get away with it—but it seldom works. Others spend week-ends in South Bend
to avoid the inconvenience of returning to campus at midnight on Saturday. You may put this one over several times, and then again only once, before you’re caught. But remember—no matter how smart you are there’s always someone a. bit smarter. You’re bound to be caught.
So abide by the rules. They’re not as rough as they look. •
WHAT ABOUT LIVING ARRANGEMENTS?
Being a Freshman is nothing to worry about around here. There are no fraternities, and consequently, no hazing. There is no disparagement, to speak of, between classes. Okay, so you’re a Freshman . . . but you are a Freshman only
SCHEDULE OF FACILITIES
Church	Sunday Masses in Sacred Heart Church: 6, 7, 8, 9 (High) 10:10, 11:10 (High).
	Confessions at all Masses. Weekday Masses in every Hall.		
	Late Daily Masses: 7:20 a. Communion: Distributed all	m. in Dillon and Cavanaugh Hall chapels.	
		morning in Dillon, until 9:30	a. m. in Cavanaugh Hall.
	WEEKDAYS	SATURDAY	SUNDAY
Barbershop 					7:30 a. m.— 5:00 p. m.	7:30 a. m.—Noon	
Bookstore 					 9:00 a. m.— 4:30 p. m.	9:00 a. m.—Noon	
Bookstore Annex 		9:00 a. m.—11:30 a. m.		
	12:30 p. m.— 4:30 p. m.		
Cafeteria 						 7:30 a. m.— 9:30 p. m.	8:00 a. m.— 7:00 p. m.	8:00 a. m.— 7:00 p. m.
Huddle-						 8:00 a. m.— 4:30 p. m.	8:00 a. m.—Noon	
	6:30 p. m.— 9:30 p. m.		
Infirmary 					 9:15 a. m.—11:30 a. m.	9:15 a. m.—11:30 a. m.	10:30 a. m.—11:30 a. m.
Laundry (Badin) 				 7:30 a. m.— 5:00 p. m.	7:00 a. m.—Noon	
Library 			 8:00 a. m.— 6:00 p. m.	8:00 a. m.— 5:00 p. m.	10:00 a. m.—Noon
	7:30 p. m.— 9:30 p. m.		
Shoe Repair 					 8:00 a. m.— 6:00 p. m.	8:00 a. m.—Noon	
Rec Hall (Wash. Hall) .....		 9:00 a. m.— 6:00 p. m.	9:00 a. m.— 6:00 p. m.	Noon	— 5:00 p. m.
	7:15 p. m.— 9:00 p. m.		7:15 p. m.— 9:00 p. m.
Rockne Memorial 			 6:30 a. m.— 5:30 p. m.	8:30 a. m.— 4:30 p. m.	9:00 a. m.— 4:30 p. m.
	7:00 p. m.— 8:30 p. m.		
Golf Course 				7:15 a. m. to Dark	7:00 a. m. to Dark	6:00 a. m. to Dark
Treasurer's Office 			 9:00 a. m.—Noon		
	1:30 p. m.— 5:00 p. m.		
Western Unions					 8:20 a. m.—Noon		
	1:00 p. m.— 5:00 p. m.		
Sept. 11, 1950
17
secondarily. First you are a Notre Dame man, remember that.
You’ll undoubtedly be sharing your room with someone. Take time out to think that he is sharing his room with •you as well and it might ease any difficulties that arise. If you are definitely mis-matched then watch your hall bulletin board for announcements concerning inter- and intra-hall room changing periods.
HOW ABOUT DECORATING MY ROOM?
A lot of fellows guess wrong about what is needed for the rooms and wind up with either too much junk or else pare the necessities down to a bed and a desk. Naturally, it is a matter of taste.
But if you want to dress up the room a bit you can do what many other students do. Put up some drapes, get a lamp and an easy chair. If you hunt around a while you can pick up a comfortable chair for as little as five dollars. Ask some Juniors or Seniors and they’ll give you some tips on where to look.
WHATS THE STORY ON LIVING IN TOWN?
Because of the shortage of rooms in residence halls, some Freshmen will have to live off-campus, at least for a few
Could you kindly inform me as to exactly when the bells ring for recess?.
months. Those on campus need not feel envious for their “town-buddies” are held to the same rules and regulations as everyone else.
They must be in by midnight every night and must register with the Prefect of Discipline’s office before leaving on a weekend. The off-campus man does have permission to own and operate a car in South Bend. However, the car must be registered, used only foi- traveling to and from the campus and cannot be used for touring Indiana and points east br west.
WHERE DO I GET MY BOOKS?
After your first or second class sessions you’ll have been told what books to buy. If you want new books you can get them in the University Bookstore which is located on the ground floor in the rear of Badin Hall.
If you want to save money you can buy your books in the BX (Book Exchange), located on the ground floor of the Main Building. The second-hand books available in the BX are approximately one-third less than new books, and are in fairly good shape. At both places cash, or check, is demanded—no credit.
For paper, pencils, notebooks, ink and so forth you will have to go to the University Bookstore on the ground floor in the front part of Badin Hall.
AND HOW ABOUT A HAIRCUT?
You can get your bean buzzed in a barbershop located also on the ground floor of Badin Hall. If you work it right -y* you can get there when the stag of amiable barbers are taking a ten minute break. Other times you’ll have to wait as long as an hour.
SUPPOSIN’ I WANT TO CASH A CHECK?
The place to cash your checks is at the Treasurer’s office in the basement of the Main Building. The office is on the . left as you enter the building from the . front.
HOW DO I TAKE CARE * OF MY LAUNDRY?
The laundry situation is neatly handled right on campus. Drop your bag down the laundry chute on the night set for your hall—a notice will tell you when— and a week or ten days later you can pick it up in the basement, yup, again, of Badin Hall. If you have arrived without a laundry bag, you can obtain one very reasonably at the laundry, itself, which is down behind the Sacred Heart Church.
CAN I CALL A BUDDY IN ANOTHER HALL?
Telephones are on hand in every hall —both for outside calls and for interhall calls. The inter-hall phones have not been in existence too long. You’ll find them very convenient when you want to check up on an assignment with someone who lives on the opposite side of the campus. There is no charge for this service. If you’ll answer them whenever they ring, though, you’ll be doing your hallmates, and yourself, a service. Don’t let “George” do it.
IS THE CAFETERIA FOR US?
Sure. You can get your daily papers and magazines there, plus ice cream, sodas, coffee, and, on days when the Dining Hall has nothing to your liking, . meals. If you want to get a daily newspaper delivered to your door, you may subscribe for it—someone will soon approach you in your, room about this.
A FINAL TIP:
For safety sake, read your book of regulations thoroughly. This section has touched on the subject just lightly. Ignorance of any ruling will not be accepted as an excuse. Be smart and know what the University policy is concerning all points of discipline.
18
The Scholastic
<r i Living Today
I I 1 ! Compiled by Frank Brophy
This column is for the purpose of discussion of things Catholic, both religious and secular, and especially as they have importance and interest for those here at Notre Dame. It was felt that the activities and ideas of the Church and her members in both the purely religious and the socio-temporal order, should have some familiarity on the part of the students. If there is none, then we hope to set aright the tragic lack.
It might well.be wondered; why such a thing?
Last year, at this time, there was no column of this kind. As the year progressed a few students perceived, or at least thought they did, something deficient in the accumulative knowledge of their mates and of themselves, and in their attitudes toward Catholic education and Catholic responsibility. One such person became quite- outspoken in the pages of the Scholastic, much to the dismay of a percentage of students on campus. He accused the average student at Notre Dame of hanging a dollar sign before his diploma, of having no intellectual interests outside the immediate content of their actual school courses, and especially of ignorance of the Church’s mission in the modern world, and of their own duties and obligations as Catholics, students, and future American Catholic citizens. His method was to contrast Notre Dame students of the past with those of the present. He merely chronicled the progressive dissipation of student cultural activity. Basically he was protesting against a secularized (commercialized) attitude on the part of the student.
According to the Bishops, Secularism is the Church’s greatest foe in America today. It promotes spiritual indifference and irresponsibility on the part of the individual towards himself and his community. It can also lead to serious errors in one’s social, political or religious thinking; errors which take a great deal of trouble to uproot because of their seeming environmental support. If what the aforementioned student writer says, is true, then it should be of serious concern for the student that he become intellectually and spiritually alive to the problems and problem (Secularism) of his age and fairly well-versed in the constructive activities of the Church and her members relating to them. Indeed he should be interested in international
Sept. 11, 1950
Catholicism and its thought and action in its various aspects.
It would be of great benefit for Freshmen, especially, if they could develop this interest in the beginning, instead of trundling around and spending most of their four years in acquiring that modicum of wisdom, which will compel them to make such an inquiry.
This column will report and suggest contemporary topics of Catholic discussion. It will also welcome any suggestions, criticisms or information from students who feel they have something to contribute. It does not claim to be sole arbiter in the matters which it discusses; it merely offers.
Annua! ND Laymen's Retreat Largest in 28 Year History
According to the Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C., Director of Retreats at Notre Dame, the annual Laymen’s Retreat held last week at the University of Notre Dame was the largest in the twentyeight year history of the retreat.
Father Foran reported a total of 1,725 Catholic laymen from all parts of the United States attended the 1950 Laymen’s Retreat. This total exceeds by 125 the former record number of 1,600, which was set last year.
This must be that group of Freshmen from Alaska.
The 28th annual Laymen’s Retreat at. Notre Dame featured special periods of prayer and meditation at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes, outdoor shrine on the campus. Participants in the retreat lived in student residence halls, took their meals in the student dining halls, and generally lived the lives of students, with religious exercises taking the place of classes.	-	.
Last of Mohicans Bill Flynn To Play Fourth, Final Year
Bill Flynn, a three-time monogram winner, is the last Notre Dame football player eligible to win a fourth monogram during a four year college career. Flynn, a 23-year-old who was switched to tackle this sprang, comes from Gary, Ind. He earned his first monogram when as a freshman he played end on the 1945 Fighting Irish squad. ‘
After that season he entered the Marines, returning to ND in February, 1948. He won two more monograms in 1948 and 1949 again as an end, and will be after his fourth this coming year.
Flynn is also the only member of the 1950 squad to have played in a losing Notre Dame game. In 1945, the Irish lost to both Army and Great Lakes.
'19
Activities and
Organizations
WHAT SPORTS ARE OPEN TO
NON-VARSITY MEN?:
You just name it—practically every sport is there for the taking. The Department of Physical Education sponsors an active program of intra-murals. Both touch and tackle football leagues will be formed within the next few weeks. As the year goes by there’ll be basketball and then baseball and softball leagues, among others.
During thg winter swimming is also put on intra-mural basis. Then, for the bowler, there’s the campus keglers, which meet every Sunday afternoon downtown.
HOW ABOUT TENNIS AND GOLF?:
The University has both dirt and hard surface tennis courts that are good enough for the amateur and the pro.
An 18-hole golf course is open from early spring until late fall, depending on the weather. A small greens fee is charged. The majority of men using the
Happy dance-goers leave formal dance after apparently having wonderful time.
course couldn’t make the golf team, so if you’re new to the game don’t feel as though you’re stepping out of your class by playing out there. ND has more than its share of duffers.
AND THE ROCK?:
The Rockne Memorial is the student’s own gym and you’ll probably spend a lot of your free time there. In the Rock are the handball and squash courts, a swimming pool, basketball courts, boxing, wrestling and tumbling rooms, and a place to get a winter sun-tan under ultra-violet lamps. Lockers and locks are provided for- your equipment, but go down there early to get. a locker assigned to you. A tip: there’s not enough lockers for the entire enrollment and they’re given out on a first-come first-served basis.
AND SWIMMING?:
St. Joseph’s lake is located right behind the Biology Building, which makes
Washington Hall
it a short walk for all Freshmen. There’s a pier and diving board down there. Swimming is allowed, however, only when a lifeguard is on duty. Disobey this rule and you’ll be reprimanded.
September is generally warm around here, so you’ll probably get a chance to test the spring-fed lake. There’ll be only a few weeks in the spring that the water is warm enough to allow swimming. When winter rolls around there’s always the Rock.
WHAT’S THE STORY ON CLUBS?:
There are more clubs on the campus than you can shake the proverbial stick at. Social clubs, intellectual clubs, sports clubs, etc.
One of the biggest groups is the geographical clubs. These are made up of students from one region or another throughout the country. They are concerned with a predominantly social agenda. All clubs will soon be announcing their first meetings of the year. Keep your eye on the bulletin board. Shop around, though, before you plunge into a half dozen organizations. Every stu- . dent should get interested in extra-cur- " ricula activities—but that doesn’t mean he should go hog-wild about it.
ARE LECTURES AND CONCERTS EVER HELD?:
Many of the country’s top-notch lecturers are presented in the annual lecture series at the University.
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra is always good for an enjoyable evening.	,
In the concert and lecture series you	j
will also encounter some very capable
The Scholastic
20
Sacred Heart Church
musicians as well as speakers. Such groups as the Julliard Quartet usually put in an appearance once a year. There’ll also be a touring group of actors.
DO I HAVE A CHANCE ON A PUBLICATION?:
Everyone has a chance. If you have any ability there are plenty of opportunities to put it to use. The weekly undergrad magazine, the Scholastic, the Dome, the literary magazine, the Juggler, the engineers’ mag, the Technical Review, and the lawyers’ publication, the Law Reviezv, all need new blood. You have quite a selection to choose from but you’ll have to be willing to give up a lot of your free time. If you have a heavy class schedule, think twice before you start cramming copy into your Underwood.
But that’s not meant to scare you away. If you have any journalistic leanings at all—try out. Chances are you’ll be getting a by-line before too long.
CAN I JOIN THE BAND?:
Again all you have to do is try out. There is a Freshman band, a Senior band and an orchestra for which you could play. The band goes on extended tours throughout the country each year.
There’s also the highly-praised glee club. If you can sing, try out and you might end up touring with them.
For those who like to act, there’s the University Theater. They put on several productions a year and are always looking for new people.
Sept. 11, 1950
IS THERE A STUDENT COUNCIL?:
Yes, and a very active one, too. As a class the Freshmen do not have a representative on the Council, but they do send hall representatives to the meetings. If you are interested in the Council why not drop into its office? It is on the first floor of the Main Building right next to the Department of Journalism office. Someone will be on duty and will be only too glad to help you.
CHANGING THE SUBJECT, WHAT’S THERE TO DO IN SOUTH BEND?:
Not much, is the answer, unless you are resourceful. There are the movies— you can go either to a movie or a show. The Colfax, Palace, Avon, and Granada all present first-runs. The State and the Oliver grind out re-runs. Other sources of amusement: a roller skating rink, bowling alleys, and an amusement park, which, incidentally, doesn’t open up again until Decoration Day.
HOW ABOUT PLACES TO EAT?:
For good and reasonable meals there’s Clark’s, the Capitol, Mark’s Chicken in the Rough, Sunny Italy, the Philadelphia and the China Inn. A bit more expensive and patronized mostly when parents are in town are Alby’s and Eddie’s steak houses.
Students cram Fieldhouse for a pep-rally. This year's first will be held September 29.
WHAT ABOUT DRINKING?:
This shouldn’t be too big a problem for a Freshman, for you have to be twenty-one years old to indulge — and able to prove it, too.
DO I GET TO WEAR A TUX?:
Not during your Freshman year. All the Victory Dances, after every football game, are open to every class. Then there will be other informal dances also open to all classes, including the first year men. You’ll have a Freshman dance in the Spring, but no formal dance is open to the Class of ’54. The Sophomore Cotillion, the Junior Prom and the Senior Ball are just for the upperclassmen.
You might, however, get invited to a formal dance at St. Mary’s. For the most part, though, you might as well store that tuxedo in moth balls because you won’t have much need for it this year.
HOW ABOUT THOSE
ST. MARY’S GIRLS?:
This is a question each man should answer foi* himself. Don’t become prejudiced by what any cynical upperclassman tells you.
The best advice is to go on over- and fend for yourself.
21
Year’s Calendar
Sept. 14, Thursday ...First Day of Classes.
Sept. 30, Saturday   .Football—North Carolina at Notre Dame.
Oct. 7, Saturday 			Football—Purdue at Notre Dame.
Oct. 13, Friday 			Founder’s Day—no classes. Student Trip to Tulane football game.
Oct. 28, Saturday 			Football—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
Nov. 1, Wednesday 		..... All Saints’ Day—no classes.
Nov. 7, Tuesday 			Lilly Windsor, Soprano, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
Nov. 11, Saturday 			Football—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
Nov. 15, Wednesday 				Lecture, Senator Paul Douglas, Washing-ton Hall, 8:00 p. m.
Nov. 23, Thursday 		..... Thanksgiving Day—no classes.
Dec. 6, Wednesday 			Basketball—Franklin Col. at Notre Dame.
Dec. 8, Friday 				Feast of the Immaculate Conception—no classes.
Dec. 9, Saturday 		.....Basketball—Anderson Col. at Notre Dame.
Dec. 11, Monday 		....Basketball—Wisconsin at Notre Dame.
Dec. 20 through Jan. 2 ..	..... Christmas Vacation.
Jan. 5, Friday 				Basketball—Butler at Notre Dame.
Jan. 9, Tuesday 			.....Basketball—Loyola Univ, at Notre Dame.
Jan. 18, Thursday 		....First Day of Final Exams.
Jan. 28, Sunday 		....January Commencement Exercises.
Feb. 1, Thursday 			....Classes begin at 8:00 a. m.
Feb. 3, Saturday 			....Basketball—Marquette at Notre Dame.
Feb. 7, Wednesday			....University Flayers, Inc.—Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m., “Macbeth.”
Feb. 8, Thursday 		.....University Players, Inc.—Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m., “Arms and the Man.”
Feb. 13, Tuesday 		....Basketball—St. Louis at Notre Dame.
Feb. 16, Friday 		....Basketball—DePaul at Notre Dame.
Feb. 19, Monday 		....Basketball—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
Feb. 21, Wednesday		....DePaul Infantry Chorus, 8:00 p. m., Drill Hall.
Feb. 22, Thursday		....Washington’s Birthday—no classes.
Mar. 21 through Mar. 27	....Easter Vacation.
Apr. 22, Sunday 		....South Bend Symphony, Drill Hall.
May 3, Thursday 			....Ascension Thursday—no classes.
May 24 through May 31	.... Semester examinations.
May 30, Wednesday 			....Memorial Day.
June 3, Sunday		..... Commencement.
IN CLOSING, A FEW TIPS:
Only one monogram is allowed around campus—that is the ND monogram. If you’ve brought your high school letter sweater with you, okay, but first take off the letter before wearing it.
Stay away from the front steps to the Main Building. No undergrad is permitted to use them—it’s a tradition and only grads and faculty members may walk up and down them.
Some advanced students may invade your room with some “highly prized” object for sale. Be on your guard so you won’t be gypped. Some of the things upperclassmen will try to sell will be good buys but other things will be strictly for those easily taken in.
If you’ve made, your three morning checks and have the chance to sleep in, remember you can receive Holy Communion and go to confession in the Dillon Hall chapel, any day until noon.
There is a certain part of South Bend which is off-limits to all ND students. It is that part west of the St. Joseph River and to the south and west of LaSalle Avenue, Williams Street and Fellows Street. If you don’t know where this area is, ask and be sure you’re in the right before getting into trouble.
Anyone under 21 must have written permission from home to take a weekend.
A daily visit to the Grotto is a habit you’ll find very common among Notre Dame men.
Illinois Heads State Roster With 22 Representatives
Illinois heads the 20 state list of contributors to the 1950 Fighting Irish squad with 22 representatives on the 81 man roster. Of that number, 19 are products of Chicago. Pennsylvania, which takes second place honors, furnishes ten men.
New York and Ohio are tied for the third slot with nine native sons each and are followed by Indiana and California with four. There are three each from Nebraska, Iowa, Minnesota and Louisiana. Maryland contributes two. Single representatives come from West Virginia, Michigan, Missouri, Wisconsin, Colorado, Wyoming, Massachusetts, Georgia and Florida.

22
The Scholastic
Notre Dame, Our Mother
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue. Glory’s mantle cloaks thee. Golden is thy fame. And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
When Irish Backs Go Marching By
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry, Gathering foemen fling to the sky. Fight Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
(chorus)
And when the Irish backs go marching by The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game. Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through. They’ll sweep the foemen’s ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
Victory March
Rally sons of Notre Dame;
Sing her glorv and sound her fame. Raise her Gold and Blue
And cheer with voices true:
Rah, rah, foi' Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game, Strong of heart and true to her name o
We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame.
(chorus)
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory.
Hike Song
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again.
Oh, it’s the hike, hike of victory. The call, to rise and strike.
For Notre Dame men are winning
When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike.
Hark to the cheering song rising high,
Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Bum high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.
Sept. 11, 1950
23
LOBUND Dedicates Lab for Germ Study
The dedication of a new Germ-Free Life Laboratory in the Laboratories of Bacteriology at the University of Notre Dame (LOBUND) highlighted campus June activity.
The new laboratory, dedicated on June 21, will house facilities for the rearing of a stock colony of germ-free animals for scientific research. The germ-free animals are used as an approach to the study of pathological conditions of unknown cause, such as heart disease, tooth decay, radiation sickness, and possibly cancer.
Participating on the LOBUND dedication program were the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame and now Bishop of Buffalo, N. Y.; the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c.. President of Notre Dame; Dr. James L. Blayney, Director of the Walter G. Zoller Memorial Dental Clinic at the University of Chicago; and Professor James A. Reyniers, founder and Director of LOBUND, which is an institute for research in the life sciences.
Completing the program was an address by Dr. Charles F. Kettering, Vice-President and Research Consultant of the General Motors Corporation, Detroit. Dr. Kettering spoke in the Notre Dame Drill Hall.
An all-day symposium on "Science and Society” was held at Notre Dame on June 22 in conjunction with the LOBUND dedication ceremonies.
i. i
Incoming Freshmen will soon become very familiar with Michigan St., the main artery in South Bend. All local entertainment is on or near the bustling boulevard.
Participating in the first session of the symposium were Dr. Charles DeKoninck, Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy at Laval University, Quebec, Canada; Dr. Robert Chambers, Professor Emeritus at New York University; Dr. Ira L. Baldwin, Vice-President of Academic Affairs at the University of Wisconsin; and Dr. Bradley Dewey, President of the Dewey and Almy Chemical Company, Cambridge, Mass., and Chairman of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame, which held its Spring meeting on the campus in conjunction with the dedication ceremonies.
Featured in the second session of the symposium were Rear Admiral T. A. Solberg, USN, of Washington, D. C., Chief of Naval Research; Dr. Oram T. Woolpert, Director of the Biological Department of the U. S. Chemical Corps, Camp Detrick, Md.; Dr. John H. Teeter, of New York City, Cancer Research Administrator of the American Cancer Society and the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund ; and Mr. Watson Davis, of Washington, D. C., Director of Science Service.
Leading scientists, educators and industrialists from all parts of the nation attended the dedication and symposium. General chairman of the dedication ceremonies and symposium was the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School at Notre Dame.
CSMC Convention Submits Protest to Jacob A. Malik
A protest against the persecution of the Catholic clergy in nations behind the Iron Curtain will be lodged with the United Nations by the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade as a result of action taken by the Crusade at the close of its 14th national convention at the University of Notre Dame.
The 2,800 student delegates, representing 1,000,000 Catholic students in all parts of the United States, passed a resolution at its closing session Sunday, Aug. 27, to protest directly to Jacob A. Malik, Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister and former President of the Security Council of the United Nations, against the “unjust arrest . . . without other cause than their religious affiliations of large numbers of Catholic priests and religious in countries of Eastern Europe.”
The Crusade resolution pointed out that “it is the avowed purpose of the United Nations organization to protect the rights of individual human beings and groups of people in all parts of the world.”
The resolution, introduced by Miss Joanne Monaghan of the University of Dayton, O., also called for lodging the same protest with President Harry S. Truman for transmittal to the American representation in the Security Council.
In another resolution on the Church in Korea, the Crusade convention urged its members to “pray daily for the return of peace to the Catholic Church in Korea and for all the Church’s leaders and children during the present crisis in that country.”
Sociology Head Writes New College Textbook
Expectation that the growing challenge of Communism in the United States may lead maiw non-Catholic colleges to abandon their traditional “naturalistic” philosophy in sociology courses is reflected in “Sociology for a Democratic Society,” a new college textbook written by the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, c.s.c., Head of the Department of Sociology.
In the new book, which is being published by the Appleton-Century-Crofts Company of New York City, Father Murray claims that the naturalistic approach to sociology is “undemocratic.”
Naturalistic philosophy is based upon the belief that “no one can be certain of any suprasensible truth,”’ according to Father Murray, and it thereby denies the validity of both the philosophical and religious principles upon which “our government was founded.”
24
The Scholastic
aerial view shows South Bend to be a large city with an extended, diversified business center and many public buildings.
An
7
Sept. 11, 1950
than 125.000. The population of its metropolitan area, which includes Mishawaka, Ind., is above the '200,000 mark.
The city covers 20 square miles on both sides of the St. Joseph River, with an altitude of 716 feet above sea levei. The annual normal mean temperature for a 50 year period is 49.4 degrees.
Every “college town” gets little praise and much criticism from the student body located therein or nearby. South Bend is no exception. But before expressing any profound opinions about this city, you might be interested in some facts about how it started and what it has built up to.
In 1675 the famous Jesuit explorer and missionary, Father Jacques Marquette is said to have been the first white man to visit what is now the site of South Bend. The first settler, Pierre Navarre, established a trading post for the American Fur Company there in 1820.
Three years after Navarre’s arrival, Frenchman Alexis Coquillard made the trading post a permanent affair, naming the site Big St. Joseph Station. Coquillard is considered to be the founder of South Bend.
In 1827 the community was called St. Joseph’s. Two years later- the name was changed to Southold. Jt took the U. S. Post Office to settle the name question to South Bend in 1830.
During its early days South Bend saw Notre Dame founded nearby in 1842. The community began its rise to fame industrially in 1852 when two brothers, Henry and Clement Studebaker started building wagons there.
Today South Bend is principally an industrial community. Over 200 manufacturing plants, including the Studebaker Corp., the Bendix Products Division of the Bendix Aviation Corp., the Oliver Corp., the Singer Manufacturing Co., Wilson Brothers, and the South Bend Lathe Works, make the city known the world over.
The population of South Bend is more
Five steam railroads serve the city and an electrical railroad provides hourly service to Chicago’s loop. Recent building has resulted in a beautiful St. Joseph County Airport and a modern intercity bus terminal.
More facts about the city won’t fit in this piece. What’s been said, however, may help you understand this “fostercommunity” a little better and make your four years at Notre Dame a little mere pleasurable.
Your Suit Photo-Fitted
Let Parker-Winterrowd style your spring and summer suit with the newest in tailoring methods . . . Photofit. Your posture and proportions are recorded against an accurately calibrated background to insure perfect contour corrections. This completely eliminates guesswork, saves time, and guarantees an absolutely perfect fit. Have your next suit — we have 750 beautiful fabrics to choose from — fitted by photography. Photo-Fitted suits can be yours for as little as $55. Come in today.
, Tuxedos and Tails—Sold or Rented. You will marvel at your ready-made Suits and Coats. A complete assortment for College Men from $55 upwards.
PARKER-WINTERROWD. Inc.
115/2-117/2 North Main St.	Second Floor — Upstairs
“South Bend's Oldest Custom-Tailors and Clothiers”
South Bend
Theatres
Welcome the Men of '
Notre Dame
"<1
Colfax
State
Palace
Granada
26
The Scholastic
Alex Wilson Assumes Head Track Coach Post
To Freshmen:
It is a distinct pleasure to be able to welcome all of the members of the class of 1954 to the Notre Dame campus. As Head Football Coach I have a message for all of you young gentlemen. Our football team has been extremely fortunate in going through the past four seasons without defeat, and one of the most important factors in those four seasons has been the tremendous support our players have received from the members of the student body. The Notre Dame football team is your team, and we ask each one of you men to give the players your entire support during the coming season. We open against the Southern Conference Champions from the University of North Carolina, and they have one of the nation’s greatest teams coming up. We may even enter this game as the underdogs, but we have one important thing in our favor. The game is being played in the Notre Dame stadium before you men. The more support you give our team the harder they will play, and if you stay behind us all season, we may not win them all, but you won’t be
Coach Frank Leahy
Coach Elvin "Doc" Handy
ashamed to call the 1950 aggregation “your” team—and at the finish I’m sure you will call “your” team the Fighting Irish.”
I should also like to take this opportunity to urge all of you freshmen to get into the swing of things from the opening day of school. Get a fast start on your scholastic program and take full advantage of the religious opportunities beginning immediately. Cause yourself to become interested in all of the sports programs that are here for your benefit. Take part in all the interhall sports programs that are so excellently run on campus. You men are entering Notre Dame during a very important time in history, so make certain that you get all you possibly can out of your four years on the campus. We all hope and pray that you won’t have to fight in another World War, but we must be prepared, and the competitive spirit that has won every war in which America has ever fought is inbred into the American youth on the athletic field.
Frank Leahy
Head Coach of Football
'Doc' Handy Resigns To Enter Business
Alex Wilson, Loyola University of Chicago track coach and star runner at Notre Dame during the early thirties, has returned to his alma mater as track mentor to assume the post left vacant by the resignation of Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy.
Handy, who resigned to enter private business in Iowa City, Iowa, had been associated with the University since 1931. He came to ND as a professor of physical education in that year and in 1932 became assistant track coach under the late John P. Nicholson and later William P. Mahoney. He became head track coach in 1942.
Wilson, for the past 18 years, has at one time or another been athletic director, swimming, basketball, cross-country, and track coach at Loyola. He was a middle distance star when he attended Notre Dame, setting records in both the 440 and 880. Once he timed in 46.9 seconds for the quarter. In 1928 and 1932 he competed in the Olympics for his native Canada. He was second in the 800 meter race and third in the 400 meter run in Los Angeles in ’32. He ran in the Canadian 600 meter relay team in the ’28 Amsterdam Olympics.
While at Notre Dame he was undefeated in the quarter and half-mile events and set a national indoor record of 49.3 for the 440 in ’32. He also won the national AAU 600 and twice copped the Millrose 600.
During his tenure at Loyola he founded the Illinois State Catholic High School relays which are now held annually in Loyola Stadium. Ip addition to his bachelor degree from Notre Dame, Wilson holds a master of science in education degree from Northwestern.
Handy’s Letter
In his letter of resignation to Edward W. Krause, Athletic Director, Handy said: “I am sorry to be leaving my teaching and coaching duties at Notre Dame, but a wonderful opportunity in private business has been pre-
(Continued on Page 30)
Sept. 11, 1950
27
Captain Jerry Groom
Green Notre Dame Football Squad Faces Rough Schedule; Tarheels First to Beat
Bob Williams
For four years Notre Dame has had the enviable distinction of never having been defeated on the football field. Not since 1945 have the Irish walked out of a stadium with their heads bowed in defeat. With the exception of a few veterans, there isn’t a student on campus who knows what it’s like to have his Notre Dame team lose. But the odds-makers say there’ll be some changes made.
One defeat doesn’t ruin a football season—except here at Notre Dame.
The next game coming up is always the toughest and this year it probably will be the big one of the season. If the opener with North Carolina matches the one with Purdue two years ago, it will be all right with Frank Leahy just as long as the Irish win this one, too, even if it is again by only a single point. The Tarheels boast a powerful squad and many of those who made the trip to Yankee Stadium to face the Irish last fall will be ready to go against Leahy’s lads again in Notre Dame Stadium Sept. 30. No matter what kind of a team Purdue puts on the field, she always manages to give ND a full afternoon’s work. This year won’t be any exception. Tulane is just waiting to give the Irish the same treatment in the Sugar Bowl that they received up here last fall. A young squad of Hoosiers that gave ND first half trouble in ’49 is now a band of seasoned performers and that spells sleepless nights for Coach Leahy. Michigan State is rebuilding this year much as Notre Dame is. The Spartans have had good teams the past couple of years
but ND has usually come up with one of her better games of the season against them. Navy has been taking a pounding from the Irish since the war and this year, given half a chance they’ll be going all out to give a little back. Pittsburgh returns to the Irish after a year’s lapse with a new football coach and high hopes. Iowa likewise has a new mastermind and, if they do as well at Iowa City as they did here one cold November Saturday last Fall, Notre Dame will be up to their chin straps in hard work. Southern Cal, on paper, has nothing that compares with their elevens of the past few years, but that doesn’t mean a thing when they and the Irish get together in one of the great intersectional rivalries of collegiate football. The last time the Green Shirts appeared in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, the results were near-disastrous.
Off their showing in spring practice, the Irish should win a majority of games but an undefeated season is almost too much to be expected. There is a fairly strong first eleven but the lack of depth will force many of them to clock close to their limit in playing time. Hardest hit by graduation were the tackle and end positions. Jim Mutschel-ler, who played mostly on defense last year, and Chet Ostrowski are a couple of Junior lettermen who figure to start at the wing positions. Behind them are no lettermen but there are some capable Sophs and Juniors, long on ability but short on experience. At tackle, are Bob Toneff, a powerful 232-pounder, and Bill Flynn. Again, they are the only
Jim Mutschel'er
Bill Flynn
Billy Barrett
28
The Scholastic
lettermen at their positions and Flynn :	won his monogram as an end. The
guards are much better off with Paul ' Burns and Fred Wallner the number one :	men. Frank Johnston and Soph Tom
Seaman are slated for plenty of action , and Clark Stroude, another Soph, will
be used mainly as a linebacker. Captain Jerry Groom was out all spring due to a knee operation but will be ready to start at center against the Tarheels. Two Junior Jims, Bartlett and Hamby, will serve as Groom’s relief.
In the backfield, All-American Bob Williams will hold forth at quarterback. . With John Mazur able to carry his share of the offensive load Williams may be used as a part-time safety man. Bill Barrett will be at right half with Bill Gay and John Petitbon fighting for the left half spot. Hard running Jack Landry will crack opposing lines from the fullback slot. Best of last year’s Freshman crop are Ralph Paolone and Murray Johnson.
It promises to be a rocky season ahead for the Irish in 1950.
1950 Football Schedule
Sept. 30—N. Carolina at Notre Dame
Oct.	7—Purdue at Notre Dame
Oct. 14—Tulane at New Orleans
Oct. 21—Indiana at Bloomington
Oct. 28—Mich. State at Notre Dame
Nov. 4—Navy at Cleveland
Nov. 11—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame
Nov. 18—Iowa at Iowa City
Dec. 2—Southern Cal at Los Angeles
Bob Toneff

Who’s Right?
Here it is almost the middle of September, the time when all good football experts will have made their predictions on just which will be the top teams in the country this fall. These lads have had an easy time of it for the last few years. All they had to do was pick the Irish, sit back, and wait for handshakes. They did pretty well in ’46 and ’47, and didn’t fare too badly in ’48. But in ’49 many of the “in the know” boys decided it was time for a change and they hopped off the ND bandwagon. Tulane picked up a few in the North, East and West and a lot in the South; Southern Cal and California drew theirs mainly from the West Coast, and Michigan, Army and SMU all got their share. Only a few decided to stick with the Irish for another time around. And there were more than just a few red faces in the crowd when the Irish finished in the number one position. Why, some guy down South named Williamson, who figures out ratings on some kind of a crazy percentage system, boldly predicted that the ’49 season would see the Irish suffer defeat no less than five times. Poor fellow must have used a broken slide rule.
This year, two schools of thought crop up. On the one hand is the expert of the Bill Stern school. Stern, writing in the July issue of Sport, predicted that “. . . Army and Notre Dame are expected to keep thir records clean in 1950.” People like Bill have seen and heard Notre Dame play these past four years and come up with four undefeated seasons. Now they figure that “this thing is good forever” and so “let’s stick with the Irish; we can’t lose.” So they pick ND to lead the parade again in ’50. But they base their choice on past performances and discount (or overlook) the inexperience of the Irish squad, figuring that Leahy magic will make up for any shortcomings the team might have.
School number two says, “Sure Notre Dame will have a good year. Course they won’t go undefeated but they ought to win most of their games. Might even finish in the top ten. First 20 anyway.”
There might even be a third group for “prognosticators” such as friend Williamson. These are the kind that are
still having a hard time believing .that Notre Dame has gone 38 games without defeat. “But all that luck of theirs will run out on ’em this year!” they say. “Why, they’ll have the boom lowered on ’em so many times this season they’ll wish they had Army’s schedule.”
Of course we hope that Bill Stem turns out to be right as rain. But if he is, it will only be because the 1950 Fighting Irish were the fightin’est bunch of Irish in a long time. They are, for the most part, as green as the jerseys they’ll wear on their backs. They may be outmanned more than once this season. But if they let themselves be outfought, they’ll be sunk.
Interhall Renewals
For all you campus athletes, and particularly for you incoming Freshmen, the Department of Physical Education will start the Fall intramural sports program just as soon as possible. There’ll be football, both tag and tackle, baseball, volleyball, tennis and golf tournaments—even soccer. Highlight of the Fall season is the championship football game between the winners of the East and West Leagues. Watch your Hall bulletin boards for details.
Doc Resigns
The athletic picture at Notre Dame looks bright to all returning Notre Dame students. But there’s one sports figure that has left these parts and has consequently left a sad void in his departure. The person is likeable Doc Handy, who retired during the summer after teaching in the Department of Physical Education since 1931 and being track coach since 1942.	•
During his term as mentor of the Irish trackmen, many stars have come forth to take their rightful place on the roster of all-time great Notre Dame athletes.
But Doc was always more than just a coach to such men as Bill Fleming, Jim Miller, Bob Smith, Jim Kittell, and John Helwig. He was their friend. He was always ready to give more than helpful points on how to improve their styles and skills.	•
Sept. 11, 1950
29
Varied Jobs Occupy Irish Team's Summer
Although the largest segment of Irish players spent their summer vacations working on construction jobs, the overall variety of occupations ran from digging graves to teaching watei' skiing to moving playhouse scenery.
Captain Jerry Groom, center, spent his summer doing construction work. Quarterback Bob Williams was a carpenter’s helper. Both spent much of their spare time playing softball. Groom also played a lot of golf, while Williams caught up on his tennis.
Among those working in more unusual jobs was Bill Hovey, halfback, who was a lifeguard and instructor in the Lake Placid, N. Y., water ski school. The grave digger on the 1950 squad was Chet Ostrowski, end. Bill Spieler, guard, worked for the Central City Opera Association, near his hometown of Denver, Colo., doing backstage work and moving scenery.
John Mazur, quarterback, and To y Zambroski, guard, both worked for their hometown school systems, c'eaning and painting school houses. Working cn the Mississippi water front fixing pallets was Halfback John Petitbon’s summer job. Bill Barrett, halfback, worked for an insulating company.
Bill Whiteside, quarterback, and Tom Carter, halfback, had accounting jobs for the summer. Whiteside spent his off-time swimming and playing baseball while Carter worked out in a home own gymnasium every night.
Track Coach (Continued from Page 27) sented to me that I cannot conscientiously turn down. I want to thank you and all other members of the administration for the great cooperation given me these many years.”
Under Handy, the Irish won many midwest and state honors in both track and cross country, in addition to winning just slightly less than two-thirds of their dual and triangular meets.
He developed many outstanding stars, most recently Bill Fleming, winner of the 220-yard low hurdle race in the National AAU meet. In the last two years five boys on his squad set new all-time Notre Dame records. Fleming set marks in 60-yard high and low hurdles and 120-yard high and 220-yard low hurdles; Jim Miller, in pole vault, indoors; Bill Leonard, in the one mile, outdoors; John Helwig, in the shot put, and Bob Smith, in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. Handy is a past president of the Central Collegiate conference and
the National Collegiate Cross Country Coaches association.
Coach Krause, in announcing the resignation, said: “Doc Handy’s leaving will be a tremendous loss here at Notre Dame. Not only is he a great track coach, he is a fine Christian gentleman and an inspiration to all who worked with him.”
Scientists
(Continued from Page 10)
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Dr. Choh Hao Li, associate Professor of the Institute of Experimental Biology at the University of California; and Dr. E. E. Hays, Director of Biochemical Research at Armour and Company, Chicago. These four men discussed Cortisone and ACTH, the recently discovered material for treating rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatic fever and are being tried experimentally in the treatment of cancer.
The use of radioactive substances in tracing the action of drugs in the body and in the treatment of diseases was revealed at the fifth session. Participants in this discussion were Dr. D. L. Tabern, of the Abbott Laboratories; Dr. C. Rosenblum, of the Merck Company; Dr. George B. Brown, of the Cornell University Medical School and the Sloan-Kettring Institute for Cancel- Research; and Dr. George H. Kitchings, of the Burroughs-Wellcome Company, New York City.
A round-table discussion of the means by which drugs act in the body was conducted during the Symposium. Dr. L. S. Goodman, Professor of Pharmacology at the University of Utah School of Medicine, led this discussion. Other participants included Dr. F. Berheim, Professor of Pharmacology at the University of Cambridge in England; Dr. Walter H. Hartung, Dean of the School of Pharmacy at the University of North Carolina; Dr. H. R. Ing, Professor of Pharmacology at the University of Oxford in England; Dr. C. C. Pfeiffer, Head of the Department of Pharmacology at the University of Illinois College of Medicine; and Dr. A. D. Welch, Director of the Department of Pharmacology at the Western Reserve University School of Medicine.
The final session of the Symposium featured a report on the newer developments in drugs used for heart disease. Taking part in this report were Dr. Arthur Stoll, a member of the board of directors of the Sandoz Pharmaceutical Company of Switzerland, and internationally-known for his heart research; Dr. R. C. Elderfield, Professor of Chemistry at Columbia University; Dr. R. W. Wegria, Assistant Professor at the Presbyterian Hospital in
New York City; and Dr. K. K. Chen, Head of the Pharmacology Division of the Eli Lilly Company of Indianapolis, who discovered ephedrine, used for treating hay fever and asthma.
University Alumni Flock To Annual June Reunion
More than 800 alumni of the University of Notre Dame returned to the Notre Dame campus June 9, 10 and 11 for* the annual alumni return.
Special programs were arranged for Notre Dame alumni who were graduated in the classes prior to 1900, in 1905, 1910, 1915, 1920, 1925, 1930, 1935, 1940 and 1945. Special feature of the reunion was a President’s Luncheon tendered members of the class of 1925, who celebrated the Silver Anniversary of their graduation, by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University.
Other highlights of the program included a meeting of the Notre Dame Law Association, composed of Notre Dame alumni in the legal profession; a review of Notre Dame’s academic progress by the deans of the five colleges in the University; and the annual Alumni Banquet.
Special awards also were given at the reunion to all alumni of the University who were graduated fifty years ago or longer.
ND's Wightman Art Gallery Receives Mosier Painting
“Forging the Cross,” a large painting by the noted artist Henry Mosier, has been presented to the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery at the University of Notre Dame by Mrs. J. Fuller Feder, of New York City, daughter of Mr. Mosier.
The painting, valued at 85,000, is the second Mosier work to be presented to the Notre Dame gallery. Mr. Peter C. Reilly, President of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation in Indianapolis. Ind., in 1944 presented the gallery with a later painting of Mr. Mosier entitled, “Woman in a Cabbage Patch.” Mr. Reilly is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame.
Mr. Mosier, who died in 1920,. formerly served as art correspondent for Harpers with the Army of the West in 1862-63. His “Le Retour” was the first American painting ever purchased by the Luxembourg Gallery.
In addition to his representation in Luxembourg, the Sydney, Australia, Museum owns his “Wedding Morning,” and the Corcoran Gallery, Washington, D. C., is in possession of his “Saying Grace,” which was painted in 1897.
30
The Scholastic

The REV. PATRICK J. CARROLL, C.S.C., former vice-president of the University of Notre Dame and for the past sixteen years editor of the Ave Maria magazine published at Notre Dame, marked the fiftieth anniversary of his ordination to the Catholic priesthood in ceremonies August 12 on the ND campus.
Father Carroll, who was vice-president of Notre Dame from 1926 to 1929, observed his Golden Jubilee with a Sol-K- emn Mass Aug. 12 in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. Officers of the anniversary Mass were the Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., Deacon; the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., Associate Editor of the Ave Maria, Sub-Deacon, and the Rev. Felix Duffey, C.S.C., Assistant Editor of the Ave Maria, Master of Ceremonies.
The present conflict in Korea and its implications regarding the future peace of the world were discussed by five experts on international affairs at a panel on “The Present World Crisis” held on July 27 at Notre Dame.
Participants on the panel were Dr. Kenneth Colegrove, of Northwestern University, former political advisor to General Douglas MacArthur in Japan; Dr. Hans Morgenthau, Professor of International Relations at the University of Chicago, noted authority on American-Soviet Relations; DR. STEPHEN KERTESZ, Associate Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame and former Hungarian minister to Italy; DR. WALDEMAR GURIAN, Editor of the Review of Politics and Chairman of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame; and DR. WILLIAM SHANAHAN;' Assistant Professor of History at Notre Dame and a member of the University’s Committee on International Relations.
DR. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, Dean of the College of Science at Notre Dame, has been named the 1950 recipient of the Notre Dame Lay Faculty Award for distinguished service during the 1949-50 schoolyear.
The award, which carries a $500 purse, is made annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Last year’s award went to Professor WILLIAM D. ROLLISON, of the College of Law at Notre Dame.
Dr. Baldinger, as Dean of the College of Science, heads the staff of scientists who are conducting research in the
fields of chemistry, physics and mathematics at Notre Dame. Among the research projects at Notre Dame are those involving cancer, the Rh factor in human blood, radiation chemistry, electronics and atomic energy.
Dr. Baldinger specializes in organic chemistry, and has conducted extensive research on the oil of peppermint, chiefly valuable for its flavoring use, particularly in chewing gum. He is a members of the sub-committee on Volatile Oils of the United States Pharmacopoeia.
An eleven-point program for Catholic elementary and secondary education in the United States was announced by DR. BERNARD J. KOHLBRENNER, Head of the Notre Dame Department of Education, following the close of a four-week Workshop in Catholic School Administration at the University of Notre Dame during the Summer.
The workshop, sponsored by the Department of Education at Notre Dame, was attended by twenty-one Catholic school administrators from all parts of the United States. The administrators represented 157 schools with a total enrollment of 40,000.
DR. MILTON BURTON, Director of the Radiation Chemistry Project at the University of Notre Dame, addressed a group of scientists in Paris, France, July 18 at a celebration commemorating the 50th anniversary of the discovery of radium.
Dr. Burton, who was in Europe on a two-week lecture and business trip, also delivered an address on July 25 at the sixth International Congress of Radiology in London.
While in Europe, the Notre Dame scientist visited radiation chemistry projects in Paris and in Manchester, Birmingham, Harwell, Cambridge and Newcastle, England. The Notre Dame Radiation Chemistry Project is jointly sponsored by the University and the Atomic Energy Commission.
The Salesian Fathers of Tokyo report that they are using a Japanese translation of The Faith of Millions, by the REV. JOHN A. O’BRIEN of the University of Notre Dame, to spearhead a drive to win the churchless masses of Japan to the faith of Christ.
The Salesians report that The Faith of Millions, published by the Salesian
Press of Tokyo, is effective with the Japanese because it presents the teachings of the Catholic faith in the light of reason and modem science. Copies of the Japanese translation also are reaching the United States for use among the Japanese in this country.
Vocational Institute Mid-July Highlight
The “success story of Christ must be substituted for that of Broadway” in order to encourage religious vocations in sufficient numbers to meet the growing opportunities being presented the Church at home and abroad, the Most Rev. Thomas J. McDonnell, Auxiliary Bishop of New York, declared at the fourth annual Vocation Institute at the University of Notre Dame.
The Institute, under the auspices of the Holy Cross Fathers, was attended by more than 500 Priests, Brothers and Sisters from Nova Scotia to California. The Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., Director of Vocations at Holy Cross Seminary on the ND campus, was Director of the Institute.
Other sessions of the Institute stressed the need of deepening the spiritual life in the individual, the family, the parish and the nation, if vocations God is giving are to be generously accepted by the young people of our day.
In his keynote address the Most Rev. John F. Noll, d.d., Bishop of Fort Wayne, pointed out the worldwide need of more Priests, Brothers and Sisters, and the necessity of searching for positive means to meet the need.
The Rev. William M. Robinson, C.S.C., Assistant Religious Superior at Notre Dame, struck -a note fundamental to the whole Institute in his address on “Fostering Vocations Through the Religion Course.” Dr. Wilfrid M. Gill, practicing psychiatrist of Cleveland, O., spoke of the need for careful screening of candidates for the priesthood and religious life, outlining the personality factors and the elements. in personal and family history that are important in determining success or failure.
In the concluding address at the Institute, the Rev. Kenneth D. Hoffman, of the Diocesan Mission Band, Chicago, summed up and evaluated the various sessions and urged the delegates to return home determined to put into practice the things they had learned and to make them available to the young people in their charge in order that “more of our youth might have the courage and generosity to follow Christ’s call.”
Sept. 11, 1950
31
No More Horsemen
By Arthur Daley
Harry Stuhldreher resigned last week as the athletic director at Wisconsin and thus did the fabled Four Horsemen of Notre Dame fade gently from the sports picture. Like the Ten Little Indians of nursery lore, “* * * and then there was none.” Perhaps they did not form the greatest backfield unit in football history but they certainly were the most glamorous, the most artfully publicized and the most unforgettable. They will be remembered with emotional warmth long after their superiors have become cold statistics in discarded record books.
They will become true immortals of the gridiron because the game has changed so much with its mass substitutions, its two platoons and its jumble of meaningless names that few will live with the crystal clarity of Harry Stuhldreher, Sleepy Jim Crowley, Don Miller and Elmer Layden. They were 60-minute performers of extraordinary skill in sport’s Golden Age and titans of equal rank with Jack Dempsey, Babe Ruth, Bobby Jones and all the rest.
There is nothing like a nickname to insure immortality and a felicitous turn of phrase by Grantland Rice christened this quartet the Four Horsemen on a gray October day of 1924. Before that wonderfully descriptive label had a chance to slip from public consciousness, the ingenious Knute Rockne had pictures snapped of his prize quartet on the backs of four noble Percherons. Every paper in the country printed that picture and
Four Horsemen — after 25 years: (I to r) Miller, Layden, Crowley and Stuhldreher.
(Ed. Note: The column “No More Horsemen” by Arthur Daley appeared in the “New York Times” Tuesday, June 20 and is reprinted here by permission of the “Times.” Mr. Daley, known personally to hundreds of Notre Dame fans and alumni is the arithor of a recent well-received book “Times at Bat,” in which he shares the experiences of 25 years' coverage of big league baseball.)
the Four Horsemmen belonged to posterity.
Then There Were Three
They were to remain on the football scene for a considerable period of time. All four took coaching jobs on their graduation and Miller was the first to go. He coached while he studied law and then embarked on a career which was to make him the United States Attorney for Ohio. As the Little Indian verse would describe it, “* * * and then there were three.”
The other three moved up the gridiron ladder steadily until Layden was coaching at Notre Dame, Crowley at Fordham and Stuhldreher at Wisconsin. But then Elmer took an executive post as Commissioner for the National Football League and. when last heard of, he was doing exceptionally well as a sales execu
tive for, of all things, a locomotive concern. “And then there were two.”
Crowley took a postwar job as Commissioner of the All-American Conference, a grievous tactical mistake for him, and now is doing well selling something or other in Chicago. “And then there was one”—Stuhldreher, an abused and criticized man at Wisconsin until he quit as coach and became athletic director. Now he has tossed that aside for a more restful—and probably more lucrative— job with U. S. Steel. “And then there was none.”
DRAMATIC ARRIVAL
The piecemeal dispersal of the Four Horsemen can’t begin to match their first dramatic union in the freshman class at Notre Dame. Fate must have guided them there. There’s no other way of accounting for it. Stuhldreher hailed from Massillon, Ohio, a football hotbed, and first matriculated at one of the Eastern Ivy schools, didn’t like the campus and fled to South Bend.
Crowley was from Green Bay, Wis., and he entered Notre Dame because his high school coach had been a student beneath the Golden Dome, a chap who later was to gain considerable fame as a pro football pioneer, Curly Lambeau. Miller, of course was a natural, destined there from birth because all the Millers automatically went there from generation to generation. Layden—well, no one yet knows what brought this Davenport, Iowa, lad to South Bend. He just went.
The best football player on their freshman team, ironically enough, was Jerry Miller, Don’s brother. But this will-o-the-wisp halfback never grew to varsity size, remaining too small at 135 ever to be a star. On second thought, he must have been awfully small because none of the Horsemen was a bonecrusher. Stuhldreher weighed 156 pounds, Crowley and Miller 160, and Layden, the bruising fullback, a stunning 162. Furthermore, they operated behind a 185-pound line.
Speed and Timing
Yet they moved man-mountains from their path with their terrific speed and split-second timing. Rockne, the perfectionist, had his shift so attuned to jar-' ring the enemy off balance that no one could stop Notre Dame’s attack except the Rules Committee. The Football
Fathers threw the book at Rock by legis-
32
The Scholastic
lating into existence a one-second pause after the shift.
Even the omniscient Rockne didn’t dream what he had when the Horsemen became sophomores in the autumn of 1922. He had had two backfield holdovers, Frank Thomas at quarterback, and Paul Castner, a prodigious leftfooted kicker at full. Miller was the first of them to get a regular berth, being assigned to right half. Crowley and Layden shared the left half spot and Stuhldreher soon was spelling the veteran Thomas with more and more regularity at quarter.
Before the Carnegie Tech game of that year Castner broke his hip and Notre Dame was without a fullback. It’s fortunate, indeed, that Rockne was a full-fledged genius because only a genius would have thought—or dared—to use a 162-pounder like Layden as a fullback.
Class by Himself
There never was another quite like him. Layden was the fastest of the Horsemen and he plummeted through openings so low to the ground that his nose almost scraped the turf with each rocket-like blast. He also was a punter with a range of better than 60 yards a clip. Crowley and Layden were slashing halfbacks who were wraiths in an open field.
Stuhldreher was a quarterback with so many brain-cells that he amounted to an extra coach on the field. Oh, yes. He also was the passer. All four of them could block and tackle so sharply that they never needed help. What is more, they used only five plays but executed them so flawlessly that they lost only two games in three years, topping their senior season unbeaten -with a victory in the Rose Bowl.	.
The Four Horsemen formed one of the great backfields of all time. Now they all have left the game. But they leave behind them memories that will be cherished as long as football is played.
NOTE FOR SUBSCRIBERS
This first issue of the year is being sent to all the hundreds of persons over the country who subscribed last year to the SCHOLASTIC. It is a reminder that it is time to renew their subscriptions.
The subscription price is $4 a year. Send it in immediately if you want to continue your subscription through the 1950-51 school year. Students who want to subscribe for their parents or friends may do so through the Farley Hall office.
FOOTBALL SHORTS
Only mathematicians have the power to juggle Notre Dame players around enough to decide on a composite lineman and a composite back. Their findings produce an average lineman who is 19 years old, stands 6'-l" and tips the scales at 198 pounds.
Being 20 years old, the average back has a one year advantage over his composite teammate lineman. The back, however, is smaller, measuring 5'-ll". He is lighter, too, by 26 pounds, weighing in at an average 172.	’
Things have changed a lot on the Notre Dame football team in regard to the veterans on the roster. Only four years ago 70 per cent of the squad was made up of discharged servicemen, whereas this year there are but 11 players who have service records.
Veterans of the Army are Halfback Bill Gay, Guard Bill Higgins and Tackle Dan Modak. Former Marines are Tackles Bill Flynn and Wally Czaja, Guard Bill Hovey and Fullback John O’Neil. Navy dischargees are Fullback Jack Landry, Halfbacks Dave Flood and Tom Carter and Quarterback Angelo Turco.
Bob Benson, an Irish-Swedish end on this year’s Notre Dame team, scrapes the sky at 6'-5" to claim the title to tallest man on the squad. The 20-year old sophomore is from Omaha, Neb., where
Morrissey Hall, one of the thirteen campus residence halls, is filled with Sophomores this year. Zahm, Breen-Phillips, St. Edward's and Farley are for Freshmen only.
he attended Creighton Prep.
The short man title is shared by four-members of the 19-50 Fighting Irish team who all manage to reach -5'-8". They are Billy Barrett, 20-year old ju-niar halfback; Frank Epstein, 19-year old sophomore guard; Frank Johnston, a 20-year old junior guard, all from Chicago, and Gerald Marchand, a 19-year old fullback, from Baton Rouge, La.
Coach Frank Leahy will be facing his eighth year as head football coach of the Fighting Irish this coming season. Behind him he has a victory crowded record.
Last year the Notre Dame squad acquired a fourth national championship to add to those the Irish mentor’s elevens won in 1943, 1946 and 1947.
The 1949 team’s ten victories marked the fourth consecutive season in which Leahy’s lad had not tasted defeat in his fifth undefeated season in seven seasons as Irish coach. Single tie games in 1941, 1946 and 1948 seasons were chalked against the Irish during those undefeated campaigns.
With his 20 wins in 22 games as head coach at Boston College, Leahy’s all-time coaching record is 80 wins, five losses and five ties. His coaching record at Notre Dame as he enters the 19-50 season stands at 60 wins, three losses and five ties.
Sept. 11, 1950
33

Welcome
This column hereby joins the throngs in a chorus of welcome extended to all Freshmen and other newcomers to Notre Dame. This issue of the Scholastic being primarily aimed at Freshmen, we shall confine ourselves to a few well-intentioned '"pointers” which may prove of some value to the fledglings.
Tradition
One of the first things neophyte Notre Darners run up against is a fearful giant known as Tradition. Tradition seldom has any rhyme or reason to the uninitiated and often proves somewhat confusing during the process known as "‘settling in.”
Probably one of the first Traditions you will break is that which prohibits undergraduates from gaining access to the Main Building (that’s the large, ramshackle one underneath the golden dome, also known as the Administration Building) by using the most logical means—namely, the front steps. These cement steps, leading conspicuously from the front of the building to the first floor doors, must under no circumstances be trod upon by any lesser being than a graduate.
There is (as you must have figured out) another way to get into the building. Under these same front steps, there is a door leading to the ground floor. This is the door to be used. You can figure out how to get upstairs on your own.
There are two great Traditions concerning smoking. The first is that no one shall smoke in the quadrangle. The exact geographical location of this quadrangle is a bit hazy in many minds, even among upperclassmen, but it is generally assumed to be the plot of ground in front of the Main Building, boundaried on one end by a statue of the Sacred Heart, and on the other by a statue of Father Sorin.
The other smoking Tradition is that no one shall smoke in any of the classrooms. This Tradition is given visual backing by numerous signs beneath crucifixes and on odd walls. This Tradition has the added utilitarian feature of protecting several of the buildings, which are somewhat old or otherwise susceptible, from what could develop into a serious fire.
There are a number of other Traditions but you get the gist of it. Keep eyes open and ears alert and as you gradually break each Tradition one by one, you will gradually acquire complete knowledge of them all.
Ah, Food
You will probably hear immediately upon arriving, or from upperclassmen whom you meet on the train, or from graduates you know at home, that the food at Notre Dame is little more than just “edible.” Or worse. You will take your first meal in the chow hall, therefore, with some trepidation. You will, upon finishing, immediately think: “Nonsense. Food’s not bad at all.”
“That Place . . .”
You will also hear many a disgruntled veteran of one or two years at Notre Dame refer in frustrated terms to “That Place across the Dixie highway.” “That Place” is St. Mary’s College for Women. Don’t let this talk scare you any more than the food rumors. “That Place” houses some charming young ladies, just as Notre Dame houses some fine young men, and some not so fine—according to taste. Our only counsel is that you don’t jump at preconceived prejudices until you’ve seen for yourself.
You will undoubtedly have occasion at some point or other during your four years here to phone St. Mary’s, however. Here there is nothing for us but to agree with the consensus of opinion. It is a most alarming, not to say impossible, task. Especially in the evenings. Like the weather, “something should be done about it,” but nothing ever is. Probably nothing can be. It is one of the “hardships” that must be met with smiling resignation.
Et Cetera
There is so much to say along these lines. We ache to tell you of the laundry, the Phy Ed courses, the Chow Hall line jumping, the omnipresent double feature movies in town, night check, professorial eccentricities, and so on. But most of it. comes better through experience. You will probably conclude, very shortly that Notre Dame is not such a bad place. You are right. It is not.
While trying to avoid the maudlin and
overworked, we must say a word about the “spirit” of Notre Dame. (Everyone else does.) The most immediate manifestation of it to the Freshmen is the lack of class, social, economic or other distinction. This we feel, is a good thing and as it should be. College is a place where you will live for four years. It should be a pleasant place. Friendliness and helpfulness (mutual) and fellowship among all the students is essential to peace and harmony. You will very quickly become conscious of this harmony through friendliness. It is something worth having and worth striving to keep. Let’s keep it.
Once again, a sincere welcome to the Men of ’-54. Good luck and lots of success be yours. Opportunity is knocking upon the collective Freshman door and presenting a challenge. Make Notre Dame yours by contributing to its greatness and reputation.
Two Scientific Leaders Accept Council Positions
Two of the nation’s leading figures in science and industry have accepted membership on the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at the University of Notre Dame.
New members of the ND council are Charles S. Beardsley, Chairman of the Board of Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, Ind., and Daniel M. Heekin, President of the Heekin Can Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Mr. Beardsley, a former attorney, joined the staff of the Miles Laboratories in 1926. He served as Vice-President in Charge of Advertising and Sales from 1931 to 1944 and was president from 1944 to 1947. He assumed his present duties as Chairman of the Board of Miles Laboratories in 1947.
Mr. Beardsley has been President of the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education since 1948. He formerly served as President of the Proprietary Association of America.
Mr. Heekin received a mechanical engineering degree from Purdue University in 1910. He has been associated with the Heekin Can Company, Cincinnati, 0., since his graduation and now serves the company as president.
Bradley Dewey, President of the Dewey and Almy Chemical Company, Cambridge, Mass., is Chairman of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame. Consisting of twenty-three of the leading scientists and industrialists of the United •States, the Council advises Notre Dame regarding its scientific and engineering research program.
34
The Scholastic
Another Representative Team
Fighting
Irish-^O
ON SALE
Farley Hall
The Fighting Irish football prevue is on sale in the basement of Farley Hall, the north wing next to the highway. The price is 50 cents. It includes hundreds of photographs, biographical data, statistics, all the information you want about the 1950 version of the Fighting Irish. Get your copy now and send another copy home to your folks or your best girl.
Sept. 11,1950
35
can prove what Iproved Chesterfield is the MILDER cigarette1'
Ite fomous slage p/oy
Let R.O. Mc CORMICK tellyou how to-
BE YOUR OWN CIGARETTE EXPERT
A YOU buy a pack of Chesterfields and you open it up.
B> YOU smell that milder C- YOU smoke Chesterfields
tobacco aroma. No other cigarette has it.
and prove what every tobacco man knows ...
tobaccos that SMELL MILDERSMOKE MILDER
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER-JAVA, VA.
