fl 
,n~]<.' 
'17 
~ 
~~f::;) . 
~ 
;. -i'«-._ :;::~•"<"•"-j: ­
k ''.j I 
Choose any look. Make it yours. Then Nore/co will help you keep it. Because no matter which look you choose, your beard still grows. It still needs to be trimmed and shaved. Norelco handles that. 
Its pop-up trimmer will keep your whiskers and sideburns ..t\,. shaped the way you want them. The 3 floating heads will /;%\{l shave th~ parts of your face you want s~aved. And inside /:~•'.:~:?~'.'.~:~•~:~'.~::':.· ... 
~~~:~o:!1 ~fo~:~~~l~~~rl~=~ l~~~=~~e~~~~Y ~=i.e~~t~~t efi;;:;~;;~'.;;;'.I;,~:':'.:'.'.K;;,~:~:;::;;;~:~~~;'.:~\'.::;·;:;· ..•· . 
out nicks or cuts. The Norelco unique rotary action -.·,:·,·::f'.;,:,t~i:;:•'(=:,/=:,=.-'''·'···. keeps the blades sharp while it strokes off whiskers. ~--·_.,.._.-;.. Every time you shave. . -~ 
Then, when you're finished, you just push a but-k ton and the head flips open for an easy clean-up job. "'It·· 
Tripleheader
Now make another choice. Choose the cord model or 
·h· 
45CT. 
the Rechargeable. Both will help you keep your look. But the Rechargeable will let you do it anywhere. For up to three weeks. Because it gives you almost twice as many shaves per charge as any other rechargeable. 
Look them over. The choice is yours. Even on a beard like yours. 
©1969 North American Philips Corporation, 100 East 42nd Street, New York, N. Y. 10017 
..
Asktheman 
who never stoes goingto school 
about.lEtna. 

Learn about A!:tna. Ask for "Your Own Thing" at your Placement Office. An Equal Opportunity Employer and a JOBS-participating company. 
We teach school. 
Seven thousand people each year attend our schools. That's a larger student body than 90% ofthe colleges in this country. But our training doesn't stop there. 
We want every )Etna employee to reach his full potential, use all his capabilities, and be the most knowl­edgeable in the business. So special programs, advanced study and refresher courses go on all the time. 
After all, it's the caliber ofour people that made lEtna one ofthe leading companies in the world handling all kinds ofinsurance. They taught us a lot too. 

OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 

LIFE &CASUALTY 
October l 0, 1969 
BUY NOW, 
PAY NEXT SUMMER ... 
Gilbert's Campus Shop is your store in terms, too. You can select all of your apparel now and pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August of next year. Isn't this your way to buy? 
NO SERVICE CHARGE. 
YOUR ACCOUNT IS OPEN ... 
october 10, 1969 notre dame, indiana


scholastic 
volume 111, no. 4 
Markings 

Vos Sanctes Ruines / John Keys --------------------------------------------------o The Quiet Revolution --------------------------------------______________________________ 7 STOP ! -------------------------------------______________________ ___ _____ ____ ___ ___ ___________________ 8 
Rebellion, Revolution & Rhetoric ----------------------------------------------------------------------10 Bill Turner 9/24/69 16 Gary Cosimini The Phoenix of St. Francis 
20 Tom Booker 
the gait of haight or the gate of love ------------------------------------------------------------23 Patrick Gaffney 
Departments Perspectives ______.___________.___ __ ____ ______ ____ ____ ___ __ ____ ____ _____ ____ __ __ ___ __ 26 Movies _______. _____ ___ __ ____ ______ ________ __ ________ __ __ __ ____ _____ ___ __ ____ __ _____ ___ _ 28 
A Search for Army in Time & Memory --------------------------------------30 Football Picks ·------·--------------·-----··--·--·--·-------------------·-----------------------32 
Last Word ------------·------·--·-------_____________ _____ ____ __ _______ ____ _____ _______ _____ ______ 34 
Editor-in-chief Richard Moran Executive Editor Philip Kukielski Managing Editor Michael Hendryx Art Director Michael Patrick O'Connor Associate Editors John Keys, Raymond Serafin Assistant Editor Carolyn Gatz Copy Editor John Kwicien Coordinating Editor Patrick Kerrigan Plwtography Editor Gary Cosimini Contributing Editor Steve Novak Sports Editor Terry O'Neil Contributors Pat Gaffney, Fran Maier Business Greg Naples Circulation Michael Malone Public Relations James Murphy Faculty Advisor Frank O'Malley 
Writers Marilyn Becker, Thomas Booker, Steve Brion, J. Gerald Burns, Kathy Callan, James Coburn, Phil Glotzbach, John Knorr, Thomas Kronk, James McConn, Marilyn Riordan, Walter Secada, Mark Seeburg, Martin Siravo, Tom Ward Copy and Layout Mary Le Carr, Joseph Creen, Robert Devita, Eileen Donoghue, David O'Brien, Kevin O'Connell, VeAnn Patterson, Mark Richardson, Greg Stidham, Mary Jane Sullivan, Colleen Unger Business and Circulation William Pelletieri Plwtographers Jim Hunt, Beth Malmsheimer 
The opinions expres~ed in the ScHOL,\STIC are those of the authors and editors of the ScHOLASTIC and do not necesrnrily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its .idministratic,n, faculty or student body_ 
Second cla:s postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services. 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The scbscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Pleas address al[ manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScHOL\STIC. 
October 10, 1969 
Vos Sanctes Ruines 
Speed is the only truly nwdern pleasure-Aldous Huxley 
Item,: It was a dark and stormy night. The dimly lit 
corridors of the dormitory echoed only scattered foot­
falls. Emptiness, ah that sweet time before a holiday 
when most have bagged the morrow's morning classes, 
surrendering themselves to turnpike snows and the 
perils of the homeward journey. We, my friends and I, 
gathered to share our misery, a few after dinner 
cordials and Star Trek when an anguished scream from 
the depths of a primeval jungle soul shattered the 
fragile stillness. Ah, but wait, a voice human it was, no 
beast, and 'twas followed in a moment by the unmistak­
able sound of wood panel yielding to brute force and 
flying in all diverse directions. 
We held our position until our nerves allowed us to venture into the dimly lit corridor. There stood a young man, his hair shorn close to his head, dressed from collar to shin in a drab uniform of olive green. High leather boots he wore on his feet and on his head, cocked proudly to one side, he wore a small beret. Black it was. The door before which he stood hung limply on its hinges, groaning as its convulsions carried it re­peatedly into the wall and back again. Choice kindling still rained from the sky and the woodwork about the latch still quivered. He was mumbling as he massaged a throbbing hand. 
"The quick and the dead, the qui ..." 
"What did you do that for?" we asked in disbelief. 
"My roomate locked me out ... you don't under­
stand he locked me out and he has left for home," the stranger said. "But why didn't you just go downstairs and ask Father O'Neil for another key?" 
"Thequickandthedead," he gasped. 
"The what?" 
"There are in this life only two kinds of people," he said, drawing himself up and lifting his chin, "there are the quick and there are the dead. I am one of the quick. I am always on the balls of my feet. I am lightning fast. I am fast in my hands. I am fast in my brain. Quick and the dead. Yes indeed." 
Discussion: Herein is contained an anthropomorphic dichotomization of the social universe which is, by its very nature, semi-religious in that it provides the ethical underpinnings for much of the personal action 
within the society. For some it has become a universal 
metaphysical, transcendent duality, i.e., we have the 
twin, symbiotic principles of the quick and the dead. 
The wide spectrum of man's philosophical systems 
and the biological as well as the physical sciences have 
provided us with a number of these opposing but mu­
tually complementary dualities. We have only to note 
the yin and the yang of Taoistic theology, the biologi­
cally universal male and female principles, the positive 
and negative forces of elementary particles, the myster­
ious realm of matter and anti-matter, the union of 
which is believed to bring about the annihilation of 
matter through total conversion to energy. And now 
quickness and deadness have crept unnoticed into the 
sleeping rooms of contemporary thought, adding but 
another to the long list of W eltanschauung upon which 
man has learned to act. 
There are few thought systems more socially appli­cable or as widely converted to behavior. Those who embrace quickness as their guiding principle become mechanistic functionaries of the human situation, robots, if you will, speedy zombies. Those who, on the other hand, embrace deadness as their ruling principle become essentially full human beings for that event it­self tends to round out the personality and complete the manhood. It is a cause of sorrow, I believe, that man has so far been unable to share the rewards of this eniightening encounter with the Real with the rest of his species, for after such enlightenment the being is soon buried, forgotten and rotten. 

We see, then, that man has in fathering such a bastard philosophy, betrayed himself. The principles are, in the end, self-destructive. Those who deem them­selves quick are dead by virtue of their inability to use those powers which are theoretically characteristic of living beings of the species, most notably, rationality. Those who are dead ... well, they are dead and in that state they are of use to no one. 
Item: There is on Wednesday, October 15, a mora­torium on "business as usual," i.e., a nationwide, day­long statement in the name of a new cosmology. 
Item, the 7,ast: A community has at all times the ability to repudiate an unproven metaphysics. It can dis­inherit quickness. It can disown deadness. 
The Quiet Revolution 
A "quiet, orderly revolution" is 
taking place today in America, and 
really, it's nothing new. One need 
only look to work done by the Law 
School's Legal Aid and Defender As­
sociation for a manifestation of a 
peaceful deterrent to injustice. 
The Association arose in 1964 
when the Law School professors 
found themselves deluged with re­
quests for legal aid by inmates of 
five state and federal prisons in 
Northern Indiana. To ease the case 
load, three second-and third-year 
law students were recruited. Today 
the project involves over half the 
upper-class law students, and letters 
are coming in at the rate of 60 per 
week. 
The work of the Association falls into the areas of civil and criminal law. Associate Dean Thomas L. Shaffer cites greater success in the civil area, since an abundance of trial reversals in the criminal field would indicate serious deficiencies in the Indiana judicial system. The func­tion of the Association is "much broader than that of the American Civil Liberties Union, which seeks out test cases in the courts," says Dean Shaffer. "The object at Notre Dame is to see that anybody who needs a lawyer gets one." 
The legal aid work of the Associa­tion is done under the supervision of lawyers in the three South Bend legal aid offices and an office in Marion City, Michigan. "The legal aid office raises hell with slum lords, utilities people, bill collectors ­everybody who's been oppressing the poor for the last 200 years." Former Law School Dean Joseph O'Meara is among lawyers work-
October 10, 1969 
ing on "test" cases for the South 
Bend office, three of which are pres­
ently pending in U.S. District Court 
and involve clients "being stepped on 
by welfare people." 

Students have also worked in cases 
with area migrant workers, in 
family-problem cases. In one case 
last spring they were able to keep 
"certain persons from being confined 
to mental institutions unconstitution­
ally." In conjunction with the legal 
aid work, a Legislative Drafting 
Service has been drawing up propo­
sals aimed at the preservation of 
individual rights. One such proposal 
is for a bail-bond referendum which 
would enable poor persons of reliable 
character, accused of a crime, to be 
released without bail until the time 
of their trial. 

The other major field of work is in the prisons. The Law School receives five to ten letters per day from prisoners requesting legal aid. If a student can be of help he will go to see the prisoner, do the necessary field research, and introduce the case into court, usually to appeal a mistrial. 
"The prisons are an area in this country which cry for attention more than any other, mainly be­cause their evils are invisible behind the walls." Shaffer expressed the opinion that once he gets behind those walls, he wants to help any man, regardless of his crime, because he feels that these are unlivable con­ditions for human beings. 
The number of graduates working with the poor has "risen greatly" since the Association's inception, and Shaffer points to the number of Smith Fellowships won by Law School graduates in the last two years, as a further example of suc­cess in this area. The Smith Fellow­ship is awarded by the Office of Economic Opportunity to· Law School graduates for work to be done in poor areas. Notre Dame's awards, four in 1967 and four again in 1968, represent the "highest proportion of Smith Fellows in the country." 
Other graduates are also involved in full-time legal aid work, and many more are working part time. One such group of graduates, all lawyers in private practice, rent a store­front in a Chicago ghetto which they staff on weekends and evenings to run a law office for the poor. 
Dean Shaffer sees such work as a kind of revolution. "The legal profes­sion has always been revolutionary. The American Revolution was engi­neered by lawyers, and the kids con­cerned in our Law School today are just as revolutionary as John Adams was." Shaffer cited the work of three recent graduates who took up prac­tice in Oregon and Colorado. Each was brought before the Bar Associa­tion Grievance Committee within a month because he had "stirred up feelings among the poor," and was charged with unethical conduct. "This indicates that they were real­ly drawing blood. I was proud of them and I wrote to tell them so. 
"The fundamental problem of the Association is to seek reform. The al­ternatives are peaceful revolution and help to relieve blood in the streets. Our students serve mostly in the latter area. It probably isn't a very good reform technique -riots work better -but it helps people." 
J. Gerald Burns 




STOP! 
TAST spring, in the midst of President Nixon's Viet­L nam slowdown, a number of ex-McCarthyites 
banded together in search of a future. From this meeting arose the idea of a moratorium, a national work-stoppage on October 15, and increasing in days per month (i.e., November for two days, December for three, etc.) until the war is stopped. Its stated purpose was to unify a co~ntry of individuals who had floun­dered in their own inability to sensitize the government to a war they did not want. This meant that what had once been the tragic emotions of many divergent peo­ple could be translated into hours missed, money lost, and voters dissatisfied, which would be an overwhelm­ing political dissension to present politics. 
At Notre Dame the Coalition for Political Action has, at long last, sketched plans for the day of the moratorium. The CPA has arranged for a sound system, and plans to have an open microphone on the main quad for anyone -whatever their position on the war -to discuss his views. This informal teach-in ( a word which the CPA is avoiding like the plague) should oc­cupy most of the morning, while St. Mary's is doing its own thing -although the SMC activities in the morning will be much .the same as Notre Dame's. 
The focal point of the day will be the Mass, to be said in front of the Memorial Library following a rally. The participants will silently move in procession from the main quad, past the ROTC building, through the grotto (to place the names of the Notre Dame war dead in the sanctuary), and then on to the reflecting pool. The Mass itself -a Mass of Peace -will be unique: the liturgy is being specially prepared for the occasion, the Resistance is planning activities within the liturgy, and the celebrants will include Archbishop 
T. D. Roberts and Father Burrell. 
The organizers of the Mass refuse to make a definite statement on the question of draft-card burnings or mutilations, for fear that publicity of this nature will pressure some people who are wavering into doing so because it is expected of them. Draft-card burning is a highly personal act and no one, especially those in the Resistance, wants to see the action undertaken by anyone not fully prepared to face the consequences of such an act. 

The rally will begin at one o'clock on the main quad featuring speakers such as Archbishop Roberts, Phil McKenna, David Darst of the Catonsville Nine, and Michael Cullen of the Milwaukee Fourteen. There will also be some students relating their personal experi­ences of the war, and a "we won't go" statement will be circulated. In downtown South Bend, the primary action will be an all-day reading of the war dead on the steps of the Post Office by South Bend residents. During this time, leaflets will be distributed and Re­sistance speakers will appear at various parishes in conjunction with prayer meetings and vigils. 
-James Coburn & Steve Novak 

The Prayer for Peace 
Lord, make me an instrument of thy peace Where there is hatred, let me sow love; Where there is injury, pardon; Where there is doubt, faith; Where there is despair, hope; Where there is sadness, joy. 
0 Divine Master, grant that I may not So much wish to be consoled as to console; To be understood, as to understand; To be loved, as to love; For it is in giving that we are born to eternal life. 
of St. Francis of Assisi 
The Scholastic 





fO!..l..0WltJG ORO~ Wf{O SO? 11ilS IS KV WlTHr7RAWAL 
1 


[
5(R. \ oRVmv \ 
I/OU -ro 
~V'5T 
SlT
1Heff. 




BUT 'IOU'~ NOBOW (S OtJE OF ((OU CN.J'T 1H r=-a.ioW/MS 1Ht ~SIOtill'S 8UT (f ~50l-OfeR l(OU 
oor o~e 1Ht :2.5/XXJ 1RQJP5, U~ll-AT­CRot;RS-OOT PUU.ING OUT '[lX)K(flklTO HIS 60T OF 1H~ 5? I'K WlTH~kJG eAAUY :Z.5:CXO 1(aX)PS (5 MUTI~'I. HeNJ TO UNllATcRALL<( n;suc. 7-~000 O~ M'r' OWt-t SIR. Wl1HDRAW­rt7 HA-rf 10 Be IN 6a.JtRAl WITHl?RAW, flCW WOULV TROOP5-
!T'S ABRAHS 
stta ·I ~~V5R W!~ Wt 
\ 
WAR?
HUTIIJV! 


\.
' 

The appearance of Sen. Charles Goodell in Washing­ton Hall this afternoon cannot help but add fuel to the Vietnam Moratorium drive on campus. Goodell, a sup­posedly conservative Republican appointed by Nelson Rockefeller to fill the seat of the late Robert Kennedy in the Senate, has crawled further on a limb than any­one in his party, and further too than most Democrats, by calling for a complete withdrawal of all United States forces from Vietnam by December 1, 1970. 
Goodell's appearance may affect the Student Life Council's Monday deliberations. The SLC was to have voted last Monday on a proposal to shut down the Uni­versity on the 15th, but a quorum was lacking some five minutes before consideration of the bill. 
While many arguments will be presented on both 
sides of the question Monday, perhaps Notre Dame's administration will be willing to follow the lead of other administrations. Most notable was the decision last month by Mason Gross, president of Rutgers Uni­versity calling on all established and ad hoc organiza­tions on campus to devise programs for the Moratorium. Gross, who in addition to heading Rutgers is also the Chairman of the American Council on Education, asked in a letter that "we at Rutgers positively and dra­matically demonstrate the role of the university as teacher, as guardian of civilized values, and as the critical and moral intelligence which compels the com­munity to ponder its courses of action. 
"I have asked the Provost of the Unive_rsity,'' Gross continued, "to see that the central administration gives all the help possible to the organizing groups on the campus." 
If the goal of the University· is, as Dr. Gross put it, "to examine and debate ... in the freest and fullest way all the great problems -war and peace, foreign and domestic policy, our national priorities, and tile university's responsibility to the community," then it is to be hoped that the community will support the closing of the University on Octoqer 15. 
-Steve Novak 

ErratU,'ln: Sister Marita's Primary Day School has received $600 in individual gifts, not $6,000 as the SCHOLASTIC printed last week. Nor has the $5,000 grant from United Community Ser­vices been finalized. Sister Marita is still in desparate need of contributions. 



October 10, 1969 

... I don't think you should even capture our thoughts in this jive. These honkies will only use it in identifying us and further con­trolling our thing.-sophomore athlete 
The style today is for the pollster to categorize people according to the cute little schemes that have been designed to purportedly reflect the different bags people are into. 
This is the dilemma which I faced when I decided to assess some of the issues at Notre Dame: while I assured that black students at Notre Dame had specific grievances, how could I capture these thoughts without 
Editor's Note: Last spring Bill Turner, a black sociology grad student, surveyed Notre Dame's black u,nderg1·ad1tates. 55 of the blacks, or 90%, answered his q1testionnafre. As a res1tlt of this s1trvey Turner pro­duced a 32-page sociological evaluation of the attitudes of the University's blacks. 
It should be em,phasized that the article here pre­sented is not the report itself but rather a condensed version of it. Because of space limitation, Turner has eliminated most of the discussion of sociological theory found in his original report, theory which, at any rate, would be imfarniliar to most of ou,r readers. However, the au,thor states that anyone who wishes to read the original report should contact hini through the depart­ment of sociology. 
on hating ichites: 

Hating the honky is a \\·aste of time. Gen­erally, I'm not capable of hate -only love. I lo\·e blackness and that for \\·hich it stands. Therefore, I'm left \\·ith little time or emo­tional energy to hate \\·hitey.-so1lthFTn j1lninr 
on interracial dating: 

Yeah, if the brothers could keep .:\Iiss Anne . \\·hite \\·omen] off their minds, then \\·e could really do a thing.-sn1 inr nthlrtr 
m1 black studies: 

At present I'm a physics major doing \\·ell but if the Black Studies program is instituted, I will change so that I could then teach black kids our heritage and cultural achie\·ements. 
-snllthrn1 sn11hnmnrf' 
on rrliqion (111d th{' l1lurk mnl'Cnu11t. 
sacrificing the unity of the group? 
Essentially, I sought to assess the perspectives, orientations and attitudes of black students in regard to several issues which relate to the black social move­
. ent in this country. I sought what the blacks at Notre Dame are thinking . . . and whether there is much diversity or concurrence in their thinking on specific aspects of this movement. 
The effort is honest, but such surveys which im­plicitly seek a "black mood'' often blow carelessly into the morass of dull mediocrity which has perennially in­vaded the privacy of blacks. I did not anticipate a "black mood" -which I certainly did not attain. In this paper, the reader should not expect any single unilateral perspective among blacks at Notre Dame. The images are kaleidoscopic. But from the spectrum of images, one basic ideology prevails: black students at Notre Dame are uncompromising in their quest for the liberation of black people. 
I was able to record some of the rhetoric of Notre Dame blacks in the context of this attitudinal "tossed salad." While rhetoric is not, ipso facto, doing; socio­logical evidence indicates that what one says has much to do ,vith what one does. On some general issues, here is some of the rhetoric of the ND black students. 
God? Does he wear a dashiki and have a kinky natural? I've been socialized to believe this cat is some Superhonky ... an::,,'\,:ay it goes. religion has been our greatest hindrance. :\Ialcolm taught that while we were praying, \\'P ~hould ha\·e be€n preying.-southern j-unior 
on .Jeics: 

Je,\·s '. ain't that a gas'. The brother was right 
\\·hen he suggested that the only fault of the 
Hitler program \\·as that he didn't kill enough 
of them.-rnstrrn frrsh mnn 
on 1chitc participation: 

\\'hites should ne\·er have been allo\ved to bring their paternalistic, crying liberalism in­to the mO\·ement. Sure. I regret the tenuous position of the \\·hite guys who are ok, but I cannot readily distinguish him from the col­
leC'tin' honky.-m1d1cPstenz snphmnnrP 
October 10, 1969 
One could go on recording such diverse opm10ns, 
but tl).e focus of this paper instead is on responses to 
certain specific issues which could be statistically in­
tegrated into a larger scheme. Naturally, in this present 
form, it is not feasible to consider the entire question­
naire. It is possible, however, to discern the relevance 
between such rhetoric and some specific questions. 
First, then, is the issue of black progress. Blacks 
were asked "Since the 1954 Supreme Court decision, do 
you think blacks have made much progress, little prog­
ress or no progress at all?" Table I depicts the percep­
tions on this issue. 
The majority that indicated that things were getting better were generally referring to positive changes in economic matters and the emphasis on black pride. Also, in preface to their response, many indicated that in absolute terms "things had been so bad that any change was for the better." Related to this notion of the progress of blacks, the respondents were asked their perception of whites and their progress in re­lating to black people. (Table II) 
Note how many persons were "uncertain" on this 
issue. This probably suggests that whether whites are 
more receptive toward blacks (or not) is not a salient 
issue for many respondents, i.e., not something they're 
immediately concerned with. A sample of some verbal 
responses to that question: 
To lwl! \\ ith \\ hrther a \\·hite cat digs black 
;:iec,pit" c,: nnr -c1:-: ]c,nc a:-: his prejudices psy­
1•i,1-,;,-,..::1c;-,. ci,-, n, ,. ,1cher-:e\y affect hi-: discri­
:~~ 1:1;:11 i,-,,~-: :-O:(lC-l,1, -i11itf(o .,tr !°/1 _li01il1( 
I· cine<·: :""I,c:Pl: \1.hetlwr c1 \\hite person 1s c:nthc·ci 1·· " t1.e1,·:--: :·,·,be of the Supreme Court (11 i:·. ~o \\ !~ltl -:::l'l'l :c,; the· KKE.. he'd bC'tter ...::ev;, !,i, ..::;,:~,1 : :..::}:; \\ lwr: he _..;tart.-: ji\·ing ,,'.·,,·1•1rj \'. :ri~ :'~\ '.:-.,eck,n~ --,,,1,h1,ifi ,,·, utl1lr·tr
1 

96% of the people who responded had participated in the kind of civil rights demonstrations popular a few years ago. But in regard to the overall value of these activities, there is retrospective disagreement on their value. Blacks were asked their opinion to the statement: "I think that the marches, demonstrations, sit-ins, etc., although a fine tactic in their day, have served no overall purpose in changing the conditions of most black people." (Table ID) 
Those who indicated the positive effect of the demon­strations usually emphasized the public attention which they mobilized. On the other hand, those who perceived these protests as relatively nonproductive stressed the tokenness of the gains made. 
There is evidence of a new phase of the black move­ment which goes beyond the demonstrations. It is clear that the tactics (and perhaps the ideology) of Dr. King, Whitney Young, et al., is past. Consider now the status of ND blacks in regard to (a) the civil rights move­ment, (b) the role of whites in the movement, (c) new black leaders, and (d) the elements of violence. 
Table IV illustrates that the same 78% of blacks 
·12 
I: Progress of blacks 
"Blacks have made ... ''  
Much progress  45%  
Little progress  47%  
No progress at all  8%  

II: Perception of white attitudes toward blacks 
"Whites have changed positively toward blacks" 
Agree 23% 
Disagree 4 7 % 
Uncertain 30% 
ill: Value of Protest Activity 
"The marches served no overall purpose ..." 
Agree  47%  
Disagree  40%  
Don't know  13%  

IV: Civil Rights, a la King 
"The Civil Rights Movement is . . . " 
Over and Done  23%  
In transition  53%  
Still active  25 %  

V: "Whites should stay in their own communities" 
Agree 90% 
Disagree 6% 
Uncertain 4% 

who p~ofessed membership to "old guard" organizations 
are a~ong the combined 76% who felt that such 
strategies were either over and done, or at least in a 
transitory stage. 
~at about those whites who joined with their black fellows in the movement? Today, except for Fr. Groppi, few whites are visibly in the fore of the movement. Of the white liberals, one black ( who worked with whites in his home town in the South) said: "This fellow [the white liberal], as his own Kerner committee has suggested, would do better to go to his own community; for there is a black paranoia in regard to his motivation, which are condescending at best, and outright paternatlistic at worst." 
To a great extent, this finding parallels the findings of other studies in this specific matter. If blacks indeed perceive these issues in such a way, then logically their identification with per.sonalities and organizations should have changed in the last few years. Respondents were asked: "Who, in the past five years, represented your sentiments most?" Correspondingly, they were later asked, "Who, at present, represents your senti­ments most?" The data gathered from this indicates increasing identification with the militant black na­tionalists and their organibations (Tables VI-IX). [A methodological note: these questions were open-ended, but the author here has collapsed responses into one of two categories. Integrationists here include leaders like King, vVilkins, et al., and also their corresponding or­ganizations. Black nationalists include Eldridge Cleaver, Huey Newton, et al.] 
In documenting the civil disorders which had hit American cities, the Kerner Commission found that blacks were evenly divided on whether or not rioting and violence did the black cause any good. But a sub­stantial number of Notre Dame blacks think that vio­lence has done the movement some good (Table X). These are a few of the responses to the efficacy of violence as a tactic in general: 

The natural follow-up question to this deals with predictions of future violence (Table XI). 
No special effort was made here to elicit motivation for a particular response. But the overwhelming senti­ment voiced was that violence brought public attention and resources to bear on the movement. At the same time, one person stressed revenge for grievances re­corded in the history of black-white relations. 
VI: Personality-in last 5 years 
Integrationist Black nationalist None in particular 
Integrationist Black nationalist None in particular 
VIII: Organization-in last 5 years 
Integrationist 17% Black nationalist 59% None in particular 24% 
IX: Organization-at present 
Integrationist  6%  
Black nationalist  60%  
None in particular  34%  

X: Value of riots to the movement "Riots have ..." 
Helped 96% Set back 4% 
XI: Violence will ... 

Increase  66%  
Cease  14%  
Remain the same  20%  

44% 54% 2% 
10% 86% 
4% 

VII: Personality-at present 
October 10, 1969 
Religion: Opiate or Inspiration? B"lack Militance: A Venture in Definition 
The study also addressed itself to religion and its relevance to the black struggle. Generally, the re­spondents evaluated themselves as being "not too reli­gious." On the other hand, 42% felt that religion had very much influence on the black movement. In cross­tabulating religiosity with militance, the data shows that one "high on militance" is likely to be "low on religiosity," and vice versa. 
The reason for examining religious attitudes here can be summed up by the words of Dr. King: 
Any religion that professes to be concerned with the souls of men and is not concerned with the slums that damn them, the economic conditions that strangle them, and the social conditions that cripple them is a dry-as-dust religion. Such a religion is an opiate of the people. 
If such is the case, blacks at ND feel that religion clearly inhibits the militant orientation. Religion, to them, orients people to the afterlife, often making them oblivious of the harsh realities of this life. 

To this point, this article has examined the black 

moods at ND in segments. In order to assess any 
diversity or convergence of these moods, it was neces­
sary to organize these segments (and others) into a co­
herent whole. In this way some evaluation of the extent 
to which this general mood is a militant one can be 
made. Therefore, an index was designed in an attempt 
to handle this situation. 
Black militance is used here to refer to a spirit, a chauvinism, among blacks which directs them in an un­compromising quest for the social, political, economic and spiritual liberation of blacks in American society. The index contained ten items ranging from thoughts about integration and violence to perception of white attitudes and people. Respondents were given one point for a militant response. Ideally, scores could range from zero (not a single militant response) to ten (mil­itancy on all items). Persons with a score of 5 or greater were considered high on militancy. In this sample of ND blacks, 68% scored 5 or more--that is, they were considered high on militance in the context of this framework. 
(At this point, it is fair to ask what validity the measurements have. The index is heuristic and not exhaustive, and no one is presumptious enough to claim perfection for his framework. However, this problem is considered at length in the major paper from which this article is abstracted. Suffice it here to say that the items in the index bore directly upon the contemporary black movements, as well as that overworked abstrac­tion as to what (analytically) constitutes a "black militant.") 
Assuming that the index of militance is valid, the next question concerns how militance is related to some sociocultural and psychological factors in American life. One variable, geographical background, appears conducive to militance. Eighty percent of those "high on militance" were from the South. Militancy was also found to be related to "sophistication," i.e., the re­spondent's general knowledge about black Americans and his intelligence in general. It was found that the higher the grade point average, as well as the higher the general sophistication, the more likely the student was to be militant. 95% of those in both categories sup­ported black concentrations within the residence halls. In this respect, blacks were asked if they sought to change their present living conditions. 
Present Roommate and Desire to Change 

Present Roommate  Would Change  Would Not Change  
White Roommate  92%  8%  
Black Roommate  3%  97%  

The Man 

I conceive of a race war, where this decadent, 
deceitful, and racist white man will perish.­
Western junior 
Personally, I don't see it in terms of blacks and whites. As Eldridge says, it's just those who are part of the problem and those who are part of the solution.-East coast sophomore 
Increasingly today, social scientists are attempting to document the degree of hostile feelings between blacks and whites. In this survey, 40% of Notre Dame blacks consider themselves "high on anti-white senti­ment," while 45% and 15% consider themselves "low on anti-white sentiment" or "not at all anti-white," respec­tively. The research questions obtained these black per­ceptions about whites: (1) 35% believe that whites are all alike in their basic dislike for blacks, (2) 50% desire no personal or emotional relationship with whites, (3) 60% think blacks should "insulate" themselves from whites, even though they exist in a milieu which is largely white. 
Such findings were combined into an index of anti­white sentiment, consisting of some very frank state­ments concerning stereotypes, the rhetoric of blacks about whites, and predominate attitudes about the race questions in general. Assuming the validity of the scale, 80 % of the blacks were high on anti-white sentiments, 20% were low on anti-white sentiments and no single respondent appeared void of anti-white feeling. 
Further data suggests the high degree of anti-white feeling: (1) 4 7 % of the blacks disagree in principle and practice with interracial dating, (2) 70% perceive whites to be categorically responsible for the condition of black people in America, and (3) 66% indicated that whites really don't desire that blacks be their social equal. 

Well, what now ... A note on conclusions 

The preceding tables, categories, indices, ad nauseam are all very cool. But what have they to do with the way a black man at ND will relate to whites in his actual behavior? Nothing changes, only the will to change . . . so perhaps all this captures is just the mood of these people. At the same time, we can use these findings to get on with the serious business of rectifying the situations which promote these feelings. Without making any specific overviews, the findings can be generally summarized. 
The majority of ND blacks are reservedly hopeful of finding and helping to mold a better life for them­selves and black people in general. 
A majority considers religion opiating in this quest for liberty and equality. The "militant" organizations, viz., the Black Pan­thers, reflect the ideals and goals of these students. 
Whites, in general, represent a negative reference group. The blacks show a general hostility toward all whites, including Jews. 
Blacks indicate a desire for cultural pluralism in America, i.e., inclusion in the "system" without abdicat­ing that which is unique to black culture. 
Blacks here generally feel that their education will do little to alter the way whites relate to them, i.e., a black Ph.D. is ultimately "still a nigger." 
Violence and hostility seem endemic: it is for us rectify. In the words of one of Notre Dame's black student leaders: 
When the revolution is complete, when "Ne­
groes" have been turned into black people, the 
U.S., as a country, will either be transformed or 
it will be destroyed. 


October 10, 1969 
9·24·69 the conspiracy & the trial & chicago 
It ,vas the kind of ceremony Chicago has always seemed fitted for. Last I heard all the action took place Wednesday before last, when these pictures were taken; the Panthers cooled it Thursday. But for one day the whole scene was there: the white construction workers demonstrating at be­ing called bad names by the blacks they've kept out of their unions for years, the trial, too, and the friends of The Conspiracy on all levels & of all sorts. Everybody, by the way, is a friend of The Conspiracy. These days, what else can you do? The real straights, the neo New Deal New Le£tists that make up the ne"'r American intelli­gentsia, had all the literature printed; their names are red-hot for academics: Mary 11:cCarthy didn't make it, but Susan Sontag n1ade it "'rith Christopher Lasch ( are they really that close?) -it really is a social register for the New York Review set, the bigmouth brains. And then there were the other friends of The Conspiracy, the people in the streets freaks, shown here. Every­body, even the Picasso, was n1aking it all what Abbie Hoffman, when he first decided to stage the affair, wanted it to be -a real supershow. Yes, that's right, haven't you heard, this was all designed and staged by Abbie Hoffman. ( Remember you read it first in Photoplay.) That ironic lover even got t,vo other Hoff mans in the act. ( Are they all related? Really? Who's the mother? By marriage? No, you're kidding.) First, the senile Dickensian Julius J. Hoffn1an, judge of Chancery slumbering in "'rigs, will he live through the case? Then the meek and mild-mannered Nicholas (von) Hoff­n1an of the Washington Post, the inside re­porter on the scene. But even a great direc­tor like Hoffman (he's doing Die Gotter­dammerung next week at Bayreuth with an all-Chicago cast) didn't know about all the neat little touches that would turn up (if in passing/only in passing/if only in pass­ing) . Cosimini caught some of them. 
-Michael Patrick O'Connor Photos by Gary Cosimini 



17

October 10, 1969 
A1etteur-en-scene Hoffrnan 
& 
Unidentified Superstar 





The Phoenix of St. Francis 
T
HE CLOSING of a spring semester always involves those at a university in the final frantic gestures of dunes trips, exams and term papers. The pace 
of life accelerates steadily until the last day, when, 
with little comment by anyone, it is all swallowed by 
summer. Yet, it is in the summer that unnoticed oc­
currences can profoundly affect life at a university. Dur­
ing last July a promising student community project 
was shut down amid circumstances that may well reveal 
the emergence of a subterranean conflict bet ween a 
community conscious university and the powers that 
be in South Bend. 
St. Francis House had an inauspicious beginning as 
an old store front. formerly used as a tutoring center 
in the east South Bend neighborhood of Clay Township. 
a predominantly lower-class neighborhood. In early 
l\farch. 11ike Hacker. a Notre Dame senior, together 
with his sister Marye, rented the rear apartment of 
the building and suggested to a number of on-campus 
friends that they mo\·e into' the front apartment. The 
friends agreed. and soon moved in, bringing little bag­
gage, little money, a sitar and an unfamiliar philosophy 
called "Christian Radicalism.'' 
With little more excitement than that, St. Francis 
House was born, still showing few signs of the kind of 
life style that ,vas to stir so much confusion. To the 
neighbors it looked like one more loose-jointed off­
campus pad. 
The rosetta stone for understanding the evolution of St. Francis House lies in the 35-year-old Catholic ·worker l\'Iovement, the historical roots of "Christian Radicalism." The Catholic \iVorker Movement was be­gun in the thirties by Dorothy Day and Peter Maurin whose original activity was publishing a monthly radi­cal newspaper. Early adherents to this newsprint philosophy ran the gamut of the social order: striking workers, seamen, bread-liners, priests, students and a few old-time communists. 
Caught in the swirls of the depression, they were all mutually attracted to the utopian idealism of Day and Maurin, who advocated the establishment of agricultural communes outside the corruptive (capitalist) atmo­sphere of the cities. As if to complete the logic of rejecting an unlivable society, the Catholic \iVorker lVIoveII!ent also adopted the familiar doctrines of paci­fism, draft resistance and enlightened anarchy. In a number of cities -including New York, Los Angeles and Milwaukee -bread and soup lines were established and supplied in part, by Catholic Worker communes in the countryside. 
T
HE MEMBERS of St. Francis House such as Tim Mac­Carry, Charles Wordell and John Kaschewski 
fashioned themselves. in this tradition of political and 
religious thought: they envisioned their goals as the 
adoption of these ideals within a college-community 
framework. To these people, some of whom had already 
been doing various types of community work in Clay 
Township, there were some deep contradictions in pro­
fessing both radicalism and Christian community while 
living in the micro-suburban atmosphere of the college 
campus. Hence, the shift to Clay Township and St. 
Francis House. 
The inception of the Catholic Worker Movement in 

South Bend and the progression of Christian Radicalism 
at Notre Dame reflected the simplest manners of living. 
Sharing an evening meal and a midnight prayer, the 
residents lived together as brother and sister, in the 
upper two apartments. Even the forthcoming contro­
versy was to begin in the most innocent of ways. 
The store front of the building was a large, open area of no immediate use to the members of the house, so it was usually left open as a congregation center for the children and youth of the neighborhood. As the weeks passed by, the store front became a popular meet­ing place, especially on Friday nights when it became the custom to have a general open house, featuring po­etry readings, guitar picking, and impromptu theater performances. 
T
HE more serious aspects of St. Francis House in­volvement with "Christian Radicalism" and the com­munity took shape in a number of educational lectures, free university courses, and discussion groups on topics such as the Christian Democratic Movement, Vi/omen's Liberation and Maoism. 
At the end of May, the house began to undergo a foreseeable and almost necessary transition. When the semester ended, many of the house members would go home, leaving for a while a budding Christian Radical­ism for a more traditional home life. Despite well-stud­ied plans to make the house a viable center during the summer (to include continued programs for neighbor­hood children and new educational courses), it was re­solved that the house would be staffed by a skeletal crew and activities would be at a minimum. At this time when the house's status was still unclear, disturb­ing incidents began to occur. 
It must be noted that from the very beginning, St. Francis House had been conducted with the full knowl­edge and, ostensibly, the approval of both the local authorities and the Notre Dame administration. The house members were surprised, then, when they were informed by city authorities that they could not com­plete their planned purchase of the house without violating an obscure zoning restriction, a restriction 


Friends of St. Francis 
which would demand condemnation of the house. Their surprise was doubled when they learned later that the house was bought by the sister of a prominent South Bend businessman, apparently circumventing the zoning law. 
The house members who remained during the sum­mer, among them John Kaschewski, Ross Simpson and Dennis O'Brien, also began to catch snatches of a previ­ously unknown resentment toward the house. Until this time, the house had received escalating community support. Late in June, four men, presumably drunk, entered the house in the early hours of the morning, to investigate the veracity of uncomplimentary ru­mors circulated around the neighborhood about the house. Unable to locate the kind of sin that had been rumored to be there, they yanked two house members from their beds and beat them slightly before being talked out of their violent ways. 
These two encounters experienced by the students at St. Francis House during June revealed a number of inherent difficulties that may be discovered by any student groups who attempt community involvement, apart from the sometimes inefficient tokenism of weekly tutoring. First of all, a community such as Clay Town­ship may not be ready, or perhaps may not be capable of understanding, student involvement in the community in terms more sophisticated than sports or badly ad­ministered tutoring. Clay Township is perhaps not ready for pacifism or Maoism, much less Women's Liberation. 
Secondly, in true archetypal form, parents naturally suspect the moral authenticity of the places where their kids hang out. It is one thing to tutor or play ball with someone's children and another thing to introduce them to the guerrilla theater. 
Feeding on these uncertainties and ever attuned to the currents of dissatisfaction among the electorate, city authorities initiated a series of what the house members call "harassments." During one short period in the beginning of the summer the house was un­occupied; neighbors later revealed that this time was used by police to search the house, evidently without warrant. Soon after, the police visited the house again on a report that a runaway girl was staying there. They came, conducted a search, found no runaway girl, and left holding a nightstick to the captured neck of a neighbor boy they did find. He had been simply using the phone. 
In the early part of July, house members decided to abandon the project after a series of hostile run-ins with the authorities. One night violence was in the air. A small caravan of cars and pickup trucks began circling the block. The members cleared out, stashing their belongings in a house across town. There they waited until later that night it was decided to return to St. Francis House. 
As the carload of house members pulled onto Juniper Road they were curbed by a St. Joseph County sheriff and a Mishawaka (nowhere near Mishawaka) patrol team. The driver of the house car got out and beheld the unnerving sight of a county sheriff holding a gun on him. The driver was frisked, the house mem­bers were frisked; and then all were required to stand away from the car, hands on heads. A South Bend Police Dog Unit (not in South Bend) arrived and kept close guard on the captives while the deputy searched the car. Not finding any contraband, the deputy issued a traffic citation to the driver for failure to signal properly before turning, and the several units of police­men drove away. 
It was two days after this incident that the house was closed. The scenario was brief. A Clay Township fire truck stopped at the house and a man hung a con­demned sign on the front. The fire department had re­membered a dangerous gas leak that had "always" afflicted the house, making it unsafe for habitation. And that simply, it was over. St. Francis House members moved out and the property was sold. As of last week there were no condemned signs on the building. The house members and several others still meet for dinner and midnight prayers every day, refusing to abandon the idea of establishing a Catholic Worker Commune in east South Bend. A new house has been secured near the Unitarian Church and the community continues, relocated but undeterred. Perhaps this new house will have no gas leak. 

the gait of haight or 
The wo-rd "revolution" falls freely from lips these days; it makes a handsome headline and it couples com­fortably 'With a score of adjectives like "the black.,'' "the sexual," "the student" or even "the Dodge." Very few people really needed a prophet to tell them that the times were a-changing; but one thing is becoming increasingly clear, discovering what these times are changing into will not be a task for augurs. Another Woodstock? Another Chicago? Another Hiroshima? Strain you1· eyes as you work, try to catch some form amid the (J;Urorean mist. But what of th-Ose who find themselves at the doorstep, malignly pinched as it were, between the old who know it can't all change and the young who know it's got to? What bloomed on Haight St?·eet is gone now, but a message rernains fo1· all who retain hope. 
TOVE SUMMER, 1967, was the unretrievable moment 
i 
L when all the revolutions merged. Social deformity, 
l 
epidermal pigment, economic inequity, religious prej­udice, violence and cultural vacuity were transcended and erased in the rockin' floral deluge of San Francisco. (There was a grain of truth in Time magazine's cover story.) Spectacular scenes were exploding, like the great "gathering of the tribes" where 20,000 people turned gypsy for an afternoon and converged on Golden Gate Park to "make love happen." The event inspired 
the gate of love 

cities all over the world to stage similar Be-ins, but none could match the model where this very announcement went out to the gathering between sets of the Jefferson Airplane and the Grateful Dead: "A lost tjiild has been delivered to the stage by the peace officer and is now below the stage being cared for by Hell's Angels." But since then, the focus has blurred, the revolutions have diverged again. The lion no longer sleeps with the lamb in Golden Gate Park, and. it's no secret that the surrounding streets are not bulging with the gentle people with flowers in their hair that Scott McKenzie sang about. 
Finding nostalgia meager nutrition, numerous shops and cafes are closed and boarded up on Haight Street, and a dozen others are on the brink of the same move. The old hangouts like the Fish and Chips or the greasy spoon across the street which baked their own rolls look rank and depressive; eyes are glassy and service is perfunctory. The most cheerful and frequented eating place in the area is Bob's, one of a chain of plastic drive-ins, where, incidentally, the TAC squads from Park Station take their midnight coffee break. Middle­aged waitresses who serve the tasteless hamburgers in their Sears and Roebuck starched uniforms are stout and efficient, but they seem remarkably friendly and supple compared with the activities of the street. 
As the tourist flow dwindles, shops that trafficked in the expensive exotic imports from Mexico and India are falling off. The half-dozen "head" shops that 
October 10, 1969 
the electric kool the paradox of haight is frying 

survive still do a fair business in buttons, beads,, posters, candles, incense, hash pipes, spices and books, while the neighborhood grocery stores are groping as they did before it all got started, doing their best to stop the shoplifting. The most popular commercial enterprise with a crowd around the door, is the liquor store on the corner of Haight and Masonic. It specializes in cheap whiskey and Red Mountain wine, and looks like a fort with latticed iron works on the windows. Two dumpy taverns (one called the L.S.D.) with grimy psychedelic paint chipping off their facades are the only gesture at nightlife. Outside of these, the hoot­ing and guffawing of winos and hustlers, grotesquely drunk or stoned, are the only sounds that disturb the hollow darkness. The Camelot bubble has popped. The Haight is taking its place in a real city again and it's starting at the bottom. · 
T
HE old-time hippies have fled to Berkeley or the Mission, some to Europe, but most to the country and the second-wave residents who remain are quick to distinguish between themselves and what they call the "street people." But as the collapse continues, any dif­ference between the two is becoming less discernible. Drugs, the too-obvious obsession of the street life, along with the pimps and con men, have moved into the quaint Victorians on Page and Waller (parallel resi­dential streets on either side of Haight). Open-air dealers in barbiturates, speed, acid, grass and mescaline stand alongside the scientism buffs, and have turned the street into a hushed bazaar. Sometimes in soft whispers, sometimes more brazen, it seems that all those people slouching under the awnings are trying to buy or sell something. Marketing phony pharma­ceuticals or taking the fee and never delivering the goods, a "burn" as the trick is called, is common. Beatings and murders often result, and no one trusts a strange face. The "cooks" or underground chemists who concoct the highs have long abandoned the make­shift sugar cube and now make pills with sophisticated presses. But no one knows what's inside. What's called acid might contain a staggering dose of methadrine 
as well, or it might be an empty compress of Kool-Aid and baking soda. Novel conglomerates are constantly being discussed and disseminated, like a thing peddled, as "the peace pill" which narcotics agents later analyzed as a veterinary anesthetic. A great deal of the conversa­tion heard on the street or in the pads deals with drugs: what someone is taking, what something does to your mind, or fantasies about growing weed in th~ woods or smuggling it in by the carload. Other favorite topics, Black Panthers, San Francisco State College, rock music, sexual liberation and road lore aren't nearly as pervasive. Freaks brag about how much they've con­sumed, how often and how well they have handled it. One vagabond acidhead who looked about 30 (found out later he was 21) told me of a time when he'd spent a whole month tripping. "One hundred hits," he said. He was staying with heavy dealers who supplied him with free tabs. 
Starry-eyed, 14-year-olds aren't wandering around the Haight anymore. Faces are older and harder, small­town hell raisers, schizophrenic revolutionaries, high­school toughs now in their 30's, Hell's Angels, petty crooks, chronic winos and drug users between stints in mental hospitals find here a twisted communal. When these people are harassed by straights from down­town, they can rationalize that it's not because they're bums, pushers or crooks, it's because they're hippies. Persecution goes easier, can even be consoling when one can cast himself as a martyr. It pleases them to know that they threaten the dissolution of society, but they fail to appreciate the difference between the threat Christ proposed and that of Attila the Hun. 
T
HE Haight today has turned into a parody of its own utopian dream. By forgetting its beginnings, the present crowd is destroying itself. Once committed to creating a mirror image, reversing the values of bour­geois America, the hips who stay on the Haight have lost sight of that reflection. They are believing their own slogans instead of acting directly upon the outrage that first inspired the reform. The original hippies had no need for doctrines or political theories. In their 
aid acid test & the fortunate fall: in its own pan 
bones was the feeling of communi~ and respect. An­archy meant transcending the meqiocrities of duty. No one taught them how, it all came naturally. For to­day's Haight, however, anarchy means lawlessness and complete tolerance; the hedonism and promiscuity are prescribed. Whereas once the hippie claimed he was free to be himself, now those who remain around the Park are only free to be hippies. Once people did what they wanted and the media reported "the hippies are doing this," now they're more likely to pick up a paper, read what the sensationalist press says "hippies are doing" and then go out and join the chorus. The full circle is made. These thousands would rather be hip­pies than be free. Their quest has been lost in their myopic cul-de-sac. 
Having taken seriously their childhood myths and having known Life magazine, television and Hollywood as their adolescent ideals, they used their liberated talents to follow out quixotic hopes and to realize fairy­tale dreams, accepting no moral or cultural Rubicon between what they knew as simple children and what they would do as adults. While their contemporary school-based counterparts were demanding on cam­puses that learning become more relevant, these drop­outs, dressing up and bejeweled for the fun of it, lived out and thereby mocked the very relevance they were offered by teachers and parents. Long hair, once seen only on British schoolboys, poets, painters, classical musicians and redskins became the style for all. By deliberate association with artists and innocents and by effortless imitation of social eccentrics, hippies were separating themselves from the plummeting main­stream and vivifying the golden era of liberty, equality and fraternity which others told them existed only in the yellowed past or the too-distant future. By deny­ing that it was anything else, they forced the world to be lovely. 
The mirror reversal they sought was keynoted by the blankness of "make love not war." In every face­off which demanded aggression, they would substitute affection for fury, as dangerously close to Christianity as that sounded. Like a child, too small and weak to make violence effective, who has only love and appeal to love as assets, they set about to greet the world with only generosity and vulnerability. The plan to eschew violence and all its ramifications, including capitalism, as unnecessary and undesirable would turn the world into a family; superfluous governments and economies would wither away. It worked against the wicked gremlins in The Yellow Submarine, those psychedelic ghouls who responded in the affirmative by answering "No" and sought to negate all "Yeses." The opposite frenzy, to "Yes" all "Noes" especially when fought in a real world of men and cities, instead of the animated imagination does not, or rather has not fared so well. 
0 
NCE the Haight took society to task by flouting its taboos, but on the present Haight, the floating is more important than either the taboo or the outcome, and in their jungle blindness, they arefrying in their own pan. Hippies once gave the world an insight into the idiocy of all propaganda, but people on the new Haight have fallen prey to their own stale cliches. Having lost the spirit, they have only the letter which is killing them. What they read on their lithograph posters is more important than what they can see all around them. 
They are helplessly a part of the real political and economic superstructure in spite of themselves, and every outlay, from buying grass or groceries to going to a concert at the Fillmore confirms this. By accept­ing the free medical aid or welfare checks, they place themselves in a political bloc that can be pointed to and used. The ones who realized this and cared have fled to communes or other scenes leaving behind them a slum and dope den. It's only a matter of time before the Salvation Army opens a storefront mission near the corner of Haight and Stanyan; and while wars con­tinue, the fate of the world will be decided without the panhandlers. 
The revolution, of course, with its myriad projec­tions has not died, but the Haight stands as a lesson. Flower children must never lose sight of the paradox of the sensitive blossom. At the end of summer the petals must fall, but through the roots, good mother earth never fails to renew them in the spring. 
-Patrick Gaffney 


October 10, 1969 
perspectives 

towards an ethnic studies program 
EditorJs Note: In response to deniands for a Black Studies Program,J the undersigned members of the De­partment of Sociology and Anthropology present here some of their ideas about a possible Ethnic-Black Studies Program. 
1. 
The program must be consistent with the basic role of this University as a center of higher learning. Black studies as the history of black people or the so­ciology of black communities studied and taught as other subjects in a university curriculum has an un­questioned role to play in giving both ·blacks and whites a better understanding and appreciation of the black experience in America. 

2. 
Whatever courses are offered must meet the same academic standards as other elements of the curriculum and must be an integral part of the University curricu­lum, not organizationally autonomous or racially re­stricted. As scientists we abhor all forms of racism ­white or black. The assumption that some races of men are inferior to others or that the social, psychological, and cultural development of men is racially determined is without scientific foundation. 


\Ve think it is consistent with the role of the Uni­versity and with our role as social scientists to under­mine the racist beliefs that continue to play such a damaging role in American society. We, therefore, sup­port curriculum changes that would enable all students to develop a better understanding of the nature of racial and cultural differences. 
The recently revived notion that cultures can be so different from one another as to be totally incompre­hensible to one who was not reared as a member of that cultural group is without merit. If it were true that to understand Caesar one must be Caesar, then the at­tempt to learn anything about the activities of men at other times and places would be absolutely pointless. With this view we cannot agree. We, therefore, feel that enrollment must be open to all regardless of race and that faculty and staff must be hired, promoted, and as­signed on the bases of qualification and competence, and personal experience. Nevertheless, we firmly believe that the University has an obligation to hire as many faculty representatives of minority groups as can be found. 
3. We feel that, owing to the resources and history of Notre Dame, the best approach to the study of the black experience would be one in which that experience is considered in a broad, comparative framework. As a university founded for a religious minority, and which, until recently, served that group almost exclu­sively, and with a faculty with long-standing interests in and research experience with interreligious relations and Spanish-speaking minorities, it would be foolish not to capitalize on this distinctive -and in some ways, unique -situation. 
At present there are not enough competent person­nel available to staff existing programs, and the avail­able evidence does not indicate a great demand for a black studies program here. The enrollment in the sub­stantial number of courses offered to date (for example, eight in History and six in Sociology-Anthropology) leaves some doubt that student interest is sufficient to sustain a major black studies program. 
Notre Dame does have experience and personnel resources that would justify the development of a com­parative ethnic studies program that would include but not be limited to courses related to the black experi­ence. Such a program would benefit the members of the group involved as well as the dominant white group. 
4. An Ethnic Studies program should be interdis­ciplinary and modeled on the area program the Univer­sity now has, e.g., African Studies, Latin American Studies, Urban Studies. Degrees would still be granted in a traditional discipline with a concentration in Ethnic Studies. Such a program would have these advantages: administrative overhead would be at a minimum; it would provide flexibility in response to student interest, whereas a department must at the outset commit itself to a full array of courses necessary for a major; the University could utilize personnel who might hesitate to be separated, professionally, from their disciplines; and students would have a marketable commodity upon graduation. 
5. An Ethnic Studies program should include a re-search and action component such as the following items: 

a) 
Provision of opportunity for students to become 

involved in community programs, i.e., a form of · urban extension service. 

b) 
Provision for a free consultation service for un­funded community development programs and organizations in the minority communities. 

c) 
The conducting of special training programs (e.g., summer institutes) for personnel ( e.g., pastors, teachers, social workers, poverty program per­sonnel, etc.) who work in the minority commu­nities. 

d) 
Establishment of an "Institute for the Compara­tive Study of Intergroup Relations" which would support research in all areas including inter­religious, Spanish-Anglo, interracial, interethnic, etc. 


6. Finally, the program should include a component designed to expand the opportunities for higher educa­tion available to minority group members. We are not impressed with expensive recruiting efforts and fat awards that merely lure a student away from Harvard or Yale and enable the lucky recipient to live more lei­surely than otherwise, but do virtually nothing to ex­pand the number of minority group students who receive the benefit of a higher education. We would sug­gest the following: 
a) 
A college-preparation program modeled on Up­ward Bound and the Jesuit program in New York, designed to expand the pool of minority youth who qualify for college entrance. 

b) 
A required one-semester course in intergroup relations to be taken by all freshmen. The course should be interdisciplinary, taught in small sec­tions, and should involve minority group students as participants. 

c) 
Establishment or participation in a minorities scholarship pool with other colleges and univer­sities. 

d) 
Establishment of fellowships for graduate stu­dents who will specialize in this area and help fill the need for personnel in new programs estab­lished elsewhere. 


October 10, 1969 
e) University commitment to providing intellectual, psychological, and social aids that are necessary to help the minority student to become an effective critic of society. 
To date Notre Dame has not responded adequately to the charge that the present academic program is in­sufficient to meet the challenge posed by racism pervasive in our society. We feel a professional respon­sibility to provide all students with a deeper moral in­sight and greater intellectual understanding of the rela­tionship of established social institutions to the political and economic reality experienced by all minorities such as the black, the Spanish-speaking, and the poor gen­erally. 
We must not only recruit and, at the cost of our own time, make every effort to retain students who repre­sent minority groups, we must also ensure that all stu­dents have the opportunity to attain the moral stature required if our ideas of social justice are ever to be realized. 
William V. D'Antonio, Chairrnan of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology 
Julian Samora Robert Hassenger William T. Liu John R. 11'.laiolo Richard A. Lamanna David Dodge Richard A. Kurtz Andrew Weigert Fabio Dasilva Lawrence Saha Robert H. V asoli Donald N. Barrett John P. Koval Rev. Ernest Brandewie Joan Rytina Arthur J. Rubel 
Each week the SCHOLASTIC will make this column available to a member of the University community to explore and comment upon contemporary issues. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of the SCHOLASTIC. 

movies 
CINEMA )70: Black l\Iaria (above, sullen) present Notre Drune's annual film series; the yearly campaign for patrons begins within the week. Series tickets will be priced at six dollars, will entitle the bearer to all twelve weekend features, plus the three week-long festivals on Czech film, American film, and a still to be chosen by the director. Selected shorts and notes will precede all showings. I n d i v i d u a 1 admission charges may vary per feature. CIN­EMA '70 opens November 8 with Battle of Algiers. "\Veekend sched­uling includes Polanski's Cul-de-Sac; Kurosawa's Red Bread; Godard's Weekend; Titicut Follies; Hunger; Accident; Shame; further, Black 
l\laria have negotiated a personal ap­pearance from Haskel Wexler for the weekend of December 6. Mr. "\Vexler will bring his film IVledi:mi Cool for inclusion in the series, ,vill discuss his work, and will scree:1 rushes de­leted from the final version. Black lUaria are in the proce3s of securing an area premiere of Ro'.:>rrt Bresson's Balthazar and 'JVloz~chette) also for in­clusion in the series, scheduled for some time in February. The two re­maining features, plus the fourteen festival films, will be announced with the poster release within the week. Black Maria will present free, pre­season film showings on October 15; place, time, feature to be announced, but the film will be in keeping with 
~  ;  -,:---; -/''";-7"y:.'  ~·,  
y#  ,,i  \  A <"';,...,t ~  \  ,t'ii!'  ~£>  ~ , '  
- .,./  •  ~ ,  w  •  

the day. 
A VON: Funny Girl. Call 288-7800. 
GOLFAX: The Boys of Paitl Street. 
Probably the best show in town. Hungarian. Don't miss it. Call 233­4532. 
STATE: CastleKeev. \VithBurtLan­
caster and ND grad Tony Bill. 233­
1676. 
GRANADA: Bullitt and Bonnie and Clyde; both are excellent films -if you haven't caught them yet, don't miss what may be your last chance. They're nearing the end of their theatrical run. Call 233-7301. 
-BIG IGGY THE BUTCHER 


When you know it's for keeps 
All your sharing, all your 
special memories have 

grown into a precious and 
enduring love. Happily, these 
cherished moments will be 
forever symbolized by your 
diamond engagement ring. 
If the name, Keepsake is in 
the ring and on the tag, you 
are assured of fine quality 
and lasting satisfaction. The 
engagement diamond is 

flawless, of superb color, and 
precise modern cut. Your 
Keepsake Jeweler has a 

choice selection of many 
lovely styles. He's listed in 
the yellow pages under 
"Jewelers." 

""L7'° _...... ~~!STEREO k:
.i.~psa 
e® 
DIAMOND RINGS 
-
;....... 
~ 
.· ~=~==:•..· 
. ·.,-·::· 
. . . ,-:...-: 
i·:-/ I ~ 
·.. 1 -$ /:_:.\ /·\ _,,

R,ngs enlarged :' ; . ·.••. :·. . .·:· ­
to show deta,1 -· ·. · · } _-· .· ._.._-·.. _-_..-_: . ..:;_ 
F1omSIOOtoSIOOOO .. · l .\ I··.• ·.:..:.-··A :-·_.:_-·.. "­~~a~~n~~~:;~ny Inc ·_-_. ·. . ·.. _V·:·,: :-.::\(\ ..:/\if{-:,~:: ..· 
,.. "" ~ -L,--J..<,:~ 
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I 
Please send new 20 page booklet, '"How To Plan Your Engagement and Wedding" 1 and new 12 page, full color folder, both for only 25c. Also, how can I obtain 1 the beautiful 44 page Bride's Keepsake Book at half price? F-69 ) 
Nome----------------------I 
Addren;_____________________ I 
I c;ty--------------Co..-------I 
I 

State·---------------Zip,_____ I 
I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, NEW YORK 13201 I

L-------------------------------J 
R. K. MUELLER, INC. 
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED 






Keepsake 
-DIAMOND RINGS 
OMEGA -TISSOT-BULOVA 

ELGIN WATCHES AND RINGS 
* 
218 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
CALL~233-4200-CALL 
Juggler is now accepting contributions for the first issue. A.ddress The Editor, Box 583, Notre Dame. 

October l 0, 1969 
A Search for Army in Time & Memory 
No doubt, Notre Dame's three most memorable victories over Army occurred in 1913, 1924 and 1933. The 1913 and '33 games, recounted here in excerpts frmn the New York Times, were significant upsets in their own right. The Irish trimnph in 1924 was not. Only the genius of a New York Herald Tribune sp01ts­writer made it immortal. His name: Grantland Rice. 
1913 

W 
EST POINT, N.Y., Nov. 1 -The Notre Dame eleven swept the Army off its feet on the plains 
this afternoon, and buried the soldiers under a 35 to 13 score. The Westerners flashed the most sensa­tional football that has been seen in the East this year, baffling the cadets with a style of open play and a per­fectly developed forward pass, which carried the victors down the field thirty yards at a clip. The Eastern grid­iron has not seen such a master of the forward pass as Charley Dorais, the Notre Dame quarterback. A frail youth of 145 pounds, as agile as a cat and as restless as a jumping-jack, Dorais shot forward passes with ac­curacy into the outstretched arms of his ends, Capt. Rockne and Gushurst, as they stood poised for the ball, often as far as 35 yards away. 
The yellow leather egg was in the air half the time, with the Notre Dame team spread out in all directions over the field, waiting for it. The Army players were hopelessly confused and chagrined before Notre Dame's great playing, and their style of old-fashioned close line-smashing play was no match for the spectacular and highly perfected attack of the Indiana collegians. All five of Notre Dame's touchdowns came as the result of forward passes. They sprang the play on the Army seventeen times and only missed four. In all they gained 243 yards with the forward pass alone.... 
Football men marveled at this startling display of open football. Bill Hoper, former head coach at Prince­ton, who was one of the officials of the game, said that he had always believed that such playing was possible under the new rules, but that he had never seen the forward pass developed to such a state of per­fection.... 
This was the first time Notre Dame has ever been on the Army schedule, and a crowd of 5,000 came to the reservation today to witness the game. Reports had the Indiana team strong, but no one imagined that it knew so much football. Dorais ran the team at top speed all the time. The Westerners were on the jump from the start, and handled the ball with .few muffs. The little quarterback displayed great judgment at all times, and was never at a loss to take the cadets by surprise. He got around as if on springs, and was as cool as a cucumber on ice when shooting the forward pass. Half a dozen times tacklers bearing down on him in full charge didn't disconcert the quarterback one bit. He got his passes away accurately, every one be­fore the cadets could reach him. He tossed the football 30 yards on a straight line time and again.... 


1924 
When Notre Dame returned from New York afte:r its 13-7 victory over Army in 1924, student sports pitbli­cist George Strickler an·anged this memorable photo and immediately had it copyrighted. The Four Horse­men, from left, are right halfback Don Miller, fullback Elmer Layden, left halfback Jim CrowlezJ and quar­terback Harry Shuhldrehe:r. 

N 
EW YORK, N.Y., Oct. 19. -Outlined against a 
blue-gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode 
again. In dramatic lore they are known as Famine, 
Pestilence, Destruction and Death. These are only 
aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Miller, 
Crowley and Layden. They formed the crest of the 
South Bend cyclone before which another fighting Army 
football team was swept over the precipice at the Polo 
Grounds yesterday afternoon as 55,000 spectators 
peered down on the bewildering panorama spread on 
the green plain below. 
A cyclone can't be snared. It may be surrounded, but somewhere it breaks through to keep on going. When the cyclone starts from South Bend, where the candle lights still gleam through the Indiana sycamores, those in the way must take to storm cellars at top speed. Yesterday the cyclone struck again, as Notre Dame beat the Army, 13 to 7, with a set of backfield stars that ripped and crashed through a strong Army defense with more speed and power than the warring cadets could meet. 
Notre Dame won its ninth game in twelve Army starts through the driving power of one of the greatest backfields that ever churned up the turf of any grid­iron in any football age. Brilliant backfields may come and go, but in Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Lay­den, covered by a fast and charging line, Notre Dame can take its place in front of the field. 
Coach McEwan sent one of his finest teams into action, an aggressive organization that fought to the last play around the first rim of darkness, but when Rockne rushed his Four Horsemen to the track they rode down everything in sight. It was in vain that 1,400 
October 10, 1969 
gray-clad cadets pleaded for the Army line to hold. The Army line was giving all it had, but when a tank tears in with the speed of a motorcycle, what chance has flesh and blood to hold? 
R
OCKNE'S light and tottering line was just about as tottering as the Rock of Gibraltar. It was some­thing more than a match for the Army's great set of forwards, who had earned their fame before. Yet it was not until the second period that the first big thrill of the afternoon set the great crowd into a cheering whirl and brought about the wild flutter of flags that are thrown to the wind in exciting moments. At the game's start Rockne sent in almost an entirely second string cast. The Army got the jump and began to play most of the football. It was the Army attack that made three first downs before Notre Dame caught its stride. The South Bend cyclone opened like a zephyr.· 
And then, in the wake of a sudden cheer, out rushed Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden, the four star backs who helped to beat the Army a year ago. Things were to be a trifle different now.... The cloud in the west at this point was no larger than a football. There was no sign of a tornado starting. But it happened to be at this point that Stuhldreher decided to put on his at­tack and begin the long and dusty hike. . . . 
We doubt that any team in the country could have beaten Rockne's array yesterday afternoon, East or West. It was a great football team brilliantly directed~ a team of speed, power and team play. The Army had no cause for gloom over its showing. It played first class football against more speed than it could match. 
Those who have tackled a cyclone can understand. 
continued next page 

1933 
N 
EW YORK, N.Y., Dec. 3 -In the smoldering ashes MacArthur, Chief of Staffs; Mayor-elect LaGuardia, of the most disastrous season in Notre Dame Governor Moore of New Jersey, Grover Whalen and a 
history was kindled the spark of a great football team at the Yankee Stadium yesterday to end Army's dream of national gridiron dominion, fifteen minutes short of the end of the campaign. 
Just a quarter of an hour of play remained for the all-conquering West Pointers to consummate their most successful season since 1916 with a final victory that appeared to have been sealed beyond redemption. 
Leading, 12-0, going into the ultimate period, the brilliant Jack Buckler and· his team-mates in black and gold apparently had carried their last big objective. Before them was the vista of the Rose Bowl of Pas­adena. 
The huge throng of 78,000 spectators that looked down from the steeps of the cavernous Stadium could see not the faintest flicker of hope for the down-trodden Ramblers. 
I 
N THAT great gathering, the largest to see a football game in New York this fall, were General Douglas host of other notables from the service and the political and the sports life of the city. 
To on2 and all Notre Dame's plight was irreparable. The mystery team of the year, the team that potential­ly was rated the equal. of any in the land at the start of the season, was doomed to suffer its sixth defeat in nine starts. . . . 
The team that had so incomprehensibly lost its un­surpassed winning formula, that was an enigma to it­self and its coaches no less than to its army of follow­ers, suddenly was transformed. It rose phoenixlike from the ashes of defeat to turn the stadium into a bedlam with a 13-12 victory. 
Led by the powerful Nick Lukats, the most vivid figure on the field in this terrifically hard-fought battle, and with Wayne Millner and the giant Moose Krause at the end and tackle, respectively, playing heroic roles, the green-clad men from Notre Dame performed an almost miraculous feat. They scor2d two touchdowns on the Army in the space of five minutes.... 


Picks by Terry 
Notre Dame over Army -Ah, but the real action will be at McSorley's Ale House, Bachelors ill, Red Gar­ter, Hofbrau, Brass Rail and each of the 53 Blarney Stone restaurants throughout Manhattan. 
Texas over Oklahoma. -On the tube from Dallas. This Longhorn team is better than last year's Cot­ton Bowl-champion squad. 
Southern Cal over Stanford-Tro­
jans do it decisively ... by 10 points or more. 
Purdue over l\lichigan -The Wol­verines yielded Missouri 334 yards last week. Mike Phipps, alone, will get that much tomorrow. 
Georgia over Mississippi -The pre-season favorite Rebs are virtu­ally eliminated from SEC title con­tention before a saddened Jackson, Miss., crowd. 
Indiana over l\linnesota -Surely, the Hoosiers won't lose again. 
Ohio State over Michigan State ­As he departed Notre Dame Stadium last week, Duffy Daugherty an­nounced, "We have to shake off this defeat and get ready for Ohio State next Saturday. We won't be over­confident ... and you can quote me on that." 
Air Force over North Carolina ­Very good test for the Falcons after 
tough losses to Wyoming and Mis­souri. 
South Carolina over North Caro­lina State -Give an Atlantic Con­ference title to the victor. Gamecock QB Tommy Suggs is the difference. 
California over Washington ­Watch those suddenly strong Bears. Armed with an awesome defense, they entertain Southern Cal in Berkeley Nov. 1. 
LAST WEEK'S RECORD: 
8 Right, 2 Wrong, .800 
SEASON RECORD: 
22 Right, 8 Wrong, .733 


for the University man OUR GOOD-LOOKING BLAZERS AND ODD TROUSERS 
Double-breasted blazer of steep twill wool cheviot in a 6-button, more-fitted style with deep center vent. In navy, deep red or tobacco brown, $8 0 
Ottr classic single-breasted wool flannel blazers, $70 Our wide wale cotton corduroy blazer in taupe or olive-brown, $5 5 Patterned worsted Odd Trousers in plaids or checks, $32; worsted flannel, $26.50; cotton corduroy, $l 7.50 ; others, from $12 
ESTAB!.:SHl::D 1818 


ef.i?~61Jiker;J/ 
~Jf~)~~
1¥(m:s ~ ~oy.s· furnishings. )Jijats ~r ihoc.s 
74 E. MADISON ST., NR. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 
ATLANTA • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • NEW YORK 
PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • WASHINGTON_ 
October 10, 1969 
I
T 1s easy to be outraged at the demands and attitudes of the blacks in this country, of the blacks at Notre Dame (see Bill Turner's story on page 10). They hold little love for the white people of America, and hence, little love for America. It's hard to become inti­mate with a geography book or the gross national product. 
But such outrage against the blacks is a symptom of an inability to see the fuller historical dimensions of the problem. Two hundred years of enslavement, spittle and standing room on the back of the bus must take its toll on the historical consciousness of a people. White people who decry the blacks for their lack of love have never confronted the immense difficulty of loving an oppressor. 
A letter that came to the SCHOLASTIC office today helps us understand the militant response of black stu­dents to Mr. Turner's original questionaire. 
Editor: 
Last Saturday at the Notre Dame-Michigan State game, I witnessed one of the most flagrant acts of un­patriotism and lack of school spirit as displayed by 12 to 14 Negro students seated in the student section. These students not only failed to stand during the play-
the last word 
ing of the Victory March but remained seated during the playing of the National Anthem. What are they trying to prove? 
If they do not wish to participate when our flag is being raised, then I suggest that they refrain from en­tering the stadium. They are not worthy to be called Americans, let alone be admitted as students at one of the finest Universities in the land. To many of us who have seen their arrogant, sullen attitudes, we wish to remind them that this attitude and exhibition or lack of patriotism will not further their desire for the gains they wish to achieve. 
All in all, it shows their lack of maturity and that they are not worthy to be called Notre Dame men. 
Concerned Alumnus 
P.S. The students should take matters into their own hands and give these individuals a dunking in the lake as had been the policy in by-gone years. Possibly this would make them conformists. 
The letter, unsigned, was mailed Monday, Oct. 6, from Notre Dame, Indiana. A pitiful and frightening misunderstanding. 
Rich Moran 
What's behind the six-button 

!'~(~ ~ ·. . ·...
l , . 
:.,.=· ,;< . . ·=


takeover? 
·==:··. . · . 
.,._ . . .\ ... 
. __.,,,,....~.:-.··.



tsr· ·\.

~. "",,,· \_.: < 
F ·... ' . . . ,,'!>;~~ '· . . 
' I . • 
£· ·····•: =· .. 


\:i~!;. 

··=~,, l\\~ . 
.... 


F?ugged and handsorne 
OUTERCO.ATS 
Cr:c,:,::-J:-·: ::~... -i >""17:.n\' s:J l•:s 1nc!ud1ng tne pcpu­-:.r CCrl\''.J'/ ro~1r fL:l''.' l 1 78C 1.\2ter 1-3peller1t :. ;·:; r.,:-:G :,: r ;u:1 ·:.t::i:'7-::r or·2itect1on Ot.::ep 
-...... -.-r--. . ( ..-·-. ..... ; ,. -l-r""lf'••7' ~'I "rl'l'r'l(J'
.! !...J '-••_; 1,•;ii_,,._... ...,v•_r,,._1S '.: 1'-.-''.:::"ll JOI (.!./ cl .,.d,, 

trcm $50 
' 7 .
t,~sz-~
. ' ,; 
~ .. .; 


Popular, University-Styled 


SPORT COATS 

Our collection 1s complete plaids herringbones. solids lf7 all of the newest colors and shades One of these top quality coats can take you far. Try one on soon use the exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy. 
Single breosted from $45 Double breasted from $59~ 95 






